E v o l D i r
May 1, 2013
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Conferences
Amsterdam PlantGenomeEvolution Sep8-10 . . . . . . . . 2
Barcelona EuropeanDrosophilaRes Oct16-19 . . . . . . . .3
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Cardi Omics Sep9-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
DalhousieU Endocytobiology Aug18-22 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Gordon EastonMA BiologicalMechanismsEvolution
Jun2-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
InstitutPasteur Paris IMMEM CallAbstracts . . . . . . . 5
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22 SpeciationContinuum . . . . 6
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22 SpeciationContinuum 2 . . 6
Lyon ComparativeGenomics Oct17-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Manchester MolecularGenomeEvolution2013 May17 2
8
Marseilles 17thEvolBiol Sep17-20 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
NHM London TropicalBiodiversityGenomics Jun3-4 9
NMNH Washington FrontiersPhylogenetics May20-21
10
Portugal EcologicalSpeciation Apr29-30 Broadcast .10
SanFrancisco EvolCancer Jun12-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11SanFrancisco EvolCancer Jun12-16 DeadlineExtended
11
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 DeadlineExtended
12
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 Housing . . . . . . . 12
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 MSI Deadline . . 13
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 PresentationDead-
line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 RegistDeadline .14
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 UndergradDiversity
15
UCalifornia Irvine WesternEvolBiol May11 . . . . . . . . 15
UHawaii Hilo ConservationBiol May13-15 . . . . . . . . . 16
UMontreal MathematicsOfBiodiversity Sep16-20 . . .16
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics Jun12-15 3 . . . . . 17
UStAndrews InsectMatingEvolution Sep4-6 . . . . . . . .17
Valencia EvolutionAcousticSignals Jul3-6 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Amsterdam PlantGenomeEvolution
Sep8-10
Plant Genome Evolution 2013 - Amsterdam, The
Netherlands
Last month to submit your abstract!
Submit your abstract before Monday, 29 April, 2013
More info: http://www.plantgenomeevolution.com/ It
is our pleasure to announce the second Current Opinion
Conference on Plant Genome Evolution, to be held in
Amsterdam, September 8-10th, 2013. We are delighted
to be holding this (now biannual) event again after a
very successful rst meeting in 2011 where renowned
plant researchers gave inspiring talks and where many
discussed their latest research in the eld.
For the 2013 meeting, which will be at least half a day
longer, we are even more ambitious and are trying toput together an even more exciting program focused on
plant genomes, natural variation, and systems biology,
of course all with a strong emphasis on evolution and
evolutionary aspects.
This meeting will be the unique opportunity to meet
and discuss with colleagues, get updated on the newest
developments and insights in plant genome evolution,
and will provide unique possibilities to network and
discuss collaborations. Also, we are delighted already
that Prof. Doug Soltis (University of Florida, USA)
has agreed to deliver the plenary lecture on Sunday,
opening the meeting.
On behalf of the Conference Committee, Yves Van de
Peer, Ghent University, Belgium J. Chris Pires, Uni-
versity of Missouri, USA Topic List
* (Novel) Genome Projects * Genome evolution * Gene
and genome duplication * Genomic views on hybridiza-
tion, heterosis and speciation * Genomic variation and
population genomics * Bioinformatics and Systems Bi-
ology
Elsevier B.V. Registered Oce: Radarweg 29, 1043May 1, 2013 EvolDir 3
NX Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Registration No.
33156677, Registered in The Netherlands.
\Hoogstrate, Marije (ELS-AMS)"
<m.hoogstrate@elsevier.com >
Barcelona EuropeanDrosophilaRes
Oct16-19
Dear Colleagues,
I'm writing to encourage you, or members of your
lab to submit an abstract to the upcoming European
Drosophila Research Conference (Barcelona, Oct. 16-
19). As you may know, one session is dedicated to
Population genetics and Evolution, and will be chaired
by Christian Schl otterer, and Benjamin Prud'homme or
me. We'd like this session to bring population genetics,
quantitative genetics and evo-devo together, not just
side by side, but somehow interacting with each other,
integrated, intermingled.
In addition, I'd like to draw your attention to a satellite
workshop organized by Josefa Gonz alez and Thomas
Flatt in the context of the EDRC. The workshop is
called \Creating a European Drosophila Population Ge-
nomics Network".
Please note that the deadline for abstract submission is
2 June 2013.
Looking forward to seeing you in Barcelona in October!
Nicolas Gompel.
Nicolas Gompel Institut de Biologie du D eveloppement
de Marseille-Luminy CNRS UMR 7288, case 907, Parc
scientique de Luminy 13288 Marseille cedex 9, France
Oce: + 33 4 91 26 92 06 Fax + 33 4 91 26 97 26 LAB
WEBSITE
Nicolas Gompel <nicolas.gompel@univ-amu.fr >
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-11
The International Biogeography Society (IBS) and the
Australian National University (ANU) would like to in-
vite you to the INTERNATIONAL BIOGEOGRAPHY
SOCIETY EARLY CAREER CONFERENCE 2014.The conference will take place in Canberra, ACT,
Australia between the 7thand the 11 th of Jan-
uary 2014, and is jointly supported by the IBS
(http://www.biogeography.org/), the ANU Centre
for Macroevolution and Macroecology (http://-
macroevoeco.com/), and the ANU-CSIRO Centre for
Biodiversity Analysis (http://cba.anu.edu.au/). The
event aims to bring together early career researchers,
along with more experienced scientists, working on
many aspects of biogeography.
REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
WILL BEGIN IN JUNE 2013.
The schedule of the conference is as follows:
-On the 7th of January, we will oer workshops for a
limited number of participants on methods of phyloge-
netics and modelling species distributions.
-On the following three days (8th-10th of January
2014), talks and posters will be presented by attendees
across three symposia:
1.SPECIES DISTRIBUTION ACROSS TIME AND
SPACE (Dan Warren - ANU)
2.BIODIVERSITY TURNOVER ACROSS SPATIAL
SCALES (Dan Rosauer - ANU)
3.ADVANCES IN PHYLOGENETIC METHODS
FOR BIOGEOGRAPHY (Marcel Cardillo, Haris
Saslis-Lagoudakis, Peter Cowman - ANU)
-On the nal day (11th of January 2014), several eld
trips will be oered around the region of Canberra.
The conference will be held at ANU Commons
(http://commons.anu.edu.au/), on the ANU campus.
Workshops will be run at the teaching facilities of
the Research School of Biology, ANU, a new com-
plex with purpose build rooms for computer centric
workshops. ANU is within a few minutes walk to
the main attractions and amenities of Canberra
CBD, including restaurants, bars and museums
(http://www.visitcanberra.com.au/). Several accom-
modation options are oered near the venue ( http:/-
/www.visitcanberra.com.au/Accommodation.aspx).
Additional budget accommodation options will be
provided for students.
Canberra is the capital of Australia, and is surrounded
by beautiful nature, including several nature reserves,
where visitors can see many iconic Australian animals
(the platypus, koalas, kangaroos, wombats, wallabies),
and plants (banksias, eucalypts), as well as cave sys-
tems. The coast is only a couple of hours away and
Sydney approximately a 3 hour drive.
Student participation will be supported by awards of-4 EvolDir May 1, 2013
fered by the IBS. More information to follow.
We look forward to welcoming you to Canberra in Jan-
uary 2014!
The ANU Organising Committee
Haris Saslis-Lagoudakis
Peter Cowman
Dan Warren
Dan Rosauer
Marcel Cardillo
ibsconference2014@gmail.com
IBS Early Career Conference 2014
<ibsconference2014@gmail.com >
Cardi Omics Sep9-11
Announcement: 1st international Environmental
Omics Synthesis conference
Cardi University, UK, 9-11th Sept. 2013
See: http://www.environmentalomics.org/ieos2013 As
part of the NERC - Mathematics and Informatics for
Environmental 'Omics Data Synthesis directed pro-
gramme, we are pleased to announce the rst in a series
of annual conferences. This year the session topics will
be
- Learning from the past to inform the future - Ecologi-
cal 'Omics: from workows to adaptation - Epigenetics
- Evolutionary 'Omics: models and applications - Inte-
grated and Systems 'Omics - Community ecology: from
metagenomics to function and synthetic biology
Keynote speakers: - Prof. Eske Willerslev, Centre for
GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark -
Prof. John Colbourne, Chair of Environmental Ge-
nomics, University of Birmingham - Prof. Jack Gilbert,
Earth Microbiome Project, University of Chicago
Registration open! Abstract submission open!
on behalf of Peter Kille and the iEOS organising com-
mittee.
Daniel
{ Daniel Barker http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/-
db60 The University of St Andrews is a charity regis-
tered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.ukDalhousieU Endocytobiology
Aug18-22 2
12th International Colloquium on Endocytobiology and
Symbiosis
August 18th - 22nd, 2013 Dalhousie University, Halifax,
Nova Scotia, CANADA
FOURTH CIRCULAR (22 April 2013)
DEADLINES NEXT WEEK{REGISTRATION AND
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
APRIL 30 2013: Early registration closes. APRIL 30
2013: Deadline for receipt of presentation abstracts.
Dear Colleagues,
The 12th International Colloquium on Endocytobiology
and Symbiosis of the International Society of Endocyto-
biology (ISE) will be held August 18th to 22nd 2013 at
Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
There will be registration and an opening reception the
evening of Sunday August 18.
Talks will begin the morning of August 19th.
CONFERENCE WEBSITE
http://ices2013.biochem.dal.ca IMPORTANT DATES
April 30 2013: Early registration closes. April 30 2013:
Deadline for receipt of presentation abstracts.
The colloquium will cover the latest research on
all aspects of endosymbiosis and the biology of
endosymbiotically-derived organelles. We look forward
to seeing you in Halifax!
Best regards, John Archibald
John Archibald <jmarchib@dal.ca >
Gordon EastonMA
BiologicalMechanismsEvolution
Jun2-7
Dear colleagues,
There are still places left in the rst-ever meeting of thisMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 5
exciting new Gordon Conference! You will see from the
program at the link below that this will be an extremely
exciting meeting!!
Also, we will be able to oer a reduced rate for new
registrations of students in double rooms of $430 ($500
less than the designated conference) until the budget
for this is exhausted, so please apply right away. The
reduced fee will be allocated upon acceptance of each
student application to register. Please spread the word!
See you in Massachusetts in June!!
Susan Rosenberg and Christine Queitsch Chair and
Vice Chair
Announcing the 2013 Gordon Research Conference on:
Biological Mechanisms in Evolution In Basic Biology,
Cancer, Infectious Disease and Medicine
June 2-7, 2013 Stonehill College Easton, MA, United
States
Chair: Susan M. Rosenberg
Links: Web Site < http://www.grc.org/-
programs.aspx?year=2013&program=biomechevo
>jOnline Application <http://www.grc.org/-
application.aspx?id=15806 >jRSS Feed <http://-
www.grc.org/rss/0000764.xml >jSite Information <
http://www.grc.org/sites.aspx?id=72 >
If you have any questions or would like fur-
ther information, please contact Holly Tobin
<mailto:htobin@grc.org >, the Conference Oper-
ations Associate for this meeting. Please do not reply
to this email message, as this account is not monitored.
Susan M Rosenberg, PhD Ben F Love Chair in Cancer
Research
Professor, Departments of Molecular and Human Ge-
netics, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, and Molec-
ular Virology and Microbiology Baylor College of
Medicine One Baylor Plaza Rm S809A Mail Stop
BCM225 Houston, Texas 77030-3411 USA tel: +1-713-
798-6924 http://www.bcm.edu/genetics/?pmid=11034
Assistance: Tammy Reid (treid@bcm.edu, +1-713-798-
8730)
NEW Gordon Research Conference!! Biologi-
cal Mechanisms in Evolution: In Basic Biology,
Cancer, Infectious Disease and Medicine Stone-
hill College, Easton, MA 2-7 June 2013 - Save
the date! http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?year=-
2013&program=biomechevo \Rosenberg, Susan M"
<smr@bcm.edu >InstitutPasteur Paris IMMEM
CallAbstracts
Dear Colleague,
We are pleased to inform you that the call for abstracts
is open on the website of the IMMEM-10 conference
(http://www.immem-10.org).
You can register and submit your abstract(s) by us-
ing the online form available in the \call for abstracts"
page. The submission deadline is June 15th, 2013. Your
abstract will be reviewed by the Scientic Committee
and all presenting authors (for oral or poster presenta-
tion) will be notied via email early July 2013.
We recommend all participants to arrange their accom-
modation in Paris as early as possible. Automn is a
high season in Paris, and there are several medical con-
gresses and sporting events in October, in particular,
so hotels should be booked early.
Travel grants and free registration can be oered to a
number of young scientists ( <36 years). Please see our
website.
Sylvain Brisse, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France on behalf
of the Organizing Committee *http://www.immem-
10.org* *IMMEM-10 topics* The ability of microbes
- bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites - to mutate
rapidly, disseminate and adapt to new hosts and envi-
ronments, forces us to increase our capabilities for the
early recognition of novel strains of pathogens, and to
understand the factors that contribute to their diver-
sity, evolution and dissemination. IMMEM-10 will ad-
dress a variety of topics related to pathogen emergence,
population-level diversity, evolution of virulence and
antibiotic resistance, strain tracking, typing networks,
public health and surveillance, novel typing approaches,
high-throughput sequencing, genomics, and molecular
epidemiology of infectious diseases. The meeting will
take place at Institut Pasteur, in the heart of Paris.
*Conrmed speakers:* Mark Achtman (Warwick Univ.,
UK) Andrea Ammon (ECDC, Stockholm, Sweden)
Siv Andersson (Evol. Biol. Center, Uppsala,
Sweden) Alessandra Carattoli (Rome, Italy) Stewart
Cole (Global Health Institute, Lausanne, Switzerland)
Alex Friedrich (University Medical Center Groningen,
The Netherlands) Peter Gerner-Smidt (CDC, Atlanta,
USA) Matthew Gilmour (Diagnostic Services Man-
itoba, Winnipeg, Canada) Hajo Grundmann (Uni-6 EvolDir May 1, 2013
versity Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands)
J org Hacker (German Academy of Sciences Leopold-
ina, Berlin, Germany) Dag Harmsen (Univ. Hospital
M unster, Germany) Ren e Hendriksen (DTU, Copen-
haguen, Denmark) Keith Jolley (Oxford Univ., UK)
Philippe Lemey (Leuven, Belgium) Martin Maiden
(Oxford Univ., UK) Claudine M edigue (CEA, Evry,
France) Stefan Niemann (Borstel Univ., Germany) Ju-
lian Parkhill (Wellcome Trust Sanger Center, Hinxton,
UK) Tim Peto (Oxford, UK) Laurent Poirel (Univ.
Paris XI, Kremlin-Bic^ etre, France) Marc Struelens
(ECDC, Stockholm, Sweden) Anne-Mieke Vandamme
(Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium) Fran cois-
Xavier Weill (Institut Pasteur, Paris, France)
*Scientic Sessions* Bioinformatics tools for genome-
based microbial surveillance Outbreak genomics and
epidemiology Population genetics, phylogenomics,
emergence Molecular typing and epidemiology Novel
typing methods Surveillance networks in practice Phy-
lodynamics of viral pathogens Crossing of species bar-
riers by viruses Virulence: diagnostic and epidemiology
Resistance: diagnostic and epidemiology Diagnostic by
high-throughput sequencing Social networks and trans-
mission modelling Strain tracking from global health to
One Health
*Early fee registration*: June 30, 2013 *Stan-
dard fee*: 400 ^ a :   Studentfee : 300^ a: 
Abstractsubmissiondeadline  :June 15;2013
Howtoregister:www:immem 10:orgContactus:
immem 10@pasteur:fr
Sylvain BRISSE <sylvain.brisse@pasteur.fr >
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22
SpeciationContinuum
Registration is open for the 2013 Symposium of the
American Genetic Association, to be held July 20-22
at Cornell University in beautiful Ithaca, NY { Specia-
tion Continuum: A Discussion on the Origin of Species.
Details and registration are at http:/-
/www.certain.com/system/prole/web/-
index.cfm?PKwebID=0x44728099a8&varPage=home
New this year! Membership in the American Genetic
Association is included with registration. Already
a member? An additional year of membership ac-
companies registration for current members. See the
many perks of membership at http://www.theaga.org/Speakers include:
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Sergey Gavrilets, Univer-
sity of Tennessee, Deparment of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology
Alex Buerkle, University of Wyoming, Department of
Botany Bill Etges, University of Arkansas, Program
in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Rosemary Gille-
spie, University of California, Division of Organisms
and Environment Rick Harrison, Cornell University,
Deparment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Scott
Hodges, University of California, Santa Barbara, De-
partment of Ecology, Evoution, and Marine Biology
Jim Mallet, Harvard University, Department of Organ-
ismic and Evolutionary Biology and University College
London, Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Tami Mendelson, University of Maryland,
Department of Biological Sciences Sean Mullen, Lehigh
University, Deparment of Biological Sciences Mohamed
Noor, Duke University, Biology Department Kevin
Oh, Cornell University, Department of Neurobiology
and Behavior Brett Payseur, University of Wisonsin-
Madison, Laboratory of Genetics Katie Peichel, Uni-
versity of Washington, Molecular & Cellular Biology
Trevor Price, The University of Chicago, Deparment of
Ecology and Evolution Howard Rundle, University of
Ottawa, Department of Biology Rebecca Safran, Uni-
versity of Colorado, Deparment of Ecology and Evolu-
tion Maria Servedio, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Biology Department Laurie Stevison, Uni-
versity of California, San Francisco, Institute for Hu-
man Genetics Sara Via, University of Maryland, De-
partment of Biology John Willis, Duke University, Bi-
ology Department
Kerry Shaw, President American Genetic Association
mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22
SpeciationContinuum 2
Early bird registration is open for the 2013 Symposium
of the American Genetic Association, to be held July
20-22 at Cornell University in beautiful Ithaca, NY
{ SPECIATION CONTINUUM: A Discussion on the
Origin of Species.
New this year! Membership in the American Genetic
Association is included with registration. Already aMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 7
member? An additional year of membership accom-
panies registration for current members. Details and
registration are at:
http://www.certain.com/system/prole/web/-
index.cfm?PKwebID=0x44728099a8&varPage=home
If you have problems with this link, please go to the
AGA website, http://www.theaga.org/ and click on
the symposium logo.
Immediately following the symposium, 23-24
July, will be the workshop, NEXT GENERA-
TION POPULATION GENOMICS FOR NON-
MODEL TAXA. AGA student awards available!
See http://www.certain.com/system/prole/web/-
index.cfm?PKwebID=0x4653687924&varPage=home
for details.
Workshop Instructors:
Matthew Hare, Department of Natural Resources, Cor-
nell University Nancy Chen, Department of Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University Andy Clarke,
Department of Molecular Biology & Genetics, Cor-
nell University Alex Buerkle, Department of Botany,
University of Wyoming Pierre De Wit, University of
Gothenburg, Sweden
Symposium Speakers:
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Sergey Gavrilets, Univer-
sity of Tennessee, Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Alex Buerkle, University of Wyoming
Bill Etges, University of Arkansas Rosemary Gillespie,
University of California Rick Harrison, Cornell Univer-
sity Scott Hodges, University of California Jim Mal-
let, Harvard University and University College London
Tami Mendelson, University of Maryland Sean Mullen,
Boston University Mohamed Noor, Duke University
Kevin Oh, Cornell University Brett Payseur, Univer-
sity of Wisonsin-Madison Katie Peichel, University of
Washington Trevor Price, The University of Chicago
Howard Rundle, University of Ottawa Rebecca Safran,
University of Colorado Maria Servedio, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill Laurie Stevison, Univer-
sity of California, San Francisco, Institute for Human
Genetics Sara Via, University of Maryland John Willis,
Duke University
Kerry Shaw, President American Genetic Association
agajoh@oregonstate.eduLyon ComparativeGenomics
Oct17-19
Eleventh Annual RECOMB Satellite Workshop on
Comparative Genomics
October 17-19, 2013, Lyon, France
Website: rcg2013.sciencesconf.org/
Contributions to the workshop are welcomed on any
theoretical and/or empirical approach to genome-wide
comparison. This includes genome evolution, algo-
rithms for genome rearrangement, comparative tools
for assembly, gene identication or annotation, com-
parison of functional networks, genomic variation in
humans and model organisms, cancer genomics, dupli-
cation patterns of genes, segments and whole genomes,
and comparative epigenetics. We encourage paper sub-
missions that oer new biological ndings or otherwise
highlight their relevance to biology. Refereed papers
will be published as open-access manuscripts in the
journal BMC Bioinformatics.
||{
KEY DATES
Paper submission deadline June 21, 2013
Acceptance notication July 19, 2013
Workshop October 17-19, 2013 - Lyon, France
||{
CONFIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
- Tal Dagan, Heinrich Heine Universit at, Dusseldorf
- Ludovic Orlando, Centre for GeoGenetics, natural
History Museum of Denmark
||{
THEME AND SCOPE
The continuing advance of DNA sequencing technol-
ogy has produced an avalanche of genome sequence
and genome structural information across the evolu-
tionary spectrum. Transforming that information into
biological knowledge requires creative and innovative
new computational and statistical methods for compar-
ative genomics.
The RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Comparative Ge-
nomics aims to provide the premier forum for new com-
putational developments applied to all aspects of com-8 EvolDir May 1, 2013
parative genomics. We solicit contributions on topics
including comparison of genome structure and organi-
zation, genome function, and evolution. We particu-
larly encourage contributions that use new computa-
tional methods to acquire new insight into biological
processes. Advances in computational theory are wel-
come, though all submissions should include genome-
scale analyses informed by comparative data.
All peer-reviewed and accepted RECOMB-CG
manuscripts will be published in a supplement to BMC
Bioinformatics as open-access, author-subsidized,
articles.
Specic topics of interest include but are not limited
to:
. Gene and genome duplication . Gene family evolution
. Genome structural variation . Algorithms for compar-
ative genomics . Genome rearrangements . Ancestral
genome reconstruction . Multiple genome alignment
. Genome sequence comparison . Modeling genome
evolution . Comparative genomics for genome anno-
tation . Gene tree reconciliation . Species and gene
tree inference . Comparative metagenomics . Compar-
ative genomics linked to proteomics, metabolomics, and
other ~omic data . Comparative genomics and gene ex-
pression and regulation . Applications of comparative
genomic methods . Paleogenomics
||{
CALL FOR PAPERS
Papers should be submitted via the EasyChair sys-
tem: https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=-
3Drecombcg13. Submissions must be received in elec-
tronic form by 11:59pm (Samoa time), June 21th, 2013.
Papers submitted for review should represent original,
previously unpublished work. At the time the paper is
submitted to the conference, and for the entire review
period, the paper should not be under review by any
other conference or scientic journal.
At least one author per each successful submission is
required to register and present the paper at the work-
shop. The paper will be included in the conference
proceedings, which will be published in BMC Bioinfor-
matics as open-access author-subsidized articles.
Authors are encouraged to use the BMC document
templates when preparing manuscripts. Templates are
available in Microsoft and LaTeX formats. Otherwise,
submissions should be typeset as double-spaced A4
pages with at least 1-inch margins all around in a mini-
mum of 10 point font. Submissions should be limited to
16 pages, everything included (title, authors, addresses,
abstract, references, gures, tables). Exceptions to thislimit may be granted by consultation with the Program
Committee Chairs. Submissions must include the cor-
responding author's email address.
When preparing your submission please follow the
instructions for authors of BMC supplements: http:/-
/www.u.br/recombcg/docs/Instructions-for-authors-
BMC-Appendix-B.pdf . Submitted manuscripts must
be rendered to PDF format prior to upload into
EasyChair at the review stage.
Address any questions to the program committee
chairs: Macha Nikolski macha (at) labri (dot) fr and
Yves Van de Peer yves (dot) vandepeer (at) psb (dot)
vib (dash) ugent (dot) be
||{
PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Chairs: Macha Nikolski (LaBRI & CBiB, Universit e
Bordeaux, France) Yves Van de Peer (VIB / Ghent
University, Belgium)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Manchester
MolecularGenomeEvolution2013
May17 2
Dear Colleagues -
The Fourth Annual Manchester Molecular and Genome
Evolution (MaGE) Symposium is fast approaching: Fri-
day 17 May 2013. Registration is free, but necessary,
so if you would like to attend then please register at
http://tinyurl.com/ManMage2013. We are still accept-
ing abstracts for talks and posters.
This annual symposium is an informal and friendly
one-day meeting for those interested in Molecular and
Genome Evolution from either the computational or ex-
perimental perspective. It will be held in the Michael
Smith Lecture theatre in the Faculty of Life Sciences,
at the University of Manchester.
This year talks will include: Judith Mank (UCL) on
\Sex-specic selection and the genomic basis of sex-
ual dimorphism" Lisa Crossman (TGAC, Norwich) on
\Crowdsourcing outbreak genomics: E.coli 2011 andMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 9
Chalara Ash Dieback". Terry Brown on \The geno-
type of a historic strain of Mycobacterium tubercu-
losis" Rok Krasovec (Knight lab) on \Social interac-
tions determine mutation rate in Escherichia coli" Flo-
rence Gutzwiller (Bergman lab) on \Evolution of the
plant green-island phenotype and Wolbachia infection
in leaf-mining micro-moths" Maria Ninova (Griths-
Jones lab) on \Lineage-specic microRNAs are ex-
pressed in the early development of Drosophila" Jordi
Paps (Oxford) on \Exploring the origins and major
transitions of the Animal Kingdom with 21st century
tools: a comparative genomics approach"
The remaining talks on the day will be chosen from
those submitted, with a preference towards student and
postdoc presentations, interspersed with the selection
of titles from other more senior researchers in Manch-
ester (and beyond). There will be prizes for the best
submitted talk and the best poster.
We hope to see you in May!
Many thanks,
Douda Bensasson, PhD Faculty of Life Sciences Uni-
versity of Manchester Michael Smith Building Oxford
Road Manchester M13 9PT Tel. +44 (0)161 2755662
Douda Bensasson <douda.bensasson@manchester.ac.uk >
Marseilles 17thEvolBiol Sep17-20 2
We are pleased to inform you that the 17th Evolution-
ary Biology Meeting at Marseilles will take place on
17-20 September 2013, Marseilles, France.
The following subjects will be discussed:
- Evolutionary biology concepts and modelisations for
biological annotation; - Biodiversity and Systematics; -
Comparative genomics and post-genomics (at all tax-
onomic levels); - Functional phylogeny; - Environment
and biological evolution; - Origin of Life and exobi-
ology; - Non-adaptative versus adaptative evolution; -
Theminorphyla: their usefulness in evolutionary
biology knowledge.
Registration and abstract submission
http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr/ Best regards
Marie-H el ene Rome For the 17th EBM meeting com-
mittee
Universite EGEE <Egee@univ-provence.fr >NHM London
TropicalBiodiversityGenomics
Jun3-4
SYMPOSIUM
Tropical biodiversity in the 21st century: linking tax-
onomy, genomics and ecological theory
Natural History Museum London, June 3 and 4, 2013
A symposium of the NHM Biodiversity Initiative, in
collaboration with the Genomic Observatories Network
This conference and workshop, marking the start of
the NHM's Biodiversity Initiative, asks how we can de-
velop inter-disciplinary, genomic approaches to acceler-
ate the study of megadiverse tropical ecosystems and
their function.
For updates on the meeting see: http:/-
/www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/-
research-initiatives/tropical-biodiversity-
symposium/index.html and http://-
genomicobservatories.blogspot.co.uk/ Contributed
talks and posters are welcome.
Conrmed external speakers: Dawn Field, CEH Ox-
ford Johnathan Coddington, Smithsonian Institution
Pierre Taberlet, University of Grenoble Douglas Yu,
Kunming Institute of Zoology and University of East
Anglia Bernhard Misof, Museum Koenig, Bonn Scott
Miller, Smithsonian Institution Graham Stone, Univer-
sity of Edinburgh Cristina Banks-Leite, Imperial Col-
lege London David Coomes, Cambridge University An-
dres Baselga, University of Santiago de Compostella
Rob Ewers, Imperial College London
The Symposium The high diversity of tropical ecosys-
tems remains poorly known and stands to benet
greatly from 'big science' projects and interdisciplinary
collaboration. High-throughput sequencing enables the
understanding of patterns of diversity at all levels from
genes to ecosystems. This will require a global eort to
integrate newly generated digital data with the existing,
historical information locked away in museum collec-
tions. Making full use of these data to unravel the com-
plexity of biodiversity patterns and function will also
require the development of new theoretical frameworks.
The symposium will gather participants from the elds
of genomics, taxonomy, (tropical) ecology and mathe-
matics, to discuss genome-based approaches to study-10 EvolDir May 1, 2013
ing tropical biodiversity. The symposium will also host
a workshop of the Genomic Observatories Network.
Admission is free, but please register on the website.
For enquiries, please send an email to the sympo-
sium organizer, Dr Alfried P. Vogler, Department
of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum, email:
apv@nhm.ac.uk
A.Vogler@nhm.ac.uk
NMNH Washington
FrontiersPhylogenetics May20-21
We are pleased to announce the 3rd Annual Spring
Symposium hosted by Frontiers in Phylogenetics at
NMNH:
\Genome-scale Phylogenetics"
Baird Auditorium, National Museum of Natural His-
tory Washington, DC, Monday May 20, 2013
9:30-9:35 Opening Remarks and Logistics Michael
Braun, Frontiers in Phylogenetics Program, NMNH
9:35-9:45 Introduction and Welcome to the Smithso-
nian Eva Pell, Undersecretary for Science, Smithsonian
Institution
9:45-10:30 My Students Could Do My Thesis in Five
Minutes; How to Cope with the Next Generation Rob
DeSalle, Sackler Institute of Comparative Genomics,
AMNH
10:30-11:00 Seminar title TBA Erich Jarvis, Duke Uni-
versity Medical Center
11:00-11:30 Break
11:30-12:00 Molecular Phylogenies, Genomics and the
Bacterial Species Concept Margaret Riley, University
of Massachusetts Amherst
12:00-12:30 Phylotranscriptomics to Bring the Under-
studied Ostracoda into the Fold Todd Oakley, Univer-
sity of California Santa Barbara
12:30-14:00 Lunch Break
14:00-14:30 Seminar title TBA Jun Wen, Department
of Botany, NMNH
14:30-15:00 Genome-scale Phylogenetics of Rapid
Adaptive Radiation: RAD Sequence Data Illuminates
the History of Lake Victoria Cichlids Catherine Wag-
ner, Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Scienceand Technology
15:00-15:30 Break
15:30-16:00 Shotgun in the Dark or a Rie in the Day-
light? The Case for Using Single Copy Orthologous
Gene Capture in Phylogenetics Gavin Naylor, Hollings
Marine Lab, College of Charleston and Medical Univer-
sity of South Carolina
16:00-16:30 Achieving phylogenomic nirvana: ultracon-
served elements (UCEs) capture history at the species,
population, and individual levels Brant Faircloth, De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, UCLA
16:30-17:00 Unsolved Challenges- Panel Discussion on
Future Directions
In addition, on May 21, there will be several interactive
discussion groups aimed at current issues and hurdles
involved with executing phylogenetic research on the
genome scale.
Admission is free but registration is required.
Please register using the following
link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1psN38yqyZz7mpgQqC8DczlHuqstfWQisQoRQSnqvO8M/-
viewform Hope to see you there,
Sarah Kingston
Postdoctoral Researcher Smithsonian Institution,
NMNH kingstons@si.edu 843.324.4909
\Kingston, Sarah" <KINGSTONS@si.edu >
Portugal EcologicalSpeciation
Apr29-30 Broadcast
Conference: Portugal.Ecological Speciation.Apr29-30
ADVANCES IN ECOLOGICAL SPECIATION (AES)
Conference, CIBIO/UP, Portugal, 29-30 April 2013
LIVE BROADCAST of the AES Conference!
We are happy to announce that the AES Confer-
ence can be followed Live on streaming from http:/-
/tv.campusdomar.es/directo.html If you want to join
us please check out the program of the AES Con-
ference from our website (http://www.aes-cibio.org/-
). The Live broadcast will be on Portugal local time
(UTC/GMT+1hour).
Invited Speakers:
Dolph Schluter (Biodiversity Research Centre and Zool-May 1, 2013 EvolDir 11
ogy Department, University of British Columbia, Van-
couver, Canada) Felicity Jones (Friedich Miescher Lab-
oratory of the Max Planck Society, Tubingen, Ger-
many) Walter Salzburger (Zoological Institute, Univer-
sity of Basel, Switzerland) Sebastien Renaut (Botany
Department, University of British Columbia, Vancou-
ver, Canada) Roger Butlin (Department of Animal and
Plant Sciences, University of Sheeld, UK)
You can also follow the AES Conference on:
https://www.facebook.com/-
AdvancesInEcologicalSpeciation https://twitter.com/-
aescibio Please join us!
jmeloferreira@cibio.up.pt
SanFrancisco EvolCancer Jun12-16
THE SECOND INTERNATIONAL BIENNIAL EVO-
LUTION AND CANCER CONFERENCE UNIVER-
SITY OF CALIFORNIA SAN FRANCISCO JUNE 12-
16, 2013
The Second International Biannual Evolution and Can-
cer Conference (IBECC) hosted by the Center for Evo-
lution and Cancer (CEC) and the Helen Diller Fam-
ily Comprehensive Cancer Center at the University of
California San Francisco, will take place in San Fran-
cisco at the UCSF Mission Bay Campus, June 12-16,
2013. IBECC 2013 will bring together experts in can-
cer biology, oncology, evolutionary theory, microbial
evolution, and the evolution of multicellularity, from
across the world to address the applications of evolu-
tion to cancer research and management. The theme of
IBECC 2013 is \From Unicellularity to Multicellularity
and Back Again." The two foci are: 1) cancer sup-
pression in the evolution of multicellularity and 2) ap-
plying insights from the evolution of unicellular organ-
isms to the study of cancer. IBECC 2013 will feature
a Vision Keynote Speech by former Deputy Director of
the National Cancer Institute Anna Barker, Keynote
Speaker Mel Greaves a public lecture by Carl Zimmer,
plenary talks by Ken Pienta, Judy Campisi, Andrew
Read, and David Queller, and a special performance
by Baba Brinkman of \The Rap Guide to Evolution"
with a new song about evolution and cancer.
EARLY REGISTRATION and ABSTRACT submis-
sions end APRIL 20th.
Sessions include:Insights from Experimental Evolution Cancer and the
Evolution of Multicellularity Dynamics of Somatic Evo-
lution Peto's Paradox, Comparative Oncology and the
Evolution of Tumor Suppression Somatic Mutation and
Levels of Selection Applying the Tools of Evolutionary
Biology to Cancer Life History Theory in Cancer The
Evolutionary Medicine of Cancer
For more information - including the Conference
POSTER - go to http://cancer.ucsf.edu/evolution/-
conference-2013 . Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New
Brunswick Department of Biology PO Box 4400 Fred-
ericton, NB Canada E3B 5A3 phone: (506) 458-7463
anedelcu@unb.ca
SanFrancisco EvolCancer Jun12-16
DeadlineExtended
THE SECOND INTERNATIONAL BIENNIAL EVO-
LUTION AND CANCER CONFERENCE UNIVER-
SITY OF CALIFORNIA SAN FRANCISCO JUNE 12-
16, 2013
EARLY REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUB-
MISSION EXTENDED TO MAY 10TH
Please join us for the Second International Biannual
Evolution and Cancer Conference, $B!H(BFrom Uni-
cellularity to Multicellularity and Back Again$B!I(B at
the University of California, San Francisco, June 12-
16, 2013 (IBECC 2013). Following the success of the
rst IBECC in 2011, we are again bringing together
leaders in cancer biology and evolutionary theory to
address cancer treatment and prevention from an evo-
lutionary perspective, including applications to patient
care. This year$B!G(Bs conference features interna-
tional leaders cancer biology, evolutionary theory, the
evolution of multicellularity and the growing eld of
Evolutionary Medicine. Session topics include compar-
ative oncology, insights from experimental evolution,
and somatic evolution during cancer progression. In
addition to talks from the experts in the eld, IBECC
2013 has been planned with long breaks for establishing
collaborations, a poster session, a public lecture by Carl
Zimmer and a concert by Baba Brinkman (featuring a
new song about Evolution and Cancer).
Early registration and abstract submission has been ex-
tended to May 10th. Please forward this message to
collaborators and colleagues who might be interested
in attending or submitting a poster. Registration in-12 EvolDir May 1, 2013
cludes conference attendance, Continuing Medical Edu-
cation (CME) credit, lunches, refreshments and shuttle
transportation to and from the conference hotel. Email
IBECC2013@evolutionandcancer.org with questions or
to inquire about travel awards for underrepresented mi-
norities. Please go to the conference website to register,
submit an abstract, see the tentative program, or nd
hotel and travel information.
IBECC2013 Conference website: http://-
cancer.ucsf.edu/evolution/conference-2013 Yours,
Carlo Maley Center for Evolution and Cancer Director
Athena Aktipis Human and Social Evolution Director
@ CEC
Aurora Nedelcu Education and Outreach Director @
CEC
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-
partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, NB
Canada E3B 5A3 phone: (506) 458-7463
Aurora Nedelcu <anedelcu@unb.ca >
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
DeadlineExtended
Deadline is Monday! >>> Reminder: Please REGIS-
TER if you are a presenting author on a poster or talk.
Presentations with unregistered presenters will be re-
moved from the program.
The deadline for submitting titles for presentations*
at Evolution 2013 in Snowbird is April 22. http://-
www.evolutionmeeting.org/Register2013.html#presub
*Abstracts are required only if you are applying for an
award.
The early registration deadline for Evolu-
tion 2013 in Snowbird is April 22. http://-
www.evolutionmeeting.org/Register2013.html EVO-
LUTION 2013 - THE ANNUAL EVOLUTION MEET-
ING, JOINTLY SPONSORED BY THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY OF NATURALISTS (ASN), THE SOCI-
ETY OF SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGISTS (SSB) AND
THE SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF EVOLUTION
(SSE): http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/ REGIS-
TRATION AND TALK TITLE SUBMISSION IS
NOW OPEN -The meeting schedule will follow that
of recent years with a few modications -On Monday
there will be a 1/2 day recess for recreation and
eld trips -There will be an all-society mixer/awardceremony instead of a banquet on Tuesday evening
INCLUDED with your registration fee
The meeting will be held June 21-25, 2013 at the
Meeting and Conference Center Snowbird, Utah, USA.
The Snowbird Conference Center and Alpine Pedes-
trian Village is located at 2365 m (7,760 ft) eleva-
tion, just a short distance from Salt Lake City Inter-
national Airport in Little Cottonwood Canyon on the
west slope of the Wasatch Range of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Recreation opportunities abound in and near
the village/conference site with easy access to hiking,
biking, and skiing (conditions permitting). All lodging,
meeting rooms, restaurants, shopping, and childcare fa-
cilities are just a few minutes walk from each other and
all located within the village. Snowbird is surrounded
by spectacular views of mountain slopes covered with
alpine meadows, cottonwoods, conifers, and impressive
rock formations.
RESERVATIONS FOR LODGING IN THE SNOW-
BIRD ALPINE VILLAGE CAN NOW BE MADE -For
reservations by phone please call 800-453-3000 -Please
remember to mention \EVOLUTION 2013" when you
reserve by phone. -Your reservation for lodging with
Snowbird helps reduce registration costs
STUDENT PARTICIPATION IS SUPPORTED BY
STUDENT AWARDS OFFERED BY THE SOCI-
ETIES (ASN, SSB, AND SSE) AND BY VOLUN-
TEER OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS WITH
SOCIETY AFFILIATION TO HELP WITH THE
MEETING IN EXCHANGE FOR FREE REGISTRA-
TION
We look forward to welcoming you to Evolution 2013
SEE YOU IN SNOWBIRD!
The Snowbird Organizing Committee (Drs. Fenster,
Dudash and Cruzan)
cruzan@pdx.edu
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
Housing
If you have had any trouble obtaining suitable accom-
modations for the Evolution 2013 meetings in Snowbird
please call the Snowbird reservations line: 800-453-3000
They now have new availability for a range of room op-
tions.
EVOLUTION 2013 - THE ANNUAL EVOLU-May 1, 2013 EvolDir 13
TION MEETING, JOINTLY SPONSORED BY
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY OF NATURALISTS
(ASN), THE SOCIETY OF SYSTEMATIC BI-
OLOGISTS (SSB) AND THE SOCIETY FOR
THE STUDY OF EVOLUTION (SSE): http://-
www.evolutionmeeting.org/ REGISTRATION AND
TALK TITLE SUBMISSION IS NOW OPEN -The
meeting schedule will follow that of recent years with a
few modications -On Monday there will be a 1/2 day
recess for recreation and eld trips -There will be an
all-society mixer/award ceremony instead of a banquet
on Tuesday evening INCLUDED with your registration
fee
The meeting will be held June 21-25, 2013 at the
Meeting and Conference Center Snowbird, Utah, USA.
The Snowbird Conference Center and Alpine Pedes-
trian Village is located at 2365 m (7,760 ft) eleva-
tion, just a short distance from Salt Lake City Inter-
national Airport in Little Cottonwood Canyon on the
west slope of the Wasatch Range of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Recreation opportunities abound in and near
the village/conference site with easy access to hiking,
biking, and skiing (conditions permitting). All lodging,
meeting rooms, restaurants, shopping, and childcare fa-
cilities are just a few minutes walk from each other and
all located within the village. Snowbird is surrounded
by spectacular views of mountain slopes covered with
alpine meadows, cottonwoods, conifers, and impressive
rock formations.
RESERVATIONS FOR LODGING IN THE SNOW-
BIRD ALPINE VILLAGE CAN NOW BE MADE -For
reservations by phone please call 800-453-3000 -Please
remember to mention \EVOLUTION 2013" when you
reserve by phone. -Your reservation for lodging with
Snowbird helps reduce registration costs
STUDENT PARTICIPATION IS SUPPORTED BY
STUDENT AWARDS OFFERED BY THE SOCI-
ETIES (ASN, SSB, AND SSE) AND BY VOLUN-
TEER OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS WITH
SOCIETY AFFILIATION TO HELP WITH THE
MEETING IN EXCHANGE FOR FREE REGISTRA-
TION
We look forward to welcoming you to Evolution 2013
SEE YOU IN SNOWBIRD!
The Snowbird Organizing Committee (Drs. Fenster,
Dudash and Cruzan)
cruzan@pdx.eduSnowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
MSI Deadline
DEADLINE APPROACHING! Evolution 2013 MSI
Faculty Travel Award
Are you a faculty member at a minority-serving insti-
tution (MSI)? Apply now for a travel award to attend
Evolution 2013 <http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/-
index.html >in Snowbird, Utah.
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent
<http://www.nescent.org/ >), with support from the
Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE <http://-
www.evolutionsociety.org/ >), is pleased to announce
travel awards for faculty from Minority Serving Institu-
tions to attend Evolution 2013, as part of our continu-
ing outreach eorts focusing on groups that are under-
represented in evolutionary science.
If you are a faculty member at an MSI, HBCU or
other institution with signicant enrollment of under-
represented minority students, you are encouraged to
apply. Funds are available to cover conference registra-
tion, travel, food and lodging.
This award is intended to provide MSI faculty with an
opportunity to present original research in evolution,
systematic biology, evolutionary genomics/informatics,
evolution education/outreach or other disciplines typi-
cally represented at the Evolution meetings. As such,
your application must include a talk/poster title and
abstract. In addition, you will be asked to provide a
brief (1 page) statement describing how this award will
contribute to your professional/scientic development,
as well as provide benet to your students and institu-
tion.
To apply, please visit www.nescent.org/-
Evo2013facultyapp Application Deadline THIS
FRIDAY: April 5th, 2013 (Awards will be announced
by April 12th, 2013)
For more information, please contact Dr. Jory Wein-
traub (jory@nescent.org)
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >14 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
PresentationDeadline
The deadline for submitting titles for presentations
at Evolution 2013 in Snowbird is April 19. http://-
www.evolutionmeeting.org/Register2013.html#presub
The early registration deadline for Evolu-
tion 2013 in Snowbird is April 19. http://-
www.evolutionmeeting.org/Register2013.html EVO-
LUTION 2013 - THE ANNUAL EVOLUTION MEET-
ING, JOINTLY SPONSORED BY THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY OF NATURALISTS (ASN), THE SOCI-
ETY OF SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGISTS (SSB) AND
THE SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF EVOLUTION
(SSE): http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/ REGIS-
TRATION AND TALK TITLE SUBMISSION IS
NOW OPEN -The meeting schedule will follow that
of recent years with a few modications -On Monday
there will be a 1/2 day recess for recreation and
eld trips -There will be an all-society mixer/award
ceremony instead of a banquet on Tuesday evening
INCLUDED with your registration fee
The meeting will be held June 21-25, 2013 at the
Meeting and Conference Center Snowbird, Utah, USA.
The Snowbird Conference Center and Alpine Pedes-
trian Village is located at 2365 m (7,760 ft) eleva-
tion, just a short distance from Salt Lake City Inter-
national Airport in Little Cottonwood Canyon on the
west slope of the Wasatch Range of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Recreation opportunities abound in and near
the village/conference site with easy access to hiking,
biking, and skiing (conditions permitting). All lodging,
meeting rooms, restaurants, shopping, and childcare fa-
cilities are just a few minutes walk from each other and
all located within the village. Snowbird is surrounded
by spectacular views of mountain slopes covered with
alpine meadows, cottonwoods, conifers, and impressive
rock formations.
RESERVATIONS FOR LODGING IN THE SNOW-
BIRD ALPINE VILLAGE CAN NOW BE MADE -For
reservations by phone please call 800-453-3000 -Please
remember to mention \EVOLUTION 2013" when you
reserve by phone. -Your reservation for lodging with
Snowbird helps reduce registration costs
STUDENT PARTICIPATION IS SUPPORTED BY
STUDENT AWARDS OFFERED BY THE SOCI-
ETIES (ASN, SSB, AND SSE) AND BY VOLUN-TEER OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS WITH
SOCIETY AFFILIATION TO HELP WITH THE
MEETING IN EXCHANGE FOR FREE REGISTRA-
TION
We look forward to welcoming you to Evolution 2013
SEE YOU IN SNOWBIRD!
The Snowbird Organizing Committee (Drs. Fenster,
Dudash and Cruzan)
cruzan@pdx.edu
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
RegistDeadline
Deadline is Friday! The deadline for submitting ti-
tles for presentations* at Evolution 2013 in Snow-
bird is April 19. http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/-
Register2013.html#presub *Abstracts are required
only if you are applying for an award.
The early registration deadline for Evolu-
tion 2013 in Snowbird is April 19. http://-
www.evolutionmeeting.org/Register2013.html EVO-
LUTION 2013 - THE ANNUAL EVOLUTION MEET-
ING, JOINTLY SPONSORED BY THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY OF NATURALISTS (ASN), THE SOCI-
ETY OF SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGISTS (SSB) AND
THE SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF EVOLUTION
(SSE): http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/ REGIS-
TRATION AND TALK TITLE SUBMISSION IS
NOW OPEN -The meeting schedule will follow that
of recent years with a few modications -On Monday
there will be a 1/2 day recess for recreation and
eld trips -There will be an all-society mixer/award
ceremony instead of a banquet on Tuesday evening
INCLUDED with your registration fee
The meeting will be held June 21-25, 2013 at the
Meeting and Conference Center Snowbird, Utah, USA.
The Snowbird Conference Center and Alpine Pedes-
trian Village is located at 2365 m (7,760 ft) eleva-
tion, just a short distance from Salt Lake City Inter-
national Airport in Little Cottonwood Canyon on the
west slope of the Wasatch Range of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Recreation opportunities abound in and near
the village/conference site with easy access to hiking,
biking, and skiing (conditions permitting). All lodging,
meeting rooms, restaurants, shopping, and childcare fa-
cilities are just a few minutes walk from each other and
all located within the village. Snowbird is surroundedMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 15
by spectacular views of mountain slopes covered with
alpine meadows, cottonwoods, conifers, and impressive
rock formations.
RESERVATIONS FOR LODGING IN THE SNOW-
BIRD ALPINE VILLAGE CAN NOW BE MADE -For
reservations by phone please call 800-453-3000 -Please
remember to mention \EVOLUTION 2013" when you
reserve by phone. -Your reservation for lodging with
Snowbird helps reduce registration costs
STUDENT PARTICIPATION IS SUPPORTED BY
STUDENT AWARDS OFFERED BY THE SOCI-
ETIES (ASN, SSB, AND SSE) AND BY VOLUN-
TEER OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS WITH
SOCIETY AFFILIATION TO HELP WITH THE
MEETING IN EXCHANGE FOR FREE REGISTRA-
TION
We look forward to welcoming you to Evolution 2013
SEE YOU IN SNOWBIRD!
The Snowbird Organizing Committee (Drs. Fenster,
Dudash and Cruzan)
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
UndergradDiversity
Undergraduate Diversity at Evolution 2013
We are pleased to announce an undergraduate travel
award to bring talented and diverse undergraduates to
the Evolution meetings this June 21-25 in Snowbird,
Utah. For the 11th year in a row we will y a cohort
of undergraduates from throughout the US and Puerto
Rico to present a poster at the meetings, receive men-
toring from graduate students, postdocs and faculty,
and participate in a career-oriented 'Undergraduate Fu-
tures in Evolutionary Biology' panel and discussion.
The program covers the costs of travel, registration,
food and accommodation at the meetings.
The application deadline is THIS FRIDAY, April 5th,
and decisions will be announced by Friday, April 12th.
Applications are welcomed from all undergraduates,
and the admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of
students.
An overview of the program and student eligibility, and
a link to the online application can be found at:
www.nescent.org/eog/undergraddiversity Applications
consist of a short statement of interest, a letter of rec-ommendation and the title and abstract of the poster
to be presented.
In addition, we will be soliciting names of graduate
students, postdocs and faculty members who would
like to serve as mentors during the meetings. Men-
tors meet with pairs of students and attend talks with
them, introduce them to colleagues, network and gen-
erally make the meetings a welcoming place for them.
Although costs are not covered for mentors it is an
unusually rewarding experience. Contact Richard Kli-
man (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu) if you are interested
in serving as a mentor.
For inquires contact one of the organizers:
Scott Edwards - sedwards@oeb.harvard.edu
Richard Kliman - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu
Jory Weintraub - jory@nescent.org
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
UCalifornia Irvine WesternEvolBiol
May11
The WEB (Western Evolutionary Biology) 5 Meeting
will take place on the University of California, Irvine,
campus on Saturday, May 11, starting at 10:00am. Reg-
istration is free and on-line, and is open to anyone who
wishes to attend. Registration is due April 22nd, and
abstracts are due April 29th.
Individuals associated with the UCs may be able to get
their travel to Irvine covered, within reason. Contact
your campus NERE Associate director for more infor-
mation about travel.
Also, please check out our website: http://-
www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/nere-web/ Thanks, Des Ramirez
UCSB NERE intern
Desmond Ramirez <des.ramirez@lifesci.ucsb.edu >16 EvolDir May 1, 2013
UHawaii Hilo ConservationBiol
May13-15
Dear Friends and Colleagues,
Mark your calendars for the 5th Annual Research
Symposium sponsored by the Tropical Conservation
Biology & Environmental Science (TCBES) Pro-
gram at the University of Hawaii at Hilo (http://-
tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/index.html). Over two engaging
days of presentations about recent scientic research
carried out in Hawaii from *May 13-15, 2013 *(Mon-
day through Wednesday). The public is also invited to
join us.
Whether you are a graduate or undergraduate student,
resident or visiting faculty or student, or agency per-
sonnel, we invite you to present and listen to the latest
research in TCBES!
*Call For Presentations*
We are now accepting applications to present a talk
or poster. Research presentations in ecology, evolution,
environmental science, and conservation biology related
to Hawaii and the Pacic region are welcome. Studies
examining the relationship between human communi-
ties and cultures, and environmental issues are also en-
couraged. *The deadline for submitting abstracts is 3
May 2013.*
Our goal is to increase undergraduate and graduate stu-
dent participation in both the oral and poster presenta-
tion sessions. To encourage widespread participation,
we are oering this event free of charge, and will be
awarding prizes for outstanding presentations in vari-
ous categories.
See the TCBES Research Symposium Registration
page ( http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/registration.html)
for more information.
<http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/page23.html >
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate Program
Professor of Biology University of Hawaii at Hilo Hilo,
HI 96720
donaldp@hawaii.edu http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/
http://www.hawaii.edu/uhhbiology/ http://-
www2.hawaii.edu/~donaldp/ donaldp@hawaii.eduUMontreal
MathematicsOfBiodiversity
Sep16-20
Mathematics for an evolving biodiversity September 16-
20, 2013 CRM, Montr eal (Canada)
http://www.crm.umontreal.ca/2013/Biodiversity13/-
index e.php Hosted by the Center for Mathematical
Research in Montr eal (Canada), in the context of
MATH FOR PLANET EARTH YEAR 2013 <
http://mpe2013.org/ >
Organizers : Jonathan Davies (McGill), Amaury Lam-
bert (UPMC Univ Paris 6 and Coll ege de France), Nico-
las Lartillot (Montr eal)
Early-bird registration: deadline May 15, 2013.
Contributed talks and posters are welcome.
List of invited speakers
Graham Bell (McGill University) Troy Day (Queen's
University) Rampal S. Etienne (University of Gronin-
gen) R egis Ferri ere (Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie
(Paris 6)) Sergey Gavrilets (University of Tennessee)
Emma Goldberg (University of Illinois) Luke Harmon
(University of Idaho) Stephen Hubbell (UCLA) Steven
Kembel (UQAM) Mark McPeek (Dartmouth College)
Arne Mooers (Simon Fraser University) Mark Pagel
(University of Reading) Todd Parsons (Univ. Pierre
et Marie Curie (Paris 6)) Pedro Peres-Neto (UQAM)
Daniel Rabosky (University of Michigan) Richard Ree
(Field Museum of Natural History) Liam Revell (Uni-
versity of Massachusetts Boston) Robert Ricklefs (Uni-
versity of Missouri at St. Louis) James Rosindell (Im-
perial College) Mike Steel (University of Canterbury)
Conference agenda
This workshop will provide an overview of recent theo-
retical and methodological developments for modeling
the complex evolutionary dynamics that have shaped
the structure of contemporary biodiversity. Theoreti-
cal work at the interface between ecology and evolu-
tionary studies will be presented, as well as its applica-
tions to empirical data. This will include mathematical
and probabilistic modeling, statistical methodologies,
and new insights obtained from biological data. Ac-
cordingly, the workshop will gather a variety of partici-
pants within the elds of probability, statistics, ecology
and evolutionary biology, and working on the followingMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 17
themes:
- Likelihood-based phylogenetic tests of macroevolu-
tionary hypotheses, based on models of diversication
patterns incorporating density dependence, heterogene-
ity among lineages and species selection eects, as well
as various models of trait evolution.
- Ecophylogenetics, and theories such as the neutral
theory of biodiversity, for deriving macroevolutionary
models of species distribution and turnover from rst
principles of community ecology.
- Adaptive dynamics and other models of evolving bio-
diversity, for linking micro-evolution and adaptation
with global ecological patterns.
- Probabilistic models of phylogeography, and their role
in our understanding of biodiversity gradients.
You might also be interested in the workshop
on 'Mathematics and Sequence Evolution: Biologi-
cal Models and Application', organized by Mathieu
Blanchette (McGill) and Herv e Philippe (Montr eal),
which will take place the following week, Septem-
ber 23-27 2013, in Montr eal, also in the con-
text of the thematic semester on biodiversity and
evolution organized by the Center for Mathemat-
ical Research: <http://www.crm.umontreal.ca/act/-
theme/theme 2013 2en/mathematics sequence evolu-
tion13 e.php >. You may want to make the most of your
time in Montr eal and attend both events.
Nicolas Lartillot <nicolas.lartillot@umontreal.ca >
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics
Jun12-15 3
7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium:
ARTHROPOD GENOMICS 2013 ONWARD
EXTENDED DATES!! Friday, April 19, 2013: Early
Bird Registration Deadline Friday, April 19, 2013: Sub-
mit Poster Abstracts Due
The 7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium and
VectorBase Workshop will be held from June 12 - June
15, 2013, and is hosted by the Eck Institute for Global
Health at the University of Notre Dame.
The VectorBase Workshop will begin early afternoon on
Wednesday, June 12, 2013, and conclude late afternoon
on Thursday, June 13, 2013.
The Arthropod Genomics Symposium will begin Thurs-day evening, June 13, 2013, and conclude late afternoon
on Saturday, June 15, 2013 (an optional dinner is sched-
uled for Saturday night).
To register for the Arthropod Genomics Symposium or
view more information visit:
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/7th-annual-arthropod-
genomics-symposium/ \Eck Institute for Global
Health - ( eigh )" <eigh@nd.edu >
UStAndrews InsectMatingEvolution
Sep4-6
EXTENDED DEADLINE FOR TALK & POSTER
ABSTRACTS: 1st JUNE 2013
Ento '13 International Symposium and Annual Na-
tional Science Meeting
\Thirty years of Thornhill & Alcock: The Evolution of
Insect Mating Systems"
We are pleased to invite you to come to St Andrews
this September for ENTO '13. ENTO '13 will comprise
both the International Symposium and the National
Science Meeting of the Royal Entomological Society.
Venue: University of St Andrews, Scotland
The International Symposium will celebrate 30 years
of Thornhill and Alcock's ground-breaking book \The
Evolution of Insect Mating Systems". The book has
had an enormous impact on multiple generations of en-
tomologists and behavioural ecologists, and we will cel-
ebrate that achievement and explore the progress we
have made in understanding insect mating systems and
reproductive behaviour since 1983. The International
Symposium will take the form of invited plenary ses-
sions on the mornings of the 4th, 5th and 6th Septem-
ber.
Symposium speakers include: G oran Arnqvist (Upp-
sala), Boris Baer (Western Australia), Bruno Buzatto
(Western Australia), Doug Emlem (Montana), John
Hunt (Exeter), Hanna Kokko (ANU), Trish Moore
(Georgia), Ben Normark (UMASS), Mike Ritchie (St
Andrews), Leigh Simmons (Western Australia), Per
Smiseth (Edinburgh), Rhonda Snook (Sheeld), Nina
Wedell (Exeter), and Marlene Zuk (Minnesota)
The National Science Meeting will comprise a series of
themed sessions as well as general entomology sessions
open to talks on any entomological topic. Oral pre-18 EvolDir May 1, 2013
sentations and poster presentations are invited for the
themed or open sessions.
The National Science Meeting will take place on the af-
ternoons of the 4th, 5th and 6th September. Depending
on the presentations oered by delegates, sessions may
be combined or delegates may be asked to present a
poster instead of a talk (or vice versa). Talk slots will
be 20 minutes long, inclusive of time for questions.
Themed Sessions: Sexual Selection in Insects (session
chair Dr Luc Bussiere, plenary speaker Prof Darryl
Gwynne) Nuptial gifts in insects (session chair Prof
Karim Vahed, plenary speaker Prof Sara Lewis) Ben-
ecial Insects: Biological Control and Beyond (session
chair Prof Leo Beukeboom) Entomology for the Masses:
Impact and Outreach (session chair Dr Pete Smithers)
Insect Genomics (session chair Dr Dan Lawson) Polli-
nator Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution Insect Com-
munity Ecology
For registration (including booking accommodation)
and submission of abstracts for talks and posters,
as well as details about national and international
travel to St Andrews, please visit the ENTO '13 web-
site: http://www.royensoc.co.uk/content/ento-13-4-6-
september-2013 For further information, please email
David Shuker: ento13@st-andrews.ac.uk
EXTENDED DEADLINE FOR TALK & POSTER
ABSTRACTS: 1ST JUNE 2013
Dr David M Shuker School of Biology University of St
Andrews Harold Mitchell Building St Andrews KY16
9TH UK
Tel: +44 1334 463376 Fax: +44 1334 464466
Email: david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk
Website: http://insects.st-andrews.ac.uk dms14@st-
andrews.ac.uk
Valencia EvolutionAcousticSignals
Jul3-6 CallAbstracts
Preamble: Acoustic communication within and be-
tween species reects evolutionary processes, including
the eects of evolutionary constraint. This summer in
Valencia, Spain, we will be hosting a symposium on
the \Neuroethology and biomechanics of acoustic com-
munication in vertebrates", where the focus will be on
the mechanisms, functions, and evolution of acousticsignals in vertebrates.
CALL FOR SUBMISSION OF ABSTRACTS
\Neuroethology and biomechanics of acoustic commu-
nication in vertebrates"
Special symposium at the annual meeting of the Soci-
ety for Experimental Biology July 3-6, 2013 in Valencia,
Spain.
Organizers: Coen P. H. Elemans and John M. Ratclie,
University of Southern Denmark (coen@biology.sdu.dk,
jmr@biology.sdu.dk)
Abstract deadline: May 3rd, 2013 (talks and posters)
For abstract submission, registration and more
info: http://www.sebiology.org/meetings/Valencia/-
Valencia.html Keynote speakers: Andrew H. Bass
(Cornell University) W. Tecumseh Fitch (University of
Vienna)
Conrmed Speakers Ana Amador (University of Buenos
Aires) Marcel van der Heijden (University of Rotter-
dam) Christian Herbst (University of Vienna) Nicole
Kime (Edgewood College) Peter T. Madsen (University
of~Arhus) David Reby (University of Sussex) Roderick
A. Suthers (University of Indiana)
Summary Sound communication is fundamental to
many social interactions and essential to courtship and
agonistic behaviors in a great variety of vertebrates,
including man. Close to 10,000 species of birds, 5,000
species of frogs, 5,000 species of mammals, and a yet un-
known number of sh, produce a multitude of sounds,
ranging from clicks and grunts, howls and whistles, the
precise and rapid modulations of sound amplitude and
frequency in echolocation signals, to complex, learned
languages.
Sound production and perception involves complex in-
teractions between sensory systems, musculoskeletal
dynamics and the brain, which can result in behaviors
of both dazzling complexity and simple elegance.
These sessions will include world-leading researchers
presenting on the state of the art and the future of
the eld. Recent advances will be illustrated by some
of the most successful experimental animal models used
to better understand the neural basis and biomechanics
of sound communication.
< http://www.sebiology.org/meetings/Valencia/-
Valencia.html >
< http://www.facebook.com/pages/Society-for-
Experimental-Biology/166761543400758 > < https://-
twitter.com/#!/SEBiology >
John Morgan Ratclie <jmr@biology.sdu.dk >May 1, 2013 EvolDir 19
GradStudentPositions
BangorU SalmonIntrogression . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Bergen Norway ComparativeEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
EURAC BolzanoItaly AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
Edinburgh HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
INRA France EvolutionAnadromy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
IowaStateU TurtleChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 71
MacquarieU 2 BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
ManchesterMetU GraylingConservationGenomics . .24
QueensU SpeciationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
SanDiegoStateU UCRiverside EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Scotland PlantPathogen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
StockholmU 2 BrainEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
StockholmU SystematicZoology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
SwanseaU BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Trentino Italy PlantPathogen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
TrinityCollege Dublin PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . .30UCL SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UEdinburgh ParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UExeter EvolutionAntibioticResistance . . . . . . . . . . . .32
UGent GeneticsDemography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UKent RADsequencing parakeets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
UMainz ParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UManchester EvolutionCooperation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UMelbourne FemaleOrnamentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
UNeuchatel HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UNorthernColorado PlantConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
USDA Ames Iowa InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UWesternOntario ModellingEvolutionBreeding . . . . 38
UppsalaU ComputMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
WageningenU BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
BangorU SalmonIntrogression
The Molecular Ecology and Fisheries Genetics Labo-
ratory (MEFGL: http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/)., School
of Biological Sciences, Bangor University, UK invites
applications for a 3-year PhD studentship recently
awarded by the EU and linked to the project \AQUA-
TRACE".
Background to Project The studentship is linked to
AQUATRACE where the primary focus is to conduct
growth and survival experiments with farmed and wild
Atlantic salmon. Genetic changes associated with do-
mestication in aquaculture pose an increasing threat to
the integrity of native sh gene pools. Consequently,
there is a bourgeoning need for the development of
molecular tools to assess and monitor the genetic im-
pact of escaped or released farmed sh. In addition,
exploration of basic links between genetic dierences
among farmed and wild sh and dierences in impor-tant life-history traits with tness consequences are
crucial prerequisites for designing biologically informed
management strategies. The project AQUATRACE
will establish an overview of current knowledge on aqua-
culture breeding, genomic resources and previous re-
search projects for several marine species. The project
will apply cutting-edge genomic methods for the devel-
opment of high-powered, cost-ecient, forensically vali-
dated and transferable DNA-based tools for identifying
and tracing the impact of farmed sh in the wild.
Aim and objectives The aim of the PhD project is
to elucidate the underlying genetic dierences between
wild and farmed sh, and the tness consequences of in-
trogression between them. Some biological experiments
are underway at the Institute of Marine Researchs ex-
perimental sh-farm located just outside Bergen, Nor-
way, thereby providing advanced bespoke facilities and
progress. Additional experiments will be started by the
student in the autumn of 2013. The PhD student will
spend most time in Bangor, but will travel to Norway
2-3 times per year, to conduct practical work associated
with the experiments (co-supervisor Dr K Glover). In
addition to handling and sampling sh, the candidate20 EvolDir May 1, 2013
will take tissue samples for subsequent DNA parentage
testing, and ultimately reaction norm statistical analy-
sis. For a suitable candidate, there may also be an op-
portunity to participate in quantitative trait loci map-
ping of tness traits (e.g. survival, growth), including
the analysis of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
in Bergen. The student will benet from joining other
members/students of the consortium at workshops, and
will be encouraged to integrate his/her ndings into the
wider context of the project.
Requirements and Eligibility
The ideal candidate will have a rst or upper second
class degree in zoology/biological sciences and related
elds or an MSc in a relevant discipline. Some experi-
ence and interests in handling sh in an experimental
setting and an aptitude for quantitative and statistical
analyses are ideally required.
Host details: Bangor is located in North West Wales,
situated in an area of outstanding natural beauty be-
tween Snowdonia National Park and the sea. The suc-
cessful applicant will join the large, thriving team in
the MEFGL, one of the largest research areas within
the University. Housed within the new Environment
Centre Wales Building, the MEFGL benets from
fully equipped molecular labs, second and third gen-
eration sequencing capability at the Liverpool Cen-
tre for Genome Resarch and bioinformatic develop-
ment capability on the HPC Wales supercomputing
genomics gateway. The MEFGL at Bangor has re-
cently hosted several \rsts" in sh and sheries genet-
ics, such as generating the rst gene-associated markers
for tackling illegal shing and securing eco-certication
of sh products (Nature Communications, and avail-
able at http://www.nature.com/ncomms/journal/v3/-
n5/pdf/ncomms1845.pdf) and the rst direct evidence
that experimental harvesting of sh populations drives
genetically based shifts in body size and matura-
tion. The paper is published in Frontiers in Ecology
and the Environment (http://www.esajournals.org/-
toc/fron/0/0). More information can be found
at: http://www.bangor.ac.uk/news/full.php.en?nid=-
3D12593&tnid=3D12593, including BBC coverage
- http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-wales-21813736, and
on BBC Radio Wales at http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/-
uk-wales-21827080. In addition to training in popu-
lation and quantitative genetics, linked to conceptual
evolutionary theory, conservation genetics and sheries
biology, the student would undertake formal University
training in research skills and methods.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Bergen Norway
ComparativeEvoDevo
PhD Position Comparative development of mesodermal
cell types in invertebrates 
A 3-year PhD position is oered in the framework of the
FP7 Marie Curie Initial Training Network (ITN) NEP-
TUNE Multidisciplinary training in evo-devo and neu-
robiology of marine animal models (http://neptune-
itn.eu). The network unites 8 leading European labs
with complementary expertise in evolutionary develop-
mental biology, bioinformatics, functional neurobiology,
and palaeontology and the industrial partners Sigma-
Aldrich and Carl Zeiss Microscopy, specialised in ad-
vanced genetic manipulation technology and Lightsheet
Fluorescence Microscopy.
The project will be conducted at the Sars International
Centre of Marine Molecular Biology (Bergen, Norway)
in the group Comparative Developmental Biology of
Animalsof Dr. Andreas Hejnol and through short-
term visits in the partner laboratories of NEPTUNE.
The Hejnol group studies a broad range of mainly ma-
rine invertebrates using genomic, embryological, and
advanced microscopic and molecular methods. The
successful candidate will study a diverse range of in-
vertebrate taxa with the goal to reconstruct the evo-
lution of mesodermal organ systems such as the cir-
culatory system, nephridia, muscles. The project will
also address the evolution of the molecular patterning
underlying the specialization of mesodermal cell types.
The Sars Centre is a department of Uni Research AS
<http://www.uni.no/ >, aliated with the University
of Bergen <http://www.uib.no/info/english/ >, and a
partner of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory
(EMBL) <http://www.embl.de >. The Sars Centre is
focused on basic research in marine molecular biology,
developmental biology and evolution. The institute has
employee insurance and pension agreements and is an
equal opportunity employer. The appointee will have
the opportunity to enrol in the University of Bergens
Molecular and Computational Biology Research School
(MCB) <http://www.uib.no/rs/mcb >PhD program.
Applicants are required to have experience in molecular
biology and imaging techniques and interest in evolu-
tion. The position is available from June 2013 and isMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 21
according to the Marie Curie Early Stage Researcher
(ESR) mobility rules open only to individuals who have
spent less than 12 months in Norway in the last three
years. In addition, applicants must be in the rst four
years (full-time equivalent) of their research careers and
not yet have been awarded a doctoral degree. This is
measured from the date when they obtained the de-
gree that would formally entitle them to embark on a
PhD program, in the country in which the degree was
obtained. The starting salary for this PhD position is
grade 48 (code 1017/LR 20.8) in the Civil Service pay
grade table, currently NOK 391,300 gross p.a.; follow-
ing ordinary meriting regulations.
For further information regarding the position and
scientic content of the project please contact the
Group Leader, Dr. Andreas Hejnol (email an-
dreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no, phone +47 55 58 43 05).
For information about the Marie Curie ITN grant-
ing requirements see FP7 Marie Curie People site
< http://ec.europa.eu/research/mariecurieactions/-
about-mca/actions/itn/index en.htm >. Written
applications, in English, should include a C.V., sum-
mary of educational and work experience, a statement
describing your scientic interests, expression of
interest for the position and contact information for
two references. Applications marked 13Sars 05. can
be mailed to: Human Resource Ocer, Sars Centre,
Bergen High Technology Centre, Thorm chlensgt. 55,
NO-5008 Bergen, Norway. Application deadline 21
May 2013.
Applications by e-mail only will not be considered.
Carol Bruce <Carol.Bruce@sars.uib.no >
EURAC BolzanoItaly AncientDNA
PhD position in the eld of ancient DNA research
Institute for Mummies and the Iceman, EURAC re-
search, Bolzano, Italy
We are looking for a scientist with strong expertise in
advanced molecular techniques and an interest in ap-
plying innovative methods to the eld of ancient DNA
research. This three year doctoral position at the EU-
RAC - Institute for Mummies and the Iceman is sup-
ported by funding from the law 14 research grant of the
province Bolzano, South Tyrol, Italy.
Required qualications. We are looking for a highly
motivated and independently working scientist with astrong conceptual and practical background in the ap-
plication of molecular techniques on ancient human re-
mains. Experience in one or more of the following ar-
eas/techniques will be of advantage: genomics, microbi-
ology, bioinformatics, population genetics. The success-
ful candidate should have an interest in applying ad-
vanced molecular methods in the eld of ancient DNA
research. Prociency in spoken and written English is
mandatory.
Conditions of appointment. We oer up to 3 years of
appointment as a PhD student according to the salary
scheme of the EURAC. The EURAC is an equal oppor-
tunity employer.
Application. To apply, please send an email
(subject: PhD ancient DNA research) to mum-
mies.iceman@eurac.edu containing a pdf-le with a
short cover letter, a detailed CV (including a brief de-
scription of research interests and of the educational
background). Please attach the following consent to
your personal record, in accordance to the data secu-
rity decree 196/2003 about personal data handling: 'I
authorize EURAC to use my personal data in accor-
dance to decree 196/2003.' We inform that we will
not be allowed to consider any application without this
compliancy declaration.
Job start date is August 2013 - December 2013
Maixner Frank <frank.maixner@eurac.edu >
Edinburgh HostParasite
A PhD studentship titled \Understanding host de-
fense and parasite oense: the coevolution of circadian
rhythms" is available to be jointly supervised by Sarah
Reece and Nick Savill (Edinburgh; IEB and IIIR).
Background: The discovery of biological rhythms, such
as circadian rhythms, in parasite behaviours [1] and
host immune responses [2] suggests that timing mat-
ters for how hosts and parasites interact with each
other. For example, the developmental rhythm of many
malaria parasite species is coordinated; parasites in-
vade host red blood cells, replicate, and then release
their progeny in a timed, synchronized burst. How-
ever, to date, the study of parasite biological rhythms
has rarely considered whether parasites are organising
their own schedules or whether parasites are passive and
scheduled by aspects of host physiology with circadian
rhythms. Rhythms in immune defence and parasite de-22 EvolDir May 1, 2013
velopment could provide an evolutionary advantage to
hosts, parasites or both, and both parties may to some
extent control each other's rhythms [3]. This project
will bridge this divide to investigate the evolutionary
ecology of biological rhythms in host- parasite interac-
tions.
The project will integrate the study of circadian
rhythms, behavioural, and mathematical biology to in-
vestigate the evolutionary ecology of biological rhythms
in host-parasite interactions. The project oers a novel
opportunity to combine experiments and theory by col-
lecting data from the lab [e.g. 1] and then using the
data to undertake statistical inference of disease pro-
cesses [e.g. 4, 5]. The project will focus on an estab-
lished disease model (rodent malaria [e.g. 1,4-7]) and
specic topics that could form the focus of the PhD in-
clude: (A) How are rhythms in parasite development
initiated and maintained? Do parasites use their own
time-keeping mechanisms to organise development or
do they use cues from the host's circadian rhythms?
(B) How do rhythms aect the survival and transmis-
sion of parasites? Have parasites evolved time-keeping
mechanisms to better exploit host resources or to evade
immune killing? (C) Are rhythms in parasite develop-
ment and host immune responses adaptive for parasites,
hosts, or neither?
We are looking for a highly motivated and exceptional
candidate excited about working at the boundary of sci-
entic disciplines. You should have, or expect to gain,
a 1st or 2i degree classication in the life sciences. The
project will be co-supervised by Sarah Reece and Nick
Savill (Edinburgh) and is part of a larger project involv-
ing Nicole Mideo (Penn State/Toronto) and Bert Maier
(Charite, Berlin) that is funded by a Human Frontiers
of Science Project grant.
Closing date May 31st. Application instructions can
be found here (please note - fees are available for UK
students only): http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=41789&LID=455 Refer-
ences: [1] O'Donnell A.J., Schneider P., McWatters
H.G. & Reece S.E. (2011) Fitness costs of disrupting
circadian rhythms in malaria parasites, Proceedings of
the Royal Society of London, Series B, 278(171): 2429-
2436^ a^ a [2] Keller M., Mazuch J., Abraham U., Eom
G.D., Herzog E.D., Volk H.D., Kramer A. & Maier B.
(2009) ^ aA circadian clock in macrophages controls in-
ammatory immune responses.^ aProceedings of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, USA, 106(50):21407-12.^ a^ a
[3] Mideo, N., Reece, S.E., Smith, A. Metcalf, C.J.E.
(2013) The Cinderella Syndrome: Why do malaria-
infected cells burst at midnight? Trends in Parasitol-
ogy, 29: 10-16. [4] Miller M.R., Raberg L., Read A.F.
& Savill N.J. (2010) Quantitative analysis of immuneresponse and erythropoiesis during rodent malaria in-
fection, PLoS Computational Biology, 6(9):e1000946.^ a^ a
[5] Mideo N., Savill N.J., Chadwick W., Schneider P.,
Read A.F., Day T. & Reece S.E. (2011) Causes of
variation in malaria infection dynamics: insights from
theory and data. American Naturalist, 178(6): E174-
E188 [6] Pollitt L.C., Mideo N., Drew D., Schneider
P., Colegrave N. & Reece S.E. (2011) Competition and
the evolution of reproductive restraint in malaria para-
sites. American Naturalist, 177(3): 358-367 [7] Schnei-
der P., Bell A.S., Sim D.G., O'Donnell A.J., Blanford
A., Paaijmans K., Read A.F. & Reece S.E. (2012) Vir-
ulence, drug sensitivity and transmission success in the
rodent malaria, Plasmodium chabaudi. Proceedings of
the Royal Society of London, Series B 279(1747): 4677-
85.
Subject Area(s): Evolution^ a Parasitology^ a Genetics^ a
Molecular Biology ^ aZoology/Animal Science
Dr Sarah Reece Centre for Immunity, Infection & Evo-
lution. Institutes of Evolution, Immunology and Infec-
tion Research, School of Biological Sciences, Ashworth
Laboratories, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9
3JT Scotland, UK
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
INRA France EvolutionAnadromy
Hi Evoldir, We are seeking a postgraduate student for
a 3 year PhD (starting in fall 2013) in Basque Counrty,
on the link between anthropic environmental change,
MHC polymorphism and the evolution of anadromy in
Atlantic salmon. The project, involving indivudual-
based modelling and population genetics, is managed
by researchers from the UMR INRA-UPPA ECOBIOP
(St P ee/Nivelle, France) and the Genomics and animal
health Group at University of Basque Country (Bilbao,
Spain).
More information on: http://www.bordeaux-
aquitaine.inra.fr/st pee/ Candidates should be
competent in population theoretical/mathematical
modelling and population genetics.
Please send application (CV, letter, name of
two referees) to etienne.prevost@st-pee.inra.fr[1],May 1, 2013 EvolDir 23
olivier.lepais@st-pee.inra.fr[2], cedric.tentelier@univ-
pau.fr[3] and begonamarina.jugo@ehu.es[4] before the
2nd of May. The nal decision on the project (subject
+ candidate) will be taken by the end of June
Regards,
C edric Tentelier UMR Ecobiop Universit e de Pau et des
Pays de l'Adour All ee du parc Montaury 64600 An-
glet 0033 5 59 57 44 47 0033 5 59 51 59 55 http://-
www.bordeaux-aquitaine.inra.fr/st pee/ Liens:
[1] https://www.bordeaux.inra.fr/-
webmail/imp/message.php?mailbox=-
3DINBOX%2FEnvoyes&index=8#
[2] https://www.bordeaux.inra.fr/-
webmail/imp/message.php?mailbox=-
3DINBOX%2FEnvoyes&index=8#
[3] https://www.bordeaux.inra.fr/-
webmail/imp/message.php?mailbox=-
3DINBOX%2FEnvoyes&index=8#
[4] https://www.bordeaux.inra.fr/-
webmail/imp/message.php?mailbox=-
3DINBOX%2FEnvoyes&index=8#
cedric.tentelier@univ-pau.fr
IowaStateU
TurtleChromosomeEvolution
PhD Position in Chromosome Evolution and Sex De-
termination of Turtles.
A PhD position is available in the laboratory of Dr.
Nicole Valenzuela at Iowa State University as part
of an NSF-funded PhyloGenomics project to study
the genome rearrangements responsible for changes in
diploid number across turtles and their association with
transitions in sex determination. The project involves
molecular cytogenetics, transcriptomics, bioinformatics
and phylogenetics.
Prospective graduate students interested in evolution-
ary biology, sex determination, evo-devo, or chromo-
some evolution are invited to apply, and are encouraged
to develop an independent research project within these
areas.
For more information about the research in our lab
please visit our website
http://www.public.iastate.edu/~nvalenzu/
Graduate students could join the EEB <http:/-
/www.grad-college.iastate.edu/EEB/ >, IG <http://www.genetics.iastate.edu/ >or BCB <
http://www.bcb.iastate.edu/ >graduate programs at
ISU:
http://www.grad-college.iastate.edu/EEB/-
http://www.genetics.iastate.edu/ http://-
www.bcb.iastate.edu/ All prospective students
must take the GRE General Test. International
students whose native language is not English must
take the TOEFL or IELTS.
Interested candidates should contact Dr. Nicole Valen-
zuela at nvalenzu@iastate.edu
Iowa State University does not discriminate on the ba-
sis of race, color, age, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex,
marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran.
Dr. Nicole Valenzuela
Associate Professor <nvalenzu@iastate.edu >Depart-
ment of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biol-
ogy 253 Bessey Hall Iowa State University Ames,
IA 50011, USA Phone: 515-294-1285 URL: http://-
www.public.iastate.edu/~nvalenzu/
nvalenzu@iastate.edu
MacquarieU 2 BehaviouralEvolution
*2 PhD positions in Behavioural Ecology, Macquarie
University, Sydney, Australia. *
*Project 1*: *Climate-related reproductive plasticity
in male birds*
*Project Aims*
Some Australian bird species have extended reproduc-
tive seasons, and breed across a wide range of social and
environmental conditions. In such species males may
have to maintain the production of viable sperm for
prolonged periods (relative to well-studied species from
the northern hemisphere). This project will examine
individual strategies in sperm production against both
climatic and social variation in two species of arid zone
bird on which we have been conducting long-term be-
havioural and ecological research (the zebra nch and
the chestnut-crowned babbler). This project develops
on our recent work into both these species that has
illuminated complex social and environmental sources
of variation into reproductive investment. The project
addresses questions relating to sperm competition, co-
operative breeding, sexual conict and climate change.24 EvolDir May 1, 2013
This project will involve long periods of eld-work at a
remote eld station along with microscopy and molec-
ular work to be conducted in the laboratory of Simon
Grith (Biological Sciences) at Macquarie University
(Sydney). The project will also involve collaboration
with Kate Buchanan (Deakin University) and Andy
Russell (Exeter University, UK).
*Project 2*: *The genetics of domestication in two
model nches*
*Project Aims*
The zebra nch and Gouldian nch are important cap-
tive model systems for the study of a broad range of
questions in biology and most of this research is focused
on highly domesticated populations that are sourced
from populations of birds sourced from amateur avi-
culturists. This project will use a range of molecular
approaches to investigate the eect of domestication
on population genetics and genomic variation in these
two species. In broad terms the project will use ap-
proaches from classical population genetics and emerg-
ing genomic techniques to investigate the genetic vari-
ation in domestic populations across the world and the
selection that has resulted from many generations of
articial selection over the past century. This project
develops on our recent work into both these species that
has illuminated consistent dierences between wild and
domesticated populations in the nature of selection on
a variety of life history and behavioural traits.
The project is based in the laboratory of Simon Grith
(Biological Sciences) and would involve collaboration
with Lee Ann Rollins (Deakin University) and Terry
Burke & (Sheeld University, UK).
*Application*
Both of these projects are supported by ongoing ARC
funding. Scholarships are available for residents from
Australia or New Zealand but there will also be pos-
sibilities for international students to get scholarship
funding.
The 2013 MQRES full-time stipend rate is $24,653 pa
tax exempt for 3.5 years (indexed annually). In addi-
tion to external grant support for the project, up to
$20,000 is available to cover direct research expenses
and domestic conference travel. Additional internal
funding opportunities of up to $10,000 are available to
support travel to overseas laboratories or to attend in-
ternational conferences.
Prospective applicants should have a rst class Honours
degree or equivalent, and additional relevant research
experience and/or qualications. A demonstrated abil-
ity to work in remote and harsh conditions as well asextensive experience with capturing and handling birds
is desirable. A full driving licence is necessary.
Applications should include 1) your CV, 2) a brief state-
ment of your reasons for applying (max. 500 words)
and the project you are applying to work on, and 3)
contact details of two academic referees. Applications
should be submitted electronically as a single PDF le.
Applications for this position are required *by May
10th 2013* and should be sent electronically to: si-
mon.grith@mq.edu
Further information from Dr Simon Grith, Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Syd-
ney, NSW 2109, Australia
thanks
Simon
Simon C. Grith Department of Biological Sciences
Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia.
phone: +61 2 9850 1301 fax: +61 2 9850 9231 http:/-
/www.bio.mq.edu.au/avianbehaviouralecology/ http:/-
/publicationslist.org/s.c.grith Thompson ISI Re-
searcher ID: http://www.researcherid.com/rid/A-1996-
2010 Simon Grith <simon.grith@mq.edu.au >
ManchesterMetU
GraylingConservationGenomics
We have a PhD available funded by the Faculty of Sci-
ence and Engineering, Manchester Metropolitan Uni-
versity for a xed period of 3 years covering fees
(Home/EU only) and a tax free stipend of $12k p.a.
Applicants should hold (or expect to obtain) a mini-
mum upper-second honours degree in a relevant sub-
ject.
Project Title: Assessing adaptive genetic variation for
eective conservation and management of European
Grayling (Thymallus thymallus)
Project Summary A current trend in conservation ge-
netics lies in investigating the relationship between
functional genetic diversity and neutral genetic diver-
sity. Understanding the extent to which functional ge-
netic variation is aected by processes known to aect
neutral diversity is central to this (i.e. it is important
to examine the relative roles of genetic drift and se-
lection in maintaining variation at functional loci). It
is also important in conservation science and in evolu-May 1, 2013 EvolDir 25
tionary biology to assess the extent to which popula-
tions are locally adapted, in part so that the inuence
of human movements of organisms can be measured
and any associated problems avoided. Loci involved in
immunity make excellent candidates for these research
themes since pathogens and infectious diseases are an
important selective force in animal evolution. Measur-
ing genetic variation of immune genes in and between
small populations is also important in assessing their
conservation status, risk of extinction and degree of lo-
cal adaptation. We have a PhD project available ex-
amining these themes in European Grayling (Thymal-
lus thymallus). Grayling have seen signicant declines
due to environmental degradation and over-exploitation
and have been considered as endangered in the UK in
the past.
Project Aims/Objectives
We aim to use cutting-edge next-generation sequencing
technology to assess immunogenetic variation and/or
local adaptation in European grayling (Salmonidae:
Thymallus thymallus) in conjunction with within-river
bacterial diversity and other environmental character-
istics and stocking history. These data will be exam-
ined in comparison with pre-existing data from neutral
loci (microsatellites). Additional work in liaison with
research targets of the Environment Agency regarding
grayling may be included.
Project specic requirements The project will have a
signicant component of molecular laboratory work,
and prior experience of this is essential. The successful
candidate will have experience of one or more of the fol-
lowing techniques: DNA isolation, PCR, DNA sequenc-
ing, microsatellite genotyping or similar work. Addi-
tionally, the project may involve some eldwork and
sampling, and the applicant should be t and prepared
to conduct long-hours of outdoor working, if necessary.
It is desirable (but not essential) that candidates also
have experience of population genetics analysis, bioin-
formatics, next-generation sequencing, sh biology and
sampling.
The supervisory team will include Dr Jonathan Ellis
(DoS; MMU), Dr Robin Senn (MMU), Dr Martin Tay-
lor (UEA). We will also work with Prof. R N Hughes
(Bangor University), the Grayling Research Trust and
the Environment Agency.
Contact Dr Jon Ellis for further details:
j.ellis@mmu.ac.uk; tel: +44 (0) 161 2476209
http://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/studentships/PGR-
application-form.doc or http://www2.mmu.ac.uk/-
research/studentships/science-and-engineering/
Return the completed application to: pgradmis-sions@mmu.ac.uk
PLEASE NOTE that Section 9 of the application
should be used to write a personal statement outlin-
ing your suitability for the study, what you hope to
achieve from the PhD and your research experience to
date.
Closing date: Friday 17th May
Dr Jonathan S. Ellis Lecturer in Molecular Conser-
vation Biology School of Science & the Environment
Manchester Metropolitan University Chester Street
Manchester M1 5GD +44 (0)161 2476209
Jonathan Ellis <J.Ellis@mmu.ac.uk >
QueensU SpeciationGenomics
I am looking for a PhD student to study genomics
of speciation in band-rumped storm-petrels (BRSP).
BRSP represent an exciting case of repeated sympatric
speciation (i.e. speciation with gene ow) by allochrony
(separation of populations by breeding time). Initial
studies in my lab documented the pattern of diver-
gence. We now want to investigate the mechanisms.
The project will entail application of functional gene
analysis and comparative genomics to an existing large
sample collection. Field work on barren tropical is-
lands may be required. Applicants must have a back-
ground in evolutionary genetics. Practical experience
with genomics and bioinformatics is an asset. The
successful applicant will join a dynamic group of fac-
ulty and students studying ecology and evolution at
Queen's University. Please send a resume or curricu-
lum vitae, informal transcript, and contact information
for two academic references asap to Dr. Vicki Friesen.
Acceptance is conditional on the applicant receiving a
Trillium Scholarship: contact Dr. Friesen asap for fur-
ther information. Deadline for completed application:
May 6 2013. See http://post.queensu.ca/ ~ birdpop/-
index.html for more information on the Friesen lab.
Dr. Vicki Friesen, Professor Department of Biology,
4443 Biosciences, 116 Barrie Street, Queen's Univer-
sity, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada Tel: 613-533-6156
Fax: 613-533-6617
Haida Saying: Treat the Earth well: it is not given to
us by our parents, it is loaned to us by our children.
Vicki Friesen <vlf@queensu.ca >26 EvolDir May 1, 2013
SanDiegoStateU UCRiverside
EvolBiol
The Joint Doctoral program in Evolutionary Biology
between the Department of Biology at San Diego State
University and the University of California Riverside is
seeking applicants for 2013. Our program is 3 years
old with 8 joint Ph.D. students. We provide training in
evolutionary biology that includes molecular evolution,
genomics, paleontology, population biology and system-
atics. www.bio.sdsu.edu/eb/jdeb.html Please contact
Annalisa Berta, aberta@mail.sdsu.edu for more infor-
mation.
Annalisa Berta, Ph.D. Professor and Coordinator of
SDSU/UCR Joint Doctoral Program in Evolutionary
Biology
Department of Biology San Diego State University
San Diego, CA 92182-4614 Phone: (619) 594-5392 lab:
(619) 594-4584 (LS 260) fax: (619) 594-5676 email:
aberta@mail.sdsu.edu http://www.bio.sdsu.edu/-
faculty/berta.html www.bio.sdsu.edu/eb/jdeb.html
Annalisa Berta <aberta@mail.sdsu.edu >
Scotland PlantPathogen
PhD Studentship Fighting Ramularia leaf spot disease
of barley using integrated genetics and genomics
SRUC, Scotland's Rural College, delivers comprehen-
sive skills, education and business support for Scot-
land's land-based industry founded on world class, sec-
tor leading research, education and consultancy. Our
1500 sta are located on 6 campuses and around 40
business units across Scotland and the North of Eng-
land. In agricultural elds of monocultures, crop plants
continuously face numerous threats from pathogens
that can, if left unchecked, rapidly lead to severe epi-
demics of disease. Leaf spot diseases are of particular
concern in Europe and are frequently caused by the
fungus Ramularia collo-cygni, which is especially dev-
astating on barley. It is a disease that occurs late in
the season and is characterised by small necrotic spots,
usually with a yellow halo which is caused by the pro-
duction of rubellin toxins within the pathogen. Thus,understanding both the production and in planta action
of rubellins is vital to the design of novel strategies to
protect barley and other infected cereals from leaf spot
disease. This PhD project will exploit a unique com-
bination of genomic advances that have been revealed
following the recent sequencing of the R. collo-cygni
genome linked with the rapid generation time and de-
tailed genetic knowledge from Arabidopsis, combined
with the large genetic diversity of barley landraces to
examine the genes responsible for symptom develop-
ment in the plant-pathogen relationship. The success-
ful candidate must have or expect to obtain a minimum
of an upper second class degree in a scientic discipline
from a UK University or equivalent. They should be
familiar with Microsoft oce and excel, as well as some
basic knowledge of statistical software such as Genstat
and/or Minitab. Oral and writing skills in English are
required to a high standard. A valid UK or EU driving
license is also desirable.
The studentship oers a stipend of $13,726 per an-
num and is funded to pay the University of Edinburgh
tuition fees for UK/EU students. The expected start
date is October 2013 and the studentship is 3.5 years
in length. The student will be based at SRUC, King's
Buildings, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG.
Electronic applications can be submitted via the
SRUC website www.sruc.ac.uk/jobs Application
packs are also available from Audrey Johnstone
(audrey.johnstone@sruc.ac.uk) quoting reference
SRUC/1026687/Fountaine. To have an infor-
mal discussion about this studentship, contact
Dr James Fountaine, james.fountaine@sruc.ac.uk
(+44 (0) 131 535 4370) and/or Dr Steven Spoel,
sspoel@stamail.ed.ac.uk (+44 (0) 131 650 7065)
Closing date for the return of applications is noon on
6th May 2013
Please don't print this e-mail unless you really need
to. This e-mail message is condential to the intended
recipient at the email address to which it has been ad-
dressed. If the message has been received by you in er-
ror, it may not be disclosed to or used by anyone other
than the intended addressee, nor may it be copied in
any way. If it is not intended for you please inform us,
immediately, then delete it from your system. If the
content is not about the business of the organisation
then the message is not from us nor is it sanctioned by
us. Anything in this e-mail or its attachments which
does not relate to SRUC's or SAC Commercial Lim-
ited's ocial business is neither given nor endorsed by
SRUC or SAC Commercial Limited. SRUC A Chari-
table company limited by guarantee, Scottish Charity
Number: SC003712. Registered in Scotland, CompanyMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 27
Number: SC103046 - Registered Oce: Peter Wilson
Building, King's Buildings, West Mains Road, Edin-
burgh EH9 3JG SAC Commercial Limited, an SRUC
company Registered in Scotland, Company Number:
SC148684 - Registered Oce: Peter Wilson Building,
King's Buildings, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9
3JG
Dr Peter Hoebe Crop & Soil Systems, SRUC King's
Buildings Edinburgh EH9 3JG +44 (0)131 535
4208/(0)7795047692
Peter Hoebe <Peter.Hoebe@sruc.ac.uk >
StockholmU 2 BrainEvolution
Two PhD-student positions in Ethology
Two PhD-student positions in Ethology at the Depart-
ment of Zoology. Reference number SU FV-0987-13.
Deadline for applications: May 2, 2013.
Two PhD-student positions in Ethology at <http://-
www.zoologi.su.se/en >the Department of Zoology.
Project: Multilevel analysis of the costs and benets of
evolving an advanced brain We are seeking to recruit
two PhD-students to join Niclas Kolm's group for work
within a multidisciplinary project on brain evolution.
The project uses mainly the guppy (Poecilia reticulata)
and the house mouse (Mus musculus) as models to ex-
perimentally test the possibilities and consequences of
evolving a more advanced brain. More specically, the
project addresses the costs and benets of evolving a
more advanced brain in terms of brain morphology and
also if strong selection on cognitive ability aects brain
morphology. As such, the project spans over multi-
ple disciplines including assays of behaviour, physiol-
ogy, life histories, primary and secondary sexual traits
and state of the art analyses of the genetic architec-
ture that orchestrates brain morphology and cognitive
ability. The existing selection lines of large- and small-
brained guppies will form the basis of the project but
additional selection experiments on various aspects of
brain morphology and cognitive ability will also be un-
dertaken. The overall aim of the project is thus to in-
crease our understanding of the factors that have gener-
ated the enormous variation in brain morphology that
exists at all taxonomic levels among the animals.
The work will mostly be lab-oriented but includes also
the possibility of eld work on Trinidad. The project
will require hard work but at the same time provideexcellent opportunities for personal initiatives and de-
velopment towards a successful academic career. An
important task will be to collect and analyse complex
data in a way that controls for the setups of replicated
articial selection designs.
Qualication and competence To be qualied for re-
search studies in the program, the applicant must have
completed a Master degree (or equivalent) or have
passed at least 120 hp (2 years) of biological studies,
including an approved independent project of at least
30 hp at advanced level within Ethology, Zoology, Be-
havioural Ecology, Evolutionary Biology or a related
subject. Applicants who have in principle acquired
the corresponding competence in Sweden or in another
country are also qualied.
We are looking in particular for candidates with a
strong interest in brain evolution, with excellent ana-
lytical ability and experience from quantitative analyses
of behaviour and other traits of interest. Experience in
working with aquatic and/or terrestrial animals in the
lab is especially meriting.
Criteria for selection Among qualied applicants, se-
lection is made according to the ability to prot from
the studies. The criteria to be used are properly docu-
mented competence within the described research area,
capabilities with regards to speaking and writing in
English, analytical thinking, creativity, initiative, in-
dependence, and team work performance. The appli-
cant's earlier experience within the eld of research can
be of relevance especially when further documented by
university courses, independent research work, personal
references, interview and an application indicating the
applicant's motivation in written form. The decision
cannot be appealed.
Job details The PhD-studies, which are aimed to start
in autumn 2013, include 48 months of full-time stud-
ies. During the rst year an appropriate study support
will be supplied (15 500 SEK/month) which will later
be changed into full employment as a PhD-student (23
200 26 800 SEK/month) with full social benets.
Stockholm University strives to be a workplace free
from discrimination and with equal opportunities for
all.
Information For further details, contact the PI on the
project,: Associated Professor Niclas Kolm, telephone
+46-(0)18-471 26 39, e-mail: niclas.kolm@ebc.uu.se
and niclas.kolm@zoologi.su.se.
Union representatives Anqi Lindblom-Ahlm (Saco-S)
and Lisbeth H aggberg (Fackf orbundet ST), telephone
+46-(0)8-16 2000 (switch board), and Gunnar Stenberg
(SEKO), telephone +46-(0)70-316 43 41.28 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Application The application should contain: 1) max-
imum one A4-page letter including personal presenta-
tion and motivation for the project, 2) complete CV
(including list of methodological skills), 3) copy of in-
dependent project thesis, 4) copies of degree certicates
and transcripts of academic records (attested), and 5)
reference letters and contact details from two academic
referees. A research plan is not needed at this stage.
In order to apply for these positions, please use the
Stockholm University web-based application form.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
StockholmU SystematicZoology
PhD-student position in Systematic Zoology at the De-
partment of Zoology. Reference number SU FV-0989-
13. Deadline for applications: May 2, 2013.
The student will be admitted to one of the following
projects, and should specify interest:
Genomics of woolly mammoth extinction The woolly
mammoth became extinct some 4000 years ago. The
extinction was preceded by a loss of habitat across
Eurasia that lead to increasing population fragmenta-
tion until only one population on Wrangel Island re-
mained. The project proposed here aims to use state-
of-the-art genomic analysis of ancient DNA from mam-
moth remains to investigate three key questions related
to the mammoth's extinction: 1) Did the last popula-
tion of woolly mammoth suer from inbreeding prob-
lems? 2) Did the woolly mammoth evolve in response
to ecological change at the end of the last Ice Age? 3)
How important was gene ow between dierent geo-
graphical areas for the evolution of the woolly mam-
moth? Addressing these questions is relevant not only
for understanding mammoth evolution but also for con-
servation of extant endangered species, since it may
help to develop a better understanding of how small
populations are aected by low genetic variation and
inbreeding. The PhD position will involve sequencing
of partial genomes from a large number of mammoth
specimens, and could also involve eld expeditions to
Siberia. Moreover, the PhD student will have the op-
portunity to visit and collaborate with world-leadingscientists that belong to an international research con-
sortium on mammoth genomics. The project will be
supervised by Dr. Love Dal en at the Swedish Museum
of Natural History, love.dalen@nrm.se.
Systematics and evolution of cichlid shes (Cichlidae)
The Cichlidae are one of the most important vertebrate
families with an estimated 2000 species distributed
in freshwaters of Africa, South and Central America,
Madagascar, and Asia. Cichlid phylogeny has been
intensely addressed both by molecular techniques and
morphological analyses. Still numerous aspects remain
to be investigated. From the systematic/phylogenetic
perspective, the sister group and the deeper nodes
within the family remain to be resolved; many genera
remain to be analyzed for species diversity and phy-
logeny. Cichlids are also useful for evolutionary re-
search: Cichlids often occur with numerous closely re-
lated species in restricted areas, so-called species ocks,
as found in Lakes Tanganyika, Malawi, and Victoria.
Are species ocks a prominent mode of speciation and
evolution in this family, or transient bursts of evolution?
Hybridization has been discovered both in South Amer-
ica and Africa. Is hybridization a prominent means
of divergence in this group? Trophic diversity, various
mating and brood care systems, and miniaturization
oer additional topics. The Swedish Museum of Natu-
ral History has substantial collections of cichlid shes
waiting for a student interested in both morphological
and molecular analyses of systematic and evolutionary
challenges. This project will be supervised by Dr. Sven
Kullander at the Swedish Museum of Natural History,
sven.kullander@nrm.se.
Ecological and phylogenetic characterization of mod-
ern carnivore guilds in the context of climate change
This project is part of an ongoing program investi-
gating the ecometrics of carnivores in space and time.
The primary goal is to develop tools that enable dis-
crimination between ecological and phylogenetic drivers
of ecometric dierentiation between modern-day carni-
vore guilds. Ecomorphological datasets of carnivores
have been generated within the program, but need to
be augmented with new characters and additional taxa.
Ancillary datasets of climatic variables, including tem-
perature and precipitation are also available. The main
task of the present project is to develop and use statis-
tical and comparative phylogenetic methods that will
allow for an amalgamation of these datasets as well as
statistical testing of scenarios of structural changes to
guilds in the context of models of future climate change.
The project will be supervised by Prof. Lars Werdelin
at the Department of Palaeobiology, the Swedish Mu-
seum of Natural History, lars.werdelin@nrm.se.
Speciation and species delimitation of water beetlesMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 29
on Madagascar Madagascar with it's long history as
an isolated island, pronounced environmental gradients
and numerous endemic species radiations is an excel-
lent model region to study species diversication. Why
did some colonizations lead to endemic radiations and
others not? This is a question at the core of the mecha-
nisms and processes involved in speciation. Water bee-
tles are the study organisms in this project as they can
deliver a number of replicated clades of both endemic
radiations and clades with multiple colonizations but
lacking radiations. Densely sampled species-level phy-
logenies will be used as a window into the processes of
how species arise and how they can be inferred. Main
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SwanseaU BacterialEvolution
2 x PhD studentships in bacterial genomics and evolu-
tion. Based in Swansea University and co-supervised
at Imperial College London.
Project description:
The successful applicants will join a multicentre re-
search group (Swansea University and Imperial Col-
lege London) focusing on population biology and evo-
lution of bacterial pathogens of public health impor-
tance. They will investigate the genetic factors involved
in generating and maintaining genotypic and pheno-
typic diversity in bacteria such as Campylobacter, E.
coli and Staphylococcus. Comparative genomics ap-
proaches will examine the genetic structuring within
pathogenic populations and answer fundamental ques-
tions about how genetic variation and genome plasticity
inuence adaptation and the evolution of pathogenicity.
Candidates must normally hold a rst or upper second
class UK degree and must be EU residents. Good En-
glish writing and oral skills are essential.
The studentships will cover University tuition
fees plus a salary commensurate with regular UK
postgraduate stipends, approximately ^A$13,950
(^ a:17;062)perannum:
Interviews will take place in June/July and the stu-
dentship will begin in September 2013.Position 1. Statistical geneticist or computer scientist
Good knowledge of at least one mainstream program-
ming language such as C, Java, Python or Perl is re-
quired. Some experience of statistical data analysis,
and especially computer intensive techniques such as
Monte Carlo methods, would be desirable. No previ-
ous knowledge of microbiology, genetics or evolution is
required, but candidates should be enthused to learn
about these subjects.
Position 2. Microbiologist (genetics/genomics)
Expertise or interest in molecular techniques (PCR, se-
quencing) and computer based genetic analysis, is nec-
essary but training and support will be provided to
strengthen these areas. Previous experience in a mi-
crobiology or molecular biology laboratory or in bioin-
formatics research is also strongly desirable.
Supervisors: Dr Samuel Sheppard Dr Xavier Didelot
For further information, visit our website: https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/sheppardlab/ For other infor-
mal inquiries on the position, or for applications (in-
clude CV and motivation description) please contact
us (sheppardlab@gmail.com)
Dr Guillaume M eric Medical Microbiology and
Infectious Diseases group Swansea University,
College of Medicine Singleton Park, ILS1, Room
527 Swansea, SA2 8PP Wales, United King-
dom E-mail: g.meric@swansea.ac.uk Phone:
+44(0)1792 602419 (x2419) Web: https://-
sites.google.com/site/sheppardlab/ Guillaume M eric
<G.Meric@swansea.ac.uk >
Trentino Italy PlantPathogen
PhD Studentship Comparative analysis of grapevine
genotypes with dierent levels of resistance to downy
mildew
The Research and Innovation Centre (CRI) is part of
Fondazione Edmund Mach (FEM), a public research
institution established by the government of the Au-
tonomous Province of Trento. CRI-FEM is located in
Trentino (the North of Italy) and supports studies in
the eld of agriculture, nutrition and environment, with
the aim of sharing knowledge and contributing to eco-
nomic growth, social development and overall improve-
ment of life quality.
Project description:30 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Downy mildew (DM) is a widespread disease of grape
caused by the oomycete Plasmopara viticola, an inva-
sive species native to North America. This pathogen
can infect grapevine cultivars as well as wild Vitis
species. However, while the cultivars are highly suscep-
tible, most of the wild species are relatively resistant.
The disease is currently controlled by the application of
fungicides, yet the demand for organic products is in-
creasing and concerns that these chemicals have harm-
ful eect on the environment and human health require
growers to reduce the use of pesticides in fruit produc-
tion.
Natural sources of disease resistance could be found in
geographic regions where populations of pathogens and
host plants co-evolve. Thus, germplasm of several Vitis
species native to temperate zones of North America has
been investigated for the genetic base of DM resistance.
It may be possible to transfer resistance to DM from
these wild grape species into susceptible domesticated
grapevines, but the consequences of so-called \linkage
drag" of undesired traits could not be completely elim-
inated, even after several cycles of backcrossing.
Recently, single local grapevine varieties of Near East-
ern origin have attracted attention, because of their
lower susceptibility to DM. These plants, unlike most
of grapevine cultivars, have leaves and fruits without
symptoms of disease during the growing season. Such
natural sources of resistance to non-native pathogens
stimulate genetic investigations and are of great sig-
nicance for developing alternative resistance-breeding
strategies.
In this project, the PhD student will use dierent inte-
grative approaches to characterize these important ac-
cessions of V. vinifera, as well as to identify and mine
genes and alleles associated with plant resistance to
DM. The long term objective of this PhD research is
to ultimately enable eective transfer of natural resis-
tance to the most severe disease aecting fruit quality
into future plant material, and to reduce the need for
using fungicides, which will make grapevine cultivation
more environment-friendly.
The successful candidate must have or expect to obtain
a minimum of a Master's degree in a scientic discipline
or equivalent qualication. Oral and writing skills in
English are required to a high standard.
The studentship oers a stipend of euro 20,000 per an-
num and is funded to pay tuition fees. The expected
start date is September 2013 and the funding is pro-
vided for 3 years with the possibility of a one-year ex-
tension.
The student will be based at FEM, San Micheleall'Adige (Trentino), but will spend part of the time
at the JKI - Federal Research Centre for Cultivated
Plants (Siebeldingen, Germany) and at the University
of Milan (Italy).
Electronic applications can be submitted via the
CRI-FEM website http://cri.fmach.eu/education/-
Applications-Forms/application-form-FIRS-T-Second-
Call-2013 For further information about the project
and selection procedure, please visit the website
at http://cri.fmach.eu/education/selection/FIRS-T-
Second-Call-2013 (select project A 1) and http://-
cri.fmach.eu/education/selection . Closing date for
receipt of completed applications is Friday, 24 May
2013 at 18.00 CET.
ls.grzeskowiak@gmail.com
TrinityCollege Dublin
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Teagasc PhD Walsh Fellowship Opportunity
\Genotypic and phenotypic assessment of forage quality
in Lolium in the age of large-scale, inexpensive genotyp-
ing"
Background: With the rapid advances in genotyping
oered by next generation sequencing (NGS) we are
at a stage in forage grass breeding where the major
limiting step in linkage mapping/association mapping
is likely to be phenotypic (observable characteristics)
and not genotypic characterization. Thus, the collec-
tion of high-quality phenotypes will be crucial for map-
ping studies. Forage quality and digestibility of Lolium
perenne (perennial ryegrass) is related to biomass ac-
cumulation, owering time and lignocellulosic content.
This project will combine phenotypic and genotypic
studies on a diverse set of Lolium accessions to specif-
ically assess the genetic control of these traits. For-
age quality traits examined will include lignocellulose
content and composition, owering time, re-heading,
biomass accumulation, and tillering capacity. We will
combine this with an examination of variation in candi-
date genes relating to these traits using DNA sequenc-
ing and association mapping using high-density single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data and genic SNPs.
Many of these genes are well studied in cereals and
hence these genome resources can be applied to Lolium.
Requirements: Applicants should have a primary de-
gree (First or Upper Second Class Honours) or M.Sc.May 1, 2013 EvolDir 31
in an appropriate discipline (Biology, Plant Sciences,
Biotechnology, Genetics, etc.). The candidate should
be highly self-motivated and be prepared for laboratory
and eld work with modern analytical equipment and
the use of bioinformatic / genetic techniques. A will-
ingness to travel between experimental locations and
for blocks of time is expected. A full driving license is
desirable.
Award: The PhD Fellowship is a joint project between
Teagasc, Oak Park and the School of Natural Sciences,
Trinity College Dublin, Ireland. The student will be
based at the Teagasc Research Centre at Oak Park, Co.
Carlow and the University of Dublin, Trinity College,
working under the supervision of Dr. Trevor Hodkinson
in association with Teagasc supervisors (Dr Susanne
Barth & Dr Dan Milbourne). The Fellowship will start
as soon as possible in September/October 2013. The
Fellowship provides a stipend of euro 22,000. Univer-
sity fees are paid by the student from the stipend which
is tenable for 4 years.
Further Information/Applications: Dr Trevor Hodkin-
son, Botany Building, School of Natural Sciences, Trin-
ity College Dublin. Ireland Phone +353 1 8961128
email: Trevor.Hodkinson@tcd.ie
Application Procedure: Submit an electronic copy of
Curriculum Vitae and a letter of interest simultaneously
to: Dr Trevor Hodkinson (Trevor.Hodkinson@tcd.ie)
and Dr Susanne Barth (Susanne.Barth@teagasc.ie)
Closing date: May 30th 2013 or until lled.
Trevor Hodkinson Associate Professor in Botany
Botany Building School of Natural Sciences Trinity
College Dublin Ireland Phone 00353 1 8961128 Fax
00353 1 8961147 email Trevor.Hodkinson@tcd.ie
http://people.tcd.ie/hodkinst https://twitter.com/-
TrevorHodkinson hodkinst@tcd.ie
UCL SexualSelection
NERC PhD Studentship
Project Title: Sexual selection, meiotic drive and fer-
tility in stalk-eyed ies
Department/Institution: Department of Genetics, Evo-
lution & Environment, University College London
Primary supervisor: Professor Andrew Pomiankowski
This project integrates eld and laboratory based re-
search on sexual selection. Stalk-eyed ies are a canon-ical example of sexual selection. In Teleopsis dal-
manni, males have exaggerated eyespan and females
show strong mate preferences for males with larger eye-
span. Females have low fertility despite mating at high
rates and exhibiting strong mate preference for particu-
lar males. Some populations harbour an X-linked mei-
otic drive system that results in female biased broods
due to the degeneration of Y-bearing sperm. This
project will further examine the inter-relationships be-
tween sexual selection, fertility and meiotic drive. The
student will determine the frequency of drive in natu-
ral populations at established sites in Malaysia, the role
of ecology and demography, and the consequences for
the strength of sexual selection. In the laboratory they
will exploit SNP and other genomic markers in order
to reliably genotype individuals and progeny for mei-
otic drive, and study the association of meiotic drive
with male eyespan and other aspects of male reproduc-
tive performance.
The UCL stalk-eyed y research group
(www.ucl.ac.uk/stalkie/) is led by Prof. A. Po-
miankowski and Prof. K. Fowler and studies multiple
facets of the evolution of sexually selected traits.
Given the project's reliance on data collected from
natural populations, the attributes of the successful
applicant will include independence, initiative and
enthusiasm in order to cope with the demands of eld
research. Note that applicants must have a minimum
2:1 BSc (or equivalent), preferably a Masters level
degree, excellent numerate skills (computational and
statistical), knowledge of population genetics and
bioinformatics. Appropriate training will be provided
by UCL. The studentship is funded by NERC and
applicants need to satisfy NERC's UK/EU eligibility
requirements (see: http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/-
available/postgrad/eligibility.asp). It may be possible
to fully fund EU candidates as well.
Applications should be sent as soon as possible, with
cover letter, CV & contact details of two referees, to the
primary supervisor Professor A. Pomiankowski (email:
ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk, www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/sta). Clos-
ing date: 10th May 2013.
a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk
UEdinburgh ParasiteEvolution
A NERC funded research assistant position is available
for up to 3 years in Dr Sarah Reece's lab for a highly or-32 EvolDir May 1, 2013
ganised and motivated graduate with a degree in biolog-
ical sciences. You will assist on a variety of projects to
investigate the evolution and ecology of malaria (Plas-
modium) parasite reproductive strategies.
The environments experienced by parasites inside hosts
and vectors are highly changeable. For example, re-
sources become scarce when hosts get sick, immune
responses directed at parasites develop, and parasites
often have to compete with other strains and species
sharing their host. Understanding the strategies that
parasites have evolved to cope with the challenging en-
vironments they face inside hosts and vectors is the
aim of this project. Mounting evidence is revealing
considerable plasticity in parasite traits that under-
pin parasites ability to survive during infections and
to transmit to new hosts. Our recent research shows
that parasites adjust their traits in response to the con-
ditions they experience in the host. We will investi-
gate why parasites do this. The project will determine
how host and parasite factors contribute to plasticity
in parasites' reproductive eort, quantify the patterns
generated across environmental gradients and parasite
genetic backgrounds, test whether parasite strategies
are adjusted in response to the environment in ways
that benet survival and transmission, and investigate
whether plasticity is costly by testing if it is lost under
selection in constant environmental conditions.
The position would suit an enthusiastic recent gradu-
ate whose degree has a strong parasitology, evolution
or ecology component and an interest in evolutionary
medicine. Experience with molecular techniques (e.g.
PCR), experimental evolution, or working with rodent
models would be an advantage but are not essential.
You will be able to work as part of a team to develop
new techniques, carry out experiments and collect and
analyse the resulting data. You will also be able to work
independently, with the potential to lead work on small
projects, which may involve supervising undergraduate
project students.
$25,504 - $29,541 Closing date: 14th May 2013
More info and application instructions at https:/-
/www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.display form Dr Sarah Reece
Centre for Immunity, Infection & Evolution. Institutes
of Evolution, Immunology and Infection Research,
School of Biological Sciences, Ashworth Laborato-
ries, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3JT
Scotland, UK
Tel +44 131 650 5547 Fax +44 131 650 6564
sarah.reece@ed.ac.uk http://reece.bio.ed.ac.uk/
sarah.reece@ed.ac.ukUExeter
EvolutionAntibioticResistance
PhD, BBSRC CASE Studentship (full time 4 years) -
based in Cornwall in collaboration with AstraZeneca
Environmental Laboratories, Brixham, Devon.
Selection for antibiotic resistance in the aquatic envi-
ronment: novel assays to determine eect concentra-
tions of micropollutants
This Studentship will be based at The European Cen-
tre for Environment and Human Health, University of
Exeter Medical School, located at the Royal Cornwall
Hospital in Truro and the Environment and Sustain-
ability Institute at the Tremough Campus (near Fal-
mouth). The project will be jointly supervised by
Dr Will Gaze (Exeter) and Dr Jason Snape and Dr.
Becky Brown (AstraZeneca). The University of Ex-
eter Medical School is seeking to attract PhD candi-
dates of outstanding ability to join their exciting and
rapidly expanding programme of internationally rated
research. As part of our new developments and our
commitment to research excellence, applications are in-
vited from suitably qualied graduates, 2:1 or above,
for a PhD studentship. International students must
also have IELTS (International English Language Test-
ing System) score of 7 and above (or equivalent quali-
cation). Antibiotic resistance is an increasing problem
that has been compared to climate change in that it is
relentless, irreversible and poses a signicant risk to hu-
man health. It is well known that antibiotic usage in the
clinic is responsible for evolution of resistance; however
the contribution of antibiotic residues in the aquatic
environment to the overall burden of resistance is less
well studied. Environmental bacteria constitute a vast
reservoir of genetic diversity, including novel resistance
genes. Recent evidence of selection for resistance at
low concentrations combined with the diverse environ-
mental metagenome that can be accessed by horizontal
gene transfer provides opportunities for recruitment of
novel genes by human associated bacteria in the nat-
ural environment. This project aims to determine the
minimum selective concentrations of antibiotics which
will determine whether environmental concentrations
of pharmaceutical residues are likely to select for resis-
tance in situ. Gene transfer from the metagenome to
marked recipients will be determined experimentally at
a range of environmentally relevant antibiotic concen-May 1, 2013 EvolDir 33
trations and the eects of complex mixtures of phar-
maceuticals and passage through waste water digesters
on evolution of resistance will be studied.
The student will receive training in classical and molec-
ular microbiology, and will form part of a research
group studying pathogen ecology, experimental evo-
lution, horizontal gene transfer and selection for an-
tibiotic resistance in farmed and polluted natural en-
vironments. The project gives opportunities to work
and collaborate with scientists at The University of
Exeter Medical School, the Royal Cornwall Hospital,
the Environment and Sustainability Institute, the Cen-
tre for Evolution and Conservation and scientists at
AstraZeneca's Environmental Laboratories. The Eu-
ropean Centre for Environment and Human Health
presents unique opportunities to work at the interface
of medical and environmental science.
Closing date for applications: 20th April 2013 Start
date: 1st October 2013
To apply online please visit: http://www.exeter.ac.uk/-
postgraduate/money/studentships/application/ and
upload the following: - CV - Covering letter (outlining
your academic interests, prior research experience
and reasons for wishing to undertake the project). -
Transcript(s) giving full details of subjects studied
and grades/marks obtained (this should be an interim
transcript if you are still studying)
For an informal discussion, please contact: Dr. Will
Gaze on 01872258166.
Funding Notes The stipend will be $13,726 (based on
full time 13/14 rate) with a CASE enhancement of ap-
proximately $4,000. Tuition fees will be paid at the
home rate. This studentship is available to UK/EU
students only.
William Gaze <william.gaze@pcmd.ac.uk >
UGent GeneticsDemography
The Department of Biology at Ghent University is seek-
ing to ll the following full-time PhD position vacancy
in the Terrestrial Ecology Unit
Avian genetics and demography in a fragmented biodi-
versity hotspot
Background Biodiversity is unevenly distributed across
the globe, with the vast majority of biodiversity
hotspots scattered across tropical regions. Apart fromexceptional biodiversity, however, these regions are of-
ten characterized by high demographic pressure too -
causing rapid and drastic environmental transforma-
tions such as the fragmentation of continuous forest
blocks. In the Kenyan and Tanzanian sections of the
Eastern Arc Mountains biodiversity hotspot, two long-
term projects coordinated by Ghent University (Dr.
Luc Lens, Belgium) and the Utah Museum of Natu-
ral History (Dr. William D. Newmark, USA) have col-
lected extensive longitudinal demographic and genetic
data on birds of fragmented cloud forest. Integration of
both projects oers a unique opportunity to gain insight
in ecological and evolutionary responses to recent an-
thropogenic disturbance in organisms that experienced
stable conditions over vast time intervals.
The Project In this PhD project, the student will (i)
genotype selected forest bird species from various EAM
sites with neutral genetic markers and apply individual-
based models to study ne-grained temporal and spa-
tial genetic patterning; and (ii) apply state-of-the-art
individual mark-recapture models to study how habi-
tat fragmentation may alter the strength and direction
of natural selection. By integrating genetic and demo-
graphic data with other ecological processes (nest pre-
dation, settlement strategies, mating systems, -), the
student will contribute to a better understanding of
how anthropogenic stressors drive natural populations
within an evolutionary perspective. While the focus
of the PhD is on labwork and analysis of existing long-
term datasets, there will also be opportunity to conduct
eldwork.
Further reading Lens et al. (2002) Avian persistence in
fragmented rainforest. Science 298: 1236-1238
Newmark & Stanley (2011) Habitat fragmentation re-
duces nest survival in an Afrotropical bird community
in a biodiversity hotspot. PNAS 108: 11488-11493
Callens et al. (2011). Genetic signature of population
fragmentation varies with mobility in seven bird species
of a fragmented Kenyan cloud forest. Molecular Ecol-
ogy 20: 1829-\1844
Prole and requirements You hold a Master degree in
Biology or comparable with a strong background in
ecology and evolutionary biology; You can submit out-
standing academic results; You have a solid training in
population genetic and/or mark-recapture analysis; Ex-
perience with avian biology and habitat fragmentation
is an advantage;
We oer A doctoral scholarship for a period of four
years (gross wage ca. 3440/month) The scholarship is
immediately open but starting date is negotiable; You
will enroll in the Ghent Doctoral School training pro-34 EvolDir May 1, 2013
gram allowing you to take part in various courses, train-
ing programs and conferences within and outside the
university; You will work in an international team of
PhD students, postdocs and technical sta involved in
eco-evolutionary research on birds; You will be mem-
ber of the Terrestrial Ecology Unit, a dynamic re-
search group that combines eld, lab and modelling
approaches to study various questions in ecological and
evolutionary research (http://www.ecology.ugent.be/-
terec/index.php).
Interested? Applicants should send their complete CV,
a one-page statement of research interests and motiva-
tion for this project, and contact information of two ref-
erees who can supply letters of recommendation upon
request Applications should be submitted by email to
Prof. Luc Lens at Luc.Lens@UGent.be until the closing
date: 30 April 2013 For more information, contact Luc
Lens at the same email address
Luc.Lens@ugent.be
UKent RADsequencing parakeets
PhD studentship: RAD-sequencing and SNP genotyp-
ing to examine adaptation in globally invasive para-
keets.
Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology (DICE),
School of Anthropology and Conservation, University
of Kent, UK.
Supervisors: Main supervisor: Dr Jim Groombridge
(DICE). Co-supervisors: Dr Rob Ogden (WildGenes,
Royal Zoological Society of Scotland), Dr Diederik
Strubbe (University of Antwerp), Dr Ben Warren (Uni-
versity of Reunion), Dr Robert Prys-Jones (Natural
History Museum)
Duration: 3 years This PhD studentship will be based
at the University of Kent and will be fully-funded by a
grant from the John Spedan Lewis Foundation, with su-
pervisory support from a research consortium of DICE,
RZSS, UA, UR and NHM. Funding is available to cover
Home/EU tuition fees, full stipend plus all research
costs for the 3-year studentship.
The Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology
(DICE) at the University of Kent, in collaboration with
RZSS, UA, UR and NHM, is oering an exciting PhD
studentship and research opportunity for a motivated
graduate. This research project aims to apply RAD-
Tag sequencing and SNP genotyping techniques to iden-tify genome-wide responses to changes in climate in
ringneck parakeets as they have spread from their na-
tive range of the African and Indian continents into Eu-
rope. The ringneck parakeet is one of the World's most
invasive bird species. The success of their invasion is
clear from the large population sizes now established
in many of Europe's major cities, including those in
the UK, and their conquering of a substantial temper-
ature gradient en route suggests they have adapted to
their invasive range. Consequently, invasive parakeets
provide an ideal scientic framework to examine how
species evolve in response to environmental change and
to identify the potential genetic basis for such adapt-
ability and invasion success. Genetic data for some
of the more extensively-sampled invasive populations,
such as those in the UK which occur at the northern-
most edge of their invasive range, will be combined with
analysis of survey data to look for patterns of popula-
tion expansion and introgression. This project will be
based at the DICE Conservation Genetics laboratory
(led by Dr. Jim Groombridge), with extended periods
at the RZSS WildGenes laboratory in Edinburgh (led
by Dr. Rob Ogden) for RAD library preparation, SNP
discovery and population genotyping.
Application deadline: Wednesday 1st May 2013 Start
Date: October 2013
Academic requirements: Applicants should have a First
or Upper Second Class UK honours degree, or equiv-
alent, in a relevant discipline such as bioinformatics,
molecular ecology or evolutionary genetics. Knowl-
edge/experience of bioinformatics, Next Generation se-
quencing techniques and/or molecular laboratory tech-
niques would be advantageous.
Funding: Available funding will cover the tuition fees
(at the UK/EU rate only), full stipend and all research
costs for this 3-year studentship project.
How to apply: Please send a CV (maximum 2-pages), a
covering letter (maximum one page) and contact details
for two references, by email to Dr Jim Groombridge
(J.Groombridge@kent.ac.uk) on or before the closing
date. Interviews will be held in early/mid May 2013,
with a view to the successful applicant starting in Oc-
tober 2013. For more information about the project,
please contact Dr Jim Groombridge.
Keywords: Population genetics, wildlife, conservation,
ecology, disease, molecular genetics.
Dr Jim Groombridge Reader in Biodiversity Con-
servation Durrell Institute of Conservation and
Ecology (DICE) School of Anthropology and Con-
servation Marlowe Building University of Kent
Canterbury Kent CT2 7NR Tel: 01227 824097 Fax:May 1, 2013 EvolDir 35
01227 827289 Email: J.Groombridge@kent.ac.uk
Website: http://www.kent.ac.uk/sac/sta-proles/-
proles/conservation-ecology/academic-sta/-
groombridge jim.html J.Groombridge@kent.ac.uk
UMainz ParasiteEvolution
The Faculty 10 Biology, Institute of Zoology, Dept.
Evolutionary Biology at the University of Mainz is
searching for
a PhD Student (3 years - 65% TVL E13)
in the research area \Parasite manipulation of host be-
havior"
Application is possible until position is lled, for full
consideration, apply by 30th of April 2013
We invite applications for a 3-years PhD position at
the JG University of Mainz, Germany. The project
aims at a better understanding of the consequences of
cestode infection on multiple levels in the ant species
Temnothorax nylanderi. It is based on our previous
ndings showing severe eects of infection on the in-
dividual level, but no reduction in productivity and
changed investment patterns on the colony level (Scharf
et al., American Naturalist 2012, for a review in Science
see http://news.sciencemag.org/sciencenow/2012/09/-
scienceshot-sick-ants-dont-compr.html). In the current
project we will study how insect societies can buer
detrimental eects of parasite infection. In addition, we
are interested in which of the parasite-induced changes
in behavior, morphology, and cuticular chemistry are
by-products of the infection, can be interpreted as
host defenses or manipulation of the host by the par-
asite. The project will include eld manipulations,
behavioral laboratory experiments and chemical anal-
yses using GC-MS. The position requires a Diploma
or Master degree in Biology (or a related eld). The
successful candidate should be highly motivated and
have a strong background in behavioral / chemical
ecology and evolutionary biology. Good skills in bio-
statistics or motivation to improve statistical knowledge
are important. Previous research experiences with so-
cial insects, parasites, behavioral experiments, chemical
ecology (GC-MS analyses), immunity or microsatellite
analyses are advantageous, but not required. The po-
sition is fully-funded by the DFG (65% TV-L E13).
Students from every nationality are encouraged to ap-
ply. The working language of the laboratory is En-
glish. Our young group oers an international, dy-namic and interactive scientic environment and state-
of the art, newly equipped laboratories. Information
on our scientic work including recent publications
can be found under http://www.bio.uni-mainz.de/-
zoo/evobio/318 ENG HTML.php. For more informa-
tion, please do not hesitate to contact us foitzik@uni-
mainz.de or menzelf@uni-mainz.de. The University
of Mainz hosts many excellent scientic institutions
(http://www.uni-mainz.de/eng) and Mainz is a historic
city located on the River Rhine with many students and
a rich social and cultural life (http://www.mainz.de).
Interested candidates should send an application as a
single pdf e-mail attachment) containing a brief expla-
nation of their research experience and interests (max.
1 page), a curriculum vitae (with the grades of their
B.Sc and M.Sc), a copy of their Master or Diploma the-
sis, and the names and email address of 2-3 potential
referees to Dr. Susanne Foitzik (foitzik@uni-mainz.de)
or Dr. Florian Menzel (menzelf@uni-mainz.de). Re-
view of applications will begin April 30th 2013 and will
continue until the position is lled. The ideal starting
date for the position is June 2013, but is negotiable.
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Evolutionary Biology Insti-
tute of Zoology Johannes-v.- M uller-Weg 6 55128 Mainz
Germany
+49 6131 39 27 840 foitzik@uni-mainz.de
\Foitzik, Susanne" <foitzik@uni-mainz.de >
UManchester EvolutionCooperation
Agent-based modelling of cooperative behaviour in so-
cial networks of animals
Background: Darwinian evolution and cooperative be-
haviour Darwinian evolution is often assumed to be in-
herently competitive, frequently characterized by the
adage the survival of the ttest. However, individuals
do not always operate as adversaries and cooperation
is widespread in many animals. Humans show innate
predispositions to be moral and prosocial, and these
tendencies give rise to complex societies organized by
social and political institutions. Group living animals
can also be highly prosocial, as evidenced by coopera-
tive breeding, coalitionary support, consolation follow-
ing conict, social grooming and even policing of con-
ict. This constitutes an apparent paradox, as altruism
and co-operative behaviour do not t with the notion of
selsh individuals, selsh genes and the survival of the
ttest in a competitive world. Explaining the evolution36 EvolDir May 1, 2013
cooperation remains one of the great problems for evo-
lutionary biology, it has been listed as one of the top 25
questions facing science over the next quarter-century
by Science Magazine in 2005.
The Project Several mechanisms have been proposed
to explain the emergence of cooperation in the face
of Darwinian selection, including networked interaction
structures between individuals. In evolutionary game
theory, for example, population structuring has been
shown to have strong impacts on the stability of coop-
eration. However, such models have historically used
stylised population structures (for example random net-
works) rather than network structures derived from the
interaction between individuals observed in nature. We
have shown that group structure in primates is highly
conserved over evolutionary time, which raises the ques-
tion of whether these group structures are important
promoters of stable cooperation.
This PhD will build on the theoretical work of coopera-
tive dynamics by applying it to real-world animal social
networks. Specically, you will use agent-based mod-
els to explore how variation in animal social networks
impact on the stability of cooperation. Within the gen-
eral framework of game theory these models will simu-
late individual decisions about whether to cooperate, or
not, with others based both on the benets of coopera-
tion and patterns of interactions across dierent group
structures. The models will also explicitly incorporate
individual characteristics such as dominance, learning
strategies, and enforcement behaviour (i.e. punishment
and policing). The project will be largely computa-
tional, but, depending on the background of the ap-
pointed student, it may contain signicant analytical
components as well.
The research environment This exciting interdisci-
plinary project will supervised by Susanne Schultz (Fac-
ulty of Life Sciences) and carried out in collaboration
with Dr. Tucker Gilman (Faculty of Life Sciences) and
Dr. Tobias Galla (School of Physics and Astronomy).
Shultzs research group studies the evolution of social
cognition and social structure in animals. Gilmans re-
search group uses agent-based models to study the evo-
lution of behaviour and social interactions. Galla is
based in the statistical mechanics and complex systems
group in Physics and Astronomy. The group has a
strong interest in interdisciplinary questions in biology,
game theory, economics and the social sciences. Galla
has co-organized numerous interdisciplinary meetings,
and the group runs a complexity discussion club to-
gether with social scientists. The appointed student
will be welcome to contribute to these activities.
The candidate We are looking for an enthusiastic stu-dent who can drive the project. They will ideally have
a quantitative background in theoretical physics, ap-
plied mathematics, computer science or an adjacent
eld. Good programming skills are essential. Expe-
rience in agent-based simulations, the theory of com-
plex networks or game theory will be a plus, but is not
strictly required, provided the applicant can demon-
strate a strong interest in these areas. A strong inter-
est in interdisciplinary questions is required as well as
the genuine ability to engage with data collected from
biological eld-work. The appointed student will have
excellent communication skills, and they will be able to
work in a team as well as independently.
For more information please contact Susanne Shultz:
susanne.shultz@manchester.ac.uk
http://www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/people/prole/-
Default.aspx?PersonID=25440&view=projects#1219
Susanne Shultz Senior Research Fellow/Royal Society
University Research Fellow Michael Smith Building
Faculty of Life Sciences The University of Manchester
Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT UK Tel: 44 (0)161
275 3903
Susanne Shultz <susanne.shultz@manchester.ac.uk >
UMelbourne FemaleOrnamentation
PhD opportunity - The function of female ornamenta-
tion in lovely fairy-wrens.
A PhD project is available to investigate the function of
elaborate female song and plumage in a cooperatively
breeding bird, the lovely fairy-wren (Malurus amabilis).
The position will be based in the Evolution and Be-
haviour Group in the Department of Zoology at the
University of Melbourne under the supervision of Assoc
Prof Raoul Mulder, and co-supervised by Dr Michelle
Hall.
Studies on elaborate male traits have formed the foun-
dation of the eld of sexual selection. However, or-
namentation in females is only recently attracting at-
tention, and there is controversy over whether sexual
selection or alternative mechanisms drive the evolution
of female ornamentation. Lovely fairy-wrens have the
most colourful female plumage among the Australian
fairy-wrens, but have never been studied before. The
student will be able to work independently to establish
a new project investigating the function of elaborate fe-
male song and plumage in lovely fairy-wrens, and testMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 37
competing hypotheses for the evolution of female orna-
mentation in birds.
Interested students should email their CV, contact de-
tails of two academic referees, academic transcript, and
a letter describing their research interests to Raoul
Mulder (r.mulderATunimelb.edu.au) and Michelle Hall
(hall.mATunimelb.edu.au).
The candidate will need to obtain an Australian Post-
graduate Award or International Research and Fee
Remission Scholarships (for details and scholarship
application forms see http://services.unimelb.edu.au/-
scholarships/research). The main application deadlines
for these scholarships are 31 August (International) and
31 October (Domestic).
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow Department of
Zoology, University of Melbourne Melbourne, VIC,
3010, Australia email: hall.mATunimelb.edu.au phone:
+ 61 3 83446232 www: Google Scholar Pro-
le<http://scholar.google.com.au/citations?user=-
3DBcsSi-YAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao >
hall.m@unimelb.edu.au
UNeuchatel HostParasite
A PhD position in the evolutionary ecology of host-
parasite interactions is available for up to 4 years in
Prof. Jacob Koella's lab at the University of Neuch^ atel.
The position would suit an enthusiastic, motivated, and
independent graduate whose degree has a strong com-
ponent in parasitology, evolution or ecology. The gen-
eral area of research will be the evolutlonary ecology of
parasites at several levels of organization, linking the
host's ecological situation with the parasite's dynam-
ics within its host and its epidemiology, and using one
of the host-parasite systems used in the lab (malaria,
microsporidians and mosquitoes). The details of the
project (including the balance between theoretical and
empirical work) will be adapted to suit your interests,
and you will be given the time to, and be expected to,
have considerable input in developing the project.
The position requires some teaching of undergraduate
and graduate biology labs, usually in French, and you
will have the opportunity to supervise undergraduate
and Masters projects. An MSc (or equivalent) in Biol-
ogy is required.
The position is available as of August 1, 2013, with
starting date preferably by October 1, 2013. The start-ing salary is about 35000 Fr.
Neuch^ atel is located in the French part of Switzerland
and is an attractive city with a high quality of life. The
city is located on the shore of Lake Neuch^ atel with the
Jura Mountains to the North and a view of the Bernese
Alps to the South. For outdoors enthusiasts, this is
an excellent area for outdoor activities such as hiking,
climbing or skiing.
If you are interested in the position, please send a 1-
2 page cover letter indicating research interests and
background, your CV, and two letters of reference to
jkoella@gmail.com before May 18, 2013. Jacob Koella
Institut de Biologie Universit e de Neuch^ atel rue Emile-
Argand 11 2000 Neuch^ atel Switzerland
jkoella@gmail.com
UNorthernColorado
PlantConservation
Graduate Position: U. Northern Colorado. Plant Con-
servation Genetics
Masters position in Plant Conservation Genetics
A MS position is available in the laboratory of Dr.
Mitchell McGlaughlin at the University of Northern
Colorado. This is part of Bureau of Land Manage-
ment funded project to enhance our understanding of
breeding system and genetic structure in a US threat-
ened annual Phacelia (Boraginaceae). The project will
have three major components: 1) designing species spe-
cic microsatellite markers for Phacelia, 2) conducting
paternity analysis of two populations where maternal
plants and seeds will be genotyped to determine if the
species is predominantly outcrossing or selng, and 3)
examining population genetic structure across the land-
scape where the species occurs. Funding will cover all
lab and eld expenses associated with this project. The
selected student will be supported through a TA at
UNC, which includes a full tuition waiver.
Students interested in conservation genetics, popula-
tion genetics, plant breeding systems or evolution-
ary biology are encouraged to apply. Applicants to
UNC are required to have taken the GRE general
test, and submit undergraduate transcripts, three let-
ters of recommendation with a department specic
evaluation form, and a letter of intent. Interested
applicants should contact Dr. Mitchell McGlaughlin38 EvolDir May 1, 2013
(mitchell.mcglaughlin@unco.edu) prior to submitting
an application.
For more information about application procedures and
the department visit:
http://www.unco.edu/nhs/biology/students/-
grad programs.html or the McGlaughlin Lab visit:
http://www.unco.edu/mcglaughlinlab/Site/-
Home.html { Mitchell McGlaughlin, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor School of Biological Sci-
ences 501 20th Street, Ross Hall 1560 Univer-
sity of Northern Colorado Greeley, CO 80639
970-351-2139 Mitchell.McGlaughlin@unco.edu
http://www.unco.edu/mcglaughlinlab
Mitchell.McGlaughlin@unco.edu
USDA Ames Iowa InsectEvolution
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITION
I am recruiting a graduate student (M.S. or PhD if mas-
ters degree is already in hand) for a research project
involving characterization of insect ight behavior us-
ing laboratory ight mill systems in the context of
resistance evolution. I am a Research Entomologist
with USDA-Agricultural Research Service, Corn In-
sects and Crop Genetics Research Unit, with a cour-
tesy faculty appointment in the Department of Ento-
mology at Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa (http:/-
/www.ent.iastate.edu/). My laboratory is located on
the ISU campus.
Our group's mission is to study the population ecology,
genetics, and behavior of corn insect pests, and my in-
terests are mainly in the realm of dispersal, migration,
and gene ow. The graduate student will work with
at least two pest insects. The western corn rootworm,
Diabrotica virgifera virgifera, is a chrysomelid beetle
and the worst pest of corn in North America. It also
is spreading in Europe as an invasive species. It re-
cently has developed resistance in the Midwestern U.S.
to a particular type of transgenic Bt corn, with many
implications for farmers, industry, public-sector scien-
tists, and government regulators. Characterization of
long-distance movement of WCR adults is critical to
understanding the dynamics of resistance evolution and
spread of resistance in this insect. The grad student's
main project would be to investigate and compare ight
behaviors of resistant and wild-type WCR using labo-
ratory ight mills. In addition, the western bean cut-worm, Striacosta albicosta, is a noctuid moth pest of
corn that has undergone a recent range expansion out
of the Great Plains to the East Coast. The trigger for
the expansion is unknown, and almost nothing is known
about this species' ight capacity and behavior. Recent
establishment of a laboratory colony will allow ight
mill studies. It will be a demanding project requir-
ing attention to detail, perserverance (especially in the
beginning when learning to tether insects to the ight
mills), and critical thinking. The information gained for
both species will be of immediate interest to the scien-
tic community and of ultimate benet to corn growers.
There will be room for additional side projects as well
depending on the student's interests and talents.
Pending nal approval of funding (anticipated), this
will be a research assistantship (approx. $19,632/year
stipend, plus paid tuition) for 2.5 - 3 years. Start date:
as soon as practicable, but no later than mid-August
2013.
If interested, please send me: 1) a cover letter describing
your background in science, career goals, and research
interests; 2) your C.V.; 3) contact information for three
references; 4) copy of transcripts; and 5) GRE scores.
Please send to Tom.Sappington@ars.usda.gov .
Thomas W. Sappington, PhD USDA-ARS Corn Insects
& Crop Genetics Research Unit Genetics Laboratory,
ISU Ames, IA 50011 USA
Tel: 515-294-9759 Fax: 515-294-2265
Tom.Sappington@ars.usda.gov http://-
www.ent.iastate.edu/dept/faculty/sappington/ \Sap-
pington, Tom" <Tom.Sappington@ARS.USDA.GOV >
UWesternOntario
ModellingEvolutionBreeding
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITION (MASTER'S OR
PHD)
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada
Department of Applied Mathematics
To begin Sept 2013
**Financial Support is available**
DESCRIPTION
Geo Wild's group (www.apmaths.uwo.ca/ ~ gwild) is
looking to ll at least one graduate student position atMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 39
either the Master's or Doctoral Level.
Graduate student research will focus on modelling the
evolution of cooperative breeding, but project specics
can certainly be negotiated.
QUALIFICATIONS
Potential Doctoral students should have a previous de-
gree in mathematics or related discipline, as well as a
strong, demonstrated interest in evolutionary biology.
Candidates interested in study at the Master's level
need not have a previous degree in mathematics.
However, university-level training in dierential equa-
tions, linear algebra, and multivariable calculus, are
required|as is mathematics training at the senior-
undergraduate level.
Excellent written and oral communication skills are re-
quired!
HOW TO APPLY
Informal inquiries should be sent via email to
gwild@uwo.ca prior to engaging in the university's for-
mal application process.
Geo Wild <gwild@uwo.ca >
UppsalaU ComputMolEvol
I have a four year PhD student position available
in my group suitable for anyone with an interest in
molecular evolution and a computational/biological
background. Please get in touch with me (si-
mon.whelan@ebc.uu.se) if you have any questions
or wish to discuss more details about the project.
For full details see URL: http://www.uu.se/jobb/phd-
students/annonsvisning?tarContentId=3D239394 Ti-
tle: PhD-student in computational molecular evolution
Closing date: May 14th 2013
A PhD-student position in computational molecular
evolution at the Evolutionary biology center, Uppsala
University. Starting date as soon as possible or as
agreed upon.
Project description: Computational molecular evolu-
tion provides a way of studying and analysing dier-
ences in the genome within and between species. Such
studies typically involve a multi-step process whereby
a set of nucleotide or amino acid sequences are selected
and arranged relative to one another in a multiple se-
quence alignment. Evolutionary inference is then per-formed using statistical methodology to (e.g.) infer
the evolutionary relationship between the sequences or
to investigate the selective forces acting on those se-
quences. These approaches have found widespread use
in many areas of biology, resulting in (e.g.) new in-
sights into the tree of life, the identication of which
genes adapted on the human lineage, and the revela-
tion that chimpanzees and gorillas are the sources of
human HIV infections.
This project focuses on methodology development in
computational molecular evolution. The exact topics
to be studied can be tuned to the successful candidate's
interests, but one possible area for study is the inter-
action between alignment and evolutionary inference.
Existing methods for alignment usually rely on using
regional similarities between sequences to identify an
optimal multiple sequence alignment. This approach
leads to two problems. First, few alignment methods
explicitly account for the evolutionary process that gave
rise to the dierences between the sequences. The resul-
tant alignment may therefore not reect the evolution-
ary history of the sequences and therefore be of limited
use for evolutionary inference. Second, picking a single
alignment neglects uncertainty in the alignment proce-
dure. Over-condence in a single alignment may af-
fect evolutionary inference, but there are relatively few
ways to correct for uncertainty. In this project you will
aim to create new methods for performing or process-
ing multiple sequence alignments to make them more
suitable for evolutionary inference. You will then assess
the new methods' performance by examining real and
simulated data.
Background of applicant: Applications are welcome
from candidates with a background in Biology, Com-
puter Science, or Statistics. Candidates from any back-
ground should be able to demonstrate a strong inter-
est and motivation to study molecular evolution. Can-
didates must also be able to demonstrate, or show
clearly the potential to learn, skills associated with
computational molecular evolution, including the use
of LINUX/UNIX and the ability to work with scripting
languages (e.g. Python/PERL) and/or programming
languages (e.g. C/++ or JAVA).
Conditions: The PhD training comprises four years of
full time research and studies. The successful candi-
date will receive a fellowship the rst year and a PhD-
student position year 2-4. The position can be com-
bined with up to 20% of teaching assistantship, which
will then prolong the position accordingly. Please con-
tact Simon Whelan, simon.whelan@ebc.uu.se, +46 18
471 6449 for more information. Union representatives
are Anders Grundstr om, Saco-r adet +46 18 471 5380
och Carin S oderh all, TCO/ST +46 18 471 1996, Stefan40 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Djurstr om, SEKO + 46 18 471 3315.
| Simon Whelan jEvolutionary Biology Centre, Upp-
sala UniversityjT: +46-(0)18-4716483
simon.whelan@ebc.uu.se
Vienna PopulationGenetics
PhD positions in Population Genetics
New positions are available at *The Vienna Graduate
School of Population Genetics:* the application dead-
line is *May 30, 2013*:
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
Applications from highly motivated and outstanding
students with a background in one of the following dis-
ciplines will be considered: bioinformatics, statistics,
evolutionary genetics, functional genetics, theoretical
and experimental population genetics. Students from
related disciplines, such as physics or mathematics are
also welcome to apply.
Topics include:
- Analysing next generation sequencing data and un-
derstanding the sampling properties of high through-
put technologies - The 1001 Genomes Project: Popu-
lation genetics of *Arabidopsis thaliana* - Speciation
genetics in European columbines (*Aquilegia*) - Mu-
tagenesis in the germline with age - Population genetic
inference using Pool-Seq data - Evolution of gene ex-
pression in *Drosophila* - Speciation genomics: map-
ping of hybrid incompatibilities - Inference of selection
from time series data - Understanding the ecology and
genetics of an adaptive trait in * Drosophila* embryos
- Mathematical models of spatially varying selection
in subdivided populations - Statistical methods for de-
tecting selective sweeps using genome- wide data - The
footprint of adaptive gene introgression after secondary
contact - Probabilistic models for the population ge-
netics of molecular evolution - Inferring selection using
*Drosophila* whole genome sequence data
Only complete applications (CV, motivation letter, uni-
versity certicates, indication of the two preferred top-
ics in a single pdf) received by 30.05.2013 will be con-
sidered. Two letters of recommendation need to be sentdirectly by the referees.
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can
be found at www.popgen-vienna.at { Dr. Julia Hosp
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics Coor-
dinator www.popgen-vienna.at c/o Institut f ur Popu-
lationsgenetik Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 A-
1210 Vienna
Tel: +43 1 25077 4338 Fax: +43 1 25077 4390
julia.hosp@gmail.com
WageningenU BehaviouralEvolution
PhD position in Behavioural Ecology, Wageningen Uni-
versity
How is phenotypic variation in great tits (Parus major)
maintained by sexual selection?
PhD position
We oer a PhD Position (1.0 FTE) to undertake re-
search on sexual selection and reproductive investment
in great tits within the newly established Behavioural
Ecology chair group at the Animal Science Depart-
ment of Wageningen University, the Netherlands. This
position is nanced by the WIAS graduate school of
Wageningen University. It is linked to an EU funded
project and comes with attractive equipment and con-
sumables support. Research will be conducted in co-
operation with the Animal Ecology Department of the
Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW).
Project details
This project will investigate the potential of individual
dierences in mate choice and reproductive investment
to maintain phenotypic variation in great tits. Indi-
vidual birds are expected to dier in their mate pref-
erences and reproductive allocation in relation to their
own individual characters, which may help to maintain
variation within the population. The project will in-
volve performing captive mate choice trials with wild
great tits, as well as extensive eldwork to measure re-
productive investment. There is also the opportunity
to complement this behavioural and phenotypic work
with genetic information.
We ask
- Candidates must have an MSc or equivalent expe-
rience in a behavioural ecology or related elds (e.g.May 1, 2013 EvolDir 41
Animal Behaviour, Animal Ecology) - Be enthusiastic
about eld work - Strong experimental and analytical
skills - Good organizational and (written and spoken)
communication skills, and a proven ability to collabo-
rate with others. - Willingness to conduct to organize
and extensive ornithological eldwork. - Willingness to
travel internationally, to attend conferences and visit
other institutes. - A driver licence and a licence to
carry out experiments with vertebrates (i.e. article9 of
the WoD) is desirable.
We oer
- Employment basis: temporary for specied period.
Duration of the contract: 1 + 3 years, maximum hours
per week: 38. Additional conditions of employment:
To begin with, a PhD-appointment for a period of 12
months. Continuation of the appointment with another
36 months will be based on performance evaluation.
Gross salary per month 2062 in the rst year, rising to
2638 per month in the fourth year, based on a full time
appointment. - Participation in the training program
of the Graduate School Production Ecology & Resource
conservation, see www.pe-rc.nl .- An excellent opportu-nity to develop an international scientic network.
The organization The successful candidate will join the
stimulating and international research environment of
Wageningen University. Wageningen University is an
internationally leading research and education insti-
tution, ranked among the top 25 universities in Eu-
rope (THE World University Rankings, 2011-12). This
project will be carried out in the new Behavioral Ecol-
ogy Group within the Department of Animal Sciences,
and will be supervised by Dr. Camilla Hinde.
For further information, please contact Dr. Camilla
Hinde (camilla.hinde@wur.nl).
The application deadline is 15 May 2013.
Please apply through this website:
http://www.wageningenur.nl/en/Jobs/Vacancies/-
Show/How-is-phenotypic-variation-in-great-tits-Parus-
major-maintained-by-sexual-selection.htm Links
http://www.wur.nl/uk/ http://www.zod.wur.nl/-
UK/ For further information about working at
Wageningen UR, take a look at www.jobsat.wur.nl
\Hinde, Camilla" <camilla.hinde@wur.nl >
Jobs
AMNH NewYork CuratorProfessorDirector Compara-
tiveBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
AarhusU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
EasternKentuckyU CommunityEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 43
FreieU Berlin ComputationalMetagenomics . . . . . . . .44
HunterCollege ResearchAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
IKIAM Ecuador Rector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
IndianaU SouthBend 1yr Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
LouisianaStateU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
ManchesterMU EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
MichiganState ResTech PlantSymbiosisGenomics . . 47
NMNH Smithsonian 2 GeneticsLabTech . . . . . . . . . . . 48NMNH Smithsonian ResVertZoologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
NatlU IrelandMaynooth 5 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . 49
Smithsonian ResearchTech InvertZool . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UCopenhagen Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
UGraz Austria EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UGroningen EvolutionBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
ULondon Lect MolecularEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UOxford SeniorLabManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
UYork Tech EvolutionaryMicrobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Vienna Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
AMNH NewYork
CuratorProfessorDirector
ComparativeBiol42 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Senior Search: Curator, Professor, and Director of
Comparative Biology Initiative American Museum of
Natural History
The American Museum of Natural History (AMNH) in
New York invites applications and nominations for an
outstanding scholar at the Full Curator & Full Professor
level with internationally-recognized research and lead-
ership credentials, and demonstrated, ongoing high-
impact research productivity and grantsmanship, to
provide innovative leadership for a new museum-wide
initiative in comparative biology. This initiative will
incorporate the work of multiple investigators at the
Museum and at collaborating institutions in genomics
and phenomics (large-scale phenotypic analysis), aimed
at understanding the evolution and relationships of or-
ganisms in ways that clarify and illuminate the archi-
tecture of life. The successful candidate for this po-
sition should show experience and interest in manag-
ing large'scale, interdisciplinary, collaborative, multi-
institutional projects and is expected to qualify for and
be appointed as a tenured full curator in either the Di-
vision of Invertebrate Zoology or Vertebrate Zoology,
and as a full professor in the Richard Gilder Graduate
School at the AMNH. We seek a creative, active, broad-
based researcher and dynamic academic leader who in-
teracts well with others and who will utilize the exten-
sive resources the Museum has to oer in the way of
collections, research instrumentation and laboratories,
teaching and mentoring, exhibition, and public educa-
tion.
We particularly seek applications from, or nominations
of, candidates with a compelling vision for the future
trajectory of their science, and for comparative biology
in general, and whose research addresses fundamental,
cross-disciplinary questions. In addition to the above-
noted expectations for high productivity and grants-
manship, the successful candidate will have outstand-
ing communication skills in engaging diverse commu-
nities and demonstrated capabilities in management of
collaborative projects and decision-making. Experience
in interacting with governmental and non-governmental
agencies and in fundraising are highly desirable, as
are collection-based, eld-based and/or computational
research. Other responsibilities or opportunities in-
clude advising graduate students and postdoctoral fel-
lows, oering courses in the Comparative Biology Ph.D.
Program of the Museum1s Richard Gilder Graduate
School, institutional service, development activities,
and participating in Museum-sponsored exhibits and
educational programs.
In addition to applications, we invite recommendations
or nominations of potential candidates, and request
that these include a resume and contact informationfor the nominee. Nominations or applications can be
submitted to seniorcuratorsearch@amnh.org. Appli-
cants should submit the following materials electroni-
cally, preferably as PDF les, via a single email message
toseniorcuratorsearch@amnh.org (Subject line: Senior
Curator IZ-VZ Search Committee: your name): 1) a
cover letter in which you indicate your interest, experi-
ence, and qualications for the position; 2) a curriculum
vitae; 3) PDF les of up to ve recent publications; and
4) names and contact information for ve referees (to
be contacted by the Museum only for the process of
tenure review in the case of a pending appointment).
Inquires should be directed to John Flynn, Chair of
the Search Committee and Dean of the Richard Gilder
Graduate School: dean-rggs@amnh.org. Applications
or nominations should be received no later than May
10, 2013.
Employer Information: The American Museum of Nat-
ural History is one of the world's preeminent scien-
tic and cultural institutions. Since its founding in
1869, the Museum has advanced its global mission to
discover, interpret and disseminate information about
human cultures, the natural world and the universe
through a wide-ranging program of scientic research,
education and exhibition. The Museum1s research col-
lections include more than 33 million natural history
and cultural objects, and AMNH scientists undertake
more than 100 expeditions annually. Science at the
Museum includes ve academic divisions, the Richard
Gilder Graduate School, Sackler Institute of Compara-
tive Genomics, 1 million specimen-capacity Ambrose
Monell Cryo Collection, Center for Biodiversity and
Conservation, high performance computational facili-
ties, Microscopy and Imaging Facility, Southwest Re-
search Station, the largest independent natural history
library in the Western Hemisphere, and an array of
other scientic facilities and resources.
The American Museum of Natural History is an Equal
Opportunity/ Armative Action Employer. The Mu-
seum encourages Women, Minorities, Persons with Dis-
abilities, Vietnam Era and Disabled Veterans to apply.
The Museum does not discriminate due to age, sex,
religion, race, color, national origin, disability, marital
status, veteran status, sexual
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 43
AarhusU EvolutionaryGenetics
Associate Professor in Evolutionary Genetics
The Department of Bioscience, Aarhus University, Den-
mark, invites applications for a position as Associate
Professor in evolutionary genetics starting October 1,
2013.
The research in evolutionary biology and genetics at
the Department of Bioscience is conducted within the
framework of the research group Integrative Ecology
and Evolution. A broad range of research topics are
covered, including population and conservation genet-
ics, quantitative genetics, bioinformatics, life-history
evolution, behavioral ecology , and evolutionary re-
sponses to environmental stress.
We seek a researcher with an internationally excel-
lent academic track-record within evolutionary genet-
ics, who has the ability to target important research
topics using state-of-the-art approaches. A strong pub-
lication record, documented skills in attracting external
funding and experience with international research col-
laboration are emphasized.
The appointee must have documented skills and ex-
perience with teaching and supervision of students at
undergraduate and graduate levels.
For more information, please contact Head of Depart-
ment, Professor Bo Riemann, tel: , tel. +45 40270360,
bri@dmu.dk or Professor Michael M. Hansen, tel. +45
40247191, michael.m.hansen@biology.au.dk.
All applications must be made online and received by
10/05/2013
More information about the position, including a link
for online application can be found here: http://-
www.au.dk/en/job/nat/academicpositions/ Informa-
tion about the Department of Bioscience can be
found here: http://bios.au.dk/en/ Information about
Aarhus University can be found here: http://-
www.au.dk/en/ Michael M. Hansen Professor Depart-
ment of Bioscience Aarhus University Ny Munkegade,
Bldg. 1540 DK-8000 Aarhus C Denmark E-mail:
michael.m.hansen@biology.au.dk Web page: http:/-
/person.au.dk/michael.m.hansen@biology Tel.: +45
40247191
Michael M cller Hansen
<michael.m.hansen@biology.au.dk >EasternKentuckyU
CommunityEvolution
The Department of Biological Sciences at Eastern Ken-
tucky University is accepting applications for a Com-
munity Ecologist at the rank of Assistant Professor.
This is a 9-month, tenure-track position to begin Au-
gust 15 2013. Teaching responsibilities will include
courses at the undergraduate and graduate (MS) lev-
els. Primary courses to be taught include an introduc-
tory course in ecology and evolution, community ecol-
ogy, and other courses within the candidate's area of
expertise. The successful candidate will be expected to
establish an active research program that includes men-
toring undergraduate and master's level students. Re-
quirements include a Ph.D. from a regionally accredited
or internationally recognized institution. Candidates
must have a strong record of research accomplishments
and must provide evidence of excellent teaching and
communication skills.
Review of applications will begin on 29 April 2013,
and the position will remain open until lled. All in-
terested applicants must apply at jobs.eku.edu (search
requisition #0613043) or visit http://jobs.eku.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFind=71921. All oers of em-
ployment are contingent on completion of a satisfactory
background check. Eastern Kentucky University is an
EEO/AA institution that values diversity in its faculty,
sta, and student body. In keeping with this commit-
ment, the University welcomes applications from di-
verse candidates and candidates who support diversity.
Please direct inquiries to:
Stephen Richter Search Committee Chair
Eastern Kentucky University Department of Biological
Sciences phone: 859-622-8688 stephen.richter@eku.edu
Cheers, -Brad
{ Brad Ruhfel Assistant Professor & Curator Dept. Bi-
ological Sciences Eastern Kentucky University http://-
people.eku.edu/ruhfelb Brad.Ruhfel@eku.edu44 EvolDir May 1, 2013
FreieU Berlin
ComputationalMetagenomics
Junior Professorship in Computational Metagenomics
(W 1)
Freie Universit at Berlin, Department of Mathematics
and Computer Science Institute of Computer Science
and the
Leibniz Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland
Fisheries (IGB)
jointly invite applications for a
Junior Professorship in Computational Metagenomics
(W 1)
The successful applicant will be required to conduct
research and teach in the area named above. Appoint-
ment requirements are governed by article 102a of the
Berlin Higher Education Act (Berliner Hochschulge-
setz).
The appointee will have an outstanding track record of
university teaching and research in metagenomics data
analysis and bioinformatics as applied to environmen-
tal metagenomics and biodiversity research in general.
Her or his work should further strengthen an innova-
tive research program with high international visibility
and focus on data analysis and algorithm development,
interlinking with and complementing existing research
initiatives at the IGB as well as Freie Universit at Berlin.
Applicants should be familiar with grant-sponsored re-
search. The successful candidate is expected to teach
at both graduate and undergraduate levels within Freie
Universit at Berlin's Department of Mathematics and
Computer Science. She or he will also be required to
assume responsibilities within the university's institu-
tions of academic self-governance. The working lan-
guage at the IGB is English. For courses taught at
Freie Universit at Berlin and in order to facilitate com-
munication among our multicultural sta, prociency
in both German and English is strongly desirable.
Aside from a work area at the Department of Mathe-
matics and Computer Science the professor's oce and
sta will be located at the IGB, the largest freshwater
ecology institute in Germany, which oers cutting-edge
laboratory and eld facilities for interdisciplinary re-
search (including a large-scale experimental infrastruc-
ture and long-term research programs). Furthermore,the successful candidate will cooperate closely with the
Berlin-Brandenburg Institute of Advanced Biodiversity
Research (BBIB).
Please direct further inquiries at Univ.-Prof. Dr.
Klement Tockner, Director of the IGB (tockner@igb-
berlin.de), or Prof. Dr. Knut Reinert, Head of Bioin-
formatics at Freie Universit at Berlin (knut.reinert@fu-
berlin.de).
The successful candidate will be appointed as a civil
servant for an initial duration of three years. Provided
that her or his performance is thereafter evaluated pos-
itively, employment may be extended for three more
years.
Applications quoting the reference Metagenomics
should include a CV, copies of all certicates of aca-
demic qualication, a list of publications (plus copies
of ve representative publications); evidence of educa-
tional competence (such as courses previously taught)
as well as involvement in ongoing and future re-
search endeavours, joint research projects and exter-
nally funded projects. All materials must be received
no later than 8 May 2013 at
Freie Universit at Berlin Fachbereich Mathematik und
lnformatik Univ.-Prof. Dr. Rupert Klein, Dekan Arni-
mallee 14 14195 Berlin, Germany
or via email at dekan@mi.fu-berlin.de.
Application guidelines and general information on the
appointment procedure as well as requirements for ju-
nior professorships at Freie Universit at Berlin can be
found at www.fu-berlin.de/praesidialamt. For addi-
tional details, please visit www.igb-berlin.de, www.fu-
berlin.de, www.mi.fu-berlin.de, www.math-berlin.de
and www.math.tu-berlin.de/MDS.
Dr. Michael T. Monaghan Leibniz-Institute of
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB)
Mueggelseedamm 301 - 12587 Berlin - Germany mon-
aghanlab.org - monaghan@igb-berlin.de +49 (0) 30
6418 1684
Michael Monaghan <monaghan@igb-berlin.de >
HunterCollege ResearchAssist
Job ID: 7580
Location: Hunter College
Full/Part Time: Full-TimeMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 45
Regular/Temporary: Regular
GENERAL DUTIES Supports research projects and
activities in connection with CUNY programs - May as-
sist faculty research groups by conguring and testing
equipment, collecting and organizing data, and prepar-
ing documentation. - Performs direct research tasks
under supervision. - May develop or utilize computer-
based systems to collect and analyze data. - May assist
in preparing reports of research ndings.
CONTRACT TITLE Research Assistant
FLSA Non-exempt
CAMPUS SPECIFIC INFORMATION The Research
Assistant will assist with the research needs of the phys-
ical anthropology faculty and labs at Hunter College
and perform additional tasks as required. See the De-
partment of Anthropology Website for more details on
research in the Gilbert, Pontzer, Rothman, and Steiper
Labs (http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/anthropology).
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS Bachelor's Degree or
equivalent experience relevant to the research being
performed.
OTHER QUALIFICATIONS Candidates should have
an undergraduate degree in anthropology or a related
discipline such as biology, ecology, evolution, geol-
ogy, human biology, nutrition, paleontology, or zool-
ogy. Candidates should have diverse experiences within
physical anthropology laboratories or those in a related
discipline. Candidates should be competent in standard
computer software suites (e.g. spreadsheet and word
processing programs) and have knowledge of hardware
and software maintenance. The successful candidate
must be organized, neat, detail-oriented, safety con-
scious and able to eectively manage multiple priorities.
Candidates should be able to balance and triage tasks
with dierent deadlines and levels of urgency, e.g. those
have a long-range time horizon, those that are immedi-
ately needed, and those that are ongoing. Candidates
should be able to work with and take direction from
multiple faculty members to ensure the timely comple-
tion of all tasks.
Preferred qualications include a graduate degree in an-
thropology or a related discipline such as biology, ecol-
ogy, evolution, geology, human biology, nutrition, pale-
ontology, or zoology. Experience working in nutrition,
genetics, paleontology, and/or biomechanics labs is a
plus. We are strongly committed to achieving excel-
lence through diversity. As such, candidates with ex-
periences working in diverse environments are desired.
COMPENSATION $35,244 - $40,681
BENEFITS CUNY oers a comprehensive benetspackage to employees and eligible dependents based on
job title and classication. Employees are also oered
pension and Tax-Deferred Savings Plans. Part-time
employees must meet a weekly or semester work hour
criteria to be eligible for health benets. Health bene-
ts are also extended to retirees who meet the eligibility
criteria.
HOW TO APPLY You can view and apply for this job
at:
https://home.cunyrst.cuny.edu/psp/cnyepprd/-
GUEST/HRMS/c/HRS HRAM.HRS CE.GBL?Page=
HRS CEJOB DTL&Action=A&JobOpeningId=-
7580&SiteId=1&PostingSeq=1 Click on the \Apply
Now" button and follow the application instructions.
Please have (A) 1-2 page letter of interest highlighting
experiences of particular relevance to this position;
(B) vitae or resume; and (C) contact information for
2 individuals who will serve as a reference available
to attach into the application before you begin. The
required material must be uploaded as ONE document.
The document must be in .doc, .docx, .pdf, .rtf, or
text format.
Informal enquiries can be directed to Michael Steiper
(msteiper@hunter.cuny.edu).
CLOSING DATE The committee will begin reviewing
applications on March 21, 2013. ****The search will
remain open until the position is lled.****
JOB SEARCH CATEGORY CUNY Job Posting: Man-
agerial/Professional
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY We are
committed to enhancing our diverse academic commu-
nity by actively encouraging people with disabilities,
minorities, veterans, and women to apply. We take
pride in our pluralistic community and continue to seek
excellence through diversity and inclusion. EO/AA
Employer.
msteiper@hunter.cuny.edu
IKIAM Ecuador Rector
On Behalf of Tannya Lozada (tan-
nya.lozada@conocimiento.gob.ec) RECTOR FOR
AMAZONIAN REGIONAL UNIVERSITY (IKIAM),
ECUADOR
The Ecuadorian Ministry of Coordination of Knowl-
edge and Human Talent is conducting an international46 EvolDir May 1, 2013
search for highly qualied candidates for the position of
Rector of the Amazonian Regional University, IKIAM
(Tena, Napo,Ecuador).IKIAM, which translates as Na-
ture in native Shuar, is called to be at the fore front of
teaching and research in Earth and Life Sciences. The
area of specialization of the Rector is open. We wel-
come applicants with work and research experience in
Latin America. The future Rector may currently be a
leader of a college or university. The candidate must
show management,administrative and leadership skills.
This position requires a proven record of distinguished
teaching, research, scholarship, and service commensu-
rate with a faculty appointment at the rank of a tenured
professor. The person called to lead IKIAM will also
have a deep understanding of higher education, and of
the role that this sector plays in national and regional
development.
Requirements - Doctoral degree required- Hold tenure
as associate or full professor - Proven track record of re-
search (publications and/or patents) - 5+ years teach-
ing experience - 5+ years of administrative experience
- Spanish uency
Application process For information on how to
apply please visit http://www.conocimiento.gob.ec
http://www.conocimiento.gob.ec/convocatoria-para-
la-seleccion-del-rector-de-la-universidad-regional-
amazonica-ikiam/ http://goo.gl/WG2SD After a
careful consideration of review of applicants' academic
production,educational background, and experience,
the Ministry will present a shortlist of candidates for
appointment by Ecuador ^As highest authorities, in
accordance to national law.For additional information,
nominations or condential inquiries, contact Dr. Tan-
nya Lozada, IKIAM Project Manager, +593-2-3946800
Ext. 1804 ortannya.lozada@conocimiento.gob.ec
Nora Oleas <noleas@hotmail.com >
IndianaU SouthBend 1yr Teaching
VISITING LECTURER IN BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
Indiana University South Bend invites applications for
a 1-year lectureship in biological sciences with an ex-
pected start date of August 2013. The successful can-
didate will hold a doctorate (preferred) or master1s de-
gree in biology or related discipline, will have strong
oral and written communication skills, and will show
evidence of excellent teaching ability. Courses to be
taught may include general biology for biology majors(especially intro course in ecology, evolution, and ge-
netics), with possibility of some human anatomy and
physiology laboratory for pre-nursing and pre-dental
hygiene students.
For full consideration, please apply by April 26.
Application materials consist of a cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, copies of undergraduate and graduate tran-
scripts, three condential letters of recommendation,
and a statement of teaching philosophy.
Please send materials to Dr. Andrew Schnabel (as-
chnabe@iusb.edu), Department of Biological Sciences,
Indiana University South Bend, 1700 Mishawaka Ave.,
P.O. Box 7111, South Bend, IN 46634.
An AA/EEO Employer. Applications from minorities,
women, veterans, and people with disability are encour-
aged.
aschnabe@iusb.edu
LouisianaStateU Bioinformatics
PROFESSIONAL-IN-RESIDENCE (Bioinformatics
Support Group Leader) Center for Computation &
Technology (CCT) Louisiana State University The
Center for Computation & Technology (CCT) at
Louisiana State University invites applications for
a position to lead a group of research scientists in
Computational Bioinformatics, broadly dened. The
successful candidate will build and lead a Bioinformat-
ics Support Group (BSG) to support data-intensive
and computationally demanding research activities
across various academic units on LSU's main cam-
pus, at the LSU School of Veterinary Medicine, the
Pennington Biomedical Research Center, and LSU's
Health Sciences Centers. The successful candidate
will have the opportunity to take advantage of re-
sources at all of these sites and will be encouraged
to interface as well with industry scientists across
Louisiana. Research areas that would be supported
by the recruited team of scientists include but are
not limited to genomics, bioinformatics data analysis,
biostatistics, biomolecular structure/function, systems
biology modeling, and computational neuroscience.
The CCT is an innovative research environment, ad-
vancing computational sciences, technologies and the
disciplines they touch. Researchers at CCT use the ad-
vanced cyberinfrastructure high-bandwidth networks,
high-performance computing, advanced data storageMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 47
and analysis, and hardware and software development
available on campus and across the Louisiana Optical
Network Initiative (LONI) to enable research in many
dierent elds. By uniting researchers from diverse dis-
ciplines, ideas and expertise are disseminated across
LSU departments to foster knowledge and invention.
The new lead of the BSG will be charged with mobiliz-
ing this infrastructure to support the interdisciplinary
research activities enumerated above. S/he will partic-
ipate in and lead the development of extramural grant
proposals, and provide expertise and mentoring to ad-
ditional BSG research scientists who are tasked with
developing tools and techniques to support LSU's wide
range of bioinformatics research activities. This posi-
tion will also participate in and oversee the development
and presentation of tutorials and workshops as needed
to strengthen the community's research activities.
Required Qualications: Ph.D. in biology, computa-
tional science, or a related area with emphasis on
bioinformatics data analysis; ve years of bioinfor-
matics research experience. Additional Qualications
Desired: Experience leading bioinformatics and bio-
statistics projects, teams and software use and devel-
opment; experience with common software develop-
ment languages and tools, software design, and ar-
chitecture; an understanding of and experience with
scripting in PERL, GALAXY, R/Bioconductor, and/or
similar platforms and genomics tools; experience with
large dataset management specic to next-generation
sequencing; experience in the development of web in-
terfaces to bioinformatics tools; experience with high-
performance computing, parallel programming and/or
programming frameworks; experience using virtual col-
laborative environments.
An oer of employment is contingent on a satisfac-
tory pre-employment background check. Application
deadline is March 31, 2013 or until a candidate is se-
lected. Apply online and view a more detailed ad at:
www.lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu Position #037064
LSU IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/EQUAL
ACCESS EMPLOYER Quick link at ad URL:
https://lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu/applicants/-
Central?quickFind=55691 Jenn
Jennifer A. Randazzo, Stang Partner Stang and
Employment Center Oce of Human Resource Man-
agement 103 Thomas Boyd Hall Louisiana State Uni-
versity Phone: (225) 578-8830 Fax: (225) 578-6571
jrandazzo@lsu.edu www.lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu Jen-
nifer A Randazzo <jrandazzo@lsu.edu >ManchesterMU EvolBiology
Dear Evoldir
There is currently a Lectureship in Ecology vacancy at
Manchester Metropolitan University. The remit for the
position is broad; strong applicants will have research
interests in ecological, organismal biology and be pre-
pared to take on teaching duties including leading and
participating in eld courses in ecology.
The successful applicant will join the faculty of Science
& the Environment in the Division of Biology and Con-
servation Ecology with a small group of research active
and enthusiastic colleagues.
Additional details and application information
here: https://www.jobs.mmu.ac.uk/mmujobsite/-
VacancyDetail.aspx?VacancyUID=3D000000007720
The closing date is 26 April 2013.
Please communicate the the details of the position va-
cancy to anyone who may be interested.
\Before acting on this email or opening any attach-
ments you should read the Manchester Metropolitan
University email disclaimer available on its website
http://www.mmu.ac.uk/emaildisclaimer "
E.Harris@mmu.ac.uk
MichiganState ResTech
PlantSymbiosisGenomics
The new Friesen lab at MSU is seeking a talented per-
son for a research technician (Research Technologist I)
position starting no earlier than May 1st. Duties will in-
clude lab, greenhouse and growth chamber experiments
studying ecological, evolutionary, and genomic aspects
of interactions between Medicago plants and their asso-
ciated microbial communities. Part of the position will
be to assist with daily lab operations, including work-
ing with undergraduate and graduate students. The
successful applicant will be organized, detail-oriented,
work well in teams, and have strong communication
skills. Experience with plants and/or microbes, and an
interest in genomics, ecology, and evolution would be48 EvolDir May 1, 2013
a plus. Initial employment term is for one year; the
position may be renewed pending availability of funds
and ongoing performance.
Apply with your CV (include three references) and
cover letter at https://jobs.msu.edu, posting number
7579. Contact Maren Friesen ( mfriesen@msu.edu)
with any questions. For full consideration, applications
must be received by April 9, 2013.
Institutional statement: MSU is an armative-action,
equal-opportunity employer. MSU is committed to
achieving excellence through a diverse workforce and
inclusive culture that encourages all people to reach
their full potential. The University actively encourages
applications and/or nominations of women, persons of
color, veterans and persons with disabilities.
Maren L. Friesen Assistant Professor, Dept.
Plant Biology Michigan State University 612
Wilson Rd, East Lansing, MI USA 48824-6481
phone: +1 (323) 454-3023 jjfax: +1 (517)
353-1926 http://friesen.plantbiology.msu.edu/
maren.l.friesen@gmail.com
NMNH Smithsonian 2
GeneticsLabTech
Two more genetics lab technician positions at the
Smithsonian. They are federal positions so you must
be an US citizen - sorry to those who would like to
apply but are not eligible.
Good luck, Karen
Begin forwarded message:
Subject: [LabAll] Lab technician positions in NMNH -
announcements open on USAJOBS
2 permanent full time positions advertised at
NMNH for molecular lab technicians: Please for-
ward/post/advertise
LAB: https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/-
342031100 Entomology: https://www.usajobs.gov/-
GetJob/ViewDetails/342035800 ~~~ Karen Os-
born osbornk@si.edu <mailto:osbornk@si.edu >202-
633-3668 Research Zoologist/Curator Department of
Invertebrate Zoology Smithsonian National Museum of
Natural History, MRC-163 P.O. Box 37012 Washing-
ton, DC 20013-7012 USA
Courier address: Smithsonian Institution, MRC 0163,Natural History, West Loading Dock 10th and Consti-
tution Ave., Washington, DC 20560
OsbornK@si.edu
NMNH Smithsonian
ResVertZoologist
Dear Colleagues:
The Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of
Natural History is advertising a Research Zoologist and
Curator position in Vertebrate Zoology (the elds of
herpetology, ichthyology, mammalogy, and/or ornithol-
ogy):
https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/-
341551700 The advertisement will be open to
applicants for 6 weeks, from Monday, April 22, 2013 to
Monday, June 3, 2013.
Although the advertisement in USA Jobs describes a
4-year term position, the job is intended to become
permanent after tenure evaluation. Research facilities
associated with the position include one of the world's
largest scientic collections of vertebrates, the Labo-
ratories of Analytical Biology (for molecular genetics
and bioinformatics research), the Global Genome Ini-
tiative and associated biorepository, a stable isotope
laboratory at the Smithsonian's Museum Conservation
Institute, scientic imaging services, and many other
resources. Smithsonian Fellowships and Internships
provide opportunities to advise undergraduate through
post-doctoral scholars. In addition, many research cu-
rators in the museum have adjunct appointments at
local universities. The position carries with it excellent
opportunities to participate in public education (for in-
stance, the museum's public exhibits receive 7-8 million
visitors per year, making it the most visited natural his-
tory museum in the world).
Some relevant links: http://vertebrates.si.edu/
http://www.mnh.si.edu/rc/lab/index.html http://-
www.mnh.si.edu/ggi/ http://www.si.edu/ofg/ http:/-
/www.si.edu/ofg/Units/sorsnmnh.htm Sincerely,
kmh
Kristofer M. Helgen, Ph.D. Research Zoologist
and Curator-in-Charge Division of Mammals Na-
tional Museum of Natural History Smithsonian
Institution P.O. Box 37012, MRC 108 Washing-
ton, D.C. 20013-7012 USA (202) 633-1270 (oce)May 1, 2013 EvolDir 49
HelgenK@si.edu http://vertebrates.si.edu/mammals/-
mammals sta pages/helgen kris.cfm \Helgen,
Kristofer" <HELGENK@si.edu >
NatlU IrelandMaynooth 5
EvolutionaryBiol
Hi folks,
We have ve permanent academic positions available
in my department at the National University of Ireland
Maynooth.
These are NOT tenure-track, they are permanent right
from the start.
Successful candidates will have their own laboratory
space and will be expected to apply for grants and carry
out research in addition to their teaching responsibili-
ties.
Applications from people with a background in evolu-
tion, genomics, bioinformatics are all encouraged and
welcome.
More details here:
http://humanresources.nuim.ie/documents/-
JobSpec Lecturer Biology SEBLB.pdf Please pass
this email on to people you think might be interested.
best,
James.
{ Prof. James McInerney, jCenter for Communicable
Disease Dynamics, Molecular Evolution & Bioinformat-
ics Unit,jHarvard School of Public Health, Department
of Biology,j677 Huntington Avenue Boston, National
University of Ireland Maynooth, jMassachusetts 02115
Co. Kildare, Ireland. jUSA
Lab site: http://bioinf.nuim.ie/james-mcinerney
James McInerney <jmcinern@hsph.harvard.edu >
Smithsonian ResearchTech
InvertZool
Hello all,
We are currently searching for a research technician inInvertebrate Zoology here at the Smithsonian (unfortu-
nately only US citizens are eligible). If you know anyone
who may be interested in a great federal position, please
forward this to them. The duties will primarily be his-
tology, photography, and microscopy work. Experience
with a wide diversity of invertebrates is desired.
The hiring process is rather odd so please contact me
if you have questions about applying or would like to
learn more about the position.
Thank you, Karen
https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/-
340838300 Job Title:Museum Technician (Zoology)
Agency:Smithsonian Institution Job Announcement
Number:13R-JW-298171-DEU-NMNH SALARY
RANGE:
$42,209.00 to $54,875.00 / Per Year
OPEN PERIOD:
Monday, April 01, 2013 to Monday, April 15, 2013
SERIES & GRADE:
GS-1016-07
POSITION INFORMATION:
Full-Time, Permanent - Federal
PROMOTION POTENTIAL: 09
DUTY LOCATIONS:
1 vacancy in the following location: Washington, DC,
USView Map <https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/-
ViewDetails/340838300 >
WHO MAY APPLY:
This position is open to all U.S. Citizens or U.S. Na-
tionals.
Karen Osborn osbornk@si.edu 202-633-3668 Research
Zoologist/Curator Department of Invertebrate Zool-
ogy Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History,
MRC-163 P.O. Box 37012 Washington, DC 20013-7012
USA
Courier address: Smithsonian Institution, MRC 0163,
Natural History, West Loading Dock 10th and Consti-
tution Ave., Washington, DC 20560
OsbornK@si.edu
UCopenhagen Bioinformatics50 EvolDir May 1, 2013
A position for a Bioinformatician, for two years with
the possibility for an extension of ve years, is avail-
able from June 1, 2013 or as soon as possible there-
after. The successful applicant will be associated with
the Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate
www.macroecology.ku.dk within the Natural History
Museum of Denmark.
The selected candidate will work in collaboration with
CMEC scientists on research lines aiming at assess-
ing past and current population dynamics and extinc-
tion processes and how can this knowledge about the
past help to better predict the future impacts of global
change in biological diversity.
The successful candidate will provide bioinformatics
with the main tasks of downloading, managing and an-
alyzing phylogeographic/population genetic data from
public databases (GENBANK, NCBI, EMBL), with the
aim of building a phylogeographic dataset for a variety
of dierent taxa (plants and animals) across dierent
biomes. The bioinformatician will also work together
with a PhD student and a post-doctoral researcher
to implement population genetic and phylogeographic
analyses, and will provide support for other bioinfor-
matic needs as they arise. Experience in managing and
maintaining clusters and/or multi-core large worksta-
tions is needed.
The successful candidate will have an MsC or a PhD
title in population genetics, molecular biology or com-
puter science. Applicants must have experience in gath-
ering large dataset from public DNA database, includ-
ing NGS datasets. Experience with bioinformatics tools
like BIO++ or BIOPearl would clearly be an advan-
tage. The successful applicant will be competent in the
programming languages Perl, Java, Python, C or C++
and demonstrable experience working in UNIX/Linux
environments. We will also strongly consider appli-
cants with in bioinformatics, phylogenetic and sta-
tistical phylogeographic analyses, including likelihood-
based, Bayesian coalescent modeling (such as ABC and
HABC models).
The bioinformatician will be employed by the Uni-
versity of Copenhagen, Natural History Museum and
will work at the Center for Macroecology, Evolution
and Climate (CMEC), a Center of Excellence directly
funded by the Danish National Research Foundation
and comprising 40 researchers from 16 dierent coun-
tries working on multi-disciplinary research line http:/-
/macroecology.ku.dk. Within CMEC, the Phylogeog-
raphy and Extinction Theme is a key area of research
focus over the next few years.
CMEC is part of the Natural History Museum of Den-
mark, a dynamic research environment containing dif-ferent Centers of Excellence and a successful track
record of graduating Masters and PhD students and
hosting postdoctoral researchers from all over Europe,
North America and Asia.
For more information on the position or the Center
for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate, or to submit
an application, click here: http://macroecology.ku.dk/-
opportunities new/ (When you reach the job portal,
tick the research/science box.)
Applicants seeking further information are invited to
contact: Associate Professor David Nogu es-Bravo,
phone +45 35321314 email: dnogues@bio.ku.dk
Applications should be submitted no later than 10 May
2013.
Katharine A. Marske, Ph.D.
Postdoctoral Researcher Center for Macroecology, Evo-
lution and Climate Department of Biology University
of Copenhagen DK-2100 Copenhagen  Denmark +45
35 32 13 34 http://macroecology.ku.dk/
KAMarske@bio.ku.dk
UGraz Austria EvolutionaryBiol
Professor Position Open:
University of Graz/Karl-Franzens-Universit at Graz,
Austria
The Department of Zoology at the
Faculty of Natural Sciences is seeking to appoint a Pro-
fessor of Evolutionary Biology
(40 hours per week; xed-term employment for 5 years
pursuant tox99 (1) UG (Austrian Universities Act);
Expected starting date 01 October 2013)
The applicant is expected to possess a dynamic re-
search personality and a superb performance record
in an organismic eld with a distinctive evolutionary
background. Innovative scientic approaches as well
as excellent analytical skills in connection with molec-
ular and/or genetic methodologies are required. The
research focus of the successful candidate will not be
limited to any particular group of animals, but must be
compatible with existing infrastructure. Field-oriented
approaches are also desired, as well as synergetic ef-
fects with the existing research groups. Teaching com-
petence in basic zoology and ecology is expected. Fur-
thermore, the involvement in the Research Core AreaMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 51
\Environmental and Global Change" is desired. The
teaching language is primarily German, although ad-
vanced classes are also held in English. A completed ha-
bilitation or equivalent qualication is desired. We also
expect competence in the eld of gender mainstream-
ing.
The minimum salary according to the classication
scheme of the University Collective Agreement (A1) is
EUR 4571.20 gross per month. Salary subject to nego-
tiation.
Applications are to be submitted by 15 May 2013 and
must quote the reference number PR/11/99 ex 2012/13.
For details on application procedures and requirements,
please click on jobs.uni-graz.at/en/PR/11/99
Christian Sturmbauer, Professor Department of Zool-
ogy University of Graz Universit atsplatz 2 A-8010 Graz
Austria Tel. +43 316 380-5595 FAX +43 316 380-9875
<christian.sturmbauer@uni-graz.at >
UGroningen EvolutionBehaviour
The Centre for Behaviour and Neurosciences of the Uni-
versity of Groningen (Netherlands), is recruiting two
tenure track assistant professors and one full professor.
Candidates are expected to strengthen the prole of
the institute, focusing on behaviour and neurosciences
within an eco-evolutionary context. The institute pro-
vides excellent facilities for both animal and human re-
search.
Deadline for applications is April 24!
Details about the vacancies:
http://www.rug.nl/about-us/work-with-us/job-
opportunities/scientic (scroll down the list)
Vacancy numbers 213065-67
Information about the biology department of the Uni-
versity of Groningen:
http://www.rug.nl/research/cbn/ http://-
www.rug.nl/research/cees/ http://www.rug.nl/-
research/gbb/ m.e.maan@rug.nlULondon Lect MolecularEcology
Lecturer in Molecular Ecology School of Biological Sci-
ences Royal Holloway University of London
We are seeking to appoint a lecturer in Molecular Ecol-
ogy to join our research centre for Ecology, Evolution
and Behaviour. Royal Holloway is based in the vicin-
ity of London, in a beautiful, leafy campus. Research
in the School is of international reputation and cov-
ers the breadth of biology. In the 2008 UK Research
Assessment Exercise it was ranked among the best
Biological Science Departments in the UK. (http://-
www.rhul.ac.uk/biologicalsciences/)
The candidate will be involved in research and teach-
ing in the broad area of molecular ecology. We seek
an individual who uses molecular techniques to answer
questions at the population, ecosystem or evolutionary
level, in either terrestrial or aquatic systems. The in-
dividual will be expected to establish an independent
research programme and to collaborate widely within
RHUL and with external organisations.
You will have experience of undergraduate teaching in
molecular techniques and a good publications record.
Experience of working in areas of strength in the School,
such as conservation biology, behaviour or evolutionary
biology would be an advantage. The ideal candidate
will have a BSc and PhD in a relevant subject and will
be a Scholar with at least a national reputation.
Allowance This is a full time and permanent post, avail-
able from 1st August 2013 or as soon as possible there-
after, with a salary in the range $39,516 to $46,741 per
annum inclusive of London. Planned Interview Date:
Last week of May 2013
For an informal discussion about the post, please con-
tact the Head of School, Professor Alan Gange on
a.gange@rhul.ac.uk or (0)1784 443188.
To view further details of this post and to apply please
visit https://rhul.engageats.co.uk Closing Date: Mid-
night,Sunday 19thMay 2013
Sent by Vincent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk52 EvolDir May 1, 2013
UOxford SeniorLabManager
Senior Laboratory Management and Research Support
Ocer
Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, Uni-
versity of Oxford, UK
Grade 8: $37,382 to $44,607
Deadline of 12.00 midday on 15 May 2013
http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/jobs/list#job 107452 The
Edward Grey Institute (EGI) is a centre for world-class
research in ecology and evolution. Well known for its
long-term population studies of birds, the institute is
also home to research programmes using reptile, in-
sect and microbial study systems. Research in the EGI
addresses topics including social ecology, epidemiology,
learning and phenotypic plasticity, sexual selection, life-
history theory and genetics.
Work conducted in the EGI laboratory ranges from sex
determination, genetic diversity, epigenetics, molecular
phylogenetics and population dynamics, to transgenic
analyses and protein quantication. The EGI lab is
also a repository of large sample banks of long-term
populations of birds and lizards. See our website at:
http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/ The laboratory man-
agement and research support ocer role will involve
the day to day running of the laboratory, training of
new EGI members in laboratory techniques, and or-
ganisation of currently existing and future biological
sample banks. In addition the holder of this post will
help facilitate eldwork via ordering and cataloguing
eld equipment, and maintaining licenses and safety
protocols.
Responsibilities
1 Management of laboratory, sta, and shared infras-
tructure: - Establishment of laboratory protocols. - Or-
ganisation of shared space and infrastructure. - Imple-
mentation of health and safety protocols. - Purchase,
maintenance and record-keeping of equipment. - Man-
agement of consumables supply/disposal. - Induction
and training of new sta in molecular techniques. -
Formulation of curatorial protocols for sample banks.
- Coordination of transition between sample collection
and care in the laboratory.
2 Management of eld equipment and licenses, e.g.
maintenance of: - Equipment inventories and pur-chase of new equipment. - Fieldwork licenses, im-
ports/exports documentation, safety protocols, DE-
FRA guidelines.
3 Work eectively in a team to facilitate high-calibre
research.
Essential qualications and experience: - Bachelor's
degree in an appropriate discipline. - Experience
of laboratory management. - Excellent organisa-
tional and communication skills. - Expertise and
ability to train others in molecular techniques (e.g.
DNA/RNA/protein extractions, PCR, qPCR genotyp-
ing, westerns).
Only applications made online before the closing dead-
line of 12.00 midday on 15 May 2013 will be considered.
You will be required to upload your CV and a covering
letter.
See http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/jobs/list#job 107452
Dr. Stuart Wigby Edward Grey Institute Department
of Zoology University of Oxford www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/-
egi/ Twitter @StuartWigby
sites.google.com/site/stuartwigby
s.wigby@gmail.com
UYork Tech
EvolutionaryMicrobiology
Research Technician in Evolutionary Microbiology
Department of Biology Based atUniversity of York -
Heslington Campus Hours of work - Part-time Contract
status - Fixed term Salary - $19,606 to $22,700 a year,
reduced pro rata Apply by 01/05/2013
Role Description
We are seeking a motivated and enthusiastic techni-
cian to work on a project investigating the experimental
evolution of bacteria-plasmid associations led by Prof.
Michael Brockhurst. The post is funded by NERC and
The University of York, and forms part of a wider re-
search program in Brockhursts lab investigating the role
of horizontal gene transfer in bacterial adaptive evolu-
tion.
You will work alongside two postdoctoral research as-
sociates to characterize the dynamics and tness eects
of adaptive mutations identied by whole-genome next
generation sequencing that have arisen during long-
term experimental evolution. You should hold a BScMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 53
in biology or a closely related discipline and have both
a practical and theoretical knowledge of bacterial ge-
netics. Candidates with experience of genetic manipu-
lation of Pseudomonads will be particularly welcome.
This post is available from 3 June 2013 for a period of
two years part-time (29.6 hours per week).
Informal enquiries can be made directly to Prof.
Michael Brockhurst (michael.brockhurst@york.ac.uk).
The University of York is committed to promoting
equality and diversity.
https://jobs.york.ac.uk/wd/plsql/-
wdportal.show job?p websiteid=-
3885&p webpage id=164492 Michael Brockhurst
<michael.brockhurst@york.ac.uk >
Vienna Bioinformatics
The University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences,
Vienna, invites applications for a tenured professorship
in \Bioinformatics".The research and teaching is focused on the estab-
lishment of improved quantitative experimental assays
and the development of modern computational meth-
ods such as hierarchical probabilistic models or inte-
gration of heterogeneous data sources for the charac-
terization and exploration of complex systems in living
organism.
The research focus of the professorship should be in
one of the following areas (in alphabetical order): Bio-
diversity Research of cell systems and plants, Func-
tional Genomics and Proteomics (including Glycopro-
teomics), Genome Assembly and Annotation, Modeling
and Analysis of datasets derived from Bioprocess Engi-
neering, Molecular Phylogenetics, Structural Bioinfor-
matics and Structure Prediction, Systems Biology.
more information can be obtained at: http:/-
/www.boku.ac.at/leadmin/ /mitteilungsblatt/-
MB2012 13/MB12/Bioinformatics nal .pdf Chris-
tian Schl otterer Institut f ur Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 1210 Wien
Austria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vienna Gradu-
ate School of Population Genetics http://www.popgen-
vienna.at schlotc@gmail.com
Other
Call proposals SMBE satellite meetings . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Cicada emergences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Entomology Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
EvoDevoGrants EDEN Apr30Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Experimental design EEB textbook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
NESCent EvolutionFilmFestival . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
NSF review process survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
PHASE scripts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Phyloseminar EdDeLong May13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .58
Query FST vs GD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
RAXml platform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Reprint request . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Reptile SexRatio data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Reptile divorceRates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
RohlfMedal Nominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59SSB StudentSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Software MetaPIGA v3 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
Software MetaPIGA v3 1 AppleVersion . . . . . . . . . . . .62
SouthAfrica VolunteerFieldAssist EvolutionSmall-
Mammals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
StAndrews BotanicGarden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Subularia samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Training in phylogeny answers 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
UCalifornia LosAngeles Volunteers AvianEvolution 64
UZurich FieldAssist SwedishLapland SongThrushEvol
64
VolunteerFieldAssist AvianPersonality Australia . . .6454 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Call proposals SMBE satellite
meetings
Hi folks,
Apologies for cross-posting.
*Call for 2013 SMBE Satellite Meetings*
*Purpose*
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) exists to \provide facilities for association
and conference among molecular evolutionists and to
further the goals of molecular evolutionary biology
and its practitioners, including the publication of two
journals, *Molecular Biology and Evolution*, and
*Genome Biology and Evolution" (Society By-Laws,
amended November 7, 2008). In addition to supporting
its annual meeting, SMBE Council will provide funds
in aid of one or more workshops or small meetings per
calendar year, that number depending on total cost.
SMBE's rst satellite meeting sponsored under this
competition was \Phylomedicine" held March 2012
at Arizona State University ( http://www.smbe.org/-
phylomed). In spring 2013, SMBE supported three
satellite symposia: \Eukaryotic Metagenomics" (
http://www.smbe.org/2013/smbe-satellite-meeting-
on-eukaryotic-omics/), \Mechanisms of Protein Evolu-
tion II" ( http://www.smbe.org/2013/smbe-satellite-
meeting-mechanisms-of-protein-evolution-ii/), \The
Origin of Life" ( http://www.pctp.princeton.edu/-
pcts/Originoife2013/Originoife2013.html).
SMBE is now calling for proposals for small satel-
lite meetings and/or workshops to be held in Fall
2013/Spring 2014. Funds will be awarded on a com-
petitive basis to members of the molecular evolution
research community to run a small meeting or work-
shop on an important, focused and timely topic of their
choice.
*Guidelines*
*-* Funds will be awarded on a competitive basis to
members of the molecular evolution research commu-
nity to run a small meeting or workshop on an impor-
tant, focused and timely topic. The suggested size is
~50 participants. At least one of the meeting organiz-
ers must be a member of SMBE.
- SMBE will provide nancial support for up to
80% of the cost of each meeting, up to maximum
of $40,000 USD per meeting. A detailed projected
budget including expected number of participants,travel/food/lodging costs, and registration fees must be
submitted with the application.
- Meetings will be selected based on the scientic impor-
tance, timeliness and anticipated impact on the elds
of molecular biology, genome biology, and evolution.
- Proposals will be received and reviewed by the *SMBE
Satellite Workshop Committee*, which will consist of
four individuals: one SMBE Council Member (who will
also serve as Chair) and three other members of SMBE.
The committee will make a recommendation to SMBE
Council, whose decision is nal. The committee or
SMBE Council may decide not to support any meet-
ing in any particular year.
- Events will be named *\SMBE Satellite Meeting on
XYZ" or \SMBE Satellite Workshop on XYZ".*
- The meeting/workshop must be a standalone event. It
should not form a symposium or other part of a larger
meeting. It should not immediately follow or precede
any other meeting.
- Organizers will be required to submit a copy of
the nal workshop/symposium program and a short
(~2 page) summary of the workshop/symposium high-
lights to SMBE Council within 3 months of the event.
The summary should be sent to Harmit Malik (hsma-
lik@fhcrc.org). **
*Instructions for proposals to organize an SMBE Satel-
lite Meeting*
*Satellite meeting / workshop proposals shall
be sent by email to the Chair of the SMBE
Satellite Workshop Committee (Soojin Yi <
soojin.yi@biology.gatech.edu >). Please refer to
the workshop guidelines for more information.*
The deadline for submission of proposals is 25 May,
2013.
*1.** Provide the name(s) and full contact information
for all organizer(s) and institution(s) involved. Uni-
versities / organizations providing additional nancial
support, if involved, should also be listed.*
*2. Workshop summary.** Describe the scientic ratio-
nale for your proposed workshop. In doing so, be sure
to clearly state (1) the importance and timeliness of
the topic, (2) the anticipated short-term and long-term
impacts of your satellite meeting on the elds of molec-
ular biology, genome biology, and evolution, (3) the
extent and nature of student / postdoctoral fellow in-
volvement, (4) the proposed structure of your workshop
(e.g., lectures only, lectures + hands-on training ses-
sions, poster sessions, etc.), (5) an indicative list of pro-
posed invited speakers, and (6) why a workshop/small
meeting format is preferable to a symposium at theMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 55
SMBE annual meeting. (2 pages max).*
*3. Financial summary.** Please summarize your -
nancial request, including estimated total budget, reg-
istration costs (if any), travel support for
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Cicada emergences
Dear EVOLDIR Readers,
We are looking for biologists or friends of biologists who
have had 13- or 17-year cicadas on their property. We
would like protected sites where we can dig nymphs
once per year. We are especially interested in people
who have 13-year Brood XIX (emerged in 2011), 17-
year Brood XIV (emerged in 2008), and 13-year Brood
XXII (will emerge in Louisiana in 2014). But other
broods are also useful. We are also looking for high
schools and university campuses that have periodical ci-
cadas. We would like to nd collaborator-teachers who
would like to participate in following nymphal growth
annually.
Please contact chris.simon@uconn.edu
Thanks! And enjoy Brood II along the east coast of
the US this spring! And if you see then, report your
sightings to Magicicada.org!
Chris
Chris Simon Professor, Ecology & Evolutionary Biol-
ogy 75 North Eagleville Road, University of Connecti-
cut Storrs, CT 06269-3043
chris.simon@uconn.edu Oce (860) 486-4640; Lab
(860) 486-3947; Fax (860) 486-6364, Oce: Biopharm
305D, Lab: Biopharm 323,325
C. Simon Home page: http://-
hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/cicada/-
simon lab/member pages/c simon.php Simon Lab
Home: http://hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/-
cicada/simon lab/lab pages/current.php Reprints:
http://hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/cicada/-
resources/reprints.html Magicicada Brood II will
appear along the east coast of the US in Spring 2013,
watch Magicicada.org for information.chris.simon.uconn@gmail.com
Entomology Awards
The International Branch of the Entomological Society
of America oers three awards each year: two (2) stu-
dent awards and one (1) late career award. In 2013, the
application deadline for all three awards is April 15,
1. The International Branch Graduate Student Award
is a cash award ($250 USD) provided to a graduate stu-
dent member of the International Branch of the ESA
in recognition for their course work and research culmi-
nating in scholarship.
Eligibility: candidates must currently be researching an
entomological problem at a recognized graduate insti-
tution and be members of the Entomological Society of
America International Branch.
More information: see attached, or go to
http://www.entsoc.org/PDF/International/-
GraduateStudentAward2013.pdf 2. The J. H.
Comstock Graduate Student Award is given to one
graduate student from each of the Entomological
Society of America's six Branches to promote interest
in the science of entomology at the graduate level and
to stimulate interest in attending the ESA Annual
Meeting.
Eligibility: Applicants must be enrolled as a graduate
student and in graduate school at the time of (or have
completed the degree within the last 12 months preced-
ing) the presentation of the Award. Students must be
pursuing a course leading to a graduate degree with a
major focus in entomology and be members of the En-
tomological Society of America International Branch.
Students may only apply for the J. H. Comstock Award
in one ESA Branch on a given year.
More information: see attached, or go to
http://www.entsoc.org/PDF/International/-
JHComstockAward2013.pdf 3. The Distinguished
Scientist Award provides recognition to members of
the International Branch of the Entomological Society
of America who have made outstanding contributions
to the science of entomology.
Eligibility: The nominee must be widely recognized in
both the International Branch and in the ESA as a
major contributor to the science of entomology. The
nominee must be a current member of the International
Branch.56 EvolDir May 1, 2013
More information: see attached, or go to
http://www.entsoc.org/PDF/International/-
DistinguishedScientistAward2013.pdf MEMBER-
SHIP INFORMATION: regular member: $141 USD,
student member: $35 USD Member benets: http://-
entsoc.org/Membership/overview/benets How to join
ESA: http://entsoc.org/how-join-esa In accordance
with the ESA Bylaws, members of ESA who reside
in the geographical area of another Branch may elect
to become a member of the International Branch by
notice to the ESA Executive Director.
For more information on the International Branch
of the ESA: http://entsoc.org/international-branch
judgek3@macewan.ca
EvoDevoGrants EDEN
Apr30Deadline
Dear Colleague,
This email is to remind you that the upcoming dead-
line for research exchange grants from the Evo-Devo-
Eco Network (EDEN) is April 30, 2013. EDEN is a
program funded by the National Science Foundation
Research Coordination (http://edenrcn.com/).
One of EDEN's major goals is to enable graduate stu-
dents, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty to undertake
research exchanges in the eld of Evo-Devo-Eco, in or-
der to develop or share techniques, protocols and tools
for use with emerging model systems.
Please note that the updated eligibility for EDEN fund-
ing is as follows:
Researchers based anywhere in the world can apply for
funding to visit labs in the US.
Researchers based in the US are eligible for funding to
visit labs anywhere in the world.
This spring EDEN will award approximately ve re-
search exchanges to be held in 2013-2014. Each ex-
change will consist of an award of up to $3,000 per
researcher toward travel, lodging and subsistence costs.
You can nd out more about this program at http://-
edenrcn.com/funding/index.html. If you know of out-
standing lab personnel who would be interested, please
forward this announcement to them.
You can read more about EDEN's activities and oppor-
tunities at http://www.edenrcn.com, where you will be
able to obtain protocols for evo-devo-eco work devel-oped with EDEN funding.
Please also consider attending the upcoming EDEN
Symposium, \The Evolution of Gene Regulatory Net-
works", which will take place at the Annual Evo-
lution 2013 Meeting on June 21-25, 2013, at the
Snowbird Alpine Village in Utah. Details of the
speakers for this symposium will soon be conrmed
and available on the EDEN website. Visit http://-
www.evolutionmeeting.org/ for further details of this
meeting.
Please feel free to email edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu with
questions about the program, and forward this email to
colleagues who you think would be interested in EDEN.
Best wishes,
Cassandra Extavour
perlo@fas.harvard.edu
Experimental design EEB textbook
Dear evoldir members,
I am looking for a good book on experimental design
that could be used at the early undergraduate level.
It is hard to know exactly what I am after. It would
have to be descriptive, with very simple and graphical
examples, cover a wide variety of topics and ideally de-
scribe both empirical and modeling approaches. I guess
it would probably be something like Gotelli & Ellison's
\Primer in Ecological Genetics" but focused on exper-
imental design in ecology and evolution. Maybe \Ex-
perimental design in organismal biology for dummies"
if such a thing exists...
Does anyone know of a good title?
Thanks in advance, Rafa
Rafael Rubio de Casas *Departamento de Ecolog a* <
http://ecologia.ugr.es >Facultad de Ciencias Universi-
dad de Granada Granada, E-18071 (+34) 958 249 861
Rafael Rubio de Casas <rubiodecasas@ugr.es >
NESCent EvolutionFilmFestivalMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 57
NESCent Evolution Film Festival - Submission Dead-
line Approaching!
Scientists and science educators of all stripes X stu-
dents, postdocs, faculty, and full- or part-time science
communicators X are invited to enter the third annual
Evolution Video Competition, sponsored by the Na-
tional Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent). To
enter, please submit a video that explains a fun fact,
key concept, compelling question, or exciting area of
evolution research in THREE MINUTES OR LESS.
Entries may be related or unrelated to your own re-
search, and should be suitable for use in a classroom
(K-12, undergraduate, graduateKyour choice). Videos
should be both informative and entertaining. (In other
words, no taped lectures or narrated Powerpoint pre-
sentations!) Animations, music videos, and mini docu-
mentaries are all fair game.
The nalists will be screened at the 2013 Evolution
meeting in Snowbird, Utah. (You do not need to at-
tend the conference in order to enter a video.)
First- and second-place winners will receive up to
$1,000 and $500, respectively, to cover travel expenses
to the meeting of their choice, any time within a year
of the festival.
The deadline to submit your video(s) is FRIDAY, MAY
31st, 2013.
For more information (and to see entries from previous
years) please visit lmfestival.nescent.org
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
NSF review process survey
Program Directors in the Division of Environmental Bi-
ology at the National Science Foundation (NSF) ask
Principal Investigators (PIs) (current, past, or future)
to take a survey (http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/-
DEB IOSprogram feedback) to provide feedback on
our new proposal review process. This is an important
opportunity to provide the NSF with feedback. Survey
must be completed by Wednesday, 1 May 2013.In brief, the Divisions of Environmental Biology (DEB)
and Integrative Organismal Systems (IOS) in the Bio-
logical Sciences Directorate (BIO) at the NSF made
signicant changes to the core program review process
that began in 2012. These changes (including the new
preliminary proposal requirement, a switch to an an-
nual deadline, and a cap on the number of proposals
that PIs can submit per cycle) were made to protect
the integrity of the merit review system, which was in-
creasingly compromised by steep increases in proposal
submissions, diminished participation of the commu-
nity in the proposal review process, and at budgets.
This survey is an important mechanism that the NSF
is using to obtain quantitative feedback about the new
review process. The target audience is investigators
who have had funding from DEB or IOS or who are
likely to submit a proposal to DEB and/or IOS in the
next 1-2 years. The results of the survey, which will
be anonymous, will be used to assess the level of satis-
faction with various aspects of the new review process.
All answers are condential, and will have no bearing
on future interactions with the NSF. The survey should
require 10-20 minutes to complete.
edb9j@virginia.edu
PHASE scripts
Dear all
I was wondering whether anyone has scripts in R, perl
or python that can convert the output phased haplo-
type le from PHASE2 to an input le suitable for
Pardis Sabeti's \Sweep" program or the R program
\rehh"?
rehh takes fastPHASE output data, but unfortunately
fastPHASE does not phase trio data, which is the data
I have, so I cannot use it for phasing...
Any scripts/help would be much appreciated, I don't
want to reinvent the wheel!
Ed Hollox, PhD Lecturer in Genetics, University of Le-
icester
Research group pages http://tinyurl.com/hollox
Departmental sta page http://www2.le.ac.uk/-
departments/genetics/people/hollox Room G8a,
Department of Genetics, Adrian Building University
Road, Leicester LE1 7RH UK
Tel: +44 (0)116 252 3407 (oce G8a) +44 (0)116 22358 EvolDir May 1, 2013
1366 (lab G3)
\Hollox, Ed J. (Dr.)" <ejh33@leicester.ac.uk >
Phyloseminar EdDeLong May13
Next up on http://phyloseminar.org/ \How Carl
Woese transformed the eld of microbial ecology" Ed
DeLong (MIT)
The challenges of dissecting naturally occurring mi-
crobial assemblages, with respect to their community
composition, interspecies interactions, functional at-
tributes, and activities, are numerous and daunting.
For many years, these challenges impeded our under-
standing of the properties and dynamics of microbial
communities, and thus hindered development of the
eld of microbial ecology. Enter Carl Woese: the the-
ory and application of molecular phylogenetics and ge-
nomics in studies of microbial evolution and ecology
can be traced directly to Woese and one of his primary
collaborators, Norman Pace. This lecture will trace the
logic and roots of the application of molecular phyloge-
netics and genomics to the study of microbial ecology,
through a historical review and examination of its past
and current applications.
West Coast USA: 10:00 (10:00 AM) on Monday, May
13 East Coast USA: 13:00 (01:00 PM) on Monday, May
13 UK: 18:00 (06:00 PM) on Monday, May 13 France:
19:00 (07:00 PM) on Monday, May 13 Japan: 02:00
(02:00 AM) on Tuesday, May 14 New Zealand: 05:00
(05:00 AM) on Tuesday, May 14
{ Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Query FST vs GD
which is the best matrix to generate a phylogenetic tree.
which of the following produces a more accurate phy-
logenetic tree, Pairwise Fst or Genetic distance.
Thank you and regards
omkar{ K.Omkar Babu S.R.F Institute of Biotechnology
U.A.S Dharwad-580005 Karnataka INDIA
Omkar Babu <omkarbabu.k@gmail.com >
RAXml platform
Dear folks,
I am an user of the raxml plataform (http://-
phylobench.vital-it.ch/raxml-bb/index.php). I am try-
ing to submit a datale but it seems that the plataform
is not working. Am I right? Or probably I am do-
ing a bad job!!! I found a new reference for the Light
RaxMl at San Diego Supercomputer Center. Is it
nowadays the single Raxml plataform or the previous
(http://phylobench.vital-it.ch/raxml-bb/index.php) is
still working?
Thanks and best regards Rodrigo
\Rodrigo A. Torres" <rodrigotorres@ufpe.br >
Reprint request
Hello evoldir members, Does anyone have a (elec-
tronic?) copy of this publication:
Wen, Jun, Ickert-Bond, S., Nie, Z. -L and Li, R. 2010.
Timing and modes of evolution of eastern Asian - North
American biogeographic disjunctions in seed plants. In:
Long, M., Gu, H. and Zhou, Z., Darwin's Heritage To-
day : Proceedings of the Darwin 2010 Beijing Inter-
national Conference. Beijing: Higher Education Press,
pp.252-269.
I would much appreciate a copy. Many thanks already.
Heidi Schwaninger Heidi.Schwaninger@ars.usda.gov
\Schwaninger, Heidi" <Heidi.Schwaninger@ARS.USDA.GOV >
Reptile SexRatio data
EVOLDIR ANNOUNCEMENT Request for data onMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 59
sex ratios in reptiles
For a comparative project with Andras Liker, Robert
Freckleton and Tamas Szekely, I am looking for data
on juvenile and adult sex ratios.from well-studied rep-
tile populations. We need percentage of males out of
all individuals (males plus females).
We appreciate the data in the following structure: (i)
scientic name of the species (ii) juvenile sex ratios
(JSR) ie proportion juvenile males out of all juveniles
(iii) number of juveniles used to estimate juvenile sex
ratio (iv) type of JSR estimate, eg counting, capture-
recaptures, demography (v) adult sex ratios (ASR) ie
proportion adult males out of all adults (vi) number of
adults used to estimate juvenile sex ratio (vii) type of
ASR estimate, eg counting, capture-recaptures, demog-
raphy
Please also say how we should cite the data.
Best regards, Ivett Pipoly, University of Pannonia,
Hungary pipoly.ivett@gmail.com
*Pipoly Ivett* Ornithology Research Group University
of Pannonia Tel.: +36 88 624249 Fax: +36 88 624747
pipoly.ivett@gmail.com +36 20 / 9236407
Ivett Pipoly <pipoly.ivett@gmail.com >
Reptile divorceRates
Request for data on divorce rates in reptiles
For a comparative project with Andras Liker, Robert
Freckleton and Tamas Szekely, I am looking for data
on juvenile and adult sex ratios.from well-studied rep-
tile populations. We need percentage of males out of
all individuals (males plus females).
We appreciate the data in the following structure: (i)
scientic name of the species (ii) juvenile sex ratios
(JSR) ie proportion juvenile males out of all juveniles
(iii) number of juveniles used to estimate juvenile sex
ratio (iv) type of JSR estimate, eg counting, capture-
recaptures, demography (v) adult sex ratios (ASR) ie
proportion adult males out of all adults (vi) number of
adults used to estimate juvenile sex ratio (vii) type of
ASR estimate, eg counting, capture-recaptures, demog-
raphy
Please also say how we should cite the data.
Best regards, Ivett Pipoly, Pannonia University, Hun-
gary pipoly.ivett@gmail.com{ *Pipoly Ivett* Ornithology Research Group Univer-
sity of Pannonia Tel.: +36 88 624249 Fax: +36 88
624747 pipoly.ivett@gmail.com +36 20 / 9236407
Ivett Pipoly <pipoly.ivett@gmail.com >
RohlfMedal Nominations
2013 CALL FOR NOMINATIONS
The Rohlf Medal
The Rohlf Medal was established in 2006 by his fam-
ily and friends to mark the 70th birthday of F. James
Rohlf, Distinguished Professor of Ecology and Evolu-
tion and longtime Stony Brook University faculty mem-
ber. Recipients of the Rohlf Medal will be recognized
for excellence in their body of work on the development
of new morphometric methods or for their applications
in the biomedical sciences, including evolutionary bi-
ology, population biology, physical anthropology, and
medicine. The term \morphometrics" is intended to
include high-dimensional pattern analyses of biological
shape, especially those that analyze shape in a compre-
hensive way, or of covariation of shape patterns with
other variables. The award can recognize advances in
the mathematical or statistical theory underlying mor-
phometric methods, new software that implements or
visualizes new methods, or specic new biological nd-
ings that rely crucially on contemporary morphometric
methods and represent major advances.
Candidates for the Rohlf Medal may be self-nominated
or nominated by others. They must have attained the
postdoctoral level or its equivalent. Nomination pack-
ages should include (1) a description of the body of
work (not to exceed two pages) on which the candi-
dacy is based, (2) reprints of no more than three rel-
evant papers and/or software products, (3) a curricu-
lum vitae, and (4) the names and addresses of three
referees. Nominating packages should be uploaded to
the Rohlf Medal website (http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/-
ee/rohlf medal/apply.html) and received by 15 August
2013 to be assured of full consideration.
The successful candidate will receive the Rohlf Medal
and a cash prize at Stony Brook University in mid-Fall
2013 (nal date to be determined). She or he will de-
liver a lecture that is appropriate for an educated gen-
eral audience concerning the morphometric research for
which the Rohlf Medal was awarded.
Dean60 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Dr. Dean C. Adams Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Department
of Statistics Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011
www.public.iastate.edu/ ~ dcadams/ phone: 515-294-
3834
dcadams@iastate.edu
SSB StudentSymposium
Student Symposium sponsored by the Society of Sys-
tematic Biologists in honor of Ernst Mayr
Each year the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB)
sponsors a symposium with invited student speakers at
the joint annual meeting of American Society of Natu-
ralists, Society of Systematic Biologists, and Society for
the Study of Evolution. Of the participating speakers,
the Ernst Mayr Award is given to the outstanding stu-
dent talk, as judged by the quality and creativity of the
research. The award consists of $1000, a certicate of
distinction, and a two-year subscription to the journal
Systematic Biology.
We encourage all students interested in participating in
the symposium who meet the criteria below to apply.
Eligibility:
Members of the Society who are advanced PhD stu-
dents or have completed their Ph.D. within the last 15
months are eligible. Applicants may be from any coun-
try, but MUST be members of SSB, and are advised to
join the Society as soon as possible to be considered (to
join go to:
http://systbio.org/?q=node/6). Previous Mayr award
winners are not eligible.
Application Procedure to participate in the symposium:
1. To be considered as a participant in the symposium,
as well as the award, you will need to either (i) submit
an abstract of your talk to the Evolution 2013 meet-
ing website (http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/) at the
time of registration, or (ii) submit an abstract to Sen
Brady, bradys@si.edu, with symposium application in
the subject line.
2. Abstracts should clearly indicate methods used, con-
clusions, and the relevance to systematics. Presenta-
tions focusing on other areas of biology (ecology, be-
havior, genetics, populations or molecular biology, etc.)
that lack a strong systematics emphasis are not eligible.3. Applications will be accepted only until the end of
early registration (April 19, 2013).
4. At the closing of early registration, a subset of ap-
plicants will be selected by the SSB Awards Commit-
tee to present their talks in the Mayr Symposium dur-
ing the meeting. Based on submitted abstracts, the
Awards Committee (appointed by the Awards Chair,
Sean Brady) will select a maximum of 16 applicants for
inclusion in the symposium.
All applicants will be notied about selection decisions
approximately May 15.
Judging talks for consideration of the Mayr Award:
The symposium will be held at a single venue as a
continuous session. Talks will be judged on creativ-
ity, depth and excellence of research, and on quality of
presentation. Competitive students are expected to be
in the nal stages of their doctoral program, presenting
results of a major body of work.
Co-Authors:
The talk may be co-authored. It is understood that
the ideas, data and conclusions presented are primar-
ily and substantially the work of the student presenter,
and the intention is that the student presenter will be
senior author on the published version of the paper.
Notication of Winner:
The winner of the award will be announced at the
SSB business meeting in Snowbird and again during
the Awards Session at the conclusion of the Evolu-
tion Meetings, whereupon the winner will be given an
award certicate. An announcement of the winner of
the Mayr Award will be published in Systematic Bi-
ology and placed on the SSB website (see last year's
winner at http://systbiol.org/).
Please see the SSB website (http://systbio.org/?q=-
node/10) for additional information or updates on par-
ticipating in the symposium. Questions via email may
be addressed to Sean Brady (bradys@si.edu)
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE IS APRIL 19,
2013
Sean Brady Research Entomologist Curator of Hy-
menoptera National Museum of Natural History Smith-
sonian Institution bradys@si.edu
\Brady, Sean" <BRADYS@si.edu >May 1, 2013 EvolDir 61
Software DAMBE update
Dear All,
I have
1) published an update of DAMBE (Xia, X.
2013. DAMBE5: A comprehensive software
package for data analysis in molecular biology
and evolution. Molecular Biology and Evolution
doi:10.1093/molbev/mst064), available at http:/-
/mbe.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/-
mst064?ijkey=ZmONZZtkrLjkpGx&keytype=ref
2) uploaded a new version of DAMBE to its release
site at
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp Please use
the new version of DAMBE and cite the new MBE pa-
per instead of the outdated book/paper. Thank you.
Best Xuhua
Xuhua Xia Professor Biology Department Univer-
sity of Ottawa Rm 278 Gendron 30 Marie Curie,
Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N 6N5 Tel: (613)
562-5800 ext 6886 http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca
http://www.biology.uottawa.ca/details.php?lang=-
3Deng&id=3D31 Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca
Software MetaPIGA v3 1
Stable version of MetaPiga (v3.1) is available for down-
load (with Codon models, GPU computing, and more)
Thanks to the feed back of users, we are now happy
to release a stable version of MetaPIGA 3 that resolves
minor (but annoying) bugs causing problems, e.g. with
some Linux machines and in console mode.
MetaPIGA is a versatile and easy-to-use software
that implements robust stochastic heuristics (including
the Metapopulation Genetic Algorithm, metaGA) for
large phylogeny inference under maximum likelihood.
MetaPIGA allows analyses of binary and molecular
data sets under multiple substitution models, Gamma
rate heterogeneity, and data partitioning. The software
is for all types of users as it can be run through an ex-
tensive and ergonomic graphical interface or by usingbatch  and console interface on your local machine or
on distant servers. MetaPIGA is platform independent,
runs on 32- and 64-bits systems, and easily takes ad-
vantage of multiprocessor and/or multicore computers.
Version 3 of MetaPIGA includes new functionalities
such as:
* Maximum likelihood models for codon evolution
(Goldman-Yang 1994 and Empirical Models) with ac-
cess to multiple genetic codes (universal, mitochondria,
chloroplaste, etc); * Likelihood computation on CUDA-
compatible Nvidia graphic cards (reducing run time
by a factor of 10 to 20 for Protein/Codon data); *
Ancestral-state reconstruction using empirical Bayesian
inference.
Some of the other functionalities implemented in
MetaPIGA are:
* Simple data quality control (testing for the presence
of identical sequences as well as of excessively ambigu-
ous or excessively- divergent sequences); * Automated
trimming of poorly aligned regions using the trimAl <
http://trimal.cgenomics.org/ >algorithm; * The Like-
lihood Ratio Test, the Akaike Information Criterion,
and the Bayesian Information Criterion methods for
easy selection of the substitution model that best ts
your data; * Detailed monitoring of run progress; *
Convergence statistics for automatically dening when
an analysis is complete; * Ancestral-state reconstruc-
tion of all nodes in the tree; * Viewing and manipula-
tion of result trees.
MetaPIGA v.3 and its manual can be downloaded
from the new website at www.metapiga.org. Don't
hesitate to contact us (Dorde.Grbic@unige.ch or
Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch) for additional ques-
tions, assistance, or bug reports.
Prof. Michel C. Milinkovitch Laboratory of Articial
& Natural Evolution (LANE) Dept of Genetics & Evo-
lution University of Geneva
Science III, quai Ernest Ansermet 30 1211 Geneva,
Switzerland
Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch
Tel +41(0)22 379 6785; Fax +41(0)22 379 6795
Visit www.lanevol.org
Visit www.metapiga.org and try MetaPIGA v2, a soft-
ware for large phylogeny inference
Visit www.mantisdb.org and try MANTiS, linking
multi-species genome comparisons & functional anal-
ysis
\Michel C. Milinkovitch"62 EvolDir May 1, 2013
<Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch >
Software MetaPIGA v3 1
AppleVersion
Mac OS X Mountain Lion (OS X 10.8.3) installation
restrictions
Some Mac OS X Mountain Lion users were getting
an error message (broken installer) when installing
MetaPIGA 3.1. The problem is caused by the 'Security
& Privacy' panel when the option \Allow applications
downloaded from Mac App Store and identied devel-
opers only" was used.
Although there is an easy workaround (by choosing
the option \Allow applications downloaded from Any-
where"), we now generated an 'Apple-certied' version
of MetaPiga v3.1 $B!D(B such that the software is now
recognised by your Mac whatever is your security op-
tion.
Sorry for the inconvenience.
Djordje Grbic & Michel Milinkovitch
Prof. Michel C. Milinkovitch Laboratory of Articial
& Natural Evolution (LANE) Dept of Genetics & Evo-
lution University of Geneva
Science III, quai Ernest Ansermet 30 1211 Geneva,
Switzerland
Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch
Tel +41(0)22 379 6785; Fax +41(0)22 379 6795
Visit www.lanevol.org Visit www.metapiga.org and try
MetaPIGA v2, a software for large phylogeny infer-
ence Visit www.mantisdb.org and try MANTiS, linking
multi-species genome comparisons & functional analy-
sis
\Michel C. Milinkovitch"
<Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch >
SouthAfrica VolunteerFieldAssist
EvolutionSmallMammals
2 volunteers needed from May / June 2013 onwards2 volunteers needed from August 2013 onwards
as eld assistants for the project:
Evolution and Socio-Ecology of small Mammals in the
Succulent Karoo of South Africa
Opportunity: This is a great opportunity for anybody
who wants to get more experience in eld work relat-
ing to eco-physiology, animal behavior, evolution, and
ecology before starting an MSc or PhD project.
Project: We study the evolutionary and ecological rea-
sons as well as physiological mechanisms of group living,
paternal care, communal nesting and social exibility
in the striped mouse. One focus is on the adaptation to
droughts, combining physiological, behavioral, ecologi-
cal and evolutionary research. As this species is diurnal
and the habitat is open, direct behavioral observations
in the eld are possible.
What kind of people are needed? Biol-
ogy/zoology/veterinary students are preferred as
candidates. Applicants must have an interest in
working in the eld and with animals. Hard working
conditions will await applicants, as the study species
gets up with sunrise (between 5 and 6 o` clock), and
stops its activity with dusk (19 o` clock). Work during
nights might also be necessary. Work in the eld will
be done for 5 days a week. Applicants must be able
to manage extreme temperatures (below 0 at night
in winter, sometimes over 40C during summer days).
Applicants must both be prepared to live for long
periods in the loneliness of the eld and to be part of
a small social group.
Work of eld assistants: Trapping, marking and radio-
tracking of striped mice; direct behavioral observations
in the eld. Volunteers will also see how blood sam-
ples are collected for physiological measurements. Vol-
unteers are expected to help with maintenance of the
research station (water pump, solar power, etc.).
Conrmation letter: Students get a letter of conrma-
tion about their work and can prepare a report of their
own small project to get credit points from their uni-
versity for their bachelor or masters studies.
Costs: Students have to arrange their transport to the
eld site themselves. Per month, an amount of Rand
1250 (around 180 US$, 120 Euro) must be paid for ac-
commodation at the research station. Students must
buy their own food etc in Springbok (costs of about R
2500, approx. 360 US$ or 250 Euro/month). Includ-
ing extras (going out for dinner; shopping), you should
expect costs of about 600 US$, 450 Euros per month.
Students get an invitation letter which they can use to
apply for funding in their home country.May 1, 2013 EvolDir 63
Place: The eld site is in the Goegap Nature Reserve
near Springbok in the North-West of South Africa. The
vegetation consists of Succulent Karoo, which has been
recognized as one of 25 hotspots of biodiversity. It is a
desert to semi-desert with rain mainly in winter (June
to September).
When and how long: At the moment we are looking for
2 volunteers starting in May / June and 2 in August
2013. Volunteers are expected to stay at least three
months, but longer periods of up to 6months are pre-
ferred.
How to apply? Send a short motivation let-
ter stating why and for which period you are
interested and your CV via email to succu-
lent.karooo.research.station@kabelbw.de.
More information under
http://stripedmouse.com/site1 35.htm http://-
www.youtube.com/watch?v=w6rvF5XrVn0&list=-
UUd12oFYqs5OobiiKMhDnFtw&ind ex=1
Contact via e-mail: succu-
lent.karoo.research.station@kabelbw.de
Succulent Karoo Research Station
Dr. Carsten Schradin (Director)
South Africa
The research station is a South African non-prot or-
ganization
Director Succulent Karoo Research Station
<succulent.karoo.research.station@kabelbw.de >
StAndrews BotanicGarden
Save St Andrews Botanic Garden...
St Andrews Botanic Garden is under threat of closure
due to insucient funding. It was established by St
Andrews University in the early 1960s and for the past
25 years has been leased to the local Council who have
funded its maintenance and development as an educa-
tional and community facility. The lease runs out later
this year and the Council is no longer willing to cover
all of the running costs.
The Garden is an absolute gem and a wonderful biodi-
versity resource. It contains >8,000 living plant species,
i.e.~3 times the total number of plant species occur-
ring naturally in Britain. These are displayed in diverse
open habitats (Heath, Rock, Woodland and Water) anda range of dierent glasshouse environments (Tropical,
Temperate, Alpine and Hot Desert). It is located in the
midst of St Andrews and is open daily to the public!
You can sign a petition against the closure of the Gar-
den by going to http://www.st-andrews-botanic.org
and clicking on \Sign the Save the Garden Petition".
Couldn't be easier. The petition closes on 5 May and
will be presented to the University in June together
with a business plan for the Garden's future develop-
ment.
Richard Abbott Professor Richard Abbott School of Bi-
ology University of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife KY16
9TH, UK
Email. rja@st-and.ac.uk
Websites: http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/rja.htm
http://openwetware.org/wiki/User:Richard J.Abbott
rja@st-andrews.ac.uk
Subularia samples
Dear EvolDir members,
We are startinga conservation project on water
awlwort- /**Subula//ria aqua//tica/ (Brassicaceae)-
in the Pyrenees. This species is an endangered aquatic
plantthat is mainly found in oligotrophic lakes. Ithas a
palearctic and nearctic distribution. We are seeking for
leaf samples from dierent countries. Any helpwould
be more than welcome.
Many thanks
Nathalie
{ Nathalie Escaravage Enseignant-Chercheur Labora-
toire Evolution et Diversit e Biologique Universit e Paul
Sabatier/CNRS 5174 B^ atiment 4R1, porte 106 118
route de Narbonne 31062 TOULOUSE cedex 09 France
Tel : 33 (0)5 61 55 67 52 Interne : 66752
Escaravage Nathalie <nathalie.escaravage@univ-
tlse3.fr >
Training in phylogeny answers 2
Dear evoldir members,64 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Since I received extra information about courses in phy-
logeny / highthroughput sequencing, I send this to the
community in order to complete my precedent e-mail.
I'm rather surprised not to see these mentioned:
http://www.embl.de/training/events/ In particu-
lar, courses like http://www.embl.de/training/events/-
2013/GMX13-01/index.html seem about right.
I know of another great phylogenetics workshop that
did not
get on your list:
http://regaweb.med.kuleuven.be/veme-workshop/-
2012/ http://www.bioafrica.net/news.php?ida the
2013 version of this workshop will be in Gainesville
Florida
Thanks to David & Brian for their contribution !
All the best,
Gwenna el
Gwenna el Bataille <gwennael.bataille@uclouvain.be >
UCalifornia LosAngeles Volunteers
AvianEvolution
I am conducting a study of geographical variation in
song characteristics and I am looking for volunteers to
take a survey. Participants will rate the similarity of
the songs of several species.
If you are able to volunteer to take this survey, please e-
mail me at nathanbwarbler@gmail.com, and I will send
you an e-mail with the URL to the survey and more
information.
Thank you in advance,
Nathan Burroughs Department of Ecology & Evolu-
tionary Biology University of California, Los Angeles
nathanbwarbler@gmail.com
Nathan Burroughs <nathanbwarbler@gmail.com >
UZurich FieldAssist SwedishLapland
SongThrushEvolExpenses paid eld assistant positions to study life-
history evolution in Song Thrushes in Swedish Lapland,
University of Zurich
For the upcoming eld season (May-July 2013) we
are looking for a highly motivated expenses paid eld
volunteer to join our eld project (main responsible
Michael Griesser, University of Zurich, Switzerland) in-
vestigating life-history evolution in Song Thrushes. The
study population is located near Arvidsjaur, Swedish
Lapland.
Our current project investigates the inuence of habi-
tat quality on ospring quality. The work of the eld
volunteer will be to help in locating nests, eld experi-
ments, behavioural observations, , measuring nestlings,
and data management. This work will give insight into
exciting experimental eldwork and will be carried out
partly in managed forests and partly in scenic pristine
boreal habitats.
Qualications: (1) BSc/MSc in Biology, Ecology or
similar qualication (2) Previous eld experience (3)
Ability to work in small teams and sociable personal-
ity (4) Knowledge in observing & handling birds (5)
Driving licence (6) Fluent in English
We will cover for the accommodation, travel expenses
from and to the study site (in total up to 300 Euros)
as well as the living expenses.
Applications - including a CV, a letter of motivation (1
page) and the name of two referees - should be sent to
Xenia Schleuning: xenia.schleuning@uzh.ch
Applications received until 15th April 2013 will be given
full consideration, or until position is lled.
For further information on the project, see: http:/-
/www.aim.uzh.ch/Research/birdfamilies.html xe-
nia.schleuning@uzh.ch
VolunteerFieldAssist
AvianPersonality Australia
Volunteer eld assistants: We are looking for eld as-
sistants to help monitor a colour-banded population
of superb fairy-wrens near Melbourne, Australia for
a study on animal personalities. Time periods: Au-
gust - September 2013 (2 months mist-netting and test-
ing personalities) or October 2013 - January 2014 (4
months nest-searching and behavioural observations).
Duties include regular censusing of colour-banded birds,May 1, 2013 EvolDir 65
searching for and monitoring nests, mist-netting, be-
havioural observations, video analysis, and data proof-
ing. Working days are long, with early starts six days a
week. Enthusiasm, self-motivation, and a strong work
ethic are a must. The study is based at Serendip Sanc-
tuary, a small reserve on the outskirts of Melbourne.
Qualications: experience monitoring colour-banded
birds, nest-searching, and mist-netting. Must also be
early riser, physically t, able to work in extreme
weather conditions, and enjoy basic shared living con-
ditions. Onsite accommodation in a house with shared
dorm-style room is provided, but assistants cover travel
to the site and their own food costs. The project will
reimburse up to AUD$500/mo towards receipted foodand travel expenses. For more information contact:
Michelle Hall (hall.m@unimelb.edu.au) and Raoul Mul-
der (r.mulder@unimelb.edu.au). To apply, please email
a letter outlining previous relevant eld research ex-
perience, and a resume including names and contact
information for 3 referees.
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow Department of
Zoology, University of Melbourne Melbourne, VIC,
3010, Australia email: hall.m@unimelb.edu.au phone:
+ 61 3 83446232 www: Google Scholar Pro-
le<http://scholar.google.com.au/citations?user=-
3DBcsSi-YAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao >
hall.m@unimelb.edu.au
PostDocs
BrownU PhylogeneticsGeneExpression . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
CityUNewYork EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Dartmouth MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
DukeU MortonArb OakPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
ETHZurich Eawag HostParasitoid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Gelnhausen Germany ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . 68
IFREMER UBrest SabellariaAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . 69
INIA Madrid AnimalBreeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
INRA Nouzilly France ReproductivePhylogenetics . 70
IVIC Venezuela MycorrhizalTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
IowaStateU TurtleChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 71
Lyon MouseMolarEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
MaxPlanck Cologne EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . .72
MaxPlanck Tubingen PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
NMNH Paris MultilocusAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
NorthCarolinaStateU PlantPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Paris StructuralBioinformaticsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 74
SMNH Stockholm AcoelomorphGenomicsPhyloge-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Sempach Switzerland ModellingPopulationProcesses 75
SeoulNatlUni EvolutionBehaviorImmunogenetics . . 76
SmithCollege MicrobesTreeOfLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Stuttgart PlantPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Sweden PhylogeneticsMolecularDating . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UArizona Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UBarcelona ChordateEvoDevoGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 79UBasel SexuallySelectedTraits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
UCaliforniaDavis EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 81
UCalifornia LosAngeles Biomath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UCollegeLondon Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UColorado Denver EvolutionAggression . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UGuelph StatMathGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UKansas GenomeInformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UKansas Partime PhylogeneticMethods . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UMichigan 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UMichigan EvolutionPathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UNordland BioinformaticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UOregon EcologicalGenomicsofSpeciation . . . . . . . . . 87
UOxford EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UPennsylvania HumanEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . .88
USanDiego Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
USouthFlorida EvolutionaryNeuroscience . . . . . . . . . .89
UTennessee Phylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
UTurku Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UWarwick EvolutionAging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UWashington EvolutionaryGeneticsAging . . . . . . . . . 91
UWesternOntario TheoreticalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . .91
Uhull ComparativePhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
WashingtonStateU TasmanianDevilGenomics . . . . . .93
YaleU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
YaleU ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9366 EvolDir May 1, 2013
BrownU
PhylogeneticsGeneExpression
Postdoctoral Research Position - Phylogenetic analysis
of gene expression data
A postdoctoral position is available in the Center
for Computational and Molecular Biology ( http:/-
/www.brown.edu/research/projects/computational-
molecular-biology/) at Brown University in Providence,
Rhode Island. The successful candidate will develop
new statistical methods and computational tools for
the phylogenetic analysis of gene expression data,
and will work collaboratively with the labs of Casey
Dunn (http://dunnlab.org) from the Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and Jean Wu (
http://www.stat.brown.edu/zwu/) and Rossi Luo
( http://sites.google.com/site/xirossiluo/) from the
Department of Biostatistics.
Research will focus on extending and implementing the
ideas presented in the preprint available at:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2978 Funding is available
for one year, with the possibility of additional funding
for subsequent years. The position is available immedi-
ately.
Applicants should hold a PhD in Evolutionary Biology,
Statistics, Math, Computer Science, or a related eld.
Prior experience with the analysis of RNA-seq data is
preferred. The candidate should have a strong back-
ground in statistics, and at least basic computational
experience (eg Python, R, Unix, and git skills).
Please apply be sending a cover letter, CV, and con-
tact information for three references to Casey Dunn
(casey dunn@brown.edu). General inquiries are wel-
come. The position is available immediately.
{ http://dunnlab.org http://creaturecast.org http://-
practicalcomputing.org casey dunn@brown.edu
CityUNewYork EvolutionaryBiol
Job Title: Research Associate (Post-Doctoral Fellow)
- Biology Job ID: 7746 Location: Brooklyn College,
CUNYUnder the mentorship and guidance of the Associate
Professor of Evolutionary Biology (Principal Investiga-
tor), the Research Associate will carry out independent
and collaborative research, and train and supervise stu-
dent researchers.
The Research Associate will:
- Develop plans, collect and analyze data based on
projects prepared together with the Principal Investi-
gator. - Prepare reports of completed projects for pub-
lication in scientic journals, academic presentations or
for further applied or theoretical research activities. -
Ensure the ecient functioning of the laboratory ar-
eas using various experimental techniques. - Provide
administrative and laboratory support to the Principal
Investigator including, but not limited to: managing
laboratory budgets and ordering supplies. - Train and
supervise undergraduate and graduate researchers.
Qualications: - Ph. D in Evolutionary Biology, with
a minimum of 3 years of laboratory experience - Expe-
rience with genomic/bioinformatics research methods,
including both wet lab and computer work - Field ex-
perience in marine evolutionary ecology and/or expe-
rience with the husbandry of marine animals - Out-
standing communication and writing skills - Labora-
tory management experience a plus - Preference will be
given to candidates with record of innovative project
contributions including peer-reviewed publications and
grant funding.
Closing Date: April 24, 2013
For complete job description and application instruc-
tions please see our employment page at:
http://www.brooklyn.cuny.edu/adminjobs and click on
Job ID 7746.
Brooklyn College is an AA/EO/IRCA/ADA Employer.
Jennifer Tsui <JTsui@brooklyn.cuny.edu >
All applications MUST be submitted online. E-mail or
hard copy applications will NOT be accepted. applica-
tions will NOT be accepted.
Dartmouth MicrobialEvolution
*Postdoctoral Position in Comparative Genomics and
Microbial Evolution*
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the
lab of Olga Zhaxybayeva at the Biological SciencesMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 67
Department of Dartmouth College in Hanover, NH.
Zhaxybayeva's lab uses computational approaches to
study how microbes evolve and adapt to their environ-
ments. Ongoing projects fall into the following broad
areas: 1) Studying impact of horizontal gene trans-
fer on microbial populations; 2) Characterization of
microbial communities; and 3) Deciphering genomic
signatures of microbial adaptations. More informa-
tion about Zhaxybayeva's lab is available at http://-
www.dartmouth.edu/ ~ ecglab/ . Qualied applicant
must have a Ph.D. in bioinformatics, biology, micro-
biology, computer science, statistics or a related eld
with background and strong interest in molecular evo-
lution. Some prior scripting or programming experience
is required.
The successful candidate should anticipate contributing
to a variety of ongoing collaborative research projects
with teams across the United States and Canada. The
incumbent will also have the opportunity to establish
his/her own independent projects. In addition to be-
coming a part of a vibrant research and educational
environment, the successful candidate can also take ad-
vantage of professional development programs oered
by Dartmouth College's Postdoctoral Association.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Start date is nego-
tiable. Interested applicants should send a single PDF
le containing CV, one-page statement of research in-
terests and contact information of three referees to Olga
Zhaxybayeva at ECGLabJobs@gmail.com.
Dartmouth oers competitive salary and benets along
with the opportunity to live in a picturesque rural re-
gion that oers year-round recreational activities and is
located near cities of Boston, Montreal, and New York.
Dartmouth College is an equal opportunity/armative
action employer that has a strong commitment to di-
versity. Women, minorities, persons with disabilities,
and veterans are encouraged to apply.
{ Olga Zhaxybayeva, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences Dartmouth College 026 LSC
78 College Street Hanover, NH 03755 USA
Oce: (603) 646-8616 Email: olgazh@dartmouth.edu
Web: http://www.dartmouth.edu/ ~ ecglab/-
http://dfd.dartmouth.edu/proles/907
Olga.Zhaxybayeva@dartmouth.eduDukeU MortonArb
OakPhylogenetics
Postdoctoral Research Associate in Phylogeny of Oaks
at Duke University or The Morton Arboretum
Position Description: The postdoctoral research asso-
ciate will work with an international team of researchers
led by Andrew Hipp (The Morton Arboretum),
Paul Manos (Duke University), Jeannine Cavender-
Bares (University of Minnesota), Jeanne Romero-
Severson (Notre Dame University), and Antonio
Gonz alez-Rodr guez (Universidad Nacional Aut onoma
de M exico) to study lineage and trait diversication
in a diverse oak clade centered on North and Cen-
tral America. The postdoc will focus on analysis
of next-generation sequencing data (sequenced RAD
data) and phylogenetic comparative analysis of bio-
geographic, morphological, and climatic niche data.
Research will require the integration of morphologi-
cal, ecological, and molecular phylogenetic approaches,
with a focus on computational approaches. The posi-
tion is funded through Duke University, but applicants
have the option to work primarily at Duke or split their
time between The Morton Arboretum and Duke Uni-
versity.
Required Qualications: Ph.D. degree in discipline re-
lated to the research area.
Preferred Qualications: Experience with molecular
phylogenetics, genome-scale data and next-generation
sequencing data, and biodiversity informatics. Evi-
dence of strong writing and communication skills.
The successful candidate will: (1) have a strong at-
tention to detail, (2) be an independent thinker with
strong problem-solving abilities, (3) be able to take the
lead authorship on manuscripts, and (4) be able to ef-
fectively work in a large collaborative framework.
Salary: $39,000 plus benets, administered through
Duke University.
To apply please submit the following to Andrew Hipp
and Paul Manos:
(1) A detailed CV with publication list, successful
grants, and contact information for three references.
(2) A short letter explaining your interests and qual-
ications for this position.
Application Process: Applicants will be considered un-68 EvolDir May 1, 2013
til the position is lled; however, applicants should sub-
mit by 5:00 pm EST, 1 May 2013, for full consideration.
Availability for an in-person interview is preferred. The
position is available starting immediately, but the start
date is exible. The appointment is for one to two
years, with annual extensions dependent on satisfactory
performance.
If you have any questions, please contact Paul
Manos (pmanos@duke.edu) and Andrew Hipp
(ahipp@mortonarb.org).
ahipp@mortonarb.org
ETHZurich Eawag HostParasitoid
The Evolutionary Ecology group based at Eawag
Dubendorf and ETH Zurich in Switzerland is conduct-
ing research on host-parasite interactions. We are par-
ticularly interested in the topic of symbiont-mediated
coevolution, that is in hosts adapting to their parasites
by symbiosis with protective microorganisms, and in
the parasites counteradapting to these protective sym-
bionts. Our main study organisms are aphids, their
bacterial endosymbionts and hymenopteran parasitoids
of aphids.
To strengthen our team we are inviting applications for
a
POSTDOC POSITION IN GENETICS OF HOST-
PARASITE INTERACTIONS
We are seeking an enthusiastic postdoc with interest in
host-parasite coevolution and experience in generating
and analyzing next-generation sequencing data, ideally
in transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq). A PhD is re-
quired for this position. The expected starting date is
1 October 2013, but can be negotiated.
This Postdoc position is funded by the Swiss Na-
tional Science Foundation and is available for 2 years.
The successful candidate will be working in the Evo-
lutionary Ecology group led by Christoph Vorburger
(www.evec.ethz.ch). This group is associated with
the Institute of Integrative Biology at ETH Zurich,
Switzerland (http://www.ibz.ethz.ch), as well as with
the Department of Aquatic Ecology at Eawag, the
Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Tech-
nology (http://www.eawag.ch). These institutions of-
fer a stimulating work environment, ample opportu-
nities for collaboration, and excellent facilities, in-
cluding the state-of-the-art Genetic Diversity Center(www.gdc.ethz.ch). Salary and benets are competi-
tive. Dubendorf is adjacent to Zurich, a city known for
its excellent quality of life.
Applications have to be submitted online via the fol-
lowing link: http://internet1.reine.ch/673277/0199/-
++publications++/1/index.html . Please include a
cover letter explaining your motivation, research inter-
ests and relevant experience, a curriculum vitae, publi-
cation list, and the names and contact details of three
academic references as a single PDF le. Deadline for
applications is 31 May 2013. For enquiries about this
position please contact Christoph Vorburger (+41 58
765 51 96; christoph.vorburger@eawag.ch).
We are looking forward to your application.
Gelnhausen Germany
ConservationGenetics
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung has an in-
ternational reputation in all elds of Natural History
research. It runs six research institutes and two muse-
ums in Germany and is also custodian of the UNESCO
World Heritage Site at Messel.
The conservation genetics section functions as National
Reference Centre for Genetic Analyses of Large Car-
nivores in Germany. The lab performs genetic moni-
toring of several highly endangered wildlife species in
Germany and Europe, including wolf, wildcat, beaver,
saiga, and other mammals. Aside from traditional aca-
demic interests our strategy is to cooperate intensively
with non-research partners, such as NGOs and con-
servation authorities, to ensure a tight link between
genetic research and applied conservation and wildlife
management. The Conservation Genetics Section at
the Senckenberg Research Station in Gelnhausen seeks
a postdoctoral researcher in wildlife and conservation
genetics (Ref. #04-13001)
Your tasks:xco-supervision of running projects and
design of new research projects xanalysis of genetic
datasetsxmanuscript drafting xcommunication with lo-
cal and international project partners Your prole:
xPhD in the eld of molecular population genetics or
related disciplines xexperience with dierent molecular
marker systems (microsatellites, SNPs, sequence data)
xsuperior skills in population genetics and data analy-
sisxexcellent publishing record in high-ranked interna-
tional journalsxexperience in student supervision and
project handling is an advantage xGerman languageMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 69
skills are desirable but not mandatory xhigh motiva-
tion and passion for species conservation
Salary and benets are according to a public service
position in Germany (TV-H E13, 100%). The contract
shall start as soon as possible and will initially run for
24 months with the possibility of extension depending
on the candidate's performance. The Senckenberg Re-
search Institute supports equal opportunity of men and
women and therefore strongly invites women to apply.
Equally qualied handicapped applicants will be given
preference. The type of handicap should not prevent
work needed to conduct the research. The duty sta-
tion will be Gelnhausen and Frankfurt am Main, Ger-
many. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung.
Please send your application before May, 15th 2013 pre-
ferred by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf document),
mentioning the reference of this position (Ref. #04-
13001) and including a letter outlining your suitability
for the post, a detailed CV, contact details of 2 ref-
erences and, if available, publications to the Head of
Personnel and Social Aairs:
Frau Britta Werner Leiterin Personal & Soziales Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frank-
furt am Main recruiting@senckenberg.de
In addition to that, we would like you to indicate
in your application the source that brought our job
advertisement to your attention. For scientic en-
quiries please get in contact with Dr. Carsten Nowak,
cnowak@senckenberg.de.
recruiting <recruiting@senckenberg.de >
IFREMER UBrest
SabellariaAdaptation
LabexMer Postdoctoral Position on the
Response of *Sabellaria* reefs to environmental change
across its distributional range
The honeycomb worm, *Sabellaria alveolata*, is an
ecosystem engineer responsible for the construction of
some of the most extensive biogenic reefs in the temper-
ate coast of Europe. Dense aggregations of this tube-
worm generate three-dimensional complexity, support-
ing higher biodiversity than adjacent habitats. Pop-
ulations of this species are genetically divergent and
span a range of contrasting environments across its dis-tributional range. In order to understand the range
of response of genetically divergent populations to en-
vironmental change, laboratory and eld experiments
will be conducted to observe how individuals from dif-
ferent locations are able to cope with thermal stress,
hypoxia and acidication.
To further explore the ability of *Sabellaria* reefs to
cope with environmental change, a full-time postdoc-
toral position is available jointly at the European In-
stitute of Marine Sciences (IUEM) and the French Re-
search Institute for Exploration of the Sea (IFREMER)
in Brest, France, under the supervision of Dr. Flavia
Nunes and Dr. Stanislas Dubois. The position is
funded by the LabexMer Chair in Evolutionary Marine
Ecology.
We are seeking a motivated and independent individ-
ual, who enjoys experimental and eld work, and who
is equally comfortable and qualied in the molecular
lab. Ability to work in a team is essential and a strong
publication record is desired.
The successful candidate will demonstrate prociency
in at least two of the following areas:
- Experience conducting experiments in the eld and
under controlled laboratory experiments
- Molecular biology, including gene expression analysis
(transcriptomics, qPCR, in-situ hybridization)
- Bioinformatics for the analysis of genomic, transcrip-
tomic and/or proteomic data
- Ecological modelling
Funding is available for up to 2 years with renewal after
1 year pending satisfactory research progress. Salary
will be euro 30,000 - 32,000 plus benets.
Brest is home to the largest oceanographic community
in France. The network of academic and government
institutes based here provide numerous opportunities
for interactions, collaborations and sharing of resources
for the exploration of the sea. The city of Brest has a
rich maritime culture and is located along the charming
coastline of Brittany.
To apply, please send a letter of motivation, detailed
CV including publication list, and contact information
for 2 references to Flavia.Nunes@univ-brest.fr
Deadline for applications: April 15, 2013
{ Fl avia Nunes
International Chair in Evolutionary Marine Ecology
LabexMer - Institut Universitaire Europ een de la Mer
IUEM Technop^ ole Brest-Iroise Rue Dumont d'Urville
Bureau A124 29280 Plouzan e FRANCE +33 2 90 9170 EvolDir May 1, 2013
53 76
Flavia.Nunes@univ-brest.fr
INIA Madrid AnimalBreeding
RESEARCH POST IN ANIMAL BREEDING & GE-
NETICS AT INIA, MADRID
A research position is available at the Animal Breed-
ing Department of INIA, Madrid (Spain) to work on
the topic 'Estimation of the impact of selection and in-
breeding on genetic diversity using genomic tools'.
The project is funded by the Spanish Government and
is a collaboration of INIA (Beatriz Villanueva y Jes ~Aos
Fern andez), the 'Universidad Polit ecnica de Madrid'
(Miguel Angel Toro) and the 'Universidad de Vigo' (Ar-
mando Caballero). In this coordinated project we will
evaluate from theoretical and computational develop-
ments and analysis of empirical data, the applicability
of SNP markers in the estimation of allelic diversity,
purging of deleterious variants, estimation of eective
population size, and footprint of selection. Tasks for
this post will involve computer simulations and analy-
sis of dairy cattle SNP data.
Candidates should have a strong background in quanti-
tative genetics, population genetics or animal breeding
and a university degree valid in Spain. Strong commu-
nication and computer skills are required. Postgraduate
qualications will be an advantage.
The post is available for 2 years. The salary will be
determined according to the Spanish public research
salary scale.
The deadline for applications is Friday 3rd May 2013.
Unfortunately all the documentation and the applica-
tion form (attached) are in Spanish.
Beatriz Villanueva Gavi na
Departamento de Mejora Gen etica Animal INIA (In-
stituto Nacional de Investigaci on y Tecnolog a Agraria
y Alimentaria) Carretera de La Coru na km 7,5 28040
Madrid, Spain
Tel.: 34 91 347 6807 Fax: 34 91 347 8743 vil-
lanueva.beatriz@inia.es
******
Jes~Aos Fern andez Mart n
Departamento de Mejora Gen etica Animal 34-913471487 Instituto Nacional de Investigaci on y 34-
91 3478743 (FAX) Tecnolog a Agraria y Alimentaria
(INIA) jmj@inia.es
Crta. A Coru na Km. 7,5 28040 Madrid (SPAIN)
http://dl.dropbox.com/u/5714008/Fernandez.htm
Jes~Aos Fern andez Mart n <jmj@inia.es >
INRA Nouzilly France
ReproductivePhylogenetics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Reproduc-
tive and Behavior Laboratory at the INRA institute
in Nouzilly, France. This lab specializes in developing
phylogenetics and evolutionary methodologies to study
biological functions such as reproduction and lipid
metabolism. In particular, there is a need for a bet-
ter understanding of how genes involved in metabolism
are evolving by gene appearance, gene loss, positive
selection, gene conversion.... Candidate should have
PhD experience in evolutionary biology, bioinformat-
ics, computer science, or related elds. Funding for this
position is available until spring 2014 during 8 months.
For informal enquiries, contact Dr. Philippe Monget
via?email: pmonget@tours.inra.fr.
Best, Philippe
Philippe Monget <Philippe.Monget@tours.inra.fr >
IVIC Venezuela
MycorrhizalTaxonomy
Please note the application deadline has been extended
to May 10, 2013
*** Spanish version follows***
*** all replies to lfajardo@ivic.gob.ve ***
Please forward to relevant email lists:
The Ecology Center of the Instituto Venezolano
de Investigaciones Cient cas in Caracas, Venezuela
(IVIC; http://www.ivic.gob.ve/ecologia/) announces
the search for a researcher or post-doc to join our Labo-
ratory of Soil Ecology. The ideal candidate will be avail-
able as of May, 2013, to work in the lab's arbuscularMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 71
mycorrhizae group. Candidates must have a doctorate
and research experience in arbuscular mycorrhizal sym-
biosis and taxonomy (Phylum Glomeromycota), and
be willing to teach postgraduate-level classes, assume
administrative responsibilities, and supervise graduate
and undergraduate thesis projects. Experience with
the production of inoculants and the ecophysiology of
plants inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi is
particularly welcome, as this post includes coordinat-
ing the lab's ongoing production of this biofertilizer for
agroecological, teaching, and research applications.
Interested applicants should send a CV and brief letter
of intent to Dr. Laurie Fajardo (lfajardo@ivic.gob.ve),
prior to May 10, 2013.
*****
Se extendio la fecha limite de postulacion al 10 de mayo
de 2013
*** favor enviar respuestas  unicamente a lfa-
jardo@ivic.gob.ve ***
Favor difundir por las listas relevantes:
El Centro de Ecolog a del Instituto Venezolano de In-
vestigaciones Cient cas en Caracas, Venezuela (IVIC;
http://www.ivic.gob.ve/ecologia/) inicia el proceso de
selecci on para el ingreso de un investigador o posdoctor-
ante al Laboratorio de Ecolog a de Suelos. El candidato
ideal debe estar disponible a partir de mayo de 2013
para trabajar en el grupo de micorrizas arbusculares de
dicho laboratorio. Los candidatos deben poseer un doc-
torado y contar con experiencia de investigaci on en el
estudio de la asociaci on micorr zica arbuscular y la tax-
onom a de los hongos que la conforman (Phylum Glom-
eromycota). Adem as la persona seleccionada debe estar
dispuesta a participar como docente en el postgrado de
Ecolog a y en actividades administrativas, y dirigir tesis
de pre y postgrado. Esta particularmente bienvenida
experiencia en el estudio de la ecosiolog a de plantas
micorrizadas y en la producci on de inoculantes micor-
rizicos, ya que el candidato seleccionado coordinar a la
producci on de este biofertilizante que actualmente ll-
eva a cabo el Lab. para aplicaciones agroecol ogicas,
acad emicas y de investigaci on.
Los interesados deber an remitir su curriculum vitae y
una breve exposici on de motivos a la Dra. Laurie Fa-
jardo (lfajardo@ivic.gob.ve), antes del 10 de mayo de
2013.
~~~~ Kathryn M. Rodriguez-Clark, Ph.D. Investi-
gadora/Researcher Laboratorio de Ecologia y Genet-
ica de Poblaciones, Centro de Ecologia Instituto Vene-
zolano de Investigaciones Cienticas (IVIC) Apartado
20632 Caracas 1020-A, VenezuelaTel: +58-212-504-1889 Fax: +58-212-504-1617
alt. email: kmrc@ivic.gob.ve ~~~~ Los acentos gracos
han sido voluntariamente omitidos para evitar proble-
mas con algunos clientes de correo electronico. Per-
donen los inconvenientes que por ello puedan haberse
generado. ~~~~
kmrodriguezclark@gmail.com
IowaStateU
TurtleChromosomeEvolution
PostDoctoral Position in Turtle Chromosome Evolution
A postdoctoral position is available to work in the lab-
oratory of Dr. Nicole Valenzuela at Iowa State Univer-
sity on an NSF-funded PhyloGenomics project to study
the genome rearrangements responsible for changes in
diploid number across turtles and their association with
transitions in sex determination.
The project combines molecular cytogenetics, tran-
scriptomics, bioinformatics and phylogenetic analyses.
The ideal candidate will have a PhD degree and strong
background in molecular and classic cytogenetic tech-
niques including chromosomal preparation, uorescent
in situ hybridization/chromosome painting, karyotyp-
ing, and the use of Cytovision or other chromosomal
analysis platform. Other qualications such as evolu-
tionary biology background or experience with cell cul-
ture and bioinformatics are a plus but not required.
Funding is available for up to 3 years with annual re-
newal contingent upon performance. The position is
available at any time starting 1 July 2013.
For inquiries or to apply please email Dr.
Nicole Valenzuela at nvalenzu@iastate.edu
<mailto:nvalenzu@iastate.edu >. Applicants should
email a cover letter describing their research interests
and experience, current CV, and copies of up to two
relevant publications if available, and arrange to have
two letters of recommendation be sent directly to
nvalenzu@iastate.edu <mailto:nvalenzu@iastate.edu >.
Iowa State University does not discriminate on the ba-
sis of race, color, age, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex,
marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran.
Dr. Nicole Valenzuela Associate Professor
<nvalenzu@iastate.edu >Department of Ecology,72 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Evolution, and Organismal Biology 253 Bessey Hall
Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011, USA
Phone: 515-294-1285
URL: http://www.public.iastate.edu/~nvalenzu/
nvalenzu@iastate.edu
Lyon MouseMolarEvolution
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION: MOUSE MOLAR
EVOLUTION AND DEVELOPMENT IGFL, Lyon,
France
In the Mus genus, some mice feature a \prestyle" (kind
of ridge) on the anterior part of their rst upper molar:
this has been observed repeatedly in island populations,
as well as is several laboratory strains, and correlates
with a large body size. Our lab is involved in a col-
laborative project aiming at deciphering the processes
beyond this remarkable case of parallel teeth evolution.
A post-doctoral fellow will be recruited to take charge
of the evo-devo aspects of this work. In particular,
she/he will look at the embryonic origin of this prestyle
in lab strains selected for large body size and in strains
established from wild-trapped mice. She/he will no-
tably test a model proposed in Renaud et al. (Plos
One 6(5):e18951 2011), whereby the evolution of the
prestyle may involve a variation in the degree of incor-
poration of an abortive tooth bud found at the anterior
edge of the developing rst molar.
The candidate will demonstrate high motivation and
the ability to independently manage aspects of the
project determined to be her/his responsibility, while
interacting with a collaborative group. A good general
background in developmental biology/morphogenesis is
essential. Good knowledge of evolutionary developmen-
tal biology and/or a previous experience with a rodent
model would be an asset. Ideally, the candidate will
have skills in staining and imaging methods (e.g. im-
munostainings, confocal microscopy) and some training
with dissecting/manipulating embryos under a stere-
omicroscope.
A 18-months position (ANR grant funded) is on oer,
and the candidate will be provided assistance to nd
follow funding. Expected starting date: between July
2013 and November 2013.
The Molecular Zoology group is part of the Institute
for Functional Genomics of Lyon. We have been inter-ested in rodent molar development and evolution since
2004. In September 2012, we moved to a newly built
and fully equipped building in Lyon. The institute
hosts international teams and largely uses English for
internal communication. http://ig.ens-lyon.fr Con-
tact: CV and at least 2 referee contacts can be sent
to: sophie.pantalacci@ens-lyon.fr Applications should
be submitted before May 30th, however later applica-
tions will be considered if the position is not already
lled.
sophie.pantalacci@ens-lyon.fr
MaxPlanck Cologne
EvolutionaryGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the labo-
ratory of Dr. Dario Riccardo Valenzano http:/-
/www.age.mpg.de/science/research-labs/valenzano/ in
the Department of Evolutionary and Experimental Bi-
ology of Ageing at the Max Planck Institute for Biology
of Ageing (MPI-AGE) in Cologne, Germany.
The successful candidate will join a young and dynamic
research team in the study of the genetic and genomic
bases of Vertebrate ageing and life history evolution,
using short-lived African killish of the genus Notho-
branchius as the main model organism. The current
research projects involve genetic crosses, sh transgen-
esis, population genetics in wild populations, and bioin-
formatic analysis of high throughput genomic data.
Candidates should have experience in genetics, ge-
nomics, bioinformatics, and a strong foundation in sta-
tistical and quantitative methods.
The candidate is required to hold an M.D. or a Ph.D.
in biology, genetics, computer science, physics, or a re-
lated eld, as well as strong written and oral communi-
cation skills. The working environment is international,
and the language is English; knowledge of German is
not required.
The application should include 1. cover letter 2. Cur-
riculum Vitae 3. one page statement of research inter-
ests 4. names and contact information of 3 referees
Please submit your application as a single pdf le
by May 31 to the following email address: drvalen-
zano(at)gmail.com
drvalenzano <drvalenzano@gmail.com >May 1, 2013 EvolDir 73
MaxPlanck Tubingen PopGenetics
Max-Planck Institute for Developmental Biology MAX-
PLANCK INSTITUT F ~AR ENTWICKLUNGSBI-
OLOGIE
The Department for Integrative Evolutionary Biology
(Director Ralf J. Sommer) invites applications for a
Postdoctoral Position on Population Genetics of Phe-
notypic Plasticity.
The Department has an active research program in in-
tegrative evolutionary biology studying the nematode
model organism Pristionchus pacicus. Our research
aims for an integration of evo-devo with population
genetics and ecology (Sommer, Nat Rev Gen 10:416,
2009).
P. pacicus lives in close association with scarab beetles
and shows a predatory feeding behavior. Predation in-
volves a morphological novelty building on phenotypic
plasticity (Bento et al. Nature 466: 494, 2010) and ner-
vous system rewiring (Bumbarger et al. Cell 152: 109,
2013).
The lab has a eld station on La R eunion in the Indian
Ocean where P. pacicus shows massive genetic diver-
sity, ideal for population genetics (Morgan et al., Mol
Ecol 21:250, 2012).
We are searching for a postdoctoral fellow interested
in linking the feeding plasticity and its genetic regu-
lation to population genetics in a well-established ge-
nomic framework. The Max-Planck Institute provides
large-scale sequencing facilities, including next genera-
tion sequencing.
Experience in population genetics is mandatory. Addi-
tional experience in microscopy is a plus.
The position is for two years with a possible exten-
sion. Funding would be available from 1. October 2013.
Closing date for applications: 30. April 2013.
Please submit applications to: Ralf J. Sommer
Max-Planck Institute for Developmental Biology;
Dept. for Evolutionary Biology 72076 T ubingen,
Germany ralf.sommer@tuebingen.mpg.de http://-
www.eb.tuebingen.mpg.de/dept4/home.html http://-
www.pristionchus.org
Posted by
Doris Merrill, dmerrill@ksu.edu Kansas State Univer-sity Manhattan, KS 66506
dmerrill@ksu.edu dmerrill@ksu.edu
NMNH Paris MultilocusAdaptation
Inferring adaptive processes at the multilocus scale
from large-scale polymorphism data.
We propose a two-year postdoctoral position funded by
the LabEx Biological and Cultural diversities (BCDiv).
The postdoctoral fellow will be supervised by Fr ed eric
Austerlitz (Laboratory \EcoAnthropology et Ethnobi-
ology") in collaboration with Mathieu Joron and Mar-
ianne Elias (Laboratory \Origin, Structure and Evolu-
tion of Biodiversity") at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History (Paris, France). We seek a creative and
motivated candidate, with a solid background in bioin-
formatics and/or computational biology. Experience in
population genetics/genomics would be highly appreci-
ated.
The aim of the postdoctoral position is to develop meth-
ods that would allow the detection of adaptive processes
that would occur simultaneously on several genes, for
instance when all these genes are involved in a given
adaptive trait. The rst step would be to develop an
individual-based program that will allow simulating the
evolution of populations connected by gene ow, where
individuals are characterized by their phenotype for
several traits, each coded by a given number of genes.
Several kind of genotype/phenotype relations will be
considered, for instance the genes could be involved in a
gene network leading to the phenotype. Then the power
of existing single-locus selection tests will be tested on
these simulated data. New multi-locus test will also
be developed and their power will also be assessed on
the simulated data. Finally, these tests will be applied
to the genome-wide polymorphism datasets available
in the two laboratories (mainly on humans and tropical
mimetic butteries).
This is a two-year position, with can start as early as
July 2013. Candidates should send a CV, a short letter
of application and the name of three academic referees
by email to Fr ed eric Austerlitz (austerlitz@mnhn.fr) no
later than April 22th. Please feel free to contact me for
any further information. Salary will depend on the can-
didate's previous professional experience, with a min-
imum net salary of around 1900 euros/month. A few
candidates will be selected for an audition (possibly by
skype) that should take place at the end of April or the74 EvolDir May 1, 2013
beginning of May.
Fr ed eric Austerlitz Directeur de Recherche CNRS
/ CNRS Research Director Laboratoire d'Eco-
anthropologie et Ethnobiologie Museum National
d'Histoire Naturelle, CP 139 57 rue Cuvier F-
75231 Paris Cedex 05, FRANCE tel: + 33
1 40 79 54 97 / fax: +33 1 40 79 32
31 webpage: http://www.ecoanthropologie.cnrs.fr/-
spip.php?article519 austerlitz@mnhn.fr
NorthCarolinaStateU
PlantPopGenetics
A postdoctoral research scholar position in plant pop-
ulation genetics is immediately available at North Car-
olina State University in the Crop Science Department.
The researcher will conduct research on maize genetics.
Large samples of inbred and outbred maize landraces
will be grown in a short day-length nursery. Each plant
will be sequenced to identify parentage and inbreeding
level and measured for numerous traits related to t-
ness. The researcher will be responsible for analysis
of inbreeding depression at the gene level and testing
prediction models for phenotypes.
Requirements: Ph.D. degree in plant breeding, plant
population genetics, or plant genetics. Experience with
collection of plant phenotype data in eld experiments.
Knowledge of quantitative and population genetics.
Knowledge of SAS or R programming.. Signicant
travel will be required for experiment management and
data collection.
Experience with maize genetics and bioinformatics is
preferred.
Interested persons can apply directly at jobs.ncsu.edu.
Search for position number 00103312.
For further information, contact:
Jim Holland
Department of Crop Science
North Carolina State University
Raleigh, NC 27695-7620
919-513-4198
james holland@ncsu.edu
Jim Holland <james holland@ncsu.edu >Paris
StructuralBioinformaticsEvolution
Postdoctoral position in structural bioinformatics -
Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie - Paris
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral can-
didate, with experience in structural bioinformatics
and appropriate programming skills. The position is
available for 18 months, starting between May and
July 2013, in a multidisciplinary institute (IMPMC,
UMR7590 CNRS - Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie),
embedded in the highly dense research campus of
Jussieu, in the center of Paris.
The research activity of the group is centered on the de-
velopment of methodologies for protein sequence anal-
yses. These are used for predicting the structure, func-
tion and evolution of proteins and are especially applied
to the understanding of the molecular basis of protein
dysfunctions in diseases.
In this INCA-funded project, we aim at developing orig-
inal strategies for deciphering sequence-structure re-
lationships and for identifying hidden relationships in
protein sequences. These should be especially applied
for large-scale investigations (at the level of genomes)
and for the analysis of proteins involved in DNA dam-
age response. The applicant will be directly involved
in these developments, as well as in their applications
performed in collaboration with our colleagues from the
INSERM S 768 unit (Imagine Institute of genetic dis-
eases - Necker Hospital).
Applicants should send a curriculum vitae, a letter of
motivation and the names of three references to Isabelle
Callebaut ( Isabelle.Callebaut@impmc.upmc.fr)
Guilhem Faure Ph.D in Structural BioInfor-
matics LinkedIn: <http://goog 96224789 >
http://www.linkedin.com/in/guilhemfaure
guilhem.faure@gmail.com
SMNH Stockholm AcoelomorphGe-
nomicsPhylogenomicsMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 75
A postdoc position is available in the research group of
Ulf Jondelius at the Swedish Museum of Natural His-
tory, Stockholm.
http://www.nrm.se/ommuseet/ledigatjanster/-
annonser2012/postdoctoralresearcher.18621.html
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoc with
interest in animal evolution for a project using data
from genome sequencing of microscopic marine worms
(Acoelomorpha). Acoelomorpha are simple animals
lacking many features present in other Bilateria (e.g.
circulatory system, body cavity, excretory organs).
Their phylogenetic position is highly contested: they
have been proposed to be either the earliest extant
bilaterians, part of the atworms, or deuterostomes
closely related to echinoderms and hemichordates.
The conicting hypotheses imply widely disparate
interpretations of their morphological evolution as
either primitively simple or secondarily reduced in
complexity. We will sample genomic data to cover
acoelomorph diversity aiming to reconstruct their
phylogenetic position within the Metazoa and study
the structure of the genomes expecting to nd either
a simple basal metazoan genome or higher bilaterian
and deuterostome signatures. The succesful candidate
will work on assembly and analysis of genomes from
several acoelomorph species. The project is a collabo-
ration with SciLife lab in Stockholm and Uppsala and
colleagues at the Sars Centre in Bergen, Norway.
Requirements: The ideal candidate has a PhD in Bioin-
formatics, Genomics, Molecular or Evolutionary bi-
ology or related elds, experience in analyzing next-
generation DNA sequence data, and a record of pub-
lishing in scientic journals. Programming experience
in a scripting language (such as Python or Perl) is de-
sirable.
Position details: The position is funded by the Swedish
Research Council. The salary will be in the range of 360
000-390 000 SEK per year. Starting date is 1 September
2013 (negotiable). The appointment is for two years.
How to apply: Applicants should submit (1) a cover let-
ter describing your research interests and background,
(2) a detailed CV (including publications), and (3) the
contact details of three references as a single pdf docu-
ment to rekrytering@nrm.se. Mark your application as
dnr x.x.x-x{2013
Closing date 10 May 2013.
Informal inquries should be directed to
ulf.jondelius@nrm.se The Union representatives
Bodil Kajrup, SACO-S and Yvonne Arremo, ST can
be reached at telephone number + 46 8 519 540 00.
Andreas Hejnol <andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no >Sempach Switzerland
ModellingPopulationProcesses
Modelling large-scale population processes in Swiss
breeding birds
The Swiss Ornithological Institute in Sempach
(Switzerland) is seeking a highly motivated post-
doctoral researcher to model large-scale population pro-
cesses in Swiss breeding birds. The project is funded by
the Swiss National Science Foundation and aims 1) to
develop methods that allow the estimation of survival
and recruitment from monitoring data and 2) to model
spatial and temporal variation of survival and recruit-
ment in selected species to better understand popula-
tion trends.
The main data source in the project will be the Swiss
breeding bird survey (MHB), which has been producing
2-3 replicated counts per breeding season in 267 1 km2
quadrats in every breeding season since 1999. These
data allow estimation of population trends in abun-
dance while accommodating imperfect detection. How-
ever, the demographic mechanisms underlying these
trends remain unknown. The model of Dail and Mad-
sen (Biometrics 2011) enables the estimation of survival
and recruitment from such data. Exploring the poten-
tial of the Dail-Madsen-model at the scale of Switzer-
land will be a rst part of the project. A possible topic
is also to develop extensions of the model, such as the
inclusion of correlated spatial eects or the integration
of MHB data with other data sets that are directly
informative about demographic rates, such as ring-
recoveries. A second part of the project is the appli-
cation of the modelling framework to address relevant
ecological and management questions. Candidates in-
clude the patterns of survival and recruitment along the
altitudinal gradient in Switzerland or whether particu-
lar habitat types or regions are associated with higher
survival or recruitment. It will be one of the duties
of the selected candidate to identify relevant research
topics in this eld and then to expand on the identied
issues using our data and the modelling framework to
be developed.
The ideal candidate has solid experience in population
modelling, in Bayesian statistical modelling and is a
procient programmer in the R and BUGS languages.
Further, a demonstrated ability and willingness to pro-
duce high-quality publications will be an important se-76 EvolDir May 1, 2013
lection criterion.
The work will be conducted in collaboration with
Michael Schaub (michael.schaub@vogelwarte.ch) and
Marc K ery (marc.kery@vogelwarte.ch), which both are
available for further information.
The position is initially for two years, but may be ex-
tended to a third year. The ideal starting date would be
June 2013. Information on the Institute can be found
at www.vogelwarte.ch/startseite-english.html Applica-
tions (preferably by e-mail) should be submitted to
Michael Schaub (michael.schaub@vogelwarte.ch), Swiss
Ornithological Institute, 6204 Sempach, Switzerland,
before 30 April 2013 and include a letter of motivation
detailing research interests and experiences, a current
CV and contact information of three academic referees.
Interviews will tentatively take place in May 2013.
PD Dr. Michael Schaub Leiter Okologische Forschung
Tel. ++41 41 462 97 66 michael.schaub@vogelwarte.ch
www.vogelwarte.ch Schweizerische Vogelwarte jSeerose
1jCH-6204 Sempach jSchweiz
http://www.vogelwarte.ch/michael-schaub.html
Watch out for our new book: K ery & Schaub, Bayesian
Population Analysis using WinBUGS, Academic
Press. www.vogelwarte.ch/bpa Schaub Michael
<michael.schaub@vogelwarte.ch >
SeoulNatlUni
EvolutionBehaviorImmunogenetics
We are seeking to appoint a Post-Doctoral Fellow to
work on a project on \Quantitative Assessment of Im-
munogenetic Similarity in Wild Amphibians". Two
years of funding is initially available, with the possi-
bility of extension to a third year.
Allelic variation in the peptide-binding region (PBR)
of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules
determines the pool of peptides that can be presented
to trigger an immune response. These MHC peptides
also facilitate vertebrate social discrimination, which
should allow for quantitative assessment of genetic sim-
ilarity. We will test amphibian tadpoles and adults for
their abilities to discriminate among their conspecics
based on MHC-PBR amino acid sequence dierences.
We then will characterize the MHC-based chemical sig-
nals and sensory mechanisms by which the signals are
perceived.
The Post-Doctoral Fellow will conduct genetic, behav-ioral, and physiological analyses on larval and adult
amphibians to study how schooling behavior and mate
choice are inuenced by overall genetic similarity, vari-
ation in immune-system genes, and individuals' disease
infection status.
A variety of research projects are underway in our lab-
oratory group, spanning topics such as amphibian bio-
geography, disease ecology, and the evolution of dis-
ease resistance. The Post-Doctoral Fellow will be en-
couraged to work with laboratory members on these
projects as well as to develop his or her own new ini-
tiatives.
Experience in molecular biology with a strong interest
in evolution is desirable. Research will be conducted
in well-equipped, modern laboratory facilities. Our re-
search group is multidisciplinary and highly interactive.
The project makes use of excellent next-generation se-
quencing facilities and expertise available in our school.
Seoul National University is one of the leading univer-
sities in Asia and ranks internationally 37th overall and
27th in natural sciences (QS World University rankings,
2012). The campus is nestled in a mountain reserve
in southern Seoul and oers excellent opportunities for
outdoor activities as well as the full range of cultural
activities of an exciting, dynamic city that combines
traditional and modern lifestyles.
Subsidized housing and meals are available on campus.
Transport is easy, inexpensive, with multilingual sig-
nage and announcements, so day-to-day living is rela-
tively easy in Seoul.
Applications should include a curriculum vitae, names
of three referees, and a brief statement of research in-
terests and goals.
For more information, please contact Prof Bruce Wald-
man, email: waldman@snu.ac.kr; telephone +1 512 782
9905 (USA) or +82 10 8686 2121 (Korea); FAX +82 2
872 1993.
Bruce Waldman School of Biological Sciences Seoul Na-
tional University 1 Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu Seoul 151-
747 South Korea
Bruce Waldman <waldman@snu.ac.kr >
SmithCollege MicrobesTreeOfLife
Postdoctoral Position at Smith College: Interpreting
the position and impact of microorganisms on the treeMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 77
of life
Smith College invites applications for a full-time post-
doctoral research position focusing on reconstructing
the tree of life, with emphasis on the placement of
microbial lineages. The initial appointment is for
one year, with the possibility of extending for addi-
tional years. The position will be housed in Pro-
fessor Laura Katz's laboratory in the Department
of Biological Sciences (http://www.science.smith.edu/-
departments/Biology/lkatz/Research.htm); questions
should be directed to lkatz@smith.edu.
An ideal candidate will: 1) be a productive researcher
with interests in phylogenetics and phylogenomics of
microorganisms; 2) have experience in bioinformat-
ics, including managing and manipulating large data
sets; 3) have excellent communication and interpersonal
skills; and 4) be interested in collaborating with grad-
uate and undergraduate students in the laboratory.
The goals of the project are to synthesize data on the
nature of the tree of life, with particular attention given
to microorganisms. The Post-doc will participate in
a large collaborative endeavor supported by the NSF
AVATOL Program that is aimed at synthesizing a com-
prehensive tree of life from published analyses, and
developing novel tools for community-driven annota-
tion of the tree (http://opentreeoife.org). Specic re-
sponsibilities will include: 1) assembling phylogenetic
datasets from diverse microoganisms; 2) working col-
laboratively with other project members by contribut-
ing to method development for analyzing and integrat-
ing these datasets; and 3) outreach to the community
of systematists studying microorganisms.
To apply, submit application at https://-
secure.interfolio.com/apply/21574 with letter of
application, C.V., a statement of research interests,
representative publications, and the names and contact
information of three references. Review of applications
will begin May 15th, 2013.
Smith College is a member of the Five College Consor-
tium with Amherst, Hampshire, and Mount Holyoke
Colleges and the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
Smith College is an equal opportunity employer encour-
aging excellence through diversity.
lkatz@smith.edu
Stuttgart PlantPopulationGenomicsOur research group at the University of Hohenheim
(Stuttgart, Germany) invites applications for
TWO POSTDOCTORAL SCIENTISTS
to work on plant genome evolution and population ge-
netics.
The rst position involves the population genomic anal-
ysis of the two endemic plant species Arabidopsis pede-
montana and Arabidopsis cebennensis to study the re-
lationship between genetic diversity, reproductive sys-
tem and natural selection in endemic plant species with
small population sizes and distribution ranges. Project
goals are to investigate the demographic history and the
interplay of genetic drift, local adaptation and deleteri-
ous mutations to evaluate the genetic risk of extinction.
We have established comprehensive collections of pop-
ulation samples and the next steps will include genome
re-/sequencing (with project partners) and a popula-
tion genetic analysis of the data. The project may in-
volve some eld work (mostly collection trips) to the
Italian Alps and the French Massif Central.
The second position is part of a collaborative project to
study the evolution of genes expressed in reproductive
tissues of Arabidopsis thaliana and close relatives. Rel-
evant questions are the role of gene duplication versus
sequence divergence, the extent and pattern of shared
ancestral vs. species polymorphisms, divergence times
of species and the role of selection. For relevant pub-
lications, see Spillane et al., Nature (2007) and Goss-
mann and Schmid, J. Mol. Evol (2011). In addition
to using data from public repositories and from project
partners, we will also generate our own sequencing data
with current sequencing technology.
We are looking for independent and creative scientists
with a Ph. D. degree in evolutionary biology, popu-
lation genetics, bioinformatics or related elds. The
position requires experience with the large-scale anal-
ysis of genomic data and skills in scripting languages
such as Python or R. Practical experience in working
with plants and genomics-related lab work to coordi-
nate eld, greenhouse and wet lab work with techni-
cians and students is advantageous.
Both positions are immediately available for 24 months.
Salary will be according to the German government
salary scale (TV-L E13) and depends on previous ex-
perience, age and marital status. Women and members
of minority groups are strongly encouraged to apply.
The University of Hohenheim is located on a beautiful
campus in the South German city of Stuttgart and is
well integrated into national and international research
networks with a critical mass of researchers working
on population and quantitative genetics (mostly in78 EvolDir May 1, 2013
the context of animal and plant breeding). Further
information about our group can be obtained from
www.evoplant.uni-hohenheim.de . Informal inquiries
about the projects are welcome at the contact infor-
mation below.
Please send your application (Cover letter, CV,
publications, statement of research interests, ad-
dresses of at least two references) until 6 May 2013
as a single PDF document to B arbel Hessenauer
(baerbel.hessenauer@uni-hohenheim.de).
Dr. Karl Schmid Professor of Crop Biodiversity
and Breeding Informatics Institute of Plant Breeding,
Seed Science and Population Genetics (350) University
of Hohenheim Fruwirthstrasse 21, D-70599 Stuttgart
Tel: +49 711 459 23487 Email: karl.schmid@uni-
hohenheim.de
karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
Sweden
PhylogeneticsMolecularDating
POST-DOC OPPORTUNITY IN EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGY
Highly motivated and skilled applicants from all coun-
tries are invited to apply for a post-doc opportunity
in the group of Alexandre Antonelli (http://antonelli-
lab.net) at the University of Gothenburg, Department
of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Sweden, in
close collaboration with researchers in Switzerland, the
Netherlands, and the USA. You will participate in a
dynamic and international research environment aimed
at disentangling the evolutionary processes underlying
biological diversity and its future.
Work tasks
You will help selecting fossil calibration points for dat-
ing higher-level phylogenetic trees of all animals and
plants. These fossils will be linked to the bioinfor-
matic pipeline in SUPERSMART (Self-Updating Plat-
form for Estimating Rates of Speciation and Migration,
Ages and Relationships of Taxa; see www.supersmart-
project.org). You will then use time-calibrated phy-
logenies to test for correlations between age, species
richness, range sizes and extinction threats; tempera-
ture uctuations and changes in diversication rates;
among other empirical tests and analyses.
Evaluation criteriaRequirements: Candidates are required to have a PhD
and at least two scientic publications and solid ex-
perience handling phylogenetic trees. You must also
be uent in English and have excellent communication
skills.
Other advantageous skills: The ideal candidate will
also have experience in some or several of the following
skills: molecular dating; palaeontology; biogeography;
bioinformatics including programming/scripting in R,
Python or Perl; statistics; GIS; ecological theory and
methods.
We are seeking a candidate who is independent, self-
motivated, and interested in the use or development of
new methods and approaches, in short, a person will-
ing to go beyond the state-of-the-art in the eld. We
will attach great importance to personal characteristics
and independence in learning and working, creativity
and documented productivity.
Starting date, duration and conditions
The position is available immediately or upon agree-
ment. Please note that funding for this particular
project is provided by a stipend and is therefore not
associated with a formal employment at the University,
which will nevertheless provide a working desk and all
the working facilities given to regular employees. The
grant (in total SEK 240,000) covers a 1-year full-time
working duty. There is the possibility to apply for a
1-year extension. Commuting is a possibility if there
are special reasons.
Application
The application should consist of a single pdf and in-
clude: 1) A short letter with the applicant's motiva-
tion for the application that describes how the appli-
cant meets the selection criteria (max. one A4 page);
2) A list of relevant qualications (CV; max 5 pages);
3) Complete list of publications, including submitted
and accepted manuscripts.
Deadline for applications
Please submit your application, or let me know your
interest in the position, as soon as possible. The evalu-
ation process will begin on April 17th. The position will
be lled as soon as an appropriate candidate is chosen.
Additional information and enquiries
Associate Professor Alexandre Antonelli. Uni-
versity of Gothenburg, Department of Biologi-
cal and Environmental Sciences. E-mail alexan-
dre.antonelli@bioenv.gu.se
Dr. Alexandre Antonelli Associate professor, Scientic
curator http://antonelli-lab.net Gothenburg BotanicalMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 79
Garden Carl Skottsbergs gata 22A, 413 19 G oteborg,
Sweden & Department of Biological and Environmen-
tal Sciences University of Gothenburg Carl Skottsbergs
gata 22B, 413 19 G oteborg, Sweden
Phone: + 46 (0) 31 7862557 Mobile: + 46 (0) 703
989570 E-mail: alexandre.antonelli@bioenv.gu.se
Alexandre Antonelli <alexandre.antonelli@bioenv.gu.se >
UArizona Bioinformatics
A postdoc position is available to work with Joanna
Masel (http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel) at
the University of Arizona in Tucson. A popular tourist
destination surrounded on all four sides by mountain-
ous national and state parks, Tucson is a vibrant city
of nearly a million people with an attractive climate.
The Masel group's main research interests are in ro-
bustness and evolvability, using a mixture of analytical
theory, bioinformatic and simulation approaches. We
are looking for someone to do primarily bioinformatic
work, but opportunities for related, more theoretical
projects (within the Masel group) and/or experimental
collaborations (with structural biologist Matt Cordes)
also exist. While not an intrinsic part of the primary
project, the postdoc training environment will include
opportunities to learn the formal methodologies of the-
oretical population genetics. The EEB department in
Tucson was ranked in the top 10 by US News & World
Report, and has many other research groups doing evo-
lutionary biology and/or bioinformatics, e.g. those of
Mike Sanderson, Ryan Gutenkunst, and Mike Barker,
enriching the intellectual environment.
We are looking for someone to investigate the origin of
novelty at the protein-sequence level. The conventional
view is that new proteins evolve from old proteins via
gene duplication and divergence. However, this poses
a chicken-and-egg problem, implying an ancient \big
bang" of protein creation. This project focuses instead
on the ongoing de novo evolution of protein-coding
genes from previously non-coding sequences. The post-
doc will investigate both case studies of this phenom-
ena, and computational predictors of biochemical prop-
erties that might facilitate such conversions over evolu-
tionary timescales. Such predictors will be used to test
concrete hypotheses that have arisen from theories of
evolvability.
Excellent computer programming skills are stronglypreferred, ideally with bioinformatics / genomics ex-
perience. Exceptionally strong candidates who come
from a more experimental background within evolution-
ary biology, and who now wish to retrain as bioinfor-
maticians, will also be considered. Experience with (or
at least prior interest in) evolutionary biology, protein
structure and folding, statistics and other quantitative
approaches are all advantages. A start date of August
2013 is preferred but negotiable, and the position is re-
newable, with funding secured for at least three years.
Contact Joanna Masel at masel@u.arizona.edu for more
information or to apply.
masel@email.arizona.edu
UBarcelona
ChordateEvoDevoGenomics
University of BARCELONA: POST-DOC FELLOW-
SHIP APPLICATIONS in Chordate Fuctional Evo-
Devo and Genomics
Our group on the eld of Functional Evo-Devo and Ge-
nomics on Chordates is looking for candidates to apply
for the recently open calls for intra-European (IEF) and
international incoming (IEF) Marie- Curie and EMBO
post-doc Fellowships.
Candidates need to have a highly competitive CV to
successfully apply for the fellowship. Experience in
Molecular Genetics, Transgenesis and Developmental
Biology, and (or) Background in Bioinformatics, and
Comparative Genomics will be positively considered.
Our main research interest is to understand the im-
pact of gene losses on the evolutionary diversication
of mechanisms of development in chordates at the pop-
ulation level. Our work focuses on comparative ap-
proaches between vertebrates (zebrash), urochordates
and cephalochordates. Our main subject of study is
Oikopleura dioica, a new emergent urochordate model
within our own phylum, with the smallest metazoan
genome size known so far, and with an outstanding
amount of gene losses (Denoeud et al., Science, 2010).
Interested candidates, please send an email to Cristian
Ca~ nestro (canestro@ub.edu), including a brief letter of
interest and a CV in ONE single pdf le.
Interested candidates for future POST- or PRE-
DOCTORAL applications, please feel free to contact
too.80 EvolDir May 1, 2013
European Programs: Intra-European Fellow-
ship IEF Marie Curie (deadline 14-8-2013)
http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/portal/-
page/call FP7?callIdentier=FP7-PEOPLE-2013-
IEF&specicProgram=PEOPLE International
Incoming Fellowship IIF Marie Curie (dead-
line 14-8-2013) http://ec.europa.eu/research/-
participants/portal/page/call FP7?callIdentier=-
FP7-PEOPLE-2013-IIF&specicProgram=PEOPLE
EMBO (deadline 15-8-2013) http://www.embo.org/-
funding-awards/fellowships/long-term-fellowships
For an outline of our group's research: http:/-
/www.ub.edu/genetica/evo-devoen/canestro.htm
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=-
3Dcanestroc[Author]&cmd=DetailsSearch&log$=-
details oikocris@gmail.com
UBasel SexuallySelectedTraits
Postdoc on 'Genetics of Sexually Selected Traits' at
University of Basel, Switzerland *** new deadline April
14 ***
A 2-year postdoc funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation is available in the Scharer Group (http:/-
/evolution.unibas.ch/scharer/) at the Zoological Insti-
tute, University of Basel, Switzerland. The ideal start-
ing date is October 2013 (but both earlier and later are
possible).
The research in our group focuses on the evo-
lutionary ecology of reproduction in simultaneous
hermaphrodites, using a highly suitable model, the free-
living atworm Macrostomum lignano. We integrate a
broad array of approaches, including experimental lab
work, molecular developmental biology, quantitative
genetics, genomics and transcriptomics, eld sampling,
molecular phylogenetics and comparative approaches.
The current project aims at quantifying sexual selection
on male and female reproductive traits along the pre- to
post-copulatory axis, using a state-of-the-art approach
that we recently extended to hermaphrodites (see An-
thes et al. 2010, Am Nat). Using transgenic worms we
can track green sperm of GFP-positive donors in their
GFP-negative partners in vivo (think 'watching sperm
at work') and also perform highly ecient paternity
analysis. To experimentally validate the importance of
identied traits we can use next-generation-sequencing
approaches to identify candidate genes and then ma-
nipulate the traits using dose-dependent RNA interfer-ence (think 'phenotypic engineering of sexually selected
traits')(see Sekii et al. 2013, Proc Roy Soc B).
The postdoc will likely focus on quantitative genetics,
genetic architecture, and indirect genetic eects of sex-
ually selected traits in this worm, complementing the
work of a recently hired PhD student. However, the
candidate's interests and backgrounds can have a con-
siderable inuence on the scope of the project, with
ample room for developing own ideas and approaches.
The successful candidate will be independent, dedi-
cated, creative, and collaborative, and have a strong
background in evolutionary biology. Experience with
quantitative genetics is a denite plus, and experience
in molecular biology is a clear advantage, but not a
prerequisite.
The Scharer Group belongs to the Zoological Institute
of the University of Basel, a stimulating and interna-
tional research environment with English as the pre-
dominant language (a recent count yielded ~20 nation-
alities). Our Institute has a strong background in ex-
perimental design, statistics, population and quantita-
tive genetics, genomics and molecular biology. So it is
a great environment for a young evolutionary biologist
and the position comes with a handsome salary.
Basel is the third largest city of Switzerland and attrac-
tively situated at the foot of the Jura mountain range.
It has the beautiful river Rhine, and directly borders
both Germany and France, thus oering rich culinary,
cultural, and outdoor possibilities.
To apply, please send a letter of motivation, a CV, a
publication list, contact details of 3 referees, and a PDF
of your coolest paper to lukas.scharer@unibas.ch (please
send an electronic application in a single le in this or-
der). Reviewing of applications will start on April 14,
but applications will be considered until the position is
lled.
For more details about our research please visit http:/-
/evolution.unibas.ch/scharer/ . Cheers,
Lukas
I am looking at these kinds of worms http://-
macrostomorpha.info and studying these questions
http://evolution.unibas.ch/scharer PD Dr. Lukas
Scharer University of Basel Zoological Institute Evo-
lutionary Biology Vesalgasse 1 4051 Basel Switzerland
Tel: ++41 61 267 03 66 Fax: ++41 61
267 03 62 Email: lukas.scharer@unibas.ch Home-
page: http://evolution.unibas.ch/scharer/index.htm
lukas.scharer@unibas.chMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 81
UCaliforniaDavis
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral researcher in evolutionary genomics
A postdoctoral position is available to work on the evo-
lutionary genomics of maize and teosinte with Jerey
Ross-Ibarra (www.rilab.org) in the Dept. of Plant Sci-
ences and the Center for Population Biology at UC
Davis.
The project will consist of population genetic analy-
sis of local adaptation and inbreeding depression using
whole-genome sequences of maize and its wild relative
teosinte. Possibilities also exist for a successful candi-
date to develop new projects related to the overall goals
of the research.
An ideal candidate would have prior experience with
whole-genome next-generation sequencing data, strong
quantitative, computational and programming skills,
and a record of published work in evolutionary genet-
ics. The position is available for one year, with the
possibility of renewal. The start date is exible, with a
preference for starting in June or July 2013.
Applicants should send a single pdf including a CV,
contact information for three references, and a cover let-
ter to Jerey Ross-Ibarra <rossibarra@ucdavis.edu >.
For more information:
Ross-Ibarra lab: www.rilab.org Center for Population
Biology: www.cpb.ucdavis.edu Dept. of Plant Sci-
ences: http://www.plantsciences.ucdavis.edu City of
Davis: daviswiki.org
Jerey Ross-Ibarra
Dept. of Plant Sciences 262 Robbins Hall, Mail Stop
4 University of California One Shields Ave Davis, CA
95616
www.rilab.org Tel: 530-752-1152 Fax: 530-752-4604
rossibarra@ucdavis.edu
UCalifornia LosAngeles Biomath
A two-year post-doctoral position is available(start date exible, can start as early as June,
2013) in the group of Dr. Van Savage (http://-
faculty.biomath.ucla.edu/vsavage/) in the Department
of Biomathematics at the David Geen School of
Medicine at UCLA. This position will be supported
by a recently awarded NSF CAREER grant (http://-
nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD ID=1254159)
to Savage on $B!H(BAutomated extraction of vessel
data from images to construct new models for vas-
cular networks in plants and animals$B!I(B. Savage
combines mathematical models with analysis of large
datasets to uncover insights into biological systems.
The project has the potential to involve software
development, analysis of large datasets, and con-
struction of analytical and numerical models for the
vascular system. Results from this project will help
lead to a deeper understanding of resource distribution
networks and allometric scaling theory, which connects
to physiology and ecology. Findings will also aid in
identifying dierences in structure and function be-
tween plants and animals, dierent organs, and healthy
versus diseased (e.g., tumor) tissue. The postdoctoral
researcher will have the opportunity to work closely
with and mentor high school, undergraduate, and
graduate students. Savage will mentor the postdoc in
designing and conducting research projects, writing
papers, giving talks, and applying for jobs.
UCLA is a major research university with the Faculty
of Arts and Sciences, Medical School, and Engineer-
ing School all on the same campus, allowing access to
myriad researchers and resources that could be useful to
this project. UCLA is consistently in the top 5 in terms
of federally research funding awarded to universities.
Los Angeles is a vibrant, diverse city with outdoor ac-
tivities available nearby, including beaches and moun-
tains. L.A. also has a wide array of arts and culture,
including world-class museums, theater, music, and of
course, movies.
Candidates are expected to be independent, highly mo-
tivated problem solvers who communicate well and
enjoy working in a collaborative environment. The
ideal candidate would have a background in mathemat-
ical modeling, knowledge of vascular systems in plants
and/or animals, and experience with Matlab, R, and/or
OCaml programming languages. Applicants with only
a subset of these skills are encouraged to apply. Ap-
plications and any questions should be sent to vsav-
age@ucla.edu. The application should include a Cur-
riculum Vitae that details education, past research, and
publications. Applicants should also submit a cover
letter that describes their interest in the project and
should request three references to directly send letters
to the email above. Review of applications will begin82 EvolDir May 1, 2013
immediately (April 15, 2013) and continue until the po-
sition is lled.
UCLA is an AA/EOE that is strongly committed to
diversity and excellence among its researchers.
Van Savage Assistant Professor Department of
Biomathematics UCLA School of Medicine and Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology UCLA
Van Savage <vsavage@ucla.edu >
UCollegeLondon Genomics
Several postdocs in Bioinformatics and Computational
Biology
We seek talented and motivated postdocs to join the
Balloux Computational Genetics Group in London,
UK. The group currently comprises Francois Balloux,
one PhD student and four postdocs (and as many na-
tionalities). The group is well funded thanks to its suc-
cess in obtaining competitive external funding (mainly
BBSRC and ERC). We run \small science" in-house
projects and are also involved in a series of international
\big science" collaborations. The group has an excep-
tional track record of former group members becom-
ing successful scientists. Of all Masters, PhD students
and postdocs who went through the lab so far (15), all
except one have stayed in academia and seven have al-
ready secured permanent academic positions (Assistant
Professorships or higher).
Our research
Over recent years, we have witnessed tremendous
progress in genomic technologies. However, genomic
data in itself does little more than clogging up comput-
ers. Our aim is to address important biological ques-
tions by developing, rening and applying the right
computational tools to genomic datasets. Our work
spans a large spectrum ranging from the fundamen-
tal (e.g. reconstructing the expansion of anatomically
modern humans) to the applied (e.g. tracking MRSA
infections in hospital wards). Indeed, we do not feel
there must be a divide between fundamental and ap-
plied science, and while our research is driven by scien-
tic curiosity, we aim at contributing with our work to
the genomic revolution in medicine, public health and
conservation biology.
Recent research successes include work on past epi-
demics of plague (Cui et al, PNAS 2012; Morelli etal., Nature Genetics 2011), human colonisation of the
world by our ancestors (Eriksson et al, PNAS 2012;
Rasmussen et al, Science 2011); and genomic character-
isation of Bd, the fungus responsible for mass extinc-
tion in amphibian populations worldwide (Farrer et al,
PNAS 2012).
Ongoing projects address the following questions.
- Can we disentangle genomic signals of genetic drift
and natural selection by taking advantage of spatiotem-
porally explicit reconstruction demographic histories? -
How does diet inuence human microbiomes? - Can we
predict antibiotic resistance proles form sequence data
alone? - How can we limit the spread of multiple antibi-
otic resistances? - What are the causes of amphibian
mass extinctions?
Though our main research focus is computational pop-
ulation genomics, the group is open to people who wish
to develop research in other related areas of genomics.
About you
We welcome applications from candidates with diverse
educational backgrounds. The ideal candidates will
have recently completed or be completing a PhD degree
in Biology (genetics, genomics), Computational Biology
(bioinformatics, systems biology), Statistics, Physics or
Computer Science. Applicants must have a proven pub-
lication record.
A computing background is not strictly necessary, but
you must be prepared to acquire some background in
dry work. For applicants with computing experience,
experience with Linux, and knowledge in one or sev-
eral programming languages is required (Perl, Python,
C/C++, R/BioConductor, MatLab etc).
Prior experience with handling genome-scale data is
advantageous: examples include phylogenetic compara-
tive genomics, high-throughput- sequence data analyses
both for medical or evolutionary questions and analyses
of RNA-seq data.
Postdocs are expected to develop and lead projects.
Willingness to help supervising junior members of the
group would be a plus and the ability to work in a team
is essential. However, the most sought after qualities
are enthusiasm, imagination, motivation and creativ-
ity.
The Environment
The group is both aliated to the Department of Ge-
netics, Evolution and Environment (GEE) and the UCL
Genetics Institute (UGI), which oer one of the most
exciting work environments in the UK. GEE is a large
and collegial Department which embraces essentially all
aspects of modern biology and has grown by over 25%May 1, 2013 EvolDir 83
over the last two years. The UGI is a vibrant Institute
which has been recently created as centre of excellence
in medical, statistical and computational genetics. The
group has a well-equipped wet lab and access to excep-
tional computing facility.
How to Apply
All applications should be made via http://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ (job references 1323870
and 1325517), where you will need to create a prole
before you can submit an application. For infor-
mal applications please contact Francois Balloux
(f.balloux@ucl.ac.uk)
Francois Balloux Professor of Computational Systems
Biology UCL Genetics Institute Department of Ge-
netics, Evolution and Environment University College
London Gower Street London WC1E 6BT Tel: ++44
(0) 20 3108 1601 (int. 51601) Skype: francois.balloux
Email: f.balloux@ucl.ac.uk
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UColorado Denver
EvolutionAggression
University of Colorado Denver: Post-Doctoral Research
in the Evolution of Aggression using the Stalk-Eyed Fly
as a Model
A postdoctoral position is available to study the func-
tional role and tness consequences of pharmacologi-
cally altering brain 5-HT and OA in the modulation
of aggressive behaviors across multiple behavioral con-
texts using stalk-eyed ies. The position is in the lab-
oratory of Dr. John Swallow, a member of the Neuro-
science Program at the University of Colorado Denver
in the Department of Integrative Biology on the Down-
town Campus.
Information about the Neuroscience Program can
be found at: http://www.ucdenver.edu/academics/-
colleges/medicalschool/programs/neuroscience/-
Pages/Neuroscience.aspx Primary responsibilities
for this position include: 1) conducting behavioral
and neurochemical laboratory research, 2) analyzing
data, writing manuscripts and contributing to grantproposals, and 3) helping to coordinate projects of
undergraduate and graduate students involved in the
project.
Successful applicants should have expertise in behav-
ioral neuroscience and a Ph.D. in biology, animal be-
havior, neuroscience, or a related eld. Preference will
be given to candidates with experience using molecular
or neurochemical approaches and behavioral analyses.
Experience with invertebrate systems is not necessary
but preferred. Competitive salary (tiered by years of
experience) and benets are provided; funds are avail-
able for 2 years pending satisfactory progress. The po-
sition can begin as early as June 1 2013. Review of
applications will begin immediately and continue until
a candidate is selected.
To apply, please send a cover letter, a state-
ment of research interests, CV, and names and e-
mail addresses of three references to John Swallow
(john.swallow@ucdenver.edu), Department of Integra-
tive Biology, University of Colorado Denver, Denver,
CO 80402, USA.
UC Denver is an equal opportunity/armative action
employer.
John G. Swallow, Ph.D. Professor and Chair Depart-
ment of Integrative Biology University of Colorado
Denver
Phone 303-556-6154 FAX 303-556-4352
\Swallow, John" <JOHN.SWALLOW@ucdenver.edu >
UGuelph StatMathGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the area of math-
ematical/statistical genomics. The position is jointly
supervised by Drs. Cortland Griswold (Integrative Bi-
ology) and Lewis Lukens (Plant Agriculture) at the
University of Guelph, in Guelph, Ontario Canada. The
position is for two years with a preferred start date in
July or August of 2013.
The topic of research is the application of genomic sig-
nal processing methods to improve agricultural breed-
ing. Genomic signal processing methods involve ap-
plying basis-function transformations to genomic data,
such as a Discrete Fourier Transform. While the fo-
cus of the research is in crop breeding, the principles
underlying the approach are broadly applicable to ani-
mal breeding, and to the quantitative, population and84 EvolDir May 1, 2013
evolutionary genetics of humans and other natural pop-
ulations.
There is strong demand for individuals with advanced
skills in this area, and the position provides signicant
opportunity to interact with research-intensive private
sector collaborators.
The applicant should have a Ph.D. and strong quanti-
tative skills, be it statistical or mathematical.
Please submit your application no later than May 15,
2013.
Applications should include the following: [1] State-
ment of qualications and research and career goals [2]
CV [3] Contact information for two references
Send applications to Cortland Griswold (cgris-
wol@uoguelph.ca) by email.
Research websites: C. Griswold: https://-
sites.google.com/site/griswoldlab/ L. Lukens: http:/-
/www.plant.uoguelph.ca/research/bioinformatics/
cgriswol@uoguelph.ca cgriswol@uoguelph.ca
UKansas GenomeInformatics
The University of Kansas is recruiting a postdoc with
expertise in genomics and bioinformatics. The position
is associated with the NIH-funded K-INBRE (Kansas
IDeA Networks of Biomedical Research Excellence)
Bioinformatics Core, which is directed by Dr. Stuart
Macdonald.
A key component of this position is service-oriented,
so we are seeking applications from dynamic, moti-
vated individuals interested in helping KU researchers
develop and analyze genomics projects, providing com-
putational biology and statistical expertise to support
genome biology research on campus. The postdoc
would also be able to develop their own research pro-
gram, advised by Dr. Macdonald, and encouraged
to collaborate with other KU research faculty. The
University has an Illumina HiSEQ2500 sequencer, so
individuals with experience in the analysis of next-
generation sequencing data are particularly encouraged
to apply.
The K-INBRE Bioinformatics Core is closely associ-
ated with the Departments of Molecular Biosciences
and Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and with the
NIH COBRE-funded Center for Molecular Analysis of
Disease Pathways. The University has a strong groupof model organism (Drosophila, C. elegans) genetics
and genomics researchers, and a number of quantita-
tive and evolutionary genetics labs. The broad range
of questions in evolutionary and computational biology
addressed by KU labs provides an active, collaborative
environment for research.
Queries about the position can be directed to Stuart
Macdonald (sjmac@ku.edu). Further details, and in-
structions on how to apply for the position can be found
at http://employment.ku.edu/jobs/2323 . The position
is open and review of applications will begin on April
15 and continue until the position is lled.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Director, K-INBRE Bioin-
formatics Core Department of Molecular Biosciences
4043 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue University
of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
oce: 785-864-5362 lab: 785-864-5777 fax: 785-
864-5321 email: sjmac@ku.edu web: http://-
www.molecularbiosciences.ku.edu/stuart-j-macdonald
sjmac@ku.edu
UKansas Partime
PhylogeneticMethods
A position for a part-time postdoctoral researcher is
available in the laboratory of Dr. Mark Holder in the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at
the University of Kansas (Lawrence, KS). The funding
for the position allow for part-time (approximately 40%
time) work for up to 3 years. The research project that
funds the position focuses on developing novel methods
for estimating phylogenetic relationships and dates as-
sociated with these phylogenies using data from fossil
taxa. The postdoctoral researcher will be expected to
devise statistical models for these processes, implement
these models in open-source software, and validate the
performance of the methods through a combination of
simulation tests and analysis of real data. The work
will also include the development of new methods for
analysing rates of diversication.
The ideal candidate will be enthusiastic, motivated,
have a strong background in phylogenetics, and have
experience implementing Bayesian phylogenetic tech-
niques in C++ as demonstrated by materials submit-
ted through the application process, work experience,
and/or previous publications. Demonstrated exper-
tise in estimating divergence times is also an impor-May 1, 2013 EvolDir 85
tant qualication for the work. Application deadline
04/12/13.
For a complete job description and to apply go to
http://employment.ku.edu/jobs/2352 .KU is an Equal
Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V.
For more information, see the Holder web page at:
http://phylo.bio.ku.edu/ sincerely, Mark
{ Mark Holder
mtholder@gmail.com mtholder@ku.edu http://-
phylo.bio.ku.edu/mark-holder Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology University of Kansas 6031
Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence,
Kansas 66045
lab phone: 785.864.5789 fax (shared): 785.864.5860
mtholder@gmail.com
UMichigan 2 EvolutionaryBiol
Two Postdoc Positions: one in Model-based Phylogeo-
graphic study and one in Quantitative Macroevolution
and Biogeographic study
Two postdoctoral positions are available to work on
quantitative evolutionary studies in the Knowles lab at
the University of Michigan. Funding is available for
two years for each position (contingent upon satisfac-
tory progress), with the possibility of 1 additional year
of funding.
The phylogeographic projects involve the application
and development of integrative approaches to test hy-
potheses about the factors structuring genetic variation
within species, and understand why species show simi-
lar or dissimilar patterns of variation in a given commu-
nity, based on Illumina sequence data. The macroevo-
lution projects involve the application and development
of approaches to test the deterministic and stochastic
components of evolutionary transitions through geo-
graphic, phenotypic, and ecological networks, by inte-
grating phylogenetic and other data types.
For these positions we are looking for researchers with
experience in using computational techniques to infer
evolutionary processes.
To apply, please send your CV and a cover letter
briey explaining your background (e.g., programs
that you are familiar with and your skill level with
scripting and/or programming) to L. Lacey Knowles,knowlesl@umich.edu.
L. Lacey Knowles Professor and Curator Dept. of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Museum of Zoology Uni-
versity of Michigan Ann Arbor MI 48109-1079
L Knowles <knowlesl@umich.edu >
UMichigan EvolutionPathogens
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship: Experimental evo-
lution of eukaryotic pathogens
University of Michigan, Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology
Job Summary: A postdoctoral research position is
available in the lab of Tim James at the Univer-
sity of Michigan. The research is for an NIH-funded
project that seeks to understand the relative roles
of mitotic recombination and mutation in pathogen
evolution using an experimental host-pathogen system
(yeast-invertebrate model). The experiment will also
be used to identify candidate virulence genes using
next-generation sequencing of evolved lines. Our re-
search is motivated by the observation of rampant mi-
totic recombination in natural populations of diploid
pathogenic fungi and protists and seeks to test how and
when the genetic variation produced by mitotic recom-
bination is adaptive and to model how it diers from
meiotic recombination.
Required qualications: Candidates should have strong
molecular and bioinformatic skills, a proven record of
publication, with a Ph.D. in biology, genetics, or re-
lated eld. The ideal candidate will have two or more
of the following skills: analysis and generation of high
throughput sequence data, molecular biology, genetic
manipulations such as transformation of yeast, fungi or
protozoa, microbiological techniques, and mathemati-
cal modeling. The position is available immediately
and will remain open until lled. Pay will be based on
experience according to NIH guidelines. The initial ap-
pointment is for 1 year, with an opportunity for renewal
for a second year.
To apply: Interested applicants for the postdoctoral po-
sition should send a PDF with CV, a cover letter stating
research interests and qualications, and contact in-
formation for three references to tyjames@umich.edu.
Informal inquiries are welcome. We are also look-
ing to hire a research technician to work closely with
the postdoctoral fellow on the project. Contact ty-86 EvolDir May 1, 2013
james@umich.edu for inquiries regarding this position.
The University of Michigan is a non-
discriminatory/armative action employer. The
Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology at
the University of Michigan harbors multiple labs
with a focus on evolutionary genetics (http://-
www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb). The campus is located in
Ann Arbor, an active university town in southern
Michigan 45 minutes from downtown Detroit.
Timothy Y. James Assistant Professor & Curator of
Fungi Department of Ecology and Evolution Univer-
sity of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109 734-615-7753 ty-
james@umich.edu http://www.umich.edu/~mycology/
tyjames@umich.edu
UNordland BioinformaticsGenomics
Post-doctoral research fellow in Bioinformatics and Ge-
nomics
A position as Post-doctoral research fellow in Bioinfor-
matics and Genomics is available at the University of
Nordland, Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture
About the University of Nordland The University of
Nordland oers education at the Bachelor-, Master-,
and PhD levels. Yearly, the university accepts students
in over 100 study programs within both professional
studies and theoretical subject disciplines, which in-
cludes PhD students in business economics, sociology,
aquaculture, and professional practice. We currently
have approximately 6000 students and 600 faculty and
sta, divided among our Bod campus and our study
centers in Helgeland and Vester alen.
About the Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture
(FBA) FBA is responsible for research, teaching and
dissemination within biosciences and aquaculture.
In recent years, FBA has undergone a major develop-
ment both in terms of faculty and infrastructure, and
today FBA stands as an internationally diverse aca-
demic environment. The current research strengths of
the Faculty include aquatic animal diseases, reproduc-
tive biology, seafood quality, ecology and evolutionary
biology, and genomics. The Faculty has approximately
80 employees in academic and technical/administrative
support functions.
The teaching at the Faculty is research-based. FBA
oers Bachelor's programmes in Biology, Export Mar-keting, Aquaculture Management and a unique Joint
Bachelor Degree in Animal Science in collaboration
with the University of Veterinary Medicine and Phar-
macy in Slovakia. Moreover, we oer Master's pro-
grammes in Aquaculture and Marine Ecology, and a
PhD in Aquaculture.
FBA's objective is to conduct research of high national
and international quality. The Faculty's strategic re-
search areas comprise aquaculture, marine ecology and
marine genomics. The Faculty has state-of-the-art lab-
oratory facilities and also operates Mrkvedbukta Ma-
rine Research Station, ten minutes from campus. The
Research Station's primary mission is to facilitate and
support seawater-related laboratory activities and re-
search on living marine organisms.
The Faculty seeks to strengthen the relations between
students, Research & Development, and industry and
commerce. For more information, see The Faculty's
website: http://www.uin.no/fba english and the
UiN presentation lm: http://www.youtube.com/-
watch?v=AzOUggQtmjI&feature=player embedded
About the Position In April 2010, the Faculty of
Biosciences and Aquaculture formally established an
advanced genomics platform based on novel DNA se-
quencing technologies. The Faculty seeks to strengthen
its sta associated to the genomics platform.
FBA will hire a post-doctoral research fellow for an
initial period of three years, in order to strengthen
the professional development of the genomics plat-
form. Research activities at FBA reside within the ma-
rine/aquatic biosciences, specically focusing on aqua-
culture and marine ecology.
Qualications and Responsibilities The professional
background of the candidate will be within genomics
and bioinformatics, with experience in dealing with
next-generation sequencing data. Experience in pro-
gramming and database administration will be consid-
ered an asset. The Faculty encourages candidates with
broadly dened research interests within the genomics
eld, either extending or complementing FBA's existing
expertise within e.g. functional genomics, aquaculture
genomics, reproductive genomics, metagenomics, pop-
ulation genomics, and evolutionary genomics.
The appointee will join the Marine Genomics research
group and take on a lead role in developing the ge-
nomics and bioinformatics competences at the fac-
ulty. The successful candidate is expected to facil-
itate the analysis of NGS data and the adoption of
genomics toolkits among the scientic sta, and de-
velop active collaborations within the Faculty. Further-
more, the candidate is expected to partake in extending
the Faculty's project portfolio, secure external researchMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 87
funding, and maintain a commendable record of high-
standard publications. The appointed candidate will be
involved in teaching and development of the Faculty's
course portfolio within the genomics eld.
Applicants should possess an academic degree (PhD or
equivalent) within genomics, informatics, or related re-
search elds. Excellent written and verbal communica-
tion skills in English are required. Candidates should
also possess original scientic production related to the
eld(s) indicated above.
Personal Qualities The position requires a highly mo-
tivated and dynamic person with good interpersonal
skills, who is a capable and condent researcher. The
successful candidate should be able to work coopera-
tively in a team
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOregon
EcologicalGenomicsofSpeciation
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN ECOLOGICAL
GENOMICS OF SPECIATION; INSTITUTE OF
ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION, UNIVERSITY OF
OREGON
A postdoctoral position is available in the Streisfeld lab
at the University of Oregon as part of a NSF-funded
project to identify the ecological genomic changes that
drive the early stages of species formation in Mimulus.
The project will involve greenhouse, eld, and labo-
ratory components that include high-throughput SNP
genotyping, next generation sequencing, QTL mapping,
and eld estimates of divergent selection. The postdoc
will be involved in all aspects of the project, from data
collection to publication, and will be actively encour-
aged to pursue side projects of his/her own interest.
PhD in evolutionary genetics or a related eld is re-
quired. Experience with next-generation sequencing
and bioinformatics analysis is preferred. The ideal can-
didate will be independent, highly motivated, produc-
tive, and able to work eectively in a team with mem-
bers from a variety of diverse backgrounds. She/he will
have an excellent understanding of experimental design
and a proven publication record.The Streisfeld Lab (www.uoregon.edu/~mstreis) in the
Institute of Ecology and Evolution oers a broad and
interactive environment for research in plant evolution-
ary biology. We share close ties with other evolutionary
biology labs on campus, and benet from shared facil-
ities, such as the genomics core research facility. The
University of Oregon is an AAU research institution lo-
cated in Eugene, OR, one of the most outstanding small
cities in the US. The campus is one hour from the beau-
tiful Oregon coast and one hour from hiking and skiing
in the Cascade Mountains.
To apply for this position, please send a state-
ment of research interests, publications, CV, and
letters from three references to Matt Streisfeld via
ie2jobs@uoregon.edu (preferred) or c/o Postdoctoral
Search # 13120, Institute of Ecology and Evolution,
5289 University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403-5289.
The position is available for one year with the possi-
bility of renewal depending on research progress. Al-
though the position is available immediately, the start
date can be exible based on the needs of the candidate.
To ensure consideration, please submit application ma-
terials by May 20, 2013. The position will remain open
until lled.
Women and members of groups underrepresented in sci-
ence are encouraged to apply. The University of Oregon
is an EO/AA/ADA institution committed to cultural
diversity.
{ INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION
5289 University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-
5289 F (541) 346-2364 http://IE2.uoregon.edu Equal-
opportunity, armative-action institution committed
to cultural diversity and compliance with the Ameri-
cans with Disabilities Act
ie2jobs@uoregon.edu
UOxford EvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoc in evolutionary genetics/genomics, University
of Oxford, United Kingdom
We are seeking a highly motivated evolutionary geneti-
cist to work on a project devoted to sex chromosome
evolution in plants. The project will mainly focus on
plant genus Silene that oers unparalleled opportuni-
ties to study recent evolution of separate sexes (from an
ancestral hermaphroditic stage) and sex chromosomes.
It will benet from newly developed genomic resources88 EvolDir May 1, 2013
for this genus and will build upon our previous work
in this system (e.g. Filatov 2005 Genetics 170(2):975-
9; Chibalina and Filatov 2011 Curr Biol 21:1475-9).
Experience with evolutionary genetic/genomic analy-
sis is required. Familiarity with handling and analy-
sis of high-throughput sequence data will be an advan-
tage, but bioinformatics training/support will be avail-
able, if necessary. For informal enquiries please email
Dmitry.Filatov@plants.ox.ac.uk
Dmitry Filatov <dmitry.latov@plants.ox.ac.uk >
UPennsylvania
HumanEvolutionaryGenomics
The Tishko lab at the University of Pennsylvania
is seeking candidates for postdoctoral positions. We
are integrating genomic, transcriptomic, metagenomic,
metabolomic, and epigenomic datasets generated from
a large sample of ethnically diverse Africans. Anal-
ysis of these data includes using an evolutionary and
systems biology approach towards understanding the
genetic architecture of a number of adaptive traits for
which we have detailed phenotype data. We are also in-
terested in inferring the demographic history of African
populations and testing models of human evolution-
ary history using genome-wide data. Candidates will
have an opportunity to develop creative, independent
projects, and novel statistical methodology. There will
be opportunities to work together with an outstanding
team of collaborators with expertise in statistical and
population genetics theory and methodology.
Candidates with strong molecular genetics or statisti-
cal/computational genetics background are encouraged
to apply. Expertise with at least three of the follow-
ing is required: population genetics theory, computer
programming (Ruby/PERL/Python/C++), statistical
environments (R/MATLAB/ Julia), and/or quanti-
tative analyses of complex traits. Experience with
large genome-scale datasets e.g. microarray or next-
generation sequencing experiments is a plus. Candi-
dates working with non-human or model organisms who
want to obtain experience working with human data are
encouraged to apply. Salaries are commensurate with
qualications and experience.
The Department of Genetics is centrally located at the
School of Medicine within the UPenn campus and is
within short walking distance to the Children's Hospital
of Pennsylvania, the Biology Department, the Transla-tional Genomics Institute and the Anthropology De-
partment. Outstanding core facilities are available for
high throughput sequencing, genotyping, and gene ex-
pression studies and for bioinformatics and computa-
tional biology analyses. UPenn has an interactive com-
munity of researchers with interests in evolutionary bi-
ology and genomics, the genetics of complex traits, and
translational medicine. Philadelphia is a vibrant city
with excellent cultural events and plenty of parks and
hiking/biking trails. It is also centrally located between
New York City and Washington DC, with easy access
via a short train or bus ride. Candidates should send
curriculum vita, a statement of interest, and contact in-
formation for three references via e-mail to Dr. Sarah
Tishko, Departments of Genetics and Biology, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu.
The starting dates of positions are exible.
Sarah Tishko, Ph.D.
David and Lyn Silfen University Professor Departments
of Genetics and Biology University of Pennsylvania Tel:
215-746-2670
tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu
http://www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/
USanDiego Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral fellow: Bioinformatics, Phenotypes
We are recruiting a postdoc with training in bioinfor-
matics who is interested in studying phenotypic evolu-
tion by combining model organism genetic data with
comparative anatomical data from throughout the ver-
tebrates. One of the biggest challenges in systems bi-
ology is the inclusion of whole organism phenotypes.
In the Phenoscape group, we have developed ontology-
based methods for representing phenotypes of diverse
species in order to integrate them with model organ-
ism developmental and genetic data. We have collected
these data in a sophisticated Knowledgebase, which has
an initial focus on the diversity of phenotypes in sh,
including zebrash (kb.phenoscape.org). We are cur-
rently scaling up our approach to the vertebrates as a
whole, with a goal of allowing similarities to be iden-
tied between phenotypes from sources as diverse as
dinosaur fossils and mouse knockout mutants.
We invite postdoctoral applicants to propose an inde-
pendent project that uses the Phenoscape Knowledge-
base as a research platform. In particular, we are inter-May 1, 2013 EvolDir 89
ested in projects that will leverage functional genomic
data to study the evolution of whole-organism pheno-
type in nonmodel organisms. Projects may range from
primarily computational to primarily biological. The
postdoc will work under the direction of Paula Mabee
(University of South Dakota) and Todd Vision (Univer-
sity of North Carolina), as part of a distributed, multi-
disciplinary team that includes evolutionary biologists,
computer scientists, model organism experts, and bioin-
formaticists. It will be based in South Dakota, with
opportunities to travel to other sites, including the Na-
tional Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent), the
University of Chicago, and the California Academy of
Sciences.
Starting date: This two year postdoctoral position is
available to be lled immediately. Required qualica-
tions: - Ph.D. degree with strong background in bioin-
formatics; - Preferred previous experience in one of the
following: ontologies, functional genomics, developmen-
tal biology - Demonstrated communication and writing
skills, in English - Demonstrated ability to work in a
team setting
How to apply: Please contact Dr. Mabee
(pmabee@usd.edu) for inquiries. Applications
should be directed to Dr. Mabee and include
a cover letter, CV, a brief statement detailing
your research interests and career goals, and
three letters of reference. For more information,
please see https://phenoscape.org and http://-
kb.phenoscape.org/ . Paula.Mabee@usd.edu
USouthFlorida
EvolutionaryNeuroscience
Post-doctoral opportunity in avian neuroscience at USF
Dr. Toru Shimizu and I are looking to hire a post-
doc to help faciliate interdisciplinary research between
our labs. Interested individuals can get more informa-
tion about our research at the links below, but in brief,
we're seeking candidates to aid in research in avian
neuroanatomy, neuroendocrinology, and behavior, all
grounded in eco-evolutionary biology.
Please send a CV, one relevant reprint, and contact info
for three referees to me at the email address below. We
will consider applications through 30 April 2013. In-
dividuals with some relevant skills and background are
obviously most attractive, but we are willing to considerapplications from talented individuals seeking training
in the above areas.
Shimizu lab: http://chuma.cas.usf.edu/ ~ shimizu/
Martin lab: http://lbmartin.myweb.usf.edu/-
Martin labatUSF/Welcome.html Thanks for your
attention, Marty
lbmartin@usf.edu
Lynn B. Martin Associate Professor Department of In-
tegrative Biology University of South Florida 813-974-
0157
Google scholar page: http://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=W7gGhjYAAAAJ \Martin, Lynn"
<lbmartin@usf.edu >
UTennessee Phylogeography
Phylogeography often compares a select handful of
models to answer an empirical question. We have
just been funded to continue development of Phrapl, a
way to examine thousands of potential phylogeographic
models for t to data. It is a bit like ModelTest, but for
models of population subdivision and migration rather
than substitution rates. The aim is for empiricists to
be able to let their data tell them which processes are
important in the phylogeographic history of a group. A
postdoctoral position is available to work on improving,
testing, and applying this approach. The current code
is mostly in R but using other languages to speed up the
computation internally is quite possible. The position
is in the lab of PI Brian O'Meara at U. of Tennessee,
Knoxville, but coordination with Co-PI Bryan Carstens
and occasional travel to Ohio State is expected.
The O'Meara lab currently hosts ve postdocs (includ-
ing four co-mentored through NIMBioS) as well as a
co-advised grad student. The EEB department features
ten research groups whose work includes phylogenet-
ics/phylogeography, and the presence of the National
Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis fur-
ther creates a robust ecosystem of colleagues.
Knoxville, Tennessee, is just a half hour away from the
US' most visited national park, Great Smoky Moun-
tains NP. Cost of living is low, and the Knoxville area
can cater to interests ranging from farmers' markets,
local music, and handmade crafts to SEC football and
NASCAR. I strive to create a lab group that is wel-
coming and open. We have good diversity in terms of
gender (57% female), life stage (i.e., 43% with young90 EvolDir May 1, 2013
children) but (so far) poor diversity on various other
metrics. Mentoring to allow postdocs to reach their ca-
reer goals is a focus. Research in the lab ranges from
empirical work on plant taxonomy to quantitative trait
evolution models to models of protein evolution.
Applications should include 1) A cover letter (include
expected completion date of PhD, if appropriate, as
well as relevant skills) 2) A CV 3) A short research
statement 4) Contact information for two references 5)
Link(s) to repositories with examples of code you have
written or attachments including such code.
Experience in programming is strongly preferred; ex-
perience in R is desired, but not required. If in doubt,
apply: please do not self-select yourself out from what
might be a mutually benecial position.
Review of applications will begin on May 1 and con-
tinue until lled (start dates are exible). Presubmis-
sion inquiries are encouraged (I can give you a copy of
the proposal, point you to the code, and answer any
questions you may have).
All qualied applicants will receive equal consideration
for employment and admissions without regard to race,
color, national origin, religion, sex, pregnancy, marital
status, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, physical
or mental disability, or covered veteran status.
Eligibility and other terms and conditions of employ-
ment benets at The University of Tennessee are gov-
erned by laws and regulations of the State of Tennessee,
and this non-discrimination statement is intended to be
consistent with those laws and regulations.
In accordance with the requirements of Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990, The University of Tennessee armatively states
that it does not discriminate on the basis of race, sex, or
disability in its education programs and activities, and
this policy extends to employment by the University.
Inquiries and charges of violation of Title VI (race,
color, national origin), Title IX (sex), Section 504 (dis-
ability), ADA (disability), Age Discrimination in Em-
ployment Act (age), sexualorientation, or veteran sta-
tus should be directed to the Oce of Equity and Di-
versity (OED), 1840 Melrose Avenue, Knoxville, TN
37996-3560, telephone (865) 974-2498 (V/TTY avail-
able) or 974-2440. Requests for accommodation of a
disability should be directed to the ADA Coordinator
at the Oce of Equity and Diversity.
Brian O'Meara Assistant Professor Dept. of Ecology
& Evolutionary Biology U. of Tennessee, Knoxvillehttp://www.brianomeara.info Students wanted: Ap-
plications due Dec. 15, annually Postdoc collab-
orators wanted: Check NIMBioS' website Calen-
dar: http://www.brianomeara.info/calendars/omeara
omeara.brian@gmail.com
UTurku Bioinformatics
*Research assistant or researcher in (evolutionary)
bioinformatics*
A position is available for a bioinformatics research as-
sistant or researcher in Academy Professor Craig Prim-
mer's research group (see http://users.utu./primmer
for more details) at the University of Turku, Finland.
The successful applicant will be expected to assist and
train research group members in bioinformatics tasks
related to the evolutionary genomics research being
conducted in the group. This includes writing scripts
for data processing and developing, maintaining and
documenting analysis pipelines for various forms of
molecular data from non-model organisms, including
next-generation sequencing, proteomics and transcrip-
tomics. They will also be responsible for the general
maintenance of computing facilities in the group. De-
pending on the interests of the successful applicant, col-
laboration in the group's research projects, as well as
carrying out their own research e.g. as a part of a PhD
project, is also possible.
Applications will be considered from candidates hold-
ing either a Masters or PhD degree in bioinformatics
or a bioinformatics related eld. Good knowledge of
relevant programming languages (Perl, python, R etc.)
is essential. A demonstrated interest and/or experi-
ence in evolutionary biology is an advantage, as is be-
ing creative, exceptionally patient and a willingness to
acknowledge Windows as an operating system under
some circumstances.
Informal inquires and applications should be addressed
to Acad. Prof. Craig Primmer (craig.primmer@utu.).
Applications (one single pdf le) should include a full
CV that includes details of formal training and practi-
cal experience in bioinformatics, a list of publications
and contact details of at least two referees. Review of
applications will commence on May 15 with the pre-
ferred starting date being by July. The position is ini-
tially available until the end of 2013, but an extension is
likely to be possible. The salary range will be according
to the university pay scale and will depend on the ed-May 1, 2013 EvolDir 91
ucation level and relevant experience of the successful
applicant.
{
Craig Primmer
Academy Professor Division of Genetics and Physiology
Department of Biology Pharmacity 20014 University of
Turku FINLAND
Oce +358 2 333 5571 Mobile +358 40 1560 365
Fax. +358 2 333 6598 craig.primmer@utu. http://-
users.utu./primmer pharm.shihab@gmail.com
UWarwick EvolutionAging
Postdoctoral Research Fellow Application deadline:
April 10, 2013
The University of Warwick/UK is seeking to recruit
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Evolution of Aging
to work on the evolutionary and mechanistic basis of ag-
ing. The objective is to clarify the role of developmen-
tal pathways and environment on ageing progression
and lifespan. Interested candidates must have a Ph.D.
and research experience in molecular biology, and in
preference trained in C. elegans techniques. Salary is
commensurate with experience and accomplishments.
Submit letter of interest, curriculum vitae, and
at least two references to http://www.jobs.ac.uk/-
job/AGE515/research-fellow/. For additional in-
formation, contact Andre Pires da Silva (an-
dre.pires@warwick.ac.uk).
The position is open and review of applications will be-
gin on April 10 and continue until the position is lled.
\Pires da Silva, Andre" <Andre.Pires@warwick.ac.uk >
UWashington
EvolutionaryGeneticsAging
The Promislow lab is moving to the University of Wash-
ington in Seattle this summer. We are seeking an en-
thusiastic, independent postdoctoral researcher to join
our new lab to study the genetic architecture of agingin Drosophila. We study the eects of aging on genomic
and metabolomic networks, and the relationship be-
tween aging and mate choice. The goal of these projects
is to better understand the causes and consequences
of aging in natural populations. The successful appli-
cant may focus on empirical studies with Drosophila,
on computational studies of molecular networks, or on
both. Preference will be given to candidates with ex-
perience in Drosophila, population genetics, genomics,
and/or systems biology & network analysis. To learn
more about the lab, see http://www.promislowlab.org .
The position is initially available for two years, and may
be extended, but the University of Washington policy
is to oer a one year appointment with subsequent re-
newals. Start date is exible.
Applications should be sent by May
15, 2013 by email to Daniel Promislow
(danielpromislow@gmail.com <mailto:danielpromislow@gmail.com >).
Applicants are requested to send a single PDF le
that includes a cover letter, a CV and one or two
representative publications, and names and contact
information of three references.
The University of Washington is an armative action,
equal opportunity employer. The University is build-
ing a culturally diverse faculty and sta and strongly
encourages applications from women, minorities, indi-
viduals with disabilities and covered veterans.
promislo@uga.edu
UWesternOntario
TheoreticalEvolution
POST-DOCTORAL FELLOW IN THEORETICAL
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY
Department of Applied Mathematics The University of
Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada Start date:
September, 2013 (negotiable) Term: 1-year, with pos-
sibility of renewal. Salary: 40 000 $CAD p.a. Travel
Grant: 1 500 $CAD p.a. DESCRIPTION
Research in theoretical evolutionary biology at West-
ern tackles problems in both experimental evolution
and sociobiology (see www.apmaths.uwo.ca/~lwahl and
www.apmaths.uwo.ca/ ~gwild for details).
We are looking to hire one post-doctoral fellow inter-
ested in modeling evolution as it occurs in both labo-
ratory experiments, and eld settings. The successful
candidate will be expected to carry out both indepen-92 EvolDir May 1, 2013
dent and collaborative research, and will mentor grad-
uate students in the group.
The successful candidate may also apply for a one-term
teaching position in order to supplement his/her in-
come, if so desired (subject to departmental approval).
QUALIFICATIONS
A Ph.D in Evolutionary Biology, Mathematical Biology
or a related discipline. A demonstrated interest in pop-
ulation genetics and theoretical evolutionary biology.
Experience with dierential equations, linear algebra,
and/or stochastic processes. Excellent written and oral
communication skills. HOW TO APPLY
Please prepare an application package that includes
(i) a one-page cover letter outlining how your quali-
cations match the demands of the position, (ii) current
CV, (iii) a one-page statement of research interests, (iv)
two relevant reprints or pre-prints, (v) names and con-
tact information of two referees. Please email (i)-(v)
**as a single pdf** to gwild@uwo.ca DEADLINE
Please submit your application **no later than June
15, 2013**
Geo Wild <gwild@uwo.ca >
Uhull ComparativePhylogenetics
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Comparative Phyloge-
netic Analysis (5 years, xed term)
Part of a new interdisciplinary research group, you
will have the freedom to work on an exciting theme
for an extended period. The position forms part of
a larger project entitled 'Form and function in a mi-
crobial world' supported by a Leverhulme Trust Re-
search Leadership Award to Dr Stuart Humphries.
The project's overarching aim is to understand and
quantify the links between the shape, function and
ecology of microbes. Working on a dened prob-
lem, you will contribute to, and benet from, the di-
verse expertise in the Physical Ecology Lab at Hull
(tinyurl.com/PhysEcoLab).
Using cutting edge phylogenetic methods you will dis-
entangle the relative contributions to form or function
of three major processes in bacterial evolution: evo-
lutionary history; ecology; and lateral gene transfer.
The goals are to separate on-going evolutionary pro-
cesses from rapid ecologically-derived phenotypic shifts
in order to explain the current diversity of bacterial cellshapes. The two major objectives for this position are
(1) to use existing sequence data and phylogenies to
construct a supertree of bacterial 'species' and explore
the implications of lateral gene transfer for subsequent
analyses; and (2) to apply and develop the phylogenetic
comparative method in a Bayesian framework to un-
derstand the links between bacterial form (shape) and
function.
In creating a supertree you will greatly enhance our
understanding of the relationships between prokaryotic
groups, while in applying and developing new compar-
ative methods you will be able to answer a number of
important questions about rates of morphological evo-
lution, correlated evolution of form and function and
the relationship between shape and pathogenicity.
A creative and motivated postdoctoral scientist, with
experience in phylogenetic methods or statistics, you
will be expected to contribute towards grant applica-
tions to further develop project work. If required, there
is also an opportunity to gain further experience in phy-
logenetics and phylogenetic comparative methods in the
lab of Dr Chris Venditti (University of Reading). Help-
ing to implement the project, you will contribute to
iterative exchanges with other group members and su-
pervise both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
You will also be encouraged and supported to make
your own applications for funding and take advantage
of our comprehensive Sta Development Programme.
This position is xed term for ve years. The preferred
start date for the position is 1 August 2013.
Salary range: $25,504 - $30,424 pa
You can learn more about this position and apply on-
line at www.hull.ac.uk/jobs (Vacancy FS00001).
Informal enquires may be made to Dr Stuart
Humphries, E: s.humphries@hull.ac.uk
For information about the department visit http://-
www2.hull.ac.uk/science/biological sciences new.aspx
Closing date 17 May 2013
|{
Dr Stuart Humphries Senior Lecturer School of Biologi-
cal, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences University
of Hull Kingston-upon-Hull UK HU6 7RX
+44 (0)1482 466425
tinyurl.com/PhysEcoLab
S.Humphries@hull.ac.ukMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 93
WashingtonStateU
TasmanianDevilGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER
Washington State University
School of Biological Sciences
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher to work on
population and landscape genomics of Tasmanian dev-
ils and Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease. This
international collaboration builds on over 15 years of
research tracking the spread of this unique infectious
tumor across Tasmania and consequent endangerment
of the iconic Tasmanian devil. Reference genomes are
available for both tumor and devil. The successful ap-
plicant will have an unprecedented opportunity to an-
alyze thousands of devil genotypes and hundreds of tu-
mor samples taken both before and after epizootics to
test for selection throughout both genomes, coevolu-
tion, patterns of resistance, etc, across Tasmania. We
will then use these data to predict the course of disease
in uninfected populations. The position is centered in
the lab of Dr. Andrew Storfer at Washington State Uni-
versity, in close collaboration with Dr. Paul Hohenlohe
at the nearby University of Idaho (8 miles away). Both
universities have genomics core facilities, including the
Institute of Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies
(IBEST; http://www.uidaho.edu/research/ibest) with
up-to-date equipment, computational facilities and sta
support.
Review of applications will begin on May 15, 2013 and
continue until the position is lled. A Ph.D. in Bi-
ology or a related discipline is required, and we par-
ticularly welcome applicants with experience in pop-
ulation genomics, infectious disease evolution, conser-
vation, bioinformatics, and/or cancer genomics. An-
ticipated start date is August 16, 2013. Salary and
benets are competitive. Position is for 1-4 years,
pending satisfactory progress. To apply, please send
in pdf format a CV, and names, addresses and email
addresses of 3 references, a research statement and up
to 3 representative reprints via email to: Andrew Stor-
fer ( astorfer@wsu.edu). *WSU is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action/ADA educator and employer.*
{
Andrew Storfer, PhD Eastlick Distinguished Professor
Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Bio-logical Sciences Washington State University Pullman,
WA 99164 USA Phone: (509) 335-7922 Fax: (509) 335-
3184 astorfer@wsu.edu www.wsu.edu/~storfer
andrew.storfer@gmail.com
YaleU EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc opening, Yale University:
We are searching for a candidate for a postdoctoral po-
sition on an NIH Parasitology Training Grant. The
work would involve evolutionary genomics of insects
(mosquitoes and/or tsetse ies) and/or the pathogens
they transmit (dengue virus or trypanosomes) or some
combination of vectors/pathogens. Depending on par-
ticular interests, the primary mentor would be Jerey
R. Powell (mosquitoes and dengue) or Adalgisa Cac-
cone (tsetse and trypanosomes) or joint mentorships.
By NIH rules, candidate must be a US citizen or per-
manent resident of the US. The position is or 2 years.
Please send letter of interest and CV to: jef-
frey.powell@yale.edu and/or adalgisa.caccone@yale.edu
\Caccone, Gisella" <adalgisa.caccone@yale.edu >
YaleU ExperimentalEvolution
Yale EEB Postdoc in Experimental Evolution and
Phage Therapy
A two-year postdoctoral position is available on or after
September 1, 2013 under the supervision of Dr. Paul
Turner in the Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology at Yale University (http://www.yale.edu/-
turner/). The project examines experimental evolu-
tion, evolutionary genetics and recombinant engineer-
ing of bacteriophages, to improve their ecacy in
phage therapy applications that target enteric bacterial
pathogens. Experience with molecular microbiology,
and sequence analysis is preferred but all strong candi-
dates will be considered. Applications (CV, 1 represen-
tative publication, and contact information for 3 refer-
ees) will be reviewed starting July 1, 2013. Please direct
applications and inquiries to paul.turner@yale.edu
Paul E. Turner Chair of Ecology and Evolu-94 EvolDir May 1, 2013
tionary Biology Yale University New Haven, CT
06520 (203) 432-5918 http://www.yale.edu/turner/paul.turner@yale.edu
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona PhylogeneticComparativeMethods Oct7-11
94
Coimbra Portugal Neoallopatry May22-23 . . . . . . . . . 94
Cornell NonmodelGenomics Jul23-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Cornell NonmodelGenomics July23-24 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Denmark Evolutionary Demography Oct11-18 . . . . . 96
Gainesville ViralMolecularPhylogenetics Aug25-30 .97
Herzogenhorn Germany Bioinformatics Sep10-13 . . 98
Hinxton HumanGenomeAnalysis Jul24-30 . . . . . . . . . 98LaFouly Switzerland ExperimentalTheoEvolution
Jun12-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
NESCent Durham GMODSummerSchool Jul19-23 .99
SummerInstStatGenetics Jul8-26 ScholarshipDeadline
99
UWashington ViralEvolutionaryDynamics Jul17-19
100
Barcelona
PhylogeneticComparativeMethods
Oct7-11
Dear Colleagues:
Registration is open for the course \Disentangling evo-
lutionary relationships with Phylogenetic Comparative
Methods - Second edition"; October 7-11, 2013.
INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Alejandro Gonz alez-Voyer
(EBD, Spain) and Dr. Achaz von Hardenberg (Alpine
Wildlife Research Centre, Italy) .
SITE: Els Hostalets de Pierola, Barcelona, Spain.
This course will provide an introduction to phyloge-
netic comparative methods (PCM) focusing on Phylo-
genetic Generalized Least Squares (PGLS) and intro-
ducing Phylogenetic Path Analysis methods. PCMs
provide a means of incorporating information about the
evolutionary relationships of organisms (phylogeny) in
statistical analyses. To enhance the practical approach
of the course, participants are encouraged to bring their
own data to conduct analyses and discuss the results.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/evol/pcm/This course will be held in the facilities of the Centre
de Restauraci o i Intepretacio Paleontologica (CRIP),
and are co-organized by Transmitting Science, the
CRIP and the Universidad Aut onoma de Madrid.
Places are limited and will be covered by strict
registration order.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org Transmitting
Science <http://www.transmittingscience.org/ >
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Coimbra Portugal Neoallopatry
May22-23
*The consequences of neo-allopatry*
*Local adaptation, reproductive isolation and beyond*
*May 22-23, 2013. Centre for Functional Ecology.May 1, 2013 EvolDir 95
Coimbra, Portugal*
Humans are eliminating dispersal barriers and dra-
matically expanding the global distributions of many
species. The result is that some recently estab-
lished populations are geographically isolated from
their source populations, which has been referred to
as neo-allopatry. Cross-continental introductions in
particular have rapidly isolated populations of many
species, and there is circumstantial evidence for diver-
gent selection between native and non-native ranges for
ecological traits such as growth, herbivore defense, and
competitive ability. There is even evidence for incipient
reproductive isolation between native and non-native
regions or introduced species. Theory predicts that di-
vergent selection of ecological traits can drive to spe-
ciation. Thus, exotic invasions provide exceptionally
good natural experiments in which to look for the early
stages of allopatric processes.
During this one-and-a-half-day workshop we will dis-
cuss the consequences of neo-allopatry at the Centre
for Functional Ecology of the /Universidade de Coim-
bra/, Portugal. Registrations are free and mandatory,
please send your CV and a one-page motivation letter
to danimontesinos@gmail.com before May 3rd at 5 pm
CET.
Please help us disseminate this event. Best wishes,
Daniel.
*PROGRAM *
/ /
*W**ednesday, May 22, 2013. *//
/(Anteatro da Galeria de Zoologia, in front of Science
Museum) /
09:00 -*Presentation of the workshop*
*Helena Freitas*, Centre for Functional Ecology, Uni-
versidade de Coimbra, Portugal
09:30 - *A bug's life: trophic implications of plant in-
vasions.*
*Christopher Lortie*, York University, Canada
10:30 - *Evolutionary changes to reproductive systems
during the invasion process of the polyploid /Oxalis
pes-caprae./*
*S lvia Castro*, Centre for Functional Ecology, Univer-
sidade de Coimbra, Portugal
11:15 - *With a little help from their friends: the role
of biotic interactions on /Acacia/ invasions*
*Susana Rodr guez-Echeverr a*, Centre for Functional
Ecology, Universidade de Coimbra, Portugal12:00-14:00 { Lunch break
14:00 - *Non-native conditions favor non-native popu-
lations of invasive plants: demographic consequences of
seed size variation?*
*Jos e Hierro*, CONICET { Universidad de la Pampa,
Argentina
15:00 - *Coexisting**invasive and non-invasive species
show similar trait shifts between native and non-native
regions.*
*Daniel Montesinos*, Centre for Functional Ecology,
Universidade de Coimbra, Portugal
16:00 - *Does modern geographic isolation yield insight
into diuse community evolution?*
*Ragan M. Callaway*, The University of Montana,
USA
**
*Thursday, May 23, 2013 * (Botanical Garden Build-
ing)
Morning { *Free*
14:00-19:00 *One-to-one 30' meetings with speakers*
{
Daniel Montesinos Centro de Ecologia Funcional Uni-
versidade de Coimbra Apartado 3046 3001-401 Coim-
bra, Portugal T: (+351) 239 855 238 (ext. 139)
http://cfe.uc.pt/daniel-montesinos http://about.me/-
daniel.montesinos danimontesinos@gmail.com
Cornell NonmodelGenomics
Jul23-24
What: Workshop on Next Generation Population
Genomics for Nonmodel Taxa When: 23-24 July (Tues-
Wed) 2013 Where: Cornell University, Ithaca, NY
Website: http://www.certain.com/system/prole/-
web/index.cfm?PKwebID=0x4653687438&varPage=-
home Application: 45 student capacity { applications
received before May 15 will receive priority considera-
tion.
Goal: to compare and discuss the strengths and weak-
nesses of dierent approaches to genome sequenc-
ing and bioinformatics when studying population ge-
nomics in nonmodel species. Population genomics in-
volves sampling, nancial, and bioinformatics trade-
os, so proper experimental design requires under-96 EvolDir May 1, 2013
standing probability, sequencing technologies and evo-
lutionary theory and how they relate to research trade-
os. We will illustrate the computational challenges
and how they interact with choices at the population
and genomic sampling stages. We will not give you all
the answers, but in two days we hope to help you ask
the right questions to improve study design.
Travel grants are available, sponsored by the American
Genetics Association. This workshop immedi-
ately follows the 2013 AGA speciation symposium
(see http://www.certain.com/system/prole/web/-
index.cfm?PKwebID=0x44728099a8&varPage=home).
Workshop Instructors: Alex Buerkle, Department of
Botany, University of Wyoming Nancy Chen, Depart-
ment of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Cornell Uni-
versity Andy Clarke, Department of Molecular Biology
& Genetics, Cornell University Pierre De Wit, Depart-
ment of Biology and Environmental Science, University
of Gothenburg, Sweden Matthew Hare, Department of
Natural Resources, Cornell University
Target Audience: graduate students and postdocs
Cost: $150
Prerequisites: Students are expected to have a working
knowledge of population genetics. You must bring your
own laptop and some software installations should be
accomplished before you arrive. Practical exercises will
be on your laptop and through remote access to servers.
See the website for more information or contact
Matthew Hare Associate Professor 205 Fernow Hall
Department of Natural Resources Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853 607-255-5685 mph75@cornell.edu
http://www2.dnr.cornell.edu/HareLab/harelab.html
mph75@cornell.edu
Cornell NonmodelGenomics
July23-24 2
Workshop on Next Generation Population Genomics
for Nonmodel Taxa 23-24 July, 2013 Cornell University,
Ithaca, NY Website http://www.certain.com/-
system/prole/web/index.cfm?PKwebID=-
0x4653687438&varPage=home If the above URL
does not work, go to http://www.theaga.org/aga2013-
species-continuum/, scroll down and click on the shy
genome scan gure.
Application: 45 student capacity { applications re-ceived before May 15 will receive priority consideration.
Goal: to compare and discuss the strengths and weak-
nesses of dierent approaches to genome sequenc-
ing and bioinformatics when studying population ge-
nomics in nonmodel species. Population genomics in-
volves sampling, nancial, and bioinformatics trade-
os, so proper experimental design requires under-
standing probability, sequencing technologies and evo-
lutionary theory and how they relate to research trade-
os. We will illustrate the computational challenges
and how they interact with choices at the population
and genomic sampling stages. We will not give you all
the answers, but in two days we hope to help you ask
the right questions to improve study design.
Travel grants are available, sponsored by the Amer-
ican Genetics Association. This workshop immedi-
ately follows the 2013 AGA speciation symposium (get
more info at http://www.theaga.org/aga2013-species-
continuum/).
Workshop Instructors: Alex Buerkle, Department of
Botany, University of Wyoming Nancy Chen, Depart-
ment of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Cornell Uni-
versity Andy Clark, Department of Molecular Biology
& Genetics, Cornell University Pierre De Wit, Depart-
ment of Biology and Environmental Science, University
of Gothenburg, Sweden Matthew Hare, Department of
Natural Resources, Cornell University
Target Audience: graduate students and postdocs
Cost: $150
Prerequisites: Students are expected to have a working
knowledge of population genetics. You must bring your
own laptop and some software installations should be
accomplished before you arrive. Practical exercises will
be on your laptop and through remote access to servers.
See the website for more information or contact
Matthew Hare Associate Professor Department of Nat-
ural Resources Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853
607-255-5685 http://www2.dnr.cornell.edu/HareLab/-
harelab.html mph75@cornell.edu
Denmark Evolutionary Demography
Oct11-18
I am happy to announce an intensive course in Evolu-
tionary Demography at the University of Southern Den-
mark (SDU). This course is intended for biologists whoMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 97
wish to incorporate demographic concepts and methods
into their research or increase their prociency in this
area. It is a doctoral-student level course but is also
open to individuals in other life-stages.
This course will immediately follow the rst meeting
of the Evolutionary Demography Society. http://-
www.sdu.dk/en/Om SDU/Institutter centre/MaxO/-
EvoDemoS The EvoDemoS meeting runs from Oct.
6-10 and the course runs from Oct. 11-18. More
details on the course are below. Questions should
be sent to: levitis@biology.sdu.dk. Students wishing
to take the course should also write to me at that
address for information on enrollment and logistics.
The course, including housing, will cost 4800 Danish
Kroner (roughly euro 640 or $840) for students not
enrolled at SDU.
Best wishes, Dan Levitis
Introduction to Evolutionary Demography (Fall 2013)
This is an ocial course at SDU. Students can gain of-
cial university course credits (5ETCS) that should, in
theory, be transferable to any European university.
Instructors include: Daniel Levitis Ulrich Steiner Vir-
ginia Zarulli Adam Lenart
>From the ocial course description: Course introduc-
tion Evolution is an inherently demographic process,
and demographic traits are subject to selection and
other evolutionary pressures; for both these reasons,
demographic methods and concepts have proven essen-
tial for answering many questions in evolutionary biol-
ogy. This two-week intensive course is designed to give
biologists interested in life-histories, aging and other
demographic traits an introduction to the methods and
concepts of evolutionary demography. The aim is to
provide graduate students with the tools they need to
bring demographic thinking and quantitative tools into
their research programs.
Intended learning outcome At the end of the course,
the students are expected to be able to:
* Describe the connections between evolutionary biol-
ogy and demography * Comment on the important re-
cent literature in evolutionary demography * Identify
major open questions in the eld * Employ the more
common quantitative tools of evolutionary demography
* Orally present a small research project in evolution-
ary demography
Subject covered A) In lectures, an overview of the ma-
jor concepts and topics in evolutionary demography. B)
In computer-lab, introduction to the most commonly
used quantitative methods in the eld. C) Working in
groups, students will prepare and present short projectsusing the methods and concepts presented.
Daniel A. Levitis Assistant Professor Institute of Biol-
ogy and Max-Planck Odense Center on the Biodemog-
raphy of Aging University of Southern Denmark Cam-
pusvej 55 Dk-5230 Odense M Phone: +45 6550 2728
Fax: +45 6550 2786
Levitis@demogr.mpg.de Levitis@demogr.mpg.de
Gainesville
ViralMolecularPhylogenetics
Aug25-30
http://conferences.dce.u.edu/veme/ 18th Interna-
tional Bioinformatics Workshop on Virus Evolution and
Molecular Epidemiology (VEME 2013)
VEME 2013 will be organized August 25th - August
30th, 2013 at the University of Florida in Gainesville,
Florida, U.S.A.
The workshop will have the following modules:
- 'Phylogenetic Inference'module oers the theoretical
background and hands-on experience in phylogenetic
analysis for those who have little or no prior expertise
in sequence analysis.
- 'Evolutionary Hypothesis Testing' module is tar-
geted to participants who are well familiar with align-
ments and phylogenetic trees, and would like to extend
their expertise to likelihood and Bayesian inference in
phylogenetics, coalescent and phylogeographic analyses
('phylodynamics') and molecular adaptation.
- 'Large Dataset Analysis' module will cover the more
complex analysis of full genomes, huge datasets of
pathogens including Next Generation Sequencing data,
and combined analyses of pathogen and host. We rec-
ommend participants to buy The Phylogenetic Hand-
book as a guide during the workshop, and to bring their
own data set.
Application Deadline is April 30, 2013
Brian Foley, PhD HIV Databases
\Foley, Brian T" <btf@lanl.gov >98 EvolDir May 1, 2013
Herzogenhorn Germany
Bioinformatics Sep10-13
Black Forest Summer School 2013 - Bioinformatics for
Molecular Biologists
DATE: September 10th - 13th, 2013 WEBSITE: http:/-
/plantco.de/BFSS2013/ WHERE: Herzogenhorn re-
sort, Black forest, Germany REGISTRATION: open
from March 11th until July 30th
KEYNOTE LECTURE: * Francis Martin, INRA
Nancy, France
INSTRUCTORS: * Stefan Rensing, University of Mar-
burg, Germany * Emily Pritchard, EBI Hinxton, UK
* Klaas Vandepoele, University of Ghent, Belgium *
Anne Hamm, Roche, Germany * Arnd Brandenburg,
Genedata, Basel/Switzerland
The summer school is intended for PhD students and
early career postdocs. Expert lectures & workshops, se-
cluded venue and participant presentations will ensure
high knowledge gain and scientic exchange. We will
not teach how to program - rather, we will teach you
how to use existing bioinformatics tools that are helpful
for everyday lab life.
Areas to be covered include: * molecular phylogeny *
animal/plant/fungal comparative genomics * NGS data
* large scale multivariate data analysis
Participants are highly encouraged to present their
work as a short talk or in the poster sessions.
Questions? bfss2013@data.biologie.uni-freiburg.de
Oragnized by: Plantco.de e.V. Freiburg, Germany
Kristian Ullrich <kristian.ullrich@biologie.uni-
marburg.de >
Hinxton HumanGenomeAnalysis
Jul24-30
Deadline THIS FRIDAY: 12 April 2013 Human
Genome Analysis: Genetic Analysis of Multifac-
torial Diseases 24-30 July 2013 Wellcome Trust
Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK Deadlinefor applications: 12 April 2013 URL: http://-
www.wellcome.ac.uk/Education-resources/Courses-
and-conferences/Advanced-Courses-and-Scientic-
Conferences/Advanced-Courses/WTX026851.htm
Course summary An intensive, residential, computer-
based course aimed at scientists actively involved in
genetic analysis of multifactorial traits.
Programme This advanced course covers statistical
methods currently used to map disease susceptibility
genes, with an emphasis on (but not limited to) meth-
ods that can analyse family data or a combination
of families and individuals. Discussions of the latest
statistical methodology are complemented by practical
hands-on computer exercises using state-of-the-art soft-
ware. The statistical basics behind each method will
be carefully explained so that participants with a non-
statistical background can understand. With a focus on
family data, we will discuss fundamental issues needed
to increase success in gene mapping studies including:
optimal study design, power to detect linkage and as-
sociation, determining the most appropriate statistical
methods and software, interpretation of statistical re-
sults and trouble shooting. We will also cover the ba-
sic principles of statistical inference, hypothesis testing,
population and quantitative genetics and Mendelian in-
heritance. Our interactive and intensive educational
program will enable one to better carry out sophisti-
cated statistical analyses of genetic data, and will also
improve one's interpretation and understanding of the
results. All the software used is freely available, so that
skills learned can be easily applied after the course.
Teaching will take the form of lectures by invited speak-
ers, informal tutorials, hands-on computer sessions, and
analysis of disease family data sets. There will also be
an opportunity to discuss participants' own data sets.
JanetS@mednet.ucla.edu
LaFouly Switzerland
ExperimentalTheoEvolution
Jun12-15
We still have a few open slots for the workshop \Bridg-
ing theoretical and experimental evolution" in La Fouly
(Valais, Switzerland) from June 12-15 2013.
The aim of the proposed workshop is to unite exper-
imental and theoretical evolutionary biologists, both
working to resolve fundamental questions at the cen-
ter of a century-old debate. For example - what is theMay 1, 2013 EvolDir 99
distribution of tness eects of new, segregating, and
xed mutations? What is the relative importance of
adaptation vs. genetic drift in the evolution of natural
populations? By combining expertise across wet and
dry lab biology, and due to the progress of new genomic
technologies, it is becoming increasing possible to gain
traction on these questions which are fundamental to
any basic understanding of the very mode and tempo
of the evolutionary process.
The workshop will bring together top researchers in the
eld and students in la Fouly, a remote and beautiful lo-
cation in the Swiss Alps (see www.lafouly.net), allowing
for close interactions and vivid exchanges. The scien-
tic program will consist in 2 1/2 days of a mixture
of talks by invited speakers and students, and posters
sessions.
The workshop will end by a hike to some nearby magnif-
icent view points over the Mont Dolent and Mont-Blanc
region.
Invited speakers:
Martin Ackermann (ETH Zurich, Switzerland) Dan
Bolon (University of Massachussetts, USA) Michael
Desai (Harvard University, USA) Isabel Gordo (Insti-
tuto Gulbenkian Ci^ encia, Lisbon, Portugal) Oskar Hal-
latschek (Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-
Organization, G ottingen, Germany) Peter Keightley
(University of Edinburgh, UK) Alex Wong (Carleton
University, Ottawa, Canada)
Cost: 400 CHF for non-CUSO students, including con-
ference fees, meals and accommodation (with sleeping
bags).
Web site and registration (max 35 students):
http://biologie.cuso.ch/ecologie-evolution/dpee-
activities/detail-activity/item/courses/bridging-
theoretical-and-experimental-evolution/ Note that
deadline for registration is extended to May 15th,
and that a maximum of 35 students can participate.
Whereas the primary target are PhD students, other
people can attend, knowing that priority will be given
to CUSO members and students presenting talk or
poster.
The organizers:
Je Jensen
Laurent Excoer
Claudia Bank
Stephan Peischl
Stephan Peischl Post-doc CMPG Institute of Ecology
and Evolution University of Bern Baltzerstrasse 6 CH-3012 Bern Switzerland Phone: +41 31 631 30 36 Fax:
+41 31 631 48 88 Email: stephan.peischl@iee.unibe.ch
stephan.peischl@iee.unibe.ch
NESCent Durham
GMODSummerSchool Jul19-23
We are now accepting applications for the 2013 GMOD
Summer School, to be held at the National Evolution-
ary Synthesis Center (NESCent), Durham, North Car-
olina, on July 19th-23rd, 2013. The GMOD Summer
School is the best way to learn how to install, cong-
ure, and use popular GMOD tools, including GBrowse,
JBrowse, Galaxy, MAKER, Tripal, WebApollo, and
Chado; courses are taught by the tool developers, and
there will be evening sessions for those who want to
work on their own data or troubleshoot issues with the
developers.
More information and online application form:
http://gmod.org/wiki/2013 GMOD Summer School
Applications are competitive, so we encourage you to
apply well before the June 10th deadline.
If you have any questions, please contact
help@gmod.org and we will be happy to answer
them.
{ Amelia Ireland GMOD Community Support http://-
gmod.orgjj@gmodproject
amelia.ireland@gmod.org
SummerInstStatGenetics Jul8-26
ScholarshipDeadline
SISG Scholarship Application Deadline Extended to
May 10.
Some further registration-fee and travel scholarships
are available for the 18th Summer Institute in Statis-
tical Genetics in Seattle, July 8-26. Details at http:/-
/sisg.biostat.washington.edu Applications received by
April 26 will be processed before May 10, others by
May 17.
New modules include Introduction to R and Script-100 EvolDir May 1, 2013
ing for Biologists, Omics Data and Network Analyses,
Forensic Genetics, Mixed Models in Quantitative Ge-
netics, Metagenomics, Epidemiology of Viruses. Previ-
ously popular modules include Bayesian Statistics for
Genetics, Population and Quantitative Genetic Data
Analysis, QTL and Association Mapping, Gene Expres-
sion, Coalescent and MCMC Theory, Human and An-
imal Genetic Data Analysis, Phylogenetics, Introduc-
tory Statistics, Introductory Genomics.
Bruce Weir bsweir@uw.edu
Bruce Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
UWashington
ViralEvolutionaryDynamics
Jul17-19A 2.5 day course on Evolutionary Dynamics and Molec-
ular Evolution of Viruses will be taught July 17-19,
2013 by Philippe Lemey and Marc Suchard at the Uni-
versity of Washington, Seattle, USA. This course is part
of the 5th Summer Institute in Statistics and Modeling
of Infectious Diseases July 8-24, 2013.
Tuition scholarships and some travel funds are avail-
able for graduate students and postdocs. Applications
for scholarships are due by April 26, 2013. Please see
http://depts.washington.edu/sismid for more informa-
tion and the list of 13 other courses.
M. Elizabeth Halloran MD MPH DSc Professor Center
Stat. & Quant. Infect. Dis. (CSQUID) Vaccine and In-
fectious Disease Institute Hutchinson Research Center
and Department of Biostatistics University of Washing-
ton 1100 Fairview Ave N, M2-C200 Seattle, WA98109-
1024 USA
Phone: 206-667-2722 Fax: 206-667-4378
M Elizabeth Halloran <betz@fhcrc.org >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.May 1, 2013 EvolDir 101
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.