E v o l D i r
February 1, 2014
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .140
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1562 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Conferences
ArizonaStateU CenterEvolutionMedicine Jan17-22 . .2
AsilomarUSA InvasionGenetics Aug13-15 . . . . . . . . . . .3
Bangkok MEEGID DiseaseEvolution Dec11-13 . . . . . 4
Cambridge NematodeEvolution Jun14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Cambridge UK EvolutionaryGenomics Mar18 . . . . . . 5
ColoradoStateU DiseaseEvolution EEID Jun1-3 . . . . 5
CzechRepublic 10thSymposiumOnCladocera Sept28-
Oct3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
EGI Oxford StudentConf Evolution Mar18-20 . . . . . . 6
HiroshimaU AmphibianConservation Mar27-28 . . . . . 6
Leicester UK EMBOHumanEvolution April1-4 re-
minder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
London GenmoicEra Apr2-3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Marseilles 18thEBM Sep16-19 EarlyRegistration 2 . . 8
Paris SymmetryAsymmetry Apr3-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
PortTownsend Washington EvoWIBO Apr25-27 . . . . 9
Portugal OccamsBeard Feb1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 CallAbstracts GenomeEvo-
lution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 EvolSystemsBiology . . . 11
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 OriginOfLife . . . . . . . . . . 11
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 Registration . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 UndergraduateTrav-
elAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
PuertoRico SMBE14 AmericasPopHistory Jun8-12 13
PuertoRico SMBE AdaptationGenomics Jun8-12 . . 13
PuertoRico SMBE AsexualGenomeEvolAdapt Jun8-12
14
PuertoRico SMBE BiochemMeetsEvolution Jun8-12 14PuertoRico SMBE Biodiversity Jun8-12 . . . . . . . . . . . 15
PuertoRico SMBE ConservationGenomics Jun8-12 15
PuertoRico SMBE DetectingNaturalSelection Jun8-12
16
PuertoRico SMBE DoesPloidyMatter Jun8-12 . . . . . 16
PuertoRico SMBE Epistasis Jun8-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
PuertoRico SMBE GeneOrigin Jun8-12 . . . . . . . . . . . .17
PuertoRico SMBE GeneticsCULTURE Jun8-12 . . . 18
PuertoRico SMBE GeneticsDomestication Jun8-12 18
PuertoRico SMBE InvertGenomes Jun8-12 Deadline-
Feb3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
PuertoRico SMBE PaleovirologyJun8-12 . . . . . . . . . . 19
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24 MSITravelAward . . . . . 20
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24 UndergradDiversity . . . 20
Raleigh NorthCarolina Evolution2014 Jun20-24 . . . .21
Rosco Viral Emergence Evolution Apr2-6 . . . . . . . . 21
RoySoc London PhylogenyExtinction Mar10-11 . . . 22
Swiss Alps Systems Evolutionary Genetics May18-22
22
TucsonArizona DeepGenomics Apr3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UBremen EvolBiolGraduates Mar19-21 . . . . . . . . . . . .23
UGoettingen SizeShape Apr2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
UKonstanz PopBio May29-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Venezuela ConservationGenetics May5-9 reminder 2 25
York UK InsectGenomics Aug3-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
York UK InsectVirusCoevolution Aug3-8 . . . . . . . . . . 26
Yosemite Symbiosis May3-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
ArizonaStateU
CenterEvolutionMedicine Jan17-22
Inaugural Lectures and Symposium The ASU Center
for Evolution, Medicine & Public Health Randolph
Nesse, Director
Streamed live at http://www.ustream.tv/channel/asu-
live All times are Mountain time (GMT-7) Clickable
links at https://sites.google.com/a/asu.edu/cemph/January 17 - 22
The ASU Center for Evolution, Medicine & Public
Health (CEMPH) will host several events to celebrate
the center's launch. Directed by Randolph Nesse, a
founder of the eld of evolutionary medicine, the cen-
ter's mission is to establish evolutionary biology as a
basic science for medicine and public health worldwide.
Research is at its core, but the center will also have
major commitments to education, outreach and devel-
oping similar programs elsewhere. The new center syn-
ergizes with the ASU Center for Evolutionary Medicine
and Bioinformatics, directed by Sudhir Kumar, by aug-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 3
menting existing strengths in phylogenetics, with new
faculty whose research uses basic evolutionary princi-
ples to understand problems such as antibiotic resis-
tance, cancer, autoimmune disease, aging and behav-
ioral disorders.
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS - open to the public
Fri., January 17, 2-3:15 p.m. in LSE 104 (refreshments
served beforehand)
William Aird, Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical
School, Director, Center for Vascular Biology Research
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
Galen, hagsh and the bench-to-bedside gap in en-
dothelial biomedicine: a noisy aair
Tues., January 21, 1-6:30 p.m. in Memorial Union 241
Symposium on Evolution, Medicine & Public Health:
The Great Opportunity
1 p.m. Mark Flinn, Professor & Chair of Anthropology,
University of Missouri Hormones in the wild: Physio-
logical adaptations for human social relationships
2:30 p.m. Andrew Read, Alumni Professor in the Bio-
logical Sciences, Professor of Entomology, and Director,
Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics The evolution
of drug resistance and the curious orthodoxy of aggres-
sive chemotherapy
4 p.m. Panel discussion with the four visitors and ASU
faculty, led by Randolph Nesse Making evolutionary bi-
ology a basic science for medicine worldwide: What can
ASU do?
5:30 p.m. Open reception for all who share an interest
in evolution and medicine
Weds., January 22, noon-1 p.m. ISTB-1 401
Bernard Crespi, Professor of Biology, Simon Fraser Uni-
versity Where Darwin meets Freud: Evolutionary biol-
ogy and the genetics of autism, psychosis, and the social
brain
To join the group for CEMPH events send a note to
CEMPH@asu.edu
For a printable color poster for the events, click here.
For a folder with the speaker's CV's and papers, click
here.
Abstracts below
William Aird Galen, hagsh and the bench-to-bedside
gap in endothelial biomedicine: a noisy aair
The vascular endothelium, which forms the inner lining
of the blood vascular system, is an under-appreciated
organ system that has enormous, though largely un-tapped diagnostic and therapeutic potential. There
exists a wide bench-to-bedside gap in endothelial
biomedicine. Future advances in vascular medicine
are contingent upon narrowing the gap and translat-
ing knowledge to improve patient care. A rst step
is to recognize the origins of the existing chasm. One
reason relates to medicine's present-day preoccupation
with large arteries, at the expense of the vast expanses
of microscopic small blood vessels or capillaries. While
large arteries are vulnerable to developing atherosclero-
sis, microvessels hold important clues about the mech-
anisms of virtually every other disease in humans. I
will discuss how our focus on large vessels is rooted
in Ancient Greek medicine, and was further sharpened
by William Harvey's discovery of the circulation. In
the 1900s, the compartmentalization of medicine into
organ-specic disciplines further hampered our ability
to approach the vasculature as an integrated organ. An-
other reason for the lack of progress in knowledge trans-
lation is our focus on cell culture. I will discuss how
traditional in vitro studies have shaped our view of the
endothelial cell as a homogeneous entity and precluded
analysis of its emergent properties. I will emphasize
the remarkable adaptability of the intact endothelium,
review proximate mechanisms of endothelial cell hetero-
geneity, and introduce the novel role of multistability
and biological noise in mediating phenotypic dierences
between endothelial cells. Finally, I will address evolu-
tionary mechanisms of endothelial heterogeneity. I will
present data from our studies in hagsh, the oldest ex-
tant vertebrate, showing that phenotypic heterogeneity
evolved as a core feature of the endothelium. In con-
clusion, I will argue that future breakthroughs in en-
dothelial biomedicine will require an understanding of
the dynamical regulatory network of the endothelium
at multiple scales.
Mark Flinn
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
AsilomarUSA InvasionGenetics
Aug13-15
SAVE THE DATE! Invasion Genetics: The Baker and
Stebbins Legacy A symposium at Asilomar, CA (USA)4 EvolDir February 1, 2014
13-15 Aug 2014
We are nearing the 50th anniversary of one of the most
important books in evolutionary biology: The Genetics
of Colonizing Species (1965) edited by Herbert Baker
and G. Ledyard Stebbins. This classic volume was
based on a symposium at Asilomar, California in 1964
and initiated the study of the genetics and evolution of
invasive species. To revisit the historical legacy of the
meeting and book, we are pleased to announce a sym-
posium at Asilomar from August 13-15, 2014. The sym-
posium will enjoy support from Wiley-Blackwell Pub-
lishers, and associated original papers will appear in a
Special Issue of Molecular Ecology in 2015. The sym-
posium proceedings (including the popular question-
answer transcripts of the original) will also be published
in 2015 as a book to mark the 50th anniversary of the
original volume.
Please plan on joining us for this special event! DATES:
August 13-15, 2014 LOCATION: Asilomar Conference
Grounds (http://www.visitasilomar.com/)
REGISTRATION: Details coming soon. Contributed
posters to be welcomed. Questions and requests for
updates can be directed to invasiongenetics@wiley.com
SPEAKERS/AUTHORS: We have conrmed a broad
range of contributors to reect both the legacy of work
on the genetics of colonizing species, and new contribu-
tions and perspectives:
Spencer Barrett Tim Blackburn Mark Blows Oliver
Bossdorf Rob Colautti Melania Cristescu Troy Day Ka-
trina Dlugosch Kay Hodgins Pierre Gladieux & Tatiana
Giraud Mark Kirkpatrick Russ Lande Jennifer Lau
Jonathan Losos John Pannell Stephan Peischl & Lau-
rent Excoer Loren Rieseberg Joanna Schmidt Rick
Shine Neil Tsutsui Mark van Kluenen
ORGANIZERS: Spencer Barrett Rob Colautti Katrina
Dlugosch Loren Rieseberg
Katrina M. Dlugosch, Assistant Professor Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology, University of Ari-
zona kdlugosch@email.arizona.edu j http://-
dlugoschlab.arizona.edu katrina.dlugosch@gmail.com
Bangkok MEEGID DiseaseEvolution
Dec11-13
The conference is 'MEEGID XII, 12th International
Conference on Molecular Epidemiology and Evolution-ary Genetics of Infectious Diseases'. It will take
place from the 11-13 December 2014 in Bangkok.
The conference website can be view at http://-
www.meegidconference.com . MEEGID XII will give
special emphasis to health problems of South East Asia
through plenary lectures, specialized symposia, and
poster sessions. The topics are:
* Genetics, genomics, proteomics, population biology,
mathematical modeling and bioinformatics. Submis-
sions can deal with the host, the pathogen, or the vector
in case of vector-borne diseases * Host + pathogen or
pathogen + vector (co-evolution) * All pathogens, in-
cluding: viruses; parasitic protozoa; helminthes; fungal
organisms and prions * All infectious models, including
those of veterinary or agronomical relevance * Cancer
and infectious diseases
Sophie Hayward Marketing Communications Manager
for MEEGID IIX
Sophie Hayward <sophie.hayward1@btinternet.com >
Cambridge NematodeEvolution
Jun14-17
Greetings!
The 2014 Evolution of Caenorhabditis and Other Ne-
matodes conference will take place June 14-17 at
the Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cam-
bridge, UK.
This conference will bring together scientists studying
evolutionary processes in diverse nematode groups. In
addition to attracting many researchers studying evolu-
tion in Caenorhabditis elegans as model organism (and
its closer relatives such as C. briggsae and C. remanei),
this meeting will also welcome scientists investigating
other free-living groups and the numerous animal- and
plant-parasitic nematode species that threaten human
health and the global economy.
There will be a strong emphasis on genomic approaches
and perspectives. The themes will include experimental
evolution, fundamental evolutionary forces, genotype-
phenotype relationships, metagenomic analyses, and
processes of parasitism. Topics will include, but not be
limited to: evolution of complex phenotypes; genome
evolution - impact of nucleotide change on genomes,
patterns of selection and adaptation; evolution of
genome organisation; evolution of sex, recombination
and asexuality; evolution of parasitism, pathogens andFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 5
symbiosis; speciation (genetics, phylogenetics and pat-
terns).
Scientic programme committee Mark Blaxter, Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, UK Dee Denver, Oregon State Uni-
versity, USA Scott Baird, Wright State University, USA
Holly Bik, University of California, Davis, USA Adrian
Streit, Max-Planck Institute for Developmental Biol-
ogy, Germany
Keynote speaker Patrick Phillips University of Oregon,
USA
Conrmed speakers James Cotton, Wellcome Trust
Sanger Institute, UK Etienne G.J. Danchin, INRA, In-
stitut Sophia Agrobiotech, France Ronald Ellis, Rowan
University - SOM, USA Suzanne Estes, Portland State
University, USA Karin Kiontke, New York Univer-
sity, USA Ben Lehner, EMBL-CRG Systems Biology
& ICREA, Spain Dorota Porazinska, University of Col-
orado, USA Paul Sternberg, California Institute of
Technology, USA Valerie Williamson, University of Cal-
ifornia, USA
Conference provisional programme The conference will
start at approximately 13.30 on Saturday, 14 June and
will close at approximately 14.30 on Tuesday, 17 June
2014. A draft programme will be made available online,
please refer back to this webpage for updates.
Meeting website: https://-
registration.hinxton.wellcome.ac.uk/-
display info.asp?id=390
denvedee@cgrb.oregonstate.edu
Cambridge UK
EvolutionaryGenomics Mar18
Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium, 18th
March 2014, Cambridge, U.K.,
Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium 2014
The Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium
(EGGS) will be taking place in Cambridge (UK) on
Tuesday 18th March 2014. The meeting is free to at-
tend and no registration is required.
If you are interested in presenting a talk please send
a title, abstract and your aliation to cegsympo-
sium@gmail.com by 14th February 2014.
Talks are expected to cover all areas of evolutionary
genetics, including comparative genomics, evo-devo,pathogen evolution and speciation. The symposium
will consist of around ten 15-minute talks as well as
three longer talks from invited speakers.
Our three conrmed invited speakers are:
Dr Richard Durbin (Sanger Institute) http://-
www.sanger.ac.uk/research/faculty/rdurbin/ Dr
Virpi Lummaa (University of Sheeld) http://-
www.shef.ac.uk/aps/sta-and-students/acadsta/-
lummaa Prof Diethard Tautz (Max-Planck-Institut
f ur Evolutionsbiologie) http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
1580376/employee page?employee id=12084 Location:
Department of Genetics, Downing Site, Bien lec-
ture theatre. More information will be posted here:
http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/camevolgen/eggs/
The meeting is sponsored by the Genetics Society
(http://www.genetics.org.uk/) and is organised by
the Cambridge Evolutionary Genetics (CEG) network
(http://www.evolutionarygenetics.group.cam.ac.uk/-
eggs/).
Richard Merrill & Ben Longdon
Richard Merrill <r.merrill@zoo.cam.ac.uk >
ColoradoStateU DiseaseEvolution
EEID Jun1-3
*Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Disease (EEID)
Conference*
*June 1-3, 2014*
*Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado*
We look forward to seeing you at the 12th Annual EEID
Conference held at Colorado State University, Fort
Collins, Colorado, June 1-3, 2014. Please save the date.
This conference welcomes both long-time and new par-
ticipants to a congenial atmosphere designed for inter-
action and discussion, with the goal of exploring the
research in the eld of infectious disease and epidemiol-
ogy. We expect registration to open during March. *To
view the history of EEID conferences, and for updates,
please visit: http://www.eeidconference.org* *Feel free
to share this e-mail with your colleagues.*
{ Michael F. Antolin
Professor and Chair Department of Biology (http://-
www.biology.colostate.edu/) Colorado State University
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1878 U.S.A.
e-mail: Michael.Antolin@ColoState.edu Voice: (1)-970-6 EvolDir February 1, 2014
491-0735 or (-7011) FAX: (1)-970-491-0649
Michael Antolin <antolin@rams.colostate.edu >
CzechRepublic
10thSymposiumOnCladocera
Sept28-Oct3
Dear colleagues,
we would like to announce the upcoming 10th Sympo-
sium on Cladocera to be held in autumn 2014 in the
Czech Republic.
As it became a tradition, this triannual meeting will
focus on wide range of topics related to the biology of
cladocerans, including their ecology, evolutionary biol-
ogy and diversity, stressing their use as model organ-
isms. With the availability of the Daphnia genome, its
inclusion among NIH-recognised model organisms, and
strong advances in elds such as Daphnia genomics, we
hope this aspect will be increasingly represented as well.
When: September 28 to October 3, 2014 Where:
Mikulov, Czech Republic Keynote speakers: Luc
De Meester (Katholieke University Leuven, Belgium)
Michael Lynch (Indiana University, Bloomington,
USA)
Conference website: www.cladocera2014.org The
venue: the small historical town of Mikulov, at the
edge of Lednice-Valtice Cultural Landscape (UNESCO
World Heritage Site), close to border with Austria,
boasts not only many historical monuments and excel-
lent winery, but also a well-equipped conference centre
that will host the conference. It has good access from
Vienna, Bratislava and Prague international airports.
Registration for the conference will be open in mid-
February, in case of interest, sign up to the newletter
on the conference website.
With regards on behalf of Cladocera 2014 organisers
Adam
Adam Petrusek Department of Ecology Charles Uni-
versity in Prague Vinicna 7 CZ-12844 Prague 2 Czech
Republic
e-mail: petrusek@natur.cuni.cz
petrusek@natur.cuni.czEGI Oxford StudentConf Evolution
Mar18-20
The Edward Grey Institute student conferences started
in 1947 and are intended as a place for students to
present their work in a constructive atmosphere com-
posed mostly of their peers.
In addition to undergraduates, graduate students and
early career postdocs, a small number of academics also
attend as plenary speakers.
The 2014 EGI Student Conference on Ecology and Evo-
lution will be held at the Department of Zoology, Uni-
versity of Oxford, on 18-20th of March.
This years plenary speakers include:
Julia Day (University College London) Zoe Davies
(University of Kent) Dieter Lucas (University of Cam-
bridge) Ian Owens (Natural History Museum, London)
Nathalie Seddon (University of Oxford)
Deadline for abstracts 1st of February
For further details visit our website: http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/scee/ Sozos Michaelides
<sozos.michaelides@bnc.ox.ac.uk >
HiroshimaU
AmphibianConservation Mar27-28
Dear Sir/ Madam,
It is our immense pleasure to inform you that the In-
stitute for Amphibian Biology of Hiroshima Univer-
sity, Japan is going to arrange an international sym-
posium entitled \Frontiers in Amphibian Biology: En-
dangered Species Conservation and Genome Editing".
Noted that Institute for Amphibian Biology is a lead-
ing research institute in the world for conducting re-
search and conservation of Amphibians and it develops
a unique facility to breed and maintain many amphib-
ians from Japan and from other parts of the world.
We have already conrmed participation of 10 re-
nounced International scientists as invited speaker.
Also we open the scope for all Amphibians ResearchersFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 7
to present their work by poster presentation and noted
that a limited number of Travel awards will be given
for young scientists.
Some important information about the symposium-
ABHU International Symposium
-Frontiers in Amphibian Biology: Endangered Species
Conservation and Genome Editing-
- Date: March 27-28, 2014
- Venue: Building E, Graduate School of Science, Hi-
roshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima Campus
- Registration: Pre-registration is not required to at-
tend. Pre-registration is required to make a poster
presentation, attend the social gathering, or join the
backyard tour.
- Participation fee: Free (excluding social gathering)
- Applications for poster presentation and social gath-
ering: The application deadline is February 20, 2014.
- Travel awards: We oer travel awards for young poster
presentation applicants aged 40 years or under. Awards
are available for about 20 presenters. The maximum
award is 30,000 yen for presenters coming from Japan
and 100,000 yen for presenters coming from overseas).
- Invited Speakers (alphabetically)
Amphibian Conservation
Dr. Koichi Goka (National Institute for Environmental
Studies, Japan)
Dr. Robert Jehle (University of Salford, UK)
Dr. Masafumi Matsui (Kyoto University, Japan)
Dr. Miguel Vences (Braunschweig University of Tech-
nology, Germany)
Dr. Kelly Zamudio (Cornell University, U.S.A.)
Amphibian Genome and Genome Editing
Dr. Enrique Amaya (University of Manchester, UK)
Dr. Takuya Nakayama (University of Virginia, U.S.A.)
Dr. Hajime Ogino (Nagahama Institute of Bio-Science
and Technology, Japan)
Dr. Masaki Taira (University of Tokyo, Japan)
Dr. Hui Zhao (The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong China)
- Contact address and correspondence
The Oce of IABHU International Meeting, c/o
Masayuki Sumida
Institute for Amphibian Biology Graduate Schoolof Science, Hiroshima University 1-3-1 Kagamiyama,
Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan
E-mail: amphsymp(at)hiroshima-u.ac.jp (Please use
\@" instead of \(at)")
All the necessary informations and forms are available
in the following website-
http://home.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/amphibia/-
FronAmphBiol/FronAmphBiol/English top.html
So I hereby request you to convey this message to your
Society members and in the website of your Society so
that participants from all over the world can join and
share their experiences.
With regards
Masayuki Sumida, Ph. D.
Professor and Director Institute for Amphibian Biol-
ogy Graduate School of Science, Hiroshima University,
Higashihiroshima 739-8526, JAPAN
Fax- +81-82-424-0739
On his be half-
Mohammed Mazul Islam (Ph. D.)
Assistant Professor Institute For Amphibian Biology
Graduate School of Science Hiroshima University Hi-
gashihiroshima Shi 739-8526 JAPAN
Phone- +81-82-424-5284
MOHAMMED MAFIZUL ISLAM
<mazul77@hiroshima-u.ac.jp >
Leicester UK
EMBOHumanEvolution April1-4
reminder
Abstract deadline approaching!
Register now for the EMBO Conference on Human Evo-
lution in the Genomic Era: Origins, populations and
phenotypes, to be held in Leicester, 1-4 April, 2014!
Invited speakers are:
Guido Barbujani Universita' di Ferrara, IT Ewan Bir-
ney European Bioinformatic Institute, UK Carlos Bus-
tamante Stanford University School of Medicine, US
Lounes Chikhi Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, PT
Vincenza Colonna Institute of Genetics and Biophysics
- ABT, IT Graham Coop UC Davis, US Anna Di Rienzo
University of Chicago, US Richard Durbin Wellcome8 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Trust Sanger Institute, UK Pascal Gagneux UC San
Diego, US Garrett Hellenthal University College Lon-
don, UK Brenna Henn Stony Brook University, US
Turi King University of Leicester, UK Tomas Marques-
Bonet Institut Biologia Evolutiva (Universitat Pompeu
Fabra/CSIC), SP Joanna Mountain 23andMe, US Mark
Pagel University of Reading, UK Sohini Ramachan-
dran Brown University, US Aylwyn Scally University of
Cambridge, UK Mark Shriver Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity, US
For further details and instructions on how to sub-
mit an abstract and register, please visit: http://-
events.embo.org/14-human-evo/index.html Spaces are
limited, so please register soon if you want to attend!
Chiara Batini & Mark Jobling - embo2014
<embo2014humanevolution@gmail.com >
London GenmoicEra Apr2-3
Collections Based Research in the Genomic Era
A joint meeting of the Centre for Ecology and Evolution
& the Linnean Society of London
2nd & 3rd April 2014 - Linnean Society of London
For details and registration visit www.linnean.org/-
genomicera Collections-based research, conducted in
Natural History Museums, Botanical Gardens and
Zoos, has constantly re-invented itself in response to
changing methods and technologies. Biological collec-
tions (e.g. museum, herbarium or living specimens) are
at the front line of biodiversity research, informing tax-
onomy, evolution, conservation and sustainable liveli-
hoods. As the genomic era dawns, generating DNA
data at an unprecedented scale, collections-based re-
searchers must adapt and respond to the new oppor-
tunities that these technologies present. This meeting
will bring together genomics experts, collections-based
researchers and curators to explore next generation se-
quencing methods. Sessions will range from practical
aspects to applications in phylogenetics, museomics and
conservation.
The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew is a non-
departmental public body with exempt charitable sta-
tus, whose principal place of business is at Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 3AB,
United Kingdom.
William Baker <W.Baker@kew.org >Marseilles 18thEBM Sep16-19
EarlyRegistration 2
Dear all
The early registration dead line for for The 18th evo-
lutionary biology meeting at Marseilles is the 31st of
January more info: http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-
cgr/ best regards Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
Paris SymmetryAsymmetry Apr3-4
Symposium on 'Symmetry and asymmetry in Biology'
National Museum of Natural History - Paris (France)
April 3rd and 4th
A two-day symposium on 'Symmetry and asymmetry in
biology' will be held in the National Museum of Natural
History of Paris (France) on April 3rd and 4th 2014.
Free registration and talk submission are now open at:
https://www.mnhn.fr/fr/symmetry-and-asymmetry-
biology-april-3rd-and-4th-2014 ***Overview***
Repetitive scheme in living organisms have been fasci-
nating biologists, from the repetitive shapes constitut-
ing the spine of Vertebrates to ower symmetry. Mul-
tiple examples of symmetry and breaks in symmetry
from molecules to organisms and even populations are
raising the question of the underlying mechanisms of
this regularity - and of these exceptions. The aim of
this conference is to create a link among various elds -
phylogeny, developmental biology, population genetics -
which sometimes focuses in those questions at dierent
levels.
***Invited speakers***
A Richard Palmer
AR Palmer is a professor of Biological Sciences at the
university of Alberta. He obtained his PhD at the uni-
versity of Washington, Seattle. His main area of re-
search is morphological evolution with a special inter-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 9
est on morphological asymmetries. His seminal papers
on uctuating asymmetry constitue the methodologi-
cal reference worldwide in studies of developmental sta-
bility. His work has yielded valuable insights into the
causes and adaptive signicance of several striking ex-
amples of developmental plasticity and his studies of
the development, genetics and evolutionary history of
right-left asymmetry variation have yielded some of the
strongest evidence to date for a phenotype-leads mode
of evolution (sometimes called genetic assimilation) { a
result that caught the attention of the Pharyngula blog.
His lab continues to explore the interplay between de-
velopmental plasticity and evolution on both ecological
time scales (via descriptive and experimental studies)
and evolutionary time scales (via comparative studies).
Olivier Pourquier
Olivier Pourqui e is an INSERM senior researcher at the
Institut for Genetics and molecular and cellular biology
in Strasbourg (France). He is interested in the mech-
anisms controlling the formation of the body of ver-
tebrates during embryogenesis. In particular, he has
been focusing on the process of axis elongation and on
segmentation whereby a periodic series of anatomical
structures such as vertebrae are formed during organo-
genesis. His goal is to understand the basic principles
underlying these morphogenetic processes. His work re-
lies on developmental biology studies in chicken, mouse
and zebrash embryos combining genetic approaches
with genomic strategies such as transcriptomics or high
throughput sequencing and bioinformatics as well as so-
phisticated in vivo imaging. He is also interested in ap-
plying his results to medicine, by exploring the molec-
ular basis of spine patterning defects such as scoliosis
in humans or by using regenerative medicine for cellu-
lar therapies of degenerative diseases such as Duchenne
muscular dystrophy. During his talk, this specialist of
muscles and vertebrae development will bring us a new
light on the underlying developmental mechanisms in-
volved in the right-left symmetry in Vertebrates.
Frederique Peronnet
Fr ed erique Peronnet is director of research at the CNRS
and head of the team Epigenetic control of develop-
mental homeostasis and phenotypic plasticity of the
UMR 7622 Biologie du d eveloppement. She obtained
her PhD in Paris in 1988 and her HDR in 1996. Her
research mainly focus on the epigenetic regulation of de-
velopment in Drosophila, particularly on the Polycomb
and Trithorax complexes that maintain the structure of
chromatin. Her recent research program aims at disen-
tangling the complex molecular bases of developmental
stability and uctuating asymmetry, using the powerful
molecular tools available in Drosophila melanogaster.Menno Schilthuizen
At Naturalis Biodiversity Center, I hold a position as
research scientist. Furthermore, I hold a professorship
at Leiden University, and a research associateship at
the Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation at
Universiti Malaysia Sabah. At the latter institute, I
worked as an associate professor from 2000 until 2006.
In addition to my scientic work, I have been active
as a popular science writer since 1994. My personal
drive is the endless diversity of life, which began when
I was still a little boy, collecting bugs and botanising in
our backyard. This childhood fascination morphed into
a professional dedication to understanding the many
facets involved in the evolution of species and the way
communities of closely related species interact ecolog-
ically. The organisms I work with are mainly beetles
and land snails, but I am not
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PortTownsend Washington
EvoWIBO Apr25-27
We invite you to attend the 2014 EVO-WIBO Con-
ference, which is a gathering of evolutionary biologists
from across the Pacic Northwest. This meeting is
held every other year and typically attracts 120-140 re-
searchers for a fun weekend of presentations and discus-
sions about all things related to evolutionary biology.
The 2014 EVO-WIBO Conference will be held April
25th-27th, 2014, at Fort Worden State Park in beau-
tiful Port Townsend WA. This year's keynote speaker
will be Dr. John Postlethwait, who will present a talk
entitled 'Gar ~Atouf ee: Darwin's ^ aliving fossil' and the
origin of teleost genomes'.
For more information on the conference and how to
register visit
http://blogs.uoregon.edu/evowibo/ We look forward
to seeing you in Port Townsend!
^ a Bill
William A. Cresko, Ph.D. Director, Institute of Ecology
and Evolution University of Oregon
wcresko@uoregon.edu10 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Portugal OccamsBeard Feb1
*The Symposium of Occam's Beard: comedy, creativ-
ity, and critical thinking in science*
Imagine a group of science lovers - both amateurs and
professional scientists - with one goal: to create crazy,
but coherent, theories, and support them with real
data. This is the *Symposium of Occam's Beard*,
a project founded by researchers from the Instituto
Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia and the Champalimaud Neu-
roscience Programme. The rst symposium will take
place on Saturday, February 1st at 16h, at the *Audi-
torium of the Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown*
(Av. Bras lia, Doca de Pedrou cos, Lisboa, Portugal).
The *Symposium of Occam's Beard* aims to show the
importance of critical thinking in science, by showing
what happens if it is taken away. We hope this event
reminds us of the power of hypotheses: it seems there
is always data, even to back up the craziest hypothesis.
We want to combat this trend by seeing how far we can
push it.\ All theories presented at the symposium will
be supported by real scientic data, but will that be
enough to persuade the audience?
The program includes *eight talks, chosen for their
interesting and humorous approach, based on solid
data*. Detailed information about the speakers, con-
sisting of scientists, science communicators, as well as
one remarkable high school student, can be found at
www.occamsbeard.com/speakers .The event will also
include games and quizzes, and last for around 4 hours.
*The event will be in English, and entrance will be free;
however, seat reservation is recommended. Tickets can
be reserved starting 25 January at noon via the web-
site of the symposium at www.occamsbeard.com .Any
remaining seats will be available at the door, and the
symposium will be available through live streaming.*
The Symposium of Occam's Beard is supported by the
Funda c~ ao para a Ci^ encia e a Tecnologia, as well as
the Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, and the Funda c~ ao
Champalimaud.
anamvleitao@gmail.comPuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
CallAbstracts GenomeEvolution
Dear Evoldir Community,
we would like to invite abstract submissions to a sym-
posium entitled
\The Order of Things: How genome structure evolves"
as part of the SMBE 2014 annual meeting in Puerto
Rico, June 8-12 2014.
In this symposium, we invite contributions investigat-
ing the impact of changes in genome structure in eu-
karyotic evolution. In particular, we are interested in
theoretical and empirical studies on new and/or emerg-
ing model systems. Our symposium will address the
evolutionary signicance of genomic reorganization in
a broad sense including (but not being restricted to)
the emergence and turnover of sex chromosomes, kary-
otype evolution, polyploidization, segmental duplica-
tions, chromosomal rearrangements and the evolution
of genome size. We are particularly interested in ques-
tions such as: Are changes in genome structure and
synteny potential drivers of organismal diversication
or rather mere by products thereof? What is the func-
tional and phenotypic signicance of genome structure
evolution? How do sexual conict in the genome, dier-
ent types of selective regimes, and functional constrains
inuence gene order and contribute to the rise and fall
of chromosomal structures? In the era of next gener-
ation sequencing, chromosome level genome assemblies
are still more the exception than the rule. We, thus,
also invite abstracts that feature methodological ad-
vance in this direction.
Conrmed invited speakers of the symposium are
Mark Kirkpatrick (University of Texas at Austin) and
Jeramiah Smith (University of Kentucky).
Contributed talks will be selected from ab-
stracts submitted to the SMBE2014 web-
site (https://mcidublin.conference-services.net/-
authorlogin.asp?conferenceID=3958&language=en-
uk.).
The abstract submission deadline is January 27, 2014.
Additional information about SMBE2014 can be found
here: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ The symposium
is organized by Astrid B ohne, Walter Salzburger (both
University of Basel), and Ingo Braasch (University ofFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 11
Oregon).
We are looking forward to your contributions and a
great meeting in Puerto Rico!
Kind regards,
Astrid, Ingo and Walter
Dr. Ingo Braasch
Institute of Neuroscience 1254 University of Oregon Eu-
gene, OR 97403-1254
ibraasch@uoneuro.uoregon.edu
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
EvolSystemsBiology
Dear Evoldir community,
We invite you to submit an abstract for the symposium
\Evolutionary Systems Biology of Networks"
as part of the SMBE 2014 annual meeting in Puerto
Rico, June 8-12 2014. At this symposium, we aim to
highlight contributions focussing on the tness impact
of biochemical reaction networks.
More broadly, evolution depends on molecular struc-
tures and functions, which were largely unknown when
the basis for a mechanistic understanding of evolution
was laid. Thus population genetics uses descriptive pa-
rameters like selection coecients, 'hiding' unknown
molecular functions. As resulting models are condi-
tional on assumed values, much eort goes into esti-
mating selection by empirical observation or inference
from DNA sequences using specic evolutionary mod-
els. Results do not integrate easily the many mecha-
nistic details known in molecular systems biology. Evo-
lutionary systems biology aims to build a bridge be-
tween evolutionary biology and systems biology. Inte-
grating rigorous models from both elds will improve
our mechanistic understanding of evolution. Key as-
pects of tness are aected by molecular interaction
networks, which are modied by mutations that im-
prove or degrade molecular functions. Understanding
aspects of molecular networks important for tness will
boost a mechanistical understanding of mutational ef-
fects.
Conrmed invited speakers for this symposium are Pa-
tricia Wittkopp (University of Michigan) and Uri Alon
(Weizmann Institute of Science).Contributed talks will be selected from abstracts sub-
mitted to the SMBE2014 website: http://smbe.org/-
annual/2014/ The abstract submission deadline is Jan-
uary 27, 2014.
Additional details and the latest updates about this
symposium will be made available at: http:/-
/evolutionarysystemsbiology.org/meeting/2014-
SMBE/ Some nancial support from SMBE is
available for students and postdocs to travel to this
symposium. Details on how to apply are available at
the symposium website.
For questions about the symposium, please contact the
organizers: Laurence Loewe (University of Wisconsin -
Madison, loewe@wisc.edu) and Ryan Gutenkunst (Uni-
versity of Arizona, rgutenk@email.arizona.edu).
See you in Puerto Rico! Ryan and Laurence
rgutenk@email.arizona.edu
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
OriginOfLife
Dear EvolDir members
We would like to announce the following symposium at
the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution meet-
ing in Puerto Rico June 8th-12th:
The Origin and Evolution of Early Life
Major transitions during the early history of life pose
several challenges, from the origin of genetic systems
and protein translation, to the core components of all
cells and the last universal common ancestor (LUCA),
followed by the radiation of the major cellular lineages.
This symposium will explore key events during early
evolution and the methodological advances that are
bringing new insights to this important, but still poorly
understood, period of evolutionary history.
The topics to be considered will include the evolution
and optimization of the genetic code and the molecules
that implement it; the nature, genome and metabolic
potential of LUCA; the relationships among the major
cellular lineages, and the evolutionary processes under-
lying their diversication. Recent developments in phy-
logenetic modeling, ancestral sequence reconstruction,
gene tree/species tree reconciliation, and phylogenetic
networks all promise to shed new light on early evolu-
tion, and this symposium will welcome these and other
approaches to these fascinating and enduring problems.12 EvolDir February 1, 2014
The symposium is organized by Martin Embley, Aaron
Goldman, Laura F. Landweber, Steven E. Massey, Tom
Williams
The deadline for abstract submissions is February 3rd
Steven E Massey Assistant Professor of Bioinformat-
ics Biology Department, PO Box 23360 University of
Puerto Rico - Rio Piedras San Juan PR 00931
Tel: 7875984859 (Cell), 7877640000 x7798
(Lab), x2556 (Oce) Bioinformatics Lab
NCN 343B, Oce FB 246 E-mail: stevene-
massey@gmail.com Web-page: www.scanmoment.org/-
masseybioinformatics-UPR.html Steven E Massey
<stevenemassey@gmail.com >
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
Registration
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now open for the SMBE conference to
be held in Puerto Rico from the 8-12th of June 2014.
We are happy to invite you to submit an abstract for
the symposium:
*Detecting selection in natural populations: making
sense of genome scans and towards alternative solu-
tions*
Invited speakers:
*Rasmus Nielsen*, UC Berkeley, USA
*Matthieu Foll*, Universit e de Lausanne, SWITZER-
LAND
Details of the symposium are below, and we will be ac-
cepting abstract submissions until 27th January 2014.
Description:
The use of genome-wide screens to detect selection in
natural populations is a popular pursuit. At the heart
of this method lies the detection of outlier loci to un-
cover signatures of selection, yet these signatures are
generally interpreted without questioning basic model
assumptions. Evidence is accumulating that this may
lead to erroneous conclusions due to false positives
(through recombination hotspots, population strati-
cation, endogenous incompatibilities) or false negatives
(e.g. weak selection relative to migration or drift).
An additional complication is that these methods ig-
nore the fact that most selected loci may be involvedin polygenic adaptation in which case theory would
predict small changes in allelic frequencies. Together
these challenges highlight the need to improve current
methods by improving model assumptions, variance es-
timates of dierentiation, and by integrating environ-
mental, phenotypic and functional genomics. Alterna-
tive approaches to the \selective sweep paradigm" that
consider a multi-locus (quantitative) genetics frame-
work must also be considered.
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to ad-
vance the eld by uniting researchers working on both
improving genome scan approaches as well as alterna-
tive solutions. Given the current excitement to uncover
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
of interest to a broad range of researchers in the elds
of genome biology and evolutionary biology.
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress
website (http://smbe.org/annual/2014/).
See you in Puerto Rico!
Louis Bernatchez and Maren Wellenreuther *Maren
Wellenreuther* (PhD, Assistant Professor) Department
of Biology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund, SWEDEN
Phone: +46 46 222 9014 Mobile: +46 709 429930
http://www4.lu.se/o.o.i.s/25872 *WORK
HOMEPAGE PERSONAL HOME-
PAGE http://marenwellenreuther.com/
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
UndergraduateTravelAwards
2014 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY FOR
MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION
June 8-12, Puerto Rico
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is pleased to make available 10 awards for un-
dergraduate students to participate in a Mentoring and
Diversity Program at the SMBE meeting (June 8-12,
Puerto Rico). Five of these positions will be reserved
for undergraduates from traditionally underrepresented
groups in our scientic discipline.
The goals of this program are: (1) to provide students
with the opportunity to experience the excitement of
attending and presenting at an international scienticFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 13
conference, (2) to foster enthusiasm for molecular biol-
ogy and evolution as well as a possible career in this
eld, and (3) to promote diversity at the SMBE annual
meeting.
Eligibility: You must be an undergraduate student at
the time of the application. It is not necessary to be
registered for the meeting to apply for the Undergrad-
uate Travel award.
Process: Selected undergraduates (10) will receive a
travel award ($1500 domestic and $2000 international).
Undergraduate students will present their work in the
Poster Session.
All details about this program can be found on this web
site :
http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientic-program/-
awards/ Please do not hesitate to forward this
announcement to your students.
DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: Feb.
3rd 2014
Laurent Duret Laboratoire Biom etrie et Biologie Evo-
lutive UMR CNRS 5558, Universit e Lyon 1 43 Bld du
11 Novembre 1918 69622 Villeurbanne cedex France
Phone : +33 (0) 4 72 44 62 97 FAX : +33 (0)
4 72 43 13 88 e-mail : Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr
Web page: http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Duret-Laurent-
.html?lang=3Den Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr
PuertoRico SMBE14
AmericasPopHistory Jun8-12
Dear colleagues,
We are hosting a symposium at SMBE2014 in Puerto
Rico (June 8-12) entitled \Genomic Perspectives on the
Population History of the Americas " and invite you to
submit abstracts for contributed talks here:
http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientic-program/call-
for-symposia/ The Americas were the last part of the
world to be explored and occupied by humans. Despite
having been studied extensively, the mode and tempo
of the early migrations still remain a matter of debate.
During the period of European colonization, the inux
of other population groups - notably Europeans and
Africans - changed the genetic make-up of the Ameri-
cas forever and contributed to the medley of cultures
that live there today. This unique make-up presents amajor methodological challenge for reconstructing the
region's population genetic history. However, recent
advances in sequencing and analyzing modern and
ancient DNA data, including modeling of complex
demographic scenarios involving recent admixture
events, have started to contribute to a better under-
standing of these dierent migratory processes and
the population genetic history of present-day Latin
Americans. The aim of this symposium is to bring
together experts from modern population genetics and
the eld of ancient DNA to present and discuss the
most recent ndings on the peopling of the Americas
and the demographic processes that shaped modern
American populations.
Organizers: Carlos D. Bustamante, Anna Malaspinas,
Juan C. Mart nez Cruzado, Hannes Schroeder
The deadline for submissions is Monday, January 27th
2014.
We look forward to seeing you in San Juan!
Dr Hannes Schroeder Centre for Geogenetics Natural
History Museum of Denmark University of Copenhagen
~Aster Voldgade 5-7 DK-1350 Copenhagen
ERC Synergy Project NEXUS1492 Faculty of Archae-
ology Leiden University PO Box 9515, 2300 Leiden The
Netherlands
+45 35 32 13 46 (oce) +45 42 52 36 14 (mobile)
www.eurotast.eu www.nexus1492.eu Hannes Schroeder
<hannes.schroeder@gmail.com >
PuertoRico SMBE
AdaptationGenomics Jun8-12
Dear Evoldir Community,
we would like to invite abstract submissions to a sym-
posium entitled
\Genomics of adaptation" as part of the SMBE 2014
annual meeting in Puerto Rico, June 8-12 2014. The
specic symposium's abstract is below. Presentation
abstracts need to be submitted by Jan 27th on the con-
ference's website (http://smbe.org/annual/2014/).
Genomics of adaptation
Many species inhabit large geographical ranges and ex-
hibit local adaptation to varying environmental condi-
tions across these ranges. The recent genomics revolu-14 EvolDir February 1, 2014
tion has now provided a means to study the evolution-
ary processes that drive adaptation at the molecular
level. High-throughput genome sequencing allows us to
comprehensively survey genetic variation across species
ranges and over multiple generations. Such studies can
identify genes involved in adaptation to environmental
variables, provide information about the demographic
history of a species and illuminate the processes in-
volved in range expansions and local adaptation. Excit-
ing genomic results are beginning to emerge in a wide
range of animal and plant taxa (e.g. Heliconius but-
teries, cichlid sh, columbine owers, monkeyowers,
etc.) that challenge our current understanding of how
genomes diverge during adaptation and speciation. At
the same time, developments in theory and modeling
can give us insights into the processes of selection and
drift across species ranges and about processes that oc-
cur when species inhabit new niches, e.g., during adap-
tive radiations. Disentangling the eects of demog-
raphy, genetic drift and natural selection on genomic
data remains a major challenge that requires bridging
the gap between data and theory. This symposium
will provide a venue for researchers studying the ge-
nomics of adaptation, empirically or theoretically, to
come together and synthesize a new understanding of
how adaptation and speciation drives patterns of ge-
nomic divergence. Conrmed invited speakers of the
symposium are Graham Coop (UC Davis) and Scott
Hodges (UC Santa Barbara).
Stephan Peischl Post-doc CMPG Institute of Ecology
and Evolution University of Bern Baltzerstrasse 6 CH-
3012 Bern Switzerland Phone: +41 31 631 30 36 Fax:
+41 31 631 48 88 Email: stephan.peischl@iee.unibe.ch
stephan.peischl@iee.unibe.ch
PuertoRico SMBE
AsexualGenomeEvolAdapt Jun8-12
Conference: PuertoRico.SMBE AsexualGenome EvolAdapt.Jun8-
12
We invite you to submit an abstract for poster and/or
oral presentation in the symposium \Genome evolu-
tion and adaptation in asexual lineages" at the SMBE
2014 in Puerto Rico (8-12 June 2014, http://smbe.org/-
annual/2014/).
Call for abstracts is open until 27 January 2014. Travel
awards for postdocs and students are available (http:/-/smbe.org/annual/2014/scientic-program/awards/).
16. Genome evolution and adaptation in asexual lin-
eages The prevalence of sexual reproduction among
eukaryotes despite its costs is one of the major enig-
mas in evolutionary biology. Numerous ecological and
genetic models, such as the Tangled Bank, the Red
Queen, Muller's ratchet and Kondrashov's hatchet, sug-
gest that sexuals can have an edge over asexuals in
certain situations; furthermore, the observation that
most asexual eukaryotes are recent oshoots scattered
throughout the eukaryotic tree of life has led to the
widespread hypothesis that asexuality represents an
evolutionary \dead end" and that asexual lineages are
bound to rapid extinction.
There are, however, some eukaryotic groups that have
persisted for millions of years and diversied in the ap-
parent absence of sex, such as bdelloid rotifers. To shed
light on this paradox, the present symposium aims to
explore mechanisms of genome evolution and adapta-
tion that are specic to asexual lineages, including can-
cer cells.
Organizers: Jens Bast (J.F. Blumenbach Institute of
Zoology and Anthropology, G ottingen, Germany) &
Jean-Fran cois Flot (Max Planck Institute for Dynamics
and Self-Organization, G ottingen, Germany)
Invited speakers (conrmed): Karine Van Doninck
(University of Namur, Belgium) Michael Desai (Har-
vard University, USA)
jens.bast@biologie.uni-goettingen.de
PuertoRico SMBE
BiochemMeetsEvolution Jun8-12
Dear Evoldir members,
SMBE abstract submission closes on Tue Jan 27. We
would like to encourage submission to the symposium
\Biochemistry meets molecular evolution"
held as part of the annual SMBE meeting, in Puerto
Rico June 8-12 2014. The invited speaker will be Nick
Grishin (UT Southwestern, HHMI) speaking on \Evo-
lution of protein spatial structures and functions".
Molecular evolution research is often focused on se-
quence analysis, treating genes and genomes as simple
strings composed of letters A, C, G, and T. Yet these
sequences represent real, three-dimensional moleculesFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 15
with complex structure and function. Many of the
most fundamental breakthroughs in our understand-
ing of molecular evolution have come from extracting
core ndings from biochemistry and molecular biology
and incorporating them into evolutionary models and
techniques. For example, the structure of the genetic
code gave us dN/dS tests. In more recent years, knowl-
edge about RNA secondary structures, about nucleo-
some positioning signals, and about protein folding free
energies have all contributed to our understanding of
molecular evolution.
This symposium will bring together researchers work-
ing at the interface of biochemistry and molecular evo-
lution, and contribute to an extended evolutionary syn-
thesis that brings biochemistry and molecular biology
into the core of evolutionary thought. The symposium
will be a showcase for the emerging synthesis, highlight-
ing the diversity of biochemical facts that are relevant
to molecular evolution, and the ways in which molec-
ular evolutionists can incorporate biochemical thinking
into their work.
Contributed talks will be selected from ab-
stracts submitted to the SMBE2014 web-
site https://mcidublin.conference-services.net/-
authorlogin.asp?conferenceID=3958 .With one invited
speaker, we anticipate a minimum of 4 slots available
for submitted 15 minute talks. Additional information
about SMBE2014 can be found at http://smbe.org/-
annual/2014/ . The symposium is organized by Joanna
Masel (University of Arizona) and Clause Wilke (UT
Austin). We are looking forward to your contribution.
masel@email.arizona.edu
PuertoRico SMBE Biodiversity
Jun8-12
Dear Colleagues,
A symposium entitled \Timetrees and Global Biodiver-
sity" will take place at SMBE 2014 (8-12 June) in San
Juan, Puerto Rico.
'Biodiversity research' is now at the intersection of
molecular biology, ecology, evolution, and conservation,
and driven by the recent availability of large, global
data sets on organisms, especially molecular phyloge-
nies of thousands of species calibrated to time (time-
trees). The results inform us of not only the past his-
tory of biodiversity, including speciation, extinction,and diversication, but also the present composition
and future distribution of species in a globally chang-
ing environment.
Presentations will be selected from the submitted
abstracts at: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientic-
program/call-for-symposia/ (submission deadline, 27
January)
We look forward to seeing you there!
Symposium Organizers: Blair Hedges & Julie Marin
(Pennsylvania State University)
sbh1@psu.edu
PuertoRico SMBE
ConservationGenomics Jun8-12
Dear Colleagues:
We wanted to bring your attention to a symposium on
*Evolutionary and Conservation Genomics of Neotrop-
ical vertebrates *that we are organizing at the next
meeting of the *Society of Molecular Biology and Evo-
lution* (SMBE 2014) that will take place in San Juan
Puerto Rico: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/). Our
goal is to involve and represent a wide variety of
projects focusing on vertebrate genomics in the Latin
America, and the Caribbean, and to use this opportu-
nity to facilitate networking and collaboration in the
eld. The deadline for abstract submission is January
27th. I hope that you will consider participating in our
symposium.
Contributed talks will be selected from abstracts sub-
mitted to the
SMBE2014 website. To register your abstract, please
follow this link: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ . The
deadline for submission is January 27th, 2014.
*Evolutionary and conservation genomics of Neotropi-
cal vertebrates*
The evolution of Neotropical vertebrates has captivated
biologists since Darwin, Wallace and Simpson were in-
spired by the native fauna of the region while conceiving
their groundbreaking work. South and Meso-America
and the Caribbean contain some of the worlds most
important biodiversity hotspots, featuring tens of thou-
sands of endemic species in diverse environments rang-
ing from rainforests to deserts. The region tops nearly
every global conservation priority list regardless of taxo-16 EvolDir February 1, 2014
nomic group. Recent advances in next generation tech-
nologies have created exciting opportunities to use ge-
nomics in the study of Neotropical vertebrates. In this
symposium, we will showcase studies on the molecular
genetics, evolution and conservation of Neotropical ver-
tebrates from vantage points made possible by techno-
logical advances, and unravel the interplay of evolution-
ary forces that govern their distribution or determine
their survival. This symposium will feature researchers
working on diverse vertebrate species from the region.
We believe that this would make a nice contribution to
the conference, notably by highlighting ongoing molecu-
lar evolutionary studies being conducted in Puerto Rico
and in the rest of the Caribbean, as well as Central and
South America.
*Symposium Organizers*: Eduardo Eizirik
(eduardo.eizirik@pucrs.br), Alfred Roca
(roca@illinois.edu) & Taras Oleksyk
(taras.oleksyk@upr.edu)
Taras Oleksyk <oleksyk@gmail.com >
PuertoRico SMBE
DetectingNaturalSelection Jun8-12
Dear Evoldir members,
SMBE abstract submission closes on Tue Jan 27. We
would like to encourage submission to the symposium
*Detecting selection in natural populations: making
sense of genome scans and towards alternative solu-
tions*
Invited speakers:
*Rasmus Nielsen*, UC Berkeley, USA
*Matthieu Foll*, Universit e de Lausanne, SWITZER-
LAND
Description:
The use of genome-wide screens to detect selection in
natural populations is a popular pursuit. At the heart
of this method lies the detection of outlier loci to un-
cover signatures of selection, yet these signatures are
generally interpreted without questioning basic model
assumptions. Evidence is accumulating that this may
lead to erroneous conclusions due to false positives
(through recombination hotspots, population strati-
cation, endogenous incompatibilities) or false negatives
(e.g. weak selection relative to migration or drift).An additional complication is that these methods ig-
nore the fact that most selected loci may be involved
in polygenic adaptation in which case theory would
predict small changes in allelic frequencies. Together
these challenges highlight the need to improve current
methods by improving model assumptions, variance es-
timates of dierentiation, and by integrating environ-
mental, phenotypic and functional genomics. Alterna-
tive approaches to the \selective sweep paradigm" that
consider a multi-locus (quantitative) genetics frame-
work must also be considered.
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to ad-
vance the eld by uniting researchers working on both
improving genome scan approaches as well as alterna-
tive solutions. Given the current excitement to uncover
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
of interest to a broad range of researchers in the elds
of genome biology and evolutionary biology.
Contributed talks will be selected from abstracts sub-
mitted to the SMBE2014 website (http://smbe.org/-
annual/2014/)
The symposium is organized by Louis Bernatchez and
Maren Wellenreuther
*Maren Wellenreuther* (PhD, Assistant Professor) De-
partment of Biology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund,
SWEDEN
Phone: +46 46 222 9014 Mobile: +46 709 429930
http://www4.lu.se/o.o.i.s/25872 WORK
HOMEPAGE PERSONAL HOME-
PAGE http://marenwellenreuther.com/-
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
PuertoRico SMBE
DoesPloidyMatter Jun8-12
Dear Evoldir members,
We would like to invite abstract submission to the sym-
posium entitled: \Does Ploidy Matter? Ploidy Impacts
on Evolutionary Processes" which is part of the annual
SMBE meeting, in PuertoRico June 8-12 2014.
The masking hypothesis suggests that ploidy, the num-
ber of chromosomal copies present in a cell, aects the
ecacy of selection. According to this hypothesis, se-
lection is more ecient in haploids than in diploids,
because recessive mutations are directly exposed to se-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 17
lection in haploids, whereas their phenotypic eect can
be masked in heterozygote diploids through dominant
alleles. The masking hypothesis is central to the under-
standing of fundamental evolutionary processes such as
the rate of adaptation, evolution of sex chromosomes,
genetic incompatibilities, the evolution of the genetic
load, inbreeding depression and that of basic Eukary-
otic life cycles. Most of the theory regarding the mask-
ing hypothesis, however, assume that all \else is equal",
which minimizes the impact of other processes that may
be aected by ploidy levels. Therefore, the extent to
which predictions of the masking hypothesis apply is
poorly known.However, with the advancement of next
generation sequencing, the ability to exploit compara-
tive, experimental and population genomics approaches
to test these theories is rapidly expanding. The present
symposium aims to bring together experimentalists and
theoreticians working on various levels of organization
(unicellular and multicellular) to understand the eect
of ploidy on the ecacy of selection and its implications
on a broad set of evolutionary processes.
Conrmed invited speakers are: Sarah Otto (Univer-
sity of British Columbia) and Dmitry Petrov (Stanford
University).
Contributed talks will be selected from ab-
stracts submitted to the SMBE2014 web-
site (https://mcidublin.conference-services.net/-
authorlogin.asp?conferenceID=3D3958&language=en-
uk.).
The abstract submission deadline is January 27, 2014.
Additional information about SMBE2014 can be found
here: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ The symposium
is organized by Peter Szovenyi (University of Zurich),
Simone Immler(Uppsala University), Sarah Otto (Uni-
versity of British Columbia) and Stephen Wright (Uni-
versity of Toronto).
We are looking forward to your contribution.
With kind regards, on behalf of the organizers
Peter
peter.szoevenyi@ieu.uzh.ch
PuertoRico SMBE Epistasis Jun8-12
Dear colleagues,
We invite you to submit an abstract for the symposium'The role of epistasis in molecular evolution'
at the SMBE meeting in Puerto Rico, 8-12 June 2014.
Epistasis (nonadditive interactions between mutations)
can inuence the rate and direction of evolutionary
change, and is therefore of longstanding interest to
evolutionary geneticists. In molecular evolution, in-
sights into the form and prevalence of epistasis are rel-
evant to fundamental questions about the topography
of adaptive landscapes and the predictability of mu-
tational pathways through sequence space. In recent
years, microbial experimental evolution studies have
demonstrated how epistasis shapes the structure of the
genotype-tness map, and directed-mutagenesis stud-
ies have documented epistasis between mutant sites in
the same protein, revealing the direct causes of genetic
constraints on adaptation and shedding light on the se-
lective accessibility of alternative mutational paths to
high-tness genotypes. The purpose of the proposed
symposium is to showcase recent theoretical and em-
pirical advances in our understanding of epistasis and
its inuence on evolutionary mechanism and process.
Our aim is to showcase work that tackles big questions
and motivates new research directions.
The conrmed invited speaker for this symposium is:
Dan Weinreich (Brown University).
Contributed talks will be selected from abstracts sub-
mitted to the SMBE2014 website: http://smbe.org/-
annual/2014/ The abstract submission deadline is 27
January 2014.
Symposium organizers:
Jay F. Storz (University of Nebraska, jstorz2@unl.edu)
Kristi L. Montooth (Indiana University, mon-
tooth@indiana.edu, University of Nebraska [as of
summer 2014], kmontooth2@unl.edu)
We look forward to seeing you in Puerto Rico!
Jay Storz <jstorz2@unl.edu >
PuertoRico SMBE GeneOrigin
Jun8-12
Dear colleagues
We invite you to submit an abstract for presentation in
the symposium
How old is my gene? Large-scale analysis of gene origin
and function18 EvolDir February 1, 2014
being held in conjunction with SMBE 2014, June 8 - 12
in Puerto Rico.
The origin of a gene relative to key transitions in
species evolution provides clues about its functions, in-
teractions, disease associations, and ecological distri-
butions. Despite recent successes in gene age anal-
ysis, there are few established best practices for in-
ferring gene origins and integrating this knowledge
with other attributes of genes. The November (2013)
Trends in Genetics article \How Old is My Gene?"
(doi:10.1016/j.tig.2013.07.001) outlines some of the
challenges and open questions in this emerging area.
The goal of this symposium is to promote a dialog on
how best to dene, quantify, and estimate gene age. We
welcome
- studies that integrate gene origin analysis with other
elds to address functional or ecological questions
- novel phylogenetic models and approaches for gene
origin analysis
- abstracts that tackle issues in large-scale analyses of
genes, e.g., of all genes in a genome or all genes that
participate in the same pathway or process.
Abstracts should be no more than 400 words and
must be submitted though the online system by MON-
DAY, JAN 27TH at: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/-
scientic-program/call-for-symposia/ Please join us for
an exciting symposium, bringing together researchers
who develop methods for estimating gene age with re-
searchers who investigate the relationship between gene
age and function
See you in Puerto Rico! Tony, Dannie, and Maureen
Symposium Organizers:
John A. Capra (tony.capra@vanderbilt.edu), Center for
Human Genetics Research and Dept of Biomedical In-
formatics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37232,
USA
Dannie Durand, (durand@cs.cmu.edu), Depts of Bio-
logical Science and Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA
Maureen Stolzer (mstolzer@andrew.cmu.edu), Dept of
Biological Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pitts-
burgh, PA 15213, USA
PuertoRico SMBE
GeneticsCULTURE Jun8-12Dear colleagues,
We would like to encourage you to apply for our up-
coming symposium \*Joint analyses of genetic and cul-
tural data*," which will be held at the June 2014 meet-
ing of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolu-
tion (*SMBE 2014*) in San Juan, Puerto Rico [http:/-
/smbe.org/annual/2014/]. Talks will focus on the im-
pact of cultural factors on genetic variation, and vice
versa.
*Symposium description:*
Cultural factors X such as marriage customs, farming
practices, and languages X can create population sub-
structure, inuence admixture, and place selective pres-
sures on genetic variants. Joint analyses of genetic and
cultural data can help us understand how cultural fac-
tors contribute to human genetic variation, and they
can provide more precise inferences of demographic his-
tories. This symposium aims to explore recent advances
in the joint analysis of genetic and cultural data, as
well as methodologies for performing these analyses.
The work presented in this symposium will connect re-
searchers who work on these questions and provide a
basis for future research into the important role of cul-
ture in the evolution of populations.
This is likely to be a great meeting for anyone inter-
ested in human evolutionary history. This year, SMBE
will host a number of symposia on topics related to hu-
man history, including the following sessions: Ancient
Genomics, Genomic perspectives on the population his-
tory of the Americas, Genetics of Species Domestica-
tion, Human evolutionary biology, Out of Africa: Hu-
mans, commensals, pathogens, oh my!, and Joint anal-
yses of genetic and cultural data.
Conrmed invited speaker is Dr Barry Hewlett.
The abstract submission deadline is January 27th,
2014.
We hope to see you this summer!
Ethan Jewett Nicole Creanza Oana Carja
Department of Biology Stanford University
Oana Carja <oana.carja@gmail.com >
PuertoRico SMBE
GeneticsDomestication Jun8-12
I wanted to advertise the call for presentation abstractsFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 19
for a specic symposium (Genetics of Species Domesti-
cation) at SMBE 2014 this year in Puerto Rico (June
8-12th). The specic symposium's abstract is below.
I believe presentation abstracts need to be submit-
ted by Jan 27th on the conference's website (http:/-
/smbe.org/annual/2014/).
Many thanks! Bridgett
SMBE 2014 Symposium Abstract: Genetics of Species
Domestication
The process of animal domestication is analogous to
natural selection and provides many readily available
systems that allow explorations of the genetic changes
associated with rapid phenotypic alteration. In this
symposium, we would like to discuss recent advances in
the genetics of domestication. Specically, our aim is to
highlight recent studies that have both investigated the
genetic changes that have accrued during the process of
domestication, concomitantly with their correlation to
various facets of the 'domestication syndrome', a suite
of alterations in morphology, physiology, pigmentation,
reproduction, and behavior.
Many studies have catalogued genetic variants under
strong articial selection in recent stages of domestica-
tion; however, we wish to see this symposium showcase
some of the most dramatic ndings of genome evolution
as a consequence of species domestication.
Organizers: Bridgett vonHoldt, Carlos Driscoll
Bridgett vonHoldt Assistant Professor Prince-
ton University Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
M151 Guyot Hall Princeton, NJ 08544-2016 Of-
ce: 609-258-7021 vonholdt@princeton.edu http:/-
/www.princeton.edu/ ~ vonholdt \Bridgett M.
vonHoldt" <vonholdt@princeton.edu >
PuertoRico SMBE InvertGenomes
Jun8-12 DeadlineFeb3
Dear friends and colleagues,
This is just a friendly reminder that the abstract dead-
line for the 2014 SMBE meeting (Puerto Rico from June
8-12, 2014) has been extended to Feb 3. For more de-
tails please see - http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ Our
symposium entitled \Establishing a "Global Inverte-
brate Genome Alliance\ (GIGA) for Comparative Ge-
nomics" aims to bring together researchers with the ul-
timate aim to cooperatively sequence or analyse wholegenomes and transcriptomes of approximately 7,000 se-
lected invertebrates, with a focus on non-insect, non-
nematode marine taxa. A white paper is available
at the Journal of Heredity, which outlines GIGA's
goals, data and methodological standards (http://-
jhered.oxfordjournals.org/content/105/1/1.full).
This symposium is organized by Jose V. Lopez, Todd
Oakley, and Christian R Voolstra. It addresses modern
genome technology with the history of life, and will be
another step in helping the GIGA community to grow
and exchange ideas in a molecular evolutionary context.
We hope to see as many of you there as possible so that
discussions of GIGA and related projects can continue.
Joe, Todd, I, and other SMBE symposia organizers look
forward to receiving your abstracts.
Thanks,
Christian R Voolstra Assistant Professor of Marine Ge-
nomics PI Reef Genomics Red Sea Research Center
KAUST University
christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa
PuertoRico SMBE
PaleovirologyJun8-12
Dear Evoldir members,
We would like to invite abstract submission to a sym-
posium entitled: \Paleovirology: Endogenous Viral El-
ements (EVEs) and their evolutionary impact" as part
of the annual SMBE meeting, in Puerto Rico, June 8-
12, 2014. The symposium abstract is below.
The genomes of most organisms consist of a substantial
proportion of viral origin. This \fossil record" of viruses
in genomes reveals the ancient history of viruses and
allows us to gain some insight into host-virus interac-
tions. Some viruses, such as retroviruses, integrate into
the genome as an obligate step in their life cycle. How-
ever, the abundance of whole genome sequences from
a number of dierent organisms reveals that it is not
just retroviruses that integrate into genomes V other
viruses can also become incorporated into the genome
either by chance or as a dormant part of their life cy-
cle. Recent research demonstrates that all known viral
genomic structures using a variety of dierent replica-
tion/proliferation strategies are captured in this fossil
record. This extends the range of paleovirology beyond
just retroviruses to also include non-retroviral integra-20 EvolDir February 1, 2014
tions V collectively termed endogenous viral elements
(EVEs). The impact of these insertions has been sig-
nicant and varied, ranging from co-option of genes for
the benet of the host in some instances, to provid-
ing immunity against related viruses in others. This
symposium will be an opportunity to bring together
researchers from a diverse range of backgrounds, to ad-
vance our understanding and raise an awareness of the
approaches being employed (lab, bioinformatics, and
modelling) and analyses being undertaken to answer
questions in this relatively new and rapidly developing
eld of study.
Conrmed invited speakers are: Harmit Malik (Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center). Contributed
talks will be selected from abstracts submitted to the
SMBE2014 website
The abstract submission deadline is January 27, 2014.
Additional information about SMBE2014 can be found
here: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ Ravinder Kanda
(symposium organiser) Department of Zoology Univer-
sity of Oxford The Tinbergen Building South Parks
Road Oxford, OX1 3PS UK
Email: ravinder.kanda@zoo.ox.ac.uk
Ravinder Kanda <ravinder.kanda@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24
MSITravelAward
Evolution 2014 MSI Faculty Travel Award
Are you a faculty member at a minority-serving in-
stitution (MSI)? Apply now for a travel award to at-
tend Evolution 2014 from June 20-24 in Raleigh, NC
(www.evolution2014.org).
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent
- www.nescent.org), with support from the Society for
the Study of Evolution, is pleased to announce travel
awards for faculty from Minority Serving Institutions
to attend Evolution 2014, as part of our continuing
outreach eorts focusing on groups that are under-
represented in evolutionary science.
If you are a faculty member at an MSI, HBCU or
other institution with signicant enrollment of under-
represented minority students, you are encouraged to
apply. Funds are available to cover conference registra-
tion, travel, food and lodging.
This award is intended to provide MSI faculty with anopportunity to present original research in evolution,
systematic biology, evolutionary genomics/informatics,
evolution education/outreach or other disciplines typi-
cally represented at the Evolution meetings. As such,
your application must include a talk/poster title and
abstract. In addition, you will be asked to provide a
brief (1 page) statement describing how this award will
contribute to your professional/scientic development,
as well as provide benet to your students and institu-
tion.
To apply, please visit www.nescent.org/-
Evo2014facultyapp Application Deadline: March
31st, 2014 (Awards will be announced by April 4th,
2014)
For more information, please contact Dr. Jory Wein-
traub (jory@nescent.org)
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24
UndergradDiversity
Undergraduate Diversity at Evolution 2014
We are pleased to announce an undergraduate travel
award to bring talented and diverse undergraduates to
the Evolution meetings this June 20-24 in Raleigh, NC
(www.evolution2014.org). For the 12th year in a row
we will y a cohort of undergraduates from throughout
the US and Puerto Rico to present a poster at the meet-
ings, receive mentoring from graduate students, post-
docs and faculty, and participate in a career-oriented
'Undergraduate Futures in Evolutionary Biology' panel
and discussion. The program covers the costs of travel,
registration, food and accommodation at the meetings.
The application deadline is Monday, April 14th, and
decisions will be announced by Monday, April 21st. Ap-
plications are welcomed from all undergraduates, and
the admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of stu-
dents.
An overview of the program and student eligibility, and
a link to the online application can be found at:
www.nescent.org/eog/undergraddiversity ApplicationsFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 21
consist of a short statement of interest, a letter of rec-
ommendation and the title and abstract of the poster
to be presented.
In addition, we will be soliciting names of graduate
students, postdocs and faculty members who would
like to serve as mentors during the meetings. Men-
tors meet with pairs of students and attend talks with
them, introduce them to colleagues, network and gen-
erally make the meetings a welcoming place for them.
Although costs are not covered for mentors it is an
unusually rewarding experience. Contact Richard Kli-
man (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu) if you are interested
in serving as a mentor.
For inquires contact one of the organizers:
Jory Weintraub - jory@nescent.org
Richard Kliman - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu
Scott Edwards - sedwards@oeb.harvard.edu
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Raleigh NorthCarolina
Evolution2014 Jun20-24
Dear colleagues
This year, the annual joint conference of ASN, SSB and
SSE will be held in Raleigh, North Carolina from 20 -
24 June 2014. As in past years, the conference will be
held in tandem with iEvoBio, which will run on 24 and
25 June.
You will be able to register for either or both confer-
ences in February, but you can already check out our
website (www.evolution2014.org) for all current infor-
mation about the meeting, including registration and
other costs, accommodation options, pre- and post-
conference events and symposia.
The program lineup is exciting and we are expecting
a large number of attendees. We therefore recommend
that you book your accommodation now, if you know
that you will be attending the conference.
We will send out another announcement once the reg-
istration site is live. Until then, if you have questions,please email organizer@nescent.org.
We look forward to meeting you in Raleigh, and learn-
ing about your research!
Allen Rodrigo Director, NESCent Chair, Evolution
2014 Organizing Committee
a.rodrigo@nescent.org
Rosco Viral Emergence Evolution
Apr2-6
New deadline for registration: Jan 22, 2014
>From emerging to pandemic viruses: interplay be-
tween host ecology and viral evolution
April 2-6, 2014, Rosco (Brittany, France)
http://www.mivegec.ird.fr/monod/-
CJM Regoes en.htm Conrmed speakers
ALIZON Samuel (Montpellier, France) - Vice-
chairperson (samuel.alizon@cnrs.fr) ARTS Eric
(Cleveland, USA) ASQUITH Becca (London, UK)
BENKIRANE Monsef (Montpellier, France) BLANC
Stephane (Montpellier, France) BONHOEFFER
Sebastian (Zurich, Switzerland) CHARBONNEL
Nathalie (Montpellier, France) CLAVERIE Jean-
Michel (Marseille, France) COBEY Sarah (Chicago,
USA) CUNNINGHAM Andrew (London, UK) DE
LAMBALLERIE Xavier (Marseille, France) ELENA
Santiago (Valencia, Spain) FRASER Christophe (Lon-
don, UK) GANDON Sylvain (Montpellier, France)
GAUDIN Yves (Gif-sur-Yvette, France) GESSAIN
Antoine (Paris, France) HAMPSON Katie (Glasgow,
UK) JIGGINS Franck (Cambridge, UK) KOSKELLA
Britt (Exeter, UK) LEVIN Bruce (Atlanta, USA)
LLOYD-SMITH James (Los Angeles, USA) MARTIN
Darren (Cape Town, South Africa) PRANGISHVILI
David (Paris, France) PYBUS Oliver (Oxford, UK)
REGOES Roland (Zurich, Switzerland) - Chairperson
(roland.regoes@env.ethz.ch) TURNER Paul (New
Haven, USA) VAN BOVEN Michiel (Bilthoven,
Netherlands) VIGNUZZI Marco (Paris, France)
WEAVER Scott (Galveston, USA) WIMMER Eckard
(Stony Brook, USA)
Emerging viruses are recognized to be a threat not only
to human health but also to activities, such as crop or
cattle farming, and even to endangered species. This
Jacques Monod conference will study virus evolution
and emergence through an original perspective by fo-22 EvolDir February 1, 2014
cusing on where viruses thrive. A rst series of lectures
will present virus outbreaks in the wild, ranging from
'classical' topics (ebola in humans) to more unusual
viruses (viruses infecting Archae or viruses infecting...
viruses). A second series of lectures will present exper-
imental results on outbreaks, with a particular focus
on bacteriophages, which are particularly amenable to
experimental evolution approaches. Finally, the third
series of lectures will focus on deciphering the dynami-
cal processes that can lead to outbreaks of new viruses.
Overall, this conference stands out as one of the few
that gathers researchers, who use dierent approaches
(molecular biology, experimental evolution, mathemati-
cal modeling) and work on viruses infecting a wide vari-
ety of hosts (animals, plants, bacteria, Archae, viruses)
but who are all interested in virus emergence.
Registration fee (includes board and lodging, i.e. 4
nights, breakfeast and 6 meals)
420 EUR for PhD students 600 EUR for other partici-
pants
Application for registration
The total number of participants is limited to 115 and
all participants are expected to attend for the whole
duration of the conference. Selection is made on the
basis of the anity of potential participants with the
topics of the conference.
Scientists and PhD Students interested in the meet-
ing should send: 1. a short curriculum vitae 2. the
list of their main publications for the 3 last years 3.
the abstract of their presentation to the Chairperson of
the conference (roland.regoes@env.ethz.ch) before the
deadline.
Except in some particular cases approved by the chair-
person, it is recommended that all selected partici-
pants present their work during the conference, either
in poster form or by a brief in-session talk. The orga-
nizers choose the form in which the presentations are
made. No payment will be sent with application. In-
formation on how and when to pay will be mailed in
due time to those selected.
Sponsors: CNRS, INSERM, IRD, FEMS, REID, ESV
Please do not hesitate to forward this announcement to
any collaborators who might be interested.
http://www.mivegec.ird.fr/monod/-
CJM Regoes en.htm samuel.alizon@cnrs.frRoySoc London
PhylogenyExtinction Mar10-11
Dear Colleague,
You are warmly invited to attend a Royal Society sci-
entic discussion meeting.
Phylogeny, extinction risks and conservation <http:/-
/royalsociety.org/events/2014/phylogeny-extinction-
conservation/ >10 - 11 March 2014 The Royal Society,
London
Register now <http://royalsociety.org/events/2014/-
phylogeny-extinction-conservation/ >
More information
The integration of phylogenetic information with met-
rics of extinction risk provides powerful tools for the
conservation of phylogenetic diversity. This meet-
ing will present advances and comparative analyses
of methodologies used to support conservation eorts.
Speakers include Professor Keith Crandall, Dr Katrin
Vohland and Dr Sven Buerki.
For more information please contact Camilla Tham at
events@royalsociety.org or on 020 7451 2213.
Please feel free to pass this on to any potentially inter-
ested colleagues or students.
The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London
SW1Y 5AG Registered Charity No 207043
\Tham, Camilla" <camilla.tham@royalsociety.org >
Swiss Alps Systems Evolutionary
Genetics May18-22
###Deadline for Abstract submission / Registration
is February 15th 2014###
Conference / Registration website: http://-
sge2014.ep.ch/ We are pleased to announce our
conference dedicated to discussing recent advances in
systems and evolutionary genetics. The principle topics
will revolve around understanding the molecular and
evolutionary mechanisms underlying genomic variationFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 23
and how this variation results in phenotypic dierences
between individuals. We can only accommodate 80
participants - so please register early!
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS Johan Auwerx Doris
Bachtrog Brian Charlesworth Andy Clark Bart De-
plancke Denis Duboule Laurent Excoer Jonathan
Flint Julien Gagneur Hopi Hoekstra Jerey Jensen
Sandy Johnson Laurent Keller Ben Lehner Aldons Lu-
sis Trudy Mackay Benjamin Prud'homme Molly Prze-
worski Guy Sella Greg Wray
ORGANIZERS: Jerey Jensen (jerey.jensen@ep.ch)
http://jensenlab.ep.ch/ Bart Deplancke
(bart.deplancke@ep.ch) http://deplanckelab.ep.ch/
jerey.jensen@ep.ch
TucsonArizona DeepGenomics
Apr3-5
We are pleased to announce the National Science Foun-
dation's Integrative Graduate Education and Research
Traineeship (NSF-IGERT) Symposium on Deep Ge-
nomics on April 3-5, 2014 in Tucson, Arizona.
Symposium website: http://-
www.genomics.arizona.edu/meeting.html The Uni-
versity of Arizona IGERT Program in Comparative
Genomics is sponsoring an international meeting on
Deep Genomics. The symposium's theme this year
encompasses broad scale comparative inferences in
the three areas of our training program, including
comparative and evolutionary genomics of divergent
species, genomics of development, traits, and related
interaction networks originating early in evolutionary
history, and computational challenges associated with
genomics at a broad phylogenetic scale. The meeting
will take place at the Marriott University Park Hotel
adjacent to the University of Arizona campus in Tucson
on Thursday-Saturday, April 3-5, 2014. The format
of the meeting will allow considerable time for infor-
mal discussion and interaction among participants.
Participation by graduate students and postdoctoral
fellows is strongly encouraged, and discounted rates
for registration will be available.
REGISTRATION Early registration deadline: March
15, 2014 Faculty: $150, Students and Postdocs: $75
Late registration deadline: March 30, 2014 Faculty:
$175, Students and Postdocs: $90
KEYNOTE SPEAKER Kenneth Wolfe - UniversityCollege Dublin, Ireland
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS Robert Beiko - Dalhousie
University, Canada William Cresko - University of Ore-
gon Miklos Csuros - Universite de Montreal, Canada
Patrick Degnan - University of Illinois Dannie Du-
rand - Carnegie Mellon University Veronica Hinman -
Carnegie Mellon University Erin Kelleher - University
of Houston Junhyong Kim - University of Pennsylvania
Li-Jun Ma - University of Massachusetts Michael No-
dine - Gregor Mendel Institute, Austria Robert Reed -
Cornell University Shin-Han Shiu - Michigan State Uni-
versity Joseph Thornton - University of Chicago Travis
Wheeler - HHMI Janelia Farm
POSTER SESSION The symposium will feature
a poster session. Please refer to the website
for more information: www.genomics.arizona.edu/-
meeting.html Please contact Dr. Michael Sander-
son, sanderm@email.arizona.edu, with all scientic
queries. Please contact Mrs. Pennie Liebig, ge-
nomics@email.arizona.edu, with all registration or ad-
ministrative queries.
We hope to see you in April!
genomics@email.arizona.edu
UBremen EvolBiolGraduates
Mar19-21
Graduate Meeting Evolutionary Biology 2014
The meeting takes place March 19-21 2014 at Bremen
University, Germany
https://sites.google.com/site/evolgradmeeting2014/
Dear colleagues,
the Evolutionary Biology study group of the German
Zoological Society (DZG) is pleased to announce the
19th DZG evolutionary biology graduate meeting, to
be held from March 19 to 21, 2014 at the University of
Bremen.
The conference topic \plasticity" addresses a variety of
questions from organism to populations, in the lab or
in the eld. Current insights are given by Gabriele Ger-
lach (Universit at Oldenburg, D), Marcel Visser (NIOO,
Wageningen, NL), and Tadeusz Kawecky (Universit e de
Lausanne, CH).
If you are a graduate student, Master student, or young
PostDoc, and your research is connected to plasticity or24 EvolDir February 1, 2014
genetic diversity, please don't hesitate to participate.
This meeting gives you the opportunity to meet your
peers and to discuss your research in a friendly atmo-
sphere.
If you are a supervisor of graduate students, Master stu-
dents, or young PostDocs, please forward this message
to those that might be interested.
We also oer a small statistics workshop in addition to
the regular meeting, to help you improving your skills in
data analysis. There will be two parallel sessions, either
on the meaning of D- and GST-values for population
genetic studies, held by Gabriele Gerlach (University of
Oldenburg), or on generalized linear models as an alter-
native to non-parametric tests and data transformation,
given by Thomas Homeister (University of Bremen).
The conference fee is euro 20,- (and it's free for mem-
bers of the DZG).
We hope to welcome you soon in Bremen!
On behalf of the organizing committee,
Andra Thiel
For more information please visit our website https://-
sites.google.com/site/evolgradmeeting2014/ Registra-
tion deadline: February 14, 2014
Dr. Andra Thiel
Population and Evolutionary Ecology FB 02, Institute
of Ecology University of Bremen D-28334 Bremen
fon ++49-421-218-62937 fax ++49-421-218-62949
email: thiel@uni-bremen.de
http://www.popecol.uni-bremen.de
UGoettingen SizeShape Apr2-4
Dear Colleagues,
we are pleased to announce that the registration for the
symposium \Size and Shape - Integration of morpho-
metrics, mathematical modelling, developmental and
evolutionary biology" is open. The registration will be
open until all slots are taken. Note that the number of
participants is limited to 60 and slots will be given on
a rst-come, rst-served basis!
*Dates: Wednesday, April 2nd - Friday, April 4th, 2014
*Venue: Georg-August-University G ottingen Ernst
Caspari-Haus (GZMB) Justus-von-Liebig-Weg 1137077 G ottingen Germany
*Scope of the Symposium: This symposium attempts
to bring researchers from various research elds to-
gether to foster interaction and fruitful discussions
about the status and the future of research on size and
shape related topics. If you work on a project aim-
ing to understand how size and/or shape of complex
organisms or organs is regulated, your input is highly
appreciated!
*Topics covered: Geometric morphometrics Body size
regulation Mathematical modelling Developmental Bi-
ology Evolutionary Biology
*Conrmed speakers: Arkhat Abzhanov (Havard Uni-
versity, USA) Fernando Casares (CABD, Sevilla,
Spain) Dagmar Iber (ETH Zurich, Switzerland) Jukka
Jernvall (University Helsinki, Finland) Christian Pe-
ter Klingenberg (University Manchester, UK) Alis-
tair P. McGregor (Oxford Brookes University, UK)
Philipp Mitter ocker (University Vienna, Austria)
Armin Moczek (Indiana University, USA) Lynn M. Rid-
diford (Janelia Farm, Ashburn, USA) Alex Shingleton
(Michigan State University, USA) Richard S. Smith
(MPI Plant Breeding Research, GER) Diethard Tautz
(MPI Evolutionary Biology, GER)
*Registration and Abstract submission: http://-
www.evolution.uni-goettingen.de/registration.html
*Registration fee: payment via bank transfer: 195
EUR payment via credit card: 201,44 EUR
*For more information please visit: http://-
www.evolution.uni-goettingen.de/ In case of questions,
feel free to contact: nposnie[at]gwdg.de
We are looking forward meeting you in April!
Nico Posnien Georg-August-University G ottingen
Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute for Zoology
and Anthropology Department of Developmental
Biology Ernst-Caspari-Hause (GZMB) Justus-von-
Liebig-Weg 11 37077 G ottingen Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 55139 20817 E-mail: npos-
nie[at]gwdg.de
nico.posnien@gmail.com
UKonstanz PopBio May29-31
dear all,
The 27th Conference of the Plant Population BiologyFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 25
Section (PopBio) of the Ecological Society of Germany,
Austria and Switzerland (Gf O) will be held at the Uni-
versity of Konstanz (Germany) from 29th to 31st May
2014.
PopBio is the annual international meeting for people
working in the eld of plant population biology and
ecology, and is one of the major meetings in this eld
in Europe. More information can be found at http://-
cms.uni-konstanz.de/popbio-2014/ . best wishes, Mark
van Kleunen
Mark van Kleunen <mark.vankleunen@uni-
konstanz.de >
Venezuela ConservationGenetics
May5-9 reminder 2
Spanish and Portuguese versions follow
****
THERE'S STILL TIME! Deadline for abstract submis-
sion EXTENDED until January 31, 2014.
First Latin American Conference on Conservation Ge-
netics
In celebration of its tenth birthday, The Red de la
Gen etica para la Conservaci on, or ReGeneC, announces
the First Latin American Conference on Conserva-
tion Genetics, in Estado Vargas, Venezuela, May 5-9,
2014. See http://www.regenec.org/taller/may2014/ for
recent updates.
Conrmed plenary speakers include: Dr. Jonathan
Ballou, Smithsonian Institution, USA Dr. Jes us Mal-
donado, Smithsonian Institution, USA Dr. Cristina
Miyaki, Universidade de Sao Paolo, Brazil Dr. An-
drea Premoli, Universidad del Comahue, Argentina Dr.
Antonio Sol e-Cava, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil
We welcome abstracts for talks or posters presenting
original scientic work from across the region, focused
on using genetic tools to solve conservation problems in
Latin America:
http://www.regenec.org/taller/may2014/-
resumenes.php The ocial languages of the conference
will be Spanish and Portuguese.
We have extended the deadline for submitting abstracts
to Jan 31 to assist the many people who have expressed
interest in attending, but need more time to securefunds to ensure participation.
For full conference schedule, including pre- and post-
conference courses, ReGeneC alumni round table, sym-
posia/fora, and details about conference contributions
to a special issue in the Journal of Heredity, see our
website
We look forward to seeing you in May!
- The Conference Organizing Committee
ReGeneC is a network of researchers and conservation
practitioners from across Latin America dedicated to
supporting the growth and development of conserva-
tion genetics in the region: http://www.regenec.org/
*****
!TODAVIA HA CHANCE! La fecha l mite para la re-
cepci on de res umenes ha sido EXTENDIDA hasta el 31
de enero de 2014.
Primer Congreso Latinoamericano de Gen etica para la
Conservaci on
En el marco de la celebraci on de su d ecimo aniver-
sario, la Red de la Gen etica para la Conservaci on, o
ReGeneC, anuncia el primer Congreso Latinoamericano
de Gen etica para la Conservaci on, en el estado Var-
gas, Venezuela, el 5-9 de mayo de 2014. Ver http://-
www.regenec.org/taller/may2014/ para recientes actu-
alizaciones.
Como conferencistas conrmados tenemos a: Dr.
Jonathan Ballou, Instituto Smithsoniano, EEUU Dr.
Jes us Maldonado, Instituto Smithsoniano, EEUU Dra.
Cristina Miyaki, Universidade de Sao Paolo, Brasil
Dra. Andrea Premoli, Universidad del Comahue, Ar-
gentina Dr. Antonio Sol e-Cava, Universidade Federal
do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil
Se encuentra abierta la recepci on de res umenes para
presentaciones orales o en forma de cartel de trabajos
cient cos desarrollados en Am erica Latina, enfocados
en el uso de herramientas gen eticas para solventar prob-
lemas en conservaci on:
http://www.regenec.org/taller/may2014/-
resumenes.php Los idiomas ociales del congreso
ser an castellano y portugu es.
Se extendi o la fecha l mite para entregar res umenes
hasta el 31 de enero para ayudar a los muchos que nos
han expresado inter es en asistir, pero necesiten tiempo
adicional en la b usqueda de fondos para asegurar su
participaci on.
Para consultar el cronograma completo del congreso,
los cursos pre- y post-congreso, las actividades de ex-
estudiantes de los cursos ReGeneC, los simposios/foros
y los detalles sobre c omo ser parte de un n umero26 EvolDir February 1, 2014
especial del Journal of Heredity, les invitamos visi-
tar nuestro sitio web: http://www.regenec.org/taller/-
may2014/ Les esperamos en mayo! - El comit e coordi-
nador ReGeneC es una red de investigadores y otras
personas trabajando en la conservaci on de Am erica
Latina, dedicada al apoyo del crecimiento y desarrollo
de la gen etica para la conservaci on en la regi on: http:/-
/www.regenec.org/ *****
LEMBRETE: O prazo para submiss~ ao de resumos foi
PRORROGADO at e 31 de janeiro de 2014
Primeiro Congresso Latinoamericano de Gen etica para
a Conserva c~ ao
Entre as comemora c~ oes de seu d ecimo anivers ario, a
Rede de Gen etica para a Conserva c~ ao, ReGeneC, anun-
cia o primeiro Congresso Latinoamericano de Gen etica
para a Conserva c~ ao, no estado de Vargas, Venezuela,
de 5 a 9 de maio de 2014. Veja a
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
York UK InsectGenomics Aug3-8
Call for speakers:
INSECT GENOMICS at the Royal Entomological So-
ciety
We are looking for speakers for a symposium on in-
sect genomics at the annual meeting of the Royal En-
tomological Society from 3rd - 8th August 2014, to be
held in the beautiful city of York. This follows on from
the highly successful Insect Genomics Special Interest
Group meeting in Cambridge in 2012.
The symposium aims to highlight the insights that can
be gained by using genomic techniques in all aspects
of entomology, and to bring together genome biologists
with entomologists to encourage new uses of genomics
techniques. We therefore encourage submissions from
anyone using genomics approaches in any insect system.
For more details and an abstract submission
form see http://www.royensoc.co.uk/meetings/-
20140803 ece2014.htm Chris Jiggins Reader in
Evolution and Biological Diversity Department of Zo-
ology University of Cambridge Tel: (+44)(0)1223769021 Mob: (+44)(0) 7549-524-481 http://-
www.heliconius.org/ http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/
Fellow of St John's College, Director of Studies in
Biological Sciences Cambridge, UK. CB2 1TP
cj107@hermes.cam.ac.uk
York UK InsectVirusCoevolution
Aug3-8
###Deadline for abstract submission is the 25th Jan-
uary 2014###
'Insect-virus interactions: Molecular biology, Ecology
and Evolution' at the European Congress of Entomol-
ogy in York, UK on the 3rd-8th August 2014.
The Keynote speaker for the session is Jean Luc
Imler (CNRS, Institut de Biologie Mol eculaire et
Cellulaire, France http://www-ibmc.u-strasbg.fr/ridi/-
prol.php?equipe id=13).
The congress as a whole promises to have some ex-
citing sessions with related sessions on various as-
pects of insect-parasite interactions (immunology, sym-
bionts, genomics, ecology and evolution), and plenary
speakers in related elds to this symposium (Bruno
Lemaitre - Ecole Polytechnique Federale and Nancy
Moran - Yale University). For the draft programme see:
www.ece2014.com . This session will bring together an
exciting mix of evolutionary bilogists, molecular biol-
ogists and ecologists to understand the ways in which
viruses shape insect function and evolution.
Deadline for abstract submission is the 25th Jan-
uary 2014. To submit an abstract for a talk/poster
please email b.longdon@gen.cam.ac.uk with the sub-
ject 'ento14 virus symp' including a completed ab-
stract form (form found here http://goo.gl/mM6S40).
Registration and other info can be found here:
www.ece2014.com Each talk = 12 min + 3 min ques-
tions. Presenters not oered talks may present posters.
Postgraduate students are eligible to apply
for assistance from the RES to attend the
meeting: http://www.royensoc.co.uk/awards/-
ORF andCPF Grants.htm Poster info:
In addition to the regular A0 poster size (841 x 1189
mm, portrait orientation) we will be adopting a sec-
ond poster format of so-called essence poster. This is
an A3 poster presenting preliminary data, data that
need to be discussed more informally or are an outlookFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 27
of a project. The advantage of these essence posters is
that every participant will be able to present something,
which is important as funding for congress participation
is often available only if something is being presented.
Session organisers: Ben Longdon, Frank Jiggins and
Darren Obbard.
bjl48@hermes.cam.ac.uk
Yosemite Symbiosis May3-4
Dear Colleagues,
This is a reminder that early-bird registration (Jan 15,
2014) for the Yosemite Symbiosis Conference (May 3-4,
2014) is fast approaching. The meeting can only ac-
commodate 50 participants. Registration is rst come,
rst served with priority given to those presenting.
Keynote speaker: Dr. John Pringle from Stanford
University. Title: Aiptasia, a model system fordinoagellate-cnidarian symbiosis
Link to meeting information: http://medinalab.org/-
new/2014symbiosis We will let you know soon after
Jan 15th if your registration was successful so you can
proceed with your payment.
This year, the registration is handled by the UC
NRS Wawona station director, Dr. Becca Fenwick
<bfenwick@ucmerced.edu >. Please direct questions to
her about registration and payment.
See you in Yosemite!
Monica Medina (Penn State University)
<momedinamunoz@gmail.com >Joel Sachs (UC
Riverside) <joel.sachs@ucr.edu >Becca Fenwick
<bfenwick@ucmerced.edu >
Please consider adopting the Email Charter! http:/-
/www.emailcharter.org/index.html Monica Medina
Associate Professor Department of Biology Penn
State University 326 Mueller Lab University Park,
PA 16802 momedinamunoz@gmail.com monicamed-
ina@psu.edu www.medinalab.org oce: 814-867-2958
lab: 814-867-2959 fax: 814-865-0768
Monica Medina <momedinamunoz@gmail.com >
GradStudentPositions
CharlesU EvoluitonBirdSong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
CharlesU PlantReproductiveEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
CharlesU Prague PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
CzechRepublic MothBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Durham UK EvolutionMateChoice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Goettingen DPZ PrimateKinRecognition . . . . . . . . . . 31
Heidelberg Phyloinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
ImperialC London ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
ImperialCollege London MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
KULeuven EvolutionaryBiologyFish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Leibniz-IGB Berlin 2 EvolutionParasitesVectors . . . 34
Leibniz-IGB Berlin 2 FungalGenomicsEcology . . . . 109
LeibnizInst Berlin ClimateAdaptation 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 36
MemorialU SalmonConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
MonashU MarineEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
NIOO-KNAW Netherlands ZooplanktonEvolution . 38
OldDominionU EvolutionCorals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39Prague FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
PurdueU HellbenderConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
QueensU PopulationDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
RuhrU Bochum FungalBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
SoutheasternLouisianaU PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . 42
StockholmU PlantInsectInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
TexasAMU HydroidGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
TrentU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UAmsterdam EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UBasel MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UBath HoneyBeePathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
UBern RodentParasiteCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UBirmingham 2 Insect Daphnia Omics . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UCollegeLondon ImmuneEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UFribourg Switzerland EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . 48
UGiessen Germany InsectEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . 49
UGroningen ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4928 EvolDir February 1, 2014
UGroningen ComputationalBiology 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
UGuelphOntario AquaticEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . 51
UHelsinki EvolutionaryMorphometrics . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UHelsinki GeneNetworkEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UJohannesburg SardineGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
ULondon EvolutionaryTheory correction . . . . . . . . . . 54
UManchester EvolutionArthropods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UMemphis PlantEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UMontreal mtDNAInheritance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UNewSouthWales LacebugEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UOtago NZ Modelling Biocontrol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UPacic California SexualDimorphismEvolution . . . 59
UQueensland MiddleEarEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
UQueensland TheoreticalEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . 60UReading EvolutionaryProcesses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
USouthBohemia AntTermiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
USouthBohemia InsectPlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
USouthDakota Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
USouthDakota EvolutionVision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
USouthamptonUK DomesticationGenomics . . . . . . . .63
UStirling TreeGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UTuebingen EcologicalPlantEpigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UWyoming EvolutionCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UZurich 2 DolphinGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
WilliamandMary MarineLifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . 67
iDivLeipzigGermany ApeHabitatSustainability . . . . 67
CharlesU EvoluitonBirdSong
PhD position available from October 2014
Ecological and evolutionary signicance of convergence
in bird song: male and female responses to mixed
singing in hybridizing nightingales
Charles University in Prague, Department of Ecology
Project background: Vocalization is important for
maintenance of reproductive barriers in many bird
species. Interspecic copying of acoustic signals nev-
ertheless frequently occurs, and its ecological and evo-
lutionary signicance is still insuciently understood.
The aim of the PhD project is to evaluate potential
adaptive value of this phenomenon in our intensively
studied system, the contact zone of two hybridizing sis-
ter species of nightingales (Luscinia megarhynchos and
L. luscinia). In sympatry, most L. luscinia males in-
corporate songs of L. megarhynchos in their repertoires
but not vice versa. The student will test in eld ex-
periments the possible implications of this asymmet-
ric song convergence: interspecic territoriality, mating
preferences and hybridization. Playback experiments
and bioacoustic analyses will show how males of both
species respond to the mixed song in contrast to the
pure species-specic song. Experiments on female pref-
erences will test how mixed song is perceived by po-
tential mates in both species. Detailed genomic anal-
yses performed in parallel with this PhD project, will
allow us to put eld results into evolutionary context.
For more information, visit: http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
~radkas/index.php?page=opportunities Eligibility: We
expect a motivated student with good experience in
eld ornithology, able (after some training) to work in-dependently in harsh eld conditions. The ideal candi-
date for this PhD position is interested in both ecology
and evolutionary biology, and is willing to learn new
methods (experience of bioacoustics is a plus). He/she
must have nished the MSc. (or equivalent) by Septem-
ber 2014 at the latest.
Time and place: The student will work in a young
team based at the Faculty of Science, Charles Uni-
versity in Prague, Czech Republic. The project will
be conducted in close collaboration with Freie Univer-
sit at Berlin, Germany. Fieldwork will be conducted in
Poland, Czech Republic and Germany. The position is
available for up to four years, starting in October 2014.
Salary: The PhD candidate's net monthly income will
start at 16.500 CZK (ca 610 EUR) in the rst year, and
may progressively increase with experience and achieve-
ments during the study. (Note that living expenses in
the Czech Republic are generally lower than in Western
European countries.)
Research team: Tereza Petruskov a (Department of
Ecology, Charles University in Prague) - supervisor
JiA  Reif (Institute for Environmental Studies, Charles
University in Prague) - co-supervisor Adam Petrusek
(Department of Ecology, Charles University in Prague)
Radka Reifov a (Department of Zoology, Charles Uni-
versity in Prague) Silke Kipper (Freie Universit at
Berlin)
How to apply: If interested, send a motivation let-
ter, CV, publication list, title or abstract of Master
(Diploma) thesis, and contact details of 2-3 senior scien-
tists that can provide references on you in a single PDF
le to tereza.petruskova@natur.cuni.cz until February
20, 2014. Pre-selected candidates will be encouraged to
submit an ocial application to the university.
petrusek@natur.cuni.czFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 29
CharlesU
PlantReproductiveEvolution
PhD position on Evolutionary and ecological signif-
icance of apomictic reproduction in vascular plants
available at the Department of Botany, Charles Uni-
versity in Prague, Czech Republic
Project description Asexually reproducing organisms
(i.e. agamosperms producing seeds without meiosis)
are considered to be less adaptive than their sexually
reproducing counterparts as they are constrained by re-
duced genetic variation. Nevertheless, it has been ob-
served that many clonal agamospermic species are able
to occupy larger ranges than their sexual relatives, a
pattern which is called 'geographical parthenogenesis'.
Various hypotheses (e.g. superior colonization capacity
through uniparental reproduction, metapopulation hy-
pothesis, more ecient niche exploitation) have been
proposed to explain such patterns but with a limited
evidence for any of them mostly due to a few empir-
ical studies. The aim of the PhD project is to test
these hypotheses using straightforward combination of
observational (seed set and ecological preferences as-
sessment along the latitudinal transect in Europe), ex-
perimental (plasticity and inbreeding depression ex-
periment), cytological (ow cytometry seed screening),
embryological (in collaboration with the University in
G ottingen, Germany), molecular (epigenetic methyla-
tion) and modeling approaches (spatial distributional
models combining with phylogeographical data, in close
collaboration with the University of Lausanne, Switzer-
land). Diploid sexual and autotriploid asexual Hi-
eracium alpinum (Asteraceae) will be used as a model
system.
Contact for further details Patrik MR AZ, mraz-
pat@natur.cuni.cz
Prole & qualication Highly motivated applicants
with excellent communication skills and English, and
deep interest in evolutionary ecology should hold a MSc
or equivalent degree in biology or a related discipline at
the point of enrollment.
Founding Accepted applicant will be supported by a
salary from three years project (2014-2016) by the
Czech Science Foundation (starting in March / April
2014). In addition, four years PhD fellowship will be
provided by the Faculty of Sciences (starting from Oc-tober 2014) and STARS PhD fellowship directly linked
to the project (starting from October 2014, applica-
tion deadline for STARS is 28, February 2014, on-
line application form is at http://www.stars-natur.cz/-
application).
Application Please send your application / motivation
letter including your CV and contact details of two ref-
erences as a single pdf by e-mail to: assoc. prof. Pa-
trik Mr az, mrazpat@natur.cuni.cz before 28, February
2014.
Patrik Mr az Herbarium PRC & Department of Botany
Charles University in Prague Ben atsk a 2 12801 Praha
CZECH REPUBLIC ++420 221951642
mrazpat@natur.cuni.cz
CharlesU Prague PlantAdaptation
Dear all,
here is a job announcement for a three-year PhD posi-
tion in epigenetics:
In a three year project \Stress induced memory in
clonal plants" we will investigate the role of environ-
mental stress on induction of transgenerational eects
in clonal plants and the role of transgenerational eects
in adaptation of clonal plants to new environments.
The successful applicant will focus on the role of epige-
netic variation in the observed transgenerational eects
and will compare transmissibility of environmentally
induced epigenetic variation among clonal and sexual
generations.
If you consider this oer interesting and you have good
experience in common molecular techniques (MSAP
or AFLP are preferable but not mandatory) and you
are good in statistics and writing, please contact us at
vit.latzel@ibot.cas.cz together with your CV, short mo-
tivation letter and contacts of two referees. The three
year position is available from January 2014 but the
start can be postponed on summer 2014. The research
will be carried out at the Institute of Botany of the
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and Charles
University in Prague. Both belong among the best re-
search institutions in the Czech Republic oering in-
ternationally well established personnel and excellent
technical facilities. Prague is great city to live, often
ranked among the most beautiful cities in the world of-
fering great cultural and social activities. The salary
should secure nancial independence for the student30 EvolDir February 1, 2014
(70% workload at the Institute of Botany plus standard
scholarship at the Charles University) and will be above
the average level in the CR. The application deadline
is in 7 February 2014.
Vit Latzel (vit.latzel@ibot.cas.cz) Institute of Botany
ASCR Pruhonice http://www.ibot.cas.cz/en/ Charles
University in Prague http://www.cuni.cz/UKEN-
1.html Fehrer Judith <Judith.Fehrer@ibot.cas.cz >
CzechRepublic MothBiodiversity
A Ph.D. studentship
*Changes in biodiversity of moths along an altitudinal
gradient of Mt. Cameroon*
We are seeking a highly motivated Ph.D. student to
join a project assessing studies of species and functional
diversity of moth communities on Mt. Cameroon.
The student will actively participate on eld sampling
(about 2 months every year) of selected groups of moths
and their subsequent processing in collaboration with
international specialists. The length of the study is 4
years.
The successful applicant will be supervised by Dr.
Robert Tropek and Prof. Vojtech Novotny as a part
of the joint team at the Institute of Entomology, Biol-
ogy Centre, Czech Academy of Sciences (led by Vojtech
Novotny) and Faculty of Science, University of South
Bohemia (led by Yves Basset), both institutions are lo-
cated in Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic. The team
is a world-leading centre for tropical ecology, four Sci-
ence/Nature papers were rst-authored by its members
over the past ten years.
*Oered*
- attractive scientic topic in an established interna-
tional team
- standard university scholarship (up to 102,000 CZK
according to discharging of the study responsibilities)
and 68% employment (182,000 CZK annually) on an
ongoing grant for four years, it suciently covers living
expenses in the Czech Republic
*Required*
- enthusiasm in nature and ecological science
- ability to lead a eld research in challenging conditions
of tropical environments
- uency in English- a MSc degree in biology or related elds
Desirable (but not necessary)
- previous experience of collaboration in scientic
projects evidenced by a (co)authorship of research pa-
pers or conference contributions
- previous experience with moths or other arthropods
- basic knowledge of French
All applicants will send a structured CV, contacts of
three references, and a cover letter stating their pre-
vious work, qualication and motivation to Robert
Tropek (robert.tropek@gmail.com). Review of applica-
tions will begin on 20th February 2014 and will continue
until the position has been lled. The position is avail-
able from 1st April 2014 (or later for those nishing
their master studies in this academic year).
Robert Tropek <robert.tropek@gmail.com >
Durham UK EvolutionMateChoice
DOCTORAL RESEARCH PROJECT AVAILABLE
IN DURHAM & STIRLING, UK
We are seeking excellent applications for a PhD stu-
dentship on \The importance of male mate choice in a
mammal with typical sex roles", co-supervised by
Dr Jo Setchell, Durham University (https://-
www.dur.ac.uk/anthropology/sta/academic/?id=-
5345)
Dr Shane Richards, Durham University (https://-
www.dur.ac.uk/biosciences/about/schoolsta/prole/-
?mode=sta&id=2874)
Dr Luc Bussiere, Stirling University (http://-
rms.stir.ac.uk/converis-stirling/person/11652)
This project is part of the North East of England's and
Scotland's multidisciplinary Doctoral Training Partner-
ship (DTP) for the environmental sciences, funded by
NERC.
You can nd full details of the project here: http:/-
/www.iapetus.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/-
IAP 1338-DUR-Setchell.pdf and details of the
studentship competition, including how to apply, here:
http://www.iapetus.ac.uk/?page idc We are only able
to consider applications from Home/European Union
candidates. International candidates are not eligible
and where an candidate from another EU country hasFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 31
not been resident in the UK for 3 years or more prior
to the commencement of their studies with IAPETUS,
they will only be eligible for a fees-only studentship.
We are looking for candidates with the following qual-
ities and backgrounds: - A rst or 2:1 undergraduate
degree, or have relevant comparable experience; - In
addition, candidates may also hold or be completing a
Masters degree in their area of proposed study or a re-
lated discipline; & - An outstanding academic pedigree
and research potential, such as evidenced through the
publication of articles, participation in academic con-
ferences and other similar activities.
Jo Setchell
Dr Joanna (Jo) M Setchell Reader in Evolution-
ary Anthropology Durham University, UK http:/-
/tinyurl.com/jo-setchell Behaviour, Ecology and
Evolution at Durham: www.dur.ac.uk/beer-centre
Editor-in-Chief, International Journal of Primatol-
ogy www.springer.com/10764 "SETCHELL J.M.\
<joanna.setchell@durham.ac.uk >
Goettingen DPZ
PrimateKinRecognition
Master's thesis on kin recognition in mandrills:
In the french-german-gabonese collaboration 'Man-
drillus Project' we are looking for a master's student
to write her/his master's thesis on possible visual kin
recognition mechanisms in mandrills. Within the scope
of our study on kin selection in a complex social system,
it will be evaluated how indiduals react to visual stim-
uli of related and unrelated fellows. The experiments
will be conducted on caged individuals at the CIRMF
reserach institute in Franceville, Gabon. Start of the
ca. 3 month of eld work will be beginning/mid may.
Transport and accomodation are provided; uid french
and the motivation for independend practical work
are a prerequisite. Due to the nature of the funding
german students will have to be given priority. For
further questions and/or applications please contact
timo.brockmeyer@gmail.com. See also the links to
the collaboration partners: http://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/-
mandrillus/presentation; http://www.soziobio.uni-
goettingen.de timo.brockmeyer@gmail.comHeidelberg Phyloinformatics
Dear evoldir,
There is a PhD Scholarship available for PhD Students
in my group at the Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical
Studies (HITS) in Heidelberg, Germany.
The Scientic Computing group (http://www.exelixis-
lab.org/), the home of RAxML, at the Heidelberg In-
stitute for Theoretical Studies (HITS) in Heidelberg,
Germany, is soliciting applications for a PhD position
in the broader area of Phyloinformatics.
HITS gGmbH is a private non-prot research institute
carrying out multidisciplinary research in the compu-
tational sciences. It receives its base funding from the
Klaus Tschira Foundation.
Applicants shall have a background and Masters de-
gree in bioinformatics or computer science and excel-
lent C/C++ programming skills. Expertise in the area
of high performance computing will be a plus.
Our research mainly focuses on
-Computational Molecular Phylogenetics -Large scale
evolutionary biology data analyses -Supercomputing -
Quantifying Biodiversity -Next Generation Sequence
Data Analysis
Secondary research interests include, but are not lim-
ited to
-Emerging parallel architectures (FPGAs, GPU, Xeon
PHI) -Discrete algorithms on trees -Population Genet-
ics
The starting date is exible. To apply, please en-
ter your application here: https://application.h-
its.org/intern/reg registration for.php?a=-
0100001240000000000000000000000000000000100005101000000
Applications must be submitted by February 28, 2014.
Please note that applications not submitted via the
online system will not be considered.
Please contact Alexandros Stamatakis (Alexandros dot
Stamatakis at h-its dot org) if you have any further
questions.
All the best,
Alexis
{ Alexandros (Alexis) Stamatakis32 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Research Group Leader, Heidelberg Institute for The-
oretical Studies Full Professor, Dept. of Informatics,
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology Adjunct Professor,
Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University
of Arizona at Tucson
www.exelixis-lab.org alexan-
dros.stamatakis@gmail.com
ImperialC London
ClimateAdaptation
*Studentship 1: The eects of climatic temperature
change on microbial adaptation *Global climate change
will aect all creatures on Earth, from microbes to
mammals. However, how species adapt and acclimatise
to a changing thermal environment remains poorly
studied. The Pawar and Bell labs at Imperial College
London, Silwood Park are seeking a candidate for
a 4 year fully-funded BBSRC PhD Studentship to
commence in October 2014. The student will combine
experiments with mathematical modelling of biochem-
ical acclimation and adaptation to study limits to
adaptation in dierent thermal regimes. The project
will use a diverse collection of microbes (bacteria
and protozoa) taken from natural environments to
understand how species acclimatise and adapt to ex-
perimental manipulations of temperature over dierent
timescales. This is an integrated 1 year MSc/MRes
+ 3 yr PhD studentship, with the MSc component
being in Quantitative Biology at Silwood Park (http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/lifesciences/postgraduate/-
courselist/quantitative-biology).The studentship
includes all fees, maintenance costs, and research
expenses as set by the Research Councils for 2014-15.
* Application deadline is *31 Jan 2014; *For eligibility
criteria, please see: *http://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=49520&LID=907
*Studentship 2***: Scaling up metabolic costs of
temperature uctuations on individuals to the eects
of climate change on stability of complex ecosystems*
Climatic temperature rst and directly impacts eco-
logical systems by changing the metabolic rate (rate
of energy use) of individual organisms. Therefore,
understanding how temperature-driven changes in in-
dividual metabolism scale up to the dynamics of whole
networks of interacting individuals and species (e.g.,
food webs) is key for predicting impacts of climate
change on ecosystems. The Pawar (Life Sciences) and
Stan (Bioengineering) Labs at Imperial College London(Silwood Park and South Kensington Campus, respec-
tively) are seeking a candidate for a fully-funded PhD
Studentship to commence in 2014. The student will
use a novel combination of metabolic theory, dynamical
network (graph) theory, and a massive database on the
thermal responses of metabolic traits to address key
questions about the eects of climatic uctuations on
population interaction networks underlying complex
ecosystems. The study will pay particular attention to
the consequences of mismatches in thermal responses of
metabolic traits of interacting species on the dynamics
(energy ows) and stability of consumer-resource
systems. Such mismatches are becoming increasingly
common as new species are introduced into ecosystems
through climate-driven range shifts or direct human
transportation. The student will have freedom to
choose what specic questions she/he would like to
ask within this framework. Some examples are: (i)
To what extent will thermal responses of uxes in
complex networks of consumer-resource interactions
(food webs) mirror the thermal responses of individual
physiology? (ii) Will between-species mismatches in
thermal responses destabilize ecosystems in a changing
climate? (iii) What motifs of interaction network
structure strongly determine the thermal responses
of whole ecosystem dynamics, and can therefore be
used to mitigate climate change impacts? (iv) What
network motifs are most likely to experience species
losses due to temperature changes? All these questions
are fundamental for understanding the eects of
climate change on stability of complex ecosystems,
and will generate empirically-grounded predictions
that can be tested using burgeoning data on ecological
network-level eects of climatic warming.
***Application deadline is **20 Jan 2014*; For eligi-
bility criteria, please see http://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=50484&LID=-
879 Also see: https://workspace.imperial.ac.uk/-
climatechange/Public/pdfs/Studentships/2014/-
2014 81%20-%20Pawar.pdf **For both studentships*,
applications should include a CV, names and addresses
of two academic referees and a cover letter. The
application materials should be emailed as a single,
merged pdf le to s.pawar@imperial.ac.uk.* *
Thanks,
Samraat
{ Samraat Pawar
Lecturer, Grand Challenges in Ecosystems and the En-
vironment Department of Life Sciences Imperial Col-
lege London, Silwood Park Campus N1.12 Munro Hall
Buckhurst Road Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7PY United
KingdomFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 33
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ImperialCollege London MolEvol
UK/EU PhD studentship
Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, School
of Public Health at Imperial College London. Zoologi-
cal Society of London (ZSL)
The Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiol-
ogy is oering one 4-year Industrial CASE stu-
dentship funded by NERC. The student will be based
in the Department of Infectious Disease Epidemi-
ology <http://www1.imperial.ac.uk/publichealth/-
departments/ide/ >(DIDE), School of Public Health,
St Marys Campus, Paddington, in CASE partnership
with the Institute of Zoology <http://www.zsl.org/-
science/ >(IoZ), Zoological Society of London (ZSL).
The project will be on 'Understanding how environ-
mental variation regulates infectious disease emergence
in a host community' and will be integrated with our
newly-funded NERC project 'The spatial epidemiol-
ogy and molecular evolution of amphibian chytrid-
iomycosis'. Research will take advantage of a well-
described system of ongoing disease outbreaks caused
by the globally-emerging amphibian pathogen Batra-
chochytrium dendrobatidis. Research will be located in
the Pyrenees of both France and Spain, and will investi-
gate how seasonal temperature proles inuence disease
dynamics both directly and indirectly. Approaches can
involve eld manipulations, statistical/mathematical
modelling and microbiome-proling of infected lakes.
The project will involve extended periods of eldwork
in high montane environments so the candidate needs
to be physically t and able to work independently.
French language skills are an asset.
The studentship will pay UK/EU tuition fees and a
stipend of $17,500, and the student will belong to the
Graduate School which provides a full programme of
training in research and transferable skills. The stu-
dentship is available to UK nationals or EU nation-
als who have lived in the UK for at least three years
immediately preceding the date of an award. For full
eligibility details please see the following Natural Envi-ronmental Research Council (NERC) terms and con-
ditions: http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/schemes/industrial-case.asp *Owing to fund-
ing restrictions applications from overseas candidates
cannot be considered for this scheme*
Applicants should have, or expect to achieve, a rst
or upper second class degree or UK equivalent in a
relevant subject*. Informal enquiries about the stu-
dentship should be directed to Prof. Matthew Fisher
< http://www1.imperial.ac.uk/medicine/people/-
matthew.sher/ >(matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk)
The closing date for applications for the October 2014
intake is 31st January 2014. Interviews of all short
listed candidates will take place on 24th-25th February
2014. Applications should consist of 2 parts, preferably
as a combined single PDF document:
1. A full CV which must include your title & full name,
date of birth, gender, nationality, rst degree (BSc,
MSc, MBBS etc), degree class awarded or marks/grades
to date, subject of rst degree, place of study and uni-
versity awarding the rst degree, and the names, mail-
ing addresses and email addresses of at least two aca-
demic referees (The email addresses of your referees
should be for their ocial institution email address.
You should not supply personal email addresses from
Hotmail/ Gmail /Yahoo etc).
2. A one page statement indicating why you want to
undertake this PhD project.
Please ensure that you include your own email ad-
dress on your CV as this will be our main method
of corresponding with you. Please email your com-
pleted application to: ide-phd@imperial.ac.uk stat-
ing \NERC CASE PhD Application" in the title.
Please note that candidates must full College ad-
missions criteria, details of which can be reviewed
at: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/entryrequirements/-
graduate matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk
KULeuven EvolutionaryBiologyFish
Scientic project collaborator - Connectivity of shes of
the Southern Ocean University of Leuven, Department
of Biology
The Laboratory of Biodiversity and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics specialises in academic research on the evolu-
tionary biology of shes and their parasites. In a new
research project the connectivity of Antarctic shes of34 EvolDir February 1, 2014
the genus Trematomus will be studied.
Research topic The marine ecosystem of the Southern
Ocean is to a large extent inuenced by the dynamics
of the physical environment and the life cycle of po-
lar shes is intimately linked to it. Especially larval
survival plays a critical role. For example an extended
larval stage increases the chances of predation and dis-
persal by the currents. Nevertheless, organisms manage
to maintain their populations. This suggests that the
life cycle is adapted to avoid predators and that larvae
stay close to the spawning grounds through homing.
Hypotheses on the connectivity dynamics of rock cods
will be tested through a combination of genetic proling
and IBM models. During the rst research year empha-
sis will be put on the collection of samples during polar
expeditions. Later on the population structure will be
analysed with species-specic genetic markers.
To support the project we are looking for a period of 3
years for a scientic collaborator.
Prole :
- Master in Biology or Applied Biology with excellent
study results
- Obligation to prepare a doctorate
- Interest in sh biology and polar ecosystems
- Ready to participate in long sampling campaigns un-
der extreme conditions
- Experience or knowledge on molecular ecology and
interest in modelling
- You will apply for a national (IWT) fellowship in
September 2014
Interested candidates are requested to submit their
application (motivation letter, address of three referees,
summary of master thesis and Curriculum Vitae) to the
Arenberg Doctoral School http://phd.kuleuven.be/-
set/voorstellen departement?departement=50000454
before 15/02/2014
Context: The doctoral research is done within the
frame of the BELSPO project vERSO, in collabora-
tion with Bruno Danis (ULB) and Anton Van de Putte
(RBINS). The lab is based is in the pretty university
town of Leuven, Belgium (http://www.leuven.be) and
the project includes long trips to sea.
Information: prof. Filip Volckaert, phone + 32 16
323966 or E-mail. lip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.ac.be;
URL: bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/lbeg.
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >Leibniz-IGB Berlin 2
EvolutionParasitesVectors
2 PhD student positions Relevance of parasites and
vectors in freshwater ecosystems International Multi-
disciplinary Parasitology and Vector Biology (IMPact-
Vector) Graduate School
The Leibniz-Institute for Freshwater Ecology and In-
land Fisheries (IGB) in Berlin is the largest freshwa-
ter ecology research institute in Germany (www.igb-
berlin.de). It is a member of the Forschungsverbund
Berlin e.V. and the Leibniz-Association (www.wgl.de).
The FVB manages 8 large research institutes in Berlin
that have close links to all three universities in the Ger-
man capital. IGB oers excellent laboratory and eld
facilities for interdisciplinary research, and is a mem-
ber of the Berlin Centre for Genomics in Biodiversity
Research
As part of the International Multidisciplinary Para-
sitology and Vector Biology (IMPact-Vector) Graduate
School, a major new interdisciplinary research initiative
funded via the Pakt for Research & Innovation of the
Leibniz Association, IGB oers
2 PhD positions
on the \Relevance of parasites and vectors in freshwater
ecosystems".
Depending on their interests and skills, the candidates
and the supervisors will choose one out of four topics:
1. Impact of coevolution on susceptibility and resis-
tance to the swim bladder nematode Anguillicola cras-
sus in eels (supervisors: K. Knopf, M. T. Monaghan). 2.
Zoonotic risk of endemic sh-borne trematodes (super-
visor: K. Knopf). 3. Impact of parasites on top-down
control of periphyton and regime shifts in lakes (super-
visors: K. Knopf, S. Hilt). 4. Ecology and evolution
of mosquitoes in urban, agricultural, and natural envi-
ronments (supervisor: M. T. Monaghan - monaghan-
lab.org).
Your prole: -Masters degree (or equivalent) in biology,
ecology, molecular biology, parasitology, zoology, or a
related eld -Laboratory and/or eld research experi-
ence -Interest in solving complex biological problems
-Excellent communication skills { English is the work-
ing language of the research groups
IMPpact-Vector is a joint program of the SenckenbergFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 35
Research Institute and Natural History Museum/ Bio-
diversity and Climate Research Center (SGN/ BiK-F,
Frankfurt am Main), the Bernhard-Nocht-Institute for
Tropical Medicine (BNITM, Hamburg), the Leibniz-
Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research (IZW, Berlin)
and the Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and In-
land Fisheries (IGB, Berlin).
We oer outstanding training and support in an ex-
cellent scientic network. Faculty members are ali-
ated with many well-known institutes (for details see
our websites). Our mission is to help students to be-
come creative, responsible and self-condent young re-
searchers. We are looking for highly motivated students
who are strongly committed to research and share our
vision to improve world health. Salary and benets are
in accordance with a public service position in Germany
(50%). The contract should start in June 2014 and will
be limited to 3 years. The Leibniz-Association sup-
ports equal opportunity of men and women and there-
fore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qualied
handicapped applicants will be given preference.
For inquiries about the research topics please contact
Dr. Klaus Knopf (klaus.knopf@igb-berlin.de), for gen-
eral questions about the graduate school please con-
tact the speaker, Prof. Dr. Sven Klimpel (impactvec-
tor@senckenberg.de).
Please send your complete application before Febru-
ary 11th, 2014 preferably by e-mail (attachment in
a single pdf document, incl. a CV, copy of the
master or diploma certicate, abstract of the the-
sis, letter of motivation, contact details of two ref-
erences and the application sheet [downloadable at
http://www.senckenberg.de/les/content/ stellenauss-
chreibungen/application form sgn.doc]), quoting Ref.
# B 59, to the speaker of IMPact-Vector:
Herrn Prof. Dr. Sven Klimpel c/o Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung Senckenber-
ganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main impactvec-
tor@senckenberg.de
Michael Monaghan <monaghan@igb-berlin.de >
Leibniz-IGB Berlin 2
FungalGenomicsEcology
2 PhD Studentships and 2 Postdocs Biodiversity, Ecol-
ogy, and Genomics of Aquatic Fungi
Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and InlandFisheries (IGB) Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Land-
scape Research (ZALF)
The Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and In-
land Fisheries (IGB) is the largest freshwater ecology
research institute in Germany (www.igb-berlin.de) and
one of 8 member institutes of the Forschungsverbund
Berlin e.V (www.fv-berlin.de). IGB oers world-class
laboratory and eld facilities for interdisciplinary re-
search and is a founding member of the Berlin Center
for Genomics in Biodiversity Research. The Leibniz
Centre for Agricultural Landscape Research (ZALF)
brings together scientic competence from agricul-
tural science, geo- and biosciences to socio-economics
(www.zalf.de).
Fungi are of central importance for the global carbon
cycle because of their role in the degration of complex
organic matter such as plant material. Fungi also repre-
sent one of the last frontiers of biodiversity, as their tax-
onomic diversity and metabolic potential remain poorly
understood. This is particularly true for those fungi
that are abundant in freshwaters. MycoLink (Link-
ing aquatic mycodiversity to ecosystem function) is an
interdisciplinary project integrating the expertise of 4
Leibniz Institutes: IGB, ZALF, DSMZ, the Leibniz-
Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries
(IGB), the Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Landscape
Research (ZALF), and the Leibniz-Institute of Zoo- and
Wildlife Research in Berlin (IZW). We are seeking to
recruit outstanding young scientists to establish an in-
novative research program, and currently invite appli-
cations for:
2 Postdocs and 2 PhD Students in Biodiversity, Ecol-
ogy, and Genomics of Aquatic Fungi
2 positions (1 PostDoc, 1 PhD student) will focus on
global biodiversity and evolutionary genomics of fresh-
water fungi, using second- and third-generation se-
quencing and bioinformatics to analyse natural popula-
tions and experimental cultures. For further informa-
tion, contact Michael T. Monaghan (monaghan@igb-
berlin.de)(monaghanlab.org).
2 positions (1 PostDoc, 1 PhD student) will focus on
the ecological and functional role of aquatic fungi by
combining state-of-the-art biochemical analyses with
modeling in experimental and natural ecosystems. For
fruther information, contact Hans-Peter Grossart &
Katrin Premke (hgrossart@igb-berlin.de; premke@igb-
berlin.de)
Applicants must hold a Diploma / Masters degree (PhD
student positions) or PhD (Postdoc positions) in a rel-
evant eld. Positions are available for up to three
years. Salary is according to the German Tv oD (Post-36 EvolDir February 1, 2014
doc: 100%, PhD student: 65% position). Positions will
be based at IGB Berlin, IGB Neuglobsow, and at the
Berlin Centre for Genomics in Biodiversity Research.
The institutes of the Leibniz Association strive to in-
crease the proportion of female scientists. Therefore,
female candidates are specically encouraged to apply.
Disabled applicants with identical technical and per-
sonal qualication will be preferentially selected.
Please submit a curriculum vitae (including publication
list), a brief statement of motivation and research in-
terests, and the names and contact information of two
referees. Please send all documents as a single pdf le
to monaghan@igb-berlin.de. Review of the applications
will start on 21 February 2014 and continue until the
positions are lled. Interviews for shortlisted applicants
will take place in March.
monaghan@igb-berlin.de
LeibnizInst Berlin
ClimateAdaptation 2
*THIS IS A REMINDER (application deadline:
15.02.2014):*
The Department of Ecosystem Research of the Leibniz-
Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries
(IGB) in Berlin together with the Free University of
Berlin, invite applications for the position of:
*PhD student in Evolutionary Biology*
*Application deadline: 15.02.2014*; Starting date:
May 2014, or as soon as possible thereafter (interviews
will be conducted in March); Duration of the position:
3 years
Project title: *\Evolutionary responses to a global
change"*
The PhD student will join the research group of Justyna
Wolinska. The group is currently located at the Ludwig
Maximilian University of Munich (Germany) but will
move to Berlin in March 2014. He / she will study the
evolutionary responses of communities and populations
which may result from manipulated experimental con-
ditions (i.e. global stressors), using cladoceran *Daph-
nia*as a model system. The student will also study
the impact of manipulated conditions on the spread of
infectious diseases and host-parasite coevolution (using
*Daphnia* and their microparasites as a model host-
parasite system).This project is part of a research initiative around a
large experimental setup located at Lake Stechlin near
Berlin. \Lake Lab" (http://www.lake-lab .de/) consists
of 24 experimental lake-water basins each 9 metres in
diameter and around 20 metres deep, all isolated from
the rest of the lake. In these experimental cylinders,
future climatic scenarios are simulated and their eects
on the lake studied. The overarching goal of this large
research initiative is to nd out if and how biodiversity
will be aected as a result of climate change.
The PhD student will be involved in screening temporal
changes in *Daphnia*populations using microsatellites
and SNP markers, and he / she will study changes in
gene expression of *Daphnia* induced by environmen-
tal conditions. Moreover, the PhD student will track
temporal variation in parasite populations using NGS.
Depending on the interest of the student, he / she can
be further involved in eld and / or experimental work.
The ideal candidate should be familiar with molecular
methods and have a strong background in evolution-
ary biology. In addition, knowledge of bioinformatics
and/or population genetics will be highly advantageous.
Excellent communication and writing skills in English,
good work ethic, and creative thinking are desired. A
Master's degree (or equivalent) in biology is necessary
for admission. The working language of the group is
English.
The student will participate in the organized PhD pro-
gram and will take courses at the Free University of
Berlin. In addition, the student will have the chance
to collaborate intensively with researchers from IGB
as well as from other institutions. Generous funds are
available to cover attendance at national and interna-
tional conferences as well as research stays (lab rota-
tions) in other universities.
Applications should include 1) a letter of interest with a
description of relevant experience, 2) curriculum vitae,
3) abstract of the Master's thesis, 4) a list of publica-
tions (if any), 5) the names (with e-mail addresses) of
two potential referees. Applications should be submit-
ted as a SINGLE (!) PDF document to the following
e-mail address: wolinska@bio.lmu.de , with the subject
line: \PhD application <your family name >".
{ Justyna Wolinska Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at
M unchen Department Biologie II Evolutions okologie
Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried, Ger-
many
Phone: +49 (0)89 2180 74201 Fax: +49 (0)89 2180
74204 email: wolinska@bio.lmu.de
http://www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/-
people/assistant profs/wolinska/index.htmlFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 37
http://www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/
http://www.igb-berlin.de/ Justyna Wolinska
<wolinska@bio.lmu.de >
MemorialU SalmonConservation
PhD (or MSc) opportunity [Memorial University,
Canada]
Atlantic salmon ecology & conservation
Applications are sought for a PhD position under the
supervision of Dr. Craig Purchase (www.ucs.mun.ca/-
~cfpurchase) in the Fish Evolutionary Ecology Research
Group (mun.ca/biology/research/feerg) at Memorial
University.
The position will be sponsored by the Salmonid
Association of Eastern Newfoundland (SAEN)
(www.saen.org) & will include collaboration with
Fisheries & Oceans Canada (DFO). For nal accep-
tance, the selected student must apply & be approved
under the Natural Sciences & Engineering Research
Council of Canada (NSERC), Industrial Postgraduate
Scholarship Program (nserc-crsng.gc.ca/students-
etudiants/pg-cs/ips-besii eng.asp) [high success rate].
The foundation of the four year program will include
4 key projects. The student is expected to shape the
details of each & there is great scope for expansion into
related areas.
Rocky River is the largest watershed on the Avalon
Peninsula of Newfoundland & contains an impass-
able waterfall that historically prevented migration of
anadromous salmon. SAEN led stocking of the water-
shed & construction of a sh ladder in the 1980s, which
has created annual runs of hundreds of sh. Data indi-
cate that there is a particularly poor stock/recruitment
relationship. Two projects will test the hypothesis that
this is due to salmon spawning in a yet unknown but
very restricted part of the watershed. 1. Electronic
tagging of upstream migrating salmon & subsequent
tracking to spawning locations 2. Electroshing to de-
termine parr densities & growth rates in dierent parts
of the watershed
Rennie's River carves through the heart of the city of
St. John's & historically contained runs of wild salmon
that became extinct >100 years ago. In 2012 SAEN
instigated a 5-year plan to reintroduce salmon to this
system. To date ~150,000 wild eggs sourced from Ex-
ploits River sh have been incubated instream. Twoprojects will work with continued stocking eorts. 3.
Electroshing to determine densities, growth rates &
precocial maturation of parr of both stocked salmon
& naturally spawning non-native brown trout in dier-
ent parts of the watershed 4. Using the stocked eggs,
test the hypothesis that virgin salmon have superior
egg quality than repeat spawning kelts, using instream
incubators & laboratory analyses/experiments
Planned start date is Sept/14. If no suitable PhD can-
didate is found a MSc will be selected to proceed with
Projects 3-4. The ideal candidate will have a back-
ground in ecology or sheries, & eld work experience.
He/she is expected to be an active participant in col-
laborations, be independent & highly motivated.
Prospective candidates should email a cover letter, CV,
& contact information for three people who can serve
as references. Review of applicants will begin Feb 5/14
& continue until the position is lled.
Dr. Craig Purchase Biology Department, Memorial
University St. John's, NL, A1B 3X9, Canada T:
(709) 864-4452, F:(709) 864-3018 cfpurchase@mun.ca
@CraigPurchase
cfpurchase@mun.ca
MonashU
MarineEvolutionaryBiology
PhD position open: the evolutionary ecology of sessile
marine invertebrates <http://meeg.org/2012/01/09/-
phd-positions-available/ >
A PhD position is open to students interested in
working on the evolutionary ecology of sessile ma-
rine invertebrates in Prof Dustin Marshall's group
(www.meeg.org). The group's research ranges from
quantitative genetics to community ecology and most
projects are eld based with a heavy empirical compo-
nent. The specics of the project will be determined by
joint collaboration between student and supervisor.
After an expression of interest, approved applicants
would be required to apply for a scholarship and tu-
ition waiver through Monash University by April 15th.
*Note that the success of such applications is not as-
sured and the application process is extremely compet-
itive, students without at least one rst author publica-
tion in an international journal (in the topic or of ecol-
ogy or evolution) will not be considered. *The stipends
include all course fees plus ~$25,000 AUD per annum38 EvolDir February 1, 2014
tax-free (the equivalent of approx. $33,000 before tax)
with no teaching requirements for 3.5 years (the length
of a Ph.D. in Australia).
Should the applicant be successful, the funding of
project costs and research support including the costs
of attending at least one conference per year will be
provided by the research group.
Project start dates must be before June 30 2014.
Interested applicants should send an expression of in-
terest, their CVs, a brief statement of a potential re-
search project and the contact details of two referees to
dustin.marshall@monash.edu
To be eligible, applicants must have completed at least
one year of post-graduate research in ecology or evolu-
tion.
Preference will be given to those with strong quantita-
tive skills.
Prof. Dustin Marshall School of Biological
Sciences Monash University Melbourne Aus-
tralia 3800 www.meeg.org Dustin Marshall
<dustin.marshall@monash.edu >
NIOO-KNAW Netherlands
ZooplanktonEvolution
The Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW)
is a top research institute of the Royal Netherlands
Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW). NIOO-KNAW
focuses on fundamental and strategic research on indi-
vidual organisms, populations, ecological communities,
and ecosystems.
The department of Aquatic Ecology oers a PhD posi-
tion, funded by the Netherlands Organisation for Sci-
entic Research (NWO)
PhD position
Rapid evolution of zooplankton under conditions of
stoichiometric imbalance: Consequences for ecosystem
functions and trophic interactions
Vacancy number PhD-AqE-014010
Project description:
According to ecological stoichiometry, consumers re-
quire biogenic elements (e.g. C, N, and P) in spe-
cic ratios and deviations from these ratios in food re-
sources may result in lowered growth rates, fecundityand survival. A variety of consumer organisms have
been shown to harbor substantial intra-specic genetic
variation for the ability to cope with such elemental im-
balances. An important implication is that stoichiomet-
ric imbalances can thus potentially be an important se-
lection factor causing rapid micro-evolutionary adapta-
tions in natural consumer populations. In this project,
we will make use of genotypes of the rotifer Brachionus
calyciorus that have adapted to imbalanced food in a
laboratory selection experiment. Through the combina-
tion of common garden experiments and mathematical
modeling, we will study how rotifers adapt to stoichio-
metric imbalances and which are the consequences of
such adaptations for elemental cycling, phytoplankton
productivity and predator-prey interactions.
Requirements: - Highly motivated candidate with a de-
gree in aquatic ecology or evolutionary ecology or a
closely related eld, interested in the combination of
empirical work with modeling. - Experience with de-
signing and executing laboratory experiments; mathe-
matical and/or statistical modeling; the application of
molecular techniques - Creative, critical and concep-
tual thinking skills - Good communication and writing
abilities in English - Willingness to live in the close
neighborhood of Wageningen
Appointment: This is a temporary appointment, ini-
tially for 1 year and upon satisfactory to be prolonged
for a maximum of 4 years total.
Salary: The gross salary starts at euro 2.083, - per
month in the 1st year, and will gradually increase to a
maximum of euro 2.664, - per month in the 4th year,
scale P, Collective Agreement for Dutch Universities
(CAO Nederlandse Universiteiten), excluding 8% holi-
day pay and a year-end bonus. We oer an extensive
package of fringe benets.
Information: Additional information is avail-
able upon request from dr. S. Declerck
(email: s.declerk@nioo.knaw.nl; URL: https://-
www.nioo.knaw.nl/users/sdeclerck). Information on
NIOO-KNAW can be found on the Internet: http:/-
/www.nioo.knaw.nl Applications: Please send your
application including complete curriculum vitae and
names of three referees and vacancy number to vaca-
ture@nioo.knaw.nl. The closing date for application
is 28 February 2014. Interviews are scheduled in the
third week of March 2014.
We are not interested in services oered by any recruit-
ment agency. Acquisition is not appreciated.
Met vriendelijke groet,
Maaike Scholten HR manager Nederlands Instituut
voor Ecologie (NIOO-KNAW) Bureau Bedrijfsvoer-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 39
ing, Droevendaalsesteeg 10 6708 PB Wageningen
P.O. Box 50 6700 AB Wageningen The Nether-
lands M + 31(0)6-30884960 T + 31(0)317-473400
m.scholten@nioo.knaw.nl
\Scholten, Maaike" <M.Scholten@nioo.knaw.nl >
OldDominionU EvolutionCorals
Hi All,
The Barshis lab at Old Dominion University in Nor-
folk, VA (www.odu.edu/ ~ dbarshis) is seeking highly
qualied Ph.D. applicants to join the lab starting in
Fall 2014. The lab focuses on the environmental and
physiological mechanisms contributing to coral suscep-
tibility and tolerance of environmental stress, particu-
larly thermal challenge. We use a variety of approaches
from experimental eld ecology to 'omics technologies
and bioinformatics.
Of particular interest are applicants with experience in
the following:
1. Independent research 2. Remote eld work and sci-
entic diving 3. Minimum 3.0 undergraduate GPA
Additional desired qualications include experience in:
1. Coral husbandry and *Symbiodinium* culture tech-
niques 2. Molecular biology/molecular ecology 3. Next
generation sequencing and bioinformatics 4. A mas-
ter's degree in a related scientic eld will be viewed
positively
Interested candidates should email Dr. Dan Barshis
directly (dbarshis@odu.edu) with a CV/resume and a
brief description of her/his qualications and interest
in the ODU Ph.D. program. More information about
the program can be found at http://ww2.sci.odu.edu/-
biology/academics/ecologyphd.shtml NOTE: Applica-
tion deadline for ODU is coming up soon on Feb. 1st
2014.
Daniel Barshis, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department
of Biological Sciences Old Dominion University Norfolk,
VA 23529
barshis@gmail.comPrague FishEvolution
PhD position available from *October 2014*
Gene expression analysis in highly polyploid and hybrid
sturgeons in the Laboratory of Fish Genetics, Institute
of Animal Physiology and Genetics (Lib chov), Czech
Academy of Sciences, Charles University (Prague), De-
partment of Zoology and Laboratory of Molecular, Cel-
lular and Quantitative Genetics, Faculty of Fisheries
and Protection of Water, University of South Bohemia
(E.Bud jovice).
*Project background*: Polyploidy is an extraordinar-
ily important evolutionary mechanism contributing to
huge biodiversity of contemporary shes. Similarly, the
ease with which polyploidy of various degrees occurs
naturally or can be induced experimentally by means
of dierent approaches, gives evidence for signicance of
this biological phenomenon associated with sh genome
plasticity. However, there are only few phenomena in
sh biology and genetics on which we have so incom-
plete, fragmentary and sometimes biased knowledge
like on polyploidy of sh. Sturgeons (Acipenseridae)
together with paddleshes (Polyodontidae) are the old-
est living group of actinopterygian shes, living fossils
which literally \forgot to extinct". They diverged from
the vertebrate phylogenic tree, similarly to gars after
having passed two rounds of genome duplication. Chro-
mosomes of these sh also do not exhibit, except for
gars, similarity to those of other actinopterygians and
chromosome numbers give evidence of the large role
of polyploidization events when forming the genome
of acipenserid shes and karyological studies, ow cy-
tometry and DNA content measurements distinguish 4
naturally existing ploidy levels: paleo4n, paleo8n, pa-
leo9n and paleo12n species with ~120, ~240, ~270 and
~360 chromosomes, respectively. In this project we plan
to investigate gene expression in sturgeons of dierent
ploidy levels and also in interspecies hybrids with ele-
vated ploidy levels using methods of RT-PCR, RNA
FISH combined with DNA FISH and DNA/histone
methylation status. This work will be performed in
the context of genome size assessment (ow cytometry)
and molecular cytogenetic karyotype descriptions.
For more information, visit: http://www.iapg.cas.cz/-
uzfg/index.php?p=3Dsekce&site=3Ddefault&id=-
3D12 or email symonova@natur.cuni.cz
*Eligibility*: We expect a motivated student with ex-40 EvolDir February 1, 2014
perience in ichthyology or cold-blooded vertebrates bi-
ology. The ideal candidate for this position is interested
in molecular biology, genetics and evolutionary biology,
and is willing to learn new methods. He/she must have
nished the MSc (or equivalent) by September 2014 at
the latest.
*Time and place*: The student will work in the Labo-
ratory of Fish Genetics, Institute of Animal Physiology
and Genetics, Czech Academy of Sciences in Lib chov
(close to M ln k), Czech Republic. Partly also in the
Laboratory of Molecular, Cellular and Quantitative Ge-
netics, Faculty of Fisheries and Water Protection, Uni-
versity of South Bohemia in Eesk e Bud jovice. The
position is available for up to four years, starting in
October 2014.
*Salary*: The PhD candidates net monthly income
will start at 9.000 CZK/month netto and University
scholarship (6.300 CZK/monthly in the rst year) and
may progressively increase with experience and achieve-
ments during the study. There will be a direct support
from a new GA ER (Grant Agency, Czech Republic)
project (living expenses in the Czech Republic are gen-
erally lower than in Western European countries).
*Research team*: *dr. Radka Symonov a* (Lab.
of Fish Genetics in Libechov, Dept. of Zoology,
Charles University, Prague) supervisor; *prof. Petr
R ab*(Lab. of Fish Genetics) co-supervisor; *prof. Mar-
tin Flaj1hans* (Faculty of Fisheries and Water Protec-
tion, University of South Bohemia) co-supervisor.
*How to apply*: If interested, please, send a letter of
interest, CV, list of publication, title and abstract of
Master/Diploma thesis, and contact details of 2-3 se-
nior scientists for references on you in a single PDF le
to *symonova@natur.cuni.cz* until February 28, 2014.
http://www.iapg.cas.cz/uzfg/ Pre-selected candidates
will be encouraged to submit an ocial application to
the university.
Mgr. Radka Symonov a, Ph.D. E-mail:
radka.symonova@natur.cuni.cz
Laboratory of Fish Genetics Institute of Animal Phys-
iology and Genetics Czech Academy of Sciences Rum-
burska 89 CZ - 277 21 Libechov Czech Republic
Department of Zoology Charles University in Prague
Faculty of Science Albertov 6, 128 43 Praha 2
www.natur.cuni.cz/en symonova@natur.cuni.czPurdueU HellbenderConservation
Title: PhD Assistantship - Hellbender Ecology and
Conservation
Agency: Purdue University
Location: West Lafayette, IN
Job Description: Seeking a highly motivated student
for a fully funded PhD position focusing on hellbender
ecology and conservation. The selected candidate will
evaluate larval hellbender captive rearing techniques,
assess post-release movements and survival, and char-
acterize juvenile hellbender habitat use. This project
will consist of intensive eld work combined with ex-
tensive travel to eld sites located in southern Indi-
ana. Transportation and o-campus housing will be
provided. Graduate position begins in August 2014,
but opportunities for eld work can begin in May 2014.
Qualications: A student with an MS in herpetology
or related eld is preferred although exceptional appli-
cants with a BS will be considered. Experience using
radio- telemetry is desired. Applicants must have a
strong work ethic and the ability to work both indepen-
dently and as a member of a research team. Excellent
interpersonal skills are essential. Applicants will work
closely with a diverse group of state wildlife biologists,
private landowners, and supervise eld technicians.
Potential applicants are encouraged to visit https://-
ag.purdue.edu/fnr/Pages/gradadminguide.aspx to en-
sure they meet the minimum departmental require-
ments for admission. Students that do not meet mini-
mum requirements will not be considered. Experience
in the peer-reviewed publication process is desired.
To apply, electronically submit a cover letter stat-
ing research and career interests, CV (including cu-
mulative GPA and GRE scores), and contact infor-
mation for three references to Dr. Rod Williams
(rodw@purdue.edu).
Purdue University is an equal access/equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer fully committed to
achieving a diverse workforce.
Stipend: ~$20,000/yr
Last Date to Apply: March 1, 2014
Contact: Rod Williams E-mal: rodw@purdue.edu
Phone: 765-494-3568 Web: http://-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 41
web.ics.purdue.edu/~rodw/ Steve Kimble Postdoctoral
Research Assistant, Department of Forestry and Natu-
ral Resources Purdue University skimble@purdue.edu
sjkimble@gmail.com http://web.ics.purdue.edu/-
~rodw/sKimble.php sjkimble@gmail.com
QueensU PopulationDynamics
Temperature, seasonality and recurrent insect out-
breaks
A PhD position is available in the area of Experimen-
tal Population Dynamics, which is part of a larger
project aimed at understanding how seasonal tempera-
ture changes inuence the stability of population dy-
namics. The overall project is an international col-
laboration between Dr. Nelson (Queens University,
Canada), Dr. Bjornstad (Penn State, USA), Dr. Tobin
(USDA, USA) and Dr. Yamanaka (NIAES, Japan) and
is funded by the National Science Foundation (USA).
While the project is strongly interdisciplinary between
mathematical and experimental approaches, it is antic-
ipated that each graduate student on the project will
take a single focused approach to studying the prob-
lem. Candidates for this position will have the oppor-
tunity to work with the tortrix tea pest (Adoxophyes
honmai) at Queens University, which is a new experi-
mental model system for studying population dynam-
ics. While the experimental parts of the project will
be done at Queens University and the theoretical work
done at Penn State, all graduate students on the project
will have regular interactions. More background on this
project and my lab group can be found on my website
(http://post.queensu.ca/~nelsonw/Index.html). Appli-
cants for this position should have a strong academic
record and demonstrated ability for independent re-
search. We encourage applicants with a background
in either mathematics or experimental biology. Please
send your CV, a copy of academic transcripts and a
cover letter to Bill Nelson (nelsonw@queensu.ca).
Queens University is a research intensive institution
with a strong graduate program in Ecology and Evolu-
tion, and Mathematical Biology. The Biology depart-
ment provides stimulating academic environment with
a collegial atmosphere.
William Nelson Associate Professor
Department of Biology Queen's University Kingston,
ON, Canada, K7M 3N6 Phone: (613) 533-6130 Fax:(613) 533-6617 http://post.queensu.ca/ ~ nelsonw/-
Index.html William Nelson <nelsonw@queensu.ca >
RuhrU Bochum FungalBiodiversity
The Department of Geobotany of the Ruhr-University
Bochum invites applications of PhD candidates for a
thesis on
Functional Diversity of Fungi at the Soil-Water-
Boundary
Microorganisms are responsible for nutrient cycling in
all habitats, but their individual functional roles in nat-
ural environments, such as soil, water or plant tissues,
are still largely unexplored. Only most recent develop-
ments in massive parallel sequencing approaches pro-
vides detailed insights into the complexity of microbial
communities and their indispensable contributions to
ecosystem processes. The main aim of the project is to
disentangle these contributions on the (meta-)genomic
and transcriptomic level.
The candidate must hold a MSc or Diploma degree
in Biology, Botany or Microbiology and is expected to
have thorough knowledge at least in one of the following
elds: molecular genomics/transcriptomics, ecological
and environmental statistics, or fungal ecology. The
candidate is expected to conduct the research project
largely independently and to interact in a broader re-
search consortium.
The Ruhr-Universit at Bochum is an equal opportuni-
ties employer and particularly encourages applications
from women and disabled people.
Applications including CV, a motivation letter (max.
two pages) and names of two potential referees should
be submitted electronically no later than 31th of Jan-
uary 2014 to Prof. Dr. Dominik Begerow (do-
minik.begerow@rub.de). URL: http://www.ruhr-uni-
bochum.de/geobot/en/geobot/index.html . Prof. Dr.
Dominik Begerow Ruhr-Universit at Bochum AG Geob-
otanik Geb aude ND 03/174 Universit atsstrae 150
44780 Bochum Tel: *49 (0)234 32 27212 Sekretariat:
*49 (0)234 32 26237 Fax: *49 (0)234 32 14434 E-Mail:
dominik.begerow@rub.de
Dominik Begerow <dominik.begerow@rub.de >42 EvolDir February 1, 2014
SoutheasternLouisianaU
PlantSystematics
MSc position with Dr. Rick Miler, Department of Bi-
ological Sciences, Southeastern Louisiana University,
Hammond, LA
Topic: \Taxonomic revision of sweet potato and its wild
relatives"
Deadline for application: 1 February 2014
*Project description*:
There is a growing interest in the systematics and evo-
lutionary biology of sweet potato and its wild rela-
tives, motivated in part by wanting to determine the
gene pool that could contribute to crop improvement.
This group of morning glories (*Ipomoea*) includes 14
named species of the *Batatas* complex. Recent molec-
ular work by our lab has demonstrated that the rela-
tionships among populations of the named species are
not consistent with previous notions of species bound-
aries. These results and the general understanding of
the biology of these morning glories warrants a new ex-
amination of the pattern of morphological variation and
continued study of molecular genetic variation among
the members of the *Batatas* complex to develop a
revised taxonomy.
In this project, the Master's student will carry out
an investigation of the pattern of morphological vari-
ation using quantitative analyses, as well as continue
obtaining DNA sequence data to further understand re-
lationships among population samples of the *Batatas*
species. This contribution will be important as we de-
velop the wild crop relatives into resources for the im-
provement of sweet potatoes. Additional areas of study
are possible, such as crossing studies among populations
of *Batatas* species to determine levels of interfertil-
ity, as well as eld trials to evaluate traits important in
crop improvement (e.g. drought resistance, resistance
to pathogens and insects).
Our lab is generally interested in the evolution of eco-
logically important traits and the systematics of morn-
ing glories, the model system for our research. We
have ongoing research in the systematics of morning
glories, phylogeography of particular species, evolution
of life history traits, and the evolution of owers from
molecules to ecology. Our lab includes master's stu-
dents, as well as excellent undergraduate research as-sistants carrying out many aspects of our research ef-
fort. For example, we recently completed a study of the
systematics of morning glories based on over 30 whole-
chloroplast genomes, that was the work of a master's
student and an outstanding team of undergraduate as-
sistants (Eserman et al. 2014. AJB 101: 92-103).
The Department of Biological Sciences at Southeastern
includes a broad group of biologists with strengths in
systematics, evolutionary biology and ecology, as well
as organismal biology in general. Hammond is located
north of New Orleans and east of Baton Rouge.
For information on the application process visit the Bi-
ology Department website and information for graduate
student applicants (Graduate Degree Programs).
http://www.southeastern.edu/acad research/depts/-
biol/ To further discuss this research opportunity and
the graduate program, please contact:
Rick Miller, rickmiller@selu.edu
Rick E. Miller, Ph.D. Department of Biological Sci-
ences Southeastern Louisiana University Hammond,
LA 70402
Biology Building 403 oce/419 lab phone: 985 549-
5556 FAX: 985 549-3851 email: rickmiller@selu.edu
http://www2.selu.edu/Academic/Faculty/rickmiller
richard.miller@selu.edu richard.miller@selu.edu
StockholmU PlantInsectInteractions
PhD position at the University of Stockholm (Depart-
ment of Ecology, Environment and Plant Sciences)
Topic: \The ecology and evolution of plant-microbe-
insect interactions"
Reference number SU FV-0118-14.
Deadline for applications: February 9, 2014.
Project description Plant-based food webs are well-
known for their stunning species diversity and com-
plexity. For example, several million insect species and
a similarly large number of fungi, bacteria, nematodes
and viruses interact with the world's c. 300,000 plant
species. Unfortunately, studies on terrestrial food webs
are often hampered by the lack of interdisciplinary ap-
proaches. For example, while we know that insects in-
teract with insects, and microbes with microbes, cross-
kingdom interactions among plants, insects and mi-
crobes have only infrequently been explored. Neverthe-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 43
less, recent evidence indicates that plant-microbe-insect
interactions may be one of the major forces structur-
ing the ecology and evolution of terrestrial plant-based
communities.
In this project, the PhD student can pursue multiple
approaches (depending on skills and interest) to in-
vestigate the role of plant-microbe-insect interactions
in structuring a plant-based communities. The stu-
dent will start the project by using eld observations
and a large-scale greenhouse experiment to quantify the
relevance of plant-microbe-insect interactions within
a community context. Next, the student may apply
molecular tools to reveal the underlying genetic and
physiological mechanisms underlying plant-mediated
insect-microbe interactions. Several other projects may
be selected according to the interest of the student. The
majority of the work will be on the food web surround-
ing Plantago lanceolata, but some questions may also
be answered using the species-rich food web on the pe-
dunculate oak (Quercus robur).
For more information on the project and the applica-
tion, see: http://www.su.se/english/about/vacancies/-
phd-studies/phd-position-in-ecology -1.163114
{ Dr Ayco Tack, MRG, Department of Biosciences,
University of Helsinki, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland Tel:
+358 (0)45 1107855; www.plantmicrobeinsect.com
https://tuhat.halvi.helsinki./portal/en/person/-
tack http://www.helsinki./foodwebs/Ayco.htm
ayco.tack@helsinki.
TexasAMU HydroidGenomics
The Miglietta Lab at Texas A&M University at Galve-
ston is looking for graduate students for AY 2014-15.
If you have enthusiastic students interested in ecology
and evolution and genomics of hydroids and jellysh
please have them contact me at: miglietm@tamug.edu
Projects include:
Genomics of the \immortal" jellysh Turritopsis
dohrnii Phylogenetics and evolution of Hydrozoa
(Cnidaria) Medusa blooms
Deadline for admission at TAMUG graduate school is
March 15 2014
For information about the program, please visit http:/-
/www.tamug.edu/marb/Graduate/graduate.html Sin-
cerely,Maria Pia
Maria Pia Miglietta Assistant Professor Department of
Marine Biology Texas A&M University at Galveston
Ph. 409 740 4458 http://www3.nd.edu/ ~ mmigliet
miglietm@tamug.edu
TrentU ConservationGenetics
MSc POSITION in conservation genetics in the Envi-
ronmental and Life Sciences Graduate Program, Trent
University, Canada, in collaboration with the Ontario
Ministry of Natural Resources.
Project description: Numerous species of native mus-
sels are endangered or threatened in Ontario. One of
the challenges in developing conservation management
plans for these species is identifying extant populations.
This project will entail the development and implemen-
tation of environmental DNA (eDNA) markers that can
be used to detect the present of mussel species and iden-
tify locations that should be the targets of conservation
management plans. In addition, the unusual pattern of
mtDNA inheritance in mussels (maternal inheritance
in females, biparental inheritance in males) allows for
the possibility of developing sex-specic eDNA markers
that could potentially be used to identify sites of spawn-
ing. Using a combination of eld, laboratory, and ex-
perimental methods, the goals of this project are to (a)
quantify the ecacy of eDNA markers under a range of
conditions, (b) use eDNA markers to map the presence
and absence of mussels from multiple sites, and (c) de-
velop sex-specic eDNA markers. The project will be
co-supervised by Dr.Joanna Freeland, Dept. of Biol-
ogy, Trent University, and Dr. Chris Wilson, Ontario
Ministry of Natural Resources.
Qualications: BSc or similar degree. Previous expe-
rience in eld work and genetic lab work an asset, but
not essential. Enthusiasm and willingness to get wet
are essential!
How to apply: Application should include (1) a letter
stating why the applicant should be considered a strong
candidate for the position, (2) a CV, (3) names,with e-
mail address and telephone numbers, of two referees,
and (4) any other documents that the applicant deems
relevant. Please send enquiries or applications to joan-
nafreeland@trentu.ca and chris.wilson@ontario.ca .
Joanna Freeland Dept. of Biology Trent Univer-
sity http://people.trentu.ca/joannafreeland/Chris44 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Wilson Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources
http://web.nrdpfc.ca/cwilson.htm Joanna Freeland
<joannafreeland@trentu.ca >
UAmsterdam EvolutionaryBiology
*PhD candidate, Evolutionary Biology*
*University of Amsterdam*
The Theoretical Ecology group at the Institute for Bio-
diversity and Ecosystem Dynamics at the University of
Amsterdam is looking for a PhD candidate in Evolu-
tionary Biology to investigate how the conditional ex-
pression of male alternative reproductive phenotypes
aects the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of pop-
ulations.
The project starts around mid 2014. The full-time ap-
pointment will be on a temporary basis for a maxi-
mum period of four years (18 months plus a further 30
months after a positive evaluation) and should lead to a
dissertation (PhD thesis). An educational plan will be
drafted that includes attendance of courses and (inter-
national) meetings. The PhD Student is also expected
to assist in the teaching of undergraduates. The full-
time gross monthly salary will range from EUR 2,083
in the rst year to EUR 2,664 in the nal year, accord-
ing to the Dutch salary scales for PhD students. The
Collective Labour Agreement Dutch Universities is ap-
plicable. The annual salary will be increased by 8 %
holiday allowance and 8.3 % end-of-year bonus.
You must have a Master's degree (or equivalent) in
Ecology, Evolution or Population Biology and experi-
ence with laboratory experiments, preferably with in-
vertebrates. You must have an interest (preferably ex-
perience) in combining theory, laboratory studies, and
data analysis. Good computer skills, including statisti-
cal analysis and preferably also programming in Mat-
Lab or R, are required, as is a willingness to work in a
multidisciplinary environment.
Applications should include a detailed CV including
educational experience, a list of publications, a letter
describing motivation and research interests, and the
names and contact addresses of two academic references
from which information about the candidate can be ob-
tained. Combine these materials into a single PDF
le. Applications should be sent before 28 February
2014 (midnight GMT+1), via email, to: application-
science@uva.nl. Please quote the vacancy number 14-008 in the subject eld. Interviews, possibly via Skype,
will be held 7 and/or 8 April 2014. More information
can be found at: http://www.uva.nl/en/about-the-
uva/working-at-the-uva/vacancies/item/14-008.html .
Dr Isabel Smallegange
Assistant Professor
Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics
University of Amsterdam
P.O. box 94248
1090 GE Amsterdam
The Netherlands
I.Smallegange@uva.nl
UBasel MicrobialGenomics
PhD-position in microbial genomics and host-pathogen
interactions at the University of Basel, Switzerland
A PhD fellowship is available in the group of Dieter
Ebert at Basel University, Basel, Switzerland. I am
looking for a highly motivated candidate with inter-
ests in evolutionary genomics and host-parasite in-
teractions. The PhD project is concerned with the
bacterium Pasteuria ramosa, a pathogen of Daphnia
magna. The aim of the project is to gain insights into
the genetic interactions of the pathogen and its host
using genomic and experimental approaches. Part of
the project will be worked out with the candidate, to
accommodate interests and strength. The position is
supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation
and the University of Basel. The research group cov-
ers the entire range from epidemiological and ecological
aspects of host-parasite interactions, to studies on the
population genetics and genomics of hosts and para-
sites. Work is carried out in the eld and in the lab.
For more information see: http://evolution.unibas.ch/-
ebert/ Some recent publications related to the project:
- Luijckx, P., H. Fienberg, D. Duneau, and D. Ebert.
2013. A Matching-Allele Model Explains Host Resis-
tance to Parasites. Current Biology 23:1085-1088. -
McElroy, K., L. Mouton, L. Du Pasquier, W. Qi, and D.
Ebert. 2011. Characterisation of a large family of poly-
morphic collagen-like proteins in the endospore-forming
bacterium Pasteuria ramosa. Research in Microbiology
162:701-714. - Duneau, D., P. Luijckx, F. Ben-Ami, C.
Laforsch, and D. Ebert. 2011. Resolving the infection
process reveals striking dierences in the contributionFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 45
of environment, genetics and phylogeny to host-parasite
interactions. Bmc Biology 9.
Starting date for the PhD is negotiable (any time from
April 2014 onwards). German is helpful in every day
life, but the working language in the group is English.
A Diploma or Master degree (or equivalent) in biology
or related subject is necessary for admission.
Please send your application by email (all material in
one PDF please) to Dieter Ebert. Applications should
include a CV, a list of publications and a statement
about research interests. Please give names and email
addresses of two persons who are willing to write a letter
of recommendation. Application deadline is 25. Feb.
2014.
Further information and address for application: Prof.
Dr. Dieter Ebert, University of Basel, Institute of Zool-
ogy, Basel, Switzerland, Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
Tel. +41-(0)61-267 03 60, Fax +41-(0)61-267 03 61.
Web: http://evolution.unibas.ch/ebert/ Dieter Ebert
Universit at Basel, Zoologisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1,
4051 Basel, Switzerland Tel. +41 (0)61 267 03 60
Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
UBath HoneyBeePathogenEvolution
Inferring social contact networks and transmission dy-
namics of honey bee pathogens from sequence data.
Main supervisor: Professor Edward Feil (Department
of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath) email:
e.feil@bath.ac.uk
The emergence and spread of infectious agents has tra-
ditionally been studied from two distinct perspectives;
epidemiological dynamics (which refers to the patterns
of spread over time between populations or individ-
ual hosts) and evolutionary dynamics (which refers
to the genetics changes responsible for, and resulting
from, changes in tness and transmissibility). The ad-
vent of next-generation sequencing technology is lead-
ing to a closer synthesis between these two, most visi-
bly due to the promise of sequence data to inform on
individual transmission events. Although it is impor-
tant to retrospectively determine who infected who over
the course, a more fundamental question concerns the
promise of phylogenetic analysis of NGS data (eg the
genetic tree) to inform on more general epidemiolog-
ical dynamics, given a model of host movement andsusceptibility (eg the transmission tree). For example,
the existence of 'super-spreaders' in the population (in-
dividuals which go on to infect a disproportionately
high number of other individuals) might be apparent
as clusters of genomes from dierent individuals but
sharing a recent common ancestor. Such an approach
has been taken for human sexually transmitted disease
using known sexual contact networks, but has not been
considered for wildlife diseases. Honey bees (Apis mel-
lifera) represent an excellent case to further develop-
ment this framework. Pathogens represent a major
contributor to the decline in honey bee populations,
which has well-publicised commercial and ecosystem
consequences. Prior studies have focused on pathogen
transmission and the social contact network in pollina-
tors, but have not incorporated the use of molecular
data, and recent work has modelled transmission dy-
namics on a landscape scale. We are also aware of large
scale projects currently underway using NGS data to
understand the transmission of bacterial pathogens of
honey bees. Training will be provided in molecular evo-
lution and population biology, network dynamics and
epidemiological modelling. A large component of the
work will be based on scripting, and full training will
be given in R and PERL and various bioinformatics
packages. The rst year rotation will be between the
groups of Feil and James at the University of Bath, who
work on population biology and social network theory
respectively. Later work with Turner at Bristol will
involve simulating sequence evolution over alternative
contact networks (using the insights gained in Bath) to
determine the extent to which transmission dynamics
can can be recapitulated from the genetic tree.
Funding Notes: One of our 4-year BBSRC-SWDTP
studentship in World Class Bioscience, see http://-
www.bath.ac.uk/science/gradschool/funding/bbsrc-
phds/ Applicants must meet BBSRC criteria for UK
residency in order to qualify for funding. EU applicants
are not usually eligible for personal funding support.
Applicants should use the online application that can
be found (along with application guidance) at: http:/-
/www.bath.ac.uk/study/pgresearch/apply/ Please en-
sure that you upload all required documents when ap-
plying, including a CV.
Please specify 'BBSRC-SWDTP' and the project and
supervisors you are interested in on your application
(e.g. in section 7)
E.Feil@bath.ac.uk46 EvolDir February 1, 2014
UBern RodentParasiteCoevolution
Genomics and ecology of rodent and parasite speciation
PhD position, 3 years
Applications are invited for a PhD project investigating
the processes and consequences of evolutionary diver-
gence and hybridization in rodents and their eects on
associated parasites. The project will combine eld-
work and genomic analyses of vole hybrid zones with
investigations on the evolutionary ecology of rodent-
borne viruses and other parasites. Our approaches
bridge the elds of molecular ecology, evolutionary ge-
nomics and epidemiology, and aim to better understand
the drivers of explosive speciation in Microtus, a prime
example of very rapid evolutionary divergence in mam-
mals.
I am seeking a highly-motivated candidate with excel-
lent organizational skills who is able to work indepen-
dently as well as in a team. The ideal candidate has a
solid background in evolutionary biology, practical ex-
perience with modern molecular laboratory work and
analysis methods in population genetics and phyloge-
netics. Experience with eldwork on small mammals is
not essential. Experience with R-programming, next-
generation sequencing and bioinformatics is a plus. A
Master degree in a relevant eld such as evolution, ge-
netics, or similar, and a valid driver's license is required.
Good knowledge of written and spoken English is ex-
pected. The project includes periods of eldwork and
laboratory analyses abroad, and the writing of several
manuscripts for leading journals in the eld. Some
knowledge of German or French would be benecial
for living in Switzerland but it is not essential. The
working language in our institute is English.
The CMPG oers a stimulating research environment
with excellent research facilities. We are also part
of the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB). Infor-
mation on the research group and the University of
Bern, or life here in general can be obtained from
www.cmpg.iee.unibe.ch and http://bern.ch/ . The po-
sition is funded by the Swiss National Science Founda-
tion for three years, and the anticipated starting date is
March or April 1st 2014. Please send your application
including a letter outlining your past research experi-
ence, technical skills and particular motivation for this
position (max. 2 pages), CV, list of publications (if
available), abstract of Master or Diploma thesis andcontact details of 2-3 referees in a single (!) pdf le to
gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch This is a re-advertisement.
Previous applicants may reapply but make very clear
why they feel particularly suited and motivated for this
position. For full consideration, your application should
be received before January 31 2014.
PD Dr. Gerald Heckel
Computational and Molecular Population Genet-
ics (CMPG) Institute of Ecology and Evolution
University of Bern Baltzerstrasse 6 CH-3012 Bern,
Switzerland Tel: +41 31 631 30 29 Fax: +41
31 631 48 88 Email: gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch
http://www.cmpg.iee.unibe.ch Swiss Institute
of Bioinformatics (SIB) http://www.isb-sib.ch/-
groups/Computational Population Genetics.htm
gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch
UBirmingham 2 Insect Daphnia
Omics
Recruitment of a PhD student at the University of
Birmingham, Edgbaston campus, Birmingham, UK
School of Biosciences, Molecular Ecophysiology Group
and Environmental Genomics Group
PI: Dr Scott Hayward http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/-
sta/proles/biosciences/hayward-scott.aspx Co-
PI: Prof. John Colbourne (UoB) http://-
www.birmingham.ac.uk/sta/proles/biosciences/-
colbourne-john.aspx 2 available projects: Deadline:
31st Jan 2014 ? after which short listed applicants will
then be invited for interview. Start date: Oct 2014
Project 1: 4 Yr NERC PhD studentship - part
of CENTA (http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/generic/-
centa/index.aspx)
Title: Molecular mechanisms underpinning Daphnia di-
apause: from genes to ecosystem resilience Daphnia
(the water ea) represent sentinel species in assessing
the health of freshwater systems internationally, and
are key indicators of ecosystem resilience to environ-
mental change. Populations of Daphnia cannot escape
environmental stress by migrating and instead enter a
specialised dormant state, termed diapause, to avoid
unfavourable conditions. Diapause can be a seasonal
response, induced by photoperiod and temperature, or
a response to other environmental cues such as food
quantity/population density or predators (kairomones).
The programming of diapause shifts populations from aFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 47
cycle of asexual reproduction to the sexual production
of diapausing embryos. This switch plays a fundamen-
tal role in regulating Daphnia phenology, thus inuenc-
ing freshwater food webs and nutrient cycling. Through
our ongoing work with the Daphnia Genomics Consor-
tium (DGC), Daphnia is emerging as one of the best
characterized genomic systems. Amazingly, however,
we know almost nothing about the molecular mecha-
nisms that underpin diapause in any Daphnia species.
We also know nothing about the impact of environ-
mental pollution on diapause. Yet this information is
critical to disentangling how diapause is regulated, its
evolutionary history, and the ability of species to sur-
vive under continued environmental change.
Core objectives: i) First molecular characterisation of
diapause in Daphnia using both genomic (HiSeq) and
metabolomic approaches ii) Quantify the stress toler-
ance limits of diapausing embryos, and thus determine
what environmental conditions represent tipping points
in population survival. iii) Determine how diapause in-
cidence is aected by increased levels of environmental
pollution.
Training: Birmingham holds extensive collections
of Daphnia strains from various wild populations
ideally suited to this project. The DR will be fully
trained in culturing this sentinel organism used
in freshwater environmental research, as well as
state-of-the-art omic technologies, including high
throughput sequencing.. Both SH and JC are based
within the Biosystems and Environmental Change
(BEC) theme, where the DR will interact on daily
basis with researchers at the vanguard of applying
systems biology approaches to understanding organ-
ismal responses to environmental change. Further
project details: http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=49489&LID=124 Project
2: 4 Yr BBSRC PhD studentship - part of MIBTP
(http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/research/activity/-
mibtp/index.aspx)
Title: Establishing greater food security under envi-
ronmental change through understanding pollinator di-
apause
Establishing agricultural resilience and food security in
the face of environmental change is of intense global
interest, and the commercial production of pollinators,
such as the bumblebee Bombus terrestris, will play a
key role in achieving this objective. In common with
most temperate insects, B. terrestris enters a period
of dormancy, termed diapause, to survive winter un-
der natural conditions. More uniquely, it is only mated
queens that enter diapause and persist to establish new
colonies the following year. In a commercial setting dia-pause is extremely useful as it allows the long-term cold
storage of bees. However, diapause can also represent
an unwanted delay in population turnover. Molecular
mechanisms that underpin key diapause characteristics
represent potential targets for diapause manipulation,
and this has fundamental applications in controlling life
cycle duration, synchronising availability with demand,
providing a year round supply ?o-the-shelf?, as well as
maximising the tness of supplied bees. To date, there
are no published studies on the mechanisms regulating
diapause in B. terrestris. Indeed,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCollegeLondon ImmuneEvolution
NERC funded PhD project open for competitive appli-
cations
Eligibility: UK and EU nationals
Deadline for formal applications: 17 February 2014
Start date: October 2014
Project: Taking its TOLL: understanding the evolu-
tionary forces shaping immune genes in threatened,
reintroduced species.Supervisors: Patricia Brekke (Zo-
ological Society of London), Francois Balloux (UCL)
Project Description: Loss of genetic variation in threat-
ened species hinders their ability to adapt to our chang-
ing environment. However, we have a limited un-
derstanding on how the mechanisms that shape ge-
netic variation interact in wild, threatened populations.
Change in the balance between selection and genetic
drift is known to facilitate shifts to novel adaptive
peaks and the genetic architecture of adaptively im-
portant traits under laboratory conditions. However,
its relative importance remains controversial in wild
populations of non-model organisms. With this stu-
dentship, we aim to test the role of genetic drift and
parasite-mediated selection in shaping functional ge-
netic variation at TOLL-like-receptor genes (involved
in immune response) and how exposure to novel envi-
ronments brought on by reintroduction aects this bal-
ance. This study will be based on the hihi reintroduc-
tion programme, an endemic and endangered passerine48 EvolDir February 1, 2014
from New Zealand which is strongly susceptible to dis-
ease.
Research relating to this project: Alcaide, M.,
& Edwards, S. V. (2011). Molecular evolution
of the toll-like receptor multigene family in birds.
Molecular biology and evolution, 28(5), 1703V15.
doi:10.1093/molbev/msq351 Grueber, C. E., Wallis, G.
P., & Jamieson, I. G. (2013). Genetic drift outweighs
natural selection at toll-like receptor (TLR) immu-
nity loci in a re-introduced population of a threatened
species. Molecular ecology. doi:10.1111/mec.12404
Tschirren, B., Andersson, M., Scherman, K., Wester-
dahl, H., Mittl, P. R. E., & B, P. R. S. (2013). Poly-
morphisms at the innate immune receptor TLR2 are
associated with Borrelia infection in a wild rodent pop-
ulation. Proc. R. Soc. B doi:10.1098/rspb.2013.0364
1471-2954
Policy Impact of Research: This study will address an
explicit goal of the Convention on Biological Diversity,
how to conserve genetic variation to maintain biological
diversity and evolutionary processes.
Further Information: http://london-nerc-dtp.org/-
2013/11/27/taking-its-toll-understanding-the-
evolutionary-forces-shaping-immune-genes-in-
threatened-reintroduced-species/ To apply: http://-
london-nerc-dtp.org/how-to-apply/ Dr Patricia Brekke
Research Fellow Institute of Zoology Zoological Society
of London Regents Park NW1 4RY Tel: 0207 449
6650 http://www.zsl.org/science/ioz-sta-students/-
brekke,1123,AR.html <http://www.zsl.org/science/-
ioz-sta-students/brekke >Follow us on twitter
@hihinews and @ZSLScience
Patricia Brekke <brekke.patricia@gmail.com >
UFribourg Switzerland
EvolutionaryGenomics
Ph.D. position in ecological & evolutionary genomics
Testing the drivers and limits of species radiations
The groups of Christian Lexer (Uni Fribourg), Michael
Kessler (Uni Zurich) and Nicolas Salamin (Uni Lau-
sanne) are opening several positions in their labs,
funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation, to
work on the ecological, evolutionary, and genomic as-
pects of species radiations. The positions will be part
of a large collaborative project that aims at bring-
ing together macroecology, population genomics andphylogenomics to investigate the drivers and limits of
species radiations in several Neotropical plant groups.
In this context, we are looking for candidates that have
a strong background in one of these research areas and
the willingness to collaborate on scientic questions
outside of their core area of expertise.
The Ph.D. position at University of Fribourg, hosted
by Christian Lexer's lab, will address the drivers of
/ constraints to Neotropical species radiations by ap-
plying the tools of population genomics to selected
groups of bromeliads (epiphytes in rain forests) and
palms. You will use high-throughout 'genotyping-by-
sequencing' approaches to study the mechanisms that
facilitate or limit the evolution of genomic diversity
at each of the three major life cycle stages of extant
species: speciation, expansion, and persistence through
mechanisms conferring species cohesion. This includes
(1) testing key hypotheses on speciation with strong
geographic isolation vs. speciation with gene ow in
neotropical mountain systems, (2) testing the role of
ecological selection as a driver of population divergence
and speciation in neotropical mountains, (3) identifying
potential agents of selection by projecting dierentially
selected ('aptive) DNA variation into multivariate niche
space. Prior experience with the use of DNA-based ge-
netic markers to answer evolutionary questions is es-
sential for this project. Also essential is a keen interest
in gaining experience with the analysis of ultra high
throughput DNA sequencing data. Considerable ex-
pertise in bioinformatics and computational biology is
available locally in the department, from the Swiss In-
stitute of Bioinformatics (SIB), and from Swiss Ph.D.
programs. The project involves participation in several
plant collecting expeditions in the New World tropics.
The starting date for the position is May 2014, and
funding is available for three years. Knowledge of
French or German is helpful in every day life, but the
working language in the group is English. A Master
degree in biology or related subject is required. Fri-
bourg is a lively town with pleasant surroundings and
an excellent quality of life. It is located ca. 30 minutes
from the Alps, close to other cities such as Berne and
Lausanne and just a little over an hour from Geneva
and Z urich.
To apply, please send an e-mail with the application
materials in a single pdf le to Christian Lexer (chris-
tian.lexer@unifr.ch). Application materials should in-
clude a CV, a list of publications, and a short (less
than one page) statement of research interests. Please
give names and email addresses of two persons who are
willing to write a letter of recommendation. Applica-
tions received before 10 February 2014 will be given full
consideration.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 49
Further information and address for application: Dr.
Christian Lexer, Associate Professor of Evolutionary
Biology E-mail: christian.lexer@unifr.ch, Tel: +41 26
300 88 68 Web: http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/-
lexer/people.html
christian.lexer@unifr.ch
UGiessen Germany
InsectEvolutionaryEcol
PhD Position in Evolutionary Ecology, Gie c, Germany
The Department of Applied Entomology, Institute of
Phytopathology and Applied Zoology, Faculty of Agri-
cultural Sciences, Nutritional Sciences and Environ-
mental Management, has open position in the group
of Dr. Joop (http://www.insekten-biotechnologie.de/-
en/ng-joop.html) for 2 PHD STUDENTS
starting from 01/03/2014, currently until 31/12/2016.
The salary will be according to salary group 13 of the
Hessian wage agreement (Tarifvertrag Hessen, TV-H
E13 1/2) if the applicants qualications meet the re-
quirements of the wage agreement.
Tasks: Participation in research projects on insects
chemical defense and secretion; in the rst position are
the total secretions of insects and their eectiveness in
the foreground, while in the second position the deter-
mination of insect symbionts and their defense mecha-
nisms with various quantitative methods is given prior-
ity, using a diverse set of cultivation techniques; both
positions come with testing of candidate substances for
biological activity under various conditions.
Requirements: You have completed an above-average
university degree (master or diploma) in entomology,
natural science, agricultural science or related subjects.
Position 1: The ideal candidate has very good theoret-
ical and practical knowledge in one or more of the fol-
lowing areas/techniques: sample preparation, GC-MS,
HPLC, entomology, insect breeding, transcriptomics;
experience in chemical ecology and good knowledge in
statistics and/or programming languages, such as Perl,
Python, or R, would be of advantage.
Position 2: The ideal candidate has very good pprac-
tical experience in microbial, molecular (i.e. NGS,
qPCR, FISH), and quantitative- analytical methods;
interest in microbial ecology and complex microbial
interactions; an interest and/or experience in bioin-formatics as well as entomology and insect breeding
would be a plus. Due to the international research
environment very good command of spoken and writ-
ten English is essential. The Justus-Liebig-University
Giessen strives for a higher proportion of women in sci-
ence; therefore we encourage qualied female scientists
to apply. The Justus-Liebig-University is a family-
friendly university. Applicants with children are wel-
come. Please send your application (in German or En-
glish) including reference number 115/00189/09 with
the usual documents until 30/01/2014 or until the po-
sition is lled to Dr. Gerrit Joop, Institute of Phy-
topathology and Applied Zoology, Heinrich-Bu-Ring
26-32, 35392 Giessen, Germany. Severely handicapped
applicants with equal qualications will be preferred.
As the documents will not be returned after end of the
selection procedure do not send originals. For further
information contact: gerrit.joop@agrar.uni-giessen.de.
Gerrit Joop <Gerrit.Joop@agrar.uni-giessen.de >
UGroningen ComputationalBiology
PhD (4 years) position in computational modelling of
biological systems
The behavioural Ecology and Self-organization Group
at the University of Groningen is seeking to recruit a
PhD student to strengthen its research team on Self-
organization of Social systems. The position is full-time
and available immediately.
Research environment
The position is part of the project 'Optimisation of nav-
igation for intercepting prey during aerial hunting by
birds', funded by a Grant (ALW) from the Netherlands
Science Foundation (NWO) to Prof. dr. Charlotte
Hemelrijk. Key objective of this project is to under-
stand how the hunting strategy of a raptor has been
shaped by evolution: whether evolution has optimised
the guidance of the raptor for hunting as a special-
ist or as generalist and what the robustness is of the
optimised prey-targeting system in relation to the be-
haviour of the prey, whether it is unwary or trying to
escape, it is ying solitarily or is ocking. For this
the eects on the optimization of pursuit-evasion tac-
tics, behavioral delays, ight control, biomechanics, the
prey-targeting and ocking of prey will be studied in a
computational model. Evolutionary techniques will be
combined with insights from models and empirical data50 EvolDir February 1, 2014
of ight mechanics, hunting behavior (diving and level
pursuit) and guidance of the aerial predator. Results
will also be related to procedures used in the missile
literature. The research team will also involve another
PhD student working on escape of prey when solitary
and when in a ock. Both PhD students will develop
and extend computational models on specic species of
raptor and prey. The research project is a collaborative
eort of the research team on Self-organization of So-
cial systems and the Oxford Flight Group. Predictions
generated by the computational models will be veri-
ed with hunts from real raptors in cooperation with
the Oxford Flight Group. Daily supervision will come
from Prof. dr. Hemelrijk and Dr. Hanno Hildenbrandt.
Dr. Graham Tayler (Oxford Flight Group, UK) will co-
supervise the project.
The PhD will work in Groningen in the BESO group
which is embedded in the Centre for Ecological and
Evolutionary Studies (CEES), which comprises several
other strong, internationally recognized research groups
in the eld of avian and evolutionary biology. The Uni-
versity of Groningen enjoys an international reputation
as a dynamic and innovative centre of higher education
and belongs to the best research universities in Europe.
Requirements
The successful candidate will have previous research ex-
perience in theoretical modeling, be in good command
of the English language (oral and written) and possess
excellent communication skills (indicated by the abil-
ity to write scientic papers and deliver presentations).
Since studies on self-organisation are highly interdisci-
plinary, successful candidates are expected to demon-
strate an active and supportive approach to inter-
disciplinary research and collaborate with other group
members. Suitable candidates can be either individuals
with a background in the computational (life-) sciences,
with interest in evolutionary and biological questions,
or evolutionary biologists with experience in computa-
tional modeling.
Candidates for the PhD position should have:
MSc in mathematical biology, a MSc in computational
science with focus on biology or an MSc in computa-
tional physics with specialization in biology, MSc in
Articial Intelligence with a specialization in an area of
computational or mathematical biology or a MSc in Bi-
ology, with a specialization in an area of computational
or mathematical biology. Experience with developing
computer simulation code and a sucient background
in mathematics. A strong interest in biomechanics of
ight and attack, interest in collective, swarming be-
havior. Candidates with research experience in these
areas are particularly encouraged to apply.Conditions of employment
The University of Groningen oers a salary of euro
2,042 (salary scale 50.0) gross per month in the rst
year, up to a maximum of euro 2,612 (scale 50.3) gross
per month in the nal year, based on a full-time posi-
tion. The position requires residence in Groningen and
must result in a PhD thesis within the 4-year contract
period. A PhD training program is part of the agree-
ment and the successful candidate will be enrolled in
the Graduate School of Science. The successful candi-
date will rst be oered a temporary position of one
year with the option of renewal for another three years.
Prolongation of the contract is contingent on sucient
progress in the rst year to indicate that a success-
ful completion of the PhD thesis within the next three
years is to be expected.
How to apply
Applications, including a letter of motivation, a curricu-
lum vitae, a list of publications (if any), a list of exam-
ination marks, and the contact information of three
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGroningen ComputationalBiology
2
PhD (4 years) position in computational modelling of
biological systems
The behavioural Ecology and Self-organization Group
at the University of Groningen is seeking to recruit a
PhD student to strengthen its research team on Self-
organization of Social systems. The position is full-time
and available immediately.
Research environment
The position is part of the project 'Optimisation of nav-
igation for intercepting prey during aerial hunting by
birds', funded by a Grant (ALW) from the Netherlands
Science Foundation (NWO) to Prof. dr. Charlotte
Hemelrijk. Key objective of this project is to under-
stand how the hunting strategy of a raptor has been
shaped by evolution: whether evolution has optimised
the guidance of the raptor for hunting as a special-
ist or as generalist and what the robustness is of theFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 51
optimised prey-targeting system in relation to the be-
haviour of the prey, whether it is unwary or trying to
escape, it is ying solitarily or is ocking. For this
the eects on the optimization of pursuit-evasion tac-
tics, behavioral delays, ight control, biomechanics, the
prey-targeting and ocking of prey will be studied in a
computational model. Evolutionary techniques will be
combined with insights from models and empirical data
of ight mechanics, hunting behavior (diving and level
pursuit) and guidance of the aerial predator. Results
will also be related to procedures used in the missile
literature. The research team will also involve another
PhD student working on escape of prey when solitary
and when in a ock. Both PhD students will develop
and extend computational models on specic species of
raptor and prey. The research project is a collaborative
eort of the research team on Self-organization of So-
cial systems and the Oxford Flight Group. Predictions
generated by the computational models will be veri-
ed with hunts from real raptors in cooperation with
the Oxford Flight Group. Daily supervision will come
from Prof. dr. Hemelrijk and Dr. Hanno Hildenbrandt.
Dr. Graham Tayler (Oxford Flight Group, UK) will co-
supervise the project.
The PhD will work in Groningen in the BESO group
which is embedded in the Centre for Ecological and
Evolutionary Studies (CEES), which comprises several
other strong, internationally recognized research groups
in the eld of avian and evolutionary biology. The Uni-
versity of Groningen enjoys an international reputation
as a dynamic and innovative centre of higher education
and belongs to the best research universities in Europe.
Requirements
The successful candidate will have previous research ex-
perience in theoretical modeling, be in good command
of the English language (oral and written) and possess
excellent communication skills (indicated by the abil-
ity to write scientic papers and deliver presentations).
Since studies on self-organisation are highly interdisci-
plinary, successful candidates are expected to demon-
strate an active and supportive approach to inter-
disciplinary research and collaborate with other group
members. Suitable candidates can be either individuals
with a background in the computational (life-) sciences,
with interest in evolutionary and biological questions,
or evolutionary biologists with experience in computa-
tional modeling.
Candidates for the PhD position should have:
MSc in mathematical biology, a MSc in computational
science with focus on biology or an MSc in computa-
tional physics with specialization in biology, MSc in
Articial Intelligence with a specialization in an area ofcomputational or mathematical biology or a MSc in Bi-
ology, with a specialization in an area of computational
or mathematical biology.
Experience with developing computer simulation code
and a sucient background in mathematics.
A strong interest in biomechanics of ight and attack,
interest in collective, swarming behavior. Candidates
with research experience in these areas are particularly
encouraged to apply.
Conditions of employment
The University of Groningen oers a salary of euro
2,042 (salary scale 50.0) gross per month in the rst
year, up to a maximum of euro 2,612 (scale 50.3) gross
per month in the nal year, based on a full-time posi-
tion. The position requires residence in Groningen and
must result in a PhD thesis within the 4-year contract
period. A PhD training program is part of the agree-
ment and the successful candidate will be enrolled in
the Graduate School of Science. The successful candi-
date will rst be oered a temporary position of one
year with the option of renewal for another three years.
Prolongation of the contract is contingent on sucient
progress in the rst year to indicate that a success-
ful completion of the PhD thesis within the next three
years is to be expected.
How to apply
Applications, including a letter of motivation, a cur-
riculum vitae, a list of publications (if any), a list of ex-
amination marks, and the contact information of three
academic
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGuelphOntario
AquaticEvolutionaryEcol
MSc and PhD positions available in aquatic evolution-
ary ecology. University of Guelph, Dept. of Integrative
Biology.
I seek MSc and/or Phd students interested in the
evolutionary ecology of diversication of shes in
postglacial lakes. Projects include studies on the52 EvolDir February 1, 2014
evolution of polyphenism in sunshes and the evo-
lution of heterospecic aggression in stickleback
(see: http://www.uoguelph.ca/ib/people/faculty/-
robinson.shtml). Both projects involve substantial
eld work components.
Depending on the project, ideal candidates will have a
mix of the following attributes: a strong background
in ecology and evolution, with some background in
aquatic ecology and shes, and an interest in the ori-
gins of diversity, individual variation and/or behavior.
Advantageous skills / experience include a background
in hypothesis driven independent research (honours or
previous graduate research experience), small power
boat certication, an Ontario G class drivers license (or
equivalent). Canadian students with a strong academic
record who would be eligible for federal and Ontario
scholarships will be given priority although. Potential
start dates are May or September 2014.
The Department of Integrative Biology, University of
Guelph, continues its long history of research and
training in natural resource management, wildlife bi-
ology and ecology, with an emphasis on aquatic
systems, such as through their specialized major
in Marine and Freshwater Biology. The depart-
ment has a particularly strong group of faculty
with interests in the ecology of organisms, communi-
ties, landscapes and ecosystems (www.uoguelph.ca/-
ib/research/ecology.shtml). At least half of its 40 ac-
tive faculty perform research on aquatic organisms or
in aquatic systems (physiology, ecology, evolution, bio-
diversity), and support a thriving graduate program
of more than 100 students (http://www.uoguelph.ca/-
ib/grad/graduate.shtml). In addition, faculty in the
School of Environmental Sciences (SES) at Guelph
(www.uoguelph.ca/ses/content/about-ses) provide ad-
ditional depth in applied ecology, ecosystem conser-
vation, aquatic systems and environmental change.
Guelph is an ideal location for research that focuses
on the ecology and evolution of individual organisms
up to communities, ecosystems and landscapes.
Interested students should send the following: A cover
letter explaining your interests and skills A CV, includ-
ing the names and contact information for three refer-
ences Unocial university transcript An example of a
recent written report (that you are proud of!) reecting
independent research on some topic
To: Dr. Beren Robinson, berenrob@uoguelph.ca
Website: http://www.uoguelph.ca/ib/people/faculty/-
robinson.shtml berenrob@uoguelph.caUHelsinki
EvolutionaryMorphometrics
PhD position: University of Helsinki Institute of
Biotechnology
Morphometrics of embryonic development and evolu-
tion.
The Developmental Biology Program of the University
of Helsinki is seeking to recruit a M.S. student to start
a PhD and participate in investigations on the mor-
phometric analysis of embryonic development and evo-
lution. The successful applicant will have the oppor-
tunity to develop an independent project within the
scope of the core research interests of the lab. The
project involves developing new morphometric meth-
ods to test several existing hypothesis in evolution and
development (evo-devo). These include both hypothe-
sis developed in our group and classic hypothesis in the
evo-devo literature. This line of research complements
other in the simulation of the dynamics of embryonic
development and evolution and how variation in this
development leads to specic directions of morphologi-
cal variation.
The Jukka Jernvall and Salazar-Ciudad groups include
a diverse group of researchers (paleontologists, develop-
mental biologists, genomics, functional morphologists
and computational biologists) working together to in-
tegrate development, natural selection and the patterns
of morphological variation in evolution.
The project would involve working with CT-scans and
analysis of morphological variation within and between
species.
Applicants should possess a strong understanding of
basic principles of evolutionary biology (developed
through coursework and/or research experience), an in-
terest or understanding of the bases of the developmen-
tal bases of morphological variation and the ability to
work productively both independently and as part of a
team. Additional desirable qualities include program-
ming skills or a willingness to acquire them and a good
academic record.
Interested persons should contact Dr. Isaac Salazar
Ciudad by email (isaac.salazar@helsinki.), including a
brief statement of research interests, and a CV. Review
of applications will begin immediately and continue un-
til the position is lled.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 53
The project involves spending some time with collabo-
rators in Barcelona and close collaboration with Jukka
Jernvall's group (http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/-
evodevo/index.shtml).
For an outline of the groups research:
http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/evodevo/-
group isaac.shtml Article exemple: Salazar-Ciudad
I, Jernvall J.A computational model of teeth and
the developmental origins of morphological variation.
Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):583-6.
The University of Helsinki is a public University that
has regularly been ranked among Europes 10 to 15 best
universities on worldwide ranking lists of research uni-
versities. Some 470 doctorates are completed annually
and nearly 10,000 scientic articles or monographs are
published yearly by the universitys researchers.
isalazar@mappi.helsinki.
UHelsinki GeneNetworkEvolution
University of Helsinki, Institute of Biotechnology: PhD
position in Evolutionary Biology, Developmental Biol-
ogy and Systems Biology
We are looking for a student, preferably a biologists,
to start a grant for a PhD on the interrelationship be-
tween the evolution of gene networks, development and
the phenotype:
- Simulation of the evolution of the genotype-phenotype
map of complex organs based on development.
or/and
- Computational models of pattern formation and mor-
phogenesis in animal development
One of the current challenges of evolutionary biology
is to understand how genetic variation leads to spe-
cic morphological variation (the genotype- phenotype
map) and how that process aects the direction of mor-
phological change in evolution. Our group is devoted
to address this question by using gene network models.
Programming skills or a willingness to acquire them is
required.
The project involves spending some time with collabo-
rators in Barcelona and close collaboration with Jukka
Jernvall's group (http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/-
evodevo/index.shtml).
The exact topic of the theses would be discussed in de-tail during interview.
The job can start as soon as a adequate candidate is
found.
For an outline of the groups research:
http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/evodevo/-
group isaac.shtml For further inquiries: isalazar
at mappi.helsinki. Developmental biology program,
Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki
Article exemple: Salazar-Ciudad I, Jernvall J.A com-
putational model of teeth and the developmental ori-
gins of morphological variation. Nature. 2010 Mar
25;464(7288):583-6.
Salazar-Ciudad I, Mar n-Riera M. Adaptive dynamics
under development-based genotype-phenotype maps.
Nature. 2013 May 16;497(7449):361-4.
The University of Helsinki is a public University that
has regularly been ranked among Europe's 10 to 15 best
universities on worldwide ranking lists of research uni-
versities. Some 470 doctorates are completed annually
and nearly 10,000 scientic articles or monographs are
published yearly by the universitys researchers.
Isaac.Salazar@uab.cat
isalazar@mappi.helsinki.
UJohannesburg SardineGenomics
*MSc or PhD position in sardine ge-
nomics/bioinformatics*
*University of Johannesburg, South Africa*
The Molecular Zoology Laboratory at the University
of Johannesburg (Auckland Park, South Africa) invites
applications for a full-time MSc or PhD (preferred) po-
sition in genomic and transcriptomic work on sardines.
The position is funded by the National Research Foun-
dation (NRF) for a maximum of 3 years and is available
immediately.
This project is part of a multidisciplinary collaboration
that presently includes Dr Peter Teske (University of
Johannesburg, phylogeography), Dr Carl van der Lin-
gen (DAFF, sheries research), Prof Christopher Mc-
Quaid (Rhodes University, ecology) and Prof Luciano
Beheregaray (Flinders University, genomics).
Instead of the usual approach of employing a geneti-
cist and having a bioinformaticist help with the data
analysis, we are instead considering employing a bioin-54 EvolDir February 1, 2014
formaticist and teaching her/him the limited amount of
genetic methods that will be required for the project.
The student should have experience working in a
Unix/Linux environment, and should preferably also
have some experience analysing genomic and/or tran-
scriptomic data. Genetic laboratory skills are not
required. Remuneration is R (ZAR) 60 000 per
year (NRF) + top-up funding from the University
of Johannesburg + funds paid out for publications.
Given that the cost of living is very cheap in South
Africa, this amount of funding is quite substantial.
The student should ideally be based at the Univer-
sity of Johannesburg (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
University ofJohannesburg) for the duration of the
project. The university is located next to the cos-
mopolitan suburb of Melville, which has a particu-
larly interesting mix of nightlife and culture (http:/-
/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melville, Gauteng).
Although NRF bursaries are normally reserved for
South African students, they can be allocated to for-
eign students on a rst-come-rst-served basis, using
the following quota system: MSc: 10% for African stu-
dents from outside South Africa; PhD: 15% for African
students, 5% for foreign students from outside Africa.
A short summary of the project is included below. The
complete proposal is available on request; interested
students should please contact Dr Peter Teske.
Dr Peter Teske Head: Molecular Zoology Laboratory
(Aquatic Division) Department of Zoology University
of Johannesburg, Kingsway Campus Auckland Park
2006 South Africa
Email: pteske101@gmail.com Private website:
http://sites.google.com/site/drpeterteske/ Flinders
University Molecular Ecology Lab: http://-
www.molecularecology.inders.edu.au/ Summary:
Understanding the stock structure of marine popula-
tions is critical for the sustainable management of ma-
rine resources. Molecular methods have demonstrated
that many southern African marine species are sub-
divided into multiple distinct populations, but even
though there is non-genetic evidence for spatial het-
erogeneity in the southern African sardine, Sardinops
sagax, previous molecular analyses have failed to con-
rm this. It is likely that the apparent lack of genetic
structure is merely a consequence of the technical ap-
proaches that have been applied to date (genotyping of
a small number of selectively neutral loci) being too un-
informative to study a species that is expected to show
only minimal genetic divergence between stocks.
Recent technological advances in DNA sequencing tech-
nology (Next-Generation Sequencing) show consider-able promise for studying the stock structure of *S.
sagax*. First, these methods can generate data from
hundreds of thousands of loci, and are thus more likely
to capture the few loci that show genetic structure
when it has only developed very recently. Second, it
is possible to identify gene regions that are involved in
adaptation to regional environmental conditions, and
which are more likely to show divergence among south-
ern Africa's temperature-dened marine regions than
are selectively neutral loci.
The present research project will use genomics (RAD-
seq) and transcriptomics (RNA-seq) to comprehen-
sively address the issue whether or not the South
African sardine resource comprises multiple stocks. We
expect that the data generated will be useful to for-
mulate management guidelines that will benet the
sustainable exploitation of this economically important
species. In addition, the project will contribute towards
resolving whether or not there is a universal link be-
tween genetic structure and biogeography, and it will
improve South Africa's research capacity in the area of
genomics research.
{
*Dr Peter R Teske* Senior Lecturer Oce D3 LAB
225 Department of Zoology University of Johannes-
burg, Kingsway Campus
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULondon EvolutionaryTheory
correction
Please note that in an earlier posting the incorrect
deadline was given. The deadline for applications
should be 24 January 2014. Sorry for any inconvenience
The following 2 PhD Projects are on oer at Royal Hol-
loway University of London
Life history and genome architecture
The organization and architecture of the genome has
been shaped by natural selection. There is abundant
evidence that many genomes contain parts which were
acquired from other organisms. Examples are viruses,
which have integrated in the genetic material in a cell,February 1, 2014 EvolDir 55
and plasmids found in bacteria. The most striking ex-
amples are the acquisition of the genomes of organelles
such as chromoplasts and mitochondria, which have
originated from a fusion of cells. One fundamental ques-
tion regarding genome architecture is why, and how,
natural selection favours individual genes to cluster into
nuclear genomes, and what type of genes were selected
to cluster. In this theoretical project we will use math-
ematical and computer models to investigate this ques-
tion. When two genomes are brought together conicts
may arise. For the host cells, the new genome could
contain benecial traits, as well as detrimental traits,
for instance bacterial viruses often carry genes which
allow bacteria to survive and multiply, but these same
viruses can lyse the bacterial cell. For the invading
genome there is a tension between fully integrating in
their hosts' genome and optimizing the transmission to-
gether with the host but in doing so giving up the pos-
sibility of independent transmission. What we aim to
investigate in this project is how selection has acted on
these genes, and whether selection would favour genes
to cluster into a nuclear genome, or not.
Intra-genomic Conict and Medical Disorders Intra-
genomic conict dees the logic of natural selection:
why would natural selection favor any gene whose ex-
pression reduces the tness of its host? However intra-
genomic conict has left its signature in many molecu-
lar mechanisms. A paradigmatic example of evolution
driven by intra-genomic conict is the case of genomic
imprinting where conict between paternally inherited
and maternally inherited genes in the same individual
results in silencing of one gene but not the other. Re-
cently, genomic imprinting (and intra-genomic conict
in general) has been linked to several diseases. For ex-
ample, deletion of the PWS/AS cluster of imprinted
genes causes Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) when the
deletion is paternally inherited but Angelman syndrome
(AS) when it is maternally inherited. The clinical phe-
notype, regarding appetite and activity levels, of chil-
dren suering from these syndromes is the reverse: poor
sucking and low weight in children with PWS but in-
satiable appetite and obesity in children with AS. This
intriguing reversal of the clinical phenotype of a dele-
tion is best explained in the light of conict between
genes with dierent parental origin. In particular, it
can be explained when paternally inherited copies favor
a greater allocation of maternal resources to ospring
than the maternally inherited copy does. We are in-
terested in further exploring the role of intra-genomic
conict in disease. Can we predict the risk of develop-
ing diseases caused by genes in conict? Can we suggest
epigenetic modications that may palliate some symp-
toms?Supervisors Prof. Vincent A.A. Jansen and Dr. Fran-
cisco Ubeda
Further details These projects are suitable for candi-
dates with some background or experience in mathe-
matical modeling or simulation at undergraduate level.
We are looking for candidates, either with a background
in the life sciences, and experience in mathematical or
simulation modeling, or for candidates with a back-
ground in a quantitative subject (e.g. mathematics,
computer science, physics) and an anity for research
in ecology and evolution.
The studentship has a maintenance allowance of
$15726 per annum for 3 years and a UK/EU/EEA
tuition fee waiver. We expect candidates to have a
2.1 or rst class degree (or equivalent if not a UK
degree). Both studentships will be held in the School
of Biological Sciences of Royal Holloway, University
of London. The research in the School covers the
breadth of biology and hosts a number of theoretical
researchers. The School was ranked among the best
UK Bioscience Departments in the last research
assessment (RAE 2008). The scenic Royal Holloway
campus <http://www.telegraph.co.uk/education/-
expateducation/9480575/Beautiful-universities-
around-the-world.html?frame=2312131 > is on
the outskirts of London.
If you are interested in applying please contact us in-
formally before the deadline at F.Ubeda@rhul.ac.uk or
Vincent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk. Apply before the 24th of
January 2014 following the link \How to apply" on
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UManchester EvolutionArthropods
Assessing fossils and fossilization to reconstruct
the origin and evolution of arthropods Supervi-
sors: Robert Sansom, Phil Manning, Roy Wogelius
and Matthew Cobb (Faculty of Life Sciences and
School of Earth and Atmospheric and Environmen-
tal Sciences, University of Manchester, UK). email:
robert.sansom@manchester.ac.uk
Can the fossil record be reliably used to reconstruct
the relationships of extinct organisms? How is our56 EvolDir February 1, 2014
understanding of evolutionary processes changed when
we take fossilization processes and biases into account?
This project aims to address these questions by focus-
ing on the problematic origins of a complex clade {the
arthropods. Three diering approaches will be taken:
geochemical analysis of mechanisms of preservation, ex-
perimental investigation of fossilization processes and
phylogenetic simulations. The combined data gener-
ated from theoretical and empirical studies will serve
as a powerful and unique tool with which to re-visit
the palaeontological data and the evolutionary infer-
ences drawn from them. The PhD would suit biol-
ogists or geologists with an interest in evolution and
palaeobiology and will provide high quality training in
a variety of analytical techniques: phylogenetics, com-
parative anatomy, geochemical analysis, experimental
decay and dissection, taxonomy, and palaeontological
data analysis.
In order to reconstruct the Tree of Life and test hy-
potheses about the origins and evolution of animals and
their body plans, we need turn to the fossil record.
Fossils provide unique and direct insight into deep
time allowing us to reconstruct major evolutionary
events. This becomes more problematic when dealing
with those important episodes occurring in soft-bodied
forms; this includes the origin and diversication of one
of the most diverse and numerous groups of animals on
earth { the arthropods. Fossils of this kind are only
preserved under exceptional circumstances and undergo
complex processes of change and loss, both anatomi-
cal and chemical, during preservation. Analysis of the
mechanisms and processes occurring during preserva-
tion can transform our understanding of these fossils
(Wogelius et al 2011; Manning et al 2009; Briggs 2003),
and when combined with analysis of phylogeny (San-
som et al 2010; Sansom & Wills 2013), interpretations
of evolutionary relationships can change dramatically.
Understanding of the origin of arthropods is massively
impacted by fossil data, yet the relationship between
decay, preservation and phylogeny is largely uncharac-
terized.
This project is part of the Universities of Manchester
and Liverpool NERC Doctoral Training Programme.
If you are interested in this particular project, make
contact with the Principal Supervisor to discuss your
application. You should then submit an online PhD
application as soon as possible, and select NERC Doc-
toral Training Programme on the online application.
For more details see:
http://www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/phdprogrammes/-
nercdtpstudentships/ Deadline for applications:
February 10thReferences:
Briggs DEG. 2003. The role of decay and mineraliza-
tion in the preservation of soft-bodied fossils. Annual
Reviews in Earth and Planetary Sciences 31:275-301.
Budd GE, Telford MJ. 2009. The origin and evolution
of arthropods. Nature 457:812-817. Manning PL, Mor-
ris PM, McMahon A, Jones E, Gize A, Macquaker JHS,
Marshall J, Lyson T, Wol G,
Buckley M, Wogelius RA. 2009. Preserved soft-
tissue structures and organic molecules in a mummi-
ed hadrosaur dinosaur from the Hell Creek Formation,
North Dakota (USA). Proceedings of the Royal Society
Series B., 276:3429-3437.
Sansom, RS, Wills MA. 2013. Fossilization causes or-
ganisms to appear erroneously primitive by distorting
evolutionary trees. Scientic Reports 3:2545.
Sansom RS, Gabbott SE, Purnell MA. 2010. Non-
random decay of chordate characters causes bias in fos-
sil interpretation. Nature 463:797-800
Wogelius RA, Manning PL, Barden HE, Edwards NP,
Webb SM, Sellers WI, Taylor KG, Larson PL, Dodson
P, You H, Da-qing L, Bergmann U. 2011. Trace Met-
als as Biomarkers for Eumelanin Pigment in the Fossil
Record. Science. 333:1622-1626.
Dr. Robert Sansom NERC Research Fellow
University of Manchester, Faculty of Life Sci-
ences Michael Smith Building, Dover Street,
M13 9PT, UK tel:+44(0)161 275 1496 http://-
www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/research/researchgroups/-
computationalandevolutionarybiology/-
people/?alias=sansomr Robert Sansom
<robert.sansom@manchester.ac.uk >
UMemphis PlantEvolGenetics
MS/PhD in Plant Ecological Genetics, Biodiversity
The University of Memphis, Fall 2014
I am seeking motivated students who are interested in
pursuing a degree studying plant population, evolution-
ary, or ecological genetics. My lab has broad interests
in these topics, and I am particularly fascinated by the
extraordinary amount of diversity that can be seen not
only in natural populations, but also within a single
crop species. My major research goal is to understand
the processes and mechanisms that lead to this remark-
able genetic, phenotypic, and ecological diversity. I useFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 57
traditional population genetic methods combined with
next-gen sequencing approaches to accomplish these
goals. Potential projects include a USDA-funded pop-
ulation and ecological genetic study aiming to under-
stand the risk of pollen ow from crop to wild carrot
or phylogenetic studies using next-gen sequencing tech-
niques in the Compositae (sunower) plant family. Stu-
dents will also be encouraged to explore new avenues of
research that stem from investigations conducted in my
lab.
Details about admission and degree requirements
can be found at http://www.memphis.edu/biology/-
graduate.htm . Applicants must apply to both The
University of Memphis Graduate School and the De-
partment of Biological Sciences. To ensure full con-
sideration, applications should be completed by Febru-
ary 1. Students (either MS or PhD) will be sup-
ported through a graduate assistantship or research as-
sistantship position.
The University of Memphis is a leading metropoli-
tan research institution with over 30 faculty members
specializing in diverse sub-disciplines of the biologi-
cal sciences. The Feinstone Center for Genomic Re-
search (http://www.memphis.edu/feinstone/), the in-
terdepartmental Program in Bioinformatics (http:/-
/www.memphis.edu/binf/), the Ecological Research
Center (http://www.memphis.edu/erc/), the Inte-
grated Microscopy Center (http://www.memphis.edu/-
-imc/), and the Meeman Biological Field Station
(http://www.memphis.edu/meeman/), are all admin-
istered through the department and oer outstanding
opportunities for research, teaching, and collaboration.
Please contact me (jmandel@memphis.edu) with a CV
if you are interested in joining my lab.
Jennifer Mandel, Assistant Professor The Univer-
sity of Memphis Department of Biological Sciences
3774 Walker Avenue Memphis, TN 38152 Jennifer-
mandel.com
\Jennifer Mandel (jmandel)"
<jmandel@memphis.edu >
UMontreal mtDNAInheritance
PhD Position in evolutionary biology in Montreal**
An opportunity is available for a PhD position in the
research group of Dr Sophie Breton at the Universit e
de Montr eal, to work on the molecular mechanismsthat regulate mitochondrial inheritance in the only an-
imal group that diverges from the 'Strict Maternal In-
heritance (SMI) of mtDNA rule', i.e. bivalves with
their radically dierent Doubly Uniparental Inheritance
(DUI) system.
Project: DUI is a "mother-to-daughter & son" and
"father-to-son" mtDNA inheritance system where fe-
males transmit their 'F mtDNA' to all ospring, and
males transmit their highly divergent 'M mtDNA' to
only their sons (M vs. F DNA divergence >40%). How-
ever, the mechanisms underlying DUI are still unknown
and the cause of deviation from the \SMI rule" in bi-
valves remains an open question. This NSERC-funded
project aims to unravel the mechanisms underlying DUI
by deep-sequencing transcriptomics (and proteomics).
Therefore, the successful applicant should have experi-
ence or a strong interest in evolutionary biology, molec-
ular biology, and/or bioinformatics.
Qualications: PhD applicants should have (or expect
to complete) an MSc degree and should have publi-
cations in PubMed-listed journals. Applicants will be
expected to apply for scholarship funding support if se-
lected for the position.
Full funding is available to support the successful can-
didate for three years in addition to a limited travel
budget. Expected start date is September 2014. The
Universit e de Montr eal is a French language institution
where graduate work may be undertaken in English or
French.
Interested students should contact
s.breton@umontreal.ca and attach a CV, academic
transcript, contact details of two academic referees,
and a brief description of their research interests.
The position will remain open until a suitable candidate
is found.
Please note that only those selected for an interview
(Skype or telephone) will be contacted. Preference will
be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.
Sophie Breton Professeure adjointe Universit e de
Montr eal Pavillon Marie-Victorin, Facult e des Arts et
des Sciences CP 6128, Succursale Centre-Ville Montr eal
QC H3C 3J7 514-343-7460 (tel)
Sophie Breton <s.breton@umontreal.ca >
UNewSouthWales LacebugEvolution58 EvolDir February 1, 2014
PhD in Molecular Genetics of the Macadamia Lacebug
EERC BEES UNSW, Profs Cassis & W Sherwin
The project will investigate the identity, ecology and
genetics of Macadamia lacebugs, which cause catas-
trophic crop loss in plantation Macadamia. In the
face of increased deregistration of current insecticides,
this pestiferous insect threatens the sustainability of
the Macadamia industry. The proposed research will
result in the determination of species and genetic di-
versity and species interactions of plantation and wild
Macadamia Lacebugs. These results will provide the
Macadamia industry a basis for designing an integrated
pest management program and a sustainable future.
We are looking for PhD candidates with solid molecu-
lar genetic experience; experience in eldwork and/or
entomology is an advantage.
PROCEDURE (1) DISCUSS: Email letter with CV,
academic record, and details of two academic referees,
to Prof Gerry Cassis (gcassis@unsw.edu.au) or Prof
Bill Sherwin (W.Sherwin@unsw.edu.au). Your letter
should explain how your results are sucient to allow
successful application for a SCHOLARSHIP at UNSW
(see below). We cannot consider other applications.
(2a) PhD SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION ? LO-
CAL Due 23 May 2014: http://research.unsw.edu.au/-
domestic-research-candidate- scholarships Australian
or NZ citizens or Australian permanent residents can
apply for scholarships which cover fees and stipend.
Typically, a rst-class honours degree with a full-year
research project is needed.
(2b) PhD SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION ?
INTERNATIONAL Due 28 Feb 2014: http:/-
/research.unsw.edu.au/international-research-
candidate- scholarships Applicants who are not
Australian citizens or permanent residents can apply
for International postgrad awards which cover fees and
living allowance. Note that to get one of these you need
to have marks of 90% or more in a full-year research
degree (ie no coursework), and preferably two publica-
tions in a journal which is rated in the Thompson/ISI
Journal Impact factors http://thomsonreuters.com/-
journal-citation-reports/ (3) PhD CANDIDACY
APPLICATION Submit with scholarship application:
http://research.unsw.edu.au/how-apply-postgraduate-
research-study- Professor WB Sherwin Evolution &
Ecology Research Centre Deputy Head, School of Bi-
ological Earth and Environmental Science, University
of New South Wales, Sydney NSW 2052 Australia
W.Sherwin@unsw.edu.au PH:61-2-9385-2119 FX:
61-2-9385-1558 http://www.bees.unsw.edu.au/sta/-
william-b-sherwin CRICOS provider code 00098GWilliam Sherwin <w.sherwin@unsw.edu.au >
UOtago NZ Modelling Biocontrol
MSc/PhD Project Opportunity Available to
Model Biocontrol Strategies for Vertebrate Pests We
are seeking an MSc/PhD student with interests in
ecological modelling and applied ecology to conduct
research into the potential eectiveness of an in-
development form of novel biocontrol (the Trojan Fe-
male Technique).
Project Description: Biological control is widely used in
the control and eradication of plant and animal species.
Among the most common forms of biological control are
a group of approaches that aim to control or eradicate
population/species by reducing their fertility and repro-
ductive capacity. To date the most successful of these
approaches has been the Sterile Male Technique (SMT),
also known as the Sterile Insect Technique, where large
quantities of sterile males are released into a population
each generation. If released in sucient numbers these
males monopolise matings with females, but because
they are sterile no progeny are produced resulting in
a reduction in the population size. Repeated cycles of
release ultimately result in population numbers being
heavily reduced or even eradicated.
The Trojan Female Technique (TFT) is a novel twist
on the SMT using mitochondrial DNA mutations that
aect male but not female fertility. Since mitochon-
dria are maternally inherited, this approach has the
predicted advantage of lack of selection against indi-
viduals carrying the mutant mtDNA, oering the po-
tential for continuous, self-sustaining biological con-
trol. Thus, unlike the SMT where large yearly re-
leases are generally required, cost savings associated
with the TFT being persistent make it potentially ap-
plicable to a wider range of invertebrate, and even ver-
tebrate, pests. Building on preliminary work in which
a generic model exploring TFT potential was devel-
oped (see Gemmell et al. 2013. Proc Roy Soc B 280:
20132549 <http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/-
content/280/1773/20132549.abstract >), we are seek-
ing to explore the utility of the TFT approach in the
control of a key vertebrate pest species impacting in-
digenous biodiversity in New Zealand, such as the ship
rat or brushtail possum.
This work will be aligned to a new MBIE project
'The Trojan Female Technique: A novel non-lethal ap-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 59
proach for pest population control' headed by Dr Dan
Tompkins (Landcare Research) in collaboration with
Prof Neil Gemmell (Otago). The MSc position will
be based at the University of Otago and Landcare Re-
search (Dunedin).
The Ideal Candidate: The ideal candidate will possess
experience in ecology, statistics and modelling. In ad-
dition they will be motivated and organised, with a
demonstrated capacity to master the broad skill set
necessary for the successful completion of a research
project.
Minimum qualications: B.Sc. (Hons) or PgDipSci in
Ecology, Statistics, or equivalent with an A- average or
better.
Scholarship Funding: An MSc Research scholarship
($13,000 for one year) and associated fees is avail-
able for the successful candidate through the Chisholm
Family Trust. There is also opportunity for excep-
tional BSc (Hons) or MSc candidates (A average or
better) to apply for a University of Otago PhD scholar-
ship http://www.otago.ac.nz/study/scholarships/ with
a high probability of success.
Eligibility: This opportunity is open to all nation-
alities. However, overseas candidates for whom
English is not a rst language must satisfy the En-
glish Language Requirements of the University <
http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/postgraduate/-
index.html#englishlanguage >to be eligible for study
(see). Other international eligibility criteria are here <
http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/postgraduate/-
otago002221.html >.
How to Apply: Interested applicants are encouraged
to make informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your aca-
demic transcript, a sample of your written scientic
work and the names of three referees with a covering
letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
Further information Gemmell lab <http://gemmell-
lab.otago.ac.nz >Landcare Research <http://-
www.landcareresearch.co.nz/ >
Applications close on the 2nd February 2014. It would
be desirable if the successful applicant were able to start
in early/mid 2014.
Professor Neil J. Gemmell Department of Anatomy
University of Otago, PO Box 913 Dunedin 9054 New
Zealand
Phone: +64 3 479 6824 Fax: +64 3 479 7254 e-
mail: neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz Web: http://gemmell-lab.otago.ac.nz/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UPacic California
SexualDimorphismEvolution
Master's student position starting August/September
2014 at the University of the Pacic in Stockton, Cal-
ifornia, USA. 2-3 years, competitive teaching stipend
and tuition remission available.
The Rivera lab seeks a Master's degree student to in-
vestigate the evolutionary pressures driving sexual di-
morphism in an ostracod crustacean. The project will
combine eld collection, microdissection, micromanip-
ulation of live invertebrates, molecular biology, animal
husbandry, and development of methods to molecularly
identify millimeter-sized crustaceans. The successful
candidate does not need to be familiar with all of these
techniques, but does need a willingness to learn, some
background in general lab techniques, and a Bachelor's
in Biology or a related eld.
The full application, including GRE scores and letters
of recommendation, is due March 1st, please contact
Dr. Ajna Rivera at arivera@pacic.edu before Feb 1st
to discuss details.
arivera@PACIFIC.EDU
UQueensland MiddleEarEvolution
The Weisbecker Lab at the University of Queensland,
Brisbane, Australia, is looking for a motivated PhD
student to work on a project researching the soft-tissue
origins of the mammalian middle ear based on investi-
gations into the development of the marsupial middle
ear region, starting either mid-year 2014 or after.
The origin of the mammalian middle ear was an ex-
treme transformation in the evolution of mammals from
reptile-like ancestors. Initially devoted to feeding, the60 EvolDir February 1, 2014
jaw joint of the ancestral reptilian jaw joint was \re-
tooled" and miniaturized to form middle ear bones
(tympanic ring, hammer, and anvil). This process re-
capitulates at least partially during marsupial mammal
development, presenting a great opportunity to infer
intermediate stages and functional properties of MME
detachment for which fossils are lacking. With research
funding provided by a Discovery Award, the Weisbecker
lab is calling for applications for a PhD project aimed
at detailing the development of the mammalian middle
ear to glean biomechanical information on its ancient
function as a hearing/chewing intermediate. The suc-
cessful applicant will be required to characterize the soft
tissue environment of the developing marsupial middle
ear, using histological and perhaps CT staining tech-
niques. This project allows a good degree of intellectual
freedom as to the protocols used, and can be conducted
in a series of high-prole publications as chapters.
Good spoken and written English is essential. The
applicant should ideally have a background in either
comparative/veterinary anatomy, histology, digital 3D
visualization, mammalian palaeontology, or late-stage
developmental biology of vertebrates.
Acceptance for this PhD is contingent on a success-
ful application for PhD funding. Overseas applications
are encouraged, as the School of Biological Sciences
at The University of Queensland has made available
a number of competitive international PhD scholar-
ships. For further information and conditions of em-
ployment, please visit http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/-
scholarships. Students within Australia can apply for
an Australian Postgraduate Award.
Please send expressions of interest, along with a CV, to
Vera Weisbecker:
v.weisbecker@uq.edu.au
UQueensland
TheoreticalEvolutionaryGenetics
We invite applications for a PhD position in theoretical
evolutionary genetics at The University of Queensland
(Brisbane, Australia).
The successful applicant will be jointly supervised by
Dr. Jan Engelst adter and Dr. Daniel Ortiz-Barrientos
and will work on the role of recombination during spe-
ciation. The goal of this funded project is to develop
mathematical and computational models investigatinghow recombination rates are expected to evolve dur-
ing speciation with gene ow and how this in turn af-
fects the evolution of divergence and reproductive isola-
tion. The project will be tightly linked to an empirical
study system (theSenecio lautus species complex) and
in particular benet from, and in turn inform, ongoing
whole genome sequencing and mapping projects in this
species. For more details about our research, see our
websites at http://engelstaedterlab.org/ and http://-
www.ortizbarrientoslab.me . We are looking for a moti-
vated student with strong quantitative skills and back-
ground either in evolutionary genetics or mathematical
modelling. Applicants should possess a Bachelor's de-
gree with Honours, Master of Science, MPhil or equiv-
alent. Candidates with a non-biology degree (mathe-
matics, physics, computer science) are encouraged to
apply. Good communication skills, scientic curiosity
and enthusiasm for research in evolutionary biology are
essential. Applications close 19 January 2014.
Please note additional deadlines for International Schol-
arships at UQ. Even though January 19th is a pre-
ferred deadline, should we not ll the position, the fol-
lowing deadline will come into eect. You can study
these dates here: http://www.uq.edu.au/grad-school/-
international-student-scholarships . Funding can be ob-
tained through a competitive international PhD schol-
arship scheme for overseas students interested in under-
taking PhDs in the School of Biological Sciences at The
University of Queensland. For more information about
this scholarship scheme as well as formal requirements
for PhD students and The School of Biological Sciences
at UQ, see below.
Interested candidates should send a cover letter describ-
ing their motivation and research interests, CV, copy of
degrees, and contact information for two academic ref-
erences to: d.ortizbarrientos@uq.edu.au.
Daniel Ortiz-Barrientos School of Biological Sciences
The University of Queensland Brisbane QLD 4072 Aus-
tralia
phone: +61 7 336 57959 fax: +61 7 336 51655 http:/-
/www.ortizbarrientoslab.me International PhD Schol-
arships in Biology at UQ
The School of Biological Sciences is a large and research
intensive unit at the University of Queensland, one of
Australia's most prestigious Universities. The School
has broad expertise across the disciplines of ecology and
evolution, molecular and quantitative genetics, devel-
opmental biology, behaviour, plant and animal phys-
iology, and conservation biology. Our research pro-
grams span all scales of biological organisation, from
molecules and cells, to organisms, populations, species
and communities, and take advantage of study ani-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 61
mal and plant systems in a large variety of habitats
(see http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/ for detailed infor-
mation on our research programs). The School is very
pleased to announce a new initiative that has made
available a number of PhD scholarships for talented In-
ternational students who enroll in our PhD program in
2013.
Qualications Applicants should possess a Bache-
lor's degree with Honours, Master of Science, MPhil
or equivalent, and must be accepted into the PhD
program at the University of Queensland. The
UQ Graduate School website provides further in-
formation on the entry requirements for admission
to the PhD program (http://www.uq.edu.au/grad-
school/our-research-degrees).
Remuneration Living stipend (scholarship) of $24,653
per annum for 3 years which is tax free, with the pos-
sibility of a 6 month extension. International students
normally pay international student fees of $32,200 per
year, however individuals successful in gaining one of
these scholarships will also be granted a full tuition-fee
waiver.
The Application Process Interested students should
identify potential supervisors within their research area
of interest (http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/academic-
sta) and contact them to discuss potential projects.
Strong candidates will be invited to apply for entry to
the PhD program, and if accepted into the program
will be considered for the School of Biological Sciences
International Scholarships on a competitive basis.
Enquiries For further information on the application
process please
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UReading EvolutionaryProcesses
PhD Studentship, School of Biological Sciences, Uni-
versity of Reading, UK.
UNDERSTANDING EVOLUTIONARY PROCESSES
USING FOSSIL AND EXTANT DATA
SUPERVISORS: Dr Chris Venditti, Dr Andrew Meade
and Professor Mark PagelWe are inviting applications for this Leverhulme Trust
funded PhD studentship to start in April 2014 or Oc-
tober 2014. The award will cover UK/EU tuition fees
and an annual stipend of at least $13,590 (tax free) for
three years. The studentship is awarded on the basis of
merit.
OVERVIEW: There is currently a great emphasis on
bringing together morphological and molecular data
with the goal to infer phylogenetic trees (or phyloge-
nies) which contain extinct and extant species. Phy-
logenies chart the course of descent with modication
among a group of species, yielding a 'family tree' analo-
gous to a genealogy. Such trees are vital to study large
scale evolutionary processes.
New statistical approaches which use phylogenies
alongside other data about species (such as size or lifes-
pan) now make it possible build a more nuanced pic-
ture of how the evolutionary process unfolded. In addi-
tion, these methods allow us to estimate what extinct
and ancestral animals looked like and how the behaved.
These new approaches used in combination with fossil
data have the potential to provide new insight in to
macroevolutionary processes and enable us to better
understand how biodiversity accumulates.
This studentship forms an integral part of a research
project on 'The evolutionary paths to diversity and in-
novation' supported by a Leverhulme Trust Research
Programme Grant. The project will involve a series of
investigations designed to understand how evolution-
ary divergence accumulates through time and interacts
with biological novelty. The project will not be focused
on one specic taxonomic group - hypotheses will be
tested across a wide range of phylogenies.
TRAINING: The student will received extensive train-
ing in phylogenetic statistical modelling (including
Bayesian phylogenetics and comparative methods) high
performance computing, and management and manip-
ulation of large datasets. The student will also engage
with the Reading Researcher Development Program.
ELIGIBILITY: Applicants should hold a minimum of a
UK Honours Degree at 2:1 level or equivalent in a rel-
evant subject. A relevant Masters level qualication is
desirable but not necessary. Please note that due to re-
strictions on the funding this studentship is for UK/EU
applicants only.
HOW TO APPLY: Application Procedure: Please send
a Curriculum Vitae (including names and contact de-
tails of at least two referees) and Covering Letter
outlining your suitability to: Mrs Sarah Swan, Re-
search Manager, the School of Biological Sciences (sb-
sresearch@reading.ac.uk).62 EvolDir February 1, 2014
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 20th February 2014
Informal Enquiries are encouraged and
should be directed to Dr Chris Venditti
(c.d.venditti@reading.ac.uk).
Chris Venditti <c.d.venditti@reading.ac.uk >
USouthBohemia
AntTermiteEvolution
Doctoral (PhD) Studentship in Tropical Ecology:
Fayle Lab, Biology Centre, the Academy of Sciences &
University of South Bohemia, the Czech Republic
The Eects of Forest Fragmentation on Ant-termite
Food Webs and Consequences for Soil Properties.
A highly motivated postgraduate student is sought to
join a project assessing the way that interactions be-
tween soil dwelling ants and termites change, and the
consequences of this for soil properties, when tropi-
cal rainforest is logged, fragmented and converted into
oil palm plantation in Malaysian Borneo. The stu-
dent will quantify interactions using eld collections
and experiments linking the soil biota to soil proper-
ties and nutrient redistribution rates, environmentally
constrained null models of species co-occurrence and
molecular identication of gut contents. There will also
be opportunities to develop the project in a direction of
the student's own choosing. Duties will include spend-
ing extensive periods of time in the eld in Malaysian
Borneo. The successful applicant will be supervised by
Tom Fayle and Vojtech Novotny. The studentship will
also provide the opportunity to collaborate with the
Stability of Altered Forest Ecosystems project (SAFE),
the world's largest experimental forest fragmentation
project.
Funding: Fully funded tuition, research and living ex-
penses
Duration: 4 years
Eligibility: A completed MSc degree is required. Ap-
plicants from all countries are eligible.
Information on our research team: http://-
www.entu.cas.cz/png/cv-novotny-vojtech-lab.html
Location: Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic.
More details on the position: http://www.entu.cas.cz/-
png/brc-vacancies.htm Application process: To apply
please send a CV, contact details for three references,and cover letter stating qualications, previous work
and motivation to Tom Fayle (tmfayle@gmail.com).
The deadline for applications is February 15th 2014,
with a start date of April 1st.
Research elds: ecology, conservation biology, tropical
forests, ants
tmfayle@gmail.com
USouthBohemia
InsectPlantEvolution
Doctoral (PhD) Studentship in Tropical Ecology
Novotny Lab, Biology Centre of the Academy of Sci-
ences & University of South Bohemia, the Czech Re-
public
We are seeking a highly motivated postgraduate stu-
dent to join our international team studying tropical
plant-insect food webs. The successful applicant will
have strong background in entomology, botany, com-
munity ecology, molecular ecology, phylogenetic analy-
sis and/or biostatistics. He/she will be supervised by
Vojtech Novotny and expected to develop a research
programme on community ecology of insect-plant inter-
actions, using our excellent eld facilities in Papua New
Guinea, in collaboration with our international part-
ners.
Funding: Fully funded tuition, research and living ex-
penses Duration: 4 years Eligibility: A completed MSc
degree is required. Applicants from all countries are
eligible. Information on our research team: http://-
www.entu.cas.cz/png/cv-novotny-vojtech-lab.html Lo-
cation: Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic. More de-
tails on the position: http://www.entu.cas.cz/png/brc-
vacancies.htm Application process: Send the appli-
cation including CV, names of three referees, and a
cover letter stating your previous work, qualication
and motivation by email to Prof. Vojtech Novotny
[novotny@entu.cas.cz]. Review of applications will be-
gin on 15th February and will continue until the posi-
tion has been lled. The position is available from 1st
April 2014.
Research elds: ecology, conservation biology, tropical
forests, insect-plant interactions
tmfayle@gmail.comFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 63
USouthDakota Bioinformatics
Department of Biology University of South Dakota
Applications are invited for a PhD student position
available at the Department of Biology, The University
of South Dakota, USA.
We are seeking for an exceptional and highly motivated
candidate in the eld of bioinformatics with some back-
ground in genomics to work on the epigenetics regula-
tion of plant response to stresses project. The PhD
student will be responsible for transcriptome, genome,
and methylome analysis. These analyses will include
de novo assembly of transcriptome, in silico expression
analysis, gene network analysis, gene and small RNA
annotation, and other related analyses.
The successful candidate will be expected to have spe-
cic expertise in writing of programs (e.g. C++,
Java, Perl, Python), working knowledge about biologi-
cal databases, hands-on experience with biological data
(especially microarray and next generation sequencing
data), computer skills in a UNIX/LINUX environment,
and excellent communication and organization skills.
Minimum Degree Required: the student should
have a BSc, MSc. or equivalent in Biol-
ogy/Bioinformatics/Computer Science
Application Process: The position is available start-
ing August 2014. The position will remain open until
March 15, 2014. However, to ensure full consideration,
application materials should be received no later than
February 15, 2014.
International students must take the general test GRE
and scores of 40th percentile or higher for the verbal
and quantitative tests are recommended, but there is no
formal minimum score required for admission. TOEFL
scores need to be at least 550 (paper-based), 213 (com-
puter), or 79 (Internet-based). IELTS can be taken in-
stead, with a minimum score of 6.0. Full details about
application process are given in the links below.
http://www.usd.edu/graduate-school/international-
admissions.cfm http://www.usd.edu/graduate-
school/how-to-apply.cfm Applicants should send
a resume and a cover letter describing previous
experiences and skills to Dr. Abdelali Barakat
(Abdelali.barakat@usd.edu). http://www.usd.edu/-
arts-andsciences/ biology/abdelali-barakat.cfm\Suarez, Harold" <Harold.Suarez@coyotes.usd.edu >
USouthDakota EvolutionVision
MS/PhD in the Evolution of Vision, USD Fall 2014
I am seeking motivated students who are interested in
pursuing an integrative degree studying the evolution
of vision. My lab studies the visual ecology and evolu-
tionary genomics of vision in mantis shrimp (Crustacea,
Stomatopoda). Potential projects include studying the
ontogenetic changes in molecular components of vision,
using comparative genomics to investigate molecular
aspects of vision across species, and studies of visual
pigment protein structure and function. Although re-
search projects in my lab are diverse, all projects are
motivated by evolutionary questions and are linked by
the focus on vision.
You can apply through the USD Graduate School:
http://www.usd.edu/graduate-school/index.cfm To
ensure full consideration, applications should be
completed by February 15.
Ideal candidates would be students interested in com-
bining the elds of visual ecology, evolutionary ge-
nomics, and protein biochemistry. Students (either MS
or PhD) will be supported through a TA/RA position.
Please contact me (Megan.Porter@usd.edu) with a CV
if you are interested in joining my lab.
Megan Porter Assistant Professor Department of Biol-
ogy University of South Dakota Vermillion, SD 57069
Oce: 605-677-6176 Megan.Porter@usd.edu
\Porter, Megan L" <Megan.Porter@usd.edu >
USouthamptonUK
DomesticationGenomics
Graduate position: USouthamp-
tonUK.DomesticationGenomics
** Sorry, only available to UK/EU students **
I am looking for a highly motivated student to work
on the domestication genomics of eggplant/aubergine.
The studentship is fully funded with fees paid for and a64 EvolDir February 1, 2014
stipend at current RCUK rates of $13,726 per annum.
Below is the full description and it is also
available at http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=50917 Please email me
with informal queries (M.chapman@soton.ac.uk) but
note that a formal application would need to be made
through the Southampton website (details below).
Crop domestication and the repeatability of phenotypic
evolution
Domestication represents the outcome of strong
(human-mediated) selection, leading Darwin to suggest
that the study of domestication would help us under-
stand the process of evolution via natural selection.
With recent molecular genetic techniques the study of
domestication has shed light on some important evo-
lutionary questions; however one question has received
very little attention: how repeatable is evolution?
This studentship will use a high resolution genetic
mapping approach using next generation sequenc-
ing to identify genomic regions that control spe-
cic domestication-related traits in two independently-
derived lineages of cultivated aubergine (eggplant).
Aubergine domestication conforms to the typical do-
mestication syndrome, i.e. selection for larger, palat-
able fruits, reduction in plant defences and alterations
in plant architecture, however it stands out in being
one of the few crops that was domesticated more than
once. Being able to overlay domestication QTL with
candidate domestication genes will conrm the extent
of parallel molecular and phenotypic selection during
domestication.
The student will receive full training in all required ar-
eas, including bioinformatics and statistical analysis.
The student will also be involved in generating and
analysing data concerning other aspects of domestica-
tion or adaptation genomics.
Funding Notes: The project is funded for 3 years and
welcomes applicants from the UK and EU who have,
or expect to obtain, at least an upper second class de-
gree in Biological Sciences or allied subjects. Funding
will cover fees and a stipend at current research council
rates of $13,726 per annum.
Due to funding restrictions this position is only open to
UK/EU applicants
References: Applications will be considered in the order
that they are received, and the position will be consid-
ered lled when a suitable candidate has been identi-
ed.
General enquiries should be made to Dr Mark Chap-
man at m.chapman@soton.ac.ukApplications for an MPhil/PhD in Biologi-
cal Sciences should be submitted online at
https://studentrecords.soton.ac.uk/BNNRPROD/-
bzsksrch.P Login?pos=4973&majr=4973&term=-
201415 Please enter Dr M Chapman in the eld for
proposed supervisor.
Any queries on the application process should be made
to pgafnes@soton.ac.uk
Dr. Mark A. Chapman M.Chapman@soton.ac.uk +44
(0)2380 594396
Centre for Biological Sciences University of Southamp-
ton Life Sciences Building 85 Higheld Campus
Southampton SO17 1BJ
\Chapman M." <M.Chapman@soton.ac.uk >
UStirling TreeGeneticDiversity
Maintenance of genetic diversity and local adaptation
of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) in the UK
A three year PhD project is available at the University
of Stirling, Scotland, UK, working on genetic diversity
and local adaptation of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) in
the UK. The successful applicant will be based in the
research group of Professor Alistair Jump (University of
Stirling) and will work closely with Dr Stephen Cavers
(CEH Edinburgh) with additional project input from
Prof. Richard Ennos (University of Edinburgh) and Dr
Joan Cottrell (Forest Research). The project is funded
at the basic UK research council rate by the University
of Stirling, the Scottish Forestry Trust and CEH.
This PhD project will use existing data and landscape
models to assess historical migration scenarios and the
development of patterns of neutral and adaptive ge-
netic structure. This will be complemented by ne-scale
analysis of selected native pinewoods to test hypothe-
ses on the maintenance of high within-population di-
versity and to explore the consequences of human land-
scape modication for genetic diversity. Published ge-
netic and palaeoecological data will be integrated with
functional diversity and trait data held by the Centre
for Ecology and Hydrology (CEH Edinburgh) and the
University of Edinburgh. The work will centre on three
main components: 1) Understanding the development
of genetic structure during historical Scots pine migra-
tion. 2) Determining how high within-population ge-
netic diversity is developed and maintained. 3) Assess-
ing how native trees and non-local planted trees interactFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 65
to shape the future diversity of Scots pine.
More detailed information is available by contacting
Prof. Alistair Jump at a.s.jump@stir.ac.uk
Applicants must be EU citizens and hold a minimum of
a Batchelors degree at 2:1 or above (or equivalent) in a
related subject. You will ideally possess relevant expe-
rience in molecular ecology and or demographic mod-
elling. You should send a current CV and a covering
letter to Prof. Jump at the address below by 9 am UK
time on Monday 10th February 2014. The covering
letter must detail clearly your motivation for pursuing
this research project and set out how your experience
makes you suitable for the post. You should also ar-
range for two referee statements to be sent directly to
Prof. Jump by the closing date.
Alistair S. Jump Professor of Plant Ecology
Biological and Environmental Sciences School of Nat-
ural Sciences University of Stirling Stirling FK9 4LA
UK
Tel: +44 1786 467848 Fax: +44 1786 467843
www.biogeo.org www.sbes.stir.ac.uk Twitter: @Alis-
tairJump
The University of Stirling has been ranked in the top 12
of UK universities for graduate employment*. 94% of
our 2012 graduates were in work and/or further study
within six months of graduation. *The Telegraph The
University of Stirling is a charity registered in Scotland,
number SC 011159.
Alistair Jump <a.s.jump@stir.ac.uk >
UTuebingen
EcologicalPlantEpigenetics
The Plant Evolutionary Ecology group (http://-
www.uni-tuebingen.de/PlantEvoEco) at the University
of T ubingen in Germany invites applications for a
PHD POSITION IN ECOLOGICAL PLANT EPIGE-
NETICS
The PhD student will study epigenetic diversity of
grassland plants and test for its relationships with land
use and other environmental factors, as well as with
plant genetic and phenotypic diversity. Epigenetic di-
versity is a level of biodiversity about which we so far
know very little. The PhD student will thus contribute
to pioneering work in a novel eld of research.The PhD project will be part of the Biodiversity
Exploratories (www.biodiversity-exploratories) and the
Evolution and Ecology Research School T ubingen
(EVEREST). It will thus provide excellent opportuni-
ties for further training and for networking with ecolog-
ical and evolutionary researchers from all disciplines.
We are looking for a student with a strong interest in
evolutionary ecology, genetic diversity and/or epigenet-
ics. The successful candidate should have a MSc in
biology and a good command of English. Previous ex-
perience with molecular methods, e.g. in population or
conservation genetics, or epigenetics, are a plus.
The position is funded for 3 years. Salary is at the scale
13 TV-L (65%). Starting date is spring 2014 but can
be negotiated.
The University of T ubingen is one of the oldest and
most respected universities in Germany, and T ubingen
a beautiful university town with a high quality of life.
The Plant Evolutionary Ecology group at the Univer-
sity of T ubingen studies the ecology, evolution and ge-
netics of plants in a changing environment, with eco-
logical epigenetics as one of our current main foci.
If you are interested in this position, please send
your CV, along with a letter of motivation and the
contact details of two references as a single PDF to
oliver.bossdorf@uni-tuebingen.de. Deadline for appli-
cations is 20 February 2014. For questions, please use
the same email address as above.
The University of T ubingen aims at increasing the share
of women in research and teaching and particularly en-
courages female scientists to apply.
Prof. Dr. Oliver Bossdorf Plant Evolutionary Ecology
University of T ubingen Auf der Morgenstelle 1 D-
72076 T ubingen, Germany Phone: +49 7071 29 78809
oliver.bossdorf@uni-tuebingen.de http://www.uni-
tuebingen.de/PlantEvoEco oliver.bossdorf@uni-
tuebingen.de
UWyoming EvolutionCognition
*** FUNDED PH.D. STUDENTSHIPS AVAILABLE
STARTING SEPTEMBER 2014 ***
*** THE EVOLUTION OF COMPLEX COGNITIVE
ABILITIES IN ANIMALS ***
Supervisor: Dr. Sarah Benson-Amram University
of Wyoming, Department of Zoology and Physiology,66 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Laramie, WY, USA
Enthusiastic and motivated students are encouraged
to apply for Ph.D. positions in the lab of Dr. Sarah
Benson-Amram at the University of Wyoming. Can-
didates will join a new research group working on the
evolution of complex cognitive abilities in animals. Op-
portunities are available to work on both wild and cap-
tive birds and carnivores. Positions ideally start this
coming Fall (September 2014), but alternate start dates
are possible.
If you are interested in joining the lab or would like
more information about the positions, please follow the
instructions at http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/ ~ sba2/-
contact.html The Department of Zoology and Phys-
iology at the University of Wyoming has particularly
strong and growing programs in Neuroscience and in
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. PhD students in
my lab will have the opportunity to be members of the
interdepartmental Program in Ecology and to interact
with researchers at the Berry Biodiversity Conservation
Center.
The University of Wyoming is located in Laramie, a
college town in the heart of the Rocky Mountain West.
Nestled between two mountain ranges, Laramie has
more than 300 days of sunshine a year and is home to
year-round outdoor activities including hiking, camp-
ing, rock climbing, downhill skiing, cross-country ski-
ing, shing and mountain biking. Laramie is also near
many of Colorado's major cities and university commu-
nities (e.g. Fort Collins, Boulder, and Denver).
The University of Wyoming is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity employer. All qualied ap-
plicants receive consideration for employment without
regard to race, color, religion, gender, pregnancy, sex-
ual orientation, age, national origin, disability, marital,
veteran or any other legally protected status.
Sarah Benson-Amram <ndovus@gmail.com >
UZurich 2 DolphinGenomics
Two 3-year PhD positions on dolphin genomics avail-
able at the University of Zurich
Overview: I am seeking two highly motivated
PhD students for my recently funded project \Male
career moves - the genomics of cooperative be-
haviour and alliance formation in male bottlenose
dolphins" at the Evolutionary Genetics Groups ofthe Anthropological Institute and Museum, University
of Zurich (UZH), Switzerland (https://www.uzh.ch/-
cmsssl/anthro/Research/egg-3.html). My group has
broad interests in evolutionary genetics and genomics
of primates and delphinids. The work will be conducted
in close collaboration with Prof Richard Connor at the
University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth (US), Simon
Allen of Murdoch University (Australia), and Prof Bill
Sherwin at the University of New South Wales (Aus-
tralia).
The work will entail a combination of genomic labora-
tory work at UZH and eldwork in Shark Bay, West-
ern Australia. Both positions are for 3 years. Re-
muneration is according to Swiss PhD salary scales
(CHF 48'540 p.a. plus employer social security con-
tributions). Both candidates are expected to spend at
least 4 months/year in the eld. Start date is envisaged
to be 1st May 2014.
Background: Helping, dened as actions or traits that
will benet other individuals, provides one of the most
fascinating conundrums in evolutionary biology. Coop-
eration is not uncommon in nature. It occurs on all lev-
els of biological organization, from organelles and cells,
to individuals or groups of the same species, and even
between individuals of dierent species. Yet, how can
helping evolve and be maintained when it seems to be
prone to exploitation by either free-riding or defecting
individuals? Ever since Hamilton's seminal work on kin
selection, genetic relatedness has been recognized as a
critical variable necessary for the full understanding of
the evolutionary basis of any social phenomenon. Re-
latedness is important, because individuals can increase
their 'inclusive' tness by assisting their relatives' re-
production thereby increasing the transmission success
of the individual's own alleles by descent.
One of the most striking examples of cooperation is
found in the Indo-Pacic bottlenose dolphins of Shark
Bay, Western Australia, where male dolphins cooper-
ate in pairs and trios ('1st order alliances') to form
'consortships' with individual females for the purpose
of gaining exclusive mating access. This research will
capitalize on an extremely well-studied, cooperative so-
ciety, consisting of long-term behavioural, genetic and
spatial datasets. We will employ a large-scale RAD-
tag approach in order to characterise and score tens of
thousands of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
in each dolphin. Based on the SNP data, relatedness
will be estimated and pedigrees will be reconstructed
to unprecedented levels of precision and accuracy. Y-
chromosomal markers, using next-generation sequenc-
ing techniques, will be developed in order to increase
our ability to nd paternal relatives.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 67
This research will enable far-reaching inferences about
genetic factors in the formation and maintenance of
one of the most complex mammalian societies known.
Knowledge of any genetic correlates of these behaviours
will oer powerful comparative data for our own species
and others, opening many further elds of research.
The potential convergence with human alliances and
implications for the social complexity hypothesis means
that the results will be of great interest to a diverse
audience of biologists, cognitive psychologists, anthro-
pologists, and political scientists.
Requirements: Successful candidates will have a
Diploma/Masters degree in a relevant discipline, strong
bioinformatic, genomic and genetic skills, some back-
ground in evolutionary genetics and experience with
eldwork on marine mammals or primates. For eld
work, a valid driver's licence and a restricted coxswains
ticket are essential (the latter can be obtained in a one-
week course in Perth prior to eldwork). The ideal
candidates will have strong oral and written commu-
nication skills in English and the ability to work and
share ideas in a collaborative environment. Knowledge
of German language is not essential, but may help with
everyday life whilst in Zurich.
The students will work in a dynamic research envi-
ronment and have access to cutting edge next gener-
ation sequencing techniques, a behavioural database
spanning 30+ years and biopsy samples from over
700 individuals. The Anthropological Institute and
others at UZH host several seminar series with high-
calibre international speakers. The two PhD positions
will be embedded in the Zurich Life Science Gradu-
ate School's program in Evolutionary Biology (http:/-
/www.lifescience-graduateschool.ch/).
Applications: Interested students should send their ap-
plication package to
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WilliamandMary
MarineLifeHistoryEvolution
The Allen Lab in the Biology Department at the Col-
lege of William and Mary is seeking applications fromoutstanding undergraduates to our MS program. Re-
search in the Allen Lab is focused on the evolution of life
histories in marine invertebrate animals. We currently
have funding from the NSF for one new MS student who
will focus on the evolution of ospring provisioning in
seastars. Interested students should have strong back-
grounds in ecology, evolution and invertebrate biology.
Previous research experience is preferred, regardless of
the discipline in which it was conducted. Potential ap-
plicants are encouraged to contact Dr. Allen directly in
advance of the **Februrary 1st** application deadline
(jdallen@wm.edu). This initial contact should include a
current CV and a brief description of your past research
experiences and interest in joining our lab. Detailed in-
formation about ongoing work in the Allen Lab can be
found by following the link at the bottom of this post.
Jonathan Allen Assistant Professor College of William
and Mary Department of Biology Integrated Science
Center 3035 P.O. Box 8795 Williamsburg, VA 23187-
8795 (757) 221-7498 http://wmpeople.wm.edu/site/-
page/jdallen jdallen@WM.EDU
iDivLeipzigGermany
ApeHabitatSustainability
PhD 'Indicators of sustainability in ape habitat' Hu-
man impact in the form of bushmeat hunting, logging,
mining and large scale industrial agriculture is rapidly
increasing and putting enormous pressure on remain-
ing ape populations and sympatric wildlife. Increas-
ing conservation eorts in- and outside protected areas
may lower these pressures. However, there is currently
a lack of eective indicators which (1) are easy to derive
at low costs, but with high spatio-temporal resolution
and (2) are reliable measures of the progress that has
been made in improving sustainability of natural re-
source use across ape habitats.
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student with
excellent quantitative skills and a strong background
in sustainability science, ecology, socio-economics or a
related eld to join our team. The goal of the envi-
sioned research project is to develop a set of indicators
which reect the current, and expected future, pres-
sures on ape habitats, the status of remaining ape pop-
ulations and sympatric wildlife, and to determine the
extent to which sustainability of natural resource use
has improved or deteriorated. Various data sources are
of potential use for this project including wildlife mon-68 EvolDir February 1, 2014
itoring and socio-economic databases, remote sensing
imagery etc. A particular focus will be on the develop-
ment of composite indicators reecting complex social-
ecological system functioning, rather than single level
indicators. The work will require traveling to ape habi-
tat countries. The successful candidate will need ex-
cellent quantitative, statistical, GIS and programming
skills and must be able to deal with large and heteroge-
neous datasets. Most important for this project will be
the ability to think innovatively and to nd unconven-
tional solutions. For travelling to ape range countries,prociency in French is required. The position is fully
funded for four years from April 2014 onwards. The
place of work will be at the German Centre for Integra-
tive Biodiversity Research (iDiv), located in Leipzig,
Germany.
Please send a CV, cover letter and the contact details of
two referees to Dr. Hjalmar Kuehl (kuehl@eva.mpg.de).
Please reference 'PhD sustainability indicators' in the
subject line.
arandjel@eva.mpg.de
Jobs
AustinTexas EuryceaSalamanderBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Austin Texas SalamanderConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Barcelona Internship EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 70
BielefeldU BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
CityUNewYork EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Cleveland MNH CollectionsManager Entomology . . 72
Denver MuseumNatureScience CuratorPaleontology 72
DukeU FieldTech PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Florida MNH MammalCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
FrenchGuiana TreePopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Italy FieldAssist BeetleConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
KunmingInstZool 3 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76
MaxPlanck Germany AvianFieldTrainees . . . . . . . . . .77
MaxPlanck Germany FieldTrainees CricketBehaviour
93MaxPlanck Leipzig DataManagerAnalyst . . . . . . . . . .78
Minnesota SummerFieldInternship PrairieEvolution 79
MonashU DrosophilaEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
NaturalHistoryMuseum ScienceDataArchitect . . . . . 79
PrincetonU QuantEvolGenetics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
Stuttgart Germany Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UBonn Germany FloraEcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 81
UFlorida DiseaseModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .82
UKonstanz 2 MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .82
UNAM Mexico SystematicBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UNevada Reno GenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UOldenburg 3 PlantEvol Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
WinthropU SouthCarolina EvolutionaryGenetics . . 85
iPlantCollaborative UArizona 2 ScienticAnalysts . 86
AustinTexas
EuryceaSalamanderBiol
The City of Austin, Texas, Watershed Protection De-
partment is now hiring a full-time, permanent En-
vironmental Scientist Senior position to work on en-
dangered/threatened Eurycea salamander monitoring
and conservation programs in the Austin area. In-
formation about the job and the application formis available on the City of Austin website (https://-
www.austincityjobs.org/postings/41402). Applications
will be accepted through 02/02/2014.
This position will be responsible for supervision of fed-
erally endangered Barton Springs and Austin Blind
salamander and federally threatened Jollyville Plateau
Salamander population management activities includ-
ing coordinating and conducting wild population sur-
veys via snorkeling and scuba diving and surface drive
survey methods, captive population management, man-
aging habitat improvement capital projects, conducting
life history and toxicological scientic research and pro-
viding emergency response to events that threaten wildFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 69
populations. Candidate must be a procient swimmer
and experienced in snorkeling.
Essential duties and functions, pursuant to the Amer-
icans with Disabilities Act, may include the following:
1. Design and implement scientic monitoring of wild
populations of endangered aquatic Barton Springs and
Austin Blind salamanders population at 4 spring loca-
tions via snorkel and scuba diving surveys.
2. Oversee and implement occupancy studies and moni-
toring of wild populations of the Jollyville Plateau Sala-
mander at multiple spring sites in northwest Austin.
3. Ensure compliance of scientic activities and Bar-
ton Springs recreational and grounds management op-
erations with U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service permits
including preparation and submittal of annual reports.
4. Oversee captive salamander management activities
following industry standard protocols.
5. Review and conduct scientic research on life his-
tory, behavior, movement, survival, mortality, toxicity
of chemical and physical hazards and genetics of aquatic
salamander species and ecology and function of sala-
mander habitat.
6. Establish, implement and adaptively revise captive
salamander reintroduction protocols.
7. Analyze data with advanced statistical methods or
mathematical models, prepare and publish scientic re-
ports based on monitoring and research activities.
8. Direct supervision of 3 full-time scientists and sea-
sonal temporary employees including work assignment,
coaching, and work review.
Sincerely, Chris Herrington, PE
City of Austin Watershed Protection Dept 505 Barton
Springs Rd, 11th Floor Austin, TX 78704
(512) 974-2840 ofc (512) 974-2846 fax
Email: Chris.Herrington@AustinTexas.Gov Email:
Chris.Herrington@AustinTexas.Gov
Austin Texas
SalamanderConservation
Please see Special Instructions for more details.
This position will be responsible for supervision of fed-
erally endangered Barton Springs and Austin Blind
salamander and federally threatened Jollyville PlateauSalamander population management activities includ-
ing coordinating and conducting wild population sur-
veys via snorkeling and scuba diving and surface drive
survey methods, captive population management, man-
aging habitat improvement capital projects, conduct-
ing life history and toxicological scientic research and
providing emergency response to events that threaten
wild populations. Candidate must be a procient swim-
mer and experienced in snorkeling. If selected for this
position, you will be required to obtain SCUBA cer-
tication within 90 days of hire. If selected for this
position, you will be asked to provide proof of your
education. A valid Texas Class C Driver's License is
required. If selected as a top candidate, your driving
record will be evaluated to ensure it meets the City's
Driver Safety Standards. Must be able to conduct eld
work and work in various weather conditions and ter-
rains. Must be able to lift/carry/push/pull up to 50
lbs. (e.g. moving compressed oxygen tanks, carrying
eld equipment) When completing the City of Austin
employment application: -Please be sure to detail on
the application all prior work experience that is related
to this position, including any work history with the
City of Austin. -A cover letter and resume must be
submitted with the employment application, but does
not substitute for a complete employment application.
-A detailed, complete employment application will help
us better evaluate your qualications and will be used
to determine salary if you are selected for this position.
Position Information
Posting Title: Environmental Scientist or Environ-
mental Scientist Senior Job Requisition Number:
COA071949 Position Number: 107774 Job Type: Full-
Time Division Name: Environmental Resources Mgmt
Minimum Qualications
*Bachelor's degree in Environmental Science, Life Sci-
ence, Natural Science or related eld plus six years of
relevant experience.
*Master's degree in Environmental Science, Life Sci-
ence, Natural Science or related eld plus four years of
relevant experience.
*One additional year of experience may substitute for
one year of the required education with a maximum
substitution of four years.
Notes to Applicants
This position will be responsible for supervision of fed-
erally endangered Barton Springs and Austin Blind
salamander and federally threatened Jollyville Plateau
Salamander population management activities includ-
ing coordinating and conducting wild population sur-70 EvolDir February 1, 2014
veys via snorkeling and scuba diving and surface drive
survey methods, captive population management, man-
aging habitat improvement capital projects, conducting
life history and toxicological scientic research and pro-
viding emergency response to events that threaten wild
populations.
Candidate must be a procient swimmer and experi-
enced in snorkeling.
If selected for this position, you will be required to ob-
tain SCUBA certication within 90 days of hire.
If selected for this position, you will be asked to provide
proof of your education.
A valid Texas Class C Driver's License is required. If
selected as a top candidate, your driving record will be
evaluated to ensure it meets the City's Driver Safety
Standards.
Must be able to conduct eld work and work in various
weather conditions and terrains.
Must be able to lift/carry/push/pull up to 50 lbs. (e.g.
moving compressed oxygen tanks, carrying eld equip-
ment)
When completing the City of Austin employment ap-
plication: - Please be sure to detail on the application
all prior work experience that is related to this position,
including any work history with the City of Austin. -
A cover letter and resume must be submitted with the
employment application, but does not substitute for a
complete employment application. - A detailed, com-
plete employment application will help us better eval-
uate your qualications and will be used to determine
salary if you are selected for this position.
Pay Range: $26.80 - $34.82 per hour Hours: 40 hours
per week, Monday-Friday Job Close Date Departments
may close a posting at their discretion: 02/02/2014
Open Until Filled: No Type of Posting: External De-
partment: Watershed Protection Regular/Temporary:
Regular Grant Funded or Pooled Position: Not Ap-
plicable Category: Professional Location: 505 Barton
Springs Road, Austin, Texas
Preferred Qualications
Knowledge of state and federal endangered species reg-
ulations, prior work experience with Eurycea salaman-
ders, experience with design and analysis of capture-
mark-recapture data, captive amphibian management,
and ability to conduct salamander eld surveys includ-
ing by SCUBA diving are preferred.
Excellent writing and presentation skills. Duties, Func-
tions and Responsibilities
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Barcelona Internship
EvolutionaryGenomics
INTERNSHIP IN EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
January 23 2014, Barcelona
Internship oered in the Evolutionary Genomics Group
led by M.Mar Alb a at IMIM-UPF in Barcelona (evolu-
tionarygenomics.imim.es). The candidate will work on
a project to identify and characterize recently emerged
genes in mammalian genomes using deep transcrip-
tomics RNA-Seq data. The applicant should have a
strong interest in evolutionary biology and ideally some
programming skills. A strong academic record is a
must. The research period can be used to complete
an MSc or BSc project. Possibility to continue with a
PhD.
The contract will initially be for 6 months but it could
be extended for another 6 months if required. The ex-
pected starting date is any time between march and
september 2014, brut salary 600-1000 euros per month
depending on the candidate qualications.
To apply please send an expression of interest and
CV to the group coordinator, M.Mar Alb a, at
malba@imim.es
malba@imim.es
BielefeldU BehaviouralEvolution
Scientic Assistant Position, Department of Animal Be-
haviour, Bielefeld University, Germany
A scientic assistant position (Akademischer Rat auf
Zeit, A13) is available in the Department of Animal Be-
haviour at Bielefeld University from June 1st 2014 or
soon thereafter. The position is available for six (3+3)
years at the German Civil Service Payment Scale A13
(minimum salary after tax of 36000 euro per annum)
which is comparable to a Senior Lecturer/Reader salary
in the UK.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 71
We seek a bright and highly motivated postdoctoral
researcher who ideally has several years of postdoc ex-
perience in a relevant topic (e.g. animal behaviour,
behavioural ecology, population ecology, evolutionary
ecology). The scientic assistant will be responsible
for developing his or her own research agenda while
also signicantly contributing to one of the three core
model systems of the department (zebra nches in the
lab, birds of prey in the eld, sea lions and fur seals
in the eld). It is expected that he/she will be able
to obtain signicant third-party research funding. The
ideal candidate will be able to work both independently
and as part of a multidisciplinary team. The teaching
duties of a scientic assistant are 4 hours per week dur-
ing semesters or 120 hours per annum. In addition, the
successful candidate is expected to contribute to the
running of the Department of Animal Behaviour which
is headed by Oliver Kr uger and Joe Homan.
The successful candidate will be based at the De-
partment of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld Univer-
sity (www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/animalbehaviour/-
home.html). The department is the oldest of its kind
in Germany and currently hosts six principal investi-
gators, seven postdocs and twenty PhD students. It
oers a stimulating international environment and an
excellent research infrastructure including a brand new
molecular laboratory. The working language of the De-
partment is English. Together with the Evolution and
Animal Ecology research groups housed in the same
building, there are some 50 scientists and PhD students
from over ten dierent countries working on related top-
ics in behaviour, ecology and evolution.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with an attrac-
tive historical centre and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers a
high standard of living and is well connected to most
major European cities.
To apply for the position, please provide: (i) a letter
of motivation including a 3-5-page statement of your
research interests, how you would contribute to the
core model systems in the department, relevant skills
and experience; (ii) a CV including publication list;
(iii) names and contact details of three referees willing
to write condential letters of recommendation. All
materials should be emailed as a single PDF le to:
oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de.
The application deadline is March 10th 2014 and in-
terviews will take place in April 2014. The pre-
ferred start date is June 1st 2014 but is ex-
ible and will depend on the timeframe of the
most qualied applicant. For further informa-
tion, please see http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/-animalbehaviour/home.html or contact Oliver Kr uger
via email (oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de) with any in-
formal inquiries.
The University of Bielefeld is an equal opportunity
employer. We particularly welcome applications from
women and handicapped people. Given equal suitabil-
ity, qualications and professional achievement, women
or handicapped people will be given preference, unless
particular circumstances apply.
With best wishes,
Oliver Kr uger
Prof. Dr. Oliver Kr uger Department of Animal
Behaviour VHF Bielefeld University PO Box 10 01
31 33501 Bielefeld Germany Tel: +49-521-1062842
Fax: +49-521-1062998 oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de
www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/vhf/OK \ \"Oliver
Kr uger \\"<oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de >
CityUNewYork EvolBiology
FACULTY VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT
York College of The City University of New York
(CUNY) invites applications for two tenure-track po-
sitions at the Assistant or Associate Professor level
in Biology to begin Fall semester 2014. Instructional
responsibilities include lecture and laboratory courses
in the faculty's eld of specialty as well as other ma-
jor and non-major courses as needed by the Depart-
ment. Candidates must demonstrate a strong inter-
est in and commitment to undergraduate teaching and
the ability to develop and maintain an active research
program supported by external funding. The aca-
demic program, instructional and research equipment,
and grant programs available at York College can be
found at the following link:http://www.york.cuny.edu/-
academics/departments/biology . QUALIFICATIONS
Ph.D. degree in area(s) of experience or equivalent.
Also required are the ability to teach successfully,
demonstrated scholarship or achievement, and ability
to cooperate with others for the good of the institu-
tion.
COMPENSATION CUNY oers faculty a competitive
compensation and benets package covering health in-
surance, pension and retirement benets, paid parental
leave, and savings programs. We also provide mentor-
ing and support for research, scholarship, and publi-
cation as part of our commitment to ongoing faculty72 EvolDir February 1, 2014
professional development.
HOW TO APPLY Candidates for faculty positions
should minimally provide a CV/resume and statement
of scholarly interests. Additional requirements may ap-
pear below.
Please submit your application online through this job
board as follows: - Go to www.cuny.edu and click on
Employment - Select \Apply Now" then create or login
to a user account and provide the requested informa-
tion. - Click on Job Postings on CUNYrst - Click
Search job listings - Click on More search options -
Search by Job Opening ID number # 9965
*In order to be considered for this position, applicants
must include a cover letter, CV/resume, a statement of
research and teaching experience, and the contact infor-
mation for three professional references. Please upload
these as ONE document in rtf, doc, or pdf format.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY We are
committed to enhancing our diverse academic commu-
nity by actively encouraging people with disabilities,
minorities, veterans, and women to apply. We take
pride in our pluralistic community and continue to seek
excellence through diversity and inclusion. EO/AA
Employer.
Dr. Laura Beaton Assistant Professor Department of
Biology School of Arts and Sciences York College, City
University of New York 94-20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd. Ja-
maica, NY 11451 718-262-5253 lbeaton@york.cuny.edu
Laura Beaton <lbeaton@york.cuny.edu >
Cleveland MNH
CollectionsManager Entomology
Collections Manager - Invertebrate Zoology
Summary: The Collections Manager of Invertebrate
Zoology will oversee the general management of Ento-
mology, Malacology and other invertebrate collections
within the department.
Essential Duties and Responsibilities Manage the mod-
ern curation of entomological, malacological, and gen-
eral invertebrate zoological specimens for the collection.
Manage access to collections by students, visiting scien-
tists and volunteers. Oversee management of the Mu-
seum DNA Lab including student training, data gener-
ation, and supplies management; Participate in curator
research projects as well as develop an independent re-search program including eldwork, securing external
funding, and writing manuscripts for publication.
Education and/or Experience: The Collections Man-
ager must hold a graduate degree (Masters or higher)
in Invertebrate Zoology, Entomology, or related eld.
Priority will be given to applicants with taxonomic
expertise in non-holometabolous terrestrial arthropods
including Polyneoptera, Paraneoptera, non-neopteran
hexapods, and arachnids. Experience in biological col-
lections management and DNA Lab management and
data generation required. Experience in eld and lab-
oratory research including publications on original re-
search in peer-reviewed scientic journals required. Ex-
perience planning, directing and reporting on research
of self and sta. Must have the ability to deal eectively
with public and private agencies and individuals in mat-
ters relating to invertebrates and the Museum. Expe-
rience with computer operating systems and database
management required.
TO APPLY Please send a cover letter, a one (1) page
curatorial and research statement, curriculum vitae
(CV), and three (3) professional references to: Human
Resources Cleveland Museum of Natural History One
Wade Oval Drive, University Circle Cleveland, Ohio
44106 Hr@cmnh.org
http://cmnh.org/site/AboutUs/-
CareerOpportunities.aspx No phone calls, please.
Review of applications will begin March 1, 2014
Job Announcement Number: 1402
The Cleveland Museum of Natural History is an
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, ADA EMPLOYER and a
SUBSTANCE-FREE WORKPLACE
gavin.svenson@gmail.com
Denver MuseumNatureScience
CuratorPaleontology
Position: Curator of Paleontology
Description: The Denver Museum of Nature & Science
seeks a curator in the Department of Earth Sciences to
grow its scholarship, to curate and expand its North
American fossil collections, and to help inspire pub-
lic understanding of, and involvement in, science. The
ideal candidate's scholarship will involve eld-based pa-
leontological research on fossil vertebrates. Areas of
specialty might include paleoecology, paleobiology, evo-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 73
lution or related elds. Successful candidates will have
a research program with a focus in western North Amer-
ica and an established track record of publication and
funding. The successful candidate will be a phenome-
nal public speaker and will regularly engage the general
public and media.
The Denver Museum is an exciting place to do science
with an active curatorial sta spanning the elds of
anthropology, zoology, space sciences, health sciences
and earth sciences. The museum oers opportunities
to engage with the general public through educational
programming and exhibits and to work with a large,
highly-trained volunteer corps. The museum has out-
standing conservation, volunteer management, and li-
brary sta. The museum has strong local public sup-
port, has a new collections facility with excess storage
and is surrounded by well-exposed, fossil-bearing sedi-
mentary rocks.
The Earth Science Department is an outwardly focused
and collegial team that engages in international re-
search but has strong emphasis on the geologic and pa-
leontologic record of the American West. Current sta
expertise is in invertebrate and vertebrate paleontol-
ogy and paleobotany, and each curator has at least one
scholarly project in Colorado. The Department's col-
lections are sizeable and are growing; their composition
and history are described at http://www.dmns.org/-
science/collections/. The Department also has a fully
staed preparation laboratory that operates 364 days
per year, a full-time collections manager, and over 250
volunteers who engage in science, collections, and out-
reach. The Department has close collaborations with
local analytical laboratories and helps shepherd the mu-
seum's eet of eld vehicles and eld equipment.
A PhD is required at the start of the position and post-
doctoral experience is recommended. The starting date
of the position is exible.
Application Instructions: To apply, submit one single
PDF le which contains all of the following on single-
spaced, single-sided pages in 12-point or larger font: 1)
a two page cover letter that outlines your present and
anticipated scholarship and personal objectives; 2) a
one or two page statement of outreach highlighting: (a)
areas where you are currently most eective; (b) ways
to leverage your skills within and beyond the DMNS to
improve the public's understanding of science; and (c)
innovative approaches for leveraging the DMNS plat-
form to eectively engage the general public and cat-
alyze the next generation of scientically literate youth;
3) a one page statement of how you might (a) dovetail
your scholarship with existing collections at the DMNS,
and (b) build and steward a new major fossil collectionat the DMNS; 4) a curriculum vitae which lists your in-
press or published peer- reviewed publications, recent
departmental seminars you have given and your post-
graduate history of employment; and 5) a list of contact
information for three professional references with whom
you have collaborated in the past, and three references
with whom you have not previously collaborated.
Submit your application online at www.dmns.org; no
phone calls or printed application materials will be ac-
cepted. We will begin reviewing applications on Febru-
ary 15th and the application period will close March
1st.
The Denver Museum of Nature & Science is an equal
opportunity employer. The Museum is dedicated to the
goal of building a culturally diverse sta committed to
serving the needs of all our visitors and we encourage
applications from individuals of all backgrounds.
Ian Miller Curator of Paleobotany Chair, Department
of Earth Sciences Director, Earth and Space Sciences
ian.miller@dmns.org
DukeU FieldTech PlantAdaptation
The Mitchell-Olds lab at Duke University seeks a highly
motivated, detail-oriented assistant for eld research in
the northern Rocky Mountains, summer 2014. We are
studying Boechera, a perennial herb that oers genetic
tractability and ecological context. Current eld exper-
iments focus on questions related to local adaptation,
plant defense against herbivory, and breeding systems.
Our research sites are located in east-central Idaho.
Base camp is a set of trailers located near the beautiful
town of Salmon. Amenities include heat, hot water, a
landline, and wireless internet access. Travel distances
between sites are long, which necessitates many hours
in the car. Our team usually returns to the trailers to
sleep but applicants should be familiar with (and en-
joy!) camping for the times when this is not feasible.
Weather conditions in the Rockies can be severe, and
assistants should expect to work in snow and rain as
well as 90 degree temperatures. Regular trips are made
to Missoula, Montana for groceries and other supplies.
Successful applicants are expected to assist in data col-
lection and data entry, plant care, transplanting, seed
collection, and driving research vehicles. Applicants
must be able to stoop/kneel for extended periods of
time; hike up to 1 mile while carrying heavy loads; hike74 EvolDir February 1, 2014
up and down steep hills; and dig or dibble holes in hard
ground. The work can be physically demanding and
tiring, and the research team usually collects data 5-6
days per week. A good sense of humor and a positive
attitude are necessities!
Qualications: 1) some undergraduate education in bi-
ology, ecology, or related eld, or equivalent experience;
2) experience camping and working outdoors and/or
previous eld research experience; 3) ability to perform
repetitive tasks with a cheerful attitude and with atten-
tion to detail; 4) willingness to live and work in close
proximity with other researchers in a trailer; 5) a cur-
rent driver's license. Previous experience working with
plants is preferable but not required. Transportation,
room with internet access, and salary will be provided.
Applicants must be available throughout the eld sea-
son from approximately June 1st through mid-August,
but exact start and end dates are exible.
Interested applicants should submit: 1) a short cover
letter describing their qualications as well as future
academic and professional goals; 2) a r esum e outlining
previous work experience, relevant courses (completed
or in progress), extracurricular activities; and 3) con-
tact information of two character references.
Email to:
Tom Mitchell-Olds, tmo1@duke.edu Department of Bi-
ology, Duke University
mrw28@duke.edu
Florida MNH MammalCurator
JOB OPENING: Collections Manager in Mammalogy
The Florida Museum of Natural History is a world-class
natural history museum of over 40 million specimens
and artifacts located on the University of Florida cam-
pus in Gainesville, Florida.
We are seeking a collection manager in the division
of Mammalogy. Knowledge of the care and manage-
ment of a natural history collection of mammals is ex-
pected, including permitting, cataloging and accessions
specimens, processing loans, maintaining an electronic
database, integrated pest management, and use of MS
oce. The FLMNH is a highly collaborative environ-
ment, so the ability to work well with others is crit-
ical for this position. As with all collection manager
positions, attention to detail is of the utmost impor-
tance. Because the FLMNH is highly visible to the pub-lic, this position requires condence in front of public,
university, and scientic audiences including the me-
dia. Communication with the public, university, gov-
ernment, and scientic audiences is expected. Travel,
including foreign travel is also expected of this posi-
tion. FLMNH collection managers are encouraged to
maintain their own independent research activity.
Minimum Qualications: Bachelor's degree in (Biology,
Zoology, or relevant eld) with at least ve years' expe-
rience in collection management. Job requires demon-
strable prociency with the taxonomy, nomenclature,
identication, preparation, and preservation of mam-
mal specimens, and their tissues and DNA.
Preferred Qualications: Ph.D., experience in super-
visory roles, mammal eldwork, grant writing, and/or
bioinformatics.
Duties include: Assists curator(s) in the management
of zoological collections to ensure all care and mainte-
nance procedures necessary for specimen conservation;
loans; permitting; collection use for research, teaching,
exhibits, and public programs; supervision of student
assistants and volunteers; databasing, web access, and
reporting; museum & local community service; help es-
tablish & nurture mutually benecial relationships with
individuals, schools, colleges, universities, and relevant
organizations. The collection manager will work with
Mammal Curator to develop policy and procedures;
grow the collection; write grant proposals; participate
in informal (or formal) teaching; aid in shared adminis-
trative duties, and develop and implement a long term
collections strategy in reference to American Associa-
tion of Museums accreditation requirements, standards,
and best practices.
100% time (40 hrs/week). Salary commensurate with
experience, plus benets.
To Apply: Applicants must apply online and can view
the complete job announcement at jobs.u.edu. Please
reference job requisition number 0904817. Applicants
will need to upload curriculum vitae, letter of inter-
est, and arrange for three letters of reference to be sent
directly to Mammalogy Curator, David L. Reed (dl-
reed@u.edu). Applications are due 2/14/14.
If an accommodation due to a disability is needed to
apply for this position, please call (352) 392-2HRS or
the Florida Relay System at (800) 955-8771 (TDD).
The University of Florida is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer.
David L. Reed, Ph.D. Associate Curator of Mammals
and Chair, Department of Natural History Florida Mu-
seum of Natural History 1659 Museum Road (Dickin-
son Hall) University of Florida Gainesville, FL 32611February 1, 2014 EvolDir 75
(352) 273-1971 (voice) (352) 846-0287 (fax) e-mail:
dlreed@u.edu http://www.mnh.u.edu/mammals/
dreed@mnh.u.edu
FrenchGuiana TreePopGenetics
Population genetics and genomics of wild tropical tree
populations
A non-permanent position as Team leader in popula-
tion genetics and genomics is open at INRA within the
EcoFoG (\Ecology of Forests of the Guianas") Research
Unit, based in Kourou, French Guiana.
The Research Unit (http://www.ecofog.gf/?lang=en)
and the Ecological Genetics laboratory (http://-
www.ecofog.gf/spip.php?rubrique91) in particular have
a long-standing experience in the study of ecological
and genetic processes involved in the establishment and
maintenance of genetic, species and ecosystem diver-
sity in tropical forest ecosystems. They are tightly
connected with the international research community
and make use of up-to-date experimental and analytical
methods to tackle research questions such as unveiling
the mechanisms underlying local adaptation and mea-
suring the role of genomic processes in species radiation.
The Ecological Genetics laboratory is currently leader
/ participant of several collaborative research programs
revolving around the above topics. The team leader
position is left vacant by the current Team leader's (I.
Scotti) departure.
We are seeking a young and highly motivated scien-
tist (ideally with a post-doc experience between three
and six years) who is an expert in two or more of
the following topics: population genetics, population
genomics, quantitative genetics, modelling of popula-
tion genetic processes, ecological genetics, speciation
genomics, forest tree genetics. The scientist will have
access to all data being gathered by research team;
he/she will initially work on the genomics of local adap-
tation and speciation in a set of species and species
complexes that have been the target of the lab's re-
search during the past ten years. He/she will also ini-
tially work in tight collaboration with the former Team
leader. While the hired Team leader will be in charge
of all scientic aspects, the Ecological Genetics labo-
ratory itself (including sta and facilities) will be su-
pervised by the Team's permanent Research associate
(Henri Caron). The candidate will preferentially have
experience with non-model species that provide limitedoptions for manipulative experimental approaches, and
must have an inclination for eld work, lab work, data
analysis and the coordination of medium-sized research
teams. Moreover, he or she must be willing to under-
stand the inner working of, and to take care of, the
administration of science and of collaborative research
programs. Propensities for life in tropical conditions
in a remote country, as well as a satisfactory level of
spoken French, are mandatory.
Salary conditions correspond to those of an INRA CR2
scientist increased by 40% (approximate net salary:
2600 euro/month), plus the full benets of the French
welfare system. The position is oered for ve years,
divided into two grants of two and three years, start-
ing 1st February 2014 at the earliest. The position will
start with a three-month trial period.
The call for applications will be closed on January 31st,
or earlier if a suitable candidate is found. If no suitable
candidate is found by that date, the call will be re-
opened.
Please contact Ivan Scotti (ivan.scotti@ecofog.gf,
http://www.ecofog.gf/spip.php?article58) for further
information on the position and to submit your appli-
cation. Applicants will submit a short introductory let-
ter, a detailed CV, as well as two reference letters by
current and former supervisors. The candidates with
a suitable CV will be interviewed (expect a one-hour
interview by videocall).
Ivan Scotti DR2 INRA - UMR 0745 ECOFOG \Ecolo-
gie des For^ ets de Guyane" / \Ecology of Guiana
Forests" Team Leader Population Ecology 
Campus agronomique, Avenue de France BP 709
- 97387 KOUROU Cedex FRANCE Phone +594
(0)59432-9274, -9285, -9278 Fax +594 (0)59432-4302 e-
mail: ivan.scotti@ecofog.gf ivan.scotti@kourou.cirad.fr,
i.scotti.inra.kourou@gmail.com
Personal webpage: http://www.ecofog.gf/-
spip.php?article250 VISITORS TO FRENCH
GUIANA MUST HOLD A VALID YELLOW FEVER
VACCINE CERTIFICATE
Ivan Scotti <Ivan.Scotti@ecofog.gf >
Italy FieldAssist BeetleConservation
FIELD ASSISTANTS for monitoring saproxylic pro-
tected beetles in the LIFE-MIPP project. Web-
site: http://www.lifemipp.eu . Location: University76 EvolDir February 1, 2014
of Rome \La Sapienza", Department of Biology and
Biotechnologies \C. Darwin", Rome, Italy.
The eld assistants will help in eldwork for the mon-
itoring of 5 species of saproxylic beetles (C.cerdo,
R.alpina, M.funereus, O.eremita and L.cervus) in ve
protected areas in Italy (Abruzzo, Tuscany, Lombardy,
Emilia-Romagna and Veneto).
The sampling seasons will be, depending on weather
condition, approximately from May to July 2014.
The aim of the research is to develop generalized mon-
itoring protocols for the saproxylic beetles included in
the Habitats Directive, as required by the European
Community. The eld assistant will work with a large
team consisting in master students, PhD, post-doc and
researchers, expert in the techniques of trapping insects
for monitoring. The work will consist in not-invasive
methods as the simple count of animals in transect,
Capture V Mark V Recapture, holes observation, col-
lection of remains. Duties will include insects handling
(marking, measuring), data entry and data manage-
ment. The eldwork will be not particularly demand-
ing and will be organize in turns of maximum of 5 days
continuously.
Qualications/Experience
Candidates must have experience with eldwork in gen-
eral and interest in insect. Candidates should have a
BSc in Biology or in Natural Science or a related eld.
Ideal candidates are highly motivated, well organized
and able to work independently, while at the same time
able to work in a group.
Applications
Review of the applications will begin Mid-February and
continue until the positions are available. To apply,
please send (1) a statement of relevant experience and
motivation, (2) a very short resume or CV to
Dr. Gloria Antonini
gloria.antonini@uniroma1.it
Thank you.
Best regards,
Gloria
Emanuela Solano <emanuela.solano@uniroma1.it >
KunmingInstZool 3 BiodiversityThree PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR POSITIONS
(~N3
4>^O) in Ecology at the Kunming Institute of Zo-
ology (KIZ), Kunming, China.
The KIZ invites applications for three full-time PI po-
sitions, two in molecular ecology and one in general
ecology, with no taxonomic limitations, and with pref-
erence for research that has potential or current ap-
plication to biodiversity conservation or environmental
management. A PI position is equivalent to a western
faculty position, and our search is open-rank.
This is a rolling job search that is part of a large ex-
pansion for the KIZ, so there is no ocial closing date.
For the molecular ecology positions, we are looking for
individuals who use molecular data, broadly dened.
For the general ecology position, all other methodolo-
gies are welcome, from modeling to GIS to experiment.
The primary determinant is scientic excellence.
This is a superb opportunity to pursue an independent
research program, backed by a large research team and
ample funding. Considerable startup funding is avail-
able, at levels greater than or equal to those oered by
European or US universities. Details of support and
salary, plus further information, are posted at http://-
english.kiz.cas.cn/CR/201309/t20130924 109888.html
The KIZ is ranked as a rst-class institution within the
Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) system (particu-
larly well known for research in genomics and phylo-
geography) and trains masters and doctoral students.
There are no undergraduate teaching responsibilities.
Facilities at the KIZ include the latest next-gen se-
quencers, a zoological museum with over 600,000 spec-
imens, and access to CAS eld stations, datasets,
and facilities around the country. Our websites are
www.kiz.cas.cn and english.kiz.cas.cn. Labs will be
located at the new Southwest China Biodiversity In-
stitute, which was built to promote close interaction
within Yunnans broader ecology and environment com-
munity, including the Kunming Institute of Botany,
the Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Yun-
nan Agricultural University, and Yunnan University.
The working languages at the KIZ are Chinese and En-
glish. All nationalities are welcome to apply, and most
faculty have had international research experience. It is
possible to conduct research outside China with grant
monies from China. In addition to institutional sup-
port for Chinese national postgraduate students, the
CAS has also recently made available very competitive
CAS-TWAS Presidents Fellowships to support Ph.D.
students from developing countries.
Candidates with a strong record of accomplishment
should email a CV, a statement of research interests andFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 77
plans, and pdfs of three publications to the address be-
low, with the Subject line \Ecology Job Search". Please
include the names, addresses, and contact details of
three individuals who can provide letters of recommen-
dation. Informal enquiries can be made with Dr. Dou-
glas Yu <dougwyu@gmail.com >.
Contact Information Liaison: Ms. BAI Yu Telephone:
+86 871 65137268 Fax: +86 871 65199941 Email:
baiyu@mail.kiz.ac.cn Mailing Address: Division of Hu-
man Resources Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences 32 Jiaochang Donglu, Kunming
650223, Yunnan, China
\Douglas W. Yu" <dougwyu@gmail.com >
MaxPlanck Germany
AvianFieldTrainees
FIELD TRAINEES
needed in fulltime for monitoring and catching breeding
passerines at the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology.
Website: http://www.orn.mpg.de/159079/-
Research Group Dingemanse Location: Seewiesen,
Bayern, Germany.
Job description:
The eld Trainees will help collect breeding and be-
havioural data on Great Tits (Parus major) from ap-
proximately mid-March 2014 to the rst half of August
2014. The research focuses primarily on identifying how
natural and sexual selection act on animal personalities
and behavioural plasticity. Trainees will work closely
with a large, international team consisting of several
post-docs, PhD and Master students, as well as other
assistants. Field work is physically demanding, and in-
volves walking over hilly terrain for long days outdoors
in all weather conditions. The breeding season is in-
tense and with typically only 1 day o per week. Duties
include behavioural observations, nest monitoring, bird
handling, data entry and data management.
Qualications/Experience:
Candidates should study Biology or a related eld. We
are especially interested in candidates with experience
in independent bird handling (preferably with small
passerines), including ringing and measuring. Ideal
candidates are highly motivated, well organized, while
at the same time, able to function well in a big group.
Applicants must have a valid drivers license and be ex-perienced in operating vehicles with manual transmis-
sion.
Non-EU candidates are not eligible for this position.
A small nancial compensation and housing in shared
accommodation will be provided. Accepted assistants
should be vaccinated against Tick Borne Encephalitis
(TBE or FSME) before arriving in Seewiesen. Appli-
cants should also be aware that Lyme disease (carried
by ticks) is prevalent in the area and should inform
themselves about this disease beforehand.
In an eort to employ more people with disabilities, the
Max-Planck-Society specically encourages people with
disabilities to apply for the position.
Applications: Review of the applications will begin im-
mediately and continue until the positions are lled.
To apply, please send (1) a statement of relevant expe-
rience, (2) a short resume or CV, and (3) contact in-
formation for two references to Alexia Mouchet (eMail:
amouchet@orn.mpg.de).
Alexia MOUCHET Technical assistant
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology Evolution-
ary Ecology of Variation Eberhard-Gwinner-Stra c7/8
82319 Seewiesen GERMANY
Tel.: +49 (0) 8157 932 414
<tel:%2B49%20%280%29%208157%20932%20414 >
Email: amouchet@orn.mpg.de
\Mouchet, Alexia" <amouchet@orn.mpg.de >
MaxPlanck Germany FieldTrainees
CricketBehaviour
*FIELD**TRAINEES*
needed in fulltime for Field Cricket Project at the *Max
Planck Institute for** **Ornithology*.
Website:http://www.orn.mpg.de/159079/-
Research Group Dingemanse Location: Munich
(LMU) and Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany.
*Job description: *
The eld trainees will help collect behavioural and life-
history data on Field Crickets (Gryllus bimaculatus)
and maintenance of the crickets frombeginning of April
toAugust 1 ^st , 2014.The research focuses primarily on
identifying how the social environment (ie. Other indi-
viduals) generate and maintain individual dierences
in behaviour and behavioural plasticity.Trainees will78 EvolDir February 1, 2014
work closely with an international team consisting of
one post-doc, one PhD-student and various Master stu-
dents. The research project is intense and will have
typically only 1-2 days o per week. Duties include be-
havioural observations, cricket handling (marking, mea-
suring), data entry and data management.
*Qualications **/Experience **:*
Candidates shouldstudy Biology or a related
eld.Preferred candidates have experience with
handling small insects and working as part of a
research group. Ideal candidates are highly motivated,
well organized and able to work independently, while
at the same time able to function well in a big group.
Non-EU candidates are not eligible for this position. A
small nancial compensation and housing in shared ac-
commodation will be provided.Acceptedtrainees should
be vaccinated against Tick Borne Encephalitis (TBE
or FSME) before arriving in Seewiesen. Applicants
should also be aware that Lyme disease (carried by
ticks)is prevalent in the area and should inform them-
selves about this disease beforehand.
In an eort to employ more people with disabilities, the
Max-Planck-Society specically encourages people with
disabilities to apply for the position.
Applications: Review of the applications will be-
gin February 15th and continue until the position is
lled*.*To apply, please send (1) a statement of rele-
vant experience, (2) a short resume or CV,and(3) con-
tact information for two references to Alexia Mouchet
(eMail:amouchet@orn.mpg.de).
{
Alexia MOUCHET
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology Evolutionary
Ecology of Variation Eberhard-Gwinner-Strae 7/8
82319 Seewiesen GERMANY
Email:amouchet@orn.mpg.de
amouchet <amouchet@orn.mpg.de >
MaxPlanck Leipzig
DataManagerAnalyst
Position available: Data manager and analyst for IUCN
SSC A.P.E.S. database
The IUCN SSC A.P.E.S. database was founded in 2005as a repository for great ape population data and the
aim to inform great ape conservation strategies. Since
its start a large number of eld survey datasets have
been compiled, processed and archived. It has been
used to inform great ape conservation action plans and
to conduct and publish scientic studies with a large
number of data providing authors. These and other
activities are dependent upon rigorous, expert manage-
ment of the data.
We are seeking a highly-motivated person with a back-
ground in ecology, conservation or a related eld and
excellent quantitative skills to join our team as a data
manager. The range of tasks covered by this position
include the continuous identication and compilation of
relevant datasets, their processing, archiving and anal-
ysis, handling of data requests, writing of reports on
the status of ape populations and close collaboration
with other members of the team. Furthermore, it will
be important for the compilation of relevant datasets to
travel to data owning institutions across the ape range,
particularly as the database is being expanded to in-
corporate information on gibbon populations.
The successful candidate will therefore need excellent
quantitative, organizational and communicative skills
and to be uent in English and French. We expect
candidates to be able to eciently process and stan-
dardize highly variable datasets, to extract summary
statistics, to produce ape range and distribution layers,
to estimate ape abundance from survey data and to be
familiar with GIS techniques and software. The suc-
cessful candidate will also need to communicate closely
with Dr. Liz Williamson, coordinator of the Section
on Greats Apes of the IUCN SSC Primate Specialist
Group.
The position will be available for up to ve years from
January 2014. The annual salary will be up to 40,000
Euros depending on qualications. The place of work
will be at the German Centre for Integrative Biodi-
versity Research (iDiv) and the Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology, both located in Leipzig,
Germany.
Please send a Curriculum Vita, publication list, cover
letter and the contact details of two referees to Dr.
Hjalmar Kuehl (kuehl@eva.mpg.de). Please reference
'IUCN SSC A.P.E.S. data manager' in the subject line
arandjel@eva.mpg.deFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 79
Minnesota SummerFieldInternship
PrairieEvolution
Summer eld research internships
Are you interested in gaining eld research experience
and learning about the ecology and evolution of plants
and plant-animal interactions in fragmented prairie?
We are looking for 3-5 summer eld researchers for
an NSF-funded project on habitat fragmentation of the
tallgrass prairie. We are investigating how small plant
population size inuences inbreeding, demography, pol-
lination, and herbivory in the purple coneower, Echi-
nacea angustifolia. This is a great summer internship,
REU, or co-op for those interested in eld biology or
conservation research.
No experience is necessary, but you must be enthusi-
astic and hard-working. You will survey natural plant
populations, measure plant traits in experimental plots,
hand-pollinate plants, observe & collect insects, and as-
sist in all aspects of research. Housing is provided and
there is a stipend. Undergraduate students have the
opportunity to do an independent project as an REU
participant.
If you want more information or wish to apply,
please visit this website http://echinaceaProject.org/-
opportunities/ or contact Stuart Wagenius. Applica-
tions will be reviewed starting 27 February 2014 for
REU positions and 6 March for other positions.
Stuart Wagenius, Ph.D. Conservation Scientist Divi-
sion of Plant Science and Conservation Chicago Botanic
Garden 1000 Lake Cook Road Glencoe, IL 60022 phone:
847 835 6978 fax: 847 835 6975 email: echinaceapro-
ject@gmail.com
echinaceaproject@gmail.com
MonashU
DrosophilaEvolutionaryEcol
Research Assistant position available for project on
Drosophila Evolutionary Ecology
Note: Applications close 19th January, 11:55pm Aus.Eastern Daylight Time
We are seeking a dedicated and ambitious Research As-
sistant to work on Drosophila evolutionary ecology.
As the successful applicant, you will work within the re-
search program of Dr Magdalena Nystrand, who is an
ARC research fellow in the lab of Dr Damian Dowling,
at Monash University (Melbourne, Australia).
The project ties ecology to immunology (eco-
immunology), and explores the eects of disease on in-
sect life-history. The work involves animal husbandry,
planning and implementation of experiments, and as-
sistance of fellow laboratory members. All the work
will be conducted on Drosophila, and involves work
with inactivated bacteria and possibly also live bacte-
rial pathogens.
While basic microbiological and immunological skills
are desirable, they are not essential. The work is full-
time and exible, and will require occasional weekend
work.
This role is a full-time position, and a 12 month con-
tract; however, exible working arrangements may be
negotiated.
For position description and full information,
see http://www.seek.com.au/job/25731997
For information on Dowling lab, visit http:/-
/www.damiandowlinglab.com For information
about Monash, http://www.monash.edu.au/
damian.dowling@monash.edu
NaturalHistoryMuseum
ScienceDataArchitect
SCIENCE DATA ARCHITECT
THE NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM, LONDON
The Natural History Museum is seeking an experienced
data and information architect to take a leading role
in its digital science mission: to collate and organise
the data of one of the most important natural history
collections in the world and make it openly accessible
online. The post holder will design and implement dig-
ital data models, systems, practices and processes for
the eective management of our scientic data within
a world-leading institution with over 250 scientists and
80 million specimens.
The post holder will take a leading role in the develop-80 EvolDir February 1, 2014
ment of the data architecture supporting the Museum's
mass digitisation programme and integration with mu-
seum systems.
We are seeking people with experience in:
1. Relational data modelling, covering conceptual, log-
ical and physical data models, geospatial data, dimen-
sional data models, data dictionary and metadata 2.
Signicant evidence of strategic, project and opera-
tional experience in the areas of Data Management,
including team leadership within a complex and in-
formation rich environment 3. Data Science experi-
ence, developing and sustaining leading edge informat-
ics and data science technologies 4. Understanding of
automated data transfer mechanisms and data clean-
ing techniques 5. Experience leading long-term cultural
changes in data management practice
Deadline: 30 Jan, 2014
For a full job description and to apply, please visit the
NHM website: http://www.nhm.ac.uk/about-us/jobs-
volunteering-internships/
PrincetonU QuantEvolGenetics 2
As a New Year's gift to all, I am reposting the Princeton
job ad in Evolution, because this search is still ongo-
ing. While we are authorized to search at the assistant
professor level, I note that *in exceptional cases, more
senior appointments may be considered.* Note that the
text of some of the posted ads dier, but it is still the
same formal requisition number at the jobs site indi-
cated below, which could support more than one posi-
tion.
Quantitative Evolutionary Genetics
Princeton University's Department of Ecology & Evolu-
tionary Biology and the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Inte-
grative Genomics seek to jointly hire a tenure-track As-
sistant Professor focusing on Evolutionary and Quanti-
tative Biology. Sample areas might include, but are not
limited to: molecular/genome evolution, population ge-
nomics, evolution of development, behavioral genetics,
experimental evolution, microbial evolution of prokary-
otes or eukaryotes, epigenetics, metagenomics, and/or
quantitative genetics, using traditional and/or emerg-
ing model systems (though the specic model system is
less important than the nature of the questions being
addressed). We seek applicants who pursue research
that aims for signicant conceptual integration acrosstraditional disciplinary boundaries. We likewise seek
colleagues who will enthusiastically contribute to a cli-
mate that embraces both excellence and diversity, and
who share our commitment to a mentoring process that
advances EEB, LSI and the university, and that attracts
and retains students of all ethnicities, nationalities, and
genders.
Applicants should write a vision statement, no longer
than 2 pages, that outlines one or more major un-
solved problems in their eld and how they plan to
address them. In this respect, the vision statement
should go beyond just a summary of the applicant's
prior and current research. Applications, including
a cover letter with links to three major publications
or pre-prints, the vision statement, curriculum vitae,
and contact information of three references for online
reference request, must be submitted online via http:/-
/jobs.princeton.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=-
64204 or http://jobs.princeton.edu, to Req #1300612.
Screening of applications is ongoing and will continue
until the position is lled.
Princeton University is an equal opportunity employer
and complies with applicable EEO and armative ac-
tion regulations.
Laura Landweber <l@princeton.edu >
Stuttgart Germany Biodiversity
The new Landscape Ecology group at the University of
Hohenheim (Stuttgart, Germany) invites applications
for
TWO SENIOR RESEARCH ASSOCIATES (EQUIV-
ALENT TO ASSISTANT PROFESSORS)
Our group (led by Frank Schurr) studies biodiversity
dynamics at dierent spatial and temporal scales as well
as various hierarchical levels (genotypes, populations,
species and communities). We aim to quantitatively
understand how biodiversity dynamics arise from eco-
logical and evolutionary processes. Much of our work
is motivated by the need to quantify and forecast bio-
diversity responses to environmental change. To ad-
dress our research objectives, we integrate empirical re-
search, process-based modelling and advanced statistics
(see also www.sites.google.com/site/frankschurr).
We are looking for highly motivated researchers who
are keen to further develop their scientic prole, en-
joy collaborating and have a strong publication record.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 81
The successful candidates will have strong expertise
in aspects of biodiversity science such as functional,
community and population ecology, biogeography, con-
servation or evolutionary biology. They should have
experience with experimental ecology, advanced statis-
tics and/or process-based modelling. Expertise in plant
identication is a bonus, whereas knowledge of German
is not required.
The Landscape Ecology group comprises technical sta
and is well equipped with lab, common garden, green-
house, and computer facilities. Situated in the South-
ern German city of Stuttgart, the University of Hohen-
heim is located on a beautiful campus (one of the most
species rich in Germany). It is well integrated into na-
tional and international research networks with a criti-
cal mass of researchers working on ecology, environmen-
tal science and evolutionary genetics. Stuttgart has a
rich cultural life, attractive surroundings (Swabian Alp,
Black Forest) and oers ample job opportunities for
spouses.
The positions are initially for three years, with the pos-
sibility of extension for two to three years. The starting
date is negotiable (April 2014 or later). The positions
involve a moderate amount of teaching. Salaries follow
the German civil service payscale TV-L E13. Candi-
dates should hold a PhD and must be willing to super-
vise students and apply for external funding. Women
and members of minority groups are particularly en-
couraged to apply.
If you are interested in these positions, please send your
CV, publication list, contact details of at least two refer-
ences and a short description of your research interests
as a single PDF le to Frank Schurr, frank.schurr@univ-
montp2.fr . The application deadline is 7 February
2014. For enquiries, please contact Frank Schurr un-
der the above e-mail address.
Dr. Frank Schurr Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution
UMR 5554jCNRS Universit e Montpellier II
Place Eugene Bataillon jbat. 22jCC065 34095 Mont-
pellierjcedex 5jFrance tel. +33 (0)4 67 14 36 93 jfax
+33 (0)4 67 14 36 22
frank.schurr@univ-montp2.fr
UBonn Germany
FloraEcologyEvolutionSenior Research Associate (UNIVERSIT AT BONN)
Application are accepted until 31.01.2014
The Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universit at Bonn is
looking for a Senior Research Associate (Akademischen
Rat auf Zeit, m/w) at the Chair for Plant Biodiversity,
Nees-Institut f ur Biodiversit at der Panzen, starting
01. March 2014 (3 year position, may be extended to 6
years).
The applicant is supposed to work in current projects
on oral ecology and the evolution of oral syndromes
in a combination of eld and greenhouse studies. Re-
search will be undertaken in close collaboration with
our South American partner institutions. Modern mi-
croscopy and (SEM, LM) facilities, pollinator-proof
greenhouses, and experimental garden areas outdoors
plus the collections of the Botanical Gardens are avail-
able for the research. 4 hours teaching in the BSc Biol-
ogy, and the masters courses Plant Sciences and OEP
Biology are obligatory. Additionally, a participation in
certain administrative and organizational duties is ex-
pected, including the supervision of thesis work.
The candidate has: * PhD in Biology with a focus
on ecology and/or systematics of owering plants. *
worked abroad, preferably in a Spanish-speaking coun-
try * teaching experience in undergraduate and grad-
uate courses. * good to very good command of the
English language and German language and at least
a working knowledge of either Spanish or Portuguese
(also in writing) * experience in the independent orga-
nization of collection and research trips * a research fo-
cus and publications in ecology, functional morphology
and/or plant systematics * good knowledge of statisti-
cal methods
We oer: * Salary according to 13 BBesO * the possi-
bility to obtain a VRS-Grokundenticket (public trans-
port)
We are an equal opportunitites employer. Please send
your application to Prof. Dr. Maximilian Weigend,
Nees-Institut f ur Biodiversit at der Panzen, Mecken-
heimer Allee 170, 53115 Bonn by 31.01.2014. In-
quiries are directed to Prof. Dr. Maximilian Weigend
(mweigend@uni- bonn.de)
Email-applications are sucient for the pre-selection of
candidates. If you are invited for an interview, you
are expected to provide the usual application document
(incl. authorized copies of diplomas). Application ma-
terials are only returned if accompanied by a envelope
with corresponding the postage.
jens.mutke@uni-bonn.de82 EvolDir February 1, 2014
UFlorida DiseaseModeling
Assistant/Associate/Full Professor - Spatial and Math-
ematical Modeling/ Preeminence Hire
As part of the University of Florida Preeminence Ini-
tiative, the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences (CLAS)
and the UF Emerging Pathogens Institute (EPI) in-
vite applications for up to 4 full-time positions in spa-
tial and/or mathematical modeling of infectious dis-
ease transmission. Positions will be 9-month tenured
or tenure accruing at the level of Full, Associate, or
Assistant Professor, starting August 16, 2014. The
Departments of Geography, Mathematics, and Biology
are prospective home departments, although other de-
partmental aliations in CLAS are possible. There is
an expectation that the successful candidates will gen-
erate signicant external funding, in association with
EPI. Candidates should have expertise in mathemat-
ical models of spatial and temporal transmission pro-
cesses to address questions in infectious diseases and/or
public health. Specialties can include (but are not lim-
ited to): the transmission and persistence of human,
animal, or zoonotic diseases; interactions between dis-
ease ecology, climate, and the built environment; rela-
tionships between socio-economics and disease risk; and
health intervention strategies. We seek candidates with
an excellent track record, including 1) existing grant
funding and 2) publications in top journals. The suc-
cessful candidates will be expected to engage deeply in
the unique interdisciplinary research programs at EPI
while maintaining good standing in teaching and service
to their home Department and its mission. The suc-
cessful candidates should possess a doctoral degree in
Geography, Mathematics, Biostatistics, Epidemiology,
Public Health, Biology, or other relevant disciplines.
Interested candidates are invited to submit a curricu-
lum vita and letter of application describing skills to
Dr. Jane Southworth, Search Committee Chair, De-
partment of Geography, University of Florida, PO Box
117315, Gainesville, FL, 32611. Applications, includ-
ing a cover letter, current vita, one-page research-and-
teaching statement, and the names of three references
should be submitted online at http://jobs.u.edu/-
postings/47749. We prefer that application materials
also be sent electronically to jsouthwo@u.edu. Review
of applications will begin immediately and will continue
until the positions are lled. The University of Florida
is an Equal Opportunity Institution.Marta L. Wayne, Ph. D. P.O. Box 118525 Depart-
ment of Biology University of Florida Gainesville, FL
32611-8525 (courier: B30 Bartram Hall) vox: 352-392-
9925 fax: 352-392-3704 http://www.biology.u.edu/-
People/faculty/mlwayne.aspx mlwayne@u.edu
UKonstanz 2 MolecularEvolution
At the Department of Biology at the University of Kon-
stanz in Germany we have two openings as
Assistant Professor/Group leader
The persons we are looking for should work ideally
in the elds of either molecular evolution, compara-
tive genomics, and / or the evolution of developmen-
tal mechanisms. The positions are for Ph.D. biologists,
ideally with prior postdoc experience and a publica-
tion record in bioinformatics, molecular evolution or
evolutionary developmental biology. A total of three
research groups, two of which are headed by Junior
Group Leaders make up the evolutionary biology group
in the Department of Biology at the University of Kon-
stanz in Germany:http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-
konstanz.de/index.php?section=172 Our taxonomic
emphasis is on sh, particularly on the cichlids, ze-
brash and medaka model systems. We are in-
terested in the origin of adaptations and specia-
tion in cichlid sh of the adaptive radiations from
Nicaragua and Africa. For publications of the lab
see: http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de/-
index.php?section=92. We are currently supported by
an ERC advanced grant for genomic, population ge-
nomic, and ecological work on the repeated adaptive
radiations of cichlid sh from crater lakes in Nicaragua.
Space in a modern sh facility is available and the
exclusive support of a 50% part-time technician will
be provided to each of these two new groups. Wet
lab space, equipment, departmental facilities and an-
nual nancial support for research expenses are pro-
vided by the university. The lab has state-of-the-art
facilities for molecular and developmental biology, in-
cluding Illumina and Roche FLX next-generation se-
quencers at the Genomics Center Konstanz: http://-
cms.uni-konstanz.de/en/genomics-center/ . The Uni-
versity of Konstanz and the Department of Biology are
among the most highly ranked institutions in Germany
and provide a lively and academically outstanding re-
search environment. Konstanz is a lovely historic town
located on Lake Constance on the southern GermanFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 83
border to Switzerland.
Appointments are initially for two to three years and
are renewable for several years after that. Habilitation
is possible, and a modest amount of teaching (English
or German at the BSc and MSc level) is required and
the supervision of undergraduate and graduate students
is expected.
The University of Konstanz is an equal opportunity
employer and tries to increase the number of women
in research and teaching. The University of Konstanz
is committed to further the compatibility of work and
family life.
Additional information can be obtained from:
axel.meyer@uni- konstanz.de , phone: +49 (0)
7531 / 88 - 4163, fax + 49 (0) 7531 / 88 - 3018 or
from our website: http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-
konstanz.de . Applications - including a (1) statement
of research interests and a research plan, (2) a full CV
and (3) names and email addresses of 3 referees - should
be emailed to as one pdf to: a.meyer@uni-konstanz.de.
Applications should be received before January 31st,
2014.
Axel Meyer <axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de >
UNAM Mexico SystematicBotany
Position opening - Instituto de Biolog a, Universidad
Nacional Aut onoma de M exico Systematic Botanist or
Mycologist
The Instituto de Biolog a, Universidad Nacional
Aut onoma de M exico (IB-UNAM), whose principal
mission is the study of the biodiversity of Mexico, and
houses the national biological collections, invites ap-
plications for a tenure-track, full time position of As-
sociate Researcher level \C", in systematic botany or
systematic mycology at the main University campus,
Mexico City.
Requirements for candidates: 1. A Ph.D. degree or
equivalent, preferably in botany, mycology, systemat-
ics, evolutionary biology, or a related discipline. 2. Ex-
perience in systematic research of vascular plants or
fungi, demonstrated by original, high quality publica-
tions, commensurate to age and academic trajectory.
3. Knowledge of the vascular ora or mycota of Mex-
ico and/or the Neotropics, particularly in one or more
groups whose diversity is exceptional in Mexico, as wellas experience in the curation of scientic collections,
techniques of eld collecting, morphology, molecular
systematics, or genetics. 4. A commitment to partici-
pate in activities complementary to investigation, such
as teaching in educational programs at UNAM, direc-
tion of theses at the undergraduate and graduate level,
activities of science outreach, and institutional partic-
ipation. 5. Willingness to participate immediately in
the academic activities of the IB-UNAM, practice lead-
ership in his or her area of research, and demonstrate
capacity to become part of a research group. 6. Demon-
strable prociency in Spanish.
Applicants should submit a letter of intent directed to
the Academic Secretary of the IB-UNAM with a de-
tailed statement of purpose; a full curriculum vitae
with contact information (supporting documentation is
not necessary at this stage); PDF reprints of publica-
tions that the applicant considers the most important
of their professional trajectory (maximum of ve); a
synthetic outline of research goals for the rst year (5
pages maximum); and a letter of recommendation. The
required documentation must be received by May 30,
2014. Shortlisted candidates will be contacted for a
personal interview.
Inquiries regarding this announcement should be ad-
dressed to Dr. Atilano Contreras-Ramos, Aca-
demic Secretary of IB-UNAM, e-mail: acontr-
eras@ib.unam.mx. Applications will be received at the
email address sacademica@ib.unam.mx.
s.magallon@ib.unam.mx
UNevada Reno
GenomicsBioinformatics
Department of Biology Functional Genomics and Bioin-
formatics Faculty Positions
The Department of Biology seeks two faculty positions,
one in FUNCTIONAL GENOMICS and one in BIOIN-
FORMATICS, at the assistant professor level, tenure-
track. For the functional genomic position, we are
seeking candidates using functional genomic and bioin-
formatic approaches to investigate cellular and neural
functions, but any other areas of focus will be con-
sidered. Of particular interest are candidates who
integrate innovative high-throughput sequencing and
bioinformatics-based experimental approaches to exam-
ine neural functions through detailed analysis of the
genome and/or transcriptome. For the bioinformatics84 EvolDir February 1, 2014
position, we are interested in candidates whose research
seeks to develop and apply computational and quantita-
tive methods to interrogate large data sets in the study
of biology. Possible areas include, but are not limited
to, genomic and transcriptomic data analysis, regula-
tory networks, biological systems, and should address
fundamental questions in biology, including biomedi-
cal, evolutionary and ecological elds. The successful
candidates will be expected to develop an innovative,
extramurally-funded, research program, and teach at
the undergraduate and graduate levels. The Depart-
ment recently hired a genome biologist and is currently
recruiting two Neurobiologists, who together with the
new faculty hires in functional genomics and bioinfor-
matics would generate synergistic interactions with the
diverse faculty in the Biology Department including fac-
ulty supported by a Neuroscience and Cell Signaling
COBRE.
The University of Nevada, Reno, oers competitive
start-up support, in addition to an interactive research
environment, including outstanding core facilities in
proteomics, genomics, microscopy, bioinformatics and
ow cytometry. The Biology Department is home to
26 faculty members that maintain nationally recog-
nized, extramurally funded research programs, mentor
50 graduate students, and participate in undergraduate
teaching. The Department has a growing neuroscience,
developmental biology and evolutionary genomics re-
search clusters, focusing on neural development, be-
havioral genetics, speciation and adaptation. Faculty
members in the Department of Biology have close ties
to the University of Nevada School of Medicine and over
$60 million of NIH funds have recently been targeted
for biomedical research development on campus. Reno
is located in the Sierra Nevada mountains near Lake
Tahoe, and was recently rated one of the best small
cities in the US for outdoor recreation and overall qual-
ity of life.
Go to http://jobs.unr.edu to submit application ma-
terials, including an application letter, CV, research
plans, teaching interests, and contact information for
three references. Applications received by January 10,
2014 will receive full consideration.
Thomas L. Parchman Assistant Professor Department
of Biology, MS 314 University of Nevada, Reno Max
Fleishman Agriculture Building 1664 N. Virginia Street
Reno, NV 89557-0314 tparchman@unr.edu
Thomas L Parchman <tparchman@unr.edu >UOldenburg 3 PlantEvol Genomics
The Institute of Biology and Environmental Sciences
belonging to the Faculty of Mathematics and Natu-
ral Sciences at the University of Oldenburg aims to
strengthen its prole in the elds of biodiversity, evo-
lutionary biology and ecology by soliciting applications
for a new full professorship
(W 3): Plant Evolutionary Genetics The successful
candidate should use modern methods to identify and
study the expression of genes involved in functional
adaptations to abiotic factors. Desirable methodologi-
cal skills include gene silencing, RNAi, single gene ex-
pression analysis and/or in situ hybridization. To facil-
itate collaboration with existing groups at the Institute
of Biology and Environmental Sciences, the ability to
work with non-model organisms is essential.
All applicants should express a strong commitment to
high standards in teaching undergraduate and gradu-
ate courses. A documented strong record of securing
extramural funding is expected. All applicants should
complement the existing research strongholds in bio-
diversity and evolution. Active involvement in future
collaborative research eorts within the Faculty is ex-
pected. Qualications are specied in x25 NHG. The
University is an equal opportunity/armative action
employer. In order to increase the percentage of fe-
male faculty members, female candidates with equal
qualication will be given preference. Applicants with
disabilities will be preferentially considered in case of
equal qualication. Please submit applications as a sin-
gle PDF le to Carl von Ossietzky Universit at Olden-
burg, Fakult at V, z.H. des Direktors des Instituts f ur
Biologie und Umweltwissenschaften, 26111 Oldenburg
(ibu@uni-oldenburg.de). This le should include a CV,
a publication list, details on teaching experience, copies
of relevant certicates, and statements of research and
teaching interests. Applications should be submitted
by February 21, 2014
|{
The Institute of Biology and Environmental Sciences
belonging to the Faculty of Mathematics and Natu-
ral Sciences at the University of Oldenburg aims to
strengthen its prole in the elds of biodiversity, evolu-
tionary biology, ecology and neurosensory sciences by
soliciting applications for a new full professorship (W
3):February 1, 2014 EvolDir 85
Ecological Genomics Expected research areas involve
transcriptomics to study the evolution of life history
traits in non-model organisms (higher plants or ani-
mals). Focal areas should be the functional expression,
characterization, and annotation of genes and their
products (gene to function). Preferred topics include
the genetic basis of organismic adaptability, for instance
to abiotic stress or the genetic basis of sensing.
All applicants should express a strong commitment to
high standards in teaching undergraduate and gradu-
ate courses. A documented strong record of securing
extramural funding is expected. All applicants should
complement the existing research strongholds in bio-
diversity and evolution. Active involvement in future
collaborative research eorts within the Faculty is ex-
pected. Qualications are specied in x25 NHG. The
University is an equal opportunity/armative action
employer. In order to increase the percentage of fe-
male faculty members, female candidates with equal
qualication will be given preference. Applicants with
disabilities will be preferentially considered in case of
equal qualication. Please submit applications as a sin-
gle PDF le to Carl von Ossietzky Universit at Olden-
burg, Fakult at V, z.H. des Direktors des Instituts f ur
Biologie und Umweltwissenschaften, 26111 Oldenburg
(ibu@uni-oldenburg.de). This le should include a CV,
a publication list, details on teaching experience, copies
of relevant certicates, and statements of research and
teaching interests. Applications should be submitted
by February 21, 2014
|{
The Institute of Biology and Environmental Sciences
belonging to the Faculty of Mathematics and Natu-
ral Sciences at the University of Oldenburg aims to
strengthen its prole in the elds of biodiversity, evolu-
tionary biology, ecology and neurosensory sciences by
soliciting applications for a new full professorship (W
3): Sensory Biology of Animals The research should fo-
cus on the sensory mechanisms enabling animals (for
instance birds, sh, insects) to perform long-distance
navigation. The chosen candidate should contribute
to the design and establishment of a new research
stronghold in animal navigation/neurosensory sciences,
which should incorporate existing strengths of research
groups from biology, physics, and medicine at the Uni-
versity of Oldenburg and/or the Institute for Avian
Research in Wilhelmshaven. Research themes which
would t into this future concept include: magnetic
sensing, olfaction and its use in navigation, celestial ori-
entation mechanisms. A molecular, biophysical, neuro-
biological and/or physiological focus will be preferred
over a purely behavioral approach./
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WinthropU SouthCarolina
EvolutionaryGenetics
The Biology Department at Winthrop University in
Rock Hill, South Carolina ( ~20 minutes south of Char-
lotte, North Carolina) is looking to hire an Assis-
tant Professor of Biology with expertise in Genet-
ics/Molecular Biology. Winthrop University is a public,
comprehensive university, that has been recognized as
one of the best Southeastern colleges by Princeton Re-
view and a Top-10 Regional Public University by US
News & World Report. The student body is 40% mi-
nority and includes a number of rst generation college
students so it is a fantastic place to make a dierence.
The Biology department has a history of strong re-
search (faculty members have received grants from
many places - NIH, USDA, etc.). There is also a mas-
ter's program in addition to the undergraduate ma-
jor. The department has 16 full time faculty members
currently (along with a number of adjunct professors).
Each faculty member has their own research lab in ad-
dition to shared equipment spaces. The department
also has a nice mix of junior, mid-career, and senior
professors.
It's honestly a great place to work and is a bit of a hid-
den gem despite the fact that it's 20 minutes from one
of the fastest growing cities in the US.
Deadline for the Application is January 31st, 2014. For
more information see below.
Title: Assistant Professor of Biology Major Respon-
sibilities: 1. Teach courses in genetics and molecular
genetics 2. Teach additional courses that could include
introductory biology, a research methods course, a se-
nior capstone course or other courses to give a total
of 12 credit hours each semester 3. Develop additional
undergraduate and graduate courses in area of special-
ization 4. Appropriate scholarly involvement in eld of
specialization 5. Eective advising of both undergradu-
ate and graduate students 6. Appropriate engagement
in service to the department, college, and university 7.
Other duties as assigned by the department chair86 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Qualications: 1. PhD in a Biological Science with
strong background in genetics. ABDs will be consid-
ered for appointment in a non-tenure track position at
the rank of instructor if all degree requirements are not
completed by the expected start date of August 18,
2014 2. Evidence of excellence in teaching and a strong
commitment to student learning and development 3.
Evidence of an ability to establish an independent re-
search program that will include both graduate and un-
dergraduate students 4. Evidence of excellent interper-
sonal skills and strong personal ethics for mentorship
of student research projects
Employment Conditions: 1. A nine-month, full-time,
tenure track appointment with the option of summer
employment if funds are available. Salary dependent
upon qualications.
Position Availability: August 18, 2014 Application
Deadline: January 31, 2014 Application Procedures:
1. Application deadline is January 31, 2014. Applica-
tion materials received after the deadline may be con-
sidered if an acceptable candidate has not been found.
2. Individuals wishing to apply for this position should
immediately make their interest known to:
Dr. Kristi Westover Chair of the Search Committee De-
partment of Biology Winthrop University Rock Hill, SC
29733 Phone: 803-323-2111, ext. 6180 Fax: 803-323-
3448; email westoverk@winthrop.edu 3. The following
materials should be submitted: a. Letter of application
b. Current curriculum vitae that includes names, ad-
dresses, e-mail addresses, and phone numbers of at least
three professional references c. Three letters of recom-
mendation d. All graduate degree transcripts (copies
are acceptable for application but ocial transcripts
will be required for an oer of employment) e. Detailed
statements of teaching philosophy and future research
plans f. Evidence of eective teaching (such as student
evaluations)
Winthrop University is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer
Matthew J. Heard, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of
Biology Winthrop University Biology Department
220 Dalton Hall Rock Hill, SC 29733 803-323-2111
ext. 6443 www.mattheard.com Matthew Heard
<heard.m@gmail.com >
iPlantCollaborative UArizona 2
ScienticAnalystsTHE IPLANT COLLABORATIVE, BIO5 INSTI-
TUTE, UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, TUCSON, AZ
seeks
2 SCIENTIFIC ANALYSTS
POSITION The iPlant Collaborative (http://-
www.iplantcollaborative.org) is seeking two (2)
Scientic Analysts for its main site at the University
of Arizona to serve as liaisons between the scientic
community, the iPlant software development team, and
the iPlant leadership. The successful candidates will
be part of an interdisciplinary team responsible for the
implementation of iPlant's Scientic Enablement Plan
and the support of multiple collaborative projects.
This involves active discussion with the scientists,
research into appropriate supporting technologies,
and the judicious application of technical judgment
to convert community needs into practical design
requirements as well as coordination across projects
and sites. The iPlant Collaborative is a multi-site,
NSF-funded National Center working to develop a
comprehensive national research and education cyber-
infrastructure for the life sciences and agriculture. It
directly collaborates with researchers and educators at
most leading research universities and higher education
institutions across the United States and interacts with
similar international and transnational eorts.
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: * Scientically
interact with biologists, bioinformaticians and other
members of the iPlant team; coordinate develop-
ment across projects, facilitating integration and cross-
communication. * Translate community input into for-
mal software requirements and participate in the design
and implementation of next generation systems for or-
ganizing, analyzing, visualizing and integrating large-
scale data sets in collaboration with domain scientists
and programmers. * Engage and interact with external
scientic collaborators; represent iPlant at workshops
and scientic conferences. * Research, identify and
test scientic applications; develop prototype software
that extends and integrates with the existing cyber-
infrastructure. * Provide advice and make decisions
on the biological correctness and relevance of data rep-
resentations. * Support and participate in Education,
Outreach, and Training initiatives. * Manage and re-
port on project requirements, progress, and deliver-
ables.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: * Advanced degree
(MS or Ph.D) in a life science discipline (biology, ge-
netics, biochemistry, etc.). Candidates with a degree
in another natural science, computer science, informa-
tion technology or a related discipline and a demon-
strated track record of research experience in the lifeFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 87
sciences will also be considered. * Signicant expertise
in one or more of the following areas: Association stud-
ies involving environmental factors, Genome assembly
and variant detection, Crop modeling, High-throughput
morphological, anatomical, molecular or physiological
phenotyping, Network and pathway analysis. * Two to
three (2-3) years of work experience conducting compu-
tational biology research and/or collaborative scientic
software development (academic, government, or indus-
try). * Competence in at least two of the following:
Perl, Python, C, C++, R, Linux shell, Java or DBMS.
* Demonstrable oral presentation and communication
skills. * Excellent interpersonal skills and ability to
build consensus. * Very strong organizational skills. *
Advanced ability to work independently under estab-
lished deadlines and as part of a team. * Ability to
travel as required to partner/collaborator institutions,
relevant conferences, etc.
APPLICATION For all details and to apply,
please visit the University of Arizona on-line ap-plication page at http://www.uacareertrack.com/-
and search for job number 54163 or go di-
rectly to http://www.uacareertrack.com/applicants/-
Central?quickFind=210447 .Review is ongoing and the
position is open until lled.
For inquiries about the position, please contact Naim
Matasci (nmatasci@iplantcollaborative.org).
For administrative inquiries and inquiries about the ap-
plication process, please contact Kathleen Riley (ksri-
ley@bio5.org).
{ Naim Matasci, PhD Scientic Lead, iPToL Engage-
ment Team BIO5 Institute, The iPlant Collaborative
Adjunct Assistant Professor Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology
University of Arizona, Tucson Email:
nmatasci@iplantcollaborative.org Tel: +1 (520)
626-3756 http://www.matasci.info Cal: http://-
goo.gl/wTxaK naim.matasci@gmail.com
Other
AMNH NewYork UndergradResearch . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
Ageing database . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
ChicagoBotanicGarden REUInternship . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
ChicagoBotanicGarden SummerREU PlantConserva-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
ESEB CallApplicationsTravelStipends . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
ESEB OutreachFund DeadlineMar15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
FSBI on twitter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
FieldMuseum Chicago REU undergrad internships 90
GWAS datasets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
IAS Berlin VisitingFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
IIASA Austria SummerFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
IST Austria SummerInternship Feb15 deadline . . . . 92
Incomplete lineage sorting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .92
Kansas StateU REU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
KentStateU SummerUndergradREU AdaptationHu-
manImpacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
MaxPlanck Germany FieldTrainees CricketBehaviour93
MichiganStateU KBS SummerREU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
NESCent 2014 FilmVideoContest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
NSF GenealogyOfLifeProgram Announcement . . . . .95
NeuchtelU 2 VolFieldAssist AvianEvolution . . . . . . . 96
OmennPrize EvolutionMedicine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
PlantEvolution Symposia funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Predatory journals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Software BAli-Phy 2 2 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
Software ObStruct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
SouthAmericanConservation funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UBath VolAssist MatingSystemEvolution . . . . . . . . . .99
UKansas REUSummerProgram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UOxford VolResAssist Seabirds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UTexas Austin REU SummerResearch . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UTexas ElPaso REU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10188 EvolDir February 1, 2014
AMNH NewYork
UndergradResearch
Do you know an exceptional undergraduate student
who would like to spend a fun and engaging summer
in the heart of New York City working at the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History?
The Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)
program, funded by the U.S. National Science Founda-
tion, oers paid summer internships for qualied un-
dergraduate students to conduct research projects with
AMNH scientists in evolutionary biology and system-
atics, linked to specic individual research projects. In-
cluded in the program are a general orientation to the
Museum and a series of weekly meetings at which stu-
dents discuss their research, present informal progress
reports, and participate in discussions and seminars
as well as graduate and research career opportunities.
At the conclusion of the internships, students deliver
oral presentations of their work and prepare publica-
tion quality research papers.
Pending the approval of federal funding, successful ap-
plicants will receive a stipend and dormitory housing on
a nearby university campus, or an equivalent housing
stipend, will be provided together with a subsistence al-
lowance. Based on need, travel costs to and from New
York City are also covered.
The program is open to all students who are U. S. citi-
zens or permanent residents who will be returning to
a degree-granting undergraduate program. Students
from community colleges and primarily undergraduate
institutions are especially encouraged to apply.
A description of the potential projects and more infor-
mation may be found here: http://www.amnh.org/our-
research/richard-gilder-graduate-school/academics-
and-research/fellowship-and-grant-opportunities/-
undergraduate-fellowships Susan Perkins, Ph.D.
Associate Curator & Professor Sackler Institute for
Comparative Genomics and Division of Invertebrate
Zoology American Museum of Natural History Central
Park West at 79th Street New York, New York 10024
p: 212-313-7646 f: 212-313-7819 http://-
malaria.amnh.org http://genomics.amnh.org Twit-
ter: @NYCuratrix Blog: Parasite of the Day -
http://dailyparasite.blogspot.com Susan Perkins
<perkins@amnh.org >Ageing database
Dear Colleagues,
I thought you may be interested in our AnAge database
of ageing and longevity in animals. We have recently
released build 13 with over 4,200 species and over 3,500
longevity records.
In addition to longevity records, which continue to be
our main focus and we make a great eort to verify their
authenticity, AnAge features one of the most compre-
hensive collections of quantitative life history data (age
at sexual maturity, litter (or clutch) size, adult body
weight, etc.) in vertebrates. Metabolism data is also
available for hundreds of species of birds and mammals.
AnAge is freely available online at: http://-
genomics.senescence.info/species/ We hope you will
continue to nd this resource useful for your research.
Comments, suggestions and contributions are always
appreciated.
With the very best wishes, Joao Pedro
Joao Pedro de Magalhaes, PhD
Institute of Integrative Biology Biosciences Building,
Room 245 University of Liverpool Crown Street, Liver-
pool L69 7ZB United Kingdom
Phone: +44 151 7954517; Fax: +44 151 7954408
Integrative Genomics of Ageing Group: http://-
pcwww.liv.ac.uk/~aging/
J Pedro Magalhaes <aging@liverpool.ac.uk >
ChicagoBotanicGarden
REUInternship
FOR UNDERGRADUATES V NSF Research Experi-
ences for Undergraduates Internship
This summer, gain lab and eld experience working
with scientists from the Chicago Botanic Garden con-
ducting research on plant biology and conservation,
from genes to ecosystems. Application deadline: Jan-
uary 31, 2014. To apply online, please visit http://-
www.cbgreu.org info@cbgreu.orgFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 89
ChicagoBotanicGarden
SummerREU PlantConservation
This summer, the Chicago Botanic Garden and partner
institutions will host 10 NSF-REU interns (Research
Experiences for Undergraduates) conducting research
under the broad theme of PLANT BIOLOGY AND
CONSERVATION, from genetic to ecosystem levels of
inquiry. Potential projects include work in systematics,
conservation biology, restoration ecology, biogeochem-
istry, and related elds. Students will gain laboratory
and eld experience, participate in professional devel-
opment activities, help mentor high-school student re-
searchers, and enjoy a fun social environment.
Participants should be U.S. citizens or permanent resi-
dents who will be enrolled as undergraduates after sum-
mer 2014. They will receive a stipend of $4,750 and
room and board in downtown Chicago. Costs of travel
to and from Chicago will be covered. We encourage
applications from students who are members of groups
underrepresented in the sciences and students who have
limited research opportunities at their home institu-
tions. The application deadline is January 31, 2014,
and the 10-week program will run from June 9-August
15, 2014.
We invite interested undergraduates to nd more in-
formation and apply at http://www.cbgreu.org. Ques-
tions should be directed to info@cbgreu.org.
We also ask faculty, postdocs, graduate students, and
other undergraduate mentors to please help us spread
the word about this exciting opportunity to exceptional
undergraduates.
Thank you,
Dan Larkin Chicago Botanic Garden http://-
www.cbgreu.org/ info@cbgreu.org
Jeremie Fant <jfant@chicagobotanic.org >
ESEB
CallApplicationsTravelStipends
*ESEB TRAVEL STIPENDS 2014*The European Society of Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
is pleased to announce the call for applications for travel
stipends 2014. These stipends are for students and
young scientists to attend the Evolution 2014 congress
of the SSE in North Carolina in June 2014 (http://-
evolution2014.org). The stipend will contribute to cov-
ering travel, living expenses and congress registration
fees. The stipend will be paid out as a reimburse-
ment after the congress, based on specication of the
expenses.
Eligibility: - Applicants must be ESEB members
(for becoming a member of ESEB, see http://-
www.eseb.org/). - Applications can be submitted by
scientists at various stages of their professional career
(e.g., Masters and PhD students, postdocs, and lectur-
ers). - Scientists working in a country with high GDP
are not eligible (for the list of excluded countries see
below). - People who received an ESEB travel stipend
in the last ve years are not eligible. - Applicants must
submit to present either an oral communication or a
poster to be eligible for the stipend. This will be veried
before the reimbursement, but no proof that a poster
or talk is accepted is necessary at the application stage.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THESE STIPENDS ARE
GIVEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH ANALOGOUS
STIPENDS OFFERED BY THE SSE (separate call),
SO THERE IS NO NEED TO APPLY TO BOTH
How to apply: send your application by email to the
ESEB Travel Bursary Committee, c/o Dr. Martijn
Egas<egas@uva.nl >. The application should be no
more than 2 pages long and include:
- Name of the applicant; - Budget, including sources of
additional support; - An explanation of how attendance
to the meeting will further the attendant's professional
goals; - and a CV
Please submit the application as a single PDF-
le. A support letter from the applicant advi-
sor/mentor/senior colleague is also required. Sup-
port letters should be sent to the same email address
(egas@uva.nl) by the applicant's mentor.
Deadline: 14 February 2014 24:00 GMT.
Members professionally based in the following coun-
tries are not eligible for the travel stipend: Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, Slo-
vakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzer-
land , United Kingdom, United States of America.90 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Ute Friedrich ESEB oce Manager
Email:oce@eseb.org
European Society for Evolutionary Biology
www.eseb.org oce@eseb.org
ESEB OutreachFund
DeadlineMar15
*ESEB Outreach Fund*
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB) welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. With a total annual budget of 15000 Euro, the
goal of this initiative is to improve public knowledge
about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educa-
tional initiatives that promote evolution, development
of evolutionary material (books, lms, websites) in-
tended for a general audience, public outreach semi-
nars, public exhibitions, etc. While most projects will
be nanced for a sum between 1000-1500 Euro, excep-
tions can be made if a strong argument is provided for
additional funds.
The application form can be found on www.eseb.org
(click on the \Outreach Fund" link). Applications will
be accepted twice yearly (deadlines March 15, Septem-
ber 15) and should be submitted by email to Ute
Friedrich (oce@eseb.org; Subject: Outreach).
{ Ute Friedrich ESEB Oce Manager
Email:oce@eseb.org
European Society for Evolutionary Biology
www.eseb.org oce@eseb.org
FSBI on twitter
Hi all,
This is slightly o topic for the list, so apologies if it
falls outside your interests.
The aquatic or sh biologists amongst you might be in-
terested to hear that the Fisheries Society of the British
Isles (FSBI) have recently launched a Twitter account.We will be posting information about sh research,
grants, awards, conferences and publications along with
other news. You can follow us at @TheFSBI.
If you have anything suitable which you would like us
to highlight, please drop me a line.
Best wishes,
Brian
{
Dr. Brian Hayden
Post-Doctoral Researcher Department of Environmen-
tal Sciences University of Helsinki PO Box 65 Viikinaari
1 00014
Web: www.brianhayden.org Twitter: @DrHaydo
Skype: Brian.Hayden.Work
Social Media Editor for the Fisheries Society of the
British Isles (@TheFSBI)
FieldMuseum Chicago REU
undergrad internships
The Field Museum of Natural History (Chicago) invites
applications to its 2014 Research Experience for Under-
graduate (REU) program in evolutionary biology and
biodiversity research. The NSF-funded REU program
is a 10-week summer internship at the museum and will
begin June 9th. Eight projects, each mentored by Field
Museum's faculty are oered.
The application deadline is February 10, 2014.
All applications are received online only. Please consult
the Field Museum web site for details:
http://eldmuseum.org/about/research-experiences-
undergraduates-reu All questions about the program
should be directed through the website:
http://eldmuseum.org/about/research-experiences-
undergraduates-reu Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D.
Assistant Curator - Insects Integrative Research
Center Department of Science and Education Field
Museum of Natural History 1400 South Lake Shore
Drive Chicago, IL 60605 USA Oce: (312) 665-7743
Fax: (312) 665-7754 Email: cmoreau@eldmuseum.org
Moreau Lab website: www.moreaulab.org FMNH
website: http://eldmuseum.org/users/corrie-moreau
Field Museum Women in Science (FMWIS) website:
http://eldmuseum.org/explore/eld-museum-women-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 91
science cmoreau@eldmuseum.org
GWAS datasets
Dear Brian and Evoldir Users,
We are working on developing generic pipelines and new
algorithms for the analysis of GWAS with an empha-
sis on multiple-SNP signatures. Even though there is a
wealth of studies on GWAS it seems that it's impossi-
ble to nd available full genome datasets. Is it because
of privacy issues? or what? Are you aware of such
(freely available) datasets or even better are you will-
ing to share such datasets. No need to be human, other
organisms are also OK.
kind regards, pavlos
{
Pavlos Pavlidis, PhD email: pavlidisp@gmail.com
Foundation for Research and Technology - Hellas Insti-
tute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology Iikolaou
Plastira 100, Vassilika Vouton GR - 711 10, Heraklion,
Crete, Greece
Pavlos Pavlidis <pavlidisp@gmail.com >
IAS Berlin VisitingFellowships
The College for Life Sciences at the Wissenschaftskolleg
zu Berlin (Institute for Advanced Study, Berlin) has an
open competition for several visiting fellowships for the
academic year 2014-15. The fellowship is for a mini-
mum of three months and a maximum of ten months.
The fellowships are for post-doctoral fellows, junior lec-
turers/assistant professors or early-career principal in-
vestigators from all elds in the life sciences.
Full details are at:
http://www.wiko-berlin.de/fellows/-
schwerpunktgruppen/college-for-life-sciences/ The
Institute for Advanced Study Berlin also invites
approximately 40 senior visiting fellows across all
academic disciplines. The Institute has a long-term
commitment to biology, particularly aspects of ecology,
evolution, and theoretical biology. In 2014-15, therewill be several senior biologists in residence, including a
group in evolutionary biology including Steven Frank,
Neil Shubin, Orkun Soyer, Yogi Jaeger, and Thomas
Pfeier. Other senior fellows work in biochemistry,
human physiology and evolution, and primatology.
Steve Frank <safrank@uci.edu >
IIASA Austria SummerFellowships
Summer Fellowships for Young Scientists at the Inter-
national Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Aus-
tria
Funding is available for PhD students interested in
three months of collaborative research during June-
August 2014 on
Evolutionary and Ecological Modeling
at the International Institute for Applied Systems Anal-
ysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg, Austria.
Young scientists from all countries are eligible for
stipends provided by IIASA's Evolution and Ecology
Program (EEP) that contribute to travel and accom-
modation costs. Students from Australia, Austria,
Brazil, China, Egypt, Finland, Germany, India, Indone-
sia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway,
Pakistan, Russia, South Africa, Sweden, and the USA
are furthermore eligible for fellowships that provide full
coverage of travel, accommodation, and living expenses.
Model-based summer research projects are invited in
the following indicative areas:
Evolution of cooperation Governance of common goods
Systemic risks and network dynamics Eco-evolutionary
dynamics Evolutionary community ecology Food-web
evolution Vegetation dynamics Adaptive speciation
Disease ecology and evolution Evolutionary conserva-
tion biology Fisheries management Fisheries-induced
evolution Adaptive dynamics theory and models Spa-
tial models in ecology and evolution
Applicants are encouraged to prepare a research pro-
posal that corresponds to their scientic interests and
to the research agenda of their hosting IIASA Program.
Accepted applicants will begin work before the summer,
by planning their research in collaboration with their
IIASA supervisors. Previous experiences with imple-
menting and studying evolutionary or ecological models
are important assets for working in EEP. To improve
chances of being selected, potential applicants are wel-92 EvolDir February 1, 2014
come to send informal inquiries regarding their specic
research interests and plans to EEP's program director
Ulf Dieckmann (dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at).
Online applications will be accepted until Monday, Jan-
uary 13, 2014 (24:00 CET).
Since 1977, IIASA's annual Young Scientists Summer
Program (YSSP), has attracted 1700+ students from
80+ countries. The YSSP 2014 will take place from
June 1 to August 31. IIASA is located in the for-
mer summer palace of Austria's royal family, ca. 15
km south of Vienna. IIASA's summer program oers
exceptional opportunities for acquiring experience in
an international and interdisciplinary research environ-
ment. Research training is based on regular personal
interaction with advising scientists, and typically leads
to a publication in an international journal, as well as
to a chapter in a candidate's PhD thesis.
Some useful links:
+ Details about the summer program, and online
application http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/-
education/yssp/Apply/ConditionsEligibility/-
Conditions-and-Eligibility.en.html + Informa-
tion about IIASA's Evolution and Ecology Pro-
gram http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/research/-
researchPrograms/EvolutionandEcology/New-
page.en.html + Examples of successful YSSP
projects http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/-
research/researchPrograms/EvolutionandEcology/-
AbouttheProgram/Student-Participation-in-
EEP.en.html + General information about
IIASA http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/about/-
whatisiiasa/what isiiasa.html Ulf Dieckmann Pro-
gram Director Evolution and Ecology Program
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis
A-2361 Laxenburg Austria
Email dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at Phone +43 2236 807
386 Phone secretary +43 2236 807 231 Fax +43
2236 807 466 or +43 2236 71313 Web http:/-
/www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP Online reprints
http://www.iiasa.ac.at/~dieckman FroSpects Network
http://www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/FroSpects
FinE Network http://www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/-
EEP/FinE FishACE Network http://www.iiasa.ac.at/-
Research/EEP/FishACE dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at
IST Austria SummerInternship
Feb15 deadlineIST Austria has just launched a summer internship pro-
gram for outstanding undergraduate and masters stu-
dents interested in basic research in a wide range of ar-
eas, including evolutionary biology. Interns will choose
a group to work in, will be assigned a specic project
and will conduct research under the close supervision of
one of the members of the faculty and, for experimental
labs, a lab mentor.
Duration: 8 -12 weeks between May 15 and Septem-
ber 15 Benets: Salary, full social security coverage,
reimbursement of travel costs, subsidized housing
To apply for the program and to see a list of IST Aus-
tria faculty members participating in the program, visit
http://ist.ac.at/research/isternship . The deadline for
applications is February 15th 2014 To learn more about
IST Austria please visit www.ist.ac.at For enquiries,
please contact istintern@ist.ac.at.
Nick.Barton@ist.ac.at
Incomplete lineage sorting
Dear Evoldir members,
I looking for documentation addressing that if intro-
gression (due to secondary contact or not) is part of
the processes of incomplete lineage sorting or if it is
dierent.
I can't be able to nd documentation on this question.
Consequently, I wonder if anyone can give clues to nd
documentation or information.
Thanks by advance.
Best regards,
Pierre-Alexandre Rastorgue
pierre-alexandre.rastorgue@imbe.fr
Kansas StateU REU
ANNOUNCING: Summer 2014 REU Opportunities in
The Ecology and Evolution of Changing Environments
at Kansas State University
Kansas State University invites applicants for a 10-weekFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 93
REU Summer Program. The focus of the program is on
the mechanistic understanding of ecological and evolu-
tionary responses to short- and long-term responses to
changing environments. Research projects will address
biological patterns observed in changing environments
by examining underlying genetic, developmental, phys-
iological, or ecological mechanisms.
The program is hosted by the Ecological Genomics In-
stitute, The Konza Prairie Biological Station, and the
Division of Biology at K-State. Over 30 faculty from
the Division of Biology and Departments of Entomol-
ogy, Geography, and Plant Pathology, will serve as po-
tential mentors. Participants will learn modern ap-
proaches in ecology and evolutionary biology, attend
professional development seminars, travel to important
ecological sites and genomic centers in Kansas and Mis-
souri, and have two opportunities to present their re-
search. The program covers costs of accommodations.
Participants will also receive a generous stipend.
The deadline for applications is the 1 March 2014.
Complete information about the program is available
by visiting http://www.ksu.edu/reu. Specic questions
can be directed to the PIs (Dr. Bruce A. Snyder and
Dr. Theodore J. Morgan) at biologyreu@ksu.edu.
Theodore J Morgan, Associate Professor Division of Bi-
ology, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS 66506
tjmorgan@ksu.edu
KentStateU SummerUndergradREU
AdaptationHumanImpacts
ANNOUNCING: Summer 2014 REU opportunity fo-
cused on Terrestrial-aquatic linkages in urban impacted
ecosystems at Kent State University and The Holden
Arboretum
Kent State University and The Holden Arboretum in-
vite applicants for a 10-week summer research train-
ing program. Students enrolled in this program will
conduct mentored research into the importance of
terrestrial-aquatic linkages in the ecology of urban-
impacted ecosystems. This research will be designed
to examine how human activities such as urbanization,
industry, farming, mining, and recreational activities
aect the way terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems in-
teract. Projects might compare sites with and with-
out urban impact to examine: nutrient cycling in soils
and streams, microbial community composition in for-est soils and stream sediments, plant-soil interactions,
how shredders modify terrestrial leaf litter input to
stream ecosystems, the eects of terrestrial pollutants
on aquatic microbial community structure and func-
tion, how terrestrial and aquatic biogeochemical cycles
are aected by human activities such as acid precipita-
tion and land-use change. Along with learning about
hypothesis generation, project design, and ethics in re-
search, students will receive additional training archiv-
ing data in a geospatial database and will participate
in weekly seminars.
Participants will be provided housing, and a $500/week
stipend.
Students must have good standing at a community col-
lege, college or university and be a United States citizen
or permanent resident. Members of underrepresented
groups are strongly encouraged to apply.
Deadline for applications February 17, 2013.
For more information and application proce-
dures please see the program website at http:/-
/ecologyREU.kent.edu or contact the REU Co-
ordinator at ecologyREU@kent.edu or the PIs
Patrick Lorch (plorch@kent.edu), Mark Ker-
shner (mkershne@kent.edu) or Kurt Smemo
(kurt.smemo@gmail.com).
-Pat
Patrick Lorch
Ecology REU: ecologyREU@kent.edu http://-
ecologyreu.kent.edu Biological Sciences Dept. Kent
State University
O: 330-672-7888 Lab web page: http://-
lorchlab.wordpress.com plorch@kent.edu
MaxPlanck Germany FieldTrainees
CricketBehaviour
*FIELD**TRAINEES* needed in fulltime for Field
Cricket Project at the *Max Planck Institute for**
**Ornithology*.
Website: http://www.orn.mpg.de/159079/-
Research Group Dingemanse Location: Munich
(LMU) and Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany.
*Job description: *
The eld trainees will help collect behavioural and life-
history data on Field Crickets (Gryllus bimaculatus)94 EvolDir February 1, 2014
and maintenance of the crickets frombeginning of April
toAugust 1 ^st , 2014.The research focuses primarily on
identifying how the social environment (ie. Other indi-
viduals) generate and maintain individual dierences
in behaviour and behavioural plasticity.Trainees will
work closely with an international team consisting of
one post-doc, one PhD-student and various Master stu-
dents. The research project is intense and will have
typically only 1-2 days o per week. Duties include be-
havioural observations, cricket handling (marking, mea-
suring), data entry and data management.
*Qualications **/Experience **:*
Candidates shouldstudy Biology or a related
eld.Preferred candidates have experience with
handling small insects and working as part of a
research group. Ideal candidates are highly motivated,
well organized and able to work independently, while
at the same time able to function well in a big group.
Non-EU candidates are not eligible for this position. A
small nancial compensation and housing in shared ac-
commodation will be provided.Acceptedtrainees should
be vaccinated against Tick Borne Encephalitis (TBE
or FSME) before arriving in Seewiesen. Applicants
should also be aware that Lyme disease (carried by
ticks)is prevalent in the area and should inform them-
selves about this disease beforehand.
In an eort to employ more people with disabilities, the
Max-Planck-Society specically encourages people with
disabilities to apply for the position.
Applications: Review of the applications will be-
gin February 15th and continue until the position is
lled*.*To apply, please send (1) a statement of rele-
vant experience, (2) a short resume or CV,and(3) con-
tact information for two references to Alexia Mouchet
(eMail:amouchet@orn.mpg.de).
Alexia MOUCHET
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology Evolutionary
Ecology of Variation Eberhard-Gwinner-Strae 7/8
82319 Seewiesen GERMANY
Email: amouchet@orn.mpg.de
amouchet <amouchet@orn.mpg.de >
MichiganStateU KBS SummerREU
*The Michigan State University Kellogg Biological Sta-tion (KBS)* is currently accepting applications for the
*Summer 2014 Research Experience for Undergradu-
ates (REU)* *Program*. KBS will be funding 8-10
REUs on projects related to Ecology, Evolutionary Bi-
ology, and Sustainable Agriculture.
The KBS REU program provides Free Room & Board,
up to $400 in travel expenses, up to $500 in research
funds, and a $4,500 stipend. The program runs 10-
weeks from late May to early August. Applicants must
be currently enrolled as a full time student. We espe-
cially welcome applications from students from under-
represented groups in the sciences and rst generation
college students.
Research projects for Summer 2014 include:
-Plant Eco-physiology -Restoration ecology -Mating
system evolution -Using soil tests to survey farmer at-
titudes about soil health -Eects of genetic diversity
on plants and insects -Algal adaptation to temperature
and nutrients -The role of mutualisms in plant adapta-
tion
*For more information or to apply please visit: http:/-
/www.kbs.msu.edu/education/reu* *Applications are
due February 15th. *
*About KBS:* The Kellogg Biological Station is lo-
cated in Southwest Michigan and is housed on the
shores of beautiful Gull Lake. KBS is the academic
home to 15 MSU professors with research expertise in
Ecology, Evolution, and Sustainable Agriculture. KBS
encompasses over 3,000 acres and includes the KBS
Bird Sanctuary, KBS Long-term Ecological Research
Site, Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center, Experi-
mental Pond Lab, Lux Arbor Reserve, KBS Farm and
Pasture Dairy and the Kellogg Forest. Each sum-
mer over 30 undergraduates from across the coun-
try live in residence at KBS for courses, research
and internships. For more information visit on face-
book or www.kbs.msu.edu . Funding for the KBS
REU program is provided by BEACON: An NSF Cen-
ter for the Study of Evolution in Action (beacon-
center.org), The Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Cen-
ter (www.glbrc.org), and the KBS Long Term Ecologi-
cal Research Site (lter.kbs.msu.edu).
Michael A. Grillo, Ph.D. Academic Program Coordi-
nator W.K. Kellogg Biological Station Michigan State
University grillom1@msu.edu
Michael Grillo <grillom1@msu.edu >February 1, 2014 EvolDir 95
NESCent 2014 FilmVideoContest
NESCent 2014 Evolution Film Festival/Video Contest
Scientists and science educators of all stripes - students,
postdocs, faculty, and full- or part-time science commu-
nicators - are invited to enter the fourth annual Evo-
lution Video Competition, sponsored by the National
Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent). To enter,
please submit a video that explains a fun fact, key con-
cept, compelling question, or exciting area of evolution
research in THREE MINUTES OR LESS.
Entries may be related or unrelated to your own re-
search, and should be suitable for use in a classroom
(K-12, undergraduate, graduate...your choice). Videos
should be both informative and entertaining. (In other
words, no taped lectures or narrated Powerpoint pre-
sentations!) Animations, music videos, and mini docu-
mentaries are all fair game.
The nalists will be screened at the 2014 Evolution
meeting in Raleigh, NC. (You do not need to attend
the conference in order to enter a video.)
First- and second-place winners will receive up to
$1,000 and $500, respectively, to cover travel expenses
to a future meeting of their choice.
The deadline to submit your video(s) is FRIDAY, MAY
31st, 2014.
For more information (and to see entries from previ-
ous years) please visit lmfestival.nescent.org or con-
tact Jory Weintraub (jory@nescent.org) or Robin Smith
(rsmith@nescent.org).
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
NSF GenealogyOfLifeProgram
Announcement
The U.S. National Science Foundation has announceda new program for funding.
Program Title: Genealogy of Life (GoLife)
Program URL: http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2014/-
nsf14527/nsf14527.htm Synopsis of Program: All
of comparative biology depends on knowledge of the
evolutionary relationships (phylogeny) of living and
extinct organisms. In addition, understanding biodi-
versity and how it changes over time is only possible
when Earth's diversity is organized into a phylogenetic
framework. The goals of the Genealogy of Life (GoLife)
program are to resolve the phylogenetic history of life
and to integrate this genealogical architecture with
underlying organismal data.
The ultimate vision of this program is an open access,
universal Genealogy of Life that will provide the com-
parative framework necessary for testing questions in
systematics, evolutionary biology, ecology, and other
elds. A further strategic integration of this genealogy
of life with data layers from genomic, phenotypic, spa-
tial, ecological and temporal data will produce a grand
synthesis of biodiversity and evolutionary sciences. The
resulting knowledge infrastructure will enable synthetic
research on biological dynamics throughout the history
of life on Earth, within current ecosystems, and for pre-
dictive modeling of the future evolution of life.
Projects submitted to this program should emphasize
increased eciency in contributing to a complete Ge-
nealogy of Life and integration of various types of or-
ganismal data with phylogenies. This program also
seeks to broadly train next generation, integrative phy-
logenetic biologists, creating the human resource in-
frastructure and workforce needed to tackle emerging
research questions in comparative biology. Projects
should train students for diverse careers by exposing
them to the multidisciplinary areas of research within
the proposal.
Due Date for Full Proposals: March 26, 2014
Estimated Number of Awards: 4 to 6 awards antici-
pated in Fiscal Year 2014
Anticipated Funding Amount: $10,000,000 is the an-
ticipated budget available to the program in FY 2014,
pending the availability of funds. Each award, whether
single-institution or collaborative project, may range
up to durations of ve years. The maximum budget for
any single project is $2,500,000
dmindell@nsf.gov96 EvolDir February 1, 2014
NeuchtelU 2 VolFieldAssist
AvianEvolution
Employer: University of Neuch^ atel
Location: Vicinity of Neuch^ atel and Bern, Switzerland
Details: Website: www2.unine.ch/ecophy
Duration: start on 1st of April 2014 and will continue
throughout early/mid July 2014
Job Type: Volunteer
Application Deadline: 28th of February 2014
Job Description:
VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANT POSITION to
study oxidative stress in relation to social status in
house sparrows in Switzerland.
We are seeking 2 research assistant for the upcoming
breeding season to join a project investigating the im-
pact of oxidative stress and social status on the de-
velopment of reproductive strategies in house sparrow.
The project is based at the University of Neuchatel,
Switzerland (PI: Prof. Fabrice Helfenstein, PhD stu-
dent: Jacqueline Huber) and will be conducted in the
vicinity of Neuch^ atel and Bern, Switzerland. The work
will start on 1st of April and will continue throughout
early/mid July. Our project investigates how males
with dierent positions in a dominance hierarchy al-
locate their antioxidant resources to the protection of
their sperm vs. the protection of their somatic func-
tions, and how such allocation strategies aect the qual-
ity of the sperm they produce. The work of the volun-
teer will consist in eld and lab work. This includes
assisting the PhD student with catching and banding
birds, behavioural observations, sample collection, data
management and data analysis. This is a volunteer
eld assistant position, thus the applicant should cover
his/her own accommodation and food. Travel expenses
might be covered for European applicants (partly for
overseas applicants), and a possible stipend could be
granted at the end of the season.
Qualications: (1) Ability to work and live in small
groups and sociable personality, (2) Fluent in English,
(3) Ability to endure long working days, (4) Knowl-
edge in observing & handling birds is highly desirable,
(5) Driving license is helpful, (6) Basic knowledge of
French or German is helpful although not essential.To Apply: Applications - including a CV and a letter
of motivation (1 pg.) - should be send to : JACQUE-
LINE HUBER (jacqueline.huber@unine.ch). Please use
\Volunteer Field Assistant in Switzerland" as the sub-
ject and note your availability during this time pe-
riod in the body of the e-mail. Applications received
until 28th February 2014 will be given full considera-
tion. For further information on the lab & project, see
www2.unine.ch/ecophy
Deadline extended
Jacqueline Huber <jacky huber@hotmail.com >
OmennPrize EvolutionMedicine
The Evolution, Medicine, & Public Health Foundation
(http://evolutionarymedicine.org) invites nominations
for the Omenn Prize for the best article published in
2013 in any scientic journal on a topic related to evo-
lution in the context of medicine and public health.
The $5000 prize is made possible by a generous dona-
tion from Gilbert S Omenn. It will be awarded in April
2014 to the rst author of the winning article.
Any relevant peer-reviewed article is eligible, but the
prize is intended for work that uses evolutionary prin-
ciples to advance understanding of a disease or disease
process. The prize committee will give priority to arti-
cles with implications for human health, but many basic
science or theoretical articles have such implications.
Nominations should include a copy of the article (if
distribution is permitted) or an abstract and link
to the article, and a brief nominating statement
(<250 words) in the body of an email to Omen-
nPrize@evolutionarymedicine.org. Authors are encour-
aged to nominate their own articles, but nominations
of articles by others are also welcome.
The Prize Committee is chaired by Allen Rodrigo, and
its members are Carl Bergstrom and Sarah Tishko.
Papers by committee members, their students and lab
group members are not eligible, and articles by their
co-authors or close associates are subject to special con-
ditions.
Nominations will be accepted at Omen-
nPrize@evoluitonarymedicine.org until 5pm, 28
February, 2014 US Eastern Standard Time.
rmnesse@gmail.comFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 97
PlantEvolution Symposia funding
*Funding of up to $43k is available to run symposia
with slots available from 2016 onwards. Application
deadline is 28th February 2014.*
The internationally renowned series of New Phytologist
Symposia (NPS) aim to support emerging and key areas
of research. Usually these meetings would be expected
to extend over one to three days, with invited speakers
and a maximum of 120 delegates. In this way we hope
to provide an informal atmosphere for the stimulation
and exchange of ideas and the building of collabora-
tions. We particularly encourage the involvement of
early-phase career scientists and as such a number of
travel grants will be awarded in association with each
meeting.
New Phytologist highlights the importance of plant
evolution by dedicating one of its four key sec-
tions to this research area, covering studies from
the molecular to ecological level. A number of
recent symposia have covered evolution topics. De-
tails of past and upcoming symposia can be found
here: www.newphytologist.org/symposia If you are
interested in organising a New Phytologist Sym-
posium, please complete the proposal pro forma
(http://www.newphytologist.org/app/webroot/-
img/upload/les/NPSproposal proforma2013.docx)
and email this to the Managing Editor (np-
managinged@lancaster.ac.uk) by the end of February.
Feel free to get in touch with any queries or for
guidance on completing the proposal.
We also welcome workshop proposals throughout the
year and there is no set deadline for these; we can
support workshops scheduled from 2015 onwards. Fur-
ther details here: http://www.newphytologist.org/-
workshops .
Dr MICHAEL PANAGOPULOS Development Coordi-
nator, New Phytologist
New Phytologist Central Oce, Bailrigg House,
Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YE, UK
Tel: + 44 1524 592124 Fax: + 44 1524
594696 Email: m.panagopulos@lancaster.ac.uk Web-
site: www.newphytologist.org Twitter: @NewPhyt
Facebook: fb.com/NewPhytologist
The New Phytologist Trust, registered charity number
1154867New! 2012 Impact factor 6.736
Virtual Special Issue to mark the 200th vol-
ume of New Phytologist http://newphytologist.org/-
200VSI New Phytologist Symposia 2014 Mycor-
rhizal symbioses - CAM plants - Next generation
scientists http://www.newphytologist.org/symposia
m.panagopulos@lancaster.ac.uk
Predatory journals
Hello All,
Given the recent explosion in Open Access publishers,
you might wonder which ones are credible and which
aren't.
If so, you might nd the following list helpful:
http://scholarlyoa.com/publishers/ Regards, Rich
Palmer
A. Richard Palmer, FRSC Systematics and Evolution
Group Department of Biological Sciences University
of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 CANADA
phone: (780) 492-3633 message: (780) 492-3308
FAX: (780) 492-9234 http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/-
palmer/palmer.html Secretary-General Comparative
Morphology & Development section Canadian Society
of Zoologists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/-
home.htm Rich Palmer <rpalmer@ualberta.ca >
Software BAli-Phy 2 2 0
BAli-Phy version 2.2.0 is now freely available. BAli-
Phy is a Bayesian MCMC program for estimating
phylogenies and sequence alignments jointly from un-
aligned sequence data. This release adds the ability to
handle alignment uncertainty while inferring positive
selection.
The main new features are: (http://www.bali-phy.org/-
news.php#2.2.0) - site-dependent codon models: M1a,
M2a, M2a Test - branch-site codon models: branch-
site[2,HKY,F3x4] - inference of ancestral sequences at
internal nodes - internal representation of models en-
tirely rewritten98 EvolDir February 1, 2014
You can download binaries for Linux, Mac, and Win-
dows here: - http://www.bali-phy.org/download.php
You can read the updated manual here: - http://-
www.bali-phy.org/README.xhtml
If you have any trouble using bali-phy, please post your
questions to bali-phy-users@googlegroups.com I should
be able to respond fairly quickly.
-BenRI
benjamin.redelings@duke.edu
Software ObStruct
I'd like to introduce a new tool for population genet-
ics analyses called ObStruct. ObStruct is software to
objectively analyze ancestry proles produced by the
Bayesian population genetics software packages Struc-
ture, InStruct and BAPS. Presently, these ancestry pro-
les are visualized with distruct and subjectively inter-
preted. ObStruct applies the R2 (R-squared) statistic
to objectively determine whether the xed factor of in-
terest (e.g. geographic origin) correlates with inferred
structure. It goes on to determine the amount that
each sampled and inferred population contributes to
the overall structure in the data and tests signicance
by permuting ancestry proles for the overall data set
and for pairwise combinations of sampled populations.
Finally, ObStruct produces three CDA plots which vi-
sualize the clustering of individuals by sampled popu-
lation within your data in a manner similar to a PCA
plot.
ObStruct is implemented in Perl and is available from
our lab website at: http://goddardlab.auckland.ac.nz/-
ObStruct The publication for ObStruct is avail-
able for free from PLoS ONE here: http://-
www.plosone.org/article/fetchObject.action?uri=-
info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0085196&representation=
PDF If you have any questions please feel free to email
me at: v.gayevskiy@auckland.ac.nz
-Vel
Velimir Gayevskiy <v.gayevskiy@auckland.ac.nz >SouthAmericanConservation
funding
The Neotropical Grassland Conservancy (NGC) is a
non-prot organization dedicated to promoting the
conservation of grasslands, gallery forests, wetlands,
and associated ecosystems in South America. The
NGC supports Latin American researchers by provid-
ing grants and equipment for conservation research or
education. Proposals are judged on merit and feasibil-
ity, conservation impact, and how closely the project
meets the mission of the NGC.
The NGC has the following three funding programs,
for more information visit www.conservegrassland.org
. MEMORIAL GRANTS Grants provide funding for
a variety of research topics in the grasslands. Eligibil-
ity: Latin American researchers aliated with a uni-
versity, museum, or conservation organization. Award:
US $2000-5000 Deadline: 1 March
STUDENT GRANT PROGRAM Grants toward
travel, food, housing, and consumable equipment ex-
penses associated with eld work.
Eligibility: Latin American researchers enrolled in
M.Sc. or Ph.D. program in USA or South American
University.
Award: US $1000 (recently increased from $500) Dead-
lines: 1 April, August, December
RESEARCH EQUIPMENT PROGRAM Grants pro-
vide basic science equipment to assist research projects
or education. Eligibility: Latin American researchers
aliated with a university, museum, or conservation or-
ganization. Award: US $100-2000 Deadlines: 1 April,
August, December
NEOTROPICAL GRASSLAND CONSERVANCY
info@conservegrassland.org conservegrassland.org
facebook.com/conservegrassland vimeo.com/27036933
dacostaj@bu.edu
UBath VolAssist
MatingSystemEvolutionFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 99
Evolution of avian mating systems 6 month voluntary
position at University of Bath (UK) and University of
Groningen (Netherlands)
We are seeking an enthusiastic and motivated student
interested in contributing to a large-scale comparative
project of bird mating systems. This is an oce-based
work that would suit a recently graduated biology stu-
dent with interest in social behaviour and/or in birds.
The task is to populate a database on behaviour, ecol-
ogy and environment of a large number of bird species
using published and unpublished data sources.
The ideal candidate will have a BSc, Diploma, MSc
or PhD in zoology, evolutionary biology, behaviour or
ecology. Experience with testing evolutionary hypothe-
ses, data entering and statistical analyses is essential.
Candidates with good working knowledge of R will be
favoured.
The position will be based at Bath or Groningen al-
though for an exceptional student an o-campus loca-
tion may be acceptable. This is a voluntary position
and will not involve ocial aliation to either univer-
sity, nor will it pay salary. A monthly stipend of 800
Euros will be available for an exceptional candidate.
The position is subject to 1 month probation period.
Please send a 1 page cover letter, a short CV (max 3
pages), and the names of 2 referees to Joyce Rietveld
(email: j.g.rietveld@rug.nl). The application deadline
is 15 February 2014, interviews will be in late February,
and the position will start from 1 March 2014.
Professor Tamas Szekely (Bath, T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk)
and Professor Jan Komdeur (Groningen,
j.komdeur@rug.nl)
bssts@bath.ac.uk
UKansas REUSummerProgram
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy at The University of Kansas announces that the
Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Pro-
gram: Models in Ecology, Evolution and Systematics
is now accepting applications for our ten-week program
that will run May 21-July 25, 2014. Students will par-
ticipate in mentored, independent research and will re-
ceive additional training.
Both biology majors and mathematics or computer sci-
ence majors with an interest in biology are encouragedto apply. Students must have good standing at a com-
munity college, college or university and be a United
States citizen or permanent resident. Members of un-
derrepresented groups are strongly encouraged to apply.
For access to the application and information about
the program, please visit http://eeb.ku.edu. Other
inquiries may be directed to the program at ee-
breu@ku.edu. The application deadline is February 14,
2014.
Dr. Jennifer Gleason, Program director Dr. Mark
Mort, Assistant program director
Dr. Jennifer Gleason Associate Professor University of
Kansas Ecology and Evolutionary Biology 1200 Sun-
nyside Ave., Haworth Room 6006 Lawrence, KS 66045
785-864-5858 785-864-5860 (FAX) jgleason@ku.edu
\Gleason, Jennifer M" <jgleason@ku.edu >
UOxford VolResAssist Seabirds
Voluntary research assistantship in seabird behaviour
& ecology
Skomer Island & University of Oxford
We are looking for an enthusiastic, hardworking young
biologist to work as a voluntary Research Assistant to
help with our pelagic seabird research on Skomer Is-
land, Pembrokeshire, Wales, in Spring and Summer
2014. The work will involve several research projects
coordinated by Prof Tim Guilford at Oxfords Depart-
ment of Zoology (see http://oxnav.zoo.ox.ac.uk/). We
utilise state-of-the art tracking technologies (miniature
GPS, geolocators, time-depth recorders & on-board
video) on several species (Manx Shearwaters, Atlantic
Puns, Common Guillemots, Razorbills). Most work
will involve assisting three doctoral students with the
day-to-day maintenance of the study burrows, weighing
and monitoring breeding birds and their chicks, and the
deployment and retrieval/downloading of tracking de-
vices. It will also involve entering data collected in the
eld into appropriate databases. There will be a signi-
cant amount of nocturnal work, since the primary study
species is the Manx Shearwater, which only arrives at
the colony after dark. There will also be scope for in-
volvement in other conservation and ecological projects
on the island, which is a National Nature Reserve ad-
ministered by the Wildlife Trust of South and West
Wales.100 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Unfortunately we cannot provide a stipend but accom-
modation (shared and basic) on Skomer will be covered.
However, the project is a great opportunity to gain
valuable experience in modern eld ornithology. There
will also be opportunities for the assistant to learn some
analytical techniques applied to animal movement data.
Skomer has mobile coverage and some access to In-
ternet, however movements to and from the mainland
are limited because of unpredictable wind conditions.
There is a small community of wardens, assistants and
volunteers, who are involved in the running and con-
servation of the Nature Reserve, monitoring the seabird
populations, and managing the daily and over-night vis-
itors. There might be opportunities to visit other UK
island reserves during the project.
Prole: we are looking for a motivated and hardworking
biologist, who likes working in the eld and can cope
with dicult working and living conditions. Previous
experience in the eld or in harsh conditions is desir-
able, but not essential. Work on Skomer requires long
hours (with some work at night and at dawn) spent in
a cold and wet environment and considerable manual
work. A good candidate should be able to work inde-
pendently and have a reasonable level of tness. Plan-
ning to embark on further research degrees in the fu-
ture would be a plus (previous assistants have engaged
in doctoral studies afterwards). It is also important
that the assistant feels comfortable sharing sometimes
crowded accommodation with a number of colleagues
over long periods of time, and can cope with the occa-
sional untidiness inevitably associated with eldwork.
Unfortunately, for administrative reasons, we can only
accept applications from people having permission to
work in the UK (UK and EU citizens, UK residents, or
persons with a UK work permit).
We are looking for an assistant to work with us be-
tween April and September 2014. If you are in-
terested, please email a CV and a statement of
interest and arrange for two letters of reference
to be emailed to tim.guilford@zoo.ox.ac.uk (with
oliver.padget@zoo.ox.ac.uk in cc). The deadline for
submitting applications (including reference letters) is
the 14th February 2014. We will interview the short-
listed candidates (on Skype) shortly after and we expect
to make a decision by early March.
Oliver Padget <oliver.padget@zoo.ox.ac.uk >UTexas Austin REU
SummerResearch
Undergraduate research positions are available for sum-
mer 2014 for students interested in interdisciplinary re-
search in plant biology, ecology, and evolution. The
positions are associated with our research program link-
ing ecological, physiological, and genomic responses of
switchgrass to predicted future drought conditions in
the central Texas region.
If you are accepted into the program you will spend
the summer learning how to do research, participating
in group research projects, designing your own short
research project, and presenting your work in an end-
of-summer student symposium.
Students in the program will work in a research group
headed by one of the following:
Dr. Tom Juenger (http://w3.biosci.utexas.edu/-
juenger lab/), Dr. Christine Hawkes (http://-
www.sbs.utexas.edu/hawkeslab/) Dr. Tim Keitt
(http://www.keittlab.org/)
SCHEDULE AND SUPPORT The REU positions are
for ten weeks with the program starting the rst week
in June and ending the rst week of August 2014. All
students will be housed in a UT dormitory, and the
costs of the dormitory and meal plan are included in
the program. Each student will be awarded a salary of
$4,500 for the summer, and some travel funds may be
available to help defray the cost of traveling to Austin.
WHO SHOULD APPLY? Students in their sophomore
or junior years of college, with strong credentials and
majoring in ecology, biology, genetics, or related dis-
cipline are encouraged to apply. Participants must be
U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Students must
also be prepared for eldwork outdoors in hot and hu-
mid conditions.
APPLICATIONS The application deadline is March 1.
Applications should consist of a single pdf le contain-
ing a cover letter describing your experience, interests,
future career plans, a copy of your transcripts, and con-
tact information for two letters of recommendation. All
materials should be sent via email to: Dr. Tom Juenger
(ut.reu.2014@gmail.com)
tjuenger@austin.utexas.eduFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 101
UTexas ElPaso REU Biodiversity
REU Opportunity Summer 2014: \Research Experi-
ence for Undergraduates in Chihuahuan Desert Biodi-
versity"
The University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences invites applicants for the
NSF sponsored Research Experience for Undergradu-
ates (REU) in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity. This is
a 10 week summer program. The goal of this program is
to provide undergraduate students with experience in
hypothesis-driven collaborative research utilizing eld
based and/or laboratory methods and fully engage stu-dents in projects associated with the ecology and evo-
lution inuencing Chihuahuan Desert biodiversity.
THE PROGRAM PROVIDES: - High quality research
experience in ecology and evolutionary biology in the
eld and/or lab - Research opportunities at the Indio
Mountains Research Station (IMRS), a 40,000 acre fa-
cility controlled by UTEP - One-on-one and group men-
toring from active research faculty in multidisciplinary
elds - Training in bioethics and other relevant profes-
sional skills
THE PROGRAM INCLUDES: - $5,000 stipend for 10
weeks - Housing in shared apartment and eld station
- Travel reimbursement of up to $600
For more information on the program, research projects
or to apply please visit: http://science.utep.edu/cdb-
reu/ email: (cdb-reu@utep.edu)
mlmoody@utep.edu
PostDocs
AberystwythU UK BioinformaticsMetagenomics . .102
Blanes Spain MarineEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Colorado EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
ColumbiaU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
CornellU SharkPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
CornellU TeachingEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Edinburgh UK BioinformaticsProgrammer . . . . . . . 105
Edinburgh UK GenomicsProjectManager . . . . . . . . .105
EmoryU DiseaseModeling VirusEvolution . . . . . . . . 106
IBE Barcelona OriginOfAnimals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
IPasteur PopStatGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
IndianaU BehavioralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
KansasStateU GenomicsAgroecology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
KyusyuInst Japan PlantComparativeGenomics . . . 109
Leibniz-IGB Berlin 2 FungalGenomicsEcology . . . . 109
LeibnizInst EvolutionBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
LeibnizInst Berlin HostParasiteInteractions 2 . . . . .110
MNH UBergen BeetlePhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
McMasterU MolecularEvolutionTheory . . . . . . . . . . .112
Montpellier ModellingClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . 112
NHM London ConvergentEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
NHM Paris AdaptationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114NewYorkBotanicalGarden SystematicBotany . . . . . 115
Paris AdaptationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Plant Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
SaintLouisU EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
SciLifeLab Stockholm Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Senegal Montpellier RodentEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
SmithsonianInst SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
SouthAfrica MouseAdaption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
SwanseaU EvolutionPathogenResistance . . . . . . . . . .120
Sydney MolcularEvolEucalypts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .121
UAB Barcelona GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
UCaliforniaIrvine EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 123
UCalifornia Davis Plant Reproductive Barriers . . . 123
UCalifornia SantaCruz Paleogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
UEastAnglia DrosophilaFitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
UEdinburgh EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
UFlorida PolyploidGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
UGothenburg MarineGenomicsBioinformatics . . . . 126
UHaifa EcologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
UInnsbruck NextGenerationSequencing . . . . . . . . . . .128
UKansas Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
UMontpellier SangerInst ApeMalariaGenomics . . . 129102 EvolDir February 1, 2014
UNorthCarolina Charlotte EvolutionInfectiousDiseases
130
UOldenburg BiodiversityDeterminants . . . . . . . . . . . 131
UReading FossilsAndPhylogeneticMacroevolution 132
URhodeIsland GeneticVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
USouthBohemia PlantInsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
USouthernCalifornia ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . 133
USouthernCalifornia SpeciationGenetics . . . . . . . . . .134
USydney EvolutionOfVirulence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
USydney VirusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135UTulsa BiodiversityClimateVariability . . . . . . . . . . . .136
UdeLisboa EvolutionaryBiology 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Uppsala ModelingSpeciesDistribution . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Vienna Experimental evolution Drosophila . . . . . . . 138
VillanovaU SystematicHerpetology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
VillefrancheSurMer France Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . 139
iDivLeipzigGermany SocioEcoSystemsApeHabitats
140
AberystwythU UK
BioinformaticsMetagenomics
Fully funded (3 year) postdoctoral position in bioinfor-
matics and metagenomics available in the UK. Closing
date for applications 17th February!
Please nd more details at: http://www.aber.ac.uk/-
en/media/departmental/humanresources/pdfs/jobs/-
IBERS-13-66-(External).pdf
Thanks,
Chris.
Chris Creevey M.Sc., Ph.D. Reader in Rumen Systems
Biology.
Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sci-
ences (IBERS), Aberystwyth University, Room 3.33,
Edward Llwyd Building, Penglais Campus, Aberyst-
wyth, Ceredigion, SY23 3FG, UK.
Tel: +44 1970 62 1612 Email: chris.creevey@aber.ac.uk
www.aber.ac.uk/en/ibers/sta/chc30 \Chris Creevey
[chc30]" <chc30@aber.ac.uk >
Blanes Spain MarineEvolution
*One Marie Curie postdoc position* is available at
the Marine Benthic Molecular Ecology team of the
/C//entre d'Estudis Avan cats de Blanes/, CEAB-CSIC
(Blanes-Spain)
The CEAB belongs to the Spanish /Consejo Superior
de Investigaciones Cient cas/ (CSIC). The Centre is
located on the NE Mediterranean coast of Spain, closeto Barcelona. The Marine Benthic Molecular Ecology
group of the Department of Marine Ecology investigates
Phylogenetic, Biological, and Ecological topics on ma-
rine shes and invertebrates, by both traditional and
molecular approaches, including, among others, popu-
lation genetics, gene expression, and metabarcoding of
benthic communities and sponge microsymbionts.
*Duties*: The postdoc project aims at ascertaining the
ecological conditions and over-expressed genes related
to an increased production of secondary metabolites in
two Atlanto-Mediterranean sponges. The research is in
the frame of the BluePharm Train Marie Curie Net-
work. Experimental eldwork is foresee.
*Requeriment:* Candidates should belong to the Marie
Curie category of \Young Experienced Researchers",
that is with *not more tan 5 years of research experi-
ence, including PhD *research They must *not be Span-
ish Residents at least during the 12 last months* (i.e.
from Mars 2012 to Mars 2014) Both diving and lab-
oratory (molecular/bioinformatics) experience are re-
quested.
*Place of work*: Blanes (Girona, Costa Brava) Spain
*Form of employment*: Temporary employ-
ment.Extent: 100%, two years.
*Tentative starting date*: 01/04/2014.
*Application*: Applications should be sent before Mars
15th (2014) to my E-mail (Iosune@ceab.csic.es) with an
attached CV and two reference letters. Diving and lab-
oratory experience must be explained in detail. Skype
interviews will be performed with the pre-selected can-
didates.
iosune@ceab.csic.es
Colorado EvolutionaryGenomicsFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 103
Postdoctoral Associate in Evolutionary Genomics, Fort
Collins, Colorado
A postdoctoral position is available at Colorado State
University. The successful applicant will work in the
Plant Evolutionary Genomics Lab of Dr. John McKay.
We are looking for a highly motivated individual with
a PhD in Evolution, Quantitative Genetics or Compar-
ative Genomics. The successful candidate will have a
strong publication record that demonstrates their abil-
ity to test hypotheses regarding evolution and gene
function using polymorphism and divergence data. Our
lab will complement these data with functional genet-
ics experiments. No prior experience with Plants is
required.
This focus of this Postdoctoral position is to study the
evolution of genes and gene function across the Bras-
sicaceae family of plants. The Brassicaceae comprise
a large family containing more than 3,000 species, in-
cluding the model plant Arabidopsis and agriculturally
important Brassica species, as well as allopolyploidy,
other whole genome duplication events and lineages
with rapid reductions in genome size. The McKay
lab and collaborators have worked to extend functional
knowledge beyond the reference strain of Arabidopsis
thaliana, in order to understand the loci that contribute
to adaptation. We are now extending this evolutionary
analysis to include both within species polymorphism
and divergence across the Brassicaceae family.
The position is available immediately, but the start is
exible to some degree. Salary and benets are compet-
itive, and CSU is an excellent academic environment for
the study of evolution and plant biology. Our lab group
has excellent interactions with colleagues in bioinfor-
matics, plant physiology, ecology, evolutionary genetics
and molecular biology. Fort Collins, Colorado is lo-
cated on the Front Range (eastern side) of the Rocky
Mountains and is ranked highly among great places to
live.
Interested applicants should submit a letter of interest,
statement research interest and experience, curriculum
vita, and contact information of three professional ref-
erences.
Applications should be sent as a single pdf to Joanna
Holliday, Director of HR, College of Agricultural Sci-
ences, at cas pool@mail.colostate.edu with Subject:
Postdoctoral Fellow Pool.
Review of applications will begin on 12 February 2014
(Darwin's and Lincoln's birthday) and continue un-
til the position is lled. Questions regarding the
research can be sent to Dr. John McKay. jkm-
ckay@colostate.eduhttp://www.mckaylab.colostate.edu jkm-
ckay@colostate.edu
ColumbiaU PopulationGenomics
POSTDOC IN POPULATION GENETICS,
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
A postdoctoral position is available in Molly Prze-
worski's group at Columbia University.
Our research focuses on understanding mutation and
recombination in humans and other species, and on
modeling and detecting the footprints of natural se-
lection in genetic variation data. For more informa-
tion, see http://przeworski.uchicago.edu/wordpress/
The specic postdoctoral project will be focused on
the analysis of recombination patterns in birds. Appli-
cants for the position must have a strong background in
bioinformatics, including experience with genomic data
analysis, as well a sincere interest in the genetics and
evolution of non-model organisms. Programming skills
in R and Perl/Python are essential.
The group is located in a newly renovated computa-
tional space on the main (Morningside Heights) cam-
pus of Columbia University, contiguous to labs run by
Harmen Bussmaker, Dana Pe'er and Guy Sella. It ben-
ets from close ties with these groups as well as those
of Itzik Pe'er in Computer Science and Joe Pickrell at
the nascent New York Genome Center.
Postdoctoral fellows at Columbia have access to nice,
subsidized housing within walking distance of campus.
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including
a CV, copies of relevant publications and two letters
of recommendation) should be emailed to Molly Prze-
worski at <molly.przew@gmail.com >. The start date
can be any time but no later than fall 2014.
Molly Przeworski Professor Dept. of Biological Sciences
Columbia University
molly.przew@gmail.com
CornellU SharkPopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in shark comparative transcrip-104 EvolDir February 1, 2014
tomics and population genomics at Cornell University
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of
Michael J. Stanhope in the Department of Population
Medicine and Diagnostic Sciences, in the Cornell Col-
lege of Veterinary Medicine. Research areas of the lab
involve evolutionary genomics of a wide variety of or-
ganisms including bacteria, protozoans, and sharks. We
are looking for a person to work in the area of elasmo-
branch comparative transcriptomics and/or population
genomics. This work will be conducted in collabora-
tion with Dr. Mahmood Shivji from Nova Southeastern
University's Save Our Seas Shark Research Center and
Guy Harvey Research Institute. The comparative tran-
scriptomic work would be designed to assess the molec-
ular features associated with various physiological, be-
havioral and reproductive life history dierences char-
acteristic of dierent taxa. The population genomics
work would involve analyzing genotyping by sequenc-
ing data originating from global population samples of
dierent species of sharks, with the goal of developing a
high-resolution population structure and demographics
picture for conservation management purposes.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in a biological sci-
ences discipline and be comfortable working with high
throughput short read datasets in a Linux environment.
The ideal candidate will have a background in popula-
tion genomics, and/or eukaryotic transcriptomics.
The start date is exible, but preferably before
April/2014. Applications will be accepted until the
position is lled. Competitive salaries commensurate
with experience and skills, as well as a generous ben-
ets package will be oered. The position is full-time
for two years subject to the completion of a satisfactory
probation period for new appointees; further extension
may be available subject to funding, need and perfor-
mance.
Interested applicants should send a CV, a brief descrip-
tion of research interests and experience, and contact
information for three references to Michael J. Stanhope
at mjs297@cornell.edu.
mjs297@cornell.edu
CornellU TeachingEvolutionaryBiol
Cornell University Teaching Postdoctoral Associate -
Evolution and Biodiversity (University Title - Instruc-
tor) Oce of Undergraduate Biology College of Agri-culture and Life Sciences Ithaca, New York
The Oce of Undergraduate Biology, in collaboration
with the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy (EEB) at Cornell University, invites applicants for
a full-time Teaching Postdoctoral Associate (University
Title - Instructor) with interest in developing skills and
experience in university teaching in preparation for an
academic career. Specically, the postdoc will play a
key role in supporting the transition of the course Evo-
lutionary Biology and Biodiversity (BIOEE 1780) from
a traditional lecture course format, to an active learn-
ing format focusing on student participation and group
problem solving.
The Teaching Postdoctoral Associate, will be appointed
for a one-year period with the possibility of extension,
devoting 20% of their full-time eort to teaching the
Biodiversity portion of the course, 30% of their eort
to helping organize the active learning transition pro-
cess, and 50% of their eort to helping develop active
learning material and activities pertaining to the course
goals and content. The successful candidate will collab-
orate with course faculty towards the following goals:
formulate learning goals, develop an active learning-
based curriculum that aligns with the learning goals,
provide feedback on course teaching practices, and as-
sess learning gains. There are potential opportunities
for pedagogical research for motivated candidates.
* Qualications * Candidates should hold a doctoral
degree in Biology, Biology Education, or a related eld
and have excellent organizational, interpersonal com-
munication, team building and collaboration skills. Ex-
perience in developing active learning curricula and
coaching educators is highly desirable.
* Terms of Appointment * The annual salary for this 1-
year appointment with the possibility of extension will
be $45,000. The anticipated start date for the appoint-
ment is August 1, 2014.
* Applications * To ensure full consideration, applica-
tions must be received by February 20, 2014.
To apply: applicants should submit (as a single
pdf le) their CV, a statement of teaching philoso-
phy/experience, a statement of research experience,
and the names, phone numbers, and email addresses
of three individuals who can serve as references. Please
send application materials to Dr. Kelly Zamudio at
kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu
Cornell University is an innovative Ivy League univer-
sity and a great place to work. Our inclusive com-
munity of scholars, students and sta impart an un-
common sense of larger purpose and contribute creative
ideas to further the university's mission of teaching, dis-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 105
covery and engagement. Located in Ithaca, NY, Cornell
University is an equal opportunity, armative action
educator and employer.
krz2@cornell.edu
Edinburgh UK
BioinformaticsProgrammer
Edinburgh Genomics, a major genomics facility within
the University of Edinburgh, is recruiting a Bioinfor-
matician to join our team analysing environmental, evo-
lutionary and ecological genomics data.
The new genomics is at the centre of a revolution in
bioscience. Edinburgh Genomics is a new venture from
the University of Edinburgh that combines the world-
leading ARK-Genomics and GenePool into one joint fa-
cility. The facility already has one of the largest installs
of sequence generation and data analysis technologies
in the UK, and has core support from the UK NERC,
MRC, and BBSRC. Edinburgh Genomics aims to lead
in quality, service and collaboration across all our ge-
nomics operations.
Working in a multidisciplinary team, the Bioinformati-
cian (Programmer) (BP) will have a particular role in
building and maintaining the underpinning computa-
tional architecture (including Laboratory Information
Management System) that assures timely and robust
delivery of next generation sequencing analyses to the
Edinburgh Genomics user community. The BP will also
ensure that Edinburgh Genomics stays abreast of devel-
opments in this rapidly changing eld. This post will
be based in a dynamic multidisciplinary team.
The BP will build and maintain systems to manage
data from our high-throughput instrumentation (both
sequencing - currently Illumina HiSeq 2000/2500 and
MiSeq, and array/chip based), including the develop-
ment and use of automated pipelines for data extrac-
tion, data archiving, data QC, report generation and
automated analysis (e.g. alignment / assembly). A
secondary role will be to provide bespoke bioinformat-
ics support to the facility, including analysis and inte-
gration of high-density datasets in collaboration with
scientists who partner with the facility.
A strong interest/track record in bioinformatics and
programming/scripting is essential, as is experience of
working with Linux or Unix operating systems. Experi-
ence in the integration and analysis of next-generationsequencing data is also essential. Experience with a
relevant database management system is highly desir-
able. Previous experience of Laboratory Information
Management Systems and their use in academic facil-
ity management would also be desirable.
We are seeking candidates with a degree in the biolog-
ical sciences with a subsequent qualication (e.g. MSc,
PhD) in bioinformatics; or a degree in computer sci-
ence, mathematics or equivalent technical subject with
subsequent qualication or experience in the biological
sciences. The ability to communicate complex infor-
mation clearly, orally and in writing is required. We
require highly organised individuals with an interest in
providing the most ecient tools and workows to or-
ganise and analyse big data. A proven ability to publish
the results of scientic experiments in peer-reviewed
journals is highly desirable.
Closing date for applications: 03 Feb 2014
Start date: As soon as possible after 01 March 2014
Duration: 3 years
Salary: $30,424 - $36,298 pa
Full details can be found at http://tinyurl.com/-
EG024405 Contact Mick Watson (Edinburgh Ge-
nomics head of Bioinformatics) for more information.
mick.watson@roslin.ed.ac.uk
Edinburgh Genomics The University of Edinburgh Ed-
inburgh EH9 3JT, UK
mark.blaxter@ed.ac.uk
Edinburgh UK
GenomicsProjectManager
Edinburgh Genomics, a major genomics facility within
the University of Edinburgh, is recruiting an Environ-
mental Genomics Project Manager to drive develop-
ments in environmental, evolutionary and ecological ge-
nomics.
The new genomics is at the centre of a revolution in
bioscience. Edinburgh Genomics is a new venture from
the University of Edinburgh that combines the world-
leading ARK-Genomics and GenePool into one joint fa-
cility. The facility already has one of the largest installs
of sequence generation and data analysis technologies
in the UK, and has core support from the UK NERC,
MRC, and BBSRC. Edinburgh Genomics aims to lead106 EvolDir February 1, 2014
in quality, service and collaboration across all our ge-
nomics operations.
The key role of the Environmental Genomics Project
Manager (EPM) will be to support NERC-funded envi-
ronmental genomics projects, especially those managed
by the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility. This will
require understanding of the core questions in environ-
mental, ecological and evolutionary genomics, and es-
pecially in the application of high-throughput genomic
and genetic data to these problems. The EPM will also
handle where necessary projects from other domains of
the facility's work. The EPM will be part of the Edin-
burgh Genomics Project Management Team, and will
ensure that all projects are delivered eciently, eec-
tively, on time and on budget to the highest quality.
The EPM will liaise with our collaborators at all stages,
from project design through to data analysis and de-
livery. The EPM will assist collaborators with sam-
ple preparation and submission to the facility, manage
sample delivery, and track projects through the facility.
The EPM will oversee delivery of nal datasets to col-
laborators and where appropriate assist collaborators
in preparing manuscripts for publication.
The EPM will have a good knowledge of biology and
biological systems in their specialist area. The EPM
will be expected to keep up to date with developments
in Edinburgh Genomics' major technologies (sequenc-
ing, arrays, genotyping, bioinformatics. A strong in-
terest/track record in biological research is essential,
as is experience of managing multiple projects concur-
rently. Experience in a customer-facing role is highly
desirable. The ability to communicate complex infor-
mation clearly, orally and in writing is extremely impor-
tant. We are looking for a highly organised individual
with a proven track record in project management.
We are seeking candidates with a degree in the bio-
logical sciences with a post-graduate qualication (e.g.
MSc, PhD) and at least three years post-doctoral (or
equivalent status) experience in a project management
or similar role.
Closing date for applications: 13 February 2014
Start date: As soon as possible after 01/04/2013
Duration: 3 years
Salary: $30,424 - $36,298 pa
Full details can be found at http://tinyurl.com/-
EG024398 Contact Mark Blaxter (Edinburgh
Genomics Director) for more information.
mark.blaxter@ed.ac.uk
Edinburgh Genomics The University of Edinburghmark.blaxter@ed.ac.uk
EmoryU DiseaseModeling
VirusEvolution
Postdocs in Infectious Disease Modeling and Molecular
Ecology/Evolution
Two postdoctoral positions are available at the Center
for Disease Ecology in the Department of Biology at
Emory University.
The Center for Disease Ecology focuses on integrat-
ing ecological and genetic data using theoretical, com-
putational and phylogenetic analysis to gain insights
into the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of infec-
tious diseases. The postdocs will be supported through
Emory University Center funds and through an NIH
RO1 grant on the phylogeography of rabies virus in
the United States. The postdocs will be expected to
fully engage with a collaborative research team working
on rabies ecology and evolution involving Emory, the
CDC, University of Glasgow, the Canadian Food In-
spection Agency and State Public Health oces in the
Northeast US. The postdocs will also have the oppor-
tunity to develop independent research projects related
to ecological and evolutionary dynamics of infectious
disease.
For the position in infectious disease modeling, the ideal
candidate would have a strong quantitative background
in mathematical or statistical modeling of populations
including the use of Bayesian statistics and MCMC.
Familiarity with infectious disease processes and evolu-
tionary analyses, including knowledge of Approximate
Bayesian Computing (ABC), is preferred but not re-
quired.
For the position in molecular ecology and evolution,
the ideal candidate would have a strong background
in molecular evolutionary and phylogenetic analyses.
He/she should be comfortable working with large
datasets, have good computational and bioinformatic
skills and be familiar with Bayesian coalescent ap-
proaches. Prior experience with virus evolution, land-
scape genetics or geographical information systems
(GIS) would be preferred but not required. This can-
didate would be working closely with collaborator Dr
Roman Biek and would be expected to spend some time
in his group at the University of Glasgow.
The appointments would be for one year initially withFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 107
the possibility of further extension.
To apply, please send a letter of application with a
statement of research interest, CV, and the names (with
email addresses) of three referees. Applications should
have \CDE Postdoc" as the subject eld and should be
directed to lreal@emory.edu or by mail to:
Professor Leslie A Real Center for Disease Ecology De-
partment of Biology 1510 Clifton Road Emory Univer-
sity Atlanta, GA 30322
Roman.Biek@glasgow.ac.uk
IBE Barcelona OriginOfAnimals
Postdoctoral position in \Functional analyses in unicel-
lular relatives of metazoans"
Overview Our research objective is to understand
the origin of metazoan multicellularity. Our group
has recently obtained the genome sequence of several
unicellular relatives of Metazoa, such as Capsaspora
owczarzaki and Creolimax fragrantissima. Surprisingly,
we found that several genes involved in multicellularity
(such as integrins, cadherins, tyrosine kinases and sev-
eral transcription factors) are present in these single-
celled taxa. The project aims to unravel the function
of some genes key for multicellularity (specically tran-
scription factors) in these animal's unicellular relatives.
To this end, we have recently developed some genetic
tools in both Capsaspora owczarzaki and Creolimax fra-
grantissima. The applicant, besides working with the
techniques available, is expected to play a role in trying
to expand the techniques available. For further infor-
mation on research goals see www.multicellgenome.com
Position This is a full time position for a period of 24
months, starting as soon as possible (and no later than
1/11/2014). This position may be extended an extra
year, subject to satisfactory progress and funding.The
post holder will be strongly encouraged to develop fel-
lowship applications to extend the project and appro-
priate mentoring will be available.
Place of work The Institute of Evolutionary Biology
(Pompeu Fabra University-Spanish Research Council)
provides a unique opportunity to conduct this re-
search (see http://www.ibe.upf-csic.es/). The Institute
is located in Barcelona's waterfront, adjacent to the
Biomedical Parc of Barcelona (PRBB) and Hospital
del Mar, forming the most important research cluster
in Barcelona, and providing access to start-of-the arttechnological facilities. The group has a strong tradi-
tion in evolutionary biology and the analysis of pro-
tist genomes(www.multicellgenome.com). The city of
Barcelona is a vibrant, modern city with very good liv-
ing standards.
Eligibility The successful applicant will hold a PhD in
the biological sciences with an strong background in
cell biology, microbiology, and/or developmental biol-
ogy. A proven experience in transgenesis is essential.
Expertise with model organisms (yeast, Dictyostellium,
Drosophila, etc), as well as prociency in microscopy
are a plus. You must have excellent scientic commu-
nication, presentation and writing skills, as well as very
good critical and analytical problem solving skills.
Application procedure If interested, please apply by
sending a cover letter that describes the motivation
to work on the project, a CV, a brief statement of
research experiences and interests, and contact infor-
mation for at least two academic references as PDF
les to jobs@multicellgenome.com. To discuss this role
informally, please contact Dr. I naki Ruiz-Trillo (in-
aki.ruiz@ub.edu), T 34-93.230.95.00-ext. 6026. Closing
date: 22 February 2014.
I naki Ruiz-Trillo <inaki.ruiz@ibe.upf-csic.es >
IPasteur PopStatGenetics
POSTDOC IN POPULATION AND STATISTICAL
GENETICS, Pasteur Institute, Paris
A postdoctoral position in population and statistical
genomics funded by the European Science Foundation
(ERC) is available in the Human Evolutionary Ge-
netics Unit (Quintana-Murci's Lab), in the Depart-
ment of Genomes and Genetics at Institut Pasteur
in Paris. The lab combines large empirical datasets
and computation approaches to study human popula-
tion genomics and the human immune response, for
more information see http://www.pasteur.fr/research/-
heg. Current work in the lab focuses on the genetic
control of gene expression related to both mRNA and
microRNA, using RNA-Seq, and immunity-related pro-
cesses. The specic postdoctoral project will be fo-
cused on understanding genotype-by-infection interac-
tions, through the detection of response eQTLs to var-
ious immune stimuli, in a large cohort of individuals of
European- and African-descent sharing the same envi-
ronment. Our lab benets from the large and outstand-
ing community of researchers in population genetics,108 EvolDir February 1, 2014
microbiology, immunology and computational biology
at the Institut Pasteur and Paris Universities, provid-
ing a working interdisciplinary research environment.
Applicants must have a strong background in bioinfor-
matics, including experience with genomic data analy-
sis (especially RNA-Seq), and a desire to do research
in human genomics and evolutionary biology. Skills
in R programming and in workow implementation
(Perl/Shell scripting) are essential.
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including a
CV, copies of relevant publications and contact infor-
mation for at least two references) should be emailed to
Lluis Quintana-Murci at <quintana@pasteur.fr >. The
starting date can be any time but not later than June
2014.
Lluis QUINTANA-MURCI Unit of Human Evolution-
ary Genetics, CNRS URA3012 Institut Pasteur 25, rue
du Dr. Roux 75724 Paris Cedex 15 France
Tel: +33 1 40 61 34 43 Fax: +33 1 45 68 87 27 e-mail:
quintana@pasteur.fr
Lab Website: www.pasteur.fr/research/heg Lluis
Quintana-Murci <lluis.quintana-murci@pasteur.fr >
IndianaU BehavioralEvolution
Postdoctoral Position Department of Biology Indiana
University, Bloomington
A postdoctoral position is available in the Martins lab
at Indiana University-Bloomington to conduct NSF-
funded research on the behavioral evolution of wild ze-
brash.
Our larger project aims to determine how links be-
tween complex behavioral traits (i.e., syndromes) in-
uence evolutionary response to anthropogenic habitat
changes. The position combines lab experiments at In-
diana University with eldwork in India, both providing
the successful applicant with considerable exibility to
develop their own collaborative research. In the lab,
the postdoc will join a research team conducting ex-
periments on the impact of genetics, habitat and sen-
sory physiology on zebrash social roles and network
dynamics. In the eld, the postdoc will coordinate
eld expeditions to conduct a population-level survey
of the aquatic ecology, social behavior and genetics of
zebrash.
Recent Ph.D. in Biology or related eld required. Ex-perience with small sh, international eldwork, fresh-
water ecology, sensory biology, behavioral syndromes,
and/or social network research are especially desirable.
The successful applicant will be part of the vibrant be-
havioral research group at Indiana University and will
have opportunities to gain additional training in phylo-
genetic comparative methods, sensory physiology, and
genomic techniques.
Salary $39,000 to $42,000. Indiana University has
a ne program of fringe benets which adds signi-
cantly to the value of the stated salary, see http://-
www.indiana.edu/~uhrs/benets. Initial appointment
is for one year, with start date as early as July 2014
and the possibility of extension for one or two addi-
tional years contingent on performance.
Please send any questions to Emilia Martins
(emartins@indiana.edu). To apply, please submit
a CV, brief statement of research interests, and
contact information for three references to https:/-
/Indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/722 or send to
Dee Verostko, 1001 E. Third Street, Bloomington, IN.
Applications submitted by March 1, 2014 will be given
full consideration. Women and minority candidates are
especially encouraged to apply. Indiana University is
an Armative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
emartins@indiana.edu
KansasStateU
GenomicsAgroecology
A postdoc is available in the lab of Geo Mor-
ris at Kansas State University (www.morrislab.org).
The postdoc will work on a USDA-funded ge-
nomics/agroecology project on switchgrass genetic di-
versity and sustainable bioenergy. The successful appli-
cant will also have the opportunity to develop their own
research program on the genomics of adaptive traits in
collaboration with the Morris lab.
We are a very interested in applications from those
with backgrounds in evolution/popgen and experience
in population genomics. Kansas State provides an
excellent training environment for this research area,
with the Institute for Ecological Genomics, Konza
Prairie LTER, and many population and evolutionary
genomics labs.
Details on the position and application instructions are
below.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 109
Best, Geo
Geo Morris, Assistant Professor Department of
AgronomyjKansas State University 3004 Throck-
morton Plant Science Center jManhattan KS,
66506 E-mail: gpmorris@k-state.edu jWeb: http://-
www.morrislab.org |{
Position Description: A postdoctoral research associate
is available in the lab of Geo Morris for a USDA-
funded genomics/agroecology project on the eects of
switchgrass genetic diversity on the sustainability and
viability of bioenergy systems. The successful candi-
date will: Develop and implement protocols to assay ge-
nomic diversity of switchgrass roots from soil cores. An-
alyze above-ground biomass yield and feedstock com-
position. Collaborate with soil scientists to integrate
project elements. Publish and disseminate research re-
sults. Mentor students in crop/ecological genomics.
Create an environment that fosters diversity and col-
legiality.
Required: Ph.D. in Genomics, Agroecology or re-
lated eld. Demonstrated bioinformatics and popula-
tion genetics skills to analyze large population genomic
data sets. Demonstrated communication and organiza-
tional skills to coordinate an interdisciplinary research
project. Strong commitment to expanding and foster-
ing diversity.
Preferred: One year experience in population genomics.
How to apply: Send letter of application, resume, and
contact information of three professional references to:
Brittany Green (bdgreen@k-state.edu) Department of
Agronomy Kansas State University Please reference po-
sition #W0045445 in your email.
KyusyuInst Japan
PlantComparativeGenomics
One Researcher Position available in Comparative Ge-
nomics (Kousuke Hanada), Kyusyu Institute of Tech-
nology, Japan
Job Description A successful applicant will take part
in a project which is to conduct comparative genomics
in Brassica genus including Arabidopiss. The project
focused on omics approach including SNPs, transcrip-
tome data, proteome data and metabolic data. Once
we can nd some genes under strong selection pres-
sure, we will experimentally examine the genes in A.thaliana by other lab members. Main job of the ap-
plicant is to examine the comparative genomics using
various omics data. The ideal candidate will have a
strong background and experience of genome analysis
by Phython, R, Perl, C++ or Java.
Relevant publications is as follows. 1. Hanada et al.
(2013) Small open reading frames associated with mor-
phogenesis are hidden in plant genomes. Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA; 110(6): 2395-400 2. Hanada et al.
(2011) Functional compensation of primary and sec-
ondary metabolites by duplicate genes in Arabidopsis
thaliana. Mol Biol Evo. 28(1): 377-382. 3. Hanada et
al. (2009) Increased expression and protein divergence
in duplicate genes is associated with morphological di-
versication. PLoS Genet. 2009 5:e1000781
Contract Conditions One-year, full-time contract, re-
newable annually by evaluation until 31st of March
2016. Salaries are determined on an annual basis sub-
ject to the applicants' experience and performance.
Application and required documentation Application
and required documentation (1) Curriculum vitae (with
photo and e-mail address) (2) List of publications and
other research achievements (3) Brief description of pre-
vious research and future research plans (4) Contact
information of at least two reference persons (5)A rec-
ommendation letter from an immediate supervisor (or
if impossible, from a third person).
Selection Process Applicants who pass the rst docu-
ment screening will be interviewed by Skype. Applica-
tions will be considered until the position is lled. Start
of Employment April 1, 2014 or later.
Contact person. Kyushu Institute of Technology De-
partment of Bioscience and Bioinformatics 8F-E819,
680-4 Kawazu, Iizuka, Fukuoka, 820-8502, Japan TEL:
+81-948-29-7842 FAX: +81-948-29-7801 E-mail: ko-
hanada@bio.kyutech.ac.jp
kohanada@psc.riken.jp
Leibniz-IGB Berlin 2
FungalGenomicsEcology
2 Postdocs and 2 PhD Studentships Biodiversity, Ecol-
ogy, and Genomics of Aquatic Fungi
Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland
Fisheries (IGB) Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Land-
scape Research (ZALF)110 EvolDir February 1, 2014
The Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and In-
land Fisheries (IGB) is the largest freshwater ecology
research institute in Germany (www.igb-berlin.de) and
one of 8 member institutes of the Forschungsverbund
Berlin e.V (www.fv-berlin.de). IGB oers world-class
laboratory and eld facilities for interdisciplinary re-
search and is a founding member of the Berlin Center
for Genomics in Biodiversity Research. The Leibniz
Centre for Agricultural Landscape Research (ZALF)
brings together scientic competence from agricul-
tural science, geo- and biosciences to socio-economics
(www.zalf.de).
Fungi are of central importance for the global carbon
cycle because of their role in the degration of complex
organic matter such as plant material. Fungi also repre-
sent one of the last frontiers of biodiversity, as their tax-
onomic diversity and metabolic potential remain poorly
understood. This is particularly true for those fungi
that are abundant in freshwaters. MycoLink (Link-
ing aquatic mycodiversity to ecosystem function) is an
interdisciplinary project integrating the expertise of 4
Leibniz Institutes: IGB, ZALF, DSMZ, the Leibniz-
Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries
(IGB), the Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Landscape
Research (ZALF), and the Leibniz-Institute of Zoo- and
Wildlife Research in Berlin (IZW). We are seeking to
recruit outstanding young scientists to establish an in-
novative research program, and currently invite appli-
cations for:
2 Postdocs and 2 PhD Students in Biodiversity, Ecol-
ogy, and Genomics of Aquatic Fungi
2 positions (1 PostDoc, 1 PhD student) will focus on
global biodiversity and evolutionary genomics of fresh-
water fungi, using second- and third-generation se-
quencing and bioinformatics to analyse natural popula-
tions and experimental cultures. For further informa-
tion, contact Michael T. Monaghan (monaghan@igb-
berlin.de)(monaghanlab.org).
2 positions (1 PostDoc, 1 PhD student) will focus on
the ecological and functional role of aquatic fungi by
combining state-of-the-art biochemical analyses with
modeling in experimental and natural ecosystems. For
fruther information, contact Hans-Peter Grossart &
Katrin Premke (hgrossart@igb-berlin.de; premke@igb-
berlin.de)
Applicants must hold a Diploma / Masters degree (PhD
student positions) or PhD (Postdoc positions) in a rel-
evant eld. Positions are available for up to three
years. Salary is according to the German Tv oD (Post-
doc: 100%, PhD student: 65% position). Positions will
be based at IGB Berlin, IGB Neuglobsow, and at the
Berlin Centre for Genomics in Biodiversity Research.The institutes of the Leibniz Association strive to in-
crease the proportion of female scientists. Therefore,
female candidates are specically encouraged to apply.
Disabled applicants with identical technical and per-
sonal qualication will be preferentially selected.
Please submit a curriculum vitae (including publication
list), a brief statement of motivation and research in-
terests, and the names and contact information of two
referees. Please send all documents as a single pdf le
to monaghan@igb-berlin.de. Review of the applications
will start on 21 February 2014 and continue until the
positions are lled. Interviews for shortlisted applicants
will take place in March.
monaghan@igb-berlin.de
LeibnizInst EvolutionBiodiversity
WHAT: Postdoc position in Berlin for 2 years
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 14.02.2014
For WHOM: Ecological modeller
SUBJECT: historic biogeography; evolution of biodi-
versity
TO DO:
- Developing SDMs based on climatic and habitat re-
constructions from the late Pleistocene by integrating
recent ndings from phylogeography and stable isotope
analyses
- Coupling SDMs with dynamic/ evolutionary models
to identify pattern of evolutionary history
Dr. Stephanie Kramer-Schadt
Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research A.-
Kowalke-Str. 17 10315 Berlin, Germany Tel 0049-30-
5168-714
kramer@izw-berlin.de
Alexandre Courtiol <alexandre.courtiol@gmail.com >
LeibnizInst Berlin
HostParasiteInteractions 2
*THIS IS A REMINDER (application deadline:February 1, 2014 EvolDir 111
15.02.2014):*
The Department of Ecosystem Research of the Leibniz-
Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries
(IGB) in Berlin together with the Free University of
Berlin, invite applications for the position of:
*Postdoc in Evolutionary Biology*
*Application deadline: 15.02.2014*; Starting date:
May 2014 or as soon as possible thereafter (interviews
will be conducted in March); Duration of the position:
2 years
Project area: *\Host-parasite interactions in aquatic
systems"*
The Postdoc will join the research group of Justyna
Wolinska. The group is currently located at the Ludwig
Maximilian University of Munich (Germany), but will
move to Berlin in March 2014. The candidate is given
the opportunity to develop their own research project.
Depending on the interests / expertise of the Postdoc
candidate, he / she might, for example, work in one of
the following disciplines:
- molecular signatures of host-parasite coevolution in
the wild
- genomics of host-parasite coevolution
- host-parasite coevolution and global environmental
change (including eld, experimental, and/or theoreti-
cal approaches).
So far the group has been exploring *Daphnia*-
microparasites, but suggestions for other model host-
parasite systems are welcome.
The Postdoc will have access to the unique, innova-
tive experimental infrastructure of the IGB, to support
molecular, microbial, and biogeochemical research. In
addition, IGB is an active member of the Berlin Centre
for Genomics in Biodiversity Research. We oer a stim-
ulating working environment with plenty of possibilities
for collaborations within the IGB and Free University
of Berlin. Moreover, the group has established active
international collaborations. Generous funds are avail-
able to cover attendance at national and international
conferences as well as research stays in other universi-
ties.
The ideal candidate should have a PhD in evolutionary
biology, ecology, molecular biology, bioinformatics or a
related eld. Ideally, he / she should have worked on
host-parasite interactions, but this is not a must. We
are seeking a highly motivated person who has an ambi-
tion to stay in academia. A record of successful publica-
tion is expected. We expect strong analytical and data
handling skills and the ability to communicate withina cross-disciplinary research centre. Excellent writing
skills in English, good work ethic, and creative think-
ing are desired. The working language of the group is
English.
Applications should include 1) a letter of interest with
a description of relevant experience, 2) curriculum vi-
tae, 3) a list of publications, 4) a short description of
the proposed research (max. 2 pages, including refer-
ences), 5) names and contact information of three aca-
demic referees. Applications should be submitted as
a SINGLE (!) PDF document to the following e-mail
address: wolinska@bio.lmu.de, with the subject line: \
Postdoc application <your family name >".
Inquiries can be made to Justyna Wolinska, e-mail:
wolinska@bio.lmu.de.
The selection of the postdoctoral candidate will be
based on his or her academic record and proposed re-
search project.
Best regards,
Justyna Wolinska
Justyna Wolinska Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at
M unchen Department Biologie II Evolutions okologie
Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried,
Germany
Phone: +49 (0)89 2180 74201 Fax: +49 (0)89 2180
74204 email: wolinska@bio.lmu.de
http://www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/people/-
assistant profs/wolinska/index.html http://-
www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/ http://-
www.igb-berlin.de/
justyna.wolinska@gmail.com
MNH UBergen BeetlePhylogenetics
There is a postdoc position available in my lab, see:
http://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/-
job/99273/postdoctoral-fellow-in-biosystematics-
phylogenetic-diversity-of-bark-and-ambrosia-beetles
Postdoctoral fellow in biosystematics - phylogenetic
diversity of bark and ambrosia beetles
At the Museum of Natural History, University Museum
of Bergen, a position as postdoctoral research fellow is
available for 2 years in the NFR funded project A
phylogenomic approach to understand the diversica-
tion of bark beetles and associated microbes . The112 EvolDir February 1, 2014
fellow will be associated with the research group Phy-
logenetic Systematics and Evolution at the museum
(http://www.uib.no/rg/pse).
Bark and ambrosia beetles are a species rich group of
wood-boring insects that contain more than 10 % of
the total weevil diversity. This group of wood-boring
weevils shows extreme variation in ecological and bio-
logical adaptations, thus oering great opportunities for
testing exciting evolutionary hypotheses. The postdoc
will focus mainly on comparative phylogenetic analyses
of diversication, particularly in relation to host plant
evolution, symbiosis with microbial fungi, and variation
in reproductive and genetic systems in these beetles.
The research will be based in part on accumulated bi-
ological and ecological data, but additional eldwork
in the Afrotropics may be considered. It will also be
necessary to participate in the reconstruction of large-
scale bark beetle phylogenies. The postdoc will collab-
orate with team members from Michigan State Univer-
sity (East Lansing), University of Florida (Gainsville),
one PhD student (started 2012) and the project leader
at the University Museum in Bergen.
Applicants must hold a PhD degree in evolutionary
biology with relevance to biosystematics. The thesis
must have been submitted by the application deadline.
Applicants should have broad experience with phylo-
genetic research and diversication analyses, or coevo-
lutionary approaches and similar types of phylogeny
based analyses. Entomological expertise and knowledge
about bark and ambrosia beetles is considered an ad-
vantage, but not mandatory. The selected candidate
must document ability to work independently and in
groups, and have a proven record of publishing scien-
tic papers.
Expected starting date is April 2014, but exible within
rst half of 2014. Salary level 57 on the government
salary scale (corresponding to NOK 473,100 per year).
Additional information on the position is available from
the PI, associate professor Bjarte Jordal, phone +47 55
58 2233, e-mail: bjarte.jordal@um.uib.no
Bjarte Henry Jordal <Bjarte.Jordal@um.uib.no >
McMasterU
MolecularEvolutionTheory
A Postdoctoral position is available immediately to
work on theoretical aspects of molecular evolution atMcMaster University under the direction of Dr. Brian
Golding
We are looking for a postdoctoral fellow to develop
theory to analyze sequence data with an eye toward
their molecular evolution and the dynamic change of se-
quences over time. The successful candidate will have
experience in developing theory and in applying this
theory to the massive amounts of data available on the
evolution of sequences.
Requirements: A PhD in bioinformatics, computer sci-
ence, genetics or other relevant topic; a strong back-
ground in statistics; procient in one or more script-
ing languages; experience with the analysis of large ge-
nomic data sets; a good publication record.
The candidate should be able to work independently
and to have demonstrated the ability to develop with a
project by generating new ideas and collaborative skills.
We are particularly looking for candidates that have a
proven publication track record.
Individuals interested in the position should send (1)
a cover letter summarizing their research interests and
expertise relevant to the general area (2) a Curriculum
Vitae, (3) a listing of publications, and (4) the names
and contact information for at least two people who can
provide recommendations. The application should be
sent as a single pdf le to
Dr. Brian Golding Dept Biology McMaster Uni-
versity Hamilton, ON Canada, L8S 4K1 Gold-
ing@McMaster.ca
Montpellier
ModellingClimateAdaptation
Post-doctoral position at CEFE Montpellier, France
*Mechanisms of adaptation to Climate Change: how
will phenotypic plasticity and microevolution aect for-
est tree phenology? *
Starting date: Up to 1 ^st December 2014
Duration: 24 months with possible extension of 12
months
Location: Montpellier, France
Net income is about 1900EUR/month, including pen-
sion and health benets
**February 1, 2014 EvolDir 113
*Overview*
This 24-month post-doctoral project is part of the
French National Research Agency project MeCC
\Mechanisms of adaptation to Climate Change: how
will phenotypic plasticity, microevolution and migra-
tion aect forest tree phenology". The post-doc will
be responsible for carrying out simulations with the
process-based species distribution model PHENOFIT
to address questions about the relative contributions
of microevolution and phenotypic plasticity to adapta-
tion, and will be responsible for integrating adaptive
mechanisms into PHENOFIT. The candidate will be
based at the Center of Functional and Evolutionary Bi-
ology (CEFE) in Montpellier (France), supervised by
Isabelle Chuine and also by Oph elie Ronce at ISEM,
Montpellier. The candidate will also collaborate with
Anne Duputi e, a former Post-doctoral fellow who has
worked in this topic, who is now Assistant Professor
at GEPV, Univ Lille, and with B erang ere Leys, cur-
rently post-doctorate at CEFE with Isabelle Chuine
and Xavier Morin and parameterizing PHENOFIT for
silver r.
**
*Key words*
process-based species distribution model, climate
change, micro-evolution, plasticity, quantitative genet-
ics, niche evolution models, /Fagus sylvatica/, /Abies
alba,/ /Quercus petraea /
**
*Objectives of the post-doctoral project *
There will be two main tasks:
1.The post-doc will be responsible for estimating se-
lection gradients on bud burst dates using the model
PHENOFIT.
Selection gradients, i.e. the variation of the intensity
and direction of selection acting on the trait will be
calculated for sessile oak, beech and silver r in various
contexts: between years in the same location, along
climatic gradients (altitudinal and latitudinal), and in
future climate conditions using dierent climate scenar-
ios. PHENOFIT is a process-based species distribution
model, which simulates, using meteorological data, the
detailed phenology (bud burst, owering, fruit matura-
tion, leaf senescence or bud set), the resistance to frost
and drought of an average tree in a monospecic forest
stand. A new version incorporates also growth, a more
mechanistic representation of the resistance to drought
and the impact of carbon reserves on survival. It has
been parameterized for beech and sessile oak (Cheaib et
al. 2012) and is being parameterized for silver r. PHE-NOFIT provides the annual probability of survival and
a relative reproductive success. PHENOFIT predict
bud burst date each year as a function of accumulation
of chilling and forcing temperature units, using pheno-
logical models modules adjusted to observed variation
in phenology.
To compute selection gradients acting on bud burst
date, we will modify the model, following two ap-
proaches. First, instead of using the bud burst date
predicted by the phenological model as a function of ex-
perienced temperature in the simulation, we will arti-
cially set the bud burst date to a given value and explore
the consequences on dierent tness components such
as mortality and reproductive success. This will allow
us to determine, for each year in the simulation, the
optimal bud burst dates maximizing reproductive suc-
cess and survival respectively. These predictions about
selection gradients on bud burst dates will be tested by
confronting them to empirically derived selection gradi-
ents in a small number of sites obtained. In the second
approach, we will not constrain the bud burst date, but
vary parameters of the reaction norm that describe the
response of bud burst date to temperature (i.e. the
parameters of the phenological models) and similarly
estimate the consequences on tness components. This
will allow deriving optimal reaction norms for bud burst
date taking into account the predictability of the envi-
ronment along the yearly cycle. In both approaches,
predicted yearly variation in mortality and reproduc-
tion will be combined in integrative tness measures,
such as the summed contribution of an average tree to
seedlings production over a given time span.
The model will be used to compute mean tness asso-
ciated with variation in bud burst date at many spatial
and temporal scales. The model can be run on selected
locations or regions from a few kilometers square up to
France or Europe, and on the historical period or the
next decades up to 2100. This will allow us to estimate
selection gradients of bud burst date across the species
range, across the climatic space, and to estimate how
they will vary with climate change following dierent
IPCC
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html114 EvolDir February 1, 2014
NHM London ConvergentEvolution
Postdoc: Natural History Museum - Convergent Evo-
lution
Salary: ^A$27,888 per annum plus benets
Contract: 30 month Fixed Term Appointment
Closing date: Midnight on Wednesday 5th February
2014
The Natural History Museum is one of the world's lead-
ing museums, internationally recognised for its dual role
as a centre of excellence in scientic research and as a
leader in the presentation of natural history through
exhibitions, public programmes, publications and the
web.
The Postdoctoral Research Assistant will work primar-
ily with the PI (Dr Wilkinson) and secondarily with Dr
Ralf Britz and other team members based at the Uni-
versity of Bath. They will have shared responsibility for
the development/invention and prime responsibility for
the implementation and testing of new approaches to
measuring convergent evolution and characterising pat-
terns in its distribution. Method testing may involve
both simulations and empirical case studies, the latter
requiring the integration of data from multiple sources.
They will contribute to scholarly publications and out-
reach. The selected candidate will be procient in inter-
preting phylogenies, interrogating databases, scripting,
and use of relevant statistics.
The ideal candidate will have some familiarity with ver-
tebrate morphology, experience of quantitative com-
parisons of macroevolutionary hypotheses, testing
macroevolutionary trends, collating stratigraphic data,
quantifying morphological disparity.
For a full job description and to apply on-
line please visit the Natural History Museum
website: www.nhm.ac.uk/jobs Mark Wilkinson
<apodauk@gmail.com >
NHM Paris AdaptationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in the genomics of adaptation at
the Natural History Museum in ParisA two-year postdoc is available for an independent,
creative and motivated post-doc to work on the ge-
nomics of adaptation and hybridization in mimetic but-
teries. The postdoc will work with Violaine Llaurens
and Mathieu Joron at the Institute of Systematics, Evo-
lution and Biodiversity at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History in Paris (France).
Our group is interested in the ecological and genetic
changes associated with adaptive wing color patterns in
Heliconius butteries. We are particularly interested in
genomic architectures and the formation of a supergene
controlling a spectacular wing pattern polymorphism
associated with mimicry in the species Heliconius nu-
mata. This supergene is characterized by complex in-
version polymorphism forming long haplotypic blocks,
and a dominance hierarchy of alleles. This adaptive ar-
chitecture appears to have evolved in response to selec-
tion for multiple mimicry forms, but how the variants
corresponding to accurate mimetic phenotypes dier-
entiate is still a puzzle. Processes such as ancestral
polymorphism, large size mutations, or introgression
may be involved, and some seem to be supported by
our currently available resequence and transcriptome
datasets. Our project aims at understanding the evo-
lutionary origins and the functional basis of this ge-
netic architecture in this lineage and how this relates
to closely-related species. The postdoc will be in charge
of developing population genomics approaches towards
the dissection of the history of inversion polymorphism
and recombination in H. numata and close allies, and
transcriptomic/expression analyses to understand the
functional basis of supergene expression.
Butteries in the genus Heliconius have become a
prominent group of insects for evolutionary genomics,
with a rich evolutionary radiation, a reference genome,
and vigorous collaboration between labs within the
Heliconius consortium (www.heliconius.org). This
project, funded by a grant from the Agence Nationale
de la Recherche (ANR), will provide ample opportunity
for the postdoc to develop his/her own original research
ideas.
Candidate prole: A Phd in evolutionary biology, with
a strong interest in population genomics. Experience
with whole genome or transcriptome datasets would be
appreciated.
Income and Starting Date: Net salary will be around
2500 euros net per months, depending on experience.
Starting date in the spring 2014 is desired but is nego-
tiable.
Application deadline: Send us a CV and a cover let-
ter, and the names of two references by 28th February
2014 to the following addresses: joron@mnhn.fr andFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 115
llaurens@mnhn.fr
More information:
http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/joron http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/-
violaine-llaurens http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/mathieu-joron
Violaine Llaurens (CR2 CNRS)
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle Laboratoire
ISyEB - UMR7205 Batiment d'entomologie - CP50 45,
rue Buon 75005 PARIS France
Phone : 00 33 (0)1 71 21 46 96 Fax : 00 33 (0)1 40 79
56 79
WebPage: http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/Violaine-LLAURENS
violaine.llaurens@mnhn.fr
NewYorkBotanicalGarden
SystematicBotany
A postdoctoral position in phylogenetics and evolution
is available at The New York Botanical Garden for the
PBI: Miconieae (Melastomataceae) project working in
the department of Systematic Botany with the Gar-
den's Associate Curator. This research will be produc-
ing an online monograph of all 1,800 species in this
neotropical tribe, including complete descriptions, im-
ages, keys for their identication, and distribution maps
for each species, while continuing to research phylo-
genetic relationships within the tribe. This project
presents a unique opportunity for a highly motivated
individual to carry out eld work in the Neotropics, and
to participate in the production of a large scale taxo-
nomic monograph. Funding is available for 1 year, and
may be extended upon mutual agreement. Applicants
should have a Ph.D. at the start date, experience with
taxonomic descriptions and nomenclature, as well as de-
sire to be involved in all aspects of a multidisciplinary
and international project on angiosperm systematics.
Experience with interactive keys is desirable.
Applicants should apply through the NYBG web-
site (http://www.nybg.org/employment/) and include
a curriculum vitae, statement of research interests, up
to three reprints if available, and the names and contact
information for at least three references. Please refer to
job SC-1715.
Applications will be reviewed, starting on March 1st,
until the position is lled. Starting date is negotiable.
The New York Botanical Garden is an Equal Opportu-nity Employer.
Fabi an A. Michelangeli (fabian@nybg.org)
fabian@nybg.org
Paris AdaptationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in the genomics of adaptation at
the Natural History Museum in Paris
A two-year postdoc is available for an independent,
creative and motivated post-doc to work on the ge-
nomics of adaptation and hybridization in mimetic but-
teries. The postdoc will work with Violaine Llaurens
and Mathieu Joron at the Institute of Systematics, Evo-
lution and Biodiversity at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History in Paris (France).
Our group is interested in the ecological and genetic
changes associated with adaptive wing color patterns in
Heliconius butteries. We are particularly interested in
genomic architectures and the formation of a supergene
controlling a spectacular wing pattern polymorphism
associated with mimicry in the species Heliconius nu-
mata. This supergene is characterized by complex in-
version polymorphism forming long haplotypic blocks,
and a dominance hierarchy of alleles. This adaptive ar-
chitecture appears to have evolved in response to selec-
tion for multiple mimicry forms, but how the variants
corresponding to accurate mimetic phenotypes dier-
entiate is still a puzzle. Processes such as ancestral
polymorphism, large size mutations, or introgression
may be involved, and some seem to be supported by
our currently available resequence and transcriptome
datasets. Our project aims at understanding the evo-
lutionary origins and the functional basis of this ge-
netic architecture in this lineage and how this relates
to closely-related species. The postdoc will be in charge
of developing population genomics approaches towards
the dissection of the history of inversion polymorphism
and recombination in H. numata and close allies, and
transcriptomic/expression analyses to understand the
functional basis of supergene expression.
Butteries in the genus Heliconius have become a
prominent group of insects for evolutionary genomics,
with a rich evolutionary radiation, a reference genome,
and vigorous collaboration between labs within the
Heliconius consortium (www.heliconius.org). This
project, funded by a grant from the Agence Nationale
de la Recherche (ANR), will provide ample opportunity116 EvolDir February 1, 2014
for the postdoc to develop his/her own original research
ideas.
Candidate prole: A Phd in evolutionary biology, with
a strong interest in population genomics. Experience
with whole genome or transcriptome datasets would be
appreciated.
Income and Starting Date: Net salary will be around
2500 euros net per months, depending on experience.
Starting date in the spring 2014 is desired but is nego-
tiable.
Application deadline: Send us a CV and a cover let-
ter, and the names of two references by 28th February
2014 to the following addresses: joron@mnhn.fr and
llaurens@mnhn.fr
More information:
http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/joron http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/-
violaine-llaurens http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/mathieu-joron
Violaine Llaurens (CR2 CNRS)
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle Laboratoire
ISyEB - UMR7205 Batiment d'entomologie - CP50 45,
rue Buon 75005 PARIS France
Phone : 00 33 (0)1 71 21 46 96 Fax : 00 33 (0)1 40 79
56 79
WebPage: http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/Violaine-LLAURENS
violaine.llaurens@mnhn.fr
Plant Evolution
PLANT FELLOWS - The International Post doc Fel-
lowship Programme in Plant Sciences
Next deadline for applications: 31 March 2014 at
17.00.00, Zurich local time
PLANT FELLOWS is an international post doc fellow-
ship programme in the eld of plant sciences co-funded
by the SEVENTH FRAMEWORK PROGRAMME
(FP7) Marie Curie Actions People, Co-funding of Re-
gional, National and International Programmes (CO-
FUND) and is centrally managed at the Zurich-Basel
Plant Science Center.
It is oering post-doc fellowships between 12 and 18
months at universities, research institutions and indus-
try partners all over the world. The fellows of the pro-
gramme can benet from a postdoc training programmeincluding transnational mobility, industrial placements,
career events and courses dedicated to training in entre
preneurship and complementary skills.
PLANT FELLOWS is open to all elds of research
in plant sciences and to applicants of any national-
ity fullling the eligibility criteria as set out in the
PLANT FELLOWS guide for applicants available on-
line: www.plantfellows.ch Do not hesitate to contact
the programme ocer Mrs. Romy Kohlmann (info-at-
plantfellows.ch) for any further questions.
To learn more about the programme activities, the ap-
plication and selection procedures as well as the host
organisations please visit: www.plantfellows.ch Romy
Kohlmann, M.A. ' Programme Ocer PLANT FEL-
LOWS - Zurich-Basel Plant Science Center - ETH
Z urich, LFW B 51 - Universit atstrasse 2 - 8092 Z urich
phone: 0041 44 632 47 96 - fax: 044 632 18 26 (Monday-
Thursday)
Kohlmann Romy <romy.kohlmann@usys.ethz.ch >
SaintLouisU EvolutionaryPhysiology
*THREE-YEAR POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN
**PHYSIOLOGICAL GENOMICS **OR* *COM-
PARATIVE** AND EVOLUTIONARY PHYSIOL-
OGY*
The laboratory of Comparative and Evolutionary Phys-
iology in the Biology Department at Saint Louis Uni-
versity is seeking a postdoctoral fellow in the area of
physiological genomics or vertebrate cardiorespiratory
physiology. Our laboratory is funded by NSF and NIH.
Qualied applicants should have a Ph.D., D.V.M, M.D.,
or equivalent, and be highly motivated with a publica-
tion record. The most competitive candidates will pos-
sess the basic skill set for studies in the physiological
sciences, including the ability to carry-out animal surg-
eries and use basic molecular biology techniques. The
main responsibility of the post-doctoral fellow will be to
lead the laboratory's physiological genomics studies, as
well as contribute to other ongoing projects in the lab-
oratory. Additional experience using genomics analysis
tools such as Trinity, TopHat, Cuinks, Galaxy, and
Partek is highly desirable, but not required. A willing-
ness to learn such programs is a requirement, however.
A starting salary will be commensurate with experi-
ence and benets are included. Start date is exible,
but preference is for May or June 2014.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 117
Our research program is directed at understanding the
physiological mechanisms underlying the extreme abil-
ity of adult painted turtles to survive complete oxygen
deprivation (termed anoxia) for more than 5 months at
3C. Anoxia is a condition the turtles experience while
overwintering in ice-covered ponds. This tolerance also
extends to warmer temperatures, where they can sur-
vive more than 36 hours of anoxia at 20C. This turtle
species is the most anoxia-tolerant tetrapod known.
The postdoctoral fellow will lead a project to examine
the transcriptomic response of turtle heart in response
to cold-acclimation and anoxia using RNA-seq. In ad-
dition, the fellow will participate in the laboratory's
educational outreach initiatives involving the St. Louis
Zoo.
Please email inquiries with a CV to Dr. Warren at the
email address below.
Daniel E. Warren, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Biology
Saint Louis University Macelwane Hall 228 Cell Phone:
314.996.9830
Oce Phone: 314.977.2043 Fax: 314.977.3658
Email: dwarren4@slu.edu https://sites.google.com/a/-
slu.edu/warren-lab/ dwarren4@slu.edu
SciLifeLab Stockholm
Bioinformatics
See https://ki.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:30300/where:4/ Note: Last application
date:09.Jan.2014
*Postdoctoral Scientist in Bioinformatics* The posi-
tion is within an interdisciplinary team in the project
\DIerential Response by INtra Tumour Heterogene-
ity (DIRINTH)" headed by Thomas Helleday, Joakim
Lundeberg, and Erik Sonnhammer at Science for Life
Laboratory in Stockholm, Sweden. This project re-
cently received funding for ve years from AstraZeneca,
and aims at mapping gene expression dierences within
solid tumors at the single cell level.
The project will generate a gene expression prole for
each cell in a matrix of a tissue section, where the ma-
trix contains up to 135000 cells. Analysis of this data
needs to be automated, and a bioinformatics groups is
being established to build infrastructure to store and
analyse the data. This position is mostly focussed on
analysing the expression proles to identify activated
and deactivated pathways in a given cell type. Tothis end, novel statistical methods will be used, such
as Network Crosstalk Enrichment Analysis (NCEA), in
combination with traditional gene enrichment analysis
(GEA). These will be combined with network module
clustering using the MGclus method.
Specic aims:
Develop a pathway annotation pipeline for gene expres-
sion data based on NCEA, GEA, and MGclus.
Integrate the pathway annotation pipeline into the
workow of ST analysis.
Apply the pathway annotation pipeline to ST data, to
be able to functionally characterize activated and deac-
tivated pathways in dierent cell types.
Build a knowledge database for storing and mining ST
data, pathway annotations, and external annotations,
using standardized interfaces to analysis algorithms and
methods.
*Entry requirements *
The successful candidate should have a Ph.D. in bioin-
formatics or related eld, and detailed knowledge of
molecular biology. Familiarity with high throughput
data analysis techniques is essential, as well as a high
level of motivation. Computer programming skills and
knowledge of biological database systems are important
merits.
A person is eligible for a position as postdoctoral re-
search fellow if he or she has obtained a PhD no more
than seven years before the last date of employment as
postdoc.
*Application process *An employment application
must contain the following documents in English or
Swedish:
1. A complete curriculum vitae, including date of the
thesis defence, title of the thesis, previous academic po-
sitions, academic title, current position, academic dis-
tinctions, and committee work 2. A complete list of
publications 3. A summary of current work (no more
than one page) 4. Verications for crediting of illness,
military service, work for labour unions or student or-
ganisations, parental leave or similar circumstances 5.
Verication from the thesis defence committee or the
equivalent (only if the thesis defence is scheduled within
three months after the application deadline)
The application is to be submitted on the NetRecruiter
system, see See https://ki.mynetworkglobal.com/en/-
what:job/jobID:30300/where:4/ Erik Sonnhammer
<erik.sonnhammer@scilifelab.se >118 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Senegal Montpellier
RodentEvolution
*Post-doctoral fellowship - Parasitism, invasion success
and immunoecology : Comparative and experimental
analyses on the invasive house mouse and native ro-
dents in Senegal (Centre de Biologie pour la Gestion
des Populations). *
*Start: *April 2014
*Places: *Senegal (Mbour, Dakar) / France (Montpel-
lier)
*Context and research project*
The Center of Biology for Population Management
(CBGP) oers a 18 month position to work on an ANR-
funded project examining the role of parasites (or their
absence) and immune trade-os in the establishment
and proliferation of murine invasive species.
The aim of this post-doctoral position is to develop
experimental researches to evaluate the role of para-
sites and immune pathways in the success of the house
mouse /Mus musculus domesticus /bioinvasion in Sene-
gal. This work involves experimental infestations and
immune challenges that will be performed on the house
mouse and on native rodents (/Mastomys erythroleu-
cus/) that share similar habitats.
A preliminary study has emphasized parasites that
could play a role in the success of the mouse bioin-
vasion : a helminth with direct cycle (/Aspiculuris/
sp.) and potentially murine malaria (/Plasmodium/
sp.), which are both non pathogenic for humans and
easy to breed in the lab (eg : Gaherwal et al. 2012;
Long et al. 2008). A rst objective is to evaluate the
eects of these parasites on rodent tness through ex-
perimental infestations (cf. Graham /et al. /2011).
Fecundity and immune trade-os could be investigated.
Other experimentations using infestations could also be
performed to disentangle the eects of parasitism vs
immunopathologies on tness decrease (e.g. Long et al.
2008 ; Belloni et al. 2010).
A second objective is to compare immunocompetence
of house mice living on invasion fronts vs in anciently
colonised areas. A preliminary work has shown than
humoral responses were higher in populations from the
invasion front, probably at the expense of inamma-
tory responses (Lee & Klasing 2004). The applicant willtest experimentally this result using immune challenges.
Experiments will be performed in the breeding lab lo-
cated in Mbour (Senegal). The applicant will work with
local ingeneer, technician and students. Immunological
assays will be realised either in Dakar (Elisa tests) or
in Montpellier (multiplex immunoassays).
*Competence required and Procedure*
Ideal candidates would have one or more of the follow-
ing areas of expertise
PhD in immunoecology and post-doctoral experience
Experimental work on rodents; infestations if possible
using helminths or /Plasmodium/
Ability to work in a developing country
Ability to work independently as well as in a team
(management of technicians and students)
Interested applicants should send their
applications to Nathalie Charbonnel
(nathalie.charbonnel@supagro.inra.fr) and Carine
Brouat (carine.brouat@ird.fr)
Applications should include: a CV; a research state-
ment explaining the candidate's previous research expe-
rience and research interests, and contact information
of two or more references.
*Closing date: 31 January 2014***
**
*Literature***
Belloni V., Faivre B., Guerreiro R., Arnoux E.,
Bellenger J., Sorci G. 2010. Suppressing an
Anti-Inammatory Cytokine Reveals a Strong Age-
Dependent Survival Cost in Mice. Plos One
Colautti R.I., Ricciardi A., Grigorovich I.A. and
MacIsaac H.J. 2004. Is invasion success explained by
the enemy release hypothesis? /Ecology letters/ 7: 721-
733.
Gaherwal S., Solanki S. <
http://apps.webofknowledge.com/-
OneClickSearch.do?product=UA&search mode=-
OneClickSearch&excludeEventCong=-
ExcludeIfFromFullRecPage&colName=-
WOS&SID=X2gQX13rA9b4Pad8QaM&eld=-
AU&value=Solanki,%20S >, Prakash
M.M. < http://apps.webofknowledge.com/-
OneClickSearch.do?product=UA&search mode=-
OneClickSearch&excludeEventCong=-
ExcludeIfFromFullRecPage&colName=-
WOS&SID=X2gQX13rA9b4Pad8QaM&eld=-
AU&value=Prakash,%20MM >, Wast
N. < http://apps.webofknowledge.com/-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 119
OneClickSearch.do?product=UA&search mode=-
OneClickSearch&excludeEventCong=-
ExcludeIfFromFullRecPage&colName=WOS&SID=-
X2gQX13rA9b4Pad8QaM&eld=AU&value=-
Wast,%20N >2009.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SmithsonianInst SexualSelection
Postdoctoral Fellowship Opportunity at the Natural
Museum of Natural History
The Natural Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, is pleased to announce a postdoctoral fel-
lowship to work on a project in collaboration with Dr.
Gene Hunt in the Department of Paleobiology. This
project, entitled Does Sexual Selection Promote Speci-
ation and Extinction? A Test Using the Fossil Record
of Ostracodes, combines morphometric measurement of
sexual dimorphism in fossil ostracodes with analysis of
stratigraphic ranges of taxa to test if sexual selection
modulates speciation and extinction rates in these taxa.
Duties will involve morphometric data collection and
analysis, eldwork in the US Coastal Plain, analysis of
stratigraphic ranges, and coordination of research ef-
forts with external collaborators.
The initial appointment is for 12 months. Further
support is possible, depending on the outcome of ad-
ditional fund-raising. Applicants must have attained
a Ph.D. and be able to start the position by August
2014. Stipend will be $45,000 plus a $4,000 allowance
for health insurance.
Ideal candidates would have one or more of the follow-
ing areas of expertise: good quantitative skills, back-
ground in micro- and macroevolution, experience with
microfossils (especially ostracodes) and eld paleontol-
ogy. Above all, however, we are looking for a bright
and productive scholar who is interested in the project.
We welcome applications from candidates with back-
grounds in paleontology, evolutionary biology, or re-
lated elds.
Review of applications will begin February 3, 2014 and
will continue until the position is lled. Interested ap-
plicants, who may be of any nationality, should senda cover letter with a brief statement of research inter-
ests, a curriculum vitae, and contact information for
three references. Materials should be sent via email to
Gene Hunt (hunte@si.edu), who is also the contact for
additional information.
The Smithsonian Institution is an Equal Opportunity
Employer.
jpswad@wm.edu
SouthAfrica MouseAdaption
Postdoc-Position:
Reducing Daily Energy Expenditure as an Adaptive
Responses to Droughts:
Physiology and Behavior
(University of the Witwatersrand, South Arica; Suc-
culent Karoo Research Station; CNRS Strasbourg,
France)
A 24 month postdoc position is available in the elds of
Eco-Physiology and Behavioral Ecology in the Striped
Mouse Research Group www.stripedmouse.com of
Neville Pillay http://www.wits.ac.za/academic/-
science/apes/sta/academicsta/pillay/7019/ and
Carsten Schradin http://www.iphc.cnrs.fr/-Carsten-
Schradin-.html. The postdoc will be employed by
the University of the Witwatersrand, collect data in
the eld at the Succulent Karoo Research Station,
and do lab work at the Institut Pluridisciplinaire
Hubert Curien, D epartement d'Ecologie Physiologie et
Ethologie (DEPE), France's largest eco-physiology lab
with one the world's best isotope laboratories lead by
Stephane Blanc http://www.iphc.cnrs.fr/-Stephane-
Blanc-.html.
Research topic. Biologists study how species survive
and reproduce in a changing world. The postdoc
will study behavioral and physiological adaptation to
droughts, one consequence of global warming, asking
whether and how individuals can decrease their energy
expenditure during periods with low food availability.
Energy availability restricts survival and reproduction
and often changes seasonally, such that animals have
to adjust their energy expenditure. Measuring changes
in resting metabolic rate (RMR) can help us to un-
derstand the extent to which animals can reduce their
basal metabolism during periods of food shortage. Be-
havioral changes, especially reduced activity, might re-120 EvolDir February 1, 2014
duce energy expenditure to a larger extent than a reduc-
tion in RMR can, and both processes might co-occur.
Thus, to answer the question how animals can cope
with reduced energy availability it is crucial to under-
stand whether they can reduce daily energy expenditure
(DEE) and to measure changes in both behavior and in
RMR to understand the underlying mechanisms.
The postdoc will study striped mice (Rhabdomys
pumilio) in South Africa during their annual dry sea-
son. The eld site is well established, and the popu-
lation has been permanently monitored by a team at
the research station for over a decade. All eld tech-
niques have been used successfully previously but not
in combination. The postdoc will measure RMR using
respirometry, and he / she will do behavioral observa-
tions to determine activity budgets. Blood samples will
be collected and analyzed in Strasbourg to determine
DEE, water turnover, and body composition using the
doubly-labeled water method.
Objectives
1. Compare RMR between moist and dry seasons.
2. Compare activity budgets between moist and dry
season.
3. Compare DEE between moist and dry season.
4. By comparing results obtained from 3. with 1. and
2. we will be able to estimate the level of energy savings
due to reduction in RMR and reduction in activity.
5. We can also calculate the water turnover and thus
water savings due to reduced energy expenditure, which
will be crucial to survive drought periods characterized
by water limitation.
6. We will determine body composition (fat content)
during dierent seasons.
Salary: This position is funded by the University of the
Witwatersrand with a very competitive salary of R154
000/ year, which allows for a comfortable standard of
living in South Africa. In addition, medical aid is paid
by the University as well as relocation costs of R10 000.
Starting date: May 2014.
Prole and requirements for the candidate:
- Must have ontained the PhD within the last 5 years
(2009 or later)
- You can produce outstanding academic results!
- Strong background in eco-physiology and/or behav-
ioral ecology.
- Very good writing skills proven by a good publication
record.- Enthusiastic about eld work with the willingness to
spend 6-9 months /year in the eld.
- Good personal skills and working with an established
research team.
- Good technical skills.
- Strong experimental, analytical and statistical skills.
- Good organizational skills and the ability to work in-
dependently.
Applicants should send a cover letter detailing their
motivation and expectations from this position, and
a CV (combined into a single PDF), as well as con-
tact information for two or more referees to Neville
Pillay (Neville.Pillay@wits.ac.za) and Carsten Schradin
(carsten.schradin@iphc.cnrs.fr).
Deadline: For full consideration, send your application
until the 16th
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SwanseaU
EvolutionPathogenResistance
PhD position available at Swansea University
Genetic basis of pathogen resistance in farm and wild
sh populations under inbreeding
Supervisors: Dr Sonia Consuegra (Swansea University;
College of Science); Dr. Jo Cable (Cardi University)
& Dr Marianne Pearson (FishVet Scotland)
Contact email: s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk
Application deadline: 15 February 2014
Project summary
The Department of Biosciences at Swansea Univer-
saity is oering one 4-year Industrial CASE studentship
funded by NERC. This is a collaborative, multidis-
ciplinary project combining evolutionary biology (Dr.
Consuegra, Swansea University) and parasitology (Dr
Cable, Cardi University) with the more applied eld
of aquaculture (Dr. Pearson, FishVet).
The project will investigate the relative role of immuno-
genetic versus genome-wide diversity in pathogen resis-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 121
tance in wild and farmed inbred/bottlenecked sh pop-
ulations. The work will focus on the immune-related
MHC genes and use two model species: the unique self-
fertilising mangrove killish (Kryptolebias marmora-
tus) and Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar).
The mangrove killish is a self-fertilising (selng)
species. Its populations are mostly composed by self-
ing hermaphrodites with extremely low genetic diver-
sity but the ospring of crosses with males have higher
MHC diversity and carry lower parasite loads that
their inbred counterparts. Atlantic salmon is the main
salmonid cultured in the world and its MHC has been
widely studied. Salmon express single unlinked MHC
genes and balancing selection maintains their high lev-
els diversity. Associations between MHC genes and re-
sistance/susceptibility to major salmonid diseases have
been found in farmed populations. In addition, salmon
ospring of MHC dissimilar parents display higher re-
sistance to parasites.
The student will analyse experimental infections at the
aquarium facility at Cardi University (Saprolegnia in
killish) and infection outbreaks in a farm setting in
collaboration with the CASE partner and comparing
resistance of families with dierent degrees of genome-
wide genetic diversity and MHC class diversity. The
project will take advantage of the wide knowledge of
the A. salmon genome (including a recently developed
SNP chip and QTLs identied for IPN) and of the NGS
techniques developed by the main supervisor for MHC
genotyping. It will provide the student a unique combi-
nation of training in the industrial environment (aqua-
culture and veterinary), molecular and experimental
laboratory analyses at Swansea and Cardi Universi-
ties as well as eld experience to collect samples from
wild sh populations.
We seek a highly motivated student with a rst class
or upper second class degree in a relevant biological
discipline willing to work within both a university en-
vironment and an industrial company. Good level of
statistics (ideally with knowledge of R), some experi-
ence in molecular biology/genetics and/or willingness
to carry out eld work in remote locations would be
desirable.
Informal enquiries before the deadline for formal ap-
plications are welcome by submitting a CV and cover-
ing letter outlining suitability for the position to Sonia
Consuegra at s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk.
This NERC Industrial CASE studentship is funded for
48 months, providing a maintenance stipend for 4 years
($13,863 for 2014/2015) plus an additional $1,000
from the CASE partner per year. The studentship
also covers full fees at the UK/EU rate and additionalresearch expenses required for the project. Appli-
cants must meet the UK Research Council eligibility
criteria, including the 3-year residency requirements
in the UK. For details of eligibility requirements
please see http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/eligibility.asp Deadline for applications
is the 15th of February. For details on how to
apply go to: http://www.swansea.ac.uk/biosci/-
postgraduate/phdopportunitiesandresearchtopics/-
geneticbasisofpathogenresistanceinfarmandwildshpopulationsunderinbreeding/-
Sonia Consuegra
Dept Biosciences College of Science Swansea University
Singleton Park SA2 8PP Swansea
Tel. +44 (0) 1792 602931 Email.
S.Consuegra@swansea.ac.uk
http://www.swansea.ac.uk/sta/science/biosciences/-
s.consuegra https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Soa Consuegra
\CONSUEGRA S." <S.Consuegra@swansea.ac.uk >
Sydney MolcularEvolEucalypts
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION: MOLECULAR
AND CHEMICAL ECOLOGY OF EUCALYPTUS
MOLUCCANA
One postdoctoral position is available at the Hawkes-
bury Institute for the Environment at the University of
Western Sydney, Australia.
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment con-
ducts research in a range of areas that include plant
and animal biology, ecology and evolution; pant-animal
and plant-soil interactions; soil microbial ecology; ge-
nomics and bioinformatics; ecosystem function and cli-
mate change biology.
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment (HIE)
is seeking to appoint an energetic and highly motivated
postdoctoral researcher with a demonstrated ability to
conduct outstanding research on the molecular and/or
chemical ecology of plants. The postdoctoral researcher
will be appointed to an academic level A position in the
HIE. This full-time position is available for 2 years with
the possibility of an extension thereafter, pending fund-
ing availability. The successful applicant will focus on
research related to a research project entitled3Psyllid-
induced dieback of Grey Box (Eucalyptus moluccana)
on the Cumberland Plain2. The project addresses the122 EvolDir February 1, 2014
important question of whether the extensive fragmenta-
tion and reduction of the Cumberland Plain Woodlands
in Western Sydney has resulted in a loss of genetic and
chemical diversity of the dominating tree species, Euca-
lyptus moluccana. Discovering this genetic and chem-
ical diversity within and beyond the aected region is
crucial to understanding their role in the chronic area-
wide defoliation of Eucalyptus moluccana by psyllids
(plant-sap feeding insects) in the critically endangered
Cumberland Plain Woodlands. The results will inform
future conservation eorts and strategies and also de-
liver fundamental ndings relevant to eucalypt diversity
and insect-plant interactions.
The successful applicant will work with a team of sci-
entists in the HIE within the Research Theme Plants,
Animals and Interactions. The applicants should have
skills and research experience in the broad area of
molecular and/or chemical ecology of plants. More
specically, the successful candidate will require experi-
ence and knowledge in the elds of population genetic
and genomic analyses and/or analysis of plant chem-
istry relevant to insect attack. Research will be eld
and laboratory based. The Hawkesbury Institute for
the Environment has state of the art laboratory facil-
ities for this type of research, as well as fantastic eld
research facilities. It is based on the Hawkesbury cam-
pus of UWS, located in Richmond, 60 km from central
Sydney, in the close vicinity to the spectacular Blue
Mountains and Wollemi National Parks.
Remuneration Package: Academic Level A $91,289
AUD to $96,851 AUD p.a (comprising Salary $77,140
AUD to $81,840 AUD p.a. plus 17% Superannuation
and Leave Loading)
Closing Date: 16 February 2014
How to Apply: Go to the web site http://-
uws.nga.net.au/cp/ scroll to the job reference 008/14.
Click on the reference number and follow the instruc-
tions at the bottom of the page on 'How To Apply'.
Further information about the Hawkesbury In-
stitute for the Environment can be found on
www.uws.edu.au/hawkesburyinstitute; more informa-
tion about the position can be obtained from Dr
Markus Riegler m.riegler@uws.edu.au.
Dr Markus Riegler Senior Lecturer jHigher Degree
Research Director Hawkesbury Institute for the
Environment University of Western Sydney Locked
Bag 1797, Penrith NSW 2751, Australia phone:
+61-2-4570 1229 jemail: m.riegler@uws.edu.au
web: http://www.uws.edu.au/hie/markusriegler
M.Riegler@uws.edu.auUAB Barcelona GenomeEvolution
*Postdoctoral oer in Comparative Genomics*
I am looking for a highly motivated candidate that
can apply for a postdoctoral fellowship within the pro-
gramme \Postdoctoral Junior Grants 2014" opened by
the Spanish national program (MINECO, Ministerio de
Econom a y Competitividad), opening February 2014.
For more information see:
http://www.idi.mineco.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.791459a43fdf738d70fd325001432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=fc053d664f2410VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&vgnextchannel=
11f35656ecfee310VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&vgnextfmt=
formato2&id3=a9053d664f2410VgnVCM1000001d04140a
The aim of the project is to study the genomic struc-
ture of evolutionary genomic regions in dierent
mammalian species. Interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy, molecular biology and cell biology is required.
Applicants should have a PhD in a relevant area
(evolutionary biology, genomics, genetics and cell
biology). I am seeking for someone with a vivid
interest in evolution research and a strong background
in population genetics/ statistical genetics.
Requirements:
- PhD degree obtained after September 2009.
- Competitve publication record.
- Skills in bioinformatics and/or programming.
What we oer:
- Two years contract.
- The total annual amount stipend will be EUR25,000
gross.
Our group works in the elds of comparative genomics,
evolution and chromosomal instability and, in particu-
lar, we are interested in the mechanisms that are driving
genome evolution and architecture in mammals. For
further information please see our webpage (http://-
grupsderecerca.uab.cat/evolgenom/).
The Universitat Aut onoma de Barcelona (UAB) is lo-
cated close to the city of Barcelona and is one of the
major public universities in Spain. The UAB is inter-
nationally acknowledged for its quality and innovation
in research. It coordinates a potent scientic and tech-
nological centre, which comprises all the departments,
science and technology services, research centres, insti-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 123
tutes and university hospitals aliated with the UAB.
Complete application packages, including a CV, a brief
(1-page) statement of research interests, and the names
and e-mail addresses of two referees should be sent to
Dr. Aurora Ruiz-Herrera (auroraruizherrera@uab.cat)
Application deadline: 10 February 2014.
\Ruiz-Herrera, A" <aurora.ruizherrera@uab.cat >
UCaliforniaIrvine
EvolutionaryGenetics
The Emerson lab at UC Irvine (emersonlab.org) is
soliciting candidates for one or more postdoctoral
positions. For additional information see: http://-
emersonlab.org/jobs Positions will fall into at least one
of two broad categories:
1) Evolutionary genomics in Drosophila species (with
opportunities for both bioinformatics and experimental
foci); 2) Simulation and modeling of phenotypic mod-
els of adaptive evolution (with opportunities for simu-
lation, statistical model development, and theory).
Current projects in the Emerson lab include evolu-
tionary genomics of Drosophila, theoretical models of
phenotypic adaptation, and analysis of experimental
evolution data. Candidates will ideally have interests
broadly relevant to these themes but will also be oered
opportunities to pursue their own interests in evolution-
ary genetics. The successful candidate will also have
a PhD in the following or related elds: evolutionary
genetics, bioinformatics, computational biology, statis-
tics, or experimental genomics (especially high through-
put sequencing).
The Emerson lab is aliated with the department of
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, the Center for Com-
plex Systems Biology, and the Center for Evolutionary
Genetics at UCI as well as the Southern California Evo-
lutionary Genetics Meeting.
Interested applicants should send their applications to
J.J. Emerson here: http://emersonlab.org/contact Ap-
plications should include: a CV; a research statement
explaining the candidate's previous research experience
and future research objectives; and contact information
of two or more references.
For more about jobs in the Emerson lab and academic
and professional environment at UCI, visit: http://-
emersonlab.org/jobs J.J. Emerson Assistant ProfessorDepartment of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Center
for Complex Biological Systems University of Califor-
nia Irvine http://emersonlab.org Contact information:
http://emersonlab.org/contact jj.emerson@gmail.com
UCalifornia Davis Plant
Reproductive Barriers
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION TO STUDY IN-
TERSPECIFIC REPRODUCTIVE BARRIERS IN
TOMATO
A postdoctoral position is available to work on tomato
genetics and reproductive biology at the C.M. Rick
Tomato Genetics Resource Center, Dept. of Plant Sci-
ences, UC Davis.
The goal of the project is to study evolutionary as-
pects of interspecic reproductive barriers in plants.
The postdoctoral scholar will identify and analyze func-
tional diversity for pollen-expressed genes involved in
interspecic and self-incompatibility.
Candidates should have a strong background in phy-
logenetic and genetic analysis, molecular biology, and
plant reproductive biology. Prior experience with the
tomato species or other Solanaceae would be a plus.
The position is available for up to 3 years, starting in
January 2014.
Applicants should send a CV, contact information for
three references, and a cover letter to Roger Chetelat,
trchetelat@ucdavis.edu.
Relevant publications:
Li, W and RT Chetelat (2013) The role of a
pollen-expressed Cullin1 protein in gametophytic self-
incompatibility in Solanum. Genetics. doi: 10.1534/ge-
netics.113.158279
Li, W, and RT Chetelat (2010) A pollen factor link-
ing Inter- and Intraspecic Pollen Rejection in Tomato.
Science 330: 1827-1830.
Li, W, S Royer, and RT Chetelat (2010) Fine mapping
of ui6.1, a gametophytic factor controlling pollen-side
unilateral incompatibility in interspecic Solanum hy-
brids. Genetics 185: 1069-1080.
Bedinger, PA, R Chetelat, B McClure, LC Moyle, JKC
Rose, S Stack, E van der Knaap, Y Baek, G Lopez
Casado, PA Covey, A Kumar, W Li, R Nunez, F Cruz-
Garcia, and S Royer (2011) Interspecic reproductive124 EvolDir February 1, 2014
barriers in the tomato clade: opportunities to decipher
mechanisms of reproductive isolation. Sex. Plant Re-
prod. 24:171-187.
For more information: http://tgrc.ucdavis.edu=-
0Ahttp://biosci3.ucdavis.edu/FacultyAndResearch/-
FacultyProle.aspx?FacultyID=14082 trchete-
lat@ucdavis.edu
UCalifornia SantaCruz
Paleogenomics
POSTDOCTORAL SCHOLAR POSITION IN PALE-
OGENOMICS
The Paleogenomics Lab at the University of Califor-
nia Santa Cruz seeks a postdoctoral scholar to partici-
pate in an international collaboration whose goal is to
improve the eciency of DNA isolation and genomic
library preparation protocols that are used when work-
ing with ancient and historic remains. The Postdoc-
toral Scholar will use these new techniques to develop
a research project within one of the major research
themes of the laboratory, for example how environmen-
tal change and/or inter-species hybridization aects the
distribution of genomic diversity within a population or
species. Full details of the position can be found on our
website: http://pgl.soe.ucsc.edu/ The Paleogenomics
lab uses genomic data isolated from the preserved re-
mains of plants and animals that lived during the last
~1 million years to better understand how genetic di-
versity is generated and maintained within populations
through time. The Lab is jointly run by Professors
Beth Shapiro and Ed Green and combines experimen-
tal and computational approaches to address a variety
of paleogenomics topics.
The successful candidate will work cooperatively with
a team of scientists including molecular biologists, geol-
ogist, paleontologists and biostatisticians to: (1) Rene
laboratory protocols for the extraction, amplication,
and characterization of ancient DNA; (2) Develop new
protocols to enrich ancient samples for genomic tar-
gets of interest, for example specic loci or complete
genomes; (3) Develop a focal project that will add to
the growing body of data describing global changes in
biodiversity within the last 100,000 years.
Minimum and preferred qualications, term of employ-
ment, and salary details are available from the website
listed above.Please send a CV, Statement of Interest, and contact
information for three references to Beth Shapiro at
bashapir@ucsc.edu. Consideration of applications will
begin 20 Feb 2014, and will continue until the position
is lled.
***
The University of California, Santa Cruz is an Ar-
mative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity Em-
ployer, committed to excellence through diversity. We
strive to establish a climate that welcomes, celebrates,
and promotes respect for the contributions of all stu-
dents and employees. Inquiries regarding the Univer-
sity's equal employment opportunity policies may be
directed to: Oce for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
at the University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064;
(831) 459-2686. If you need accommodation due to a
disability, please contact the Academic Personnel Oce
at apo@ucsc.edu (831) 459-4300.
beth.shapiro@gmail.com
UEastAnglia DrosophilaFitness
Post-Doc position: The Drosophila Transferome
Dear Colleagues,
I have a 3 year post doc position open, to start right
away:
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AHY487/post-doctoral-
research-associate/ It is a BBSRC-funded project to
understand how the reproductive transferome (i.e. the
set of ejaculate molecules transferred during mating)
is regulated in order to maximize tness.
The aims are to use Drosophila melanogaster to test
the eect of manipulating regulatory mechanisms (tran-
scription factors, microRNAs, small interferingRNAs,
regulatory 'hubs') on (i) the expression of the transfer-
ome, (ii) its phenoptype and (iii) the ability of individ-
uals to respond adaptively to the socio-sexual environ-
ment.
It's based at UEA, Norwich UK, with project partners
Amanda Bretman (Leeds) and Mariana Wolfner (Cor-
nell).
Any questions or further information please see the doc-
uments available under the above link, or email me:
tracey.chapman@uea.ac.uk
Prof Tracey Chapman School of Biological SciencesFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 125
University of East Anglia Norwich Research Park Nor-
wich, Norfolk NR4 7TJ UK
Phone: + 44 (0)1603 593210 FAX: +44 (0)1603
592250 Web: http://www.uea.ac.uk/bio/People/-
Academic/Tracey+Chapman \Tracey Chapman
(BIO)" <Tracey.Chapman@uea.ac.uk >
UEdinburgh EvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral research position in Chlamydomonas evo-
lutionary genetics at the University of Edinburgh.
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher to join our
team investigating the impacts of spontaneous muta-
tion on tness in the model alga, Chlamydomonas rein-
hardtii. Our BBSRC-funded project aims to under-
stand the link between genotype and phenotype, specif-
ically how random changes in the genome aect gene
expression, protein structure, gene interactions and ul-
timately tness. This research capitalises on over 100
fully sequenced mutation accumulation lines of C. rein-
hardtii. You will execute lab-based research, including
using recombinant mutation accumulation lines of C.
reinhardtii to map the tness eects of individual muta-
tions. In addition, you will be responsible for gathering
expression data for mutated lines.
You should have or will shortly obtain a PhD or equiv-
alent in a relevant subject, as well as a proven ability to
work with and maintain experimental populations and
experience of applying statistical analysis to biological
data.
Within the aims of the project there will be opportu-
nity to develop your own ideas relating to the impacts of
mutation on tness. The grant includes generous fund-
ing to attend international conferences. The position
is for 3 years from 01/05/14. Salary is in the range of
$30,728 to $36,661. For informal enquiries please con-
tact N.colegrave@ed.ac.uk or peter.keightley@ed.ac.uk.
For further details and to apply, please use the link
below
https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.jobspec?p id=024549 pe-
ter.keightley@ed.ac.ukUFlorida PolyploidGenomics
A postdoctoral research associate position is available
in the lab of Dr. Emily Sessa in the Department of
Biology at the University of Florida.
The goal of the project is to use genomic datasets to
explore reticulate evolution in ferns, and the eects of
hybridization and polyploidy on genome structure, gene
expression, phylogenetic relationships, and species con-
cepts.
Duties and Responsibilities: - Carry out eld work and
collect plant material for analysis. - Generate, manage,
and analyze genomic datasets using NGS technologies.
- Prepare manuscripts for preparation in peer-reviewed
journals, write grant proposals, and present results at
national meetings. - Provide supervision and mentor-
ing for undergraduate research assistants and graduate
students. - Prepare and carry out outreach activities in
collaboration with students.
Preferred start date is between July 1, 2014 and
September 1, 2014.
This is an annual appointment and it is renewable an-
nually based on satisfactory performance, needs of the
Department and College, and available funding for up
to 2.5 years.
Minimum requirements. Candidate must have: a Ph.D.
(at date of appointment) in botany, plant biology, ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology, or related eld; pro-
ciency in oral and written English; experience with ac-
quisition and analysis of genomic data; experience in
bioinformatics software and analysis; and demonstrated
experience in preparing publications, proposals, and
presentations. Background or interest in polyploidy,
hybridization, or reticulate evolution preferred.
Review of applications will commence February 15,
2014, and applications are due by March 1. Please ap-
ply online at https://jobs.u.edu/postings/47982 Ap-
plicants should attach: - CV - Cover letter/research
statement (one page) - One representative publication
(can be draft of thesis chapter) - Two letters of recom-
mendation
Contact Emily Sessa at emilysessa@u.edu with ques-
tions.
\Sessa, Emily" <emilysessa@u.edu >126 EvolDir February 1, 2014
UGothenburg
MarineGenomicsBioinformatics
Post-doctoral position in Marine Ge-
nomics/Bioinformatics
at the Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biol-
ogy and the Centre for Marine Evolutionary Biology
(CeMEB).
The application must be received no later than 4th of
February 2014
The department
Research and graduate education at the Department
of Chemistry and Molecular biology comprise a wide
scientic eld from the atomic and molecular levels
all the way through cells to intact organisms. Much
of the phenomena studied here impact on our natu-
ral environment and living systems. We participate
in undergraduate programs in chemistry, molecular bi-
ology, medicinal chemistry, biology, marine sciences,
pharmacy, genomics, bioinformatics and systems biol-
ogy. For more information about the department see:
www.cmb.gu.se/english . The research group
The research group where this post- doc position is
placed is engaged in various marine projects with em-
phasis on functional genomics of osmoregulation and
signalling in unicellular eukaryotes like the yeastsSac-
charomyces cerevisiae and the marine yeast Debary-
omyces hansenii, the diatom Skeletonema marinoi, and
the barnacle Balanus improvisus. In this barnacle
cloning and functional characterization of genes encod-
ing octopamine receptors, pheromones, aquaporins and
Na/K- ATPases have been conducted. The group is
also in charge of genome sequencing projects of eight
marine organisms. This is part of an activity within
CEMEB that is called IMAGO that aims at building
an infrastructure based on novel marine model organ-
isms that are well adapted to explore essential ques-
tions in ecology and evolution. For more information
about the involved research group see the home page
of Anders Blomberg: www.cmb.gu.se/english/sta/-
blomberg-anders The centre for marine evolutionary
biology - CeMEB
The post-doc employed will be part of highly active re-
search consortium at the University of Gothenburg (Ce-
MEB). The Linnaeus Centre for Marine Evolutionary
Biology, CeMEB, brings together a broad expertise inbiology. The main focus is on evolutionary processes
and mechanisms in marine species and populations.
The goal is to increase our understanding of how marine
organisms adapt to new environmental conditions, for
example changing seawater pH, temperature and salin-
ity. CeMEB started in July 2008, when the consortium
was selected for a ten year Linnaeus grant that was
awarded by the Swedish Research Councils. For more
information about CeMEB: www.cemeb.science.gu.se
Job assignments
The project is part of the CeMEB ambitions to
establish eight marine organisms as potent ma-
rine genetic model system as part of the Infras-
tructure for Marine Model Organisms (IMAGO;
www.cemeb.science.gu.se/research/imago-marine-
genome-projects). An essential step in this process is
to nalize the genome sequence of these eight organ-
isms. We currently have in the order of one tera-base
of sequence information in total, mainly based on next
generation sequencing platform Illumina, providing a
rich source of sequence information based on short
reads. We are currently in the process of complement-
ing this source by alternative NGS technologies, e.g.
PacBio, and other means to improve the assembly
process. In several of the genome projects various
novel approaches for genome assembly are currently
being tested and optimised, and for some genomes
we are now approaching a phase of nalizing and
publishing. This two-years post-doc position (with
an option of one additional year) aims at supporting
annotation and publication, both in scientic journals
as well as in local and central databases, of these
marine genomes. The work will also include analysis of
RAD-sequencing and RNA-seq data. One important
aspect of the position is to work closely with the
responsible researchers for the various organisms in
order to explore the genome sequences for interesting
and novel genes and features.
Qualications/eligibility
We are looking for a highly motivated person with a
doctoral degree in bioinformatics or in another relevant
area where the research has been focused on sequenced-
based analysis. Earlier experience of working with large
amounts of NGS sequence data is a necessary require-
ment.
Criteria/assessment
The qualied candidate shall have experience with the
major techniques in Bioinformatics. In addition, you
must have used Linux/Unix systems as well as pro-
gramming in script-based language, such as Perl and/or
Python. It is furthermore a merit if you have used or
created databases for handling and analyses of sequenceFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 127
data, or if you have earlier experience of analysis of
data on population genomics. Understanding of bio-
logical evolution and evolutionary processes, extracted
from sequence
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHaifa EcologicalGenomics
Postdoctoral Position on local adaptation, phenotypic
plasticity, and gene expression
We invite candidates to apply for a postdoctoral fellow-
ship on local adaptation, phenotypic plasticity and gene
expression on two closely related species of re salaman-
ders -Salamandra infraimmaculata in Israel and Sala-
mandra salamandra in Germany (see abstract below).
This is a joint project funded by DIP (German-Israeli
Project) in collaboration with Leon Blaustein (Univer-
sity of Haifa, Israel), Alan R. Templeton (University of
Haifa, Israel), Sebastian Steinfartz (University of Biele-
feld), and Arne Nolte (Max Plank Institute, Plon). The
successful candidate will be responsible largely for de-
signing and conducting the ecological experiments and
aiding in the analysis of gene expression patterns. Al-
though most of the work is to conduct research in Israel,
the opportunity exists to spend 1-2 months per year in
Germany to conduct ecological eld experiments and
lab work on gene expression. The position begins as
soon as possible. Interested candidates should send a
letter explaining research interests and how their back-
ground ts to this study, their cv and arrange 2-3 letters
of recommendation to leon@research.haifa.ac.il and to
temple a@wustl.edu.
Ecological genomics: Analysis of gene expression under-
lying parallel habitat adaptation in distinct salamander
species
Abstract
In a continuously changing world, adaptation to new
or altering environmental conditions is one of the most
elementary and important biological processes. Al-
though we have much data on the consequences of
habitat adaptation at the phenotypic and population
structure levels, we are currently missing, with a few
exceptions, deeper insights into the genetic architec-ture of habitat-dependent adaptation. The study of
parallel adaptive evolution can illuminate underlying
processes and mechanisms. Unlike any other verte-
brate group, amphibian species can show a fascinat-
ing breadth of habitat-specic adaptations to aquatic
and terrestrial habitats. The research teams of this
proposal have studied parallel ecological adaptation to
larval reproductive habitats in two distinct species of
re salamanders - Salamandra salamandra in Germany
and Salamandra infraimmaculata in Israel. By inte-
grating a strong ecological context with genomic ap-
proaches, this research proposal aims at extending the
ecological-genetic framework of parallel habitat adapta-
tion to the level of the transcriptome in order to simul-
taneously screen a large number of genes for patterns
of evolutionary divergence. We will design species-
specic oligonucleotide microarrays based on EST se-
quences of the larval transcriptomes for each species.
These microarrays can then be used to analyze gene
expression patterns under fully natural conditions and
in experimental setups, whereby analyses are inspired
by eld studies that analyze the ecology of salamander
larvae. As salamander larvae are accessible in large
numbers and can be easily manipulated in common
environment experiments, this study system is suited
to explore gene-expression responses to habitat-specic
cues or selection pressures in dedicated experiments
reecting distinct larval habitat types and ecological
parameters. The resulting data will reveal whether
plastic phenotypes contribute to adaptive phenotypic
change and whether they are enhanced by the emer-
gence of genetically xed traits. In addition to tra-
ditional computational methods, we shall use a newly
developed individual-centered approach, using a new
vector-correlation measure to identify genes that are
co-expressed in individuals as opposed to dierential
expression of genes across populations.
Leon Blaustein
Director, Kadas Green Roofs Ecology Center Head,
Community Ecology Laboratory Institute of Evo-
lution and Department of Evolutionary & Envi-
ronmental Biology Faculty of Natural Sciences,
University of Haifa 199 Abba Hushi Rd, Haifa,
3498838, Israel Tel. 972-4-8240736 (oce); 972-
4-9998881 (home) Cell: 054-268-8290; Institute
Fax: 972-4-8246554 http://leonblaustein.wikidot.com
http://evolution.haifa.ac.il/index.php/research/-
research-centers/kadas-green-roofs-ecology Alan R.
Templeton Charles Rebstock Professor Emeritus of
Biology and Genetics Professor of Evolutionary and
Environmental Biology
Department of Biology Washington University St.
Louis, MO 63130-4899 USA Institute of Evolution, and128 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Department of Evolutionary and Environmental Biol-
ogy University of Haifa Haifa 31905, Israel p. 314-935-
6868 f. 314-935-4432 e. temple a@wustl.edu http://-
pages.wustl.edu/templeton
templeton@biology2.wustl.edu
UInnsbruck
NextGenerationSequencing
EVOLUTIONARY SYSTEMATICS, INSTITUTE OF
BOTANY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK PostDoc
position
The Evolutionary Systematics group of the Institute of
Botany seeks to hire a PostDoc with experience in prac-
tical eld work (collection of samples mostly in Europe)
and Next Generation Sequencing (wetlab and bioin-
formatic analysis of restriction site associated DNA
[RAD] sequencing data). The position starts March or
April 2014 (32 hrs/week employment for 36 months).
Centering on the Alpine Space, the group's mission
is interdisciplinary research, embedded in international
collaboration networks. A list of research topics can
be found at: http://www.uibk.ac.at/botany/research/-
biodiversity/vascular plants/index.html.en . The suc-
cessful candidate will conduct NGS-based phylogeo-
graphic studies of a range of steppe organisms, in-
cluding both plants and animals. The project con-
sortium is international and includes members of the
Universities of Innsbruck and Vienna (Austria), Lau-
sanne (Switzerland) and the Real Jard n Bot anico in
Madrid (Spain). The project addresses the following
issues: (1) Did the steppe biota colonize each Alpine
dry valley independently or is there evidence for genetic
exchange among the insular steppe habitats of dierent
valleys? (2) What are the biogeographic connections of
steppe biota from the Alpine dry valleys with other ar-
eas of steppe vegetation in Eurasia? (3) Are phylogeo-
graphic patterns seen in steppe plants and animals con-
gruent, implying range shifts of entire communities or
rather idiosyncratic suggesting individualistic responses
to climatic oscillations? (4) Our phylogeographic ap-
proach will unravel intraspecic patterns of spatial dif-
ferentiation and temporal diversication across steppe
plant and animal lineages. These will then not only be
compared to each other, but also to independent data
sources. Changes of distribution ranges of our study
taxa through time will be hindcasted using environ-
mental niche modeling. A description of the project canbe found at http://www.uibk.ac.at/botany/research/-
biodiversity/vascular plants/steppe-ora.html.en).
***Responsibilities*** 1. collection of samples of
steppe species in Europe (Alps, Eastern Europe) and
Asia 2. optimization of a double digest RAD sequenc-
ing protocol for the study species, barcoding of individ-
uals for pooled analyses 3. processing raw Illumina data
and ltering of SNPs 4. phylogeographic and phyloge-
netic (BEAST, ABC-approaches, etc.) data analyses 5.
species distribution modeling with Maxent 6. leading
role in manuscript writing 7. contact and collabora-
tion with scientists and laboratory technicians at the
Molecular Ecology group, Institute of Ecology, Inns-
bruck University, as well as at other Austrian research
facilities, and internationally
***Selection criteria*** A. PhD degree in life sciences
B. published research experience in molecular system-
atics / evolution / biogeography, especially using high-
throughput sequencing data C. prociency in main-
tenance of Linux systems for bioinformatic purposes,
Biopython, mysql, scripting languages (e.g. awk, Perl,
R) D. experience in the use of relevant software pack-
ages for phylogeographic / phylogenetic analyses E.
ability to conduct eld work for several consecutive
weeks F. ability to work as part of a multi-disciplinary
team G. ability to work independently H. very good
knowledge of English I. a car driving license and expe-
rience in driving are obligatory for the collecting trips
***Salary*** The annual gross salary is Euro 48,968
for a three-year 32 hrs/week employment. The con-
tract includes health insurance and 5 weeks of holidays
annually.
***How to apply*** To apply, please submit by E-mail
to<peter.schoenswetter@uibk.ac.at >: a cover letter,
systematic point-by-point replies as to your readiness
for the responsibilities and how you meet the selection
criteria, brief statement of research interests, curricu-
lum vitae, a complete list of publications and two ref-
erence letters.
Applications must be written in English. Considera-
tion of applications will be ongoing until the position is
lled.
The University of Innsbruck is striving to increase the
percentage of female employees and therefore invites
qualied women to apply. In the case of equivalent
qualications, women will be given preference. An of-
fer of employment is contingent on a satisfactory pre-
employment background check.
***The research institution and its environ-
ment*** Detailed information about the Evolu-
tionary Systematics group can be found at http:/-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 129
/www.uibk.ac.at/botany/units research groups/-
evolutionary systematics.html.en .
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UKansas Biodiversity
The University of Kansas' Biodiversity Institute (BI) is
excited to announce a new postdoctoral position. The
genomics specialist will conduct collaborative research
and oversee the BI's shared-use molecular genetics lab-
oratory. The BI's molecular laboratory is a newly ren-
ovated facility with ample bench space and state of the
art equipment that is located in the KU Natural His-
tory Museum. This laboratory is used by a diverse and
highly interactive group of approximately 25 scientists
who are addressing a range of research questions in sys-
tematics and population genetics using organisms from
across the tree of life (e.g., insects, spiders, plants, sh,
birds, reptiles, amphibians, mammals, invertebrate par-
asites, and viruses).
Because this position is supported by the Institute
rather than an individual PI, it oers considerable in-
tellectual freedom. Our goal is to hire someone who
is interested in developing collaborative projects with
one or more members of our current group. These
researchers already have numerous projects involving
acquisition and analysis of genomic sequence data un-
derway, and are looking to to add some outside talent
capable of taking this work in new directions. We are
hoping to nd someone with prior genomics and bioin-
formatics experience who also has strong organismal
interests and would enjoy working in one of the world's
nest natural history museums.
The position will be for a two year term (with pos-
sible renewal for a third year) and oers a competi-
tive salary ($42-$45K, depending on prior experience).
We will start reviewing applications on February 15th.
The ocial posting lists May 2014 as the anticipated
start date, but we can be exible on this. More in-
formation about molecular genetics group, including
a list of users and projects, can be found at http:/-
/bimoleculargeneticslab.wordpress.com/. The ocial
posting and application site can be found a KU's em-ployment pages http://employment.ku.edu/jobs/4363.
Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions.
Cheers, Rich Glor
Dr. Richard E. Glor Curator, Herpetology Division,
KU Biodiversity Institute Associate Professor, Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of
Kansas Dyche Hall, 1345 Jayhawk Blvd Lawrence, KS
66045-7593 E-mail: glor@ku.edu Cell: (585) 734-8493
On the web: Glor Lab; Anole Annals; Tree Thinkers
glor@ku.edu
UMontpellier SangerInst
ApeMalariaGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Malaria Comparative Ge-
nomics / Evolutionary Biology: Franceville (Gabon),
Montpellier (France), Hinxton (UK)
Postdoctoral position in Comparative genomics / Evo-
lutionary biology at Centre International de Recherche
M edicales de Franceville, Gabon.
We are seeking a highly motivated Postdoctoral Fel-
low to join our team investigating the genetic adapta-
tions to human host environment in *Plasmodium falci-
parum* and *P. vivax*, the two main agents of human
malaria in the world, using the tools of comparative
genomics.
*Project description*: When a host radiation or host
transfer event occurs, it is expected to be accompanied
by adaptive evolutionary changes that allow the para-
site to complete its life cycle in the new host species as
well as being transmitted from individuals to individu-
als in this new host species. Identication of the posi-
tions in the parasite genome underlying the dierences
between host-specic lineages may provide information
about the molecular basis for species-specic adapta-
tion. Our objective is to identify regions of the genome
that have been subject to lineage specic evolution over
the history of *P. falciparum* as well as *P. vivax*in
humans and that may have played a role in the adap-
tation of the pathogen to this host. We will use the
tools of comparative genomics to detect these genomic
regions by comparing the genomes of *P. falciparum*
and *P. vivax*to the genome of their most closely re-
lated species. This will include in particular the genome
of *P. praefalciparum* which was recently discovered
in gorillas and the *P. vivax* sylvatic clade which was
also recently discovered in great apes (chimpanzees and130 EvolDir February 1, 2014
gorillas). Genomic data are already available for imme-
diate start of the analysis.
*Research environment*: The postdoctoral fellow will
work directly in the group of Dr Franck Prugnolle
in close collaboration with Dr Thomas Otto and Dr
Mathew Berriman (Sanger Institute, UK), Dr Fran cois
Renaud (CNRS, France, Laboratory MIVEGEC) and
Dr Benjamin Ollomo (CIRMF, Gabon). For the rst
year, at least, the post-doctoral fellow will be based in
Gabon at the International Center for Medical Research
in Franceville but missions in Europe will be done for
data analyses. The CIRMF comprises 15 researchers of
dierent nationalities, working on a variety of key issues
in parasitology, including the study of emerging dis-
eases, entomology, ecology and evolution. The Sanger
Institute is an institute of reference for comparative ge-
nomics. The Laboratory MIVEGEC in Montpellier is
considered as a laboratory of excellence for the study
of host / parasite systems and interactions.
*Qualications*: A PhD degree in Evolutionary Bi-
ology / Evolutionary genetics is required. The PhD
degree should have been awarded no more than two
years prior to the date of application. The applicant
should be well acquainted with theories in evolution
and population genetics and genomics. Ability to man-
age a laboratory research project is also required. Doc-
umented experience in genomics, programming, statis-
tics and parasitology will also be highly valued. The
candidate must have a good knowledge of English. Se-
lection will be based on the written application, CV,
personal references and an interview. For more infor-
mation, please contact Dr Franck Prugnolle by *email*
(franck.prugnolle@ird.fr).
*Form of employment:* Temporary employment for 2
years.
*Place of work:* Franceville (Gabon) for at least a year.
Then possibility to be located in Montpellier (France,
Laboratory MIVEGEC, IRD).
*Starting date:* As soon as possible. Application:
Please submit your application to Dr Franck Prug-
nolle (franck.prugnolle@ird.fr) and Dr Thomas Otto
(tdo@sanger.ac.uk).
*Salary:* 2032 euros per month. In Gabon, the post-
doctoral fellow will be accommodated for free.
*Selected publications of the persons involved in the
project: *
*Prugnolle F*, Rougeron V, Becquart P, ^ a. *Renaud
F*. 2013. Diversity, host switching and evolution
of *Plasmodium vivax* infecting African great apes*.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 110(20):8123-8**Prugnolle F*, *Ollomo B*, Durand P, Yalcindag
E, Arnathau C, et al., 2011: African monkeys
are infected by *Plasmodium falciparum* nonhuman
primate-specic strains. *Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A*
108(29): 11948-11953.
*Prugnolle F*, Durand P, Neel C, *Ollomo B*, Ayala
FJ et al. *Renaud F.*, 2010: African great apes are
natural hosts of multiple related malaria species, in-
cluding *Plasmodium falciparum*. *Proc Natl Acad
Sci U S A* 107(4): 1458-1463.
*Ollomo B*, Durand P, *Prugnolle F*, Douzery E, Ar-
nathau C et al., 2009: A new malaria agent in African
hominids. *PLoS Pathog* 5(5): e1000446.
*Prugnolle F*, McGee K, Keebler J, Awadalla P, 2008:
Selection shapes malaria genomes and drives divergence
between pathogens infecting hominids versus rodents.
*BMC Evol Biol* 8: 223.
Spence PJ, Jarra W, L evy P, Reid AJ, Chappell L,
Brugat T, Sanders M, *Berriman
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UNorthCarolina Charlotte
EvolutionInfectiousDiseases
UNC-Charlotte's Bioinformatics and Genomics Depart-
ment is engaged in a multi-year expansion. In addi-
tion to the new $35M Bioinformatics Building the de-
partment has the leadership role in Bioinformatics in
the North Carolina Research Campus (NCRC) in Kan-
napolis. NCRC is a $1B research park that is becom-
ing home to academic and industrial research. As a
whole our programs goals are to use these platforms to
perform research and teaching in the elds that bioin-
formatics touches upon including but not limited to:
defense, agriculture, health care, and natural sciences.
Some of our work is illustrated here: http://-
viscenter.uncc.edu http://supramap.org We seek a
Bioinformatics Research Associate with M.S. or Ph.D.
in a technical eld and experience in the following:
Java, R, GIT, KML, biomedicine, evolution, and vi-
sual analytics. The bioinformatics research associate
will initially work closely with stakeholders in studiesFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 131
of the evolution of infectious diseases to integrate soft-
ware components to each other into a novel workow.
The research associate will also prepare demonstrations
as well as written and pictorial presentations for use by
supervisors.
We seek a creative individual who will bring novel skills
to a scientic team and contribute to existing and new
projects with those skills. The authority and discre-
tion the individual has will be a function of conclusions
made in design meetings. Action items and milestones
will be assigned in meetings and follow up will be ex-
pected.
unccpostdoc@gmail.com
UOldenburg
BiodiversityDeterminants
Postdoctoral Position 'Determinants of local biodiver-
sity in a marine-terrestrial environment'
within the project \Biodiversity eects on ecosystem
functioning across marine and terrestrial ecosystems
(BEFmate)"
Rationale
The BEFmate project is a new biodiversity-ecosystem
functioning experiment focusing on island colonization
in the North Sea (Germany).
We aim at understanding biodiversity-ecosystem func-
tion relationships across marine and terrestrial ecosys-
tems in space and time.
A particular focus of the subproject PD.A1 is the syn-
thesis of information on determinants of local biodiver-
sity (i.e., at the level of communities) and how bio-
diversity relates to functional aspects of these com-
munities. The Postdoc will make use of existing in-
formation on biodiversity present in the disciplinary
scientic communities (marine, freshwater, and terres-
trial ecology) and synthesize these based on hypothe-
ses derived from major ecological frameworks. Both
ecological stoichiometry and metabolic theory of ecol-
ogy promise to predict the functioning of ecosystems
across organism groups and ecosystems. Therefore, we
intend to test whether the consequences of species loss
can be predicted from organism traits (such as body
or genome size), abiotic conditions (such as tempera-
ture) and biotic interactions (such as competition for
resources and trophic interactions) across aquatic andterrestrial ecosystems, address whether resource supply
also alters community composition through genome size
constraints on organisms across ecosystems, and nally
analyze whether resource stoichiometry allows predict-
ing patterns in biodiversity and the functional role of
species. For these subtasks, we will employ quantitative
meta-analysis statistics and comparative phylogenetic
methods.
The project will be tightly integrated with other sub-
projects, involving several PIs (especially Prof. Helmut
Hillebrand and Prof. Dirk Albach), ve other Postdocs
and eight doctoral students.
Requirements
Above average doctoral or PhD degree in biology, ecol-
ogy, evolution or related disciplines with proven publi-
cation in scientic journals.
Further requisite is knowledge in ecological synthesis,
phylogenetics, as well as statistical knowledge (prefer-
ably R) and handling of large datasets.
Salary and conditions
Salary will be according to TVL E13 (100%). Start
date: March 1, 2014. The position is for three years.
The doctoral thesis will be written
as a series of English manuscripts.
Applications
The deadline for applications is January 30, 2014.
Application documents must include the following:
the reference number: PD.A1
a curriculum vitae (in tabular format)
a list of publications, talks and posters
copies of certicates
letter(s) of reference
Please send your application as a single PDF document
to: Prof. Helmut Hillebrand, helmut.hillebrand@uni-
oldenburg.de (or by post to Prof. Dr. Helmut Hille-
brand, Universit at Oldenburg, Postfach 2503; 26111
Oldenburg)
Prof. Dr. Dirk C. Albach
AG Biodiversit at und Evolution der Panzen
Institut f ur Biologie und Umweltwissenschaften
Carl von Ossietzky-Universit at Oldenburg
Carl von Ossietzky-Strasse 9-11
D-26111 Oldenburg
Germany/Deutschland132 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Tel.: 0049 (0)441 7983339 Fax: 0049 (0)441 7983331
http://www.plant-evol.uni-oldenburg.de/ Dirk Albach
<dirk.albach@uni-oldenburg.de >
UReading FossilsAndPhylogenetic-
Macroevolution
School of Biological Sciences, University of Reading,
UK.
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER IN FOSSILS
AND PHYLOGENETIC MACROEVOLUTION
START DATE: April 2014 (or a soon as possible there-
after) APPLICATION CLOSING DATE: 23 February
2014
We seek to appoint a postdoctoral researcher who will
be an integral part of a research project on 'The evolu-
tionary paths to diversity and innovation' supported by
a Leverhulme Trust Research Programme Grant (PI: Dr
Chris Venditti; Co-Is: Dr Andrew Meade and Professor
Mark Pagel). The project will involve a series of inves-
tigations designed to understand how evolutionary di-
vergence accumulates through time and interacts with
biological novelty. A fundamental part of this project is
the incorporation of fossil information in to macroevo-
lutionary studies. As such the appointed postdoctoral
researcher will be involved in constructing phylogenetic
trees that include fossil species, collecting data on fos-
sil and extant species as well as using and developing
novel phylogenetic comparative techniques. Dissemina-
tion of results via conference presentations and research
papers are also among the main responsibilities.
INFORMAL ENQUIRIES ARE ENCOURAGED AND
SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO DR CHRIS VENDITTI
(c.d.venditti@reading.ac.uk).
YOU WILL HAVE: - A PhD in a relevant subject (or
one to be submitted before the start date) - Knowledge
of paleobiology and the fossil record - Understanding
of phylogenetic comparative methods and phylogenetic
inference - The ability to conduct statistical analyses
appropriate for the study of large scale evolutionary
processes - Excellent analytical, quantitative and com-
putational skills - The ability to eciently perform data
collection and mining - The ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary environment and as a member of cohesive
team
FORMAL APPLICATION PROCESS AND MOREDETAILS: please visit www.reading.ac.uk/jobs (job
reference number: RS14002)
sar04cdv@reading.ac.uk
URhodeIsland GeneticVariation
Multicultural Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Genetics
The Department of Biological Sciences in the College of
the Environment and Life Sciences at the University of
Rhode Island is seeking a Multicultural Post-Doctoral
Fellow with expertise in genetics and a commitment to
bringing multicultural perspectives to the curriculum,
department, college, and university.
The successful candidate will have a doctoral degree in
an area of genetics or related eld relevant to an un-
derstanding of the genetic basis of variation and diver-
sity. The research eld may include but is not restricted
to developmental, evolutionary, or population genetics;
genetic and genomic informatics; or mechanisms of gene
regulation.
The appointment is for the 2014-2015 calendar year.
Subject to a favorable review of teaching and schol-
arly activities, the Fellow may be provided with an
opportunity to transition into a full-time, tenure-track
faculty position. The Fellow will contribute to teach-
ing undergraduate and/or graduate courses in genetics
each semester and will be encouraged to pursue his/her
scholarly interests. The Department will provide men-
toring toward professional growth.
Please attach the following (PDF) documentation to
the online Employment Application: (1) A cover letter
that addresses eligibility requirements and should in-
clude demonstrated evidence of understanding of and
commitment to bringing multicultural perspectives to
the curriculum, research, teaching, and service, and
promoting the success of those in underrepresented
groups; (2) A CV that includes the names and con-
tact information for three individuals who will serve
as references and who are familiar with your research
and teaching qualications; (3) A one-page statement
of teaching philosophy; (4) Under ?Other Document,?
please include a one-page description of research inter-
ests and accomplishments. Visit our website at https:/-
/jobs.uri.edu to apply and to view the complete details
for job post (#6001336). Applications will close Jan-
uary 27, 2014. Only online applications are accepted.
For information about the Biological Sciences Depart-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 133
ment at the University of Rhode Island, please go to
http://cels.uri.edu/bio/. The University of Rhode Is-
land is an AA/EEOD employer and values diversity.
Marian Goldsmith <mki101@etal.uri.edu >
USouthBohemia
PlantInsectEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Tropical Ecology
Novotny Lab, Biology Centre of the Academy of Sci-
ences & University of South Bohemia, the Czech Re-
public
We are seeking a highly motivated and productive
postdoctoral researcher to join our international team
studying plant-insect food webs in tropical forests. The
successful applicant will develop ecological, statistical,
molecular or phylogenetic analyses of large data sets on
plant-insect food webs. In addition, s/he will be able
to develop an independent project, use our excellent
tropical eld research facilities in Papua New Guinea
and collaborate closely with our partners at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota and the Smithsonian Institution.
S/he will also contribute to the design of further studies
of food webs, help apply for grant support and mentor
graduate students.
Information on our research team:http://-
www.entu.cas.cz/png/cv-novotny-vojtech-lab.html
Eligibility: A completed PhD degree is required.
Applicants from all countries are eligible.
Salary: Euro 14,000 - 24,000 pa
Limit of tenure: initially one year, expandable to three
years.
Location: Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic.
More details on the position:http://www.entu.cas.cz/-
png/brc-vacancies.htm Application process: Send the
application including CV, names of three referees, and
a cover letter stating your previous work, qualication
and motivation by email to Prof. Vojtech Novotny
[novotny@entu.cas.cz]. Review of applications will be-
gin on 15th February and will continue until the posi-
tion has been lled. The position is available from 1st
April 2014.
Research elds: ecology, conservation biology, tropical
forests, insect-plant interactions
tmfayle@gmail.comUSouthernCalifornia
ComputationalBiol
We are seeking two postdocs, one computational and
one experimental, for work on a large behavioural ge-
netics project in Drosophila melanogaster.
The computational/analytic postdoctoral researcher
will require experience and strong computational skills
in one or more of the following areas: machine learn-
ing, computer vision, agent-based simulation, Bayesian
statistics and bioinformatics. The successful appli-
cants may variously need to optimise software silhou-
ette detection and feature annotation software for video
data, develop machine learning algorithms for trajec-
tory analysis and behavioural recognition algorithms,
develop conceptual or simulation models, and paral-
lelise these on CPUs or GPUs.
The experimental postdoctoral researcher should have
experience with high throughput genetic techniques,
including genotype sequencing and library prepa-
ration, and gene expression analysis. Familiarity
with Drosophila culturing and experimental techniques
would be welcome, but are not required. The successful
applicant will variously need to conduct crosses, design
and set up behavioural experiments, and process and
analyse genetic data.
We are a large collaborative and interactive team lo-
cated jointly at the Program in Molecular and Com-
putational Biology at USC and the Keck School of
Medicine of USC, in the heart of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia. We are supported by an NHGRI Center of Ex-
cellence in Genomic Science and multiple NIMH and
NSF grants to study genetic variation in population
and community contexts, and to model the mechanics
and genetics of complex social behaviour. The postdocs
will be jointly advised by Sergey Nuzhdin, Paul Marjo-
ram, Simon Tavar e and Gary Chen, and will closely col-
laborate with several other Faculty and approximately
20 other team members, including computational and
experimental scientists, and a large team of motivated
undergraduate researchers.
Please send a statement of interest, CV, and names of
3 referees to Paul Marjoram <pmarjora@gmail.com >
and Sergey Nuzhdin <snuzhdin@usc.edu >. Considera-
tion of applications will be ongoing until the positions
are lled.134 EvolDir February 1, 2014
brfoley.usc@gmail.com
USouthernCalifornia
SpeciationGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION TO STUDY THE
EVOLUTIONARY ORIGIN AND ACCUMULATION
OF HYBRID INCOMPATIBILITIES IN THE COPE-
POD TIGRIOPUS CALIFORNICUS
The position is available in the lab of Suzanne Edmands
in the Department of Biological Sciences at the Uni-
versity of Southern California (lab website: https://-
dornsife.usc.edu/labs/edmands/).
The goal of this NSF-funded project is to map hybrid
incompatibilities in a series of crosses chosen from a
multi-locus phylogeny, allowing incompatibilities to be
mapped to specic branches of the phylogeny. The
work focuses on the copepod Tigriopus californicus, a
non-model organism with a recently-assembled genome
which diers from more standard models of speciation
genetics in that it lacks heteromorphic sex chromo-
somes.
The postdoc would be involved in setting up and main-
taining interpopulation crosses, genotyping (including,
but not limited to, ddRADseq) and statistical analy-
ses (including, but not limited to, QTL mapping). The
ideal candidate would have a strong background in evo-
lutionary and quantitative genetics, with experience in
bioinformatics and next gen sequencing. The position is
available for 2.5 years with a exible start date, prefer-
ably before June 2014.
Please send a statement of interest, CV, and contact
information for 3 references to Suzanne Edmands at
sedmands@usc.edu. Consideration of applications will
continue until the position is lled.
Suzanne Edmands Professor Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences 3616 Trousdale Parkway, AHF 316 Uni-
versity of Southern California Los Angeles, CA 90089
(213)740-5548 http://dornsife.usc.edu/labs/edmands/
edmandss@gmail.com
USydney EvolutionOfVirulencePOSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE - EVO-
LUTION OF VIRULENCE IN VIRAL PATHOGENS
FACULTY OF SCIENCE, SCHOOL OF BIOLOGI-
CAL SCIENCES, UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY, AUS-
TRALIA REFERENCE NO. 2580/1113
- Further develop your research prole on an Australian
Research Council Discovery Grant project - Phyloge-
netic analysis, bioinformatics and evolutionary biology
- Full-time, xed term 3 years; remuneration package:
up to $99K p.a.
The University of Sydney is Australia's rst University
with an outstanding global reputation for academic and
research excellence. It employs over 7500 permanent
sta supporting over 49,000 students. The University's
School of Biological Sciences has over 30 academic sta
members who are active in teaching, research, and have
outstanding international reputations.
Applications are sought for a Postdoctoral Research As-
sociate positions to participate in a new research pro-
gramme investigating the evolution of virulence in viral
pathogens, using caliciviruses of rabbits as a model sys-
tem. The project is funded by an Australian Research
Council Discovery Grant held by Professor Edward C.
Holmes (NHMRC Australia Fellow).
Rabbit Haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) is a cali-
civirus that is used widely in Australia and New
Zealand to control overabundant rabbits, a major en-
vironmental and economic pest. It is an example of
an emerging disease that likely evolved from a non-
virulent predecessor via mutation into an extremely vir-
ulent virus. However, the nature of these mutations
remains unknown. The rst part of the project will
involve sequencing of large numbers of non-pathogenic
and pathogenic calicivirus sequences for genetic anal-
ysis, aimed at identifying the likely ^ agenetic switches'
responsible for the acquisition of virulence and tissue
tropism. The second part of the project will involve the
design and development of recombinant viral genomes
in order to deactivate the proposed genetic switches,
and the subsequent testing of these viruses in the rab-
bit host.
This is an outstanding opportunity to further develop
your research career in a specialised eld under the
guidance and mentoring of highly regarded research
academics. As this is a collaborative project with
CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences in Canberra, you will be
largely based in Canberra for the laboratory work.
To succeed you will have: - a PhD and a record of pub-
lished research as sole author or in collaboration on a
related subject area (e.g. virology, molecular evolution,
biocontrol)February 1, 2014 EvolDir 135
- strong demonstrated skills in molecular biology and
virology with a good understanding of the key aspects
of virus biology
- experience in Bioinformatic analysis (i.e. computa-
tional biology) of gene and genome sequences
- keen interest in phylogenetic analysis, bioinformatics
and evolutionary biology
- demonstrated experience in planning, conducting and
interpreting next-generation sequencing data and anal-
yses
- willingness to work with laboratory animals for re-
search purposes
- demonstrated ability to conduct research/scholarly ac-
tivities under limited supervision either independently
or as a member of a team, and to facilitate collabora-
tions with other research groups
- good written and verbal communication skills, experi-
ence in research record keeping, preparation of research
papers and seminars.
The position is full-time xed term for three years sub-
ject to the completion of a satisfactory probation pe-
riod for new appointees. Membership of a University
approved superannuation scheme is a condition of em-
ployment for new appointees.
Remuneration package: up to $99K including base
salary up to level A step 7, leave loading and up to
17% superannuation. Some support towards relocation
and visa sponsorship will be available for the successful
appointee if required.
All applications must be submitted via the Uni-
versity of Sydney careers website. Visit syd-
ney.edu.au/recruitment and search by the reference
number for more information and to apply.
CLOSING DATE: 31 January 2013 (11:30pm Sydney
time)
The University is an equal opportunity employer com-
mitted to equity, diversity and social inclusion. Ap-
plications from equity target groups and women are
encouraged. The University of Sydney has also estab-
lished a scheme to increase the number of Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander sta employed across the in-
stitution. Applications from people of Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander descent are encouraged.
PROFESSOR EDWARD C. HOLMES NHMRC Aus-
tralia Fellow
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY Marie Bashir Insti-
tute for Infectious Diseases & Biosecurity, School of Bi-
ological Sciences and Sydney Medical School, MacleayBuilding A12jThe University of Sydney jSydneyj
NSWj2006jAustralia T +61 2 9351 5591 F +61 2
9351 3890 E edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au
Edward Holmes <edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au >
USydney VirusEvolution
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE -
VIRUS EVOLUTION FACULTY OF SCIENCE,
SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, UNIVER-
SITY OF SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA REFERENCE NO.
2581/1113
- Further develop your research prole on an NHMRC
funded project
- Evolutionary analysis of viral gene and genome se-
quences with experience in Bioinformatic analysis
- Full-time, xed term 2 years; remuneration package:
up to $99K p.a., further oers may be possible subject
to funding and need
The University of Sydney is Australia's rst University
with an outstanding global reputation for academic and
research excellence. It employs over 7500 permanent
sta supporting over 49,000 students. The University's
School of Biological Sciences has over 30 academic sta
members who are active in teaching, research, and have
outstanding international reputations.
We have a postdoctoral research position available to
work with a new research program on various aspects
of virus evolution, emergence and epidemiology being
established by Professor Edward C. Holmes (NHMRC
Australia Fellow). Particular areas of research inter-
est include (i) molecular evolution and epidemiology of
RNA and DNA viruses, particularly those that pose a
threat to Australia, (ii) the evolutionary genetic basis of
cross-species transmission and emergence in a number
of model systems, notably parvoviruses and inuenza
viruses (in collaboration with Dr. Colin Parrish, Cor-
nell University), and (iii) to conduct comparative phy-
lodynamic analyses on a wide range of human and an-
imal viruses.
You will also be expected to take part in collabora-
tive projects with other research groups in Australia
and overseas and will have the opportunity to produce
and contribute to scientic research publications and to
take on responsibility for graduate student supervision
where appropriate.136 EvolDir February 1, 2014
To succeed you will have:
- a PhD and a record of published research in areas
related to molecular evolution, computational biology
and/or virology
- experience with the evolutionary analysis of viral gene
and genome sequences including phylogenetic analysis
and Bayesian coalescent analysis
- published research as sole author or in collaboration
on the subject described above (i.e. the molecular evo-
lution of viruses and comparative genomics)
- experience in Bioinformatic analysis (i.e. computa-
tional biology) of gene and genome sequences
- good working knowledge of microbiology with a par-
ticular focus on virology and good understanding of the
key aspects of virus biology
- demonstrated ability to conduct research/scholarly ac-
tivities under limited supervision either independently
or as a member of a team, and to facilitate collabora-
tions with other research groups
- good organisational and administrative skills with at-
tention to detail and good written and verbal commu-
nication skills, experience in research record keeping,
preparation of research papers and seminars.
This is an outstanding opportunity to further develop
your research career in a specialised eld under the
guidance and mentoring of highly regarded research
academics.
The position is full-time xed term for two years sub-
ject to the completion of a satisfactory probation period
for new appointees; further oers may be available sub-
ject to funding, need and performance. Membership
of a University approved superannuation scheme is a
condition of employment for new appointees.
Remuneration package: up to $99K including base
salary up to level A step 7, leave loading and up to
17% superannuation. Some support towards relocation
and visa sponsorship will be available for the successful
appointee if required.
All applications must be submitted via the Uni-
versity of Sydney careers website. Visit syd-
ney.edu.au/recruitment and search by the reference
number for more information and to apply.
CLOSING DATE: 31 January 2013 (11:30pm Sydney
time)
The University is an equal opportunity employer com-
mitted to equity, diversity and social inclusion. Ap-
plications from equity target groups and women are
encouraged. The University of Sydney has also estab-lished a scheme to increase the number of Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander sta employed across the in-
stitution. Applications from people of Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander descent are encouraged.
PROFESSOR EDWARD C. HOLMES NHMRC Aus-
tralia Fellow
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY Marie Bashir Insti-
tute for Infectious Diseases & Biosecurity, School of Bi-
ological Sciences and Sydney Medical School, Macleay
Building A12jThe University of Sydney jSydneyj
NSWj2006jAustralia T +61 2 9351 5591 F +61 2
9351 3890 E edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au
Edward Holmes <edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au >
UTulsa
BiodiversityClimateVariability
Postdoctoral Position in Biodiversity and Climate Vari-
ability
A postdoctoral position is available in the Department
of Biological Science at the University of Tulsa. The
position is part of the highly integrative NSF EPSCoR
project on the socio-economic impacts of climate vari-
ability in Oklahoma. This project includes Biologists,
Ecologists, Climatologists, Hydrologists, Sociologists,
and Economists from the University of Tulsa, Univer-
sity of Oklahoma, Oklahoma State University, and the
Nobel Foundation. The Department of Biological Sci-
ence at the University of Tulsa is serving as the biodi-
versity contingent of the project.
The postdoc will primarily be responsible for work-
ing on Oklahoma biodiversity/climate related research
projects with faculty at the University of Tulsa and col-
laborators. The postdoc will also teach a one semester
(per year) graduate/undergraduate GIS based course
on ecological modeling. The postdoc will have access to
training and interactions with researchers at the world
class South Central Climate Science Center in Norman,
Oklahoma. This position has potential for high re-
search productivity, and acquiring teaching experience
and specialized training.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Biology or a related
discipline prior to the start of the appointment (June
2014). The position requires signicant experience with
Geographic Information Systems (GIS); particularly
with relevance to problems of biodiversity, conserva-
tion, ecology, and evolution.February 1, 2014 EvolDir 137
The University of Tulsa is a private institution with
~4,500 students (3/4 undergraduate and 1/4 graduate
students): http://www.utulsa.edu Faculty and gradu-
ate students in our department study biodiversity of
algae, bacteria, fungi, amphibians, shes, mammals,
insects, and viruses. Tulsa is a vibrant city (pop.
~550,000) located in the Green Country of northeast-
ern Oklahoma. Tulsa has all the amenities of major US
cities, but with relatively low cost of living.
To apply, please send a letter of Intent, CV, and con-
tact information for three references to: Ron Bonett
(ron-bonett@utulsa.edu), by February 15th 2014.
The position can start on or after June 1st 2014.
Ronald M. Bonett, Ph.D. Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biological Science 800 S. Tucker Drive Univer-
sity of Tulsa Tulsa, OK 74104
Email: ron-bonett@utulsa.edu Oce: (918) 631-3328
Lab: (918) 631-3327 http://ronbonett.weebly.com/-
index.html \Bonett, Ron" <ron-bonett@utulsa.edu >
UdeLisboa EvolutionaryBiology 2
One Post-doctoral Fellowship is open until january 19th
by the Fundacao da Faculdade de Ciencias da Univer-
sidade de Lisboa, within the project \History, chance
and selection during local adaptation: a genome-wide
analysis"/ Centro de Biologia Ambiental (PTDC/BIA-
BIC/2165/2012), nanced by national funds from the
FCT under the program FCT/MEC (PIDDAC) under
the following conditions:
Scientic Area: Evolutionary Biology
Requirements for admission: PhD in Genetics, Evolu-
tion or Bioinformatics, with preference for applicants
with advanced expertise on genome-wide DNA and
transcriptome data analysis.
Work plan: The applicant will help the team in the
genome-wide data analysis, as well as in general in the
labororatory tasks, involving population maintenance,
experiments and DNA and RNA extraction for genome-
wide analysis.
Legislation framework: A fellowship contract will be
celebrated according to the regulations dened by FCT
\Regulations for Advanced Training and Qualication
of Human Resources", in accordance with Law 40/2004,
of 18 August, as amended and republished by Decree-
Law No. 202/2012 of 27 August, and as amendedby Decree-Law No. 233/2012 of 29 October and by
Law No. 12/2013, of January 29, and Decree-Law No.
89/2013 of 9 July. And also by the FCT, I.P. Fellow-
ships Regulation of 2013 approved by Regulation No.
234/2012, of June 25, as amended by Regulation No
326/2013 of 27 August 2013.
Place of work: The work will be developed at the Cen-
tro de Biologia Ambiental da Faculdade de Ciencias da
Universidade de Lisboa under the scientic guidance of
Margarida Matos.
Fellowship duration: This position is initially opened
for 6 months and will begin in February 2014. The
grant contract may be renewed to more 10 months, with
a total duration of 16 months, or eventually until the
end date of the project.
Monthly allowance: The fellowship amounts to euro
1495, according to table values of the scholarships
awarded directly by the FCT, IP. (http://www.fct.pt/-
apoios/bolsas/valores). The grant holder will have a
personal accident insurance and, if not covered by any
social protection scheme, he/she has the right to social
security through adherence through the voluntary so-
cial insurance scheme, pursuant to C odigo dos Regimes
Contributivos do Sistema Previdencial de Seguran ca
Social. The scholarships will be paid monthly by bank
transfer
Selection method: Candidates will be assessed by the
quality of their CV. If needed an interview will occur
with pre(selected) candidates in which case the weight
will be 80% for the Curriculum and 20% for the inter-
view.
Deadlines: This call for applications is open from Jan-
uary 8th to January 19th 2014
Application: Applications may be sent via e-mail to
mmatos@fc.ul.pt by attaching a CV, a motivation let-
ter and two references.
Margarida Matos Assistant Professor Centro de Biolo-
gia Ambiental Faculdade de Ciencias da Universidade
de Lisboa
mmmatos@fc.ul.pt
Uppsala
ModelingSpeciesDistribution
Dear colleague, I would appreciate help to spread this
announcement of two postdoc positions.138 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Sorry for cross-posting.
Best regards, Tord
{
Tord Sn all Artdatabanken / Swedish Species Infor-
mation Centre Swedish University of Agricultural Sci-
ences (SLU) P.O. 7007, SE-750 07 Uppsala, Sweden Of-
ce/Mobile/Fax +46-18-672612/+46-76-7662612/+46-
18-673537 www.slu.se/artdatabanken/tordsnall Two
postdocs: Population modelling for forestry impact
analysis
The Swedish Species Information Centre is a national
centre for the knowledge on biodiversity. Our work in-
cludes compiling and storing biodiversity data and as-
sessing the viability of species in Sweden. We are cur-
rently recruiting two postdocs to expand our research
on how populations may respond to land-use or climate
change.
We are seeking two postdocs for modelling species dis-
tributions and (meta)population dynamics. The re-
search is linked to the next forestry impact analysis
(FIA) that has just been initiated by the Swedish For-
est Agency. FIA investigate future consequences of sce-
narios of forestry policy such as wood production. For
the next FIA, we will investigate the viability of species
among scenarios. The research work is funded by the
research council Formas.
Duties: The two postdocs will develop models to be
used for population viability analyses assuming the
FIA scenarios and additional forestry scenarios at na-
tional and landscape scales. For model development,
Citizen Science Data reported to www.artportalen.se
as well as systematically collected research data will
be used. Both species distribution modelling and
dynamic (meta)population modelling will be applied.
Also dierent types of covariate data will be used,
ranging from detailed eld measurements to remote
sensing estimates available via Swedish LifeWatch
(www.analysisportal.se). We will study mobile as well
as sessile species, e.g. birds, beetles, polypore fungi or
lichens. One of the postdocs will study polypore fungi
and he/she will participate in eld work in Finland in
the autumn of 2014.
Qualications: Scientic qualications within the sub-
ject area are necessary. Earlier research on modelling
species distributions, (meta)population dynamics or
forest dynamics is required. Knowledge on Geographic
Information Systems is desirable. Good collaborative
ability is appreciated.
Competence: Applicants should hold a PhD degree in
ecology, forest management or statistics. Priority willbe given to applicants who have been awarded their
PhD degree at most three years before the application
deadline.
Place of work: Uppsala
Form of employment: Temporary employment.
Extent: 100%, two years.
Starting date: As soon as possible, but negotiable.
Application: We welcome your application marked with
Ref no. SLU ua 5912/2013.
Please submit your application to the Registrar of SLU,
P.O. Box 7070, SE-750 07 Uppsala, Sweden or registra-
tor@slu.se no later than January 28, 2014.
Specic documents attached: CV incl. publication list,
PhD thesis, max. ve publications, description of previ-
ous research (max. two pages), and of current research
interests and the research that the applicant would like
to carry out within this position (maximum two pages),
contact details of at least two reference persons.
SLU is an equal opportunity employer.
http://www.slu.se/sv/om-slu/fristaende-sidor/-
aktuellt/lediga-tjanster/las-mer/?eng=1&Pid=1304
Tord.Snall@slu.se
Vienna Experimental evolution
Drosophila
Experimental Evolution in Drosophila
A postdoctoral position is available at the Institute
of Population Genetics, Vetmeduni Vienna (Austria).
The research focus of the Institute of Population Ge-
netics is on understanding the genetics of adaptation.
This central question in evolutionary biology is being
tackled using up-to-date methods and a variety of ap-
proaches, including experimental evolution, quantita-
tive genetics, functional genetics, empirical population
genetics, bioinformatics and statistics.
The successful candidate will be part of a team of sci-
entists studying adaptation of experimental Drosophila
populations to temperature stress. Since our experi-
mental evolution study is performed under controlled
environmental conditions with a high level of replica-
tion we have a powerful system to successfully employ
a combination of DNA sequencing, RNA-Seq and Chip-
Seq to characterize the architecture of adaptation in an
out-crossing species. With some of our populations hav-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 139
ing already evolved up to 100 generations, this project
provides the opportunity to follow adaptive trajectories
through time.
We are looking for a candidate with a good quantitative
training and experience in handling large data sets. A
background in population genetics and/or experience
with the analysis of RNA-Seq and Pool-Seq data are a
bonus.
The position is available from March 2014, but the ex-
act starting date is negotiable. The application should
be emailed to christian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at as
a single pdf containing CV, list of publications, a state-
ment of research interests, and the names of three ref-
erences with contact details. While the search will con-
tinue until the position is lled, applications should be
received by 3. Feb. 2014 to ensure full consideration.
Christian Schl otterer Institut f ur Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 1210 Wien Aus-
tria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vienna Gradu-
ate School of Population Genetics http://www.popgen-
vienna.at schlotc@gmail.com
VillanovaU SystematicHerpetology
Systematic Herpetology Postdoc
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research po-
sition in Systematic Herpetology at Villanova Univer-
sity in suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The posi-
tion supports a large NSF-funded project dealing with
climate-forced extinctions in lizards. The successful
candidate will play a key role in the generation and
analysis of phylogenetic data for African and Asian
lizards and will interface with other laboratories work-
ing on this multi-institutional project. The postdoc will
1) help to organize and participate in herpetological col-
lecting expeditions to Africa and Asia, 2) carry out lab-
oratory and analytical portions of phylogeographic and
phylogenetic studies of selected lizard groups, and 3)
will help to mentor Masters students and undergrad-
uates working on the project. The position is 100%
research time and is funded for two years. The suc-
cessful candidate must have completed their doctoral
degree before taking up the position and should have
experience in molecular phylogenetic laboratory tech-
niques/DNA sequencing, current analytical techniquesand relevant software for use in phylogenetic, phylo-
geographic and population level analyses and related
studies and should have herpetological collecting ex-
perience. Knowledge of ecophysiology, remote-sensing,
and/or GIS are benecial and international collecting
and permitting experience, particularly in Asia and/or
Africa is desirable.
Applications must include a complete CV, transcripts,
up to three relevant publications, a cover letter briey
outlining your t to the position, your timeframe to
start, and three letters of recommendation, preferably
including doctoral advisor and/or postdoctoral advisor
(if relevant). All information may be sent directly to
Prof. Aaron M. Bauer at aaron.bauer@villanova.edu.
Review of applications will begin on 27 February 2014,
the search will remain open until the position is lled.
The position may be taken up as early as possible after
1 March 2014.
Villanova is a catholic university sponsored by the Au-
gustinian order. Diversity and inclusion have been and
will continue to be an integral component of Villanova
University's mission. The University is an Equal Op-
portunity/Armative Action employer and seeks can-
didates who understand, respect and can contribute to
the University's mission and values.
Aaron M. Bauer Gerald M. Lemole, M.D. Chair of In-
tegrative Biology and Director, Graduate Program in
Biology Villanova University 800 Lancaster Avenue Vil-
lanova, PA 19085
Aaron Bauer <aaron.bauer@villanova.edu >
VillefrancheSurMer France
Bioinformatics
The Tiozzo Lab (http://biodev.obs-vlfr.fr/ ~ tiozzo/-
tiozzo-lab/index.html) is seeking a creative, skilled and
highly motivated bioinformatician for an one year con-
tract as post-doc or high-level technician. We do
require strong experience with RNAseq and whole
genome sequence data. Applicants should be also pro-
cient in programming (R, Python, Perl, Java), have
knowledge in statistics and have analytical and compu-
tational skills proven by an excellent publication record
or by reference letters. Familiarity with mathematical
modeling would be a plus. Applicants should be pro-
cient in English; French knowledge is preferable but
not required.140 EvolDir February 1, 2014
The hired postdoctoral fellows/high-level technician
will work at the Observatoire Oceanologique du Ville-
franche sur Mer (http://www.obs-vlfr.fr/) in a highly
international environment.
Contact Stefano Tiozzo (tiozzo@obs-vlfr.fr) for more in-
formation, and to apply, please send a single PDF le
that contains a cover letter, full C.V., and contact infor-
mation for three references. Start: As soon as possible.
Stefano Tiozzo, PhD Regeneration Team Ville-
franche sur mer Developmental Biology Laboratory
(VDBL) (UMR7009 CNRS/UPMC) Observatoire
Oc eanologique de Villefranche-sur-Mer Ph:+33
4 93 76 39 78 Fax:+33 4 93 76 37 92 web:
http://biodev.obs-vlfr.fr/fr/equipes derecherche/-
regeneration etpluripotence.html tiozzo <tiozzo@obs-
vlfr.fr>
iDivLeipzigGermany
SocioEcoSystemsApeHabitats
Postdoc researcher for social-ecological systems in ape
habitat The tropical landscapes inhabited by African
and Asian apes are complex social-ecological systems,
in which rapidly growing human populations and local
to global demand for natural resources are increasing
the pressure on wildlife. Many protected areas have
been created over the last decades. The further im-
provement of their eectiveness, however, will require
innovative solutions from practitioners and scientists.
Similarly, outside protected areas in resource extrac-
tion concessions for logging, mining or industrial agri-
culture, new solutions for balancing wildlife conserva-tion and sustainability of natural resource use need to
be developed.
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searcher with a background in sustainability science,
environmental economics, socio-economics or related
eld and with particular interest and experience in
complex social-ecological systems to join our team and
project. The research to be conducted will focus on the
improvement of the evidence-base for the sustainable
use of natural resources and the protection of biodiver-
sity in African and Asian great ape habitats. It further
aims to identify those control, management and social-
ecological contexts under which 'Resource Management
Areas' (protected areas, mining, logging concessions)
have proven to be particularly stable and resilient to
disturbances.
The successful candidate will contribute with his/her
research to the development of a conceptual framework
for the analysis of complex social-ecological systems
considering their specic characteristics in ape habi-
tats, as well as its application for protected areas and
resource extraction concessions. The candidate should
have strong quantitative skills, and a keen interest to
apply concepts and tools from complexity science. The
work will also include regular travels to the eld for
which prociency in French is desirable. The position
is fully funded (according to TV oD) and will initially
be available for two years, but can be extended for up
to ve years depending on performance. The place of
work will be at the German Centre for Integrative Bio-
diversity Research (iDiv), located in Leipzig, Germany.
Please send a CV, cover letter, list of publications and
the contact details of two referees to Dr. Hjalmar Kuehl
(kuehl@eva.mpg.de). Please reference 'Postdoc social-
ecological systems in ape habitat' in the subject line.
arandjel@eva.mpg.de
WorkshopsCourses
Aix-en-Provence France MetaAnalysis May13-15 . 141
Bodega CA AppliedPhylogenetics Mar8-15 . . . . . . . 141
Borneo AntEvolution Jul21-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
CostaRica ConservationGenetics May24-Jun3 reminder143
Debrecen Hungary EvolutionBehaviour Feb7-8 2 . 144
EastTennesseeStateU LakeBaikal Jul10-30 . . . . . . . .144
Guarda Switzerland Evolution Jun14-21 . . . . . . . . . .145February 1, 2014 EvolDir 141
HarvardU PlantSystematics Jun9-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
KualaLumpur Malaysia GMOD Workshop Feb26-28
146
LaKretzFieldStation ConservationGenomics Mar22-27
146
LasCruces NM GeneFamilies May12-13 . . . . . . . . . . .147
Leipzig Biodiversity CallProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 148
Loches France ClimateAdaptation Jun10-14 . . . . . . 148
Montreal PopulationGenetics May26-30 2 . . . . . . . . 149
OhioStateU Phrapl ApproxLikelihoodSoftware May28-
30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149
OxfordU EvoDevo SummerSchool Aug3-9 . . . . . . . . 150Prague BeetleSystematics Jul . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150
SCENE Scotland Morphometrics May12-15 . . . . . . 150
Sicily SystemsBiology Jun15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151
Spain NetworkTools Jul14-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .151
Tromso Norway DNA Metabarcoding Mar31-Apr5 RE-
MINDER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152
Tromso Norway DNA metabarcoding Apr4-5 . . . . . 153
Umea Sweden Networks May19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153
Uppsala ConGenOmics Mar18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
WestVirginia HaemosporidianParasiteEvolution Jul28-
31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
Aix-en-Provence France
MetaAnalysis May13-15
The Center for synthesis and analysis of biodiversity
(CESAB), Aix en Provence, France, is pleased to an-
nounce a training course on meta-analysis organized
May 13-15, 2014.
http://cesab.org/index.php?option=-
com content&view=article&id=86:announcement-
for-a-meta-analysis-training-workshop&catid=-
41:actualites&Itemid=347&lang=fr
bruno.fady@avignon.inra.fr
Bodega CA AppliedPhylogenetics
Mar8-15
UC Davis
WORKSHOP IN APPLIED PHYLOGENETICS
at Bodega Marine Laboratory, Bodega Bay, California
March 8-15, 2014
APPLICATIONS DUE JANUARY 6TH, 2014
Sponsored by the
University of California, Davis and Bodega Marine Lab-
oratory
http://treethinkers.org Introduction
Phylogenetic methods have revolutionized modern sys-
tematics and become indispensable tools in evolution,ecology and comparative biology, playing an increas-
ingly important role in analyses of biological data at
levels of organization ranging from molecules to eco-
logical communities. The estimation of phylogenetic
trees is now a formalized statistical problem with gen-
eral agreement on the central issues and questions. A
nearly standard set of topics is now taught as part of
the curriculum at many colleges and universities. On
the other hand, application of phylogenetic methods to
novel problems outside systematics is an area of special
excitement, innovation, and controversy, and perspec-
tives vary widely.
This Spring, for the fteenth consecutive year, we will
teach a workshop for graduate students interested in
applying phylogenetic methods to diverse topics in bi-
ology. The one-week course is an intensive exploration
of problems to which modern phylogenetic approaches
are being applied and the most current statistical tools
and approaches that are used to solve those problems.
We cover a range of topics in ecology, phylogenomics,
functional morphology, macroevolution, speciation, and
character evolution. The course starts with recent ad-
vances in phylogenetic methodology, and then focuses
on methods and tools that can be brought to bear on
these \applied" issues in the context of a given phy-
logeny.
The course will be held at the Bodega Marine Labora-
tory on the Northern California coast, which has on-site
housing. Our newly increased bandwidth and access
to computing clusters allows us to utilize computer-
intensive approaches even in a one-week course. The
course format will involve equal parts of lecture, dis-
cussion, and hands-on software training. One afternoon
during the week will be left free for eld trips to local
natural areas.
Topics Covered
* Estimating, evaluating and interpreting phylogenetic
trees142 EvolDir February 1, 2014
* Recent advances in Bayesian and Maximum-
likelihood estimation of phylogeny
* Estimation of species trees, gene-tree/species-tree
conicts
* Divergence-time estimation from sequence data: re-
laxed clocks, fossil calibration
* Analysis of character evolution: maximum likelihood
and Bayesian approaches, ancestral-state estimation,
rates of trait evolution
* Analysis of morphological form, function of complex
character systems
* Inference of diversication rates: detecting rate shifts,
testing key innovation hypotheses
* Model specication issues: model selection, adequacy
and uncertainty
* Diagnosing MCMC performance
Instructors for the 2014 workshop
* Jeremy Brown
* Jonathan Eisen
* Rich Glor
* Tracy Heath
* Mark Holder
* John Huelsenbeck
* Sarah Longo
* Luke Mahler
* Mike May
* Brian Moore
* Samantha Price
* Bruce Rannala
* Bob Thomson
* Peter Wainwright
Prerequisites
Available housing limits course enrollment to ~30 stu-
dents. Preference is given to doctoral candidates who
are in the early to middle stages of their thesis re-
search, and who have completed sucient prerequisites
(through previous coursework or research experience)
to provide some familiarity with phylogenetic methods.
Unfortunately, because of limits on class size, postdocs
and faculty are discouraged from applying.
Admission and Fees
Students will be admitted based on academic quali-
cations and appropriateness of research interests. Thecourse fee is $700. This includes room and board at
BML for duration of the course (arriving March 8, leav-
ing March 15) and transportation from Davis to
Application Deadline
Applications are due by JANUARY 6, 2014 (NB: This
is an extended deadline) . Please send a completed ap-
plication form and one letter of recommendation from
your major advisor. Applications should be sent via
email as PDFs to mikeryanmay@gmail.com. Students
will be notied via e-mail by January 10, 2014 of ac-
ceptance.
Application Forms and Information
Visit the Bodega website to for additional information
and to submit an online application form.
Send all inquiries to:
Mike May Department of Evolution and Ecology 5343
Storer Hall University of California Davis Davis, CA
95616
email: mikeryanmay@gmail.com
\Brian R. Moore" <brianmoore@ucdavis.edu >
Borneo AntEvolution Jul21-31
ANT COURSE 2014 Borneo - Maliau Basin (July 21-
31, 2014)
http://research.calacademy.org/ent/courses/ant IM-
PORTANT DATES APPLICATION DEADLINE:
APRIL 1, 2014 July 20 participants arrive in Kota Kin-
abalu July 21 Depart Kota Kinabalu: 6-8 hour bus ride
to Maliau Basin July 31 Depart Maliau Basin to Kota
Kinabalu
COURSE OBJECTIVES \ANT COURSE is designed
for systematists, ecologists, behaviorists, conservation
biologists, and other biologists whose research requires
a greater understanding of ant taxonomy and eld tech-
niques. In 2014, emphasis is on the identication of the
ant genera and species occurring in the Asian tropics.
Lectures will include background information on the
ecology, life histories and evolution of ants. Field trips
emphasize collecting and sampling techniques, and as-
sociated lab work focuses specimen preparation, sorting
and labeling. Information on equipment, literature, and
myrmecological contacts are also presented.
COURSE SIGNIFICANCE "Ant Course is a unique
opportunity to acquire training that is unavailable else-February 1, 2014 EvolDir 143
where. This course will provide students with 1) the
condence and skills to identify Southeast Asian tropi-
cal ant genera; 2) an understanding of modern specimen
processing and curation techniques; 3) an appreciation
for the biological diversity of ants; and 4) experience
keying to the species level.
Application link: https://-
docs.google.com/a/eldmuseum.org/forms/d/-
1Z5Fu8DHxqW5EGFkiLbxi4mHWpnc2Tn0vzmN5ctvXj1g/-
viewform SPONSORED BY \California Academy of
Sciences and The Arthur Lawrence Green Memorial
Fund, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard
University
LOCATION "ANT COURSE will be based at the
Maliau Basin Studies Centre in in Sabah, Malaysia.
The Centre is part of the Maliau Basin Conservation
Area that includes 12 forest types, comprising mainly
lower montane forest dominated by Agathis trees, mon-
tane heath forest and lowland, and hill diperocarp for-
est.
PARTICIPANT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA \ANT
COURSE is open to all interested individuals, includ-
ing students, professors and motivated amateurs (citi-
zen scientists). Priority will be given to those students
for whom the course will have a signicant impact on
their research with ants. We aim to include students
with a diverse interest in biology, including ant system-
atics, ecology, behavioral biology, genetics, and conser-
vation. An entomological background is not required.
The high instructor to student ratio will allow students
to receive individual attention. ANT COURSE is pre-
sented in English and limited to 30 participants.
COSTS "Course fees for the 10-day COURSE are $975
for current students (undergraduate and graduate) and
$1275 for non-students (postdocs and professionals).
Transportation costs between home and Koto Kina-
balu, and hotel fees in Kota Kinabalu are to be borne by
all participants. Pay course fees by July 1 at: https://-
www.calacademy.org/tickets/ant course/ . FELLOW-
SHIPS \Those interested in attending the course should
seek all possible avenues to secure funding on their own
for the course. Each year we strive to raise funds to
support a few students by oering discounted tuition
fees. You should only apply for the Ant Course fellow-
ship if you cannot nd other support and it is essential
for your participation in the course. Please notify the
course if your funding request status changes before the
application due date.
COURSE APPLICATION "Applica-
tion and course information at http://-
www.antweb.org. The rst step is to ll out
a form at: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-1Z5Fu8DHxqW5EGFkiLbxi4mHWpnc2Tn0vzmN5ctvXj1g/-
viewform Note this form requires a short statement
of your research interests and future plans and a
statement of your reasons for wishing to participate in
the course. Also requires is one letter of reference from
a professor or colleague familiar with your work to be
submitted by the referee at:
ANT COURSE is limited to 30 participants. Selection
of participants will be carried out by committee, based
on your reasons for wishing to take the course at this
time. Priority will be given to those students for whom
the course will have a signicant impact on their re-
search with ants. Because the Course is oered yearly,
and because many well-qualied candidates are not ac-
cepted because of limited capacity, we urge applicants
not selected for this session to apply again the following
year.
2014 INSTRUCTORS Brian Fisher (Coordinator),
Leeanne Alsonso, Himender Bharti, Katsuyuki Eguchi,
Flavia Esteves, Brian Fisher, Benoit Gue Inard,
Roberto Keller, Laurent Keller,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CostaRica ConservationGenetics
May24-Jun3 reminder
Hello all,
I wanted to send out a reminder of CONSERVATION
GENETICS, an upcoming graduate-level 2.0 credit spe-
cialty course which will be taught by Dr. Jim Hamrick
(University of Georgia), Dr. Fred Allendorf (Univer-
sity of Montana), and Dr. Erick Fuchs (University of
Costa Rica) in Costa Rica from MAY 24 TO JUNE
8, 2014. This course may be of interest to students in
various departments and interdisciplinary programs at
your institutions. Topics covered include: measurement
of genetic diversity and genetic structure, phylogeogra-
phy, application of molecular data to taxonomic ques-
tions, gene ow, mating systems, eective population
size estimates, and the application of genetic informa-
tion for the management and restoration of disturbed
landscapes. Your circulation of this material among
graduate students would be greatly appreciated.144 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Application deadline is February 3.
Ocial Course announcement [1] http://bit.ly/-
13AeiZC
Many thanks!
Andres S.
Andres Santana <andres.santana@ots.ac.cr >
Debrecen Hungary
EvolutionBehaviour Feb7-8 2
THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF CON-
SISTENT BEHAVIORAL VARIATION
Workshop in Debrecen, Hungary; 7-8 February 2014
The deadline for applications is January 20, 2014.
We are organising a workshop to stimulate a discussion
about how the concepts of animal personality and be-
havioral syndromes changed the ways we think about
the evolution of behaviors, and how these phenomena
shed new lights on key theories of natural and sexual
selection.
Invited speakers will include
- Professor Niels Dingemanse (Max Planck Institute for
Ornithology) - Dr. Laszlo Garamszegi (Department of
Evolutionary Ecology Estacion Biologica de Donana-
CSIC) - Professor Jaap M. Koolhaas (Dept. of Behav-
ioral Physiology, University of Groningen) - Professor
Andy Sih (University of California at Davis)
Postgraduate students and post-docs are encouraged to
give a 10 min talk followed by 5 min discussion.
For further information and to register please visit: <
http://zoology.unideb.hu/evolpers/ >
Best regards
Zoltan Barta and Laszlo Garamszegi Zoltan Barta
MTA-DE \Lend ulet" Behavioural Ecology Research
Group Department of Evolutionary Zoology, Univer-
sity of Debrecen, Debrecen, Egyetem ter 1., 4032, Hun-
gary Phone: +36 52 316 666 ext. 62334 jFax: +36
52 512 941 E-mail: barta.zoltan@science.unideb.hu j
http://web.unideb.hu/ ~ zbarta/ Enik~ o Gyuris MTA-
DE \Lend ulet" Behavioural Ecology Research Group
Department of Evolutionary Zoology University of De-
brecen H-4010 Debrecen, Egyetem t er 1. Phone: +36
52 512-900 ext. 62348 E-mail: eniko.gyuris@gmail.com
<http://zoology.unideb.hu/?m=Enik%C5%91 Gyuris>
Enik~ o Gyuris <eniko.gyuris@gmail.com >
EastTennesseeStateU LakeBaikal
Jul10-30
Field trip: Lake Baikal, Siberia, Russia. July 2014.
Tentative dates July 10V30, 2014.
East Tennessee State University is oering a eld trip
to Lake Baikal in Siberia as a part of the university's
Study Abroad program. Lake Baikal is the deepest,
the largest and the oldest lake on Earth. It contains
20% of all unfrozen freshwater on earth (close to Great
Lakes combined) and is home to hundreds of endemic
animal species. Trip participants will take Biodiversi-
tyHotspots course (2 credits) V a course focusing on
origins and evolution of endemic adaptive radiations.
Lake Baikal, often called the Natures laboratory, will
be used as a splendid illustration for the course's main
ideas. Learn eld limnology techniques and biodiver-
sity analysis methods at one of the most remote, excit-
ing and beautiful lakes on Earth. The trip will include
a week-long stay at a eld station on the shores of the
lake, a 5-day trip around the lake on a research vessel
and 2 days stay in Moscow and St.Petersburg.
Faculty leaders: L. Yampolsky, Associate Professor,
Department of Biological Sciences and Joe Bidwell,
Professor and Chair, Department of Biological Sciences.
The trip is open to any students, however only reg-
ular ETSU undergraduates are eligible for nancial
aid. To apply please contact L. Yampolsky, yam-
polsk@etsu.edu, 423-439-4359 oce, 423-676-7489 cell.
Spaces are limited. Deadline for application is February
17. Must have a valid passport by April 1. Cost esti-
mate: airfare - $2100, program fees including tuition -
$2900.
More at:
http://faculty.etsu.edu/yampolsk/Baikal2014.htm
https://www.facebook.com/LakeBaikal2014 Lev
Yampolsky
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sciences
East Tennessee State University Johnson City TN
37614-1710 G-phone 646-926-7657 (646-YAMPOLS)
Oce/lab 423-439-4359 Fax 423-439-5958
\Yampolsky, Lev" <YAMPOLSK@mail.etsu.edu >February 1, 2014 EvolDir 145
Guarda Switzerland Evolution
Jun14-21
RE: PhD and master students workshop: Evolutionary
Biology in Guarda, Switzerland
It my pleasure to announce this years Guarda workshop
in Evolutionary Biology for master and PhD students.
The main aim of the course is to develop the skills to
produce an independent research project in evolution-
ary biology.
The course takes place 14. - 21. June 2014 in the Swiss
mountain village Guarda. Faculty includes Joan Strass-
mann (Washington University in St. Louis, USA),
David Queller (Washington University in St. Louis,
USA), Sebastian Bonhoeer (ETH-Zurich, Switzer-
land) and Dieter Ebert (Basel University, Switzer-
land)(organizer).
The course is intended for master students and early
PhD students with a keen interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy.
The web page with all the details can be found under:
http://www.evolution.unibas.ch/teaching/guarda/-
index.htm Application is open now. Deadline is 17.
February 2014.
Please communicate this information to interested stu-
dents.
With best wishes,
dieter ebert
Dieter Ebert University of Basel, Zoological Institute,
Vesalgasse 1, 4051 Basel, Switzerland Tel. +41 (0)61
267 03 60
dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
HarvardU PlantSystematics Jun9-20
Dear Colleagues,
Back by popular demand! Plant Morphology: Link-
ing Phenotype to Development, will be taught by Peter
Endress (University of Zurich) and Pamela Diggle (Uni-
versity of Connecticut) June 9-20, 2014, at the ArnoldArboretum of Harvard University. Registration is now
open.
This is an intensive two-week laboratory and lecture
course for advanced undergraduates, graduate students,
and postdoctoral fellows that will cover the fundamen-
tal principles of plant form, focusing on developmental
dynamics, evolutionary diversication, and ecological
and physiological function. The course will provide a
critical foundation for research in developmental genet-
ics, systematics, physiology, and more. Detailed infor-
mation is below.
Please bring this course to the attention of your stu-
dents and post docs!!
Best wishes,
Pamela Diggle, Peter Endress and William (Ned) Fried-
man
Plant Morphology: Linking Phenotype to Develop-
ment, June 9 - 20, 2014
With the opportunity to bring molecular genetic and
genomic tools to almost any clade of plants, a key
challenge will be to link comparative developmental
genetics to existing bodies of knowledge; notably the
two hundred year legacy of comparative developmental
morphology. This integration is critical as the phyloge-
netic, structural, and ecological breadth of plant taxa
open to study expands, and the sophistication of poten-
tial questions increases in complexity. This course will
provide vital analytical tools central to understanding
the developmental bases for structural and functional
diversity. Summer courses in organismic plant biology
at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University bring
world-class faculty and a world-class living collection
together to enable students from around the world to
know the phenotype.
In 2014, Plant Morphology: Linking Phenotype to De-
velopment, an intensive two-week laboratory and lec-
ture course for advanced undergraduates, graduate stu-
dents, and postdoctoral fellows will cover the funda-
mental principles of plant form, focusing on develop-
mental dynamics, evolutionary diversication, and eco-
logical and physiological function. Students will be pre-
sented with the conceptual and analytical tools neces-
sary to interpret the vast array of morphologies that ex-
ist among plants. Professors Pamela Diggle (University
of Colorado) and Peter Endress (University of Zurich)
will serve as the instructors. This course is limited to
12 students.
To apply: please go to http://arboretum.harvard.edu/-
education/plant-morphology-linking-phenotype-to-
development/ Costs: Each student will receive a146 EvolDir February 1, 2014
travel stipend of up to $500; meals and dormitory
lodging will be provided for all participants.
Topics covered:
Week 1: Vegetative morphology including embryogene-
sis and establishment of the basic body plan, modes
of germination and establishment, concepts of juve-
nile and adult phases, phyllotaxy, shoot longitudi-
nal symmetry (including heteroblasty), axis thicken-
ing, shoot transectional symmetry, branching, struc-
tural and functional specialization of shoot branches,
leaf development, leaf lateral and longitudinal symme-
try, structural and functional specialization of leaves,
root development, structural and functional specializa-
tion of roots, plant architecture, evo-devo.
Saturday and Sunday will involve tours of the living
collections of the Arnold Arboretum and opportunities
to explore the Boston area.
Week 2: Reproductive morphology including inores-
cence and ower structure, branching patterns and
other features of inorescences, ower organization and
architecture, ower development, phyllotaxy and sym-
metry, organs of the perianth, androecium and gy-
noecium, synorganization of oral organs, angiosperm
ower diversity, owers of ?basal? angiosperms, mono-
cots, eudicots, the most complex owers (orchids, as-
clepiads), structural solutions of functional constraints
in reproductive biology, evolutionary trends in owers.
For additional information contact Pamela Diggle:
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
KualaLumpur Malaysia GMOD
Workshop Feb26-28
website: http://gmod.org/wiki/GMOD Malaysia 2014
GMOD Malaysia 2014 oers an introduction to, and
training in, the bioinformatics software oered by the
Generic Model Organism Database project (http://-
gmod.org). Over three days, participants will learn
about GMOD's free, open-source tools for visualising,
storing, and disseminating genetic and genomic data.
These include:*Galaxy analysis pipeline *GBrowse and JBrowse
genome browsers *InterMine data warehouse *MAKER
and MAKER-P genome annotation pipelines *Tri-
pal website generator and database interface *Chado
database schema
Tuition is by experienced instructors and developers
with deep knowledge of the tools and their applications.
By the end of the course, participants will have hands-
on experience of setting up and using core components
needed for a modern genomics project.
The workshop follows the Plant Genomics Congress,
and will include material of particular interest to plant
scientists.
More information: http://gmod.org/wiki/-
GMOD Malaysia 2014 Questions: help@gmod.org
Thanks!
Amelia Ireland GMOD Community Support Generic
Model Organism Database project http://gmod.org jj
@gmodproject
amelia.ireland@gmod.org
LaKretzFieldStation
ConservationGenomics Mar22-27
UCLA/La Kretz Workshop in Conservation Genomics,
22-27 March, 2014
Conservation biology and genetics have had a long and
intimate relationship, and constitute one of the key ap-
plications of evolutionary analysis to real-world biologi-
cal problems. The impacts of population genetics, phy-
logenetics and phylogeography have been particularly
striking for conservation biology, and have helped solve
some of the most pressing problems in biological con-
servation.
As the eld of landscape-based genetics continues to
grow and mature, the increasing availability of genomic-
level data, analytical models and methods stand to
make profound new contributions to our ability to
identify and protect at-risk populations and recover
those that are most endangered. However, genomic
level analyses also carry a heavy burdenXdata sets are
enormous and often require diverse computational ap-
proaches for assembly, quality control and analysis.
This annual workshop provides a comfortable, informal
training environment for a small group of motivatedFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 147
graduate students to explore how conservation prob-
lems can best be addressed with genomic-level data.
Our goal is to provide hands-on experience on the e-
cient collection, troubleshooting, and analysis of large,
genome-level data sets for conservation-relevant prob-
lems. One of the highlights of our workshop is active
participation from members of several US government
agencies who are at the forefront of endangered species
protection and management, providing a forum for ex-
ploring the most relevant aspects of conservation ge-
nomics to managers.
The UCLA/La Kretz workshop is held at the La Kretz
Field Station and the Stunt Ranch Reserve, both lo-
cated a few miles apart in the heart of the Santa
Monica Mountains. Only 30 miles from UCLA (and
LAX airport), but nestled in the relatively undeveloped
160,000 acre Santa Monica Mountains National Recre-
ation Area, these two venues provide an ideal location
to bring exciting new developments in genomic science
and pressing needs in conservation and management
together in a single workshop. Our current instructor
list, drawn from UCLA, UC Davis, and UC Berkeley
includes:
Mike Alfaro Gideon Bradburd Brant Faircloth Evan
McCartney-Melstad Kirk Lohmueller Mark Phuong
Brad Shaer Victoria Sork Phil Spinks Ian Wang Bob
Wayne
Participants from USGS, USFWS, and the US National
Park Service
Topics covered include:
Traditional conservation genetics
Next generation platforms: the best tool for the job
Data management pipelines:
Quality Control
Data storage
Data organization
Data analysis:
SNPs
Sequences
Exploring very large data sets
Functional genomic data
Genomic data and GIS
Conservation phylogenomics
Prerequisites Available housing limits course enroll-
ment to ~15 students. Preference is given to doctoral
candidates who are in the early to middle stages oftheir thesis research, and who have completed su-
cient prerequisites (through previous coursework or re-
search experience) to have some familiarity with using a
command line interface or programming languages (i.e.
Perl, python etc.). Postdocs and faculty are welcome
to apply, but our rst priority is to graduate student
applicants.
Admission and Fees Students will be admitted based
on academic qualications and appropriateness of re-
search interests. The course fee is $400. This includes
food and lodging at the La Kretz Field Station, trans-
portation to and from UCLA to the venue, and any
incidental fees for the duration of the course (arriving
March 22, departing March 27).
Application Forms and Information
Visit the La Kretz Center for California Conservation
Science website for additional information and to down-
load an application form:
http://www.environment.ucla.edu/media/les/2014-
La-Kretz-Conservation-Genomics-Application-0h-
etl.docx
Application Deadline
Applications are due by January 17, 2014. Please send
a completed application form and one letter of recom-
mendation from your major advisor. Students will be
notied via e-mail by January 24, 2014 of acceptance.
Applications should be sent as PDFs, with your name
in the title, via email to:
Phil Spinks email: pqspinks@ucla.edu
Phillip Spinks <pqspinks@ucla.edu >
LasCruces NM GeneFamilies
May12-13
We are pleased to announce a free gene family work-
shop May 12-13, 2014 in Las Cruces, NM. This NSF-
funded free gene family workshop is open to all inter-
ested participants, local, at American universities and
at international universities with registration. Due to
room capacity reasons, the meeting size will be capped
at 40. This is an opportunity to listen to lectures and
subsequently, have hands-on experience with lecturers
in analyzing your own gene family dataset. We hope
you will join us.
Speakers include: -Laura Kubatko (Ohio State Univer-148 EvolDir February 1, 2014
sity) -Jim Leebens-Mack (University of Georgia) -Liang
Liu (University of Georgia) -David Liberles (University
of Wyoming)
http://odyssey.bioinformatics.uga.edu/ ~ lliu/confr/-
index.php David Liberles (with Liang Liu and Enrico
Pontelli (local organizer))
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
Leipzig Biodiversity CallProposals
sDiv, the Synthesis centre for Biodiversity Sciences
(www.idiv.de/sdiv), a unit of the German Centre for
Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-
Leipzig herewith announces the 2nd call for workshops.
The submission deadline is 1st of April 2014.
You can nd all relevant information here: http://-
www.idiv.de/sdiv/calls Please spread this announce-
ment among your colleagues and networks.
Don't hesitate to contact me (marten.winter@idiv.de)
for any questions.
Thanks a lot!
With best regards from sunny Leipzig
sMarten Winter
Dr. Marten Winter Scientic Coordinator / Wis-
senschaftlicher Koordinator Synthesis Centre for Bio-
diversity Sciences - sDiv
Phone +49(0)341-97-33129 Fax +49(0)341-97-39358
Email marten.winter@idiv.de
Homepage: http://www.idiv.de/sdiv/coordinator/-
vcard item 86429/detail German Centre for Integra-
tive Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig
Deutscher Platz 5e 04103 Leipzig
Germany iDiv ist ein Forschungszentrum der Deutschen
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). Es ist eine zentrale
Einrichtung der Universit at Leipzig im Sinne des
x92 Abs. 1 S achsHSFG und wird zusammen
mit der Martin-Luther-Universit at Halle-Wittenberg,
der Friedrich-Schiller-Universit at Jena sowie dem
Helmholtz-Zentrum f ur Umweltforschung (UFZ) be-
trieben. Sieben aueruniversit are Einrichtungen
unterst utzen iDiv nanziell sowie durch ihre Ex-
pertise: das Max-Planck-Institut f ur Biogeochemie
(MPI BGC), das Max-Planck-Institut f ur chemische
Okologie (MPI CE), das Max-Planck-Institut f ur evolu-tion are Anthropologie (MPI EVA), das Leibniz-Institut
Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkul-
turen (DSMZ), das Leibniz-Institut f ur Panzenbio-
chemie (IPB), das Leibnitz-Institut f ur Panzengenetik
und Kulturpanzenforschung (IPK) und das Leibniz-
Institut Senckenberg Museum f ur Naturkunde G orlitz
(SMNG). USt-IdNr. DE 141510383 and
Marten Winter <marten.winter@idiv.de >
Loches France ClimateAdaptation
Jun10-14
Below is an announcement to be posted on EvolDir.
This workshop might be of interest for evolutionary bi-
ologists interested in the response of organisms to cli-
mate change.
International workshop HETEROCLIM
The response of organisms to climate change in hetero-
geneous environments
10-14 June 2014, Loches, France
Deadline for applications : March 3rd, 2014.
See all information on : http://casas-lab.irbi.univ-
tours.fr/heteroclim.html Past and ongoing global
warming has dramatic impacts on ecological systems,
including changes in species distributions and ero-
sion of biodiversity. Very recently, scientists work-
ing on climate change biology realized that the envi-
ronmental heterogeneity could be an important driver
because, theoretically, organisms may move within
local/regional spatial scales to nd suitable micro-
habitats as climate is changing, buering thereby the
amplitude of global warming. Thermal environments
are not only quite heterogeneous in the natural habitat
for most species, but they are also extremely variable
through time. Our general aim is to bring together
leading scientists from various key disciplines to pro-
mote interconnections between their dierent expertise
and skills, with the ambition to stimulate the emergence
of new developments related to scale issues in thermal
ecology and global change biology. The workshop in-
volves 3 sessions:
- Connecting global and local climate change
- Thermal performance of organisms in uctuating en-
vironments
- Modeling distribution of organisms in space and timeFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 149
The workshop will bring together 21 key speakers on
the topic (see web site), including an introductory talk
given by Michael Angilletta (Arizona State University).
>>Application and registration
The workshop will involve up to 33 participants (in ad-
dition to the 21 invited speakers) who must present
a poster during the dedicated session. The registra-
tion fee is 490 euro, which includes accommodation (4
nights), restaurant (breakfasts, lunches and dinners),
transportation between the TGV train station (Saint
Pierre des Corps) and the Luccotel, and nally the ac-
cess to the workshop.
Applications are mandatory before registration because
the number of participants is strictly limited. If we
receive more than 33 applications, a selection will be
made (see web site).
O How to apply: send an email (heteroclim@univ-
tours.fr) including a brief CV and a short description of
your current research. A tentative title of your poster
should also be provided. The deadline for applications
is March 3rd, 2014. Registration process will follow
after participants have been selected.
For any inquiry, please contact us at: heteroclim@univ-
tours.fr
The scientic committee : Dr. Sylvain Pincebourde
(IRBI), Dr. Olivier Dangles (LEGS), Prof. J er^ ome
Casas (IRBI) & Prof. Brian Helmuth (Northeastern
University).
Sylvain Pincebourde
Charg e de Recherche CNRS http://casas-lab.irbi.univ-
tours.fr/pincebourde.html Institut de Recherche sur la
Biologie de l'Insecte (IRBI) Universit e Fran cois Ra-
belais, CNRS, UMR 7261 Parc Grandmont 37200 Tours
France
Phone : (33) 02 47 36 73 50 Fax : (33) 02 47 36 69 66
Sylvain Pincebourde <sylvain.pincebourde@univ-
tours.fr >
Montreal PopulationGenetics
May26-30 2
The 7th annual Montreal Spring School of Population
Genomics and Genetic Epidemiology
May 26 to 30, 2014 Montreal, CanadaThis workshop provides training in the rapidly de-
veloping disciplines of genetic epidemiology, human
evolutionary genetics, population genomics and bio-
informatics.
The training will be based on real-data examples from
the instructors laboratories.
** For the most recent information and to
register, please visit Our Web Site (http://-
montrealspringschool.us6.list-manage1.com)
If you think you know someone who may be
interested in this workshop, please forward this
message and/or download the poster (http://-
montrealspringschool.us6.list-manage.com) for display
(also found on the home page of our web site). Thank
you!
Gillian Greig, Coordinator, Montreal Spring School
www.montrealspringschool.ca Montreal Spring School
<montrealspringschool@gmail.com >
OhioStateU Phrapl
ApproxLikelihoodSoftware
May28-30
Phrapl Workshop Announcement
In this workshop, Brian O'Meara and Bryan Carstens
introduce students to a new software package
(PHRAPL) that implements phylogeographic inference
using approximated likelihoods. PHRAPL will allow
users to calculate the probability of a set of models
given the data [pr(Mi jD)] so that an assessment can
be made regarding which of these models is the most
appropriate for their empirical system. PHRAPL em-
ploys a heuristic exploration of model space and returns
approximated likelihoods of a set of models given the
data, where each model consists of a delimited species
tree and the parameters (such as gene ow, population
size and rate of change) that are required to describe
the history of divergence. Students will be introduced
to basic probability theory, information theory and co-
alescent modeling. They will use/learn R functions,
analyze their data using PHRAPL, and interpret the
results. In addition, approaches to collecting phylogeo-
graphic data using next-generation sequencing will be
discussed.
The workshop will occur at the Mathematical Bio-
sciences Institute on the main campus of The Ohio150 EvolDir February 1, 2014
State University. The workshop will begin at 8:00
am on May 28th, and last until 12:00 pm on May
30th. Travel stipends are available for a dozen stu-
dents. To apply, please see http://carstenslab.org.ohio-
state.edu/OSU/phrapl workshop.html for more infor-
mation.
Bryan Carstens
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/OSU/-
Carstens Lab.html blog: https://u.osu.edu/-
carstens.12/ publications: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-
state.edu/OSU/Publications.html spedeSTEM:
http://spedestem.asc.ohio-state.edu/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
fax: 614.292.2030
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >
OxfordU EvoDevo SummerSchool
Aug3-9
Dear all,
Just a reminder that the application deadline for the
Eco Evo Devo Postgraduate Summer School here in
Oxford (August 3rd to 9th) is on January 31st.
Please pass on this reminder to any of your colleagues,
postdocs or students who are interested in applying.
Thanks to further generous sponsorship we have been
able to reduce the cost - please see the website for de-
tails:
http://bms.brookes.ac.uk/ceec/eco-evo-devo-summer-
2014 Just let me know us you have any questions or
need more information?
Thanks and best wishes,
Alistair and Casper.
Dr. Alistair P. McGregor
Reader in Biology Evolution of Animal Development
and Morphology Department of Biological and Medical
Sciences Oxford Brookes University Gipsy Lane Oxford
OX3 0BP United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1865484191 Fax: +44 (0)1865483242
www.mcgregor-evo-devo-lab.net Dr. Casper J. BreukerSenior Lecturer in Biology Evolutionary Developmental
Biology Research Group
Dpt of Biological and Medical Sciences, Faculty of
Health and Life Sciences Oxford Brookes University
Gipsy Lane, Headington,Oxford, OX3 0BP, UK
ROOM NR: GIP-S3.08b (Sinclair Building) tel:
+44(0)1865483244; fax: +44(0)1865483242
e-mail: cbreuker@brookes.ac.uk web: http:/-
/www.brookes.ac.uk/lifesci/research/groups/-
evolutionarydevelopmentalbiology/evolutionarydev/
Alistair McGregor <amcgregor@brookes.ac.uk >
Prague BeetleSystematics Jul
Course on World Beetle Systematics, Prague, July
2014. For details see:
http://e.czu.cz/ ~ ruzickajan/-
Systematics ofbeetles/index.html Elena Hilario
<Elena.Hilario@plantandfood.co.nz >
SCENE Scotland Morphometrics
May12-15
Course outline and details;
A geometric morphometric course will be taking place
at the Scottish Center for Ecology and the Natural En-
vironment (SCENE), from the 12th-15th May, 2014.
Details of SCENE can be found using the link be-
low http://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/bahcm/-
researchfacilitiesgroups/scene/ Prof. Chris Kligen-
berg will be delivering the course, Chris is a pro-
fessor at Manchester University and designed/wrote
the software morphoJ (http://www.ywings.org.uk/-
MorphoJ page.htm) and specialises in geometric mor-
phometrics and analysing evolutionary data sets based
on shape change. The software is used a lot in in
plant biology, evolutionary biology, functional morphol-
ogy palaeontology, etc. and can really be applied to
many dierent elds. It allows comparison of shapes,
images, structures in either two or three dimensions.
This type of analysis is well suited to analysing evo-
lutionary and functional morphology data, populationFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 151
dynamics, anything that can be compared using shape
or physical characteristics.
The course will take participants through the complete
process involved with preparing and analysing shape
data. There will be a background explaining the his-
tory and principles behind geometric morphometrics.
It will cover the basics of data acquisition and the most
productive method to digitise landmarks using software
TPSdig and TPSutil as well as others. Cover in de-
tail how to extract and visualise shape changes from
your images. Identify where variation is in your sam-
ples using Principle Component Analysis, how to ex-
port, for example PC scores to be analysed further in,
for example, R. Compare the amount of variation be-
tween groups using Discriminant Function and Canon-
ical Variance Analysis). How covariation, using regres-
sion, can be used to size correct data i.e. to remove the
eect of allometry or unwanted shape variation. Modu-
larity, Partial Least Squares and mapping shape change
with phylogeny (to compare across species/families)
will also be covered before a nal overview of how these
dierent types of analysis can be used to answer hy-
pothesis.
The course is delivered to participants by working
through exercises and examples which specically give
good insight as to how you might answer or formulate
questions about your own data so is both lecture style
and practical.
The course is 4 days long (Monday 12th - Thursday
15th May, 2014, 9:30 - 18:30 (approx. 8 teaching hours).
There are 20-24 spaces on the course (to be conrmed)
which costs ^A$375 (stand alone) or with meals, refresh-
ments and accommodation (arrival Sunday 11th in the
pm and departure Friday 16th in the am) ^A$575.
I have attended this this course so if you have any ques-
tions as to what is covered then please email me or my
telephone number is at the bottom of the email.
Oliver Hooker PhD research student University of Glas-
gow
+44 (0) 1360 870 510 +44 (0) 7966 500 340
o.hooker.1@research.gla.ac.uk
Oliver Hooker <o.hooker.1@research.gla.ac.uk >
Sicily SystemsBiology Jun15-19
Call for Participation (apologies for multiple copies)Synthetic and Systems Biology Summer School:
Biology meets Engineering and Computer Science
Taormina - Sicily, Italy, June 15-19, 2014
http://www.taosciences.it/ssbss2014/ ss-
bss2014@dmi.unict.it
*Application Deadline: February 15 2014*
*List of Speakers* Uri Alon, Weizmann Institute of Sci-
ence, Israel Jef Boeke, Johns Hopkins University, USA
Jason Chin, MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, UK
Virginia Cornish, Columbia University, USA Angela
DePace, Harvard University, USA Paul Freemont, Im-
perial College London, UK Tanja Kortemme, Univer-
sity of California San Francisco, USA Giuseppe Nicosia,
University of Catania, Italy Sven Panke, ETH, Switzer-
land Rahul Sarpeshkar, MIT, USA Giovanni Strac-
quadanio, Johns Hopkins University, USA Ron Weiss,
MIT, USA
School Directors Jef Boeke, Johns Hopkins University,
USA Giuseppe Nicosia, University of Catania, Italy
Mario Pavone, University of Catania, Italy Giovanni
Stracquadanio, Johns Hopkins University, USA
Short Talk and Poster Submission Students may sub-
mit a research abstract for presentation. School direc-
tors will review the abstracts and will recommend for
poster or short-oral presentation. Abstract should be
submitted by February 15, 2014. The abstracts will be
published on the electronic hands-out material of the
summer school. ssbss2014@dmi.unict.it
Co-located Event: The 3rd International Synthetic
Yeast Genome (Sc2.0) Meeting will be held in Taormina
Friday June 20, 2014
cfp.ssbss2014@dmi.unict.it
Spain NetworkTools Jul14-18
Dear colleagues:
Registration is open for the course \NETWORK
TOOLS IN BIOSCIENCES". Webpage: http:/-
/www.transmittingscience.org/courses/syst-bio/-
networks/ INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Diego Rasskin-
Gutman (Institut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia
Evolutiva, Spain) and Dr. Borja Esteve-Altava (Insti-
tut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva,
Spain).
DATES: July 14-18, 2014. 34 teaching hours.152 EvolDir February 1, 2014
PLACE: Facilities of the Centre de Restauraci o i Inter-
pretaci o de Els Hostalets de Pierola, Els hostalets de
Pierola, Barcelona (Spain).
Many features and processes of biological systems can
be well represented by networks of interacting elements.
In the last decades, network analysis has provided new
insights into the organization and functioning of com-
plex biological systems such as brain wiring, genetic
regulation, or ecological dynamics. A basic knowledge
on network modelling and network analysis will pro-
vide biologists a better understanding of cutting-edge
research in their elds. This course will introduce par-
ticipants into the analysis of complex biological systems
using network models. Students will learn the basics
of network analysis: gathering information, building
network models, and interpret the outcomes of their
analysis. This course combines theoretical introduction
and computing practices using the free software envi-
ronment R. Previous knowledge in R is not required.
Participants are encouraged to bring their own data for
practicing. Emphasis is placed on oering participants
a wide overview of network modelling in biology and
the many available software tools to do it.
Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Institut
Catal a de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont and Cen-
tre de Restauraci o i Interpretaci o de Els Hostalets de
Pierola.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno, PhD. Course Director
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org Transmitting
Science <http://www.transmittingscience.org/ >
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Tromso Norway DNA
Metabarcoding Mar31-Apr5
REMINDER
Dear colleague,
I would like to wish you a happy new year and to re-
mind you that the deadline for registering to the DNA
metabarcoding spring school is the next Sunday.
Best regardsEric Coissac
Registration deadline is 12 January 2014
DNA metabarcoding is a rapidly evolving method for
assessing biodiversity from environmental DNA. It has
a wide range of applications: biodiversity monitoring,
animal diet assessment, reconstruction of paleo com-
munities, among others. DNA metabarcoding relies on
molecular techniques such as PCR and next generation
sequencing, and requires bioinformatics and biostatis-
tics competence to analyze sequencing results. This ap-
proach integrates several scientic areas and requires a
broad range of skills, in addition to the classical ecolog-
ical knowledge related to the considered research topic.
The DNA metabarcoding spring school is now in its
third edition and this year it is co-organized by the
metabarcoding.org team and the Research School in
Biosystematics - ForBio in Troms, Norway. Also this
year, the school is divided into two parts.
- The DNA metabarcoding spring school (31 March -
3 April 2014), that will be held during four days at
the Skibotn Field Station, - A two-day workshop at the
Troms University Museum that will follow the course
(4 - 5 April 2014). Participants can register for both the
school and workshop (25 places) or only for the work-
shop (no limit). To register for University of Troms
ECTS (BIO-8001 registration form) or a ForBio course
certicate stating the number of ECTS (no additional
registration needed), participants have to attend both
the school and the workshop. As part of the course
program, each participant is required to (i) give a 12
minute talk about their research during the evening
sessions of the school, and (ii) present a corresponding
poster during the workshop.
Registration Registration deadline is 12 January 2014
This year the registration to the third DNA metabar-
coding spring school is a two steps process.
- You need to be a ForBio member or associate. - Any-
one can register as a ForBio associate. To register as
a ForBio associate please visit the ForBio membership
page - To become a ForBio member you must be regis-
tered as a PhD student or hired as a postdoctoral fellow
at a Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, or Finnish university.
- Now that you have a ForBio status (member or asso-
ciate) you have to register to the school and/or the
workshop itself by lling out the registration page.
All participants attending both the school and work-
shop can receive a ForBio course certicate stating
the course description and number of ECTS earned
(2 in this case). If you would like to receive Univer-
sity of Troms ECTS (2) instead of a ForBio course
certicate, please feel out the BIO-8001 registrationFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 153
form and follow the submission instructions on it. If
you have any questions about University of Troms
registration, please contact Sergei Drovetski (sdrovet-
ski@gmail.com).
For more information go to : http://-
metabarcoding.org/spip.php?article66 or on the
registration website : http://www.forbio.uio.no/-
events/courses/2014/metabarcoding workshop.html
Dr Eric Coissac Associate professor Laboratoire
d'Ecologie Alpine UMR CNRS-UJF 5553 / UMR
CNRS 5553 Universit e J. Fourier Domaine de Saint
Martin d'H eres 2233, rue de la piscine B^ at. D Biologgie
BP 53, 38041 Grenoble Cedex 9 France
Eric.Coissac@inria.fr
Tromso Norway DNA
metabarcoding Apr4-5
Dear Colleagues,
Thank you for your application to the DNA metabar-
coding spring school in Troms. Registration for this
event is now closed. This year this school is followed by
a two days workshop the friday 4th and saturday 5th
of April. The registration date for this second event is
extended until February 20, 2014.
The workshop is divided in four half days. Each of them
introduced by a keynote lecture.
- Friday morning : Douglas Yu University of East An-
glia - UK, Kunming Institute of Zoology - China - Reli-
able, veriable, and ecient monitoring of biodiversity
via metabarcoding
- Friday afternoon : Pierre Taberlet LECA - Grenoble
University - CNRS - France - DNA metabarcoding and
palaeoenvironments
- Saturday Morning : Xin Zhou - BGI - China - Moving
from COI metabarcoding to mitochondrial metabar-
coding. - Keynote 4 : Anthony Chariton - CSIRO
- Australia - Saltwater inundation in Kakadu Nation
Park: can ecogenomics assist in the management of sea-
level rise?
In addition to these lectures 6 short talks of 15min are
planned by half days, you are kindly invited to submit
abstracts if you are interested in presenting your DNA
metabarcoding results during this event.
There is no registration fee for this workshop, but regis-tration is mandatory. To register, please send an email
to the workshop organizers:
Drovetski, Sergei V. : serguei.drovetski@uit.no
http://metabarcoding.org/spip.php?article66 http://-
metabarcoding2014.weebly.com/registration.html All
the best,
Eric Coissac
Dr Eric Coissac Associate professor Laboratoire
d'Ecologie Alpine UMR CNRS-UJF 5553 / UMR
CNRS 5553 Universit e J. Fourier Domaine de Saint
Martin d'H eres 2233, rue de la piscine B^ at. D Biologgie
BP 53, 38041 Grenoble Cedex 9 France
Eric.Coissac@inria.fr
Umea Sweden Networks May19-23
We would like to announce the \Workshop on Networks
in Ecology".
Networks in Ecology is a week long interdisciplinary
workshop combining network science, dynamical sys-
tems and ecology. The expected audience is master
and PhD students, and post-doctoral researchers. The
program is composed of lectures on the relevant topics
and a number of open discussions and brain-storming
sessions. Participants are expected to bring open prob-
lems within the topics of the workshop. A number of
these open problems will be selected in the rst day and
teams will work during the week aiming for a concrete
research plan. Groups will be mentored by senior re-
searchers. Participants will also have the opportunity
to present a talk and/or posters about his/her own re-
search.
Lecturers Anna Ekl of, Link oping University, Sweden
Phillip Staniczenko, University College London, Eng-
land Samraat Pawar, Imperial College, England Serguei
Saavedra, Estaci on Biol ogica de Do~ nana, Spain Mar-
tin Rosvall, Ume a University, Sweden Xavier Thibert-
Plante, Ume a University, Sweden
The workshop takes place at the Marine research sta-
tion in Norrbyn 40 km south of Ume a, northern Swe-
den, during the spring (May 19 - 23) 2014. Registration
can me made through the website until March 10.
Further information about the workshop can be found
at the web page http://tdn2013.wix.com/econetor
through the email magnus.lindh@math.umu.se154 EvolDir February 1, 2014
Cordially,
Magnus Lindh Luis E C Rocha Fariba Karimi
Sponsors: Integrated Science Lab (IceLab) and Ecosys-
tem Change Group, Umea University, Sweden
xavier@thibert-plante.com
Uppsala ConGenOmics Mar18-20
Uppsala, Sweden: 18-20 March, 2014
European Science Foundation Workshop in Conserva-
tion Genomics: \Academic exercise or transition with
real-world implications"
Among the tenets of conservation biology is the preser-
vation of genetic diversity. Numerous tools and meth-
ods have been developed in this regard, and the eld
of conservation genetics is actively engaged in using ge-
netic marker data to inform decision makers. For this
workshop, we will explore the transition of the eld to
genome-scale data with an eye on the impact to con-
servation practice.
We will have presentations from 12 of the leading
experts in conservation and genomics (http://-
www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol/congenomics/-
speakers/).
Discussion groups form an integral part of the workshop
such that we have restricted the number of delegates to
a manageable unit ( <50). We ask that all interested
partipants submit a short abstract ( <500 words) de-
tailing their research interests and motivation for at-
tending the workshop. Please include your name, posi-
tion and aliation. Submit via email to Aaron Shafer
(aaron.shafer@ebc.uu.se). Note that the selected stu-
dents will have their workshop fees waived.
Please visit http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/-
evbiol/congenomics/ for additional workshop informa-
tion.
Organizers,
Aaron Shafer Jochen Wolf
Aaron B.A. Shafer Wenner-Gren Postdoctoral Fel-
low Uppsala University Evolutionary Biology Centre
Norbyv agen 18D SE-75236 Uppsala, Sweden https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/shaferab/ +46 76 057 8013
aaron.shafer@ebc.uu.seWestVirginia
HaemosporidianParasiteEvolution
Jul28-31
*FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT*
Third Annual International Workshop on Malaria and
Related Haemosporidian Parasites of Wildlife
Monday July 28th - Thursday July 31st, 2014
National Conservation Training Center, Shepherd-
stown, West Virginia
Sponsored by the NSF Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates1
Dear Colleagues,
The NSF-sponsored Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates (Malari-
aRCN) is pleased to announce our third annual work-
shop on the malaria parasites and closely related
haemosporidians of natural populations of vertebrates.
The four day workshop will include both eld and lab-
oratory exercises as well as lectures and discussions led
by RCN members2.
Topics to be covered throughout the workshop include
vertebrate and invertebrate eld capture techniques,
blood sampling and preparation of blood smears, sam-
ple vouchering and preservation, parasite taxonomy,
light microscopy for parasite identication and parasite
and cell counts, sequence data analysis, and databas-
ing. Discussion topics will include, but are not limited
to, the basic biology, phylogenetics and systematics of
Haemosporida, community ecology of parasites, coevo-
lution and the evolution of virulence, and conservation
and disease.
All food, lodging and workshop events will take place
at the US Fish & Wildlife Service's National Conser-
vation Training Center in Shepherdstown, West Vir-
ginia, a site easily accessible through Washington, D.C.
area airports. The workshop will commence on Mon-
day morning, July 28th, and continue through until the
evening of Thursday, July 31st.
The workshop is geared towards graduate students,
postdoctoral researchers, and other investigators new
to the eld of wildlife haemosporidians. We will be
accepting applications in early 2014 and encourage in-
dividuals from outside the United States, particularlyFebruary 1, 2014 EvolDir 155
from developing countries.
Applications will be available in early February 2014
through the RCN website. Workshop cost, accommo-
dations, meals, and transportation from the Washing-
ton Dulles International Airport will be covered by
the RCN grant for workshop participants. In addi-
tion, applications for travel funds will be considered.
Additional information on the workshop including an
overview of the four days of events will be provided with
the Second Workshop Announcement as well as on the
RCN website (we encourage you to register on the RCN
website and become a member of the Malaria Research
Coordination Network). In the meantime, further infor-
mation can be obtained from the workshop organizers
(email: MalariaRCNWorkshop@gmail.com).
1 The Research Coordination Network for Haemo-
sporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates (\Malaria RCN"),
sponsored by the U. S. National Science Foundation
and funded through 2015 at the University of Missouri-
St. Louis, was established to promote communication
among researchers working on the ecology and evolu-
tion of haemosporidian parasites of vertebrate wildlife
populations. Please visit the website for the network(www.malariarcn.org) for more information.
2 Workshop organizers and instructors include Robert
Ricklefs (University of Missouri - St. Louis), Staan
Bensch (Lund University), Gediminas Valkiunas (Na-
ture Research Center, Vilnius), Carter Atkinson
(USGS), Susan Perkins (American Museum of Natu-
ral History), Robert Fleischer (Smithsonian Conserva-
tion Biology Institute), and Ellen Martinsen (Smithso-
nian Conservation Biology Institute). Other members
of this RCN include Patricia Parker (University of Mis-
souri - St. Louis), Ravinder Sehgal (San Francisco State
University), Tom Smith (University of California, Los
Angeles), and Robert Adlard (Queensland Museum).
**The workshop is likely to be of interest to evolution-
ary biologists as it will center around the systematics
of a very successful and diverse group of parasites of
natural vertebrate populations and include laboratory
exercises involving phylogenetic analysis of parasite lin-
eages and readings and discussions on the evolutionary
history of the parasites including cospeciation of hosts
and parasites as well as the evolution of virulence.
ellensarah.martinsen@gmail.com
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA156 EvolDir February 1, 2014
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.