E v o l D i r
February 1, 2018
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .158
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1812 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Conferences
ArizonaStateU MutationRateEvolution Mar27-28 . . . 3
Bangalore India ButteryEcolEvol Jun11-14 . . . . . . . . 3
Florence SEBAnnualMeeting Jul3-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Galway Ireland EvolutionOfRegeneration Jun26-29 . 4
Hawaii OriginsAdaptiveRadiation Jul22-25 . . . . . . . . . 5
Hinxton EvolSystemsBiol Apr11-13 DeadlineJan16 . 5
Manchester MolGenomeEvolution Mar5 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep25-28 EarlyDeadline . . . . . . . . 6
Marseilles Evolution Sept25-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Minneapolis BehaviouralEvolution Aug11-16 . . . . . . . .7
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22 Maladaptation . . . . . 7
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 AdaptationAn-
cientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 BalancedPolymorphism
8
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 DeadlineJan15 . . . . . 9
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 EvolutionaryImmunol-
ogy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 FloralEvolution . . . 10
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 GlobalChange . . . . .11
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 MatePreferenceMat-
ingSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 RecombinationEvolu-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 SexualConict . . . . 12
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 SocialBehaviorOmics
13
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 StructuralVariants 13Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 UrbanEvolution . . . 14
Rosco France EvolutionReproductiveSystems Dead-
lineJan16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Shenzhen AsiaEvo Apr18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
ShenZhen AsiaEvo Apr18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
StAndrews BESMacro Jul10-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
StJohns Newfoundland AnimalFormFunction May7-11
17
Sweden SexInTheOceans May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Toronto AGA WildQuantGen Mar23-25 . . . . . . . . . . . 18
UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics Mar20 . . . . . . . . . 19
UGothenburg MarineEvolution May15-17 . . . . . . . . . 19
ULiverpool InsectEvolution Mar21-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Victoria BC ClimateAdaptation Jun10-15 . . . . . . . . . 21
WashingtonDC CrustaceanAdaptation May22-25 . . 21
WashingtonDC CrustaceanGenomics May22-25 . . . . 22
Yokohama SMBE2018VirusGenomeEvolution Jul8-12
23
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12 AbstrSubmission . . . . . . . .24
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12 DeadlineExtended . . . . . . 24
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12 DeadlineFeb1 . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12 SatelliteRegionalMeetings 25
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12 TimingMethods . . . . . . . . .25
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12 TravelDeadlineExt . . . . . . 26
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
ArizonaStateU
MutationRateEvolution Mar27-28February 1, 2018 EvolDir 3
Mutation Rate Evolution Meeting
Date: March 27-28th, 2018 Location: Arizona State
University, Tempe (AZ), USA
Join us on March 27-28th 2018 at Arizona State Uni-
versity's Center for Evolution and Medicine for the Mu-
tation Rate Evolution Meeting. This meeting aims to
bring together leading experts, early-career researchers,
and trainees interested in studying mutation rates in
dierent organisms. Students/Postdocs will have an
opportunity to present their work, and to network with
other colleagues in the eld.
Keynote Speakers Oskar Hallatschek, University of Cal-
ifornia, Berkeley, US Kelley Harris, University of Wash-
ington, Seattle, US Peter Keightley, University of Edin-
burgh, Edinburgh, UK Michael Lynch, Arizona State
University, Tempe, US Gil McVean, Oxford Big Data
Institute, Oxford, UK Susanne Pfeifer, Arizona State
University, Tempe, US Anna Selmecki, Creighton Uni-
versity Medical School, Omaha, US Anne Stone, Arizona
State University, Tempe, US
Google Travel Awards In order to foster exchange be-
tween early-career women and leading research scientists
in the eld, Google is sponsoring a limited number of
travel awards to support the participation of female
undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral fellows.
Registration Registration is free of charge but manda-
tory. Breakfast, lunch, and coee will be provided during
the meeting. The meeting is limited to 50 participants
and priority will be given to participants who are sub-
mitting an abstract to present their work at the meeting.
Registration and abstract submission is now open. Ab-
stract submission deadline: January 31st 2018.
For more information, to register, or to submit
an abstract, visit http://spfeiferlab.org/meeting
spfeife1@asu.edu
Bangalore India ButteryEcolEvol
Jun11-14
8th International Conference on the Biology of Butter-
ies
Dates: 11-14 June 2018
Place: Bangalore, India
The 8th International Conference on the Biology of
Butteries conference will be held in Bangalore, India,from 11-14 June 2018. The International Conferences on
the Biology of Butteries are international gatherings,
organized every four years, of primarily professional
biologists who study evolutionary biology, behaviour,
ecology, systematics, biogeography, genetics, develop-
mental biology, and biodiversity conservation, with but-
teries and moths as their focal study organisms. This
is an excellent academic and professional forum for lat-
est discoveries and to exchange news in these research
areas.
Tourism: Visiting Bangalore for the conference will
also provide a fantastic opportunity to for cultural and
natural history tours. We are organizing a 1 day pre-
conference eld trip to Makalidurga near Bangalore,
and will facilitate longer post-conference trips to some
exciting places in the Western Ghats. The BoB website
has more information. We encourage you to visit along
with family and friends
Workshop: We will also have a 3 day post-conference
workshop (19-21 June) intended primarily for students
interested in buttery biology. This will be held in
Coorg, ca. 270 km from Bangalore.
Website: www.biologyofbutteries.org Organisers:
Krushnamegh Kunte (krushnamegh@ncbs.res.in) Ullasa
Kodandaramaiah (ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in)
ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in
Florence SEBAnnualMeeting Jul3-6
Dear colleagues,
We are organising a session on ^ aof the 'pace-of-life
syndrome' concept: Is the idea of integrated syn-
dromes supported by experimental data?' at the
Society of Experimental Biology's Annual Meeting
<www.sebiology.org/events/event/seb-orence-2018/-
programme/animal-biology#paceoife >in Florence
(3-6 July 2018).
The programme has some great sessions covering animal,
plant, cell biology and education. There is also the op-
portunity to submit your research to any of the sessions.
Abstract submission is now open, <www.sebiology.org/-
events/event/seb-orence-2018/abstracts >
Please see below the abstract and invited speakers for
the ^ aof the 'pace-of-life syndrome' concept: Is the idea of
integrated syndromes supported by experimental data?"
session. We hope to attract a wide range of talks and4 EvolDir February 1, 2018
posters focussed on this topic!
Best wishes, Jenni Prokkola, University of Liverpool
Tommy Norin, University of Glasgow Neil Metcalfe,
University of Glasgow Anssi Vainikka, University of
Eastern Finland Petri Niemel a, LMU-M unchen
^ aof the 'pace-of-life syndrome' concept: Is the idea of
integrated syndromes supported by experimental data?'
<www.sebiology.org/events/event/seb-orence-2018/-
programme/animal-biology#paceoife >
Denis R eale (Universit e Du Qu ebec ~AeMontr eal,
Canada) - The pace-of-life syndrome hypothesis: life-
history roots, mixed support, and future directions
Anne Bronikowski (Iowa State University, USA) - Em-
pirical evaluation of the pace-of-life syndrome at genetic,
physiological, and population levels of organization in
the garter snake, Thamnophis elegans
Joacim N aslund (University of South Bohemia In Aesk e
BudAjovice, Czech Republic) - The complex pace-of-life
syndrome of trout: state-dependence, behavioural types,
and territoriality
Kate Laskowski (Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology
and Inland Fisheries, Germany) - Individual behaviour,
foraging specializations and life-history strategies as
integrated phenotypes in a wild pike population
Animal life-history is characterised along a slow-fast
continuum: \slow" species, populations, or individuals
exhibit slow developmental rates, low and delayed re-
productive outputs, and long life spans, whereas those
on the \fast" track express the opposite traits. This
continuum is captured by the 'pace-of-life syndrome'
(POLS) concept according to which certain combina-
tions of life-history, behavioural, and physiological traits
(i.e. syndromes) may yield higher tness than others,
depending on the environment. The POLS concept
is appealing to multiple research disciplines due to its
capacity to predict relationships among diverse traits.
However, empirical studies provide mixed support for
POLS. This session is aimed at examining the generality
of the POLS concept. We welcome all submissions (talks
and posters) related to the POLS concept but especially
encourage studies investigating (1) which combinations
of traits are (or are not) consistently linked, (2) if links
between traits persist across environmental gradients,
stress gradients, or time, and (3) which proximate mech-
anisms facilitate or constrain trait (co)variation. The
aim of the session is to establish an overview of the
current state of research on POLS, and help bridge a
gap between physiologists and evolutionary, behavioural,
and molecular ecologists in order to further understand
the importance of POLjmprok@utu. jmprok@utu.
Galway Ireland
EvolutionOfRegeneration Jun26-29
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce our symposium \Evolution
of Regeneration in Metazoa" as part of the 7th Euro
Evo Devo meeting in Galway, Ireland, 26th-29nd june
next year (2018) http://www.evodevo2018.eu/ehome/-
evodevo2018/Welcome/ . SYNOPSIS.This symposium
is dedicated to the re-emerging eld of regeneration,
a widespread phenomenon in animals. Using a large
variety of metazoans species and modern techniques, we
intend to get a general view of the evolution of animal
regeneration as well as to test the presence of general
principles and/or shared genetic programs that under-
lie this intriguing phenomenon. A specic attention
will be given to the identity, plasticity and dierentia-
tion potential of the cells required for the regeneration
processes.
Our Invited speakers are Dr Maja Adamska (Australian
National University, Canberra, Australia), Dr Karen
Echeverri (University of Minnesota, USA), Dr Uri Frank
(National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland) and Dr
Jochen Rink EMBO Young Investigator Lecture (Max
Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics,
Dresden, Germany).
We invite you to submit an abstract follow-
ing the online instructions on the Congress web-
site (http://www.evodevo2018.eu/ehome/evodevo2018/-
Registration/). Deadline for abstract submission (+
registration required) is 16th February 2018. Deadline
for early Bird Registration Fee is 13th April 2018.
Sincerely,
Dr Eric R ottinger and Dr Eve Gazave
{ Eve Gazave, PhD Charg ee de Recherche CR2 ~Aquipe
Cellules Souches, D eveloppement et Evolution Institut
Jacques Monod , CNRS UMR 7592 Universit e Paris-
Diderot ; Paris 7 B^ atiment Buon. 1e  etage; pi ece 156b
15 rue H el ene Brion 75205 Paris cedex 13 France E-mail:
eve.gazave@ijm.fr Tel (33) 1 57 27 80 03 Fax (33) 1 57
27 80 87
http://www.ijm.fr/recherche/equipes/cellules-
souches-developpement-et-evolution/ https://-
stemdevevo.wordpress.com/ ATTENTION : newFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 5
email eve.gazave@ijm.fr
Eve Gazave <eve.gazave@ijm.fr >
Hawaii OriginsAdaptiveRadiation
Jul22-25
Registration is now open for the American Genetic As-
sociation Symposium, \Origins of Adaptive Radiation",
July 22-25 in Waimea, Hawaii.
The meeting will explore processes at the early stages of
adaptive diversication { allopatry vs sympatry in fos-
tering initial divergence interplay between isolation and
mixing in divergence and adaptation plasticity in facili-
tating adaptation hybridization and admixture repeated
evolution of similar forms conditions that facilitate adap-
tive radiation
AGA symposia are small, friendly gatherings, and
provide wonderful opportunities for students and re-
searchers to engage with one another and share their
science.
We encourage all those who are interested to submit
abstracts for posters. A small number of abstracts will
be selected for oral presentations and associated travel
compensation.
STUDENTS: The AGA is oering multiple free registra-
tion slots to graduate students who submit an abstract.
There are also a small number of travel bursaries ( $300
each) available, and will be awarded to select students
based on their abstracts.
We will open with a pupu reception on Sunday night,
and our Key Distinguished Lecturer, Ole Seehausen,
will lead o two full days of talks on Monday and Tues-
day. A luau reception with entertainment is planned for
Tuesday night. Finally, an optional expert-led eld trip
to explore radiation processes at Volcanoes National
Park will take place on Wednesday.
Registration is open! Registration cost includes recep-
tions, lunches, and coee breaks, as well as complimen-
tary AGA membership and subscription to Journal of
Heredity.
For all details, visit http://www.theaga.org . Best
wishes,
Rosemary Gillespie, AGA President
Speakers: Key Distinguished Lecturer: Ole Seehausen,
Eawag Center, SwitzerlandGordon Bennett, University of California, Merced Louis
Bernatchez, University of Laval, Canada Brian Bowen,
Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology
Rob Fleischer, Smithsonian Conservation Biology Insti-
tute Andrew Hendry, McGill University, Canada Scott
Hodges, University of California, Santa Barbara
Henrik Krehenwinkel, University of California, Berke-
ley Jonathan Losos, Washington University Jim Mallet,
Harvard University
Axel Meyer, University of Konstanz, Germany Anna Pa-
padopoulou, University of Cyprus, Republic of Cyprus
Christine Parent, University of Idaho
Karin Pfennig, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill Dan Rubino, University of Hawaii, Manoa Dolph
Schluter, University of British Columbia, Canada
Kerry Shaw, Cornell University Elizabeth Stacy, Uni-
versity of Hawaii, Hilo Katie Wagner, University of
Wyoming
contact: Anjanette Baker <theaga@theaga.org >
Anjanette Baker <theaga@theaga.org >
Hinxton EvolSystemsBiol Apr11-13
DeadlineJan16
Dear all,
The early bird registration for the 2nd Evolutionary
System Biology Conference in Hinxton is next week.
The conference will provide a forum for scientists
interested in applying systems and mechanistic
approaches to understand evolution. https://-
coursesandconferences.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
events/item.aspx?e=681 We will explore the evolution
of biological systems at dierent levels: from genes and
molecules to organism development and physiology.
Particular emphasis will be placed on understanding
evolution through mechanistic biology.
The programme is of particular interest to those working
at the interface of evolution, quantitative genetics, and
systems biology. We welcome abstracts from all areas
relevant to the main themes of the meeting, for both
oral and poster presentations. Several oral presentations
will be chosen from the abstracts submitted.
The scientic programme committee, Ben Lehner Marie-
Anne F elix Patricia Wittkopp
DEADLINES Early bird discount: 16 January Bursary6 EvolDir February 1, 2018
deadline: 30 January Abstract deadline: 13 February
Registration deadline: 13 March
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS * **Caroline Dean * John
Innes Centre, UK * **Stan Leibler* The Rockefeller
University, USA
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS * **Christina Burch* Uni-
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA
*Juliette De Meaux* University of M unster, Germany *
**Angela DePace* Harvard Medical School, USA
*Fyodor Kondrashov* Centre for Genomic Regulation
Barcelona, Spain
*Christian Landry* Laval University, Canada
*Eric Meyer* ~Acole Normale Sup erieure, France
*Patrick Phillips* University of Oregon, USA
*Matt Rockman* New York University, USA
*Mark Siegal* New York University, USA
*Aleksandra Walczak* Ecole Normale Sup erieure, France
*Daniel Weinreich* Brown University, USA * **Ga el
Yvert *
~Acole Normale Sup erieure de Lyon, France
{ Marie-Anne Felix Institute of Biology of the Ecole Nor-
male Sup erieure (IBENS) 46 rue d'Ulm, 75230 Paris
cedex 05, France 8th oor. Oce: Room 801. Lab:
Room 817. mail:felix@biologie.ens.fr Tel: +33-1-44-32-
39-44 http://www.ibens.ens.fr/?rubrique29&lang=en
STRAINS:http://www.justbio.com/worms/index.php
Marie Anne Felix <felix@biologie.ens.fr >
Manchester MolGenomeEvolution
Mar5
Manchester's Molecular and Genome Evolution Sympo-
sium (#MaGE2018) is back again this year on Monday
5th March! Registration and abstract submission are
now open.
MaGE encompasses all aspects of molecular and genome
evolution, ranging from genomic analyses or compu-
tational algorithm development, to molecular ecology,
population genetics, and experimental evolution.
MaGE 2018 will be a day-long event in Manchester's
Michael Smith Building, including a plenary lecture
from Mike Brockhurst alongside a series of contributed
talks, and a poster session. The full programme is cur-rently being put together, but past programmes can be
viewed at the URL below.
MaGE is free to attend, but places are limited so please
register at the URL below, and submit a title if you
would like to present a talk or poster. We are particu-
larly keen to give PhD students and post-docs a chance
to present their work. All contributed talks and posters
will also be considered for a prize, presented at the
drinks reception following the symposium.
Hope to see you in March!
For full details, including registration and ab-
stract submission deadlines, see: https://-
manchestermage.wordpress.com/ Danna Giord,
Chris Knight and Sam Griths-Jones
dannagiord@gmail.com
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep25-28
EarlyDeadline
Dear all, Please note that the early dead line for the next
evolutionary biology meeting at Marseilles is January 31
the meeting Will take place on September 25-28 2018
in Marseilles (South of France) more info : aeeb.fr
The following subjects will be discussed:
* Evolutionary biology concepts / mathematical mod-
eling; * Biodiversity and Systematics; * Comparative
genomics ans post-genomics (at all taxomic levels); *
Functional phylogeny; * Environment and biological evo-
lution; * Origin of life and exobiology; * Non-adaptative
versus adaptative evolution; * The minorphyla:
their usefulness in evolutionary biology knowledge; *
Convergent evolution * Evolution of complex traits (Evo-
Devo) * education
contact Marie-H el ene Rome marie-helene-rome@univ-
amu.fr best regards Pierre
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 7
Marseilles Evolution Sept25-28
Dear all , the organisers of the evolutionary biology
meeting \at" Marseilles publish in collaboration with
Springer Nature a book since 2008 see for more info:
http://aeeb.fr/18th-ebm-2/books/ Please note that the
early dead line is January 31 The date of the meeting
are september 25-28 (followed by 2 days of the visit
of the city ) The following subjects will be discussed:
- Evolutionary biology concepts and modelisations for
biological annotation; - Biodiversity and Systematics; -
Comparative genomics and post-genomics (at all tax-
onomic levels); - Functional phylogeny; -Transposon
evolution; - Convergent evolution; - Environment and
biological evolution; - Origin of Life and exobiology; -
Self non - self evolution; - Non-adaptative versus adapta-
tive evolution; - The minorphyla: their usefulness
in evolutionary biology knowledge.
see
aeeb.fr
best regards Pierre
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
Minneapolis BehaviouralEvolution
Aug11-16
Hi, I would like to place the following announcement
in EvolDir: We invite you to attend ISBE 2018, the
next meeting of the International Society for Behavioral
Ecology. The meeting will be held at the Convention
Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S.A., from 11-16
August, 2018. We hope to have a diverse representa-
tion of behavioral ecologists on hand for an outstanding
lineup of invited speakers from all over the world, as well
as the usual contributed talks and poster sessions and,
of course, the traditional soccer match. In addition to
the fantastic science, there are lots of reasons to attend
ISBE 2018. The city of Minneapolis, and its nearby
sister city of St. Paul, create a vibrant cosmopolitan
area (the \Twin Cities") with much to oer, and \the
Land of 10,000 Lakes" (i.e., the State of Minnesota) hasunmatched opportunities for outdoor activities ranging
from canoeing to hiking and backpacking. Check out
our excursions and attractions page for some ideas on
things to do before, during, and after your visit. In the
meantime, to receive periodic updates you can follow us
on facebook and twitter using the \Follow" link above.
We look forward to seeing you in the Twin Cities in
August!
- The ISBE 2018 Local Organizers
Marlene Zuk Professor, Department of Ecology, Evolu-
tion and Behavior Associate Dean for Faculty, College
of Biological Sciences University of Minnesota St. Paul,
MN 55108 USA http://www.cbs.umn.edu/explore/-
departments/eeb/faculty-research/directo ry/marlene-
zuk Phone: 612-625-5727 mzuk@umn.edu
Marlene Zuk <mzuk@umn.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22
Maladaptation
Dear Colleagues:
We are excited to announce that there will be a sym-
posium on the topic of maladaptation at the 2018 Evo-
lution meeting in Montpelier, France. Please see the
symposium information below and consider applying
and/or sharing this announcement with colleagues who
may be interested.
The submission deadline is January 15th. Those
interested in speaking in this symposium can
submit abstracts for consideration here: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts Sympo-
sium 58. Causes of maladaptation: environmental
change, demography, inbreeding and genetic constraints
Organizers: Steven Brady, Daniel Bolnick, Anne-Laure
Ferchaud, Charles Perrier, Donald Waller
Evolutionists seek to understand how populations adapt
to environmental change and to predict the consequences.
Selection that lags the pace of environmental change and
inbreeding resulting from habitat loss and fragmentation
both act to diminish the degree to which populations are
adapted to their environments. Genetic drift in smaller
populations also acts to constrain responses to posi-
tive and purifying selection. This will tend to increase
the xation of deleterious alleles, reducing population-
wide tness. These non-adaptive forces could eventually
overwhelm adaptive ones, limiting adaptive potential8 EvolDir February 1, 2018
of populations. Advances in genomics now empower us
to detect and map adaptive and mal-adaptive variation
across the genome. We welcome theoretical, method-
ological and empirical contributions that: (1) assess
mal-adaptation and accumulated genetic load; (2) ex-
amine the role of inbreeding and other demographic
processes in maladaptation; (3) describe the genetic
causes of mal-adaptation including the eects of domi-
nance, linkage and identity disequilibria, epistasis, and
gene ow; (4) enhance theory on the extent of genetic
change needed to rapidly adapt to rapidly changing en-
vironments, and (5) evaluate opportunities for genetic
rescue versus the risk of extinction.
Invited speaker: Andrew Hendry Rethinking maladap-
tation
Steven Brady Assistant Professor jSouthern Connecti-
cut State University stevenpbrady.weebly.com Oce:
203-392-7206jJennings Rm 215A
brady.steven@gmail.com
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
AdaptationAncientDNA
Dear colleagues,
Happy new year.
We are happy to invite abstract submission to
our symposium on Ancient DNA studies of adap-
tive processes through time (S43) at the Evolu-
tion 2018 conference in Montpellier, France (http:/-
/evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia ).
Abstract submission is open until 15 january 2018,
see: http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
Long-term time series data have the benet of being able
to estimate eective population size through time using
neutral markers and identify the timing of demographic
change relative to ecological change; and to quantify the
tempo and chronology of changes in allele frequencies
and sites known to be the targets of natural selection
during ecological shifts. Given the temporal aspect of
adaptation and speciation, ancient DNA (aDNA) tech-
niques are an obvious and promising tool with which
to track the progress of natural selection's eect upon
the genome using time-series data. However, the emerg-
ing eld of palaeogenomics has been under-exploited in
studying this temporal component of adaptation and
speciation. Here we propose to take the eld a fur-
ther step forward by utilising palaeogenomics to bridgethis gap, allowing multi-locus adaptation, speciation
and multi-species adaptive radiation to be investigated
along the evolutionary continuum, from inception to
completion.
Organizers: Andrew Foote, Eline Lorenzen
Best wishes, Andy
{ Dr Andrew Foote Molecular Ecology Fisheries Genetics
Lab, School of Biological Sciences, Bangor University,
Bangor, Wales
footead@gmail.com
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
BalancedPolymorphism
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submissions to our
symposium \Ecological and genetic mechanisms under-
lying balanced polymorphisms", at the joint ESEB-SSE
Congress in Montpellier, France (19-22 Aug. 2018).
The aim of this symposium is to integrate the many
facets of our knowledge of balanced polymorphisms and
foster cross-talk between research on the genetics of poly-
morphic traits, and research on the ecology of selection
explaining the maintenance of those polymorphisms.
We are also interested in research on the evolutionary
paths to the formation of dierentiated polymorphisms,
composed of several characters with epistatic interac-
tions.
Our invited speaker will be Clemens Kupper from the
Max Plack Institute for Ornithology in Seewiesen, Ger-
many, who will be speaking on \The genetics and evo-
lution of elaborate mating behaviours in birds".
NOTE: ***The deadline for submissions is January 15th
2018***.
Abstracts may be submitted at: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts Our
symposium abstract: This symposium will explore
how balanced polymorphisms evolve, and how multiple
complex strategies arise and are maintained within
populations. Sometimes called syndromes, complex
polymorphisms typically coordinate variations in
morphology, behaviour, and/or life history traits.
Classic examples include distinct sexual tactics in birds,
alternative pollination strategies in plants, coexisting
colony types in ants, mimicry polymorphisms inFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 9
butteries.
Contributions will address how polymorphisms that re-
quire the appropriate segregation of multiple underlying
mutations are generated and maintained. We welcome
contributions from empirical and theoretical perspec-
tive, and aim to highlight the considerable progress that
can be driven by the combination of ecology, genet-
ics and genomics. While some approaches clarify the
genetic basis and the recombination landscape underly-
ing the co-segregation of multiple traits (e.g. inversion
polymorphisms, large structural variants, supergenes),
other approaches focus on the tness landscapes asso-
ciated with stable polymorphisms (sexual antagonism,
self-incompatibility, frequency-dependent selection, het-
erozygote advantage). Combining those facets, a clearer
picture emerges of how and why genes and their as-
sociated characters co-vary in linkage disequilibrium.
A third facet to our understanding of complex poly-
morphisms is to address the apparent paradox of how
dierentiated haplotypes are formed in the rst place,
and how new combinations of epistatic characters may
be picked by selection.
Organisers: Mathieu Joron, CNRS, Montpel-
lier, France (mathieu.joron@cefe.cnrs.fr), and
Annabel Whibley, John Innes Centre, Norwich,
UK (annabel.whibley@jic.ac.uk).
We look forward to seeing you in Montpellier! Math-
ieu Joron Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolu-
tive CNRS, 1919 route de Mende, 34293 Montpellier 5,
France
Mathieu Joron <mathieu.joron@cefe.cnrs.fr >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
DeadlineJan15
Reminder: the call for abstracts for the Joint Congress
on Evolutionary Biology will soon be closed (January
15th 2018). This is the last call!
Submit now! 'V http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/-
call-abstracts We are happy to inform you that ab-
stract submission is now open for next year's 2 ^nd Joint
Congress on Evolutionary Biology in Montpellier, France
(18-22 August 2018). Joint Congresses take place ev-
ery six years and bring together four of the world's
largest academic societies in the eld of evolutionary
biology: the European Society for Evolutionary Biology
<http://eseb.org >, the American Society of Natural-ists<http://www.amnat.org/ >, the Society for the
Study of Evolution <http://www.evolutionsociety.org/
>and the Society of Systematic Biologists <http://-
www.systbio.org/ >.
Following the traditional format of ESEB conferences,
*all contributed talks and posters will be submitted
to specic symposia and selected on the basis of their
abstract by symposium organizers*.
The list of symposia is available at:
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia You can
consult the list and submit an application to give a talk
or poster to the symposia of your choice. You can sub-
mit applications to *up to two symposia* from the list.
Note that if none of the topics covered by the thematic
symposia matches your research, you will have the op-
tion to submit your abstract to the Open symposium
(also in the list).
If you are a graduate student, you will have the oppor-
tunity to compete for the Mayr Award and Hamilton
Award. These awards, organized respectively by SSB
and SSE, will be given to the presenter of an outstand-
ing student talk at the Joint meeting in Montpellier.
*If you want to compete for any of these awards, you
have to submit an abstract to either the Mayr Award
symposium or Hamilton Award symposium through the
normal abstract submission procedure*.
In order to allow as many participants as possible to
present their work, and in line with ESEB tradition,
*participants can submit only one abstract as the pre-
senting author (i.e. the person who will present the
talk/poster).* There is no limit, however, to the number
of talks/posters a given person may coauthor.
The symposium organizers of both your rst and second
choice will examine your proposal and make a selection.
Symposium organizers will establish a priority list for
abstracts accepted as oral communications and will oer
the *option of presenting a poster instead of a talk* for
the abstracts that do not t in that list. Abstracts may
be rejected if they are of insucient quality, but our
general policy is to accept most poster presentations.
You will be chosen to present either a talk or a poster
in a maximum of one symposium.
In order to submit an abstract for a talk or a poster
click here 'V http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-
abstracts *Please note the following important dates:
*
*November 6 ^th 2017*: Call for abstracts opens
*January 15 ^th 2018*: Deadline for abstract submission
(i.e. application to present a talk/poster)
*February 28 ^th 2018*: Notication of acceptance10 EvolDir February 1, 2018
sent out and pre-registration for presenters (talks and
posters) opens
*March 12 ^th 2018:*Registration for all participants
opens **
*March 26 ^th 2018:*Oral presentations of unregistered
participants are cancelled
For further details, please see: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/ Looking forward
to meeting you in Montpellier in 2018!**
ronce ophelie <ophelie.ronce@univ-montp2.fr >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
EvolutionaryImmunology
We welcome abstracts submitted for our symposium
\Evolutionary immunology: tradeos and mechanisms"
(S15) at the 2018 Joint Congress on Evolutionary Bi-
ology in Montpellier, France, (August 19th-22nd) with
Scott Edwards as the keynote speaker.
The deadline for abstract submission is January 15,
2018. For further information please see http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia Submissions
are encouraged from scientists from diverse backgrounds
with the goal of exploring how studies of disease can ad-
vance evolutionary biology and encourage evolutionary
applications in medicine.
Sincerely,
Jamie Winternitz, Jessie Abbate, Randolph Nesse, Frank
R^A^A1hli (organizers)
SYNOPSIS: There is growing interest in the role of
trade-os on the evolution of host defense strategies,
such as competition between resistance vs. tolerance
mechanisms, protection against a diversity of foreign
invaders vs. vulnerability to autoimmune and inam-
matory disorders, or exposure to multiple coevolving
pathogens. Excitingly, advances in high-throughput se-
quencing technologies present the opportunity to move
beyond candidate gene approaches to study host resis-
tance using unbiased whole-genome approaches of both
the host and pathogen. In addition, genome-wide asso-
ciation study (GWAS) approaches could also reveal the
relative importance of select genes of large eect versus
many genes of small eect across the genome for disease
resistance. Thus, GWAS oer the potential to reveal
new insights into the genetic basis of parasite-mediated
selection on host and pathogen genetic diversity. Thissymposium will also explore how co-evolution shapes
asymmetric tness landscapes that result in apparent
suboptimal immune function. Given the recent explo-
sion of autoimmune disorders in recent decades, we
especially encourage presentations that investigate this
pattern through evolutionary immunological studies of
trade-os between resistance and autoimmune diseases.
Randolph Nesse <nesse@asu.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
FloralEvolution
Dear colleagues,
A reminder that the deadline for submitting abstracts
to the ESEB-SSE joint meeting is only a few days away,
on Monday January 15. The meeting will take place
August 19-22 in Montpellier, France. We encourage
you to submit an abstract to our symposium on Floral
Evolution.
Our symposium is S70 : Floral evolution: breeding
systems, pollinators, and beyond. Dr. Nina Sletvold,
from the University of Uppsala, Sweden, is the invited
speaker. Her talk is entitled \Abiotic factors, biotic con-
text (antagonists, community) and pollinator-mediated
selection".
Abstracts can be submitted at http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts . Talks
and posters of this symposium (S70) will be invited
to submit for publication in a special issue of the
International Journal of Plant Sciences. With your
contributions, we are looking forward to a great
symposium and an excellent special issue.
Symposium abstract: Pollinator-mediated selection is
the major paradigm dominating the theory of oral
evolution. It has been proposed as the major force
directing oral trait evolution, from ower colour to
phenology and oral shape. But some recent studies
have raised questions about the relative importance of
pollinators as selective agents on oral traits. Herbi-
vores and abiotic stresses may counterbalance and mask
pollinator-mediated selection. In addition, a plant breed-
ing system can aect pollinator attraction and impact
oral evolution. These processes can all be inuenced by
anthropogenic changes such as habitat loss and global
warming. Finally, the genetic architecture of oral traits
may constrain oral evolution and despite the major
impact of oral shape on plant reproductive success, theFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 11
quantitative exploration of oral shape, its evolution
and diversity, and its molecular basis have received little
attention. In this symposium, we intend to broaden
the scope of pollination ecology in order to enhance our
ability to detect the evolutionary consequences of plant-
pollinator interactions. We propose to bring together
new and exciting studies that shed light on evolutionary
processes that shape owers and reproductive organs in
plants. Emphasis will be given to factors beyond polli-
nation and factors that interact with pollination, from
co-acting selective agents to the genetic basis of oral
traits. The proposed symposium will emphasize the
multifaceted process of natural selection and reexamine
established paradigms in the light of new ndings.
Organizers: Johanne Brunet, USDA-ARS; University
of Wisconsin-Madison, USA. Diane Byers, Illinois State
University, USA. Eric Imbert, University of Montpel-
lier, France. Yuval Sapir, Tel Aviv University, Israel.
J urg Sch onenberger and Yannick Staedler, University
of Vienna, Austria.
Thank you and looking forward to reading your ab-
stracts!
Johanne Brunet
Madison, WI, USA
Johanne Brunet <jbrunet@wisc.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
GlobalChange
Dear Colleagues,
We welcome abstract submissions to the symposium
on: \Rapid Evolutionary Responses to Global Change,"
for the 2018 Joint SSE+ESEB Congress in Montpellier,
France.
***The deadline for submissions is January 15th
2018***. Abstracts may be submitted at: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts Title of the
Symposium: Rapid Evolutionary Responses to Global
Change
Global climate change ranks among the greatest threats
facing humanity, and evolutionary responses will be most
certainly needed for many species to avoid extinction.
While there is mounting evidence for species responses
to global change, we still lack the ability to predict
whether and the extent to which populations could re-
spond to this change. This Symposium attempts toconsolidate state-of-the-art knowledge on evolutionary
responses and enhance our capacity to make predic-
tions about adaptation and extinction to global change.
Specically, we need to increase our understanding of
what role evolutionary processes play in species range
shifts, what types and number of genetic mutations are
most likely to be adaptive, or what is the importance
of genetic adaptive evolution vs phenotypic plasticity.
These questions need to be explored in a variety of
biotic and abiotic stresses as they might have dramati-
cally dierent natures, namely temperature rises, severe
droughts, acidication and salinity decline of the seas,
or new pests. We invite work on wild populations, ex-
perimental evolution, quantitative genetic experiments,
and theoretical population genetic models, and we en-
courage participants to discuss from such diverse angles
the question of rapid evolution and adaptation. We plan
to use this symposium as a launching point to integrate
knowledge across disciplines and stimulate discussion
on areas that require further investigation, so that we
could gain fundamental insights.
Invited Speaker: Dmitri Petrov, Stanford University Or-
ganizers: Carol Lee, Moises Exposito-Alonso, Johannes
Scheepens, Fran cois Vasseur, Thorsten Reusch
Carol Eunmi Lee, Ph.D. Professor Center of Rapid Evo-
lution (CORE) and Department of Integrative Biology
430 Lincoln Drive, Birge Hall University of Wisconsin
Madison, WI 53706 carollee@wisc.edu
http://carollee.labs.wisc.edu carollee@wisc.edu
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
MatePreferenceMatingSystems
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submissions to our
symposium, Understanding mate preferences and mat-
ing systems: from genetics to behavior (S74), during the
upcoming Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology in
Montpellier, France, August 19-22, 2018. (Deadline com-
ing soon! Jan. 15th.) It will be an exciting symposium
bringing together speakers from multiple backgrounds
to explore what new genetic and genomics tools are
bringing to our understanding of mating systems and
mate preferences (see abstract below). . Abstracts for
oral presentations and posters will be accepted through
15 January). We look forward to your submissions. Sym-
posium Abstract: As a critical component of speciation12 EvolDir February 1, 2018
and sexual selection, mating behavior has long been an
area of study in evolutionary biology. In an attempt
to investigate its mechanisms, we have gained abun-
dant insight into the sensory, neural and physiological
processes behind mating behavior. With the advent of
increasingly rened tools and their application to many
diverse organisms, we now have a better understanding
of the mechanisms underlying the evolution of mate
preference, mating behavior and more generally sexual
selection. This symposium will integrate what we have
learned about the various components of mating behav-
ior, including sensory systems, mate preferences as well
as mating systems and reproductive behavior. Our goals
are to (i) highlight recent studies from diverse elds and
organisms, with an emphasis on genetic and genomic ap-
proaches, in order to provide a synthetic understanding
of the evolution of mate preference and mating behavior;
and to (ii) provide a platform to generate a roadmap
for future research in these areas.
Invited speaker: Molly E. Cummings The neuroge-
nomics of mate preference and the cognition connection
Organizers: Natasha Bloch (n.bloch@ucl.ac.uk), Iulia
Darolti (iulia.darolti.15@ucl.ac.uk).
Natasha Bloch, PhD NSF Post-doctoral Fellow in Biol-
ogy Marie Curie research fellow Department of Genetics,
Evolution and the Environment University College Lon-
don
The Darwin Building Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Tel: 020 7679 2170 (ext. 32170) E-mail:
n.bloch@ucl.ac.uk http://home.uchicago.edu/ ~nbloch
\Bloch, Natasha" <n.bloch@ucl.ac.uk >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
RecombinationEvolution
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submissions for our
symposium at the Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biol-
ogy to be held in Montpellier, France in August 2018.
Please see information below, and submit an abstract at
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts by
January 15.
We hope to feature a diverse collection of enthusiastic
speakers.
Title: Causes and Consequences of Recombination Rate
EvolutionInvited Speaker: Mohamed Noor
Is Variation in Recombination Rate Adaptive?
Summary:
Meiotic recombination plays fundamental roles in evo-
lution and genetics. By controlling linkage between
loci, recombination mediates the eciency and eects
of natural selection on both benecial and deleterious
mutations. Recombination shapes the evolution of DNA
sequence composition via biased gene conversion and
drives uctuations in genealogical history along chro-
mosomes. In many species, recombination also ensures
the correct segregation of homologous chromosomes at
meiosis and is essential for the maintenance of genome in-
tegrity. Despite its central biological signicance, recom-
bination rate varies among individuals, between species,
and across genomes. Our symposium will highlight re-
cent discoveries about the causes and consequences of
variation in recombination rates. We intend to show-
case research that cuts across genomic and evolutionary
scales - from recombination hotspots to whole genomes,
and from individuals to clades. We expect our sym-
posium will unite the perspectives of empiricists and
theoreticians whose work on recombination rate evolu-
tion remains disconnected.
Organizers: Marie Cariou, Beth Dumont, Bret Payseur,
Fanny Pouyet
Bret Payseur <bret.payseur@wisc.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
SexualConict
Dear Colleagues,
We are excited to announce our symposium on the 'Man-
ifestation and resolution of sexual conict' (S56) at the
2018 Evolution conference in Montpelier, France.
Abstract submission is open until 15th January 2018 at
http:// evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
The invited speaker to our symposium is Craig Primmer
(University of Helsinki) who will be talking about his
work on sex dependent dominance and sexual conict
resolution in salmon.
Males and females are often subject to contrasting selec-
tion pressures, which can generate signicant amounts
of sexual conict when traits have a shared genetic basis
between the sexes. Sexual conict has the potentialFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 13
to substantially increase standing genetic diversity in
populations and thereby act as an important force in
adaptation. However, the causes of sexual conict, and
the mechanisms by which it can be resolved, remain
hotly debated. Recent studies have begun to combine
phenotypic studies, population genetic methods, and
genome wide sequence data to identify targets of sex-
ual conict. Now is a pertinent time to: i) synthesize
the population genetic signatures arising from sexual
conict, and how they vary according to the type of
sexual conict; ii) highlight our understanding of the
consequences of conict; including the role of balancing
selection in maintaining population genetic diversity;
and iii) develop a cohesive understanding of the poten-
tial genomic mechanisms leading to the resolution of
sexual conict, including the relative roles of gene ex-
pression, alternative splicing, imprinting and sex-linkage.
Organisers: Katie Peichel and Alison Wright
{ Dr Alison Wright
NERC Independent Research Fellow Dept. of Animal
and Plant Sciences, University of Sheeld Sheeld, S10
2TN
Twitter: @alielw Lab webpage <http://-
www.alisonewright.co.uk >Departmental webpage <
http://www.sheeld.ac.uk/aps/sta-and-students/-
acadsta/wright >
\a.e.wright@sheeld.ac.uk"
<a.e.wright@sheeld.ac.uk >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
SocialBehaviorOmics
Dear colleagues,
We welcome abstract submission to our symposium, \So-
cial behavior and evolution in the omics era", part of the
Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology in Montpellier,
France, August 19-22, 2018. (Details below.) We aim
to attract a diverse group of speakers to participate
in an exciting symposium at an outstanding interna-
tional conference. Abstracts for oral presentations and
posters will be accepted through 15 January ( http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts). We look
forward to your submissions and hope to see you this
August!
Symposium S8: Social behavior and evolution in the
omics eraSymposium Abstract:
>From genes cooperating to form organisms to ani-
mals cooperating to form societies, all of life is social.
Social behaviours, including cooperation, aggression,
mating, and parenting, have historically been conned
to studies of organismal- or population-level phenotypes.
Thanks to the -omics revolution, it is now possible to
dissect the evolution of these behaviours to the geno-
typic level. Furthermore, in the study of mutualisms,
genomics have been used to unveil previously hidden mi-
crosymbionts, while transcriptomics, metabolomics and
proteomics have identied which genetic and metabolic
pathways are used and therefore how individuals are
interacting. Omics methodologies can be used to iden-
tify social cheats and infer evolutionary dynamics in
natural populations, and will be central to examining
the consequences of social behaviours for genome evo-
lution and gene expression, both within and between
species. This symposium will bring together researchers
using omic approaches to clarify fundamental aspects of
sociobiology and behavioural ecology including who is
interacting and how, and those attempting to link the
occurrence of social behaviours with variation across
the genome, transcriptome and metabolome.
Invited speaker: Sandra B. Andersen, \Long-term social
dynamics drive loss of function in pathogenic bacteria
Organizing committee: John Bruce, Melanie Ghoul,
Jaime Grace, and Philip Johns
Best, Jaime
Jaime Leigh Grace, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Bradley University 1501 W. Bradley
Ave. Peoria, IL 61625 USA +1 309 677 3014
<(309)%20677-3014 >jgrace@bradley.edu
jgrace@fsmail.bradley.edu
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
StructuralVariants
Dear Colleagues,
We are glad to invite you to participate and submit
an abstract (before Jan 15th) to our symposium \S27.
Moving beyond point mutations: the role of structural
genomic variation in adaptation and novelty" at the
2018 Evolution meeting in Montpellier, France (August
19th-22nd).
We hope this symposium will be the opportunity to14 EvolDir February 1, 2018
discuss recent research on the role of structural variants
(inversions, duplications, etc..) in evolution, from the
apparition of novelty (*de novo *genes...) to adapta-
tion or speciation. We'd like to gather scientist with
diverse backgrounds and using complementary methods
(experimental, computational, genomic,etc...)
Please nd below the detailled summary of the sympo-
sium. You may submit your abstract through this web-
site http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
. S27. Moving beyond point mutations: the role of
structural genomic variation in adaptation and novelty
Abstract: One of the key challenges in evolutionary
biology is to understand how novelty arises. Genomic
structural variants, such as large indels, translocations,
duplications and inversions, are ubiquitous in nature.
However, their role in adaptation and diversication
remains largely unknown compared to single-nucleotide
mutations. Recent advances in genomics, notably single-
molecule long read sequencing combined with novel as-
sembly algorithms, have now empowered researchers to
systematically discover and characterize these complex
variants for the rst time. But how exactly do structural
variants contribute to novelty at the molecular level?
Remarkably, structural variants have been linked to the
spread and evolution of selsh genetic elements (trans-
posons, meiotic drivers and post-segregation distorters)
as well as the birth and diversication of gene families
(gene duplication and de novo gene evolution). Further-
more, transcriptomic and pedigree analyses suggest that
structural variants are frequently associated with QTLs
or neo-functionalization. With this symposium, we aim
to bring together researchers who apply experimental
and computational approaches to: 1) characterize struc-
tural variants, 2) test the role of structural variants in
adaptation and diversication, including studies with an
emphasis on selsh genetic elements and de novo gene
evolution, and 3) document the ecological determinants
of that govern the distribution of structural variants in
wild populations.
Organizers: Eyal Ben-David, Emma Berdan, Alejandro
Burga, Claire Merot, Maren Wellenreuther
Invited speaker: Aoife McLysaght \Open questions in
the study of de novo genes: what, how and why"
On behalf of the organizers, Best regards,
Claire M erot
Post-doctoral FRQS fellow Bernatchez lab Institut Bi-
ologie Integrative des Systemes Universit e Laval Qu ebec,
Canada
<https://www.avast.com/sig-email?utm medium=-
email&utm source=link&utm campaign=sig-email&utm content=webmail > Garanti sans
virus. www.avast.com <https://www.avast.com/-
sig-email?utm medium=email&utm source=-
link&utm campaign=sig-email&utm content=-
webmail > < #DAB4FAD8-2DD7-40BB-A1B8-
4E2AA1F9FDF2 >
Claire M erot <claire.merot@gmail.com >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
UrbanEvolution
Dear Colleagues,
We are happy to invite you and submit an abstract to
the symposium \/Evolution in an urbanizing world/"
(S.63) at the joint ESEB-SSE Evolution congress in
Montpellier (August 19-22 2018). Deadline for abstract
submission is on January 15.
S63. Evolution in an urbanizing world
Organizers: Anne Charmantier, Adrien Frantz, Julien
Gasparini, Marc Johnson
Cities are rapidly expanding environments with original
combinations of abiotic, biotic, and human social factors.
The replication and global distribution of cities oer a
unique opportunity to investigate how environmental
changes aect phenotypic (morphological, physiological,
behavioural, and life history) and genomic evolution. In
particular, it is crucial to determine whether divergence
in phenotypes across urbanization gradients is the ex-
pression of either ecotypes adapted to urban conditions,
phenotypic plasticity, or non-adaptive evolution. Recent
projects have provided a small but growing number of
spectacular cases of rapid evolution and local adapta-
tion to the urban environment, and have also revealed a
promising potential to address eco-evolutionary dynam-
ics in this context. They have nally provided unique
scope to integrate evolutionary ecology in a conserva-
tion context. In the last ve years, the eld of urban
evolution has budded from the strongly established eld
of urban ecology, and blossomed into a vibrant and
dynamic multi-disciplinary area of study. This sympo-
sium oers to synthesize results from this burgeoning
eld, and simultaneously bridge biological conservation,
ecosystem function, ecological genomics and behavioural
ecology. We particularly encourage submissions of ab-
stracts that create bridges between these elds in all
taxa, approaches and spatio-temporal scales.
Invited speaker: Marta Szulkin \/Testing for urbanFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 15
versus forest ecotypes in a wild bird across multiple
urbanization gradients/".
Looking forward to reading your contributions!
Thank you all, Anne Charmantier, Julien Gasparini,
Marc Johnson, Adrien Frantz
\adrien.frantz@upmc.fr" <adrien.frantz@upmc.fr >
Rosco France
EvolutionReproductiveSystems
DeadlineJan16
Dear Colleagues, the deadline for abstract submission
to our upcoming Jacques Monod conference on repro-
ductive systems evolution is next week (Jan 16). Please
visit our website for general informations and instruc-
tions on how to register: http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/-
2018/Schwander e.html Hoping to see you there, Tanja
Schwander, Thomas Lenormand & Denis Roze
Dear Colleagues We would like to draw your attention
to an upcoming Jacques Monod Conference:
SEX UNCOVERED, THE EVOLUTIONARY BIOL-
OGY OF REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEMS
April 23-27, 2018 in Rosco (Brittany), France.
Jacques Monod Conferences, organized by CNRS, are
known for the high scientic quality of the talks and
discussions, in a relaxed atmosphere.The topics cov-
ered by the conference include: the advantage of sex
and recombination, the biology of sexual and asexual
reproduction, the evolution of inbreeding vs. outcross-
ing, and the evolution of sex chromosomes and sexual
dierentiation.
The list of invited speakers is given below. Information
about the conference and how to register will be available
soon at http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/cjmprog e.html
Symposium Speakers:
AGRAWAL Aneil (Toronto, Canada) ASHMAN Tia-
Lynn (Pittsburgh, USA) BECKS, Lutz (Pl on, Germany)
BILLIARD Sylvain (Lille, France) CHARLESWORTH
Brian (Edinburgh, UK) CHARLESWORTH Deborah
(Edinburgh, UK) COELHO Susana (Rosco, France)
DUFAY Mathilde (Montpellier, France) GL ~AMIN Syl-
vain (Montpellier, France) HAAG Christoph (Montpel-
lier, France) HAIG David (Harvard, USA) JAQUIERY
Julie (Le Rheu, France) KING Kayla (Oxford, UK)
KIRKPATRICK Mark (Austin, USA) KOKKO Hanna(Z urich, Switzerland) LENORMAND Thomas (Mont-
pellier, France) LYNCH Michael (Bloomington, USA)
MARAIS Gabriel (Lyon, France) OTTO Sarah (Vancou-
ver, Canada) PORCHER Emmanuelle (Paris, France)
RENNER Susanne (Munich, Germany) SCHEU Stefan
(G ottingen, Germany) SCHWANDER Tanja (Lausanne,
Switzerland) TEOTONIO Henrique (Paris, France)
VAN DONINCK Karine (Namur, Belgium) VICOSO
Beatriz (Klosterneuburg, Austria) WRIGHT Stephen
(Toronto, Canada)
We hope to see you there
Tanja Schwander, Thomas Lenormand & Denis Roze
Denis Roze <roze@sb-rosco.fr >
Shenzhen AsiaEvo Apr18-20
Hi
We would like to draw your attention to the follow-
ing symposia to be held at the 1st AsiaEvo confer-
ence in Shenzhen, China; April 18th-20th 2018 (http:/-
/www.asianevo.org/).
The deadline for abstract submission is January
20th 2018. There are 5 student and 5 postdoc
travel awards available (http://www.asianevo.org/-
programme/student awards.html).
Symposium #25: The evolution of behavioural re-
sponses in biological invasions Organizer: Kit Magellan
(University of Hong Kong)
Invited speakers: Jaimie Dick (Queens University,
Belfast); Martin Reichard (Czech Academy of Sciences),
Gudbjorg Asta Olafsdottir (University of Iceland)
Abstract: One of the greatest pressures on ecosystems
and biodiversity is biotic invasions. However, invasions
also provide a rare opportunity to observe and quantify
evolution in action: both invasives and natives must
adapt to species with which they have no evolutionary
history in order to survive. A key attribute of success-
ful invasive species is behavioral exibility. Conversely,
a likely immediate eect of invasions is disruption of
native species behaviour. These individual level eects
will translate to changes in population level parameters
and will inuence selection pressures on both native and
invasive species. Moreover, anthropogenic inuences
such as urbanization and climate change may facilitate
or oppose adaptation. Assessing the evolutionary in-
teractions between behaviour and biotic invasions is16 EvolDir February 1, 2018
therefore of critical global importance in the modern
world and for future generations.
Symposium #1: Rapid microevolution of invasive
species Organizer: Aibin Zhan (Chinese Academy of
Sciences)
Invited speakers: Hugh MacIsaac (University of Wind-
sor), Carol Lee (University of Wisconsin), Carolyn
Tepolt (Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution), Eliza-
beta Briski (GEOMAR)
Abstract: The introductions and spread of invasive
species globally have caused enormous costs to the econ-
omy ( ~ $1 trillion per annum in lost goods and services).
Such economic loss is particularly severe in countries
that have been highly impacted by invasive species, with
estimates for the UK, US and China of US $1 billion,
120 billion and 15 billion, respectively. Alarmingly, how-
ever, rates of biological invasions continue to accelerate,
thus posing growing and urgent threats to the global
environment and economy.
The study of microevolutionary processes in the wild
represents one of the major challenges in ecological and
evolutionary studies, especially those aiming to reveal
genetic bases of microevolution using wild populations.
Biological invasions provide good \natural experiments"
to deeply dissect processes and mechanisms of rapid
microevolution, as invasive species are transported into
and subsequently survive dierent local environments
in a short period of time. Consequently, natural selec-
tion associated with rapid and/or sudden environmental
changes may drive rapid microevolution in dierent di-
rections during the process of biological invasions.
This proposed section will focus on recent research di-
rections and progress, as well as future perspectives, in
the eld of microevolution using invasive species as a
model. The proposed internationally recognized well-
known experts will focus on dierent angles of rapid
microevolution at dierent levels, including ecosystem,
population and gene levels.
With best regards Kit Magellan and Aibin Zhan
Dr Kit MAGELLAN Research Fellow School of Bio-
logical Sciences Kadoorie Biological Sciences Building
University of Hong Kong Pokfulam Road Hong Kong
magellan <magellan@hku.hk >ShenZhen AsiaEvo Apr18-20
First AsianEvo Conference in Shenzhen, China, April
18-20, 2018
http://www.asianevo.org We are pleased to announce
the call for abstracts for a symposium on:
Human Evolution and Adaptation (Session 41)
Invited speakers:
Rasmus Nielsen, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Shuhua Xu, Chinese Academy of Science and Max
Planck Germany (CAS-MPG) Partnered Institute for
Computational Biology, China
Charleston Chiang, University of Southern California,
USA
Humans represent an excellent model system for under-
standing a key question in evolutionary biology: the
evolution and adaptation of a species. Broadly speak-
ing, two interwoven evolutionary forces have shaped
the human genome and molded present day genotype-
phenotype relationships: the demographic history of the
population and natural selection due to our past interac-
tions with a changing environment. Combining an abun-
dance of contemporary whole genome datasets from di-
verse populations with the emergence of ancient genomic
data has already illuminated details of our past evolu-
tionary processes. With the underlying demographic
history in hand, increased understanding of the role of
natural selection in the evolution of modern humans is
possible, forming a basis for evolutionary medicine that
could revolutionize how medicine is practiced. The suc-
cess of domestication in many human populations may
have intensied selection pressure in the past ~10,000
years owing to the change of life style and dramatic
growth of population size (e.g., selection for lactose per-
sistence and on many erythrocyte-related genes against
malaria). Consequently, many adaptively evolving vari-
ants may have very recent origins and likely segregate at
low frequencies in a population (recent selection). How-
ever, most statistical methods for detecting selection
have limited power of detecting low-frequency selected
alleles. Recently, the promise of precision medicine
has led to the development of population-based human
genome projects (usually >100,000 individuals) in many
countries in a high hope of making a complete list of
genetic variants underlying disease susceptibility. SuchFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 17
a gigantic dataset also provides us a great opportunity
to study patterns of genetic variation and detect sig-
natures of selection for low-frequency variants from a
very large sample size. Therefore, this symposium wel-
comes authors to present their work in understanding
human evolution in diverse populations through the
lens of demographic history and/or actions of natural
selections. These could include, but are not limited to,
either theoretical or empirical approaches, utilizing both
modern and ancient DNA samples. Moreover, interdisci-
plinary frameworks integrating insights from linguistics,
anthropology, medicine, or genetics studies of domesti-
cated animals or crop to address human evolutionary
questions will also be welcomed.
Deadline for abstracts has been extended: January 20,
2018
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/abstract.html
Travel awards are available for 5 students and 5 post-
docs:
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/-
student awards.html Symposium organizers:
Charleston Chiang, University of Southern California,
charleston.chiang@med.usc.edu
Qiaomei Fu, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology
and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Science,
fuqiaomei@ivpp.ac.cn
Wen-Ya Ko, National Yang Ming University,
wenko@ym.edu.tw
{
Charleston W. K. Chiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine
Center for Genetic Epidemiology
Keck School of Medicine, USC
http://chianglab.usc.edu Charleston Chiang
<charleston.chiang@med.usc.edu >StAndrews BESMacro Jul10-11
Registration for BES Macro 2018 is now open:
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/bes-macro-2018-
tickets-42497024745 BES Macro 2018 is the annual
meeting of the British Ecological Society Macroecology
(and macroevolution) Special Interest Group, and we
hope you'll join us for two days of macro-fun!
This year's conference is 10-11 July at the University of
St Andrews, Scotland, UK. We've got a great line up of
plenary speakers highlighting all kinds of macro-scale re-
search as well as our annual student plenary, contributed
talks, posters, and workshops. The registration deadline
is April 30.
Keynote speakers:
* Brian McGill (University of Maine) * Nathalie Pet-
torelli (Zoological Society of London) * Bob O'Hara
(Norwegian University of Science and Technology) *
Anne Magurran (University of St Andrews)
Hope to see you there!
The BES Macro committee
Catherine Sheard <ces29@st-andrews.ac.uk >
StJohns Newfoundland
AnimalFormFunction May7-11
The Comparative Morphology & Development (CMD)
section of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ)
invites you to attend the following symposium at the
annual CSZ meeting:
|||| May 7 - 11, 2018, on \The Rock" { ST. JOHN'S,
NEWFOUNDLAND
MAIN SYMPOSIUM:| \Understanding morphology:
Diverse approaches to deciphering animal form and func-
tion"
CAMPBELL ROLIAN (Calgary) Linking development,
morphology and function in skeletal evolution
RAJEE RAJAKUMAR (Harvard) >From microworkers
to supersoldiers:| Integrating social, developmental,18 EvolDir February 1, 2018
and epigenetic processes to understand caste evolution
in ants
TAMARA FRANZ ODENDAAL (Mount Saint Vincent)
Developmental patterning and variation of the ocular
skeleton
[Organized by Heather Jamniczky (Calgary)]
FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THIS SYMPOSIUM,
SEE:
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm TO
REGISTER, OR TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
CSZ ANNUAL MEETING, SEE:
http://www.csz-scz2018.com/ CONTRIBUTED
PAPERS:| Spaces are also available for contributed
papers in sessions organized by the CMD section.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE:| Friday,
March 1, 2018
\EARLY-BIRD" REGISTRATION DEADLINE:||
Friday, March 1, 2018
FINAL REGISTRATION DEADLINE:|| Sunday,
April 23, 2018
Regards, Rich Palmer
{
A. Richard Palmer, FRSC Systematics and Evolu-
tion Group Department of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9
CANADA email:rich.palmer@ualberta.ca phone: (780)
492-3633 message: (780) 492-3308 FAX: (780)
492-9234 http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/palmer.hp/-
palmer.html Secretary-General Comparative Morphol-
ogy & Development section Canadian Society of Zoolo-
gists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm
Rich Palmer <rich.palmer@ualberta.ca >
Sweden SexInTheOceans May
Dear all, There is only one week left to submit
abstracts to our forthcoming session \Sex in the
oceans: from molecules to macroevolution": Please
use the link: https://cemeb.science.gu.se/activities/-
marine-evolution-2018/registration and circulate among
potentially interested folks. Closing date: Thursday,
Feb. 1st
We remind that a collection of the best contribution will
feature in a Special Issue of Evolutionary Applications,provisionally entitled \Complex reproductive strategies
at sea: from evolutionary mechanisms to management
implications".
We look forward to meeting you in bright Str omstad, as
the luminous Scandinavian summer approaches!
Best wishes,
Stefano.
\S.Mariani@salford.ac.uk" <S.Mariani@salford.ac.uk >
Toronto AGA WildQuantGen
Mar23-25
Register while there is still room!
The American Genetic Association President's Sympo-
sium, \Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics in the Wild",
is getting full. We have received an international re-
sponse from both students and established scientists,
and look forward to a dynamic weekend event.
AGA symposia are small, friendly gatherings, and pro-
vide wonderful opportunities for researchers to engage
with one another and share their science. This spring's
meeting will take place March 23-25, at the beauti-
ful Hart House on the University of Toronto campus.
Invited talks and contributed posters are focused on
quantitative genetics of tness-related traits in an evo-
lutionary context across diverse species.
We will open with a reception on Friday night, and our
Key Distinguished Lecturer, Loeske Kruuk, will lead
o a full day of talks on Saturday. A poster-session
reception is planned for Saturday night. Finally, a half
day of talks will be presented on Sunday.
Registration includes receptions, meals, and a compli-
mentary 3-YEAR membership in the American Genetic
Association, including subscription to Journal of Hered-
ity.
For all details, visit https://www.theaga.org/program-
genetic-arch.htm Best wishes,
Anne Bronikowski, 2017 AGA President John Stinch-
combe, Local Host and Co-Organizer Speakers:
Key Distinguished Lecture by Loeske Kruuk (Australian
Natl U.) ~\Quantitative Genetics of Fitness in Wild
Populations"
David Coltman, U. Alberta ~\Architecture of quanti-
tative traits in bighorn sheep"February 1, 2018 EvolDir 19
Je Conner, Mich State ~\Mechanisms of rapid adap-
tation"
Lynda Delph, Indiana U. ~\Sex-specic selection drives
sexual dimorphism in correlated characters"
Ned Dochtermann, U. N Dakota ~\Is behavior funda-
mentally dierent from other types of traits: behavioral
heritabilities and genetic correlations in crickets"
Kathleen Donohue, Duke U. ~\Regulating life-cycle phe-
nology through developmental arrest: Seed dormancy
and plant life cycles in seasonal environments"
Fred Janzen, Iowa State ~\Evolutionary quantitative
genetics of sex determination in freshwater turtles"
Adam Jones, U. Idaho ~\Epistasis in the wild"
Emily Josephs, UCDavis & Mich State ~\Detecting
polygenic adaptation in domesticated and wild plants"
Andrew McAdam, U. Guelph ~\Maternal eects in
North American red squirrels"
Joel McGlothlin, Virgina Tech ~\Quantitative genetics
of sexual dimorphism in brown anoles"
Mike Morrissey, U. St Andrews ~\Development and
non-additive genetic variation"
Julia Saltz, Rice U. ~\Gene-environment correlation:
implications for evolutionary quantitative genetics"
Jon Slate, U. Sheed ~\Recent natural selection causes
adaptive evolution of an avian polygenic trait"
John Stinchcombe, U. Toronto ~\Evolutionary genetics
in wild and invasive plants"
Cynthia Weinig, U. Wyoming ~\Genetic underpinnings
of plant-microbe interactions and their role in adapta-
tion"
Jason Wolf, U. Bath ~\A genomic perspective on mul-
tivariate evolution"
Christina Zakas, New York U. ~\The genetic basis of
evolutionary transitions in development using a poly-
chaete model"
Anjanette Baker <theaga@theaga.org >UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics
Mar20
Dear Colleagues,
The annual Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Sym-
posium (EGGS) will take place on Tuesday 20th March
2018 at the University of Cambridge. This Genetics So-
ciety meeting attracts participants from across Europe
and is a friendly and informal way to meet researchers
in the eld and listen to interesting talks. We aim to
bring together participants from a range of backgrounds,
with a particular focus on genomics and evolutionary
biology.
EGGS 2018 will feature a keynote from Katie Peichel
(University of Bern).
Registration is now open and costs just 5. Please register
at https://goo.gl/wuW5iq Abstract submission is now
open and the deadline has been extended to 10/2/2018.
If you would be interested in presenting a talk please
submit your abstract via this link:
https://goo.gl/K6RmSF With best wishes,
The organising committee.
Arunkumar Ramesh <ar885@cam.ac.uk >
UGothenburg MarineEvolution
May15-17
Dear colleagues,
Here is a friendly reminder that early bird registration
and abstract submission deadline for Marine Evolution
2018 in Sweden is on February rst.
So, do not wait any longer, submit your abstracts now!
Registration and abstract submission can be done
here: http://cemeb.science.gu.se/activities/marine-
evolution-2018/registration Marine Evolution 2018 in-
vites students and researchers in the eld of Marine
Evolutionary Biology. The program will contain ple-
nary presentations by six renowned speakers, followed
by 9 sessions on relevant topics. A list of sessions can
be found here: http://cemeb.science.gu.se/activities/-20 EvolDir February 1, 2018
marine-evolution-2018/sessions The conference will take
place over three days in the beautiful Bohusl an region,
listed as one of the \ten last great wildernesses in the
world" by CNN. It is situated on the Swedish West Coast,
strategically located between major international air-
ports in Oslo, Norway and Gothenburg, Sweden. Above
the scientic program, the conference will also host
excursion events, evening performances and time for
discussions and relaxation. The venue is the Str omstad
Spa, a modern conference infrastructure with pool and
gym facilities. The conference fee is 3600 SEK (1600
SEK for PhD students), excl. VAT.
All the best, The Marine Evolution 2018 organizing
committee
Kerstin Johannesson Anders Blomberg Pierre De Wit
Eva Marie R odstr om Samuel Perini
Pierre de Wit <pierre.de wit@marine.gu.se >
ULiverpool InsectEvolution
Mar21-22
Dear Colleagues,
Please see below information detailing the upcoming
symposia \Insect Endosymbiont" and \Insect Infection
& Immunity" to be held in Liverpool, UK, on March
21st and 22nd 2018.
These meetings are sponsored by the Royal Entomologi-
cal Society and aim to bring together people working
on dierent facets of insect symbioses and infection or
immunity. We are running them alongside each other as
it makes sense to consider these interactions together:
symbionts can comprise part of the defence system of
the host, and can alter vector competence. Reciprocally,
the defence system of the host needs to discriminate
between friends and foe. We hope you can come to
both.
The Wednesday meeting will focus on specicity of sym-
biotic interactions, from functional aspects through to
evolutionary ecology. The Thursday meeting will include
immunity, defence, vector biology, evolution, biochem-
istry and ecology.
On Wednesday the invited speaker will be Prof Mar-
tin Kaltenpoth (http://www.bio.uni-mainz.de/zoo/-
oekologie/58 ENG HTML.php), who is best known for
his work on the beewolf-Streptomyces symbiosis in which
Streptomyces produce antimicrobials that are used bythe wasp to protect their ospring. In this meeting,
he will be talking about more recent work \Symbiont-
provided defense and nutrition in herbivorous beetles."
On Thursday our invited speaker will be Dr
Lena Wilfert (http://biosciences.exeter.ac.uk/sta/-
index.php?web id=Lena Wilfert), who has worked on
a range of pathogen/host interactions in insects, and
is currently working on pollinator disease ecology and
evolution. In this meeting, she will be talking about
\Man-made epidemics: the evolutionary ecology of multi-
host bee pathogens."
Both meetings will be small and informal, and short
talks or posters are welcome from everyone at any career
level. We would love people to attend both meetings,
as that way we can gain insights from each other.
Please register for both events separately here: https:/-
/www.royensoc.co.uk/events The cost for each separate
event is 10 for members, 15 for non-members, which
covers lunch and two tea breaks.
Please send abstracts for both symposia to sym-
biont2018@gmail.com, by no later than 23:59 on Monday
5th February. Please specify if you would like to present
a talk or poster and for which symposium. Please note
that the poster session for both symposia will be held
on Wednesday early evening.
For accommodation, https://-
www.hallmarkhotels.co.uk/hotels/hallmark-inn-
liverpool/ is a budget but OK hotel (40 per room
per night at the moment); for cheaper dorm beds,
https://hattershostels.com/liverpool-hostel/ (15 per
night at the moment in four bed dorm) are two places
near the University. For those liking nicer sleeps, The
Liner is mid-price, and Hope Street Hotel is in the more
luxury bracket; all are within walking distance of Uni.
It is a little advisable to book accommodation ahead to
insure against the unlikely event that Liverpool make it
through the Champion's League and are playing that
night (at which point, accommodation becomes hard to
nd and expensive).
We look forward to seeing you in Liverpool in March,
and please forward to any interested parties.
Kind Regards,
The organising committee:
Greg Hurst
Joanne Grin
Michael Gerth
Georgia Drew
\Grin, Joanne" <J.Grin@liverpool.ac.uk >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 21
Victoria BC ClimateAdaptation
Jun10-15
Dear colleagues,
We are organising a special session at the upcom-
ing ASLO meeting in Victoria, BC, Canada (10-15
June 2018: https://aslo.org/page/aslo-2018-summer-
meeting). Our session is entitled: LIVING IN A VARI-
ABLE WORLD: STUDYING THE ROLE AND CON-
SEQUENCE OF VARIANCE, COVARIANCE, AND
EXTREMES IN AQUATIC ECOSYSTEMS. You can
nd the abstract below. Brian Helmuth and Mark Denny
will be our keynote speakers.
We hope this session is of interest for you. Please for-
ward this message to your lab group/network. Please
note that the deadline for early registration and abstract
submission is *16 February 2018*.
Looking forward to meet you at the ASLO meeting!
Apostolos Koussoroplis, Alexander Wacker & Sylvain
Pincebourde
*Abstract*
In the last two decades, the importance of higher order
statistical moments (e.g., variance, co-variance, skew-
ness and kurtosis) in biotic and abiotic factors slowly
made its way in ecology, traditionally a science of means
and averages. For instance, we know now that consid-
ering the variance around the mean temperature will
be essential for understanding the physiological, ecolog-
ical and evolutionary consequences of climate change.
Yet, many challenges still hold in this ourishing re-
search topic, which remains relatively under-explored in
aquatic ecology. In a multifactorial world, how variable
are the major ecological drivers compared to temper-
ature - by far the most studied factor? What are the
covariance patterns of environmental stresses and ex-
tremes, and at which spatio-temporal scales do they
occur? How do aquatic organisms perceive and deal
with such variability? What are the consequences of
ecological variance and extremes scaling from the organ-
ismal to the population and the community level? This
session welcomes theoretical and experimental studies
on such questions conducted at any temporal and spatial
scale, regardless if the variance is driven by physiolog-
ical changes, behavioural movements, environmental
gradients or seasonally driven successions of species.https://aslo.org/page/aslo-2018-summer-meeting {
Sylvain Pincebourde Charg e de Recherche CNRS
www.sylvainpincebourde.wordpress.com Institut de
Recherche sur la Biologie de l'Insecte (IRBI) Universit e
Fran cois Rabelais, CNRS, UMR 7261 Parc Grandmont
37200 Tours France
Phone : (33) 02 47 36 69 76
Sylvain Pincebourde <sylvain.pincebourde@univ-
tours.fr >
WashingtonDC
CrustaceanAdaptation May22-25
Hi All, As the organizers of the special symposium on
\Adaptations to Life in the Deep Sea and Caves", we
wanted to remind anyone interested in participating in
this session (and the rest of the International Crustacean
Congress) that the early registration deadline (reduced
registration fee) is fast approaching | Jan. 15th.
We are inviting any crustacean or related researchers
working on topics of adaptations to life in the deep sea
and cave (see description below) to submit abstracts
to this symposium. Abstracts will be reviewed shortly
after the March 1st submission deadline and you will be
notied shortly after that about inclusion in this special
session.
To register go to http://www.birenheide.com/ICC2018/-
or http://crustaceansociety.org/upcoming-meetings .
Adaptations to Life in the Deep Sea and Caves Special
Session, 9th International Crustacean Congress, Wash-
ington, DC, USA, 22-25 May 2018
Animals living in the deep sea exhibit many adaptations
to the unique combination of challenges in the harsh
and poorly known habitats of the deep sea. Studies
of the morphology, physiology, behavior and ecology of
crustaceans living in the deep-sea pelagic and benthic
environments provide insight into the selective pressures
animals here face, as well as a better understanding of
the nature of the habitats themselves. Elaborations of
sensory systems, locomotory and buoyancy mechanisms,
and respiratory, reproductive and feeding strategies have
all been documented in deep-sea crustaceans.
Many of the adaptations that we see in the deep sea are
directly related to the lack of light in the habitat and the
complex of resulting traits has been termed the \Dark-
ness Syndrome" (Danielopol et al. 1996). We would22 EvolDir February 1, 2018
like to bring together researchers working in any dark
habitat for a portion of this session and welcome talks
from biologists working in caves and other dark habitats.
Please indicate along with your abstract submission that
you would like to be included in the Darkness Syndrome
portion of the session.
This session welcomes contributions from taxonomically
and methodologically diverse backgrounds, including
theoretical, taxonomic, morphological, physiological, be-
havioral, ecological, genetic and genomic, biomechanical,
neurological and developmental biology. Integrative ap-
proaches are particularly welcome.
We do not plan to publish a special issue. We do not
plan to apply for funding to recruit specic speakers.
The session will accept as many talk proposals as ap-
propriate based on submitted abstracts.
For any questions regarding the special session, please
contact any of the Co-Coordinators: Tammy Frank,
NOVA Southeastern University, tfrank1@nova.edu
Karen Osborn, Smithsonian National Museum of Natu-
ral History, osbornk@si.edu Megan Porter, University
of Hawaii, mlporter@hawaii.edu
Happy 2018, Karen
'X Karen Osborn Research Zoologist/Curator of Poly-
chaetes, Peracarids and Plankton Department of In-
vertebrate Zoology w 202.633.3668 osbornk@si.edu
http://invertebrates.si.edu/osborn/ http://orcid.org/-
0000-0002-4226-9257 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Face-
book <https://www.facebook.com/nmnh.fanpage/ >j
Twitter <https://twitter.com/NMNH >jInstagram
<https://www.instagram.com/smithsoniannmnh/ >
Mail: Department of Invertebrate Zoology, Smithsonian
National Museum of Natural History, MRC-163 P.O.
Box 37012, Washington, D.C. 20013-7012 USA
Courier Address: Smithsonian Institution, MR 0163,
Natural History, West Loading Dock, 10th and Consti-
tution Ave NW, Washington, D.C. 20560
\Osborn, Karen" <OsbornK@si.edu >WashingtonDC
CrustaceanGenomics May22-25
Dear colleagues,
My co-organizer, Heather Bracken-Grissom, and I would
like to invite you to present your research in the ses-
sion Molecular Insights: The Genomic Revolution in
Crustacean Biology at the upcoming International Crus-
tacean Congress IX to be held May 22-25th 2018 in
Washington DC. The deadline for early bird registration
is fast approaching, *January 15, 2018.*
This conference is hosted by the Smithsonian Institution
and Renaissance Hotel. We hope this session will provide
a platform to share and discuss studies incorporating
crustacean genetics and/or genomics. We encourage
submissions that cover any crustacean taxa and we are
particularly interested in phylogenetics/omics, transcrip-
tomics, gene expression studies, tree of life studies, and
population genomics. Graduate Students, Postdoctoral
Scholars and Professors (at all levels) are encouraged to
participate!
If you are interested in participating please reach out
to Heather Bracken-Grissom at hbracken@u.edu or
Joanna \Jo" Wolfe at jowolfe@mit.edu as we expect the
session spots to ll quickly.
The deadline for abstract submissions is *March 1st
2018.*
More information on the conference can be found here
detailing registration and abstract due dates and logis-
tics: http://www.birenheide.com/ICC2018/ *Session
details*:
*Molecular Insights: The Genomic Revolution in Crus-
tacean Biology *
Co-Coordinators: Heather Bracken-Grissom, Florida In-
ternational University, hbracken@u.edu Joanna Wolfe,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, jowolfe@mit.edu
The eld of crustacean genetics has undergone an ex-
citing revolution in recent years. The advancement of
sequencing technologies and methods has transformed
the way carcinologists ask questions and collect data,
especially for non-model organisms that lack genomic
references. For several groups within Crustacea, this
genomic revolution is still in its infancy. The potential
to capitalize on recent technology is great, and ndings
from these studies will lead to unprecedented insightsFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 23
into the elds of evolutionary biology and molecular
ecology.
For this session, we would like to invite researchers
working in the eld of crustacean genetics/genomics.
We welcome contributions from phylogenetics/omics,
population genomics, transcriptomics, among others. In
addition to the abovementioned, theoretical and method-
ological talks will be considered.
We hope to highlight a diverse group of organisms that
span various elds of crustacean biology. Please indi-
cate that you would like to be included in the Molecular
Insights session.
We do not plan to publish a special issue.
We do not plan to apply for funding to recruit specic
speakers.
The session will accept as many talk proposals as ap-
propriate based on submitted abstracts.
We look forward to seeing you in DC!
Kind regards,
Heather Bracken-Grissom and Jo Wolfe
{ Jo Wolfe, Ph.D. Postdoctoral Associate Department of
Earth, Atmospheric & Planetary Sciences Massachusetts
Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Ave Cam-
bridge, MA 02139
Jo Wolfe <jowolfe@mit.edu >
Yokohama
SMBE2018VirusGenomeEvolution
Jul8-12
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submission to our
symposium \Virus genome evolution" at SMBE2018
in Yokohama, Japan. Abstracts may be submitted at
http://smbe2018.jp/ by January 25.
Symposium 34. Virus genome evolution
Viruses exhibit a unique parasitic situation that shapes
the evolution of their genomes. They evolved an exten-
sive amount of genomic diversity with a wide range of
complex life, reproduction, and inheritance strategies,
including the use of dierent genetic materials, genome
sizes, and a wide range of mutation rates. Virus evo-
lution has had a strong inuence on the evolution of
other life forms, acting as source of novel genes, facili-tating horizontal transfer, eliciting genomic alterations
caused by virus integration, and creating potent co-
evolutionary selective pressure. The evolutionary pro-
cess is also explicitly involved in many processes with
medical implications, such as host switching, immune
avoidance, and the development of drug resistance. The
study of virus evolution has proven critical for the study
of disease emergence and spread, exemplied by the
recent Ebola and Zika outbreaks. The use of genomic
approaches has transformed the eld of virology, en-
abling these and other issues to be answered with ever
more depth and precision. This symposium will high-
light recent advances on virus genome evolution and will
bring together dierent approaches on prokaryotic and
eukaryotic virus evolution; how these viruses originated,
diversied, and spread, how they change and adapt, and
how they co-evolve with their hosts.
Invited Speakers: Adi Stern, Marcia F. Marston Or-
ganizers: Anne Kupczok, Marina Escalera Zamudio,
Richard Goldstein
Anne Kupczok <akupczok@ifam.uni-kiel.de >
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12
We invite submission of abstracts to our SMBE 2018
symposium: Improving inference frameworks by ac-
counting for population structure Invited speakers: So-
hini Ramachandran and Amy Goldberg Population
structure encompasses a broad range of departures from
panmixis, including sex, mating system, geographical
subdivision, and admixture. A growing number of empir-
ical studies support the view that population structure
constitutes a signicant and pervasive feature across the
tree of life. Population structure can bias or invalidate
a host of inferences, including patterns of gene ow,
dates of admixture events, or signatures of selection.
Such ndings constitute a challenge to develop methods
that directly confront population structure and exploit
rather than avoid the higher-level associations it gen-
erates. For example, some studies for the mapping of
disease genes in humans attempt to minimize the eects
of population structure by restricting consideration to
samples from groups believed to have low admixture.
The development of methods that can accommodate
population structure not only promotes better inference
in all groups but also facilitates research with direct
implications for human health in groups that are under-
studied because of a history of admixture.24 EvolDir February 1, 2018
This symposium also seeks to encourage the study of
the extent to which population structure can mimic
signatures of selection or changes in eective number.
Please submit online at http://smbe2018.jp/-
cfabstract.html by 25 January 2018 (23:59 PM,
JST).
Looking forward to seeing you in Yokohama, 8-12 July
2018!
Emilia Huerta Sanchez Marcy Uyenoyama
\Marcy Uyenoyama, Ph.D." <marcy@duke.edu >
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12
AbstrSubmission
Dear All,
We are delighted to announce that the abstract sub-
mission system for the Annual Meeting of the Society
for Molecular Biology and Evolution 2018 is now open!
We are accepting abstracts via the ocial SMBE 2018
website. Just follow the links below to nd out more.
SMBE 2018 also call for applications for a number of
awards for students and postdoctoral researchers. The
applications for these awards can be submitted via the
abstract submission system.
The deadline for abstract submission and award appli-
cation is January 25th, 2018. Taking place from July
8th 12th, 2018, in Yokohama, Japan, SMBE 2018 is an
opportunity to join your colleagues and present your
work internationally to world leaders and experts.
Registration for SMBE 2018 is currently open and early
bird registration will end on April 16th.
SMBE 2018 Website <http://smbe2018.jp >
<http://smbe2018.jp/cf abstract.html >jCall for Ab-
stracts <http://smbe2018.jp/awards.html >jAward <
http://smbe2018.jp/registration.html >jRegistration
Professor Koichiro Tamura
Chair, Local Organizing Committee, SMBE 2018
SMBE 2018 <smbe2018-p@jtbcom.co.jp >
\takezaki@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp" <takezaki@med.kagawa-
u.ac.jp >Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12
DeadlineExtended
SMBE Undergraduate Travel and Mentoring Awards -
Deadline extended
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution oers
travel awards for undergraduate students to attend their
annual meeting and recent mentoring there, this year in
Yokohama, Japan (http://smbe2018.jp). Eligibility in-
cludes Masters students under a 3+2 system. Eligibility
is based on status at the time of application.
Awardees will receive 1500-2000 USD ( $) toward travel
and registration fees (the larger amount is for long-haul
travel, the smaller for within Australasia). You will also
be assigned a mentor at the meeting to advise you and
to introduce you to potential collaborators, PhD super-
visors, etc. You will also participate in the meeting's
poster session with a poster you will prepare on your
research.
In order to apply, you need to prepare the following:
1. an abstract describing your research ( <250 words)
2. a short explanation of why you want to attend this
meeting, including mention of whether you fall into a
group traditionally underrepresented at SMBE, such as
enrolling in university later in life or being the rst in
your family to attend university ( <250 words)
3. a short letter of support from your academic super-
visor, conrming that the research is your own ( <250
words)
4. a scan or photo of your student ID to conrm eligi-
bility
Applications can be made through the SMBE ab-
stract submission system at http://smbe2018.jp/-
cfabstract.html, which has been extended to accept
submissions until Feb 1. You can either submit all com-
ponents there, or you can have your advisor email their
support letter to Joanna Masel masel@email.arizona.edu.
If you have already submitted your abstract but have
not yet applied for the award, you can email in your
award materials. The deadline for receiving award ma-
terials by email (conditional on having submitted an
abstract) is Feb 8.
You can nd more information on the travel
awards at http://www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/-
AnnualMeetingTravelAwards/ UndergraduateTrave-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 25
landMentoringAward.aspx or send an email to Joanna
Masel masel@email.arizona.edu.
\Lulu Stader (SMBE admin)"
<smbe.contact@gmail.com >
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12
DeadlineFeb1
SMBE 2018 Abstract Submission closing date now
February 1
We are glad to have received numerous abstract submis-
sions for SMBE 2018. Appreciating the strong interest,
the deadline has been extended!
Final abstract submission closing date: Thursday, Febru-
ary 1, 2018
Don't miss this opportunity - be involved in the meet-
ing' scientic program by submitting your abstract here.
Please email us at <smbe2018-p@jtbcom.co.jp >for any
questions.
Please submit your Abstract here: http://smbe2018.jp/-
cfabstract.html Dr Lulu Stader Executive Adminis-
trator, Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
smbe.contact@gmail.com
\Lulu Stader (SMBE admin)"
<smbe.contact@gmail.com >
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12
SatelliteRegionalMeetings
SMBE Satellite and Regional Meeting Call for Proposals
SMBE is now calling for proposals for work-
shops/satellite meetings. They are also calling for pro-
posals for \interdisciplinary and regional actions". The
proposed meeting or event should be held between Sep
1 2018 and Dec 31 2019. Funds will be awarded on a
competitive basis to members of the molecular evolution
research community, and the deadline for submission of
proposals is April 1, 2018.
Satellite meeting/workshop proposals should be sent
by email to the Chair of the SMBE Satellite Workshop
Committee Joanna Masel (masel@u.arizona.edu). In-terdisciplinary and Regional Actions proposals should
be sent by email to the Chair of the SMBE Interdisci-
plinary Regional Actions Committee Maud Tenaillon
(maud.tenaillon@inra.fr).
See http://www.smbe.org/smbe/MEETINGS/-
SatelliteandRegionalMeetingGui delines.aspx for more
detailed information.
\Lulu Stader (SMBE admin)"
<smbe.contact@gmail.com >
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12
TimingMethods
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to invite submission of abstracts to the
SMBE 2018 symposium \Timing methodologies and
applications".
Abstracts may be submitted at http://smbe2018.jp/-
cfabstract.html by January 25.
*** Symposium 46: Timing methodologies and applica-
tions ***
Timing of species and gene divergences is a primary out-
come of many evolutionary analyses. The widespread
application of molecular clocks to a variety of datasets
and evolutionary histories has driven the diversica-
tion of these methods into many dierent approaches
that often produce discordant timelines. Despite many
eorts, generally applicable rules to reconcile these dis-
agreements are still elusive leaving researchers with the
dicult task of selecting most appropriate methods and
parameters based on limited information or requiring
complex comparative evaluations of multiple methods.
Unfortunately, many of these current approaches that
require multiple hypotheses testing are dicult to apply
to large phylogenomic datasets, thus exacerbating the
uncertainty in produced timelines. Participants in this
symposium will explore the diversity of molecular clock
methods and discuss their applications to simulated and
empirical sequences from methodological and applied
perspectives. The goal is to have an open discussion
on the strengths and weaknesses of each method and
identify best practices to reconcile dierent timelines.
The research studies showcased in this symposium will
explore the application of molecular clocks to species
and gene divergences in an eort to shed light on the
evolution of life through time.26 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Invited Speakers: Lindell Bromham, S. Blair Hedges
Organizers: Fabia U. Battistuzzi, Beatriz Mello
***
We look forward to seeing you in Yokohama!
Fabia U. Battistuzzi (battistu@oakland.edu) Beatriz
Mello (beatrizmello@ufrj.br)
Beatriz Mello <biaumello@gmail.com >
Yokohama SMBE Jul8-12
TravelDeadlineExt
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
SMBE Undergraduate Travel and Mentoring Awards -
Deadline extended
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution oers
travel awards for undergraduate students to attend their
annual meeting and recent mentoring there, this year in
Yokohama, Japan (http://smbe2018.jp). Eligibility in-
cludes Masters students under a 3+2 system. Eligibility
is based on status at the time of application.
Awardees will receive 1500-2000 USD ( $) toward travel
and registration fees (the larger amount is for long-haul
travel, the smaller for within Australasia). You will also
be assigned a mentor at the meeting to advise you and
to introduce you to potential collaborators, PhD super-
visors, etc. You will also participate in the meeting's
poster session with a poster you will prepare on your
research.
In order to apply, you need to prepare the following:
1. an abstract describing your research ( <250 words)
2. a short explanation of why you want to attend this
meeting, including mention of whether you fall into a
group traditionally underrepresented at SMBE, such
as enrolling in university later in life or being the rst
in your family to attend university ( <250 words) 3.
a short letter of support from your academic supervi-
sor, conrming that the research is your own ( <250
words) 4. a scan or photo of your student ID to conrm
eligibility
Applications can be made through the SMBE ab-
stract submission system at http://smbe2018.jp/-
cfabstract.html, which has been extended to accept sub-
missions until February 1. You can either submit all com-
ponents there, or you can have your advisor email their
support letter to Joanna Masel masel@email.arizona.edu.If you have already submitted your abstract but have
not yet applied for the award, you can email in your
award materials. The deadline for receiving award ma-
terials by email (conditional on having submitted an
abstract) is February 8.
You can nd more information on the travel
awards at http://www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/-
AnnualMeetingTravelAwards/Undergraduate Trave-
landMentoringAward.aspx or send an email to Joanna
Masel masel@email.arizona.edu.
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
smbe@allenpress.com
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
<smbe@allenpress.com >
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis
May4-6
Dear Colleagues,
The Eigth annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will
take place on May 4th-6th, 2018 at the Sierra Nevada
Research Institute, Yosemite National Park. This has
become a great venue for a diversity of symbiosis re-
searchers. We hope to continue to attract a diverse
group in 2018!
Keynote speaker 2018: Dr. Tadashi Fukami from Stan-
ford University!
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our continuing goal is to better integrate the
broad groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis and
microbiome research. Yosemite serves as an ideal site as
it is both beautiful and secluded. This will be our 8th
annual meeting and we have been consistently attracting
scientists from all over the country and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in the mi-
crobiome, cooperation, mutualism, and symbiosis. In
the past we have covered a range of symbiosis topics
from ecology and evolution to molecular mechanisms in
dierent model and non-model systems. We would like
to make room for a diverse group of people so we will ini-
tially accept up to 3 lab members per group (including
the PI) on a rst come rst served basis.
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held May 5-
6, 2018, though we make accommodation arrangementsFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 27
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 4th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Past attendees and talks can be found here: http://-
www.sachslab.com/symbiosis-2015.php Abstract and
early bird registration are due on March 16th, 2018.
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room. Costs: See
details in the registration page. We will only be able to
accept credit card payments this year.
Link to meeting information: http://-
www.sachslab.com/symbiosis-2015.php The reg-
istration form for the 2018 Symbiosis Workshop isactive: https://snri.ucmerced.edu/form/symbiosis-
workshop-2018-registration Payments should be made
at: https://intelforms.ucmerced.edu/Form/Symbiosis
Please direct any questions to the organizers:
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
{ *Joel L. Sachs* *Associate Professor & Vice Chair*
Evolution Ecology & Organismal Biology University of
California, Riverside
*Mailing Address:* Sachs Lab - UC Riverside 3401
Watkins Dr., 1229 Spieth Hall Riverside, CA 92521
Oce (951) 827-6357 / Fax (951) 827-4286
www.sachslab.com http://www.biology.ucr.edu/-
people/faculty/Sachs.html \joels@ucr.edu"
<joels@ucr.edu >
GradStudentPositions
CharlesU CzechRep PollinationEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
CharlesU Prague SpeciationGenomic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
CSU Monterey Bay Applied Bacterial Genomics . . .29
CWilliamMary EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
DeakinU Australia ParrotDiseaseGenomics . . . . . . . . 30
DurhamU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
Europe 15 ITN CONTRA CancerEvolution . . . . . . . 32
Europe 15 ITN IGNITE CompGenomicsInverts . . . 33
Europe 15 PlantID . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
GhentU ExptEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
Gottingen BacterialEndosymbiontGenomics . . . . . . . 36
GuangxiU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
GuangxiU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
IVB MUni Czech LizardHybridZoneGenomics . . . . . 38
JMU Liverpool SocialEvolGenomicsConservation . . 39
Krakow ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
LordHoweIsland ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Marburg Germany PlantAnimalInteractions . . . . . . . 41
MississippiStateU ButteryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41Muenster AppliedPlantEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . 42
Munster WildPlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Napoli Italy PlanktonEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
NorthCarolinaStateU InsectEvolutionDiversity . . . . 44
NorthDakotaStateU EvolutionaryBehavioralEcol . . 45
OldDominionU MarineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
RHUL London EvolutionInsectCognition . . . . . . . . . . 46
RoyalVetC London AnimalGenomicsEvolution . . . . .47
StAndrews EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
StockholmU CognitionAndBrainEvolution . . . . . . . . . 48
StockholmU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
StockholmU:SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
TexasCU TreePopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
TrentU AmphibianEcoEvoBio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UBath 3 Extinction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UCambridge BacterialPathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . .51
UExeter UCardi TroutAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UGreifswald EcolDriversRangeExpansion . . . . . . . . . .53
UGreifswald ResponsesChangingEnvironments . . . . 5428 EvolDir February 1, 2018
UInnsbruck EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
ULouisiana EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UMainz 2 InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UMaryland BC 2 EvolutionAging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UMuensterGermany NicheConstructionEvolCapaci-
tance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UNewOrleans ComputationalModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UNewOrleans DrosophilaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UNorthDakota AncientGenomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59UppsalaU GenomicsPlasticity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UQueensland FishVisionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
USouthFlorida 2 Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
USussex PlantGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
UValencia EvolutionSexualConict . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Vienna PopulationGenetics DueJan14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Wageningen InsectEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
WesternU 3 VirusEvolutionBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 65
CharlesU CzechRep PollinationEcol
REMINDER OF A COMING DEADLINE
***Three Ph.D. studentships - Biodiversity and evolu-
tion of plant-pollinator interactions***
We are seeking three highly motivated Ph.D. students to
join a project assessing studies of plant-pollinator rela-
tionships in tropical and temperate environments. The
research is focused on changes of general characteristics
of pollination networks with environmental gradients,
as well as on case studies of selected pollination sys-
tems. All the new team members will process already
collected data and material, as well as actively partici-
pate on eld sampling (at least two larger expeditions
during the study/work) of data and their subsequent
processing in collaboration with international specialists.
The length of the study is 4 years.
The successful applicants will be supervised within the
multi-disciplinary team (www.insect-communities.cz)
at the Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague,
Czech Republic, with a close collaboration with the In-
stitute of Entomology and Institute of Botany, Czech
Academy of Sciences. The eldworks will be performed
in Cameroon and/or Czech Republic. We have more
than ten years continuous experience with various eld
projects in Cameroon. All senior members of our team
have also worked in eld in the Czech Republic since
their studies.
*Oered for all positions*
- attractive scientic topic in an established international
team
- sucient nancial and logistical sources for the projects
(currently we hold three large grants for pollination re-
search)
- 240,000 CZK net annual income for the Ph.D. students
(combination of scholarship and salary), plus variousstudent/employee bonuses; the income suciently cov-
ers living expenses in the Czech Republic (the national
average net income is ca. 260,000 CZK annually)
*Required for all positions*
- enthusiasm in nature and ecological science
- ability to work as a team member, but also being
independent
- uency in English, both written and spoken
Desirable (but not necessary) for all positions
- previous experience of collaboration in scientic
projects evidenced by a (co)authorship of research pa-
pers or conference contributions
All applicants will send a structured CV, contacts for
three referees, and a cover letter stating their previous
work, qualication (especially all eld experience and
less usual eld/laboratory techniques) and motivation
to our group email insectcommunities@gmail.com. Each
application for the Ph.D. studies will include informa-
tion to which position(s) it is related, one application
for more positions is acceptable if the specic interests
are described in the motivation letter. Any questions
should be sent to the same email as well. The review
of applications will begin on 20th February 2018 and
will continue until the position has been lled. Selected
applicants will be interviewed through Skype in the
rst ten days of March 2018. The Ph.D. positions are
available from October 2018.
**#1 Ph.D. position: Pollination networks in frag-
mented Afromontane grasslands**
The main aim of this project is to reconstruct pollination
networks in fragmented open habitats in Cameroonian
mountains (Mount Cameroon and Bamenda Highlands).
For these purposes, we use direct collecting and obser-
vations of visitors of all currently owering plant species
in communities, as well as video-recording of these in-
teractions. Our aim is to reconstruct plant-pollination
networks in grasslands on the whole community level
under dierent seasonal, isolation and community com-
position conditions, and to disclose factors responsibleFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 29
for shaping of these interactions networks. The results
will be directly comparable with similar dataset origi-
nated from the Czech Republic by the same sampling
protocols allowing us to compare pollination networks
in tropical and temperate regions. The student will
be jointly supervised by Dr. Robert Tropek and Dr.
^A t~A an Jane eek.
*Required for this position*
- a MSc degree in biology or related elds (in summer
2018 at the latest)
- ability to lead a eld research in challenging conditions
of tropical environments
Desirable (but not necessary)
- reasonable knowledge of insects and/or plants
- experience with standard entomological sampling meth-
ods
- basic knowledge of French
**#2 Ph.D. position: Organization of Afrotropical plant-
bird pollination communities**
The aim of the project is to study plant-bird interac-
tions along the tropical altitudinal gradient of Mount
Cameroon in dierent seasons, lling the knowledge gap
in the Afrotropics. The main target is to gain complex
plant-bird interaction matrices together with explana-
tory matrices related to abundance of owers, energy
supply, plant-bird morphological
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU Prague
SpeciationGenomic
A PhD position in Genomics of speciation at Charles
University in Prague
Position available from October 2018
Application deadline: 18 ^th February 2018
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD student to
join our group working on genomics of speciation in two
hybridizing songbirds, the Common Nightingale and the
Thrush Nightingale. These species hybridize in a sec-ondary contact zone and produce viable hybrid progeny.
In accordance with Haldane's Rule, hybrid females are
sterile, while hybrid males are fertile, allowing gene ow
to occur between the species. The two species also show
marked dierences in sperm morphology, which could
contribute to post-mating prezygotic isolation. The
main goal of the project aims at identifying genetic basis
and molecular mechanisms of both hybrid female steril-
ity and postmating prezygotic isolation. The project
will combine QTL mapping experiments and population
genomic analyses of transcriptomes and whole genome
sequences of both species. The candidates are expected
to have experience in analyses of next-generation se-
quence data and at least some background in popula-
tion or quantitative genetics. A previous experience in
wet-lab is an advantage.
Scholarship:
The scholarship (per month) will be 600 EUR (ca 15,000
CZK) with the possibility of increase each year. Note
that living expenses in the Czech Republic are generally
lower than in Western European countries.
How to apply: If interested, please, send (1) CV in-
cluding a list of publications, (2) motivation letter, and
(3) contact details for 2-3 references to Radka Reifova
(radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz) by 18th February 2018.
Contact: Further information about the po-
sition can be obtained from Radka Reifova
(radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz).
You can also nd further information about our
group at our web page: http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
~radkas/ \RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D."
<radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz >
CSU Monterey Bay Applied
Bacterial Genomics
Graduate Masters Position in Applied Bacterial Ge-
nomics.
The bioinformatics and genomics-focused Jue lab
(https://csumb.edu/juelab) at California State Univer-
sity, Monterey Bay is recruiting a graduate student (M.S.
Environmental Science) position in applied microbial
genomics. This position is part of a broader project
to identify the genetic mechanisms used by bacteria to
remediate pesticides from agricultural runo and un-
derstand the metagenomic community dynamics that
contribute to optimal remediation activity. Prospec-30 EvolDir February 1, 2018
tive students should be interested in using genomics
and bioinformatics to understand the functional genetic
basis of complex phenotypes and/or how genetics can
inform us on the ecological contexts for successful pes-
ticide remediation. This position in our M.S. program
starts Fall 2018. Please contact Dr. Nathaniel Jue
(njue@csumb.edu) for more information. A successful
applicant will be passionate about functional and evolu-
tionary genomics, interested in microbial genetics, and
familiar with sterile technique and basic genetic lab tech-
niques. Experience with programming and statistics is
also valued. Students working in the Jue lab get pro-
fessional training in scientic computing, applied data
science and advanced genomic lab techniques. Details
about the M.S. program in Environmental Science at
CSUMB can be found here: https://csumb.edu/amws.
Our program provides excellent training required to en-
ter technical positions in industry ( ~30% of graduates)
and government ( ~40% of graduates) or academia ( ~20%
of graduates) with a 90% graduation rate. Through
CSUMB membership in the NOAA Center for Coastal
and Marine Ecosystems, the Coastal and Marine Ecosys-
tems Program (CMP) provides additional opportunities
for nancial support for graduate studies leading to the
Masters of Science degree at CSU Monterey Bay. Center
research emphases include Coastal Resilience, Coastal
Intelligence and Place-Based Conservation. Prospective
students must be applying to the thesis track and must
be interested in working in the priority areas of the
CMP. Please review the eligibility criteria and applica-
tion instructions in the CMP graduate page ( https://-
csumb.edu/cme/graduate-students) and contact Dr. Jue
if you have questions about it. The Jue Lab celebrates
having members from diverse backgrounds and train-
ing and encourages underrepresented and underserved
groups to apply.
{
Nathaniel K. Jue, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor
School of Natural Sciences
California State University, Monterey Bay
Seaside, CA 93955
\njue@csumb.edu" <njue@csumb.edu >CWilliamMary
EvolutionaryGenomics
Graduate position: Plant Evolutionary Genomics
The Puzey lab (http://puzeylab.weebly.com) at the Col-
lege of William and Mary (Williamsburg, VA) is re-
cruiting a graduate student (M.S Biology) interested
in using genomics to understand the development of
complex spatial patterns in plants. Positions for MS
program start Fall 2018. Please contact Josh Puzey
(jrpuzey@wm.edu) for more information.
The successful applicant will be passionate about evo-
lution, interested in plants, and keen to use genomic
techniques to address their research questions. Students
working the Puzey lab get exposure to a wide range
of analyses and techniques including next-generation
sequencing, population genomic analyses, and molecular
ecology.
Details about the M.S. program in Biology at W&M
can be found here (http://www.wm.edu/as/biology/-
graduate/). Full-time students are supported by teach-
ing assistantships and full tuition waivers. Most students
complete their master's degree in two years and go on
to pursue either a Ph.D. or M.D. degree. Our program
also provides the training required to enter technical
positions in industry and government. Recent grads are
pursuing Ph.D.s at Duke, UC Davis, Johns Hopkins, and
University of Toronto; others are following career paths
in biotech, pharmaceuticals, resource management, and
environmental consulting.
jrpuzey@gmail.com
DeakinU Australia
ParrotDiseaseGenomics
We seek two outstanding, highly motivated PhD can-
didates to work on disease ecology and genomics in
Australian parrots.
This is an an ARC Discovery-funded project, 'Genomic
diversity, tolerance and ecology of wildlife disease',
with Professors Andy Bennett and Soren AlexandersenFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 31
(Deakin and GCEID), Dr Matt Berg (Deakin) and Pro-
fessor Scott Edwards (Harvard). The students will be
based at Deakin University, Geelong (near Melbourne,
Australia) in a research group in the Centre for In-
tegrative Ecology (CIE) and the Geelong Centre for
Emerging Infectious Diseases (GCEID) with opportuni-
ties for travel to Scott Edward's lab at Harvard USA.
The research project will commence in January 2018 and
students need to start by July 2018, preferably earlier.
Emerging infectious diseases are among the most sig-
nicant threats to conservation, agriculture and pub-
lic health worldwide. One such disease is caused by
the Beak and Feather Disease Virus (BFDV), a single
stranded DNA virus which is spreading globally and
is poorly understood in wild populations despite being
a listed as a 'key threatening process to biodiversity'
by the Australian Federal Government. BFDV infects
primarily parrots, which are amongst the most highly
threatened bird taxa globally. We will study the virus
in the crimson rosella (Platycercus elegans) an emerging
model system for studying population divergence and
disease ecology, using a number of established eld sites
in south-eastern Australia. The primary aims of the re-
search are to study the inuences of tolerance, genomic
diversity, and candidate genes on BFDV dynamics in
rosellas, by combining genomic, pathological and ecolog-
ical approaches. Both PhD's are expected to conduct
eld work and lab work, but have dierent emphases.
PhD 1: This will be focussed on molecular analyses,
genomics and associated bioinformatics of both the host
and the virus but will also involve eld work (to as-
sist with sample collection). The main objectives of
this project is to test the role of genetic diversity and
genotype rarity in infection, infer the roles of selection
and candidate genes, and conduct phylogenetic analy-
ses. The project will be based in Deakin's CIE, with
additional training provided by GCEID and at Harvard
University.
PhD 2: This will focus on eld ecology and pathol-
ogy/immunology, with training provided in the CIE and
GCEID. The objectives are to investigate the patho-
logical and tness eects of BFDV infection in rosellas,
and to combine these data with quantication of infec-
tion levels to evaluate the contributions of resistance
and tolerance mechanisms to infection dynamics in this
system.
Recent publications by our other PhD students on
P.elegans include:
- Eastwood et al. (2017) Host heterozygosity and geno-
type rarity aect viral dynamics in an avian subspecies
complex. Scientic Reports 7: 13310 - Eastwood et al.
(2014) Phylogenetic analysis of beak and feather diseasevirus across a host ring-species complex. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences USA 111 (39):
14153-14158 doi 10.1073/pnas.1403255111 - Mihailova
et al. (2014) Odour-based discrimination of subspecies,
species and sexes in an avian species complex, the crim-
son rosella. Animal Behaviour 95: 155-164 - Ribot et al.
(2012) Learned vocal variation is associated with abrupt
cryptic genetic change in a parrot species complex. Plos
One e50484
For further information on the research group, see:
- Deakin's Centre for Integrative Ecology: cie-
deakin.com/ - Prof Andy Bennett (project lead;
Deakin University): www.deakin.edu.au/proles/andy-
bennett - Prof Soren Alexandersen, Geelong Cen-
tre for Emerging Infectious Diseases: gceid.com/
and http://www.deakin.edu.au/about-deakin/people/-
soren- alexandersen - Dr Mathew Berg, Deakin Univer-
sity: www.deakin.edu.au/about-deakin/people/mathew-
berg - Prof Scott Edwards, Harvard University: ed-
wards.oeb.harvard.edu/
Who should apply? The projects would suit students
with strong interests in avian evolution and ecology,
genomics, and/or disease ecology. Prerequisites for the
positions include: Masters or First Class Honours (or
equivalent in a relevant eld); excellent written commu-
nication skills; high levels of enthusiasm, motivation and
ability to work eectively as part of an interdisciplinary
team; willingness to work long hours under arduous
eld conditions; and a driver's licence (for eld work).
Experience in eld work with birds and/or molecular
methods such as PCR, sequencing or bioinformatics
would be desirable. Selection will be based on academic
merit and previous experience.
Why apply? The projects oer exciting opportunities
in the burgeoning elds of genomics and disease ecology
with extensive training in
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
DurhamU EvolutionaryGenomics
BBSRC CASE PhD studentship: The evolution of in-
breeding depression in wild ax and implications for
crop development.32 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Supervisory team: Dr Adrian Brennan, Prof Rus Hoelzel
(Durham, UK), Dr Catherine Kidner (Royal Botanic
Garden Edinburgh, UK) Novelty: Our research in wild
ax will use new genotyping by sequencing technologies
to obtain an unprecedented genome-wide perspective on
inbreeding and its evolution, allowing the identication
of relevant genes, and therefore the consideration of
molecular mechanisms. These insights could then be
applied to genetic improvement of ax to sustainably en-
hance agricultural production as well as improving our
understanding of this fundamental aspect of evolution.
Research training: Research training: The student will
gain bioinformatics skills that are in high demand both
within academia and in wider industry. The project in
general will require attention to detail, careful logical
thought, and excellent numeracy, all of which are highly
desirable transferable skills across all work sectors.
Background: Avoidance of inbreeding depression is un-
derstood to be a major force driving the evolution and
maintenance of sexual outcrossing reproductive systems.
By outcrossing, diploid organisms ensure the tness of
their ospring by maintaining heterozygosity. Humans
have been domesticating species to suit their agricul-
tural needs for the past 10k years. Articial selection for
individual traits often involves inbreeding and xation of
genetic variation. More recently, modern breeding prac-
tice has been able to reintroduce genetic variation and
hybrid vigour into many domesticated species leading
to impressive improvements in performance. Often this
involves crosses between distinct varieties but crosses
with wild relatives are also vital for introducing novel
variation.
New genetic technologies now oer unprecedented oppor-
tunities to study the relationship between heterozygosity,
reproductive system, and tness at a genome-wide scale.
We will address these questions in a model system, wild
ax, which sits at the interface between evolutionary and
applied biology. Cultivated ax is a globally important
crop for both bre and oilseed production and inbred
varieties have been shown to benet from hybridization.
Surprisingly little is known about reproductive system
and tness in wild ax, a potentially valuable source of
genetic variation for crop improvement.
Aims and Methods: We propose to test the extent and
nature of inbreeding and its relationship with tness in
wild ax. We will use new genotyping by sequencing
technologies to obtain an unprecedented genome-wide
perspective on inbreeding and its evolution, allowing
the identication of relevant genes and molecular mecha-
nisms. The CASE partner, RBGE, is an internationally
important organization responsible for the conservation
and study of plant and fungal biodiversity. This projectwill feed into the core scientic activities of RBGE to gen-
erate baseline botanical data, to document and conserve
plant biodiversity, and better understand evolutionary
processes in plants.
Application details: This PhD will fully fund students
with UK resident status or provide university fees
only to EU students (see http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/-
documents/news/terms-and-conditions-of-research-
council-training-grants/). Please contact Dr Adrian
Brennan, a.c.brennan@durham.ac.uk for further
questions or to apply with a CV and a cover letter by
25th February 2018 deadline. The PhD is available to
start as soon as March 2018 but a delay until the end
of the current academic year is also possible.
acebrennan@yahoo.co.uk
Europe 15 ITN CONTRA
CancerEvolution
15 PHD/RESEARCH POSITIONS ON CANCER GE-
NOMIC EVOLUTION https://itn-contra.org Applica-
tion deadline: 23:59 CET on the 15 February 2018
Cancer is a major cause of death and suering. It con-
stitutes a group of diseases characterized by abnormal
cell growth, stage-wise progression, heterogeneity, and
potential to develop resistance to therapies. All these
aspects are consequences of the evolutionary nature of
cancer. Fortunately, genomics has recently begun to pro-
vide opportunities for unprecedentedly detailed insights
into tumour evolution. New techniques are presently
emerging for assaying the spatial distribution of tumour
heterogeneity, and future yet unforeseen experimental
breakthroughs are inevitable.
CONTRA (https://itn-contra.org) is a H2020 Marie-
Sklodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network aimed at
providing a structured training programme to 15 Early
Stage Researchers (ESRs) to study tumor evolution us-
ing computational techniques upon novel experimental
data including, but not limited to, single-cell genomic
data. See the list of projects at the end of this message.
The training structure of CONTRA will include local
and network-wide activities and secondments to other
labs in the network. Most positions are for 3 years and
some for 4 years, contracts starting approximately July
1, 2018, but all of them lead to a PhD degree. Specic
conditions may apply to individual positions depending
on local regulations. Top-level graduates (master degreeFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 33
or equivalent) in bioinformatics, statistics, mathematics,
computer science or evolutionary biology are encouraged
to apply. No discrimination will be made on the basis
of nationality, gender, race, religion or disability.
H2020 EU funding imposes strict eligibility criteria. At
the time of recruitment the researcher must not have
resided or carried out his/her main activity (work, stud-
ies, etc) in the country of the host institute for more
than 12 months in the three years immediately prior to
his/her recruitment. The researcher should also be in
the rst four years of their research careers at the time
of recruitment by the host organisation and have not
been awarded a doctoral degree. The successful candi-
date will receive a very generous nancial package. The
exact conditions varies across the universities, but the
gross amounts of EU funding for an ESR is in the range
3710 euro -4210 euro . The net salary will result from
deducting all compulsory (employer/employee) social
security contributions as well as direct taxes from the
gross amounts, according to the law applicable to the
agreement concluded with the ESR. Some universities
will also supplement the EU funding. For details see
the EU Guide for applicants ( https://goo.gl/d6LtsE).
Candidates may apply for the positions through the
KTH application system ( https://goo.gl/yTThgg). The
application should include the following documents:
1. Curriculum vitae with at most 3 pages 2. Transcripts
from University / University College 3. Contact details
for three references 4. Brief description of why the ap-
plicant wishes to become a PhD student within this
network 5. Ranking of 3 ESR projects based on the
applicant's preference
Each project supervisor will revise the candidates' doc-
umentation and, on the basis of the completeness and
adequacy of the requested material and eligibility, will
score candidates based on: (1) academic prole; (2)
personal motivation; (3) scientic skills and relevant
experience; and (4) English prociency. Shortlisted can-
didates will be invited to teleconference interviews with
the relevant project supervisor(s).
Application deadline: 23:59 CET on 15 February 2018.
Candidates are invited to contact the supervisors for
more details. For individual descriptions of the 15
projects, please use the following link: https://itn-
contra.org/esr-projects. List of projects, including su-
pervisor and host institution:
- ESR1: Comparing tumour phylogenies from single cell
data versus bulk sequencing data. Florian Markowetz,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. - ESR2: The
mechanisms of coding and non-coding oncogenic alter-
ations. Nuria Lopez-Bigas, IRB, Barcelona, Spain. -ESR3: Identication of drivers of relapse and metasta-
sis. Nuria Lopez-Bigas, IRB, Barcelona, Spain. - ESR4:
Estimating tumour phylogenies from single-cell SNV
and CNA data. Niko Beerenwinkel, ETH Zurich, Basel,
Switzerland. - ESR5: Evolutionary history of circulat-
ing tumour cells and distant metastases. Ewa Szczurek,
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. - ESR6: Iden-
tication and impact of clonal and subclonal driver
alterations on cancer progression. Francesca Ciccarelli,
KCL/Crick Institute, London, UK. - ESR7: Inferring
tumour evolution and migration. Niko Beerenwinkel,
ETH Zurich, Basel, Switzerland.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Europe 15 ITN IGNITE
CompGenomicsInverts
We are happy to announce that 15 PhD/Early Stage
Researcher (ESR) positions now available in the Pan-
European MSCA-ITN \Comparative Genomics of Non-
Model Invertebrates" (IGNITE) Network of institutions
and companies for a maximum duration of 36 months.
All positions will open on 1st July 2018 or as soon as
possible thereafter. The deadline for applications is 28th
February 2018 (23:59 CET).
Europe is home to world-leading expertise in inverte-
brate genomics and the aim of IGNITE is to gather
together this European excellence to train a new gener-
ation of scientists skilled in all aspects of invertebrate
genomics.
The well-trained genome scientists emerging from IG-
NITE will be in great demand in universities, research
institutions, as well as in software, biomedical, agrofood
and pharmaceutical companies. Through their excel-
lent interdisciplinary and intersectoral training spanning
from biology and geobiology to bioinformatics and com-
puter science, our graduates will be in a prime position
to take up leadership roles in both academia and in-
dustry in order to drive the complex changes needed to
advance sustainability of our knowledge-based society
and economy.
To apply and for general information about the positions,34 EvolDir February 1, 2018
please visit our central application tool available here:
<https://portal.graduatecenter-lmu.de/ocgc/ignite >
For a detailed description of the individual projects
please see:
<http://www.itn-ignite.eu/projects/ >
best wishes
Gert
{ Prof. Dr. Gert W orheide Department of Earth and
Environmental Sciences, Division of Paleontology &
Geobiology & GeoBio-CenterLMU Ludwig-Maximilians-
Universit at M unchen, and Director, Bavarian State Col-
lections of Palaeontology and Geology Richard-Wagner-
Strae 10 80333 M unchen Germany
Phone: +49 (89) 2180-6718 Fax: +49 (89) 2180-
6601 E-Mail: woerheide@lmu.de www.palmuc.de j
www.geobiology.eu Labnews: www.facebook.com/-
molpalaeo Tweets: twitter.com/gwoerhe
New ITN IGNITE to start in 2018: www.itn-
ignite.eu Publications: www.publications.woerheide.eu
orcid.org/0000-0002-6380-7421
GPG-Fingerprint: *9644 7211 5BE6 9EF5 3C5C 80B9
8B8D 2D6D 8DCC 8499*
Gert Woerheide <woerheide@lmu.de >
Europe 15 PlantID
15 PhD positions across Europe
The EU H2020-ITN-ETN project Plant.ID on molecu-
lar identication of plants is recruiting 15 PhD fellows
across nine European host institutions.
We are still looking for excellent candidates! Applica-
tion deadline January 15, 2018. These are fully funded
positions with contracts and research funding. For more
information and how to apply: www.plantid.uio.no All
nationalities can apply as long as you do not have more
than 4 years of research experience and have not lived
in the country of the host institute for more than 12
months in the last 36 months. Check eligibility criteria
in detail below.
Job conditions The PhD student will receive an employ-
ment contract with a competitive salary and mobility
allowance at the host institution. Fellows are expected
to start in April 2018. Additional funding for research
and participation in courses, workshops, conferences,etc. is ensured.
Job description - Manage and carry through your re-
search project - Take PhD courses within the Plant.ID
network - Write scientic articles and your PhD thesis
- Participate in international congresses and Plant.ID
network meetings - Stay at a research institution abroad
for the secondment(s) - Teach and disseminate your
research
EU eligibility criteria The applicant may be of any na-
tionality but in order to be eligible for the positions
the following criteria applies to all applicants: - The
applicant shall at the time of recruitment be eligible as
an Early Stage Researcher (ESR) by being in the rst
four years of his/her research career and not have been
awarded a doctoral degree. - The applicant must not
have resided or carried out his/her main activity in the
country of the host institute for more than 12 months
in the 3 years immediately prior to the recruitment.
Plant.ID is recruiting 15 PhD students simultaneously
and interested candidates are encouraged to apply for
multiple projects within the network. Read more about
the 15 individual PhD projects on www.plantid.uio.no . -
PhD 1 - Polyploid phylogenetics under the multi-species
coalescent - University of Gothenburg - PhD 2 - Taxon
identication and multispecies coalescent biodiversity
assessments - University of Oslo - PhD 3 - Euphrasia:
species delimitation in mega-diverse hemi-parasites -
University of Copenhagen - PhD 4 - Shotgun sequenc-
ing for comparative diet analysis in capercaillie fowl -
University of Copenhagen - PhD 5 - DNA barcoding and
metabarcoding of herbal products for authentication -
University of Oslo - PhD 6 - Metabarcoding of aquatic
ora for fresh water quality monitoring - BaseClear, De-
gree Awarding University of Leiden - PhD 7 - Hayfever
and software-automated pollen metabarcoding - Natu-
ralis Biodiversity Center, Degree Awarding University
of Oslo - PhD 8 - Paleogenomic annotation of historical
Cinchona bark samples across time and space - Univer-
sity of Copenhagen - PhD 9 - Genomic barcoding of the
succulent plant genus Aloe in trade - Royal Botanic Gar-
dens Kew, Degree Awarding University of Copenhagen -
PhD 10 - Orchid targets: Genomic barcoding to identify
and trace traded orchids - University of Oslo - PhD 11
- Is mutational meltdown a threat in the mega diverse
genus Begonia? - Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh,
Degree Awarding University of Edinburgh - PhD 12 -
Genomic barcoding to trace and identify illegally logged
African trees - Botanic Garden Meise, Degree Awarding
KU Leuven - PhD 13 - Bar-HRM traceability of toxic
species in food and medicine - Centre for Research &
Technology - Hellas, Degree Awarding Aristotle Univer-
sity of Thessaloniki - PhD 14 - Species, a taxonomic
category distinct from the lineage concept - University ofFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 35
Gothenburg - PhD 15 - Logging forensics: mining ebony
wood collections as references - Naturalis Biodiversity
Center, Degree Awarding University of Leiden
Brecht Verstraete <brecht.verstraete@gmail.com >
GhentU ExptEvolution
Ph.D. position in Experimental Evolution and Evolu-
tionary Genomics
A Ph.D. position is available in the Van de Peer Lab
in Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics (BEG),
VIB 'V Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium (http://-
bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/). The student will work on
an FWO funded project in collaboration with Olivier De
Clerck (Phycology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium).
The position is for three years (a one-year extension
might be possible) and is available immediately.
Project: Testing big evolutionary hypotheses with small
organisms - The eects of whole-genome duplication
(WGD) on plant evolution
Polyploids, organisms that underwent a WGD, possess
one or more extra copies of their genome, which has the
potential to facilitate the evolution of new functionality.
Many WGDs are accordingly found in very successful
eukaryotic lineages characterized by particular biolog-
ical innovations and/or diversications. However, the
acquisition of two complete genomes is generally not
well tolerated by cells, leading to harmful eects on
the overall tness and fertility of the organism. This
results in a paradox between the observed immediate
negative eects of WGDs, and their attributed long-
term positive eects. Phylogenomic dating of WGDs in
plants suggests that many polyploids became established
during times of environmental upheaval or extinctions.
Present-day polyploids are also often more abundant in
harsh environments such as the Arctic, which together
would suggest that environmental turmoil and stress
may enhance polyploid establishment, because their in-
creased genetic variation could potentially enable rapid
adaptive changes. To test this hypothesis, we are con-
ducting evolutionary experiments in unicellular green
algae (the model system Chlamydomonas), aiming to
gain novel insights into why and how polyploids can ob-
tain an evolutionary advantage over their non-polyploid
ancestors.
The project has two components. 1) Experimental evolu-
tion of algae to study the eects of stress and changingenvironmental conditions on the survival and estab-
lishment of polyploids. 2) Evolutionary genomics of
evolved algae using next-generation sequencing to corre-
late genomic and transcriptional dynamics with tness,
adaptation, and establishment.
Candidate' ^As Prole:
Candidates should have a Master' ^As degree (or equiva-
lent), a strong background in evolutionary biology, and
a keen interest and preferably experience in both em-
pirical research and bioinformatics. The student needs
to be dedicated to carrying out long-term multidisci-
plinary research which involves regular maintenance of
algal cultures, some molecular work, as well as evolu-
tionary genomic analyses. Basic knowledge of program-
ming/scripting and statistics is required. Fluent English
and good communication skills, oral and in writing, are
essential.
Application:
Send your application containing a CV, a motivation
letter (max. 1 page) and contact information of two
referees, combined in a single PDF, to Dr. Eylem Ay-
dogdu (eyloh@psb.ugent.be). For further information
about the position also contact Dr. Eylem Aydogdu
directly.
Prof. Dr. Yves Van de Peer
Department of Plant Biotechnology and Bioinformatics,
Ghent University VIB - UGent Center for Plant Systems
Biology
Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium
Phone: +32 (0)9 331 3807 Cell Phone: +32 (0)476 560
091 email: yves.vandepeer@psb.ugent.be
Department Chair - Elect Part-time Professor at the
Department of Genetics, Pretoria, South Africa
Yves Van de Peer <yvpee@psb.vib-ugent.be >36 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Gottingen
BacterialEndosymbiontGenomics
The Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute of Zoology
and Anthropology at the Georg-August-Universitat Got-
tingen is looking to ll the position of a Doctoral/Ph.D.
Student for research on Exploring and optimising long-
read sequencing techniques for bacterial endosymbiont
genomics
The position is funded by the Georg-August-Universitat
Gottingen for a period of 3.5 years (42 months), with a
salary according to the German salary scale TV-L E13
(50 %), and should be lled by April 1st 2018.
Within this project the sequencing of bacterial endosym-
biont genomes (e.g., Wolbachia, Rickettsia) from insect
hosts should be optimised based on long-read sequencing
techniques (e.g., nanopore sequencing).
For this purpose, dierent DNA extraction methods, as
well as enrichment techniques will be compared. The
resulting genomes shall be analysed comparatively using
bioinformatic pipelines.
Applicants need to hold a diploma or MSc degree in
biology or a related eld and to have experience with
molecular methodology, particularly with respect to
DNA extraction and sequencing. Moreover, experience
with computational work in a UNIX/Linux environment
is recommendable.
Experience in entomology would be helpful, but not
necessary. Working language is German and English.
Doctoral students are supposed to take part in super-
vising students during internships and seminars.
This position is designed to foster young researchers and
scientists and give the successful applicant the opportu-
nity to pursue a doctoral degree.
The University of Gottingen is an equal opportunities
employer and places particular emphasis on fostering
career opportunities for women.
Qualied women are therefore strongly encouraged to
apply in elds in which they are underrepresented. The
university has committed itself to being a family-friendly
institution and supports their employees in balancing
work and family life. The mission of the University is
to employ a greater number of severely disabled per-
sons. Applications from severely disabled persons with
equivalent qualications will be given preference.Applications including a full cv, description of previous
research interests (e.g., summary of the master thesis)
and names and email addresses of at least two possi-
ble references should be sent by February 15, 2018 in
electronic form or by ordinary mail to Prof.
Dr. Christoph Bleidorn, Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach-
Institut fur Zoologie und Anthropologie, Georg-August-
Universitat Gottingen, Untere Karspule 2, 37073 Got-
tingen, Germany, cbleido@gwdg.de.
The advertisement can be found at http://www.uni-
goettingen.de/de/305402.html?cid=13336 Prof. Dr.
Christoph Bleidorn Georg-August-University Gottingen
Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute for Zoology &
Anthropology Animal Evolution and Biodiversity Untere
Karspuele 2 37073 Gottingen Germany
Follow me on twitter! https://twitter.com/C Blei
Christoph Bleidorn <cbleido@gwdg.de >
GuangxiU EvoDevo
Funded graduate positions at Guangxi University, China
Eco.Evo.Devo (EED) Lab Group at Guangxi University
(GXU) China (PRC) has several graduate student posi-
tions for PhDs and MScs (preferably Ph.D.). Broadly,
we study ecology, evolution and development of shes
and amphibians. Based on the student's interests, the
Principle Investigator (PI) and the student will craft a
PhD research topic; any research focusing on ecology,
evolution and development in a biodiversity conservation
context is encouraged.
The students accepted will receive a stipend, on-campus
housing and medical insurance through a China Govern-
ment Scholarship (CGS) for the duration of the study
period. The deadline for the CGS program is 31st
of March 2018. Successful students will also receive,
through the EED lab, the airfare for arriving and leav-
ing China upon successful completion of studies. For
this recruitment round, the graduate students will need
to begin their degree program by September 2018.
Funding for research is available, and the EED lab
will generate additional funding as needed. The lab is
equipped to do research in molecular evolution & phylo-
genetics, development and ecological research. Our lab
also has a clean room (for RNA, Environmental DNA
and Ancient DNA work), modern aquarium and vivar-
ium facilities. The Associated Guangxi Key Laboratory
in Forest Ecology and Conservation is well equipped forFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 37
all modern research work. It is expected that all work
pertaining to graduate research work will be published
in reputed scientic journals.
The working language of the International Training pro-
gram is English. However, all graduate students should
undergo a Chinese language related course within the
rst year. The international program will also oer sev-
eral graduate level courses in Ecology and Evolution (in
English), which are, together with a dissertation thesis
are required for matriculation for the degree.
GXU is situated in Nanning, the largest city in Guangxi
Province (in Southwestern China), bordering Vietnam.
Nanning is a vibrant city with a diversity of restau-
rants, shopping malls and recreational areas. Guangxi
province harbors a remarkable biodiversity in its plains,
mountains, Karst habitats and associated underground
rivers and waterways. The proximity to two biodiversity
hotspots is an added advantage for biodiversity related
research work.
Interested applicants, please send a CV, unocial tran-
scripts (ocial transcripts will be required later), names
and email addresses of three references, and a brief
statement of research interests (less than 700 words) to
eed.gxu.edu@outlook.com by the 30 th of January 2018.
Students from a diversity of backgrounds are encouraged
to apply. Review of applications will begin immediately.
Lab Manager
Eco.Evo.Devo group
International Training Program
College of Forestry and Guangxi Key lab in Forest Ecol-
ogy and Conservation
Guangxi University
Nanning
PRC
Phone: - +85-137-8830-0340
eed.gxu.edu@outlook.comGuangxiU PlantEvolution
International Graduate Program 2018 with multiple
MSc and PhD positions available at the College of
Forestry of Guangxi University, Nanning, China
The Plant Ecophysiology and Evolution Group, Conser-
vation Biology Group and Forest Dynamics Research
Laboratory at Guangxi University (Nanning, China) are
seeking highly motivated and productive International
MSc and PhD students to engage in 3-4 year projects,
starting in September 2018, in the following research
elds:
(1) Plant Ecophysiology -A: Plant Physiological Ecology
including water relations -B: Functional Plant Anatomy
-C: Photosynthesis and Photoprotection -D: Functional
traits and community assembly of subtropical forests
Projects are supervised by Prof. Kun-Fang Cao (kun-
fang.cao@gxu.edu.cn or caokf@xtbg.ac.cn) and Asso-
ciate Prof. Shidan Zhu (zhushidan@gxu.edu.cn). More
information here: http://www.plant-ecophysiology-
evolution.com/person/cao-kunfang/ http://www.plant-
ecophysiology-evolution.com/person/shi-dan-zhu/ (2)
Biodiversity Genomics -A: Plant Genomics and Evolu-
tionary Diversication -B: Molecular Systematics and
Plant Taxonomy -C: Historical Plant Biogeography and
Biome Assembly
Projects are supervised by Associate Prof. Joeri
S. Strijk (jsstrijk@gxu.edu.cn). More information
here: http://www.plant-ecophysiology-evolution.com/-
person/joeri-sergej-strijk/ (3) Genetics -A: Ecological
Genomics. -B: Conservation Genetics.
Projects are supervised by Associate Prof. Ali-
son Wee (alisonwks@gmail.com). More information
here: http://www.plant-ecophysiology-evolution.com/-
person/alison-kim-shan-wee/ (4) Seed Ecophysiology
Uromi-A: Seed Ecology and Physiology
Projects are supervised by Associate Prof. Uromi
Goodale (uromi.goodale@outlook.com). More in-
formation here: http://www.plant-ecophysiology-
evolution.com/person/uromi-manage-goodale/ (5) Eco-
physiology and Coevolution Gou-Feng Jiang-A: Plant
Ecophysiology of Mangroves. -B: Phylogenetics and
Coevolution in Gymnosperms.
Projects are supervised by Dr. Jiang Guofeng
(gfjiang@gxu.edu.cn). More information here: http:/-38 EvolDir February 1, 2018
/www.plant-ecophysiology-evolution.com/person/-
jiang-guofeng/ (6) Ecology -A: Animal Behavior. -B:
Breeding and Nesting Ecology. -C: Ecotoxicology. -D:
Social and Economic Inuences on Conservation Species
Interaction Networks. -E: Urban Ecology.
Projects are supervised by Faculty members of the
Conservation Biology Group (Prof. Eben Goodale
(eben.goodale@outlook.com), Dr. Aiwu Jiang, Dr.
Christos Mammides, Dr. Myung-bok Lee, Dr. Ari
Martinez).
More information here: http://animal-ecology-
guangxi.com/ (7) Tropical Forest Botany and Ecology
-A: Biodiversity Monitoring Forest Plots in Guangxi
Province. -B: Distribution and composition of the
Philippine Island Flora: phylogenetics, ecological
features, plant functional and reproductive traits.
Projects are supervised by Prof James V. LaFrankie of
the Forest Dynamics Research Laboratory. https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/James Lafrankie3/ The
International Graduate Program at the College of
Forestry oers fully funded MSc and PhD Fellowships
for 3-4-year projects, with complete waivers for tuition
fees and housing fees. Housing is provided in the
International Student dormitories of the campus in
Nanning. The rst year consist of project orientation
and study of Chinese language through courses in
combination with introductory courses taught by faculty
members of the three research groups. The other three
years will be lled with eldwork, professional courses
and the research project.
Project applications are now invited for starting dates
of projects in September 2018. The application deadline
is March 31, 2018. Fellowships come with an ample
monthly allowance for the full duration of the project.
Applicants with a proven track record of successful publi-
cation in peer-reviewed journals will have an advantage.
Opportunities for the development of individual research
projects as well as collaborative work, exist within our
lab and with external groups. Candidates will be inte-
grated in growing and multidisciplinary teams of Chi-
nese and foreign researchers, providing a creative and
stimulating research environment, and will work as part
of teams studying the evolution, ecology, distribution,
conservation and/or ecophysiology
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlIVB MUni Czech
LizardHybridZoneGenomics
A PhD position in hybrid-zone genomics of a legless
lizard (Anguis)
Deadline for expressions of interest: 16 February 2018
The HerpDiv Research Group (Vaclav Gvozdik's group)
at the Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Studenec, Czech
Academy of Sciences, is seeking a highly motivated
student who ideally holds (or will nish soon) MSc in
population genetics, mathematical biology, bioinformat-
ics or a related topic. The successful applicant will be
involved in a project focusing on population/landscape
genomics of the hybrid zone of a legless lizard (Anguis).
Project: Anguiomics: Genomic insights into the evolu-
tionary history and contact zones of slow-worm lizards
(Anguis)
The project will combine multidisciplinary techniques us-
ing three types of genomic data (phylo-, cyto-, and pop-
ulation) and GIS-based environmental niche modelling
in Anguis lizards. The rst two parts, phylogenomic in-
ference and cytogenomic characterization of the species
will be separate sub-projects. Within the announced
position, the successful applicant will be focusing on
genome-wide variation (reduced representation; ddRAD-
seq) at a population level across the secondary contact
zone of A. fragilis and A. colchica in two geographic re-
gions (central Europe and northern Balkans). This will
allow us to empirically assess levels of introgression and
estimate the strength of barriers maintaining divergence
between the species, and to compare the situation in the
two regions. We will further test association between
genomic variation and environmental parameters, poten-
tially identifying loci under selection by environmental
factors. This will allow us to assess if the two species
respond to environmental factors in a similar or dierent
way, and to understand the balance between endogenous
and exogenous selection acting in the contact zone.
The successful applicant will be enrolled in the PhD
program of the Masaryk University in Brno (MUNI),
Faculty of Science, Department of Botany and Zoology.
Employment and analytic work will be realized at the
Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Studenec, and the study
will be supervised by Dr. Vaclav Gvozdik (evolutionary
biology of reptiles). The pool of potential co-supervisorsFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 39
includes Dr. Stuart J.E. Baird (speciation research, ge-
nomics). The length of the PhD study is 4 academic
years starting in September 2018, with a preferred start
of employment in July 2018.
Main responsibilities - analytic works: -||| bioinfor-
matics - working with reduced-representation genomic
data (ddRADseq or possibly other type of genomic data)
-||| working with GIS-based environmental data -|
|| involvement in eld work and wet-lab is welcome but
not necessary (depending on interests of the successful
candidate)
Applicant's prole: We seek a bright and highly mo-
tivated candidate with -||| a master's degree in a
relevant eld such as population genetics, mathematical
biology, bioinformatics or molecular/evolutionary biol-
ogy (summer 2018 at the latest) -||| experiences in
bioinformatics, programming (or at least basic scripting
in Linux) and/or GIS-based analyses -||| enthu-
siasm in both biological and computational questions
-||| ability to work in a team but also independent
initiative -||| good oral and written communication
skills in English -||| documented experience with
scientic writing will be advantageous -||| driving
licence, if interested in taking part in eld work, will be
also advantageous
We oer: -||| attractive research topic in an estab-
lished international team -||| possibility to take
part in eld work both in the Czech Republic and
abroad (Balkans) -||| sucient nancial and lo-
gistical sources for the project -||| salary will be
paid according to the Czech academic standards - 60%
position for PhD candidate + scholarship, i.e. approx.
240,000 CZK annual income (this suciently covers
living expenses in the Czech Republic) -||| plus
various student/employee bonuses (e.g. a possibility of
being accommodated in an institutional apartment in
Studenec for a reasonable rent)
Applicants should send a structured CV with contacts
for two referees and a motivation letter (one page) to
Vaclav Gvozdik, vaclav.gvozdik@ivb.cz with email sub-
ject \PhD position". Any questions shall be sent to
the same email address. The review of applications will
begin on 17 February 2018 and continue until the posi-
tion is lled. Selected applicants will be interviewed via
Skype in the second half of February 2018. The PhD
position is starting between July - September 2018 but
candidates must register for the study at the MUNI till
the end of April 2018.
Dr. Vaclav GVOZDIK, PhD INSTITUTE OF VER-
TEBRATE BIOLOGY Czech Academy of Sciences Re-
search facility STUDENEC Studenec 122, CZ-675 02/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
JMU Liverpool
SocialEvolGenomicsConservation
Liverpool JMU.SocialEvolutionGenomicsConservation
I am looking for a student with an excellent track record
(e.g. 1st Class undergraduate degree and/or Masters
level qualication) to apply for a fully funded PhD Schol-
arship at Liverpool John Moores University https://-
www.ljmu.ac.uk/research/phd-scholarships. Students
must be UK/EU nationals to qualify for funding.
The topic of research is exible and can be tailored to
your interests so feel free to suggest your own project
or to join an existing project. Current research con-
ducted by my lab includes the evolution of social be-
haviour, inbreeding/genetic diversity, scent communi-
cation, and conservation/population genetics/genomics.
Species studied include the banded mongoose (Uganda),
meerkat (South Africa), Asiatic wild ass (Israel), mole-
rats (southern Africa) and pilot whales. See my web-
site for further details on current projects https://-
hazelnichols.weebly.com/ . The nal application dead-
line is 28th Feb 2018 but please contact me much earlier
than this to prepare your application.
If interested, please contact me on
h.j.nichols@ljmu.ac.uk
H.J.Nichols@ljmu.ac.uk
Krakow ClimateAdaptation
Climate change eects on life history and physiology:
intra- and interspecic interaction approach
PhD position under National Science Centre, Poland
(http://www.ncn.gov.pl), Opus 13
Study eld: ecological interactions, evolution of life
history, physiology, species geographic range, climate
change40 EvolDir February 1, 2018
General theme
Climate change eects on species ecological interactions
in damselies. The PhD project will address the follow-
ing questions: (1) How individuals that hatch earlier
aect life history and physiology of individuals that
hatch later in the season and vice verse. (2) What con-
sequences this will have on species geographical ranges?
Job description: * Field sampling (Poland, Scandinavia)
and larval rearing in laboratory conditions * Measuring
life history traits, e.g. larval size, growth rate and de-
velopment time * Quantication of physiological traits
(Leuven University, Belgium) * Writing manuscripts
Institution
Institute of Nature Conservation in Krakow, Polish
Academy of Sciences (http://www.iop.krakow.pl)
Requirements: * Master degree in biology, ecology or
relevant eld * Fluency in English, written and spo-
ken * Strong motivation for research work (eld and
laboratory) * Involvement in realization of the grant,
including irregular working hours (availability) * Ad-
ditional attributes: documented research experience
(e.g. publications, attendance in scientic conferences,
involvement in research projects), basics in statistical
analyses, ability to work as a team member, but also be-
ing independent, enthusiasm for working abroad, driving
licence
Oer
PhD scholarship 3 000 PLN monthly for 3 years (36
months). Funds to cover travel and accommodation
costs during project meetings, research stays at project
partners and scientic conferences.
Interested?
Please email your (1) CV, (2) a letter of motivation in-
cluding relevant experience, (3) two letters of reference
from academic referees, (4) copies of the scientic con-
tributions (articles, conference presentations, etc), (5)
a copy of the MSc degree or equivalent to Dr. Szymon
Sniegula (szymon.sniegula@gmail.com).
Deadline for application
The documents should be combined into a single PDF
le and emailed by 31 January 2018 midnight 23:59
CET with the subject \Opus PhD application".
The pre-selected candidates can be invited for an inter-
view through Skype during the rst half of February
2018.
For more information email Szymon Sniegula, szy-
mon.sniegula@gmail.com
or go to: http://www.iop.krakow.pl/-projekty,2,research projects (national nanci ng).html
{ Institute of Nature Conservation Polish Academy of Sci-
ences Mickiewicza 33 31-120 Krakow, POLAND phone:
+48 602 152996 e-mail: szymon.sniegula@gmail.com my
personal website
Szymon Sniegula <szymon.sniegula@gmail.com >
LordHoweIsland
ConservationGenetics
Project
The Lord Howe Island Stick Insect, ' ^A thought to
be extinct but recently rediscovered, has become em-
blematic of the dangers faced by island species in the
face of anthropogenic change. A planned reintroduction
eort aims to rescue this species, one of the rarest in-
sects in the world, from the brink of extinction. This
project aims to assess the genetic diversity of the re-
discovered population, currently maintained in a captive
breeding program, and aid the development of plans for
release. The project will combine cutting-edge molecu-
lar techniques and innovative approaches to genotyping
of unusual material (historical and non-destructively
sampled in the eld) with analysis of next-generation
sequencing data. In addition to the primary objectives,
the unique biology of this insect provides opportunities
to investigate more general biological questions, ranging
from the eect of polyploidy on the animal body, to
how massive body size evolves. Crucially, research out-
comes of this project will directly contribute to ongoing
conservation eorts.
Suitable applicants need to be highly motivated with
a strong academic and research background. Demon-
strated ability to conduct independent research is re-
quired, with experience in the molecular lab, and some
experience in programming or data analysis being de-
sirable. Applicants should hold rst class honours or
equivalent experience. The successful student will need
to apply to ANU for enrollment. The successful ap-
plicant will receive a stipend scholarship and research
funds including computer and travel funding.
Location
We will be based in the Division of Ecology and Evolu-
tion at the Research School of Biology at the Australian
National University in Canberra, Australia. Lab work
and/or training will likely take place at the Okinawa
Institute of Science and Technology in Okinawa, Japan.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 41
Both locations feature excellent facilities and intellec-
tual environments. The project will also be supported
by Zoos Victoria, who hold a large captive population
at Melbourne Zoo, and are closely involved with the
recovery eort. Field work to collect additional samples
may also be involved.
Expression of interest
Expressions of interest should be submitted directly
to Alexander.Mikheyev@anu.edu.au by March 1, 2018.
Please include a brief statement on why you are in-
terested in this project, a CV and contact details for
references. Following assessment of applications one ap-
plicant will then be invited to formally apply to the ANU.
The successful applicant will be able to start as soon as
possible. You can also nd out more information about
the graduate program by clicking on the \Higher De-
gree by Research' ^Atab at http://biology.anu.edu.au/-
education/degree-programs Alexander Mikheyev
Group Leader, Research School of Biology The Aus-
tralian National University
alexander.mikheyev@oist.jp
Marburg Germany
PlantAnimalInteractions
Starting in June 2018, we oer a three year PhD position
in a project on vertical stratication of plant-animal
interactions and their impact on pollination and seed
dispersal within a single Neotropical plant species.
The PhD student will be based at the Philipps Univer-
sity Marburg, Germany, and eld work will take place
close to Iquitos in the Peruvian Amazon.
Field work includes focal observation of birds, mist-
netting of bats, collection of nectar and fruit samples
across a vertical gradient (which requires tree climbing),
and camera observations. Subsequent lab work includes
nutrient analyses of fruits, and a population genetic
study with microsatellites.
This project is carried out by Dr. Katrin Heer in collab-
oration with Prof. Dr. Eckhard Heymann (DPZ) and
Prof. Dr. Marco Tschapka (University of Ulm), and is
funded by the German Research Council (DFG).
More detailed information on the project and the
job announcement can be found here: https://-
www.uni-marburg.de/fb17/fachgebiete/naturschutz/-
naturschutzbiologie/sta/academic-sta/index html-enPlease do not hesitate to contact us if you have further
questions. katrin.heer@uni-marburg.de
{ Dr. Katrin Heer Conservation Biology Philipps Univer-
sit at Marburg Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse 8 35043 Marburg
Phone: +49 (0) 6421 2823374 Fax: +49 (0) 6421
2826588
\katrin.heer@uni-marburg.de" <katrin.heer@uni-
marburg.de >
MississippiStateU
ButteryGenomics
We are recruiting two students for NSF funded PhD
assistantships studying the genomic changes responsible
for wing color pattern variation in Heliconius butteries.
The projects oer opportunities for students to develop
projects that integrate population genomics, gene ex-
pression assays, references genomes, and genome-editing
to better understand how changes in the genome cause
phenotypic variation. These PhD assistantships are part
of an NSF EPSCoR funded collaboration between Mis-
sissippi State University (Brian Counterman) and the
University of Puerto Rico (Riccardo Papa) aimed to pro-
vide training in genomics through the study of buttery
wing patterns. For more information about this NSF
EPSCoR project, please visit https://sites.google.com/-
view/genome-to-phenome/home The students will be
enrolled in the PhD program in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences, but will have opportunities for extended
visits and work closely with a collaborative team of Heli-
conius researchers including Robert Reeds lab at Cornell
University, Arnaud Martins lab at George Washington
University, and Owen McMillans lab at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute. Students will be expected
to work with our live Heliconius colonies at the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute rearing facilities in
Gamboa, Panama. At Mississippi State University, the
students will be housed in the Counterman lab (https:/-
/www.countermanlab.org/) and have opportunities to
work closely with other labs participating in the NSF
EPSCoR project: Federico Homann (gene family evo-
lution) and Ryan Range (pattern development).
The Graduate Program in the Department of Biological
Sciences at Mississippi State University oers a PhD
in Biological Sciences. There is a vibrant and growing
graduate program with over 60 students funded through
teaching and/or research assistantships. Further de-42 EvolDir February 1, 2018
tails about the PhD program can be found in Graduate
Handbook here: http://www.biology.msstate.edu/pdf/-
2016-BIO-Graduate-Student-Handbook.pdf MSU is lo-
cated in Starkville, a quaint college town in northeast
Mississippi. The small town of nearly 25,000 permanent
residents oers a diverse and progressive community
with strong town-and-gown relationships that host sev-
eral cultural festivals and events throughout the year.
The university is surrounded by remnants of Blackbelt
prairies, agricultural experimental stations and the Sam
B. Hamilton Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge, which
oer a diversity of local outdoor activities and research
opportunities. MSU is centrally located in the south-
eastern United States, with Memphis ~2 hrs North and
New Orleans ~5 hrs South, and a regional airport ~20
miles from MSU that oers daily ights to Atlanta.
Required qualications: The applicant must have a BS
or equivalent in a biological sciences discipline, expe-
rience working with genomic datasets in a Unix envi-
ronment AND/OR basic molecular biology laboratory
methods.
Preferred qualications: Preference will be given to
applicants with that have a record of scholarly publica-
tion, completed an MS in a biological sciences discipline,
and/or any of the following skills: experience with high-
throughput sequence data, Unix environment, genomic
analyses, performing CRISPR-cas9 gene editing.
The project team is committed to increasing diversity in
STEM, and we especially encourage applications from
women, minorities, veterans and other underrepresented
groups.
Application: Please send a single PDF containing a
CV, unocial transcripts, and contact information
for three references to regulatorylogic@gmail.com with
GraduateStudent:ButteryGenomics in the subject line.
Review of applications will begin January 31, 2018
and continue until the position is lled. The start
date/semester is exible. Please contact me at bcoun-
terman@biology.msstate.edu with inquiries.
bc650@igbb.msstate.edu
Muenster
AppliedPlantEvolutionaryEcol
PhD Position in applied evolutionary ecology Rapid evo-
lution in wild plants cultivated for ecosystem restoration
The Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research Group inthe Institute of Landscape Ecology at the University of
M unster (Germany) invites applications for a Doctoral
Research Position (salary scale 65% of 13 TVL, for 36
months).
We are seeking to ll a 3-year PhD position, part of
research project on rapid evolution in cultivation of
wild plants, which has been recently granted to Dr.
Anna Lampei Bucharova (currently at the University
of T ubingen, from spring 2018 at the University of
M unster) and Dr. Walter Durka (UFZ Halle). The
project focuses on evolution in cultivation. To provide
sucient amount of seeds for ecosystem restoration,
wild plants are cultivated in monocultures on specialized
farms. In Germany, this cultivation is region-specic.
Seeds of individual provenances are cultivated at many
farms around the country, and produced seeds are sold as
\Regionalsaatgut" for ecological restoration. However,
the conditions in cultivation strongly dier from the wild
and it is likely that plants adapt to cultivation (\cultiva-
tion syndrome") and consequently, lose their adaptation
to wild environment, resulting in negative impact on
restoration success. The successful candidate will work
with many species and investigate how common and how
large are the evolutionary changes during cultivation.
At the same time, the system is an excellent opportunity
to investigate fundamental evolutionary questions about
rapid evolution, evolutionary trade-os and parallelism
in evolution across large number of species and thus,
derive general patterns (in contrast to working with one
model species).
The core of the project is a set of common garden ex-
periments, complemented by molecular analysis. The
PhD student will be supervised by Dr. Anna Lam-
pei Bucharova, in cooperation with Prof. Oliver Boss-
dorf (University T ubingen). Further details can be ob-
tained from Dr. Anna Lampei Bucharova (anna.lampei-
bucharova@uni-tuebingen.de).
The University of M unster is a large vibrant univer-
sity hosting number of excellent scientic institution
and provides stimulating research environment. The
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research Group is led by
Prof. Norbert H olzel and works on various topics,
for example grassland ecology, rare species, restora-
tion ecology or land use change and landscape dy-
namics in Western Siberia and Kazakhstan (https://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Oekosystemforschung/en/ ). The
city of M unster is characterized by its many students
and presents a dynamic environment with many cul-
tural and social events throughout the year (http://-
www.muenster.de/en/). The main transportation mean
in the city is bicycle, which gives the city unique atmo-
sphere.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 43
Applicant should have keen interest in applied evolu-
tionary ecology and a Master degree (or equivalent) in
the relevant research elds (e.g.
plant ecology, evolution, botany). The applicant must
have experience with quantitative statistics (optimally
using R) and have prociency in both written and spo-
ken English, German is not necessary. Experience with
large common garden experiments is a plus. As the
rst common garden experiment must start early spring
2018, the position starts in April 2018.
The University of M unster is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and is committed to increasing the proportion of
women academics. Consequently, we actively encourage
applications by women. Female candidates with equiva-
lent qualications and academic achievements will be
preferentially considered within the framework of the
legal possibilities. We also welcome applications from
candidates with severe disabilities. Disabled candidates
with equivalent qualications will be preferentially con-
sidered.
Applications should be written in English and have a
form of single Pdf congaing 1) cover letter with a state-
ment of your research interests and motivation (max. 1
page), 2) CV including details of research experiences
and 3) contact to at least two referees. Applications
are to be sent to Prof. Norbert H olzel, nhoelzel@uni-
muenster.de till 21.1.2018.
Walter Durka <walter.durka@ufz.de >
Munster WildPlantEvolution
Rapid evolution in wild plants cultivated for ecosystem
restoration
The Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research Group in
the Institute of Landscape Ecology at the University of
M unster (Germany) invites applications for a Doctoral
Research Position (salary scale 65% of 13 TVL, for 36
months).
We are seeking to ll a 3-year PhD position, part of
research project on rapid evolution in cultivation of
wild plants, which has been recently granted to Dr.
Anna Lampei Bucharova (currently at the University
of T ubingen, from spring 2018 at the University of
M unster) and Dr. Walter Durka (UFZ Halle). The
project focuses on evolution in cultivation. To provide
sucient amount of seeds for ecosystem restoration,
wild plants are cultivated in monocultures on specializedfarms. In Germany, this cultivation is region-specic.
Seeds of individual provenances are cultivated at many
farms around the country, and produced seeds are sold
as \Regionalsaatgut" for ecological restoration. How-
ever, the conditions in cultivation strongly dier from
the wild and it is likely that plants adapt to cultivation
(\cultivation syndrome") and consequently, lose their
adaptation to wild environment, resulting in negative
impact on restoration success. The successful candidate
will work with many species and investigate how com-
mon and how large are the evolutionary changes during
cultivation. At the same time, the system is an excellent
opportunity to investigate fundamental evolutionary
questions about rapid evolution, evolutionary trade-os
and parallelism in evolution across large number of
species and thus, derive general patterns (in contrast
to working with one model species). The core of the
project is a set of common garden experiments, comple-
mented by molecular analysis. The PhD student will be
supervised by Dr. Anna Lampei Bucharova, in coopera-
tion with Prof. Oliver Bossdorf (University T ubingen).
Further details can be obtained from Dr. Anna Lampei
Bucharova (anna.lampei-bucharova@uni-tuebingen.de
<mailto:anna.lampei-bucharova@uni-tuebingen.de >).
The University of M unster is a large vibrant univer-
sity hosting number of excellent scientic institution
and provides stimulating research environment. The
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research Group is led by
Prof. Norbert H olzel and works on various topics,
for example grassland ecology, rare species, restora-
tion ecology or land use change and landscape dy-
namics in Western Siberia and Kazakhstan (https://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Oekosystemforschung/en/ ). The
city of M unster is characterized by its many students
and presents a dynamic environment with many cul-
tural and social events throughout the year (http://-
www.muenster.de/en/). The main transportation mean
in the city is bicycle, which gives the city unique atmo-
sphere.
Applicant should have keen interest in applied evolu-
tionary ecology and a Master degree (or equivalent) in
the relevant research elds (e.g. plant ecology, evolu-
tion, botany). The applicant must have experience with
quantitative statistics (optimally using R) and have pro-
ciency in both written and spoken English, German
is not necessary. Experience with large common gar-
den experiments is a plus. As the rst common garden
experiment must start early spring 2018, the position
starts in April 2018.
The University of M unster is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and is committed to increasing the proportion of
women academics. Consequently, we actively encourage
applications by women. Female candidates with equiva-44 EvolDir February 1, 2018
lent qualications and academic achievements will be
preferentially considered within the framework of the
legal possibilities. We also welcome applications from
candidates with severe disabilities. Disabled candidates
with equivalent qualications will be preferentially con-
sidered.
Applications should be written in English and have a
form of single Pdf congaing 1) cover letter with a state-
ment of your research interests and motivation (max. 1
page), 2) CV including details of research experiences
and 3) contact to at least two referees. Applications
are to be sent to Prof. Norbert H olzel, nhoelzel@uni-
muenster.de <mailto:nhoelzel@uni-muenster.de >till
21.1.2018.
{ Dr. Anna Lampei Bucharova Plant Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy University T ubingen Auf der Morgenstelle 5 72076
T ubingen Phone:+49 7071 2974248
Anna Lampei Bucharova <anna.lampei-bucharova@uni-
tuebingen.de >
Napoli Italy PlanktonEvolution
Investigating the role of connectivity in plankton ecology
and evolution by genomics
The Stazione Zoologica of Napoli, Italy and Genoscope
in Evry, France propose a PhD internship to study how
the oceanic connectivity aects marine ecosystem di-
versity using environmental genomics approaches. A
master internship on related topics is also possible.
An enduring challenge is to comprehend how marine
plankton has developed and maintains its relatively
large diversity, characterized by a complex web of inter-
actions, while living in a largely unstructured environ-
ment. As the local composition of plankton communities
are controlled by ocean circulation and resource delivery,
together with organism acclimation and adaptation, un-
derstanding the relation between the local distribution
of species and the large scale oceanographic patterns
becomes crucial. At this regard, since the 1930s, the
hypothesis that everything is everywhere but the envi-
ronment selects has shaped theories of marine biogeogra-
phy, questioning the possibility of an actual endemicity
for plankton species. However, recent progresses in ge-
nomics allowed to acquire and to compare data from
dierent types of wild marine organisms at ocean scale.
In particular, genomics data from the expedition Tara
Oceans provide the possibility to address the questionof physical connectivity between organisms by ocean
circulation at DNA level.
In this project, with the student we will bring together
expertise in theoretical ecology, genomics and oceanog-
raphy to explore how the physical connectivity between
oceanic regions may contrast the stable coexistence of
many species, and favor the establishment of new species.
We will pay particular attention to the hypothesis that
on ecological time scales gyres and main current systems
do actually isolate the species into local populations. We
will develop and use models to test specic hypotheses
on plasticity, adaptation, micro-evolution, speciation
and collective processes.
The position will be held in Napoli, Italy with multiple
stays at Genoscope near Paris, France. Daniele Iudi-
cone, Reno Sanges and Olivier Jaillon will supervise this
work. Numerous interactions with other members of
Tara Oceans consortium are to be considered.
Ideal candidate will have a strong background in one or
several of following skills: oceanography, marine ecology,
numerical ecology, evolutionary genomics, comparative
genomics. The student work will be computational.
A desirable asset would be knowledge of the linux op-
erative system, a scripting language, sequencing and
functional genomics data and biological and bioinfor-
matics databases and tools.
Email to Daniele Iudicone : iudicone@szn.it and/or to
Olivier Jaillon ojaillon@genoscope.cns.fr and/or Remo
Sanges remo.sanges@gmail.com.
Applications should be posted here : http://-
www.szn.it/index.php/it/formazione/doctorate-phd-iii-
level/positions-on-oer .
Olivier Jaillon <ojaillon@genoscope.cns.fr >
NorthCarolinaStateU
InsectEvolutionDiversity
Graduate position in insect evolution and diversity
The newly established Blaimer lab in the Department of
Entomology and Plant Pathology at NC State Univer-
sity is seeking to ll a graduate student position (PhD
or MSc, depending on prior experience) beginning in the
Fall semester. Our research group focuses on applying
cutting-edge molecular technologies to address relevant
questions in insect evolutionary biology, systematics and
community ecology, mainly by studying ants and otherFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 45
Hymenoptera. We value collection-based research and
actively conduct eld surveys for ants and other insects,
with a particular focus on canopy diversity.
We are looking for a highly motivated student with a
keen interest in evolutionary biology and entomology,
and matching research interests to the above. The-
sis projects will likely be tied into ongoing research in
the lab, but specics could be developed according to
the student's interests. Potential projects, for example,
could be centered around the evolution of ant commu-
nity structure, both locally in North Carolina or within
ongoing research in Madagascar, or could investigate
color pattern evolution in large carpenter bees in the
context of mimicry. Systematic, taxonomic, or other
collection-based project components are further encour-
aged. Preference will be given to students interested in
working on Hymenoptera, and particularly on ants.
NC State University's Entomology Department oers a
highly-rated research environment and is situated in a
vibrant and scientically stimulating atmosphere in the
Research Triangle, with both UNC and Duke University,
as well as NESCENT and the North Carolina Museum
of Sciences close by. Our NC State Insect Museum is
a mid-size insect collection that provides state-of-the-
art training opportunities in specimen-based research
techniques and curation. Raleigh is a lively town with
an inexpensive, yet high standard of living, and its
surroundings oer numerous recreational activities.
Interested students should contact me directly at bon-
nieblaimer[at]ncsu.edu <bonnie blaimer@ncsu.edu >
with a brief description of research interests and ex-
perience and a CV, preferably by January 31. Note
that the departmental website is currently being rede-
veloped and information found online about the NCSU
Entomology graduate program may not be up-to-date.
Bonnie B Blaimer
Assistant Professor
Director, NCSU Insect Museum
Department of Entomology & Plant Pathology
North Carolina State University
Raleigh, NC 27695-7613
Bonnie Blaimer <bonnie blaimer@ncsu.edu >NorthDakotaStateU
EvolutionaryBehavioralEcol
The Dochtermann Lab in the Department of Biological
Sciences at North Dakota State University is seeking
to ll a PhD assistantship as part of a project examin-
ing how evolutionary factors and habitat change shape
behavioral syndromes (trait correlations). The student
will develop and pursue their own research topics while
also working within a broader NSF funded project.
In our lab we focus on evolutionary questions regarding
the maintenance of variation within and among popu-
lations and the evolutionary implications of how traits
are correlated.
The position will start Fall Semester 2018. The student
will be housed and working in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences (https://www.ndsu.edu/biology/) with
their degree awarded through the NDSU Environmental
Sciences and Conservation Program.
Requirements: Bachelors or Masters in ecology, evolu-
tion, animal behavior, or related eld; experience collect-
ing and analyzing data; ability to work independently
and as part of a larger collaborative group.
Preferred: MSc preferred; experience conducting quan-
titative genetic experiments; eld research experience
If interested please contact me at
ned.dochtermann@gmail.com and provide a brief
synopsis of your research interests.
Ned
{ Ned A. Dochtermann Assistant Professor / Department
of Biological Sciences / NORTH DAKOTA STATE
UNIVERSITY p: 701.231.7353 / f: 701.231.7149
/ http://www.ndsu.edu www.neddochtermann.com
ned.dochtermann@ndsu.edu
ned.dochtermann@gmail.com
OldDominionU MarineBiodiversity
Graduate Research Assistant (PhD) - Marine Molecular
Ecology at Old Dominion University46 EvolDir February 1, 2018
The Department of Biological Sciences at Old Dominion
University, a \Doctoral Research - Extensive" state uni-
versity, has an opening for a PhD Graduate Research
Assistant in marine molecular ecology. The appoint-
ment will begin in the summer or fall semester of 2018.
This position involves participation in an NSF-funded
PIRE (Partnerships for International Research and Ed-
ucation) Project to examine genetic and species-level
changes in marine biodiversity over the past century
of intense sheries exploitation and habitat degrada-
tion in the Philippines. The successful candidate will
be expected to live in the Philippines during summer
sessions to conduct research in the eld and laboratory
in a collaborative, multinational setting. Applicants
must have a bachelor???s or master???s degree at the
time of employment, and demonstrate interest or experi-
ence in molecular ecology, population genomics, marine
phylogeography, or a closely related eld. Competitive
applicants will have some experience conducting molec-
ular ecology research in the eld and/or laboratory;
AAUS Scientic Diver certication is desired. Under-
represented minorities are particularly encouraged to
apply.
Interested applicants should send an email to Kris-
tene Parsons (kparsons@odu.edu) that includes (1) a
cover letter describing your interest in the position,
prior research, and future career goals, (2) your cur-
riculum vitae, (3) a copy of your college transcript(s),
and (4) the names, telephone numbers, and addresses
(postal and email) of three references. Review of appli-
cations will begin in February, 2018 and will continue
until a suitable candidate is found. For more informa-
tion about the department, other faculty and students,
please see the websites of the Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences (http://www.odu.edu/biosci) and Kent
Carpenter (http://www.odu.edu/directory/people/k/-
kcarpent). Additional information on the Philippine
PIRE Project can be found at https://sites.wp.odu.edu/-
PIRE/. AA/EOE/M/F/Disability/VETS/Drug Free.
Kristene T. Parsons NSF PIRE Project Administra-
tor Department of Biological Sciences Old Dominion
University Norfolk, VA 23529-0266 USA
kparsons@odu.edu j757-683-3481
\Parsons, Kristene" <kparsons@odu.edu >RHUL London
EvolutionInsectCognition
PhD position: Metabolic costs of learning and memory
in a key pollinator Closing date: 7th Feb 2018
Application details: https://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/projectDetails.aspx?PJID=94048&LID=4663
Eligibility: UK residency requirements apply, please
see here for full details: http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/-
documents/studentship-eligibility-pdf/ Investment in
cognitive traits, such as learning and memory, is ex-
pected to yield tness benets through better decision-
making, producing behavior that is ne-tuned to the
local environment. Yet the fact that animals vary in
their cognitive abilities, both between and within species,
suggests that such investment comes at a signicant cost.
We currently understand little about what these costs
are, because it is dicult to manipulate cognitive abil-
ities, and thus any relationship with other traits is by
nature correlational. In this project, we will capital-
ize upon recent developments in insect cognitive neu-
roscience to overcome this problem, using a uniquely
tractable experimental system (the bumblebee Bombus
terrestris). We will focus upon (1) metabolic costs of
investment in cognition (2) potential evolutionary trade-
os with immune function (3) impacts on life-history
variables. In the latter stages of the project, there will
be the opportunity for the student to develop further
research questions according to their interests, which
may include (but are not limited to) the use of transcrip-
tomics to understand the genomic basis for cognitive
investment.
The successful applicant will be based at Royal Hol-
loway University of London in the research group of
Dr. Elli Leadbeater (http://ellileadbeater.wixsite.com/-
insectcognition), and will be co-supervised by Dr. Steve
Portugal at Royal Holloway and Dr. Samraat Pawar at
our DTP partnership institution, Imperial College. The
project will capitalize upon excellent ERC-funded social
insect research facilities at Royal Holloway, including
indoor and outdoor apiaries, bee rearing rooms and a
dedicated cognition laboratory. The student will join
a large group of researchers interested in social insect
behaviour within our department, which provides an ex-
ceptionally stimuluating and collaborative environment
for the proposed research. Experimental work will in-
volve laboratory-based studies during both the summerFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 47
and the winter months, with the potential for campus-
based eldwork during the summer months according
to the student's interests. Pre-application informal en-
quiries are strongly encouraged. Please direct these to
Elli Leadbeater (Elli.Leadbeater@rhul.ac.uk).
Dr. Elli Leadbeater elli.leadbeater@rhul.ac.uk School
of Biological Sciences Royal Holloway, University of
London Egham TW20 0EX
+44 (0)1784 443547 +44 (0)7901 918423
\Leadbeater, Elli" <Elli.Leadbeater@rhul.ac.uk >
RoyalVetC London
AnimalGenomicsEvolution
FULLY FUNDED PHD STUDENTSHIP IN GE-
NOMICS (ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE, LON-
DON, UK)
Dr. Denis Larkin's group at the Royal Veterinary Col-
lege, University of London currently has a three year
fully funded PhD studentship position in animal ge-
nomics available for EU applicants. Applicants from
other countries please see conditions below.
Mammalian and avian chromosomes drastically dier
in structure and evolutionary stability. While avian
genomes tend to be small and structurally similar across
the majority of avian species, the mammalian genomes
are about three times larger and often dier in chro-
mosome structures even among closely related species.
This PhD programme will investigate the evolutionary
basis of this dierence and its implication on pheno-
typic diversity in the two animal classes. To achieve
this the student will rst develop and apply a novel
technique for a fast improvement of fragmented mam-
malian genomes to complete chromosome assemblies to
make them suitable for comparison with other genomes.
This part of the project will focus on several species
of neglected agricultural and biomedical importance.
The genome assemblies produced by PhD student will
then be combined with other genomes of suitable qual-
ity and compared to genomes from two phylogenetic
Classes: mammals and birds. The student will focus
on distribution of genomic features that are likely be
related to evolutionary stability of avian genomes and
structural dynamics of mammalian genomes. Among
other features these will include genes, transposable el-
ements, conserved non-coding sequences. The student
will test the hypothesis that distribution of these fea-tures contributes to stability and evolutionary dynamics
of animal genomes.
The student will join a vibrant research group with lots
of experience and expertise in comparative animal ge-
nomics and will have a chance to contribute to several
large international genomics projects led by Broad In-
stitute, Sanger Institute and the Ten thousand genomes
(G10K) community of scientists. They will obtain com-
plementary training in bioinformatics, wet lab tech-
niques and scientic presentations to develop skills for
a successful genomics-oriented career in biology.
Desirable requirements:
Experience in bioinformatics (analyzing large datasets,
programming, or data visualization). Experience in
genomics.
This is a three year fully funded studentship. It is open
to UK/EU applicants only. International students are
welcome to apply but must be able to pay the dierence
between UK/EU and international tuition fees.
The studentship will commence in October 2018.
We welcome informal enquiries - these should be directed
to: dlarkin@rvc.ac.uk
To apply please follow this link: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/-
study/postgraduate/phd/studentships/structural-
comparative-studies-of-genomes-from-neglected-
livestock-species-and-mammals-of-biomedical-
importance Deadline for applications: 13/02/2018
\Larkin, Denis" <dlarkin@rvc.ac.uk >
StAndrews EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD in Modelling Evolutionary Trajectories
Applications are invited for a PhD position to work with
Dr. Carolin Kosiol at the Centre of Biological Diversity
of the University of St. Andrews, Scotland.
Research in the Kosiol group focusses on the develop-
ment of computational methods to the investigate the
process of adaptation at dierent time-scales ranging
from a few generations in experimental evolution data
to phylogenetic analysis of multiple species diverged
millions of years ago. In particular, we are interested in
DNA sequence evolution by mutation and shifts of allele
frequencies. The position is funded by the University
for 3.5years. Applications are welcome from students
worldwide.48 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Candidates will be expected to have a strong interest in
applying quantitative methods and modelling to Biology.
They will have a degree in Bioinformatics, Computa-
tional Biology, Mathematics, Physics or a related eld.
Prior experience with either population genetics or com-
parative genomics is a benet. Preferably the candidate
will have experience in programming language such as
C, C++, Java and a scripting language such as Python
or Perl.
Deadline is the 28th January 2018. Details about the
application can be found at
https://synergy.st-andrews.ac.uk/research/phd-study/-
phd-study-projects/ phd-study-cbd-projects/
Please send informal inquires to Carolin Kosiol ck202@st-
andrews.ac.uk
Carolin Kosiol Lecturer in Bioinformatics Centre for Bi-
ological Diversity University of St Andrews St Andrews,
Fife KY16 9TF, UK https://synergy.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
genomemoleculardating/ Carolin Kosiol <ck202@st-
andrews.ac.uk >
StockholmU
CognitionAndBrainEvolution
PhD position in Ethology
at the Department of Zoology, Stockholm University,
Sweden
Deadline for application: January 31, 2018.
A PhD position focused on cognitive evolution is avail-
able in Alexander Kotrschal's research group in the
Department of Zoology at Stockholm University. The
project uses the guppy (Poecilia reticulata) as a model
to comparatively and experimentally investigate the fac-
tors driving cognitive evolution. As such, the project
spans over multiple disciplines including eld collections,
articial selection, assays of behaviour and detailed tests
of cognitive ability, brain imaging and neural density es-
timations, and analyses of the genomic architecture that
orchestrates changes in brain anatomy and cognitive
ability.
The project will use both animals from wild populations
with known dierences in ecology, and from a selection
experiment. These animals will be subjected to relevant
assays of behaviour, brain anatomy and genomics. The
overall aim of the project is thus to increase our under-
standing of the evolutionary relationship between brainanatomy, cognitive ability and the genome.
The work will mostly be lab-oriented but includes at
least one trip to Trinidad. The project will require hard
work but at the same time provide excellent opportuni-
ties for personal initiatives and development towards a
successful academic career. An important task will be
to undertake laborious selection experiments followed
by the collection and analysis of complex data in a way
that controls for the setup of replicated articial selec-
tion designs. The project is undertaken in Trinidad and
in a brand new section of the large tropical freshwater
sh labs in the Department of Zoology with established
assays of brain anatomy, several dierent aspects of
cognitive abilities, swimming parameters, personality,
individual and collective behaviour, etc.
The successful candidate will be part of an international
team consisting of an Ethologist (Alexander Kotrschal,
Stockholm University), Evolutionary Biologist (David
Reznick, University of California & Trinidad), Genome
Biologist (Alison E. Wright, University of Sheeld),
and Information Technology researcher (Kristiaan Pel-
ckmans, Uppsla University) that investigate the evolu-
tion of cognition, brain anatomy and the genome using
state-of-the-art methods.
Qualication requirements
The applicant must have completed a research degree
(e.g. Master's or equivalent) within Ethology, Zoology,
Behavioural Ecology, Evolutionary Biology or a related
subject. We are looking in particular for candidates with
a strong interest in cognitive evolution, with excellent
analytical ability and experience from quantitative anal-
yses of behaviour and other traits of interest. Experience
in genomic analyses and working with aquatic animals
in the lab is not mandatory but especially meriting.
For more information on the position (Ref: SU FV-4158-
17) and to apply follow this link:
http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmpage=job&rmjob=4449&rmlang=UK
Contact
Questions? Please contact Dr Alexander Kotrschal,
alexander.kotrschal@zoology.su.se
For more information about research in the
Kotrschal lab see: https://www.su.se/english/-
proles/akotr-1.218779 Alexander Kotrschal
<alexander.kotrschal@zoologi.su.se >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 49
StockholmU EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD student position at Stockholm University
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD student in
Ecology and Evolution, to work on the ERC-funded
project SuperGenE in the group of Dr. Tanja Slotte
at Stockholm University. The position is for four years,
and the deadline for applications is February 23, 2018.
The complete ad is available on the Stockholm University
webpage: http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-
su/phd?rmpage=3Djob&rmjob=3D4610&rmlang=UK
Project description: In this project, we will investigate
evolutionary processes at one of the rst discovered su-
pergenes, the distyly S-locus. We will conduct these
studies in Linum, where the dynamic nature of distyly
presents an outstanding opportunity to study supergene
evolution. To do so, we will rst generate multiple de
novo genome assemblies of Linum species, and then
use this genomic framework to comprehensively test hy-
potheses on the evolution and breakdown of the distyly
supergene.
The project will involve a large component of evolution-
ary genomic analyses. The student will also carry out
experimental plant work and some molecular genetic
lab work. There may be opportunities for eld trips in
the Mediterranean region.
Infrastructure and environment: The PhD student will
join a group of postdocs and PhD students led by Dr.
Tanja Slotte. For recent examples of our work, see e.g.
Laenen, Tedder et al. 2018 PNAS, Steige, Laenen et al.
2017 PNAS, or Steige et al. 2015 MBE. The PhD student
will be based in the Slotte lab (http://tanjaslottelab.se),
a part of the Dept. of Ecology, Environment and Plant
Science, Stockholm University.
We are located at the Science for Life Laboratory in
Stockholm (http://www.scilifelab.se), which holds con-
siderable expertise in high-throughput sequencing tech-
nology and bioinformatics. The working atmosphere is
international with English as the working language, and
the position oers plenty of opportunities for scientic
exchange with both genomicists, evolutionary biologists
and ecologists at SciLifeLab and Stockholm University.
Qualication requirements: A completed second-cycle
degree (at least 240 credits), including at least 60 credits
in the second cycle. Applicants must have at least 15
credits from second-cycle courses in Ecology/Evolution,and 30 credits from a project in Ecology/Evolution.
Documented training and interest in evolutionary ge-
netics or population genetics is required. Experience of
bioinformatic analyses of genomic data, or prociency in
programming/scripting is a merit. Experience of basic
molecular genetics lab work or experimental plant work
is benecial.
Application: Apply for the positions through
Stockholm University's recruitment system: http://-
www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/phd?rmpage=-
3Djob&rmjob=3D4610&rmlang=UK Contact: For
further information about the position, please contact
Dr. Tanja Slotte directly at tanja.slotte@su.se
\tanja.slotte@su.se" <tanja.slotte@su.se >
StockholmU:SexualSelection
PhD position in Evolutionary Ecology at Stockholm
University
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 1, 2018
A fully funded 4-year PhD position on sexual selection
and sexual conict is available in Rhonda Snook's group,
recently relocated to the Department of Zoology, Stock-
holm University. The successful applicant will work on
the coevolution of female behaviour and male reproduc-
tive physiology, using Drosophila. If you are enthusiastic
about evolutionary biology with a good understanding
of population genetics and/or are skilled in molecular
genetics, you are most welcome to apply. You must hold
a master of science (or equivalent) in Biology/Ecology
or a related eld.
Stockholm University's Department of Zoology is a vi-
brant international and interactive community. Working
language in the lab is English.
For informal queries, contact Rhonda on
rhonda.snook@zoologi.su.se
Details to apply, including more about the project, are
available here:
https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmlang=UK&rmpage=job&rmjob=4678 Rhonda
Snook <rhonda.snook@zoologi.su.se >50 EvolDir February 1, 2018
TexasCU TreePopulationGenomics
*M.S. position*: A fully funded graduate research as-
sistantship position (funding provided by teaching as-
sistance) is available in the lab of Dr. Matt Hale in
the Biology Department at Texas Christian University
starting in August 2018. The project will be based on
the population genetics of the American Chestnut. The
applicant should have previous lab experience including,
but not limited to, DNA and RNA extraction, PCR am-
plication, and DNA sequencing. Ideally, the candidate
will also have experience with computational analysis
and bioinformatics, although training in these areas
will be provided. Interested applicants should send a
CV, a cover letter describing their research interests
and reasons for applying, and the names and contact
details of THREE potential referees to Dr. Matt Hale
(m.c.hale@tcu.edu). Review of applicants will begin
on January 22. For more details on the Biology de-
partment at TCU please see http://biology.tcu.edu/
m.c.hale@tcu.edu
TrentU AmphibianEcoEvoBio
The Integrative Wildlife Conservation (Murray) lab at
Trent University, Peterborough, Ontario, is oering a
project (PhD or MSc) to assess responses of amphibians
to environmental stressors (e.g., pathogens, contami-
nants, food limitation, predation risk), exploring the
heritability and plasticity of traits within and across life
stages. Our recent investigations in this area highlight
the opportunity to test fundamental questions in stress
ecology, evolutionary biology, and conservation biology
via experimental, eld, and molecular techniques. The
student will have the opportunity to develop specic
research questions within the scope of the larger project.
The funding package includes a competitive stipend,
foreign tuition waiver (if the student is not a Canadian
citizen or permanent resident) as well coverage of all
research expenses. Successful PhD candidates will have
an MSc in Biology, Ecology, Conservation Biology, or re-
lated eld, and demonstrated evidence of peer-reviewed
publications. All applicants must have strong quantita-tive, laboratory and/or eld skills, and an interest in
working collaboratively as part of a larger group. The
student will join the Integrative Wildlife Conservation
laboratory at Trent University (www.dennismurray.ca)
and be part of an interdisciplinary team addressing inno-
vative solutions to environmental change (www.create-
enviro.ca).
To apply, please send a cover letter, curriculum vitae,
unocial academic transcript, and contact informa-
tion for 3 references to: Dennis Murray (dennislmur-
ray@gmail.com) Application deadline is Feb 16th, but
review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until a suitable candidate is found. Applicants are
strongly encouraged to apply early.
Angela Eads <angelaeads@trentu.ca >
UBath 3 Extinction
The Longrich Lab at the University of Bath, UK is cur-
rently seeking an outstanding PhD candidate to work
on a project investigating Diversity dynamics of inver-
tebrates over mass extinctions: recovery and radiation
Project Description
Mass extinctions both destroy, and create, biodiversity.
Fossils show that mass extinctions- rapid, global, and
severe events wiping out upwards of 50% of all species
on Earth- have repeatedly occurred, and yet diversity
inevitably recovers, or even increases, in the aftermath.
The K-Pg mass extinction is the most recent of the Big
Five events and therefore has the most complete record.
It can therefore serve as a model system and a starting
point for testing hypotheses, but any attempt to infer
universal patterns (or their absence) will require com-
paring the K-Pg both against other mass extinctions,
such as the E-O, Tr-J, and P-Tr events, and also periods
of background extinction.
The terrestrial record, in particular the demise of the
dinosaurs and the radiation of mammals, has been the
focus of intensive study, but the marine fossil record is
far more complete owing to the relatively continuous
deposition of marine sediments. Marine invertebrates
have hard, durable shells that promote preservation
and are therefore, excellent model organisms to study
macroevolutionary trends over mass extinctions. The
marine invertebrate record therefore provides our best
opportunity to understanding fundamental patterns of
extinction and recovery and to understand the role ofFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 51
mass extinction as a driver of macroevolution. Over
100 years of paleontological literature, and large-scale
databases and resources including the Palaeobiology
Database, Treatise of Invertebrate, and Compendium
of Fossil Marine Genera mean that a wealth of data are
available to test evolutionary hypotheses.
The project aims to test many scenarios of invertebrate
diversity dynamics over mass extinctions. This will be
achieved by taking a quantitative approach to exploring
the fossil record. Questions of interest include:
1. How severe are mass extinction events? Does im-
proved sampling of fossils tend to push estimates of
extinction up, or down over time? To what extent does
poor sampling of survivors exaggerate extinction rates,
and to what extent might poor sampling of victims
obscure it?
2. What separates survivors and victims? How do size,
ecology, geographic range, latitudinal distribution, and
rarity determine risk of extinction?
3. How rapid is the recovery of both taxic and func-
tional diversity? To what extent do survivors rell
previously occupied niches, or not? Does innovation in
the aftermath of extinction, facilitated by extinction of
incumbents potentially lead to a long-term increase in
total diversity? Are ecosystems fundamentally similar
before and after, with dierent actors lling the same
role, or has the script of the play somehow changed?
4. How does mass extinction aect biogeographic pat-
terns? Do mass extinctions tend to decrease or increase
endemicity in their aftermath? How are latitudinal gra-
dients aected by extinctions with a strong element of
climactic selectivity?
This PhD is fully funded for up to 4 years. Applicants
should have a strong research background; publications
and a masters degree are highly desirable. A background
in palaeontology is not necessary but students should
have a strong background in quantitative approaches to
science, including statistics and scripting. To help build
the group, we seek students who are hardworking, curi-
ous, creative, and collaborative. The project is part of
a 5-year research project to understand mass extinction
and recovery and your project is designed to result in
a series of signicant research papers and to train the
student to pursue a research career in palaeontology. If
applicants have any queries please contact Nick Longrich
(nrl22@bath.ac.uk). We will also assist students seeking
their own funding.
The student will be trained in quantitative ecological
and palaeontological methods, also with training in
management and collection of invertebrate fossil and
environmental data. We will develop your oral and writ-ten work and help you turn your science into academic
publications. You will also become part of the Univer-
sity of Baths Palaeontology Group which is young but
rapidly growing. We currently have three faculty mem-
bers, Dr. Nicholas Longrich, Professor Matt Wills and
Dr. Daniel Field, the palaeontology group is in turn a
central part of Baths new Milner Centre for Evolution, a
unique research centre focused on fundamental research
on major problems in evolutionary biology.
Formal applications should be made via the University
of Baths online application form for a PhD in Biology:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCambridge
BacterialPathogenEvolution
We are advertising a funded 4-year PhD studentship at
the University of Cambridge (Department of Veterinary
Medicine) for a project on the evolutionary dynamics
of bacterial pathogens, combining mathematical models
and bioinformatics.
The funding is available to UK citizens or residents
as part of the Cambridge-BBSRC Doctoral Training
Programme (DTP): https://bbsrcdtp.lifesci.cam.ac.uk/
The programme includes two initial rotation projects
as well as formal training in scientic computing and a
short internship in a non-academic setting.
Application deadline: 26 January 2018
Title of project: Modelling the evolution of bacterial
pathogens in the real world.
Supervisors: Dr Olivier Restif, or226@cam.ac.uk,
Dept Veterinary Medicine http://-
www.research.vet.cam.ac.uk/research-sta-directory/-
principal-investigators/disease-dynamics/Olivier-
Restif Dr Lucy Weinert, Dept of Veteri-
nary Medicine, lw461@cam.ac.uk, https://-
www.research.vet.cam.ac.uk/research-sta-directory/-
principal-investigators/disease-dynamics/lucy-weinert
Dr John Welch, Dept of Genetics, jjw23@cam.ac.uk,
https://www.gen.cam.ac.uk/directory/john-welch
Aims. The student will develop mechanistic models for
the evolution of AMR in bacterial pathogens, with a52 EvolDir February 1, 2018
specic focus on species relevant to the pig farming
industry (including Streptococcus suis, Salmonella
enterica and Escherichia coli). The models will be
validated using data from farm surveys and experiments
recently or currently conducted by the Department.
Both supervisors are investigators on existing grants
funded by the BBSRC and the MRC that cover sample
collection, AMR testing and genome sequencing.
Objectives.
(i) Develop a dynamic framework for the circulation of
bacterial species and mobile AMR genes within farms
in the absence of disease and treatment.
(ii) Estimate key parameters by tting models to ge-
nomic data from asymptomatic carriage.
(iii) Model selection pressures created by interspecic
competition and antibiotic treatment, within and be-
tween hosts, using data from clinical cases in pig farms
and experimental infections (collected as part of an
MRC grant).
(iv) Simulate alternative drug regimens and treatment
strategies (guided by veterinary expertise) that may
reduce or counter selection for AMR.
Learning opportunities. By bringing together mathemat-
ical modelling, bioinformatics and epidemiological data,
this project will ll a gap in the eld of bacterial evo-
lutionary epidemiology (lagging years behind research
on viral pathogens). With joint expertise from Restif
and Weinert (Vet Medicine) and Welch (Genetics), the
student will learn a variety of programming, statistical
and genomic skills at the cutting edge of science. The
student will benet from interactions with other mod-
elling experts within the Disease Dynamics Unit, as well
as microbiologists, veterinarians and geneticists.
For further information on the project and how
to apply, contact Olivier Restif or226@cam.ac.uk
or consult https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=90665 Dr. Olivier Restif
Alborada Lecturer in Epidemiology Fellow of Robinson
College
University of Cambridge Department of Veterinary
Medicine Disease Dynamics Unit Madingley Road Cam-
bridge CB3 0ES Great-Britain
Tel: +44 (0)1223 764963 Fax: +44 (0)1223 764667
Homepage <http://www.research.vet.cam.ac.uk/-
research-sta-directory/principal-investigators/-
disease-dynamics/Olivier-Restif > http:/-
/www.alboradatrust.com/ http://-
www.robinson.cam.ac.uk/ Olivier Restif
<or226@cam.ac.uk >UExeter UCardi TroutAdaptation
We invite candidates to apply for a PhD position based
at the University of Exeter, UK and the University of
Cardi, UK
Title: Metal tolerance and local adaptation in brown
trout in the mining areas of Cornwall and Wales
Supervised by Dr Jamie Stevens (Exeter -
j.r.stevens@exeter.ac.uk) and Professor Mike Bruford
(Cardi - brufordmw@cardi.ac.uk)
This project will uncover the basis of local adaptation
and resilience to environmental change in an economi-
cally important sh. It will use cutting-edge genomic,
bioinformatics and geospatial tools to ask how genomic
changes have enabled brown trout populations to adapt
to dierent and changing environmental conditions, in-
cluding pollution in three dierent regions: southwest
England, mid-Wales and southeast Ireland. Specically,
you will use genome sequencing to examine the roles of
colonisation, natural river conditions and metal pollu-
tion on patterns of diversity in the brown trout genome.
Your PhD will be based at Exeter and Cardi Univer-
sities and will involve collaboration and training with
local partners,
This is a novel project because whole genome
(re)sequencing has not yet been carried out in brown
trout or applied to its conservation and adaptation. This
PhD is now possible because a brown trout reference
genome will be produced as part of the Sanger Institute's
25 Genomes Project (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/news/-
view/25-species-revealed-25-genomes-project) in 2018.
Riverscape genomics is a very recent concept combining
genome-scale and environmental data in a geospatial
(GIS) context, where connectivity and gene ow can be
accurately assessed using genetic, environmental and
river management/engineering data. Evidence for lo-
cal adaptation in brown trout is widespread, as shown
by analysis of wild populations in a variety of dier-
ent habitats, and the often poor survival of stocked or
translocated sh and sh farm escapees. Adaptation to
metals (i.e. metal tolerance), river water temperature
during the egg phase, photoperiodicity and seasonal
timing of smoltication have all been reported. Brown
trout populations can survive (and thrive) in rivers in
very close proximity to disused-mine sites.
To apply, please follow this link: http://-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 53
www.gw4fresh.co.uk/projects/ Click on the project
title to download full details about the project and
contact details of the supervisory team
Applications open on 15th January and close on 15th
February.
Josie Paris Evolution, Behaviour and Environment
Group School of Life Sciences University of Sussex
Brighton, UK BN1 9RH
Josephine Paris <J.Paris@sussex.ac.uk >
UGreifswald
EcolDriversRangeExpansion
PhD position at the University of Greifswald, Zoological
Institute and Museum Application deadline: 19.01.2018
Thesis topic: Ecological drivers and genetic conse-
quences of range expansion in lesser horseshoe bats
The Zoological Institute and Museum at the University
of Greifswald invites applications for a PhD position
within the Research Training Group RESPONSE:
https://biologie.uni-greifswald.de/forschung/dfg-
graduiertenkollegs/research-training-group-2010/job-
oers/.
Starting date: April 1st 2018. Duration: 3 years. Salary:
German salary scale (TV-L 13, 65%).
*Background*: The European vertebrate fauna is highly
dynamic due to both historical climatic variation and
anthropogenic pressures. The ability of a species to
track climatic changes by range shift is expected to be a
major determinant of extinction risk (Science 313: 789).
For some species, such as the Palearctic bat species
*Rhinolophus hipposideros*, regressions and advances
are quite well documented and represent unique op-
portunities to study how and why range limits move.
Such dynamic range boundaries can be observed at the
Northern edge of the current distribution of *R. hip-
posideros*, regions in which models of climate change
predict a northward progression of this species during
the next decades (Global Change Biol. 16: 561). Here
we will investigate colonisation and colony formation
via dispersal in the focal species, study trade-os / as-
sociations between dispersal and life history traits, and
elucidate factors inuencing dispersal, paying special
attention to social and environmental factors.
*Goals of the projects*: Interconnected wild colonies at
the Northern edge of the species' range will be surveyedin Germany and combined with data already obtained
from France (via associated partner E. Petit). Droppings
will be collected from all colonies and genotyped using
available microsatellite loci (protocol already optimised),
allowing for individual identication and pedigree re-
construction. Non-invasive genotyping over consecutive
years in the colony networks will be used to estimate de-
mographic parameters (i.e. population size, population
growth, vital [births, deaths] and dispersal [emigrations,
immigrations] rates). Temperature and humidity will be
monitored throughout the year within and outside the
colonies, and habitat characteristics around the colonies
will be mapped (Corine Land Cover). The project will
focus on associations between realised dispersal and re-
productive rate as well as on the inuence of population
density, social and environmental factors on dispersal
and colony formation. The obtained results will be
used to parametrize a hybrid correlative/mechanistic
model to predict range expansion in the species. This
study will be carried out in collaboration with local
conservation agencies and Dr. E. Petit, INRA (Rennes,
France).
Required skills: The candidate should have (or at
least be willing to develop) skills in population dynam-
ics and population genetics, landscape ecology, man-
agement/treatment of geo-referenced databases (GIS),
Good writing skills (in English; this is very important),
Good knowledge of German (speaking; required for the
eldwork), Knowledge of statistics, Good knowledge
of programming in R (important), Experience with
eldwork (preferentially with bats) will be an advantage
but is not mandatory, Driving license and willingness
to use own car for eld-work, Good organizational skills
and ability to work in a team (incl. with NGOs),
To apply, please visit our web-
site: https://www.uni-greifswald.de/
universitaet/information/stellenausschreibungen/oeentliche-
stellenausschreibungen/wissenschaftliches-personal/
graduiertenkolleg-rtg-2010-17wi23/
Applications (application form, CV, degree certi-
cates, motivation letter, two recommendation letters)
can be sent to: kerstin.wulf1@uni-greifswald.de,
s.puechmaille@gmail.com, gerald.kerth@uni-
greifswald.de Forms and more information can be found
here: https://biologie.uni- greifswald.de/forschung/dfg-
graduiertenkollegs/research- training-group-2010/job-
oers/
s.puechmaille@gmail.com54 EvolDir February 1, 2018
UGreifswald
ResponsesChangingEnvironments
*PhD position in **responses to changing environments
**in bats*
Application deadline: 19.01.2018.
The Zoological Institute and Museum at the University
of Greifswald invites applications for a PhD position
within the Research Training Group RESPONSE:
*https://biologie.uni-greifswald.de/forschung/dfg-
graduiertenkollegs/research-training-group-2010/job-
oers/* .
Starting date: April 1st 2018.
Duration: 3 years. Salary: German salary scale (TV-L
13, 65%).
*Project A3: Life history responses of bats to climate
change *
*Supervisors: *Prof. Dr. Gerald Kerth & Dr. Caroline
Sch oner, Applied Zoology and Conservation
*Thesis topic: *Relative importance of genetic and plas-
tic responses to adverse weather conditions in long-lived
bats.
*Background: *Recent studies have reported decreasing
body size as a response to climate change in various
taxa (*Nat. Clim. Change 1: 401*). As body size and
fecundity are often positively correlated, shrinking body
size may lead to higher extinction risk. Interestingly, in
a few species increasing body size in response to climate
change has been observed, which may occur if warm
weather is required for growth. However, the tness
implications of such poorly documented trends are un-
clear. Bats are particularly interesting for studying the
potential impact of climate change on individual tness
and ultimately on population persistence, as bats are
long-lived, of high conservation concern and as they
show behaviours that allow them to cope with weather
variation, such as social thermoregulation, torpor, and
roost switching.
*Goals of the projects: *This project aims at assessing
to which tness-relevant responses to adverse weather
conditions are caused by genetic factors or phenotypic
plasticity, and whether the relative impact of genetic
versus plastic responses depends on local conditions or
the respective species. Existing eld and genetic data ofup to 25 years will be combined with new (experimen-
tal) data collected during the project period to quantify
the inuence of weather conditions on the behaviour,
morphology, reproductive success and/or survival of
four bat species (*M. bechsteinii*, *M. daubentonii, M.
nattereri*, *Plecotus auritus*). Multigenerational fam-
ily pedigrees will allow us to measure the heritability
of body size and other potential tness relevant traits
such as departure timing from the hibernaculum or age
at rst reproduction, using parent-ospring regression
and animal models. We will test whether behavioural,
demographic and morphological responses to varying
weather conditions dier between syntopic bat species.
We will also analyse to which extent local environmen-
tal conditions and social factors inuence the tness
consequences of the observed responses to weather con-
ditions. The relative importance of larger body size in
response to increasing temperature, roosting behaviour
and social factors (e.g. position in the social network)
on tness (survival, reproductive success) will be inves-
tigated together with local partners within RESPONSE
and associated partners from the Max-Planck-Institute
for Demographic Research in Rostock.
*Required skills: *
- - Strong background in behavioral and evolutionary
ecology - - Knowledge of statistics, data handling and
graphics in R - - Expertise with databases such as
mySQL - - Basic knowledge in modelling and computer
simulations - - Profound knowledge of English (speaking
and writing); basic knowledge in German - - Expertise
in eld methods (preferentially with bats) and to a lesser
degree in population genetic techniques - - Organiza-
tional skills and ability to work in a team - - Driving
license and willingness to use own car for eld-work
To apply, please visit our website:
*https://www.uni-greifswald.de/universitaet/-
information/stellenausschreibungen/oeentliche-
stellenausschreibungen/wissenschaftliches-personal/-
graduiertenkolleg-rtg-2010-17wi23/ * Applications
(application form, CV, degree certicates, motivation
letter, two recommendation letters) can be sent to:
*kerstin.wulf1@uni-greifswald.de*, *gerald.kerth@uni-
greifswald.de Forms and more information can be found
here: *https://biologie.uni-greifswald.de/forschung/dfg-
graduiertenkollegs/research-training-group-2010/job-
oers/* s.puechmaille@gmail.comFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 55
UInnsbruck EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD position: Evolutionary genomics of a Daphnia
waterea species complex
We are looking for a PhD candidate interested in study-
ing the genomic consequences of human-facilitated gene
ow in a Daphnia species complex. The position is part
of the INTERREG SEEWANDEL research initiative,
which includes seven institutions in Switzerland, Ger-
many, and Austria and seeks to investigate the eects
of environmental change on biodiversity and resilience
in Lake Constance and other large peri-Alpine lakes.
The position is funded for 48 months and to be lled
at the earliest possible date. The successful candidate
will be based at the Molecular Ecology Group at the
Institute of Ecology of the University of Innsbruck which
is highly interdisciplinary and internationally very well
connected: https://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/-
molecular ecology.html.en Lake-eutrophication during
the last century has facilitated secondary contact be-
tween ecologically important Daphnia species in peri-
Alpine lakes. The extent of secondary contact depends
on the degree of trophic change. The successful candi-
date will use recent population samples and Daphnia
resting eggs from sediment cores to quantify and char-
acterize gene ow between species and study the con-
sequences of the secondary contact on species integrity
and functional traits. The project comprises sedimento-
logical work (collecting sediment cores), molecular lab
work (DNA extractions and library preparation), and
extensive bioinformatics analyses as well as some exper-
imental work with Daphnia. The study will focus on
three large peri-Alpine lakes with dierent trophic his-
tories - Lake Constance, Lake Walen, and Lake Zurich -
and will include close collaborations with the members of
the SEEWANDEL initiative. Part of the experimental
work will be conducted at Eawag (Switzerland).
Candidates should be highly motivated and have a
strong interest in evolutionary biology, ecology, and
population genetics. The planned work will require a
high degree of independence and the ability to work in a
team. Experience in (i) molecular lab and eld work, (ii)
analysis of whole-genome re-sequencing data, (iii) and
basic programming skills (e.g. R, Python, bash) will be
an advantage. The project includes several collaborators
and international groups in Switzerland, Germany, and
the UK, and therefore good English skills are essential.***Salary*** The annual gross salary is EURO 28,994
for a 48-months employment. The contract in-
cludes health insurance and 5 weeks of holidays per
year. Furthermore, the university has numerous at-
tractive oers: https://www.uibk.ac.at/universitaet/-
zusatzleistungen/index.html.en ***How to apply***
Please send a single pdf le including a letter of mo-
tivation, curriculum vitae, a complete list of pub-
lications and contact details of two references to
Markus.Moest@uibk.ac.at. Applications must be writ-
ten in English and submitted until 16 February 2018.
The University of Innsbruck is striving to increase the
percentage of female employees and therefore invites
qualied women to apply. In the case of equivalent
qualications, women will be given preference. An of-
fer of employment is contingent on a satisfactory pre-
employment background check.
***The research institution and its environment*** De-
tailed information about the Molecular Ecology group
can be found here: http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/-
forschung/molecular ecology.html.en. The University
of Innsbruck has a long-standing and internationally
renowned tradition in life sciences and oers a vibrant
research atmosphere. It has 27,000 students and 4,000
sta members. Innsbruck is situated in the Alps, very
close to Switzerland, Germany, and Italy. Excellent
train connections and airports in Innsbruck and close
by in Munich and Salzburg ensure good connections
and easy travelling. The scenery and possibilities for
outdoor recreation are fantastic.
***Any questions?*** For more information on the posi-
tion, the project, the group, or the University, please do
not hesitate to contact Markus M ost or Birgit Schlick-
Steiner directly.
M~AST Markus, PhD University of Innsbruck Institute
of Ecology Research Group: Molecular Ecology Tech-
nikerstrasse 25 (Room 517) A-6020 Innsbruck Tel: +43
(0)512 507-51771 Fax: +43 (0)512 507-51799 E-mail:
markus.moest@uibk.ac.at
SCHLICK-STEINER Birgit Dr., Univ.-Prof. University
of Innsbruck Institute of Ecology Deputy Head of the
Institute Head of the Research Group: Molecular Ecol-
ogy Technikerstrasse 25 (Room 516) A-6020 Innsbruck
T +43 (0)512 507-51750 F +43 (0)512 507-51799 E-mail:
Birgit.Schlick-Steiner@uibk.ac.at
\Markus.Moest@uibk.ac.at"
<Markus.Moest@uibk.ac.at >56 EvolDir February 1, 2018
ULouisiana EvolutionaryBiol
Doctoral Fellowships available for entering Ph.D. stu-
dents in Environmental and Evolutionary Biology at
the University of Louisiana
We will be awarding University of Louisiana and Board
of Regents Fellowships to qualied applicants entering
the doctoral program in Fall 2018. UL Fellowships are
awarded for 3-4 year terms and no teaching is required
in the rst or last years, while BoR Fellows are funded
for 4 years and have no formal teaching duties; fellows
may qualify for Teaching Assistantships following the
completion of the fellowship term. Stipends are up to
$30,000 per year (plus a tuition waiver). Eligibility
requirements include US citizenship (or permanent resi-
dency) or a prior degree from a US institution. Potential
applicants are strongly encouraged to directly contact
prospective advisors. Faculty contact information and
research interests can be found at our departmental web
site (http://biology.louisiana.edu/). More information
about the graduate program can be found at http:/-
/biology.louisiana.edu/programs/graduate . Scott C.
France france@louisiana.edu Graduate Admissions Co-
ordinator Department of Biology University of Louisiana
at Lafayette
{
Scott C. France france@louisiana.edu Professor & Grad-
uate Admissions Coordinator Mr. Charles R. God-
chaux/BORSF Professorship in Coastal Biodiversity
Research Development
Department of Biology University of Louisiana at
Lafayette P.O. Box 43602 Lafayette, LA 70504
For more information about the graduate program please
visit: http://biology.louisiana.edu/programs/graduate
Oce: (337) 482-6320 Lab: (337) 482-6494 FAX: (337)
482-5834 For information on my research please visit:
http://www.ucs.louisiana.edu/ ~scf4101/ \To learn and
from time to time to apply what one has learned - isn't
that a pleasure?" - Confucius, 500 B.C.
Scott C France <france@louisiana.edu >UMainz 2 InsectEvolution
ADVERTISEMENT #1:
PhD position on the 'Impact of the microbiome on
Drosophila cold tolerance'
Microbial symbionts represent major sources of evolu-
tionary innovation by providing novel ecological traits to
their hosts. While the impact of bacterial mutualists on
the interaction of insects with their biotic environment
(antagonists, diet, etc.) has received increasing atten-
tion over the past decades, the importance of microbial
symbionts for the adaptation to abiotic conditions re-
mains poorly understood. Preliminary data indicate
that microbes associated with Drosophila can improve
the y's cold tolerance in a diet-dependent manner. We
oer a 3-year PhD position (65% TV-L EG13) in the
group of Dr. Martin Kaltenpoth at the JGU Mainz
to investigate (i) which microbial taxa that are natu-
rally associated with fruit ies enhance cold tolerance,
(ii) how they do so on the mechanistic level, and (iii)
whether these eects are ecologically relevant.
The project will be embedded into the project con-
sortium on \Seasonal temperature acclimation in
Drosophila" (headed by Suzanne Eaton at the Technical
University in Dresden), which is funded by the German
Science Foundation (DFG). The interdisciplinary consor-
tium includes experts in molecular biology, biochemistry,
biophysics, mass spectrometry, epigenetics, evolutionary
biology, and ecology, who will closely collaborate to gain
a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms that
allow Drosophila to acclimate and adapt to dierent cli-
matic conditions. The PhD candidate will benet from
the integration into the consortium by regular meetings,
workshops, retreats, and the exchange of methodological
expertise.
We are looking for a highly motivated student with an
MSc degree in evolutionary biology, ecology, or molecu-
lar biology (or equivalent), excellent English speaking
and writing skills and a deep interest in the evolutionary
ecology of insect-microbe interactions. Previous experi-
ence with insect rearing, microbiology, molecular biology,
and/or bioinformatics techniques are of advantage.
We oer a dynamic, international working group with
broad expertise and state-of-the-art equipment in en-
tomology, microbiology, molecular biology, and chem-
ical analytics at the new Biocenter of the JohannesFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 57
Gutenberg-University in Mainz. The research group
is integrated into the recently established Institute for
Organismic and Molecular Evolution (iOME) at the
Faculty of Biology. Mainz is a charming, medium-sized,
historic city situated at the river Rhine, in close vicinity
to the Frankfurt metropolitan area.
Applications should include a cover letter (1-2 pages)
describing the motivation, previous research activities
and current research interests of the applicant; the CV
of the applicant (with BSc/MSc grades, publications if
applicable); and two reference letters. Please send all
documents as a single PDF le (except for the references,
which should be sent directly by the referees) before
February 20th, 2018, to Prof. Dr. Martin Kaltenpoth
(mkaltenpoth@uni-mainz.de). The PhD position is avail-
able at the earliest convenience.
The Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz is inter-
ested in increasing the number of women in science. Ap-
plications from women are therefore strongly encouraged.
Qualied candidates with disabilities will be preferred.
| Prof. Dr. Martin Kaltenpoth Department for Evo-
lutionary Ecology Institute of Organismic and Molec-
ular Evolution Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz
Johann-Joachim-Becher-Weg 13 55128 Mainz, Germany
Email: mkaltenpoth@uni-mainz.de
ADVERTISEMENT #2:
PhD position on 'Molecular host-symbiont interactions
in grain pest beetles'
Microbial symbionts represent major sources of evolu-
tionary innovation by providing novel ecological traits
to their hosts. Several Silvanid and Bostrichid grain
pest beetles engage in symbiosis with single or multi-
ple Bacteroidetes bacteria. These bacteria were shown
to enhance cuticle synthesis and thereby contribute to
desiccation resistance in the saw-toothed grain beetle
Oryzaephilus surinamensis. The group around Dr. To-
bias Engl at the Evolutionary Ecology department of the
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz oers a 3-year
PhD position (65% TV-L EG13) to elucidate symbiont
functions and host-symbiont interactions across several
Silvanid and Bostrichid beetles by symbiont genome
sequencing, experimental manipulation of the symbio-
sis, transcriptome sequencing, and RNA interference
experiments.
We are looking for a highly motivated student with an
MSc degree in evolutionary biology, ecology, molecular
biology or bioinformatics (or equivalent), excellent En-
glish speaking and writing skills and a deep interest in
the evolutionary ecology of insect-microbe interactions.
Previous experience with insect rearing, microbiology,
molecular biology, and/or bioinformatics techniques areof advantage.
We oer a dynamic, international working group with
broad expertise
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMaryland BC 2 EvolutionAging
PhD Student Openings - Genetics of aging - Leips Lab
UMBC
Two PhD students are sought for work on the genetic
basis of aging. Topics are exible but students interested
in age related declines in immunocompetence and/or
physical performance traits are encouraged to apply.
Please contact Je Leips (leips@umbc.edu) and send
your CV and short paragraph on research interests.
If you'd like to learn more about our department please
visit our website
https://biology.umbc.edu/ . Je Leips Professor De-
partment of Biological Sciences 1000 Hilltop Circle
University of Maryland Baltimore County Baltimore,
MD 21250 Oce Phone: 410-455-2238 Lab Phone:
410-455-3479 Lab Website: http://biology.umbc.edu/-
directory/faculty/leips/leips- lab/ UBM@UMBC Web-
site: http://www.umbc.edu/ubm/index.html Je Leips
<leips@umbc.edu >
UMuensterGermany
NicheConstructionEvolCapacitance
2 PhD positions: Niche construction and evolutionary
capacitance in the red our beetle
We invite applications for two PhD positions to study
niche construction or evolutionary capacitance in the
red our beetle Tribolium castaneum. The positions are
available for three years at the Institute for Evolution
and Biodiversity at the University of M ~A^A1
4nster in58 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Germany. They are part of the recently funded collabo-
rative research centre (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel
Synthesis of Individualisation across Behaviour, Ecol-
ogy and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Conformance,
Niche Construction (NC3), as granted by the German
Research Foundation (DFG).
The start date is from February 1st 2018 or soon there-
after.
Within the rst project, the interested candidate will
experimentally study how our beetles modify the mi-
crobial community of their environment, the our. This
form of niche construction is mediated by chemical se-
cretions of the beetles. The project will test for the role
of prior immunological experience of individuals, and
analyse its long-term evolutionary consequences, using
experimental evolution. The chemical ecology as well
as the genetic underpinnings of the evolved phenotypes
will be studied.
Within the second project, the interested candidate will
experimentally study how cryptic genetic variation is
stored and released in the red our beetle, and how this
process of evolutionary capacitance may speed up evolu-
tionary adaptation. The project will in particular focus
on the role of heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) and the
eect of immunological experience of group members
on this process. Long-term evolutionary consequences
will be studied with experimental evolution, and the
genomic consequences will be analysed.
WWU is a large vibrant university hosting a number
of excellent scientic institutions ( http://www.uni-
muenster.de/en/). The Institute for Evolution and
Biodiversity (http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
index.shtml) provides a stimulating research environ-
ment with a number of scientic groups research-
ing on diverse topics centred on dierent aspects of
the study of Evolution and the student can bene-
t from the structured PhD program oered by the
M~A^A1
4nster Graduate School of Evolution ( http://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/mgse/). As a part of
the collaborative research centre SFB/TRR 212 (http:/-
/www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212/index.html ), the
project (http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212/-
C01.html ) will involve intensive collaboration with con-
sortium partners at the Universities of M ~A^A1
4nster and
Bielefeld. The town of M ~A^A1
4nster itself is characterised
by its many students and presents a dynamic environ-
ment with many cultural and social events throughout
the year ( http://www.muenster.de/en/).
Qualications: We search highly motivated students of
any nationality and those with the equivalent of a Mas-
ter's degree in evolution, behaviour, ecology or related
elds are invited to apply. A background in any of thefollowing subjects will be useful: previous experience
with practical insect work, good molecular skills and
an additional preference of previous experience with
chemical ecology, immunology or bioinformatics and
a good understanding of statistics. Applicants should
have excellent communication skills and be able to work
both independently and as part of a multidisciplinary
team. The working language of the institute and the lab
is English and good prociency in spoken and written
English is a requirement.
Please send your application in one single PDF le
to Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz ( joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de ). Included should be 1) a cover letter
with a statement of your research interests and motiva-
tion (max. 1 page), 2) your CV including details of your
research experience (with the abstract of your masters
thesis) and 3) contact details of at least two referees.
Applications should be written in English and the dead-
line is the 14th of January 2018.
The salary will be for 36 months (TV-L E13/65%) with
regular weekly working hours of 39 hours and 50 min-
utes. Applications of women are especially invited. In
the case of similar qualication, competence and specic
achievements, women will be considered on preferential
terms within the framework of the legal possibilities.
Preference will be given to disabled applicants in case
of equivalent qualication.
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Biodi-
versity Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueerstr.
1, 48149 Muenster, Germany
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UNewOrleans
ComputationalModeling
Graduate positions (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) are available
in the Atallah Lab (https://sites.google.com/view/-
atallahlab) in the Biological Sciences Department at
the University of New Orleans (UNO). We are currently
looking for students interested in simulating the role of
transposable elements in evolution and human disease.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 59
In recent years, evidence has accumulated that trans-
posable elements (TEs) play important roles in both
evolutionary processes (such as changes in gene regu-
lation) and the progression of diseases such as cancer.
We are developing computer simulations of the activity
of TEs in both the soma and the germline. Students
interested in this project should be familiar with Shell
scripting and computer programming. Interested stu-
dents should send an email to jatallah@uno.edu. Please
include a brief description of your background (or a CV
or resume), and mention why you're excited about this
project.
The University of New Orleans is a public research uni-
versity and part of the University of Louisiana system.
New Orleans is a diverse and historic city with a vibrant
culture.
Joel Atallah, Ph.D. Assistant professor 202 Biology
Building Department of Biological Sciences University
of New Orleans New Orleans, LA 70148 (504) 280-
7057 https://sites.google.com/view/atallahlab \jatal-
lah@uno.edu" <jatallah@uno.edu >
UNewOrleans DrosophilaGenomics
Graduate positions (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) are available
in the Atallah Lab (https://sites.google.com/view/-
atallahlab) in the Biological Sciences Department at
the University of New Orleans (UNO). We are currently
looking for students interested in working on the evolu-
tion of the early embryonic transcriptome in Drosophila
species. Embryonic transcriptomes from diverse species
can be readily compared due to similarities in embryonic
stages. We are analyzing transcriptomes from dierent
stages of early embryogenesis in ies. Students inter-
ested in this project should be prepared for molecular
lab work, bioinformatic analysis and eld collection of
samples.
Interested students should send an email to jatal-
lah@uno.edu. Please include a brief description of your
background (or a CV or resume), and mention why
you're excited about this project.
The University of New Orleans is a public research uni-
versity and part of the University of Louisiana system.
New Orleans is a diverse and historic city with a vibrant
culture.
Joel Atallah, Ph.D. Assistant professor 202 Biology
Building Department of Biological Sciences Universityof New Orleans New Orleans, LA 70148 (504) 280-
7057 https://sites.google.com/view/atallahlab \jatal-
lah@uno.edu" <jatallah@uno.edu >
UNorthDakota AncientGenomes
U. North Dakota. Computational analysis of ancient
and environmental genomes. The Laboratory of Human
and Forensic Genetics at the University of North Dakota
(www.und.edu) is inviting applications from potential
graduate students who purs ue the MS or PhD degree.
A student will be engaged to a project on computa-
tional analysis of ancient and environmental genomes
from the American Midwest, Eurasia, and Africa. It
is a collaborative eort with institutions in the U.S.
and the world. This cross-disciplinary project repre-
sents an opportunity to get intensive hands-on train-
ing in the methods of ancient DNA analyses including
next-generation sequencing, computational biology and
statistical modelling.
Candidates should demonstrate motivation for hard
laboratory work and strong interest in genomics and
computational biology. Preference will be given to can-
didates with a proven record of computational analysis
and bioinformatics skills. Additional experience in se-
quencing technologies is a plus.
If you are interested you need to apply to the University
of North Dakota Biology Graduate Program using the
regular procedure that can be found in the UND Grad-
uate School website: http://graduateschool.und.edu/-
future-students/apply.cfm The additional information
can be also found in the Biology Department website:
http://arts-sciences.und.edu/biology/graduate/-
programs.cfm The position starts in August 2018. To
receive full consideration, applications and required
materials should be received by the Biology Graduate
Program by Feb ruary 15, 2018.
Potential graduate students are strongly encouraged
to make contact with Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov. Contact
information:
Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Professor Lab. of Hu-
man and Forensic Genetics Department of Biology Foren-
sic Science Program University of North Dakota Email:
igor.ovtchinnikov@email.und.edu
\Ovtchinnikov, Igor" <igor.ovtchinnikov@email.und.edu >60 EvolDir February 1, 2018
UppsalaU GenomicsPlasticity
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD stu-
dent to join Dr. Arild Husby ^As lab group at Up-
psala University (http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-
biology/husby-lab/) to study genetic basis of plas-
ticity in wing development in waterstriders in
collaboration with Prof. Abderahman Khila at
IGFL, Lyon (http://ig.ens-lyon.fr/equipes/a.-khila-
developmental-genomics-and-evolution).
Phenotypic plasticity is one of the main mechanisms by
which plants and animals adapt to changing environmen-
tal conditions and thus of major evolutionary interest.
This project will combine eldwork, lab experiments
and genomic work (crosses, RNA seq, RNAi) to study
how temperature and photoperiod inuence plasticity
in wing development in dierent species of waterstriders.
Waterstriders are a well known group of insects display-
ing wing polymorphism both between species as well
as within species in response to the environment (e.g.
J arvinen & Veps al ainen1976. Hereditas, 84, 61-68) and
are also model species in evolutionary biological studies
(Rowe et al. 1994. TREE, 9, 289-293). Several species of
waterstriders will be collected in early summer 2018 and
nymphs raised in the lab under dierent photoperiod
and temperature regimes followed by RNA seq analyses
to identify dierentially expressed genes between apter-
ous (wingless) and macropterous/brachypterous morphs.
Functional work will be done using established RNAi
protocols developed for waterstriders (Khila et al. 2012
Science 336, 585-589).
The overall goal is to identify the genetic variants re-
sponsible for wing development and their interaction
with temperature and photoperiod but there are several
lines to examine depending on the candidate interests
and qualications.
We are looking for candidates with a strong interest in
evolutionary developmental biology and evolutionary
genetics, with excellent analytical ability and experi-
ence in the analyses of life history traits. Experience in
working with aquatic animals in the lab is meriting.
The venue for the position, the Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Centre, is situated in central Uppsala (http://-
www.ieg.uu.se). The working atmosphere is highly inter-
national with a regular recruitment of PhD students and
post-docs from abroad. The Centre constitutes an excit-
ing arena for multidisciplinary research in evolutionarybiology in a broad sense, housing some 300 scientists and
graduate students, and with research programs in, for
example, ecology, genetics, genomics and developmental
biology. Our graduate school oers a creative and stimu-
lating environment and oers a rich variety of seminars,
journal clubs, courses and possibilities to interact with
other scholars and students. Local platforms for next-
generation sequencing (http://www.scilifelab.uu.se) and
high-performance computational analyses are very use-
ful. Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scan-
dinavia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant college
town with beautiful surroundings conveniently situated
40 minutes by train from Stockholm. The graduate
program covers four years of full-time, fully paid study.
The position can be combined with teaching (maximum
20%), which prolongs the employment with the corre-
sponding time.
Informal inquiries are welcomed and can be directed to
Arild Husby (arild.husby[AT]ebc.uu.se).
Applications will only be accepted when sub-
mitted through the Uppsala University web por-
tal no later than 28th February using this web
address: https://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/-
details/?positionId=190120 Arild Husby Department
of Evolutionary Biology Norbyv agen 18D, Uppsala Uni-
versity, SE-75236 Uppsala, Sweden
labpage: http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-biology/-
research/husby-lab Oce phone: 018-471 4120 E-mail:
arild.husby@ebc.uu.se Room:1041, 1st oor EBC
Arild Husby <arild.husby@ebc.uu.se >
UQueensland FishVisionEvolution
The Marshall Lab at the Queensland Brain Institute,
The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia, is
currently seeking an outstanding PhD candidate to work
on a project investigating the colour vision of coral reef
sh. The aim of this PhD is to enhance our under-
standing of visual neuroscience and the genetic control
of vision. Specically, the project will determine the
genetic and environmental control of damselsh visual
sensitivities, using the anemonesh, Amphiprion per-
cula, as a model system. Novel techniques will be used
to address these aims such as new CRISPR/Cas9 gene-
editing technique and Next Generation Sequencing.
The student will be supervised by Professor Justin Mar-
shall, Dr Fabio Cortesi and Dr Karen Cheney, andFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 61
will also collaborate with international researchers in
the USA and the UK. This PhD project will provide
excellent scope for integrative research, unique skill ac-
quisition, as well as for personal development.
To know more about the Marshall Lab Group, please
go to: https://qbi.uq.edu.au/marshallgroup . THE
PERSON Expressions of Interest are invited from out-
standing and enthusiastic, international and Australian,
science graduates ideally with a background in neuro-
science or biological sciences, and should be strongly
motivated to pursue cross-disciplinary research in sen-
sory ecology and genetic research. Candidates will have
a First Class Honours degree or equivalent and should
be eligible for UQ scholarship consideration. Applicants
should have strong interests and preferably experience
in bioinformatics, molecular biology, neurobiology, sen-
sory biology, sh behaviour, evolution of visual signals,
and/or animal communication mechanisms.
Applicants must full the PhD admission criteria for
the University of Queensland, including meeting English
language requirements, and demonstrating excellent ca-
pacity and potential for research. Demonstration of
research ability through publication output in peer re-
viewed international journals is desirable.
ENQUIRIES Detailed Information in relation to the
project can be found here: http://jobs.uq.edu.au/caw/-
en/job/501649/phd-research-project-in-understanding-
reef-sh-vision-through-geneediting-crisprcas9 To
submit an Expression of Interest (EOI) for considera-
tion, ensure you use the UQ Jobs online recruitment
system by following the Apply button. All applicants
must supply the following documents: cover letter;
complete ocial tertiary academic transcripts (with
grades/GPA scores, and ocial grading scale details)
and award certicates (testamurs); and a detailed
academic resume/CV.
Please note the dierent EOI closing dates below for
domestic and international candidates Expression of
Interest Closing Dates: International candidates: 19
January 2018 'V for consideration in relation to the
next available UQ international scholarship round with
commencement in Research Quarter 3 (July) 2018.
Domestic candidates: 13 April 2018 'V for consideration
in relation to the next UQ domestic scholarship round
with commencement in Research Quarter 3 (July) 2018.
Fabio Cortesi <fabio.cortesi@uqconnect.edu.au >USouthFlorida 2 Evolution
Graduate Position in Conservation and Evolutionary
Genomics
University of South Florida
The Cassin Sackett Lab at the University of South
Florida is looking for a highly motivated graduate stu-
dent to study population genomics and the evolution of
tolerance to avian malaria in Hawaiian honeycreepers.
The student will use comparative genomics to investigate
the evolution of tolerance to *Plasmodium relictum* in
several closely related species of Hawaiian honeycreepers.
This work is part of a large collaborative research eort
funded by NSF's Ecology and Evolution of Infectious
Diseases program, and work will be done in coordina-
tion with Rob Fleischer at the Smithsonian Institution
and Je Foster at Northern Arizona University. A PhD
student is preferred, but Master's student applications
will also be considered.
The position is supported by a research assistantship for
two years, with additional time supported by teaching as-
sistantships. The position will be based in USF's Depart-
ment of Integrative Biology (http://biology.usf.edu/ib/).
Interested applicants should contact SackettL@usf.edu
for inquiries. The desired start date is summer/fall
2018.
Qualications:
Applicants should have a bachelor's degree in biology,
computer science, or a related eld. We are looking for a
student who is motivated, hard-working, and passionate
about topics in evolutionary biology. The student should
have or be willing to develop excellent organizational
and communication skills, bioinformatics skills, and ex-
perience in population genetics and molecular evolution.
Students should also possess the desire/willingness to en-
gage in outreach. The Cassin Sackett lab is committed
to increasing diversity in STEM, and we especially en-
courage applications from women, minorities, veterans
and other underrepresented groups.
How to apply:
Interested candidates should notify me at Sack-
ettL@usf.edu of their intent to apply; applications are
due by February 15 following the guidelines at http:/-
/biology.usf.edu/ib/grad/admission/ . Earlier applica-
tions are encouraged.62 EvolDir February 1, 2018
{ Loren Cassin Sackett, Ph.D. Research Aliate, Smith-
sonian Institution Assistant Professor, Integrative Biol-
ogy University of South Florida Tampa, FL 33620-8100
www.cassinsackett.com |{
Graduate Positions in Conservation and Evolutionary
Genomics
The Cassin Sackett Lab at the University of South
Florida is looking for highly motivated graduate stu-
dents to join the lab. The lab uses ancient DNA, eld
methods, next-generation sequencing and bioinformatic
approaches to answer fundamental questions in evo-
lutionary biology, especially those with conservation
applications. Some major questions being asked in the
lab are:
How do humans inuence the evolution of wildlife? We
study the ways in which climate change, habitat alter-
ation, and introduced diseases impact the distribution of
genetic variation, rates of gene ow, and the probability
of adaptation.
What is the genomic basis of rapid adaptation to novel
pathogens? We examine the demographic and environ-
mental constraints to adaptation and whether genomic
architecture of rapid adaptation diers from that of
more gradual adaptation (e.g., to climate).
Please visit the lab website for more details on cur-
rent projects: www.cassinsackett.com Students will
be involved in a project that uses genomic approaches
to analyze genetic diversity in eas, prairie dogs and
related species, and to investigate the potential for re-
sistance to plague in prairie dogs. Specic duties may
include: 1) sampling historical museum specimens, 2)
eld sampling of prairie dogs and eas in the western
U.S., 3) optimizing genomic assays (e.g., SNP capture,
highly multiplexed amplicon sequencing), 4) perform-
ing wet lab work to genotype individual prairie dogs
(both modern and historical) and/or eas, 5) conducting
bioinformatic analyses of population genomics and adap-
tation, 6) writing and submitting manuscripts related
to the project.
The position is funded for its duration by a teaching
fellowship, with the possibility of 1-2 years on a research
assistantship, pending funding. The position will be
based at the University of South Florida in the Depart-
ment of Integrative Biology, but requires funded travel
to several museums (e.g., at Berkeley, Harvard, and
University of New Mexico). The position will be based
in USF's Department of Integrative Biology ( http://-
biology.usf.edu/ib/). Interested applicants should con-
tact SackettL@usf.edu for inquiries. The desired start
date is summer/fall 2018.
Qualications:Applicants should have a bachelor's degree in biology,
computer science, or a related eld. We are looking for
a student who is motivated,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
USussex PlantGenomeEvolution
PhD Studentship Subject area: Plant genome evolution
and epigenetics University of Sussex
Project title: Evolutionary and epigenetic interactions
between transposable elements and their plant hosts
A Ph.D. studentship (42 months) is available from
September 2018 under the supervision of Dr. Alexandros
Bousios, in the Evolution, Behaviour and Environment
Group, School of Life Sciences.
Deadline: 4th February 2018
The Bousios lab is looking for a PhD student to study
the impact of transposable elements (TEs) in the func-
tion and evolution of plant genomes. TEs represent the
most abundant component of eukaryotic genomes, and
especially in plants they can occupy up to 80-90% of
their genomic content. TE activity can be deleterious
for the host, because it can cause chromosomes to break
or because new copies can insert within genes and dis-
rupt their function. As a result, hosts have developed
epigenetic defence mechanisms to suppress TE activity,
although given the abundance of TEs, these mechanisms
are not always successful.
By focusing on maize but also other fully-sequenced
plant genomes, and mostly using bioinformatics ap-
proaches, the candidate will attempt to shed light on
the very rst steps of TE silencing, i.e. how epigenetic
defences recognize the mRNA of active TEs. It is hy-
pothesized that specic regions on the TE may play
a crucial role in the recognition process, and, hence,
are the foci of an ongoing evolutionary battle between
TEs and hosts. In addition, the candidate will study
the extent to which TEs positively inuence host gene
function, by lending some of their sequences to the host
regulatory system. This process, known as TE exapta-
tion or co-option, is poorly understood in plants.
For an overview of our research, please visit http://-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 63
www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/bousioslab/ Please submit a
formal application using our online application system
at http://www.sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/apply, includ-
ing a CV, degree transcripts and certicates, statement
of interest and names of two academic referees. On the
application system use Programme of Study 'V PhD
Biology.
Please make sure you include the project title and Su-
pervisor' ^As name with your statement of interest on the
application form.
This School funded position, which covers fees and a
stipend at standard RCUK rates, is open to Home /
EU applicants. Ideal candidates will have a strong
background in bioinformatics and computational biol-
ogy with additional experience in epigenetics, genome
evolution or genomics areas, and the analysis of large
datasets. Eligible applicants will have recently received
an MSc and/or a First or high 2:1 BSc in a relevant
subject. Candidates for whom English is not their rst
language will require an IELTS score of 6.5 overall, with
not less than 6.0 in any section.
Contact Anna Izykowska for application enquiries
(a.izykowska@sussex.ac.uk) Contact Alexandros Bousios
(ab35@sussex.ac.uk) for enquiries about the project.
{ Alexandros Bousios, PhD Royal Society University
Research Fellow
University of Sussex jUK
alexandros.bousios@gmail.com jemail http://-
infspire.org/jwww alexandros bousios jSkype
Alexandros Bousios <alexandros.bousios@gmail.com >
UValencia EvolutionSexualConict
Dear Colleagues,
We are advertising a fully-funded PhD position on the
evolution of sexual conict in Drosophila melanogaster,
based at the Cavanilles Institute of Biodiversity and
Evolutionary Biology (University of Valencia, Spain).
Please see attached for further details.
Best wishes,
Pau
Dr. Pau Carazo Ram ^A^An y Cajal Fellow Instituto
Cavanilles of Biodiversity and Evolutionary Biology
University of Valencia Tel: +34 963544051 http://-paucarazo.com PhD Student- Evolution of male-male
competition and sexual conict
What do we oer? We oer a 4-year PhD fellowship
starting on September 2018 to January 2019.
To do what? We are looking for a PhD student interested
in studying the evolutionary factors modulating the in-
tensity of male-male competition and sexual conict,
and its consequences in terms of population viability.
Strong sexual selection can improve population viability
and evolvability through a number of processes, such as
genetic capture. However, strong sexual selection will
also often give rise to sexual conict and female harm,
which does not only tend to deviate females from their
evolutionary optima, but can drastically aect popula-
tion viability, leading to a \reproductive tragedy of the
commons". We are still far from understanding what
factors modulate the evolution of male-male competi-
tion, female harm levels, and sexual conict at large,
and how this all feeds back into population viability.
Our on-going research aims to contribute to ll these
gaps in knowledge by investigating factors potentially
modulating the evolution of sexual conict. For example,
we are currently investigating the role of kin selection in
leading to reproductive cooperation (or \reproductive
altruism"), how temperature aects male- male com-
petition levels and the potential for sexual conict, or
the evolutionary interplay between ageing and sexual
selection (e.g. can ageing magnify sexual conict?).
The research project mainly involves behavioural experi-
ments and lab work with Drosophila melanogaster, some
experimental evolution, and some eldwork in Europe,
the USA and potentially in Australia.
Where? The student will be supervised by Dr. Pau
Carazo, and based at the Behaviour and Evolution
group of the Ethology Lab, at the Cavanilles institute
of Biodiversity and Evolutionary Biology (University of
Valencia, Spain). For information about our group visit
our website (http://paucarazo.com).
Who? We are looking for a motivated, enthusiastic,
hard-working candidate with some background (and a
strong interest) in sexual selection, and evolutionary
biology and animal behaviour at large.
Contact For further information and expressions of inter-
est, please contact Pau Carazo (University of Valencia;
pau.carazo@uv.es). The deadline for applications is the
31st March.
Pau Carazo <pau.carazo@uv.es >64 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Vienna PopulationGenetics
DueJan14
The Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics is
looking for PhD students:
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a background in one of the follow-
ing disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolutionary
genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and experimen-
tal population genetics. Students from related disci-
plines, such as physics or mathematics are also welcome
to apply.
Topics include:
Comparative population genomics in Drosophila
species.
Contribution of transposable elements to adaption dur-
ing experimental evolution.
Developing new statistical tools for the identication
of adaptive QTLs.
Evolution of gene expression.
Evolution of phenotypic plasticity.
Evolution of sex chromosomes in Drosophila species.
Evolution of sperm competition in Drosophila.
Functional characterization of adaptive QTLs.
Maximum likelihood inference of population genetic
parameters using genome-wide data from nearly neutral
sites.
Sex-specic arms race between transposable elements
and small RNAs.
Only complete applications (application form, CV, moti-
vation letter, university certicates, indication of the two
preferred topics in a single pdf) received by January 14,
2018 will be considered. Two letters of recommendation
need to be sent directly by the referees. Accepted PhD
students will receive a monthly salary based on currently
EUR 2071 before tax according to the regulations of the
Austrian Science Fund (FWF).All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can
be found at www.popgen-vienna.at { Dr. Julia Hosp
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics Coordi-
nator
CALL FOR PHD STUDENTS OPEN! www.popgen-
vienna.at https://twitter.com/PopGenViennaPhD c/o
Institut f ur Populationsgenetik Veterin armedizinische
Universit at Wien (Vetmeduni Vienna) Veterin arplatz 1,
1210 Wien
T +43 1 25077 4338 F +43 1 25077 4390
http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-
genetics/ https://twitter.com/PopGenVienna
julia.hosp@gmail.com
Wageningen InsectEvoDevo
Wageningen.InsectEmbryogenesis
We invite applications from highly motivated candi-
dates with relevant research experience and a passion
for studying insect development. Most molecular in-
formation about insect embryogenesis has come from
studies of model-organisms like Drosophila melanogaster.
However, understanding the extent of gene expression
variation during embryogenesis from diverse insect lin-
eages could elucidate broad developmental constraints
and novelty during insect evolution. Towards this end,
the PhD student will combine in vivo documentation
of embryogenesis of several phylogenetically diverse
insect species and transcriptional analysis from next-
generation sequencing to identify temporal gene expres-
sion dynamics in a comparative manner. The PhD
project will be imbedded within The Graduate School
Experimental Plant Sciences (EPS) under the supervi-
sion of Dr. Sabrina Simon in the Biosystematics Group,
Wageningen University&Research. The inter-university
Graduate School 'Experimental Plant Sciences' (EPS) is
a collaborative research and teaching institution of Wa-
geningen University (WU), Radboud University (RU),
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (VU), Leiden University
(LU), University of Amsterdam (UvA), Utrecht Uni-
versity (UU) and University of Groningen (RUG). The
mission of EPS is to organize the training of PhD stu-
dents and postdocs to become self-reliant researchers.
Requirements The successful candidate will have an MSc
degree in Biology. Students with an interest in insect
embryogenesis and development, transcriptomics, geneFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 65
expression analyses, evolutionary biology, and bioinfor-
matics are encouraged to apply. We are looking for
a highly motivated insect biologist who can work in a
collaborative and multidisciplinary team. The candi-
date should know or be willing to learn protocols for
setting up insect cultures, next-gen sequencing methods
and analyses, and computer programming languages.
The candidate will be procient in the English language.
Within the Biosystematics group, PhD students have
the opportunity to assist in teaching of undergraduates
and / or two courses Biodiversity of the Netherlands
and Webs of Terrestrial Diversity.
Applications should include: - a cover letter including
a statement about your motivation to apply and your
requirements for the position - curriculum vitae - copies
of your University degree
Working conditions We oer a full-time position (38
hours), initially for 1 year after which a go/no go
decision will be taken on extension with another
three years. Gross salary per month euro 2222
in the rst year rising to euro 2840 per month
in the fourth year, for a full-time appointment.
The candidate will be based at the Biosystematics
group. Further information and application details:
https://www.wur.nl/en/Jobs/Vacancies/Show/PhD-
position-Transcriptomics-of-Insect-embryogenesis.htm
Deadline: February 15, 2018
Dr. Sabrina Simon jAssistant Professor Biosystematics
jWageningen University & Research phone: +31317-
483175
Wageningen Campus jRadix Building 107 jRoom
W2.Ca.103 Droevendaalsesteeg 1 j6708 PB Wageningen
The Netherlands
\Simon, Sabrina" <sabrina.simon@wur.nl >
WesternU 3
VirusEvolutionBioinformatics
The Virus Evolution and Bioinformatics lab of Dr. Art
Poon at Western University (Canada) is seeking appli-
cations to ll 3 PhD graduate student positions. All
positions are fully funded for up to 5 years by two newly
awarded grants.
# Research areas
## Evolution of HIV-1 within hosts.
Despite the availability of highly eective drug treat-ments, HIV-1 establishes a life-long chronic infection
for which we have yet to develop a cure. When HIV-1
infects a cell, it integrates itself into the host genome
and, in some cases, enters a dormant state where it
becomes invisible to the immune system. This creates
a long-lived reservoir of \latently" infected cells that
is the main barrier to a cure. We are developing new
phylogenetic methods to reconstruct how this rapidly-
evolving virus spreads through the body and to identify
potential targets to eradicate the virus reservoir.
## Detecting transmission outbreaks.
For infectious diseases, a genetic cluster is a subset of in-
fections that have barely accumulated any genetic dier-
ences since their recent descent from a common ancestor.
Clustering has become a popular method for rapidly
screening clinical databases for potential transmission
outbreaks. Based on recent work, we now know that
clustering methods can be badly confounded by when
the infections were sampled from the population. We
are developing and validating a new approach inspired
by speciation models to detect lineage-specic shifts in
branching rates, and working with global partners to de-
velop open-source monitoring systems to support public
health eorts in real time while protecting individual
privacy.
# Training environment
The Poon lab is an entirely \dry" research computing
and open-source software development group (http:/-
/github.com/PoonLab). The lab is housed in a newly
renovated space in the Department of Pathology, and
equipped with custom-built Linux workstations, a small
high-performance computing cluster and an espresso
machine. My lab mostly runs on Python, R and LaTeX
{ my objective is to enable all my trainees develop a
working knowledge of all three languages.
Western University is one of Canada's top research-
intensive universities, and home to the Western HIV
Investigators Group (WHIG), a highly collaborative
team of 8 principal investigators with diverse and com-
plementary research programs, including evolution and
pathogenesis (Dr. Eric Arts), natural resistance and
host microbiomes (Dr. Jessica Prodger), and bioinfor-
matics and phylogenetics (Dr. Poon). The adjacent
London Regional Genomics Centre provides state-of-
the-art next- generation sequencing services on Illumina
MiSeq and NextSeq systems.
Known as \Forest City", the city of London, Ontario,
features river valleys, abundant parks, tree-lined streets,
bicycle paths, frequent city festivals, an international
airport and a reasonable cost of living.
# Qualications66 EvolDir February 1, 2018
* An undergraduate (bachelor's) and/or master's (MSc)
degree in biology, microbiology, bioinformatics, mathe-
matics, statistics, computer science, or a related eld.
* An avid, demonstrable interest in evolutionary biology
and infectious disease research.
* Previous training or experience in *any* program-
ming or scripting language from course work, work-
shops, or online/self-directed learning. Applicants with-
out prior programming experience may be considered
if they have a strong background in quantitative meth-
ods (e.g., statistics, linear algebra, probability, discrete
math).
* Prociency in communicating and writing in the En-
glish language.
* An ability to work eectively in a collaborative envi-
ronment.All applicants must also meet the admission re-
quirements of the university (http://grad.uwo.ca/-
prospective students/applying/index.html) as well as
the specic department (I hold appointments at the
Departments of Pathology, Microbiology, and Applied
Mathematics).
If you're interested and meet these qualications, please
contact me with a cover letter, CV, and contact informa-
tion for at least two references at <apoon42@uwo.ca >.
Best, - Art.
| Art FY Poon MSc PhD
Assistant Professor Department of Pathology & Labo-
ratory Medicine Western University
CIHR New Investigator MSFHR Career Investigator
github.com/ArtPoon
\apoon42@uwo.ca" <apoon42@uwo.ca >
Jobs
BarnardC ParttimeTech PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Bayer California EvolutionaryBiostatistics . . . . . . . . . 67
BetaBugs UK DirectorOfEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
BinghamtonU EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
CanadianMuseumNature Quebec AlgalSystematics 69
CollegeCharleston EvolutionaryMarineBiology . . . . .70
ColoradoState RootGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
FiskU Tennessee ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
GeorgiaTech LabTech EvolutionOfMulticellularity . 72
Hawaii InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
HealthCanada Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
InstitutJacquesMonod Paris FunctionalGenomics . . 73
LundU PlantEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
MfN Berlin Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
MississippiU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
NationalU Mexico SystematicEntomology . . . . . . . . . 76
PennsylvaniaStateU Bioinformatics ShortTerm . . . . 76QueensU EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
RBG Kew PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
SciLifeLab Stockholm Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
SGN Frankfurt BiodiversityDataScientist . . . . . . . . . . 79
StCloudStateU ConservationZoologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
TexasAMU PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UAlgarve Portugal 500 MarineEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . .82
UCollegeLondon PlantOrFungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . 82
UCollegeLondon StatisticalGenetics RiceChickpea . 83
UGlasgow MolecularLabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
UGreifswald AnimalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UIllinois EvolutionaryImmunobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
ULausanne EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
ULeuven CichlidSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
ULille EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
ULiverpool 4 FellowsLectureships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UNevada LasVegas EvolutionaryNeurobiology . . . . . 88February 1, 2018 EvolDir 67
UofGuelph ComputationalBiolBioinformatics . . . . . . 89
UOslo 2 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90
UOttawa QuantitativeBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
USaskatchewan HeadTech GroundSquirrelEvolution 91UWinnipeg EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
WhitmanCollege LabTech PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . 93
Winnipeg Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
BarnardC ParttimeTech
PlantEvolution
Part-time position supporting in-class teaching and cur-
riculum development for a new college course examining
plant evolution and biogeography, herbaria, and digital
natural history.
Link to job description and portal to apply: https://-
careers.barnard.edu/postings/3180 Candidates should
already be located in New York City or its suburbs
Needed January 2018 Graduate students or recent grad-
uates Potential to develop or deliver publications or
presentation
hcallaha@barnard.edu
Bayer California
EvolutionaryBiostatistics
Biostatistics Scientist I West Sacramento, CA Ap-
ply online at: https://www.career.bayer.us/en/job/-
Biostatistics-Scientist-I{SF14596.html YOUR TASKS
AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The primary responsibilities of this role, Biostatistics
Scientist I, are to:
- Proactively identify, develop, and incorporate experi-
mental design and biostatistical tools to facilitate bioas-
say optimization in the lab and in the greenhouse; -
Support bench scientist teams in the analysis of large
data sets integrating dierent data types into statistical
frameworks; - Train research sta in experimental de-
sign, basic statistical concepts, and the use of relevant
statistical tools; - Keep abreast of new statistical tech-
niques, including technological developments in machine
learning; - Liaise with external experts and opinion lead-
ers on these topics; - Develop, test, and document novel
statistical analysis tools; - Be able to work with Data
Engineers to translate statistical analyses and experi-
mental designs into standardized pipelines; - Be ableto communicate eectively through listening, documen-
tation, and presentation, especially using compelling
visualization tools to share analysis and interpretation
of data.
WHO YOU ARE
Your success will be driven by your demonstration of our
LIFE values. More specically related to this position,
Bayer seeks an incumbent who possesses the following:
Required Qualications:
- Ph.D. in Statistics, Ecology, Evolutionary Genetics,
Plant Genetics/Biology, Quantitative Genetics/Biology
or related eld or Master's degree and two (2) years of
experience; - Expertise in the statistical analysis soft-
ware R.
Preferred Qualications:
- Knowledge of other programming languages (UNIX,
Python, SQL); - Knowledge of crop science, bacterial
genetics and/or plant genetics;
*Position may oer domestic relocation assistance.
Freundliche Gr ue / Best regards,
Matt Armstrong Recruiter
Bayer U.S. LLC 100 Bayer Road Pittsburgh,
PA 15205 United States Tel: 412-778-6688
E-mail: matthew.armstrong@bayer.com Web:
www.career.bayer.us
Matthew Armstrong <matthew.armstrong@bayer.com >
BetaBugs UK DirectorOfEvolution
At Beta Bugs we're accelerating the evolution of insects
to make them the crops of the future and drive forwards
a sustainable bioeconomy that produces feed, food, fuel
and more. Our current focus is the Black Soldier Fly,
the larvae of which are being used as an aquaculture
and animal feedstock.
We're now hiring a Director of Evolution to take the
team to the next level. You'll be directly responsible
for driving forwards our technology eorts, and working68 EvolDir February 1, 2018
closely with our Head of Colonies to maintain and de-
velop our lines. It's also a one-o opportunity to directly
shape the way this company and a rapidly emerging
industry develop.
You'll have a background in the biological sciences, with
an emphasis on evolutionary biology and/or functional
genetics at Masters, PhD level or beyond, particularly
in arthropods. Hands-on experience of trait genera-
tion, selection and the necessary techniques to do both
(along the lines of molecular biology, bioinformatics and
sequencing) is also desirable. You're preferably a gen-
eralist with a deep specialization in this area, focused
and self-starting.
Experience with high throughput breeding programmes
or breeding for industry requirements is also a plus.
If you're keen, drop Thomas a line with more about
you on thomas@betabugs.uk. Salary and equity are
negotiable for the right candidate.
{ Thomas Farrugia jBeta Bugs
Mobile: +44 7784336183 Skype: thomasjfarrugia
skeletonmanemail@gmail.com
BinghamtonU EvolGenetics
The Freshman Research Immersion (FRI) program at
Binghamton University will hire a Research Assistant
Professor, to begin August 13, 2018. This full-time po-
sition is for a three-year duration and candidates must
have graduate degree before starting. This is a 10 month
non-tenure track faculty position, with additional extra
service commitment for two-summer weeks. This posi-
tion is *for Ecological Genetics *(open to Ph.D.'s with
appropriate ecological genetics background).
FRI Ecological Genetics is a new program in which a
Research Assistant Professor guides freshmen and sopho-
mores in innovative research that advances the eld of
ecological genetics. The Research Assistant Professor
shapes the research theme. For example, past FRI co-
horts have employed sophisticated techniques under the
guidance of the Research Assistant Professor conducting
research in that stream's area. Essentially, this position
will entail teaching large numbers of college students
(~30 per cohort) how to conduct authentic research and,
in doing so, will help students develop the professional
skills desired by graduate schools and employers. Within
that process and working with a faculty advisory team,the Research Assistant Professor maintains and/or ex-
pands his/her research program. The Research Assistant
Professor reports to the FRI Director, and also works
closely with the faculty sponsoring-team of this research
stream. Overall, FRI provides an excellent training
program for new PhDs and, thus, is an exceptional
transition that positions the Research Assistant Profes-
sors for a wider array of future STEM positions (from
full range of higher education institutions to STEM
education research).
Information about the FRI program and the faculty
team for this research stream: http://binghamton.edu/-
freshman-research-immersion/streams/current-research-
streams/index.html *Responsibilities:*
Oversee daily research activities of the research stream
Work with a faculty team to design and implement
course materials for the research stream (e.g., lab man-
ual, lab protocols, YouTube for procedures, and so forth)
Coordinate with faculty team to plan and deliver mini-
lectures for the research stream courses
Oversee the operation of the research stream laboratory
(e.g., with undergraduate peer mentors
Help FRI students with their projects
Serve as a mentor to the FRI students
Facilitate formative and summative assessments of the
research stream and FRI students
Participate in a weekly FRI training and preparatory
session
Assist with administrative work of the FRI program
(e.g., tracking student progress and completion in the
FRI)
Co-teach FRI Research Methods Seminar (course deliv-
ered in ipped mode) with other FRI sta
Additional summer responsibilities may be contracted
for extra payment (e.g., conducting NSF-REU-type pro-
gram, working on grant research)
*Requirements:*
Strong candidates must have:
Graduate degree in a discipline that matches the re-
search stream goals
Minimum of two years of experience as a teaching assis-
tant in higher education
Ability to train undergraduate researchers and evaluate
their work
Ability to train, evaluate and supervise graduate teach-
ing assistants and undergraduate peer mentor assistantsFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 69
Ability to manage a research laboratory
Eective communication skills
Prociency with Microsoft Oce suite and web access
software
Ability to manage multiple projects and timelines simul-
taneously with a high degree of accuracy and eciency
Ability to work both autonomously and collaboratively
Strong professional, organizational and interpersonal
skills
Ability to speak, write and communicate in an articulate
and successful manner
Ability to problem solve, prioritize, and manage multiple
tasks
Ability to analyze and organize information and materi-
als for a variety of research projects
Please submit as separate documents:
1. Cover letter (1 page maximum) telling us why you
are interested in the position, why you feel you are quali-
ed, and your contact information 2. Curriculum vita 3.
Contact information for three references, then letters of
recommendation will be requested upon application sub-
mission via http://binghamton.interviewexchange.com
4. Your philosophy of teaching undergraduates how to
conduct research (250-500 words)
Review of applications begins February 1st 2018 and con-
tinues until the position is lled. Electronic applications
are required; please submit your application materials
to: *Interview Exchange via Binghamton University*.
https://binghamton.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=93105 You may add
additional les/documents after uploading your
curriculum
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CanadianMuseumNature Quebec
AlgalSystematics
COMPETITION
Research Scientist - PhycologistMRS-01
Permanent Position
$73,676 - $88,920 per year
Work location : Gatineau (Aylmer sector) in Quebec
https://nature.ca/en/about-us/careers-volunteering/-
careers/research-sci entist-phycologist
The Canadian Museum of Nature (CMN) is seeking a
dynamic, innovative and creative phycologist to con-
ceive, design and conduct a program of independent
and collaborative, eld and collection-based systematic
research on algae; to publish results of scientic research;
to contribute to and provide advice on the development
and use of the National Herbarium of Canada algae
collection; and to work with other museum sta on
the development and production of exhibits, outreach
and educational programs. The successful candidate
will join the CMN's Botany Section, which includes a
team of eight research and collection sta. He/she will
have access to excellent research infrastructure, includ-
ing a molecular systematics laboratory, high-powered
microscopy facilities, and the largest and most compre-
hensive algae collection in Canada.
NOTE: A formal procedure for promotion based on
achievements is in place to develop the career path of
CMN's research scientists. An excellent benets package
comes with the position.
OPEN TO: Employees of the Canadian Museum of
Nature and the general public who meet the following
qualications.
EDUCATION: Ph.D. in biological sciences, with a spe-
cialization in the taxonomy and systematics of algae.
LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS:
English and French are essential.
Bilingual imperative: BBB/BBB
EXPERIENCE:
The candidate must have demonstrated expertise in mor-
phological and molecular taxonomy and phylogenetics
of algae, with a proven publication record and an active
research program, including eldwork. Experience with
the algae of Canada and/or the Arctic would be an asset,
as would experience working in a museum context. The
candidate should have experience in obtaining external
support for research projects. The candidate must be
comfortable with a collaborative and multi-disciplinary
approach to projects.
NOTE:
The application should include:70 EvolDir February 1, 2018
- a cover letter describing past and present research ex-
perience as well as a proposed long-term research plan,
the ways in which this research would contribute to and
utilize the CMN algae collection, and the eldwork this
research may include;
- a curriculum vitae;
- Three letters of recommendation may be requested
from candidates at a later date.
SEND YOUR COMPLETE APPLICATION BY
EMAIL TO: competition@mus-nature.ca
Please state competition: NO.2090-CMN-17-OC-041
Statement of qualications available by contacting the
email address above.
For additional information regarding the position and/or
the museum, please contact: Dr. Lynn Gillespie, 613-
364-4075. lgillespie@mus-nature.ca
For information on the Museum and its programs, see
our web site at: www.nature.ca Please note that only
candidates who are selected for the next stage of the
selection process will be contacted.
The Canadian Museum of Nature is committed to devel-
oping inclusive, barrier-free selection processes and work
environments. If contacted regarding this competition,
please inform the Senior Advisor, Human Resources
should you require accommodation to attend an inter-
view or participate in the selection process.
The Museum supports employment equity.
CLOSING DATE: January 31, 2018 at 5 p.m.
CONCOURS
Chercheur scientique - Phycologue
MRS-01
Poste permanent
73 676 $~A 88 920 $par annee
Lieu de travail : Gatineau (secteur Aylmer) au Quebec
https://nature.ca/fr/sujet-musee/emplois-benevolat/-
emplois/chercheur-sc ientique-phycologue
Le Musee canadien de la nature (MCN) est ~A la
recherche d'un phycologue dynamique, innovant et cre-
atif pour concevoir, realiser et mener un programme
independant et cooperatif de recherche systematique sur
le terrain et ~A partir des collections d'algues; pour pub-
lier des resultats de recherche scientique; pour appuyer
et guider le developpement et l'utilisation de la collection
d'algues de l'Herbier national du Canada; et pour tra-
vailler avec les autres membres du personnel du Musee
au developpement et ~A la production d'expositions etde programmes de sensibilisation et d'education. Le
candidat retenu se joindra ~A la Section de botanique
du MCN, qui comprend une equipe de huit employes
aectes ~A la recherche et aux collections. La personne
aura acces ~A d'excellentes infrastructures de recherche,
y compris un laboratoire de systematique moleculaire,
de puissants microscopes et la plus grande et la plus
complete collection d'algues au Canada.
REMARQUE : Une procedure de promotion formelle
en fonction des
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CollegeCharleston
EvolutionaryMarineBiology
Research area open including evolutionary component
to research.
Marine Biologist The Department of Biology at the Col-
lege of Charleston invites applications for a tenure-track
position in Marine Biology at the Assistant Professor
level to begin August 2018. Candidates must have
a Ph.D. in biology, marine biology, marine science or
a related eld and a strong commitment to teaching
and maintaining an active research program involving
undergraduate and graduate students. We seek a ma-
rine organismal biologist who will complement strengths
of existing faculty. The area of research is open but
taxonomic groups of particular interest include marine
tetrapods and marine phycology/botany. Primary teach-
ing responsibilities could include courses in the marine
biology core, graduate and/or undergraduate specialty
courses in an area of expertise, and introductory biology
and/or human A&P. The College of Charleston, located
in Charleston, SC, is a public liberal arts and sciences
institution of 12,000 students, with MS programs in
Marine Biology and Environmental Studies, the Grice
Marine Laboratory close to the downtown campus, and
a commitment to excellence in teaching and research.
Information about the department is available at http:/-
/biology.cofc.edu/. Applicants should submit electronic
(pdf) copies of a cover letter, curriculum vitae, state-
ments of teaching and research interests, up to three
relevant publications, unocial graduate transcript(s)February 1, 2018 EvolDir 71
(with ocial copies required upon hire), and names
and contact information for three colleagues capable of
providing a recommendation to http://jobs.cofc.edu/-
postings/6793. Questions regarding this position can be
directed to Gorka Sancho, search committee chair, at
sanchog@cofc.edu. This is a nine-month appointment;
salary is competitive and commensurate with experi-
ence and qualications. Review of applications will
begin February 4 and will continue until the position
is lled. The College of Charleston is an Armative
Action, Equal Opportunity Employer and does not dis-
criminate against any individual or group on the basis of
gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression,
age, race, color, religion, national origin, veteran status,
genetic information, or disability.
Assistant Professor of Marine Biology jobs.cofc.edu
\Murren, Courtney J" <MurrenC@cofc.edu >
ColoradoState RootGenetics
Project Manager - Root Genetics for Drought and Car-
bon Adaptation
The McKay Lab at Colorado State University invites ap-
plications for a project manager. This research is part of
a larger eort to understand the genetics of adaptation
to drought in crops and species in nature. The project
goal is to develop new methods for eld based root and
soil phenotyping, including the development of eld de-
vices, spectroscopy, image analysis, genotype-phenotype
analysis and process-based soil modeling. The project
is funded by the ARPA-E ROOTS program.
https://arpa-e.energy.gov/?q=3Dslick-sheet-project/-
root-genetics-drought-and-carbon-adaptation This
position involves coordinating project meetings and
leading project reporting an evaluation of progress for
each of the teams and tasks. The project will generate
novel methods as well as data on the genetic basis of
root architecture and how it responds to drought. Thus
there is ample opportunity for the successful candidate
to take part in and lead the writing and publication of
science manuscripts.
Minimum requirements: Masters in biology, bioinfor-
matics, genomics, computer science or highly related
eld; Experience in project management; Experience
with project reporting; Demonstrated oral and written
communication skills
Complete applications due by 31 Jan 2018 for full con-sideration.
Full job description and application procedures at
https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/52675 CSU is an
EO/EA/AA employer and conducts background checks
on all nal candidates.
\John.McKay@ColoState.EDU"
<John.McKay@ColoState.EDU >
FiskU Tennessee ComputationalBiol
Tenure Track Assistant Professor in Computational Bi-
ology.
Fisk University (www.sk.edu) invites applications for
a tenure track position at the rank of assistant professor
in the broad area of computational biology, with demon-
strated potential for excellence in student-centered un-
dergraduate teaching and for developing a research pro-
gram capable of attracting external funding and publish-
ing peer-reviewed papers with undergraduate co-authors.
This faculty member also will serve as a mentor in the
nationally recognized Fisk-Vanderbilt Master's to PhD
Bridge Program. A Ph.D. degree and training that
embraces both biological and computational sciences is
required, and postdoctoral training is optimal. Applica-
tion materials should include the applicant's Curriculum
Vitae, Research Plan, and Teaching Philosophy as well
as three letters of recommendation. All materials should
be sent electronically to Dr. Lee Limbird, PhD, Search
Committee Chair [ llimbird@sk.edu] Applications are
being considered immediately; the position is available
immediately. Fisk University is an Equal Opportunity
Employer.
Lee
Lee E Limbird, PhD
Professor and Dean
Lee Limbird <llimbird@sk.edu >72 EvolDir February 1, 2018
GeorgiaTech LabTech
EvolutionOfMulticellularity
Full-Time Laboratory Technician Position, Evolution
of Multicellularity, Georgia Institute of Technology, At-
lanta, GA.
The Ratcli lab at Georgia Tech is looking to hire a
full-time laboratory technician to work on the evolution
of multicellularity in 'snowake' yeast. This person will
primarily assist a postdoc on experiments examining:
1) the evolution of extremely large size (thousands of
cells, easily visible to the naked eye) in snowake yeast,
2) the role of oxygen in the evolution of multicellular
complexity, and 3) how geometric constraints can inter-
act with pre-existing cell biology to give rise to simple
multicellular development.
We are looking for someone who is collaborative, well-
organized, and has experience with microbial cell biol-
ogy. Your duties will involve genetic transformation (in
both Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces
pombe), high-throughput uorescence microscopy, con-
focal microscopy, ow cytometry, and sterile cell culture.
Experience with these techniques is a plus, but is not
required. The ideal candidate will also have experience
with scientic programming, preferably in python, R,
or MatLab.
We are very open to hiring a 'post-bac', or student who
has recently completed a B.S. (or equivalent), and is
considering graduate school in a year or two. We are
interested in someone who can commit to working for
at least one year.
Starting salary is $15 per hour, there are no benets
associated with this position.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing your moti-
vation for the position and relevant research experience,
along with contact information for three letters of ref-
erence to: William Ratcli (ratcli@gatech.edu). The
position is open until it is lled.
gonensin bozda g <ozan.bozdag@gmail.com >Hawaii InsectEvolution
Title:
Assistant Reseacher (Urban Pest Management)
Position Number:
0083184
Hiring Unit:
C of Trop Agr and Human Resources, Plant and Envi-
ronmental Protection Sciences
Location:
Manoa Campus
Date Posted:
January 19, 2018
Closing Date:
Continuous - application review begins March 01, 2018
Monthly Type:
11 Month
Tenure Track:
Tenure
Full Time/Part Time:
Full Time
Temporary/Permanent:
Permanent
Other Conditions: * To begin August 2018 or soon there-
after. For best consideration, all application materials
should be submitted by February 28, 2018.
Duties and Responsibilities 1. Develop a strong, innova-
tive, nationally recognized externally-funded program
addressing research, extension and instruction on the
environmental and economic impacts of urban, struc-
tural and/or public health insect pests in Hawai'i. 2.
Perform research in an applied, ecological and/or evolu-
tionary context aimed at improving urban and/or public
health insect pest exclusion and management in these
systems, with the goal of promoting safe, sustainable,
and ecologically responsible methods. 3. Teach 1-2
courses each year that could include, but are not limited
to, General Entomology, Medical Entomology, Urban
Pest Management, Social Insect Ecology and Evolution,
and/or other courses and seminars as needed. 4. Partic-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 73
ipate in the Entomology graduate program by teaching,
supervising and mentoring graduate students. 5. The
faculty member will provide service to the department,
college, university, profession and community as his/her
expertise allows. 6. Provide service to the department,
college, university, profession and community as his/her
expertise allows.
Minimum Qualications 1. Ph.D. in entomology, biol-
ogy or a related eld, from a college or university of
recognized standing. 2. Ability to generate indepen-
dent research reports, publications and grant proposals.
3. Ability to interact eectively with students and/or
assistants when appropriate. 4. Initiative, interest in
scientic work, and adaptability.
Desirable Qualications 1. Experience with a range of
social and/or urban pest issues. 2. Proven publication
record. 3. Teaching experience at the university level.
4. Evidence of successful grantsmanship. 5. Exper-
tise in urban pest biology, ecology and management as
demonstrated by thesis or dissertation topic, publica-
tions and/or presentations in these areas.
To Apply:
Submit the following to the address listed below: 1)
Cover letter indicating how you satisfy the minimum
and desirable qualications, 2) curriculum vitae, 3) state-
ment of research and teaching interests, 4 ) names and
contact information for at least three professional refer-
ences and 5) ocial transcripts (copies accepted, how-
ever ocial transcripts will be required upon hire).
Address: 1. Dr. Koon Hui Wang 2. College of Tropical
Agriculture and Human Resources 3. Department of
Plant and Environmental Protection Sciences 4. 3050
Maile Way, Room 310 5. Honolulu, HI 96822
Inquiries: 1. Dr. Koon Hui Wang; 808-956-7076; koon-
hui@hawaii.edu
The University of Hawai ^Ei is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action institution and is committed to a
policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, sex, gen-
der identity and expression, age, religion, color, national
origin, ancestry, citizenship, disability, genetic informa-
tion, marital status, breastfeeding, income assignment
for child support, arrest and court record (except as per-
missible under State law), sexual orientation, domestic
or sexual violence victim status, national guard absence,
or status as a covered veteran.
Employment is contingent on satisfying employment
eligibility verication requirements of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986; reference checks of
previous employers; and for certain positions, criminal
history record checks.In accordance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Cam-
pus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act,
annual campus crime statistics for the University of
Hawaii may be viewed at: http://ope.ed.gov/security/,
or a paper copy may be obtained upon request from
the respective UH Campus Security or Administrative
Services Oce.
Daniel Rubino <rubino@hawaii.edu >
HealthCanada Bioinformatician
Very unique opportunity at Health Canada in the Food
Directorate in Ottawa, Ontario.
Have the ability to work with and provide bioinformatics
support to amazing research scientists in microbiology,
nutritional sciences and toxicology.
Create, use, design and develop bioinformatics programs
while working with a very large in-house computer clus-
ter as well as in-house generated next gen sequencing
data (MiSeq, NextSeq and MinION).
Creatives and free thinkers welcome.
This is not a stereotypical government job!
2 Positions available.
All details found on the following pages. *You must
apply using the \Apply Online" link on the bottom of
the following pages*:
English: https://emploisfp-psjobs.cfp-psc.gc.ca/psrs-
srfp/applicant/ page1800?poster14687
French: https://emploisfp-psjobs.cfp-
psc.gc.ca/psrs-srfp/applicant/-
page1800?poster14687&toggleLanguage=fr
Nicholas Petronella <nicholas.petronella@gmail.com >
InstitutJacquesMonod Paris
FunctionalGenomics
Dear Colleague,
The Institut Jacques Monod, aliated with the CNRS
and the Universit e Paris Diderot, is recruiting two group
leaders, at the junior or senior level.74 EvolDir February 1, 2018
We would be grateful if you could circulate the enclosed
advertisement in your institute and point it out to re-
searchers who might be interested in setting up their
laboratory at the institute. Best regards, Roger Karess
and Michel Werner
Call for New Group Leaders
The Institut Jacques Monod (IJM), a leading center of
fundamental biological research in Paris, is seeking to
appoint several new group leaders. The IJM is com-
prised of about 30 research groups working in the elds
of genetics and genomics, biophysics, cell biology, devel-
opment and evolution.
Candidates should work in one of the areas of funda-
mental biology covered by the Institute. Researchers
interested in computational biology and/or functional
genomics are particularly encouraged to apply. The
successful applicants will be selected based on their sci-
entic excellence and their potential to complement and
synergize with existing research in the Institute. We will
consider group leader applications at both the junior
and senior levels.
Research at the IJM is supported by excellent core
facilities providing state-of-the-art light and electron
microscopy, mass spectrometry, animal facilities, and
access to high throughput genomics equipment. The
IJM is located in Paris on the campus of the Universit e
Paris-Diderot and is aliated with the Centre National
de la Recherche Scientique (CNRS). For more detailed
information, visit our website (http://www.ijm.fr ).
Successful applicants should have upon their arrival at
IJM a permanent position with the CNRS, INSERM,
the French university system, or a non-permanent po-
sition funded by granting agencies such as the French
ATIP-AVENIR program or the ERC, which will allow
them to apply for a permanent position.
Applicants should provide: a cover letter explaining
their interest in joining the IJM; contact details for 3
referees; and a document formatted using this applica-
tion form comprising a C.V., a summary of scientic
achievements, and proposed research program.
Applications should be sent by e-mail to the Institute
Director Dr. Michel Werner (direction(at)ijm.fr) as a
single pdf le, and should be received not later than 15
March 2018.
Institut Jacques Monod UMR 7592 CNRS-Universit e
Paris Diderot B^ at.Buon - 15 rue H el ene Brion 75205
PARIS CEDEX 13 - France. ^ a 01.57.27.81.42
http://www.ijm.fr BONDIDIER Martine
<Martine.BONDIDIER@ijm.fr > BONDIDIER
Martine <Martine.BONDIDIER@ijm.fr >LundU PlantEvolutionaryEcol
Senior University Lecturer in Plant Ecology
The Department of Biology wishes to strengthen re-
search and teaching at the interface between plant com-
munity ecology and evolutionary biology, with a focus
on terrestrial plants. We are advertising a fully tenured
position which will include both teaching and research.
The Biology Department in Lund is a large and interna-
tionally visible department, has excellent facilities and
is a good working place!
There is currently a strong interest in extending studies
of evolutionary processes beyond single organisms, or
interactions between a small number of organisms, to a
more realistic community-based context. Rapid develop-
ments within genomics provide increasingly accessible
means of characterizing molecular variation with plant
communities - and these developments are driving a
closer integration of ecological and evolutionary studies.
We want to appoint a person with strong competence
within the eld of terrestrial plant community ecology
and a focus on the ecological and evolutionary processes
that drive community assembly and biodiversity. Expe-
rience in eld-based teaching in oristics and vegetation
analysis will be regarded as a strong merit.
Application details: https://lu.mynetworkglobal.com/-
en/what:job/jobID:177838/type:job/where: 4/apply:1
For more general information, send an email to ste-
fan.andersson@biol.lu.se
Stefan Andersson <stefan.andersson@biol.lu.se >
MfN Berlin Bioinformatics
Researcher (f/m) in the eld of bioinformatics
The Museum f ur Naturkunde - Leibniz Institute for Evo-
lution and Biodiversity Science (MfN) is an excellent
and integrated research museum within the German
Leibniz Association. Its activities cover and tightly link
the elds of collection-based research, development of
collections and public engagement with science.
We are seeking a talented and motivated bioinformati-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 75
cian to develop the new core facility for the analysis of
genomic data at the Museum f ur Naturkunde Berlin -
Leibniz Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity Science.
The position is full-time and initially for 2 years (tenure-
track, salary E13 TV-L Berlin). Tenure will be provided
after successful evaluation within the rst 2 years.
The jobholder is expected to establish his/her own re-
search agenda in the eld of evolutionary genomics and
to provide bioinformatics support within the Museum to
enable multidisciplinary research projects as for example
in the context of the \Center for Integrative Biodiversi-
tydiscovery" at the MfN. Both tasks involve engagement
in grant applications as well as training and supervision
of students and post-docs.
The Museum f ur Naturkunde Berlin provides an excel-
lent research environment. It houses state- of-the-art
laboratories for molecular genetics and computation.
Numerous independent research groups are working in
a wide range of research elds including population ge-
netics, phylogenetics, developmental and evolutionary
genetics, and taxonomy. Our world-class zoological col-
lections provide unique access to specimens collected
over the last 200+ years.
The Berlin- Brandenburg region is characterized by a
highly international academic and cultural community.
The cities Berlin and Potsdam as well as their water-rich
surroundings oer excellent possibilities for recreation.
Living costs are still moderate.
We will consider candidates with a PhD in biology or
bioinformatics and a proven record of post- doctoral
experience in bioinformatic analyses of genomic data
sets. Ideally, candidates have a wide experience in
basic genomic data processing and analysis including
genome/transcriptome assembly, annotation, bait de-
sign and metabarcoding. Experience with concepts of
population genetics and respective bioinformatics anal-
yses would be an advantage. The ability to work in-
dependently and to integrate into a team are required.
More information can be found here
https://www.naturkundemuseum.berlin/de/-
stellenausschreibungen/wissenschaftliche-mitarbeit-wm-
researcher-fm or obtained by contacting Dr. Frieder
Mayer (frieder.mayer@mfn-berlin.de).
In the interest of equal opportunity, applications by
qualied female applicants will be particularly welcome.
Handicapped applicants with equal qualications will
be given priority.
Applications with the usual materials (statement of re-
search interests and experience, curriculum vitae, list
of publications, and academic certicates) should besent until 31.01.2018 reference to job advertisement No.
72/2017 to:
Museum f ur Naturkunde Personalreferat Invalidenstrae
43 D-10115 Berlin Germany
or to recruiting@mfn-berlin.de. As submitted materi-
als will not be returned, only submit copies with your
application.
\Mayer, Frieder" <Frieder.Mayer@mfn-berlin.de >
MississippiU EvolutionaryBiology
Biology Faculty
Mississippi University for Women invites applications
for a tenure-track Evolutionary Biology faculty position
beginning August 2018.
The successful candidate will have the primary respon-
sibility for teaching a junior-level Evolutionary Biology
course in an undergraduate-only program. Applicants
must be willing to teach other biology courses in their
area of expertise and introductory-level biology courses.
Preference will be given to candidates who can actively
pursue extra-mural funding, and initiate and supervise
research programs involving our undergraduate students.
Rank will be dependent on qualications and experi-
ence. Applicants must have completed or received the
Ph.D. degree by August 1, 2018. Individuals with post-
doctoral experience and/or teaching experience will be
given preference. Applications will be subject to im-
mediate consideration, continuing until the position is
lled.
MUW emphasizes excellence in teaching and undergrad-
uate research, and provides a student-centered teaching
environment.
Additional information about MUW is available at
http://www.muw.edu . For more information about
the position, contact Dr. Bonnie Oppenheimer (662-
329-7239 or bloppenheimer@muw.edu). Submit letter
of interest, C.V., copies of transcripts, three letters of
reference, statement of your approach to teaching, and
statement of your research plans to: Oce of Human
Resources, 1100 College Street, MUW-1609, Columbus,
MS 39701 or hrinfo@hr.muw.edu or 662-241-7616 (fax).
AA/EOE.
Ross Whitwam rewhitwam@muw.edu Professor of Bi-
ology Dept. of Sciences and Mathematics Mississippi76 EvolDir February 1, 2018
University for Women Columbus, MS 39701
Ross Whitwam <rewhitwam@muw.edu >
NationalU Mexico
SystematicEntomology
Position opening Instituto de Biolog ~Aa, Universidad
Nacional Autonoma de Mexico Systematic Entomolo-
gist The Instituto de Biolog ~Aa, Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico (IBUNAM), whose main mission
is the study of national biodiversity and houses the na-
tional biological collections, invites applications for a
tenure track, full-time position of Associate Investigator,
level \C", in Systematic Entomology at the main Na-
tional University campus, Mexico City. Requirements
for candidates:
1. A Ph.D. degree or equivalent, preferably in entomol-
ogy, zoology, or a related discipline.
2. Experience in systematic research of insects, demon-
strated by original, high quality publications, commen-
surate to age and academic trajectory.
3. Be familiar with the entomofauna of Mexico and/or
the Neotropics, as well as with the curation of scientic
collections, techniques of eld collecting, morphology,
molecular systematics, and/or evolutionary biology.
4. A commitment to participate in activities comple-
mentary to research, such as teaching at educational
programs of UNAM, and the direction of theses at the
undergraduate and graduate level, activities of science
outreach, and institutional participation.
5. Willingness to integrate immediately into the aca-
demic activities of the IBUNAM, practice leadership
in his or her area of investigation, and demonstrate
aptitude to form or integrate into a research group.
6. Prociency in Spanish. Applicants should submit
a letter addressed to the Director of IBUNAM (Dr.
V~Actor Manuel G. Sanchez Cordero Davila) with a de-
tailed statement of purpose; a full curriculum vitae with
contact information (supporting documentation is not
necessary at this stage); PDFs of publications that the
applicant considers the most important of his/her profes-
sional trajectory (a maximum of ve); a brief proposal
of his/her activities for the rst year at the Institute (5
pages maximum); and a letter of recommendation.
Applications with the required documentation will be
received from January 08, 2018 until March 30, 2018, 7PM Mexico City time.
Shortlisted candidates will be contacted for a personal
interview.
Applications should be sent to the email acontr-
eras@ib.unam.mx with copy to sacademica@ib.unam.mx
and vinculacion@ib.unam.mx. Inquiries regarding this
announcement should be addressed to the Academic
Secretary of IBUNAM, e-mail: acontreras@ib.unam.mx,
phone (+52) 55-5622-9067, -9068 (www.ib.unam.mx).
{
Alejandro Zald ~Avar Riveron Investigador titular B
Tiempo Completo Curador en jefe de la Coleccion Na-
cional de Insectos Departamento de Zoolog ~Aa Instituto
de Biolog ~Aa Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mex-
ico 3er. Circuito Exterior Cd. Universitaria Apartado
Postal 70-153 C.P. 04510 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico Phone: 00 52 (55) 56 22 91 58 Fax: 00 52 (55)
55 50 01 64
Alejandro Zald var River on <azaldivar@ib.unam.mx >
PennsylvaniaStateU Bioinformatics
ShortTerm
Assistant Research Professor or Researcher in Bioinfor-
matics
The laboratory of George (PJ) Perry in the Depart-
ments of Anthropology and Biology at The Pennsylva-
nia State University is seeking applications for a bioin-
formatics specialist who has experience working with
massively parallel sequencing data and with popula-
tion genomic analyses. The successful candidate would
participate in multiple ongoing human and non-model
organism population and comparative evolutionary ge-
nomic studies. For more information about our lab:
www.anthgenomicslab.com. The appointment would
be as an Assistant Research Professor for candidates
with a Ph.D. and as a Researcher for those without
a Ph.D., with salary commensurate with appointment
and experience. The position will start between Febru-
ary and March 2018 with an appointment of up to one
year. While the appointment could then potentially be
renewed depending on availability of funds, this position
would be most ideally suited for a candidate seeking a
shorter-term opportunity. To apply for this position,
submit 1) a two-page cover letter describing your bioin-
formatics experience, 2) your CV, 3) and the namesFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 77
and contact information of three professional references.
Apply at: https://psu.jobs/job/76591 . CAMPUS SE-
CURITY CRIME STATISTICS: For more about safety
at Penn State, and to review the Annual Security Report
which contains information about crime statistics and
other safety and security matters, please go to http://-
www.police.psu.edu/clery/, which will also provide you
with detail on how to request a hard copy of the Annual
Security Report.
Penn State is an equal opportunity, armative action
employer, and is committed to providing employment op-
portunities to all qualied applicants without regard to
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran
status.
grgperry@gmail.com
QueensU EvolutionaryEcol
Tenure-track position in Evolutionary Ecology
The Department of Biology at Queen's University in-
vites applications for a Tenure-track faculty position at
the rank of Assistant Professor with specialization in
Evolutionary Ecology, with a preferred starting date of
July 1, 2018.
We seek a broadly-trained evolutionary biologist with
research interests in both fundamental and applied ques-
tions related to the evolutionary consequences and man-
agement of rapidly changing environments. This posi-
tion could include aspects of plant or animal biology
related to climate change, pollution, resistance to pesti-
cides/herbicides/antibiotics, biological invasion, vector-
borne diseases, habitat degradation and fragmentation,
and restoration ecology. Priority will be given to can-
didates who envision studying contemporary evolution
utilizing the diverse land-holdings and facilities at the
Queen's University Biological Station (QUBS). QUBS
includes more than 3400 ha of diverse aquatic and terres-
trial habitat, located 60 km north of Kingston (https://-
qubs.ca/). Situated on the Frontenac Arch, QUBS lands
provide access to diverse terrestrial and aquatic habitats
with a range of human disturbance. The station oers
laboratory and teaching spaces as well as accommoda-
tion. Queen's is a research-intensive university, with an
integrated Biology Department that encompasses ob-
servational, experimental and theoretical approaches to
gain a fundamental understanding of biological systems
and processes. Strong collaborative linkages exist withother departments and faculties at Queen's, and with
other national and international institutions.
Candidates must have a PhD or equivalent degree com-
pleted at the start date of the appointment. The main
criteria for selection are academic and teaching excel-
lence. The successful candidate will provide evidence of
high-quality scholarly output that demonstrates poten-
tial for independent research leading to peer assessed
publications and the securing of external research fund-
ing, as well as strong potential for outstanding teaching
contributions at both the undergraduate and graduate
levels, and an ongoing commitment to academic and
pedagogical excellence in support of the department's
programs. Candidates must provide evidence of an
ability to work collaboratively in an interdisciplinary
and student-centred environment. The successful candi-
date will be required to make substantive contributions
through service to the department, the Faculty, the Uni-
versity, and/or the broader community. Salary will be
commensurate with qualications and experience. This
position is subject to nal budgetary approval by the
University.
The University invites applications from all qualied in-
dividuals. Queen's is committed to employment equity
and diversity in the workplace and welcomes applica-
tions from women, visible minorities, Aboriginal peoples,
persons with disabilities, and LGBTQ persons. All qual-
ied candidates are encouraged to apply; however, in
accordance with Canadian immigration requirements,
Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada
will be given priority.
To comply with federal laws, the University is obliged to
gather statistical information as to how many applicants
for each job vacancy are Canadian citizens / permanent
residents of Canada. Applicants need not identify their
country of origin or citizenship; however, all applications
must include one of the following statements: \I am
a Canadian citizen / permanent resident of Canada";
OR, \I am not a Canadian citizen / permanent resi-
dent of Canada". Applications that do not include this
information will be deemed incomplete.
A complete application consists of:
- a cover letter (including one of the two statements
regarding Canadian citizenship / permanent resident
status specied in the previous paragraph);
- a current Curriculum Vitae (including a list of publi-
cations);
- a statement of research interests, and how the QUBS
would be used to full your interests and research goals;
- a statement of teaching interests and experience (in-78 EvolDir February 1, 2018
cluding teaching outlines and evaluations if available);
- a diversity statement describing your past and planned
commitment to promoting diversity, inclusion, and eq-
uity in your research programs and outreach activities;
- Three letters of reference to be sent directly to Brian
Cumming, Professor and Head, Department of Biology,
c/o Anne Dumont (ad142@queensu.ca)
The deadline for applications is February 18, 2018. Ap-
plicants are encouraged to send all documents in their
application packages electronically as PDFs to Anne
Dumont at ad142@queensu.ca, although hard copy ap-
plications may be submitted to:
Brian Cumming
Professor and Head
The Department of Biology
Room 3102, BioSciences Complex
116 Barrie St.
Queen's University
Kingston, Ontario
CANADA K7L 3J9
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
RBG Kew PlantSystematics
Senior Research Leader - Plant Systematics and Evolu-
tion Comparative Plant & Fungal Biology Department,
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Closing date: 18/02/2018
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/senior-research-leader-
plant-systematics-and-evolution-339669.html Kew is
the world's leading botanic gardens, at the forefront of
plant and fungal science, a UNESCO World Heritage
Site and a major visitor attraction. We are seeking an
excellent scientist to lead plant systematic research in
Kew's Comparative Plant and Fungal Biology depart-
ment, one of six departments in the Science Directorate.
Building on Kew's outstanding collections and scientic
strengths, you will lead the Integrated Monography
group, a team of world-class plant systematic experts,
and establish your own research programme focusedon a specic plant group of signicance to ecosystems
and human well-being. Your research will be global
and collaborative in outlook, combining research on
taxonomy and fundamental diversity with critical
studies in phylogenetic, evolutionary and environmental
biology, leading to diverse research outputs of the
highest standard consistent with Kew's ambitious
strategic objectives.
To be successful in this role, you'll be an outstanding
and inspiring scientist with a relevant PhD and exten-
sive post-qualication experience in plant systematics
and evolution research. You will have an established
reputation in the international science community and
substantial experience of integrating taxonomy and fun-
damental diversity research with phylogenetic, evolu-
tionary and environmental biology. You'll also have
signicant specialist knowledge in an appropriate plant
group that will underpin your research programme at
Kew, and a track record in excellent science publications
and grantsmanship, together with skills in managing
budgets and project leadership. We're looking for some-
one who is a proven leader and mentor of researchers,
and has a strong track record in the supervision of stu-
dents. Experience of teaching and outreach is highly
desirable. We want you to have a clear strategic out-
look and be quick to engage with the broader strategic
landscape of Kew Science and the institution as a whole.
The salary will be 47,353 - 57,285 per annum, depending
on skills and experience.
We oer a fantastic range of benets including a broad
range of Learning and Development opportunities, with
access to the Civil Service training curriculum, generous
annual leave entitlement for new starters, family friendly
policies, a choice of competitive pensions and exible
benets scheme.
If you are interested in this position, please follow this
link: https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/senior-research-
leader-plant-systematics-and-evolution-339669.html We
are committed to equality of opportunity and welcome
applications from all sections of the community. We
guarantee to interview all disabled applicants who meet
the essential criteria for the post.
Closing Date: 18/02/2018
William Baker <W.Baker@kew.org >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 79
SciLifeLab Stockholm
Bioinformatics
We have several openings for permanent bioinformatics
sta at SciLifeLab Stockholm, Sweden.
SciLifeLab (www.scilifelab.se) is a Swedish national cen-
ter for molecular biosciences with focus on health and
environmental research. The National Bioinformatics
Infrastructure at SciLifeLab (www.nbis.se) is a large
national infrastructure in rapid development, now look-
ing for several experts to join the Bioinformatics Long-
term Support team (a.k.a. WABI). The Bioinformatics
Long-term Support team provides advanced bioinformat-
ics analyses to some of the most scientically exciting
projects across Sweden, and with more than 20 full-time
senior bioinformaticians, the team is one of the strongest
units in Sweden for analysis of large-scale genomics and
related \omics" data. The experts will carry out ad-
vanced analyses within nationally prioritized projects,
develop tools and workows for such analyses and edu-
cate other scientists in bioinformatics.
The new sta members will be employed at Stockholm
university, with placement at SciLifeLab Stockholm.
More information: http://www.su.se/english/-
about/working-at-SU/jobs?rmpage=job&rmjob=-
4680&rmlang=UK We are looking forward to your
application, at the latest February 13, 2018!
P ar Engstr om, par.engstrom@scilifelab.se Bj orn Nyst-
edt, bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se Joint Heads of SciLife-
Lab Bioinformatics Long-term Support
Bjorn Nystedt, PhD Joint head of facility Bioinformat-
ics Long-term Support (WABI) National Bioinformat-
ics Infrastructure Sweden at SciLifeLab www.nbis.se,
www.scilifelab.se/platforms/bioinformatics
BMC E10:3206, entrance C11 Husargatan 3, SE-752 37
Uppsala
Phone: 018 - 471 4413 E-mail:
bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se
Bj orn Nystedt <bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se >SGN Frankfurt
BiodiversityDataScientist
Job oer ref. #11-18001
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
is a member of the Leibniz Association and is based
in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. SGN conducts natu-
ral history research with almost 800 employees and re-
search institutions in six federal states. Within SGN, the
Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(BiK-F) explores the interactions between biodiversity,
climate, and society. In the context of the DFG project
\German Federation for Biological Data" (GFBio) Senck-
enberg invites applications for a
Biodiversity Data Scientist (full time)
The German Federation for Biological Data (GFBio)
brings together Germany's key players in the eld of bio-
logical data and information management to harmonize
the national biological data landscape. GFBio's multi-
disciplinary consortium is represented by experts from
a variety of institutions ranging from natural history
collections, libraries, bioinformatics to environmental
data archives.
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung is one
of seven data centers within GFBio oering services for
storing, managing and analysing research and specimen
data.
Your tasks:develop/implement tools for managing
data according to the scope of GFBio contribute to
the conceptual development of a data visualisation and
analysis toolpresent the project at national and in-
ternational conferences communicate with the other
consortium partners write manuscripts and publish
results in international journals in cooperation with the
members of the consortium
Your prole:M.Sc./Diploma/PhD degree in Biology,
Bioinformatics, Ecology, Biogeography or an informatics-
related subject. a general overview of biodiversity
researchsubstantial experience with databases (e.g.
PostgreSQL, MySQL, Solr, Elastic Search) substan-
tial experience with at least one programming language
like Java, PHPprociency in data formats XML and
JSONexperience in the information management sys-
tem Metacat would be an asset as well as knowledge
in processing GIS data and in data visualization. 
excellent written and oral communication skills in Ger-80 EvolDir February 1, 2018
man and English a strong interest in extending your
knowledge in all elds of biodiversity informatics
What is awaiting you? An interesting task in a dy-
namic team of researchers in an internationally renowned
research institution The opportunity to gain experi-
ence in the above-mentioned research eld The occa-
sion to build a network with scientists in interdisciplinary
elds in Germany
Salary and benets are according to a full time public
service position in Germany (TV-H E 13). The con-
tract shall start as soon as possible and will initially be
limited until November 30st, 2018. A prolongation is
envisioned but depends on funding. The Senckenberg
Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung supports equal oppor-
tunity of men and women and therefore strongly invites
women to apply. Equally qualied handicapped appli-
cants will be given preference. The place of employment
is in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The employer is the
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung. Please
send your application, mentioning the reference of this
job oer (ref. #11-18001) before February 1st, 2018
preferred by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf docu-
ment) and including a letter outlining your suitability
and motivation, detailed CV, all transcripts and grades,
contact details of two potential references, a summary
of your Master's or Diploma thesis and, if available,
publications to:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung Sencken-
berganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main E-Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de
For scientic enquiries please get in con-
tact with PD Dr. Thomas Hoernschemeyer,
thomas.hoernschemeyer@senckenberg.de or Prof.
Dr. Thomas Hickler thomas.hickler@senckenberg.de
Mit freundlichen Gr uen /Best Regards
Jessica Helm Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a ^A 22 BGB) Senckenber-
ganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main
Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-19, 60325 Frankfurt
am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales - 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Gruppe Personal & Soziales - 1319 Elsen,
Carina
Mitarbeiter/in Personalbeschaung (Recruiting) - 1313
di Biase, Maria - 1313 Helm, Jessica - 1478 Gajcevic,
IsabelFax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1467 Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de
Direktorium: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Volker Mosbrugger,
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mulch, Stephanie Schwedhelm, Prof.
Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese, Prof. Dr. Uwe Fritz, Prof.
Dr. Ingrid Kr oncke Pr asidentin: Dr. h. c. Beate Her-
aeus Aufsichtsbeh orde: Magistrat der Stadt Frankfurt
am Main (Ordnungsamt)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
StCloudStateU
ConservationZoologist
Tenure-Track Assistant/Associate Professor of Biology
(Conservation Zoologist)
Description: The Department of Biological Sciences at
St. Cloud State University invites applications for a
tenure-track position in Conservation Zoology at the
rank of assistant or associate professor. We seek a
broadly-trained biologist, with an emphasis on zoologi-
cal organisms, who addresses questions regarding how
to conserve biodiversity at local, regional, and/or global
scales. Of interest are individuals with expertise among
the following elds that address current issues in conser-
vation biology: population genetics, species interactions,
predictive modeling, population demography and regu-
lation, biogeography, and maintenance and function of
biodiversity. The successful candidate will be expected
to develop and maintain an active research program and
teach undergraduate and graduate-level courses in the
areas of conservation, management, evolution, ecology,
and biodiversity. We especially encourage applications
from candidates in underrepresented groups in the bio-
logical sciences.
The ideal candidate will share St. Cloud State's commit-
ment to our mission and values, especially our commit-
ment to educating our racially and socio-economically
diverse student population. Applicants will be expected
to establish and maintain a professional goal to become
outstanding teachers through the use of research based,
best practices pedagogy. They should be willing to par-
ticipate in teaching using alternative delivery methodsFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 81
such as online and hybrid. They will regularly engage in
ongoing professional development and innovation oppor-
tunities focused on pedagogical growth oered within
the College and at SCSU.
Responsibilities: Teaching Bachelors and Masters-level
courses that may include courses such as Conservation
and Management of Animals, Wildlife Populations, In-
troductory Biology, General Zoology, and a Zoology-
related course dependent upon expertise (e.g., Entomol-
ogy, Herpetology, Ornithology). The faculty member
will be expected to participate in a multi-disciplinary
research environment that contributes to professional
development and involves undergraduate and graduate
students at the Masters level. Advising and committee
participation are expected.
In order to be considered for tenure, the successful candi-
date will demonstrate the ability to: 1) teach and/or per-
form assignment eectively; 2) conduct scholarly achieve-
ment or research; 3) continue preparation and study in
discipline; 4) contribute to student growth and devel-
opment; and 5) provide service to the university and
community. (IFO Article 22, Section B) *Employment
for this position is covered by the collective bargaining
agreement for the Inter Faculty Organization which can
be found at: http://www.hr.mnscu.edu/contract plans/-
documents/IFO 0911Contract.pdf Qualications and
Experience: Required Ph.D. in Biology or related disci-
pline by the hire date Evidence of a research program
involving animals Evidence of teaching experience Evi-
dence of demonstrated ability to teach and work with
persons from culturally diverse backgrounds.
Preferred Demonstrated experience teaching courses
listed including laboratories Post-doctoral experience
Evidence of working with animals, biodiversity, and
conservation Evidence of grants and peer-reviewed pub-
lications A research program that includes a technolog-
ical or quantitative component Experience mentoring
students including underrepresented groups in STEM
elds
Application Procedures: To apply for this position,
please continue the process via this website or directly
at: http://agency.governmentjobs.com/stcloudstate/-
default.cfm Application Review begins 1/31/2018; po-
sition is open until lled. Only complete applications
will be considered. A complete application will include
the following: Cover Letter Resume/Curriculum Vi-
tae Contact information for three (3) current, profes-
sional references Copies of Transcript(s) (undergrad-
uate/graduate/PhD); if advanced to nalist, ocial
transcripts will be required.
Contact Information: William Cook, Search Commit-
tee Chair Professor of Biological Sciences Phone: (320)308-2019 E-mail: biology@stcloudstate.edu
\Davis, Matthew P." <mpdavis@stcloudstate.edu >
TexasAMU PlantSystematics
Assistant Professor of Plant Systematics/Phylogenetics,
Texas A&M University
The Department of Ecosystem Science and Manage-
ment at Texas A&M University invites application for
a full-time tenure-track faculty position at the rank of
Assistant Professor in Plant Systematics/Phylogenetics.
Applicants whose research integrates eld and collection-
based studies with state-of-the-art molecular approaches
to address fundamental questions in systematics, evo-
lution, or biogeography of vascular plants are encour-
aged to apply. Specic research areas of emphasis may
include, but are not limited to: phylogenetics and ge-
nomics applied to organismal evolution; community phy-
logenetics, including research that complements existing
ESSM Departmental strength in savanna ecosystems;
systematics applied to conservation and management of
plant communities and ecosystems.
Essential Duties: The position is approximately 50%
research, 35% teaching and 15% service and herbarium
administration. The new faculty member will establish
a competitively funded research program in Plant Sys-
tematics/Phylogenetics. Teaching responsibilities may
include undergraduate classes in Agrostology and Range-
land Plant Taxonomy, along with a graduate course in
the candidate's area of expertise. The successful can-
didate is also expected to hold the position of Director
of the S.M. Tracy Herbarium, which currently houses
approximately 345,000 specimens including one of the
largest collections of grasses in the region, and has am-
ple representation from most vascular plant families.
Applicants interested in continuing eorts to diversify
and modernize the collection resources are encouraged
to apply.
Required: - PhD in Plant Systematics or close equivalent
by the time of hire with a researchemphasis as described
above. - Evidence of potential to secure extramural
funding and a demonstrated ability topublish research
results in refereed journals. - The appointee will also
show evidence of ability or potential to eectively teach
and mentor undergraduate and graduate students.
Desired: - Demonstrated interest and ability to teach
Agrostology and Rangeland Plant Taxonomy. - Post-82 EvolDir February 1, 2018
doctoral or similar experience. - A successful record of
extramural funding for research. - Experience working
with herbarium collections. - Experience and interest in
collaborations addressing contemporary research ques-
tionsin savannas. - Familiarity with the land grant
mission.
A competitive remuneration package with excellent ben-
ets will be oered commensurate with the appointee's
capabilities, qualications, and experience.
Resources: Texas A&M University (TAMU) is a
public, land-grant institution with access to excellent
resources including Genomics and High Performance
Computing facilities, core laboratories, eld stations, as
well as opportunities to interact and collaborate with a
broad range of TAMU System researchers throughout
the state of Texas. The Department of Ecosystem
Science and Management (ESSM) is an interdisciplinary
faculty committed to creating and synthesizing new
knowledge on how ecosystems and their components
persist, function, assemble, process nutrients and
water, evolve, and respond to environmental change.
ESSM relies on science- based problem solving to
guide departmental education, research, and exten-
sion programs. http://essm.tamu.edu/ Application
Process: For full consideration, applications should
be submitted by February 15, 2018. The position
will remain open until nalists have been selected.
Applicants should submit a cover letter addressing
each of the required/desired qualications (up to
3 pages), a curriculum vitae, unocial transcripts,
names and contact information for three references,
and statements on Teaching and Research relative to
the position (up to 2 pages each). Individuals should
apply at: https://tamus.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
AgriLife Research External/job/College-Station-
TAMU/Assistant-Professor R-000843-1 For inquiries
please contact Dr. Carol Loopstra, c-loopstra@tamu.edu
. The Texas A&M System is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action/Veterans/ Disability Employer
committed to diversity. The college is especially
interested in qualied candidates who can contribute,
through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the
diversity and excellence of the academic community.
Women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, and
veterans are encouraged to appl
ccasola@tamu.eduUAlgarve Portugal 500
MarineEvolBiol
500 research positions in Portugal
The Foundation for Science and Technology of Portugal
(FCT) opened 500 new scientic positions at all levels
(Junior researcher, Assistant Researcher, Principal Re-
searcher, Coordinating Researcher). The call is open
between January 19 and February 15.
We invite strong candidates to apply to the FCT 'Stim-
ulus to Individual Scientic Employment 2017' having
CCMAR- Centre of Marine Sciences at the University
of Algarve, Faro, Portugal (ccmar.ualg.pt) as the host
institution (where selected candidates will be working).
CCMAR is a top marine research institute in Portugal,
including an enthusiastic group of scientists working in
evolutionary biology.
Those interested to apply should send, as soon as pos-
sible considering the short deadline, an e-mail to cc-
mar@ualg.pt (subject: Scientic Employment 2017) ad-
dressed to the director and include: 1) Motivation letter
including planned research goals and up to two contact
for references; 2) Curriculum vitae; 3) level of the appli-
cation. CCMAR will reply shortly and may carry out
online interviews.
You can also contact one of the researchers directly
to discuss a project, collaborations, etc. nd us at:
https://www.ccmar.ualg.pt Detailed information
about the call can be found here - in Portuguese (but
CCMAR will help with translation and the application).
http://www.fct.pt/apoios/contratacaodoutorados/-
empregocientico/ci dez2017.phtml.en The
guidelines (In English) can be downloaded here:
https://www.fct.pt/apoios/contratacaodoutorados/-
empregocientico/docs/Guiao deAvaliacao.pdf Ester
Serrao <eserrao@ualg.pt >
UCollegeLondon
PlantOrFungalEvolution
Last Advertisement: Closing Date 12 January.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 83
Dear Colleagues,
We would be very grateful if you could bring the fol-
lowing position at University College London to the
attention of suitable candidates.
Quain Professor or Associate Professor of Plant or Fun-
gal Evolutionary Biology University College London
http://bit.ly/UCL-Quain Closing Date: 12 January
2018
We seek to appoint a scientist as Quain Professor or
Associate Professor of Plant or Fungal Evolutionary Biol-
ogy. The successful candidate will have an international
reputation in the eld of Plant or Fungal Evolutionary
Biology and will provide leadership in expanding the
study and teaching in this area across UCL.
The Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and
Environment (GEE) is one of four Research Depart-
ments in the Division of Biosciences at UCL, one of the
world's leading centres for basic biological sciences and
part of the UCL Faculty of Life Sciences. The post will
be held in the Centre for Life's Origins and Evolution
(http://bit.ly/UCL-CLOE), a cross-departmental insti-
tute within GEE. The candidate's research will t into
one of the three themes of CLOE: origins of life and of
major innovations; pattern of evolution at all time scales,
across the tree of life; and the processes underpinning
the emergence of biological complexity/diversity. Areas
of interest include, but are not restricted to: compara-
tive genomics; diversication of major groups; evolution
of plant/fungal interactions; the genetic basis of key
transitions; plastid origins; evodevo. We welcome appli-
cants working on any taxa from unicells to angiosperms.
The research may be computational, experimental or
both.
Many thanks
Max Telford
To apply follow: http://bit.ly/UCL-Quain-apply Max
Telford Professor of Zoology Department of Genetics,
Evolution and Environment, University College London,
Darwin Building, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT,
UK. Tel: +44 (0)20 7679 2554 (Internal: 32554) Fax:
+44 (0)20 7679 7096 http://www.ucl.ac.uk/biology/-
academic-sta/telford/telford.html Open access journal
EvoDevo: http://www.evodevojournal.com/ \Telford,
Max" <m.telford@ucl.ac.uk >UCollegeLondon StatisticalGenetics
RiceChickpea
Genetics Institute, University College London
Research Associate in Statistical Genetics and Bioinfor-
matics - Ref: 1704024
We are recruiting a talented statistical geneti-
cist/bioinformatician with excellent communication
skills to determine the genetic basis of complex phe-
notypes in rice and chickpea, with the aim of improving
these important crops. The methodologies developed by
the project will apply to many other crops and animals.
The post is funded by the UK Global Challenges Re-
search Fund and the BBSRC. The post-holder will join
the group of Richard Mott in the Genetics Institute
(UGI) at University College London (UCL), and will
work in close collaboration with the International Rice
Research Institute (IRRI), Philippines, and the Interna-
tional Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Trop-
ics (ICRISAT), India, and the National Institute for
Agricultural Botany (NIAB), Cambridge. The project
will involve visits to both IRRI and ICRISAT.
The project focuses on (i) the imputation of genome se-
quence from crop populations sequenced at low coverage,
adapting methods developed previously in the group
(e.g. Davies et al Nature Genetics 2015) (ii) the use
of low-coverage population sequence to identify struc-
tural variants implicated in phenotypes (Imprialou et
al Genetics 2017) (iii) The development and implemen-
tation of quantitative genetics and genomic prediction
methods in crop development, particularly in relation
to multiparental advanced intercrosses (MAGIC popula-
tions. (iv) Close collaboration, support and knowledge
exchange with partner laboratories.
Applicants must have a PhD in Statistical Genetics,
Bioinformatics or a related eld, and a good under-
standing of genetic association mapping, and experience
of manipulating and analysing Next-Gen sequence data.
It is essential candidates demonstrate programming u-
ency in R, Perl/Python, or C/C++. The successful
candidate must have experience of conducting research
in statistical genetics or bioinformatics, and in managing
long-distance collaborations eectively.
The post is available from now until 30 June 2021 with
possibility of extension.84 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Salary Grade7 34,635 - 41,864 per annum (inclusive
of London allowance) Closing Date: 2 February 2018
Further details and application form available from
https://tinyurl.com/y7sqh3rr If you would like to dis-
cuss the post please contact Professor Richard Mott,
r.mott@ucl.ac.uk
r.mott@ucl.ac.uk
UGlasgow MolecularLabTech
Job open for a molecular ecology lab technician at the
University of Glasgow:
We invite applications for a full time molecular labora-
tory technician in the Institute of Biodiversity, Animal
Health, and Comparative Medicine (main campus) at
the University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK. We have a
shared lab facility for research groups on evolutionary
and ecological genetics of animals, plants, and pathogens
- and we are in need of a new, skilled pair of hands to
bring onto the team!
We are seeking an enthusiastic and reliable technician
capable of multitasking eorts across research groups
and research tasks. Abilities to conduct project planning
and troubleshooting, work independently to excellent
standards, willingness to learn new techniques, keen
attention to detail and organisation, and aptitude for
teaching hands-on skills to students, sta and visiting
researchers are all required.
The role will involve sample handling and molecular
lab techniques for the workows of DNA and RNA
analyses. This includes skills such as (but not limited
to) high quality extraction, PCR, qPCR, quantitations
and quality control, cloning, and next-gen sequencing
library preparation. Skills with protein analysis work
would also be desirable. The technician will work closely
with multiple PIs and members of their research groups,
and will manage the labs for equipment and day-to-day
tasks.
Full job description is available at the University website
under job reference 019806. https://www.gla.ac.uk/-
it/iframe/jobs/ Applications must be made to the uni-
versity website no later than 21 Jan. 2018. Informal
inquiries welcome to Kathryn.Elmer@glasgow.ac.uk
[University of Glasgow: The Times Scottish University
of the Year 2018]
\Kathryn.Elmer@glasgow.ac.uk"<Kathryn.Elmer@glasgow.ac.uk >
UGreifswald AnimalEvolution
Professor (W2) of Animal Ecology
The University of Greifswald's Faculty of Mathematics
and Natural Sciences is seeking to ll the position of a
Professor (W2) of Animal Ecology
at the Zoological Institute and Museum, to be appointed
as soon as possible.
We are seeking an internationally recognized expert
with a strong research record in the areas of animal
ecology and evolutionary biology. The applicant
(f/m) has experience with innovative approaches for
studying mechanisms in animals to cope with changing
environmental conditions (phenotypic plasticity, genetic
adaptation). Participation in local joint research
projects such as the DFG Research Training Group
2010 \Biological RESPONSEs to Novel and Changing
Environments" (https://biologie.uni-greifswald.de/-
forschung/dfg-graduiertenkollegs/research-training-
group-2010/) and the University's key eld of
research \Environmental Change: Responses and
Adaptation (ECRA)" (https://www.uni-greifswald.de/-
forschung/forschungsprol/forschungsschwerpunkte/-
environmental-change-responses-and-adaptation/) is
expected.
The successful applicant is expected to participate in
teaching (8h per week in each semester) in the bachelor
courses 'Biology' and 'Landscape Ecology and Nature
Conservation' and the master courses 'Biodiversity and
Ecology' as well as 'Landscape Ecology and Nature
Conservation'. We expect the candidates to be able
to teach in English as well as in German. The candi-
date should be willing to work in academic committees.
International experience is desirable.
Applicants must fulll the requirements for a university
professor according to ^A 58 of the Landeshochschulge-
setz (State Higher Education Law) Mecklenburg-
Vorpommern: a university degree at PhD level, inde-
pendent teaching and research experience as proven by
a junior professorship, habilitation or other equivalent
position.
In accordance with ^A 61 LHG M-V, the professor ap-
pointed will be assigned the status of a civil servant
(Beamtenverh altnis) with unlimited tenure; alterna-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 85
tively, if the applicant is not permanently available:
limited tenure as a civil servant or public service em-
ployee.
The University would like to increase the proportion of
women in areas in which they are underrepresented and
thus applications from women are particularly welcome
and will be treated with priority if they have the same
qualications and as long as there are no clear reasons
which make a fellow applicant more suitable.
Please include only copies of documents in your appli-
cation, as these will not be returned. Unfortunately,
application costs cannot be reimbursed by the State of
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.
For more information, contact Prof. Dr. Werner
Weitschies, Dean of the Faculty of Mathematics and
Natural Sciences.
Applications with all usual documents (Curriculum Vi-
tae (CV) detailing the academic career, list of scholarly
publications and courses taught, academic certicates,
proof of teaching experience, details of externally raised
funds) must be sent by the 16.02.2018 to:
Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universit at Greifswald Dekan
der Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftlichen Fakult at
Friedrich-Ludwig-Jahn-Strae 17a 17487 Greifswald
Tel.: +49 3834 420 4000
E-Mail: dekanmnf@uni-greifswald.de
https://www.uni-greifswald.de/en/university/-
information/jobs/current-vacancies/professuren/-
professor-w2-of-animal-ecology/ Michael Beaulieu
<MiKLvet@hotmail.fr >
UIllinois
EvolutionaryImmunobiology
Note: Immunobiology researchers using an evolutionary
or comparative genomics approach are very welcome to
apply for this position.
FACULTY POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
Assistant Professor - Immunobiology
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Position: Assistant Professor, Full Time Tenure-Track
Faculty Position in Immunobiology in the Department
of Animal Sciences.
Qualications: Ph.D. degree in immunobiology or arelated eld, a commitment to teaching, and an abil-
ity to establish an externally funded, internationally-
recognized program of research in immunobiology. Can-
didates with postdoctoral research experience, a strong
record of publications and evidence of likely success in
competing for extramural funding will be preferred.
Responsibilities: The Department of Animal Sciences
has a long and prominent history of discovery and ex-
cellence in basic immunology, immunogenetics, and im-
munophysiology. The successful candidate will develop
and maintain a nationally and internationally recog-
nized research program supported by extramural fund-
ing. The successful candidate will also contribute to
interdisciplinary campus initiatives involving the im-
munology discipline and contribute to the public service
missions of the University. Responsibilities will also
include mentoring graduate students and postdoctoral
fellows, and advising and interacting with undergradu-
ate students. The successful candidate will participate
in teaching appropriate courses in immunology and/or
related elds. Candidates with research interests in
understanding immunophysiology in domesticated ani-
mals, model organisms and/or humans are encouraged
to apply. Potential research topics may include, but
are not limited to: epigenetic modications and repro-
gramming of immune cells; immunometabolic signaling
networks that link immune responses and metabolism;
host-pathogen interactions; neuroimmune interactions
via the meningeal lymphatic system; and neuroimmune
interactions and behavior, including stress.
Proposed Start Date: Negotiable after the closing date.
Salary: Commensurate with qualications and experi-
ence
Location: The University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign (http://www.illinois.edu) is located approx-
imately 120 miles south of Chicago in a metropolitan
area of approximately 232,000 people.
Resources: The campus is home to internationally
recognized facilities and interdisciplinary programs
including the Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic
Biology (http://www.igb.illinois.edu), Beckman
Institute (http://www.beckman.illinois.edu), W.M.
Keck Center for Comparative and Functional
Genomics (http://www.biotech.uiuc.edu/centers/-
Keck), Carle Illinois College of Medicine (http://-
www.medicine.illinois.edu), Cancer Center at Illinois
(http://www.cancer.illinois.edu), and National
Center for Supercomputing Applications (http://-
www.ncsa.illinois.edu). The Department of Animal
Sciences (http://www.ansc.illinois.edu) currently has 35
faculty, 500 undergraduate students, and approximately
100 graduate students.86 EvolDir February 1, 2018
The College of Agricultural, Consumer and Environ-
mental Sciences (ACES) (http://www.aces.illinois.edu)
is widely recognized for excellence in undergraduate
and graduate education, research, outreach, and in-
ternational programs. In addition to its mission as a
land-grant university, the campus oers exceptional pro-
grams in the arts, humanities, sciences, engineering, and
computer science.
Application and Closing Date: For initial consideration,
the following materials should be uploaded by February
15, 2018. However, the search will continue until a suit-
able candidate is found. Please create your candidate
prole at http://jobs.illinois.edu and upload, as a single
pdf le, a curriculum vitae, a statement of research in-
terests (including future plans), a statement of teaching
philosophy, the names and contact information of three
references.
Questions can be directed to Dr. Rex Gaskins, Chair
of the Search Committee (mailto:hgaskins@illinois.edu),
(217) 333-4189 or to Dr. Rodney Johnson, Head of the
Department, (mailto:rwjohn@illinois.edu), (217) 244-
1681.
The University of Illinois conducts criminal background
checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a con-
tingent oer.
The University of Illinois is an Equal Opportunity, Af-
rmative Action employer. Minorities, women, veterans
and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
For more information, visit http://go.illinois.edu/EEO.
To learn more about
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULausanne EvolutionaryEcology
The Faculty of Biology and Medicine of the University
of Lausanne, Switzerland, invites applications for the
position of
Assistant Professor (tenure-track) in Ecology
at the Department of Ecology and Evolution.
The successful candidate will have an outstanding record
of research, a demonstrated ability to attract externalresearch funding, an interest and enthusiasm for teach-
ing ecology, and a desire to establish a strong research
group in ecology. All branches of ecology will be con-
sidered, but we are particularly interested in candidates
with research and teaching interests in experimental
population and/or experimental ecology. Pre-existing
knowledge of French is not required, but the candidate
will be expected to be able to teach in French within
two years.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution has a long
track record of excellence in research. It is located on
a beautiful and vibrant campus on the shore of Lake
Geneva, sharing the site with the Federal Technical
University, EPFL.
A start-up package, a state-of-the-art research infrastruc-
ture, as well as a yearly research allowance for positions
and consumables will be available within an environment
favouring collaborations.
Applications should include a motivation letter, a cur-
riculum vitae with a complete list of publications in
which the ve most signicant are identied, a brief
statement of research program, a statement of teaching
philosophy, and the names of three referees. The full
applications should be submitted through the UNIL
recruitment system: http://bit.ly/2DmXnnM Deadline
for application: March 31st 2018 (23:59 GMT+1)
Further information may be obtained from Prof. Chris-
tian Hardtke (Christian.Hardtke@unil.ch), chairman of
the search committee.
Seeking to promote an equitable representation of
women and men among its sta, the University en-
courages applications from women.
\tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch" <tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch >
ULeuven CichlidSpeciation
Research Scientist in Evolutionary Genomics: Cichlid-
Speciation
The Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences
Evolutionary and Behavioural Genomics of Cichlid Spe-
ciation
Context :
Since Darwins' \The Origin of Species" there has been a
continued interest to gain insight in the speciation pro-
cess. Initially, theories on speciation were mostly narra-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 87
tive and focussed on the geographic modes of speciation,
while more recent work investigated the importance of
sexual selection or whether speciation rates can be trig-
gered by environmental changes. All these questions
have been addressed in the cichlid shes from the Great
African lakes that are often cited as the ultimate animal
models to investigate adaptive radiation and speciation.
To date, recently developed techniques that allow ex-
ploring genomic evolutionary issues in cichlids have for
the most part been used to link genes with the observed
phenotypic changes that are so characteristic in the
African cichlid species ocks. In contrast, we propose to
make use of the opportunities oered by the availability
of these novel techniques to investigate the genetic basis
of the speciation process itself. Therefore, our two main
objectives are to characterize the genomic dierentia-
tion that drives the speciation process, and to verify
whether/and to what extent the same genomic changes
are involved in to maintain the ???????integrity' of the
gene pools of the resulting sister species.
GENBAS: a BRAIN.be project: 'Genetic Basis of Spe-
ciation' http://genbas.be/ Tasks :
- Assistance of the GENBAS team [RBINS (Brussels),
RMCA (Tervuren), University of Leuven and Univer-
sity of Liege) in NGS data analyses (genotyping-by-
sequencing and RNAseq data)
- Applying phylogenomic, phylogeographic and popula-
tion genomic data analysis to resolve species boundaries
and connectivity questions
- Identication of divergent genomic regions within and
between populations/species
- Linking adaptive genomic regions with gene ex-
pression data, potentially linked to speciation/mate
choice/sexual selection genes
Prole :
- Diploma: Master in Bioinformatics, Biology or Bio-
engineering with a strong interest in evolutionary ge-
nomics (phylogenomics or population genomics)
- Technical skills: Experience with NGS data analysis
(raw data, VCF genotypes), excellent knowledge of R,
familiar with scripting in Python/Perl ....
- General skills: eager to learn, team player, good knowl-
edge of English
We oer :
- A xed-term contract of 12 months with the possibility
of extension (but application to National Research Fund
mandatory)
- Salary according the standard scale for an assistant(SW1);
- Free public transport;
- A dynamic and interesting working environment
- Starting date: March 2018
How to apply?
E-mail your motivation letter, 2 references and CV be-
fore 15/02/2018
to : Erik Verheyen via:
erik.verheyen@naturalsciences.be
Gregory Maes, Ph.D.
University of Leuven (KU Leuven)
Laboratory for Cytogenetics and Genome Research
Centre for Human Genetics jGenomics Core
O&N I Herestraat 49 - box 602
UZ Leuven
B-3000 Leuven
Belgium
Phone: +32 (0)16 37 25 22
E-mail: gregory.maes@kuleuven.be
Logo GC
Gregory Maes <gregory.maes@kuleuven.be >
ULille EvolutionaryGenomics
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce that the university of Lille
(France) is opening an Assistant Professor position on
Evolutionary Genomics and Systems Biology to join our
group in the lab Evolution, Ecology and Paleontology
(UMR CNRS 8198, http://eep.univ-lille.fr/en/news/-
emplois/assistant-professor-evolutionary-genomics-and-
systems-biology) in Lille (France). This is a permanent
position and our main criterion is scientic excellence.
We welcome all applications focusing on basic research
with relevance to the elds of evolutionary genomics and
systems biology, broadly interpreted as the study of the
evolutionary process taking into account the complex-
ity of interactions between genetic elements within a
genome. Research in the group is focusing on theoretical
and empirical biology with a strong focus on evolution-
ary genomics of reproductive systems in plants, but a88 EvolDir February 1, 2018
range of other research topics in a variety of model organ-
isms are welcome. Cutting-edge platforms for molecular
biology, computational resources and greenhouse space
are made freely available to members of the group.
The successful candidate will develop research using
empirical and/or theoretical approaches. She/he will be
teaching population genetics, evolutionary ecology and
general biology at the undergraduate (Population and
Organismal Biology) and graduate levels (Master Biodi-
versity, Ecology and Evolution, major on Management
and Evolution of Biodiversity). Some undergraduate
courses will need to be taught in French but research
can be conducted in English.
Lille is a vibrant cultural city with a central location
in Europe (1h to Paris, 35 min to Brussels and 2h to
London by fast train).
Informal inquiries should be sent
to Vincent.Castric@univ-lille1.fr or
Xavier.Vekemans@univ-lille1.fr. The deadline for
formal application is march 29th, 2018.
{ Dr. Vincent CASTRIC Directeur de recherche CNRS
http://vincentcastric.weebly.com Unite Evo-Eco-Paleo
(EEP) - UMR 8198 CNRS / Universite de Lille - Sci-
ences et Technologies Batiment SN2, bureau 207 59655
Villeneuve d'Ascq - FRANCE Tel: +33 3 2033 6303
Fax: +33 3 2043 6979
Vincent CASTRIC <Vincent.Castric@univ-lille1.fr >
ULiverpool 4 FellowsLectureships
I'd like to draw your attention to four open positions at
the University of Liverpool, UK. Please note that the
research area is exible, and that these positions are
roughly the equivalent of an Assistant Professorship in
the U.S.
Informal inquires can be directed to to Ilik Sac-
cheri at I.J.Saccheri@liverpool.ac.uk or Greg Hurst at
G.Hurst@liverpool.ac.uk.
https://recruit.liverpool.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/-
erqjobspec details form.jobspec?p id=008631 4 x
Tenure Track Fellowships/Lecturerships Grade 8 Inte-
grative Biology 008631 39,992 - 50,618 pa 12-Feb-2018
23:30
Applications are invited from candidates with expertise
that maps onto existing strengths in our four cross-
cutting research themes:Adaptation to environmental change Dynamics and man-
agement of host-microbe interactions >From genomes
to biological systems Molecular basis of therapeutic
targeting
We are looking to appoint either at Tenure Track Fel-
low or Lectureship level. You should have a PhD in a
relevant discipline, experience as a successful researcher,
evidence of high quality publications in your area of ex-
pertise and demonstrate research independence. We are
particularly interested in applications from candidates
who will be able to make use of opportunities aorded by
the UK government's Global Challenges Research Fund
and the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, working in
the following areas:
Eco-evolutionary dynamics Plant science Vertebrate
behaviour and evolutionary ecology Microbe-host in-
teractions Functional and comparative genomics Cell
signaling Metabolomics Computational modelling of
complex biosystems
Andrea Betancourt jSenior Lecturer Department of
Evolution, Ecology, and Behaviour (DEEB) jInstitute
for Integrative Biology (IIB) University of Liverpool Bio-
sciences Building Rm 238 / Crown St. / L69 7ZB Liv-
erpool / United Kingdom http://www.yevolution.net
j+44 (0) 151 795 4516 jaabt@liverpool.ac.uk
\Betancourt, Andrea" <A.Betancourt@liverpool.ac.uk >
UNevada LasVegas
EvolutionaryNeurobiology
We are looking for a neurophysiologist, broadly dened
to include evolutionary, ecological and behavioral as-
pects of neurobiology. For more information, please
contact me or the search committee chair.
Allen Gibbs
allen.gibbs@unlv.edu
University of Nevada Las Vegas: Neurophysiology As-
sistant Professor
School of Life Sciences, College of Sciences [18546] Cat-
egory: - Faculty - Medicine - Other Medicine - Faculty -
Science - Other Science
Application Due: Open Until Filled
Type: Full Time
Announcement Number: 18546February 1, 2018 EvolDir 89
The University of Nevada, Las Vegas invites applications
for the position of Neurophysiology Assistant Professor,
School of Life Sciences, College of Sciences [18546]
PROFILE of the UNIVERSITY Founded in 1957, UNLV
is a doctoral-degree-granting institution of approxi-
mately 29,000 students and 3,000 faculty and sta that
is classied by the Carnegie Foundation for the Ad-
vancement of Teaching as a research university with
high research activity. UNLV oers a broad range of
respected academic programs and is on a path to join
the top tier of national public research universities.
The university is committed to enhancing eorts to at-
tract and retain top students and faculty, educating the
region's diversifying population and workforce, driving
economic activity through increased research and com-
munity partnerships, and creating an academic health
center for Southern Nevada that includes the launch of
a new UNLV School of Medicine. UNLV is located on
a 332-acre main campus and two satellite campuses in
Southern Nevada.
COMMITMENT to DIVERSITY The successful can-
didate will demonstrate support for diversity, equity
and inclusiveness as well as participate in maintaining
a respectful, positive work environment.
ROLE of the POSITION The successful candidate is
expected to carry out an active and independent re-
search program supported by extramural funding. The
successful candidate will teach at the graduate and un-
dergraduate levels and participate in service activities
commensurate with the role of an Assistant Professor.
Although other research areas may be considered, the
ideal candidate will develop an experimental research
program in neurophysiology. Preference will be given to
those that strengthen or complement current research
activities in the School.
Additional information about the School may be
obtained from our website, https://www.unlv.edu/-
lifesciences . QUALIFICATIONS This position requires
a Ph.D. from a regionally accredited college or university
and postdoctoral experience preferred.
SALARY RANGE Salary competitive with those at
similarly situated institutions.
Position is contingent upon funding.
APPLICATION DETAILS Submit a letter of interest,
a detailed resume listing qualications and experience,
and the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of at
least three professional references who may be contacted.
Applicants should fully describe their qualications and
experience, with specic reference to each of the min-
imum and preferred qualications because this is theinformation on which the initial review of materials will
be based.
Although this position will remain open until lled, re-
view of candidates' materials will begin November 27,
2017 and best consideration will be gained for materi-
als submitted prior to that date. Materials should be
addressed to Frank van Breukelen Search Committee
Chair, and are to be submitted via on-line application at
https://hrsearch.unlv.edu/. For assistance with UNLV's
on-line applicant portal, contact UNLV Employment Ser-
vices at (702) 895-3504 or applicant.inquiry@unlv.edu.
Application Information Contact: UNLV Human Re-
sources University of Nevada Las Vegas Phone: 702-
895-3504 Online App. Form: https://hrsearch.unlv.edu
UNLV is an Equal Opportunity / Armative Action
educator and employer committed to achieving excel-
lence through diversity. All qualied applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard
to, among other things, race, color, religion, sex, age,
creed, national origin, veteran status, physical or men-
tal disability, sexual orientation, genetic information,
gender identity, gender expression, or any other factor
protected by anti-discrimination laws. The University
of Nevada, Las Vegas employs only United States citi-
zens and non-citizens lawfully authorized to work in the
United States. Women, under-represented groups, indi-
viduals with disabilities, and veterans are encouraged
to apply.
Allen Gibbs <allen.gibbs@unlv.edu >
UofGuelph
ComputationalBiolBioinformatics
Dear colleagues,
We are currently searching for a tenure-track Assis-
tant Professor in the areas of Computational Biol-
ogy/Bioinformatics/Genomics to join the Department of
Integrative Biology at the University of Guelph (https:/-
/www.uoguelph.ca/ib/).
Further details about the position and application
process can be found here: http://www.uoguelph.ca/-
facultyjobs/postings/ad17-80.shtml Applications will
be considered beginning on Feb. 19, 2018.
The University of Guelph is a research-intensive institu-
tion, with major strengths in the Biological, Environ-
mental and Agricultural Sciences, and ranks among the
top agri-food universities in the world. The position90 EvolDir February 1, 2018
is part of a cluster hire to support a University-wide
research program to increase exponentially our ability
to leverage big data for the benet of food produc-
tion and biodiversity at three scales of research and
innovation: global, landscape, and microscale (https://-
arrellfoodinstitute.ca/food-from-thought/).
Thank you for your consideration,
John Fryxell (Chair of the search committee) Sarah
Adamowicz Nick Bernier Moira Ferguson Andreas Hey-
land Haz Maherali
Sarah Adamowicz <sadamowi@uoguelph.ca >
UOslo 2 EvolutionaryBiology
RESEARCHER IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY
AND APPLIED MATHEMATICS - TWO POSITIONS
The University of Oslo is Norway's oldest and highest
rated institution of research and education with 28 000
students and 7000 employees. Its broad range of aca-
demic disciplines and internationally esteemed research
communities make UiO an important contributor to
society.
Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis
(CEES) is a research centre and a section at the Depart-
ment of Biosciences, University of Oslo. CEES combines
a broad spectrum of disciplines (population biology, ge-
nomics, statistics, mathematical modelling) to foster
the concept of ecology as a driving force of evolution
via selective processes, with a corresponding inuence
of evolutionary changes on ecology. CEES has over 180
members (Professors (20), postdocs/researchers (60),
PhDs (35), Master's students (40) and technical and
administrative sta) and many guest researchers. The
members represent 30 nationalities and constitute a
vibrant and creative research environment. CEES co-
ordinate several international networks. The budget =
170 million NOK (about 55 externally funded research
projects). CEES successfully completed its 10 year sta-
tus of Centre of Excellence (CoE) in 2017 and is chaired
by Professor Nils Chr. Stenseth.
Two researcher positions, one in Evolutionary biology
and one in Applied mathematics are available at the Cen-
tre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES),
Department of Biosciences, Faculty of Mathematics and
Natural Sciences.
The positions is for a period of two years, with thepossibilities of extension. The appointed candidates
will be working on the project \Drivers of evolutionary
change: understanding stasis and non-stasis through
integration of micro- and macroevolution", which is
funded by the Research Council of Norway (RCN)
(there will be no compulsory teaching). The PI of
the project is Nils Chr. Stenseth (University of Oslo:
www.cees.uio.no/stenseth); co-PIs are Jan Martin Nord-
botten (University of Bergen: http://www.uib.no/-
personer/Jan.Martin.Nordbotten), Indr e~Aliobait e(Uni-
versity of Helsinki: http://www.zliobaite.com/) and
Mikael Fortelius (University of Helsinki: http://-
www.helsinki./geo/sta/fortelius/). Both positions
will have CEES as their home base, but the appointed
candidates will be expected to spend time in Bergen
and Helsinki.
RESEARCH PROJECT
The primary objective of the funded project is to un-
derstand to what extent macroevolutionary patterns
and changes can be understood as resulting from mi-
croevolutionary and ecological processes. By so doing
the project aims at bringing together micro- and macro-
evolutionary theories. A main objective of the project
is to develop common ground between mathematical
formulations and biological denitions by developing
data proxies and linking them to models. A description
of the project can be obtained on request.
POSITION 1 (EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY): To ll
one of the opened positions we are seeking a person with
solid background in evolutionary biology. Candidates
with experience in statistical modelling, computational
analysis and/or integration of data-driven analysis with
mathematical models of ecological and/or evolutionary
processes will be prioritized.
POSITION 2 (APPLIED MATHEMATICS): To ll the
other opened position we are seeking a person with solid
background in applied mathematics. Candidates with
experience from multi-scale methods, analysis of partial
dierential equations, and/or scientic computing will
be prioritized. Previous experience from mathematical
biology is not necessary, but will be advantageous.
The two appointed candidates will be working as a
team together with other members of the project. For
this purpose we seek highly motivated and enthusiastic
persons interested in working in interdisciplinary teams.
REQUIREMENTS
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has
a strategic ambition of being a leading research faculty.
The successful candidates for the announced positions
will be chosen in accordance with this ambition and will
be expected to be in the upper segment of his/her classFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 91
with respect to academic credentials.
The successful candidates must have a PhD degree or
the award pending in appropriate elds. The ideal candi-
dates will have a proven record of publishing high-quality
research.
Fluent oral and written communication skills in English.
We oer:
- Salary NOK 490 900 - 569 000 per annum depend-
ing on qualications in position as Researcher (position
code 1109) - A professionally stimulating working en-
vironment - Attractive welfare benets and a generous
pension agreement, in addition to Oslo's family-friendly
environment with its rich
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOttawa QuantitativeBiology
TENURE-TRACK POSITION IN QUANTITATIVE
BIOLOGY Department of Biology, University of Ottawa
The Department of Biology at the University of Ottawa
is hiring a tenure track Assistant Professor in quantita-
tive biology whose research focuses on the development
or application of statistical approaches to addressing
complex biological questions. We are particularly inter-
ested in candidates who would complement and extend
our existing strengths in evolution, ecology, genomics,
and statistical genetics. The successful applicant is ex-
pected to develop an internationally-recognized research
program and to contribute to undergraduate and grad-
uate training. Preference will be given to candidates
who can teach biostatistics at the undergraduate and
graduate level in French and English.
The successful candidate will join an innovative and
collaborative department of over 40 researchers working
in all elds of biology including biodiversity, computa-
tional biology, cell and molecular biology, developmental
biology, ecotoxicology, evolutionary biology, and physi-
ology. The Department maintains close connections and
collaborations with researchers in the Ottawa region
including federal government science departments, the
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, the Canadian Mu-
seum of Nature, and Carleton University. The Facultyof Science supports several core facilities including a
Molecular Biology and Genomics Laboratory to provide
access to advanced molecular biology/genomics equip-
ment. Access to high-performance computing and data
storage is available through Compute Canada. | Ap-
plication deadline: Review of applications will begin
March 15, 2018 and will continue until the position is
lled.
For additional details see the full job posting here:
https://www.uottawa.ca/vice-president-academic/-
faculty-aairs/faculty-recruitment/openings (click on
'Faculty of Science') To appear in Nature shortly.
hrundle@uottawa.ca
USaskatchewan HeadTech
GroundSquirrelEvolution
Job Description and Duties: We are looking for a head
eld technician to assist with, and coordinate, eldwork
on the ecology of two wild populations of Columbian
ground squirrels. The head technician will supervise 4
student interns and coordinate with a PhD student and
PI involved with the project for the period of Apr 10
to Aug 31, 2018. Fieldwork will will involve monitoring
the phenology (when animals emerge from hibernation),
reproduction and survival of individuals, data entry and
data verication. The two populations are separated
by an approximately 1.5 hr. drive and will each be
monitored by two separate teams of interns. As such, it
is expected that the head technician will display strong
organizational abilities, responsibility and oversight.
This is an excellent opportunity for someone with previ-
ous eld experience, looking to advance their career in
wildlife biology or move towards graduate school. All
eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky Moun-
tains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to some
of the most majestic wildlife in North America. The
head technician will have the opportunity to view many
of these iconic species as well as interact with other
researchers in the area working on a diversity of species
and research projects.
Skills required: The successful candidate will have previ-
ous eldwork experience in a similar work environment.
Good organizational, multi-tasking and supervisory abil-
ities are essential. Possession of these skills, as evidenced
through previous experience supervising eld crews, is
desirable. Specic eld skills required are: ability to
trap, handle and observe wild mammals. The successful92 EvolDir February 1, 2018
applicant will also have experience in data entry, check-
ing and management of databases. A displayed interest
in ecology, wildlife, eld biology, and animal behaviour
is also required. An undergraduate degree in one of
these, or a related, eld is required. The applicant must
be able to work well with members of their own team,
as well as other users of the area (i.e., other researchers,
tourists).
Salary will be $1800-2100/month, based on level of ex-
perience. Food and accommodation are provided. The
successful candidate will be required to provide for their
own travel to Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Travel between
the eld station and Saskatoon is provided.
If you wish to apply for this position, please send a CV
with a cover letter and contact details of three references
(with e-mail address), by email to Je Lane (contact
info below) before January 31, 2018. Please indicate
in your application that you are applying for the head
technician position (we are also posting for student in-
terns). All qualied candidates are encouraged to apply;
however, Canadians and permanent residents will be
given priority. Only those selected for interview will be
contacted.
Contact:
Dr. Je Lane
Department of Biology
University of Saskatchewan
usaskcgsproject@gmail.com
www.lanelab.ca \Lane, Jerey"
<jerey.lane@usask.ca >
UWinnipeg EvoDevo
Tenure-Track Assistant Professor, University of Win-
nipeg
The Department of Biology at The University of Win-
nipeg invites outstanding candidates to apply for a
tenure track appointment at the rank of Assistant Pro-
fessor. The ideal candidate will possess a Ph.D. in
Biology or a related eld with a strong research focus in
the areas of Developmental Biology, Genetics, and/or
Cell Biology. Postdoctoral experience is preferred. The
Department of Biology is looking for a highly motivated
and energetic candidate who will develop a strong, inde-
pendent research program, deliver world-class trainingfor research students, and provide outstanding teaching
in the classroom.
The selection committee will begin reviewing applica-
tions on January 29, 2018 and will continue until the
position is lled; full consideration is assured for applica-
tions received by January 28, 2018. Applicants must sub-
mit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, outline of proposed
research program (maximum two pages), a statement
of teaching philosophy including evidence of teaching
eectiveness (maximum two pages), and three represen-
tative publications (all documents in PDF). Candidates
should also arrange to have three letters of reference
e-mailed directly to:
Dr. Judith Huebner, Chair
Department of Biology
The University of Winnipeg
biology@uwinnipeg.ca
The University of Winnipeg is an urban, post-secondary
institution on Treaty One land in the heart of the
M etis Nation. The University appreciates, fosters
and promotes values of human dignity, equality, non-
discrimination and diversity. The University of Win-
nipeg is committed to employment equity, welcomes
diversity in the workplace, and encourages applications
from all qualied individuals including women, members
of racialized communities, Indigenous persons, persons
with disabilities, and persons of any sexual orientation
or gender identity. In accordance with Canadian immi-
gration requirements, rst preference must be given to
Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada.
However, all qualied individuals are invited to apply.
For more details, see https://www.uwinnipeg.ca/hr/-
docs/fac-posvac/January/Tenure%20Track%20As sis-
tant%20Prof%20Biology.pdf
Susan Lingle Associate Professor, Department of Biol-
ogy University of Winnipeg Winnipeg, MB R3B 2E9
(204) 258-2964
Susan Lingle <lingle.uw@gmail.com >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 93
WhitmanCollege LabTech
PlantEvolution
The Cooley lab at Whitman College seeks *a full-time
laboratory technician to carry out research on the molec-
ular basis of repeated evolution in plants.* Exact start
and end dates are exible, but a candidate able to start
in summer or fall of 2018 is preferred and *funding is
available for two years.*
The successful candidate will work with to design and
implement transgenic tests of candidate genes for the
regulation of oral pigmentation in the Chilean mon-
keyower (Mimulus).
Requirements include: - a Bachelor's degree in Biology
or a related discipline - research experience in a molec-
ular lab, preferably including cloning and transgene
construction - attention to detail and ability to work
independently
I run an undergraduate research lab at Whitman Col-
lege, a selective liberal arts college located in the small
but vibrant community of Walla Walla, in eastern Wash-
ington state. Walla Walla receives numerous awards for
quality of life thanks to its music, art, and wine scenes:
http://www.wallawalla.org/. This is a full-time position
with benets.
To apply, please visit https://whitmanhr.simplehire.com
, click on \Sta Position" and then \Laboratory Tech-
nician", and upload:
- a cover letter describing your background and reason
for being interested in the position - your CV or r esum e,
including names and contact information for three ref-
erences Review of applications will begin immediatelyand continue through January.
Questions may be directed to: Dr. Arielle Cooley coo-
leya@whitman.edu
paulwhetstone0473@gmail.com
Winnipeg Bioinformatics
Indeterminate SR-03 Bioinformatician position opening
in the new Genomics Unit of the Canadian Food In-
spection Agency's National Centre for Foreign Animal
Disease (NCFAD) based in Winnipeg Manitoba. NC-
FAD is a unique lab with containment level 3 and 4
laboratory and animal cubicles that performs primarily
diagnostic, surveillance and research related to animal
and zoonotic viruses. We currently perform Ion Torrent
and Illumina sequencing in our level 3 sequencing lab.
Secret clearance is needed prior to working at NCFAD.
For more information, please contact Dr. Oliver Lung
for more information.
Oliver Lung, Ph.D.
Research Scientist/Head, Genomics Unit
Canadian Food Inspection Agency
National Centre for Foreign Animal Disease
1015 Arlington Street, Winnipeg, MB R3E 3M4
Canada
Phone: 1-204-789-2014
E-mail: Oliver.Lung@inspection.gc.ca
\Lung, Oliver (CFIA/ACIA)"
<Oliver.Lung@inspection.gc.ca >94 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Other
3Dprinting magneticStand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
3Dprinting magneticStand answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Austria SummerFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Dobzhansky Award Deadline Extended . . . . . . . . . . . .96
DukeU UndergradInternBiomechanics Summer2018 97
ESEB AttendanceAidGrant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ESEB ConferenceTravelAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ESEB outreachInitiative . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
FieldMuseum Chicago NSF REU BiodiversityEvolution
99
GeorgetownU REUProgram EnvironmentalSciencePol-
icy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Geum Primula RequestForSamples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
GlobalUrbanEvolutionProject Collaborators . . . . . .101
Hydra-2 0-GenomeProjectPortal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Interview blog . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Manipal India SummerIntern EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . 102
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen AvianMatingStrategies Vol-
unteer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
MolluscSystematics Grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
Phyloseminar JosefUyeda Feb23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Phyloseminar JoshuaSchraiber Jan17 . . . . . . . . . . . . .104PortlandStateU REU PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .105
RockyMountainGroundSquirrel Intership . . . . . . . . . 105
SMBE2018 ExtensionDealine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106
SMBE CallNominationsBestStudentPaper . . . . . . . .106
Smithsonian CollectionResearchGrants . . . . . . . . . . . 107
SocStudyEvol SmallOutreachGrants . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
SouthAfrica VolFieldResAssist SocialMoleRats . . . 108
SouthAfrica Volunteers RiverPipeshConservation 109
Spain VolunteerOrnithology Apr-Jun . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
SystematicsResearchFund Deadline Feb15 . . . . . . . . 110
TeachingEvolution VisuallyImpaired answers . . . . . 110
Texas UndergradSummerRes PlantEvolution . . . . . 111
UCalifornia Riverside Interns TrinidadGuppies . . . 111
UKansas REUProgram ModelsInEvolution . . . . . . . 112
UMinnesota REUPosition PeaAdaptations . . . . . . . 112
UNorthCarolinaGreensboro REU2018 Mathematic-
sEvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UPittsburgh PymatuningLab EarlyCareerResearchFel-
lowship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UPittsburgh PymatuningLab ResGrants . . . . . . . . . 114
3Dprinting magneticStand
Dear EvolDir community,
I would love to nd out if any of you use magnetic stands
for eppendorfs and pcr tubes? I know one needs to use
them for e.g. RNA library prep, but the stands are
ridiculously expensive . . . Did anyone try to print it
with a 3D printer? If so, details on price, any potential
3D models etc. would be much appreciated. Also, how
strong should the magnets be?
Looking forward to hearing from you all! All the best
in 2018! :) All answers will naturally be shown later on,
to help peer with similar issues.
Sincerely, Nik (lupsen@natur.cuni.cz)
{
\I don't care that they stole my idea . . I care that they
don't have any of their own"^ a eNikola Tesla
PhD Zoology candidate Room 225 Division of Animal
Evolutionary Biology Department of Zoology Faculty of
Science Charles University in Prague
ViniAn a 7, 128 44 PrahaCzech Republic
Nik Lupse <nik.lupse@yahoo.com >
3Dprinting magneticStand answers
Hi, a while ago I asked the EvolDir community to help
me with an issue I had regarding 3D printing. Though
magnetic stands are essential for library preps, the prices
online are ridiculous. Fortunately, I was not alone in
my struggle, and I received a variety of very useful an-
swers. Please see enclosed. I hope they will help peer
with similar issues. Thanks a million, and take care!
Sincerely, Nik
|{
Dear Nik,
I do not use magnetic racks regularly, but anyway here
are my hints:
3D printing of magnetic stands:
https://www.thingiverse.com/ thing:79424
https://www.thingiverse.com/ thing:66281February 1, 2018 EvolDir 95
https://www.thingiverse.com/ thing:90644
Here is a Russian company that produces relatively
cheap magnetic racks:
https://translate.google.com/-
translate?sl=ru&tl=en&js=y&
prev= t&hl=ru&ie=UTF-8&u=http%
3A%2F%2Fmagnoshop.ru%2Findex% 2Fmagnit-
nyeshtativy%2F0-20& edit-text Although the site is in
Russian (I've provided the link to Google translation),
you can communicate with them in English.
Best regards,
Alexei.
{
Alexei Kostygov, PhD
Scientic Researcher
University of Ostrava
Chittussiho 10, 71000 Ostrava
Czech Republic
Tel: +420-597092340 (oce)
+420-731422168 (cell)
Yeah, they are all pretty expensive. Haven't looked
recently, but this was the cheapest on I found a couple
years ago: http://www.bio-rad.com/en-us/sku/1614916-
16-tube-surebeads-magnetic-rac k. Works ne.
Nate
-
Nathaniel K. Jue, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor
School of Natural Sciences
California State University, Monterey Bay
Seaside, CA 93955
Hi Nik,
I needed a 96 well magnetic plate and refused to pay
$300 for one.
I made one using a plastic 96 well plate for 0.2 mL PCR
tubes like this one (https://www.usascientic.com/-
Compact-PCR-tube-rack.aspx). I then used a drill
press to drill holes at the center of each cluster
of four wells (four holes in every-other row in the
plate). I inserted cylindrical magnets into the holes
like these (http://appliedmagnets.com/n48-neodymium-
magnets-1-8-in-x-1-2-in-cylind er-p-723.html).
The resulting plate worked great and cost about $10 to
make. You could extend this idea to any style of plasticrack.
Good luck!
Matt
Matthew B. Hamilton, PhD
Associate Professor
Georgetown University
Department of Biology, Regents Hall 506
37th and O Streets NW
Washington, DC 20057
202-687-5924 oce 202-687-5662 fax
202-784-7105, 202-784-7181 lab
http://hamiltonlabpage.weebly.com http://-
reuenvscigeorgetown.weebly.com Dear Nik, I have
ordered and constructed 3D-printed magnetic stands
and I have been using them for 3 years now. The designs
I got were from here: https://www.thingiverse.com/-
acadey/designs, both for 96-well plates and for
eppendorfs. I had them printed and assembled
with the magnets at Make Creative Spaces (Thessa-
loniki, Greece) and you can actually see them here:
https://www.make.gr/en/portfolio-items/laboratory-
equipment-biolab/ Regarding the magnets, we followed
the instructions of the designer (acadey). We did
this in 2014 and at the time, we paid for both stands
with the magnets cost plus assembly plus shipping, so
everything, around 400 euros. And I agree, commercial
stands are ridiculously expensive for a piece of plastic.
I hope this information helps! Dafni
Here's a link to a short article I wrote about
the magnetic plates I printed (48 and 96 wells):
http://www.jordanrbrock.com/blog/96-well-magnetic-
separator-homemade It includes a link to the les
needed to print it, but also check out thingverse.com for
other magnetic plate and stand designs. Let me know
if you have any questions, and good luck! Best, Jordan
Hi Nik, We bought neodymium magnets on the web and
taped them onto other bits and pieces of lab kit and
they worked pretty well. Takes a bit of time to get the
angles right but does the job!
Best, Mark
You can buy small, very powerful \rare earth" magnets
very cheaply online. To save even more money, ask all
of your friends for their broken headphones (or collect
them from the trash on the side of the road) and smash
them open, there's a small powerful magnet inside each
one. Drill holes in whatever scrap wood or plastic you
have handy, glue96 EvolDir February 1, 2018
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Austria SummerFellowships
Summer Fellowships for Young Scientists at the Interna-
tional Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Austria
Funding is available for PhD students interested in three
months of collaborative research during June to August
2018 on
Evolutionary and Ecological Modeling
at the International Institute for Applied Systems Anal-
ysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg, Austria.
Young scientists from all countries are eligible for
stipends provided by IIASA's Evolution and Ecology
Program (EEP) that contribute to travel and accommo-
dation costs. Students from most of IIASA's member
countries - Australia, Austria, Brazil, China, Egypt,
Finland, Germany, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Japan, Ko-
rea, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Russia,
South Africa, Sweden, Ukraine, the United Kingdom,
USA, and Vietnam - are eligible for fellowships that pro-
vide full coverage of travel, accommodation, and living
expenses.
Model-based summer research projects are invited in
the following indicative areas:
Evolution of cooperation Governance of common goods
Systemic risk and network dynamics Eco-evolutionary
dynamics Evolutionary community ecology Food-web
evolution Vegetation dynamics Adaptive speciation Dis-
ease ecology and evolution Evolutionary conservation
biology Fisheries management Fisheries-induced evo-
lution Adaptive dynamics theory and models Spatial
models in ecology and evolution
Applicants are encouraged to propose research that cor-
responds to their scientic interests and to EEP's agenda.
Accepted applicants will begin work before the summer,
by planning their research in collaboration with their
IIASA supervisors. Previous experiences with imple-
menting and studying evolutionary or ecological models
are important assets for working in EEP. To improve
chances of being selected, potential applicants are highlywelcome to send informal inquiries regarding their spe-
cic research interests and plans to EEP's program
director Ulf Dieckmann (dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at).
Online applications will be accepted until Thursday,
January 11, 2018 (24:00 CET).
Since 1977, IIASA's annual Young Scientists Summer
Program (YSSP), has attracted 1900+ students from
86 countries. The YSSP 2018 will take place from June
1 to August 31. IIASA is located in the former summer
palace of Austria's imperial family, ca. 15 km south of
Vienna. IIASA's summer program oers exceptional op-
portunities for acquiring experience in an international
and interdisciplinary research environment. Research
training is based on regular personal interaction with
advising scientists, and typically leads to a publication
in an international journal, as well as to a chapter in a
candidate's PhD thesis.
Some useful links:
+ Information about IIASA's Evolution and Ecology
Program http://www.iiasa.ac.at/eep + Details
about the summer program, and online applica-
tion http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/education/-
yssp/Apply/ConditionsEligibility/Conditions-and-
Eligibility.en.html + Examples of successful
YSSP projects http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/-
research/researchPrograms/EvolutionandEcology/-
AbouttheProgram/YSSP-in-EEP.en.html + General
information about IIASA http://www.iiasa.ac.at/-
web/home/about/whatisiiasa/what isiiasa.html Ulf
Dieckmann Program Director Evolution and Ecology
Program International Institute for Applied Systems
Analysis A-2361 Laxenburg Austria
Email dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at Phone +43 2236
807 386 Phone secretary +43 2236 807 231
Fax +43 2236 807 466 or +43 2236 71313 Web
www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP Online reprints
www.iiasa.ac.at/ ~dieckman Google Scholar
scholar.google.com/citations?user=rAcGGSgAAAAJ
DIECKMANN Ulf <dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at >
Dobzhansky Award Deadline
Extended
The Theodosius Dobzhansky Prize is awarded annually
by the Society for the Study of Evolution to recognize
the accomplishments and future promise of an outstand-
ing young evolutionary biologist.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 97
The deadline for this award has been extended to March
1, 2018.
We consider candidates working on all areas of evolu-
tionary biology, broadly dened. We are specically
looking for candidates that take creative approaches
to answering pressing questions in evolutionary biology.
We will consider people working on any taxonomic group
(i.e., plants, animals, fungi, microbes, etc.) and who
take empirical and/or theoretical approaches. We value
diversity, and are seeking a broad and diverse applicant
pool from all axes and components of diversity in the
evolutionary biology community.
Each candidacy must be supported by the following
materials detailing the candidate's career to date: (1)
a curriculum vitae, (2) a summary of research accom-
plishments of up to 3 pages, (3) a statement of up to 4
pages of research plans for the next 5 years (note length
limitation), (4) pdf copies of three recent publications,
(5) names and addresses of the three referees (including
the nominating scientist where applicable) who have
sent supporting letters. N.B.: The three letters of ref-
erence are sent separately, but no application will be
considered without these letters.
The application/nomination materials must be sent as
PDF e-mail attachments, preferably united in a single
le. All materials should be sent to the SSE Secretary
(John Stinchcombe) at secretary@evolutionsociety.org.
Award - The Dobzhansky Prize is accompanied by a
check for U.S. 000, and will be awarded at the annual
meeting of the Society for the Study of Evolution, 2018,
in Montpellier. The recipient is expected to be present
to receive the award and to give an oral presentation
about his/her research. To facilitate attendance, the
SSE provides funds to cover the costs of conference reg-
istration, accommodation during the conference, and
expenses for travel to and from the conference. The
recipient will be notied of the award by late March
2018 or early April.
fuller@life.illinois.edu
DukeU
UndergradInternBiomechanics
Summer2018
Duke University: AEOP summer undergraduate intern-
ship - Biomechanics of Ultrafast Movements
The Patek Lab in the Biology Department at DukeUniversity is recruiting one undergraduate student re-
searcher through the US Army Educational Outreach
Program (AEOP) during the summer of 2018. The stu-
dent will participate in projects examining fast, impul-
sive movements of organisms in the natural environment.
Possible focal systems for the project are trap-jaw ants
and ballistic plants and fungi. Responsibilities of the
student researchers may include collecting study organ-
isms from local habitats, obtaining high-speed videos of
organisms, analyzing high-speed videos using computer
software, performing statistical analyses and scientic
writing. The details of responsibilities and tasks will
be determined based on mutual interests of the stu-
dents and the mentors. There are also possibilities for
the students to develop individual projects under our
mentorship. Students in the URAP program receive an
educational stipend equivalent to $15 per hour, and are
allowed to work up to 300 hours total.
We are looking for motivated, reliable students who
are excited about having rst-hand research experi-
ence at the intersection of biology and physics. Pre-
vious experience performing the above-mentioned tasks
are not required. We especially value students who
are curious and hard-working. For more information
about the Patek Lab, please visit our website: http:/-
/www.thepateklab.org. For more information about
the URAP program see the AEOP website: http://-
www.usaeop.com/programs/apprenticeships/urap/ Ap-
plication DEADLINE: Feb 28, 2018.
All applicants must submit transcripts, a resume, two
letters of recommendation, and must have maintained
a cumulative GPA of at least 3.2. Applicants must
also include a brief essay that explains their interest in
working with the Patek lab at Duke and how it relates
to their future goals. Generic statements will not be
considered.
TO APPLY: Please visit the URAP website:
http://www.cvent.com/events/2018-undergraduate-
research-apprenticeship-program-urap-/event-summary-
efa00dc406b0454b908d11443a42ef70.aspx Select
\Apply" at the bottom of the page - Fill out the forms -
At \Please select your 1st preference of URAP location,"
please select \B453 Duke University"
Please direct questions to Postdoctoral Researcher Sarah
Longo (sarah.longo@duke.edu)
\Sarah Longo, Ph.D." <sarah.longo@duke.edu >98 EvolDir February 1, 2018
ESEB AttendanceAidGrant
*** Equal Opportunities Congress Attendance Aid
Grants ***
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology is
pleased to announce the call for applications for the
ESEB Equal Opportunities Congress Attendance Aid
Grants 2018.
The grant aims to ensure equal opportunities at the
Joint Evolution conference in Montpellier, France in
2018, e.g. by facilitating the attendance of women with
caring responsibilities, who would not otherwise be able
to attend. The grant provides stipends of nancial aid
for scientists to help with the additional costs borne
privately due to responsibilities for dependents when at-
tending the ESEB congress. The stipend will contribute
to covering expenses for care of dependents, but also for
travel.
DEADLINE: FRIDAY, 16 FEBRUARY 2018
*ELIGIBILITY*
- Applicants must be ESEB members (for becoming a
member of ESEB please visit http://eseb.org/society/-
membership/). - Applications can be submitted by
scientists at any stages of their professional career (e.g.,
undergraduate, Masters and PhD students, postdocs,
and lecturers). - Applicants must explain explicitly how
their attendance will increase equal opportunities at the
society - Applicants must present either an oral com-
munication or a poster at the respective meeting to be
eligible for the award. This will be veried before the
reimbursement, but no proof that a poster or talk is
accepted is necessary at the application stage. - Ap-
plicants must detail how they intend to use the grant.
Eligible costs include, but are not limited to: childcare
on site, childcare at home, extra care at home for depen-
dents, extra travel costs for babysitter (grandparents)
etc. - The stipend will be paid out as a at rate of 250,
- EUR (in certain cases up to 500, - EUR) after the
congress when conrmation of attendance is provided.
*HOW TO APPLY*
The application should be no more than 2 pages long
and include:
- Name of the applicant - An explanation of how at-
tendance at the meeting improves equal opportunities
at ESEB - An explanation of how attendance at themeeting will further the attendant's professional goals -
Budget - CV
Please submit the application as a single PDF-le by
email to Ute Moniatte <oce@eseb.org, subject: EO
conference grant at the ESEB Oce and take care to
limit the size of attachments (total <10 MB) in any
one email.
Kind regards, Ute Moniatte
Dr. Ute Moniatte jESEB Oce Manager jof-
ce@eseb.org
European Society for Evolutionary Biology j
www.eseb.org ESEB <oce@eseb.org >
ESEB ConferenceTravelAwards
**ESEB CONFERENCE TRAVEL AWARDS 2018*
The European Society of Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
is pleased to announce the call for applications for con-
ference travel awards 2018.*
These stipends are for students and young scientists
to attend the joint Evolution congress in Montpellier,
France (http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/). The
stipend will consist of a waiver of the conference regis-
tration fee (early bird rate at registration and a contri-
bution towards travel and living expenses (to be paid
out as a reimbursement after the congress, based on
specication of the expenses).
ELIGIBILITY: - Applicants must be ESEB mem-
bers (for becoming an ESEB member, please visit
www.eseb.org). - Applications can be submitted by
scientists at various stages of their professional career
(e.g., Masters and PhD students, postdocs, and lectur-
ers). - Scientists working in a country with high GDP
are not eligible (for the list of excluded countries see
below). - People who received an ESEB travel stipend
in the last ve years are not eligible. - Applicants must
submit to present either an oral communication or a
poster to be eligible for the stipend. This will be veried
before the reimbursement, but no proof that a poster
or talk is accepted is necessary at the application stage.
*PLEASE NOTE THAT THESE STIPENDS ARE
GIVEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH ANALOGOUS
STIPENDS OFFERED BY THE SSE (separate call),
SO THERE IS NO NEED TO APPLY TO BOTH*
HOW TO APPLY: Send your application by email to
the ESEB Travel Bursary Committee, c/o Dr. MartijnFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 99
Egas, Email: egas@uva.nl
The application should be no more than 2 pages long
and include:
- Name of the applicant; - Budget, including sources of
additional support; - An explanation of how attendance
to the meeting will support the attendant's professional
goals; - and a CV.
Please submit the application as a single PDF-le. A
support letter from the applicant advisor/mentor/senior
colleague is also required. Support letters should be
sent to the same email address (egas@uva.nl) by the
applicant's mentor.
*Deadline: 28 February 2018*
Members professionally based in the following countries
are not eligible for the travel stipend: Australia, Aus-
tria, Belgium, Canada, China, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nor-
way, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United King-
dom, United States of America.
Dr. Ute Moniatte jESEB Oce Manager jof-
ce@eseb.org European Society for Evolutionary Biology
jwww.eseb.org ESEB <oce@eseb.org >
ESEB outreachInitiative
*ESEB Outreach Initiative Fund*
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach Initiative
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. The goal of this initiative is to improve public
knowledge about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educational
initiatives that promote evolution, development of evo-
lutionary material (books, lms, web sites) intended
for a general audience, public outreach seminars, public
exhibitions, etc. While most projects will be nanced
for a sum between 1000-1500 Euro, exceptions can be
made if a strong argument is provided for additional
funds.
The application form can be found on the ESEB
website (http://www.eseb.org/prizes-funding/outreach-
fund/). Applications will be accepted twice yearly (dead-
lines March 15, September 15) and should be submittedby email to Ute Moniatte (oce@eseb.org; Subject:
Outreach).
Dr. Ute Moniatte jESEB Oce Manager jof-
ce@eseb.org European Society for Evolutionary Biology
jwww.eseb.org ESEB <oce@eseb.org >
FieldMuseum Chicago NSF REU
BiodiversityEvolution
NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
in the Evolution of Biodiversity across the Tree of Life
We are looking for 8 undergraduate students to partic-
ipate in hands-on research in biodiversity science and
receive training in cutting-edge techniques and analysis
in evolutionary biology for 10 weeks during the summers
of 2016-2018.
Students will learn research techniques that include
DNA sequencing and computational analysis of ge-
netic and genomic data, morphological measurements
and phylogenetic analysis, and microbiology and next-
generation microbial sequencing. Scientic projects to
be conducted by the students include the morpholog-
ical and ontogenetic variation in an African rodent,
population genetics and blood meal identication of
a parasitic catsh, coevolution of feeding morphology
and taste receptors in sh-eating birds, Assessing ge-
nomic information to identify lichens, testing the causes
of organismal diversication in the most species-rich
lichenized fungi, wing morphology and dispersal ability
in New Zealand water beetles, geographic variation in
a widespread mullet sh, and diversity, evolutionary
history and specicity of symbiotic microbes associated
with turtle ants.
In addition students will receive career mentoring in
a diversity of STEM elds, gain experiences in public
outreach and science communication, receive training in
ethics/responsible conduct of research, and participate
in a diversity workshop to help overcome bias in science.
https://www.eldmuseum.org/reu https://-
www.eldmuseum.org/2018-reu-program-oerings
Students will be provided a stipend, dormitory housing,
and assistance with travel costs.
Participants must be U.S. citizens or permanent resi-
dents, and an undergraduate during the entire period.
We especially encourage students from groups tradition-
ally underrepresented in science to apply.100 EvolDir February 1, 2018
To apply, please send complete the online application:
https://www.eldmuseum.org/reu Applications close
April 22, 2016.
Please direct any questions to Emily Hallock (ehal-
lock@eldmuseum.org).
Please share widely.
Thank you, Corrie Moreau
Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D. Robert A. Pritzker Direc-
tor of the Integrative Research Center and Associate
Curator of Insects Department of Science and Edu-
cation Field Museum of Natural History 1400 South
Lake Shore Drive Chicago, IL 60605 USA Oce: (312)
665-7743 Email: cmoreau@eldmuseum.org Moreau
Lab website: http://www.moreaulab.org/ FMNH web-
site: http://eldmuseum.org/users/corrie-moreau Field
Museum Women in Science: http://eldmuseum.org/-
womeninscience Field Museum Integrative Research Cen-
ter: https://www.eldmuseum.org/integrative-research-
center cmoreau@eldmuseum.org
GeorgetownU REUProgram
EnvironmentalSciencePolicy
Dear Colleagues,
Please share this call for applications with interested
students. Potential mentors work on a range of top-
ics in areas of evolutionary biology, including behavior,
evolutionary ecology, evolutionary genetics, mathemati-
cal and simulation modeling of biological systems, and
extremophiles and exobiology.
Environmental Science and Policy in the Nation's Capi-
tol
An NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
Program at Georgetown University
Summer 2018
Georgetown University's REU Site program in Environ-
mental Science and Policy in the Nation's Capital is
seeking talented and engaged undergraduate students.
This ten-week program will bring a cohort of ten stu-
dents to Washington, D.C. to conduct hands-on research
in environmental science at Georgetown University and
to take part in a mini-curriculum that builds research
skills and also explores the intersections of science and
public policy. Participating research mentors have ex-
pertise in elds including behavior, ecology, conserva-tion biology, evolutionary ecology, evolutionary genetics,
mathematical modeling of biological systems, statistics
for environmental and biological studies, and earth sci-
ence. See mentor research descriptions on the program
web site. Interested students are encouraged to contact
potential mentors directly.
The 2018 program will run from June 04 - August 12.
Students will be housed on the Georgetown campus
and will receive a $5500 stipend plus an allowance for
travel and food. To be eligible, applicants must be U. S.
citizens or permanent residents, a full-time student as
of August, 2018, and available to participate full-time
during the program. We are striving for a diverse group,
so students from groups typically underrepresented in
STEM elds are strongly encouraged to apply.
Review of applications will begin on February 19, 2018
and will be accepted on a continuing until all positions
are lled.
For more information on the program and to apply,
visit: http://reuenvscigeorgetown.weebly.com For in-
quiries, contact the principal investigator Dr. Matthew
B. Hamilton (matthew.hamilton@georgetown.edu),
or co-principal investigator Dr. Martha Weiss
(weissm@georgetown.edu).
hamiltm1@georgetown.edu
Geum Primula RequestForSamples
Hello,
We need samples of two perennial wildowers, the wood
avens /Geum urbanum /(Fam. /Rosaceae/) and the
oxlip /Primula elatior/ (Fam. /Primulaceae/). These
species, common in most of Europe and parts of Asia,
grow in damp shady habitat; they can be found in
broadleaf woodlands and near/in hedgerows. Regarding
the sampling protocol, this is simple. We only need
one individual sampled per population. A population
is here dened as any isolated individual or cluster of
individuals which are distant of about 10m from the
next isolated or cluster of individuals. To sample a
population, just collect the 5 to 10 youngest leaves of
a single rosette (individual) of /G. urbanum vs. P. ela-
tior/ within the population. Collect only safe leaves
(no hole or sign of herbivory, no chlorosis or virus at-
tack). Put the fresh leaves in an envelope (standard
small paper envelope) with GPS coordinates of that
population written on the envelope or at least the nameFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 101
of the locality but lat/long coordinates is the best (one
enveloppe per population). If you could then collect
several populations (15 would be ideal, so 15 envelopes
total) from the same forest patch but which are not too
close from each others (cf. populations >10m away),
this would be optimal. The idea is to collect several
(when available) populations from a given forest patch
so that the sample is representative of the sampled forest
patch. For hedgerows (linear sampling) and especially
for /G. urbanum/ which is most common and abundant
than /P. elatior/, sampling can be done every 50m.
When nished, please put all collected populations from
the sampled forest patch or hedge (cf. all envelopes with
coordinates written on it) in another bigger envelope
and send it to this address:
Prof. Annie Guiller
Edysan UMR 7058 CNRS - UPJV Laboratoire BIPE,
B^ atiment des Minimes 33 Rue Saint-Leu, 80000 Amiens
FRANCE
Thank you for your help.
Annie
Annie GUILLER EDYSAN UMR CNRS 7058 - UPJV
33 rue St Leu 80000 Amiens France Tel. : 33 (0)3 22 82
75 56
annie <annie.guiller@u-picardie.fr >
GlobalUrbanEvolutionProject
Collaborators
Dear Evoldir community:
We are seeking collaborators to participate in the Global
Urban Evolution (GLUE) Project, a large-scale study
that seeks to understand whether urbanization drives
parallel evolution in cities throughout the world. This
project focuses on a single species (white clover, Tri-
folium repens), which is common in temperate envi-
ronments globally. It is one of the few species where
one could study the eects of urbanization on every
inhabited continent.
We are inviting individuals subscribing to this list-serve
to participate as collaborators on the project. You can
learn more about the project, including what is involved
for collaborators at www.globalurbanevolution.com.
You can also nd on this website whether your pre-
ferred city is already being sampled.Please let us know if you have any questions about
GLUE and how to get involved.
Sincerely
Marc Johnson James Santangelo Simon Innes Cindy
Prashad Rob Ness
Marc T. J. Johnson, Ph.D. Director, Centre for Ur-
ban Environments (CUE) Associate Professor Depts.
of Biology & EEB University of Toronto 'V Missis-
sauga www.evoeco.org (lab) www.urbanenvironment.ca
(CUE) www.globalurbanevolution.com (GLUE) twitter:
@evoecolab twitter (CUE): @CUE UofT
Marc Johnson <marc.johnson@utoronto.ca >
Hydra-2 0-GenomeProjectPortal
Hi, all 'V
In an eort to make genome-scale data resulting from
the recent new assembly of the Hydra vulgaris genome
widely and easily available, we are pleased to announce
the launch of the Hydra 2.0 Genome Project Portal,
available at http://research.nhgri.nih.gov/hydra . The
web site features a customized, interactive genome
browser that allows users to visualize multiple data
sets at the same time, greatly facilitating the analysis of
the genome. Users also have the ability to run BLAST
searches against the Hydra genome, download complete
sets of Hydra sequence data, and view individual gene
wiki pages that contain additional information on each
gene model. Transcriptomic data have also been pro-
vided by the laboratories of Celina Juliano (University
of California, Davis) and Thomas Holstein (Centre for
Organismal Studies, Heidelberg University), for down-
load or visualization through the genome browser. In
addition, a growing collection of in situ hybridization
images are being added to individual gene pages, and we
encourage members of the Hydra community to submit
their own in situ images for inclusion on the site.
We hope that the availability of these data will be help-
ful to everyone with an interest in cnidarian biology,
and we certainly welcome any comments or feedback
you have regarding the site.
Best regards,
Andy Baxevanis, National Human Genome Research
Institute, NIH Christy Schnitzler, Whitney Laboratory
for Marine Bioscience, University of Florida Rob Steele,
University of California, Irvine102 EvolDir February 1, 2018
andy@mail.nih.gov
Interview blog
My name is Hari Sridhar and I'm a post-doctoral re-
searcher at the Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian
Institute of Science. Since early 2016, I have been
conducting a series of interviews of ecologists and evo-
lutionary biologists. In each interview, I revisit an old
\well-known" paper in ecology/evolution/behavior, with
the primary author, to nd out about 1. the making of
the paper 2. the impact the paper had on the author's
career and research and 3. the author's current stand
on what was said in the paper. The idea is to construct,
what one might call, 'shadow papers', which capture the
past and future of the original published articles. This is
an ongoing project, and I will post new interviews as and
when they are ready. The interviews are now all avail-
able at https://reectionsonpaperspast.wordpress.com/
This is an ongoing project and I will post new interviews
as and when they are ready.
Thank you.
Regards, Hari
Hari Sridhar <harisridhar1982@gmail.com >
Manipal India SummerIntern
EvolBiol
SUMMER RESEARCH INTERNSHIPS: (SRI2018)
Start Date: Monday 04 ^th June, 2018
End Date: Saturday 14 ^th July, 2018
Venue: Manipal Centre for Natural Sciences, Manipal
Academy of Higher Education, Dr. TMA Pai Planetar-
ium building, Madhav Nagar, Manipal 576 104, Kar-
nataka, India
Applications are invited from outstanding students for
the Summer Research Internship (SRI2018) Program
at the Manipal Centre for Natural Sciences (MCNS),
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Kar-
nataka. MCNS carries out fundamental research in the
natural sciences.The SRI Program is an annual event which runs for 6
weeks over the summer.
Opportunities for SRI2018 are available in the following
research areas:
- Paleontology and Stratigraphy
- Evolutionary Biology
- Computational Biology
Selections are highly competitive and only a limited
number of supported internships are available.
Support for internships includes:
- A consolidated stipend of Rs. 15,000/-
- Free shared, on-campus hostel accommodation
Who can apply:
Highly motivated students currently enrolled or com-
pleted M. Sc./ M. Tech./ fourth year integrated M. Sc./
M. Tech. programs and highly motivated third or fourth
year B. Sc./ B. Tech. students may apply.
How to apply:
- Application form is available from https://-
manipal.edu/mu/academics/centers-of-excellence/mcns-
manipal/mcn s-manipal-news/mcns-manipal-events-
list/summer-research-internships-201 8.html.
- Filled Application form in a single PDF le must be
sent by email to sri@manipal.edu on or before 29 ^th
April 2018.
- Two letters of recommendation (to be sent to the above
e-mail address) from referees, who have taught you or
are familiar with your academic work.
- List of selected candidates will be uploaded to this
website by 5 ^th May, 2018.
Contact: Dr. Ranajit Das
The Coordinator Summer Research Internship Program
(SRI2018) Manipal Centre for Natural Sciences Dr.
T.M.A. Pai Planetarium Building Manipal University,
Manipal - 567 104, Karnataka
Email: sri@manipal.edu Telephone: +91 820 2923571
Mobile: +918582802871
\Ranajit Das [MAHE-MCNS]"
<ranajit.das@manipal.edu >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 103
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen
AvianMatingStrategies Volunteer
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen.AlternativeMatingStrategiesRusVolunteers
Where: Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Canada
When: 10 May - 10 August What: Volunteers Research
Assistants
The Research Group of Behavioural Genetics and
Evolutionary Ecology at the Max Planck Institute for
Ornithology in Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany (see http:/-
/www.orn.mpg.de/3731861/Research Group Kuepper),
is seeking a volunteer to assist with aviary work during
the breeding season of captive Rus from 10 May until
10 August 2018. This work will be part of a project
that aims to understand the proximate and ultimate
mechanisms involved in alternative mating strategies in
Rus.
The work will be conducted at Simon Fraser University,
Burnaby, Canada. The position will suit undergraduate
(or recent graduate) students with an interest in evolu-
tionary and behavioural biology, endocrinology and/or
developmental biology. The volunteer will have the op-
portunity to experience lekking Rus at close hands in
a unique captive setting, gain experiences in handling
animals, conducting experiments and learn about sexual
selection, fascinating mating behaviour and aviculture.
The volunteer will assist with animal care (egg collec-
tion, feeding and weighing of chicks, occasional cleaning
of the aviaries), blood and tissue sampling and data
management and will help run mate choice trials.
Successful candidates should be highly motivated and
well organized, with capabilities of working in a team
and with task assigned independently. The volunteer
will be included into the sta work rotation that consists
of six working days per week that often start early in
the morning and during the peak periods can continue
until late at night. Experience with handling animals is
desirable.
The working language is English, and we expect a good
command of the language of all applicants. Eligibility is
restricted to UK and EU students. We can only consider
applicants who are willing to participate for the entire
three months period in the project.
The Max Planck Institute for Ornithology employs a dy-
namic, dedicated, and international group of researcherswho are focused on exploring the elds of evolution, ecol-
ogy, genetics, and neurobiology. Benets will cover basic
costs for food and accommodation and travel-related
expenses to Canada.
If you are interested in applying for the volunteer posi-
tions as described above, please apply (including your
CV and cover letter) via email to lgiraldo@orn.mpg.de.
Review of the applications will begin on 15 February
2018 until the position is lled.
Lina Mar a Giraldo Deck Department of Behavioural Ge-
netics and Evolutionary Ecology Max-Planck-Institute
for Ornithology Eberhard-Gwinner-Strae, House 5
82319 Seewiesen Germany
\Giraldo Deck, Lina Maria" <lgiraldo@orn.mpg.de >
MolluscSystematics Grant
COA Academic Grants Program 2018 Deadline:
February 28, 2018 Eligibility: please see the web-
site: http://www.conchologistsofamerica.org/grants/ -
Degree-seeking students and anyone engaging in mala-
cological research is eligible. Typically, 80'V90% of
applicants are degree- seeking students, and 80'V90%
of award recipients are degree- seeking students. - Per-
sons of any nationality and country of residence may
apply. - Applicants from previous years may re-apply.
- Recipients of previous years may re-apply, but must
include a submitted manuscript to or published article
in the American Conchologist based on the previous
award. - Degree-seeking students must have a letter of
recommendations by their advisor emailed to jannven-
detti@yahoo.com by the Feb. 28th deadline with the
applicant's name is the subject line.
Rules & Guidelines: - All submissions must be submit-
ted via email as a .doc, or .pdf., preferably in one le.
Keep le size under 3 MB. - The proposal must concern
a malacological topic with any molluscan taxon or taxa
as the focus, e.g., parasite studies should focus on the
molluscan side of the interaction. All disciplines from
autecology to zoogeography, including paleontology, are
eligible. - The project must be self-contained. In other
words, with the funding requested it must be possible to
answer the question posed. However, the proposal may
be a component of the applicant's overall research. - Per-
manent equipment is not an allowable expense. Time
using a piece of permanent equipment (for example,
SEM beam time) is allowable. - Institutional overhead104 EvolDir February 1, 2018
is not permitted. - The maximum award is $2500 US.
Smaller amounts can be requested and may be more
likely to receive funding. Partial funding is possible at
the discretion of the Academic Grants Committee. -
If a grant is awarded, please consider options to avoid
having to pay personal income tax on it (US citizens and
residents must provide their social security number if
given award and paid individually.). Many educational
and non-prot organizations manage such grants; please
inquire with such entities. COA and/or its representa-
tives are not liable for any tax consequences of the award.
- All recipients are expected to submit a summary of
their work to American Conchologist within 12 months
of receiving the award. - All applications are evaluated
by the Academic Grants Committee composed of three
professional malacologists appointed by the Chair of the
COA Academic Grants program. - The decisions of the
Committee are nal.
Application: Must include 3 components: a proposal,
budget, and CV. Proposal (2-4 pages): - title - abstract
of project, not to exceed 150 words - body including
background information necessary to understand the
project and its signicance, materials and methods, and
proposed plan of research, and illustrations if necessary
- literature cited - single-spaced, 12 point font Budget (1
page): - list of estimated expenses - list of grants applied
to for same/similar project CV/Academic Biography (I
page): - include address, phone number, email address of
applicant, academic and/or relevant professional history
Suggestions: Keep the introduction short and relevant;
consider that all committee members are broadly trained
invertebrate zoologists. Provide justications and de-
tails of analytical procedures including statistical analy-
sis (which tests will be used and why those tests). Pro-
vide evidence that the techniques proposed are relevant
and reasonably mastered. The inclusion of preliminary
data is helpful, when applicable.
Applications are judged by the COA Grants Commit-
tee. Awardees will be notied via email in May, 2017,
then announced at COA's annual convention (in Key
West, Florida Aug. 13-19, 2017). Awardees need not be
present at the convention.
THE DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS IS FEBRU-
ARY 28 All application materials must be emailed as
electronic documents to: jannvendetti@yahoo.com
Jann Vendetti, Ph.D. Assistant Curator & Twila
Bratcher Chair in Malacology Natural History Museum
of Los Angeles County 900 Exposition Blvd. Los Ange-
les, CA 90007 jannvendetti@yahoo.com
Jann Vendetti <JVendett@nhm.org >Phyloseminar JosefUyeda Feb23
Next on http://phyloseminar.org/ :
On the need for phylogenetic natural history Josef Uyeda
(Virginia Tech) Friday, February 23, 2018, 9:00 AM PST
The availability of phylogenetic trees based on molecular
sequence data has revolutionized evolutionary biology
by providing a map from which we can understand
divergence and diversication across the tree of life.
Numerous phylogenetic comparative approaches have
opened up new avenues for testing macroevolutionary
hypotheses regarding the drivers of the tempo and mode
of trait evolution and lineage diversication. However,
recent crises in the eld have suggested that many of the
methods we commonly use don't tell us what we would
like them to. Specically, I will show that unreplicated
evolutionary events can break nearly every comparative
method for testing associations from phylogenetically
structured data. I will argue that one solution to this
problem is to unite hypothesis testing with data-driven
approaches, which I term \phylogenetic natural history",
to disentangle the impact of singular shifts from repli-
cated patterns of association. More generally, I will
argue that we should abandon thinking of phylogenetic
comparative methods as \corrections for statistical non-
independence" and more meaningfully confront how our
causal hypotheses map on to phylogenetically structured
data.
{ Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate Mem-
ber Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
http://matsen.fredhutch.org/ Erick Matsen
<ematsen@gmail.com >
Phyloseminar JoshuaSchraiber
Jan17
Next up on http://phyloseminar.org/ ...
Applications of phylogenetic continuous trait models to
gene expression Joshua Schraiber (Temple University)
Wednesday, January 17, 2018, 10:00 AM PST
Historically, quantitative genetics was developed to un-
derstand macroscopic phenotypes, such as body mass.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 105
However, with the advent of high throughput genomics
technology, we now have access to extremely high dimen-
sional molecular phenotypes. One of the most common
traits analyzed is gene expression, measured via RNA
sequencing in modern applications. I will attempt to
put this work in historical context, highlighting some
early work on building models of neutral gene expression
evolution, which poses unique challenges in a phyloge-
netic comparative framework. I will also discuss some
work, including my own, that attempts to leverage the
dimensionality of gene expression data to increase power.
Finally, I will conclude with some perspectives on fu-
ture directions for analysis of molecular phenotypes in
a phylogenetic context.
Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate Mem-
ber Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
http://matsen.fredhutch.org/ Erick Matsen
<ematsen@gmail.com >
PortlandStateU REU
PlantGenomics
NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
in Plant Ecology and Genomics
We anticipate having funding for one or two enthusiastic
students interested in enhancing their research skills
and experience in plant ecology, genomics, and bioinfor-
matics in the Cruzan lab at Portland State University
in Portland, Oregon.
Successful applicants will become part of a research team
working on dispersal and gene ow in upland prairie
plants in Oregon and Washington under pressure from
climate change. Dispersal is critical for colonization,
gene ow, and range expansion 'V it is one of the most
important but least understood aspects of the ecology
of plants. Our research utilizes genomic techniques to
detect the eects of dispersal over dierent spatial scales.
This is an integrative research program that includes
eld work, wet lab preparation of genomic DNA for
next-generation sequencing, bioinformatics processing
of sequence data, and analysis of patterns of gene ow
using GIS and landscape genetic methods. Students
will be exposed to a wide range of methods and are
expected to develop an independent research project
within the scope of the larger research program. More
information on our research is posted on our lab web
site: https://cruzanlab.weebly.com/ . Students will be
fully supported for 10 to 12 weeks during the summer of2018. Funding is provided from an REU supplement to
our National Science Foundation Macrosystems Biology
grant. Housing will be provided on campus along with
a daily allowance for food and a $500 weekly stipend.
The start of the REU is negotiable with optimal start
dates between May 1 and June 17.
To apply please email us an updated copy of your CV
(including GPA) and a short (one page) statement of
your research interests and experience, as well as goals
for your education and career. Applicants should ar-
range to have one or two faculty members provide a
letter of recommendation (email is ne). Students with
experience in computer programming and/or bioinfor-
matics are encouraged to apply. Application deadline is
29 February 2016. Feel free to email us with questions.
Pam Thompson, Postdoctoral Research Associate:
thompson@pdx.edu
Mitch Cruzan, Principle Investigator: cruzan@pdx.edu
{
Mitch Cruzan Professor of Biology Portland State Uni-
versity PO Box 751 Portland, OR 97207 USA Web:
http://web.pdx.edu/~cruzan/
RockyMountainGroundSquirrel
Intership
We are looking for 4 interns interested in taking part in
a eld ecology project on Columbian ground squirrels.
Two interns will begin Apr 10, 2018 and two will begin
May 1, 2018. All four internships will nish on Aug 31,
2018. The project investigates the ecology of Columbian
ground squirrels. As a member of the study, interns
will be involved with monitoring the phenology (when
animals emerge from hibernation), reproduction and sur-
vival of individuals. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping
and handling of animals, radio-telemetry, behavioural
observation and assistance with the measurement of
physiological (metabolism) traits on free-ranging ani-
mals. This is an excellent opportunity to gain training
and experience working with a collaborative research
team on a long-term study of a wild mammal. Op-
portunities for independent research projects are also
available.
All eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky
Mountains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to
some of the most majestic wildlife in North America.106 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Interns will have the opportunity to interact with, and
learn from, other researchers working with ground squir-
rels on a diversity of projects in behavioural and popula-
tion ecology. Additionally, a number of other researchers
in the area are studying a range of species, from insects
to large mammals.
International applicants: If applicants are not Cana-
dians or permanent residents, they will be required
to apply to enter Canada as Visiting Research Stu-
dents. This is a simple and straight-forward procedure
and both current (graduate and undergraduate) and
recently graduated (i.e. 'in between' degrees) students
are eligible. Application forms and information are
available at http://grad.usask.ca/admissions/alternate-
applicants/visiting-research-student.php If you are inter-
ested in this program, please contact us (contact details
below) and we will guide you through the process.
Skills Required: These positions are best suited to ap-
plicants with interests in ecology, evolutionary biology,
wildlife, eld biology, and/or physiological ecology. As
evidence of this, applicants must either be enrolled in,
or have graduated from, a relevant discipline. Successful
applicants will need to be able to cope under these eld
conditions (including periods of time spent camping),
enjoy the outdoors, be up-beat, positive, responsible
and work well as a member of a team. Evidence of
these abilities (gained, for example, through previous
involvement on eld projects or extended back-packing
trips) is desireable.
Terms of Employment: These are volunteer positions
and a salary is not provided. Accommodation and food
are provided. Volunteers are required to provide for
their own travel to Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Travel
between the eld station and Saskatoon is provided.
If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details for
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email to Je
Lane (contact info below) by January 31, 2018.
Contact:
Dr. Je Lane
Department of Biology
University of Saskatchewan
usaskcgsproject@gmail.com
www.lanelab.ca \Lane, Jerey"
<jerey.lane@usask.ca >SMBE2018 ExtensionDealine
Dear All,
We are glad to have received numerous abstract submis-
sions for SMBE 2018. Appreciating the strong interest,
the deadline has been extended!
Final abstract submission closing date: Thursday, Febru-
ary 1, 2018
Don't miss this opportunity - be involved in the meet-
ing's scientic program by submitting your abstract
here. Please email us at smbe2018-p@jtbcom.co.jp for
any questions.
SMBE 2018 Website <http://smbe2018.jp >
<http://smbe2018.jp/cf abstract.html >jCall for Ab-
stracts
<http://smbe2018.jp/awards.html >jAward
<http://smbe2018.jp/registration.html >jRegistra-
tion
Professor Koichiro Tamura
Chair, Local Organizing Committee, SMBE 2018
\takezaki@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp" <takezaki@med.kagawa-
u.ac.jp >
SMBE
CallNominationsBestStudentPaper
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
Best Graduate Student Paper of 2017
Dear SMBE Members: SMBE is calling for nominations
for Best Graduate Student Paper of 2017. These awards
provide recognition for outstanding student papers in
both SMBE journals. All articles published in the cal-
endar year 2017 in the two SMBE journals, Molecular
Biology & Evolution (MBE) and Genome Biology &
Evolution (GBE), are eligible for nomination. This cor-
responds to papers published in the printed volume 34
in MBE and volume 9 in GBE. The best student paper
winners will be given a certicate, a prize of $2,000February 1, 2018 EvolDir 107
and a travel award to the next annual meeting. Best
Regards, Bill Martin President, SMBE
Eligibility & Nomination 1. All articles published in
the two SMBE journals, Molecular Biology & Evolution
and Genome Biology & Evolution (one prize for each
journal), in the calendar year 2017 are automatically
eligible if the nal publication date of the nominated
paper is not more than two years later than the date of
the nominee's PhD. 2. The nominated early-stage re-
searcher must be the rst author or joint rst-author of
the nominated paper. 3. An article and its rst author
can be nominated by anyone, including the rst author.
4. A signed letter from the PhD advisor, MSc advisor,
or equivalent, conrming that the paper was part of the
nominee's thesis or graduate work is required. 5. The
deadline for submitting nominations is March 11, 2018.
How to Enter Please send the name of the nominee, a
scan of the signed advisor letter, and the name of the
paper for which the award is to be considered as a SIN-
GLE PDF to tleatherman@allenpress.com. If possible,
please denote if the paper was published in MBE or
GBE.
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
smbe@allenpress.com
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
<smbe@allenpress.com >
Smithsonian
CollectionResearchGrants
Hello All,
We are pleased to announce a new graduate student fel-
lowship available at the Smithsonian National Museum
of Natural History (NMNH) - The Kenneth Jay Boss
Fellowship. This fellowships provides nancial support
to graduate students to conduct collections-based re-
search in the Department of Invertebrate Zoology (IZ)
at SI-NMNH.
Eligibility Fellowships are available to currently enrolled
graduate students engaged in collections-based research
(e.g., systematics, phylogeny, biogeography, compara-
tive morphology, species conservation). Students seeking
support for conducting molecular studies at the museum
should consider applying to other fellowship programs.
Both US and non-US citizens are eligible; applicants
must write and converse well in English. Local investi-gators (based in the Washington, D. C. metropolitan
area) are not eligible for these fellowships.
Applicants must contact an IZ research scientist to serve
as the fellowship advisor well in advance of submitting
their application (list here http://invertebrates.si.edu/-
1IZstaist.htm).
Resources The Department of Invertebrate Zoology can
provide access to imaging facilities equipped with stan-
dard, low vacuum, environmental and eld emission
scanning electron microscopes, a microfocus X-ray com-
puted tomography scanner, a compound uorescent mi-
croscope, and digital microscopes with z-stacking capa-
bilities; a histology lab equipped for paran sectioning
and whole mount preparation; standard dissecting and
compound microscopes. Fellows will also have access
to the main NMNH Library and the specialized library
collections in the department.
How it Works The fellowships are awarded preferentially
to students investigating mollusks, although proposals
focused on other invertebrate groups (exclusive of in-
sects, arachnids, and myriapods) will also be considered
and are encouraged.
Fellowship proposals are solicited biannually for projects
ranging from one week to three months (no more than six
months); the awards provide a stipend to cover housing
and subsistence while visiting the museum.
The number of fellowships to be awarded each review cy-
cle will depend on the quality of proposals and available
funding.
Awardees must be in residence in the Washington, D.C.
area and spend a signicant amount of time working
in the Department of Invertebrate Zoology during their
fellowship tenure.
How to Apply All application materials should be sent
to the Chairman of the Department of Invertebrate Zo-
ology (Dr. Ellen Strong, stronge@si.edu) by email in
pdf format. Applications that do not conform to the
guidelines will not be considered.
For more information on how to apply please
see https://www.smithsoniano.com/kenneth-jay-boss-
fellowship-in-invertebrate-zoology/ I am happy to an-
swer any questions about this fellowship or contact Ellen
Strong.
Cheers - Karen
'X Karen Osborn Research Zoologist/Curator of Poly-
chaetes, Peracarids and Plankton Department of In-
vertebrate Zoology w 202.633.3668 osbornk@si.edu
http://invertebrates.si.edu/osborn/ http://orcid.org/-
0000-0002-4226-9257 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Face-108 EvolDir February 1, 2018
book <https://www.facebook.com/nmnh.fanpage/ >
Twitter <https://twitter.com/NMNH >Instagram <
https://www.instagram.com/smithsoniannmnh/ >
Mail: Department of Invertebrate Zoology, Smithsonian
National Museum of Natural History, MRC-163
P.O. Box 37012, Washington, D.C. 20013-7012 USA
Courier Address: Smithsonian Institution, MR 0163,
Natural History, West Loading Dock, 10th and Consti-
tution Ave NW, Washington, D.C. 20560
\Osborn, Karen" <OsbornK@si.edu >
SocStudyEvol SmallOutreachGrants
Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE) <http://-
www.evolutionsociety.org/ >Small Grants Program for
Local and Regional Outreach Promoting the Under-
standing of Evolutionary Biology
This is a call for proposals for support for local and
regional educational outreach activities to take place
during 2018. It is our hope that these projects will
lead to ongoing outreach collaboration in future years.
Preference will be given to new collaborations, but exten-
sions of previous projects that have evidence of success
are allowed. *Proposals will be accepted until January
25, 2018.*
Guidelines for applying for funds to support SSE 2018
outreach projects are as follows:
1. Proposal: Clearly but briey state your plans in NO
MORE THAN one single-spaced page. 2. Amounts
requested may be up to $1000. Include a short justi-
cation for the use of the funds. Indicate any additional
matching funds and include letters of commitment from
collaborative partners. NOTE: Projects under $500 will
receive funds upon award. Projects from $500 - $1000
will receive funds upon completion of the project and
submission of receipts. 3. Send your request by email
attachment (subject heading 'SSE Outreach 2018') to
Robert Pennock [pennock5@msu.edu] no later than 25
January 2018.
Applications will be ranked by an SSE Education Com-
mittee working group according to the following criteria:
1. Clarity and quality of the proposed activity; 2. Ex-
pected impact in terms of reaching a critical or broad
audience; 3. Evidence, in the form of matching funds, of
partnership outside of your immediate academic depart-ment; 4. Indication as to how the project might lead to
new or ongoing successful outreach collaborations.
We expect to fund in the range of 10-20 applications,
with announcement of awards to take place by February
8, 2018.
Examples of past outreach activities have included
public lectures, exhibits, student competitions, and
professional development events for teachers. We
especially encourage proposals that focus on discussing
and implementing evolution education reforms recom-
mended in the *Vision & Change in Undergraduate
Biology Education: Chronicling Change, Inspiring the
Future* (2013) report http://visionandchange.org/-
les/2015/07/VISchange2015 webFin.pdf or on
dialogues between undergraduate instructors and
K-12 teachers around the new emphasis on evolution
in the *AP Biology Curriculum Framework* (2015)
https://secure-media.collegeboard.org/digitalServices/-
pdf/ap/ap-biology-course-and-exam-description.pdf
and the *Next Generation Science Standards *
http://www.nextgenscience.org/next-generation-
science-standards . We look forward to your
applications!
Even if you are not interested in applying for funding
from the SSE, we encourage you to engage through
whatever means are at your disposal in opportunities to
promote public understanding of evolutionary biology.
Sincerely,
Robert T. Pennock Chair, SSE Education Committee
Outreach Grants Program
communications@evolutionsociety.org
SouthAfrica VolFieldResAssist
SocialMoleRats
SouthAfrica.VolFieldResearchAssistant.SocialMoleRats
Cooperative breeding in Damaraland mole-rats
(Fukomys damarensis).
We are looking for voluntary eld research assistants to
get involved with our research on the completely subter-
ranean, highly social Damaraland mole-rat (Fukomys
damarensis) in the Kalahari (South Africa). We are
conducting a long-term capture-mark and recapture
study, based at the Kalahari Research Centre, to investi-
gate the life-history and social behaviour of Damaraland
mole-rats (http://kalahari-meerkats.com/kmp/research-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 109
publications/damaraland-mole rats-group/). Entire
groups of mole-rats will be captured and individually
marked. Morphological measurements and tissue sam-
ples will be obtained before the release of the animals.
The eld work is physically demanding and weather con-
ditions are challenging (heat during the day, cold during
the night). Field work may make trapping during the
night necessary. The assistants will mostly be working
in teams of two but will be embedded in a large research
community. This position requires working in a small
team in a remote location on free ranging animals. The
trapping season will start in Mid-March and last for 3
months. Research assistant will require a valid driving
license.
Accommodation is provided, and research assistants are
paid a monthly allowance to cover their personal costs
and food.
We will review applications as they arrive. Please apply
at latest the 8th of February. Please apply by email
or contact for further information: Dr Markus Zottl,
University of Cambridge, mz338@cam.ac.uk
Markus Zoettl <mz338@cam.ac.uk >
SouthAfrica Volunteers
RiverPipeshConservation
Volunteer position: river pipesh conservation
We are looking for volunteer research assistants/interns
to participate in a diving survey, genome screening
and/or establishment of a captive breeding population
of one of Africa's rarest coastal sh species, the critically
endangered river pipesh, *Syngnathus watermeyeri*.
This small pipesh was believed to have become extinct
at the end of the 20th century, but a small number
of survivors has subsequently been found in some of
the estuaries in its small range in the Eastern Cape
Province, South Africa (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
River pipesh). However, it is presently hanging on by
a thread, and the survivors are believed to be highly
inbred, and at great risk of imminent extinction.
This position is particularly suited for, but not limited
to, young researchers wishing to gain experience in a
wide variety of conservation-related elds. Successful
applicants can choose their level of involvement, which
may include participation in diving surveys (including
mark-and-recapture), DNA laboratory work and unix-
based data analyses (at the University of Johannesburg),and the establishment of a captive breeding population
(at uShaka Marine World in Durban).
The rst eld survey is expected to take place in late
March 2018. The costs for food, accommodation and
diving equipment during the eldwork will be covered.
Participants have to arrange travel to and from the study
site themselves. Subsequent surveys will take place ap-
proximately every 6 months for the next 3 years.
If you are interested in this position, please send a letter
of motivation and a short CV highlighting skills and
interests relevant to the project to Prof. Peter Teske,
University of Johannesburg (prteske@uj.ac.za). Please
also provide contact details of at least 3 referees.
{
*Prof. Peter Teske*
*Department of ZoologyUniversity of Johannesburg,
Kingsway CampusAuckland Park 2006South AfricaTel
+27 (0)11 559 3373*
{
For courier shipments: D3 LAB 339 (D LAB build-
ing on the far right (seen from D RING), two oors
up, turn right through the glass door, last entrance on
the left) Department of Zoology University of Johan-
nesburg, Kingsway Campus (APK) Corner Kingsway
and University Rd. Auckland Park 2092 Email:
pteske101@gmail.com Tel.: 011 559 3373
Lab website: http://sites.google.com/site/-
drpeterteske/ Peter Teske <pteske101@gmail.com >
Spain VolunteerOrnithology
Apr-Jun
Between April and June 2018 we will run our yearly in-
tensive research campaign in our starling colony, 50 kms
from Madrid. Around 250 nest boxes are almost daily
followed through the two sequential broods that most
nests obtain. Field work includes capturing adult birds
for measuring and sampling, follow-up of reproduction
(egg laying, hatching and edging), ringing nestlings,
setting-up of microchip readers to assess parental care...,
as well as other activities related to the specic experi-
ments running in each year.
The eld site is a pleasant and undisturbed woodland,
an hour from Madrid. Several researchers, PhDs and
master students take part in the eld work, but to be110 EvolDir February 1, 2018
able to run it properly, we count with the help of a few
volunteers every year. We provide free accommodation
for volunteers in a nearby eld station, transport to
and from the eld site, and a fantastic team-work at-
mosphere. We are happy to consider volunteers for any
periods of time starting from a minimum of 2 months.
Please contact us asap if interested in taking part in the
2018 campaign, attaching your CV and a short personal
statement of your interests, together with the emails
of two academic or professional references that could
support your application.
www.behavecol.es/en Please contact: diego.gil@csic.es
Dr. Raquel Moncl ~Aos
Departement d'Ecologie, Syst ematique et Evolution
B^ at. 362, rue Andr e Guinier
Universit e Paris-Sud
91400 Orsay
FRANCE
SystematicsResearchFund Deadline
Feb15
The Councils of the Linnean Society (https://-
www.linnean.org/) and the Systematics Association
(http://www.systass.org/) jointly administer the Sys-
tematics Research Fund (SRF) that provides grants
annually for small-scale research projects in the eld of
systematics.
Typical activities supported include contributions to
eldwork expenditure, the purchase of scientic equip-
ment or expertise (e.g. buying time on analytical equip-
ment), specimen preparation (including the cost of tem-
porary technical assistance), and contributions to publi-
cation costs. However, please note that it is unable to
fund the cost of article publication charges. Projects of
a more general or educational nature will also be con-
sidered, provided that they include a strong systematics
component. Typical activities not supported include
attendance at scientic meetings and contributions to
student maintenance or tuition fees. The fund does
not provide payments for Bench Fees. Projects already
substantially funded by other bodies may be disadvan-
taged.Applications of all nationalities are welcome but
applicants must be a current member of the Systematics
Association or Linnean Society of London.Successful projects are selected by a panel of systema-
tists who represent a wide range of conceptual interests
and taxonomic groups. Generally, applications in the
range of 500-1,000 are preferred, the value of any single
award will not exceed 1500.
Deadline 15 February 2018
More information on SRF on the Systematics Associa-
tion webpage: http://www.systass.org/awards/srf.shtml
Questions about the application procedure can also be
sent to the SRF Administrator (srf@systass.org)
Dr. Anne D. Jungblut Grants & Awards Secretary for
SRF The Systematics Association
Anne Jungblut <a.jungblut@nhm.ac.uk >
TeachingEvolution VisuallyImpaired
answers
Evoldir folks,
Many thanks to those who responded to my question
regarding teaching material for blind students in Gen-
eral Biology. Below are ideas that we use/will try this
semester here at Wichita State, followed by links pro-
vided by the EvolDir community. A general trend seems
to be a lack of existing biology materials, even fewer
for university level, and fewer still for evolution/ecology
topics. There is an opportunity for someone with 3D
printing design experience to really be an angel here.
Not that I believe in angels.
Thanks and Happy New Year! James Beck Wichita
State University www.becklaboratory.com/James |-
Quick Draw tactile Paper ( $3.50 per page) raises up
right along your pen lines. Its a good tool for relat-
ing graphs/microscopic images one-on-one with students:
shop.aph.org/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/Product Quick-
Draw%20Paper 38396074P 10001 11051
In a pinch, modeling clay is another option for making
one-on-one tactile learning tools.
This book of tactile and brailled graphics is quite
basic (designed for high school) but useful as a
starting point for many general biology topics:
http://shop.aph.org/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/-
Product Life%20Science%20Tactile%20Graphics%20-
%20ON%20SALE 1-08840-00P 10001 11051 Were
also going to attempt 3D printing of some items this
semester. The thingiverse website has open accessFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 111
designs, but there appear to be relatively few for general
biology, and most of these are cellular/molecular biology.
Some examples: thingiverse.com/thing:1259352 thingi-
verse.com/thing:202079 thingiverse.com/thing:956013
thingiverse.com/thing:2695890 thingi-
verse.com/thing:1565917 hingiverse.com/thing:714312
Thingiverse also has an education section, but I havent
explored it: thingiverse.com/education
Below are links provided by EvolDir users for various
tips, exercises, and tactile teaching tools. Thanks
everyone! perkinselearning.org/scout/teaching-biology-
students-who-are-blind-or-visually-impaired research-
gate.net/publication/234706180 Teaching Biology totheVisually Impaired Accommodating Students' Special Needs
researchgate.net/publication/309734090 Practical work inscience with visually impaired students
teachingvisuallyimpaired.com/science-materials.html
rnib.org.uk/insight-online/teaching-science-students-
vision-impairment
\Beck, James" <James.Beck@wichita.edu >
Texas UndergradSummerRes
PlantEvolution
Description: Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is emerg-
ing as an important biofuel candidate in the United
States. Our labs (see website below) collectively study
the evolutionary ecology, quantiative genetics, physiol-
ogy and agronomy/plant breeding of Switchgrass. We
are seeking a talented and diverse group of undergradu-
ate students interested in conducting eld research in
Switchgrass biology across the US.
This program is an opportunity for undergraduate stu-
dents to participate in a sustained mentored independent
research on the biology of Switchgrass. Summer stu-
dents will be immersed in research and learn basic and
applied biology through active participation in primarily
eld-based work. Working as part of our research team,
they will contribute to group research projects, design
short research projects, and present their work in an
end-of-summer student symposium.
Each position is supported for 8-10 weeks beginning
the rst week of June. Students are awarded a $4500
stipend, plus a housing and food allowance, and some
funds to help defray the cost of traveling to the desig-
nated University.
Who Should Apply: Undergraduates that are not in
their senior year (typically 1st to 3rd year students),
who are either U.S. citizens or permanent residentsstudying in the U.S. All science majors are encouraged
to apply, but preference will be given to individuals with
a strong background and/or interest in evolutionary ecol-
ogy, environmental biology, quantitative genetics, and
agronomy.
Application process: The application deadline is Febru-
ary 25, 2018. Please see our website for further details.
Questions: Bethaney Watson e-mail:
bethaney.watson@austin.utexas.edu Subject: Switch-
grass REU 2018
Website: https://sites.cns.utexas.edu/-
juenger lab/summer-research-opportunities bran-
don.campitelli@utexas.edu
UCalifornia Riverside Interns
TrinidadGuppies
Research Internships - Evolutionary Biology
Research interns are needed to assist in a multi-
disciplinary, multi-investigator, experimental study of
the interactions between ecology and evolution in
Trinidad, West Indies. The research is led by Professor
David Reznick at the University of California, Riverside
in collaboration with Joseph Travis (Florida State), Tim
Coulson (Oxford), Paul Bentzen (Dalhousie U.), Andres
Lopez-Sepulcre (L'Ecole Normal Superieure, Paris) and
Ron Bassar (Williams). We seek to integrate multiple
biological elds for the study of these interactions in
experimental populations of guppies in Trinidad. Duties
include assisting in monthly censuses of guppy popula-
tions in montane streams. The monthly censuses include
long hours in the eld and laboratory. There will also
be 12 days o between each census when interns can
pursue an independent project.
Qualications: We seek interns who are entertaining the
possibility of pursuing graduate studies in some area
of ecology and evolution and who wish to gain some
additional eld research experience before doing so. Re-
search will take place in semi-remote areas of Trinidad
sometimes under bad weather conditions. Applicants
must be able to live and work well with others. Research
will involve carrying heavy packs over slippery and steep
terrain. Applicants must be in good physical condition
and be able to meet the demands of eld research under
these conditions. Ability to drive a standard transmis-
sion vehicle is desirable but not required. Applicants
with rst-aid/rst responder training, skills in auto-112 EvolDir February 1, 2018
mobile maintenance, and construction skills are highly
desirable. Please address these skills when applying.
Interns will be required to spend a minimum of 3-months
in Trinidad, with possibility of extension. Starting dates
are as early as January 2018. We will cover all travel
and living expenses and provide housing.
Please see our website <
www.theguppyproject.weebly.com >for more in-
formation on the project and access to reprints. Our
video menu includes a \guppy censuses" submenu that
details the main tasks associated with the internship.
Applicants should send cover letter, CV and the names
and e-mail addresses of three or more professional refer-
ences to David Reznick (gupy@ucr.edu). At least two
of the references should be academics.
Sincerely,
Ron Bassar
{ Ron Bassar Assistant Professor Department of
Biology Williams College 59 Lab Campus Drive
Williamstown, MA 01267 Phone: 413-597-2119 College
Webpage: https://biology.williams.edu/prole/rdb4/-
Personal Webpage: www.ron-bassar.squarespace.com
The Guppy Project: www.theguppyproject.weebly.com
Ron Bassar <rdb4@williams.edu >
UKansas REUProgram
ModelsInEvolution
The Models in Ecology, Evolution and Systematics Re-
search Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Program
at The University of Kansas is now accepting applica-
tions. The NSF-funded program will occur over ten
weeks this summer (May 20-July 26, 2018) in the De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. In the
program, students will participate in mentored, inde-
pendent research. Students will receive a stipend, room
and board, and course credit.
Projects available include, but are not limited to, theo-
retical disease ecology, biogeography of social spiders,
buttery genomics, lizard speciation, soil ecology, prairie
communities, systematics of tapeworms, and insect be-
havior.
Applications are encouraged from biology majors and
mathematics (or computer science) majors with an in-
terest in biology. Students must be in good academic
standing and enrolled at a community college, collegeor university. Members of underrepresented groups
are strongly encouraged to apply. Students must be
United States citizens or permanent residents. More
information, including available projects, and an online
application form are available at http://eebreu.ku.edu
and inquiries should be directed to eebreu@ku.edu. The
application deadline is February 15, 2018, but late ap-
plications will be considered.
Drs. Jennifer Gleason and Deborah Smith, Program
directors Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University
of Kansas
jgleason@ku.edu
UMinnesota REUPosition
PeaAdaptations
Institution: University of Minnesota 'V Twin Cities
Principal Investigators: Dr. Ruth Shaw & Dr. Mason
Kulbaba
Program Dates: 6/4/2018 'V 8/10/2018
Description: Dr. Ruth Shaw' ^As Research Group in the
Dept. of Ecology, Evolution & Behavior at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota is seeking applicants for an NSF
Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) posi-
tion in summer 2018 to study the process of ongoing
adaptation in experimental populations of partridge pea
(Chamaecrista fasciculata) in prairie habitat. The stu-
dent will work closely with Dr. Ruth Shaw and Dr.
Mason Kulbaba to develop an independent project in
the area of plant evolutionary genetics, with possibili-
ties ranging from studies of heritability and phenotypic
selection on plant traits to studies of pollination ecol-
ogy and mating system variation. The student will
gain invaluable experience in performing eld work and
in conducting an independent research project, from
hypothesis formulation through oral and written dis-
semination of results, as grounding for future work in
inquiry-based research. The student must be a U.S.
citizen or permanent resident and enrolled as an un-
dergraduate for Fall 2018. The ideal candidate should
enjoy working outdoors and have an interest in learning
about the evolution and ecology of plants in the Midwest
prairies, and candidates planning to pursue a graduate
career in evolution, ecology, or conservation biology are
particularly well-suited for this position. The REU in-
tern will receive a stipend of $5,500 and an allowance
for room and board in the Twin Cities (with occasionalFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 113
overnight travel to eld sites). Costs of travel to and
from the Twin Cities will also be provided. The dead-
line to apply for this position is February 21, 2018, and
the 10-week internship is expected to begin on Monday,
June 4 and end on Friday, August 10. Please contact
Mason Kulbaba (mkulbaba@umn.edu) for more infor-
mation. The University of Minnesota provides equal
access to and opportunity in its programs, facilities,
and employment without regard to race, color, creed,
religion, national origin, gender, age, marital status,
disability, public assistance status, veteran status, sex-
ual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.
Individuals of underrepresented groups are especially
encouraged to apply. Please forward this advertisement
to any interested and qualied undergraduates.
To apply, please e-mail the following application materi-
als to Mason Kulbaba (mkulbaba@umn.edu) with the
subject line \REU" no later than February 21, 2018:
1. A statement explaining the following: why you are
interested in this position, what are your future plans,
dates you are available to start and end this position,
conrm eligibility for the REU program, the name and
contact information of the person who will serve as your
reference, your e-mail address and phone number. 2.
Resume. 3. Transcript (unocial is acceptable.) 4. One
letter of recommendation (sent by your reference).
Mason Kulbaba <mkulbaba@umn.edu >
UNorthCarolinaGreensboro
REU2018 MathematicsEvolBiology
REU Opportunity Summer 2018: \Research Experience
for Undergraduates in Mathematics and Biology"
The University of North Carolina at Greensboro
(UNCG) Department of Biology and Department of
Mathematics and Statistics invite highly motivated un-
dergraduate students to apply to our NSF-sponsored
Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) summer
program.
Students will engage in one of multiple, co-mentored
research projects at the interface of mathematics and
biology. While exposure to both disciplines in desired,
advanced expertise in both in not required because you
will work in interdisciplinary teams.
Topics range from the evolutionary ecology of disease, to
social evolution and the evolution of plant architecture.
After a brief initial training period starting May 14, thestudents work on the research until July 20, 2018 and
receive a stipend of $5000. Travel support and shared
university housing will also be included.
For more information, visit https://www.uncg.edu/-
mat/bio-math/REU/ or contact Dr. Jan Rychtar
(rychtar@uncg.edu) or Dr. Olav Rueppell (
olav rueppell@uncg.edu).
Olav Rueppell <oruppel@uncg.edu >
UPittsburgh PymatuningLab
EarlyCareerResearchFellowship
The University of Pittsburgh's Pymatuning Labora-
tory of Ecology (PLE) is pleased to oer the Frank J.
Schwartz Early Career Research Fellowship of up to
$10,000 plus up to three months of station fees and
residency costs for the primary investigator (PI). PLE
is a vibrant research and education facility located on
Lake Pymatuning in Northwest Pennsylvania. PLE's
research facilities are spread across 350 acres and include
access to a variety of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.
Its 10,000+ square feet of laboratory facilities include a
eld laboratory adjacent to an open eld that can be
used for large-scale replicated experiments, a modern
molecular laboratory, and facilities for animal, plant
and aquatic studies.
This opportunity is open to researchers holding PhD
degrees in any science discipline that can benet
from PLE's resources (http://www.biology.pitt.edu/-
facilities/pymatuning), and we look forward to receiving
proposals on the topic of evolutionary biology. The pur-
pose of the fellowship is to permit researchers to explore
new projects or collect preliminary data. Fellowship
funds can be used at the PI's discretion to facilitate the
research but not for compensation. Preference will be
given to individuals and projects with the potential to
develop into long-term research activities at PLE. We
especially encourage applications from individuals in the
postdoctoral or early faculty phases of their careers work-
ing on projects involving sh, but researchers holding
PhD degrees at all stages of their careers and working
on projects involving other taxa are also encouraged to
apply.
For more information about the fellowship program or
research opportunities at PLE, please contact the Direc-
tor, Dr. Cori Richards-Zawacki (cori.zawacki@pitt.edu).
Applicants should submit a single .pdf le including their114 EvolDir February 1, 2018
CV, a 2-3 page proposal outlining the proposed research,
a budget detailing how the fellowship funds will be spent,
and planned dates of residence to cori.zawacki@pitt.edu,
placing the words \PLE Schwartz Early Career Fel-
lowship" in the subject line of the email. Review of
proposals will begin *February 19, 2018*.
{
Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D. email:
cori.zawacki@pitt.edu <email%3Acori@tulane.edu >
Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences
and Director, Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology
University of Pittsburgh
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
Cori Zawacki <cori.zawacki@pitt.edu >
UPittsburgh PymatuningLab
ResGrants
The Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology (PLE) invites
applications for Pape/Darbaker/McKinley Grants in
Aid of Research. Evolutionary biology is among the
research topics suitable for these grants.
PLE is a vibrant research and education facility lo-cated on Lake Pymatuning in Northwest Pennsylva-
nia. PLE's research facilities are spread across 350
acres and include access to a variety of aquatic and
terrestrial ecosystems (http://www.biology.pitt.edu/-
facilities/pymatuning/research). Its 10,000+ square feet
of laboratory facilities include a eld laboratory adja-
cent to an open eld that can be used for large-scale
replicated experiments, a modern molecular laboratory,
and facilities for animal, plant and aquatic studies.
Pape/Darbaker/McKinley Grants are intended to sup-
port researchers in the early stages of their ecological
and evolutionary research programs at PLE. Grant pro-
posals are submitted each year in February and several
awards are made, generally not exceeding $3,500. Most
awards go to graduate students, but consideration will
be given to recent Ph.D.'s and more senior researchers
interested in initiating new work at PLE. *The due date
for grant proposals is February 19, 2018. *
Please visit our website for further details about
the application process: http://www.biology.pitt.edu/-
facilities/pymatuning/research-grants {
Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D. email:
cori.zawacki@pitt.edu <email%3Acori@tulane.edu >
Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences
and Director, Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology
University of Pittsburgh
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
Cori Zawacki <cori.zawacki@pitt.edu >
PostDocs
ArizonaStateU EvolutionAndMedicine . . . . . . . . . . . .115
ArizonaStateU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
BielefeldU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
CharlesU CzechRep PollinationEcology . . . . . . . . . . .118CharlesU Prague SpeciationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
ClemsonU SnakeVenomEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
GuangxiU Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Ifremer France Biodiversity eDNAanalysis . . . . . . . .121February 1, 2018 EvolDir 115
IndianaU BeetleEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
Istanbul EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
KAUST SaudiArabia MarineEvolutionaryGenomics 123
KULeuven ComparativeGenomicsYeast . . . . . . . . . . 123
MasseyU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
MaxPlanck Jena Germany PopulationGenetics . . . 125
MichiganStateU eDNA Metabarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . 126
New Zealand StickInsectGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
NHGRI-NIH Bethesda BioinformaticsEvolutionaryGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
NHM London EvolutionFrogVision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
NorthCarolinaStateU InsectPlantInteractions . . . . .129
NortheasternU GenomicsComputationalBiology . . 129
NYU AbuDhabi MangroveGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
OldDominionU MarineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Prague EvolGenomicsOlfactionFishes . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
PUCE Ecuador AmphibiaReptiliaSystematics . . . . 131
SLU Sweden EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .132
StockholmU EvolutionaryEcologyThermalAdaptation
133
StockholmU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
StockholmU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
TuftsU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
UAlgarve Portugal EvolFunctionalDierentiation . 136
UArizona ProteinEvolutionBioinformatics . . . . . . . . 136
UBarcelona EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .137
UBath SpeciationGenomicsMice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .137
UBritishColumbia GeneticBasisAdaptation . . . . . . . 137UCalifornia LosAngeles Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . .138
UCalifornia Riverside PlantBacterialSymbiosis . . . 138
UCalifornia SantaCruz PlantSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . .140
UColoradoBoulder PlantEvolutionaryEcology . . . . 141
UEdinburgh EvolEcolMalariaCircadianRhythms . .141
UGothenburg Sweden PlantSpeciationGeonomics .142
UMaryland StatModelingMicrobiomes . . . . . . . . . . . .143
UMichigan NextProf DiversifyingAcademia . . . . . . .144
UMinnesota EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .144
UMinnesota EvolutionaryGenomicsOfSleep . . . . . . .145
UNebraska PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .146
UOregon PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .147
UPadova Italy CircularRNABioinformatics . . . . . . . 147
UPittsburgh EBV-cancer evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .148
UPittsburgh EvolutionPolymicrobialInfections . . . .148
Uppsala PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 148
UppsalaU 2 BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .149
URochester EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150
USDA Colorado GenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . .151
UUppsala EvolutionSexualDimorphism . . . . . . . . . . . 151
UUppsala ExpEvolutionInheritanceSystems . . . . . . 153
UUppsala Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
UWisconsinMadison ReproductiveIsolationGenomics
155
UZurich EvolutionHeterostyly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156
VanderbiltU InsectMicrobeSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157
VirginiaTech ComparativeMethods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157
ArizonaStateU
EvolutionAndMedicine
https://evmed.asu.edu/news/evolution-and-medicine-
postdoctoral-research-fellowship The Center for
Evolution & Medicine (CEM) at Arizona State
University (ASU) invites applications for the Evolution
& Medicine Research Fellowship. The Fellowship brings
talented researchers with a recently awarded M.D. or
Ph.D. to the ASU campus to develop and extend their
own independent research agendas with opportunities
to collaborate with CEM faculty and other members
of their laboratories. Additionally, fellows will spend
time working with their mentor to develop skills in
the areas of outreach, education and grant writing.
Possible research areas include, but are not limited
to, co-evolution and infectious diseases, regulation of
inammation and other defenses, autoimmune disorders,
cancer, genomics, reproductive health, lactation, and
factors that inuence disease susceptibility. Theproposed research project must advance evidence based
science for evolution and medicine.
Salary: $60,000 Job #12228 Full-time
The successful fellow(s) will be an outstanding scientist
with a specic independent research plan, wide-ranging
interests in evolutionary biology related to disease and
health, and an appreciation for interdisciplinary research.
Selections are based on academic achievement, creativ-
ity, overlap of interests with multiple CEM faculty, and
the likely success and impact of the research project.
Fellows cannot have had more than ve years of previ-
ous postdoctoral experience, nor have been employed
previously as an assistant professor, associate professor
or professor on the tenure track. Nominees who are non-
US citizens are encouraged to apply, and will need to be
eligible for a J-1 Scholar visa status for the duration of
the Fellowship. CEM does not support H1B visa status.
A background check is required for employment.
Fellows will receive a salary of $60,000 and will have
access to funding of up to $10,000 per annum to sup-
port their research, of which $1500 may be allocated for
moving expenses. The initial closing date for receipt of
complete applications is February 1, 2018; applications116 EvolDir February 1, 2018
will be reviewed weekly thereafter until the search is
closed. The earliest anticipated start date is July 2018,
the latest is January 2019. This is a full-time (1.0 FTE)
benets-eligible, scal year (July 1 - June 30) appoint-
ment. The fellowship is granted for a period of two years,
with a possible third year. Renewal for the second and
possible third year is contingent on performance and the
availability of resources. For additional information and
policies regarding postdoctoral scholars at ASU, please
see http:// provost.asu.edu/postdoc . By the start date,
candidates must have completed a Ph.D. in anthro-
pology, biology, psychology or another natural science
eld that provides an extensive background in evolu-
tionary biology, or an MD, DVM, DrPH or equivalent
level health professional degree. Minimum qualications
include demonstrated proof of advanced degree listed
above and research experience in the eld of evolution-
ary medicine by the time of the appointment. Preference
will be given to applicants interested in furthering their
own research agenda in a multidisciplinary environment
and prior research experience in co-evolution and in-
fectious diseases, regulation of inammation and other
defenses, autoimmune disorders, cancer, genomics, re-
productive health, lactation and factors that inuence
disease susceptibility. To apply, please email a single
pdf document to evmedsearch@asu.edu that contains:
A one-page statement explaining your interest in this
position, which faculty members you would like to
work with (and to have act as your postdoctoral spon-
sor/advisor(s)), and how it could advance your career
plans A one or two-page statement that describes the
research you will pursue at CEM if awarded a fellow-
ship. The ability to clearly articulate a research plan
that can be understood by faculty from other disciplines
is an important selection criterion, so please minimize
jargon and technical language. The names and contact
information for three references A curriculum vitae
Please use 11 point Times font with 1 inch margins and
1.5 line spacing for all items except the CV. The Center
for Evolution & Medicine is a university-wide Presiden-
tial Initiative directed by Randolph Nesse. Its mission
is to improve human health by establishing evolutionary
biology as an essential basic science for medicine, world-
wide. It supports research that demonstrates the power
of evolutionary biology to advance the understanding,
prevention, and treatment of disease, as well as teach-
ing and outreach initiatives. See http://evmed.asu.edu
for details and information on Core Faculty. As an
interdisciplinary unit,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ArizonaStateU
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral positions are available in Susanne Pfeifer's
group at Arizona State University, Tempe (US). Re-
search in the Pfeifer Lab is focused on analysing high-
throughput sequencing data to learn about genetic and
evolutionary|processes, with a particular interest in:
(i) Mutation rate variation in primates A better un-
derstanding of the basis of evolutionary variation as
generated by mutation will improve both insights into
the genetic basis of disease as well as our understanding
of the chronology of human evolution. Germ line mu-
tations depend on several biological processes that are
well known to vary between dierent primate species,
yet only a limited number of studies has focused on di-
rectly estimating mutation rates in non-human primates.
Projects will involve computational method development
as well as the analysis of large-scale genomic pedigree
data to characterize variation in mutation rates|across
the primate clade.
(ii) Genomic mechanisms underlying links between evolu-
tionary shifts In many species, coloration is an important
phenotypic trait, involved in a range of dierent biologi-
cal processes ranging from sexual signalling to crypsis to
mimicry to thermoregulation. Building upon our results
in recently evolved cryptically colored populations, we
are extending this work to consider the co-evolution of
coloration phenotypes with other evolutionary signals.
Successful candidates are expected to have a strong com-
putational and statistical background (programming
prociency in R, Perl, or Python, and shell scripting
is essential; experience with analysing high throughput
sequencing data is highly desired) along with a genuine
interest in genetics and evolution. Preference will be
given to candidates with a strong publication record,
evidence of research productivity, and an ability to suc-
cessfully communicate scientic information. Funding is
available for three years, contingent on annual renewal
based on progress. The start date is exible.
The Pfeifer Lab oers a vibrant work environment
with excellent opportunities for collaborative eorts
as well as independent accomplishments. The Lab is
integrated within a diverse bioinformatics, evolution,
and population genetics research community at ASUFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 117
(ASUpopgen.org), as well as the Center for Evolution
and Medicine (evmed.asu.edu) and the Center for Mech-
anisms of Evolution (biodesign.asu.edu/mechanisms-
evolution). Additional information about the Lab and
research can be found at: http://spfeiferlab.org . In-
terested applicants should send a short summary of
research interests, CV, and contact information for two
references to susanne.pfeifer@asu.edu. The evaluation
of applications will begin on January 15th, 2018, and
will continue until one or more suitable candidates has
been found. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Susanne Pfeifer <spfeife1@asu.edu >
BielefeldU EvolutionaryBiology
For our newly funded collaborative research center 'A
Novel Synthesis of Individualization across Behavior,
Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Confor-
mance, Niche Construction (NC3)' that proposes to
combine behaviour, ecology and evolution in an etho-
eco-evo approach to develop a novel synthesis of indi-
vidualisation we search candidates with a background
in evolutionary ecology, evolution of behaviour or be-
havioral ecology for a 3+ Years Postdoc position in
Meta-analysis of Individualized Niches at Bielefeld Uni-
versity, Germany A Postdoc position with a duration of
about 40 months for working on meta-analysis of indi-
vidual niche specialization is immediately available at
the Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld University in North-
ern Germany. The position is funded by the German
Research Foundation (DFG) within the recently granted
collaborative research center (SFB/TRR 212).
The project: The behavioural ecology of individualized
niches in light of meta-analyses will use quantitative
methods to synthesize the current knowledge on individ-
ual niche specialization. Meta-analyses oer the formal
framework, a framework that is growing in popularity
and importance in all elds of quantitative research.
Meta-analyses allow a formal assessment of the gener-
alizability of research ndings and an exploration of
context dependencies. This involves a thorough read-
ing of the published literature and will thus strengthen
both conceptual and quantitative thinking. Specically,
we will explore the extent to which factors like envi-
ronmental complexity, assortative mating, ecological
inheritance, temporal variation, niche inheritance, con-
dition dependence and others lead to between individual
variation concerning individualized niches. The projectwill collaborate intensely with various empirical projects
within the SFB. It promises strong training in statistical
analyses, deep conceptual understanding and advances
in several of subelds of ecology and evolution concerned
with individualization.
The collaborative research center: The position will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research center
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualization across behavior, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional op-
portunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and aca-
demic networking, together with structured training,
scientic exchange and early career support programs.
For more information, visit the SFB website (www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212).
Main responsibilities - compilation of results on indi-
vidualized niche ecology from the published literature -
analysis of published eects using modern meta-analytic
methodology - collaboration with other research groups
in the collaborative research center - writing scientic
publications for international peer- reviewed journals
Applicant's prole We seek a bright and highly moti-
vated candidate with - a PhD in a relevant eld like
evolutionary or behavioral ecology or statistics - solid
knowledge in basic statistics, including experience with
statistical software such as R or SPSS - interest in both
biological and statistical questions - motivation to read
deeply into the scientic literature on specic topics -
excellent oral and written communication skills in En-
glish - documented experience with publishing scientic
results
Remuneration Salary will be paid according to Remuner-
ation level E13 of the Wage Agreement for Public Ser-
vice in the Federal States (TV-L), the standard payment
scale for scientists and lecturers. Bielefeld University
is particularly committed to the career development of
its employees. It oers attractive internal and external
training and further training programs. Employees have
the opportunity to use a variety of health, counselling,
and prevention programs. Bielefeld University places
great importance on a work-family balance for all its
employees.
Application procedure The deadline for application is
February 14, 2018 and interviews will take place shortly
thereafter. To apply, please provide (i) a letter of moti-
vation, including a statement of your research interests,
skills and experience relevant to the position, (ii) a
CV including publication list, (iii) names and contact
details of two referees willing to write condential let-118 EvolDir February 1, 2018
ters of recommendation. All materials should be sent,
preferentially as a single pdf le by email, to the ad-
dress below. For further information on the projects
and the department, please contact Klaus Reinhold
(klaus.reinhold@uni-bielefeld.de). Please note that a
twin project within the collaborative research center has
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU CzechRep
PollinationEcology
REMINDER OF A COMING DEADLINE
***A postdoctoral position - Changes of pollination
networks characteristics along various environmental
gradients***
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoc to join a
project assessing studies of plant-pollinator relationships
in tropical and temperate environments. The research
is focused on changes of general characteristics of polli-
nation networks with environmental gradients, as well
as on case studies of selected pollination systems. All
the new team members will process already collected
data and material, as well as actively participate on eld
sampling (at least two larger expeditions during the job)
of data and their subsequent processing in collaboration
with international specialists. The length of the postdoc
is two and half years.
The successful applicant will become a part of the multi-
disciplinary team ( www.insect-communities.cz) at the
Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague, Czech
Republic, with a close collaboration with the Institute of
Entomology and Institute of Botany, Czech Academy of
Sciences. The eldworks will be performed in Cameroon
and/or Czech Republic. We have more than ten years
continuous experience with various eld projects in
Cameroon. All senior members of our team have also
worked in eld in the Czech Republic since their studies.
Oered for all positions
- attractive scientic topic in an established international
team
- sucient nancial and logistical sources for the projects(currently we hold three large projects for pollination
research)
- 360,000 CZK net annual income for the post-doc
(salary), plus various employee bonuses; the income
suciently covers living expenses in the Czech Republic
(the national average net income is ca. 260,000 CZK
annually)
Required for all positions
- enthusiasm in nature and ecological science
- ability to work as a team member, but also being
independent
- uency in English, both written and spoken
Desirable (but not necessary) for all positions
- previous experience of collaboration in scientic
projects evidenced by a (co)authorship of research pa-
pers or conference contributions
All applicants will send a structured CV, contacts for
three referees, and a cover letter stating their previous
work, qualication (especially all eld experience and
less usual eld/laboratory techniques) and motivation
to our group email insectcommunities@gmail.com. Any
questions should be sent to the same email as well. The
review of applications will begin on 20th February 2018
and will continue until the position has been lled. Se-
lected applicants will be interviewed through Skype in
the rst ten days of March 2018. The postdoctoral
position will start from early summer 2018.
The postdoc will be collaborating on several our projects
from both tropical and temperate regions. She/he
should be mainly responsible for the network analyses
and comparisons of various datasets of plant-pollinator
interactions on the community level. Nevertheless,
she/he is expected to join also other aspects of our
pollination research based on her/his skills, including
eld sampling, samples identication, measuring and
analyses etc. She/he will have an opportunity to join
our eld sampling in both Cameroon and Czechia. The
postdoc will be jointly led by Dr. Robert Tropek and
Dr.^A t~A an Jane eek.
***Specic requirements for this position***
- a Ph.D. degree in the relevant eld (in early spring
2018 at the latest)
- advanced skills in ecological networks statistical analy-
ses
- enthusiasm for statistical revealing of ecological enig-
mas
- reasonable publication record
Desirable (but not necessary)February 1, 2018 EvolDir 119
- reasonable knowledge of insects or plants
- experience with trophic interactions research
Robert Tropek <robert.tropek@gmail.com >
CharlesU Prague
SpeciationGenomics
A postdoctoral position in Genomics of speciation at
Charles University in Prague
Position available: from June 2018 to December 2020
Application deadline: 18 ^th February 2018
We are looking for a motivated post-doc to join our
group working on genomics of speciation in two hy-
bridizing songbirds, the Common Nightingale and the
Thrush Nightingale. These species hybridize in a sec-
ondary contact zone and produce viable hybrid progeny.
In accordance with Haldane's Rule, hybrid females are
sterile, while hybrid males are fertile, allowing gene ow
to occur between the species. The two species also show
marked dierences in sperm morphology, which could
contribute to post-mating prezygotic isolation. The
main goal of the project aims at identifying genetic basis
and molecular mechanisms of both hybrid female steril-
ity and postmating prezygotic isolation. The project
will combine QTL mapping experiments and population
genomic analyses of transcriptomes and whole genome
sequences of both species. The successful applicant will
be mainly responsible for the bioinformatic part of the
project. The position requires experience in analysis of
large-scale next-generation sequence data and the ideal
candidate should have background in quantitative or
population genetics. Programming skills are desirable.
Salary:
The candidate's monthly income will be 1,500 EUR (ca
37,500 CZK) with the possibility of increase up to 2,000
EUR (ca 50,000 CZK). Note that living expenses in
the Czech Republic are generally lower than in Western
European countries.
How to apply: If interested, please, send (1) CV includ-
ing a list of publications, (2) copy of PhD diploma, (3)
motivation letter, and (3) contact details for 2-3 refer-
ences to Radka Reifova (radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz)
by 18th February 2018.
Contact: Further information about the po-
sition can be obtained from Radka Reifova(radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz).
You can also nd further information about our
group at our web page: http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
~radkas/ \RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D."
<radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz >
ClemsonU SnakeVenomEvolution
Postdoctoral opportunity: venom as a key innovation
in snakes.
The laboratory of Christopher Parkinson, recently re-
located to Clemson University, is looking for a highly
motivated postdoctoral associate to join a vibrant re-
search team. This position is funded for 2 years by our
NSF Dimensions of Biodiversity award and Clemson
University. Our NSF Dimensions award is a collabora-
tion among Lisle Gibbs at Ohio State, Darin Rokyta
at Florida State and in Brazil- Ignacio Azevedo, Ana
Moura, Erika Hingst-Zaher at Butantan Institute and
Hussam Zaher at USP. We will be investigating the
evolution of venom in the traditionally classied ven-
omous snakes as well as studying several lineages of
\nonvenomous" snakes to quantify links between func-
tional diversication of the complex trait of venom and
the speciation process in snakes. This project involves
work at the intersection of population genomics, tran-
scriptomics, quantitative biochemistry, phylogenomics
and comparative phylogenetics. The selected individual
will be responsible for facilitating sample collection in
several Latin American countries and will be involved
in downstream genomic and proteomic analyses as well
as venom functional assays.
Qualications: Candidates should have completed or
be within 6 months of completing their Ph.D.'s in an
appropriate related eld. We are seeking a scientist
with eld experience, who is creative & talented, has
an excellent publication record, is organized, and pos-
sesses excellent communication skills. As this positon
requires eld work in several Latin American counties
the ability to speak Spanish and/or Portuguese is desir-
able. Additionally, the successful candidate should have
a strong computational background and previous expe-
rience working with NGS data sets and phylogenetics.
The candidate is expected to secure funding through
submission of fellowships and grant applications, which
will help further prepare them for a successful academic
career.
The position is located in Clemson, SC at Clemson Uni-120 EvolDir February 1, 2018
versity, though there will be opportunities to work with,
and at, collaborating institutions. Interested candidates
should send their CV, a research/motivation statement
for this position and contact information for three refer-
ences to Chris Parkinson (viper@clemson.edu). Review
of applications will begin immediately and continue un-
til the position is lled. For more information on the
Parkinson lab see: https://www.parkinsonlab.com/
Department of Biological Science and
Department of Forestry, and Environmental Conserva-
tion 190 Collings St., 157b Life Sciences Facility,
Clemson University, Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-3058
emailsigpict
Christopher L Parkinson <viper@clemson.edu >
GuangxiU Phylogenomics
Two postdoctoral fellowships available immediately in
Plant Phylogenomics.
Two Postdoctoral Fellowships are available immediately
at the Plant Ecophysiology and Evolution Group of
Guangxi University (Nanning, China). We are seeking
highly motivated and productive postdoctoral fellows
to engage in 2-year projects in the following eld:
- Plant Phylogenomics (2 funded fellowships available)
Plant Ecophysiology and Evolution Group at Guangxi
University (Nanning, China) http://www.plant-
ecophysiology-evolution.com/ http://www.plant-
ecophysiology-evolution.com/person/joeri-sergej-strijk/
1 Plant Phylogenomics Two fellowships are available
in the Biodiversity Genomics Team, led by Associate
Prof Joeri S. Strijk. We focus our research eorts on
understanding the origin, rise and persistence of tropical
plant biodiversity by combining the latest NextGen
sequencing techniques and advances in genomics with
molecular systematics, taxonomy, ecology and historical
biogeographical reconstruction. Our study area covers
the greater tropical Australasian zone and extends
to include the ora of the Madagascar and Indian
Ocean Island Biodiversity Hotspot. Members of the
team address a wide range of research topics, ranging
from understanding the eects of palaeogeographic
changes in landmass conguration on patterns of plant
genome evolution and divergence, studying community
assembly and in-situ plant diversication patterns
on oceanic islands, to using genomic data to clarifythe links between gene divergence, diversication and
distribution, and employing the latest NGS techniques
to resolve longstanding botanical and evolutionary
questions typical for amorphic, speciose and widespread
tropical tree families.
-REQUIREMENTS: Prospective candidates, (younger
than 34 years at the contract starting date), should
have a PhD with a strong background in plant genomics
and/or systematics, bioinformatics, molecular dating
and/or biogeographical reconstruction, and should have
a proven track record of successful publication in peer-
reviewed journals. Additional experience in botanical
collecting and eldwork, taxonomy and herbarium expe-
rience are considered a major advantage when applying.
The candidate will join a dynamic and international
team that uses the latest advances in genomics to push
the boundaries of our knowledge on plant biodiversity
and plant divergence. Within the team's programs, a
number of topics are available for discussion following a
successful application.
***Fellowship details*** Opportunities for the develop-
ment of individual research projects as well as collabo-
rative work exist within the Plant Ecophysiology and
Evolution Group.
The postdoctoral tenure will be two years and renewable
for one more year upon evaluation. The fellowship cov-
ers an annual salary, a furnished apartment on campus
and medical insurance. A small research fund (30,000
Yuan RMB) is provided by the university and the host
supervisor will cover the rest of the initial research ex-
penses. Prospective candidates are required to take part
in external funding applications to support the joint re-
search work. In addition, the selected candidate will be
eligible to apply for a National Postdoctoral Scholarship
through Guangxi University.
***General information Guangxi University*** The
Plant Ecophysiology and Evolution Group is part of
the College of Forestry, under the State Key Labo-
ratory of Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical
Agro-bioresources, and the newly proposed Guangxi Key
Laboratory of Forest Ecology and Conservation, which
houses a wide range of laboratories and research teams.
We are centrally located on the large green Nanning
City campus, with easy access to on-campus housing
and day-to-day facilities for life on campus. Visit our
website for a picture impression: http://www.plant-
ecophysiology-evolution.com/contact-us/ Postdoctoral
Fellows will be part of a growing and multidisciplinary
team of Chinese and foreign researchers, providing a
creative and stimulating research environment. Group
members (students and faculty) represent over fteen
dierent nationalities, spanning a wide range of researchFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 121
backgrounds and experiences. Knowledge of Chinese for
application is not mandatory, but opportunities exist
to attend weekly courses in Mandarin if desired. The
working language in our research group is English.
Guangxi University ( >25,000 students) in Nanning is
part of China's National 211 University Scheme (http:/-
/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project 211), and is rapidly be-
coming a major research hub in Southern China. The
city forms the natural gateway to South-East Asia, with
Vietnam only
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Ifremer France Biodiversity
eDNAanalysis
*Post doctoral position : Improving marine biodiversity
inventories through eDNA analysis*
*Context*
The knowledge and understanding of the ecology and
evolution of the marine realm requires an enhanced
appraisal of marine biodiversity and of the biotic and
abiotic drivers of its distribution and evolution. Yet
the very rst step, that of inventory, appears stumbled:
considering the pace of taxonomic description in 2015,
an estimated 10,000 years would be required to com-
plete the taxonomic descriptions and inventory of the
majority of the existing biodiversity, provided it would
be accessed and sampled. The recent improvement and
unprecedented acceleration of sequencing techniques
and the development of environmental genomics open
promising avenue for the development of methods allow-
ing the rapid and reliable characterization of biodiversity
and ecosystems status (Valentini et al. 2009, Creer et al.
2010, Hajibabaei et al. 2011), including in the deep sea
(Pawlowski et al. 2011, Sinniger et al. 2016) . Previous
studies have shown good evidences for the potential of
metagenomics in support of monitoring surveys(Ji et
al. 2013, Cowart et al. 2015, Pawlowski et al. 2015,
Aylagas et al. 2016, Cordier et al. 2017) and ultimately
leading to new tools and/or indicators to assess potential
impacts from industrial operations (Bista et al. 2015,
Lejzerowicz et al. 2015).During a previous collaboration, Total and Ifremer de-
veloped protocols of metabarcode and compared their
eciency with classical morphological inventories (Cow-
art et al. 2015). Their aim in the EU H2020 project
\Atlas: A Trans-AtLantic Assessment and deep-water
ecosystem-based Spatial management plan for Europe"
is to go one step beyond using constantly upgraded pro-
tocols (taking into account the evolution of molecular
and bioinformatics tools) in deep sea ecosystems includ-
ing Atlantic habitats among which potentially impacted
ones.
The post-doc is hired to contribute analyzing deep
sea sediment samples with the objective of compar-
ing and if necessary improving existing protocols based
on metabarcoding and capture methods. This will be
performed to fulll the needs of operational sites surveys
and feed comparative approach between eDNA based
and conventional taxonomic approaches. The objective
is to develop standardized molecular and bioinformatics
protocols and indicators for environmental impact as-
sessments, and consider the denition of new indicators.
*Skills:*
*Good background in community ecology, genomics and
bioinformatics
* eDNA analysis and interpretation
*Team work
*Rigorous laboratory methods and practices
*Good redaction skills
**
*Contact * Sophie Arnaud-Haond sarnaud@ifremer.fr
<mailto:sarnaud@ifremer.fr >
http://wwz.ifremer.fr/ *Duration of the contract|:*18
months
*Starting dates|:*between March 1 ^st and June 1 ^st
*2018*
*Candidatures (CV, a letter and two contacts for refer-
ences) sent by email before 08/02/2018|:*Interviews
between February 1 ^st and 15
*Lab|: *Ifremer, UMR MARBEC (Marine Biodiver-
sity, Exploitation and Conservation), Bd Jean Monnet,
BP 171, 34203 S ete Cedex
*References*
1.A. Valentini et al., Molecular Ecology Resources 9,
51-60 (2009).
2.S. Creer et al., Molecular Ecology 19, 4-20 (2010).
3.M. Hajibabaei, S. Shokralla, X. Zhou, G. A. C. Singer,
D. J. Baird, Plos One 6,(2011).122 EvolDir February 1, 2018
4.J. Pawlowski et al., Plos One 6,(2011).
5.F. Sinniger et al., Frontiers in Marine Science 3,(2016).
6.D. A. Cowart et al., PLoS ONE 10, e0117562 (2015).
7.Y. Ji et al., Ecology Letters 16, 1245-1257 (2013).
8.T. Cordier et al., Environ Sci Technol 51, 9118-9126
(2017).
9.J. Pawlowski et al., Genome 58, 265-265 (2015).
10.E. Aylagas, ~A. Borja, X. Irigoien, N. Rodr guez-
Ezpeleta, Frontiers in Marine Science 3,(2016).
11.I. Bista et al., Genome 58, 197-197 (2015).
12.F. Lejzerowicz et al., Scientic reports 5, 13932
(2015).
Sophie Arnaud-Haond Ifremer UMR MARBEC (Marine
Biodiversity, Exploitation and Conservation) Bd Jean
Monnet, BP 171, 34203 S ete Cedex - France Tel: +33 4
99 57 32 61
Sophie Arnaud Haond <Sophie.Arnaud@ifremer.fr >
IndianaU BeetleEvoDevo
Postdoctoral Fellow in Host-Microbiome Evo Devo of
Horned Beetles
One full-time postdoctoral position is available in Armin
Moczek's lab, Department of Biology, Indiana Univer-
sity, Bloomington. Our lab conducts research in the
evolutionary developmental (evo-devo) and ecological
developmental (eco-devo) biology of insects. Additional
information about research in the Moczek lab can be
found at http://ecoevodevo.com/ . The position will
explore the relative signicances of - and interactions
among - dung beetles, their microbiome, and niche con-
struction behaviors of larvae and adults in the ecological
radiation of horned beetles. This work will combine
genomic, transcriptomic, and candidate-pathway ap-
proaches alongside behavioral and ecological manipula-
tions in both beetles and their symbionts. Long term
objectives are to characterize the role of co-development
and reciprocal niche construction in the ecology and evo-
lution of dung beetles. The successful candidate would
have opportunities to develop additional independent
lines of research in these and related areas.
The position is initially available for 12 months.
We seek a collegial, self-motivated, independent, and
intellectually curious individual. A PhD in Evolution-ary Biology, Developmental Biology, or related eld
is required. Applicants for this position must have
strong bench skills, and familiarity with techniques
such as RNA interference, qPCR, cloning, immuno-
histochemistry, and the bioinformatic analyses of next-
gen sequencing data is strongly desirable (though train-
ing in these techniques will also be provided as neces-
sary). In addition, candidates must have demonstrated
written and oral communication skills. Experience work-
ing with insects is helpful but not required.
For questions about the position, contact Armin Moczek
(armin@indiana.edu).
Commensurate with experience, full benets included
To apply, please submit a letter of application,
a CV, a statement of research interests, and the
contact information for three references to http://-
indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/4871 . Armin P.
Moczek Professor of Biology, Indiana University Ful-
bright Distinguished Chair for Research, Innovation, &
Technology Australian National University and CSIRO,
Canberra http://ecoevodevo.com/ http://www.iu.edu/-
~biosim \Moczek, Armin P" <armin@indiana.edu >
Istanbul EvoDevo
Postdoctoral position at the Institute of Life Sciences
and Biotechnology in Istanbul
We are looking for highly motivated enthusiastic scien-
tists with PhD degree in Health or Biological sciences.
International research experience is highly preferred. In
general, research experiences of molecular biology, cell
culture, and Immunouoresnce microscopy are desired.
Excellent communication skills in English are necessary.
Multiple positions are sought to be lled in the following
elds:
1) Molecular and Cellular Microbiology.
The candidate will be working with rodent models and
mosquitoes. Prior experience with rodent models is
preferable.
2) Evolutionary Developmental Biology, endosymbiosis,
and microbiome research.
The candidate will be working with ant and mouse
models. Prior knowledge of development is preferable.
The salary is competitive and depends on the qualica-
tion and experience of the candidate. The institute isFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 123
located on a beautiful hill overlooking the Bosphorus
on the Anatolian side of Istanbul. It is fully equipped
with state of the art facilities.
The institute is an equal opportunity employer and does
not discriminate based on gender, religion or nationality.
Review of applications will start immediately.
For applications and enquiries, please contact:
m.raqi@bezmialem.edu.tr
Ab. Matteen Raqi (PhD)
Assistant Professor jBezmialem Vakif University jAd-
nan Menderes Bulvar jVatan Caddesij34093j
Fatih, Istanbul, Turkey jPhone +90 (538) 555-7580
Matteen Raqi <m.raqi@bezmialem.edu.tr >
KAUST SaudiArabia
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
*Postdocdoctoral fellowship available immediately at
the Integrative Systems Biology Lab to study coral reef
sh adaptation to climate change.*
One postdoctoral position in Marine Evolutionary Ge-
nomics is available at the Integrative Systems Biol-
ogy Lab (http://systemsbiology.kaust.edu.sa) at the
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
(KAUST) in Saudi Arabia (www.kaust.edu.sa). This is
part of a large and funded collaborative project with
the laboratory of Prof. Phil Munday at the ARC Cen-
tre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook
University ( www.coralcoe.org.au).
*Background*
Anthropogenic activities are leading to global Climate
Change at an unprecedented rate. Understanding the
mechanisms of how coral reef sh cope with environ-
mental shifts is imperative to understand their fate in a
changing planet. Little is known about the mechanisms
of rapid evolution/phenotypic plasticity to the adaptive
response of coral reef sh to changing ocean conditions.
We are seeking for a highly motivated postdoctoral fellow
to work on a long-term project that aims to understand
the eects of climate change stressors (i.e. ocean acidi-
cation and warming) on coral reef shes, specically
the damselsh (*Acanthochromis polyacanthus*) and
the clownsh (*Amphiprion percula*). Our main goal
is to understand acclimation to climate change at thegenomic level by using a set of unique multi-generational
experiments. These studies combine Next-Generation
Sequencing approaches such as genome and transcrip-
tome sequencing to understand the molecular mecha-
nisms that underline sh responses to climate stressors.
The successful candidate will be able to look at a vari-
ety of data including physiological responses, but will
mainly be working on the computational analysis of
comparative genomics and transcriptomics.
*About the successful applicant*
To be successful in this role you will have:
- PhD (completed or soon to be completed) in marine
biology, biology, ecology & evolution or computational
biology and genomics. - Research and publication track
record in a relevant eld, commensurate with opportu-
nity. - Expertise in the analysis and interpretation of
Next-Generation Sequencing datasets. - Demonstrated
programming skills in a Unix/Linux environment (e.g.
Python, Perl, R etc.)
We oer a very competitive compensation package, as
well as free on-campus housing and health benets. Ap-
plications should include a CV and contact information
of at least three referees.
For further information, or to submit your appli-
cation, please contact Prof. Timothy Ravasi (tim-
othy.ravasi@kaust.edu.sa) and please visit the Em-
ployment section at the KAUST Website <http://-
www.kaust.edu.sa/employment/employment.html >for
further information about opportunities and benets
available at the KAUST.
Celia Schunter <celia.schunter@kaust.edu.sa >
KULeuven
ComparativeGenomicsYeast
Job description:
We are looking for a highly motivated and talented post-
doctoral researcher, specialized in comparative genomics
and sequence analysis. In your role, you will work on
exciting research projects - you will be directly collabo-
rating with our team of wet-lab scientists who are gen-
erating novel data (whole-genome sequences, RNAseq
transcriptome data, Illumina, 454, PacBio,). These col-
laborations also allow your computational results to be
experimentally validated.
Who we are:124 EvolDir February 1, 2018
The lab for Systems Biology of Kevin Verstrepen is a
research team at VIB & University of Leuven. Our
team focuses on genomics, genetics, epigenetics, tran-
scriptomics and evolution, using yeast as a model. We
combine wet-lab and computational research to inves-
tigate how biological systems work and evolve. The
lab is located at Leuven University, one of the oldest
and most prominent universities in Europe, consistently
ranked within the top 50 worldwide universities. Leuven
is located 10 miles from Brussels, with frequent direct
train connections to Brussels airport.
Example publications include:
o Domestication and Divergence of Saccharomyces cere-
visiae Beer Yeasts.
Gallone B, Steensels J, Prahl T, Soriaga L, Saels V,
Herrera-Malaver B, Merlevede A, Roncoroni M, Vo-
ordeckers K, Miraglia L, Teiling C, Stey B, Taylor M,
Schwartz A, Richardson T, White C, Baele G, Maere S,
Verstrepen KJ. Cell (2016).
o Origins, evolution, domestication and diversity of Sac-
charomyces beer yeasts.
Gallone B, Mertens S, Gordon JL*,* Maere S, Ver-
strepen KJ, Steensels J. Curr Opin Biotechnol. (2017).
o Adaptation to High Ethanol Reveals Complex Evolu-
tionary Pathways.
Voordeckers K, Kominek J, Das A, Espinosa-Cant ~AoA, De Maeyer D, Arslan A, Van Pee M, van der Zande
E, Meert W, Yang Y, Zhu B, Marchal K, DeLuna A,
Van Noort V, Jelier R, Verstrepen KJ. PLoS Genetics
(2015)
We oer:
||| The ability to work on scientically exceptional
and high-impact research topics ||| Fulltime ap-
pointment as postdoctoral fellow at VIB / KU Leu-
ven, a highly-ranked research institute with competitive
payscale and benets (health insurance, sports facili-
ties,... ) ||| A stimulating and supportive inter-
national research environment (with English as main
language) ||| Various training opportunities within
VIB and KU Leuven to broaden your expertise and
skills ||| State-of-the art infrastructure ||| Job
is available immediately, starting date is negotiable
Prole:
||| You have a PhD degree in Bioinformatics,
Computational Biology, Computational Biology, (Bio)-
Engineering or related. ||| You have a strong re-
search output (peer-reviewed publications) ||| You
have hands-on experience with or a strong interest in
bioinformatics programming, including linux, scripting)and R ||| You have experience with the analysis
of next-generation sequence data such as whole-genome
sequencing, CNV, Structural variation and RNA- Seq. |
|| You are uent in English, for both written and oral
communication ||| You are enthused about scientic
research and have a strong interest in studying biology
using genomics and systems biology approaches. |||
You must have good, open communication skills and be
willing to collaborate with multiple other researchers
from our team.
How to obtain more information and apply?
Motivated candidates are asked to apply online. Ap-
plicants are invited to send their CV (including a list
of your scientic publications) and motivation letter.
For every formal application, please arrange for at least
2 letters of reference sent to Kevin Verstrepen (direct
email from mentor to Kevin) - Tel : +32 (0)16/751393.
More information: http://www.kuleuven.be/verstrepen
https://vibvzw.jobsoid.com/j/11076/postdoc-position-
in-bioinformatics-comparative-genomics Brigida Gal-
lone<brgal@psb.vib-ugent.be >
MasseyU ComputationalGenomics
Postdoc in Computational Genomics Massey University,
New Zealand
I am looking for a motivated postdoctoral fellow to ex-
plore the evolution of genome structure in lamentous
fungi. My group is interested in interactions between
genome structure and gene expression, epigenetic modi-
cation and 3D conformation. A key focus of this postdoc
will be on how interactions like these change over evo-
lutionary time. This research program will build on a
growing set of genomic data for the genus Epichloe, an
increasingly important model system for studying the
genome evolution of haploid and polyploid fungi.
The postdoc will be expected to help develop her/his
own research program, with an emphasis on addressing
novel hypotheses rather than data description. This
analytical position requires solid quantitative and com-
putational skills, with the ability to develop and apply
new bioinformatic applications to genome analysis. At
a minimum, some condence in bioinformatics and a
programming language is required. Training in fungal
biology or genomics can be provided as needed, and can-
didates from non-standard research backgrounds with a
clear t to the position are encouraged to apply.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 125
Funding is guaranteed for two years and three months,
but may be extendable. Salaries are extremely compet-
itive, starting at NZ $69,000, considerably higher than
comparable salaries in the US and Europe. Items consid-
ered benets in some other countries, such as healthcare
coverage, are a standard right in New Zealand.
My research group aims to achieve work-life balance
within a productive scientic environment. The team is
rmly embedded in the international scientic commu-
nity, with extensive collaborative links to Australia, Asia,
Europe and the United States. Ongoing training is a key
focus for postdocs. As a computational biology group,
I oer a supportive environment for computationally-
inclined postdocs to work towards independence. The
successful candidate will not be a lone bioinformaticist
isolated in a bench biology group.
My group is highly international, and applicants from
all countries and backgrounds are actively encouraged
to apply. Members of underrepresented groups are wel-
come, as are postdocs with families.
The position will be based in my computational biol-
ogy research group at Massey University in the city of
Palmerston North, New Zealand. This oers a rare op-
portunity to experience New Zealand's unique natural
and cultural environment, while still undertaking world
leading research. Palmerston North, a university town
with a large international community, oers a full range
of social and cultural amenities. The city is located
between mountains and the sea, and presents regular
opportunities for hiking, skiing, surng and adventure
sports. It also has a good caf e scene for those of a more
cosmopolitan bent.
For further information, please visit my group's website
(http://massey.genomicus.com) and the website of our
funder, the Bio-Protection Research Centre (http://-
bioprotection.org.nz). Please contact me directly if you
have any further questions (m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz).
To apply for this position, upload the following
documents at the ocial Massey University job
website: http://massey-careers.massey.ac.nz/10118/-
postdoctoral-fellow-in-computational-genomics 1. A
brief statement of research interests and experience,
focusing on short to mid-term career goals. 2. A cur-
riculum vitae, including qualications and scientic pub-
lications. 3. The names and contact details of three
referees willing to provide a condential letter of recom-
mendation upon request.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Saturday 24 February
2018
Prof Murray Cox Statistics and Bioinformatics Group
Institute of Fundamental Sciences Massey UniversityPalmerston North New Zealand
http://massey.genomicus.com m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz
murray.p.cox@gmail.com
MaxPlanck Jena Germany
PopulationGenetics
Postdoc position (E13 100%) Max Planck Institute for
the Science of Human History, Jena, Germany
The department for Archaeogenetics at the Max Planck
Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena, Ger-
many, is oering a position for a Postdoc in Population
Genetics (E13 100%) for up to four years, starting in
spring/summer 2018.
The overarching research topic in the department of
Archaeogenetics is the use of novel scientic approaches
from high throughput sequencing of ancient DNA from
human populations and their pathogens to explore re-
search questions related to human history, gene-culture
coevolution, and adaptation to infectious disease.
The candidate's job will be the analysis of human ge-
nomic data from ancient and modern samples to recon-
struct population history. The goal is to understand ge-
netic diversity and substructure of Neolithic and Bronze
Age populations, with a particular emphasis on West-
Eurasia. To this end, the candidate will use statistical
methods to quantify ancestral relationships, such as
PCA, admixture, and f-statistics. We will also develop
explicit tree- and graph-based population-genetic models
for common ancestry and admixture between dierent
groups of samples to understand order and timing of
historical events.
The ideal applicant should have completed a PhD in
genetics, bioinformatics, and computer science or rel-
evant neighboring disciplines, worked with large high-
throughput sequencing or SNP datasets, and a profound
interest in human history. Prerequisites also include ev-
idence of strong oral and written communication skills
and the ability to complete tasks in a timely and struc-
tured fashion.
For detailed information on the institute please visit
our website: http://www.shh.mpg.de/en . The Max
Planck Institute for the Science of Human History pro-
motes women and encourages especially women to apply.
Handicapped candidates will be given
priority in case of the same professional qualication.126 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Please submit a letter of interest detailing how you meet
the qualications, curriculum vitae (indicating previous
academic performance indicators, publication history,
and prior research experience), and contact information
for three references to:
E-mail: dag-jobs@shh.mpg.de
For more details on the research program please contact
Prof. Johannes Krause, E-mail: krause@shh.mpg.de
Dr. Wolfgang Haak, E-mail: haak@shh.mpg.de
Dr. Stephan Schiels, E-mail: schiels@shh.mpg.de
richter@shh.mpg.de
MichiganStateU eDNA
Metabarcoding
Postdoctoral Research Associate: Environmental DNA
metabarcoding
Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Michigan State
University
A postdoctoral research associate position is available
in the labs of Dr. John Robinson and Dr. Kim Scribner
in the Department of Fisheries and Wildlife at Michigan
State University. The successful applicant will join a
collaborative project between university and Michigan
Department of Natural Resources researchers apply-
ing environmental DNA metabarcoding approaches to
basic and applied community ecological questions in
Michigan waters of the Great Lakes and their tribu-
taries. This project will develop and apply sensitive
and rapid molecular approaches for detecting aquatic
invasive species, while also more broadly characterizing
associations among aquatic community biotic compo-
nents (sh, mollusks, invertebrates, plants) with physical
properties of lakes and streams. The successful candi-
date will regularly participate in (and eventually, lead)
eld eDNA sampling. The postdoc will lead laboratory,
bioinformatic, and statistical analyses. The postdoc will
also have op portunities to collaborate on future and
ongoing research in both labs.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Evolutionary
Biology, or a similar eld. Applicants should also have
experience with genomic library preparations, data base
management of large sequencing data sets, and basic
bioinformatic and statistical skills. Programming expe-
rience in R, UNIX, or other languages is preferred, as isexperience with high performance computing.
The start date is on or before June 1, 2018 but
can be somewhat exible. Initial appointment is
for a period of 19 months, with the potential for
additional support contingent on performance and
funding. Interested applicants should apply through
www.careers.msu.edu, search posting number 483503.
Questions about the position can be directed to Dr.
John Robinson, jdrob@msu.edu, or Dr. Kim Scribner,
scribne3@msu.edu.
Review of applications will begin February 1, 2018 and
will continue until the position is lled.
\jdrob@msu.edu" <jdrob@msu.edu >
New Zealand StickInsectGenomics
A three year post-doctoral position is available at Man-
aaki Whenua - Landcare Resesarch in New Zealand to
contribute to a newly funded Marsden Fund project
\Evolution thermal performance in stick insects". We
are seeking to recruit a post-doctoral researcher with
experience in genomics or transcriptomics and an inter-
est in using genomic data to test hypotheses on thermal
biology, adaptation, plasticity and evolution.
Project summary
This project is led by Thomas Buckley at Manaaki
Whenua - Landcare Research, Auckland, New Zealand.
Key collaborators are Brent Sinclair (University of West-
ern Ontario, Canada) and Hester Roberts (Manaaki
Whenua - Landcare Research, Auckland, New Zealand).
The goal of this research programme is to determine
whether tropical species that colonize temperate envi-
ronments shift their thermal performance, or rely on
inherent plasticity. This post-doctoral project will inte-
grate genomics, physiology, and phylogeny to address
this question using the well-studied clade of New Zealand
and New Caledonian stick insects. The successful can-
didate will be tasked with collecting and analysing a
variety of -Omic data sets from New Zealand and New
Caledonian stick insects. The techniques employed will
include whole genome data, RNAseq, miRNA sequence
and bisulte sequence data. The candidate will perform
the bioinformatic analysis of the data and use it to test
evolutionary hypotheses. The candidate will also have
the option of being involved in eld work and thermal
performance experiments, and integrating these results
with the genomic data. These analyses will help to revealFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 127
the genomic basis of thermal performance and recon-
struct its evolution across a group of stick insect species
inhabiting a subtropical to cool alpine environmental
transect.
The successful candidate will ideally: - hold a PhD
in biology with proven publication track record and
conference presentations - have laboratory experience
with DNA and RNA extraction, quality control, and
sequencing library preparation - have experience with
the bioinformatic analysis of genomic data sets such as
RNAseq, whole genome assembly and annotation, and
bisulte sequencing data - have an understanding of
thermal biology and its evolution - have an understand-
ing of evolutionary biology, processes of adaptation and
associated models and methodology - have the ability to
relate to people in all circumstances and to work well in
a team - be versatile, demonstrates initiative in solving
problems - work well under pressure, self motivated - be
well organised, capable of independently and eectively
planning time and resources - have the ability to mentor
students
The three year, full time position will be based at Man-
aaki Whenua-Landcare Research in Auckland.
If you would like to take advantage of this great oppor-
tunity please view the position description and apply
online. Applications must include a cover letter, CV
and evidence of the required skills as per the position
description.
For further details about our organisation and the
relevance of our science please visit our website:
www.landcareresearch.co.nz Applications close on Tues-
day 13 February 2018 at 5.00pm.
https://careers.sciencenewzealand.org/jobdetails/-
ajid/RlTr8/26385-Postdoctural-Fellowship-Marsden-
,26385.html Thomas Buckley Research Leader,
Invertebrate Systematics Manaaki Whenua 'V Landcare
Research
Associate Professor, University of Auckland T +64 9
574 4116
E buckleyt@landcareresearch.co.nz
www.landcareresearch.co.nz Thomas Buckley
<BuckleyT@landcareresearch.co.nz >NHGRI-NIH Bethesda Bioinformat-
icsEvolutionaryGenomics
Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch Na-
tional Human Genome Research Institute National In-
stitutes of Health
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Bioinformatics and Evolu-
tionary Genomics
A postdoctoral training position is currently available
in the Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch
(CSGB) of the National Human Genome Research Insti-
tute (NHGRI). The position is located in the laboratory
of Andy Baxevanis, Ph.D., whose research group uses
comparative genomics approaches to better-understand
the molecular innovations that drove the surge of diver-
sity in early animal evolution. The overarching theme of
Dr. Baxevanis' research program is focused on how non-
traditional animal models can be used to convey critical
insights into human disease research, in line with the
NIH Intramural Research Program's renewed emphasis
on developing new animal models for the study of basic
biology.
With this translational context in mind, Dr. Baxeva-
nis' group is currently leading an international eort to
sequence two cnidarian species: Hydractinia echinata
and Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus. The regenerative
abilities of these colonial hydrozoans make them ex-
cellent models for the study of key questions related
to pluripotency, allorecognition, and stem cell biology,
work that will be signicantly advanced by the avail-
ability of high-quality whole-genome sequencing data
from these organisms. In addition, and in collaboration
with colleagues at the Whitney Marine Laboratory of
the University of Florida, the group is also now focusing
on polychaete species that show particular promise for
advancing our understanding of regeneration and early
developmental processes. The successful applicant will
have the opportunity to develop and apply bioinformatic
approaches to these and other large-scale genomic data
sets, focusing on the evolution of specic protein fami-
lies and biological pathways that have putative roles in
disease causation.
Candidates should have or be close to obtaining a Ph.D.
or equivalent degree in bioinformatics, computational
biology, computer science, molecular biology, or a closely
related eld. Candidates with a background in evolu-128 EvolDir February 1, 2018
tionary biology are particularly encouraged to apply.
Programming skills and experience in the application
of computational methods to genomic data are highly
desirable. Applicants must possess good communica-
tion skills and be uent in both spoken and written
English. The ability to learn how to use new software
and quickly become expert in its use, critical think-
ing, problem-solving abilities, and the ability to work
semi-independently are required.
The NIH Intramural Research Program is on the
Bethesda, Maryland campus and oers a wide array of
training opportunities for scientists early in their careers.
The funding for this position is stable and oers the
trainee wide latitude in the design and pursuit of their
research project. The successful candidate will have ac-
cess to NHGRI's established and robust bioinformatics
infrastructure, as well as a 'Top 100' high-performance
computing resource made available through NIH's Cen-
ter for Information Technology (CIT).
Interested applicants should submit a curriculum vitae,
a detailed letter of interest, and the names of three poten-
tial references to Dr. Baxevanis at andy@mail.nih.gov.
For more information, please visit https://irp.nih.gov/-
pi/andy-baxevanis . The NIH is dedicated to building
a diverse community in its training and employment
programs.
\Baxevanis, Andy (NIH/NHGRI) [E]"
<andy@mail.nih.gov >
NHM London EvolutionFrogVision
The Natural History Museum, London (NHM)
Postdoctoral Researcher - Frog Vision
Starting date: July 2018 (preferred)
The Herpetology Group (embedded within the Depart-
ment of Life Sciences, Division of Vertebrates) is a
research-active group with four permanent sta mem-
bers and multiple honorary Scientic Associates, post-
doctoral researchers and postgraduate students. The
group specializes in systematics, phylogenetics, and the
biology of amphibians and reptiles. The NHM Herpetol-
ogy group fosters a supportive and positive environment
for research training and highly values diversity.
We seek a full-time postdoctoral researcher for a 28-
month research-intensive position. This position is
funded through a Natural Environment Research Coun-cil - National Science Foundation award The evolution
of visual systems during major life history transitions
in frogs. The project integrates morphological, molecu-
lar, and physiological data to investigate the evolution
of vision systems in frogs at both broad and recent
timescales - from across the frog tree of life to recently-
diverged lineages. Molecular evolutionary studies will
provide a genomic perspective on vision evolution to test
hypotheses about natural selection, gene duplication,
and retention of vision genes. The overall project runs
for four years and tackles several sub-projects, includ-
ing: (1) characterizing the physiology and molecular
underpinnings of vision in species with varying early
life-history modes, (2) testing whether the evolution of
bright coloration in frogs is associated with visual sys-
tem diversity that maximizes species recognition, and
(3) determining how transitions to burrowing ecologies
have shaped the morphological and genetic components
of visual systems.
The successful candidate will be based at the Natural
History Museum in London and will participate in mul-
tiple aspects of the research and broader impacts of
the project, with a particular focus on analyses of mu-
seum specimens, studies of burrowing frogs (especially
Microhylidae), and outreach through the NHM. There
will also be opportunities to interact with our partner
researchers at the Smithsonian National Museum of
Natural History (Washington, D.C., USA) and The Uni-
versity of Texas at Arlington (Texas, USA). The postdoc
will be provided with career planning assistance and op-
portunities to learn and rene skills designed to increase
their professional aptitude in research, professional com-
munication, and public outreach. Further enquiries may
be emailed to Dr Je Streicher at j.streicher@nhm.ac.uk
and/or to Dr David Gower at d.gower@nhm.ac.uk .
How to apply
Please complete your application online in our recruit-
ment portal before 9am (GMT) 7 February 2018.
You should upload the following documents:
A comprehensive curriculum vitae giving details of rele-
vant achievements in recent posts as well as your educa-
tion and professional qualications.
A covering letter that summarises your interest in this
post, providing evidence of your ability to match the
criteria outlined in the role competencies.
To access the recruitment portal please use the following
link:
https://careers.nhm.ac.uk/templates/CIPHR/-
jobdetail 405.aspx A detailed job description (job
prole document) is available for download on theFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 129
NHM website.
J.Streicher@nhm.ac.uk
NorthCarolinaStateU
InsectPlantInteractions
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION ON INSECT VEC-
TORS OF PLANT VIRUSES
In support of a large multi-investigator initiative to
develop vectored plant viruses that could edit plant
genomes, a postdoctoral position is available in the
Scott lab at North Carolina State University. The main
aim is to develop transgenic strains of plant vectors
carrying conditional lethal genes.
The vectors are aphid and leafhopper species that trans-
mit viruses that impact corn. The engineered strains
would not survive in the absence of a small chemical
regulator such as an antibiotic. The modied insects
would thus have a limited lifespan in proposed green-
house trials but in the future could also potentially be
used for genetic control programs.
The position is suitable for recent PhD graduates in
entomology or genetics. Experience in molecular genet-
ics and knowledge of insect vectors of plant viruses is
desirable.
For more information contact Max Scott at
mjscott3@ncsu.edu and apply online at https://-
jobs.ncsu.edu/ The posting number is PG160203PD
\coby@ncsu.edu" <coby@ncsu.edu >
NortheasternU
GenomicsComputationalBiology
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of
Dr. K. E. Lotterhos at Northeastern University. The
postdoc will also be mentored by Sam Yeaman at the
University of Calgary. The successful candidate will be
part of an NSF-funded project to develop and evaluate
multivariate methods for analyzing genomic data.
Qualications Applicants will be expected to develop
and lead projects. Candidates are required to havea Ph.D. in Biology, Evolutionary Genetics, Statistics,
Computational Biology (bioinformatics), or related disci-
plines. A computing background is required, especially
experience with Unix, and knowledge in one or sev-
eral programming languages (R/BioConductor, Python,
C/C++, etc). Candidates should demonstrate a strong
track record of publication; have strong organizational,
written, and oral communication skills; and be able to
work both independently and as part of a collaborative
team.
Additional Information The appointment is for 24
months. Start time is exible, with a desired start
before May 2018.
The Lotterhos Lab is based at the beautiful in Na-
hant campus north of Boston (NUMSC). The NUMSC
has a strong research presence in evolution and ecol-
ogy research, and there are many opportunities for
interaction and collaboration both there and in the
greater Boston area. More information about the lab's
research can be found here: https://sites.google.com/-
site/katielotterhos/home. The successful candidate will
also have opportunities to travel to Calgary for extended
periods of time for collaboration, and to manage a di-
verse team of collaborators. We welcome applications
from candidates with diverse educational backgrounds.
To apply, please prepare a CV, cover letter, references,
and one peer-reviewed publication and upload them at
this site: https://neu.peopleadmin.com/postings/49443
Please contact Dr. Lotterhos with any questions at
k.lotterhos@neu.edu
K. E Lotterhos Assistant Professor Department of Ma-
rine and Environmental Sciences Northeastern Univer-
sity Marine Science Center, Room 113 430 Nahant Rd
Nahant, MA 01908 Phone: 781.581.7370 ext 304
Katie Lotterhos <k.lotterhos@northeastern.edu >
NYU AbuDhabi MangroveGenomics
Deadline for applications: 10 January.
New York University Abu Dhabi (NYUAD) is seeking
a Post-Doctoral Researcher who will apply genomics
to study the locally abundant, pan-tropical gray man-
grove, Avicenna marina. NYUAD is located on the
shores of the Persian/Arabian Gulf, an area that is at
the northern margins of this species range and where
environmental conditions (temperature ranges, salinity,
aridity) are extreme. The core focus of the Post-doctoral130 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Researcher' ^As role will be to use a population genomics
approaches to identify regions of the mangrove genome
under positive selection in response to extreme tem-
peratures and highly saline conditions using various
populations in the Arabian Gulf, Arabian Sea, and Red
Sea. As part of a larger integrated research project,
the Post-doctoral Researcher will also work closely with
researchers who will be developing a reference genome
for Avicenna marina and investigating the inuence
of abiotic stress at the transcriptomic and metabomic
level. The candidate would be encouraged to expand this
core research to address broader evolutionary/ecological
questions.
The Post-Doctoral Researcher will work in the
NYUAD marine biology laboratory ( https://-
nyuad.nyu.edu/en/research/centers-labs-and-projects/-
marine-biology-lab.html) under PI John Burt with
day-to-day supervision by Research Scientist Ed Smith,
and will closely collaborate with researchers in the
NYUAD Laboratory of Algal, Systems, and Syn-
thetic Biology headed by PI Kourosh Salehi-Ashtiani
(https://lassb.abudhabi.nyu.edu/index.php).
To be successful in this role you MUST possess the fol-
lowing essential traits: - PhD in Biology or equivalent
[only those with PhDs completed on/before April 2018
can be considered]. - A strong publication record with
rst-author experience - Research experience in pop-
ulation genetics - Strong interpersonal skills with the
ability to liaise with external stakeholders, employees,
management and students.
DESIRABLE experience/qualications: - Experience in
population genomics - Experience with other 'Vomics -
Experience linking genomics and ecological performance
- Experience working on mangroves - Boat operator certi-
cation (e.g. powerboat skipper, etc) - Dive certication
from an accredited agency (PADI, BSAC or similar or-
ganization) - Ability to conduct multiple, possibly diver-
gent, research projects simultaneously - Ability to train
and mentor undergraduate students - Ability to plan,
allocate, and monitor research budgets for projects - Ex-
perience leading permit requests for research collections
(nationally and internationally) - Valid driver' ^As license
in home country - International research experience
The position begins September 2018. This will be a two-
year xed-term contract position, potentially renewable
for a third year based on successful performance. Salary
is competitive and the position will come with an at-
tractive salary and benets package including a housing
allowance, annual ights, and tuition for children (if
relevant), and medical insurance. Salary is free from
income tax in the UAE. Hiring is contingent on success-
ful clearance of security, health, and reference checks,among other HR-related parameters.
APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS: The closing date for
applications is 10 January 2018. Applicants should
create a single PDF le that includes a cover let-
ter (max 2 pages) that specically refers to qualica-
tions/experience related to the lists above, a curriculum
vitae that includes the names and contact information
for three research-related references, as well as copies of
recent relevant lead-author publications. Please email
this application le to John.Burt@nyu.edu with the
text MANGROVE APPLICATION in the subject line.
Only short listed candidates will be contacted for an
interview.
John Burt <john.burt@nyu.edu >
OldDominionU MarineBiodiversity
Graduate Research Assistant (PhD) - Marine Molecular
Ecology at Old Dominion University
The Department of Biological Sciences at Old Dominion
University, a \Doctoral Research - Extensive" state uni-
versity, has an opening for a PhD Graduate Research
Assistant in marine molecular ecology. The appointment
will begin in the summer or fall semester of 2018. This
position involves participation in an NSF-funded PIRE
(Partnerships for International Research and Education)
Project to examine genetic and species-level changes
in marine biodiversity over the past century of intense
sheries exploitation and habitat degradation in the
Philippines. The successful candidate will be expected
to live in the Philippines during summer sessions to
conduct research in the eld and laboratory in a collab-
orative, multinational setting. Applicants must have a
bachelor's or master's degree at the time of employment,
and demonstrate interest or experience in molecular ecol-
ogy, population genomics, marine phylogeography, or a
closely related eld. Competitive applicants will have
some experience conducting molecular ecology research
in the eld and/or laboratory; AAUS Scientic Diver
certication is desired. Underrepresented minorities are
particularly encouraged to apply.
Interested applicants should send an email to Kris-
tene Parsons (kparsons@odu.edu) that includes (1) a
cover letter describing your interest in the position,
prior research, and future career goals, (2) your cur-
riculum vitae, (3) a copy of your college transcript(s),
and (4) the names, telephone numbers, and addressesFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 131
(postal and email) of three references. Review of appli-
cations will begin in February, 2018 and will continue
until a suitable candidate is found. For more informa-
tion about the department, other faculty and students,
please see the websites of the Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences (http://www.odu.edu/biosci) and Kent
Carpenter (http://www.odu.edu/directory/people/k/-
kcarpent). Additional information on the Philippine
PIRE Project can be found at https://sites.wp.odu.edu/-
PIRE/. AA/EOE/M/F/Disability/VETS/Drug Free
Kristene T. Parsons NSF PIRE Project Administra-
tor Department of Biological Sciences Old Dominion
University Norfolk, VA 23529-0266 USA
kparsons@odu.edu j757-683-3481
\Parsons, Kristene" <kparsons@odu.edu >
Prague
EvolGenomicsOlfactionFishes
LAST CALL: We are oering a postdoc position in the
Laboratory of Fish Evolution in Prague, Czech Repub-
lic.
The topic: Sensory genomics of the olfactory system in
shes
The selected candidate will become part of a research
team within the framework of the project entitled: \Ge-
nomics of sensory adaptations: evolution of vision, smell
and taste in shes" funded by Swiss National Science
Foundation (SNSF, Switzerland). The main focus of the
lab is on the evolution of the sensory systems (vision,
olfaction, gustation) in several groups of shes (includ-
ing crater-lake cichlids, deep-sea shes, elephant shes).
The research in the lab is currently substantially covered
by two research grants.
We search for a highly motivated postdoc candidate who
would be responsible for the analysis of the olfactory
receptors in the whole-genome and transcriptome data
leading to the large-scale comparative analysis, as well
as a small-scale focus on evolution of the olfactory re-
ceptors during speciation. The general research project
further aims to integrate the ndings of molecular genet-
ics with trophic ecology, developmental stages and other
sensory abilities (mostly vision) in dierent species.
We oer: 24-months postdoc position in a dynamic re-
search team with several PhD and MSc students, access
to fascinating sh samples from the tropics, Europeanrivers, as well as the deep sea, possible (not required)
participation in the eld work in Africa. We oer sub-
stantial salary (360'000 CZK annually, equal to the
average national salary in the Czech Republic; guaran-
teed), the candidate will then immediately apply for a
very competitive salary of 746'000 CZK annually (more
than 2x the average salary in the Czech Republic).
We require: postdoctoral candidate with at least mod-
erate bioinformatics skills (experience with molecular
genetic data highly desired), with the PhD title received
no longer than 7 years ago (extension due to maternity
leave applicable), at least two research publications in
the last three years, the applicant must have resided
outside the Czech Republic at least for 2 of the last 3
years. All nations applicable.
Start: July 2018, Duration: 2 years.
Deadline: 24th January 2018 (the candidate should be
ideally assigned to the position by the end of January).
All questions and applications (CV + half-page moti-
vation letter + contact details for two persons who
can be asked for a reference) should be sent di-
rectly to Zuzana Musilova (zuzmus@gmail.com - pre-
ferred, zuzana.musilova@natur.cuni.cz). More info
about the Division of Animal Evolutionary Biology,
and Department of Zoology: http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
zoologie/biodiversity/index.php?page=3Dmusilova zuz-
mus@gmail.com
PUCE Ecuador
AmphibiaReptiliaSystematics
Museo de Zoologia QCAZ
Ponticia Universidad Catolica del Ecuador
Quito - Ecuador
Post-doctoral Fellowships in Systematics of Amphibians
and Reptiles
Starting date: May 1st, 2018
The Zoology Museum at Ponticia Universidad Catolica
del Ecuador (http://bioweb.puce.edu.ec/QCAZ/inicio)
invites applications for post-doctoral research fellow-
ships in Systematics of Amphibians and Reptiles with
a start date of May 1st, 2018. These positions will be
part of the \Arca de Noe" initiative, a long-term re-
search project (2009-present) funded by the Ecuadorian
government.132 EvolDir February 1, 2018
The \Arca de Noe" initiative has produced 80 scientic
publications including the description of more than 70
species of amphibians and reptiles from Ecuador and
Peru. This project is led by Professors Santiago Ron
(curator of amphibians) and Omar Torres-Carvajal (cu-
rator of reptiles), and it has a strong eld component
that has resulted in large collections of specimens and
tissue samples.
We seek candidates with a strong research background
and publication record in phylogenetic systematics of
amphibians and reptiles. Experience in molecular ge-
nomics and bioinformatics is preferable. Candidates
should have completed their PhD anytime during the
last 10 years. The post-doctoral fellows will help with
the description of new species of amphibians and rep-
tiles, as well as with projects on molecular systematics,
phylogenomics and biogeography of Neotropical taxa.
Candidates willing to develop their own research projects
that match the goals of the \Arca de Noe" initiative
are welcome. Fellows will be provided with oce space,
computer facilities, funding for laboratory work, and
a one-year contract. We encourage international ap-
plicants to review all regulations and requirements for
applying for jobs in Ecuador (see links below).
Applications should include: (1) curriculum vitae, (2)
letter of intent, and (3) contact details of two academic
referees. Applications should be submitted electronically
as a single PDF le to <santiago.r.ron@gmail.com >or
<omartorcar@gmail.com >before February 15th, 2018.
Visa information: http://www.consuladovirtual.gob.ec/-
servicios/2017 reqvis2temCienti ing.html For citizens
of MERCOSUR countries:
http://www.consuladovirtual.gob.ec/servicios/-
2017 reqvis2temMercos ing.html Omar Torres
Carvajal <omartorcar@gmail.com >
SLU Sweden EvolutionaryEcology
A POSTDOC POSITION in Evolutionary Ecology is
available in The Strawberry Lab at SLU, SWEDEN.
Plant resistance and tolerance to herbivores often show
high complexity that results from interactions with mul-
tiple selective agents. Understanding the complex na-
ture of plant defences against multiple herbivores, as
well as the evolutionary and ecological consequences
of attack by multiple herbivores, adds not only to our
knowledge of the evolutionary ecology of plant-herbivoreinteractions, but is also likely to benet attempts to
nd sustainable plant protection strategies.
THE AIM of this postdoc project is to gain knowledge
about the evolutionary and ecological consequences of
attack by multiple herbivores. Woodland strawberry,
Fragaria vesca L., will be used as a model plant. Since
non-domesticated plant species in general are more re-
sistant and tolerant to herbivores, and show higher
variation in their traits, studying woodland strawberry
provides useful information about traits that contribute
to improved resistance and tolerance. The postdoc will
have access to a large number of strawberry genotypes
that show high genetic variation in several traits. For
example, we already have some knowledge on genetic
variation in plant resistance against the strawberry leaf
beetle (Muola et al. 2017) as well as some preliminary
data on plant resistance and tolerance against several
other herbivores. The postdoc is expected to expand
this knowledge through experimental work. Woodland
strawberry shares substantial sequence identity with gar-
den strawberry (Fragaria ~A ananassa). The genome of
woodland strawberry has been sequenced and it serves
as model plant for cultivated strawberries. Thus, un-
derstanding the dierent defence strategies of woodland
strawberry provides useful information for plant breed-
ers.
QUALIFICATIONS: We are looking for a highly moti-
vated candidate with a PhD degree in Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy or similar subject. Scientic qualications within
the area are necessary. Good collaborative ability is
also necessary. The ranking of candidates will be made
based on proven scientic competence within the sub-
ject of the position. Priority will be given to applicants
who have been awarded their PhD degree at most three
years before the application deadline. The candidate
should have the ability to work independently, take
own initiatives, and have an interest in Integrated Pest
Management.
SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS to attach: CV including a
list of publications, max. ve publications, description
of previous research and current research interest (max.
two pages), contact details to at least two reference
persons.
MENTORS: Anne Muola & Johan A. Stenberg
STARTING DATE: Flexible, but we would like to ll
the position before eld season 2018.
FORM OF EMPLOYMENT: stipend, 1+1 year(s)
EXTENT: 100%
MORE INFORMATION: anne.muola@slu.se; jo-
han.stenberg@slu.seFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 133
HOW TO APPLY: Send your application to Muola
and/or Stenberg using the above email addresses. There
is no formal deadline - the position is open until we nd
a suitable candidate.
Johan A. Stenberg Associate Professor
Sveriges lantbruksuniversitet Swedish University of Agri-
cultural Sciences
Department of Plant Protection Biology PO
Box 102, SE-230 53 ALNARP Visiting ad-
dress: Sundsv agen 14 Tel: +46 40 41 53 78 jo-
han.stenberg@slu.se, www.slu.se/stenberg \Johan A.
Stenberg" <Johan.Stenberg@slu.se >
StockholmU EvolutionaryEcolo-
gyThermalAdaptation
Postdoc position in Evolutionary Ecology at Stockholm
University
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 1, 2018
A 2-year postdoc position is available in Rhonda Snook's
group, recently relocated to the Department of Zool-
ogy, Stockholm University. The project is focused on
the genetic architecture of reproductive performance
in response to thermal stress using Drosophila. The
work will include collection and analysis of male and
female reproductive phenotypes under dierent thermal
regimes, analysis of population genomic data, and the
use of forward and reverse molecular genetics techniques.
You will be expected to have a PhD in evolutionary bi-
ology, population genetics or a similar|subject with
a strong interest in thermal ecology, and a molecular
genetic and bioinformatic background.
Stockholm University's Department of Zoology is a vi-
brant international and interactive community. Working
language in the lab is English.
For informal queries, contact Rhonda on
rhonda.snook@zoologi.su.se
Details to apply, including more about the project, are
available here:
https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
jobs?rmlang=UK&rmpage=job&rmjob=4655 Rhonda
Snook <rhonda.snook@zoologi.su.se >StockholmU EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc position in Evolutionary Genomics at Stock-
holm University
We have an opening for a highly motivated postdoctoral
fellow to work on the ERC-funded project SuperGenE.
The position is for two-years, with possibility for exten-
sion, in the group of Dr. Tanja Slotte at Stockholm
University and Science for Life Laboratory in Stockholm.
Deadline for applications is February 15, 2018.
The complete ad with information on how to ap-
ply is available on the Stockholm University web-
page: http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-SU/-
jobs?rmpage=3Djob&rmjob=3D4587&rmlang=UK
Project description: In this project, we will investi-
gate evolutionary processes at a classic supergene, the
distyly S-locus. We will conduct these studies in Linum,
where the dynamic nature of distyly presents an out-
standing opportunity to study supergene evolution. To
do so, we will rst generate multiple de novo genome
assemblies of Linum species, and then use this genomic
framework to comprehensively test hypotheses on the
evolution and breakdown of the distyly supergene.
Responsibilities: The postdoctoral fellow will be respon-
sible for de novo genome assembly based on long reads,
and comparative and evolutionary genomic analyses.
Infrastructure and environment: The postdoctoral fel-
low will join a group of postdocs and PhD students
led by Dr. Tanja Slotte. For recent examples of our
work, see e.g. Laenen, Tedder et al. 2018 PNAS, Steige,
Laenen et al. 2017 PNAS, Steige et al. 2015 MBE, or
Slotte et al. 2013 Nature Genetics. The postdoc will be
based in the Slotte lab (http://tanjaslottelab.se), a part
of the Dept. of Ecology, Environment and Plant Science,
Stockholm University. We are located at the Science for
Life Laboratory in Stockholm (http://www.scilifelab.se),
which holds considerable expertise in high-throughput
sequencing technology and bioinformatics. The work-
ing atmosphere is international with English as the
working language, and the position oers plenty of op-
portunities for scientic exchange with both genomicists,
evolutionary biologists and ecologists at SciLifeLab and
Stockholm University.
Qualication requirements: Applicants are expected
to hold a PhD, preferably in evolutionary genetics, ge-
nomics, bioinformatics, or a related subject. The degree134 EvolDir February 1, 2018
should have been completed no more than three years be-
fore the deadline for applications. Experience of de novo
assembly and annotation of eukaryotic genomes is a very
strong merit. Experience of evolutionary genetic anal-
yses, comparative genomics, genetic mapping and/or
gene expression analyses is highly meriting. Strong
coding/scripting skills and ability to work on a high-
performance computing cluster are required. A strong
interest in evolutionary genetics is benecial.
Assessment: In the appointment process, special at-
tention will be given to research skills, in particular
pertaining to analyses of large-scale genomic data. The
applicant should have proven expertise in genomics and
be used to handle large genomic data sets. Experience
of de novo genome assembly of eukaryotic genomes is
especially meriting. Documented scientic qualications
within the research eld, such as rst, or joint-rst au-
thor publication(s) are desirable. Excellent prociency
in English (the working language of the group) is re-
quired. The postdoctoral fellow needs to be able to
work well in a collaborative environment, as well as
independently. Finally, creativity and drive are personal
characteristics that are desirable.
Terms of employment: The position involves full-time
employment for a maximum of two years, with a possi-
bility of extension. Start date per agreement.
Stockholm University strives to be a workplace free from
discrimination and with equal opportunities for all.
Application: Apply for the positions through
Stockholm University's recruitment system:
http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-SU/-
jobs?rmpage=3Djob&rmjob=3D4587&rmlang=UK
Contact: For further information about the posi-
tion, please contact Dr. Tanja Slotte directly at
tanja.slotte@su.se
\tanja.slotte@su.se" <tanja.slotte@su.se >StockholmU PopulationGenomics
Postdoc position in Population Genomics at Stockholm
University
A two-year postdoctoral position in population genomics
of plant mating system shifts is currently available at
Stockholm University and Science for Life Laboratory
in the research group of Dr. Tanja Slotte. Deadline for
applications is February 15, 2018.
The complete ad for this position is available on the
Stockholm University webpage: http://www.su.se/-
english/about/working-at-SU/jobs?rmpage=-
3Djob&rmjob=3D4585&rmlang=UK Project de-
scription: Plant mating systems, such as shifts from
outcrossing to selng, have profound eects on levels
and structuring of genetic variation, and are expected
to have a marked eect on the impact of natural
selection. We are looking for a highly motivated
postdoctoral fellow to work within a project concerning
the population genomic consequences of plant mating
system shifts and the impact of selection on linked
sites on plant genomic variation. Whole-genome and
whole-transcriptome sequence data sets from multiple
species are already available, and more are currently
being generated in the lab.
Responsibilities: The position involves research on the
population genomic eects of plant mating system shifts,
and will include analysis of large-scale population ge-
nomic data and population genomic simulations. The
position may also include sampling of natural plant
populations in the Mediterranean region.
Infrastructure and environment: The postdoctoral fel-
low will join a group of postdocs and PhD students
led by Dr. Tanja Slotte. For recent examples of our
work, see e.g. Laenen, Tedder et al. 2018 PNAS, Steige,
Laenen et al. 2017 PNAS, or Steige et al. 2015 MBE.
The postdoc will be based in the Slotte lab (http://-
tanjaslottelab.se), a part of the Dept. of Ecology, Envi-
ronment and Plant Science, Stockholm University. We
are located at the Science for Life Laboratory in Stock-
holm (http://www.scilifelab.se), which holds consider-
able expertise in high-throughput sequencing technology
and bioinformatics. The working atmosphere is inter-
national with English as the working language, and the
position oers plenty of opportunities for scientic ex-
change with both genomicists, evolutionary biologists
and ecologists at SciLifeLab and Stockholm University.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 135
Qualication requirements: Applicants are expected to
hold a PhD, preferably in population genetics, evolu-
tionary genetics, bioinformatics, or a related subject.
The degree should have been completed no more than
three years before the deadline for applications. Experi-
ence of analyses of large-scale population genomic data
is required. Experience of population genetic simula-
tions is benecial. Excellent coding skills and ability
to work on a high-performance computing cluster are
required. Experience of sampling of plant populations
in the eld is benecial. A strong interest in mating sys-
tem evolution, in particular transitions from outcrossing
to self-fertilization, is benecial.
Assessment criteria: In the appointment process, special
attention will be given to research skills, in particular
pertaining to analyses of large-scale population genomic
data. The applicant should have proven expertise in
genomics and be used to handle large genomic data sets
(i.e. \next-generation sequencing" data). Documented
scientic qualications within the research eld, such
as rst or joint-rst author publication(s) are desirable.
Excellent prociency in English (the working language
of the group) is required. The postdoctoral fellow needs
to be able to work well in a collaborative environment,
as well as independently. Finally, creativity and drive
are personal characteristics that are desirable.
Terms of employment The position involves full-time em-
ployment for a maximum of two years, with a possibility
of extension. Start date per agreement.
Stockholm University strives to be a workplace free from
discrimination and with equal opportunities for all.
Application Apply for the position through Stockholm
University's recruitment system: http://www.su.se/-
english/about/working-at-SU/jobs?rmpage=-
3Djob&rmjob=3D4585&rmlang=UK Contact For
further information about the positions, please contact
Dr. Tanja Slotte directly at tanja.slotte@su.se
\tanja.slotte@su.se" <tanja.slotte@su.se >
TuftsU MicrobialEvolution
Post-doc position in *plant microbiome ecol-
ogy/evolution in the Wolfe Lab @ Tufts University
(Boston Area) *https://sites.tufts.edu/wolfelab/join-
the- wolfe-lab/
The Wolfe lab in the Department of Biology at Tufts
University ( https://sites.tufts.edu/wolfelab/) is seekinga post-doc to start in April 2018 (start date exible).
Our lab studies the ecology and evolution of microbial
communities, using tractable microbial communities iso-
lated from food (cheese, kimchi, fermented tea) as model
systems.
This position is funded by a grant from the NSF/USDA
Plant-Biotic Interactions program to study the assembly
of microbial communities on cabbage leaves (https://-
goo.gl/CAuXkn). Using eld experiments across New
England and lab experiments with gnotobiotic cabbages,
the post-doc will identify the ecological and evolution-
ary processes that shape the diversity of the cabbage
phyllosphere microbiome. The project also seeks to
identify links between cabbage phyllosphere microbiome
assembly and fermentation outcomes.
The ideal candidate will be a creative, independent,
and integrative scholar with interests in discovering the
ecological and evolutionary processes that generate mi-
crobiome diversity. She/he will have the following:
-
a PhD in microbiology, ecology/evolution, plant pathol-
ogy, or biology
-
experience in plant microbiomes or plant-microbe inter-
actions -
experience generating and analyzing next-generation
sequencing datasets -
a track record of supporting an engaging, thoughtful,
and collaborative lab environment
This position also provides ample opportunities for the
post-doc to develop teaching/outreach skills. Our acces-
sible and engaging model systems provide powerful tools
to promote microbial literacy in the college classroom as
well as in our local communities (https://sites.tufts.edu/-
wolfelab/open-lab/). Members of the lab communicate
their science through social media, writing for online
publications, and by developing novel public outreach
experiences.
The Wolfe lab is based in a newly renovated lab space
associated with the Tufts University Medford Campus.
In addition to diverse research being conducted in the
Department of Biology that spans the entire breadth
of biology (http://ase.tufts.edu/biology/), the Sackler
School of Graduate Biomedical Sciences at the Tufts
Medical School has an outstanding group of microbiolo-
gists (http://bit.ly/WDvgqA). There are also numerous
potential collaborators and resources at the Tufts Fried-
man School of Nutrition and the Cummings School of
Vet Medicine. The academic community in the Greater
Boston Area has an unprecedented collective wealth of136 EvolDir February 1, 2018
resources in microbiology, ecology, and evolution.
To apply, email Dr. Benjamin Wolfe (ben-
jamin.wolfe@tufts.edu) with: 1) a short description of
why you are interested in and qualied for the posi-
tion, 2) a CV listing peer-reviewed publications, skills,
and research experiences, and 3) the names and contact
information for three references. Applications will be
considered as they are received. For full consideration,
apply on or before March 1st, 2018.
Benjamin Wolfe <benjamin.wolfe@tufts.edu >
UAlgarve Portugal
EvolFunctionalDierentiation
A postdoctoral position is available at CCMAR (Univ.
Algarve, Portugal) to work on the functional dierentia-
tion of thermal traits in kelp species (large forest-forming
brown algae), focusing on both intra- (between popu-
lation) and inter-specic levels. The position requires
bioinformatic expertise for the analysis of RNA-seq data
from completed and ongoing experiments. The success-
ful candidate would be procient in UNIX command
line computing, and preferably additional scripting lan-
guages (perl, python or other). Previous experience
in bioinformatic analysis of transcriptome data in non-
model organisms (de novo assembly, expression analysis
and annotation) are desirable, but not essential. The
candidate will be joining a dynamic and productive team
of molecular ecologists and evolutionary biologists whose
current major focus is on the biogeography and conserva-
tion of brown algal forests worldwide. Additional credit
will be given to candidates with a strong background in
independent research and proven publication record.
For details on the project please contact: |
gpearson@ualg.pt Gareth Pearson (Research Associate)
Centre of Marine Sciences (CCMAR), Universidade do
Algarve, 8005-139 Faro Portugal
If interested, please send to gpearson@ualg.pt your CV,
contacts of three referees and a letter of motivation
explaining how you meet these evaluation criteria:
Evaluation criteria: - prociency in UNIX command
line computing, and preferably additional scripting lan-
guages (perl, python or equivalent). - Previous expe-
rience in bioinformatic analysis of transcriptome data
in non-model organisms (de novo assembly, expression
analysis and annotation) - Independent research expe-
rience and proven publication record in bioinformatics(expected: at least one paper as rst author per year
since the PhD).
The position can start anytime and will remain open
until we nd a suitable candidate. The contract will be
initially for 6 months and can be renewed for up to two
years depending on performance.
Ester Serr ao<eserrao@ualg.pt >
UArizona
ProteinEvolutionBioinformatics
Postdoc position: long-term trends in protein evolution
A postdoc position is available with PI Joanna Masel
(http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel) at the Uni-
versity of Arizona in Tucson. A popular tourist des-
tination surrounded on all four sides by mountainous
national and state parks, Tucson is a vibrant city of
nearly a million people with an attractive climate. The
EEB department was ranked in the top 10 by US News
& World Report.
We recently found that genes of dierent ages en-
code proteins with dierent computationally predictable
structural properties, forming an extraordinarily long-
term trend (see https://doi.org/10.1101/176867). This
project will use bioinformatics techniques to discover
whether these long-term trends are really a consequence
of evolution by descent with modication that continues
for long periods of time in a consistent direction. It
will also provide a major new annotation of genes based
on homology, in order to begin removing the problem
of phylogenetic confounding within gene families from
\correlomics".
Techniques used may include phylostratigraphy (assign-
ing ages to gene families), ancestral sequence recon-
struction, and porting macroevolutionary techniques
for studying speciation and extinction to the study of
gene duplication and loss. A high level of statistical
sophistication is required throughout.
Excellent computer programming skills are strongly pre-
ferred, ideally with bioinformatics / genomics and statis-
tics experience. Exceptionally strong candidates who
come from a more experimental background within evo-
lutionary biology, and who now wish to retrain as bioin-
formaticians, will also be considered. A background
in evolutionary biology is also strongly preferred, al-
though again, exceptionally strong computational sci-
entists from highly quantitative backgrounds outsideFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 137
evolutionary biology will also be considered. Statistical
knowledge, and knowledge about protein structure and
folding, are advantages. Start date is negotiable, and
the position is renewable, with funding secured through
July 2020.
Contact Joanna Masel at masel@email.arizona.edu for
more information and to apply.
masel@email.arizona.edu
UBarcelona EvoDevo
We seek EvoDevo Postdoctoral candidates for 2-year-BP-
fellowship call (ASAP, deadline Feb 28th 2018) to work
on #EvoDevoGenomics #GeneManipulation #Tran-
scriptomics #HeartMuscleDevelopment #Urochorda-
teOikopleura #GeneLoss (more info in https://goo.gl/-
uCBBSp) Call info: https://goo.gl/0ZaDm0 Cristian
Ca nestro's lab (canestro@ub.edu) Department of Genet-
ics, University of Barcelona
oikocris@gmail.com
UBath SpeciationGenomicsMice
Postdoc available on SPECIATION GENOMICS in
House Mice
Leslie Turner's lab, Milner Centre for Evolution, Univer-
sity of Bath, UK I am recruiting a postdoctoral research
associate to work on a German Research Foundation
(DFG) funded project focused on genetics and genomics
of hybrid male sterility in house mice. The project com-
bines genome and transcriptome sequencing with de-
tailed phenotyping to identify genes and gene networks
contributing to this reproductive barrier trait. Postdoc
will contribute primarily to transcriptomic analysis, but
will have the opportunity to contribute to molecular
genetics research. The position also oers the successful
candidate exibility to pursue related questions, and I
will encourage development of an independent research
project.
The recently established Milner Centre for Evolution
is a vibrant community of 18 labs working on diverse
evolutionary questions. The successful candidate will
join an academically stimulating, research-intensive en-vironment with many opportunities for interaction and
collaboration. We are located in a brand new building
on the lovely University of Bath campus.
The successful candidate will have a strong background
in evolutionary biology, quantitative genetics and/or
computational genomics. Strong data analysis skills,
including programming and statistical analysis, are es-
sential. Bioinformatics or molecular genetics experience
is a plus. Candidates should have a demonstrated ability
to publish high quality science as well as good interper-
sonal and communication skills.
The position is for 24-30 months. Starting date: as soon
as convenient (preferably by Jun 1st 2018).
For more information about the lab see http://-
leslieturner.net Email me with informal enquiries
(l.m.turner@bath.ac.uk) Apply by January 29th
here: https://www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=-
SF5480 Leslie Turner <L.M.Turner@bath.ac.uk >
UBritishColumbia
GeneticBasisAdaptation
Postdoctoral position at University of British Columbia
and the University of Calgary in methods to measure
the genetic repeatability of local adaptation.
Michael Whitlock at UBC and Sam Yeaman at the Uni-
versity of Calgary have a post-doctoral position available
to develop and test methods to measure the repeatability
and constraints on the genetic basis of local adaptation.
We seek to develop genomic methods that will quantify
the extent to which the genetic basis of local adaptation
is shared among evolutionarily distinct lineages, based
on inference from gene-environment correlations and
genome-wide association studies.
This project is part of a larger initiative called CoAd-
apTree ( http://coadaptree.forestry.ubc.ca), funded by
Genome Canada. CoAdapTree aims to uncover the ge-
netic basis of adaptation to climate and fungal pathogens
for several economically-important conifer species. This
will include large population-scale sequencing eorts in
four species (lodgepole pine, Douglas r, western larch,
and jack pine).
The ideal candidate will have a strong background in
both evolutionary biology and statistics. Experience
with bioinformatics, phylogenetics, or evolutionary ge-
nomics would be desirable but not required.138 EvolDir February 1, 2018
In addition to the core project of methods development,
this post-doc has the possibility of collaborating on
further projects, including other analyses of the larger
CoAdapTree project or the development of theory on
mechanisms of convergent evolution.
Funding is available for two years with salary of 0,000
Canadian per year plus benets.
For more information, please contact Michael Whitlock
at UBC (whitlock@zoology.ubc.ca) or Sam Yeaman at
University of Calgary (samuel.yeaman@ucalgary.ca). To
apply, please send a CV and a contact list of people who
could be contacted for letters of reference.
Michael Whitlock <whitlock@zoology.ubc.ca >
UCalifornia LosAngeles
Conservation
The UCLA La Kretz Center for California Conservation
Science (http://www.environment.ucla.edu/lakretz/) in-
vites applications for its annual Postdoctoral Fellowship
in California Conservation Science. Consistent with our
mission, we seek one or two postdoctoral scholars who si-
multaneously conduct innovative research and interface
with the conservation and management agencies that
direct and lead California conservation. For our 2018
competition, we are specically seeking one, or possibly
two postdoctoral candidates who will lead a broad, con-
servation genomics analysis of multiple co-distributed
species across Los Angeles and Southern California. Our
goal for this targeted call is to determine such issues as
the contribution of protected lands to the conservation
of genetic diversity, the ability of species to traverse the
urban landscape of Los Angeles and surrounding regions,
and genetic resilience to future climate change. Work
on any taxa can be appropriate. We are particularly
interested in fellows who develop a taxonomically broad,
multi-species approach to comparative landscape ge-
nomics. The fellows will be co-funded by the La Kretz
Center and the UCLA Sustainable LA Grand Chal-
lenge (https://grandchallenges.ucla.edu/sustainable-la/-
), working together to conduct molecular lab work and
GIS-intensive analyses. We will consider candidates
who have recently completed their PhD, or will have
completed it by summer, 2018.
These La Kretz Fellowships are for two years, sub-
ject to review after the rst year. Our expected
start date is summer, 2018. Successful applicants
will be expected to identify and work with atleast one UCLA faculty member La Kretz ali-
ate (http://www.environment.ucla.edu/lakretz/people/-
aliates.php) and one o-campus agency partner. The
position has an annual salary of approximately $49,000
plus full benets as well as funds for molecular lab work.
Fellows have the option to reside at the newly renovated
La Kretz Field Station (https://www.ioes.ucla.edu/-
santa-monica-mountains-research/), located in the
Santa Monica Mountains about 25 miles from campus,
should it t with their research objectives.
Several of our partner agencies have expressed particular
interest in this conservation genomics call. We encour-
age candidates to contact our key partners in developing
this project, including:
Sophie Parker The Nature Conservancy so-
phie parker@TNC.ORG Jann Vendetti LA Nat-
ural History Museum JVendett@nhm.org Robert
Fisher U.S. Geological Survey rsher@usgs.gov Mike
Westphal US Bureau of Land Management mwest-
pha@blm.gov Cat Darst US Fish and Wildlife Service
catdarst@fws.gov Katy Delaney National Park Service
katy delaney@nps.gov Seth Riley National Park Service
seth riley@nps.gov Danielle Lefer CA State Parks
danielle.LeFer@parks.ca.gov
Interested candidates should submit 1) cover letter, 2)
current CV, 3) maximum 2-page description of their
research and management accomplishments, 4) 2-page
proposal describing their proposed research including po-
tential faculty and agency mentors (single spaced, 2 page
limit includes gures but not references), and 5) copies of
two research publications, all as a single PDF le to Will
Zou, Administrative Assistant, at lakretz@ioes.ucla.edu
You should also have three letters of recommendation,
including one from your Ph.D. advisor and one from
your UCLA and agency co-mentors, sent under separate
emails with the subject line 'La Kretz Postdoc letter
for XXX (your last name)'. The deadline for completed
applications is 10 February 2018.
E-mail questions to to Brad Shaer (Director of the La
Kretz Center) at brad.shaer@ucla.edu
Brad Shaer <brad.shaer@ucla.edu >
UCalifornia Riverside
PlantBacterialSymbiosis
The Sachs Lab at UC Riverside is recruiting a postdoc-
toral scholar to join our team. We are looking for aFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 139
highly motivated, independent, postdoctoral scholar to
study the evolution and population genomics of plant-
bacterial symbioses.
We use eld studies, greenhouse experiments, in vitro
evolution, and next-generation sequencing to investi-
gate nitrogen-xing symbioses between rhizobia and
legumes. In the legume-rhizobia symbiosis, soil bacteria
trigger the formation of nodules on legume roots and
x nitrogen for their host in exchange for carbon. This
mutualism generates much of the xed nitrogen for our
biosphere, promotes plant growth and carbon seques-
tration, and accelerates ecosystem development. But
among rhizobial genotypes there is signicant variation
in nitrogen xation, including ineective strains (non-
nitrogen xing) that can be common in some habitats.
Ineective rhizobia persist in natural and agricultural
soils, but scant is known about the forces that drive
variation in the key mutualist service of nitrogen xa-
tion.
We work on wild, model, and crop legume species that
interact with multiple bacterial symbiont lineages. The
postdoc can propose research or can choose their pri-
mary research foci once they join the lab. Major projects
in our lab include i) investigating the evolution and
mechanisms of 'host control' traits in legumes that con-
strain exploitation in rhizobial symbiont populations,
ii) uncovering competitive interactions among rhizobia
in soil communities to explain the genomic and phe-
notypic drivers of rhizobial strain dominance, and iii)
using greenhouse and in vitro experiments to gener-
ate novel applications to improve crop growth. Our
group is broad and has included students focusing on
plant biology, microbiology, genetics and genomics, and
evolutionary ecology.
Candidates should have a Ph.D. in evolutionary biol-
ogy, genetics, genomics, population biology, or related
disciplines. Solid bacteriology skills and some computa-
tional competence are both a plus for this position. A
strong background in evolutionary and or molecular ge-
netics would also be useful. Finally, the ideal candidate
would have experience with next-generation sequencing
techniques, which might include RADseq and highly-
multiplexed-whole genome sequencing. Irrespective of
experience, the postdoc must be able to learn new tech-
niques and quickly and easily troubleshoot protocols.
She or he will likely work closely with graduate students
and the PI to manage multiple research projects and
thus we seek a team player with excellent leadership
skills.
The start date is exible. The position will be available
as early as March 2018, but can begin later if necessary.
The position is initially for a one-year period, with pos-sible extension of another two years, dependent upon
satisfactory performance. Salary is commensurate with
experience and qualications.
Application for the position requires three documents:
1. A cover letter describing your interest in the position
and that details 2 projects that you would like to do in
our lab.
2. Contact details of three referees
3. A CV
Interested individuals should send these materials to
joel.sachs@ucr.edu by February 15, 2018. Also, feel free
to e-mail me to ask any questions about the position or
our lab.
The University of California, Riverside has an active
career partner program, and is an Armative Action
equal opportunity employer committed to excellence
through diversity.
Recent publications from the lab
Lotus japonicus alters in planta tness of Mesorhizo-
bium loti dependent on symbiotic nitrogen xation K.W.
Quides, G.M. Stomackin, H.Lee, J.H. Chang, J.L. Sachs.
2017 PLoS One
Cell autonomous sanctions in legumes target ineective
rhizobia in nodules with mixed infections J.U. Regus,
K.W. Quides, M.R. O'Neill, R. Suzuki, E.A. Savory, J.H.
Chang, J.L. Sachs. 2017 American Journal of Botany
104 (9):1-14
Nitrogen deposition decreases the benets of symbiosis
in a native legume J.U. Regus, C.E. Wendlandt, R. M.
Bantay, K.A. Gano-Cohen, N. J. Gleason, A. C. Hollow-
ell, M. R. O'Neill, K. K. Shahin, J.L. Sachs. 2017 Plant
and Soil 414:159-170
Metapopulation dominance and genomic-island acquisi-
tion of Bradyrhizobium with superior catabolic capabili-
ties A.C. Hollowell, J.U. Regus, D. Turissini, K.A. Gano,
R. Bantay, A. Bernardo, D. Moore, J. Pham, J.L. Sachs.
2016. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. 283:
20160496
Epidemic spread of symbiotic and non-symbiotic
Bradyrhizobium genotypes across California A.C. Hol-
lowell, J.U. Regus, K.A. Gano, R. Bantay, D. Centeno,
J. Pham, J.Y. Lyu, D. Moore, A. Bernardo, G. Lopez,
A. Patil, S. Patel, Y. Lii, J.L. Sachs. 2016 Microbial
Ecology, 71 (3) 700-710
Lotus hosts delimit the mutualism-parasitism continuum
of Bradyrhizobium Regus, J. U., K.A. Gano, Holllowell,
A.C., V. Sosh, J. L. Sachs . 2015 Journal of Evolution-
ary Biology. 28, 447-458140 EvolDir February 1, 2018
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia SantaCruz
PlantSpeciation
Postdoc in Plant evolution at University of California,
Santa Cruz
DESCRIPTION
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department
(https://www.eeb.ucsc.edu/) at the University of Cal-
ifornia, Santa Cruz (UCSC) invites applications for
the position of Postdoctoral Scholar under the direc-
tion of Associate Professor Kathleen Kay under a ve-
year NSF Dimensions of Biodiversity grant (\Biotic and
abiotic drivers of Neotropical plant speciation"). The
scholar will investigate the phylogeny, population ge-
nomics, and quantitative genetics of the spiral gingers
(monocot genus Costus). The project is a collabora-
tion among PIs Kathleen Kay (UCSC), Jennifer Funk
(Chapman University), Carlos Garcia-Robledo (Univer-
sity of Connecticut), Santiago Ramirez (UC Davis) and
Dena Grossenbacher (Cal Poly SLO) to uncover pat-
terns and mechanisms of speciation in a recent, rapid
radiation throughout Central and South America. The
rst years will be focused on phylogenetics and pop-
ulation genomics, whereas later years will be focused
on QTL mapping and eld testing of key traits and
loci involved in adaptive divergence and reproductive
isolation. Primary responsibilities include experimen-
tal design, coordinating and conducting sequence data
collection, managing and analyzing large datasets, men-
toring undergraduate and graduate students, coordi-
nating research collaborators, and contributing to the
dissemination of results through manuscripts, presenta-
tions, public outreach, and agency reports. Applicants
with the following preferred qualications are strongly
encouraged to apply: experience generating and ana-
lyzing next gen sequence data from non-model plants,
excellent bioinformatics skills, a strong interest in plant
speciation and adaptation, and a track record of pub-
lishing in leading journals. The position requires excel-
lent time management and written/oral communication
skills. The scholar will be based at UCSC, with op-
portunities for lab exchanges and eldwork in CostaRica and Panama. More information on the Kay Lab
can be found at https://kay.eeb.ucsc.edu/ ACADEMIC
TITLE
Postdoctoral Scholar
SALARY
Minimum annual salary of $48,216, commensurate with
qualications and experience. Minimum annual salary
rates are made based on the individual' ^As Experience
Level, which is determined by the number of months
of postdoctoral service at any institution. See cur-
rent salary scale for Postdoctoral Titles at https://-
apo.ucsc.edu/compensation/salary-scales/index.html
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS
- Ph.D. or foreign equivalent in Biology or related eld
- A minimum of two years experience in phylogenetic
and/or population genetic laboratory research.
POSITION AVAILABLE
April 1, 2018. Start date could be as late as October
1, 2018. Ph.D. must be in hand at time of the initial
appointment.
MAXIMUM DURATION OF SERVICE IN A POST-
DOCTORAL TITLE
Postdoctoral Scholar appointments are full-time; the ini-
tial appointment is for two years, with the possibility of
reappointment. Reappointment will be contingent upon
positive performance review and availability of funding.
The total duration of an individual' ^As postdoctoral ser-
vice may not exceed ve years, including postdoctoral
service at any institution. Under limited circumstances,
an exception to this limit may be considered, not to
exceed a sixth year.
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
Applications should be emailed to Kathleen Kay
kmkay@ucsc.edu. All documents and materials must
be submitted as PDFs. Please refer to Position # EEB
Postdoctoral Scholar-18T in all correspondence. Infor-
mal inquiries may be sent to kmkay@ucsc.edu
Documents/Materials
- Cover letter describing past research experience and
qualications for this position (required)
- Current curriculum vitae (required)
- A list of three references that includes their contact
information (required)
- Up to three copies of published manuscripts-submitted
as separate pdfs (required)
RECRUITMENT PERIODFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 141
Full consideration will be given to applications com-
pleted by January 29, 2018. Applications received after
this date will be considered only if the position has not
been lled. The position will remain open until lled,
but not later than 9/30/2018.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied appli-
cants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or pro-
tected veteran status. UC Santa Cruz is committed
to excellence through diversity and strives to establish
a climate that welcomes, celebrates, and promotes re-
spect for the contributions of all students and employees.
Inquiries regarding the University' ^As equal employment
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UColoradoBoulder
PlantEvolutionaryEcology
A postdoctoral research position is available in the
Emery lab in the Department of Ecology & Evolution
Biology at the University of Colorado Boulder. Our
lab studies plant evolutionary ecology with an emphasis
on understanding plant adaptation in variable environ-
ments and the ecological and evolutionary drivers of
species' distribution patterns. Additional information
can be found at http://www.colorado.edu/lab/emery/
This opening is for one full-time postdoctoral researcher
who will contribute to an NSF-funded project inves-
tigating the evolutionary feedbacks between dispersal
and habitat specialization. The primary responsibilities
include establishing and monitoring eld and green-
house experiments, managing and analyzing data, and
contributing to the dissemination of results through
manuscripts and presentations. The position requires
travel to California for several weeks each spring and
fall to establish and maintain eld experiments at the
Jepson Prairie Reserve.
Candidates must have PhD in Ecology, Evolutionary
Biology, Botany, or a related eld, and experience con-
ducting eld experiments with plants. Candidates are
also expected to have a background in quantitative andstatistical methods, a strong work ethic, and excellent
interpersonal, communication, and time management
skills. A clear track record of publications and indepen-
dent research experience are also required. The expected
duration of the position is 30 months.
TO APPLY: Please submit a single PDF that includes
(1) a cover letter describing past research experience
and qualications for this position, (2) a current CV,
and (3) contact information for 3 references, as well as
separate PDFs of up to 3 published manuscripts, to Dr.
Nancy C. Emery (nancy.emery@colorado.edu).
{ Nancy C. Emery Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Cam-
pus Box 334 University of Colorado Boulder Boul-
der, CO 80309-0334 Phone (oce): (303)735-
7548 Website: http://www.colorado.edu/lab/emery
Nancy.Emery@Colorado.EDU
UEdinburgh
EvolEcolMalariaCircadianRhythms
Position: Postdoc
Location: Reece lab, Institutes of Evolution, Immunol-
ogy and Infection Research, University of Edinburgh,
UK
Topic: Parasite oence or host defence? The ecology
and evolution of biological rhythms in malaria infection
Details and application info at: https:/-
/www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.jobspec?p id=042288 Biological
rhythms allow activities to be coordinated with the
consequences of the Earth's daily and seasonal rotation.
The mechanisms underpinning the clocks that drive
daily rhythms are well understood. In contrast, the
costs and benets provided by daily rhythms - including
how rhythms shape interactions between organisms -
are poorly understood. One of the most fundamental
interactions between organisms is that between hosts
and parasites. Why parasites - that exclusively live
within the bodies of other organisms - exhibit biological
rhythms and how they are regulated are longstanding
questions. Examining the roles of rhythms in disease is a
new arena for studying host-parasite-vector coevolution.
Also, integrating disease control interventions into an
evolutionary chronobiology framework oers innovative
approaches to improving health. This includes the
development of drugs to disrupt parasite rhythms,142 EvolDir February 1, 2018
harnessing circadian systems to enhance immune
responses, or precisely timing drug administration to
make treatment more eective.
We are oering a postdoctoral position as part of a
Wellcome Trust funded project to investigate the role
of circadian rhythms in malaria infection. The project
will integrate a novel mix of disciplines (evolutionary
ecology, chronobiology, and parasitology) to determine
why and how timing matters for interactions between
parasites, hosts and vectors, the severity and transmis-
sion of disease, and tness of all parties. This is a very
broad topic and so the successful candidate will be en-
couraged to develop their own niche. Growing evidence
that the daily rhythms of malaria parasites can confer
tolerance to antimalarial drugs, and that the use of bed
nets is changing the biting time of the mosquitoes that
transmit malaria makes understanding how and why
parasites exhibit daily rhythms increasingly urgent.
This interdisciplinary Wellcome Trust funded project
will break new ground by elucidating the evolutionary
ecology of biological rhythms for parasites. It will inte-
grate a novel mix of disciplines (evolutionary ecology,
chronobiology, and parasitology) and open up novel av-
enues for disease control. The post holder will plan, con-
duct and write up research that they have led and sup-
port the research of others in the lab. The project will
focus on a rodent malaria, murine host, and mosquito
vector model system.
This post is full time and xed term for 3 years.
Salary: 32,548 - 38,833 per annum
Closing Date: Friday 02 February 2018 at 5pm (GMT)
Professor Sarah Reece Chair of Evolutionary Parasitol-
ogy
[Note - I am part time and do not (usually) work on
Thursdays]
Centre for Immunity, Infection & Evolution, Institutes of
Evolution, Immunology and Infection Research, School
of Biological Sciences, Ashworth Laboratories, Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3FL Scotland, UK
Tel +44 131 650 5547 Fax +44 131 650 6564
sarah.reece@ed.ac.uk www DOT reecelab DOT science
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, regis-
tered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
Sarah.Reece@ed.ac.ukUGothenburg Sweden
PlantSpeciationGeonomics
*Project description*
Although parallel speciation is a well-recognized phe-
nomenon in animals, it is poorly evidenced in plants.
This project aims to address the following general ques-
tions: Does ecology aect population structure in plants
to the degree that it can cause ecological speciation?
Does ecological speciation occur parallel in continental
systems? Can evidence of ecological speciation support
a model of sympatric speciation, where new species
arise in overlapping geographic distributions? These
questions will be applied to a model system that has
been developed in an Amazonian palm (Listabarth 1993;
Roncal et al. 2006, 2007; Borchsenius et al. 2016; Bacon
et al. in preparation).
We are looking for a highly motivated and skilled person
to work with statistical approaches, phylogeonomics and
phylogeography, and species occurrence data to develop
a framework to test for parallel ecological speciation.
The work is focused on palms, specically on *Geonoma
macrostachys,* but data is also available for compara-
tive phylogeographical work with the palm, *Mauritia
exuosa*, and other Amazonian taxa across the tree of
Life. This four-year project is funded by the Swedish
Research Council.
*Job assignments *The tasks envisioned will include
some or all of the following:
-
Field work in the western Amazon (e.g. Colombia,
Ecuador) -
DNA extraction -
Bioinformatics and phylogeographical analyses -
Use fossil pollen to infer ancestral population sizes
through time
- Quantify adaptability to climate using outlier SNP loci
*Eligibility *The applicant must hold a PhD in an area
relevant for the tasks at hand (molecular phylogenetics,
molecular ecology, phylogeography, biostatistics, bioin-
formatics, or related elds). The PhD exam must be
nished prior to the closing date of this announcement.
*Other required qualications:*February 1, 2018 EvolDir 143
- Documented capacity to work in groups and inde-
pendently - Advanced skills in R, python or another
analytical platform - Advanced skills in phylogeography
and/or phylogenomics - Excellent written and spoken
communication skills in English
* Assessment (other desirable qualications)*
- Experience with manipulative experiments related to
common gardens and/or reciprocal transplants - Expe-
rience with phylogenetic diversity metrics, molecular
dating, biogeography, comparative phylogenetic analy-
ses, ancestral trait evolution, and/or next-generation
sequencing data - Language capacity in Spanish
*The employment*
The employment is a full-time position for 24 months.
The physical placement will be decided upon agreement,
but should be at the University of Gothenburg.
*The application should be written in English, compiled
into a single .pdf le, and must include:*
-
A cover letter with the applicant's motivation for appli-
cation, describing how the applicant meets the selection
criteria (max. two A4 pages) -
A list of qualications (CV) -
Complete list of publications, including submitted and
accepted manuscripts -
Certicate of PhD exam and other relevant education -
Contact information for at least two referees that are
familiar with the applicant's qualications
The top ranked candidates will be selected for an in-
terview, which will be held in English, and will be
performed by phone /skype.
In order to apply for a position at the University of
Gothenburg, you have to register an account in our on-
line recruitment system. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to ensure that the application is complete in
accordance with the instructions in the job advertise-
ment, and that it is submitted before the deadline.
*Complementary documents, such as publications/books
should be sent to the following address: University of
Gothenburg, Department of Biology and Environmental
Sciences, Att: Ingela Lyck, Box 463, 405 30 Gothenburg.
Reference number should be clearly stated when sending
complementary documents.*
*Closing date 2018-03-15*
*For further information please contact*
Christine D. Bacon, Assist. Prof. Phone: +46 076 618
5167Email: christine.bacon@bioenv.gu.se
Webpage: http://antonelli-lab.net/ Henrik Aronsson,
Professor and Head of Department Phone: +46 31 786
48 02
Email: henrik.aronsson@bioenv.gu.se
https://www.gu.se/english/about theuniversity/job-
opportunities/vacancies-details/?id=1834 { Christine
D. Bacon
Assistant Professor University of Gothenburg Gothen-
burg, Sweden
Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre Box 461, SE
405-30 G oteborg, Sweden
Associate Researcher Universidad CES Medellin, Colom-
bia
Christine Bacon <christinedbacon@gmail.com >
UMaryland
StatModelingMicrobiomes
Postdoctoral Researcher in Statistical Ecology / Spatial
Distribution Modeling of Microbiomes
Bill Fagan's ecology lab at the University of Maryland in
College Park, MD, has a new opening for a Postdoctoral
Researcher in the Statistical Ecology / Spatial Distri-
bution Modeling of Microbiomes. This dynamic lab
group, which currently includes one associate research
scientist, seven postdocs, four graduate students, and
numerous undergraduates, is pursuing a wide variety of
research projects in ecology. Much of this work is explic-
itly spatial in nature, drawing upon GIS, mathematical
modeling, and statistical analyses. For examples, see
http://www.clfs.umd.edu/biology/faganlab/ This ad-
vertisement is for a postdoctoral position on a DoD /
MURI-funded project in collaboration with Johns Hop-
kins Applied Physics Lab, Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine, and Duke University. The project focuses
on the analysis of the human skin microbiome, with a
particular emphasis on developing multi-scale models for
understanding and predicting spatial variation in micro-
biome composition. The candidate should have expertise
in species distribution modeling and/or the statistical
analysis of spatially structured presence/absence and
abundance data. In addition, very strong computational
skills with knowledge in various programming languages
(e.g., R, Python, Matlab) are required. Experience in
microbial ecology and familiarity with sequencing data144 EvolDir February 1, 2018
are highly desirable. Experience working with large
datasets and/or hierarchical spatial models would be
particularly helpful.
The successful candidate will have a PhD at the time of
appointment, likely in quantitative ecology, microbial
ecology, statistics, or a related eld. Prior postdoctoral
experience is benecial, but not required.
The initial appointment will be for one year, but fund-
ing is already in place for up to two additional years
pending good performance. Eorts to secure substan-
tial long-term support via collaborative grant proposals
would be encouraged and, when successful, could lead to
appointment at the level of assistant/associate research
scientist. Benets are included and pay will be commen-
surate with experience. The start date is negotiable,
but could be as early as March 2018.
Review of applications will begin immediately and will
continue until the position has been lled. To apply for
the position, please email a CV, reprints, and the names
and email addresses of three references to:
Bill Fagan
Professor and Chair
Department of Biology
University of Maryland
College Park, MD 20742
bfagan@umd.edu
Eleanor Brush <eleanor.brush@gmail.com >
UMichigan NextProf
DiversifyingAcademia
NextProf Science - Future Faculty Workshop @ Univer-
sity of Michigan
We would like to invite interested evolutionary biologists,
ecologists, and organismal biologists to the NextProf
Future Faculty Workshop at the University of Michi-
gan. NextProf Science will be held April 30 - May 3,
2018 and is a workshop designed to encourage talented
scientists and mathematicians with a demonstrated com-
mitment to diversity to consider academia as a career.
The workshop is aimed at helping participants develop
strategies that will strengthen their ability to pursue
academic careers. The workshop is targeted at scholars
ready to take the next step {postdoctoral fellows andvery advanced doctoral students. Underrepresented mi-
norities and women are especially encouraged to apply.
Travel, lodging, and meals will be provided for those
selected to participate. Deadline for submission of all
application materials is February 14, 2018. Learn more
at: sites.lsa.umich.edu/nextprof-science/ Application
information: sites.lsa.umich.edu/nextprof-science/how-
to-apply/
~U-M EEB NextProf Organizing Committee (Dan Ra-
bosky & Hernan Lopez-Fernandez)
\drabosky@umich.edu" <drabosky@umich.edu >
UMinnesota EvolutionaryBiology
Grand Challenges in Biology Postdoctoral Program
College of Biological Sciences
University of Minnesota
Application deadline: February 1, 2018
Position start date: May-August 2018 (specic date
negotiable)
Rationale
Understanding and predicting the behavior of complex
biological systems requires a framework that can inte-
grate across levels of biological organization, can capture
nonlinear feedbacks in dynamical systems, and can incor-
porate and facilitate mechanistic understanding. This
is the challenge of the future of biology. Meeting this
challenge requires a multidisciplinary approach that re-
lies heavily on innovations in quantitative elds such as
mathematics, computer science, statistics, and engineer-
ing. It also requires strong integration (or re-integration)
of molecular biology with organismal biology. Meeting
the food, water, and energy needs of a growing human
population, while minimizing adverse impacts of habitat
alteration, climate change, invasive species, overexploita-
tion, and pollution on human health and ecological sys-
tems - operate at scales from molecules to ecosystems,
and there is a pressing need to develop the science that
can cross these scales. The University of Minnesota is
developing research and curricular initiatives focused on
addressing grand challenges, and this program is part
of CBS' contribution to the university-wide programs.
Program Aims
The overall aim of the Grand Challenges in Biology
(GCB) Postdoctoral Program is to stimulate synergisticFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 145
interactions between faculty and postdoctoral associates
interested in collaborating on multidisciplinary research
that addresses societally relevant problems. Postdoc-
toral projects are for two years (assuming satisfactory
progress toward research goals in year one). Postdoc-
toral associates will be encouraged to participate in
grant proposal development workshops and other profes-
sional development activities oered at UMN and CBS
and are permitted to serve as Principal Investigators
on grant proposals. While in residence, the postdoc-
toral associates will be expected to be visible members
of CBS, actively engaging with faculty, undergraduate-
and graduate students and contributing to furthering
the collaborative culture of CBS.
Application Process
To apply:
Visit http://humanresources.umn.edu/jobs Click the
appropriate maroon link in the center of the page
Enter 320761 in the Keywords box
Click \Search"
Applications must be submitted through the UMN em-
ployment site.
Applicants should develop a 2-year research project un-
der the guidance of two or more faculty advisors, at least
one of whom must be a faculty member in the College
of Biological Sciences (CBS). The other advisor(s) may
be from a dierent department within CBS, from any
other College at UMN or from a local entity external
to the university (e.g., private company, government
agency, NGO). Since an important aim of the program
is to jumpstart the formation of new teams, the faculty
advisors should not have an already established record
of collaboration with each other (as evidenced by jointly
authored publications).
Uploaded applications materials must include:
CV
1-page description of previous or current research
3-page (maximum) description of proposed research con-
taining: a statement of the problem to be addressed;
methods/approach; relevance of the work in relation to
grand challenges in biology; contributions of the collabo-
rating partners; literature cited (does not count toward
the 3-page limit)
letters of support from each of the proposed faculty ad-
visors who will be involved in the project as well as the
names and contact information for two external persons
(not from UMN) who may be asked to submit letters of
recommendationThe expected salary will be $47,500 plus benets. In
addition, the postdoctoral scholar will receive $5,000 per
year for research supplies and research-related travel. It
is expected that necessary oce and laboratory space,
access to large equipment and any other research needs
will be provided by faculty advisors.
Additional Details
Positions are initially for two years with the possibility
of renewal for a third year pending progress review.
Early-career scientists with a high potential to spring-
board their careers to future faculty positions are espe-
cially encouraged to apply.
Applications will be evaluated by a search committee
representing CBS's disciplines. This same committee, or
a subset thereof, will also be responsible for evaluating
postdocs' performance at the end of the rst year and
in connection with eventual renewal for a third year.
Applicants should have completed all of the require-
ments necessary to attain a Ph.D. degree and be able to
be on campus to start employment by the agreed start
date.
Graduates of UMN are eligible to apply for these po-
sitions, but we also hope to recruit a strong pool of
external applicants.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMinnesota
EvolutionaryGenomicsOfSleep
Cave tetras experience vastly dierent selection pres-
sures than do conspecics living in surface waters, and
there are multiple, independent origins of cavesh in
separate caves, providing a naturally replicated experi-
ment. Distinct phenotypes and behavioral dierences
have evolved and are maintained in the cavesh popula-
tions, while in some caves, substantial gene ow between
surface and cavesh is ongoing. Thus, Mexican cave
tetras oer a unique opportunity to study how recombi-
nation, selection, drift, and introgression shape genomic
divergence.
Cavesh have repeatedly evolved loss of total sleep du-146 EvolDir February 1, 2018
ration relative to surface sh, providing a unique oppor-
tunity to examine the genetic basis of sleep in naturally
evolved populations.
The McGaugh lab is recruiting a postdoc to: 1) analyze
resequenced genomes for outlier loci involved in sleep
loss (including modeling complex demography, admix-
ture, and local adaptation in repeatedly evolved cavesh)
and 2) construct multiple high-resolution QTL maps
of sleep loss and circadian deregulation in repeatedly
evolved cavesh.
This is a collaborative project with the Keene lab at
Florida Atlantic University and the Rohner lab at Stow-
ers Institute.
Applicants with a strong computational, population
genomic, or functional genetic background are encour-
aged to apply. Please send a CV and references to
smcgaugh@umn.edu Salary follows the NIH stipend rec-
ommendations. Start-date is exible.
The initial contract is for one year with renewal for
additional years pending performance.
Principal Duties and Responsibilities 90% Computa-
tional genomics, sample collection, writing manuscripts,
animal husbandry and DNA extraction Analyzing next-
generation sequencing data, keeping detailed notes and
logs of the analyses, and keeping well-annotated code
that was written for those analyses to ensure future
replication of the work.
Conduct phenotyping, genotyping, and analyses of sh
for a large-scale QTL experiment.
Submit permits, conduct eld-work, and extract DNA
for population genomic analyses.
Maintain sh and basic molecular lab work to conrm
results of next generation sequence analysis.
Participate in projects that may or may not be directly
related research, but aid in other's projects in the lab
and help generate preliminary data for grant submis-
sions. This may also include mentoring of undergraduate
and graduate students.
Write and submit manuscripts that present results of
the analysis conducted in the McGaugh lab. Help in the
preparation of other lab-wide manuscripts and analyses
for those manuscripts.
5% Lab maintenance, safety, supplies and systems ad-
ministration In charge of daily function and operation
of the McGaugh lab including the purchasing of sup-
plies, maintenance of a safe and productive physical and
computational environment.
5%- Lab citizen Attend lab meetings, relevant lectures,
and training sessions. Assist other lab/community mem-bers.
Minimum Qualications A PhD in genomics, evolution,
genetics, or related elds.
Experience with next-gen sequence data and a
unix/command line interface.
Experience with scripting/programming languages in-
cluding R, python, and/or C++ Demonstrated ability
to produce high-quality publications.
A desire to help lead an integrative and motivated group
of young scientists.
Patience, dedication, exibility, and enthusiasm.
Excellent communication skills.
Preferred Qualications Strong knowledge of popula-
tion genetics, genomics Interest in aging, stress, and
recombination.
Experience with international eldwork and caving At
least minimal understanding of Spanish or willingness
to learn basics prior to eldwork.
The Twin Cities oer a range of arts and entertainment,
and an amazing restaurant scene. The University of
Minnesota also houses one of the most comprehensive
computing environments (Minnesota Supercomputing
Institute) and abundant bioinformatics training oppor-
tunities.
The UofM is a collaborative atmosphere and with a
concentration of population, quantitative, and evolu-
tionary geneticists which make up a vibrant scientic
community.
Suzanne McGaugh <smcgaugh@umn.edu >
UNebraska PopulationBiology
Population Biology Postdoctoral Research Fellowship
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-LINCOLN is
seeking applications for a 2-year postdoctoral position
in the Population Biology Program of Excellence.
The goal of the Population Biology-POE Postdoctoral
Fellowship is to stimulate synergistic interactions be-
tween faculty and postdoctoral scholars interested in
the broad area of Population Biology. We are seeking
applications from recent PhDs who show promise of con-
ducting cutting edge research related to, and expanding
upon, faculty research areas in the Ecology, Evolution
& Behavior (EEB) section in the School of BiologicalFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 147
Sciences (http://biosci.unl.edu/research-specializations).
The POE also seeks to identify potential postdoctoral
fellows who will enhance graduate education, serve as a
model for graduate students in career development, and
promote interactions among faculty at UNL. Qualied
candidates are required to submit a 2-3 page research
proposal detailing the two-year program of research to
be completed under the guidance of a faculty member
in the Ecology, Evolution & Behavior (EEB) section in
the School of Biological Sciences. Applicants are encour-
aged to reach out to potential faculty mentors before
developing a proposal for additional guidelines and sug-
gestions. The position does not include research funds
so the extent of contributions from the faculty sponsor
should be addressed in the proposal. While in residence,
the postdoctoral fellow will be expected to lead a sem-
inar, symposium or outreach project that will appeal
to Population Biologists across campus. Applications
must include a CV, a 1-page description of previous
or current research and the description of proposed re-
search. In addition, the applicant must arrange for two
recommendation letters from non-UNL faculty, and one
from the UNL faculty sponsor (a total of 3 letters) to be
emailed to the address below. The expected salary will
be $45,000 per year with a start date of August 19, 2018.
Priority will be given to applicants who have completed
their degree and are new to UNL. Research descriptions
for past and current POE postdoctoral fellows can be
viewed at http://biosci.unl.edu/population-biology/
Application materials should be emailed to: Dr. Jo-
hannes Knops at: jknops2@unl.edu. The subject line
should read Population Biology Post-doc application.
Applications should be received by March 1, 2018. We
anticipate notifying the successful applicant by April
1, 2018, with a starting date of August 19 or later in
2018. We strongly encourage applications from women
and members of minority groups. The University of Ne-
braska is committed to a pluralistic campus community
through armative action, equal opportunity, work-life
balance, and dual careers. We assure responsible ac-
commodation under the Americans with Disabilities
Act.
Dai Shizuka <dshizuka2@unl.edu >
UOregon PopulationGenomics
The Singh lab at the University of Oregon invites appli-
cations for a Postdoctoral Researcher position in popu-
lation genomics. This project focuses on the causes andconsequences of natural variation in recombination fre-
quency in D. melanogaster and is supported by multiple
NSF grants.
http://careers.uoregon.edu/cw/en-us/job/521721/-
postdoctoral-research-scholar
nsingh@uoregon.edu
UPadova Italy
CircularRNABioinformatics
*Post-doc position in Bioinformatics available at the
University of Padova, Italy *
*TOPIC: Circular RNAs in leukemias.*
Tentative deadline for applications: January 30 2018
- The post-doc will be recruited in the frame of a 5 year
AIRC project (2018-2023) on normal hematopoiesis and
leukemias.
- The planned activity comprises both NGS (RNA-seq)
data analysis, using software tools available in the lab to
discover and quantify circular RNAs, and development
of new methods for the functional characterization of
circular RNAs in silico (miRNA binding, coding poten-
tial, protein binding motifs). Experience in RNA-seq
data analysis, statistic background and programming
abilities are required.
- Opportunity to work in team with computer scientists,
experimental researchers, and clinicians in a stimulating
group with several national and international outstand-
ing collaborations.
- Padova is a pleasant city in the north of Italy, close to
great outdoors, such as Venice and Dolomiti mountains,
and harbors one of the top ranking Science universities
in Europe.
*PLEASE CONTACT:Prof. Stefania Bortoluzz*i Com-
putational Genomics Laboratory, Department of Molec-
ular Medicine, University of Padova, Italy *stefa-
nia.bortoluzzi@unipd.it* ++39 049 8276502
Stefania Bortoluzzi Associate Professor of Applied Bi-
ology Department of Molecular Medicine University of
Padova
Via G. Colombo, 3 - 35131, Padova, Italy Phone +39
049 827 6502 Fax +39 049 827 6209 Email: stefa-
nia.bortoluzzi@unipd.it Website: compgen.bio.unipd.it
stefania bortoluzzi <stefania.bortoluzzi@unipd.it >148 EvolDir February 1, 2018
UPittsburgh EBV-cancer evolution
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW POSITION Laboratory
of Dr. Kathy Shair University of Pittsburgh
University of Pittsburgh UPMC Hillman Cancer, Center
Cancer Virology Program PA, 15213. U.S.A.
Post date: Jan 3rd, 2018 Position: Full time, immediate
start date Experience: Entry-level to 2 years post-doc
preferred Epstein-Barr virus-associated cancers A post-
doctoral position is immediately available to study the
oncogenic mechanisms of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV).
The ideal candidate should have a Ph.D in the eld of
molecular virology or cancer biology. The project will
study EBV pathogenesis in nasopharyngeal carcinoma
and elucidate how virus evolution impacts pathogenesis
and host cell oncogenic mechanisms. Opportunities also
exist to work with mice. Experience in tumor virology
is preferred, but candidates with independent thinking,
experimental rigor and evidence of scientic writing and
presentation will be the most highly ranked.
Current projects in the Shair lab include: 1) oncogenic
signaling mechanisms of EBV latent membrane proteins
(LMP) 1 and LMP2A, 2) determinants of EBV latency
and persistence, and 3) mouse models of EBV-associated
cancers. The Shair lab at the University of Pittsburgh is
housed in the Cancer Virology Program, Hillman Cancer
Center, where our common interest is to elucidate the
molecular basis of cancer and translational medicine.
To be considered, please submit a C.V. and names of 3
references to Dr. Shair (kas361@pitt.edu). Applicants
will be continually reviewed until the position is lled.
vaughn.cooper@pitt.edu
UPittsburgh
EvolutionPolymicrobialInfections
The Cooper and Bomberger laboratories seek a
motivated colleague who shares our interest in dening
evolutionary dynamics of bacterial populations during
polymicrobial infections and advancing this emerging
eld. We are focused on dynamics within infections ofthe upper and lower airway of persons with cystic bro-
sis (CF), where we are following patient cohorts to study
how viral infections or antibiotic treatments inuence
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus
evolution. Opportunities also exist to study pathogen
dynamics within pediatric, non-CF patients with chronic
sinusitis. A representative NIH-sponsored project
is described here: https://projectreporter.nih.gov/-
project infodescription.cfm?aid=9304418&icde=-
37479658&ddparam=&ddvalue=&ddsub=&cr=-
2&csb=default&cs=ASC&pball= . Responsibilities
include: to analyze metagenomic data to identify
patterns and processes of bacterial evolution during
infections, dene reproducible workows for these stud-
ies, identify and implement state-of-the-art methods,
developing algorithms, writing manuscripts and progress
reports. This position also includes opportunities for
studying bacterial genotype-phenotype relationships
in vitro and in vivo. Our goal is to provide excellent
training to the postdoctoral fellow to establishing
his/herself as an independent investigator or senior
research sta.
Qualications: Ph.D in Computational Biology, Evolu-
tionary Biology, Microbiology, or Genetics/Genomics.
Publications in these elds.
Highly desirable: Experience in Computational Biology,
high-throughput genomic data analysis. Ability to write
scripts and prociency at the command line.
Candidates with a computer science background also can
apply but basic knowledge of genetics is a requirement.
School / Department: University of Pittsburgh School
of Medicine / Microbiology and Molecular Genetics
Classication: Postdoctoral Associate Funding source:
NIH and Gilead grants. Start Date: 2/1/2018 Send
letter of interest and CV to vaughn.cooper@pitt.edu.
See also: http://micropopbio.org \Vaughn S. Cooper"
<vaughn.cooper@pitt.edu >
Uppsala PopulationGenomics
Researcher in population genomics at Uppsala Univer-
sity
We have an opening for a researcher in a project inves-
tigating local adaptation in dogs. The position is for
one year, with possibility for extension, in the group of
Dr. Erik Axelsson at Uppsala University. Deadline for
application is February 15, 2018.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 149
Project description: Thanks to the rapid and recent
changes accompanying domestication, comparisons of
wild and domestic life forms represent an ideal system
for characterizing the genetic basis of phenotypic diver-
sity. Based on whole genome sequencing we recently
compared patterns of genetic variation in dog and wolf
to provide an initial understanding of the genetic basis
of adaptations during dog domestication. We found that
selection had targeted the entire pathway responsible
for starch digestion and glucose absorption in the small
intestine of dogs, indicating that a shift from a meat
based to a starch rich diet constituted a crucial step
during the domestication process. Combined with ev-
idence that this change was accompanied by selection
for mutations that also aected the ability to store glu-
cose as fat, these ndings argue that dogs underwent
a general shift from a protein to a more carbohydrate
based energy metabolism. Dog domestication may thus
represent a unique and unexplored natural model for
studying metabolism arguing that a detailed charac-
terization of the genetic basis of adaptations during
dog domestication represents a novel perspective on the
molecular components of nutrient absorption and carbo-
hydrate and lipid metabolism. To benet from this new
perspective and to understand how dogs coped with the
fundamental changes associated with the agricultural
revolution this project combines large scale population
genomic analyses, transcriptomics and analyses of exist-
ing comparative genetics resources to localize mutations
that are likely to underlie metabolic adaptations in dog,
followed by physiological experiments in genetically mod-
ied cell lines to test the eect of the indicated genes
on metabolic processes.
Job description: Research in the project described above.
The successful applicant will mainly analyse population
scale whole genome resequencing data and transcrip-
tome data.
Qualications: To be eligible to apply you must have
a Ph.D. in evolutionary biology, population genetics,
genomics, bioinformatics or another relevant eld. The
position requires documented experience in large-scale
next- generation DNA sequencing analysis and the ideal
candidate is highly motivated with a strong background
in statistical, quantitative or population genetics. Can-
didates must have good communication skills, both in
written and spoken English. Programming skills are
desirable. We will put great emphasis on your per-
sonal qualities and interpersonal skills such as ability
for collaborative work and exibility.
Uppsala University nds that gender balance and di-
versity brings a higher quality to the organization. We
therefore welcome applicants of any gender and with
dierent birth background, functionality and life experi-ence.
Pay: Individual salaries
Starting: As soon as possible for a period of one year
with eventual possibility to extension.
Type of employment: Temporary position.
Working hours: 100 %
Application: Apply for the position through Uppsala
University's recruitment system: https://www.uu.se/-
en/about-uu/join-us/details/?positionId=187891 For
further information about the position please contact:
Erik Axelsson, mailto: erik.axelsson@imbim.uu.se
Erik Axelsson <erik.axelsson@imbim.uu.se >
UppsalaU 2 BacterialEvolution
EVOLVABILITY OF ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE
GENES, POST-DOC Lionel Guy and Diarmaid Hughes
are looking for a post-doctoral fellow with, ideally, expe-
rience of both bacterial genetics and molecular evolution
to tackle a collaborative project on the evolvability of
ancestral antibiotics resistance genes.
PROJECT The mains goals are (i) to better under-
stand how dierent antibiotic resistance genes evolved
before the clinical use of antibiotics, and to assess (ii)
their evolutionary potential and (iii) the predictability
of the mutations providing antibiotic resistance. We
will focus on four classes of genes providing resistance
to four classes of antibiotics: beta-lactams, aminoglyco-
sides, tetracycline and the last-resort antibiotic colistin.
First, the successful candidate will reconstruct the evo-
lutionary history of each class of genes, trying to infer
what they are derived from. Second, they will evaluate
the resistance potential of ancestors, by reconstructing
them, cloning them into E. coli MG1655 and assessing
their minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC). Third,
the reconstructed ancestors will be evolved in sub-MIC
conditions, to examine evolutionary paths and time nec-
essary to reach present-day MICs. By comparing the
mutations obtained in experimental evolution to the
ones found in actual modern sequences we'll be watch-
ing how \replaying the tape of life" mimics the actual
evolutionary pressures experienced by sequences in vivo,
and may predict the potential emergence of antibiotics
resistance in clinical settings.
FORM Two-years post-doctoral fellowship (SEK 276
000, circa USD 32 400, per annum), free of tax. Fel-150 EvolDir February 1, 2018
lowship rules exclude candidates with a PhD from the
host institution (Uppsala University). The candidate
has to be approved by the funder. Starting date: to be
discussed
BASIC SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS - A PhD in
molecular evolutionary biology, microbial genetics or a
related topic. - Experience with microbiology and bac-
terial genetics. - Experience of bioinformatics, ability to
run basic molecular evolution software. - A documented
experience of team work and collaborative projects.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS - Extended experience
of molecular evolution tools. - Programming experi-
ence. - Skills in molecular genetic tools in E. coli and
Salmonella.
APPLICATIONS To be sent by email to li-
onel.guy@imbim.uu.se, latest on February 18th, 2018.
Applications (in one single document) should include:
- Letter of motivation. - Resume. - Publication list. -
Names and contact information of two references or two
letters of reference.
HOST INSTITUTION The project is a collaboration be-
tween the research groups of Lionel Guy and Diarmaid
Hughes, Department of Medical Biochemistry Microbiol-
ogy, Uppsala University. The host department is a very
strong and stimulating research environment, counting
over 250 researchers in over 30 groups, and is conducting
world-leading research in antibiotic resistance. Uppsala
University is a comprehensive research-intensive univer-
sity with a strong international standing. Our mission
is to pursue top-quality research and education and
to interact constructively with society. Our most im-
portant assets are all the individuals whose curiosity
and dedication make Uppsala University one of Swe-
den's most exciting workplaces. Uppsala University has
40,000 students, 7,000 employees and a turnover of SEK
6.5 billion.
CONTACT Lionel Guy, M: lionel.guy@imbim.uu.se,
P: +46 18 471 42 46, W: http://www.imbim.uu.se/-
Research/Microbiology-immunology/guy-lionel/ Lionel
Guy, PhD Assistant Professor Department for Medi-
cal Biochemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden lionel.guy@imbim.uu.se
|{
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW IN EVOLUTIONARY
MICROBIOLOGY, BIOINFORMATICS We are recruit-
ing a new postdoctoral fellow to Lionel Guy's research
group at Uppsala University.
PROJECT Our group is studying the evolution of host-
adaptation in bacteria. We are currently focusing on
the Legionellales order, which contains representativesat several stages of host adaptation. We are gathering
a number of novel genomes through extended sampling,
metagenomics and data mining. The goal of this project
is to extend the current dataset, analyze it, to shed
light on the evolution of Legionellales in particular, and
on the evolutionary transitions in host adaptation in
general.
FORM One-year post-doctoral fellowship (SEK 288 000,
circa USD 34 000, per annum); extension for a second
year possible. Candidates who are employees of Uppsala
University, or have been in the two years before the
start of the fellowship, are not eligible.
Starting date: to be discussed.
BASIC SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS - A PhD in
evolutionary biology, molecular evolution, microbiology
or related topic. - Experience with high-throughput
sequencing data, metagenomics, comparative genomics,
and molecular evolution tools.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
URochester EvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral fellow in evolutionary genetics/genomics
Department of Biology, University of Rochester
The Fay lab in the Biology Department at the University
of Rochester is seeking candidates for a postdoctoral fel-
low position. The lab works broadly on the genetic basis
of evolutionary change, utilizing both high-throughput
experimental approaches combined with statistical and
computational models. Our main experimental system
is yeast, focusing on the Saccharomyces species with
occasional forays into Candida and other species that
commonly show up in our eld collections. However, we
also have active collaborations working on domestication
in barley, preterm birth in humans, and testing theo-
ries of diversity using experimental evolution. These
interactions both stimulate project cross-fertilization
and create opportunities to develop novel approaches to
long-standing problems of interest to the lab.
Candidates will have the opportunity to expand on cur-
rent projects or explore new areas through the develop-
ment of a creative and independent project. Our currentFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 151
projects focus on the evolution of gene expression dy-
namics and when changes in gene expression matter,
the genetic basis of interspecic dierences in thermotol-
erance, and domestication and diversication of S. cere-
visiae, including wine, beer and other industrial strains.
We have extensive resources in population genomics
through our collection of over 4,000 wild yeast strains,
probabilistic models of cis-regulatory sequences, as well
as our recent acquisition of high-throughput robotics
paired with both natural and constructed collections of
strain, plasmid and synthetic reporter libraries.
Candidates should have a clear vision of their research
interests along with expectations for training and men-
torship. While there are no strict requirements for
the position, strong quantitative skills, programming
experience, and a population or evolutionary genetics
background are desirable.
The Fay lab is located in the Biology Department, which
has a strong research group in evolutionary genetics and
genomics that has recently grown, providing a stimu-
lating and interactive environment. The Department is
located on the top oors of Hutchinson Hall, adjacent to
the Goergen Institute for Data Science, Computer Sci-
ence and Biomedical Engineering Departments. We also
benet from an excellent group of yeast labs originally
built up through the vision of Fred Sherman. Genomics
and proteomics cores are available across the street at
the Medical center. Finally, the Center for Integrated
Research and Computing provide state of the art fa-
cilities for both parallel and large memory computing
jobs.
Applicants for the position should send a curriculum vi-
tae, a statement of interest and contact information for
three references via email. Applications will be reviewed
starting in February, 2018 and will continue until the
position is lled.
Justin Fay Associate Professor Biology Department
University of Rochester justin.fay@rochester.edu
http://labsites.rochester.edu/faylab/ Justin Fay
<fayjustin@gmail.com >
USDA Colorado
GenomicsBioinformatics
1-year Post-doc position in genomics/bioinformatics
We are seeking a dynamic individual to work on a study
of invasive, island mice genomes. This is part of abroader eort to develop genetic biocontrol methods for
invasive rodents in island ecosystems. Our specic goal
for this position is to characterize the genomes of mice
from dierent island systems and identify regions that
are unique to each population. These regions will be
chosen as sites for genome editing in order to have po-
tential biological specicity for target populations. The
role of the individual we seek will be to help select the
best next-generation sequencing approach for identifying
unique genomic regions in wild mouse genomes, labo-
ratory work, and bioinformatics analyses. We expect
experience in one or preferably more next-generation
sequencing methods such as whole genome sequenc-
ing, Pool-seq, RAD-seq, RNA-seq, and Genotype-by-
sequencing and some bioinformatics experience. We
expect a candidate to have strong laboratory bench
skills including a clear understanding of the potential
biases of the data introduced at each step of the labo-
ratory process. Candidates must be enthusiastic about
the project and process to achieve study goals. This
study is part of a larger collaboration between multiple
universities and federal level agencies within multiple
countries. Thus, candidates must have strong interper-
sonal skills, professional presentation capabilities, and
scientic writing prociency.
This position will be housed at CSU under the super-
vision of Dr. Zaid Abdo and will be co-advised by
Dr. Toni Piaggio, USDA-APHIS-NWRC and Dr. John
Godwin at North Carolina State University.
For full position announcement and to apply go to:
http://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/52464 CSU is an
EO/EA/AA employer and conducts background checks
on all nal candidates.
Toni Piaggio, Ph.D. Research Scientist, Wildlife Ge-
netics National Wildlife Research Center 4101 La-
Porte Ave. Fort Collins, CO 80521 (970)266-6142
toni.j.piaggio@aphis.usda.gov
\Piaggio, Antoinette J - APHIS"
<Toni.J.Piaggio@aphis.usda.gov >
UUppsala
EvolutionSexualDimorphism
Title of project: Evolution of sex dierences in life his-
tories despite a shared genome
I am seeking a highly motivated postdoc to join the
Bolund lab at the Dept. of Ecology and Genetics, Evo-152 EvolDir February 1, 2018
lutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University, Sweden.
The project is funded by the Carl Tryggers Foundation
and the Swedish Research Council, VR.
Project: Females and males often have dierent pheno-
typic optima for important life history traits, but their
shared genome causes conict. Such sexual conict is
a dominating theme in evolutionary studies. Dierent
selection pressures in the two sexes can decouple the
genetic basis of the trait, allowing the resolution of con-
ict through sexual dimorphism. However, traits are
seldom independent and covariances between traits can
strongly inuence evolutionary trajectories.
This project aims to understand how the strength of
intra-locus sexual conict over multiple life history traits
constrains or facilitates the evolution of sexual dimor-
phism. You will use the nematode Caenorhabditis re-
manei, a powerful model system, and study lines that
have been subjected to experimental evolution under
increased/decreased sexual conict. Within this frame-
work, there are several possible lines of enquiry to pursue
depending on the interests and background of the suc-
cessful candidate. These include the study of:
-The evolution of genetic variances and covariances (rep-
resented statistically by the G matrix) within males
(GM), within females (GF) and between traits between
the sexes (B and its transpose BT). The stability of G
and B over evolutionary time remains an open question.
Estimations of GF, GM and B and their stability over
time is essential to our understanding of both long-term
constraints on the independent evolution of the sexes
and of how dierent populations are expected to evolve
under sex-specic selection.
-The relative importance of pre- and post-copulatory
sexual selection on the evolutionary dynamics of sexual
conict.
You will join the lab of Dr. Elisabeth Bolund, and be
part of the well-equipped nematode lab, led by two PI-s
(Dr. Bolund and Dr. Lind). In the Bolund lab, we are
interested in the evolutionary dynamics of life histories,
sexual dimorphism and sexual conict, using nematodes
and humans as model organisms. Within the lab, we
encourage a dynamic collaborative atmosphere.
Qualications: The successful candidate will have a
Ph.D. in evolutionary biology, ecology, genetics, or a
related eld. A background in or experience of some
of the following areas is desirable: evolutionary biology,
life history evolution, sexual conict/sexual selection,
quantitative genetics, statistics (experience in Bayesian
analyses is a plus), basic R programming, and the run-
ning of large-scale lab experiments (with nematodes or
other species). Further, good team work and communi-cation skills are valued.
The environment:
EBC hosts one of the largest aggregations of evolution-
ary biologists in the world and Uppsala University was
recently ranked 7th in the world in evolutionary biology
(CWUR 2017). The Department of Ecology and Genet-
ics is a highly international working environment and
our research spans the scope from evolutionary ecology
and genetics to studies of ecosystems. A number of
high-prole projects address natural and sexual selec-
tion, local adaptation, speciation, molecular evolution,
microbial diversity, and ecosystem processes. For more
information, see ieg.uu.se. Uppsala University is the
oldest university in Scandinavia and the city of Uppsala
is a vibrant college town with beautiful surroundings
conveniently situated 40 minutes by train from Stock-
holm.
Position: The postdoc is funded by a tax-free 2-year
scholarship from the Carl Tryggers Foundation, amount-
ing to 23,000 SEK per month. It is a requirement from
the funding agency that you are an incoming postdoc
(in other words that your Ph.D. is not from Uppsala
University).
How to apply: Application deadline: January 31, 2018.
Submit an e-mail to elisabeth.bolund@ebc.uu.se with
the subject heading 'POST-DOC APPLICATION', with
the following documents combined into ONE pdf le:
- A cover letter describing your research interests and
suitability for the position - A detailed CV including a
publication list and other achievements - Contact de-
tails of two to three references who can be contacted by
telephone or e-mail before or after the interview.
Prospective candidates will be invited for interviews in
person or by Skype in February 2018.
Informal inquiries can be directed to elisa-
beth.bolund@ebc.uu.se
Lab home page: http://bolund.wix.com/homepage I
am looking forward to your application!
Elisabeth Bolund <elisabeth.bolund@ebc.uu.se >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 153
UUppsala
ExpEvolutionInheritanceSystems
Title of project: Experimental evolution of inheritance
systems
I am seeking a highly motivated postdoc to join the Lind
lab at Dept. of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology
Centre (EBC), Uppsala University in a project funded
by Carl Tryggers Foundation and the Swedish Research
Council VR.
Project: The belief that the genetic code is the sole basis
for biological inheritance has been challenged by pheno-
typic plasticity and more recently by the discovery of
trans-generational epigenetic inheritance, where environ-
mentally induced phenotypes are inherited for several
generations by factors that determine how DNA is read.
However, the adaptive signicance of complementary
inheritance systems that is induced by the environment
is enigmatic.
The project aim is to investigate the evolution of adap-
tive plastic, epigenetic, trans-generational and genetic
inheritance during adaptation to new environments that
dier in heterogeneity, using the powerful laboratory
model system of the nematode Caenorhabditis remanei.
We will use a combination of experimental evolution
and trans-generational phenotypic assays of life history
traits, including analyses of already existing lines. For
the experimental evolution part, the postdoc will work
in close collaboration with an already recruited PhD
student. Within this overall framework, there are sev-
eral possibilities to explore related areas in life history
evolution and environmental inuences on phenotypes,
depending upon the interests and background of the
candidate.
You will join the lab of Dr. Martin Lind, and be part
of the well-equipped nematode lab, led by two PIs (Dr.
Lind and Dr. Bolund). In the Lind lab, we are inter-
ested in life history evolution in its broad sense, with
special emphasis on local adaptation, the evolution of
inheritance systems, life-history trade-os and the evolu-
tion of lifespan and ageing. We encourage an open and
collaborative atmosphere in the lab, and many projects
are collaborative by design.
Qualications: We are seeking a highly motivated and
collaborative candidate with and with a background in
evolutionary biology, especially life-history evolution. Itis desirable if you have basic R programming knowledge
and experience of large-scale laboratory experiments of
nematodes or other organisms. The candidate will have
a Ph.D. in evolutionary biology, genetics, ecology or a
related eld.
Working place: EBC hosts one of the world's largest
aggregations of evolutionary biologists and Uppsala Uni-
versity was recently ranked 7th in the world in evo-
lutionary biology (CWUR 2017). The Department of
Ecology and Genetics is an international environment
with sta and students from all over the world. Our
research spans from evolutionary ecology and genetics to
studies of ecosystems. A number of high-prole projects
address natural and sexual selection, local adaptation,
speciation, molecular evolution, microbial diversity, and
ecosystem processes. For more information, see ieg.uu.se.
Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scandi-
navia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant college town
with beautiful surroundings conveniently situated 40
minutes by train from Stockholm.
Position: The postdoc is funded by a tax-free 2-year
scholarship from Carl Tryggers Foundation, amounting
to 23,000 SEK per month. It is a requirement from
the funding agency that you are an incoming postdoc
(in other words that your Ph.D. is not from Uppsala
University).
How to apply: Application deadline: February 4, 2018.
Submit an e-mail to martin.lind@ebc.uu.se with the
subject heading 'POST-DOC APPLICATION', with
the following documents combined into ONE pdf le:
- A cover letter describing your research interests and
suitability for the position
- A detailed CV including a publication list and other
achievements
- Contact details of two to three references who can
be contacted by telephone or e-mail before or after the
interview.
Prospective candidates will be invited for interviews in
person or over Skype in February 2018.
Informal inquiries can be directed to mar-
tin.lind@ebc.uu.se
Lab home page: http:///www.martinlind.org I am
looking forward to your application!
Martin Lind
Research Fellow / Assistant Professor Dept. of Animal
Ecology Uppsala University Norbyv agen 18D 752 36
Uppsala Sweden
http://www.martinlind.org/ Martin Lind154 EvolDir February 1, 2018
<martin.lind.evolmailinglists@gmail.com >
UUppsala Speciation
UUppsala.Speciation
Postcoctoral fellow in Evolutionary Biology
A 2-year postdoc position is available in the Karrenberg
group at the Dept. of Ecology and Genetics, Evolution-
ary Biology Centre, Uppsala University, Sweden. The
project is funded by the Carl Tryggers Foundation and
SciLifelab Sweden.
Title of project: How genomic divergence during specia-
tion arises: experimental assessment of allele transmis-
sion distortion
Processes that govern speciation and divergence are of
vital importance for most other areas of biology, yet
our understanding of organismal and genomic processes
generating divergence is still limited. While many ex-
trinsic reproductive barriers and the evolutionary forces
generating them have been identied, the evolution of
intrinsic barriers is not well-understood.
This project aims at experimentally assessing allele
transmission between two hybridizing sister species of
the non-model plant genus Silene, S. latifolia and S.
dioica using ddRADseq data. The two species exhibit a
complex array of reproductive barriers, including asym-
metric conspecic pollen precedence. We also know
that massive transmission distortion occurs in second-
generation hybrids between these species. Candidate
processes generating such transmission distortion in-
clude pollen competition, segregation distortion during
female meiosis (meiotic drive) and hybrid breakdown.
The project will disentangle these processes by com-
paring transmission ratio distortion between reciprocal
backcrosses of rst-generation hybrids. We have already
produced crosses and ddRADseq genotyped ospring
such that the postdoc can directly start with data anal-
ysis. This project can easily be extended to investigate
the evolutionary history of loci the lead to high seg-
regation distortion (ddRAD seq data from range-wide
sampling of each species is available) and/or a coinci-
dence of these loci with chromosomal re-arrangements
between the two species. Other extensions, for example
regarding phenotypic eects of distorter loci, can be
developed depending on the interest of the postdoc.
You will join the group of Sophie Karrenberg at Plant
ecology and Evolution, Institute of Ecology and Ge-netics, Uppsala University. In this research group, we
mainly study reproductive isolation and speciation in
Silene, including QTL mapping of traits related repro-
ductive isolation, and genome-wide divergence patterns.
We currently also focus on the role of the sex chromo-
somes for divergence and on the evolution of sexually
dimorphic traits within S. latifolia.
Qualications:
The successful candidate will have a Ph.D. in evolu-
tionary biology, ecology, genetics, or a related eld. A
background in or experience of some of the following
areas is desirable: speciation and reproductive isolation,
QTL analysis, construction of linkage maps, ideally also
analysis of transmission ratio distortion, population ge-
nomics, general statistics with R and R programming,
basic bioinformatics skills. Further, teamwork and com-
munication skills are highly valued.
The environment:
EBC hosts one of the largest aggregations of evolution-
ary biologists in the world and Uppsala University was
recently ranked 7 ^th in the world in evolutionary biol-
ogy (CWUR 2017). The Department of Ecology and
Genetics is a highly international working environment
and our research spans the scope from evolutionary ecol-
ogy and genetics to studies of ecosystems. A number of
high-prole projects address natural and sexual selec-
tion, local adaptation, speciation, molecular evolution,
microbial diversity, and ecosystem processes. For more
information, see ieg.uu.se. Uppsala University is the
oldest university in Scandinavia and the city of Uppsala
is a vibrant college town with beautiful surroundings
conveniently situated 40 minutes by train from Stock-
holm.
Position:
The postdoc is funded by a tax-free 2-year scholarship
from the Carl Tryggers Foundation, amounting to 23,000
SEK per month. It is a requirement from the funding
agency that you are an incoming postdoc (in other words
that your Ph.D. is not from Uppsala University).
How to apply:
Application deadline: February 15, 2018.
Submit an e-mail sophie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se
with the subject heading ~A'^ a^A^A:~A^APOST 
DOCAPPLICATION0; withthefollowingdocumentscombinedintoONEpd ffile :
- A cover letter describing your research interests and
suitability for the position
- A detailed CV including a publication list and other
achievements
- Contact details of two to three references who canFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 155
be contacted by telephone or e-mail before or after the
interview.
Prospective candidates will be invited for interviews in
person or by Skype in late February/early March 2018.
The position can be started in late spring/summer 2018
or shortly thereafter.
Please feel free to contact me with questions at so-
phie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UWisconsinMadison
ReproductiveIsolationGenomics
The research group of John Pool at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison invites applications for a postdoc-
toral research position. This scientist will lead our eorts
to establish a premier system for uncovering the genetic
basis of early-stage reproductive isolation.
Drosophila melanogaster originated in tropical Africa
before expanding worldwide as a human commensal
within the past ~10,000 years. From past work, we
know that partial prezygotic and postzygotic isolation
exists between African and European populations, and
that crosses between them result in frequent F2 lethality
and sterility. We also know that American populations
result from admixture between these same gene pools.
Recently, I used the 205 genomes of the Drosophila
Genetic Reference Panel (DGRP) to show that natural
selection has powerfully inuenced this admixture pro-
cess, and specically that many unlinked pairs of genes
show \ancestry disequilibrium", suggesting that many
pairs of African and European alleles are unfavorable
when combined (Pool 2015 MBE). Based on these recent
and prior results, we expect that a signicant number of
incompatibilities exist between these recently isolated
but adaptively dierentiated populations.
We consider this a uniquely appealing study system
for understanding the genetic and evolutionary deter-
minants of the earliest stages of reproductive isolation.
First, the relevant interactors are demonstrably con-
tributing to reduced genetic exchange in nature, and
have clear relevance to the evolutionary trajectoriesof these adaptively distinct populations. Second, the
study of populations that remain partially compatible
opens the door to large-scale QTL mapping of lethality
and sterility. Third, the recent time-scale of divergence
means that population genetics can still help us nd
causative loci (and even interacting pairs of loci, as
hinted above). And fourth, the unparalleled functional
tool kit of D. melanogaster presents an ideal opportunity
to conrm and characterize incompatibilities. There are
still very few clear examples of Bateson-Dobzhansky-
Muller incompatibilities, and this system could lengthen
the list signicantly.
The successful applicant will deploy a novel QTL map-
ping framework to identify pairs of loci that result in
lethality and sterility. They will also leverage existing
population genomic data from our Drosophila Genome
Nexus to detect specic candidate genes within these
QTL pairs. Depending on individual interests, they may
also estimate quantitative evolutionary models compati-
ble with our genomic data. I also encourage lab members
to develop their own project ideas, and I am open to
letting postdocs take important portions of our lab's
research program with them when they found new re-
search groups.
Our research group was founded 6+ years ago and
currently consists of the PI, one postdoc, four PhD
students, and six undergraduate researchers. I have
also advised four former postdocs, and the pub-
lication records of Amir Yassin and Justin Lack
show what a productive environment our lab can
be for postdocs. For more details on our lab's re-
search, its current membership, and its published track
record, please visit: http://www.johnpool.net UW-
Madison oers a superb scientic environment with
a supportive, collaborative, and egalitarian culture.
There are a substantial number of labs in popula-
tion genetics, evolutionary genomics, and Drosophila
research: https://genetics.wisc.edu/evolutionary-and-
population-genetics/ http://www.evolution.wisc.edu/-
view faculty https://genetics.wisc.edu/drosophila-and-
other-insects/ Madison oers an exceptional quality
of life in a beautiful natural setting. Downtown and
campus are bordered by lakes, and the area includes a
number of long distance bike trails. Madison features
diverse art, music, and cultural oerings. A great farm-
ers market and a focus on local food are complemented
by a wide range of international restaurants. Madison
has been ranked as the best city in America for young
adults, and has appeared on a slew of 'top cities' lists, in-
cluding lists for: families, dogs, biking, walking, nature,
green-ness, safety, public schools and educated popula-
tion, health and tness, friendliness, farmers markets,
arts, vegetarians, biotech, careers, quality of life, and so156 EvolDir February 1, 2018
on... http://www.visitmadison.com/media/rankings/
Applicants should send a CV and contact informa-
tion for three references to jpool@wisc.edu. In addition,
applicants should send a statement of research inter-
ests/background, addressing: * Their own long term
scientic interests and specic overlap with the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UZurich EvolutionHeterostyly
*Two Post-Doctoral positions at the University of Zurich
*
POSITIONS DESCRIPTION*. Two post-doctoral posi-
tions in 1) evolutionary biology/genomics and 2) bioin-
formatics are available in Elena Conti's lab at the Uni-
versity of Zurich*. The main research focus is on evo-
lutionary pathways in heterostyly and the evolution of
supergenes. Current projects include: phylogenomics
and evolution of breeding systems in Primulaceae; mor-
phological, ecological and biogeographic evolution in
Primulaceae; comparative genomics of selected taxa in
Primulaceae aimed at clarifying the evolution of oral
morphology and the heterostyly supergene; evolution of
heterostyly in owering plants; reproductive barriers in
/Primula/. The successful applicants will benet from
resources and collaborations on the above-mentioned
topics developed by Elena Conti's lab over several years
and from concurrent projects on the genomics of het-
erostyly and introgression in Primulaceae funded by the
European Union and the Swiss National Science Foun-
dation. Opportunities to gain experience in teaching
and grant writing are available and encouraged. The
Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany
and the University of Zurich provide state-of-the art
infrastructure, excellent scientic milieu, and an inter-
national, English-speaking working environment. With
a world-class airport located in the center of Europe,
Zurich oers unmatched opportunities for easy travel
to conferences and workshops anywhere in the world.
Proximity to the Alps oers easy access to multiple
outdoor activities and the species-rich Alpine ora.
REQUIREMENTS: The successful applicants will
have a Ph.D. degree with evidence of publication inpeer-reviewed scientic journals. *Required skills*-
Demonstrated ability to : frame questions, hypotheses,
and goals towards publication in peer-reviewed journals;
utilize and analyze data from multiple Next Genera-
tion Sequencing platforms; develop novel pipelines and
perform cutting-edge population genomic and phyloge-
nomic analyses; write scientic manuscripts. Expertise
in comparative genomics, bioinformatics, experimental
design, and statistical analyses is necessary. Ability to
collaborate, independence, and excellent writing skills
are required. One of the two positions will be focused
especially on bioinformatics and the development of
new analytical methods, in collaboration also with Dr.
Peter Sz ovenyi's lab at the University of Zurich.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE*. Applications* will
be reviewed starting on * February 20, 2018 and will
continue to be evaluated until suitable candidates are
identied*. Please, *clearly indicate which position
you are applying for in your application*. Send your
application as a SINGLE PDF FILE titled *Primula-
postdoc yourfamilyname *to ContiElena@access.uzh.ch.
Your application will contain the following documents:
*1)* cv; *2)* publication record; *3)* Copy of obtained
Ph.D. diploma and courses taken, with grades; *4)*
letter of motivation explaining your interest in and suit-
ability for the position (2 pages max.); *5)* names, insti-
tutional aliations, email addresses and phone numbers
of 3 referees. Applications that fail to meet the guide-
lines specied above will not be further considered.
STARTING DATE: *May 1, 2018*(with possibility of
negotiation). The positions are available for 2 to 3 years,
contingent upon successful performance review after the
rst year. Opportunities for prolongation are available
upon successful grant writing and application.
*For further information, see*:
http://www.systbot.uzh.ch/de/Personen/-
ProfessorenundDozenten/ElenaConti.html
https://scholar.google.ch/citations?user=-
PFOsKdIAAAAJ&hl=en Dr. Barbara Keller
Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany
University of Zurich Zollikerstrasse 107 8008 Zurich
Switzerland
Tel. + 41(0)44 634 84 18 Mobile + 41(0)79 794 15 82
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday at Depart-
ment
Oce: O 19 Lab: P1 38 barbara.keller@systbot.uzh.ch
http://www.systbot.uzh.ch/Personen/-
WissenschaftlicheMitarbeiterInnen/BarbaraKeller.html
Barbara Keller <barbara.keller@systbot.uzh.ch >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 157
VanderbiltU
InsectMicrobeSymbiosis
Postdoctoral position in functional genetics of insect-
microbe symbioses A postdoctoral position is avail-
able in the Bordenstein laboratory (bordenstein-
lab.vanderbilt.edu) to functionally characterize host-
microbe interactions in Drosophila. This project will
dissect the number and types of Drosophila genes and
pathways that are altered by the endosymbiotic bacteria
Wolbachia. The candidate will develop methods and
apply multiple technologies to dissect how the bacteria
modify host embryonic development at the molecular,
genetic, and biochemical levels. As Wolbachia are in-
creasingly relevant to vector control eorts to curb ar-
bovirus transmission, translational aspects of this work
include development of transgenic strategies for vector
and pest control.
Applicants soon to acquire their Ph.D. or with previous
postgraduate experience are welcome. Applicants should
have a demonstrated ability to work both independently
and collaboratively, possess excellent oral and written
communication skills, and have a record of productivity
as evidenced by publication history. Successful candi-
dates will have some of the following skills: proteomics,
transcriptomics, functional genetics, computational bi-
ology, Drosophila and Wolbachia rearing, uorescent
microscopy, molecular evolution, and molecular biology
of phages.
Vanderbilt University campus is a National Arboretum
located in the heart of Nashville, the capital of Tennessee.
Known internationally as Music City USA, Nashville is
also the home to professional sports teams, the Nashville
Symphony, the Frist Center for the Visual Arts, and
numerous activities for outdoor enthusiasts. Nashville,
Tennessee is a wonderful place to live, work, and raise
a family and has been named one of the 15 best U.S.
cities for work and family and one of the 25 cities most
likely to have the country's highest job growth over the
coming ve years. Major industries include tourism,
printing and publishing, technology manufacturing, mu-
sic production, higher education, nance, insurance,
automobile production and health care management.
To apply, please send a single pdf including a cover
letter stating career interests, research strengths, areas
to develop, earliest start date, curriculum vitae, an ex-
ample publication, and contact information for three ormore references to s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu. The
position is available now and renewable up to two years
contingent upon satisfactory performance. Salary is
commensurate with experience and includes a compre-
hensive benets package. Review of applications will
begin immediately and continue until the position is
lled.
Contact: Seth Bordenstein:
s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu Lab:
http://bordensteinlab.vanderbilt.edu
\s.bordenstein@Vanderbilt.Edu"
<s.bordenstein@Vanderbilt.Edu >
VirginiaTech ComparativeMethods
Position summary: A postdoctoral position is available
in the Uyeda lab at Virginia Tech to work on novel phylo-
genetic comparative methods that integrate phenotypic
ontologies with models of trait evolution. The Uyeda
lab develops and applies phylogenetic comparative meth-
ods in a variety of empirical systems with the goal of
connecting analysis of macroevolutionary patterns with
a process-based understanding of evolution. Candidates
will have opportunity to develop their own research
projects and interests so long as they have overlap with
the goals of the project. Experience with phylogenet-
ics, comparative methods, programming, computational
biology, Bayesian statistical modeling, and phenotypic
ontologies are highly desirable. Applications will be
considered starting on February 1, 2018. For questions
and informal inquiries, send email to juyeda@vt.edu.
Virginia Tech does not discriminate against employees,
students, or applicants on the basis of age, color, disabil-
ity, gender, gender identity, gender expression, national
origin, political aliation, race, religion, sexual orienta-
tion, genetic information, or veteran status; or otherwise
discriminate against employees or applicants who inquire
about, discuss, or disclose their compensation or the
compensation of other employees, or applicants; or any
other basis protected by law.
For inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies, con-
tact the executive director for Equity and Accessibility
at 540-231-2010 or Virginia Tech, North End Center,
Suite 2300 (0318), 300 Turner St. NW, Blacksburg, VA
24061.
Required qualications: PhD in relevant eld (evolution,
organismal biology, statistics, computational biology,
etc.)158 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Preferred qualications: Experience in the development
of phylogenetic comparative methods and comparative
methods Experience with phenotypic ontologies Pro-
gramming experience Experience with Bayesian statisti-
cal modelingHow To Apply: Qualied applicants must elec-
tronically submit online application, cover letter,
resume/curriculum vitae, and list of references
to jobs.vt.edu, posting #SR0180003. http://-
listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/83217 \juyeda@vt.edu"
<juyeda@vt.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona IntroGeometricMorphometrics Apr30-May5
158
Barcelona MappingTraitEvolution Jun4-8 . . . . . . . . 159
Barcelona NGSdata May14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160
Berlin AdvancedRProgrammingJun25-29 . . . . . . . . . 160
Berlin EpigenomicDataAnalysis May28-Jun1 . . . . . 161
Berlin GeometricMorphometrics 5-9March deadline 163
Berlin RStatistics Jun18-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 164
ColoradoStateU WildlifeDiseaseGenomics Jun8-9 . 165
Europe MEME EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
Finland MathematicalEvolution Aug . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
FridayHarborLabs EvolQuantGenetics Jun4-8 . . . . 167
FridayHarborLabs MarineInvertebrateEvol Jun11-Jul13
168
Glasgow ViralBioinformaticsGenomics Aug20-24 . 168
Guarda SummerSchoolEvol Jun16-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . .169
Kyoto EvolutionInCognition Jul15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . 169Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18 TeachingEvolution . . 170
Naples ELIXIRPopulationGenomics Apr21-27 . . . . 170
NHM London IntroductoryMolecPylogenetics May14-18
171
Norwich GenomicsOfMeiosis Mar5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172
OrfordMusique Quebec MixedModels May14-18 . . 173
Panama PolychaeteSystematics Jul1-14 . . . . . . . . . . 174
Prague BeetleSystematics Jul8-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Sweden ParentalCareSexualSelection Feb26-Mar03 175
Sweden ParentalCareSexualSelection Feb26-Mar03
DeadlineExt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176
UCalifornia LosAngeles ConservationGenomics Mar24-
28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 177
UK AnalysingBehaviouralData Mar19-23 . . . . . . . . .178
UK GeometricMorphometricsUsingR Feb19-23 . . . 179
UParisSud Coevolution Apr22-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180
Barcelona
IntroGeometricMorphometrics
Apr30-May5
Dear colleagues,
Registration is now open for the course \INTRODUC-
TION TO GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS - 10thedition".
INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Chris Klingenberg (University
of Manchester, UK) and Dr. Jes ~Aos Marug an (UAM,
Spain).
Dates: April 30th-May 5th, 2018.
More information and registration: http:/-
/www.transmittingscience.org/courses/-
geometric-morphometrics/introduction-geometric-
morphometrics/ This course is entitled to teach the
main concepts of shape analysis based on landmarkFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 159
coordinates and its multivariate procedures, and how
they can be put into practice across any biological
discipline in which the phenotype (form) and its
variation are the principal sources of information.
Program (this includes topics related to evolution):
1. Introduction: Shape, size and biological morphology.
2. Morphometric data: Equipment, landmarks, outlines
and surfaces. 3. Visualizing shapes and shape changes.
4. Looking at variation: PCA. 5. Distinguishing groups:
CVA and discriminant analysis. 6. Symmetry and asym-
metry. 7. Morphometrics in a messy world: outliers
and measurement error. 8. Regression and allometry.
9. Covariation between things: PLS. 10. Morphological
integration. 11. Modularity. 12. Phylogeny and compar-
ative methods. 13. Putting things together: Combining
analyses to solve biological questions. 14. Presentation
of group work by participants.
Software that will be used during the course: TPS,
ImageJ (FIJI) and MorphoJ
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno,PhD. Scien-
tic Director Transmitting Science http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/ Soledad De Esteban-
Trivigno <soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Barcelona MappingTraitEvolution
Jun4-8
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the second edition of the course
$B!H(BMapping Trait Evolution $B!I(B, June 4th-8th,
2018.
Instructor: Dr. Jeroen Smaers (Stony Brook University,
USA).
Registration: https://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/evolution/mapping-trait-evolution/ PRO-
GRAM:
Monday. (R packages: ape, Geiger).
Morning: Phylogenetic data.
* What is the basic structure of phylogenetic data? *
How to visualize and manipulate phylogenetic data?
Afternoon: Models of evolution.
* What are models of evolution? * What are the as-
sumptions of the dierent models of evolution? * Howare models of evolution utilized?
Tuesday. (R packages: ape, nlme, caper, evomap).
Morning: Phylogenetic regression.
* Assumptions, properties, and applications of the phy-
logenetic regression.
Afternoon: Phylogenetic ancova.
* Testing for grade shifts using the phylogenetic regres-
sion.
Wednesday. (R packages: phytools, motmot, geiger, ape,
evomap, BayesTraits).
Morning: Ancestral estimation.
* Using models of evolution to estimate values of ances-
tral nodes.
Afternoon: Analysis of rates of evolution.
* Estimation of rates of evolution. * Testing hypothesis
about rates of evolution.
Thursday. (R packages: bayou, phylolm, surface, OUwie,
mvMORPH).
Morning: Inferring the structure of a macroevolutionary
landscape.
* Using Ornstein-Uhlenbeck models to map macroevolu-
tionary patterns.
Afternoon: Testing the structure of a macroevolutionary
landscape.
* Applications and assumptions of OU models. * Using
OU models to test macroevolutionary hypotheses.
Friday. (R packages: geomorph).
Morning: Modularity and integration.
* What is $B!F(Bphylogenetic $B!G(B modularity and
integration? * Applications and assumptions.
Afternoon: Case study.
With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno,PhD. Scien-
tic Director Transmitting Science http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/ Soledad De Esteban-
Trivigno <soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >160 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Barcelona NGSdata May14-17
Dear colleagues,
This course might be of interest to the members of
this list: MANIPULATION OF NGS DATA FOR GE-
NOMIC AND POPULATION GENETICS ANALYSES.
Date: May 14th-17th, 2018, Barcelona (Spain).
PLACE: Capellades, Barcelona.
INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Fran cois Sabot (Institute of Re-
search for Development, France) and Dr. Christine
Tranchant-Dubreuil (Institute of Research for Develop-
ment, France)
PROGRAM:
- Monday, May 14th, 2018.
Introduction to NGS sequencing platforms. Introduction
to basic command lines. Basic raw data manipulations
(counting sequences, listing les).
- Tuesday, May 15th, 2018. Raw data QC & Cleaning.
Introduction to TOGGLe, a NGS pipeline framework.
Mapping: principle, tools, execution. Mapping: clean-
ing, data control, realigning, duplicates marking.
- Wednesday, May 16th, 2018. SNP calling: raw calling,
cleaning calling, ltering. VCF manipulations: lter-
ing on MAF, heterozygosity Impact of SNPs on genes.
Population genomics using sNMF.
- Thursday, May 17th, 2018. Context-based analyses.
Piping large-scale analyses for multiple samples using
TOGGLe. Testing new tools and dierent conditions to
answer dierent biological questions.
Questions.
Best wishes
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD.
Scientic|Director Transmitting Sci-
ence http://www.transmittingscience.org
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.orgBerlin
AdvancedRProgrammingJun25-29
Advanced R Programming ( https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/course26/ )
WHEN
25-29 June 2018
WHERE Botanisches Museum, K onigin-Luise-Strae
6-8, Berlin (Germany)
Instructors:
VP Nagraj (University of Virginia (USA)).
Overview R is a popular open-source statistical com-
puting language. This course will introduce techniques
for programming in R, including how to work with a
variety of data structures, write functions and package
code for distribution. Each lesson will be interactive
with hands-on activities to solidify concepts covered in
lectures. The week will conclude with a package devel-
opment practicum, during which attendees will have the
opportunity to implement methods covered in class for
a project of their own design.
Target Audience The goal of this course is to provide
training on how to start using R as a programming
language: to write new functions, develop new tools or,
at the very least, interact with data programmatically.
While some examples may be drawn from bioinformat-
ics, statistics and / or epidemiology, the material will
not focus on data analysis techniques. As such, the
course will generally be domain-agnostic. Researchers
from a variety of disciplines are welcome. Those inter-
ested should have basic familiarity with R or another
programming language.
STRUCTURE The course material will be delivered
over 5 days, in 10 half-day sessions. These lessons will
build o of one another, and feature a mix of lecture
and in-class exercises.
Session content
Monday 25th. 09:30-17:30
Session 1: Data Structures
In the rst session we will survey data structures in
R. We'll cover assignment, indexing and programmatic
interaction with a number of types of objects, including
vectors, matrices, lists and data frames.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 161
Session 2: Conditionals and Iteration
Building on the data structures overview, we'll explore
approaches for implementing logic, testing conditions
and iterating over R objects. The material will include
comparisons via operators, looping, vectorization, \ap-
ply" functions and control ow.
Tuesday 26th. 09:30-17:30
Session 3: Functions
This session will introduce essentials of writing functions
in R. We will discuss methods for passing arguments,
establishing return values and handling errors. We'll
also spend time covering R environments, as well as the
system of searching for objects from within a function
and beyond.
Session 4: Debugging, Performance and Optimization
Writing a function is one thing ... xing semantic and
syntactic errors is another altogether. We'll dive into
this topic by way of looking at tools that are built into
R and RStudio for debugging code. This lesson will also
cover methods for diagnosing performance roadblocks
and proling code.
Wednesday 27th. 09:30-17:30
Session 5: Object Oriented Approaches
In the context of data analysis, R is most commonly used
as a functional programming language. This session will
introduce methodology for object oriented programming
(OOP) in R. The material will include how to dene S3
and S4 classes, as well as how to establish methods for
generic functions.
Session 6: Version Control with Git and Github
Git is a powerful program for version control and collab-
oration. This session will introduce workows for using
Git and Github, which is a popular platform for manag-
ing projects and distributing code. We'll pay particular
attention to how these tools are implemented in the
context of R programming and package development.
Thursday 28th. 09:30-17:30
Session 7: Package Development Tools (Part 1)
In this session, we'll survey tools, techniques and use-
cases for R package development. In addition to version
control tools (i.e. Git), there are a quite a few packages,
frameworks and convenient integrations with the RStu-
dio IDE that can facilitate the package development
workow. We will focus on package structure, documen-
tation, building and checking, handling dependencies
and unit testing.
Session 8: Package Development Tools (Part 2)We'll continue to explore tools for package develop-
ment in this lesson. In particular, we'll discuss how to
implement more robust checks, continuous integration
methods, vignettes, protocols for releasing a package
and best practices for including data.
Friday 29th. 09:30-17:30
Session 9: Package Development in Practice
With a baseline understanding of tools for package de-
velopment, we'll explore several case studies that further
enumerate the motivations and practical applications
of developing your own package. This session will also
feature time allocated for individualized research and
development on a project of your choosing.
Session 10: Next Steps
R is a dynamic resource, with new features being added
and new trends in how it is used as a programming
language. We'll conclude with an
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin EpigenomicDataAnalysis
May28-Jun1
Dear all,
registration is now open for the course \Epigenomic
Data Analysis"
[ https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course31/ )
28th May - 01st June 2018, Berlin (Germany)
WHERE Botanisches Museum, K onigin-Luise-Strae
6-8, Berlin
Instructors:
Dr. Federico Comoglio (Cambridge Institute for Medical
Research (UK))
Dr. Iros Barozzi (Imperial College London (UK))
Overview This course will introduce researchers and
technical workers to the bioinformatic analysis of large
epigenomic data sets obtained using Next-Generation
Sequencing (NGS) technologies, with a focus on ChIP-
seq, RNA-seq and DNase-seq / ATAC-seq. The course162 EvolDir February 1, 2018
will cover the theoretical foundations of the most widely
adopted algorithms and analysis pipelines, a targeted
introduction to scripting in bash and R/BioConductor,
and extensive hands-on tutorials using publicly available
NGS data sets. At the end of this course, the students
should be able to eciently analyze their own data and
identify common pitfalls of genomics data analyses.
TARGETED AUDIENCE & ASSUMED BACK-
GROUND
The course is aimed at researchers moving the rst steps
in epigenomic data analysis and / or interested in learn-
ing more about this subject. The course will oer a
balanced mixture of lectures and hands-on practical
tutorials using popular tools and R/BioConductor pack-
ages. Previous knowledge of genomics data formats from
Illumina sequencers and exposure to bioinformatics is
benecial but not a necessary prerequisite.
Assumed Background
The participants should have some basic background
in biology and understand the central role of DNA for
biodiversity studies. No programming or scripting ex-
pertise is required and some basic introduction to UNIX-
based command line applications will be provided on
the rst day. However, some basic experience with using
command line and/or R is clearly an advantage as not
all the basics can be thoroughly covered in that short
amount of time. All hands-on exercises will be run in
UNIX-environments (Linux, Mac) on remote servers.
Statistical analyses will be run in R using RStudio.
Session content
Monday 28th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \The ba-
sics"
Session 1: Motivation and introduction to the biological
system (morning)
We will start with an introductory lecture presenting
several examples of integrative epigenomic data analyses
from recent literature. We will then focus on the bio-
logical system that will be used throughout this 5-days
course, where we will study dynamic chromatin changes
induced by Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation of
mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages.
Session 2: Introduction to Linux and bash (morning)
In this session, we will provide a targeted introduction
to Linux and bash scripting, with a focus on the tools
required for the rest of the course. No previous exposure
to scripting is strictly required. Also, we will not at-
tempt to provide a catalogue of functions and command
syntax. Rather, we will focus on the principles and logic
of scripting.Session 3: R programming (afternoon)
In the afternoon, we will cover the basics of R program-
ming. This session will alternate short talks covering
the basics with extensive hands-on tutorials to allow
students without prior exposure to R to familiarize
themselves with this language in the most natural way.
This session aims at building a solid foundation of R
programming, and will also cover good coding practices
for reproducible research.
Tuesday 29th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \ChIP-seq
data analysis"
Session 4: ChIP-seq data analysis - theory (morning)
This module covers the building blocks of a ChIP-seq
data analysis workow. We will discuss quality con-
trol metrics and common pitfalls, and the theoretical
foundations of commonly used aligners and peak callers.
Session 5: ChIP-seq data analysis lab (afternoon)
In the afternoon, we will transition from theory to prac-
tice. We will run a complete ChIP-seq data analysis
workow. We will also learn how to generate and visual-
ize tracks in formats widely adopted by genome browsers.
During this hands-on session, we will randomly assign
a topic for a lightning talk (3 minutes = 3 slides) on
common pitfalls of ChIP-seq algorithms and/or results
interpretation.
Wednesday 30th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \RNA-
seq data analysis"
Session 6: Lightning talks (morning)
In this session, the students will present their lightning
talks on the topic assigned in Session 5. This will be
followed by a 30' round table open discussion.
Session 7: RNA-seq data analysis - theory (morning)
We will then move on to RNA-seq data analysis. We will
rst cover the theoretical basis of commonly adopted
algorithms for RNA-seq data processing. We will then
discuss the statistical foundation of algorithms
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 163
Berlin GeometricMorphometrics
5-9March deadline
Dear all,
registration deadline is soon approaching (10.02.18)
and we still have a few spots available for our course
\Geometric Morphometrics" ( https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/course22/ )
Where: Berlin (Germany)
When: 5th-9th March 2018
Instructor: Dr. Carmelo Fruciano (ENS, Paris (France))
http://bit.ly/2rxQVFC Overview
Geometric morphometrics has become a standard in
biological research because it combines statistical rigour
and ease of interpretation. Through geometric morpho-
metrics, biological form is quantied, analysed and the
results are expressed as easily interpretable and visually
impactful shape changes. This course covers the main
common practices of modern geometric morphometrics,
including: acquiring data, analysing it, visualizing and
interpreting the results.
Format
The course will be delivered over ve days and will
comprise both lectures and hands-on sessions. The
lectures will cover both basic theoretical aspects and
their practical implementation in research practice and
software. During the hands-on sessions, the attendees
will have the chance of both using example datasets
and applying the knowledge acquired to their own data.
The course will be focused mainly on 2D data and on
easy-to-use software with graphical user interface to
maximize the ability to understand concepts and apply
them. However, some information on 3D data and on
R implementations will be provided, as appropriate.
Assumed Background
This course is aimed at beginners and intermediate users.
In other words, it is aimed at researchers who intend
to use geometric morphometrics or who have started
performing geometric morphometric analyses but feel
they need a more structured background.
Requirements
Attendees should have a background in biology and a
basic understanding of statistical concepts.Session content
Monday 5th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Geometric morphometrics: overview and potential appli-
cations: - Traditional and geometric morphometrics - An
overview of common analyses - Examples of geometric
morphometrics applied to biological problems
>From biological objects to numerical representation: -
Overview of typical devices used to digitalise biological
objects
- Landmarks, semilandmarks, outlines and surfaces -
dierent types of geometric morphometric data
- Most commonly used geometric morphometric software
- Data quality, most common pitfalls in study design
and data acquisition
Tuesday 6th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Generalized Procrustes analysis (GPA) - the core of
most geometric morphometrics:
Principal component analysis (PCA) Comparing groups:
- Between-group PCA - Canonical variate analysis (CVA)
- Tests of dierence in means
Wednesday 7th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Co-variation between size and shape: - Allometry, re-
gression and general linear models
Co-variation between shapes: - Partial least squares
analysis (PLS) - Modularity and integration
Thursday 8th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Combining analyses in a basic workow: - Preliminary
assessment of data quality - Typical basic workow
Expanding the basic workow: variation in geographic
space Expanding the basic workow: association be-
tween shape and environmental variables
Friday 9th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Expanding the basic workow: elements of phyloge-
netic comparative analyses Review and open discussion
Presentation of attendees' analyses on their own data
For more information about the course, please visit
our website: https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course22/ Here is the full list of our courses
and Workshops: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/ Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:164 EvolDir February 1, 2018
@physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses \info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Berlin RStatistics Jun18-22
Getting started with R [ https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/course13/ ) 18-22 June
2018, Berlin (Germany) Application deadline is: May
20th, 2018.
Instructor: Dr. Alexandre Courtiol (Leibniz Institute for
Zoo and Wildlife Research, Berlin (Germany)) https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t40/ ) Overview:
R is the statistical software the most used in the world.
It is extremely powerful, free of charge and open source.
Despite these benets, many avoid R, or struggle with
it, as writing computer code to do any operation { a
requirement in R { is at rst both dicult and intimi-
dating.
This course aims at overcoming those challenges by
providing solid basics in R. At the end of the course,
participants should feel much more at ease writing a
computer script in the R language which covers the
entire spectrum of a statistical analysis: reading data,
editing them, plotting them, and analysing them. Be-
cause linear models are the dominant statistical tool in
many elds, the part of the course focussing on analyses
per se (see schedule) will focus on those, but principles
seen during the class should greatly help those inter-
ested in other kind of analyses as well. The course will
be presented over ve days and will mix explanations
and guided exercises. Students are free to practice with
their own datasets during the course.
Intended Audience & Assumed Background: This course
is aimed at scientists from quantitative sciences (e.g. bi-
ology, epidemiology, psychology...). It has been created
with biologists in mind but it should accommodate sci-
entists from other disciplines. No previous experience
with R is required. Participants should have a basic
familiarity with statistical terms and concepts.
Session content Monday 18th 'V Classes from 09:30
to 17:30 Monday is DATA day This rst day will be
dedicated to the data. R is software dedicated to data
analysis, so mastering the basics of data manipulation in
R is essential for further steps. It will be explained howto import data into R and how to manipulate them (e.g.
from adding or removing rows or columns, to merging
tables and using pivot tables). This will be good prac-
tice for students to learn the basics of the R language.
We will illustrate how to do everything using R base
(that is R out of the box), but we will also introduce
that allow users to perform some operations on large
datasets a little faster.
Tuesday 19th 'V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 Tuesday is
PLOTTING day Plotting is a crucial part of any data
analysis no matter how advanced you are in statistics.
It is important to visualise the data before the analysis
(e.g. to visually check the presence of potential errors
and for getting a sense of the distribution of the data),
during the analysis (e.g. to check the distribution of
model residuals), and after the analysis (to communicate
ndings in the most ecient way). Therefore, knowing
how to plot various kind of data matters a lot. We
will thus show how to plot dierent types of data in R
(points, distributions, rasters...) using dierent graphic
environments (e.g graphics, lattice, ggplot2).
Wednesday 20th 'V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 Wednes-
day is FUNCTIONS day As John Chambers { the grand-
father of R { put it Everything that happens in R is
a function call. That R allows for so-called functional
programming is one of its great benets: it allows the
implementation of any workow of statistical analysis
as the succession of simple clearly identied steps. Each
step is described by a function that takes an input and
generates an output. The output of one function is often
the input of the next. On this third day we will show
that creating one's own function is very very easy (yes,
even YOU can program!) and can be very very useful.
As a rst application we will create our own functions
to implement a randomisation test. As a second appli-
cation we will show how to create functions to perform
a power analysis (the estimation of the probability of
getting true positives when applying a test) for any
statistical test.
Thursday 21st 'V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 Thursday
is LM day Many widely used statistical methods (t-tests,
anova, ancova, linear regressions...) are just dierent
type of Linear Models (LM), which is why LM represent
the most useful statistical toolbox to be familiar with if
you are in natural or social sciences. Fitting a LM in R
is easy { but building models, checking model assump-
tions, interpreting the outputs, and plotting predictions
correctly requires some know how. After refreshing the
most important concepts surrounding LM, we will go
through each of these steps in detail, working on real
datasets. It is important to understand LM quite well
before jumping into the more complex methods which
we will see on the next day.February 1, 2018 EvolDir 165
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ColoradoStateU
WildlifeDiseaseGenomics Jun8-9
Where: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Col-
orado, USA What: The 2nd Genomics of Disease in
Wildlife Workshop When: June 3-9, 2018
Website for more information and application instruc-
tions: https://www.gdwworkshop.colostate.edu/ Appli-
cation Deadline: February 15, 2018
Email inquiries: CSU gdw@colostate.edu
Overview:
Title: Genomics of Disease in Wildlife: A Workshop
Location: Lory Conference Student Center, Colorado
State University, Fort Collins, CO
Dates: June 3-9, 2018
Website: https://www.gdwworkshop.colostate.edu/ Ap-
plication deadline: February 15, 2018.
Wildlife biodiversity can be drastically aected by the
outbreak and transmission of disease pathogens in both
natural habitats and ex situ populations. Recent tech-
nological advances in genomic sciences and increasingly
aordable Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) assay
costs have coalesced to result in powerful tools to moni-
tor, detect, and reconstruct the past, present and future
role of pathogens within wildlife biodiversity. This short
course will provide hands-on training for graduate level
and above researchers in wildlife disease related disci-
plines seeking to incorporate genomic data into their
projects. The course will be taught by a core group of
experts in genome data analyses with invited faculty
comprised of pre-eminent scientists performing cutting
edge of research in host-pathogen genomics in wildlife.
Why is the course needed?
Advances in genomic technology now provide an ex-
traordinary opportunity to rapidly assess the impact of
disease in wildlife biodiversity, management, and con-
servation. Wildlife researchers are uniquely positioned
to merge ecological, biological, and evolutionary studieswith genomic technologies to generate unprecedented
'Big Data' tools in disease research. The workshop will
provide a venue to accomplish this goal, will provide
networking opportunities for colleagues from intersect-
ing interests, and will advance genomic tools in wildlife
disease investigations.
How will the course address the need?
The course will provide essential training to wildlife
biologists, veterinarians, conservation managers, and
related experts to successfully incorporate NGS data
in wildlife research. Attendees will conduct hands-on
analyses of 'real world' genomic data of both host and
pathogen. The course will provide: (1) an overview of
current bioinformatics developments and approaches;
(2) guidance to implement genomic tools in study de-
sign; (3) NGS data analysis and interpretation; and, (4)
opportunities for interaction with peers, core faculty,
and invited experts.
Workshop Syllabus
The workshop will cover a typical workow com-
monly used in NGS analyses starting with the initial
raw sequence through the nal stages of identifying
host:pathogen variants linked with disease. Each day of
the workshop will cover an essential component of the
NGS workow in succession.
Morning sessions will be a series of instructional lec-
tures and demonstrations that will concisely present
the purpose, justication and implementation of the
specic workow unit. Short and exciting 'ash talks'
presented by CSU faculty will present some of their on-
going investigations using genomic tools in wildlife dis-
ease. The afternoon sessions will be computer-intensive
labs in which attendees will perform 'hands-on' anal-
yses with real-world genomic data for each workow
topic. Evening plenary lectures from invited faculty will
conclude each day's activities.
Teaching tools will include exercises using 'real-world'
NGS data from a range of pathogens and host species.
Participants will learn the importance of integrating
NGS data from both host and pathogen in order to
better understand current epidemics in wildlife.
For the duration of the course, each attendee will be
provided with a MacBook Pro computer and peripheral
equipment, and prepared genome datasets from several
host species and associated pathogens. These datasets
will be organized into various les and formats prior
to the course, demonstrate key concepts, and be the
foundation for computer exercises and teaching tools.
Summary of Workshop Schedule
Day 1: The workshop begins in the evening of Sunday166 EvolDir February 1, 2018
June 3, 2018 at the Lory Conference Center. A welcome
session will introduce faculty and an overview of the
workshop. An informal welcome reception follows with
faculty, sta and participants.
Day 2: Lectures and computer labs will introduce the
dierent types of NGS data and how to best use these
data in the study of disease in wildlife. Topics will
include the latest advances in NGS technologies, NGS
denitions, assessment of sequence data quality, long
and short reads, scaolds, contigs, and genome assembly
algorithms and de novo assembly.
Day 3: Lectures and computer labs will outline the
critical steps
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Europe MEME EvolutionaryBiology
Erasmus Mundus Master Program in Evolutionary Bi-
ology (MEME)
MEME is a two-year research oriented master program
for talented and motivated students who are interested
in understanding evolution in all its facets. It intends to
provide an optimal preparation for subsequent doctoral
studies and eventually a career in academic research.
The MEME program addresses the driving forces of
evolution at all levels of organismal organization (from
cells and individuals to populations and ecosystems),
and allows students to study all kinds of organisms (mi-
croorganisms, plants, animals) in all kinds of habitats
(marine as well as terrestrial) with a diversity of ap-
proaches (eld, lab, theory). The focus of the program
is not only on how evolution shaped life on our planet in
the past, but also on how understanding the principles
underlying evolution can provide new insights and help
to cope with present-day challenges in a variety of elds,
including ecology, epidemiology, physiology, immunol-
ogy, genetics/genomics, bioinformatics, economics and
the social sciences.
To oer a program of such broad scope, four Euro-
pean universities (University of Groningen, Netherlands;
University of Montpellier, France; Ludwig Maximilians
University of Munich, Germany; Uppsala University,Sweden), have joined forces with Harvard University
(USA). Together, this consortium has put together an
attractive multidisciplinary program that meets high-
est standards. All students have to study at (at least)
two partner universities, and they will receive a double
degree from two partner universities they have attended.
A limited number of full scholarships is available for
European and non-European students and these will
be awarded in a selective procedure. Details on the
program and the selection procedure can be found on
www.evobio.eu . Starting date: 1 September 2018
Application deadline: 1 February 2018
Please alert your students to this great opportunity!
More information and how to apply - please see
www.evobio.eu Questions about the contents of the
program:
Franjo Weissing (f.j.weissing@rug.nl)
Questions about the requirements and the application
procedure:
Maartje Giesbers <m.c.w.g.giesbers@rug.nl >
Finland MathematicalEvolution Aug
THE HELSINKI SUMMER SCHOOL ON MATHE-
MATICAL ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 2018
Application deadline extended to 15 February
Dear Colleagues,
We are glad to invite applications to the 2018 edition
of The Helsinki Summer School on Mathematical Ecol-
ogy and Evolution, an EMS-ESMTB School in Applied
Mathematics. The school will be held between 19 and
26 August 2018 in Turku, Finland, and will be part of
the EMS Year of Mathematical Biology <http://euro-
math-soc.eu/year-mathematical-biology-2018 >.
The core program consists of ve series of lectures:
Karl Sigmund (University of Vienna): Evolutionary
game theory Odo Diekmann (Utrecht University):
Renewal equations in population biology Sebastian
Schreiber (University of California, Davis): Coexistence
in variable environments Ellen Baake (University of
Bielefeld): Probabilistic models and ancestral processes
in population genetics Mick Roberts (Massey University
of New Zealand): Ecology of infectious diseases
All young researchers working in mathematical ecologyFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 167
can apply from all countries, especially from Europe and
the Mediterranean. The school is aimed at graduate
students of mathematics, but we also welcome students
of biology with sucient background in mathematics,
as well as advanced undergraduates and postdocs.
For more information and details of the appli-
cation procedure, please visit the school's web-
page https://wiki.helsinki./display/BioMath/-
The+Helsinki+Summer+School+on+Mathematical+Ecology+and+Evolution+2018
With best regards, Eva Kisdi (eva.kisdi@helsinki.)
\Kisdi, Eva" <eva.kisdi@helsinki. >
FridayHarborLabs
EvolQuantGenetics Jun4-8
Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics Workshop
Friday Harbor Laboratories, University of Washington,
3-9 June 2018
Non-credit workshop. Participants arrive at Friday Har-
bor Labs on Sunday, June 3, lectures and exercises occur
June 4-8, and participants depart on Saturday, June 9,
2018.
Application deadline March 1, 2018. Details and links
to the application forms will be found here: http://-
tinyurl.com/EQG2018 The blog web pages for the work-
shop will be found at http://blogs.uw.edu/fhleqg/ They
currently include a 2017 workshop schedule which has
links to the materials for that year's workshop.
Instructors: Dr. Joe Felsenstein, Dept. of Genome
Sciences and Dept. of Biology, University of Washing-
ton Dr. Stevan J. Arnold, Department of Integrative
Biology, Oregon State University
This workshop has been given yearly since 2011. Since
2017 it has been given at the Friday Harbor Laboratories
of the University of Washington, on San Juan Island.
The workshop will review the basics of theory in the eld
of evolutionary quantitative genetics and its connections
to evolution observed at various time scales. The aim
of the workshop is to build a bridge between the tradi-
tionally separate disciplines of quantitative genetics and
comparative methods.
Quantitative genetic theory for natural populations was
developed considerably in the period from 1970 to 1990
and up to the present, and it has been applied to a wide
range of phenomena including the evolution of dier-ences between the sexes, sexual preferences, life history
traits, plasticity of traits, as well as the evolution of
body size and other morphological measurements.
Phylogenetic approaches to comparative biology were
developed in the 1980s and 1990s, including inferring
how traits covary in evolution and how optimum values
of traits vary between species.
Textbooks have not kept pace with these developments,
and currently few universities oer courses on these
subjects aimed at evolutionary biologists.
Evolutionary biologists need to understand this eld
because of the ability to collect large amounts of data
by computer, the development of statistical methods for
changes of traits on evolutionary trees and for changes
in a single species through time, and the realization that
quantitative characters will not soon be fully explained
by genomics. This workshop aims to ll this need by
reviewing basic aspects of theory and illustrating how
that theory can be tested with data, both from single
species and from multiple-species phylogenies.
Participants will use R, an open-source statistical pro-
gramming language, to build and test evolutionary mod-
els.
The workshop involves lectures and in-class computer
exercises. You can consult the 2017 workshop website
for examples, using the links found at the 2017 schedule
mentioned above.
The intended participants for this workshop are grad-
uate students, postdoctoral fellows, and junior faculty
members in evolutionary biology. The workshop can
accommodate up to 30 participants. Guest instructors
are:
* Adam Jones, Biology, Texas A&M University, College
Station * Patrick Phillips, Biology, University of Oregon
* Patrick Carter, Evolutionary Physiology, Washington
State University, Pullman * Emilia Martins, Biology,
Arizona State University * Marguerite Butler, Biology,
Univ. Hawai'i, Manoa * Brian O'Meara, Ecology & Evo-
lutionary Biology, Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville * Josef
Uyeda, Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg
Cost: $1000, to be paid to Friday Harbor Laboratories.
This fee will cover housing and meals at FHL and all
other workshop expenses, except travel. Participants
who have been admitted to attend will make their pay-
ment prior to arrival at FHL. Details of payment by
credit card or check will be provided once the applicant
has been admitted to attend.
This workshop is also sponsored by the American So-
ciety of Naturalists and the Society for the Study of
Evolution.168 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Participants who are already members or join one of
these societies are eligible for a $200 compensation award
that reduces the net cost of the workshop to $800.
|- Joe Felsenstein joe@gs.washington.edu Department of
Genome Sciences and Department of Biology, University
of Washington, Box 355065, Seattle, WA 98195-5065
USA
\felsenst@uw.edu" <felsenst@uw.edu >
FridayHarborLabs
MarineInvertebrateEvol Jun11-Jul13
Friday Harbor Laboratories Marine Invertebrate Zool-
ogy Summer 2018
Instructors: Dr. Kevin Kocot (University of Alabama)
& Dr. Johanna Cannon (U. C. Santa Barbara)
Dates: Monday, June 11 - Friday, July 13, 2018 (5
weeks)
Credits: 9
Marine Invertebrate Zoology is designed to provide ad-
vanced undergraduates, post-baccalaureates and gradu-
ate students with comprehensive exposure to the subject
of invertebrate zoology. Students will learn about the
diversity, taxonomy, ecology, evolution, structure, and
function of invertebrates. We will cover all animal phyla
from Annelida to Xenacoelomorpha and explore diver-
sity within phyla based on the rich marine biota of the
San Juan Islands. Students will learn about the eld
of invertebrate zoology in light of information gained
through the use of traditional tools like electron mi-
croscopy and histology as well as new tools like genomics
and evolutionary developmental biology (\evo-devo").
If you like going to zoos and aquariums, you should like
this course! Most of the time of the course will be spent
focusing on the study of living animals in the labora-
tory and eld. Prior coursework in invertebrate biology
or animal diversity is preferred but not required; if in
doubt, please contact one of the instructors. Enrollment
is limited to 20 students.
For more information, visit: https://fhl.uw.edu/-
courses/ Applications due February 1, 2018!
Kevin M. Kocot Assistant Professor, Department of Bi-
ological Sciences Curator of Invertebrates, Alabama
Museum of Natural History The University of Al-
abama <https://www.ua.edu/ >307 Mary Har-
mon Bryant Hall, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 oce 205-348-4052 <tel:205-348-4052 >fax 205-348-4039 kmko-
cot@ua.edujhttp://bsc.ua.edu/ [The University of Al-
abama] <https://www.ua.edu/ >[Facebook] <https:/-
/www.facebook.com/kmkocot >[Twitter] <https://-
twitter.com/kmkocot >
\Kocot, Kevin" <kmkocot@ua.edu >
Glasgow
ViralBioinformaticsGenomics
Aug20-24
Training course on Viral Bioinformatics and Genomics
MRC - University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research,
United Kingdom
Monday 20th - Friday 24th August 2018 Application
deadline 20th April 2018 Cost pounds 500
The MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Re-
search (CVR) has been running a successful training
course on Viral Bioinformatics and Genomics annually
since 2015 and applications are now open for the 2018
course. The full details and how to apply can be found
at: https://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/iii/cvr/-
events/OIEtraining The 5-day course consists of a series
of lectures and practical exercises that directly address
bioinformatics challenges posed by the current surge of
sequence data, with a focus on viral data sets and analy-
ses. We will enable participants to understand and deal
with high-throughput sequence datasets and encourage
the exchange of ideas among diagnosticians, virologists,
bioinformaticians and evolutionary biologists.
The 2018 course will introduce participants to the power
of the UNIX command- line and bash scripts, as well as a
suite of bioinformatics tools covering the following topics:
- HTS sequencing technologies: overview of the dierent
HTS platforms and sample preparations. - The power
of Unix: essential bash scripting. - Reference assembly:
aligning sequence reads to a known reference and visual-
izing the alignment (e.g. bowtie2, BWA, Tanoti, Tablet,
UGENE). - Variant calling: consensus sequence genera-
tion, low frequency variant calling and error correction
(e.g. samtools, LoFreq, DiversiTools). - De-novo assem-
bly: overlap layout and de Bruijn graphs approaches
for sequence assembly, quality assessment and merg-
ing contigs (e.g. ABySS, SPAdes, MIRA, IDBA-UD,
QUAST, Mauve). - Metagenomic analyses: sanitizing
sequence datasets, assembling, annotating, visualizing
(e.g. MetAMOS, Krona, DIAMOND, Kraken). - Ge-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 169
nomics: scaolding, improving and nishing the assem-
bly, gene annotation (e.g. ICORN, Artemis, RATT). -
Phylogenetic analysis: introduction to multiple sequence
alignment and phylogenetic reconstruction (e.g. Muscle,
PhyML, FigTree).
The course will be held at the CVR, Garscube Cam-
pus, University of Glasgow, UK. The CVR has been
designated an World Organisation for Animal Health
(OIE) Collaborating Centre for Viral Genomics and
Bioinformatics at the 82nd OIE General Session.
To apply, please ll in the online application
form before 20th April 2018: https://goo.gl/forms/-
QXhSO0IuEkEHILko2 Please could you circulate this
email to people or institutions you think maybe inter-
ested in the course.
Cheers
Quan
Dr. Quan Gu MRC - University of Glasgow Centre
for Virus Research 117 Sir Michael Stoker Building 464
Bearsden Road Glasgow G61 1QH United Kingdom Tel:
(+44) 01413304019 www.bioinformatics.cvr.ac.uk [Uni-
versity of Glasgow: The Times Scottish University of
the Year 2018]
Quan Gu <quan.gu@glasgow.ac.uk >
Guarda SummerSchoolEvol
Jun16-23
Guarda summer school in evolutionary biology 2018
It is my pleasure to announce the 2018 Guarda sum-
mer school in Evolutionary Biology for master and PhD
students. The main aim of the course is to develop
the skills to produce an independent research project in
evolutionary biology.
The summer school takes place 16. - 23. June in the
Swiss mountain village Guarda. Faculty includes Hopi
Hoekstra (Harvard University, USA), Janis Antonovics
(University of Virginia), Sebastian Bonhoeer (ETH-
Zurich, Switzerland) and Dieter Ebert (Basel University,
Switzerland; organizer).
The course is intended for master students and early
PhD students with a keen interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy.
The web page with all details can be found: http://-
www.evolution.unibas.ch/teaching/guarda/index.htmApplication is open now. Deadline is 1. February 2018
Please communicate this information to interested stu-
dents.
With best wishes, dieter ebert
{ Dieter Ebert University of Basel, Zoology, Vesalgasse
1, 4051 Basel, Switzerland Tel. +41 (0)61 267 03 60
Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
\dieter.ebert@unibas.ch" <dieter.ebert@unibas.ch >
Kyoto EvolutionInCognition
Jul15-19
3rd Evolution in Cognition Workshop
to be held as part of the
2018 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference
(GECCO-2018)
July 15-19, Kyoto, Japan
Organized by ACM SIGEVO
http://gecco-2018.sigevo.org Webpage: https://-
sites.google.com/champlain.edu/eic2018/ Submission
Deadline: March 27th, 2018
=== Topic =Evolution by natural selection has shaped
life over billions of years leading to the emergence of com-
plex organism capable of exceptional cognitive abilities.
These natural evolutionary processes have inspired the
development of Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs), which
are optimization algorithms widely popular due to their
eciency and robustness. Beyond their ability to opti-
mize, EAs have also proven to be creative and ecient
at generating innovative solutions to novel problems.
The combination of these two abilities makes them a
tool of choice for the resolution of complex problems.
There is evidence that the principle of selection on vari-
ation is at play in the human brain, as proposed in
Changeux???s and Edelman???s models of Neuronal
Darwinism, and more recently properly reformulated in
the theory of the Neuronal Replicators. Consequently,
the idea of an interaction between evolutionary pro-
cesses and cognition over physiological time scales has
been gaining some traction. Since the development of
human cognition requires years of maturation, it can be
expected that articial cognitive agents will also require
months if not years of learning and adaptation. It is in
this context that the optimizing and creative abilities of
EAs could become an ideal framework that complement,170 EvolDir February 1, 2018
aid in understanding, and facilitate the implementation
of cognitive processes. Additionally, a better under-
standing of how evolution can be implemented as part
of an articial cognitive architecture can lead to new
insights into cognition in humans and other animals.
The goals of the workshop are to depict the current
state of the art of evolution in cognition and to sketch
the main challenges and future directions. In particular,
we aim at bringing together the dierent theoretical and
empirical approaches that can potentially contribute
to the understanding of how evolution and cognition
can act together in an algorithmic way in order to solve
complex problems. In this workshop we welcome ap-
proaches that contribute to an improved understanding
of evolution in cognition using robotic agents, in silico
computation as well as mathematical models.
Keywords: Evolutionary Computation, Evolution, Cog-
nition,Cultural Evolution, Darwinian Neurodynamics,
Neuronal Darwinism, Robotics.
=== Invited speakers = * Prof. Kenji Doya * Addi-
tional invited speakers will be announced in the near
future.
=== Organizers = * Prof. St??phane Doncieux, Univer-
sity Pierre and Marie Curie, Paris, France * Dr. Joshua
Auerbach, Champlain College, VT, USA * Prof. Richard
Duro, Universidade da Coru??a, A Coru??a, Spain * Dr.
Harold P. de Vladar, KLI ??? Konrad Lorenz Institute
for Evolution and Cognition Research, Vienna, Austria
=== Submissions and deadlines submissions: * Orig-
inal: experimental work, position papers as well as
overviews of author's recent work are all welcome. These
submissions will be included in the proceedings and be
presented during the workshop
* Abstracts submitted as poster to GECCO 2018: the
authors of selected abstracts will be given a talk. The
abstract won???t be included in the proceedings. * Hot-
of-the-press: authors can submit a recently published
work. Selected articles will be given a talk.
Submission: extended abstracts (2-4 pages) and long
papers (8 pages) are accepted. They should follow ACM
template. The submission process will use the GECCO
submission system. Please ask any question you may
have to eic ws@isir.upmc.fr:
* March, 27th, 2018: Papers Submission Deadline *
April, 10th, 2018: Notication of Acceptance * April,
24th, 2018: Camera-Ready Paper Submission * July 15
or 16th, 2018: Workshop
GECCO is sponsored by the Association for Computing
Machinery Special
Interest Group on Genetic and Evolutionary Computa-tion (SIGEVO). SIG
Services: 2 Penn Plaza, Suite 701, New York, NY, 10121,
USA,
1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada) or +212-626-0500
(Global).
St??phane Doncieux, Josh Auerbach, Richard Duro and
Harold P. de Vladar
Dr. Harold P. de Vladar Senior Fellow KLI Martin-
strasse 12 3400 Klosterneuburg, Austria
harold.devladar@kli.ac.at
http://hpvladar.wordpress.com http://kli.ac.at Harold
de Vladar <harold.devladar@kli.ac.at >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18
TeachingEvolution
Workshop on Teaching Evolution at the Joint Congress
Looking for ways to share your excitement about evo-
lution with your students? Save the date! Higher
education faculty and future faculty are invited to
a workshop on teaching evolution before the Joint
Congress in Montpellier. Learn about eective re-
sources and methods for teaching evolution. This
workshop is oered by the SSE Education Com-
mittee (www.evolutionsociety.org/), EvoKE (https:/-
/evokeproject.org/), and ESEB (eseb.org/). Watch for
more details in early Spring, 2018. You may also submit
your email to receive updates (https://tinyurl.com/-
evoPD2018).
Date: Saturday, August 18, 2018 Location: Montpellier,
France
\awarwick@msu.edu" <awarwick@msu.edu >
Naples ELIXIRPopulationGenomics
Apr21-27
Deadline on 05.02.2018 - only one week to go!
ELIXIR-IIB, in collaboration with the National Re-
search Council Italy, is pleased to announce the upcom-
ing training course on \Population Genomics: back-February 1, 2018 EvolDir 171
ground and tools".
IMPORTANT DATES
Deadline for applications: 5 February 2018
Chosen participants will be notied by: 28 February
2018
Payment deadline: 10 March 2018
Course date: 21-27 April 2018
A maximum of 28 candidates will be accepted in the
course. Priority will be given to candidates from
ELIXIR-IIB member institutions and ELIXIR nodes.
REGISTRATION FEE: 500 euro
Registration fee includes course material, coee breaks
and lunches.
VENUE
Biblioteca - Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche - Istituto
di Genetica e Biosica \Adriano Buzzati-Traverso" - via
Pietro Castellino 111 - 80131 Napoli - IT
Full details at: https://elixir-iib-training.github.io/-
website/2018/04/21/PopGen-Napoli.html COURSE
DESCRIPTION:
Study methods in population genomics have been pro-
foundly reshaped in the last few years thanks to the
growing availability of complete genomic sequences at
population level. The rapid and recent growth of data
and methods calls for new approaches to become routine
in evolutionary genomics laboratories. The objective of
this Practical Course is to give an overview of state of the
art methods in population genomics combining lectur-
ing from outstanding experienced population geneticists
and software developers. All conceptual innovation will
be presented in lectures and applied in practice both
individually and in group work.
Practicals include computer exercises supervised by
lecturers and training assistants. After attending the
course participants will be aware of up-to-date concepts
in population genetics, capable of running analyses using
software based on whole genome data sequences and able
to deal with basic aspects of any population genomics
project. This Practical Course aims at evolutionary
biologists who already have bioinformatics skills. PhD
students and Post-Doc researchers will benet the most
out of this course, but applications from all candidates
will be evaluated in their context.
COURSE SPEAKERS
Aida Andr es, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, Germany, balancing selection in humans
and primatesAndrew Clark, Cornell University, USA, population
genetics
Mathias Currat, Universit e de Gen eve, Switzerland,
coalescent simulations in European populations
Olivier Delaneau, Universit e de Gen eve, Switzerland,
statistical genomics
Pascale Gerbault, University of Westminster, United
Kingdom, positive selection in humans
Garrett Hellenthal, University College London, United
kingdom, population structure and demography
Andrea Manica, University of Cambridge, United King-
dom, population genetics, natural selection
Ida Moltke, University of Copenhagen, Denmark, hu-
man evolution evolutionary medicine
Martin Sikora, Natural History Museum of Denmark
Tweet #popgenELIXIR
Should you have any question, do not hesi-
tate to contact the ELIXIR-IIB Training Team
(elixir.popgen.2018@gmail.com)
Thank you for your interest,
The Organisers and the ELIXIR-IIB Training Team
Chiara Batini (University of Leicester, UK), Vincenza
Colonna (CNR, Napoli, IT) and Allegra Via (CNR, Bari,
IT)
\Batini, Chiara (Dr.)" <cb334@leicester.ac.uk >
NHM London
IntroductoryMolecPylogenetics
May14-18
Dear Colleagues,
The Natural History Museum, London and BBSRC
are oering a one-week introductory course 'Integrat-
ing molecules with taxonomy and systematics: an in-
troductory molecular phylogenetics course for species
identication and evolutionary analysis', to run from
14-18th May 2018. The course will be taught by NHM
scientists and will benet anyone wishing to gain exper-
tise in molecular diagnostics and phylogenetic analysis
for systematic, taxonomic and ecological studies. Note
that this course assumes no prior experience with DNA
sequence analyses and is an introductory course. As
such, it is not appropriate for more advanced students.172 EvolDir February 1, 2018
More information can be found here: http:/-
/www.nhm.ac.uk/our-science/courses-and-
students/integrating-molecules-with-taxonomy-and-
systematics.html Summary: A phylogeny is essential
for dening species boundaries, species identications,
recognition of cryptic species, testing systematic
hypotheses, identifying evolutionary and biogeographic
patterns and understanding the evolution of traits.
As such, knowing how to produce a robust tree is an
indispensable tool for modern taxonomists, systematists
and evolutionary biologists.
This one-week introductory-level course will teach par-
ticipants the steps involved to produce molecular phylo-
genies from raw Sanger and next-generation sequence
data (i.e. Illumina paired-end). By the time the partic-
ipants have completed the course, they will have had
theoretical and practical experience enabling them to i)
edit raw Sanger and NGS sequence data, ii) carry out
multiple sequence alignments, iii) choose appropriate
models of sequence evolution, iv) carry out phylogenetic
analyses (including Bayesian inference, maximum likeli-
hood), v) interpret tree topology and nodal support, vi)
produce publication ready trees, vii) work with public
sequence repositories, vii) assemble and annotate next
generation sequence data, and viii) recognise cryptic
species.
Venue and duration: The Natural History Museum,
London, UK. The course will run for one week, 9.30am-
6.00pm, 14-18th May 2018.
Eligibility and how to apply: The course is available to
anyone but please note that priority will be given to
applicants supported by BBSRC, working on a BBSRC
grant or based at a BBSRC institute. There are a max-
imum of 12 places available. The course is sponsored
by BBSRC and the NHM and we are charging only a
nominal fee of ' ~A300, which includes all course costs
as well as accommodation in London and some travel
costs within the UK. Lunch and light refreshments will
be provided each day. To apply please use the applica-
tion form provided and return by the closing date: 31
March 2017. Applications will be accepted up to the
deadline and places will be decided based on merit and
suitability.
Email applications to: molec NHMBBSRC@nhm.ac.uk
(Note that this is an automated email account do not
send queries. Your application will receive a bounce back
message so you know it has arrived safely). Application
forms can be found here: http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-
science/courses-and-students/integrating-molecules-
with-taxonomy-and-systematics.html Dr Suzanne
Williams Dept of Life Sciences Natural History Museum
Cromwell Rd London SW7 5BD United Kingdom Tel:+ 44 (0) 207 942 5351
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/-
sta-directory/zoology/s-williams/index.html
s.williams@nhm.ac.uk
Norwich GenomicsOfMeiosis Mar5
Workshop \Meisosis and beyond: understanding the
genomics before, during and after"
One-day workshop on 5th of March 2018 at the Earl-
ham Institute in Norwich, UK. Link to workshop web-
site: http://www.earlham.ac.uk/meiosis-and-beyond .
About:
Meiosis is the necessary consequence of sexual repro-
duction in eukaryotes. Despite its ubiquity we know
relatively little about the genomics of meiosis and what
happens before, during and after.
In this workshop, we aim to summarise the state-of-
the-art genomics view on the processes leading to, and
resulting from, meiosis across dierent taxa and identify
open questions. We will discuss how the most recent
sequencing technologies, including single-cell sequencing
technology or long-read, can help us to decipher the
unknowns of meiosis.
The workshop will be composed of oral presentations by
a combination of invited speakers and delegates and will
provide ample space for discussions. The outcome of the
workshop will be written up and published as a review
or perspective paper with participants as co-authors.
Target Audience:
Researchers using any model system with an interest
in processes linked with meiosis, interest in applying
recently developed genomic tools and Single-Cell se-
quencing in particular. Open to everybody.
Abstracts:
We welcome abstract submissions from all delegates,
both early career researchers and experienced. Abstracts
should include a title, list of authors with presenting
author in bold, aliations for authors and the main
body of the abstract must be no longer than 250 words.
Abstracts must be submitted in one of the following le
formats: .doc .docx .pdf to training@earlham.ac.uk
Deadline for abstract submission is: Monday 5th Febru-
ary at 17:00 GMT.
Abstracts will be reviewed and successful authors willFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 173
be contacted within 10 days of submission closing. Ab-
stracts will be selected based on scientic merit and
complementarity to the symposium themes. Successful
authors will be given a 15 minute slot comprising of 12
minute presentation and 3 minutes for questions. Speak-
ers will be asked to send their presentation in advance,
plus to bring a backup copy of the presentation in an
appropriate format (either USB or accessible from a
download site).
Prerequisites:
None though more benecial if you already have a
project in mind in experimental planning stages.
Questions:
If you have any questions feel free to contact me:
s.immler@uea.ac.uk {
Dr Simone Immler School of Biological Sciences Univer-
sity of East Anglia Norwich Research Park NR4 7TJ
UK
Tel: +44 (0)1603 59 1241 Email: s.immler@uea.ac.uk
Homepage: https://simoneimmler.com/ Simone Immler
<S.Immler@uea.ac.uk >
OrfordMusique Quebec
MixedModels May14-18
Introduction to Mixed (Hierarchical) models for biolo-
gists using R (IMBR01)
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-
to-mixed-hierarchical-models-for-biologists-using-r-
imbr01/ Delivered by Prof. Subhash Lele from the
14th - 18th May 2018 at Orford Musique, Quebec,
Canada
Course overview: Mixed models, also known as hierar-
chical models and multilevel models, is a useful class
of models for many applied sciences, including biology,
ecology and evolution. The goal of this course is to
give a thorough introduction to the logic, theory and
most importantly implementation of these models to
solve practical problems in ecology. Participants are not
expected to know mathematics beyond the basic algebra
and calculus. Participants are expected to know some
R programming and to be familiar with the linear and
generalized linear regression. We will be using JAGS
(Just Another Gibbs Sampler) for Markov Chain Monte
Carlo (MCMC) simulations for analyzing mixed models.
The course will be conducted so that participants havesubstantial hands-on experience.
Full details can be found at www.prstatistics.com or
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-
to-mixed-hierarchical-models-for-biologists-using-r-
imbr01/ Other up-coming courses - email oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com for details
1. January 29t 'V February 2nd 2018 INTRO-
DUCTION TO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL
MODELLING (IBHM02) SCENE, Scotland, Dr.
Andrew Parnell http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
introduction-to-bayesian-hierarchical-modelling-using-
r-ibhm02/ 2. January 29th 'V February 2nd 2018
PHYLOGENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R
(PHYL02) SCENE, Scotland, Dr. Emmanuel Paradis
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
phylogenetic-analysis-with-r-phyg-phyl02/ |{
3. February 19th 'V 23rd 2018 MOVEMENT ECOL-
OGY (MOVE01) Margam Discovery Centre, Wales,
Dr Luca Borger, Dr Ronny Wilson, Dr Jonathan
Potts https://www.prstatistics.com/course/movement-
ecology-move01/ 4. February 19th 'V 23rd 2018 GEO-
METRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING R (GMMR01)
Margam Discovery Centre, Wales, Prof. Dean
Adams, Prof. Michael Collyer, Dr. Antigoni
Kaliontzopoulou http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
geometric-morphometrics-using-r-gmmr01/ |{
5. March 5th - 9th 2018 SPATIAL PRIORITIZA-
TION USING MARXAN (MRXN01) Margam
Discovery Centre, Wales, Jennifer McGowan
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-
to-marxan-mrxn01/ 6. March 12th - 16th 2018
ECOLOGICAL NICHE MODELLING USING R
(ENMR02) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr. Neftali Sillero
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/ecological-niche-
modelling-using-r-enmr02/ 7. March 19th 'V 23rd 2018
BEHAVIOURAL DATA ANALYSIS USING MAXI-
MUM LIKLIHOOD IN R (BDML01) Glasgow, Scotland,
Dr William Hoppitt http://www.psstatistics.com/-
course/behavioural-data-analysis-using-maximum-
likelihood-bdml01/ |{
8. April 9th 'V 13th 2018 NETWORK ANAYLSIS FOR
ECOLOGISTS USING R (NTWA02 Glasgow, Scotland,
Dr. Marco Scotti https://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
network-analysis-ecologists-ntwa02/ 9. April 16th 'V
20th 2018 INTRODUCTION TO STATISTICAL MOD-
ELLING FOR PSYCHOLOGISTS USING R (IPSY01)
Glasgow, Scotland, Dr. Dale Barr, Dr Luc Bussierre
http://www.psstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
statistics-using-r-for-psychologists-ipsy01/ 10. April
23rd 'V 27th 2018 MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS
OF ECOLOGICAL COMMUNITIES USING THE174 EvolDir February 1, 2018
VEGAN PACKAGE (VGNR01) Glasgow, Scot-
land, Dr. Peter Solymos, Dr. Guillaume Blanchet
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/multivariate-
analysis-of-ecological-communities-in-r-with-the-vegan-
package-vgnr01/ 11. April 30th 'V 4th May 2018
QUANTITATIVE GEOGRAPHIC ECOLOGY:
MODELING GENOMES, NICHES, AND
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Panama PolychaeteSystematics
Jul1-14
Systematics and Ecology of Caribbean Polychaete
Dates: 1 July - 14 July 2018
Location: Bocas Research Station, Bocas del Toro,
Panama
Instructors:
Leslie Harris, Natural History Museum of Los Angeles,
California
Sergio I. Salazar-Vallejo, El Colegio de la Frontera Sur,
Mexico
Luis Carrera-Parra, El Colegio de la Frontera Sur, Mex-
ico
Organizer: Dr. Rachel Collin
Registration Fee: $850 (includes room and board, STRI
registration fee, etc.). Some need-based fellowships are
available
Course Description
Polychaetes are under appreciated but highly impor-
tant components in marine ecosystems. The course is
aimed at graduate students, post-docs, or professionals
who work or plan to work on taxonomic and or ecologi-
cal studies with polychaetes in general and Caribbean
species in particular. The participants in this course
will:
Learn to collect, identify, and preserve the most com-
mon polychaetes in dierent substrates of the Bocas
del Toro region, such as mangrove roots, soft sediments,
and hard bottoms in coral reefs.Learn general biological and ecological characteristics
of the group.
Improve their taxonomic experience with tropical poly-
chaetes.
Improve their photographic skills to record pigmentation
patterns of living worms.
Learn the basics of taxonomic description and publica-
tion.
Learn museum standards for long-term care of wet-
preserved biological specimens.
Although polychaetes are largely unknown to most peo-
ple our understanding of the impacts of human activities
on the oceans can be monitored accurately only through
the careful study of these fascinating animals. Poly-
chaetes comprise a major animal lineage with well over
16,000 recognized species that occupy a wide range of
marine environments. They form a major component
of benthic communities from the intertidal to abyssal
depths, in soft sediments, coral reefs and other hard
substrates. Many members of this ancient group are
ecologically and economically important as ecosystem
engineers, as food sources for other organisms, as the
basis of commercial enterprises, as indicators of envi-
ronmental health, and as invasive or pest species. The
over 80 families of polychaetes show an amazing array
of body forms and sizes. As one of the few segmented
phyla, annelids are key to understanding the evolution
of bilaterian body plans.
Bocas del Toro has a rich polychaete fauna. To date
approximately 400 species have been found in the area,
about half of them described and half of them provi-
sional species in need of further identication. The
course will be most useful for students from the greater
Caribbean as most species are wide-spread through-out
the region but anyone wishing to gain experience with
the group will benet.
This course will last 13 day, split between eld collecting
and lab work. After the 2013 Bocas polychaete work-
shop the students were asked to evaluate the course.
Overall they preferred to spend as much time as pos-
sible learning the characters & techniques that would
enable them to proceed on their own after returning
home. Accordingly, the main focus here will be on ba-
sic systematics & ecology with a minor emphasis on
phylogeny. A pdf library of 1600+ publications on or
relevant to Caribbean polychaetes will be provided.
Daily activities will include 2 to 3 lectures, discussion,
and laboratory practice. Field trips will be arranged
with the station sta to visit at least once each of the dif-
ferent types of environments (soft sediments, mangrove,February 1, 2018 EvolDir 175
coral rocks, sandy beaches) near the Bocas Research
station to collect baseline data for conservation and for
future studies. Snorkeling will be part of the eld work
but not SCUBA. Those who want to dive can arrange
to do so through one of the local dive shops on their
day o.
During the second half of the course students will each
prepare descriptive species pages using specimen they
collect & photograph live. The pages will be incorpo-
rated into a photo ID guide for the use of station visitors,
students, outreach programs, and others.
Application: Please e-mail your CV, 1 letter of rec-
ommendation, and a 1-2 page statement explaining
your background and reasons for taking the course, to
bocasresearchstation@gmail.com before January 30th,
2018. Limit 12 students. To be considered for a
need-based fellowship, applicants should send a de-
scription of their need, their eorts to obtain fund-
ing from other available sources, and a travel budget.
For more information see http://www.stri.si.edu/sites/-
taxonomy training/ Thank you very much, Maycol
\Madrid, Maycol" <MadridM@si.edu >
Prague BeetleSystematics Jul8-21
Systematics of Beetles
Basic Information
Systematics of Beetles is a summer course (6 ECTS)
open to advanced MSc. and Ph.D. students interested
in beetle systematics, natural history and evolution.
The course will focus on systematics of extant beetles
(Coleoptera), with lectures and laboratories treating
the classication, morphology of adults and larvae, and
classication of all families.
The course is limited to 25 students. Why apply? The
course is a unique opportunity for students to engage
with leading world beetle systematists, appreciate the
full spectrum of the world's beetle diversity, and interact
with other students keen on beetle research. A seminar
session for students will be held at the beginning of the
course, to allow students to introduce their research.
Where: Prague, Czech Republic Faculty of Environmen-
tal Sciences, Czech University of Life Sciences Prague
When: July 8-21, 2018 Application deadline: March
15, 2018 Details: http://beetles.fzp.czu.cz/ Hermes
Escalona Humboldt Postdoctoral Fellow ZoologischesForschungsmuseum Alexander Koenig Centre for Molec-
ular Biodiversity Research (ZMB) Adenauerallee 160,
53113 Bonn, Germany mob. +49 17674884354 https:/-
/hermesescalonaweb.wordpress.com Hermes Escalona
<hermesescalona@gmail.com >
Sweden
ParentalCareSexualSelection
Feb26-Mar03
WORKSHOP INVITATION
INTERPLAY BETWEEN PARENTAL CARE AND
SEXUAL SELECTION
Dear Colleagues,
We are glad to invite you to our Workshop that will
take place between th February and 3rd March 2018 in
Fiskeb ackskil, Sweden.
The main goal of this workshop is to provide a relaxed at-
mosphere where searchers interested in dierent aspects
of the interplay between rental care and sexual selection
will exchange ideas, discuss the recent velopments in
the eld, and propose in details future directions. We
brace diversity as a way to enrich scientic discussions
and we will ioritize attendees with diverse backgrounds,
at dierent career stages, d that use dierent organisms
and methodological approaches to address eir questions.
Besides, the workshop will provide the perfect forum for
searchers (especially young scientists) to network with
other specialists the eld.
The event will start with a reception on Monday 26th
February, will clude 3 full days of talks from invited
speakers and attendees, 1 night poster exhibition, and a
last full day of general discussion of relevant b-themes
in the eld, conducted in small groups self-organized by
the rticipants. We ask participants to present results or
ideas from on-going search instead of already published
papers, given that the main focus of e workshop is the
discussion of fresh perspectives and initiatives.
Conrmed invited speakers include:
Professor Suzanne H. Alonzo
University of California - Santa Cruz, USA
Dr Lutz Fromhage
University of Jyv askyl a, Finland
Professor Wolfgang Goymann176 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, Germany
Dr. Irja Ida Ratikainen
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Nor-
way
Dr. Nick Royle
University of Exeter, UK
There are no registration fees. Accommodation and
meals for 40 rticipants will be covered by the nancial
support of the Gothenburg ntre for Advanced Studies
in Science & Technology (GoCAS) and the Royal edish
Academy of Sciences (KVA). Participants will only be
charged for e costs of their social events and the trans-
portation to the event venue.
For more details, access:
tps://parentalcaresexualselection.wordpress.com/
Application deadline: Monday, 08th January 2018.
We look forward to hearing from you.
Best regards,
Gustavo S. Requena
Postdoctoral Fellow
Universidade de S ao Paulo
http://campuspress.yale.edu/gsrequena/ Charlotta
Kvarnemo
Professor
University of Gothenburg
https://sites.google.com/site/kvarnemolab/home Gus-
tavo Requena <gs.requena@gmail.com >Sweden
ParentalCareSexualSelection
Feb26-Mar03 DeadlineExt
DEADELINE EXTENDED!
WORKSHOP INVITATION
*INTERPLAY BETWEEN PARENTAL CARE AND
SEXUAL SELECTION*
Dear Colleagues,
We are glad to invite you to our Workshop that will
take place between 26th February and 3rd March 2018
in Fiskeb ackskil, Sweden.
The main goal of this workshop is to provide a relaxed
atmosphere where researchers interested in dierent as-
pects of the interplay between parental care and sexual
selection will exchange ideas, discuss the recent develop-
ments in the eld, and propose in details future direc-
tions. We embrace diversity as a way to enrich scientic
discussions and we will prioritize attendees with diverse
backgrounds, at dierent career stages, and that use
dierent organisms and methodological approaches to
address their questions. Besides, the workshop will pro-
vide the perfect forum for researchers (especially young
scientists) to network with other specialists in the eld.
The event will start with a reception on Monday 26th
February, will include 3 full days of talks from invited
speakers and attendees, 1 night of poster exhibition,
and a last full day of general discussion of relevant
sub-themes in the eld, conducted in small groups self-
organized by the participants. We ask participants to
present results or ideas from on-going research instead
of already published papers, given that the main focus
of the workshop is the discussion of fresh perspectives
and initiatives.
Conrmed invited speakers include:
Professor Suzanne H. Alonzo
University of California - Santa Cruz, USA
Dr Lutz Fromhage
University of Jyv askyl a, Finland
Professor Wolfgang Goymann
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, Germany
Dr. Irja Ida RatikainenFebruary 1, 2018 EvolDir 177
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Nor-
way
Dr. Nick Royle
University of Exeter, UK
There are no registration fees. Accommodation and
meals for 40 participants will be covered by the nancial
support of the Gothenburg Centre for Advanced Stud-
ies in Science & Technology *(GoCAS)* and the Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences (*KVA).* Participants
will only be charged for the costs of their social events
and the transportation to the event venue.
For more details, access: https://-
parentalcaresexualselection.wordpress.com/ Please,
share this message with your students, collaborators,
and colleagues that may be interested in attending our
event!
*Application deadline: Friday, 12th January 2018.*
We look forward to hearing from you.
Best regards,
*Gustavo S. Requena*
*Postdoctoral Fellow*
*Universidade de Sao Paulo*
http://campuspress.yale.edu/gsrequena/ *Charlotta
Kvarnemo*
*Professor*
*University of Gothenburg*
https://sites.google.com/site/kvarnemolab/home
gs.requena@gmail.com
UCalifornia LosAngeles
ConservationGenomics Mar24-28
UCLA/La Kretz Workshop in Conservation Genomics,
24 - 28 March, 2018
Conservation biology, genetics, and evolutionary biology
have had a long and intimate relationship, and conser-
vation constitutes one of the key applications of evolu-
tionary analysis to real-world biological problems. The
impacts of population and landscape genetics and gene
expression studies have been particularly striking, and
are helping to solve some of the most pressing problems
in biological conservation.As the eld of conservation
genetics continues to grow and mature, the availabilityof genome-scale data stand to make profound new con-
tributions to our ability to identify and protect at-risk
populations and recover those that are most endangered.
However, genomic analyses also carry a computational
burdendata sets are enormous, often require diverse
skills and approaches for assembly, quality control and
analysis.
The La Kretz annual workshop provides a comfort-
able, rigorous, and informal training environment for a
small group of motivated graduate students to explore
how conservation problems can best be addressed with
genomic-level data. Our goal is to provide hands-on ex-
perience in the ecient collection, troubleshooting, and
analysis of large data sets for conservation-relevant prob-
lems. One of the highlights of our workshop is active par-
ticipation from members of several governmental agen-
cies who are at the forefront of endangered species protec-
tion and management, providing a forum for exploring
the most relevant aspects of conservation genomics to
managers. The UCLA/La Kretz workshop is held at
the La Kretz Field Station (https://www.ioes.ucla.edu/-
santa-monica-mountains-research/) and Stunt Ranch
Reserve (http://stuntranch.ucnrs.org/) in the heart of
the Santa Monica Mountains. Only 30 miles from UCLA
and the LAX airport, but nestled in the relatively unde-
veloped 160,000 acre Santa Monica Mountains National
Recreation Area, the Field Station/Stunt Reserve pro-
vides an ideal location to explore new developments in
genomic science and pressing needs in conservation and
management together in a single setting.
Our current instructor list, drawn from UCLA faculty
and several other partner institutions, includes: Ben
Fitzpatrick (U. Tennessee Knoxville), Kirk Lohmueller
(UCLA), Evan McCartney-Melstad (UCLA), Ian Wang
(UC Berkeley), Brad Shaer (UCLA), Victoria Sork
(UCLA), Bob Wayne (UCLA), Ying Zhen (UCLA),
Erin Toelmier (UCLA), Alice Mouton (UCLA), De-
vaughn Fraser (UCLA), Emily Curd (UCLA), Zach Gold
(UCLA).
Agency partners represented include: US Geological Sur-
vey, Bureau of Land Management, US Fish and Wildlife
Service, and the California Dept. of Fish and Wildlife.
Topics covered include:
Overview of traditional conservation genetics
Next generation platforms: the best tool for the job
Data management pipelines:
Quality Control
Data storage
Data organization178 EvolDir February 1, 2018
Data types and analyses:
SNPs
Sequences
Exploring very large data sets
Functional genomic data
RNA-seq
RADseq pipelines, from raw reads to analyzing data
Genomic data and GIS
Visualizing geographic structure and demographic his-
tory
Admixture, clines, and hybridization
Detecting adaptive variation
RNAseq in a conservation context
eDNA: promise and reality
PREREQUISITES
Available housing limits course enrollment to ~20 stu-
dents. Preference will be given to masters and doctoral
candidates who are in the early to middle stages of their
thesis research, and who have some familiarity with us-
ing a command line interface or programming languages
(i.e. Perl, python etc.). We also welcome applications
from postdocs, faculty, and government researchers, al-
though our top priority is graduate student applicants.
We encourage applications from women, minorities, and
individuals from under-represented demographics in the
sciences.
ADMISSION AND FEES Applicants will be admitted
based on academic qualications and appropriateness of
research interests. The course fee is $425 USD. This in-
cludes food and lodging at the La Kretz Field Station, as
well as all incidental fees, for the duration of the course
(arriving Saturday March 24, departing Thursday March
29). Like last year, the workshop is co-sponsored by a
UC Catalyst program grant, which will provide some
student support and stang. University of California
students from any campus may apply for partial sup-
port (up to $225) from the Conservation Genomics Con-
sortium (https://ucconservationgenomics.eeb.ucla.edu/)
funded under the UC Catalyst program. To do so, sim-
ply note in your application that you would like to apply
for this partial support. UCLA students
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUK AnalysingBehaviouralData
Mar19-23
PS statistics are running a course aimed specically at
analysing behavioural data and is therefor highly rele-
vant to those studying the evolution of behaviour (both
human and animal)
\Behavioural data analysis using maximum likelihood in
R (BDML01)"
https://www.psstatistics.com/course/behavioural-data-
analysis-using-maximum-likelihood-bdml01/ This
course is being devilled by Dr Will Hoppitt and will
run from 19th - 23rd March 2018 in Glasgow
Course Overview: This 5-day course will involve a com-
bination of lectures and practical sessions. Students
will learn to build and t custom models for analysing
behavioural data using maximum likelihood techniques
in R. This exible approach allows a researcher to a) use
a statistical model that directly represents their hypoth-
esis, in cases where standard models are not appropriate
and b) better understand how standard statistical mod-
els (e.g. GLMs) are tted, many of which are tted
by maximum likelihood. Students will learn how to
deal with binary, count and continuous data, including
time-to-event data which is commonly encountered in
behavioural analysis.
1) After successfully completing this course students
should be able to: 2) t a multi-parameter maximum
likelihood model in R 3) derive likelihood functions for
binary, count and continuous data 4) deal with time-
to-event data 5) build custom models to test specic
behavioural hypotheses 6) conduct hypothesis tests and
construct condence intervals 7) use Akaike's informa-
tion criterion (AIC) and model averaging 8) understand
how maximum likelihood relates to Bayesian techniques
Full details and time table can be found at
https://www.psstatistics.com/course/behavioural-data-
analysis-using-maximum-likelihood-bdml01/ We oer
accommodation packages as well to make travel cheaper,
easier and stress free.
Please email any questions to oliver-
hooker@PSstatistics.com
Also check out our sister sites, www.PRstatistics.com
(ecology courses) and wwwPRinformatics.com (data sci-
ence courses)February 1, 2018 EvolDir 179
Other up-coming PS stats courses
Oliver Hooker PhD. PS statistics
Introduction to Bayesian hierarchical modelling
using R (IBHM02) https://www.psstatistics.com/-
course/introduction-to-bayesian-hierarchical-modelling-
using-r-ibhm02/ Behavioural data analysis using
maximum likelihood in R (BDML01) https://-
www.psstatistics.com/course/behavioural-data-analysis-
using-maximum-likelihood-bdml01/ Introduction to
statistical modelling for psychologists in R (IPSY01)
https://www.psstatistics.com/course/introduction-
to-statistics-using-r-for-psychologists-ipsy01/ Social
Network Analysis for Behavioural Scientists using R
(SNAR01) https://www.psstatistics.com/course/social-
network-analysis-for-behavioral-scientists-snar01/
PSstatistics.com facebook.com/PSstatistics/ twit-
ter.com/PSstatistics
6 Hope Park Crescent Edinburgh EH8 9NA +44 (0)
7966500340
{ Oliver Hooker PhD. PR statistics
2017 publications -
Ecosystem size predicts eco-morphological variability in
post-glacial diversication. Ecology and Evolution. In
press.
The physiological costs of prey switching reinforce for-
aging specialization. Journal of animal ecology.
prstatistics.com facebook.com/prstatistics/ twit-
ter.com/PRstatistics groups.google.com/d/forum/pr-
statistics-post-course-forum
prstatistics.com/organiser/oliver-hooker/
6 Hope Park Crescent Edinburgh EH8 9NA
+44 (0) 7966500340
Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prstatistics.com >
UK
GeometricMorphometricsUsingR
Feb19-23
PARTFUNDED SCHOLARHPS for the course \Geo-
metric Morphometrics Using R (GMMR01)"
PR STATISTICS ARE PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE
THAT THROUGH THEIR FUNDING SCHEME
THEY CAN OFFER 5 PART-FUNDED SCHOLAR-
SHIPS FOR OUR UP-COMING COURSE \GeometricMorphometrics Using R (GMMR01)"
SCHOLARSHIPS CONTRIBUTE TOWARDS
COURSE FEES WITH 5 PLACES AVAILABLE AT
250.00 (Fees have been subsidised by 45% from 450.00).
This course is being delivered by Prof. Dean Adams,
Prof. Michael Collyer and Dr. Antigoni Kaliont-
zopoulou
Applications should be sent to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com and contain the following. 1.
Full name 2. Institute name 3. PhD subject title or
Post doc research questions 4. Do you hold a funded
position 5. 150 words why this course would be relevant
to your research or how it would help.
Application deadline is Wednesday 7th February 2018
and decisions will be made by Thursday 8th February
2018
We still have 'normal' places available for anyone else
interested.
Full course details are given below
Geometric Morphometrics Using R (GMMR01)
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/geometric-
morphometrics-using-r-gmmr01/ This course is being
delivered by Prof. Dean Adams, Prof. Michael
Collyer and Dr. Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou | This
course will run from 19th - 23rd February 2018 at
Margam Discovery Centre, Wales, UK. | The eld
of geometric morphometrics (GM) is concerned with
the quantication and analysis of patterns of shape
variation, and its covariation with other variables. Over
the past several decades these approaches have become
a mainstay in the eld of ecology, evolutionary biology,
and anthropology, and a panoply of analytical tools for
addressing specic biological hypotheses concerning
shape have been developed. The goal of this is to
provide participants with a working knowledge of
the theory of geometric morphometrics, as well as
practical training in the application of these methods.
| The course is organized in both theoretical and
practical sessions. The theoretical sessions will provide
a comprehensive introduction to the methods of
landmark-based geometric morphometrics, which aims
at providing the participants with a solid theoretical
background for understanding the procedures used in
shape data analysis. Practical sessions will include
worked examples, giving the participants the oppor-
tunity to gain hands-on experience in the treatment
of shape data using the R package geomorph. These
sessions focus on the generation of shape variables from
primary landmark data, the statistical treatment of
shape variation with respect to biological hypotheses,180 EvolDir February 1, 2018
and the visualization of patterns of shape variation
and of the shapes themselves for interpretation of
statistical ndings, using the R language for statistical
programming. While practice datasets will be available,
it is strongly recommended that participants come
with their own datasets. | Note: Because this is a
geometric morphometrics workshop in R, it is required
that participants have some working knowledge in
R. The practical sessions of the course will focus on
GM-based analyses, and not basic R user-interfacing.
It is therefore strongly recommended that participants
refresh their R skills prior to attending the workshop. |
| Course Programme | Sunday 5th Meet at Millport
eld centre at approximately 18:30. | Monday 6th -
Classes from 09:00 to 17:30 1: Morphometrics: History,
Introduction and Data Types 2: Review of matrix
algebra and multivariate statistics 3: Superimposition 4:
Software demonstration and lab practicum | Tuesday
7th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:30 1: Shape spaces,
shape variables, PCA 2: GPA with semi-landmarks
3: Shape covariation 4: Software demonstration and
lab practicum | Wednesday 8th - Classes from 09:00
to 17:30 1: Phylogenetic shape variation 2: Group
Dierences & Trajectory Analysis 3: Allometry 4:
Software demonstration and lab practicum | Thursday
9th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:30 1: Assymetry
2: Missing Data 3: Integration and Modularity 4:
Disparity 5: Software demonstration and lab practicum
| Friday 10th - Classes from 09:00 to 16:00 1: Future
Directions 2: Lab Pacticum 3: Student Presentations |
Please send inquiries to oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
or visit the website www.prstatistics.com | Please
feel free to distribute this information anywhere you
think suitable | Upcoming courses - email for details
oliverhooker@prstatistics.com | |{ 1. January 29t -
February 2nd 2018 INTRODUCTION TO BAYESIAN
HIERARCHICAL MODELLING (IBHM02) SCENE,
Scotland, Dr. Andrew Parnell
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UParisSud Coevolution Apr22-25
We are pleased to announce our rst ESEB-STN Work-
shop 2018 \Experimental approaches to test for coevo-
lution"
WHO? Organizers: Amandine Cornille Eva Stukenbrock
Peter Tin Dieter Ebert Daniel Croll Ricardo Rodriguez
de la Vega
Invited speakers Anna-Liisa Laine (Univ. Helsinki, Fin-
land) Kayla King (Univ. Oxford, UK) Stineke van
Houte (Univ. Of Exeter, UK) Lutz Beck (Max Plank
Institute, Germany)
WHERE? Univ. Paris Sud, France
WHEN? 22-25th April 2018
Info: Fee (all inclusive: tuition, accommodation and
food) : 350 euros Application deadline : 28th Febru-
ary - 30 participants max. More info and application
at http://workshop.inra.fr/ecol-genome-coevol #Work-
shopEcolGenomCoevol, contact: workshop-ecol-genom-
coevol1@inra.fr
Amandine Cornille
Chargee de Recherche CNRS Genetique Quantitative
et ??volution - Le Moulon INRA - Universite Paris-
Sud - CNRS - AgroParisTech Ferme du Moulon 91190
Gif-sur-Yvette France
Amandine Cornille <amandine.cornille@gmail.com >February 1, 2018 EvolDir 181
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.