E v o l D i r
February 1, 2017
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .123
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 147
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Conferences
Ames Iowa EvolQuantGenet Jun1-3 Registration . . . 2
Austin SMBE AnnualMeeting Jul2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Austin SMBE Behavior Jul2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Austin SMBE ConvergentEvolution Jul2-6 . . . . . . . . . .4
Austin SMBE EpigeneticsAndEvolution Jul2-6 . . . . . 4
Austin SMBE EvoSysBioOfCells Jul3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Austin SMBE HostParasiteCoevoluiton AbstractDead-
line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Austin SMBEIntegratingAncientAndModernDNA Jul2-
6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Austin SMBE SymbiosesAndInteractions Jul2-6 . . . . 7
Austin Texas SMBE HostParasiteCoevolution Jul1-6 7
Barcelona PopulationGenomics Apr3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Beijing FireEcolEvol Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Blossin InsectEvolutionaryImmunity Aug28-Sep1 . . . 9
Chize France EcologyBehaviour Jun19-23 . . . . . . . . . 10
CityULondon MathModelsEvolution Jul10-12 . . . . . 10
Colombia EvoDevo Oct9-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Edinburgh RNApathwayEvolution Mar10 . . . . . . . . . 12
Gothenburg BioSyst Aug15-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Gothenburg BioSyst Barcoding Aug15-18 . . . . . . . . . .13
Groningen ESEB AgeingBiology Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . 13
Groningen ESEB CytonuclearSpeciation Aug20-25 14
Groningen ESEB GeneticExchangeMicrobesDisease
Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Groningen ESEB GenomicsOfAdaptation Aug20-25 15
Groningen ESEB SexualSelection Aug20-25 . . . . . . . 16Groningen-Netherlands EvolutionMedicineSociety
Aug18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Hawaii HistoryOfPacicMarineLife May23-25 . . . . . .17
Lund SexHermaphrodites Mar9-10 RegistrationOpen
17
LundU SwedishOikos2017 Feb7-9 RegistrationClosing
18
Marseilles 21stEvolutionaryBiol Sep26-29 EarlyDead-
Line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Marseilles EBM21 Sep26-29 EarlyDeadlineTopics . . 19
Mosocow ICIM Aug18-23 OldSpecimensNewTechnology
19
NHM London EvolutionColourAndVision Apr27 . . .20
Paris EvolutionSymbiosis Mar15-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Paris Holobionts Apr19-21 RegistrationExt . . . . . . . . 21
PorquerollesIsle France MathEvolBiol Jun12-16 2 . .21
Portland Evolution ASN SensoryDrive Jun23-27 . . .22
Portland SSE MaleCompSpeciation Jun23-27 . . . . . .22
Portland SSE SexInTheWild Jun23-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Portland SSE Speciation Jun23-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Shanghai IUFROGeneticsGenomics Nov1-3 . . . . . . . .24
UExeter FishPopulations Jul3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UFMS Brazil Evol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
YosemiteNationalPark Symbiosis May5-7 Registration
26
Ames Iowa EvolQuantGenet Jun1-3
Registration
Each year, AGA symposia bring together 80-100 partic-
ipants in a relaxed and collegial setting to share ideas
on genetic and genomic research topics.This year's meeting is AGA2017: Evolutionary Quanti-
tative Genetics in the Wild. Hosted by AGA President
Anne Bronikowski, it will be held on the campus of
Iowa State University. The opening reception on 1 June
will be in the beautiful Reiman Gardens and Buttery
House: http://www.reimangardens.com/ Registration
and student award details will be available soon at
http://www.theaga.org . CONFIRMED SPEAKERS:
David Coltman, University of Alberta, CanadaFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 3
Je Conner, Michigan State University
Lynda Delph, University of Indiana
Ned Dochtermann, North Dakota State University
Lucia Gutierrez, University of Wisconsin
Fred Janzen, Iowa State University
Adam Jones, Texas A & M University
Emily Josephs, University of California, Davis
Andrew McAdam, University of Guelph, Canada
Joel McGlothlin, Virgina Technical Institute
Mike Morrissey, St Andrews University, UK
Max Rothschild, Iowa State University
Julia Saltz, Rice University
Cynthia Weinig, University of Wyoming
Jason Wolf, University of Bath, UK
Thomas Reed, University College, Cork, Ireland
Anjanette Baker
AGA Manager agajoh@oregonstate.edu
AGAJOH<AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu >
Austin SMBE AnnualMeeting Jul2-6
The Annual Meeting of the Society for Molecular Biol-
ogy and Evolution will be in downtown Austin Texas
July 2-6 2017.
Abstract submissions are due FEB 1.
The scientic program spans a wide variety of cutting
edge topics in evolutionary biology. SMBE oers many
travel awards and other prizes for students and post-
docs, as well as assistance with care of children or other
dependents. Please go to http://www.smbe2017.org/
to submit an abstract and to see the list of plenary
speakers and symposium topics.
We hope to see you in Austin! Nancy Moran, Howard
Ochman, Claus Wilke
Department of Integrative Biology University of Texas
at Austin
nancy.moran@austin.utexas.eduAustin SMBE Behavior Jul2-6
SMBE 2017 Symposium \Systems approaches to behav-
ior"
We welcome abstract submissions for a symposium on
\Systems approaches to behavior" at SMBE 2017 in
Austin, TX. The symposium will feature talks by Lau-
ren O'Connell (Harvard University) and Hans Hofmann
(UT Austin). The deadline for abstract submissions is
February 1: http://www.smbe2017.org/ If you have
any questions, please feel free to contact Julia Saltz
(julia.b.saltz@rice.edu)
Symposium summary: Understanding the diversity of
animal behaviors and how this diversity evolves is an
intricate challenge because behavior uniquely combines
inputs across biological scales-from genes, transcripts,
and proteins interacting at tissue, organ, and whole
organismal levels to environmental factors such as other
individuals via social interactions. The goal of our sym-
posium is to bring together researchers working at the
interface of multiple levels of behavioral and molecular
analysis to highlight how systems-level approaches can
lead to new insights about behavioral evolution. Our
symposium will be timely because high-dimensional \-
omics" data, representing functional information at mul-
tiple biological scales, is rapidly becoming available; but
the evolutionary relevance of such information, particu-
larly for highly-plastic phenotypes like behavior, remains
unclear. Our symposium will contribute to building an
integrated conceptual framework for thinking about the
causes of variation in behavior at a systems level and
how such systems can evolve. Our invited speakers
will provide \worked examples" illustrating how dier-
ent molecular levels, neurobiology, and ecology can be
integrated to understand why behavior varies within
individuals, among individuals, and among species.
{ Julia B. Saltz Assistant Professor Biosciences at Rice
University 6100 Main Street, MS-170 Houston, TX
77005 julia.b.saltz@rice.edu Saltzlab.wordpress.com
jbsaltz@gmail.com4 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Austin SMBE ConvergentEvolution
Jul2-6
SMBE 2017 Symposium \Convergent evolution"
We are pleased to announce a symposium on \Conver-
gent evolution" at SMBE 2017 in Austin, Texas, this
July. Our invited speakers are Jay Storz (University of
Nebraska-Lincoln), Matthew Hahn (Indiana University),
and Sarah Kocher (Princeton University). Abstract sub-
missions for contributed talks and posters are welcome
and due on 1 February 2017. Please use the follow-
ing link for submission: http://www.smbe2017.org/-
abstracts/. Note that abstract submission is possible
prior to registration for the conference.
Symposium description:
*** Convergent evolution, wherein species independently
evolve substantially similar phenotypes in response to
similar selective pressures, is a potentially powerful crite-
rion to identify genotypes underlying adaptive evolution.
The on-going boom in comparative genomics has re-
newed interest in the molecular and genetic basis of
convergent phenotypes. Recent progress in the eld
has demonstrated the extent of convergence in a wide
variety of contexts, from microbes to vertebrates, and
resulting from conditions including environmental shifts,
sensory systems, and biochemical challenges. In addi-
tion, whole-population sequencing and in vitro evolution
has provided evidence of the dependence of convergence
on the nature of the selective pressure. At a higher level,
the study of convergence is outlining the constraints on
adaptive evolution and deepening our understanding
of natural selection. In light of the increasing amount
of genomic data available, the eld will benet from a
discussion of the challenges in robustly identifying and
testing apparent cases of convergence, with one major
challenge being distinguishing adaptive convergence at
the sequence level from chance events. This symposium
will present a balanced program of historical evolution,
in vitro evolution, methodology and theory in convergent
evolution. Talks will span the full spectrum of potential
convergence ranging across molecules, networks, and
phenotypes. ***
SMBE 2017 will oer child care support during the
conference ( http://www.smbe2017.org/destination/-
childcare-at-smbe/), and you can apply for child
care awards as well (http://www.smbe.org/smbe/awar
ds/ChildCareTravelAward).SMBE 2017 will take place in Austin, Texas, from 2 to
6 July 2017.
Thanks,
Tim Sackton (tsackton@g.harvard.edu) Nathan Clark
(nclark@pitt.edu)
\tsackton@g.harvard.edu" <tsackton@g.harvard.edu >
Austin SMBE
EpigeneticsAndEvolution Jul2-6
SMBE 2017 Symposium \Epigenetics and Evolution"
We are pleased to announce a symposium on \Epigenet-
ics and Evolution" at SMBE 2017 in Austin, Texas, this
July. Our invited speakers are Isabel Mendizabal (Geor-
gia Institute of Technology) and Damon Lisch (Pur-
due University). Abstract submissions for contributed
talks and posters are welcome and due on 1 Febru-
ary 2017. Please use the following link for submission:
http://www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/. Note that ab-
stract submission is possible prior to registration for the
conference.
Symposium description:
*** The quote from Dhobzhansky (\Nothing makes sense
in biology except in the light of evolution") is overused.
But there may be no current area of biology to which
this quote is more pertinent than epigenetics. In many
respects, the study of epigenetics has been a sterling
success. Geneticists and molecular biologists have un-
raveled some of the intricacies of epigenetic pathways
and the interplay of epigenetics with development. And
yet, without the tools and context of evolutionary bi-
ology, it is dicult to put these ndings into a proper
context. Evolutionary comparisons provide a lter to
help determine what phenomena are conserved, general,
and important over time. In this symposium, we seek
to integrate epigenetic information into an evolution-
ary framework, including the eects of epigenetics on
development, phenotype, and genome evolution. ***
SMBE 2017 will oer child care support during
the conference (http://www.smbe2017.org/destination/-
childcare-at-smbe/), and you can apply for child
care awards as well (http://www.smbe.org/smbe/awar
ds/ChildCareTravelAward).
SMBE 2017 will take place in Austin, Texas, from 2 to
6 July 2017. Thanks,February 1, 2017 EvolDir 5
Thanks,
Alexandros Bousios (alexandros.bousios@gmail.com)
Soojin Yi (soojinyi@gatech.edu) Brandon Gaut
(bgaut@uci.edu)
{ Alexandros Bousios, PhD Marie-Curie Research Fellow
University of Sussex jBrightonjUK
alexandros.bousios@gmail.com jemail http://-
infspire.org/jwww alexandros bousios jSkype
Alexandros Bousios <alexandros.bousios@googlemail.com >
Austin SMBE EvoSysBioOfCells
Jul3
SMBE 2017 Symposium: Evolutionary Systems Biology
of Cells Please join us for an exciting symposium ad-
dressing key challenges at the interface of cell biology,
systems biology, and evolution. How do cells evolve so
many fascinating forms and functions and which tools
can we use to discover more?
Keynote speakers |{
- Prof. Michael Lynch (Bloomington): Evolutionary
Cell Biology - Prof. Trey Ideker (UCSD): Translation
of Genotype to Phenotype by a Hierarchy of Cell Sub-
systems
We welcome abstract submissions for contributed talks
and posters due * Next * Wednesday:
Important dates |{
- 1st Feb 2017: SMBE abstract submission deadline,
submit here http://www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/ - 1st
March 2017: SMBE abstract notication - 29th March
2017: End of reduced registration rates
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution Con-
ference will be held in Austin, Texas, from 2 to 6 July
2017. Symposium is on July 3rd.
More Details |{
The symposium program will also be published at:
- http://evolutionarysystemsbiology.org/meeting/2017-
SMBE/
SMBE supports the presence of children at the
conference: - http://www.smbe2017.org/destination/-
childcare-at-smbe/
Symposium Description |{
Cells are the basic units of life. Decades of researchin molecular-, cell-, and systems-biology have accumu-
lated impressive insights into the molecular mechanisms
of life, but the biodiversity of cellular systems remain
vastly under-explored despite its critical role in evolu-
tion. Building on successful models of well-known cells
in controlled environments, this symposium aims to
bring together cell biologists, systems biologists, evolu-
tionary biologists, and others interested in advancing
models of evolution at the cellular level. This focus on
cellular systems celebrates the latest advances in the re-
lentless Evolutionary Synthesis that started with Fisher
1918, and has been continuing whenever evolutionary
biologists study complex biological systems to achieve
an integrative understanding of evolution. Topics of
interest include, but are not be limited to:
- Mechanistic simulations predicting distributions of
mutational eects on cellular growth or survival - Mech-
anisms for establishing, maintaining, and modifying
cellular pathways, gene-regulatory sub-networks and ge-
netic subsystems - Mechanisms for evolving novel cell
types - Methods that help study the above
We will discuss how to integrate recent advances in
genome biology, computational molecular systems biol-
ogy, cell biology and evolutionary biology.
Symposium organizers |{
Dr. Laurence Loewe Evolutionary Systems Biology
Group Laboratory of Genetics and Wisconsin Insti-
tute for Discovery University of Wisconsin-Madison
330 North Orchard Street, Madison, WI, 53715
Tel: +1 (608) 316 4324 Email: loewe@wisc.edu
http://wid.wisc.edu/prole/laurence-loewe/ Prof Anne-
Ruxandra Carvunis Department of Computational and
Systems Biology University of Pittsburgh 3501 Fifth
Avenue, 3064 BST3 Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA Email:
Carvunis@gmail.com http://carvunislab.csb.pitt.edu/
\ll@evre.de" <ll@evre.de>
Austin SMBE
HostParasiteCoevoluiton
AbstractDeadline
We invite you to submit an abstract for the sympo-
sium on Host-Parasite Coevolution, at the SMBE meet-
ing in Austin Texas July 2-7. Abstracts for talks
or posters are due February 1 2017. The submis-
sion website is here: https://b-com.mci-group.com/-
AbstractSubmission/SMBE2017.aspx A description of
the symposium below:6 EvolDir February 1, 2017
The complex dynamics of host-parasite coevolution have
infrequently been described as changes in gene, protein,
or cell function. But as more researchers delve into
diverse host and parasite systems, armed with techno-
logical advances and focused on molecular evolution,
it is an opportune time to discuss novel ndings and
compare denitions and questions. This symposium will
foster dialogue among ecologists, geneticists, molecular
biologists, and immunologists, all united by an inter-
est in the mechanisms that underlie natural host and
parasite evolution. Although presentations will cover a
wide range of taxa and approaches, speakers will also
address unifying concepts, including: Which questions
and approaches are likely to scale across many systems,
and which are relevant to only subset of taxa? How
can molecular data be used to revamp models of host-
parasite interactions (or to design new ones), and what
previous theoretical predictions demand mechanistic at-
tention? What are the big dierences between studying
two-species versus multi-species interactions? How is
the molecular or cellular biology of immunity dierent
in wild populations (as opposed to lab settings), and
how can we best study immunology in the wild? And -
nally, what advances in other elds of biology should be
incorporated into host-parasite studies, and vice versa?
Thanks, Dan Bolnick Jesse Weber Natalie Steinel
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick
Professor Department of Integrative Biology Chair,
Graduate Program in Ecology Evolution and Behav-
ior One University Station C0990 University of Texas
at Austin Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu
Lab website: https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com \Bol-
nick, Daniel I" <danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu >
Austin SMBEIntegratingAncien-
tAndModernDNA
Jul2-6
SMBE 2017 Symposium \Integrating Ancient and Mod-
ern DNA"
We are pleased to announce a symposium on \Inte-
grating Ancient and Modern DNA" at SMBE 2017 in
Austin, Texas, this July. Our invited speakers are Beth
Shapiro (UC Santa Cruz) and Stephan Schiels (Max
Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena,Germany). Abstract submissions for contributed talks
and posters are welcome and due on 1 February 2017.
Please use the following link for submission: http://-
www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/. Note that abstract sub-
mission is possible prior to registration for the confer-
ence.
Symposium description:
***
The study of contemporary whole genomes has greatly
improved our understanding of the evolution of pop-
ulations, but the availability of ancient genomic data
should give us a much more detailed comprehension of
the evolutionary process. However, the integration of
ancient and modern DNA into a coherent inferential
framework is challenging notably due to heterogeneous
sampling times and locations, dierences in coverage,
and post-mortem DNA damages. We also lack appropri-
ate theoretical models linking these two types of samples,
as one for instance often ignores the diusion of genes in
both space and time and assumes that old and modern
samples belong to the same population. The proper inte-
gration of old and contemporary samples is essential to
e.g. better distinguish genetic drift from selection, follow
specic adaptive processes over time, uncover ancestral
relationships among populations, distinguish between
alternate modes of selection, follow changes in gene ow
over time, or probe past population movements. In this
symposium, we aim at bringing together empiricists and
theoreticians presenting either novel methodological ad-
vances or new genomic datasets including a mixture of
ancient and modern samples or experimental/natural
time series to tackle fundamental problems in evolution.
***
SMBE 2017 will oer child care support during
the conference (http://www.smbe2017.org/destination/-
childcare-at-smbe/), and you can apply for child care
awards as well (http://www.smbe.org/smbe/awards/-
ChildCareTravelAward).
SMBE 2017 will take place in Austin, Texas, from 2 to
6 July 2017.
Thanks,
Simon Aeschbacher (simon.aeschbacher@iee.unibe.ch)
Laurent Excoer (laurent.excoer@iee.unibe.ch) Anna-
Sapfo Malaspinas (anna-sapfo.malaspinas@iee.unibe.ch)
Institute of Ecology and Evolution University of Bern
Baltzerstrasse 6 CH-3012 Bern Switzerland
simon.aeschbacher@iee.unibe.chFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 7
Austin SMBE
SymbiosesAndInteractions Jul2-6
SMBE 2017 Symposium \Symbiosis and Interactions"
We are accepting abstracts for our symposium on \Sym-
biosis and Interactions" at SMBE 2017 in Austin, Texas,
from July 2-6. The symposium features invited speakers
Daniel Sloan (Colorado State University) and Teresa
Pawlowska (Cornell University). Abstract submissions
for contributed talks and posters are due Wed Feb 1
(http://www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/).
Symposium summary: Symbiotic interactions between
independent organisms play a critical role in providing
new ecological niches and promoting biological diversi-
cation. Over evolutionary time, hosts and symbionts
often enter a permanent co-evolutionary relationship,
where proper maintenance and regulation of symbiosis
is required for both lineages to survive. Although bene-
cial, symbiotic partners are also faced with challenges.
Symbionts experience rapid evolution due to high levels
of genetic drift and potential selection for selsh traits
and hosts must evolve to compensate for these factors in
order to maintain functional symbiosis. Thus symbioses
may be more similar to a coevolutionary arms race rather
than a static optimum. Our understanding of coevolu-
tionary interactions largely focuses on organelles (i.e. mi-
tochondria and plastid) and intracellular endosymbionts
present within host cells. Examining the role of genetic
variation and functional constraints on the evolution
of interacting genomes will shed light on how obligate
interactions between co-evolving genomes can promote
reproductive isolation, thus promoting biological diver-
sication. This symposium highlights work examining
coevolutionary interactions involving organelles and en-
dosymbionts and how these interactions may impact
the evolutionary trajectory of these lineages. This sym-
posium provides a central opportunity for integrating
the advancements in both endosymbiont and organelle
evolution as well as symbiosis.
Thanks, Rebecca Chong (becky.chong@utexas.edu)
Chih-Horng Kuo (chk@gate.sinica.edu.tw)
{ Rebecca A. Chong Ph.D. Postdoctoral Fellow De-
partment of Integrative Biology University of Texas
at Austin
\becky.chong@utexas.edu" <becky.chong@utexas.edu >Austin Texas SMBE
HostParasiteCoevolution Jul1-6
At SMBE in Austin this July, there will be a sympo-
sium on Host-Parasite Coevolution, featuring invited
speakers Andrea Graham and Deiter Ebert. Abstract
submissions for talks or posters for the symposium are
welcome and are due February 1 2017. The submis-
sion website is here: https://b-com.mci-group.com/-
AbstractSubmission/SMBE2017.aspx A description of
the symposium below:
The complex dynamics of host-parasite coevolution have
infrequently been described as changes in gene, protein,
or cell function. But as more researchers delve into
diverse host and parasite systems, armed with techno-
logical advances and focused on molecular evolution,
it is an opportune time to discuss novel ndings and
compare denitions and questions. This symposium will
foster dialogue among ecologists, geneticists, molecular
biologists, and immunologists, all united by an inter-
est in the mechanisms that underlie natural host and
parasite evolution. Although presentations will cover a
wide range of taxa and approaches, speakers will also
address unifying concepts, including: Which questions
and approaches are likely to scale across many systems,
and which are relevant to only subset of taxa? How
can molecular data be used to revamp models of host-
parasite interactions (or to design new ones), and what
previous theoretical predictions demand mechanistic at-
tention? What are the big dierences between studying
two-species versus multi-species interactions? How is
the molecular or cellular biology of immunity dierent
in wild populations (as opposed to lab settings), and
how can we best study immunology in the wild? And -
nally, what advances in other elds of biology should be
incorporated into host-parasite studies, and vice versa?
Thanks, Dan Bolnick Jesse Weber Natalie Steinel
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick Professor Department of Inte-
grative Biology Chair, Graduate Program in Ecology
Evolution and Behavior One University Station C0990
University of Texas at Austin Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu
Lab website: https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu8 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Barcelona PopulationGenomics
Apr3-5
NGS'17: Structural Variation and Population Genomics,
3-5 April 2017, Barcelona, Spain
Hosted by the International Society for Computational
Biology (ISCB) and the Centre for Genomic Regula-
tion (CRG), the Next-generation sequencing conference
covers a broad range of topics in genome sequencing
and analysis. Our particular focus areas in 2017 are
structural variation and population genomics.
New sequencing technologies have opened up the pos-
sibility to sequence genomes at a previously unprece-
dented scale. The sequencing of whole genomes from
large number of individuals representing multiple pop-
ulations allows the extent of genetic diversity, of both
at the single nucleotide level, and of larger structural
variants, to be catalogued. Using such data the genetic
basis of evolutionary and disease processes can be ex-
plored. The meeting will draw together researchers from
diverse backgrounds who develop and apply novel tools
to sequencing data. Topics covered will include, but are
not limited to, genome assembly, variant characteriza-
tion and analysis, gene expression, population history,
disease, and more!
The conference program will be a combination of keynote
talks from renown scientists with research focusing on
structural variation and population genomics, a selection
of thought-provoking submitted abstract talks, technol-
ogy and applications talks, as well as posters.
Laura Prat Busquets <laura.prat@crg.eu >
Beijing FireEcolEvol Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues,
We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and
attend our upcoming symposium on
\ Wildre Ecology and Life Evolution: From Ancient
Time to Present"
which will be part of the 2017 International Congress
of Ecology (INTECOL 2017). The conference will betaking place from August 20th - August 25th, 2017 in
Beijing, China.
http://www.intecol2017.org/en/index.asp Symposium
description
[T11-01] Wildre Ecology and Life Evolution: From
Ancient Time to Present
Wildres have been a signicant evolutionary factor
shaping the ecology of ora from ancient time to the
present. This symposium synthesise research from on
how has shaping ecology and evolution of terrestrial
ecosystems from ancient time to the present, and how
current knowledge can be translated into better re
management. \ Wildres are common and widespread
in the modern world, with about 60% of the Earth's land
surface being burnt over a 15-year period. The fossils
provide strong evidence in support of hypotheses of great
antiquity for re. Charcoals as evidence of presence of
ancient wildre rst appeared from the late Silurian,
410 Ma. However, ecologists and paleo-botanists have
long believed that climate and soils controlled the dis-
tribution of ecosystems, the role of wildre was largely
overlooked. The strong focus on the negative impact of
wildres on life and property has historically hindered
our understanding of re ecology. Only very recently,
evidence become emerging that wildre played an im-
portant role throughout the history of life on the Earth.
Wildre inuences on global ecosystem patterns and pro-
cesses, and has had a pronounced eect on the evolution
of biotas, and distribution of ecosystem.
In view of the limited fossil evidence for re being a
signicant ecological and evolutionary factor, a major
breakthrough in determining the origin of re-related
lineages has occurred over the last seven years. There is
accumulating molecular evidence that re-adapted lin-
eages go back many tens of millions of years. These dates
have been largely reconciled with fossil evidence. Hu-
mans and our ancestors are the only re-making species.
As we have expanded their use of re, our actions have
come to dominate some ecosystems and change natural
processes in ways that threaten the sustainability of
some landscapes. Moreover, the interaction between
res and climate change add to the future uncertainty.
We need to learn more about how wildre interacts with
a multitude of ecosystem processes. Particularly, we
need better data on past and current human inuences
on re regimes, and a greater understanding of dier-
ent cultural traditions of landscape burning and their
positive and negative social, economic and ecological
eects.
This symposium intends to bring together ecologists,
public educator, practitioners and policy-makers who
have common interest on wildre, synthesise researchFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 9
from global re-prone ecosystems on how wildre as
ecological and evolutionary factor shaping terrestrial
ecosystem from ancient time to the present, so that
current knowledge can be translated into better re
management.
We are looking forward to many exciting contributions
and to a stimulating discussion with you! The deadline
for ABSTRACT SUBMISSION is February 10, 2017.
To submit abstracts online, please go to:
http://www.intecol2017.org/en/index.asp Meanwhile,
participants of this symposium are encouraged to
submit the same abstract to Proceedings of the
symposium 'Wildre Ecology and Life Evolution:
From Ancient Time to Present' of the Interna-
tional Congress of Ecology (INTECOL 2017 Beijing).
See http://journal.frontiersin.org/researchtopic/5544/-
proceedings-of-the-sy mposium-wildre-ecology-and-life-
evolution-from-ancient-time-to-presen t-of-the for de-
tails. So that Proceedings (of abstracts) will be pub-
lished by Frontiers in Plant Sciences free of charge.
For those participants who wish to publish their pre-
sented work (or any re-related work) in a full paper,
please consider submitting the full paper to a special
issue of Frontiers in Plant Science before September
1 2017. This invitation is extended to anyone, includ-
ing those are not able attend the symposium, wish to
publish a manuscript related to wildre ecology and
life evolution). Frontiers in Plant Science is an open
access journal, indexed by ISI (with an impact fac-
tor of 4.5 in 2016) and Scopus. The journal however
charges an article process fee but discount may apply.
See http://journal.frontiersin.org/researchtopic/5544/-
proceedings-of-the-sy mposium-wildre-ecology-and-life-
evolution-from-ancient-time-to-presen t-of-the.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Blossin InsectEvolutionaryImmunity
Aug28-Sep1
REGISTRATION IS NOW OPEN FOR THE:
Ecological Immunology Workshop 2017 on:
'Insect immunity: genomics, microbiome, applications'28th August to 1st September 2017 in Blossin (close to
Berlin), Germany.
This workshop will bring together researchers interested
in ecological immunology with a focus on insects, and
with diverse scientic backgrounds ranging from molecu-
lar biology to ecology. The hallmark of these workshops,
started in 2001, is the open atmosphere fostering free
exchange by keeping it an aordable, small conference
(100 participants). The format consists of eighteen in-
vited speakers, contributed talks and a dedicated poster.
Long breaks provide plenty of opportunity for informal
exchange. Past workshops have initiated new collabo-
rations and ideas focusing on frontier research that has
not been published. The premises are basic but in a
beautiful location conducive to the success of the meet-
ing. We will be located at a lakeside, which at this time
of the year oers great swimming and canoeing, and a
small private bar at the harbour [http://www.blossin.de]
. ****OUR WEBSITE**** http://rolevolution.net/-
ecological-immunology-workshop-2017/ Registration
fee includes accommodation and catering (all meals)
Important dates The deadline for abstract submission
of oral and poster presentations is 28th February 2017
Registration closes at the latest on 31st March 2017 or
when the maximum number or possible participants is
reached, i.e. 100 persons. Final programme announce-
ment is 31st July 2017.
Program and invited speakers
Genomics and functional work in the wild Seth Bar-
ribeau, University of Liverpool Nicole Gerardo, Emory
University Brian Lazzaro, Cornell University Hinrich
Schulenburg, University of Kiel Ann Tate, University
of Texas Lumi Viljakainen, University of Oulu Chris
Wheat, University of Stockholm
Host-symbiont interactions aecting host immunity
Nichole Broderick, University of Connecticut Ewa
Chrostek, MPI Infection Biology Ellen Decaesteker, Uni-
versity of Leuven Abdelaziz Heddi, INSA-Lyon Martin
Kaltenpoth, University of Mainz David Schneider, Stan-
ford University
Applying ecological immunology Lena Bayer-Wilfert,
University of Essex Astrid Groot, University of Amster-
dam Dino McMahon, Free University Berlin Brian Weiss,
Yale University Ken Wilson, University of Lancaster
We are looking forward to welcoming you at the Ecolog-
ical Immunology Workshop 2017.
Kind regards,
Organizing Committee Jens Rol, Free University of
Berlin Oliver Otti, University of Bayreuth Paul Schmid-
Hempel, ETH Zurich Magdalena Nagel, Free University10 EvolDir February 1, 2017
of Berlin
If you have any questions concerning the meeting please
do not hesitate to e-mail us: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de
(program) magdalena.nagel@fu-berlin.de (travel and reg-
istration)
Dr. Oliver Otti Animal Population Ecology Animal
Ecology I University of Bayreuth Universit atsstrasse 30
95440 Bayreuth Germany
phone: +49921552646 e-mail: oliver.otti@uni-
bayreuth.de
web: Otti's homepage <http://www.bayceer.uni-
bayreuth.de/toek1/de/mitarbeiter/mit/-
mitarbeiter detail.php?id obj=106154 >
Ecological Immunology Meeting 2017 in Blossin
< http://rolevolution.net/ecological-immunology-
workshop-2017/ >
Oliver Otti <oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de >
Chize France EcologyBehaviour
Jun19-23
The \Rencontres Ecology & Behaviour" Association is
glad to announce the 13 th edition of the international
Ecology & Behaviour meeting, from 19th to 23rd
june 2017 in the \Centre d'Etudes Biologiques de Chiz e",
France.
This is a week conference for international early career
scientists in animal ecology and behaviour (only PhD
students and post-docs can apply).
If you are interested, submission of applications is
opening until the 19th March 2017 on the web-
site: https://eb2017.sciencesconf.org <https://-
eb2017.sciencesconf.org >
Regards,
Sophie Dupont - Communication Manager for the
\Rencontres Ecology & Behaviour" Association so-
phie.dupont@cebc.cnrs.fr
sophie.dupont93@gmail.comCityULondon MathModelsEvolution
Jul10-12
Mathematical Models in Ecology and Evolution 10th -
12th July 2017: CALL FOR ABSTRACTS AND REG-
ISTRATION IS OPEN
City, University of London will be hosting the 6th confer-
ence in the bi-annual series on Mathematical Models in
Ecology and Evolution. Mathematical Modelling plays
a central and increasingly important role in ecology and
evolution. The object of this conference is to showcase
the latest developments of mathematical models in ecol-
ogy and evolution and to demonstrate its important role
to a new generation of researchers.
The Organising Committee are calling for both talk and
poster abstracts. Submissions should be no more than
150 words and should include a topic title, along with a
full description. Submissions should be made using the
online submission form by 15th March 2017.
Registration for the conference is also now open. Early
bird tickets for the conference are available until 1st
June 2017.
For abstract submission, registration and other
information please visit the conference website
http://www.city.ac.uk/MMEE2017 \Broom, Mark"
<Mark.Broom.1@city.ac.uk >
Colombia EvoDevo Oct9-13
On behalf of the organizing comiitee of the Latin Ameri-
can Society of Developmental Biology (LASDB) Meeting
it is our pleasure to invite you the the IX LASDB meet-
ing to be held in Medell??n, Colombia from October
9^th - 13 ^th, 2017. The Meeting will convene in Colom-
bia for the rst time, a megabiodiverse country at the
core of the Americas.
Abstract submission deadline and early bird registration:
May 3 2017
Topics in the plenary sessions include:
- Animal and plant developmental biology
- Stem cells, Neurobiology, Medicine and DevelopmentFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 11
- Post-embryonic development and regeneration
- Evo-Devo and Next Generation Sequencing
Conrmed speakers include:
Nobel Awardee
Sir John Gurdon, Gurdon Institute, UK; University of
Cambridge
The stability and reversal of cell dierentiation
Karen Sears, University of Illinois, USA
>From genome to phenome: The developmental basis
of mammalian variation
Enrique Amaya, The University of Manchester, UK
Reactive oxygen species as facilitators of embryonic
development and appendage regeneration
Maria Barna, Stanford University, USA
Bio-imaging of tissue patterning and cellular communi-
cation during embryonic development
Jeremiah Smith, University of Kentucky , USA
Developmentally programmed rearrangement of the lam-
prey genome
Sylvain Marcellini, Universidad de Concepci??n, Chile
Evolution of the vertebrate skeletogenic programme
Siobhan Brady University of California Davis, USA
Spatiotemporal regulation of root development
Fernando Camargo, Boston Children's Hospital, USA
Adult stem cell biology, organ size regulation and cancer
Joseph Arboleda- Velasquez, Schepens Eye Research
Institute, USA
Molecular methods for the diagnosis and treatment of
cerebral Ischemic Small-Vessel Disease
Jesus Chimal-Monroy, Universidad Nacional Aut??noma
de M??xico
Digit patterning is controlled by an antagonism between
retinoic acid and TGF beta
Miltos Tsiantis, Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding
Research, Germany
How crucifer leaves got their leaets
Karen Echeverri, University of Minnesota, USA
Molecular mechanisms of regeneration in axolotls
Randall Voss, University of Kentucky, USA.
Genetic and Genomic Analyses of Tissue Regeneration
Using a Model Salamander (Ambystoma mexicanum)Rodrigo Nunes da Fonseca, Universidade Federal do Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil
Evolution of early embryonic patterning in arthropods
Miguel Concha, Laboratory of Experimental Ontogeny,
Chile
Novel roles for extra-embryonic tissue in directing early
embryo morphogenesis in vertebrates.
Patrizia Ferretti, University College London, Institute
of Child Health, UK
Regeneration of complex body structures in vertebrates.
Robb Krumlauf, Stowers Institute for Medical Research,
USA
Hox genes: Regulating the balance between pluripotency
and dierentiation
Veronica Di Stilio, University of Washington, USA
The ABC model of ower Development in non-core
eudicots
Brigitte Galliot, Universit?? de Gen??ve, Switzerland
Hydra, a model for regenerative and aging studies
Marianne Bronner, Caltech, USA
Gene regulatory control of neural crest development
Vivian Irish, Yale University, USA
Petal development: a twist in fate
Hernan Lopez ???Shier Helmholtz Zentrum M??nchen
Multicellular self-organisation during organ repair
Luis Alfredo Cruz Ramirez, CINVESTAV. Langebio,
Mexico
Molecular circuits controlling plant stem cell niches
Igor Schneider, Universidade Federal de Par??, Brazil
Evolutionary origins of vertebrate appendage regenera-
tion program
Lee Niswander, University of Colorado, USA
Visualizing neural tube closure and uncovering the
causes of neural tube defects
Carole La Bonne, Northwestern University, USA
Stem Cells, Gene Regulatory Networks and the Evolu-
tion of Vertebrates
Robert Reed, Cornell University, USA
Developmental genetic basis of buttery wing pattern
evolution
Robert Sablowski, John Innes Centre, UK
Coordination between cell growth, cell cycle and organo-12 EvolDir February 1, 2017
genesis in plants
Maria Angela Nieto, Instituto de Neurociencias, Ali-
cante, Spain
Epithelial plasticity in health and disease
Jose Garc??a- Arrar??s, University of Puerto Rico, Rio
Piedras
Understanding regeneration; a visceral reaction
Cristina Ferrandiz Instituto de Biolog??a Molecular y
Celular de Plantas, UPV, CSIC, Spain
A stylish story of carpel evolution
Claudia Torres Farf??n, Universidad Austral de Chile
Development and Chronobiology????????????
Roberto Mayor, University College London, UK
Integrating physical and molecular forces during collec-
tive cell migration
Katia del Rio- Tsonis, Miami University, USA
Epigenetic signatures during chick retina regeneration
Alejandro Sanchez Alvarado, Stowers Institute for Med-
ical Research, USA
The Developmental plasticity of planarians
Joachim Wittbrodt, Centre for Organismal Studies ???
Heidelberg, Germany
Vertebrate eye and brain development and regeneration
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Edinburgh RNApathwayEvolution
Mar10
Dear Evoldir,
I think this symposium will be of interest to some of
you (and registration is free!)
*** Information transmission in small RNA pathways:
Mechanisms and consequences ***
When: Friday 10 March 2017 Where: Royal Society of
Edinburgh, George Street, EdinburghRegistration: https://small-rna-
pathways.eventbrite.co.uk This one-day symposium
aims to stimulate discussion between researchers
working on dierent aspects of small-RNA biology. This
includes both molecular biologists and evolutionary
biologists interested in small-RNA mechanisms in
disease and life-history contexts.
The theme of \information transmission" has been cho-
sen to include the transmission of information through
the pathways themselves (interaction or coevolution be-
tween small RNAs and their targets, target recognition),
transmission in space by small-RNA transport (between
tissues or between hosts and parasites), or transmis-
sion of information in time, either within-individuals
('memory') or between individuals (mother to ospring).
Plenary Speakers: * Prof. Shou-Wei Ding * Prof. Sir
David Baulcombe FRS
Conrmed Speakers: * Antony Jose (University of Mary-
land) * Peter Sarkies (MRC London Institute of Medical
Sciences) * Maria Carla Saleh (Institut Pasteur, Paris) *
Carine Meignin (IBMC, Strasbourg) * Herve Vaucheret
(INRA) * Friedrich Kragler (Max Planck Institute of
Molecular Plant Physiology)
The meeting will be held at the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh on 10 March 2017
Registration will open at 9 am, and the opening plenary
will start at 9.30 am. The meeting will close with an
informal buet and drinks starting at 5.50pm.
The meeting is free to attend, including lunch
and coee, but please register at https://small-rna-
pathways.eventbrite.co.uk There will be poster sessions
during the breaks and lunch, and if you wish to bring a
poster (A0 portrait) please include the poster title and
a brief (50 word) summary when you register.
On behalf of the organisers: Amy Buck and Darren
Obbard
a.buck@ed.ac.uk; darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk
Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution University
of Edinburgh Ashworth Laboratories Charlotte Auer-
bach Road Edinburgh EH9 3FL 0131 651 3688
{ The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, reg-
istered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
\darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk" <darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 13
Gothenburg BioSyst Aug15-18
BioSyst.EU represents European scientists dealing with
topics of systematic biology.
The third meeting of the BioSyst.EU will be organised
by the Swedish Systematics Association in corporation
with the University of Gothenburg and will be held Au-
gust 15-18, 2017 at the Wallenberg Conference Centre,
Gothenburg, Sweden.
The meeting will feature half-day symposia held by mem-
ber societies of BioSyst.EU and external organisations
as well as open sessions with mixed presentations.
More information on the meeting, and registration forms,
are available at the following sites:
www.biosyst.eu www.conferencemanager.se/-
BiosystEU2017 \Catarina.Rydin@su.se"
<Catarina.Rydin@su.se >
Gothenburg BioSyst Barcoding
Aug15-18
Dear colleagues,
I would like to draw your attention to the upcom-
ing BioSyst.EU conference in August 2017 in Sweden,
Gothenburg, where we will organize a half-day sympo-
sium on \DNA-barcoding and the future of biodiversity
monitoring", with a special focus on metabarcoding
approaches for biodiversity monitoring.
We are aiming at bringing together the experts on this
topic and would like to cover as many aspects as possi-
ble in a balanced fashion - given the time limitation for
approx. 1 plenary talk and 8 regular talks. There is of
course room for poster contributions as well.
Registration for presentations closes at February 1st. It
would be great if you let us know if you are interested in
bringing the audience up to date with the latest ndings
from your eld of research.
Application for presenters is done by sending an e-mail
to
BioSyst2017abstracts@gmail.com.The e-mail should contain the following information:
-Which symposium you would prefer to be assigned
to -The title of your presentation -If it is an Oral pre-
sentation or Poster -An abstract in either doc/pdf/txt
-format.
Please nd further details on the conference here:
http://www.conferencemanager.se/BiosystEU2017/-
start.html http://www.conferencemanager.se/-
BiosystEU2017/speakers-and-symposia.html Please
apologize any cross-postings.
best, Matthias Geiger
Matthias Geiger <geiger@daad-alumni.de >
Groningen ESEB AgeingBiology
Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues,
We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and at-
tend our ESEB2017 symposium [S5] on \*Evolutionary
Biology of Ageing: integrating function and mecha-
nism*".
The symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB),
in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017. The
deadline for abstract submission is *January 10, 2017* .
Less than a week left for abstract submission!!
To submit abstracts online, please go to: http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DE-
SCRIPTION: Ageing is an almost ubiquitous feature of
living organisms but its evolution and mechanistic basis
are still poorly understood. The rapid advances in our
understanding of the molecular biology of ageing pose
new challenges for our understanding of ageing evolu-
tion, and have created an urgent need for the integration
of recent empirical insights with an evolutionary frame-
work of senescence and lifespan. Thus the ambition of
this symposium is to address the integration of function
and mechanism in our understanding of the process and
evolution of senescence, both from an empirical and a
theoretical point of view. In addition, we aim for a
perspectives paper by the organizers together with the
speakers. Questions of interest include: Does the evo-
lution of ageing depend on the mechanisms mediating
senescence and death, and if so - how? Is the trade-o
between reproduction and survival indispensable for our
understanding of the biology of ageing? How important14 EvolDir February 1, 2017
are condition-dependent and true extrinsic mortality
rates for the evolution of ageing? How and why do de-
velopmental processes and growth aect the evolution of
senescence? What do state-dependent (i.e. sex-specic
or caste-specic) ageing patterns tell us about ageing in
general?
INVITED SPEAKERS (both conrmed): Russell Bon-
duriansky (UNSW, Sydney, Australia) Thomas Flatt
(University of Lausanne, Switzerland)
ORGANIZERS: Alexei Maklakov (Uppsala) Ido Pen
(Groningen) Simon Verhulst (Groningen)
{
Alexei A. Maklakov Associate Professor Animal Ecol-
ogy/Department of Ecology and Genetics Evolutionary
Biology Centre Uppsala University Norbyv agen 18D
Uppsala, SE-752 36 Sweden
Tel: +46 18 471 2672 Fax: +46 18 471 6484
University lab page: http://www.ieg.uu.se/animal-
ecology/Research+groups/maklakov-lab Our
Lab page: http://alexeimaklakov.com Google
Scholar: http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
8aCng7oAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao Research Gate:
https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Alexei Maklakov
Alexei.Maklakov@ebc.uu.se
Groningen ESEB
CytonuclearSpeciation Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues,
We encourage you to submit abstracts and attend our
ESEB2017 symposium [S28] on \Intragenomic conicts
and cytonuclear incompatibilities as engines of specia-
tion"
The symposium will take place at the XVI Congress of
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB),
in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017. The
deadline for abstract submission is January 10, 2017.
For abstract guidelines, please visit http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: This symposium is
the result of merging two former independent proposals,
\Intragenomic conicts and speciation" and \The impact
of mitonuclear incompatibilities on animal speciation".
Conicts between genetic elements within an individual
for transmission into the next generation are increasinglyrecognized as powerful drivers of evolutionary change.
A by-product of the conicts and their dierential res-
olution can be negative epistatic interactions causing
reduced tness of hybrids and thus paving the way to
speciation. Multiple genes involved in postzygotic repro-
ductive isolation between recently diverged species have
experienced bouts of adaptive evolution which cannot
be easily linked to ecological selection, but which could
result from intragenomic conict (IC) and selection for
its resolution. Also phenotypes of interspecic crosses
experiencing asymmetric hybrid breakdown can often
be linked to ICs. A major unresolved question is the
relative role of ecologically based selection and selec-
tion due to ICs in the early stages of speciation. In
this symposium we would like to bring together diverse
experimental, comparative and theoretical perspectives
on the subject.
Many dierent and essential molecular factories within
the cell combine units contributed both by nuclear and
organelle genomes. Notwithstanding the functional con-
straints that operate on those complexes, the indepen-
dent control of the replication of those genomes antici-
pates challenging scenarios for the interplay of genetic
conicts, compensatory changes and molecular drive.
Mitochondrial and plastid genome variation in natural
populations have been traditionally considered as essen-
tially neutral, and accordingly used during the last three
decades to reconstruct the history of genetic lineages
in a huge number of animal and plant species. Direct
evidence of cytonuclear incompatibilities in wild popula-
tions is relatively common in plants, but denitely not
in animals, which could be particularly hard to analyze
in this respect. If mitonuclear incompatibilities in wild
animal populations were nally unveiled, it would be
necessary to revise the main conclusions of hundreds of
papers dealing with phylogeographic patterns in animal
species, published in the last 30 years, and the general
role of the coevolution of nuclear and organelle genomes
in speciation.
Organizers: Wieslaw Babik, Tracey Chapman, Radwan
Jacek, Horacio Naveira, Ant on Vila-Sanjurjo
Invited speakers: Daven Presgraves, Dan Mishmar |
Dr. Horacio F. Naveira Professor of Genetics GIBE
(http://www.udc.gal/grupos/gibe/index.html) Center
of Advanced Scientic Research (CICA) Department
of Molecular and Cellular Biology Faculty of Sciences
University of A Coru na R ~Aoa da Fraga 10 (Campus
Zapateira) 15008 A Coru na, SPAIN
Tel. (34)881012047
horaci@udc.esFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 15
Groningen ESEB
GeneticExchangeMicrobesDisease
Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues,
We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and
attend our ESEB2017 symposium [S21] on \Genetic ex-
change in microbial adaptation and infectious disease ^A2.
The symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB),
in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017. The
deadline for abstract submission is January 10, 2017.
To submit abstracts online, please go to: http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DE-
SCRIPTION: Horizontal gene transfer (genetic ex-
change) plays a key role in microbial evolution. New
insights into mechanisms and consequences of gene ex-
change, such as the contribution of phage-encoded genes
to bacterial adaptation in the gut and CRISPR systems
for bacterial immunity, are fundamentally changing our
understanding of how the genetic variation that fuels
evolution is created. Moreover, genetic exchange is cen-
tral to the evolutionary biology of infectious disease. For
example, antibiotic resistance alleles and virulence fac-
tors are often encoded on mobile elements such as plas-
mids. This symposium aims to bridge the gap between
research on the basic evolutionary biology of genetic
exchange and consequences for understanding the evolu-
tion and epidemiology of infectious diseases. We think
this will make an exciting ESEB symposium because ge-
netic exchange is a highly active eld among theoretical
and experimental evolutionary biologists, and its role
in pathogen evolution is a clear example of how evolu-
tionary biology can inform public health and medicine.
The invited speakers are at the forefront of research on
horizontal gene transfer, its role in evolution in general
and in key contexts like antibiotic resistance. To mini-
mize implicit bias in reviewing submitted abstracts we
will use a blinding procedure.
INVITED SPEAKERS (both conrmed): Didier Mazel
(Institut Pasteur, Paris, France) Alvaro San Millan (Uni-
versity of Oxford, UK)
ORGANIZERS: Jan Engelst adter (U Queensland) Alex
Hall (ETH Zurich) Ellie Harrison (U York)
If you have any questions, please don ^A1t hesi-tate to contact one of us (j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au,
alex.hall@env.ethz.ch or ellie.harrison@york.ac.uk). We
hope to see you in Groningen later this year!
| Jan Engelst adter The University of Queensland School
of Biological Sciences Brisbane, QLD 4072 Australia
phone: +61 7 336 57959
www.engelstaedterlab.org "j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au\
<j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au >
Groningen ESEB
GenomicsOfAdaptation Aug20-25
Abstract submission deadline: **Next Tuesday Jan 10**
Dear All,
We would like to invite abstract submissions for our
upcoming symposium on the Genomics of Adaptation
that will take place as part of the 16th Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB). The
conference will take place from August 20th - August
25th, 2017 in Groningen, the Netherlands.
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Genomics of Adapta-
tion [S16] Model organisms for life-history research are
mainly studied in the lab where functional genetics is
assessable. In general, however, knowledge about their
eco-evolutionary dynamics, such as biotic interactions,
is rare. By contrast, in organisms for which the ecology
and adaptation strategies in the eld are well known,
we typically lack the appropriate genetic tools to investi-
gate functionality. Advances in genomics and statistics
as well as investments in evolutionary model organisms
are now providing access to putatively adaptive genome-
wide variation within species from across the tree of life.
In this symposium, we focus on integrating life-history
biology, genetics and evolutionary ecology in the ge-
nomics era. We wish to (1) highlight the role of genetic
architecture of complex traits, such as adaptations to
biotic interactions or life-history traits; (2) contrast this
to morphological traits which are generally thought to
have a less complex genetic architecture; and (3) dis-
cuss the opportunities and drawbacks of specic model
systems.
INVITED SPEAKERS (**updated**): Susan
Johnston, University of Edinburgh (https://-
susanejohnston.wordpress.com) Peter Tin, University
of Minnesota (http://cbs.umn.edu/tin-lab/)
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION The deadline for abstract16 EvolDir February 1, 2017
submission is this coming Tuesday January 10, 2017. For
more information and to submit abstracts online, please
visit: http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ We
look forward to an exciting symposium and seeing you
all in Groningen!
Sincerely, Ben Blackman, UC Berkeley Maaike de Jong,
University of Bristol Bart Pannebakker, Wageningen
University Noah Whiteman, UC Berkeley Jelle Zand-
veld, Wageningen University
Benjamin Blackman Department of Plant and Microbial
Biology University of California, Berkeley 361 Koshland
Hall Berkeley, CA 94720
Phone: 510.664.7807 E-mail: bkblack-
man@berkeley.edu Web: http://nature.berkeley.edu/-
blackmanlab \bkblackman@berkeley.edu"
<bkblackman@berkeley.edu >
Groningen ESEB SexualSelection
Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues,
We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts for
ORAL and POSTER presentations and attend our
ESEB2017 symposium [S12] on \Environmental eects
on sexual selection".
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s12-environmental-eects-
on-sexual/ The symposium will take place at the 16th
Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary
Biology (ESEB), in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25
August 2017. http://www.eseb2017.nl/home/ The
deadline for abstract submission is January 10, 2017.
To submit abstracts online, please go to: http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM
DESCRIPTION [S12] Environmental eects on sexual
selection
Sexual selection plays an important role in the evolution
of novel traits and can both enhance and delay the rate
of adaptation to changing environments. As for all other
traits, the evolution of sexual traits depends on three
factors: variation in trait expression, heritability of this
variation, and the association of traits with reproductive
output. However, specically in the case of sexual se-
lection environmental variation and selection pressures
(mate choice and competition) can interact to shape
the evolutionary dynamics of secondary sexual traits. It
is currently widely debated how environmental change
will aect sexual selection and, inversely, what the roleof sexual selection is in adaptation to a new environ-
ment In a time of major environmental change, these
questions are particularly important. We encourage
submission of a diversity of studies (descriptive, experi-
mental, theoretical) that address the inuence of spatial
or temporal variation of environmental conditions on
the expression of sexual traits, their heritability, or their
selective advantage. We aim to cover a wide range of
methodological approaches, systems and modalities to
facilitate a lively exchange about how to study and
understand the magnitude of environmental eects on
sexual selection.
INVITED SPEAKERS: Ulrika Candolin (Helsinki), Erik
Svensson (Lund)
ORGANIZERS: Carlos Camacho, Karen de Jong, Katja
Heubel, Jes ~Aos Martinez-Padilla, Jaime Potti
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate
contacting one of us (jmartinezpadilla12@gmail.com,
katja.heubel@uni-koeln.de, kjong@uni-koeln.de). We
hope to see you in Groningen later this year!
Katja, Karen & Jes ~Aos
{
Dr. Katja Heubel, docent University of Cologne Insti-
tute for Zoology General Ecology Ecological Research
Station Grietherbusch Grietherbusch 3a 46459 Rees-
Grietherbusch phone: +49 2851-8130 GSM +49 173-
8215997 email: katja.heubel@uni-koeln.de
\katja.heubel@uni-koeln.de" <katja.heubel@uni-
koeln.de>
Groningen-Netherlands
EvolutionMedicineSociety Aug18-21
February 15 is the deadline for abstract submission
for The International Society for Evolution, Medicine
& Public Health Third Annual Meeting August 18-21,
2017 in Groningen, Netherlands, in conjunction with
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
meeting August 21-25.
Registration for both meetings will open in February.
Keynote speakers include Svante P a abo, Linda Par-
tridge, Stephen Stearns, Marian Joels, Mervyn Singer,
Sylvia Cremer, Francisco Ubeda, and Peer Bork.
Full information at http://evolutionarymedicine.org
rmnesse@gmail.comFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 17
Hawaii HistoryOfPacicMarineLife
May23-25
Dear List
We invite abstract submissions for the GSA 2017 113th
Annual meeting held at the Hawaiian Convention
Center<https://www.meethawaii.com/convention-
center/>in Honolulu. After the great success
of ICRS 2016, we hope that you will come and
share your research with us again on the beautiful
island of O'ahu and enjoy the variety of activities
including eldtrips <http://www.geosociety.org/-
GSA/Events/Section Meetings/GSA/Sections/cd/-
2017mtg/eldtrips.aspx >and courses <http://-
www.geosociety.org/GSA/Events/Section Meetings/-
GSA/Sections/cd/2017mtg/courses.aspx >available.
*Abstract Submission Deadline: 14th February 2017*
*Student travel grants and registration waivers are avail-
able.*
*Theme Session T22: *Cenozoic Paleoecology, Pale-
ogeography, and Evolutionary History of Pacic Ma-
rine Life<https://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2017CD/top/-
index.epl>
This session will focus on all environmental and evolu-
tionary aspects of the Cenozoic (66-0 Ma) history of
marine life in the Pacic Ocean at all temporal and
spatial scales. It will include studies employing evidence
from paleoceanography as well as studies employing ev-
idence from the modern fauna. Of particular interest
are studies on the phylogeny of major taxa, paleoecolog-
ical or evolutionary adaptations in a changing marine
environment, and the inuence of changes in seawater
chemistry and temperature throughout the Cenozoic.
Among other things, we welcome studies that include
the reconstruction of the history or coral reef or mollus-
can communities. Paleobotany, molecular studies, and
micropaleontology are all meant to be included.
*Registration and abstract submission:* Here!
< https://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2017CD/top/-
papers/index.cgi?sessionid=42156&username=-
291968&password=367139 >
*23-25 May 2017 - Honolulu, Hawai'i USA*
Hawai'i Convention Center, Honolulu, Hawai'i <https:/-
/www.meethawaii.com/convention-center/ >*Important Deadlines*
Abstracts Submission 14 February
Early Registration 17 April
Student Travel Application 17 April
Student Volunteer for Registration Waiver 17 April
Registration Cancellation 24 April
Hotel Reservation Rate 1 May
Please contact Steve or Sonia for further details about
this session:
Principal organizer: Dr. Steven M. Stanley,
stevenst@hawaii,edu
Co-organizer Dr. Sonia J. Rowley, srowley@hawaii,edu
Feel free to forward the following information to col-
leagues or students who might have an interest in par-
ticipating in this session.
We look forward to seeing you there
Aloha
{ Sonia J. Rowley PhD Postdoctoral Research Fellow Uni-
versity of Hawai'i at Manoa POST 713, 1680 East-West
Road Honolulu, HI 96822 +1 808 348 6224
Research Aliate - Bishop Museum Chief Science Ocer
- Assoc. Marine Exploration
Sonia Rowley <srowley@hawaii.edu >
Lund SexHermaphrodites Mar9-10
RegistrationOpen
Dear all,
We are happy to announce that 2017 SHOW meeting
will be held in Lund, Sweden during 9 - 10th of March!
The meeting will take place in the Ecology building
(S olvegatan 37) which is located northeast of the city
centre. It takes between 10-15 minutes to get there by
bus from the centre, or 30 minutes by walking. The
preliminary schedule for the meeting is:
Wednesday, 8th March: Informal meet-up at restaurant
Inferno in downtown Lund Thursday, 9th March: 9-12:
talks 13-16: talks 16-17: poster presentations Evening:
conference dinner at restaurant Hardings in Marieholm
(town located close to Lund) Friday, 10th March: 9-12:
talks 13-15: workshop/group discussion 16: meeting
closes18 EvolDir February 1, 2017
As usual, we will reserve the last session on Friday for
discussion/workshop and we are grateful for suggestions
and ideas for discussion topics, and thoughts on what
the meeting should focus on.
The dinner venue is Hardings in Marieholm, a small
town in the countryside, less than 20 minutes train
ride from Lund. Since this involves additional travel
expense (approximately 100 SEK return fee), we
have decided to make the dinner optional. Thus, the
registration fee without the conference dinner will
be slightly less expensive (300 SEK) than with (450
SEK). Alcohol with dinner is purchased separately
by cash or card - Hardings sells wine, cocktails,
locally brewed beer, and has a decent selection of
whiskey and rum. Tickets to and from Marieholm
can easily be purchased at the time of travel or in
advance through the Sk ~A netraken app (Android:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=-
se.fskab.android.reseplaneraren&hl=en, iPhone:
https://itunes.apple.com/se/app/skanetraken/-
id310917083?l=en&mt=8).
Travelling to Lund by airport is very convenient, since
Kastrup airport (in Copenhagen, Denmark) is just
across the bridge. Trains from Kastrup airport to Swe-
den depart every 20 minutes and takes around 40-50
minutes to Lund.
There are several places to stay in Lund, and most of
them are located in the city center, like for example these
two hotels: http://www.concordia.se/en.aspx https:/-
/www.elite.se/en/hotels/lund/hotel-bishops-arms and
this hostel: http://www.winstruphostel.se/. Another
option would be to stay closer to the Ecology building
where the meeting is held, at Hotel Ideon: https://-
www.elite.se/en/hotels/lund/hotel-ideon/. Please make
your own reservation at your preferred hotel/hostel.
If you like to attend, please reply with the information
in the registration form below. The deadline registration
is February The small registration fee (450 SEK with
conference dinner, 300 SEK without) can be paid in
cash on arrival or by bank transfer to Jessica Abbott,
and will cover food and drinks during the meeting.
*****
SHOW 2017 REGISTRATION
First name: Last name: Institutional address: Email:
Tel:
Do you want to give a talk? YES / NO If yes, please
provide a preliminary title:
Do you want to bring a poster? YES / NO If yes, please
provide a preliminary title:
I would like to attend the conference dinner: YES / NOIf yes, meal preference: Pork / Chicken / Vegetarian
Special dietary requirements:
Preferred method of payment: Cash / Bank transfer
*****
Finally, please feel free to forward this email to others
not on the email list who you feel might be interested
in attending the SHOW.
We look forward to seeing you in Lund soon!
All the best,
Jessica, ~Asa and Anna
{ Dr. Jessica K. Abbott Department of Biology Section
for Evolutionary Ecology Lund University S olvegatan
37 223 62 Lund, Sweden Phone: 046 222 9304 Website:
http://jessicakabbott.com \It is those who know little,
and not those who know much, who so positively assert
that this or that problem will never be solved by science."
- Charles Darwin, Descent of Man
Jessica Abbott <jessica.abbott@biol.lu.se >
LundU SwedishOikos2017 Feb7-9
RegistrationClosing
The last day to register for Oikos 2017 is Monday Jan-
uary 16th. Don't miss this opportunity to meet ecolo-
gists and evolutionary biologists from throughout Swe-
den!
Register here: http://oikos2017.event.lu.se/registration
The Swedish Oikos Congress 2017 will take place 7th
- 9th February 2017 in Lund. Venue for the meeting
will be Paleastra, in the heart of the city. A confer-
ence dinner will be held on the evening of February 8th,
and there will be pre-congress workshops on Monday
February 6th. The meeting is open to all ecologists and
evolutionary biologists regardless of subdiscipline, and
we have a wide breadth of talks and plenaries!
{ Dr. Jessica K. Abbott Senior University Lec-
turer Department of Biology Section for Evolution-
ary Ecology Lund University S olvegatan 37 223 62
Lund, Sweden Phone: 046 222 9304 Website: http://-
jessicakabbott.com \It is those who know little, and
not those who know much, who so positively assert that
this or that problem will never be solved by science." -
Charles Darwin, Descent of Man
Jessica Abbott <jessica.abbott@biol.lu.se >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 19
Marseilles 21stEvolutionaryBiol
Sep26-29 EarlyDeadLine
Dear all , the early dead line for the 21st evolutionary
biology meeting at Marseilles ( September 26-29 2017)
is January 31.
more info :aeeb.fr
best regards
Pierre
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr>
Marseilles EBM21 Sep26-29
EarlyDeadlineTopics
Dear all , the early dead line for the 21st evolutionary
biology meeting at Marseilles ( September 26-29 2017)
is January 31.
The following subjects will be discussed:
* Evolutionary biology concepts and modeling; * Biodi-
versity and Systematics; * Comparative genomics ans
post-genomics (at all taxomic levels); * Self non Self
Evolution * Holobiome evolution * Environment and
biological evolution; * Origin of life and exobiology; *
Non-adaptative versus adaptative evolution; * The 
minorphyla: their usefulness in evolutionary biol-
ogy knowledge; * Convergent evolution * Evolution of
complex traits (Evo-Devo)
more info :aeeb.fr
best regards
Pierre
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr>Mosocow ICIM Aug18-23
OldSpecimensNewTechnology
Dear colleagues,
We welcome contributed talks in our symposium \Mor-
phological Lazarisation: when new technology brings life
to historical specimens" at the International Congress
on Invertebrate Morphology in Moscow this August,
18th-23rd. Museum specimens remain an invaluable
part of our work and are often of stunning quality, even
in comparison with more recently obtained material. We
want to celebrate this, and the development of modern
techniques which help us bring these specimens back to
new life.
We realise that there may be certain political and per-
sonal concerns associated with attending this year's
conference, and we want to reassure you that we under-
stand these concerns. Your support of science without
borders is very important to us and the International
Society for Invertebrate Morphology, to our host com-
mittee in Moscow and to the wider community, so we
hope that you will join us this summer to celebrate
research with our colleagues in Russia. Registration and
abstract submission are now open! Please do register
when possible - there are just two weeks left before the
early bird deadline.
All presenting authors can submit one oral and one
poster abstract. Please do encourage others in your labs
and networks to submit content for the symposium -
we would be delighted to have other researchers, at any
career stage, join us.
A quick breakdown of the various upcoming deadlines:
www.icim4.com 1st February = Early bird registration
deadline. Early bird registration is 250 EUR, increasing
to 280 EUR. Note that to request an invitation letter
for your visa application, you will need to complete the
necessary boxes in the registration form (marked 'for
visa support').
31st March = Manuscript deadline for publication in In-
vertebrate Zoology. If you wish to submit a manuscript
related to the symposium, the deadline for submissions
is coming up at the end of March. See here for more
information.
30th April = Abstract and registration deadline. Note
that to request an invitation letter for your visa appli-
cation, you will need to complete the necessary boxes20 EvolDir February 1, 2017
in the registration form (marked 'for visa support').
Regarding visas, we recommend that all speakers com-
plete their applications as soon as possible after receiving
their letter of invitation. There are further guidelines
available here on the ICIM website.www.icim4.com
Finally, we are collecting examples of new discoveries
made using historic specimens. If you have or know of a
particularly interesting example, we would love to hear
about it!
Best wishes for the coming months,
Lauren Sumner-Rooney and Julia Sigwart
\j.sigwart@qub.ac.uk"
NHM London
EvolutionColourAndVision Apr27
Dear Colleagues,
The Natural History Museum (London, UK) together
with the Malacological Society of London is hosting
a symposium, \Molluscan Colour and Vision" to be
held on the 27th of April 2017 at the Natural History
Museum.
The phylum Mollusca is highly speciose and is the largest
phylum in the marine realm. Many species are brightly
coloured and patterned and yet nearly all molluscs are
thought to be colour blind. Despite their limitations
with colour vision, molluscs showcase a myriad of dier-
ent eye types, many of which are unique in the animal
kingdom. In this symposium speakers will cover a range
of topics that highlight the extraordinary nature of
colour and vision in molluscs.
Schedule 1030-1100: Registration 1100-1110: Introduc-
tion and welcome 1110-1130: Jakob Vinther: Fossil
colour and molluscan evolution. 1130-1220: Daniel
Speiser: The function and evolution of highly-dispersed
visual systems in molluscs. 1220-1240: Trevor Wardill:
Neural control of squid skin iridescence and its potential
role for communication. 1240-1400: MSL AGM 1400-
1450: S onke Johnsen: Tricks of light, mirror, and color:
The beautiful camouage of pelagic cephalopods. 1450-
1510: Lauren Sumner-Rooney: The repeated evolution
of eye loss in deep-sea solariellid gastropods. 1510-
1530: Marcel Koken: New lights on biodiversity: natu-
ral uorescence. 1530-1600: Tea and coee. 1600-1620:
Suzanne Williams: Identication of pigments and genes
contributing to shell colour in a marine snail. 1620-1640: Nick Roberts: Seeing the world in a dierent
light - polarization vision in cephalopods. 1640-1700:
Angus Davison: Cepaea colour polymorphism - why
and how do snails vary in their shell colour and band-
ing? 1700-1720: Alexander Arkhipkin: Coevolution in
body coloration and camouage in cephalopods and
sh. 1720-1730: Wrap up and thanks 1730-1900: Wine
reception
Registration The meeting is free but registration is nec-
essary.
Please register by sending an email to the automated
account MSL-events@nhm.ac.uk. You will receive a
bounce back message to say that you have successfully
registered. Please do not send queries to this account.
Each participant must register in a separate email.
Speakers Daniel Speiser, University of South Carolina
http://www.biol.sc.edu/daniel-speiser S onke Johnsen,
Duke University http://sites.biology.duke.edu/-
johnsenlab/ Jakob Vinther, University of Bristol
http://www.jakobvinther.com/Front page.html Lauren
Sumner-Rooney, Museum f ur Naturkunde, Berlin
https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Lauren Sumner-
Rooney Nick Roberts, Bristol University http://-
www.ecologyofvision.com/ Trevor Wardill, University
of Cambridge http://www.pdn.cam.ac.uk/directory/-
trevor-wardill Angus Davison, University of Not-
tingham http://www.angusdavison.org/ Alexander
Arkhipkin, Falkland Islands Fisheries Department
http://south-atlantic-research.org/our-people/research-
fellows/66-sashaarkh ipkin
Marcel Koken, Centre National de la Recherche
Scientique https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Marcel Koken Suzanne Williams, Natural History Mu-
seum http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-science/departments-
and-sta/sta-directory/suza nne-williams.html
Dr Suzanne Williams Dept of Life Sciences Natural His-
tory Museum Cromwell Rd London SW7 5BD United
Kingdom Tel: + 44 (0) 207 942 5351
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/sta-
directory/zoology/s-williams/i ndex.html
\s.williams@nhm.ac.uk" <s.williams@nhm.ac.uk >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 21
Paris EvolutionSymbiosis Mar15-17
The Institute of Biology Paris-Seine (IBPS, Universit e
Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris) is organizing its annual
international symposium on the biology of symbiosis.
During the three days of the conference, 18 French, Eu-
ropean and North-American scientists will present their
work in four main sessions:
Symbiosis in our environment and within several species
(gorilla, chimp, worm...) Symbiotic interactions during
the immune response in infectious diseases (malaria,
dengue virus...) Evolution, modelling and biology of
symbiosis The importance of the microbiota in hu-
man health (metabolic diseases, neurologic troubles,
obesity...)
Speakers : Antoine Danchin - ICAN, Paris, France ^ a
Nicole Dubilier - MPI -Bremen, Germany^ a Colomban
de Vargas - Rosco Station, France ^ a Eric Bapteste -
IBPS, Paris, France^ a Howard Ochman - Texas Univer-
sity, Austin, USA ^ a Marc-Andr e S elosse - MNHN, Paris,
France ^ a Bruno Lema ~Atre - EPFL, Lausanne, Switzer-
land ^ a Georges Dimopoulos - Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, USA ^ a Louis Lambrechts - Pasteur Institute,
Paris, France ^ a Philippe Sansonetti - Pasteur Institute,
Paris, France ^ a Jan Sapp - York University, Toronto,
Canada ^ a Jeroen Raes - Catholic University of Leuven,
Belgium ^ a Nancy Moran - Texas University, Austin,
USA ^ a Jens Nielsen - Gothenburg University, Sweden ^ a
Karine Cl ement - ICAN, Paris, France ^ a Sven Pettersson
- Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden - Nanyang
Tech. University, Singapore ^ a Michel Neunlist - Nantes
University, France
Venue: March 15-17, 2017 Amphitheater Durand, Es-
clangon building, Jussieu Campus, 4 place Jussieu,
75005, Paris
Registration open here on November 15th: https:/-
/symbiosis.sciencesconf.org Symposium announce-
ment page: http://www.ibps.upmc.fr/en/news-
events/events/ibps-symposium-symbiosis Contact:
ibps.comm@upmc.fr
Philippe Lopez <philippe.lopez@upmc.fr >Paris Holobionts Apr19-21
RegistrationExt
Dear colleagues,
Registration for the International Conference on Holo-
bionts, Paris April 19-21, 2017 is extended to Feb. 15th.
For more information and details about this event,
please visit the conference website at https://-
symposium.inra.fr/holobiont-paris2017/ .Please, do not
hesitate to diuse this announcement to interested col-
leagues. Thanks. Best regards
Jean-Christophe SIMON
Please note my new email address: jean-
christophe.simon@inra.fr
Jean-Christophe SIMON UMR 1349 INRA/Agrocampus
Ouest/Universit e Rennes 1 Institut de G en etique, Envi-
ronnement et Protection des Plantes (IGEPP) Domaine
de la Motte - 35653 Le Rheu Cedex - France
phone: +33 (0)2 23 48 51 54 fax: 33 (0)2 23 48 51 50 web
site IGEPP : http://www6.rennes.inra.fr/igepp Jean-
Christophe Simon <jean-christophe.simon@inra.fr >
PorquerollesIsle France
MathEvolBiol Jun12-16 2
MCEB - Mathematical and Computational Evolution-
ary Biology 12-16 June 2017 - Porquerolles Island, South
of France.
Webpage: http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/ Pre-
registration deadline: February 26th
Notication to applicants: March 17th
Final list of attendees: April 17th
Registation page : http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/-
register.php Scope: Mathematical and computational
tools and concepts form an essential basis for modern
evolutionary studies. The goal of the MCEB conference
(at its 9th edition) is to bring together scientists with
diverse backgrounds to present recent advances and dis-
cuss open problems in the eld of mathematical and22 EvolDir February 1, 2017
computational evolutionary biology. The theme of this
year's edition will be \Methods for integrative evolution-
ary biology: various sources of data, various scales of
evolution", which includes the analysis of heterogeneous
data (molecular, phenotypic, ecological...), dierent time
scales (from recent times to the origin of life), dier-
ent spatial scales (from local to worldwide range), the
combination of phylogenetics and population genetics,
multidisciplinary approaches, etc.. General concepts,
models, methods and algorithms will also be presented
and discussed, just as during the previous conference
editions.
Where and when: Porquerolles Island, near Hyeres, in
the South of France, 12-16 June 2017.
Cost: Conference fees including accommodation for four
nights, meals, coee breaks, etc., will be around 450euro,
all inclusive. PhD students and postdocs would benet
of nancial support.
Keynote speakers:
Elizabeth Allman (Department of Mathematics and
Statistics, University of Alaska Fairbanks) http://-
www.dms.uaf.edu/%7Eeallman/ Guy Baele (Rega
Institute / KU Leuven - Evolutionary and Compu-
tational Virology Section) https://rega.kuleuven.be/-
cev/ecv/lab-members/GuyBaele.html Stephane Dray
(Laboratoire de Biometrie et Biologie Evolutive (LBBE),
Lyon) http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/members/dray/cv.php
Barbara Holland (Theoretical Phylogenetics Group,
School of Mathematics and Physics, University of
Tasmania) http://www.maths.utas.edu.au/People/-
Holland/ Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas (Institute of
Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern) http://-
www.cmpg.iee.unibe.ch/about us/team/researchers/-
assprof drmala spinas anna sapfo/index eng.html
Yun Song (Calabi-Simons Chair in Mathematics and Bi-
ology, Departments of Mathematics and Biology, Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania) http://www.sas.upenn.edu/ ~yss/
Marc Suchard (David Geen School of Medicine at
UCLA, Departments of Biomathematics, Biostatistics
and Human Genetics) http://faculty.biomath.ucla.edu/-
msuchard/ For more information, visit the website at:
http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/ Please forward this
announcement!
Olivier GASCUEL <olivier.gascuel@pasteur.fr >Portland Evolution ASN
SensoryDrive Jun23-27
The American Society of Naturalists is seeking 5-minute
lightning talks for a Spotlight Session at the Evolu-
tion2017 meetings dedicated to the topic of ?25 Years
of Sensory Drive?. In 1992, the American Naturalist
published a supplemental issue on the topic of 'Sensory
Drive' organized by John Endler.? This issue featured
a number of inuential papers that emphasized the
role of the environment, phylogenetic history, and de-
velopment on the evolution and functioning of sensory
systems. This supplement introduced many ecologists
and evolutionary biologists to the intriguing and well-
developed topic of sensory ecology.? In this spotlight
session, we will consider the role of sensory drive as a
guiding framework in ecological and evolutionary stud-
ies of communication systems over the past 25 years,
and the extent to which it serves as a useful framework
going forward.
The format of Spotlight Sessions is the following: 1 15-
minute talk 3 5-minute lightning talks 1 15-minute talk
3 5-minute lightning talks 1 15-minute talk
Conrmed Speakers include Molly Cummings (Univer-
sity of Texas at Austin) and Leo Fleishman (Union
College). People who give 5-minute lightning talks may
also give a 15-minute talk in a regular session. We
seek speakers from a diversity of institutions and career
stages (including graduate students).
Those interested in participating should e-mail Becky
Fuller (fuller@life.uiuc.edu) by February 1, 2017.
\fuller@life.illinois.edu" <fuller@life.illinois.edu >
Portland SSE MaleCompSpeciation
Jun23-27
Spotlight Symposium - Evolution Portland 2017
Conference: Portland.SSE MaleComp&Speciation.Jun23-
27
Sexual selection via male competition and the process
of speciationFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 23
I am organizing a special Spotlight Symposium for this
year's Evolution meeting in Portland, focused on the
role of male competition in speciation. The meeting
takes place June 23-27, 2017 in Portland Oregon.
The role of sexual selection in speciation remains con-
troversial, despite the last two decades of intensive work.
The importance of male competition has been almost en-
tirely ignored, as nearly all the work focuses exclusively
on how female preferences generate sexual selection in
ways that hinder gene ow. This is despite that ecolog-
ical competition over resources plays a central role in
speciation via natural selection, and that male competi-
tion can generate very strong selection. However, recent
work suggests that incorporating both male competition
and female choice into research on speciation can help
resolve the controversy over whether and when sexual
selection causes speciation, prevents it, or has no real
eect. Male competition sometimes complements and
other times opposes female choice, which can either ac-
celerate or put a brake on the speciation process, or lead
to asymmetries in gene ow. Another complexity is that
males compete both before and after copulation through
sperm competition or the analogous pollen competition
in plants; including this component can draw interesting
parallels between animal and plant speciation.
I invite submissions for 5 minute 'Lightning Talks' that
present perspectives from behavior, ecology, and evolu-
tion in an explicitly evolutionary framework with direct
connections to speciation research.
Here's the low-down on Spotlight Sessions from the
meeting organizers:
\Spotlight Sessions are more focused than a typical ses-
sion and have a dierent format. First, the talks are
solicited in advance. Second, each of the six Spotlight
Sessions will consist of 3 standard 15-minute talks inter-
spersed with sets of lightning (5-min) talks. We chose
this format by the logic that having several high-prole
researchers "anchoring\ a session on a specic topic
with a 15-minute talk will make it more valuable for
relatively junior researchers to give a 5-minute talk in a
focused session with the right target audience and other
relevant and well-known speakers rather than giving a
15-minute talk in a regular session."
Being part of this symposium can highlight your work
in this up-and-coming eld in context with others inter-
ested in similar topics. You get to help pave the way
for this new type of symposium at an awesome meeting
in the fun city of Portland. Unfortunately, the society
cannot compensate your expenses for participating in
this symposium.
Please contact me at boughman@msu.edu before Jan-uary 31, 2017 to indicate your interest in the symposium
and send an abstract. Also feel free to contact me if
you have questions. I will let you know whether you're
selected by March 15, well in advance of the April 15,
2017 early registration discount application deadline.
If selected for this Spotlight Session, you will register
accordingly on the website. Best wishes to you!
Jenny Boughman
Janette Boughman
Integrative Biology Ecology, Evolutionary Biology &
Behavior Program BEACON Center for the Study of
Evolution in Action Michigan State University East
Lansing MI 48824
boughman@msu.edu https://www.msu.edu/-
user/boughman/index.html Jenny Boughman
<boughman@msu.edu >
Portland SSE SexInTheWild
Jun23-27
Hi everyone,
I am writing to solicit applications from junior re-
searchers for a 5-minute talk in a \Spotlight Symposium"
that, as an Associate Editor at Evolution, I am orga-
nizing on a topic of my choice for the Society for the
Study of Evolution meetings in Portland, OR, June 23-
27, 2017. Here is how Spotlight Sessions are described
by the meeting organizers:
\Spotlight Sessions are more focused than a typical ses-
sion and have a dierent format. First, the talks are
solicited in advance. Second, each of the six Spotlight
Sessions will consist of 3 standard 15-minute talks inter-
spersed with sets of lightning (5-min) talks. We chose
this format by the logic that having several high-prole
researchers "anchoring\ a session on a specic topic
with a 15-minute talk will make it more valuable for
relatively junior researchers to give a 5-minute talk in a
focused session with the right target audience and other
relevant and well-known speakers rather than giving a
15-minute talk in a regular session."
My topic idea is \Sex in the Wild", which will focus
on exciting work relevant to the evolution/maintenance
of reproductive mode polymorphism in non-model or-
ganisms and/or using eld-based approaches to study
sex (and its alternatives) in natural populations. It
seems like a great opportunity to highlight this rela-24 EvolDir February 1, 2017
tively rare type of research, which is absolutely critical
to the study of sex but is often neglected in favor of
laboratory and/or model organism-focused studies.
The only problem is that we have no means to oset
travel or meeting costs, so I can't oer anything to the
speakers besides a spot in an exciting new type of sym-
posium featuring awesome speakers at a great meeting
in a very fun city.
Please contact me (maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu) by Jan.
31, 2017 if you're interested in being considered for a
5-minute talk and/or if you have any questions. I will
let you know whether you're selected by March 15, well
in advance of the April 15, 2017 early registration dis-
count application deadline. If selected for this Spotlight
Session, you will register accordingly on the website.
You can also sign up for a regular talk, along with your
Spotlight talk, if you'd like to do so.
All best wishes for 2017! Maurine Neiman
Maurine Neiman Associate Professor Department
of Biology University of Iowa 143 BB, Iowa City
IA, 52242, USA maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu http://-
www.biology.uiowa.edu/neiman/ \Neiman, Maurine"
<maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu >
Portland SSE Speciation Jun23-27
I am excited to solicit applications for 5-minute \light-
ning talks" for a Spotlight Session on \Speciation with
and without sex chromosomes" to be held at the up-
coming SSE conference in Portland OR, June 23-27,
2017.
Session description: Studies of the genetics of speciation
frequently focus on sex chromosomes. In fact, the \two
rules of speciation" (Coyne & Orr 1989) are both based
on sex chromosomes. In this symposium we address
how sex chromosomes aect speciation and explore how
speciation mechanisms may be dierent in the wide
diversity of taxa lacking sex chromosomes.
This is a new format for SSE and each Spotlight Session
will include three standard 15-minute talks interspersed
with six 5-minute talks. Unfortunately, there are no
funds to oset travel or meeting costs. Those who give 5-
minute Spotlight talks will also be permitted to register
for a 15-minute talk in a regular session.
Conrmed 15-minute spotlight speakers: Suzanne Ed-
mands (University of Southern California), NormanJohnson (University of Massachusetts, Amherst), Nicole
Valenzuela (Iowa State University)
If you are potentially interested in giving a 5-minute talk
in this session, please contact me (sedmands@usc.edu)
by Jan 31, 2017. I will let you know if you are selected
by March 15 and you would then register on the SSE
website (early registration deadline is April 15, 2017).
All the best,
Suzanne Edmands
{ Suzanne Edmands Professor Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences 3616 Trousdale Parkway, AHF 316 Uni-
versity of Southern California Los Angeles, CA 90089
(213)740-5548 http://dornsife.usc.edu/labs/edmands/
edmandss@gmail.com
Shanghai IUFROGeneticsGenomics
Nov1-3
Weare pleased to invite you to join us November 1-3,
2017 at the IUFRO special working group on Fagaceae
and Nothofagaceae genetics and genomics to be held at
the beautiful ChenShan Botanical Garden in Shanghai,
China. ||Mark your calendars and make plans to
participate as this exciting meeting will bring together
the latest results and insights from several large collabo-
rative genomic studies led by teams on several dierent
continents!
Meetingdates: Nov 1-3, 2017.| We will be scheduling
pre and post-meeting tours locally in Shanghai and in
the surrounding provinces as well as in Yunnan, satisfy-
ing both cultural and fagaceous interests.| We will also
be organizing genomic analysis and ex-situ conservation
workshops associated with the meeting.| This meeting
is being jointly organized by the Chen Shan Botanical
Garden and The Morton Arboretum's Center for Tree
Science.
Venue:ChenShan Botanical Garden, Shanghai, China.
|The CSBG is a comprehensive botanical garden with
strong scientic content and beautiful garden landscapes,
integrating scientic research, popularization of science,
landscape and leisure, co-constructed by Shanghai Mu-
nicipal People's Government, the Chinese Academy of
Sciences and the State Forestry Administration.| Of-
cially launched in March 2007, the Garden was fully
open on January 23, 2011.| More information about
the CSBG can be found at the following link: |https:/-
/www.bgci.org/garden.php?id=4544 . Conrmedspeak-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 25
ers: Christophe Plomion (NRA), Antoine Kremer
(INRA), Jeannine Cavender-Barres (U Minnesota), Vic-
toria Sork (UCLA), Jeanne Romero-Severson (Notre
Dame), Andrew Hipp (Morton), Chuck Cannon (Mor-
ton), Sean Hoban (Morton), Xiao-Yong Chen (East
China Normal Univ), Ye Sun (South China Ag Univ).
|
Websitefor registration and abstract submission will be
active by Feb 15, 2017 and a subsequent announcement
will be made inviting you to visit the site.
lscher@mortonarb.org
UExeter FishPopulations Jul3-7
The FSBI celebrates its 50 ^th Anniversary in 2017, and
to commemorate this landmark we are delighted to
announce an International Symposium covering many
aspects of sh biology under the broad theme of Under-
standing Fish Populations, to be hosted at the University
of Exeter, UK, 3-7 July 2017.
Included under this broad and diverse overarching sub-
ject are multiple sub-themes relating to the elds of
evolutionary biology, and we welcome you to join us in
presenting research on:
1. Biology of Fish: from the Individual to Populations
+ Genes, genomes and epigenomes
2. Fish in a Changing World + Evolutionary adapta-
tions 3. Tools for Understanding and Managing Fish
Populations + Genetics, genomics and eDNA
The Call for Abstracts for FSBI17, to be held in Exeter
(UK) on 3-7 July 2017, are open:
http://www.exeter.ac.uk/fsbi17/ We look forward to
welcoming you to Exeter next summer!
Steve Simpson, Iain Barber & the local organising com-
mittee
\Paris, Josie" <J.R.Paris@exeter.ac.uk >
UFMS Brazil Evol
*Symposium and Workshop on Ecology and Evolution
of Plant Reproduction, 24 - 30 April 2017*Greetings All!
We are pleased to welcome you to the international
*Symposium and Workshop on Ecology and Evolution
of Plant Reproduction*, at Universidade Federal de
Mato Grosso do Sul (UFMS), supported by the Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB).
The *symposium* will be held on *April 24 and 25,
2017* at UFMS in Campo Grande. It is open for presen-
tation of recent studies by researchers and students in
all elds of evolution and ecology of plant reproduction.
The meeting will be composed of 4 sessions each with
a 40-minute plenary and 6-8 contributed 15-20 minute
talks per session. The sessions are:
Session I - Pollination, mating and oral evolution,
Plenary speaker Lawrence Harder (Univ. of Calgary)
Session II - Gender strategies and the evolution of plant
sexual systems,
Plenary speaker John Pannell (Univ. of Lausanne)
Session III - Genetics and genomics of plant reproduc-
tion,
Plenary speaker Stephen Wright (Univ. of Toronto)
Session IV - Applied reproductive biology,
Plenary speaker Marcelo Aizen (Conicet)
Abstracts for talks and posters should be submitted via
the conference website (http://plantevol.sites.ufms.br/)
by March 15.
The *workshop* will follow from *April 26 to 30, 2017*
at the UFMS eld station in the Pantanal wetland, a
spectacular location with a diverse ora and fauna. The
main goal of the workshop is to address a general lack of
expertise in many approaches central to future progress
in plant evolutionary biology, by teaching techniques for
problem solving and new skill sets used in innovative
research in evolutionary ecology, genomics and applied
ecology and evolution. It is intended for graduate stu-
dents and post-doctoral fellows working on the ecology
and evolution of plant reproduction. Five distinguished
faculty with diverse backgrounds in plant ecology and
evolutionary biology will teach the workshop:
Spencer Barrett (Univ. of Toronto)
Lawrence Harder (Univ. of Calgary)
John Pannell (Univ. of Lausanne)
Marcelo Aizen (Conicet)
Stephen Wright (Univ. of Toronto)
Available housing limits course enrollment to ~20 stu-
dents.26 EvolDir February 1, 2017
For application forms and more detailed informa-
tion, please visit the ocial website of the event:
http://plantevol.sites.ufms.br/ or get in contact by
*plantevol2017@gmail.com*
We believe that both the symposium and workshop will
oer great opportunities for graduate students and fac-
ulty members to meet one another, exchange ideas, learn
new approaches and collaborate. We are condent that
your support will promote the success of this initiative
and the growth of plant evolutionary biology in Brazil
and other Latin American countries.
We look forward to meeting you at UFMS, Brazil in
April 2017
Yours Sincerely
Nicolay Leme da Cunha PhD
Chair of the Organizing Committee
Ecology and Evolution of Plant Reproduction
(nicolaycunha@gmail.com)
Nicolay Cunha <nicolaycunha@gmail.com >
YosemiteNationalPark Symbiosis
May5-7 Registration
Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop - Registration Now Open:
Dear Colleagues,
The Seventh annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will
take place on May 5th-7th, 2017 at the Sierra Nevada
Research Institute, Yosemite National Park. This has
become a great venue for a diversity of symbiosis re-
searchers. We hope to continue to attract a diverse
group in 2017!
Keynote speaker 2017: Dr. Corrie Moreau from the
Field Museum of Natural History.
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our continuing goal is to better integrate the
broad groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis re-search. Yosemite serves as an ideal site as it is both
beautiful and secluded. This will be our 7th annual
meeting and we have been consistently attracting scien-
tists from all over the country and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in cooper-
ation, mutualism, and symbiosis. In the past we have
covered a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and
evolution to molecular mechanisms in dierent model
and non-model systems. We would like to make room
for a diverse group of people so we will initially accept
up to 3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a
rst come rst served basis.
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held May 6-
7, 2017, though we make accommodation arrangements
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 5th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Abstract and early bird registration are due on March
6th, 2017.
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room.
Costs: See details in the registration page. We will only
be able to accept credit card payments this year. Your
registration is not activated until you have completed
the payment process. NOTE that the payment link is
at the top of the registration page. The registration fee
includes room and board.
The registration form for the 2017 Symbiosis Work-
shop is active: http://snri.ucmerced.edu/symbiosis
Please direct any questions to the organizers: Joel Sachs
joels@ucr.edu A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
{
*Joel L. Sachs**, Associate Professor* 5406 Boyce Hall
Department of Biology University of California River-
side, CA 92521
*Mailing Address:* Sachs Lab UC Riverside 3401
Watkins Dr. 1229 Spieth Hall Riverside, CA 92521
Oce (951) 827-6357 Fax (951) 827-4286 www. sach-
slab.com http://www.biology.ucr.edu/people/faculty/-
Sachs.html \joels@ucr.edu" <joels@ucr.edu >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 27
GradStudentPositions
Auckland OriginInsectReceptors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
CaliforniaStateU Northridge CoevolutionPopGenomics
28
ClemsonU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
DurhamU AncientDNA DeadlineExt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Glasgow ViralGenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
GrithU BioinformaticsGenomics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Helsinki MathematicalEcolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
ImperialC London 2 EvolutionInsectPollinators . . . .31
LundU EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
MNHN Paris FunctionalMorphology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
MonashU FairyWrenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
MPI Cologne PopulationGeneticModeling . . . . . . . . . 35
MPI Jena EvolutionInsectImmunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
MPIO Seewiesen EvolutionCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
QueensU AdaptationAtSpeciesRangeLimits . . . . . . . .36
QueensU SeabirdPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
RHUL London EvolutionInsectCognition . . . . . . . . . . 38
SimonFraserU 2 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Spain EvolutionSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Sydney AssistedMigration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UColoradoDenver PhysiologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 41
UGreifswald AnimalAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UGroningen AvianBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UGroningen EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
UHannover MadagascarDemographics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44UHongKong ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UHull UK EvolParentalCare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
ULeeds UK SeychellesWarblersFitness . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
ULeicester GreatApeGenomicDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ULeicester HumanAncientDNAModernDNAanalyses 48
ULethbridge AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
ULondon EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UManchester PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UNamur Belgium RotiferEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UNamur Belgium RotiferEvolution 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UOsnabruck IPK Gatersleben SteppePlantPhylogeogra-
phy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UPlymouth AdaptationMechanisms ExtDeadline . . 53
UPortsmouth EvolutionFlowering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UPoznan EvolutionSpecialization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
UppsalaU Metagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UppsalaU Sweden Systematic Biology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UQuebecEnOutaouais VernalPoolBiodiversity . . . . . 55
URochester MolluscShellEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UtrechtU EvolutionAntimicrobialResistance . . . . . . . 57
UWindsor SalomEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UZurich MatingSystemEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
WesternWashingtonU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . .59
Auckland OriginInsectReceptors
PhD student position
Plant & Food Research, Auckland, NEW ZEALAND
Professor Richard Newcomb
(Richard.Newcomb@plantandfood.co.nz)
Assoc. Professor Thomas Buckley (Buck-
leyT@landcareresearch.co.nz)
The origin of odorant receptors in insects
A PhD position is available to study the origins of a
unique family of receptors for odorants and pheromones
that arose early in the evolution of insects. Supported
from a grant from the prestigious Marsden Fund, thePhD project will address the timing and role of the rst
insect odorant receptors. Our hypothesis is that they
appeared just before the origin of insect ight and ex-
panded to ll roles in detecting food, predators and/or
mates in this new three dimensional environment. The
research will involve the isolation of candidate odorant
receptors from the transcriptomes and genomes of early
insects and their deorphaning in surrogate cell systems.
http://www.royalsociety.org.nz/2015/11/05/was-the-
rst-smell-of-a-meal -or-a-mate/
The successful candidate will conduct their research
within the Auckland laboratories of Plant and Food
Research, while being enrolled through the School of Bi-
ological Sciences at the University of Auckland. Support
includes a $27k p.a. three year stipend with university
fees paid. You will work alongside postdoctoral fellows
also working on the problem and other members of the
Molecular Sensing team within Plant & Food Research,28 EvolDir February 1, 2017
together with collaborators from Landcare Research in
New Zealand and the Max Planck Institute for Chemi-
cal Ecology in Germany. Candidates should have some
background or at least interest in evolutionary genomics,
bioinformatics and cell biology.
Richard Newcomb <Richard.Newcomb@plantandfood.co.nz >
CaliforniaStateU Northridge
CoevolutionPopGenomics
Graduate student (MSci) opportunities in the Yoder
Lab
The Yoder Lab at California State University Northridge
seeks exceptional, motivated candidates for the M.S. pro-
gram in Biology. The lab opens in fall 2017 to study
the coevolution of interacting species, particularly how
mutualists shape each others' genomic diversity, and
how interactions between species can help or hinder
adaptation to abiotic factors like climate.
Our research particularly focuses on the yucca-yucca
moth brood pollination mutualism and the legume-
rhizobium nitrogen xation symbiosis, using population
genetics and genomics, phylogenetics, ecological eld-
work and greenhouse experiments, and both mathemat-
ical and simulation-based modeling. Planned projects
include population genomic study of adaptation to ex-
treme climates and specialized polliantors by Joshua tree
(Yucca brevifolia and Y. jaegeriana) and experiments
to study climate adaptation in barrel medick (Medicago
truncatula). Students will be encouraged to develop
independent projects with these or other local systems.
CSUN and the Department of Biology oer graduate
student support in the form of teaching assistantships
and a variety of fellowships and aid programs. Research
assistantships for up to one year of the two-year Master's
program will also be available through startup funding,
and students will work with the PI to identify and ap-
ply for external support such as the National Science
Foundation Graduate Student Research Fellowship.
CSUN is in the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles,
surrounded by natural habitats ranging from coastal
chaparral to the Mojave Desert and montane woodlands,
and within a short commute of Santa Monica and Holly-
wood. CSUN was recently recognized by Nature as one
of the top 25 Rising Institutions for Research in North
America, and the Biology department has a reputation
for turning out excellent Master's students who oftencontinue on to top-tier Ph.D. programs. The Yoder Lab
is part of the Ecology & Evolution program, and our
research oers connections to the department's other
programs in Molecular, Cellular, and Physiological Bi-
ology, Marine Biology, Microbiology, and Genetics and
Developmental Biology.
Ideal candidates will have previous research experience,
familiarity with the R programming language, and a
passion for science. Interested students should contact
PI Jeremy Yoder at jbyoder@gmail.com. In your email,
please describe your research interests, any previous re-
search experience, and your career goals. Include a CV,
if possible. Formal applications require GRE scores and
transcripts, and are due February 15, though exceptions
may be possible. The Yoder Lab values diversity, and
members of groups under-represented in ecology and
evolutionary biology are especially encouraged to apply.
For more information, consult the Yoder Lab website:
http://lab.jbyoder.org Full text of this ad with support-
ing links is at: http://lab.jbyoder.org/graduate-student-
msci-opportunities-in-the-yoder-lab {
*Jeremy B. Yoder* Postdoctoral Research Fellow Dept.
of Forest and Conservation Sciences University of British
Columbia
jbyoder@mail.ubc.ca jbyoder.org
jbyoder@gmail.comFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 29
ClemsonU
Vince Richards' lab in the Department of Biological
Sciences at Clemson University is accepting applications
for a USDA National Needs PhD fellowship. The fellow-
ship provides three years of support ( $24,500/year) plus
a $6,000/year education allowance. Additional support
for the remainder of the PhD is available. The general
focus of study will be the application of genomics to
problems in agriculture. Multiple research possibilities
are available within this framework.
The anticipated start date is August 2017. Ap-
plicants should contact Vince Richards directly at
vpricha@clemson.edu. Please provide a cover letter
(describing research interests, experience, and career
goals), CV, transcripts/GRE scores, and contact infor-
mation for three references. Review of applications will
begin immediately and continue until the position is
lled. The position requires U.S. citizenship.
Clemson University is ranked 23rd among national pub-
lic universities by U.S. News & World Report and is
located on Lake Hartwell near the Blue Ridge mountains
in beautiful Upstate South Carolina.
Vincent P Richards, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences Clemson University Clem-
son, SC 29634 email: vpricha@clemson.edu Lab website:
http://www.vprichards-lab.com Vincent Paul Richards
<vpricha@clemson.edu >
DurhamU AncientDNA DeadlineExt
Deadline Extended: PhD studentship in Biosciences at
Durham University, UK
Full funding open to all nationalities.
New deadline, January 11th by the end of the day
Project Title: Tracking the impact of Holocene environ-
mental change in Patagonia on the distribution, disper-
sion and population dynamics of sea lions and fur seals
using ancient DNA.
This project will involve ancient DNA and next genera-
tion sequencing to investigate the impact of Holoceneclimate and environmental change on the population
dynamics and connectivity of two pinniped species along
the coast of Patagonia in Argentina. Although the dis-
tributions of these species overlap, they have dierent
resource requirements and life histories. Hypotheses
on the impact of environmental change on each species
in the context of their life histories will be tested by
the student using genetic analyses and coalescent mod-
elling. Funding will be through the Durham Doctoral
Scholarship program, and is open to applicants of all
nationalities. A detailed yer describing the project is
available on request.
Application materials should include a c.v., academic
records and at least two letters of reference sent to
a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk . Please contact Rus Hoelzel at
the same email address with any questions about the
project.
\HOELZEL, ALAN R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
Glasgow
ViralGenomicsBioinformatics
FUNDED PhD OPPORTUNITY
Mapping the molecular specicity of virus-host in-
teractions Prof David L Robertson, <http://-
www.bioinf.manchester.ac.uk/robertson >
A three and a half year PhD project is available in
the CVR's Viral Genomics & Bioinformatics group, <
http://www.bioinformatics.cvr.ac.uk >from Septem-
ber 2017. The project will be computer-based and
will train the student in systems virology, evolution-
ary biology, bioinformatics/computational biology and
network biology/modelling. Please direct enquiries to
david.robertson@manchester.ac.uk,who will be moving
to CVR in 2017. Note, the deadline for applications is
23rd January 2017.
Project description Viruses exploit the molecular system
of an infected host in order to replicate. This requires
an intricate set of molecular interactions between the
virus and the host system, placing a high degree of
specicity on the virus-host relationship. The key to
better understanding this relationship will be to study
the coevolutionary changes between viruses and their
host, in particular the precise nature of the interactions
involved, i.e., a viruses' ability to mimic host molecular
interactions and events, in the context of the host's
response to infection. Depending on the student's inter-30 EvolDir February 1, 2017
ests there will be some exibility in terms of the focus
of the project, e.g., a study of HIV/retroviruses versus
bacteriophage infections. The aim will be to construct
the virus-host interaction network at the species level
and for case studies model the virus-host molecular in-
teraction network. These molecular interactions can
be represented as a dynamic network by considering
both temporal and spatial aspects of infection of a cell.
This will be represented as a directed network, and
properties of the host proteins investigated, for exam-
ple, their connectivity, control-status, and functional
relationships. Questions to be addressed include: How
many host species on average does a virus target? How
do viruses so eectively use and control the host system?
What changes contribute to host-switching? What con-
straints do the maintenance of host interactions place
on viral evolution? Given the inherently hierarchical
and multi-scale nature of function, how should infection
be modelled? The project can be tailored to candidates
with a background in virology, biology, bioinformat-
ics, computer science, machine learning, statistics or
mathematics.
To apply, please follow the steps detailed in 'How to
apply for a research degree': <http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
research/opportunities/howtoapplyforaresearchdegree/
>. When applying, please search for \Mapping the
molecular specicity of virus-host interactions" in the
programme description box.
Interview Process Following selection for interview, you
will be invited to come to Glasgow to visit the CVR in
February 2017. The interviews will be held on Friday
February 10th 2017 and all interviewees are registered for
free and invited to attend the Glasgow Virology Work-
shop on Saturday February 11th. Reasonable travel
expenses will be reimbursed and accommodation made
available on the 9th and/or the 10th. Please be available
on these dates.
We will consider any UK graduate (meeting the resi-
dency requirements) with a minimum 2:1 BSc, or equiv-
alent, degree in a relevant discipline. A Master's degree
and previous experience of computer-based research is
advantageous. Candidates with a computer science or
mathematics background are encouraged to apply.
We are currently inviting applications for the programme
beginning in October 2017. Unfortunately, we can-
not consider citizens from outside the EU for this pro-
gramme. The deadline for applications is 23rd January
2017.
Funding Notes
There are strict eligibility criteria for MRC-funded pre-
doctoral studentships. Students from the UK (UK pass-port holders) are eligible. EU students (EU citizens)
are eligible for this programme only if they have been
ordinarily resident in the UK for the three years (continu-
ously) prior to the start of the studentship (commencing
the rst week in October).
References
Dickerson JE, Pinney JW, and Robertson DL (2010)
The biological context of HIV-1 host interactions re-
veals subtle insights into a system hijack. BMC Systems
Biology 4:80.
MacPherson JI, Dickerson JE, Pinney JW, and Robert-
son DL (2010) Patterns of HIV-1 protein interaction
identify perturbed host-cellular subsystems. PLoS Com-
putational Biology 6:e1000863.
Oyeyemi OJ, Davies O, Robertson DL, and Schwartz
JM (2015) A logical model of HIV-1 interactions with
the T-cell activation signalling pathway. Bioinformatics.
31:1075-83.
David Robertson <david.robertson@manchester.ac.uk >
GrithU BioinformaticsGenomics 2
A PhD scholarship in Bioinformatics/Genomics is avail-
able at Grith University, Nathan, Australia. We have
a world class Genomics laboratory and have sequenced
the genomes of penguins, humans and canines. We are
looking for an enthusiastic student with immense in-
terest in the bioinformatics analysis of next generation
sequence data. The prospective student will be working
on a project to analyse genome data (to be generated in
this lab as well as those available in the databanks) to
examine the patterns deleterious mutations in human
populations.
An honors or master's degree in biological, physical or
computational science is required. Persons with a non-
biology degree should have some basic understanding of
genetics, evolution and molecular biology.
Essential skills include: [We wouldn't expect a starting
PhD student to have many of these skills, but an ability
and desire to learn them is obviously essential]
Scripting: Perl/Python Unix command line (particu-
larly to use parallel computing clusters) Programming:
Java/C/C++ (OOPS concept) Database: maintenance
and design; MySQL/PosgreSQL/SQLite or similar Fa-
miliarity with sequence databases and genome browsers
(eg. NCBI/EMBL/DDBJ, UCSC) Familiarity with theFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 31
following software is desirable: Read mapping: BWA;
Bowtie; GSMapper (454); SOAP De novo assembly:
Velvet; SOAP de novo; Assembly summary: Samtools;
GATK Population genetic software: PLINK; EIGEN-
SOFT
English language requirements: A minimum overall
band score of 6.5 on IELTS (Academic) with no sub-
score of less than 6.0 or A minimum score of 575 of
TOEFL (Paper) or A TOEFL iBT score of 79 (no score
less than 19)
For further details please contact Sankar Subramanian
(s.subramanian@grith.edu.au) Regards Sankar
Sankar Subramanian Research Fellow Research Centre
for Human Evolution Grith University Nathan QLD
4111 Australia
Email: s.subramanian@grith.edu.au Ph: 61-7-
37357495 Fax: 61-7-37357459
Sankar Sankarasubramanian
<s.subramanian@grith.edu.au >
Helsinki MathematicalEcolEvolution
PhD student position in mathematical ecology and evo-
lution, Helsinki, Finland
The Biomathematics Group of the Department of Math-
ematics and Statistics, University of Helsinki, Finland,
is looking for a highly motivated PhD student to join
our research in mathematical ecology and evolution. We
focus on population dynamics, including structured pop-
ulations and metapopulations, and adaptive dynamics,
with applications such as the evolution of dispersal, the
evolution of pathogens, and more.
The candidate should have an MSc in mathematics
(preferred) or graduate with this degree by June 2017,
and have a background in mathematical modelling as
well as interest in ecology/evolution. The detailed re-
search program is negotiable within the prole of our
group. The graduate studies will be supervised by Prof.
Mats Gyllenberg, with possible co-supervision by Ste-
fan Geritz or Eva Kisdi. Salary and social benets
according to the standard Finnish University Salary Sys-
tem. For more information, see https://wiki.helsinki./-
display/BioMath/ (Biomathematics Group) and http:/-
/mathstat.helsinki./english/ (Department of Mathe-
matics) or contact Eva Kisdi at eva.kisdi@helsinki..
Applications including a CV, the list of publications (ifany), a letter of motivation, the extract from the register
of undergraduate grades, and two reference addresses
are to be sent in one pdf le to eva.kisdi@helsinki.
with cc to mats.gyllenberg@helsinki.. The deadline for
applications is 15 March 2017. Please write \Applica-
tion for PhD student position in biomathematics" in
the subject line.
Eva Kisdi Department of Mathematics and Statistics
University of Helsinki, Finland
\Kisdi, Eva" <eva.kisdi@helsinki. >
ImperialC London 2
EvolutionInsectPollinators
Two PhD studentships advertised in the Gill lab at
Imperial College London, UK, looking at insect pollina-
tor evolutionary ecology. The current group's interests
are looking at how insect pollinators (primarily social
bees) respond to rapid land-use change by studying
behavioural ecology and trait evolution.
1) Phenological responses of insect pollinators to rapid
land-use change Supervisors: Dr Richard Gill & Dr Nick
Isaac (NERC Centre for Ecology and Hydrology) Part of
the NERC Centre for Doctoral Training in Quantitative
and Modelling Skills in Ecology and Evolution
Application deadline: 19th January 2017 The past
century has seen rapid rates of agricultural land use
change, yet our understanding of how animal popu-
lations have responded to such newly-emerging agri-
landscapes over decadal time frames is still limited. A
further complication is that some species appear to have
coped better with agri-LUC than others, resulting in
so called 'winners and losers', and thus understanding
the traits underpinning success or failure is key to their
future protection. This project will look at an aspect
of plant-pollinator phenology to investigate whether
agri-landscapes have selected for change in insect pol-
linator life-history and functional response traits. For
further details please see: https://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=81136&LID=907 2)
Social bee responses to landscape fragmentation Su-
pervisors: Dr Richard Gill & Dr Samraat Pawar Part
of the Science and Solutions for a Changing Planet
(SSCP) Doctoral Training Partnership Application dead-
line: 16th January 2017 Social bees (e.g. honeybees
& bumblebees) are central place foragers, and the in-
creasing rate of oral habitat patchiness is likely to
increase foraging distance requirements making it dif-32 EvolDir February 1, 2017
cult to sustain the colony's energetic demands and
so may have impacts on colony tness. Furthermore,
agricultural practices can cause both reduced nutri-
tional diversity and pesticide exposure across the land-
scape. This project will focus on how these stressors
aect bee behaviour (focusing on foraging performance)
and colony development which will help to inform eco-
evolutionary models predicting colony success under
varying scenarios of environmental change. For further
details please see: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=76796&LID=907 Eligibility
of the studentships: Only available to UK and EU citi-
zens who have been resident in the UK for 3 years prior
to October 2017.
Application guidelines are found by following the
links provided above. For any queries please email:
r.gill@imperial.ac.uk
Kind Regards,
Richard Gill
Lecturer Department of Life Sciences Imperial College
London Silwood Park campus Buckhurst Road, As-
cot Berkshire, SL5 7PY UK Phone: +44 (0)20 759
42215 Webpage: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/AP/faces/-
pages/read/Home.jsp?person=r.gill \Gill, Richard J"
<r.gill@imperial.ac.uk >
LundU EvolutionaryEcol
Urban avian ecology
Where: Lund University
PI: Ass Prof Caroline Isaksson (Caro-
line.Isaksson@biol.lu.se)
Deadline: 20th January 2017
Start date: March (as soon as possible)
Project description
As human populations grow, the habitats for many
species are becoming increasingly urbanized. Thus, un-
derstanding how urbanization aects individuals, popu-
lations, and species is important to prevent loss of bio-
diversity and maintain functional ecosystems. The aim
of the project is to investigate whether urban environ-
mental stress, particularly with respect to air pollution,
noise and articial lighting at night, resulting in: (i)
increased physiological stress response, which will be
examined by measuring antioxidants, stress hormonesand gene expression; (ii) increased physiological damage
which is examined by measuring the oxidative damage
and telomere attrition, and/or (iii) changes in behaviors
such as sleep and food intake. In particular, experimen-
tal studies with zebra nches will be implemented, but
also eld studies will be part of the project. The eld
work will be based in Southern Sweden and of urban
and rural populations of tit species. The project is
multidisciplinary with elements of evolutionary ecology,
conservation, toxicology and biochemistry.
The PhD project will be part of the above project, how-
ever, the specic focus of the thesis will be developed
by the candidate together with the supervisor when
starting. The candidate is expected, regardless of the
focus of the dissertation, to participate and run its own
experiments and collect tissue samples both from cap-
tive and wild birds, and then analyze them in the lab.
A student who is only interested in one or the other is
not suitable for the project. Students are also expected
to read a number of courses equivalent to 60 credits.
These studies must be of both depth and width of the
character.
Required qualications
A masters degree in Biology focusing on either evolu-
tionary ecology, molecular ecology and/or ecophysiology.
For this position it is important to have experience with
handling birds and to have laboratory experience: an
advantage is to have training in molecular techniques.
It is a requirement that spoken and written English is
excellent. It is also a requirement to have a drivings
license and a car at the starting date.
Eligibility Students with basic eligibility for third-cycle
studies are those who- have completed a second-cycle
degree- have completed courses of at least 240 credits, of
which at least 60 credits are from second-cycle courses,
or- have acquired largely equivalent knowledge in some
other way, in Sweden or abroad.
The employment of doctoral students is regulated in the
Swedish Code of Statues 1998: 80. Only those who are
or have been admitted to PhD-studies may be appointed
to doctoral studentships. When an appointment to a
doctoral studentship is made, the ability of the student
to benet from PhD-studies shall primarily be taken
into account. In addition to devoting themselves to their
studies, those appointed to doctoral studentships may
be required to work with educational tasks, research and
administration, in accordance with specic regulations
in the ordinance.
See more details: http://www.lu.se/om-universitetet/-
jobba-hos-oss/lediga-anstallningar?ref=D Lediga
anst allningarjLunds universitet www.lu.se DrFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 33
Caroline Isaksson
Associate Professor Department of Biology Evolutionary
Ecology Unit Lund University S olvegatan 37 SE-223 62
Lund
Tele: +46 (0)46-2221780
Email: Caroline.Isaksson@biol.lu.se
http://www.biology.lu.se/caroline-isaksson Caroline
Isaksson<caroline.isaksson@biol.lu.se >
MNHN Paris FunctionalMorphology
Two Open Phd Positions (MNHN, Paris, France)
1. Area of research: Functional morphology PhD Title:
Long bone morphological and microanatomical adapta-
tion to graviportality in Rhinocerotoidea Supervisors:
Dr. Alexandra Houssaye, Dr. Raphael Cornette &
Dr. Guillaume Billet E-mails: houssaye@mnhn.fr, cor-
nette@mnhn.fr, billet@mnhn.fr Research unit: UMR
7179 CNRS/MNHN - M ecanismes Adaptatifs : des Or-
ganismes aux Communaut es Associated research units:
UMR 7205 & UMR 7207 Host laboratory: Team FU-
NEVOL - Function & Evolution Subject: There is a
strongly repetitive and convergent evolution of presumed
graviportal specializations in amniote evolutionary his-
tory that highlights the major impact of biomechan-
ical constraints on anatomical macroevolution. This
project proposes to investigate the morphological and
microanatomical changes in weight bearing long bones
associated to the evolution of graviportality in rhinocero-
toids.
Beyond the ve extant species from the family
Rhinocerotidae (that will be extensively analyzed), the
diversity in Rhinocerotoidea is much richer, with two
additional families: Amynodontidae and Hyracodonti-
dae. Very distinct morphologies are observed within this
group and dierent ecologies with notably semi-aquatic
and exclusively terrestrial forms.
Analyzing the changes observable between rather small
and extremely large forms, but also between gracile and
massive ones will be important to understand the skele-
tal changes associated with the repeated evolution of
large body mass within this group. The aim will be to
distinguish adaptations linked to graviportality and to a
semi-aquatic lifestyle, respectively. The combination of
these results with the ecological data available for extant
taxa will enable to better characterize the link betweenecology, functional requirements and bone inner and
outer structure. In addition to providing robust and
integrative data about the inner and outer bone changes
linked to graviportality, this project will also enable to
perform paleoecological inferences on fossil forms.
This project will necessitate to perform 3D geomet-
ric morphometric (after acquisition by photogramme-
try, surface scanning, or microtomography) analyses on
limb long bones of a large sample of modern and fossil
rhinocerotoids for a detailed comparison of bone shape.
In addition, for the bones scanned using microtomogra-
phy, the complete bone microstructure will be analyzed
in 3D. The study requires thus an important time of 3D
data analysis.
This PhD is part of an ERC project whose larger ob-
jective is to model the relationship between bone mor-
phology, microanatomy and the functional requirements
of body support and locomotion in graviportal taxa
through amniote evolutionary history.
Financial information: The PhD will be nanced as part
of an ERC project.
The material necessary for this project is present in
the collections of various museums. If many specimens
are available in the collections of the MNHN, visits to
several museums will be required in addition to loans.
All the required technical support is available at the
MNHN.
Start: 01/09/2017 / Duration: 3 years Candidate pro-
le: Student with a Master in Biological Sciences and
some experience in 3D data analysis; dynamic, able to
work autonomously as well as in a team; good level in
spoken and written English.
Please send a CV and a motivation letter by e-mail to
houssaye@mnhn.fr. The copy of your Master Thesis
would also be welcome. Deadline: April 1st, 2017
2. Area of research: Functional morphology PhD Ti-
tle: Towards extreme gigantism - Long bone inner and
outer adaptations in sauropodomorph dinosaurs Super-
visors: Dr. Alexandra Houssaye, Dr. Raphael Cornette
& Dr. Ronan Allain E-mails: houssaye@mnhn.fr, cor-
nette@mnhn.fr, rallain@mnhn.fr Research unit: UMR
7179 CNRS/MNHN - M ecanismes Adaptatifs : des Or-
ganismes aux Communaut es Host laboratory: Team
FUNEVOL - Function & Evolution.
Subject: Giant forms evolved convergently in various
amniote lineages. Among them, the largest land forms
were sauropod dinosaurs. These forms naturally show
adaptations for high body mass support and propulsion,
which is naturally reected in their bone design.
Sauropodomorph dinosaurs oer to analyze in parallel34 EvolDir February 1, 2017
increasing graviportal adaptations and the acquisition
of a quadrupedal posture in their evolutionary history.
Increase in body size seems to have occurred quickly in
sauropodomorphs, from small ancestral forms to ances-
tral sauropods weighting from 1 to 10 tons and to have
been accompanied by changes in limb and bone propor-
tions. Of particular interest is the supposed progressive
shift in function of the forelimb from stronger grasping
adaptations in the smallest forms to dominant and then
exclusive locomotor function in the largest ones. The
aim here will be to focus on the transition from small
forms considered either obligate or facultative bipeds to
giant
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MonashU FairyWrenEvolution
PhD scholarship to study eects of increasing tempera-
ture during early life in a tropical endangered fairy-wren
in the Behavioural and Evolutionary Ecology of Birds
Group @ Monash University, Melbourne, Australia, a
PhD project is available to study how temperature af-
fects nestling development using a combination of exist-
ing and newly-collected data. The research will focus
on eects of nest temperatures on metabolism, growth,
heat stress, immune maturation, adult performance and
molecular aging and how these eects might be miti-
gated by cooperative breeding.
The project will focus on purple-crowned fairy-wrens,
Malurus coronatus with eld work taking place at AWC
Mornington Wildlife Sanctuary in the Kimberley, a
beautiful region in the monsoonal tropics of north-west
Australia where the research group has been studying a
fully colour-banded, known-age population since 2005.
Monash University is a member of Australia's Group
of Eight coalition, and is internationally recognized for
excellence in research and teaching. The School of
Biological Sciences is home to a collegial and interdisci-
plinary research environment, with strengths in ecology,
genetics and evolutionary biology. The Monash doctoral
program includes additional training opportunities be-
yond the research program that enhance employability
post degree. Monash is located in Melbourne, one ofthe most liveable cities in the world and a cultural and
recreational hub.
Requirements and further information The student must
have self-motivation, enthusiasm, a background in ecol-
ogy and evolutionary theory, a passion for studying wild
animals in their natural environment, a strong work
ethic, experience with (tropical) eldwork and/or bird
handling and/or relevant quantitative skills. The stu-
dent will have considerable exibility in developing the
project.
Successful students will be oered a scholarship for liv-
ing expenses (and fee-waiver in the case of international
students) of approximately AU $ $26,000 AUD, tax-free
for 3.5 years, for full time research.
Expenses for relocation, research, coursework, and con-
ference attendance are covered. In order to be eligible,
students must have four-year degree with relevant re-
search experience, outstanding grades, and excellent
English.
The application process takes place in two stages.
Send your initial application to Anne Peters
(anne.peters[at]monash.edu), consisting of: a letter of
motivation; a CV; overview of your academic results,
and translation if required, preferably indicating cohort
rank or percentiles; English test results if available; and
the names and contact details of 3 academic references.
Deadline is 1 March 2017.
If you are selected, you will be sent an invitation to sub-
mit a formal application through the Monash University
web portal.
See sites.google.com/site/petersresearchgroup/opportunities
for further details. Contact Anne
(anne.peters[at]monash.edu) if you would like further
information on the project or the application process.
{ Anne Peters Associate Professor jFuture Fellow School
of Biological Sciences 108, 19 Rainforest Walk (enter
via 25 Rainforest walk) Monash University VIC 3800,
Australia phone: +61 3 9905 6287
https://sites.google.com/site/petersresearchgroup/
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
jpoOPNEAAAAJ Anne Peters
<anne.peters@monash.edu >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 35
MPI Cologne
PopulationGeneticModeling
*PhD in Population Genetics*
The Hancock Lab (http://www.mpipz.mpg.de/hancock)
is seeking a PhD student to work on an ERC-funded
project to reconstruct adaptive histories of functional
variation in Cape Verde Islands *Arabidopsis*. This
project benets from the unique set of samples we col-
lected and sequenced from across the landscape in these
islands as well as the wealth of information that comes
from years of study in this model organism. The student
will use spatially-explicit simulation-based population
genetic modeling approaches to reconstruct neutral and
adaptive histories within this island context.
Strong preference will be given to candidates who have
training in population genetics as well as computational
experience (i.e., familiarity with Linux/Unix command
line, R, programming in C++, Java or Python).
To apply please send a letter of motivation, CV, aca-
demic transcripts and contact information for two
references in a single le by February 25 to han-
cock@mpipz.mpg.de with the subject line 'PhD in Popu-
lation Genetics'. English is the working language of the
lab and the Institute, and applications should therefore
be in English.
Location:
Our group is housed within the Max Planck Institute
for Plant Breeding Research, a world-class research cen-
ter, located in the 'Green Belt' of Cologne, Germany.
The Institute hosts 25 research groups, its own Genome
Center with PacBio and Illumina sequencing capabili-
ties, a dedicated computer cluster, Mass-Spec facility,
Biomolecule Screening Center and Central Microscopy
Center.
The MPIPZ is part of a larger network of biologists
from the University of Cologne and Heinrich Heine Uni-
versity in D usseldorf and is a member of (CEPLAS), a
regional cluster of excellence in the area of molecular
plant science.
Angela Hancock <angela.m.hancock@gmail.com >MPI Jena EvolutionInsectImmunity
The Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology (De-
partment of Entomology) in Jena has an opening for a
PhD student (m/f).
Project Description The eld of ecological immunol-
ogy seeks to understand the evolutionary and ecological
process which shaped and maintained variation in in-
sect immunity. Recently, our group demonstrated that
adaptation by the specialist /Heliothis subexa/ (He-
liothine) to withanolides, an anti-herbivore compound
of /Physalis/ plants, directly and indirectly protect the
larvae from bacterial pathogens [1]. Beyond simply coun-
tering plant-produced compounds, /H. subexa/ has
succeeded in converting the inhibitory eects of withano-
lides into activation eects for its own advantage. In the
context of a DFG funded project, the PhD student will
work on the mechanisms by which /H. subexa/ over-
came the inhibitory eects of withanolides. The project
is based on three major objectives, (1) Identication
and characterization of possible withanolide receptors or
decoy proteins, (2) Analysis of withanolide metabolism,
(3) Impact of withanolides on plant and larval gut mi-
crobiome. Furthermore, the PhD student will analyze
the eects of other plant-produced anti-herbivore com-
pounds on the immune system of specialist insects to
identify general eects of plant chemistry on ecological
immunology.
We are looking for a motivated student with a University
degree (M.Sc. or equivalent) and a focus on molecular
biology, biochemistry, immunology, zoology, evolution
or equivalent discipline. We expect good verbal and
written communication skills. Experience working with
proteomic, transcriptomic and/or metabolomic data as
well as knowledge of dierent research methodologies
(e.g. PCR; DNA, RNA and protein extraction; Western
Blot; Enzyme assays; Cell and/or bacterial cultures;
Insect rearing) are a plus.
We oer excellent technical equipment and close super-
vision in an international environment. A structured
PhD program is oered by our graduate school (IMPRS)
which provides interdisciplinary training by seminars,
lectures and scientic workshops. The payment and
benets are based on the TV oD guidelines and the ap-
pointment is for 3 years with possibility of extension.
The position is available from now. The Max Planck
Society is committed to increasing the number of indi-36 EvolDir February 1, 2017
viduals with disabilities in its workforce and therefore
encourages applications from such qualied individuals.
Furthermore, the Max Planck Society seeks to increase
the number of women in those areas where they are
underrepresented and therefore explicitly encourages
women to apply.
Application Questions concerning the project or the
position are welcome and should be addressed to Dr.
Yannick Pauchet. To apply, please email a statement
of motivation, CV and a letter of reference as a single
PDF le to ypauchet@ice.mpg.de. Application dead-
line is February 28, 2017; however, applications will be
accepted until the position is lled.
Reference [1] Barthel, A., Vogel, H., Pauchet, Y., Pauls,
G., Kunert, G., Groot, A. T., Boland, W., Heckel, D.
G., Heidel-Fischer, H. M. (2016). Immune modulation
enables a specialist insect to benet from antibacterial
withanolides in its host plant. Nature Communications,
7: 12530
{ Dr. Andrea Barthel Postdoc Max-Planck-Institute
for Chemical Ecology Department of Entomology Hans-
Kn oll-Str. 8 D-07745 Jena Germany
Andrea Barthel <abarthel@ice.mpg.de >
MPIO Seewiesen
EvolutionCognition
Announcement
PARROT COGNITION (TENERIFE)
MASTER PROJECTS / VOLUNTEER RESEARCH
ASSISTANTS
Comparative Cognition Research Group, Max-Planck
Institute for Ornithology, Tenerife, Spain
The Max-Planck Comparative Cognition Research
Group (CCRG) invites applications of Masters students
and volunteer research assistants. The CCRG forms
part of the collaboration between the Max-Planck In-
stitute for Ornithology, Seewiesen, Germany, and the
Loro Parque Fundaci&oacute;n (LPF), Tenerife, Spain.
We are currently running various comparative research
projects on social and physical cognition in parrots. In-
terested candidates are encouraged to contact us to
enquire about the ongoing projects. Successful appli-
cants can expect to gain a solid insight in the eld of
Animal Cognition/Experimental Psychology and gain
experience in working with psittacids in a dynamic,international research environment. The research is car-
ried out on captive parrots of the LPF, which holds
the largest parrot collection and gene reserve in the
world (ca. 350 subspecies) for conservation and research
purposes.
Logistics:
Voluntary research assistant position /Master Project
start and end dates are exible but preference will be
given to students who can start in February 2017. The
position requires a minimum of 4 months, but ideally 6
months, continuous commitment at the research station
in Tenerife, Spain. Free accommodation in a shared
student apartment can be provided. Successful appli-
cants will be responsible for their own transportation
expenses to and from the research station (Puerto de la
Cruz, Tenerife, Spain).
Important skills/qualications:
Successful candidates will have:
completed a degree in Biology or any related eld a
strong interest in comparative cognition high motiva-
tion and commitment to the project reliability, eciency
and an ability to work independently condence to in-
teract with animals previous research experience good
verbal and written English skills initiative to develop
the project good team work attitude and social skills
(shared accommodation between 3 students)
To apply:
Please send your CV and a cover letter reporting any rel-
evant experienceyou have and motivation to participate
in the project to Dr. Auguste von Bayern ( avbay-
ern@orn.mpg.de ) or Dr. Anastasia Krasheninnikova
( akrashe@orn.mpg.de ). Contact details of 2 referees
may be requested. may be requested.
QueensU
AdaptationAtSpeciesRangeLimits
Graduate Research Opportunities in Adaptation Across
Species' Ranges
We are recruiting two graduate students (MSc or PhD)
to work on the ecology and genetics of adaptation and
geographic range limits in owering plants endemic to
the wonderful Pacic coastal dunes of California and
adjacent Oregon and Baja California. The students
would be co-supervised by Chris Eckert (Queen's U)
and Karen Samis (U Prince Edward Island) and basedFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 37
in the Biology Department at Queen's University in
Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
Our research programs provide opportunities for diverse
graduate student projects, and PhD students, especially,
are encouraged to develop their own research directions.
Here are some examples:
(1) Using experimental evolution to investigate con-
straints on adaptation at and beyond geographical range
limits. (2) Contribution of hybridization to adaptation
across geographic ranges. (3) Does geographic variation
in metapopulation dynamics yield stable range limits?
(4) Reproductive isolation during diversication of the
mating system and life history across species' ranges.
All projects will involve considerable eld work in Cal-
ifornia, Oregon and Mexico, eld experiments and ge-
nomic analyses.
Here's some background reading:
Samis, K.E., A. L opez-Villalobos & C.G. Eckert. 2016.
Strong genetic dierentiation but not local adaptation
toward the range limit of a coastal dune plant. Evolution
doi: 10.1111/evo.13047
Hargreaves, A.L., K.E. Samis and C.G. Eckert. 2014.
Are species' range limits simply niche limits writ large?
A review of transplant experiments beyond the range.
American Naturalist 183: 157-173.
Samis, K.E. and C.G. Eckert. 2009. Ecological corre-
lates of tness across the northern geographic range limit
of a pacic coast dune plant. Ecology 90: 3051-3061.
Eckert, C.G., K.E. Samis & S.C. Lougheed. 2008. Ge-
netic variation across species' geographic ranges: the
central-marginal hypothesis and beyond. Molecular
Ecology 17: 1170-1188.
Darling, E., K.E. Samis & C.G. Eckert. 2008. Increased
seed dispersal potential towards geographic range limits
in a Pacic coast dune plant. New Phytologist 178:
424-435.
Samis, K.E. & C.G. Eckert. 2007. Testing the abundant
center model using range-wide demographic surveys of
two coastal dune plants. Ecology 88: 1747-1758.
For more details and recent publications, please
check out our web sites: http://post.queensu.ca/-
~eckertc/Eckert Lab/ http://people.upei.ca/ksamis/-
Samis Homepage/ The Biology Department at Queen's
University (https://biology.queensu.ca) includes active
research groups in diverse areas, including plant ecology
& evolution, behavioural ecology, molecular population
genetics & systematics, paleolimnology, and plant phys-
iology & molecular biology. Our large community of
graduate students provides a stimulating & friendly aca-demic environment. Graduate students are guaranteed
nancial support of $22,000/year from scholarships, re-
search stipends & teaching assistantships (2 years for
an MSc, 4 years for a PhD, https://biology.queensu.ca/-
academics/graduate/).
The position is open to all students who are Canadian
citizens. Acceptance of international students is con-
tingent on successful application for a tuition waiver
or independent funding to cover foreign student tuition
fees.
If you are interested, please send a CV and contact
information for at least 2 academic references plus a
covering letter.
Informal inquiries are also welcome.
Dr. Christopher G. Eckert and Dr. Karen Samis
chris.eckert@queensu.ca ksamis@upei.ca
Christopher Eckert <chris.eckert@queensu.ca >
QueensU SeabirdPopGenomics
I am looking for a Canadian citizen or landed immigrant
to ll a PhD position studying population genomics of
arctic seabirds (abstract below). The student will be
part of an NSERC Strategic project to aid conservation
and management of several species. Applicants must
have a background in evolutionary genetics. Practical
experience with genomics and bioinformatics is an as-
set. Field work in remote arctic camps will be required.
The successful applicant will join a dynamic group of
faculty and students studying ecology and evolution at
Queen's University. Please send a resume or curriculum
vitae, informal transcript, and contact information for
two academic references to Dr. Vicki Friesen (vlf at
queensu.ca). Applications will be reviewed until the
position is lled.
Dr. Vicki Friesen, Professor Department of Biology,
4443 Biosciences, 116 Barrie Street, Queen's University,
Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada Tel: 613-533-6156 Fax:
613-533-6617 Email: vlf at queensu.ca Website: http:/-
/post.queensu.ca/ ~birdpop/index.html As numerically
dominant apex predators, seabirds are key components
of Canada's arctic marine ecosystem. Seabirds and
their eggs also are important to the culture and diet
of indigenous Arctic peoples. However, Arctic seabird
populations are facing multiple simultaneous direct and
indirect threats from climate change, shipping and in-
dustrial development. Unsurprisingly, many populations38 EvolDir February 1, 2017
are showing signs of stress such as reduced reproduc-
tive success or declining numbers. To avoid extinction,
wildlife populations must adapt through (1) changes in
behaviour or physiology, (2) dispersal, or (3) genetic
changes. The capacity for seabirds to adapt through
these three avenues is virtually unknown, but it is criti-
cal to maintenance of healthy populations. New genomic
methods, especially when combined with on-going stud-
ies of behaviour and physiology, provide powerful oppor-
tunities to determine the long-term sensitivities of Arctic
seabirds to climate change and industrial development.
We will use genomic, behavioural and ecological data
in a landscape context to estimate levels of phenotypic
plasticity, dispersal, and genomic variation for seven
seabird species that Canada has a global responsibility
to protect. Results will help Environment and Climate
Change Canada (ECCC) develop science-based policies
for Arctic stewardship. The students will be responsi-
ble for analysis of one species, and will gain training
in population and landscape genomics, bioinformatics,
population modeling and arctic ecology.
Vicki Friesen <vlf@queensu.ca >
RHUL London
EvolutionInsectCognition
PhD Position: The tness consequences of spatial cog-
nition in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris
Closing date: Midnight, 31st January 2017
A fully-funded 3-year PhD studentship is available to
join the Insect Cognition Lab at Royal Holloway Uni-
versity of London, under the supervision of Dr. Elli
Leadbeater. The studentship covers tuition fees, a stu-
dent stipend of 16 296 per year (in line with Research
Council stipends) and research costs. The position is
open to UK and Non-UK EU applicants, and must start
on August 1st 2017 (although provision can be made
for applicants who are due to nish a Master's degree
in September 2017).
There is evidence from diverse animal groups that de-
mand for high-level performance in spatial memory tasks
selects for brain structural evolution, and foraging bees
face spatial challenges on multiple levels. For example,
long-term recall of visual landmarks is important in
re-locating the nest or feeding sites, while on a shorter
timescale, individuals must navigate through dense for-
age patches that may contain hundreds of owers, with-out revisiting inorescences. Here, we will investigate
the cognitive abilities that bumblebees employ to meet
these demands. The PhD student will (a) seek to es-
tablish for the rst time whether bees form working
memories of individual ower locations (b) explore the
capacity and temporal properties of such memories (c)
evaluate the power of cognitive task scores to predict
performance in a tness-determining spatial assay.
The student will be based in the School of Biological
Sciences at Royal Holloway University of London. Our
department is a centre of excellence for social insect
research, and the project will capitalize upon our EU-
funded research apiaries. The PhD student will join a
diverse and productive team of researchers in the Insect
Cognition Lab. She or he will work independently in
developing the protocols for the PhD project, but the
position is part of a Leverhulme-Trust funded research
project into the tness consequences of cognitive abilities
in bees, and the student will also contribute to data col-
lection for the wider project and will work closely with
the other team members. More information about the
research that takes place in our group can be found at
http://ellileadbeater.wixsite.com/insectcognition . Ap-
plicants should have a 1st Class or 2:1 Bachelor's degree
in a relevant Biological or Psychological subject. A
Masters degree is desirable, with a grade (or expected
grade) of Merit or Distinction. Experience of working
with insects is not essential, but the successful candidate
will have experience of independent research with live
animals (e.g. through an undergraduate or postgraduate
research project) and must be able to provide strong evi-
dence of aptitude and enthusiasm for research in Animal
Behaviour, together with a broad knowledge of biolog-
ical topics and a rm grasp of appropriate statistical
methods.
Informal enquiries should be directed to
Elli.Leadbeater@rhul.ac.uk. For details of how
to apply, visit: https://www.royalholloway.ac.uk/-
biologicalsciences/prospectivestudents/-
postgraduateresearch/phdstudentships2017.aspx Dr.
Elli Leadbeater School of Biological Sciences Royal Hol-
loway University of London elli.leadbeater@rhul.ac.uk
\Leadbeater, Elli" <Elli.Leadbeater@rhul.ac.uk >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 39
SimonFraserU 2
EvolutionaryGenetics
MSc or PhD position in social-evolutionary genetics at
Simon Fraser University
A graduate student position is available for study of the
roles of intragenomic conict in human cognition and
behavior. Research will focus on the genetics and epige-
netics of human brain-expressed genomically-imprinted
genes, to ascertain their roles in mediating variation in
human psychological phenotypes.
Imprinted genes are expressed from either the copy from
the mother, or the copy from the father, in every individ-
ual. These genes are subject to within-genome conict
between the mother's and father's copies, which inu-
ences brain development, psychological and psychiatric
variation, and behavior. However, the roles of brain-
expressed imprinted genes in normal human populations
are virtually unstudied.
See http://www.sfu.ca/biology/faculty/crespi/-
publicationsrr.html (especially paper #s 115, 117,
135, 144, 155, 169, 173, and/or 177) for examples of
representative publications in this general area from
the Crespi lab.
The successful candidate will have interests and/or
background in evolutionary biology, genetics, and psy-
chology. They will join the Crespi lab (http://-
www.sfu.ca/biology/faculty/crespi/), the Evolutionary
Biology group (www.sfu.ca/ ~fabstar/) and the Human
Evolutionary Studies Program (hesp.irmacs.sfu.ca/)
at Simon Fraser University, in beautiful Vancouver,
Canada.
Application information:
Funding is available for Canadian students, though
preference may be given to students with sources
of external support such as NSERC Postgradu-
ate Scholarships. International students are also
very welcome to apply, but may be considered
subject to access to funding from their home
country. Formal application information is avail-
able at http://www.sfu.ca/dean-gradstudies/future/-
academicprograms/faculty ofscience/biology.html If
you wish to apply, please send a Curriculum Vitae and a
one-paragraph cover letter describing your background
and interests, to: crespi@sfu.caInformal inquiries are also welcome
Dr. Bernard Crespi, FRSC Professor, Department of Bi-
ological Sciences 8888 University Drive Burnaby, British
Columbia, Canada V5A 1S6 crespi@sfu.ca
Possible start dates would include May 2017 or Septem-
ber 2017 or January 2018
|{
MSc or PhD position in behavioral-genetic endocrinol-
ogy at Simon Fraser University
A graduate student position is available for study of
the genetic, epigenetic and behavioural bases of neu-
rohormone production in healthy humans. This work
will build on recent discoveries in the Crespi laboratory
that have demonstrated novel links between oxytocin-
associated genetic variation, psychology, and social be-
havior. The student will conduct experiments and en-
gage in data collection on the genetics, epigenetics, and
endocrinological bases of human sociality.
See http://www.sfu.ca/biology/faculty/crespi/-
publicationsrr.html (especially paper #s 176, 177, 178,
181) for examples of representative publications in this
general area from the Crespi lab.
The successful candidate will have interests and/or back-
ground in evolutionary biology, genetics, endocrinology,
and/or psychology.
Application information:
Funding is available for Canadian students, though pref-
erence may be given to students with sources of external
support such as NSERC Postgraduate Scholarships. In-
ternational students are also welcome to apply, but may
be considered subject to access to funding from their
home country. Formal application information is avail-
able at http://www.sfu.ca/dean-gradstudies/future/-
academicprograms/faculty ofscience/biology.html If
you wish to apply, please send a Curriculum Vitae and a
one-paragraph cover letter, describing your background
and interests, to crespi@sfu.ca
Informal inquiries are also welcome
Dr. Bernard Crespi, FRSC Professor, Department of
Biological Sciences Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada
V5A 1S6 crespi@sfu.ca
Possible start dates would include May 2017, September
2017 or January 2018
Bernard Crespi <crespi@sfu.ca >40 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Spain EvolutionSpeciation
We seek candidates for a predoctoral FPU contract,
nanced by the Spanish Ministry of Education,
Culture and Sports (see http://www.mecd.gob.es/-
servicios-al-ciudadano-mecd/catalogo/general/edu
cacion/998758/cha/998758-2016.html#dg) and
for a predoctoral Aragon Government contract,
nanced by the Spanish Government of Aragon
(see http://www.boa.aragon.es/cgi-bin/EBOA/-
BRSCGI?CMD=VEROBJ&MLKOB=943211364 141),
that will be associated to the following research grant
projects nanced to our research team: 1. Evolution of
biological traits and speciation processes in the model
grass genus Brachypodium through comparative and
functional genomics (Spanish Ministry of Economy
and Competitiveness, grant CGL2016-79790-P; 2017-
2019), and 2. Perenniality, abiotic stress tolerance,
and biomass allocation in Brachypodium, a model
grass genus for bioenergy (US Joint Genome Institute,
Community Science Program, grant 503006; 2017-2021).
The candidates could also apply to a predoctoral FPI
contract, nanced by the Spanish Ministry of Economy
and Competitiveness (grant project CGL2016-79790-P),
later in 2017.
Characteristics of the PhD thesis:
-Title: Evolution of perenniality, hybridization and speci-
ation processes in the grass model genus Brachypodium
using comparative and functional genomics and cytoge-
nomics
-Length: 4 years PhD thesis (2017/18-2020/21).
-Centre: University of Zaragoza (High Polytechnich
School of Huesca, Spain), Estacion Experimental de
Aula Dei - CSIC, Zaragoza, Spain).
-Contract: 4 years contract, annually renewed, salary
based on the predoctoral grant funding
Requirements of the candidates:
-European Community citizens or non-EC citizens with
homologated degree
-Degree in Biology, Environmental Sciences, Agronomy
or Forestry Engineering, Bioinformatics or similar degree
obtained in January.2012 or later.
-Master of Sciences degree in a specialized research line
related to the Bachelor degree or the subject of the PhDthesis
Merits:
-Experience in laboratory (Molecular Biology, Genet-
ics), computation (Bioinformatics), green-house work
(hybridization), and/or eld work (Botany, Ecology).
-English
Deadlines for applications:
February 3 2017: predoctoral FPU contract, Spanish
Ministry of Educacion
February 6 2017: predoctoral contract, Spanish Govern-
ment of Aragon
Interested candidates please contact Prof. Pilar Catalan
(pcatalan @ unizar.es), Escuela Politecnica Superior de
Huesca (Universidad de Zaragoza), Ctra. Cuarte km 1,
22071 Huesca (Spain) (http://www.bi.es/bioora/)
Pilar Catalan
Pilar Catalan <pilar.catalan09@gmail.com >
Sydney AssistedMigration
HIE: A Scientic Basis for Assisted Gene Migration
Under Climate Change
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment
(HIE)(opens in new window)Opens in a new window is
one of three institutes within Western Sydney University.
The plant adaptation group at HIE is widely recognised
for their work testing the capacity to respond to cli-
mate through adaptive genetic variation and phenotypic
plasticity.
We are now seeking a highly motivated PhD student to
contribute to a NSW Environmental Trust project \A
scientic basis for assisted gene migration under climate
change". The project objectives are:
Characterise neutral and adaptive genetic variation to
estimate demographic and evolutionary processes. Do
warm/dry populations harbour adaptive variation for
drought resilience? Determine the ecological and physio-
logical capacity to respond to climate change. Do plants
growing under rainfall regimes found in their native
source population outperform plants from dierent cli-
mates ('local-is-best')? Do warm/dry populations have
higher resilience to drought?
Understanding the capacity of trees to respond to cli-
mate change is essential for the maintenance of biodi-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 41
versity, forest health and productivity. Climate change
has increased the frequency and intensity of droughts,
which has resulted in tree death and negatively aected
essential ecosystem services. Adaptive land manage-
ment is urgently needed in order to mitigate the risk
of large-scale drought mortality in a rapidly changing
climate. Assessing genetic adaptation and physiologi-
cal tolerance to drought across species distributions is
critically important if we are to develop management
tools, such as assisted gene migration, for sustainable
and productive forests in a drying climate.
The project will focus on dominant Eucalyptus species
in eastern Australia and compare populations from
coastal, tableland, and western bioregions with repli-
cation across latitudes. The student will undertake
genotyping-by-sequencing (ddRAD) to assess genetic
structure and identify adaptive variation for climate
change. Temperature and water manipulations under
controlled glasshouse conditions will be employed to
test for genetic adaptation and determine physiological
tolerance to drought and heatwaves.
The student will be based at HIE, working under the
supervision of Dr Paul Rymer and Prof. David Tissue,
and engage with the project partners Oce of Environ-
ment and Heritage, Greening Australia, and Local Land
Services.
What does the scholarship provide? Domestic students
will receive a tax free stipend of $27,000 per annum and
a funded place in the doctoral degree. International
students will receive a tax free stipend of $27,000 per
annum. Those with a strong track record may receive
a fee waiver. Funding is available for project costs and
conference travel.
Criteria We welcome applicants from a wide range of
backgrounds, especially those with a strong grounding
in ecology, genetics or plant biology who are keen to
apply their quantitative skills to key questions in current
biology. The successful applicant should:
1 - hold qualications and experience equal to an Aus-
tralian First Class Bachelor Honours degree or equiva-
lent overseas qualications 2 - hold a full clean drivers
licence 3 - demonstrate strong academic performance in
biology 4 - have an interest in, or be willing to learn,
population genetics and plant physiology 5 - be enthusi-
astic and highly motivated to undertake further study
at an advanced level
International applicants must also demonstrate a high
level of prociency in the English language.(opens in
new window)Opens in a new window
How to apply Applicants should discuss their
eligibility and interests with Dr Paul Rymerp.rymer@westernsydney.edu.au or Prof. David Tissue
d.tissue@westernsydney.edu.au
Please submit an application form
https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/-
data/assets/pdf le/0005/733487/-
Project Scholarship Application Form 2017.pdf
(PDF, 278.77 KB), CV, names and contact information
of two referees, and a one-page document stating how
your research interests align with the project's aims.
Contact the Graduate Research School at
grs.scholarships@westernsydney.edu.au for further
enquiries.
Applications close 31 March 2017
Paul Rymer <P.Rymer@westernsydney.edu.au >
UColoradoDenver
PhysiologicalGenomics
PhD positions in physiological genomics of seasonal
adaptation at the University of Colorado, Denver
The Ragland lab at the University of Colorado, Denver
is seeking PhD students for Fall, 2017. We are broadly
interested in physiological adaptations to variable cli-
matic and biotic (e.g., resource) conditions. Several
NSF-funded projects in the lab apply integrative ap-
proaches to understanding rapid life history diversica-
tion in Rhagoletis ies, text-book examples of ecolog-
ical speciation with gene ow. In addition, a recently
funded Dimensions of Biodiversity project will explore
parallel diversication of parasitic wasp lineages that
attack Rhagoletis ies, in collaboration with labs at the
University of Notre Dame, University of Florida, and
SUNY Binghamton. From a genetic perspective, we
are interested in how genetic architecture constrains
or facilitates rapid evolution of complex traits. From a
physiological and developmental perspective, we are test-
ing whether regulatory pathways inuencing multiple
life history transitions during development contribute
to either constraint or modularity observed at the ge-
netic level. Additional projects in the lab investigate
mechanisms of developmental arrest during dormancy,
the phylogeography and population genomics of Bark
Beetles (Mountain Pine Beetle and European Spruce
Bark Beetle) and developmental constraints on thermal
physiology in Drosophila melanogaster.
Ideally, PhD candidates will have interests in physi-
ology, developmental biology, evolutionary genomics,42 EvolDir February 1, 2017
or evolutionary ecology, and enthusiasm for learning
command line environments and coding. Experience
in basic laboratory techniques relevant to any of those
elds and basic parametric statistics is desired. Compet-
itive stipends and Research Assistantships are available
for qualied applicants.
The University of Colorado, Denver, hosts a vibrant com-
munity of life science researchers on both the downtown
Auraria campus and the Anschutz medical campus. The
Department of Integrative Biology spans cell, molecular,
ecological, and evolutionary research, with strengths in
ecological physiology and developmental biology. Den-
ver is a fantastic and progressive city with endless pos-
sibilities for outdoor activities, well-developed public
transportation and cycling infrastructure, and excellent
museums, theaters, restaurants, and breweries.
Please direct inquiries to Greg Ragland: gre-
gory.ragland(AT)ucdenver.edu. I will be at the January
2017 SICB meeting in New Orleans and available to chat.
Consider checking out the symposium 'Evolutionary Im-
pacts of Seasonality', which showcases some excellent
research which inspires many ongoing projects in my
lab.
Websites:
https://clas.ucdenver.edu/directory/faculty-sta/greg-
ragland https://seasonaladaptation.org \Ragland, Gre-
gory"<GREGORY.RAGLAND@UCDENVER.EDU >
UGreifswald AnimalAdaptation
25-01-2017
Job announcement
University of Greifswald, Zoological Institute and Mu-
seum
PhD Position in Animal Ecology
Application deadline: 15.03.2017
A PhD position is available at the Zoological Institute
and Museum, University of Greifswald. Starting date:
May 1 ^st 2017; duration: 3 years; salary scale: TV-L
13, 50%.
We invite applications from highly motivated candidates
with passion for and experience in research related to an-
imal responses to anthropogenic environmental change.
Successful applicants will (1) hold a M.Sc. degree (or
equivalent) in biology or another relevant discipline, (2)have a solid background in ecology and evolution, (3)
experience with experimental designs in ecology and
according statistical analyses, and (4) an excellent com-
mand of the English language.
To apply please send an email to Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer
(klaus.scher@uni-greifswald.de) before March, 16 ^th
2017 and refer the following reference number: 17/Wi02.
Please attach a single PDF le to this email including
a (1) cover letter, (2) scientic CV including copies
of all degrees, (3) motivation letter including personal
research interests, (4) contact details of two academic
referees, and (5) the abstract of the latest thesis.
The University of Greifswald is an equal opportunity
employer. Application expenses cannot be refunded
by the state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. The
ocial version of this advertisement is published on the
university's homepage.
Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer e-mail: klaus.scher@uni-
greifswald.de
Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer Zoological Institute & Museum
Greifswald University J.-S.-Bach-Str. 11/12 D-17489
Greifswald Phone: +49-3834-864266 Fax: +49-3834-
864252
\kscher@uni-greifswald.de" <kscher@uni-
greifswald.de >
UGroningen AvianBehaviour
PhD position on computational models of collective
escape of bird ocks 1.0 fte (217006)
Organisation
Founded in 1614, the University of Groningen enjoys an
international reputation as a dynamic and innovative
center of higher education oering high-quality teaching
and research. Flexible study programmes and academic
career opportunities in a wide variety of disciplines en-
courage the 30,000 students and researchers alike to
develop their own individual talents. As one of the
best research universities in Europe, the University of
Groningen has joined forces with other top universities
and networks worldwide to become a truly global center
of knowledge.
The Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(GELIFES) GELIFES, the largest institute of the Fac-
ulty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (FMNS) lls
a special niche in the life sciences by covering and in-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 43
tegrating mechanistic, evolutionary and ecological ap-
proaches, aiming to understand adaptation on all levels
of biological organisation. Researchers pursue funda-
mental questions while collaborating with partners from
industry, medicine and other realms of society. Our re-
search elds include behavioural biology, chronobiology,
ecology, evolutionary biology, genetics and genomics,
neurobiology, physiology and theoretical modelling, us-
ing a wide array of research tools. Research levels range
from molecular and organismal to population and com-
munity, performed under laboratory, semi-natural and
eld conditions.
Job description
One of the advantages of group life, such as in birds, is
increased protection against predation. Increased pro-
tection is, for instance, assured by the complex patterns
of collective escape by bird ocks under attack. These
patterns may confuse the predator. Collective behaviour
of ocks is, however, dicult to investigate empirically.
As a solution, the proposed project concerns the com-
putational modelling of collective escapes. This is done
with the help of empirical data collected by another
PhD candidate using robot-falcons (RoboFalcons) for
controlled attacks on ocks. The empirical study is
aimed at driving ocks away in a specic direction for
preventing collisions between ocks and airplanes. The
PhD candidates will closely exchange data and results.
The modelling project aims to gain understanding on
what causes dierent patterns of collective escape under
dierent conditions. For this, the PhD candidate will
extend our computational model, StarDisplay, and may
develop new models. The model will be informed by
two empirical sources, namely, the experiments with
RoboFalcons and the movies of huge starling ocks
under attack by Peregrine falcons above Rome. The
student will experiment with dierent escape strategies
and attack strategies in the model to improve both un-
derstanding of the observations of patterns of collective
escape and methods of driving ocks away.
Daily supervision will come from Prof. Charlotte Hemel-
rijk and Dr Hanno Hildenbrandt; Dr Colin Torney (Glas-
gow, UK) will co-supervise the project.
Qualications
The successful candidate will have previous research
experience in theoretical modelling, be in good com-
mand of the English language (oral and written) and
possess excellent communication skills (indicated by
the ability to write scientic papers and deliver presen-
tations). Since studies on self-organisation are highly
interdisciplinary, successful candidates are expected to
demonstrate an active and supportive approach to inter-
disciplinary research and collaborate with other groupmembers. Suitable candidates can be either individuals
with a background in the computational (life) sciences,
with interest in evolutionary and biological questions, or
evolutionary biologists with experience in computational
modelling.
Candidates for the PhD position should have: - MSc in
theoretical biology, a MSc in computational science with
focus on biology or an MSc in computational physics
with specialization in biology, MSc in Articial Intelli-
gence with a specialization in an area of computational
or mathematical biology or a MSc in Biology, with a spe-
cialization in an area of computational or mathematical
biology - experience with developing computer simula-
tion code and a sucient background in mathematics
- a strong interest in collective, swarming behaviour,
biomechanics of ight, attack and escape. Candidates
with research experience in these areas are particularly
encouraged to apply.
Conditions of employment
The University of Groningen oers a salary of euro 2,191
gross per month in the rst year, up to a maximum
of euro 2,801 gross per month in the nal year (salary
scale Dutch Universities), based on a fulltime position
(1.0 fte) excluding a 8% holiday allowance and a 8.3%
end of the year bonus. The position must result in a
PhD thesis within the 4-year contract period. A PhD
training programme is part of the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGroningen EvolutionaryBiology
Erasmus Mundus Master Program in Evolutionary Bi-
ology (MEME)
MEME is a two-year research oriented master program
for talented and motivated students who are interested
in understanding evolution in all its facets. It intends to
provide an optimal preparation for subsequent doctoral
studies and eventually a career in academic research.
The MEME program addresses the driving forces of
evolution at all levels of organismal organization (from
cells and individuals to populations and ecosystems),
and allows students to study all kinds of organisms (mi-
croorganisms, plants, animals) in all kinds of habitats44 EvolDir February 1, 2017
(marine as well as terrestrial) with a diversity of ap-
proaches (eld, lab, theory). The focus of the program
is not only on how evolution shaped life on our planet in
the past, but also on how understanding the principles
underlying evolution can provide new insights and help
to cope with present-day challenges in a variety of elds,
including ecology, epidemiology, physiology, immunol-
ogy, genetics/genomics, bioinformatics, economics and
the social sciences.
To oer a program of such broad scope, four Euro-
pean universities (University of Groningen, Netherlands;
University of Montpellier, France; Ludwig Maximilians
University of Munich, Germany; Uppsala University,
Sweden), have joined forces with Harvard University
(USA). Together, this consortium has put together an
attractive multidisciplinary program that meets high-
est standards. All students have to study at (at least)
two partner universities, and they will receive a double
degree from two partner universities they have attended.
Being nanced by the European Community, MEME
has to satisfy the high quality standards imposed the
prestigious Erasmus+ Program. A limited number of full
scholarships is available for European and non-European
students and these will be awarded in a selective pro-
cedure. Details on the program and the selection pro-
cedure can be found on www.evobio.eu . Starting date:
15 August 2017
Application deadline: 1 February 2017
Please alert your students to this great opportunity!
More information and how to apply - please see
www.evobio.eu Questions about the contents of the
program:
Franjo Weissing (f.j.weissing@rug.nl)
Questions about the requirements and the application
procedure:
Maartje Giesbers (m.c.w.g.giesbers@rug.nl )
|
Postal address: Dr. Maartje Giesbers Administrative
Coordinator MEME
Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences Uni-
versity of Groningen P.O. Box 11103 9700 CC Groningen
Visiting address: Nijenborgh 7, room 05-04
Phone +31 50 363 8462 Email m.c.w.g.giesbers@rug.nl
Working days: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday
Maartje Giesbers <m.c.w.g.giesbers@rug.nl >UHannover
MadagascarDemographics
Research assistant position (wissenschaftliche/r Mitar-
beiter/in) The Institute of Zoology at the University of
Veterinary Medicine Hannover (TiHo Hannover), Ger-
many, invites applications for a research assistant posi-
tion (65% TV-L 13 salary) in a project funded by the
Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). The position
is available from the 1st of April 2017 for three years.
Marked climatic oscillations between glacial and inter-
glacial periods had worldwide consequences for vegeta-
tion as well as animal population dynamics. This multi-
disciplinary project aims to integrate demographic infer-
ences based on molecular datasets of mouse lemurs with
validated high-resolution vegetation dynamics based on
paleoecological reconstructions obtained from the same
study sites reaching back to the Last Glacial Maximum
(LGM). To reach these goals, study sites in northwestern
and northern Madagascar will be visited for the joint
collection of (paleo)ecological and population datasets
and samples of mouse lemurs in direct vicinity to each
other. The lemur samples will be analyzed by applying
NGS technologies.
The successful candidate will join a multi-disciplinary
eld team and spend a period of 6 months in Mada-
gascar for sample collection and the determination of
lemur abundance in several study sites. We oer the
opportunity for the acquisition of a doctoral degree in
the framework of this study.
Applicants should hold a M.Sc degree in biology or
equivalent qualication. A high motivation for a multi-
facetted project that includes substantial amount of eld
work under remote and basic living conditions as well as
advanced bioinformatics techniques on large molecular
datasets will be a prerequisite. Good language abilities
in English, both orally and in writing, are required and
some knowledge of French would be benecial. Previ-
ous experience with tropical countries and with eld
techniques such as capture or handling of animals or
distance sampling is a plus. Experience with molecular
techniques such as sequencing and analysis of popula-
tion genetic datasets would be highly benecial. In
addition, the applicant should have a high capability
of self organization and the ability to work in a team
as well as independently under dicult eld working
conditions.February 1, 2017 EvolDir 45
Applications (in electronic form as single pdf le, subject
line: mouse lemur demography) should consist of (I) a
motivation letter, (II) a recent curriculum vitae includ-
ing publications, (III) the abstract of the M.Sc thesis to-
gether with Master certicate, and (IV) contact informa-
tion of two professional referees and should be sent until
the 5th February 2017 by email to ute.radespiel@tiho-
hannover.de.
For informal inquiries please contact Prof. Dr. Ute
Radespiel Ute.radespiel@tiho-hannover.de, Tel. +49-
511-9538430
Prof. Dr. Ute Radespiel Institute of Zoology University
of Veterinary Medicine Hannover Buenteweg 17 30559
Hannover Germany
Tel. 0511-9538430 Fax. 051-9538586 Email:
ute.radespiel@tiho-hannover.de Web-page: http://-
www.tiho-hannover.de/kliniken-institute/institute/-
institut-fuer-zoologie/forschung/uag-radespiel/-
uradesp/ \Radespiel, Ute" <ute.radespiel@tiho-
hannover.de >
UHongKong ConservationGenetics
A fully funded PhD studentship is available for the study
of population genetics and conservation biology of the
endangered tree Aquilaria sinensis at the University of
Hong Kong, in collaboration with Kadoorie Farm and
Botanic Garden, Hong Kong.
Aquilaria sinensis, also known as incense tree or agar-
wood tree, is one of the most famous medicinal plants in
Hong Kong and China. However, due to the rising de-
mands for agarwood, this species is threatened by illegal
felling throughout the region. To conserve and maintain
healthy incense tree populations in Hong Kong, there
is an urgent need to study the conservation genetics
of this species. We now seek a high calibre student to
(1) study the genetic diversity of Aquilaria sinensis in
Hong Kong and understand how the genetic diversity
is aected by illegal felling; (2) understand the genetic
variation of Aquilaria sinensis at dierent age classes,
and disentangle the gene ow patterns of this species.
This work will contribute to the synthesis of a Species
Action Plan and information gained from this project
will be useful for conservation and restoration of this
species in Hong Kong and throughout the region.
Prospective students with a background in conservation
biology or population genetics are encouraged to apply.A strong academic record, evidence of excellent writing
and analytical skills, as well as enthusiasm for eld and
laboratory research will be a plus.
The PhD studentship includes a postgraduate schol-
arship, travel insurance and research support for four
years. To apply, please send application materials, in-
cluding a cover letter and copies of academic transcripts,
resume and contact information for 3 references to saun-
ders@hku.hk, gscher@kfbg.org or hzhang@kfbg.org.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is lled.
Huarong Zhang, Ph.D.
Senior conservation geneticist
Flora conservation department
Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden
Hong Kong
hzhang@kfbg.org
UHull UK EvolParentalCare
We are advertising a cluster of projects on the evolution
of parental care funded by University of Hull including
two PhD studentships and a postdoctoral position super-
vised by Drs Isabella Capellini, Lesley Morrell and James
Gilbert. For details about the postdoctoral position,
soon to be open, please contact I.Capellini@hull.ac.uk.
To be considered for the shortlist, interested applicants
are strongly advised to contact the relevant lead super-
visor well in advance of application. Please enclose a CV
and a brief explanation of why this position interests
you, and any questions you have. Applicants should
have at least a 2.1 undergraduate degree in Biology,
Ecology, or related discipline, together with relevant
research experience. A 1st class undergraduate degree
or Masters level qualication are anticipated.
There are astonishing dierences in whether, how, and
for how long, animals care for their ospring. In most
species, such as many marine shes, parents abandon
their fertilized eggs, which are mostly eaten by preda-
tors. By contrast, parents of other species, as in humans,
provide protection and substantial amount of resources
to their eggs or ospring.
PhD 1: Evolution of parents feeding ospring. Lead
Supervisor: Dr James Gilbert, james.gilbert@hull.ac.uk
Parental feeding is rare among animals. The studentship46 EvolDir February 1, 2017
will focus on this crucial but little-understood behaviour.
Insects are excellent for asking evolutionary questions
about parental care: strategies are diverse, and often
dier among related species. The student will rst com-
plete and publish a large reproductive trait database for
insects, begun by Dr Gilbert, and second, in a broad
comparative analysis across many species, address the
following questions: (1) What ecological factors favour
the evolution and/or maintenance of parental provision-
ing? Does provisioning evolve with harsh or stable en-
vironments; scarce, specialized resources; or predation?
Is loss of ospring self-suciency a key precondition for
the evolution of parental provisioning? (2) What are
the evolutionary consequences of a food-provisioning
strategy? Is optional (or partial) food provisioning be-
haviour inherently unstable? The project will deepen
our understanding of an extremely important group,
insects, and provides key comparisons not available in
groups like mammals who uniformly feed ospring.
Further requirements: experience essential with at least
one out of: database management, phylogenies, insect
behaviour studies; two or more desirable. Experience
with R desirable.
How to apply: Application is online at the
following link: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=82439&LID=624 . PhD 2.
Laterality and parental care in sh. Lead Supervisor:
Dr Lesley Morrell, l.morrell@hull.ac.uk
Long thought to be unique to humans, lateralisation
(or handedness) is now recognised as widespread in ver-
tebrates. Animals show lateralisation in a wide range
of organs and behaviours, and it is hypothesised that
cerebral lateralisation can enhance cognitive abilities,
particularly through the ability to attend to multiple
tasks at one time (multitasking). For sh, this might
be the ability to simultaneously forage and remain vig-
ilant for predators, for example. In this project, we
will investigate the potential link between lateralisation,
parental care and other ecological factors in sh. More
specically, the project seeks to address the following
questions: 1) Within and across species, are individu-
als that provide care more likely to be lateralised than
individuals that do not? 2) How does laterality link
to the ability to multitask in caring and non-caring sit-
uations? 3) How do environmental conditions shape
laterality, and how does this link to the ability to multi-
task? Experimental work on the behaviour of sh in the
Universitys aquarium facilities will be a key component
of this project.
Further requirements: essential to the project are good
skills and experience with experimental work, preferen-
tially in behavioural ecology and/or with sh; experiencewith R desirable.
How to apply: Application is online at the
following link: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=82441&LID=624 . Positions
will start on the 25th September 2017. Full-time UK/EU
PhD Scholarships will include fees at the home/EU stu-
dent rate and maintenance (pounds 14,121 in 2016/17)
for three years, depending on satisfactory progress. Full-
time International Fee PhD Studentships will include
full fees at the International student rate for three years,
dependent on satisfactory progress.
James.Gilbert@hull.ac.uk
ULeeds UK
SeychellesWarblersFitness
A funded PhD studentship on \Individual variation
in reproductive success in the cooperatively breeding
Seychelles warbler" is available at the University of
Leeds, UK, supervised by Dr Hannah Dugdale and
co-supervised by Dr Simon Goodman. The PhD is
in collaboration with Prof Terry Burke (University of
Sheeld), Prof David S Richardson (University of East
Anglia), Prof Jan Komdeur (University of Groningen)
and Nature Seychelles (www.natureseychelles.org).
Accurate measures of tness components, such as sur-
vival and reproduction, are fundamental to the study of
evolutionary and conservation biology. However, tness
can be very dicult to measure in natural populations,
e.g., individuals may disperse from the study area. Even
in closed populations where survival can be monitored
accurately, parentage can be hard to assign from be-
haviour alone, and requires the use of genetic mark-
ers. This requires genetic samples, which are usually
obtained from ospring soon after hatching/birth. How-
ever, measuring tness at this early life-history stage
can be problematic as selection can act at dierent time
points in life, aecting ospring at various ages. Fitness
therefore needs to be measured at multiple life-history
stages, and extend to grand-ospring, when investigat-
ing individual variation in reproductive success. Few
studies have done this, as extensive, detailed long-term
studies are required. The proposed study will use such
data to investigate a range of key factors that impact
on individual reproductive success in a cooperatively
breeding system of Seychelles warblers. Understanding
variation in reproductive success will provide important
information to guide the long-term conservation eortsFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 47
of this once critically endangered species.
Why you should apply: The University of Leeds is in
the world top 100 universities, globally recognised for its
quality of teaching and research, and is in the leading
group of UK universities, creating an excellent environ-
ment for a PhD. Dr Hannah Dugdale and Dr Simon
Goodman will provide expertise in evolutionary biology.
In particular, we will provide supervision in life-history
evolution, social evolution and conservation biology, and
we will encourage you to develop your own research ideas.
You will gain specialist training in molecular ecology
techniques, and you will gain eldwork skills, conducting
eldwork for a minimum of three seasons (up to 3 months
per season). You can develop your networking and team
skills through collaborations with researchers on the
long-term Seychelles warbler project (http://seychelles-
warbler-project.group.shef.ac.uk). You will also ben-
et from a wide-range of training courses, such as:
http://www.emeskillstraining.leeds.ac.uk and http://-
www.fbs.leeds.ac.uk/postgraduate/professionaldev.php .
Funding: The studentship covers UK/EU tuition fees
and a stipend at RCUK rates ( ~14,296 pa). Applicants
from the UK/EU are eligible; international tuition fee
payers are not eligible. Deadline: Monday, January 9,
2017. To apply: http://www.nercdtp.leeds.ac.uk/how-
to-apply/<http://www.fbs.leeds.ac.uk/postgraduate/-
researchdegree.php >.
Further information: http://www.nercdtp.leeds.ac.uk/-
projects/index.php?id=480 Hannah Dugdale
<H.Dugdale@leeds.ac.uk >
ULeicester
GreatApeGenomicDiversity
A fully-funded NERC studentship is available to Euro-
pean/UK Students, as part of the NERC DTP CENTA
consortium (www.centa.org.uk), at the University of
Leicester, UK
Subject: Sex-biased processes and the population struc-
ture and conservation of great ape species
Supervisors: Prof Mark A Jobling, Dr Celia A May,
Dr Jon Wetton (Department of Genetics, University of
Leicester, UK)
Informal enquiries to Prof Mark A Jobling,
maj4@le.ac.uk, 0116 252 3427
For more details and how to apply, see: http://-
www.centa.org.uk/themes/anthropogenic/l7/ Applica-tion Deadline: 23 January 2017
Overview
The population genetics and evolution of great apes
(chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, orangutans) are of par-
ticular interest because this group is the most closely
related to humans, yet critically endangered. Species
and subspecies taxonomy has been labile over the last
20 years, and driven by molecular genetic data. Whole-
genome data have given insights into gene ow between
groups [1], with population isolates showing high ge-
netic drift (particularly in mountain gorillas [2]), which
has important implications for conservation genetics.
Pathogens (e.g. Ebola) are decimating wild populations
and imposing strong selection that will lead to adap-
tation. There is a clear need to better understand the
structures of wild populations in their environments.
The genetic diversity of wild populations is strongly
inuenced by mating patterns and sex-biased dispersal,
including the inuence of sperm competition. Analysis
of DNA variants in the male-specic region of the Y
chromosome (MSY) and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)
has contributed much to understanding these factors in
many mammalian species. Until recently, typing of mul-
tiple short-tandem repeats (STRs) [3] has been the only
way to assess MSY diversity in great apes. We have se-
quenced several megabases of MSY via next-generation
sequencing (NGS), deriving a detailed MSY phylogeny
(Fig. 1) containing thousands of single-nucleotide poly-
morphisms (SNPs) [4]. In our zoo-based sample this
distinguishes well between (sub)species and reveals dra-
matic dierences suggesting diverse sex-biased processes.
This project will expand the MSY tree by NGS analysis
of additional great-ape individuals, to properly under-
stand STR/SNP haplogroup relationships, and to de-
velop methods to type MSY SNPs and STRs, as well as
mtDNA, in non-invasive samples such as faeces and hair
from wild populations. As well as allowing a large-scale
approach to demography and sex-biased processes in
samples from natural environments, such methods will
be also be adapted for in-eld analysis of bushmeat
samples in order to combat a major threat to wild ape
populations, thus aiding conservation.
The project will envolve the initial establishment of
'conventional' methods for assessing diversity, includ-
ing building uorescent PCR multiplexes, analysis via
capillary electrophoresis, set-up of software for auto-
matic allele calling, PCR primer design, SNP typing,
and Sanger sequencing.
PCR-based and sequence capture approaches will be
established for next-generation (Illumina MiSeq) and
third-generation sequencing platforms (MinION; Oxford48 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Nanopore Technologies). Methods will be adapted and
validated for non-invasive samples from the wild, and
MinION methods established for in-eld analysis.
Phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences and population-
genetic statistical analysis will be undertaken to illumi-
nate the population structures and evolution of great
ape (sub)species, to understand the roles of sex-biased
processes, and to aid in the establishment of conserva-
tion strategies.
Applicants must meet requirements for both aca-
demic qualications and residential eligibility: http:/-
/www.nerc.ac.uk/skills/postgrad/ To apply formally,
please visit: http://www2.le.ac.uk/research-degrees/-
funding/centa/how-to-apply-for-a-centa-project Refer-
ences
1. Prado-Martinez J, Sudmant PH, Kidd JM, Li H, Kel-
ley JL, Lorente- Galdos B, Veeramah KR, Woerner AE,
O'Connor TD, Santpere G et al: Great ape genetic diver-
sity and population history. Nature 2013, 499: 471-475.
2. Xue Y, Prado-Martinez J, Sudmant PH, Narasimhan
V, Ayub Q, Szpak M, Frandsen P, Chen Y, Yngvadottir
B, Cooper DN et al: Mountain gorilla genomes reveal
the impact of long-term population decline and inbreed-
ing. Science 2015, 348: 242-245. 3. Arandjelovic M,
Head J, Rabanal LI, Schubert G, Mettke E, Boesch C,
Robbins MM, Vigilant L: Non-invasive genetic moni-
toring of wild central chimpanzees. PLoS One 2011, 6:
e14761. 4. Hallast P, Maisano Delser P, Batini C, Zadik
D, Rocchi M, Schempp W, Tyler-Smith C, Jobling MA:
Great-ape Y-chromosome and mitochondrial
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULeicester HumanAncientD-
NAModernDNAanalyses
A three year-funded studentship, oered at the standard
Research Council UK rate, is available to European/UK
Students, at the Department of Genetics of the Univer-
sity of Leicester, UK
Subject: The slave-trade and beyond: the genetics of re-
cent African migrations Supervisors: Dr Sandra Beleza,
Prof Mark A Jobling (Department of Genetics, Univer-sity of Leicester, UK) Application deadline: 7th Febru-
ary 2017
Informal enquiries to Dr Sandra Beleza, sdsb1@le.ac.uk,
0116 294 4548
For more details and how to apply, see: http://-
www2.le.ac.uk/departments/genetics/postgraduate/-
phd-studentships Overview: Human genetic variation
commonly exhibits geographic structuring as a con-
sequence of demographic history (such as population
subdivision, migration, and admixture or replacement),
as well as locus-specic forces such as selection, muta-
tion and recombination. Thus, dissecting the patterns
of this variation is important for the reconstruction
of human evolutionary history, and can contribute to
the understanding of the genetic basis of phenotypic
adaptation and complex disease. Drawn by the
knowledge of high levels of genetic diversity and low
levels of linkage disequilibrium (which have important
implications for the mapping of disease susceptibility
loci), geneticists are increasingly turning their attention
to Africa, the continent of origin of our species. The
African Genome Variation Project has enhanced
our understanding of the genetic variation in West,
West-central and East Africa, and started to reveal
the inuence of pre-historical and historical large-scale
migrations and expansions on the distribution of the
genetic diversity across the continent.
Here, we propose to complement these studies with a
detailed genomic study of our own collection of samples,
and to provide a detailed characterization of the timing
and extent of important recent migrations that occurred
within Africa and from Africa to the Americas. Firstly,
the student will combine public African datasets with
our samples from Southwest and Southeast Africa to
model the signicant demographic shift in Sub-Saharan
Africa that took place during the Bantu expansion. Sec-
ondly, they will combine this extended contemporary
African dataset with ancient DNA (aDNA) analyses of
human remains recovered from slave cemeteries located
in the main receiving ports in Northeast and South-
east Brazil, and modern DNA analyses of descendants
of enslaved Africans (Brazilians) collected in the same
regions, to investigate the ethnic origins, demographic
history and contemporary legacies of the trans-Atlantic
slave trade. Given the historical evidence on dierent
forced migratory routes from Africa to the Northeast-
ern and Southeastern Brazilian ports, the shift in the
relative importance of these routes through time, and
the large number of slaves carried (ten times more than
were carried to North America), the study of the African
diaspora in Brazil provides a unique opportunity to un-
derstand the population dynamics of the trans-Atlantic
slave trade. The student will apply both analytical andFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 49
simulation-based methods to test dierent evolutionary
scenarios, and to infer the main population parameters
(such as population sizes, divergence times, migration
rates, and timing and magnitude of recent admixture
events) that gave rise to the contemporary diversity of
European and European-derived populations.
By using such a complete dataset and state-of-the-art
techniques, the project will be able to shed light on
the demographic history of Africa and of populations
inuenced by African migrations, and on the funda-
mental processes of human migration. Finally, pairing
this genomic data with ecological, historical, linguistic
and other socio-economical variables, as well as with
morphological and biomedical trait values such as skin
colour, body mass index and blood pressure, the stu-
dent will be able to interpret a range of genetic and
non-genetic dimensions of African variation, including
disease susceptibility, morphologic variation, linguistic
dierentiation, and cultural and social practices.
Applicants should expect to hold a 1st or 2.1 BSc in a
relevant eld by the end of September 2017 when the stu-
dentship will commence. Those holding a 2.2 degree plus
a Master's degree or >3 years relevant post-graduate
experience may be eligible. Candidates with degrees
from abroad may be eligible if their qualications are
deemed equivalent.
To apply formally, please visit: http://www2.le.ac.uk/-
research-degrees/phd/applyphd?uol r=78572a95 San-
dra Beleza, PhD Lecturer in Genetics University of
Leicester Adrian Building University Road Leicester,
LE1 7RH UK
Phone: +44 (0)116 294 4548 email:
sdsb1@leicester.ac.uk; sbeleza@gmail.com
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULethbridge AvianEvolution
I am looking for outstanding students interested in pur-
suing a graduate degree in evolutionary biology. I have
several potential projects on evolutionary ecology, pop-
ulation genetics, landscape genetics, and speciation of
birds which are suitable for MSc or PhD projects.Field work is an important aspect of the research and
preference will be given to applicants who have band-
ing/ringing experience. Experience with lab work (PCR,
sequencing, genomics, genotyping) are also an asset.
Preferred start dates are May 1 or Sept 1 2017.
Admissions criteria and deadlines for application can
be found on the School of Graduate Studies website
(https://www.uleth.ca/graduate-studies/) along with a
list of internal funding opportunities:
https://www.uleth.ca/graduate-studies/awards/sgs-
tuition-scholarship https://www.uleth.ca/graduate-
studies/awards/sgs-deans-scholarship The University
of Lethbridge has a strong research program in
evolutionary biology and a diverse group of researchers.
Graduate students are eligible for full funding packages
through a combination of TA-ships and competitive
internal scholarships (including tuition awards), and
are encouraged to apply for external fellowships from a
variety of Provincial and Federal sources.
Theresa Burg
Biological Sciences
University of Lethbridge
403 332 5299
http://scholar.ulethbridge.ca/theresaburg/ \The only
real mistake is the one from which we learn nothing"
\Burg, Theresa" <theresa.burg@uleth.ca >50 EvolDir February 1, 2017
ULondon EvolutionaryTheory
Graduate positions are available in evolutionary theory,
mathematical modelling at the School of Biological Sci-
ences of Royal Holloway, University of London. Some
topics of interest are
- Modelling the spread of pathogens and symbiontns in
social insect colonies(Professor Vincent Jansen)
- The common good and alignment of evolutionary in-
terest between endogenous retroviruses and their hosts
(Professor Vincent Jansen)
- The tness consequences of spatial cognition in the
bumblebee Bombus terrestris (Dr Elli Leadbeater)
The deadline is 31/1/17, but contact the supervisors if
an extension to the deadline is needed
For details see
https://www.royalholloway.ac.uk/biologicalsciences/-
prospectivestudents/ postgraduatere-
search/phdstudentships2017.aspx
These are fully funded studentships, many available
to applicants form the EU (some are restricted to UK
residents)
Vincent Jansen
\Jansen, Vincent" <Vincent.Jansen@rhul.ac.uk >
UManchester PopulationGenomics
Funded PhD Opportunity
Title: Population genomics of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes,
the vector of dengue, Chikungunya and Zika
Supervisors: Cathy Walton and Tucker Gilman at the
University of Manchester, UK and Weiwei Zhai at the
Genome Institute of Singapore
Location: As this studentship is part of the ASTAR pro-
gramme with Singapore Institutes, the student would
spend two years in the UK and 2 years in Singapore.
Application deadline: 22 January
To apply follow the link at: https://www.ndaphd.com/-search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=81544&LID=-
1024 Informal enquiries can be made to
catherine.walton@manchester.ac.uk and/or
tucker.gilman@manchester.ac.uk
Project Description
Knowledge of dispersal in mosquitoes such as Aedes
aegypti, the vector of dengue, Zika and chikungunya
viruses, is critical to the implementation of several meth-
ods of disease control. For example, the eectiveness
of insecticide spraying depends upon immigration rate
of new mosquitoes into the treated area and spacing
of the release of sterile males depends upon dispersal
distance and ease of movement through the landscape.
Population genetics methods potentially oer the most
powerful approach to infer dispersal from estimates of
gene ow. However, estimating gene ow on the ecolog-
ically relevant (i.e. recent) time frames for control of
mosquito borne disease is non-trivial, as estimates are
confounded by historical eects in most existing meth-
ods of analysis. Population genomics (i.e. population
genetics on a genome wide scale) oers the potential
for a new approach to tackle this problem due to the
large amounts of data that can be generated. In this
project, the student will generate and analyse genomic
sequence data in a population genomics and landscape
genomics framework to understand gene ow in and evo-
lution of Aedes aegypti on a scale relevant for disease
transmission control.
This studentship is suitable for students with either bio-
logical or mathematical backgrounds. During the stu-
dentship, the student will develop a deep understanding
of population genetics theory. The project will involve
a limited amount of eldwork to collect mosquitoes and
some molecular genetics work in the laboratory. How-
ever, the project will largely focus on the analysis of
genetic data and, as necessary, the development of novel
and modication of existing analytical approaches. The
primary aim of the project is to characterise recent gene
ow and any landscape barriers to mosquito dispersal.
However, from the genomic data it will also be possible
to infer demographic history and identify genes that
may be under positive adaptive selection; such genes
are likely to be particularly relevant to disease trans-
mission and/or control. The methodological approaches
developed will be relevant to a wide range of problems
concerned with man-made environmental change (e.g.
the spread of pest species and the conservation of species
of conservation concern).
Funding Notes
The project is available to UK/EU candidates. Funding
covers fees (UK/EU rate) and stipend for four years.
Overseas candidates can apply providing they can payFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 51
the dierence in fees and are from an eligible country.
Please check the website for information on eligibility.
Candidates will be required to split their time between
Manchester and Singapore, as outlined on our website.
Applications should be submitted online and candidates
should make direct contact with the Manchester super-
visor to discuss their application directly.
References
1. Bennett KL, et al. (2016) Historical environmental
change in Africa drives divergence and admixture of
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes: a precursor to successful
worldwide colonization? Mol Ecol. 25: 4337-54. 2.
Kemppainen P, et al. (2015) Linkage disequilibrium
network analysis (LDna) gives a global view of chro-
mosomal inversions, local adaptation and population
structure. Mol Ecol Res 15:1031-1045. 3. Gilman RT, et
al. (2012) Coevolution in multidimensional trait space
favors escape from parasites and pathogens. Nature
(2012) 483(7389):328-330. 4. Wang GD, et al. (2016)
Out of southern East Asia: the natural history of do-
mestic dogs across the world. Cell Res. 26:21-33.
Catherine Walton <Catherine.Walton@manchester.ac.uk >
UNamur Belgium RotiferEvolution
2
*A PhD position is available to study extreme stress
responses in the notorious bdelloid rotifers, UNamur,
Belgium*
A PhD position is available immediately to start work-
ing on the oxidative stress responses of bdelloid rotifers
following desiccation and radiation within the group of
Prof. Karine Van Doninck (Laboratory of Evolutionary
Genetics and Ecology) and Dr. Florence Chainiaux at
the University of Namur (Belgium).
While several metazoan asexual lineages exist, the most
notorious and successful clade is the bdelloid rotifers
containing at least 460 morphospecies that seems to
have evolved for tens of millions of years without sexual
reproduction (including fertilization and meiosis with
pairing of homologous chromosomes). Besides their
asexual mode of reproduction, they are also well-known
for their extreme desiccation and radiation resistance.
Entering a desiccated state is however harmful in most
animals and is expected to be accompanied by the gener-
ation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), known to induce
damages at the DNA, protein and lipid level if not neu-tralized by antioxidants. This PhD project will study
and characterize in detail the oxidative stress generated
during desiccation and radiation in the model bdelloid
species Adineta vaga and investigate their antioxidant
responses. Being funded by the European Space Agency,
this Phd will also investigate the impact of simulated mi-
cro gravity on oxidative stress responses and be involved
in space mission preparation.
This PhD position is for 1 year andcan start beginning of
February 2017, being funded by two projects, ESA (Eu-
ropean Space Agency) and ARC (Actions de Recherche
Concertees). An extension of another 3 years is possible
but the candidate will be encouraged to apply for its
own FRIA or FNRS Belgian PhD grant.
Prof. Karine Van Doninck recently acquired an ERC
Consolidator Grant to study the mechanisms of genome
evolution in the absence of meiosis in bdelloid rotifers;
this ERC CoG will start in 2017. This PhD will join a
very dynamic research lab including nowadays 5 post-
docs, 2 PhD students and 3 technicians at UNamur.
We employ interdisciplinary approaches (cellular and
molecular biology, comparative genomics, bioinformatics
and community level) to study evolutionary processes
in the absence of sex and the mechanisms of extreme
resistances. Our team obtained the rst draft genome
of the bdelloid rotifer A. vaga (Flot etal2013 Nature),
we have optimized desiccation and radiation protocols
(Hespeels etal2014 JEB) and recently we discovered
horizontal gene transfer between A. vaga individuals
sampled in the wild (Debortoli etal2016 Current Bi-
ology). Our laboratory works for this project in close
collaboration with Dr. F. Chainiaux at UNamur, study-
ing ageing and oxidative stress in human, with Prof. S.
Lucas at LARN (UNamur) for the radiation experiments,
with Prof. B. Hallet atUCL (Belgium) specialized in
DNA repair studies and with Dr. S. Baatout of the
SCK-CEN radiobiology unit (Mol, Belgium) for the
microgravity experiments.
Contacts: For more information contact Prof. Karine
Van Doninck, karine.vandoninck@unamur.be or Dr.
Boris Hespeels, boris.hespeels@unamur.be from the Uni-
versity of Namur, Laboratory of Evolutionary Genet-
ics and Ecology http://www.lege-unamur.be Applica-
tion: Applicants should have a Msc degree in Biology or
Molecular Life Sciences or Medical Biology with a spe-
cialization in molecular biology, evolutionary genetics,
biochemistry or similar. The successful candidate should
be procient in English and should demonstrate his mo-
tivation to do a Phd and work in a multidisciplinary
research team with a highly collaborative spirit.
The closing date for applications is 20th of January
2017.52 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Interested applicants should send a cover letter (briey
describingresearch experience, interests, and career
goal), curriculum vitae (with list of publications if any),
and the names of three references (including address,
phone number and Email) to Karine VAN DONINCK
(karine.vandoninck@unamur.be)
{
Karine VAN DONINCK Full Professor Department of
Biology
T. +;32 (0)81 724 407 F. +32 (0)81 724
362 karine.vandoninck@unamur.be http://-
perso.fundp.ac.be/ ~kvandoni/ Universite de Namur
ASBL Rue de Bruxelles 61 - 5000 Namur Belgique
Let's respect the environment together. Only print this
message if necessary!
Karine Van Doninck <karine.vandoninck@fundp.ac.be >
UNamur Belgium RotiferEvolution
3
*A PhD position is available to study extreme stress
responses in the notorious bdelloid rotifers, UNamur,
Belgium*
A PhD position is available immediately to start work-
ing on the oxidative stress responses of bdelloid rotifers
following desiccation and radiation within the group of
Prof. Karine Van Doninck (Laboratory of Evolutionary
Genetics and Ecology) and Dr. Florence Chainiaux at
the University of Namur (Belgium).
While several metazoan asexual lineages exist, the most
notorious and successful clade is the bdelloid rotifers
containing at least 460 morphospecies that seems to
have evolved for tens of millions of years without sexual
reproduction (including fertilization and meiosis with
pairing of homologous chromosomes). Besides their
asexual mode of reproduction, they are also well-known
for their extreme desiccation and radiation resistance.
Entering a desiccated state is however harmful in most
animals and is expected to be accompanied by the gener-
ation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), known to induce
damages at the DNA, protein and lipid level if not neu-
tralized by antioxidants. This PhD project will study
and characterize in detail the oxidative stress generated
during desiccation and radiation in the model bdelloid
species Adineta vaga and investigate their antioxidant
responses. Being funded by the European Space Agency,this Phd will also investigate the impact of simulated mi-
cro gravity on oxidative stress responses and be involved
in space mission preparation.
This PhD position is for 1 year and can start in February
2017, being funded by two projects, ESA (European
Space Agency) and ARC (Actions de Recherche Concer-
tees). An extension of another 3 years is possible but
the candidate will be encouraged to apply for its own
FRIA or FNRS Belgian PhD grant.
Prof. Karine Van Doninck recently acquired an ERC
Consolidator Grant to study the mechanisms of genome
evolution in the absence of meiosis in bdelloid rotifers;
this ERC CoG will start in 2017. This PhD will join a
very dynamic research lab including nowadays 5 post-
docs, 2 PhD students and 3 technicians at UNamur.
We employ interdisciplinary approaches (cellular and
molecular biology, comparative genomics, bioinformatics
and community level) to study evolutionary processes
in the absence of sex and the mechanisms of extreme
resistances. Our team obtained the rst draft genome
of the bdelloid rotifer A. vaga (Flot etal2013 Nature),
we have optimized desiccation and radiation protocols
(Hespeels etal2014 JEB) and recently we discovered
horizontal gene transfer between A. vaga individuals
sampled in the wild (Debortoli etal2016 Current Bi-
ology). Our laboratory works for this project in close
collaboration with Dr. F. Chainiaux at UNamur, study-
ing ageing and oxidative stress in human, with Prof. S.
Lucas at LARN (UNamur) for the radiation experiments,
with Prof. B. Hallet atUCL (Belgium) specialized in
DNA repair studies and with Dr. S. Baatout of the
SCK-CEN radiobiology unit (Mol, Belgium) for the
microgravity experiments.
Contacts: For more information contact Prof. Karine
Van Doninck, karine.vandoninck@unamur.be or Dr.
Boris Hespeels, boris.hespeels@unamur.be from the Uni-
versity of Namur, Laboratory of Evolutionary Genet-
ics and Ecology http://www.lege-unamur.be Applica-
tion: Applicants should have a Msc degree in Biology or
Molecular Life Sciences or Medical Biology with a spe-
cialization in molecular biology, evolutionary genetics,
biochemistry or similar. The successful candidate should
be procient in English and should demonstrate his mo-
tivation to do a Phd and work in a multidisciplinary
research team with a highly collaborative spirit.
The closing date for applications is 31st of January 2017.
Interested applicants should send a cover letter (briey
describing research experience, interests, and career
goal), curriculum vitae (with list of publications if any),
and the names of three references (including address,
phone number and Email) to Karine VAN DONINCK
(karine.vandoninck@unamur.be)February 1, 2017 EvolDir 53
{
Karine VAN DONINCK Full Professor Department of
Biology
T. +;32 (0)81 724 407 F. +32 (0)81 724
362 karine.vandoninck@unamur.be http://-
perso.fundp.ac.be/ ~kvandoni/ Universit ~A ^A 
de Namur ASBL Rue de Bruxelles 61 - 5000 Namur
Belgique
Let's respect the environment together. Only print this
message if necessary!
Karine Van Doninck <karine.vandoninck@fundp.ac.be >
UOsnabruck IPK Gatersleben
SteppePlantPhylogeography
The University of Osnabruck and the IPK Gater-
sleben invite applications for three PhD positions in
Evolutionary Biology/Plant Systematics in a project
inferring vegetation history of the Eurasian steppe
belt. The project will involve eldwork, NGS
methods, and phylogeographic analyses for a set of
about 20 plant taxa characteristic for the steppe
vegetation. A more detailed description of the
project and information regarding applications can be
found through http://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/uploads/-
media/08 01173PhDPositions ETX V1.pdf .Dead-
line for the application is February 28, 2017. Intended
project start will be May or June 2017. Frank Blattner
(blattner@ipk-gatersleben.de)
\Frank R. Blattner" <blattner@ipk-gatersleben.de >
UPlymouth AdaptationMechanisms
ExtDeadline
**EXTENDED DEADLINE**
University of Plymouth, UK
Fully funded PhD studentship with Dr Mike Thom
(Plymouth) and Dr Jon Bridle (Bristol) investigating
the role of sexual selection in adaptation to variable
environments.
The studentship will be available to start from 1st April2017, and must start by 1st October 2017 at the latest.
Project Description Understanding how organisms adapt
to changing environmental conditions is a central goal
of evolutionary biology, and one which has important
conservation application in helping to predict potential
impacts of environmental challenges on species distribu-
tions and diversity. Two key theoretical questions are (1)
how does temporal and/or spatial variability in the envi-
ronment aect evolutionary response to change, and (2)
how do various evolutionary mechanisms interact dur-
ing adaptation? This project will use an experimental
evolution approach with the model organism Drosophila
melanogaster to explore evolutionary responses to a
number of static and uctuating environmental chal-
lenges, focusing on the interplay between sexual and
natural selection during adaptation. The student will
use a variety of behavioural, physiological and quanti-
tative genetic techniques to investigate the phenotypic
signatures and genetic architecture of population level
responses to environmental variation.
The studentship is supported for 3 years and includes
full UK/EU tuition fees plus a stipend of 14,296 per
annum. The studentship will only fully fund those appli-
cants who are eligible for Home/EU fees with relevant
qualications. Applicants normally required to cover
overseas fees will have to cover the dierence between
the Home/EU and the overseas tuition fee rates (ap-
proximately 11,040 per annum).
Further info can be found at: http://www.jobs.ac.uk/-
job/AWA894/phd-studentship-evolutionary-
mechanisms-of-adaptation-to-variable-environments/
Apply here: https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/study/-
postgraduate
Queries to me at michael.thom@plymouth.ac.uk
Michael Thom Lecturer in Evolutionary Biology Asso-
ciate Head of School (Teaching and Learning) School of
Biological Sciences Faculty of Science and Engineering
University of Plymouth PL4 8AA +44(0) 1752 5 84473
Oce: Portland Square A417
Michael Thom <michael.thom@plymouth.ac.uk >
UPortsmouth EvolutionFlowering
PhD opportunity at the University of
Portsmouth, Project code: BIOL3150217 https:/-
/www.ndaphd.com/search/projectdetails.aspx?PJID=-
73259 Please contact rocio.barrales@port.ac.uk for54 EvolDir February 1, 2017
details.
Title: Genetic causes and ecological consequences of
owering initiation in Linum bienne
Project description: Global warming has shifted the
start of owering in many plant species. Spring starts
earlier in the UK and the North of Europe, where the
owering season has now extended. In Mediterranean
countries, owering also starts earlier, but its duration is
shorter to avoid the summer period and the dry season.
Although we have a relatively good understanding of
the pathways that trigger owering initiation, we are
still far from understanding how plants perceive and
respond to environmental and climatic variation to shift
from vegetative growth to initiate owering, and the
level to which global warming aects it. Furthermore,
an adaptive response to the stress imposed by global
warming can only occur if plant populations harbour
sucient genetic variation in owering initiation. In
this project, we will investigate variation in owering
initiation and in other plant traits to assess how they
aect seed production in Linum bienne. This will be
done in populations across its geographic range between
the South of Spain and the UK. The project will include
greenhouse experiments and common garden experi-
ments to estimate genetic and phenotypic variation, and
heritability of owering initiation and correlated traits
and plant performance. This will allow detecting lo-
cal adaptation associated to dierent environments and
climates in Europe. It will also help identifying popula-
tions resilient to global warming and prompt to provide
an adaptive response to climate change. Because L. bi-
enne is the wild crop relative of cultivated ax, measures
of traits with agronomic value will be included to assess
the potential of L. bienne to improve cultivated ax.
Candidates must have a Master degree, and background
in Plant Biology, Ecology and Evolution. The present
project will suit candidates interested on Evolutionary
Ecology, and with a prole in data analysis. The can-
didate should be familiar with R for data analysis of
ecological and molecular data, and exible to work in
a team and independently. It is expected that (s)he
will be active preparing grant proposal and manuscripts.
The candidate will gain skills both in the eld and the
lab, plant breeding, crop research, and data analysis.
The lab work and greenhouse experiments will be con-
ducted in the facilities of The University of Portsmouth.
The candidate will have access to the Graduate School
Development Programme and Department Postgradu-
ate Researcher Training, and will join the Biodiversity
and Evolution research team at the School of Biologi-
cal Science. Funding Notes:Home/EU applicants only.
Please use the online application form and state the
project code (BIOL3150217) and studentship title inthe personal statement section.
Funds will be provided for 3 or 4 years which will
include: bursary (at current RCUK rates), Univer-
sity fees (UK/EU rate) plus pounds 1,500 pa project
costs/consumables for the duration of the studentship.
Rocio Perez-Barrales Senior Lecturer School of
Biological Sciences University of Portsmouth
King Henry Building King Henry 1st Street
Portsmouth PO1 2DY http://www.port.ac.uk/
https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Rocio Perez-
Barrales/ Rocio Barrales <rocio.barrales@port.ac.uk >
UPoznan EvolutionSpecialization
Call for PhD student for the project: A bidirectional se-
lection experiment to test the evolution of specialization
and dispersal in the invasive wheat curl mite, Aceria
tosichella
We seek a highly motivated student to carry out a
PhD project in the Population Ecology Lab, Fac-
ulty of Biology, A. Mickiewicz University (AMU)
in Pozna n, Poland (http://popecol.home.amu.edu.pl/-
research/). The project will be conducted in cooperation
with the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmen-
tal Changes, University of Lisbon, Portugal.
The goal of the project is to understand the evolution-
ary interplay between host specialization and dispersal.
Specically, we will investigate how evolution in con-
stant or changing environments shapes the host range
and dispersal ability of an invasive plant-feeding mite.
The PhD student is expected to carry out eld work
in agricultural landscapes in Poland (1st year), then
to conduct selection experiments, assess dispersal ef-
ciency, maintain mite stock colonies, measure popu-
lation parameters, contribute to laboratory molecular
analyses, participate in scientic discussions and write
manuscripts.
We oer a position for 3 years and a friendly, support-
ive working environment. The scholarship allows for a
reasonable standard of living in Poland.
Applicants should have: - a Master of Science degree in
Biological Sciences (biology, ecology, zoology, biochem-
istry, etc.); - interest in ecology and evolutionary biology;
- English language skills (uent communication, both
written and spoken); - organizational skills, self-reliance,
willingness to learn, smooth and productive cooperationFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 55
within a team. Additionally, prior scientic activity (e.g.
articles, conferences, fellowships) is desirable.
How to apply: Applications should include: motivation
letter, CV including research experience and publica-
tion list, reference contacts to 2 researchers, and a scan
of University diploma. Please send your application
as soon as possible to: anna.skoracka@amu.edu.pl and
include \PhD position" in the e-mail subject line, no
later than 15 March 2017. Selected candidates will be
invited for an interview (in person or via Skype). The
successful applicant will then apply to the AMU Faculty
of Biology as a PhD candidate following the standard
procedure.
If you have any questions regarding this position please
feel free to contact me: anna.skoracka@amu.edu.pl More
information about the project and our research group
can be found here: http://popecol.home.amu.edu.pl/-
research/evo-eco-erio/spec-disp/ { Anna Skoracka
Adam Mickiewicz University in Pozna n Faculty of
Biology Population Ecology Lab Umultowska 89,
61-614 Pozna n http://popecol.home.amu.edu.pl/-
lab-members/anna-skoracka/ Anna Skoracka
<skoracka@amu.edu.pl >
UppsalaU Metagenomics
Hi,
See the link for a PhD position opportunity in my group
at Uppsala University on metagenomics from ancient
lake sediments
http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=132979 Please, distribute to anyone you
think is interested!
Regards
Laura
Laura Parducci Plant Ecology/ Dept of Ecology and
Genetics Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala Univer-
sity Norbyvagen 18 D SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden EBC,
House 7, oor 2
laura.parducci@ebc.uu.se +46-18-471 6414
www.ieg.uu.se/plant/research-groups/ www.laurap.it
@lauparducci
Laura Parducci <Laura.Parducci@ebc.uu.se >UppsalaU Sweden Systematic
Biology
PhD student in systematic biology, within mycology
A position as a PhD student working with the evolution
of ectomycorrhizal fungi is available in Martin Ryberg's
group at Uppsala University, Sweden. The full add,
and link to application system, is available at: http://-
uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/?positionId=130647
To be eligible for a PhD-student position the applicant
must hold a master degree (or equivalent) in a rele-
vant eld. The ideal candidate is highly motivated with
education/experience in mycology, bioinformatics, phy-
logenetics and/or molecular lab-work. Candidates must
be uent in English.
martin.ryberg@ebc.uu.se
UQuebecEnOutaouais
VernalPoolBiodiversity
A graduate position is available from September 2017
at the Institut des Sciences de la For^ et Temp er ee (IS-
FORT), Universit e du Qu ebec en Outaouais. Since
language policy of the University requires a good level
of French for the position, details below are in French
only:
Opportunit e de bourse de doctorat PhD
Description du projet : La for^ et temp er ee feuillue de
l'est du Canada, compos ee majoritairement par l' erable
 a sucre, rev^ et une importance socio- economique majeure.
Ce biome forestier est caract eris e par la plus forte densit e
humaine au Canada, et g en ere d'importantes retomb ees
 economiques. Par ailleurs, cette for^ et g en ere aussi un
large  eventail de services  ecosyst emiques qui ont une
valeur consid erable pour la soci et e (e.g. habitat pour
la biodiversit e, r egulation du climat, cycle des nutri-
ments, activit es r ecr eatives, qualit e de l'air, r egulation
du climat, pollinisation, approvisionnement en eau).
Cette for^ et est soumise  a de fortes perturbations en rai-
son des activit es anthropiques, dont l'industrialisation,
l'urbanisation, la sylviculture et le d eboisement  a des ns56 EvolDir February 1, 2017
d'agriculture intensive. Concernant la sylviculture, deux
principales approches de gestion foresti ere sont utilis ees
: les coupes  a blanc (ou coupes totales, am enagement
 equienne) et les coupes de jardinage (ou coupes par-
tielles, am enagement in equienne). Malgr e la pratique
ancienne de ces deux approches, nous ne connaissons
pas encore leur impact sur la biodiversit e et les services
 ecosyst emiques. An d' etudier cet impact, ce projet
 evaluera l'eet de la gestion  equienne et in equienne
sur la biodiversit e des communaut es d'amphibiens ren-
contr ees dans les  etangs vernaux de la for^ et feuillue
temp er ee ainsi que sur la connectivit e des populations.
Ce projet se d eroulera  a Kenauk, une for^ et priv ee de
230 km ^A2sur laquelle di erentes parcelles ont subi
ces deux types d'am enagements. Dans un premier
temps, ce projet permettra de valider l'utilisation du
s equen cage nouvelle g en eration pour obtenir une esti-
mation pr ecise et rapide de la biodiversit e. Puis, la
comparaison de la biodiversit e de parcelles ayant subi
des coupes totales ou partielles sera compar ee  a celle
de parcelles n'ayant jamais  et e coup ees an d'estimer
l'impact de di erents am enagements forestiers sur la
biodiversit e. Enn, l'impact de ces am enagements
sur la connectivit e fonctionnelle sera  etudi e par des
m ethodes de capture-marquage-recapture, t el em etrie
et de g en etique du paysage. Le projet sera conduit en
collaboration avec Kenauk Canada et Conservation de
la Nature Canada, deux des propri etaires de la propri et e
foresti eres. Il apportera des connaissances in edites per-
mettant d'am eliorer l'am enagement forestier tout en
pr eservant la biodiversit e et les services  ecosyst emiques.
Le (la) candidat(e)  evoluera dans l'environnement stim-
ulant de l'Institut des Sciences de la For^ et temp er ee
(ISFORT; http://isfort.uqo.ca/).
Exigences : Le (la) candidat(e) doit avoir compl et e une
ma~Atrise en sciences biologiques, ou sciences connexes.
Il (elle) doit ^ etre disponible pour travailler sur le terrain
en for^ et durant l' et e 2018 (ce terrain requi ere une bonne
condition physique) et aimer travailler en  equipe. Les
exp eriences et comp etences suivantes seraient un atout:
-exp erience de terrain en milieu forestier -comp etences
en biologie mol eculaire (extraction d'ADN, PCR, qPCR,
s equen cage) -familiarit e avec l'environnement UNIX et
comp etences en analyse de donn ees (logiciel R) et pro-
grammation (Python) -connaissance des amphibiens (un
atout)
D ebut du projet : Septembre 2017
Bourse : 20 000 $/an pour 3 ans
Supervision : Yann Surget-Groba (UQO-ISFORT) et
Ang elique Dupuch (UQO-ISFORT) Veuillez envoyer
un relev e de notes de ma ~Atrise, une lettre de moti-
vation, un CV et le nom et les coordonn ees de troisr ef erences  a Yann Surget-Groba et Ang elique Dupuch
aux adresses suivantes: yann.surget-groba@uqo.ca et
angelique.dupuch@uqo.ca. L'examen des candidatures
se poursuivra jusqu' a ce que le poste soit pourvu.
{ Prof. Yann Surget-Groba Institut des Sciences de la
For^ et Temp er ee Universit e du Qu ebec en Outaouais 58,
rue Principale Ripon, Qu ebec, J0V 1V0
Phone: +1 819 595 3900 ext. 2933 E-mail: yann.surget-
groba@uqo.ca http://www.surget-groba.ch
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
URochester MolluscShellEvoDevo
URochester.MolluscShellEvoDevo
PhD position in evolutionary development of gastropod
shells
A graduate student position is available for study of the
mechanisms of mollusc shell development. Molluscs are
one of the most diverse and successful animal groups, in
terms of body plans, species, and their ubiquity across
ecosystems and niches. Their success is likely due in
part to a key molluscan character{ the shell, a strong
and durable exoskeleton of calcium crystals.
Mollusc shells are a very powerful model system for
morphological evolution. They are extremely diverse
and disparate, and dierent morphologies can often be
directly related to functional dierences. They have an
exquisitely detailed fossil record, which allows morpho-
logical change to be tracked through evolutionary time.
Shells grow progressively, at the outer edge, so they
record ontogenetic change like no other animal struc-
ture. Despite the diversity of mollusc shell morphology,
the geometry of shell growth is relatively simple{ even
dramatic dierences in shell form can be explained by
dierences in basic parameters of shell growth. This has
made them a prominent system for modeling morpholog-
ical change. Indeed, work on mollusc shells inspired the
concept of morphospace{ the theoretical representation
of all the possible forms or structures of an organism.
In addition, shell biomineralization has been extensively
studied and is a model for materials science (Marin et
al., 2012). Despite the many strengths of mollusc shellsFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 57
for studies of morphological evolution, they have not
been tractable for mechanistic studies of the evolution
of development, because the developmental mechanisms
that control shell growth are not known.
The successful candidate will extend recent discoveries
in the Lambert lab at the University of Rochester. Stud-
ies will focus on the cellular behaviors in the mantle
epithelium that control shell shape, and on the genes
that regulate these processes. Methods will include
cell proliferation assays, RNA-seq, in situ hybridization
and gene knockdown studies. Further comparative and
modeling projects are also anticipated.
To apply, please send a CV and a short statement de-
scribing your background and interests, to David Lam-
bert at email address dlamber2@mail.rochester.edu.
- David Lambert Associate Professor Department of Biol-
ogy University of Rochester http://www.rochester.edu/-
College/BIO/labs/LambertLab/index.html Oce: 344
Hutchison Hall Lab: 338 Hutchison Hall 585 273-2482
(oce) 585 275-7521 (lab) 585 275-2070 (fax) Shipping
address: University of Rochester Department of Biology
213 Hutchison Hall River Campus Rochester, NY 14627-
0211 Mailing address: University of Rochester Hutchison
Hall RC Box # 270211 Rochester NY 14627-0211
\Lambert, David" <dlamber2@smtp-gw.rochester.edu >
UtrechtU
EvolutionAntimicrobialResistance
Specications - (explanation) Location Utrecht Univer-
sity, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine Function types
Onderzoek, Ontwikkeling, Innovatie Scientic elds
Gezondheid Hours 38.0 hours per week Salary euro
2191 - euro 2801 Education Universitair Job number
884786 Translations en nl About employer Universiteit
Utrecht Short link www.academictransfer.com/38241
Job description Plasmid-mediated antimicrobial resis-
tance (pAMR) occurs in both humans and animals and
requires One-health solutions, which include a holistic
approach integrating veterinary, medical and environ-
mental disciplines. The susceptibility and contagious-
ness of pAMR depends on ecological and evolutionary
processes in the microbiota of the host. A consortium
of Utrecht University (UU) and Wageningen Univer-
sity (WU) will study the ecological and evolutionary
dynamics of pAMR in gut microbiota of chickens us-
ing mathematical modelling and experiments in the
project, entitled \Microbiome Invasion and Transmis-sion of plasmid-mediated Antimicrobial Resistance",
a.k.a. \MITAR", supported by a grant of ZonMW.
We are seeking a motivated PhD candidate, who wants
to contribute to our fundamental understanding of the
ecology and evolution of pAMR with an eye for applica-
tion of the results to obtain better interventions and risk
analyses. Tasks of the candidate include development
and analyses of mathematical models, development of
theory and analysis methodology, as well as validation
of these methods with experimental data sets. Further-
more, the candidate will design, conduct and analyse in
vivo experiments using chicken.
The candidate will work at UU in close collaboration
with a post-doc in evolutionary microbiology at WU.
The project will be supervised by Prof Arjan Stegeman
(UU), Prof Arjan de Visser (WU), Dr Egil Fischer (UU)
and Dr Mark Zwart (WU).
Requirements A suitable candidate for this project has
analytical skills with an original and innovative mind.
The candidate is required to work independently and
in collaboration with the Post-doc at WAgeningen UR,
other PhD-students at UU, technicians and her/his su-
pervisors.
A suitable candidate holds an MSc degree recognized by
the board of promotions in one of the life sciences with
a strong quantitative component, such as theoretical
biology, systems biology, physics, chemistry or epidemi-
ology. The candidate should be able to use at least one
programming language, preferably R or Wolfram Math-
ematica, and have proven experience with the use and
development of computational models for the study of
(biological)dynamical processes. Experience and anity
with working with experimental animals is preferred.
Dissemination of the results will consist in writing a
PhD-thesis and peer-reviewed articles in scientic jour-
nals, as well as presentations at international conferences
and stake-holder meetings. Therefore, a suitable candi-
date has a high level of English in writing and speech
according to CEFR prociency level C.
Conditions of employment We oer a 1,0 fte position
an initial period of one year, with the possibility of
extension for in total three FTE years. Salary starts
at euro 2,191 and increases to euro 2,801 (scale P of
the Collective Labour Agreement of the Dutch Univer-
sities) gross per month for a full-time employment in
the fourth year of the appointment (according to NWO
standards). Salaries are supplemented with a holiday
bonus of 8 % and a year-end bonus of 8.3 % per year. In
additions, there are outstanding secondary benets such
as a minimum of 29 days holiday per year (for a fulltime
appointment), study facilities, and a pension plan. For58 EvolDir February 1, 2017
further information: working at Utrecht University.
Employer A better future for everyone. This ambition
motivates our scientists in executing their leading re-
search and inspiring teaching. At Utrecht University
the various disciplines collaborate intensively towards
major societal themes. Our focus is on Dynamics of
Youth, Institutions, Life Sciences and Sustainability.
The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Utrecht Univer-
sity (FVM-UU) is the only Veterinary School in the
Netherlands and belongs to the international top in ed-
ucation, research and veterinary medical patient care.
FVM-UU is one of the few European veterinary schools
accredited by the American and Canadian Veterinary
Medical Associations and the European Association of
Establishments for Veterinary Education. The faculty
employs approximately 900 veterinarians, scientists and
support sta and counts 1,500 students.
The Department of Farm Animal Health focuses on
the three core tasks of education, research and patient
care. However patient care at the Department of Farm
Animal Health facilitates education and research. In
our research and education, we pay attention to the
individual animal,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UWindsor
SalomEvolutionaryGenetics
The Heath Research Group has three advertisements
< http://www1.uwindsor.ca/glier/heath-research-
group/42/employment-opportunities-with-the-hrg >for
funded graduate positions. Could you please send these
on (e-mail, FB, tweet) to whomever you think might be
interested? There are some really interesting projects
centred around:
- Evolutionary genetics of early life history variation in
salmon
- Gene expression and physiology of reintroduced At-
lantic salmon
- Competition with and predation of reintroduced At-
lantic salmonCheers,
Sara
{
Sara Jamieson Research Coordinator (part-time), Heath
Research Group Great Lakes Institute for Environmen-
tal Research (GLIER) University of Windsor 2990 River-
side Dr West Windsor ON N9C 1A2
Oce hours: Monday and Thursday mornings.
Phone: 519-253-3000 x 4933 Fax: 519-971-3616 e-mail:
saraj@uwindsor.ca
Website: Heath Research Group <http://-
www1.uwindsor.ca/glier/heath-research-group/
>
Mattias.Johansson@uwindsor.ca
UZurich MatingSystemEvolution
A PhD position funded by the University Research Prior-
ity Program (URPP) \Evolution in action" is available
from January 2017 at the Department of Systematic
and Evolutionary Botany/Plant and Microbial Biology,
University of Zurich, for a period of four years. The po-
sition is to study the molecular bases of mating system
evolution using Brassica rapa as a model, co-supervised
by Prof. Florian Schiestl and Prof. Ueli Grossniklaus.
The project will utilize a unique population of Brassica
plants, that evolved increased autonomous selng during
nine generations of experimental evolution with hover-
y pollination (Gervasi and Schiestl in press). Within
the project, the molecular bases of this rapid adaptive
evolution will be investigated using various molecular
and bioinformatics tools.
You should have a Master degree in any eld of (molec-
ular) biology and a thorough interest in evolutionary
biology. A good knowledge of molecular and bioinfor-
matics techniques is desirable. The successful candidate
will work in an exciting research environment, oered by
the two departments and the URPP, comprising research
groups from several dierent biological disciplines. Our
departments are located in the botanical gardens and
house modern molecular and ecological labs, including
greenhouses and climate chambers for plant cultivation.
The University of Zurich has a very broad coverage of
organismal and molecular biology, and several research
groups work on evolutionary topics (www.lifescience-
zurich.ch). The city also oers excellent quality of lifeFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 59
through cultural programs and infrastructure, as well
as an attractive surrounding.
If you are interested in the job, please send by e-mail a
letter describing your motivation, C.V., copy of degrees,
publications (manuscripts), and e-mail addresses of two
academic referees, by 20 ^st of February 2017. If you
have any further questions, don`t hesitate to contact me
(orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch).
Gervasi, D. and F. P. Schiestl. in press. Real time diver-
gent evolution in plants driven by pollinators. Nature
Communications.
Florian Schiestl <orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch >
Vienna PopulationGenetics
Reminder (plus two new topics!): The 2017 call for PhD
students at the Vienna Graduate School of Population
Genetics is closing, soon:
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a background in one of the follow-
ing disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolutionary
genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and experimen-
tal population genetics. Students from related disci-
plines, such as physics or mathematics are also welcome
to apply.
Available Topics:
- Evolution of gene expression
- Understanding thermal adaptation
- The impact of new transposable element insertions on
adaptation to a new environment
- Wolbachia infection dynamics in evolving Drosophila
populations
- The adaptive value of diversity produced by recurrent
whole genome doubling
- Epigenetic variation in Arabidopsis
- Genetic footprints of adaptive introgression
- New methods for modelling and analysis of data from
experimental evolution- Maximum likelihood inference of population genetic
parameters using genome-wide data from nearly neutral
sites
- Macroevolutionary dynamics of selsh DNA unravelled
by third generation sequencing
- Dynamics of a selsh DNA invasion
Only complete applications (application form, CV, moti-
vation letter, university certicates, indication of the two
preferred topics in a single pdf) received by January 08,
2017 will be considered. Two letters of recommendation
need to be sent directly by the referees.
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can be
found at www.popgen-vienna.at (Twitter @PopGenVi-
ennaPhD)
Julia Hosp <Julia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at >
WesternWashingtonU
EvolutionaryBiol
The Biology Department at Western Washington Uni-
versity has openings for graduate students starting
Fall 2017. Faculty members in the department oer
a wide range of expertise, from molecular biology to
ecology. Graduate students are eligible for teaching
assistantships, which fund the majority of tuition and
provide a stipend of $12,116 per year. WWU is located
in Bellingham, WA, a coastal city north of Seattle at
the base of Mt. Baker in the northwestern part of the
state.
More information can be found at: https://-
cse.wwu.edu/biology/biology-graduate-program or by
contacting Dr. Ben Miner, Graduate Program Advisor,
at benjamin.miner at wwu.edu
Potential advisors
Marion Brodhagen: Microbiology, molecular biology,
and chemical ecology. Our lab studies the plant
pathogenic fungus Aspergillus and aatoxin, a potent
toxin produced by this fungus. Our current projects
involve the ability of certain plant secondary metabo-
lites to stop growth and/or toxin production by As-
pergillus. Future research directions will include inves-
tigations of the molecular mechanisms by which these
plant compounds alter fungal metabolism. We also are
interested in the role of Aspergillus in colonization of
plastics labeled biodegradable, in agricultural settings.60 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Aspergillus is a key colonizer of such plastics but its abil-
ity to break down polymers is unclear, as is the extent
of toxin formation during plastic colonization. https:/-
/cse.wwu.edu/biology-faculty/brodham Lina Dalberg:
The Dahlberg Lab uses the model organism C. elegans to
probe the neurobiological, cellular, and behavioral role
for proteins involved in a ubiquitin-dependent processes
called Endoplasmic Reticulum Associated Degradation
(ERAD). This project will use a variety of techniques, in-
cluding uorescence microscopy, behavioral assays, and
biochemical characterization to investigate how ERAD
targets neural receptors for degradation. A second,
NSF-funded project focuses on improving metacogni-
tive skills in undergraduate Biology students; students
interested in this project must have experience (via
coursework or research) in education and pedagogy re-
search. https://cse.wwu.edu/biology-faculty/dahlbec
Dave Hooper: Plant Community and Ecosystem Ecol-
ogy. I will be accepting one graduate student in fall
2015. My local research is currently focused on assessing
ecosystem services associated with dierent scenarios
of riparian restoration in Whatcom County. Student
work would combine GIS analyses of ecosystem ser-
vices and eld work, particularly on nutrient retention,
to validate modeling results. I also have opportuni-
ties focused on analyzing large data sets to understand
aspects of biodiversity loss and assembly of plant com-
munities. https://cse.wwu.edu/biology-faculty/hooper
Robin Kodner: Marine Microbial Metagenomics. The
Kodner lab does interdisciplinary work integrating ma-
rine microbial ecology with comparative genomics and
bioinformatics for metagenomes. I am recruiting for one
student for work on bioinformatics projects. Some expe-
rience with sequence analysis and programming required.https://cse.wwu.edu/biology-faculty/kodnerr Suzanne
Lee: The long-term research goals of the Lee Lab are
to better understand the molecular mechanisms that
underlie gene regulatory pathways that target RNA.
The biological importance of gene regulation at the
post-transcriptional level is underscored by the fact that
many human diseases result when RNA metabolism goes
awry. Currently, the Lee lab is investigating pathways
that target aberrant RNA transcripts for degradation
through engagement of RNAi machinery or the nonsense-
mediated decay pathway. We use an early branching
eukaryote, the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila, as a
model eukaryotic system in our research, as it oers
the unique opportunity to uncover both broadly appli-
cable mechanisms and interesting points of organism-
specic diversication. Students pursuing research in
our lab have the opportunity to learn a broad array
of experimental tools used in biochemistry and molec-
ular and cell biology. Project opportunities exist for
1-2 Masters' students with prior experience in cloning,
PCR, protein purication, and/or microscopy. https://-
cse.wwu.edu/biology-faculty/lees65 Craig Moyer: My
interests are marine microbiology and geomicrobiology
focusing on molecular approaches for exploring micro-
bial diversity, community structure and ecological in-
teractions. Presently, my lab and I are focused on the
study of iron-oxidizing Zetaproteobacteria acting as the
ecosystem engineers in microbial mats found at strong
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
JobsFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 61
Bergen Norway GroupLeader MarineEvolution . . . . 61
BrownU ResAssist EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
CaliforniaStateU SanMarcos PopGenetProgrammer 62
CCharleston EvolutionaryMicrobiologist . . . . . . . . . . .63
ChicagoBotanicGarden UndergradSummer . . . . . . . . 64
CityUNewYork EnvironmentalEvolutionaryEcol . . . 64
CityUNewYork TeachingBiostatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
DukeU Summer Undergrad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65
Estonia PhD-PDF-GroupLeader HumanPopGenomics
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65
Gothenburg BiodiversityProjCoordinator . . . . . . . . . . 66
ImperialC London EvolutionAntifungalDrugResistance
66
Inra France 4 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
INRA UParisSud CropGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 67
MethodsEcolEvolution EditorVacancy . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
MichiganStateU 2 GeneticsAdapation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
MissouriBotanicalGarden SummerUndergrad . . . . . . 69
MuseumNatSci NorthCarolina PartTimeMolluskTech
69MuseumOfNewZealand TePapa InvertebrateCurator 70
NHM London SeniorCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
NHM UDenmark PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
NOAA NMFS Seattle MolGeneticist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
ReedC Oregon 2yr GeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Smithsonian ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
StockholmU PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
TexasAMU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UCalifornia LosAngeles BiomathTeacher . . . . . . . . . . 75
UChicago LabManager ResearchScientist . . . . . . . . . . 76
UHalle LivestockPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UMinnesota FieldTech PollinatorNutrition . . . . . . . . 77
UMontana Tech PopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
USalzburg EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
USaskatchewan GroundSquirrelHeadTech . . . . . . . . . .80
UWarsaw FieldAssist BirdPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
Virginia DirectorResearchCenter Bioinformatics . . . 81
Worcester Massachusetts ResAssoc DrosophilaMolEvol
82
Bergen Norway GroupLeader
MarineEvolution
Group Leader Positions available at the Sars Centre
for Marine Molecular Biology, Bergen, NORWAY (Re-
searcher I, code 1110) 6 year contracts )
http://www.sars.no/jobs/2017-
868group%20leaders chourrout.php The Sars
Centre is seeking outstanding candidates addressing
fundamental questions in organismal biology using
marine species. Although all current groups work on
animals, projects on other marine organisms will also
be considered. A contract of six years will be oered
to successful candidates, with competitive resources
for the research (postdocs, PhD students, technicians,
lab space and project-specic facilities) as well as a
competitive salary. The contract may be prolonged
after six years, depending on performance and available
funding at the time of review. Group leaders at the Sars
Centre are encouraged to obtain additional funding
through grant applications to national and international
funding agencies.
Qualications and personal qualities:
- The applicant must hold a PhD considered equivalent
to the Norwegian PhD degree - Ability to train and lead
junior scientists and technical sta towards a common
goal dened in the group leader proposal - Ability to de-velop collaborations with other research groups located
in and out of the institution
We can oer:
- A good and professionally challenging working envi-
ronment, in modern research facilities - Starting salary
at pay grade 79, code 1110 (currently NOK 766.200)
upon appointment - Enrolment in the Norwegian Pub-
lic Service Pension Fund - A position in an inclusive
workplace (IA enterprise) - Good welfare benets
Your application in English must include:
- A description of past and present research (3 pages) -
A proposal for the research at the Sars Centre (3 pages)
- A detailed CV and contact information for 3 references
Application Deadline: 24 March 2017. All shortlisted
candidates must be available for a seminar and interview
by the Sars Centre Scientic Advisory Committee held
in Bergen on 26-27 April 2017.
The application and appendices may be uploaded at
JobbNorge. Please note that applications will be as-
sessed only with the information available in JobbNorge
when the deadline expires. It is the applicant's re-
sponsibility to ensure that all relevant attachments are
submitted by the deadline.
Applications by e-mail only will not be considered.
For further information about the position please contact
the Sars Centre Director (Daniel.Chourrout@uib.no tel
+47 5558 4360) and/or visit our website (www.sars.no).
General information:62 EvolDir February 1, 2017
The state labour force shall reect the diversity of Nor-
wegian society to the greatest extent possible. Age
and gender balance among employees is therefore a
goal. It is also a goal to recruit people with immigrant
backgrounds. People with immigrant backgrounds and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the
position.
We encourage women to apply. If multiple applicants
have approximately equivalent qualications, the rules
pertaining to moderate gender quotas shall apply.
The University of Bergen applies the principle of public
access to information when recruiting sta for academic
positions.
Information about applicants may be made public even
if the applicant has asked not to be named on the list
of persons who have applied. The applicant must be
notied if the request to be omitted is not met.
The successful applicant must comply with the guide-
lines that apply to the position at all times.
\andreas.hejnol@uib.no" <andreas.hejnol@uib.no >
BrownU ResAssist EvoDevo
Brown University Research Assistant position for Devel-
opmental Biology
Location: Brown University, Molecular Biology Cell
Biology Biochemistry Department (Providence, RI)
We are looking to hire an excellent full-time research
assistant who is encouraged to conduct her/his inde-
pendent research under PI's supervision. The area of
research includes developmental biology, molecular biol-
ogy, evolutionary developmental biology, live imaging,
proteomics, RNA-IP-seq, and CRISPR genome editing
technology. Basic skillset and knowledge in molecular
biology (e.g. cloning, PCR) and a good accomplish-
ment in her/his undergraduate work are prerequisite.
Other necessary trainings (e.g. microinjection, confo-
cal imaging, proteomics) will be provided by the PI.
The successful individuals will be given own projects to
conduct and nish (hopefully with lead author publi-
cations) within one-two years of appointment. This is
an excellent job opportunity for individuals who seek
to proceed to graduate school or medical school with a
good research accomplishment.
Any interested individuals should contact me via e-mail:
mamiko yajima@brown.edu. Please enclose your CV,title of your undergraduate thesis, and name of your
thesis advisor. Reviews will begin immediately and con-
tinue until position is lled. Desired start date is March
1, 2017.
Mamiko Yajima <mamiko yajima@brown.edu >
CaliforniaStateU SanMarcos
PopGenetProgrammer
Job Description:
The Sethuraman lab of population genetics at Cali-
fornia State University San Marcos is looking to hire
a scientic research programmer. Primary responsi-
bility will be to assist in development of a model-
based population genomics pipeline, and development
of a graphical front-end to be hosted in the Galaxy
Project platform. This position is funded by an NSF
grant to Dr. Arun Sethuraman (CSU San Marcos -
www.arunsethuraman.weebly.com) and Dr. Jody Hey
(Temple University - https://bio.cst.temple.edu/ ~hey/-
) and will have ample opportunities for collaborative
development of statistical and evolutionary genetic ap-
plications across both labs. The position will be based
out of CSUSM (San Marcos, California). This work re-
quires experience in C/C++, Perl/Python/Shell across
Unix and Windows platforms. Experience with develop-
ment of applications for the Galaxy Project is desired.
Experience with software programming best practices,
including test automation (e.x. travis-ci, jenkins.io) and
task management (e.x. Jira, wae.io) will be an added
plus.
The position is funded for three years, with possibilities
for continued funding. The programmer/postdoc will
report directly to both PI's and also have the opportu-
nity to train and mentor graduate and undergraduate
students (2-3 per year) in scientic programming and
software development.
Please contact Arun (asethuraman@csusm.edu) with
any questions regarding the position.
Qualications:
A Master's degree in computer science or bioinformat-
ics with extensive experience in scientic programming
is required. Candidates with a PhD in computational
biology or bioinformatics, or some allied eld will also
be considered.
University Auxiliary and Research Services CorporationFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 63
(UARSC) was founded in 1990 as a 501(c) 3 public, non-
prot corporation to support the mission of Cal State
San Marcos, the 20th campus in the California State
University system. CSUSM is a recipient of the Chron-
icle's 2014 Great College to work for. UARSC oers
an excellent benets package which includes medical,
dental, vision, retirement plan, life and long term dis-
ability insurance, paid holidays, and generous vacation
and paid time o leave benets. For more information
about UARSC, visit our website at www.csusm.edu/-
uarsc . \JEANNE CLERY ACT AND CAMPUS FIRE
SAFETY RIGHT-TO-KNOW LAW" NOTIFCATION
- See Police Department's website located at:http://-
www.csusm.edu/police/Clery.pdf Application Proce-
dure:
Please apply by clicking \Apply" on this page, and be
sure to submit a cover letter and resume along with your
online employment application. UARSC is an Equal Op-
portunity Employer and does not discriminate against
persons on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, an-
cestry, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
genetic information, pregnancy, sexual orientation, age,
medical condition, military service, veteran's status,
marital status, national origin, physical or mental dis-
ability, or any other status protected by federal, state
or local laws.
For questions or if you experience any diculties with
the online application process, please contact UARSC
Human Resources at (760) 750-4700.
{
Thank you!
Arun
Arun Sethuraman, PhD
Assistant Professor Department of Biological Sciences
California State University San Marcos
http://arunsethuraman.weebly.com/ Arun Sethuraman
<asethuraman@csusm.edu >CCharleston
EvolutionaryMicrobiologist
Microbiologist (second position)
The Department of Biology at the College of Charleston
invites applications for a tenure-track position in Mi-
crobiology at the Assistant Professor level to begin Au-
gust 2017. This position is the second of two ongoing
searches in the Biology Department; the other is tar-
geting a Microbial Geneticist. Candidates must have a
Ph.D. in Biology or a related eld and a strong com-
mitment to teaching and maintaining an active research
program involving undergraduates. We are especially
interested in a colleague who will develop collaborations
with existing faculty (http://biology.cofc.edu/about-the-
department/faculty-sta-listing/index.php). Primary
teaching responsibilities include undergraduate courses
in Microbiology lecture and laboratory, introductory bi-
ology and perhaps specialty courses in an area of exper-
tise. The College of Charleston, located in Charleston,
SC, is a public liberal arts and sciences institution of
12,000 students, with MS programs in Marine Biology
and Environmental Studies, and a commitment to ex-
cellence in teaching and research. Information about
the department is available at http://biology.cofc.edu/-
. Applicants should submit electronic (pdf) copies of
their curriculum vitae, statements of teaching and re-
search interests, up to three relevant publications, and
three letters of recommendation to http://jobs.cofc.edu/-
postings/5765. Questions regarding this position can
be directed to Dr. Courtney Murren, search commit-
tee chair, at murrenc@cofc.edu. This is a nine-month
appointment; salary is competitive and commensurate
with experience and qualications. Review of applica-
tions will begin Feb 19, 2016 and will continue until
the position is lled. The College of Charleston is an
Armative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer and
does not discriminate against any individual or group on
the basis of gender, sexual orientation, gender identity
or expression, age, race, color, religion, national origin,
veteran status, genetic information, or disability.
<http://jobs.cofc.edu/postings/5765 >
Assistant Professor of Biology (microbiology) <http:/-
/jobs.cofc.edu/postings/5765 >jobs.cofc.edu
Biology Faculty and Sta - College of Charleston <
http://biology.cofc.edu/about-the-department/faculty-64 EvolDir February 1, 2017
sta-listing/index.php >biology.cofc.edu Faculty and
Sta Listing ... ROSTER FACULTY; Bidwell, Deborah:
Senior Instructor 843.953.7107: bidwelld@cofc.edu
Department of Biology - College of Charleston <http:/-
/biology.cofc.edu/ >biology.cofc.edu The role of the
Department of Biology is to provide students with an
understanding of the science of living systems within
the context of a liberal arts education.
\Murren, Courtney J" <MurrenC@cofc.edu >
ChicagoBotanicGarden
UndergradSummer
*Summer Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)*
The Chicago Botanic Garden welcomes undergraduates*
interested in plant biology and conservation to apply
to our REU program, funded by the National Science
Foundation. This 10 week internship program, oered
from June - August 2017, provides undergraduate par-
ticipants an opportunity to explore a diverse array of
scientic elds related to plant biology and conservation
spanning genetic to ecosystem levels of inquiry. Interns
work with a mentor to conduct an independent research
project, participate in training and professional devel-
opment programs, and present their results to a broad
audience. Travel, room and board, and research costs
are covered by the program. Participants also receive
a $5,000 stipend. *Application deadline is February 1,
2017.* For more information, please visit our website
at:http://www.cbgreu.org/ . **You must be a current
undergraduate student (enrolled spring and fall 2017)
and a citizen or permanent resident of the United States
or its territories to qualify for this internship.*
\christopherwoolridge2017@u.northwestern.edu"
CityUNewYork
EnvironmentalEvolutionaryEcol
The person we are replacing is a systematist. Even
though it doesn't explicitly state it, we are looking for
someone with an evolutionary biology bent to their
work.FACULTY VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT The De-
partment of Natural Sciences at Baruch College, City
University of New York, invites applications for a full-
time, tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Pro-
fessor of Biology/Environmental Studies/Evolutionary
Ecology starting September 1, 2017. The candidate
is expected to establish an externally funded research
program that will complement the collaborative, inter-
disciplinary environment at Baruch College. Teaching
responsibilities will include introductory courses and
advanced courses for Biology majors and Environmental
Studies minor. Baruch College oers modern laboratory
equipment/facilities and its location in midtown Man-
hattan provides access to a diverse range of research
institutions and collaborators. Competitive applicants
should have a strong publication record and the desire to
work collaboratively in an interdisciplinary environment.
QUALIFICATIONS Ph.D. degree in Biology, Environ-
mental Science, or a related eld is required by Septem-
ber 1, 2017 when the appointment begins. We welcome
applicants working in any area of environmental biology
from molecular through ecosystem levels, however, expe-
rience in global change biology, coastal ecology, or urban
ecology is desirable. All applicants should show promise
of teaching excellence and a commitment to mentoring
undergraduate researchers. Competitive applicants will
have relevant teaching experience and peer-reviewed
publications in their eld.
Please apply at: https://home.cunyrst.cuny.edu/-
psp/cnyepprd/GUEST/HRMS/c/
HRS HRAM.HRS CE.GBL?Page=HRS CEJOB DTL&Action=A&
JobOpeningId046&SiteId=1&PostingSeq=1
Rebecca Spokony <rebecca.spokony@gmail.com >
CityUNewYork
TeachingBiostatistics
The Department of Biology at York College, CUNY
seeks an individual to teach an undergraduate course
in Biostatistics for the upcoming Spring 2016 semester
(January 30, 2017{May 26, 2017). Candidates should
hold a degree in biostatistics or a related eld (e.g. biol-
ogy with extensive data analysis experience). Preference
will be given to candidates with a proven record of teach-
ing excellence who are familiar with R programming.
Day and evening availability may be required. QUALI-
FICATIONS For Adjunct Lecturer: - Master's degree inFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 65
area(s) of expertise required For Adjunct Assistant Pro-
fessor: - Ph.D. degree in area(s) of experience or equiv-
alent required COMPENSATION Adjunct Lecturer:
$64.84/hr Adjunct Assistant Professor: $73.53/hr Com-
mensurate with qualications and experience. HOW TO
APPLY Please send a letter of application (indicating
area of expertise and availability for day and/or evening)
to Dr. Margaret MacNeil (mmacneil@york.cuny.edu)
along with a CV and the names and contact information
for three professional references.
Equal Employment Opportunity York College is com-
mitted to enhancing our diverse academic community by
actively encouraging people with disabilities, minorities,
veterans, and women to apply. We take pride in our
pluralistic community and continue to seek excellence
through diversity and inclusion. EO/AA Employer
Laura Beaton <lbeaton@york.cuny.edu >
DukeU Summer Undergrad
The Patek Lab in the Biology Department at Duke
University is recruiting one high school and one un-
dergraduate student researcher through the US Army
Educational Outreach Program (AEOP) during the sum-
mer of 2017. The students will participate in projects
examining fast, impulsive movements of animals in the
natural environment. The focal systems for the project
are catapult jumping in froghopper insects and underwa-
ter foraging attacks in dragony larvae. Responsibilities
of the student researchers may include collecting study
organisms from local habitats, obtaining high-speed
videos of animals, analyzing high-speed videos using
computer software, performing statistical analyses and
scientic writing. The details of responsibilities and
tasks will be determined based on mutual interests of
the students and the mentors. There are also possi-
bilities for the students to develop individual projects
under our mentorship.
We are looking for motivated, reliable students who are
excited about having rst-hand research experience at
the intersection of biology and physics. Skills to perform
the above-mentioned tasks are not required. We espe-
cially value students who are curious, hard-working and
have an open mind about the possibilities of basic, sci-
entic research. For more information about The Patek
Lab, please visit our website: www.thepateklab.org
DEADLINE: February 28, 2017, 11:59 pm. All ap-
plicants must submit two letters of recommendation,transcripts and must have maintained a cumulative GPA
of at least 3.2 in their coursework. Applicants must also
include a brief essay that explains their interest in this
research and how it relates to their future goals.
Go to the below links and:
Click \Apply" at the bottom of the page
* Fill out the forms
* When you get to \Please select your 1st preference of
URAP location.", Select \BDUN53 Duke University"
For high school students, please apply through the
HSAP program:
http://www.cvent.com/events/2017-high-school-
research-apprenticeship-pr ogram-hsap-/event-
summary-a0d910ce304c848b66358e0e028871.aspx
For undergraduate students, please apply through the
URAP program:
http://www.cvent.com/events/2017-undergraduate-
research-apprenticeship- program-urap-/event-
summary-ccf8d39466294c8391d60121495cfcdf.aspx
Chi-Yun Kuo Postdoctoral Associate Patek
Lab, Duke University Personal website https://-
pateklab.biology.duke.edu 919-613-0994
Chi-Yun Kuo <chi.yun.kuo@duke.edu >
Estonia PhD-PDF-GroupLeader
HumanPopGenomics 2
Hello,
Please nd below three open positions at the Estonian
Biocentre in Tartu in the elds of modern and ancient
human population genomics. Deadline for all applica-
tions is 31 ^st January 2017 (i.e. in ~2 weeks).
See
http://www.ebc.ee/index.php?option=-
com content&view=article&id=12&Itemid ^A&lang=en
for details and application procedure.
Please spread the information to anybody you think
might be interested.
I'm sorry for spam as some of you might get this e-mail
from multiple sources.
*****
The Estonian Biocentre Evolutionary Biology group is66 EvolDir February 1, 2017
interested in human genetic diversity and reconstructing
human evolutionary history through migrations, popu-
lation splits and admixture as well as adaptation. We
generate modern and ancient DNA genomic sequences
and genotype data from around the world and share
all the published data (www.ebc.ee/free data) to the
scientic community.
1) Pre-Doc: a four years position with one year proba-
tionary period. The candidate will chose one of three
research areas in the realm of modern human population
genomics (see website for full details) and will apply for
a PhD at the University of Tartu, starting in fall 2017.
Salary: negotiable up to 15 600 EUR/year depending
on experience level. Net salary after all taxes (incl. cov-
erage of medical insurance and pension) is up to 15 600
EUR/year.
2) Post-Doc: a three years Post-Doc position on modern
human population genomics. Candidates are encour-
aged to submit a short research proposal along with
their CV, or to choose one of the proposed research
themes (see website for full details). Salary: negotiable
up to 24 000 EUR/year depending on experience level.
Net salary after all taxes (incl. coverage of medical
insurance and pension) is up to 20 000 EUR/year.
3) Group Leader: a 3-years Senior Research Fellow po-
sition as head of the Ancient DNA group and lab. The
candidate will be responsible for establishing a research
group of ancient population genomics and hiring and
supervising postdocs and graduate students as well as
managing the newly built aDNA lab. Salary: up to 42
000 EUR per year (Net salary after all taxes incl. cov-
erage of medical insurance and pension is up to 35000
EUR/year.).
Potential candidates are encouraged make informal con-
tact with Luca Pagani (lp.lucapagani@gmail.com), Se-
nior Researcher in human population genomics or with
Mait Metspalu (mait@ebc.ee), Director of the Estonian
Biocentre. Best, Luca
Luca Pagani <lp.lucapagani@gmail.com >
Gothenburg
BiodiversityProjCoordinator
We are looking for a Scientic Project Coordinator for
the newly established Gothenburg Global Biodiversity
Centre (GGBC) and our own research group (http:/-
/antonelli-lab.net). Both are located in Gothenburg,Sweden.
GGBC has two main goals: to further develop biodiver-
sity research, and to bridge the gap between scientists,
the public and industry through various outreach activ-
ities. The Centre represents a long-term collaboration
among the following institutions at the University of
Gothenburg: the Department of Marine Sciences, the
Department of Biological and Environmental Science,
the Department of Geosciences, Herbarium GB, the
Centre for Sea and Society, and the Linnaeus Centre for
Marine Evolutionary Biology. Moreover, it comprises
the following organisations: Department of Energy & En-
vironment, Chalmers University of Technology, Havets
Hus, Maritime Museum and Aquarium, Nordens Ark,
The Gothenburg Museum of Natural History, and Uni-
verseum Science Centre.
Please spread the word to potentially suitable candi-
dates. For more information please visit:
http://www.gu.se/omuniversitetet/aktuellt/-
ledigaanstallningar/?id=19144&Dnr=814992&Type=E
Application deadline: January 26, 2017
Alexandre Antonelli, PhD Professor in Systematics and
Biodiversity http://antonelli-lab.net Alexandre An-
tonelli<alexandre.antonelli@bioenv.gu.se >
ImperialC London
EvolutionAntifungalDrugResistance
Technician working on the evolution of antifungal drug
resistance
Imperial College London - Department of Infectious
Disease Epidemiology
The Fisher lab is seeking an experimentalist to join a
research group investigating the evolutionary dynam-
ics of multi-azole resistance in pathogenic Aspergillus
fungi. The Technician will join a large multidisciplinary
research group working on a range of pathogenic fungi
that threaten human, wildlife and ecosystem health.
The project's primary objective is to use fungal popula-
tion genomics in order to uncover the mode and tempo
by which an aggressive human pathogen, Aspergillus
fumigatus, evolves resistance to antifungal drugs in the
environment. The research is funded by NERC and the
post will require extensive work in eldwork settings,
mainly the UK, and therefore a UK driving licence is
required.February 1, 2017 EvolDir 67
The post is full time for a xed term of two years and
the salary is 26,650 to 29,410 per annum
For informal enquiries please contact Professor Matthew
Fisher (matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk)
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AWM108/technician-in-
antifungal-drug-resistance/ Job closes on the 27th of
January
\matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk"
<matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk >
Inra France 4 EvolutionaryGenetics
Ranked the number one agricultural institute in Europe
and number two in the world, INRA (National Institute
for Agricultural Research - France) carries out mission-
oriented research for high-quality and healthy foods,
competitive and sustainable agriculture and a preserved
and valorised environment.
Every year, INRA seeks researchers from alldisciplines
to reinforce laboratory and eldwork teams. Researchers
will be heavily involved in scientic networks and tackle
environmental, economic and social issues. They are
expected to strive for excellence and come up with use-
ful, concrete applications for the real world. Individual
research projects will go hand in hand with group eorts
in a bid to further knowledge and innovation, in order
to produce sustainably, preserve the environment, and
improve human nutrition.
INRA is recruiting 32 Research Scientists (PhD or equiv-
alent) through open competitions and oering perma-
nent positions.
Positions are open in a wide range of scientic disciplines
such as such as human nutrition, intestinal microbiota,
plant genetics, animal genetics, quantitative genetics,
population dynamics and genomics, neurobiology of
behaviour, animal nutrition, plant ecophysiology, func-
tional and behavioural ecology, modelling of plant cell
walls, process engineering and biotechnology, systems
biology and synthetic biology, animal health, life sci-
ence and environmental mathematics and informatics,
economics, sociology and organizational sciences.
INRA oers including 4 positions in genetics:
- Adaptive genomics of agricultural insects - Evolution of
viruses in interaction with resistant and tolerant plants
- Genetic analysis of health and feed eciency in cattle
- Mathematical modelling of robustness geneticsApplications are available until to March 1 ^st, 2017.
All useful information to apply is available on:
http://jobs.inra.fr/eng/oers/emploi perm/open-
competitions/cr2/?campagne=23129&intitule=-
open+competitions&concours=24348 ATTENTION,
merci de noter le changement de mon adresse e-mail .
Vera FERNANDES
Gestionnaire Communication RH
Vera.Fernandes@inra.fr
INRA - DRH
Cellule Communication interne RH T el. : +33
(0)1.42.75.95.27 147 rue de l'Universite 75 338 Paris
Cedex 07 France
wwww.inra.fr Vera Fernandes
<vera.fernandes@inra.fr >
INRA UParisSud
CropGeneticDiversity
The post-doc will investigate the impact of farmers'
network organizations on the evolution of crop genetic
diversity. He/she will analyze genetic diversity data
coming from on-farm and participatory plant breeding
programs in bread wheat. Based on estimated param-
eters and a participatory process, and using a crop
metapopulation simulation programme already devel-
oped in the team, the candidate will perform forward
crop metapopulation simulations to explore dierent
scenarios of collective management of crop genetic di-
versity. The objective is to understand evolutionary
consequences of farmer' social organization and farming
practices on crop genetic diversity.
The project will be jointly supervised by Isabelle
GOLDRINGER (INRA, Gif-sur-Yvette) and Mathieu
THOMAS (CIRAD, Montpellier) and developed in
collaboration with Frederic Hospital (INRA, Jouy-en-
Josas).
We oer a 2 years Postdoctoral Fellowship starting at
1836 euro (net) per month depending on the experi-
ence. The position will be located at GQE - Le Moulon
(INRA, CNRS, Univ. Paris-Sud, AgroParisTech) near
Paris ( ~30km), France. The position is funded by the
H2020 DIVERSIFOOD research program (2015-2019).
Expected outputs :
- research papers in evolutionary genetics and manage-68 EvolDir February 1, 2017
ment of genetic resources in situ / on farm
- feedbacks to stakeholders involved in crop diversity
management (farmers, citizens, farmers' and citizens'
organizations, policy makers)
Expected starting date: March, 2017
Qualications: * PhD degree obtained in population /
quantitative genetics or evolutionary biology * Experi-
ence or interest in developing expertise in population
genetic modeling * Skills in statistics (R or Python pro-
gramming) * Interest in farmers/researchers interface
and management of crop diversity
To apply:
Applicants should submit by email a short statement of
interest, a CV and the name of three referees.
Isabelle GOLDRINGER
isabelle.goldringer@inra.fr
Diversity Evolution and Adaptation of Populations
INRA, GQE - Le Moulon, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
Mathieu THOMAS
mathieu.thomas@cirad.fr
Diversity Dynamic, Societies, Environments
CIRAD, AGAP, Montpellier { Mathieu THOMAS
+33 (0)4 67 61 49 67 +33 (0)6 74 16 02 66 Chercheur
dans l'equipe Dynamiques de la Diversite, Societes et
Environnements
CIRAD UMR AGAP TA A-108/03 Avenue Agropolis
34398 Montpellier Cedex 5 France
Mathieu Thomas <mathieu.thomas@cirad.fr >
MethodsEcolEvolution
EditorVacancy
Dear all,
The British Ecological Society is seeking a Senior Editor
for the journal Methods in Ecology and Evolution.
This is an excellent opportunity for an individual wishing
to become involved with the work of one of the premier
international journals in ecology at a time when exciting
changes are occurring in the publishing environment.
Full details are at: http://-
www.britishecologicalsociety.org/about/vacancies/-senior-editor/
Closing date: 7 February 2017
Please see the link for contact details with regards to
the post.
Kind regards, Andrea.
Andrea Baier Senior Managing Editor Journal of Ecol-
ogy @JEcology Methods in Ecology and Evolution
@MethodsEcolEvol EDITOR VACANCY: apply by 7
Feb!
British Ecological Society jCharles Darwin House j12
Roger Street London WC1N 2JU, UK jTel: +44 (0)207
685 2517
Our Vision: A World Inspired, Informed and Inuenced
by Ecology
The British Ecological Society is a limited company, reg-
istered in England No 1522897 and a Registered Charity
No 281213. VAT Registration No 199992863.
Information and advice given to members or others by
or on behalf of the Society is given on the basis that no
liability attaches to the Society, its Council Members,
Ocers, or representatives in respect thereof
Andrea Baier <andrea@britishecologicalsociety.org >
MichiganStateU 2
GeneticsAdapation
The Lowry Lab at Michigan State University is currently
seeking to hire two research technicians to study the
genetics of adaptation.
The rst technician will be hired through Michigan
State University and will participate in projects fo-
cused on identifying the genetic mechanisms of evo-
lutionary adaptations. The goals of the research are to
understand how adaptations contribute to the forma-
tion of new species and how those adaptations can be
exploited to improve bioenergy and food crops. The lab
uses three agship systems for research: Monkeyower
(*Mimulus guttatus*), Switchgrass (*Panicum virga-
tum*), and Common Bean (*Phaseolus vulgaris*). The
successful applicant will assist with research on all
three systems. Applicants should send their resume/CV
and contact information for at least two references
to David Lowry at dlowry@msu.edu. All applicants
must also formally apply for the job through the follow-
ing link: https://jobs.msu.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 69
frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=3D1484159189609 .This
position will initially last for one year, with the possi-
bility of annual renewal contingent on the availability
of funding and satisfactory performance.
The second technician will be hired through the Uni-
versity of Texas, but be stationed at the Kellogg Bio-
logical Station in Hickory Corners, MI. This research
will be focused on a large collaborative project studying
adaptation in the bioenergy feedstock switchgrass. The
research will utilize new genetic mapping populations
to identify genomic regions responsible for adaptation
between northern upland and southern lowland ecotypes
of switchgrass. These mapping populations have been
planted at an unprecedented geographical scale, span-
ning ten common garden eld sites distributed over 17
degrees of latitude, making them ideal for studies of
regional adaptations. The technician will be primarily
responsible for maintaining and gathering data from the
switchgrass common garden located at MSU's Kellogg
Biological Station (KBS). The technician will also work
in the laboratory of David Lowry on MSU's main cam-
pus, especially during winter months. The research will
often involve all-day physical activity outdoors. The
technician will be expected to organize data collection
eorts and coordinate these eorts with the larger team
across the central United States. For more informa-
tion please on this position, please contact David Lowry
directly at dlowry@msu.edu.
{ David B. Lowry Assistant Professor Plant Biol-
ogy Department Michigan State University Plant Bi-
ology Laboratories Room 268 517-432-4882 http://-
davidbryantlowry.wordpress.com/ \dlowry@msu.edu"
<dlowry@msu.edu >
MissouriBotanicalGarden
SummerUndergrad
Summer 2017 REU in Botany and Conservation Biology
The Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis, MO will
be oering an NSF-funded Research Experiences for
Undergraduates summer program in 2017. Ten students
will be chosen to participate in a ten-week program
involving full-time work on an independent research
project, with the guidance of a sta mentor, in addition
to educational seminars, discussion sessions and eld
trips. Available research projects deal with subjects
including taxonomy, population genetics and speciation,
conservation biology, restoration ecology, biodiversitymodeling, and crop development. Students will receive a
weekly stipend as well as housing, food, transportation,
and funding for research supplies. Eligible students are
U.S. citizens or permanent residents who will be return-
ing to school in the fall semester after the REU program.
Students from schools with limited research infrastruc-
ture and from underrepresented groups are particularly
encouraged to apply. Review of applications will begin
on March 20, 2017. Further information on the program,
available mentors and projects, and how to apply can
be obtained from the website: www.mobot.org/reu .
Wendy Applequist <wendy.applequist@mobot.org >
MuseumNatSci NorthCarolina
PartTimeMolluskTech
The North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences
(NCSM) is looking to hire a 4 month, part-time project
technician in the Mollusk Unit of the Research and Col-
lections Section. This position will be funded via an
US Fish and Wildlife grant. The person in this position
will work closely with the Collections Manager of Mol-
lusks in the processing of recently-acquired collections.
Processing will include all aspects of curation, such as
stabilizing, labeling, databasing, etc.
Essential Functions: Stabilizing specimens in ethanol
and archival trays(dry specimens) - Cataloging speci-
mens using an Microsoft Access database - Georeferenc-
ing locality information - Updating taxonomic informa-
tion - Labeling and shelving specimens
Qualications Preferred: Bachelor's Degree in biology
or related eld - Curatorial experience in natural history
collections - Databasing experience, preferably with Mi-
crosoft Access - Ecient attention to detail - Ability
to work both independently and as part of a team -
Must be able to lift up to 50 lbs and work with various
chemicals.
There is a possibility that this grant will be extended
past the four months.
Location: NCSM Research Lab, located at 1671 Gold
Star Drive, Raleigh, North Carolina, 27606. Ap-
proximate starting date Mid-February 2017. Please
submit a cover letter and resume to Jamie Smith
(Jamie.Smith@naturalsciences.org) by January 31, 2017.
Jamie M. Smith Collections Manager, Invertebrates
North Carolina State Museum of Natural Sciences
Phone: (919)707-8869 Fax: (919)715-229470 EvolDir February 1, 2017
North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences
MCS 1626, Research Laboratory, Raleigh, NC 27699-
1626
Shipping Address for FedEx, UPS not US Postal Service
North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences
Research Lab
1671 Gold Star Drive
Research Laboratory
North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences
Raleigh, NC 27607
E-mail correspondence to and from this address may be
subject to the North Carolina Public Records Law and
may be disclosed to third parties.
\Smith, Jamie" <jamie.smith@naturalsciences.org >
MuseumOfNewZealand TePapa
InvertebrateCurator
Curator - Invertebrates
Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa (Te Papa),
Wellington, New Zealand
For nearly two decades, Te Papa has nurtured the lega-
cies of New Zealand/Aotearoa its people and its environ-
ment. We are built on a foundation of innovation and
co-creation and as a result we are looking for a new gen-
eration Curator, Invertebrates. You will be the newest
member of a hard working team that produces science
in a museum setting, working with national collections
and other forms of cultural heritage.
This role requires:
* a PhD or equivalent experience and skills in Inverte-
brate sciences research in relation to New Zealand, *
Undertaking research projects that contribute to the
key research themes within the invertebrate policy, *
Developing, implementing and monitoring collection de-
velopment plans in the context of Te Papa's national
obligations and expectations for the Invertebrates port-
folio, ensuring that collection objects are managed to ac-
cepted standards (both internal and external) in storage,
conservation and documentation, * Experience of work-
ing with scientic objects and collections, * A knowledge
of regulations and international standards for collection
care, maintenance and acquisition, * Experience andcomfort in communicating in a range of forms and media
to diverse audiences, * Familiarity with digital platforms
and social media, * The ability to work in multidisci-
plinary teams on a range of museological outputs across
exhibitions, digital channels, research publications, and
public programmes, * A network of experts, communi-
ties and stakeholders you can bring to complement the
team's existing contacts.
If you are ready to take part in one of the most im-
portant, challenging and inspiring evolutions in both
New Zealand and the museum sector worldwide, then
we would love to hear from you.
For more information see: https://jobs.tepapa.govt.nz/-
jobtools/jncustomsearch.viewFullSingle?in organid=-
17768&in jnCounter=222719485 For enquiries,
please contact Dr Dean Peterson, Head of Science:
Dean.Peterson@tepapa.govt.nz.
Applications close on Thursday, 9 February 2017
Applicants must have the legal right to work in New
Zealand.
Lara Shepherd <Lara.Shepherd@tepapa.govt.nz >
NHM London SeniorCurator
Senior Curator in Charge, Historical Collections and
British and European Seed Plants
The Natural History Museum - Department of Life Sci-
ences
The Natural History Museum is one of the world's lead-
ing museums, internationally recognised for its dual role
as a centre of excellence in scientic research and as a
leader in the presentation of natural history through
exhibitions, public programmes, publications and the
web.
Embedded within the Algae, Fungi and Plants Division
of the Department of Life Sciences, the Senior Cura-
tor in Charge (SCiC) Historical Collections and British
and European Seed Plants will lead and manage the
Historical Collections and the British and European
seed plant herbaria, ensuring best practice in collections
care and strategic development of the collections. An
expert in a relevant eld, the SCiC will provide a high
level of scholarship across these collections specically
in collections-based science (e.g. taxonomy, systematics,
organismal biology). Working towards maximising the
signicance of the collections for their various purposes,February 1, 2017 EvolDir 71
emphasis will be on achieving the strategic goals and
values of the NHM. This post will report to the Princi-
pal Curator in Charge of the Algae, Fungi and Plants
Collections.
For further details please see the Natu-
ral History Museum's jobs page: https://-
nhm.irecruittotal.com/CONFIG/NHM/StaticPages/-
CAC/SearchVacancy.aspx?EmploymentTypeID=-
0&Intranet=0 \M.Carine@nhm.ac.uk"
<M.Carine@nhm.ac.uk >
NHM UDenmark
PopulationGenomics
Associate Professor of Population Genomics
*The Natural History Museum of Denmark Faculty of
Science**University of Copenhagen*
The Natural History Museum of Denmark invites appli-
cations for a 3-year Associate Professor position in the
Science of population genomics, starting 1 July 2017 or
as soon as possible thereafter.
*Subject Area*
The candidate is expected to lead original scientic re-
search addressing fundamental questions in population
genomics, with a particular focus on investigating hu-
man evolutionary history using ancient genomics. The
ideal candidate will have extensive expertise in the com-
putational analysis of large-scale population genomic
datasets, ideally with prior experience in the inference
of demographic and selective processes using both mod-
ern and ancient human genomes. A strong record of
peer-reviewed publications in human genetics and other
relevant elds is expected.
Applicants are required to have university level teach-
ing experience, documented teaching competencies and
must be able to explain and reect upon own teaching
practice and portfolio. Formal pedagogical training or
supervision equivalent to the University of Copenhagen
teacher training programme for assistant professors is
required.
*Specic qualications*
Extensive expertise in the computational analysis of
large-scale human population genomic datasets with
particular emphasis on low coverage genomic datasets
incl. inference of patterns of admixture (d-statistics, f3
statistics)Prociency in programming and statistical analysis (in
particular R)
Experience in analyses of demographic history and in-
ference of natural selection in human genomic data.
Duties include the applicant's own research, develop-
ment of the eld, assessment tasks, grant applications,
and research management such as supervision and train-
ing of research fellows and other sta. The successful
applicant must also teach, supervise, prepare and partic-
ipate in examinations, and full other tasks requested
by the Department.
*Assessment of applicants* will primarily consider their
level of documented, original scientic production at an
international level, including contributions to develop-
ments in their eld, as well as their documented teaching
qualications. Managerial and out-reach qualications
of applicants including ability to attract external fund-
ing will also be considered.
Centre for GeoGenetics is a Centre of Excellence -
nanced by the National Research Foundation. We are lo-
cated at the Geological Museum, and there are currently
more than 100 researchers working at the Centre. More
information about the Centre for GeoGenetics at http:/-
/geogenetics.ku.dk/ Further information on the Depart-
ment is linked at http://www.science.ku.dk/english/-
about-the-faculty/organisation/. Inquiries about the
position can be made to center director Eske Willerslev
at ewillerslev@snm.ku.dk.
The position is open from 1 July 2017 or as soon as
possible thereafter.
The University wishes our sta to reect the diversity of
society and thus welcomes applications from all qualied
candidates regardless of personal background.
*Terms of employment *The position is covered by the
Memorandum on Job Structure for Academic Sta.
Terms of appointment and payment accord to the agree-
ment between the Ministry of Finance and The Dan-
ish Confederation of Professional Associations on Aca-
demics in the State.
Commencing salary is currently up to DKK *449,720*
including annual supplement (+ pension up to DKK
*76,902*).
Negotiation for salary supplement is possible.
The application including all attachments must be in
English and submitted electronically by clicking APPLY
NOW below.
*Please include *
- Curriculum vitae including information about external72 EvolDir February 1, 2017
funding - Diplomas (Master and PhD degree or equiva-
lent) - Research plan - description of current and future
research plans - Description and documentation of teach-
ing experience and qualications according to university
guidelines ( http://uddannelseskvalitet.ku.dk/quality-
assurance-of-study-programmes/university-guidelines/-
pedagogic-basis-and-guidelines/teaching portfolio/ )
- Complete publication list - Separate reprints of 5
particularly relevant papers
The deadline for applications is 12 February 2017, 23:59
GMT +1*. *
After the expiry of the deadline for applications, the
authorized recruitment manager selects applicants for
assessment on the advice of the Interview Committee.
You can read about the recruitment process at http://-
employment.ku.dk/faculty/recruitment-process/ .
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NOAA NMFS Seattle MolGeneticist
This is most denitely directed toward evolutionary bi-
ologists, with an emphasis on marine sheries biology.
Here is the text:
Marine Molecular Geneticist III
Lynker Technologies, LLC has an immediate opening for
a qualied marine molecular geneticist to ll a position
on a contract with the NOAA Fisheries service.
This role involves supporting Lynker's National Marine
Fisheries Service (NMFS) operations at the Northwest
Fisheries Science Center (NWFSC) within the Conser-
vation Biology Division (CB), Genetics and Evolution
Program.
In this role, I will work with senior CB Genetics and
Evolution Program sta members as the main scientist
responsible for curating and adding to the Marine Foren-
sic Voucher collection. I will also assists in development
and implementation of species identication assays of
rocksh species of interest. My responsibilities include
coordinating with the University of Washington Fish
Collection's sta to identify, subsample, and enter the
samples into the Collections archive; performing DNAanalysis and sequencing for each sample at 3 or more
appropriate loci required for accurate species identica-
tion (e.g., ID of record); and curating the GEP's local
database, submitting cleansed and veried data to pub-
lic databases (Barcode of Life and Genbank). For the
Rocksh work, I am also responsible for bioinformatics
analyses of rocksh data and collaborates with NOAA
in preparing next-generation sequencing libraries for
several species of Sebastes.
Your work will contribute directly to NOAA's and the
world's understanding of rocksh DNA, which provide
critical inputs to the management and conservation of
these important commercial shing species.
To be considered, you must meet the following minimum
qualications: * A Master's degree from an accredited
college or university in a related eld of study with
emphasis in molecular biology, populations genetics,
evolutionary biology, or forensic science or a clearly
related eld and a minimum of ve (5) years demon-
strated eld capability and experience related directly
to the individual task order. * Four (4) years of pro-
gressively higher graduate education leading to a Ph.D.
from an accredited college or university with a major
in a eld of study with emphasis on molecular popula-
tion genetics, evolutionary biology, forensic science or
a clearly related eld may be substituted for three (3)
years of required experience. * Extensive experience
with genetic species ID of Pacic Northwest marine
sh species required. * Multiple years experience with
entering data into the Barcode of Life Database is es-
sential. * Knowledge of voucher collections and their
use in forensics is essential. * Experience with next-
generation sequencing platforms and data required. *
Experience with all or the following tools: + Sanger
DNA sequencing, high-throughput microsatellite geno-
typing ABI3100 + qPCR and TaqMan SNP genotyping
ABI7900HT, Fluidigm EP1 + RAD-library preparation,
Mi-Seq high-throughput sequencing, molecular cloning
+ PCR and RFLP gel electrophoresis + DNA extrac-
tion: various tissue types + Liquid-handling robotics:
Qiagen BioRobot 8000, QiaCube, and Matrix Hydra +
Genetic analysis tools: CodonCode, Colony, STACKS,
FSTAT + Satistical packages: SYSTAT, and R 2.15 +
Data management tools: Microsoft ACCESS, Filemaker,
LIMS.
Please send your resume, list of references, and explana-
tion of how you meet the requirements above to recruit-
ing@lynkertech.com. Let me know if you need anything
further from me for the posting. Thanks! Liz
- Elizabeth J. Tarquin Director, Marine Sciences Di-
vision Lynker Technologies LLC (808) 747-3065 ltar-
quin@lynkertech.com www.lynkertech.com Lynker - aFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 73
HubZone- and ISO-certied company
Liz Tarquin <ltarquin@lynkertech.com >
ReedC Oregon 2yr
GeneticsGenomics
Visiting Position in Genetics/Genomics at Reed College
The Biology Department at Reed College invites applica-
tions for a two-year visiting faculty member in Genetics
and/or Genomics. We seek candidates with demon-
strated excellence in biological research related to genet-
ics or genomics, for example but not limited to molecular
biology, bioinformatics, population or evolutionary ge-
netics, epigenetics, or synthetic biology. Qualications
include a PhD and postdoctoral experience.
Reed is a distinguished liberal arts college with
~1400 students that oers a demanding academic pro-
gram to bright and dedicated undergraduates (http:/-
/academics.reed.edu/). In addition to advising senior
theses for Biology and Biochemistry and Molecular Biol-
ogy majors, teaching duties will include an upper level
lecture/laboratory course in genetics (for examples of
current oerings, see the Reed course catalog: https://-
www.reed.edu/registrar/registration info.html) and an
advanced course in the candidate's area of expertise.
Formal teaching experience at the college level will be
viewed favorably but is not required. Reed biology fac-
ulty maintain active, rigorous research programs involv-
ing undergraduate students. The successful candidate
will be provided lab space and resources to facilitate
continued research, thus applicants demonstrating an
ability to involve undergraduates in their research pro-
gram are preferred.
The Reed community believes that cultural diversity
is essential to the excellence of our academic program.
Applicants are invited to address how their teaching,
scholarship, mentoring, community service, or other
activities could support Reed's commitment to diver-
sity and inclusion in their application materials (see
http://www.reed.edu/diversity/).
Application materials include a cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, a research statement (two page maximum
length), and 3 representative publications. In addi-
tion, applicants should provide contact information for
three references. All materials should be submitted
through Interfolio at http://apply.interfolio.com/40102
by February 17, 2017 for full consideration. An equalopportunity employer, Reed College encourages applica-
tions from members of underrepresented groups. Spe-
cic inquiries should be directed to Dr. Sarah Schaack
(schaack@reed.edu), the chair of the search committee.
Sarah Schaack, PhD Associate Professor Reed
College schaackmobile@gmail.com https://-
sites.google.com/site/schaackwork/ Sarah Schaack
<schaackmobile@gmail.com >
Smithsonian ConservationGenomics
Secretary's Scholars Job Opportunity
Molecular Pathogen Scientist
Center for Conservation Genomics
Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute
National Zoological Park
SALARY RANGE: Starting at $77,490, commensurate
with experience
OPEN PERIOD: 15 January - 15 February 2017
DUTY LOCATION: Washington, DC
The Center for Conservation Genomics (CCG), Smith-
sonian Conservation Biology Institute (SCBI), National
Zoological Park, invites applications for the position of
Molecular Pathogen Scientist. The successful candidate
will be an exceptional scientist with a strong track record
of published research involving the molecular analysis of
animal pathogens, especially those of concern for animal
health and conservation.
The selected candidate will be expected to build an
outstanding research and clinical analysis program in
molecular pathogen science. The candidate should have
experience in developing and applying \next generation"
DNA lab analysis methods and bioinformatics, as ap-
plied to pathogen diagnostics, characterization and/or
function. Knowledge of the biology of one or more
groups of animal parasites or pathogens is also expected.
The ability to communicate eectively with a wide vari-
ety of audiences, including the public, is essential. The
successful candidate will be expected to participate in
activities, such as exhibits programs and educational
outreach, to be involved with professional associations
and other organizations within the scientic community,
and to compete successfully for extramural funding.
Full-time, 5-year temporary appointment with full
Smithsonian benets to be lled at the IS-12 level, equiv-74 EvolDir February 1, 2017
alent to Federal GS-12. Proof of authorization to work
in US required. The zoo's authorized salary for this
position at this time is $77,490 per annum. Qualied
candidates who are referred to the hiring ocial will
be asked to submit educational transcripts and proof of
U.S. accreditation for foreign study.
KEY REQUIREMENTS:
* Pre-employment Background Investigation must be
successfully completed.
* Must be able to travel and work independently as well
as within a team environment.
Candidates may qualify for this position by demonstrat-
ing the experience outlined above, by completion of
three full years of progressively higher level graduate
education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral de-
gree related to the position, or by a combination of
experience and education.
The Smithsonian Institution oers a competitive salary
and a comprehensive package of benets. This is not
a Federal Position, but has similar requirements and
benets. For a complete description of benets, please
visit www.sihr.si.edu . Interested candidates should sub-
mit to eischerr@si.edu (1) their curriculum vitae, (2) a
cover letter, and (3) research statements detailing their
research interests and general experience for the position
by 15 February 2017. Please include the position title
in the subject line of your e-mail. CVs should include a
description of your paid and non-paid work experience
that is related to this job; starting and ending dates
of job (month and year); and average number of hours
worked per week. They should also include educational
history (including degrees awarded), listings of publica-
tions, scientic and public presentations, grants received,
and honors and awards.
To learn more about the CCG, SCBI and NZP please
visit https://nationalzoo.si.edu/center-for-conservation-
genomics For more information, contact Robert Fleis-
cher (eischerr@si.edu).
The Smithsonian Institution is an equal opportunity,
armative action employer. Candidates of all back-
grounds are encouraged to apply.
\Fleischer, Robert" <FleischerR@si.edu >StockholmU PlantSystematics
Stockholm University seeks to appoint an Associate Pro-
fessor in Plant Systematics. Closing date: 10 February
2017
The position encompasses research and teaching within
the broad subject area of plant systematics, including
land plants, algae or fungi.
For a full job description and for how to apply see:
http://www.su.se/english/about/vacancies/vacancies-
new-list?rmpage=3Djob&rmjob=2395&rmlang=UK
Contact: Further information about the position
can be obtained from the Head of the Department,
Professor Ove Eriksson, telephone: +46 8 16 12 04,
ove.eriksson@su.se.
For questions regarding the application process, please
contact administrator Mikael Stenberg, telephone: +46
8 16 20 86, mikael.stenberg@su.se.
(In Swedish: http://www.su.se/om-oss/lediga-
anst%C3%A4llningar/lediga-jobb-ny-lista?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=2393&rmlang=SE)
\Catarina.Rydin@su.se" <Catarina.Rydin@su.se >
TexasAMU ConservationGenetics
Title: Conservation Genetics Lab Technician
Agency: Texas A&M University, Institute of Renewable
Natural Resources
Location: Dallas, TX
Job Description: Mussel Research Group at Texas A&M
University Institute of Renewable Natural Resources is
looking to hire a highly motivated Lab Technician. The
individual will assist research in conservation genetics of
freshwater mussels in Texas. Primary job duties include
archiving tissue samples, DNA extraction, polymerase
chain reaction (PCR), DNA sequencing, and fragment
analyses; however, the individual should expect occa-
sional eld sampling of mussels. Fieldwork includes
visual and tactile search for mussels (wading and snorke-
ling), mussel identication, and data entry. TypicalFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 75
work schedule: 5 days per week, 8 hrs per day. Occa-
sionally, longer workdays may be required to complete
eld sampling.
Applicants must be self-motivated, enthusiastic, and
enjoy working with others. Applicants should anticipate
residing in Dallas, Texas.
Salary: $900 every 2 weeks
Qualications: Bachelor's degree in Biology or related
eld; experience extracting DNA and PCR; excellent
communication skills and competency to work indepen-
dently. Preference will be given to applicants with strong
background in phylogenetics/population genetics, work
experience in a molecular genetics laboratory, and/or
familiarity with population genetics and phylogenetic
analysis software.
Tentative Start Date: February 28, 2017. This position
is initially for 4 months; however, it may be extended
depending on performance and there is the possibility to
switch to a graduate degree at Texas A&M University.
As a single email attachment, submit cover letter, re-
sume, and contact information for 3 references to Ken-
taro Inoue (kentaro.inoue@ag.tamu.edu). Review of
applications will start February 10, 2017 and continue
until a suitable candidate is found.
Website: http://irnr.tamu.edu/ j
http://tamuirnrmussels.weebly.com/
Kentaro Inoue <Kentaro.Inoue@ag.tamu.edu >
UCalifornia LosAngeles
BiomathTeacher
I would like to post the following ad on EvolDir for an
instructor of math for life Science students at UCLA.
We have an innovative new course that is taught out
of life sciences that emphasizes modeling and dynamic
systems, and other mathematical approached that are
used by evolutionary and ecological biologist. I am re-
ally trying to reach potential applicants that combine
excellent math skills with solid biological background.
University of California, Los Angeles
INTRODUCTORY INSTRUCTOR : MATH FOR LIFE
SCIENCE STUDENTS
The Life Sciences Core Curriculum seeks an Academic
Administrator III. The position is full time and the
Salary range is between $64,920- $90,168. The positionwill provide curriculum development and instruction for
LS 20, LS30A, and LS30B in the Life Sciences Core Cur-
riculum on quarterly basis including summer sessions.
Overview of the Position: Provide curriculum devel-
opment and instruction for two-quarter, introductory
math series (LS30A and LS30B) called Mathematics
for Life Scientists, and for a one-quarter course (LS20)
called Quantitative Concepts for Life Sciences. Re-
sponsibilities for each course include preparing and giv-
ing student-centered, inclusive lectures, overseeing the
computational laboratory components and connecting
modeling applications to concepts covered in lectures,
oering oce hours, giving students regular feedback as
well as preparing and submitting student grades, and
supervising/mentoring the graduate student teaching as-
sistants (TAs). This position also entails administering
the undergraduate Learning Assistants (LA) program
associated with each course, with responsibilities that
include coordinating the recruitment and hiring of under-
graduate LAs, co-facilitating the LA pedagogy training
course (LS192), and mentoring the undergraduate LAs
in LS20, LS30A, and LS30B. This position involves in-
teractions with the Program for Excellence in Education
and Research in the Sciences (PEERS), with responsi-
bilities that include helping to recruit eective graduate
student collaborative learning workshop facilitators and
co-developing worksheets used by PEERS students in
the workshops.
Instruction and Curriculum Development
The Academic Administrator will provide curriculum
development in the LS Core and when necessary instruc-
tion as directed by the Chair of the Life Sciences Core
Curriculum, a cross-divisional instructional program.
Duties include the following: - Develop course materials
for LS20, LS30A, and LS30B to support the ongoing im-
provement and implementation of these interdisciplinary
courses. New course materials could include pre-class
quizzes, note-taking guides, in-class activities, discus-
sion and computational laboratory section activities,
and homework assignments. Development of these ma-
terials will be guided by the biology education literature,
faculty feedback, and evidence-based best practices for
promoting learning, diversity, and inclusivity in large
enrollment mathematics courses. - Prepare and deliver
student-centered, inclusive lectures in LS20, LS30A, and
LS30B that incorporate evidence-based teaching prac-
tices; oversee the computational laboratory components
of each course, make clear to students the connections
to the modeling applications of concepts covered in lec-
tures; supervise through weekly meetings the graduate
student teaching assistants (TAs) for each course, and
ensure that they incorporate eective teaching practices
in laboratories and discussion sections; oer a minimum76 EvolDir February 1, 2017
of 2 oce hours per course per week; provide students
regular and timely feedback on all assignments, ensuring
TAs do the same; and submit student grades in accor-
dance with university policy. - Facilitate the transition
to student-centered teaching in these interdisciplinary
courses. Provide additional support for other LS20,
LS30A, and LS30B instructors, such as: technical sup-
port with clickers, CCLE, and video lectures. Assist
instructors and TAs in creating custom activities for
class meetings and discussion sections (e.g., clicker ques-
tions, worksheets, computational problem sets, exam
questions). Promote discussion of pedagogy and teach-
ing philosophy to support student success, diversity,
and inclusion. - Work eectively with LS Core sta to
coordinate scheduling. - Solicit feedback from faculty,
instructors, graduate student TAs, undergraduate LAs,
and enrolled undergraduate students on the eectiveness
of the LS20, LS30A, and LS30B courses. - Administer
the undergraduate Learning Assistants (LA) program
associated with LS20, LS30A, and LS30B in coordina-
tion with UCLA's LA Program Director for the Sciences
in the Center for Education Innovation and Learning in
the Sciences (CEILS); Responsibilities include recruiting
and hiring qualied undergraduate LAs, co-facilitating
the LA pedagogy training course (LS192), and mentor-
ing the undergraduate LAs in LS20, LS30A, and LS30B
through weekly meetings focused on course content.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UChicago LabManager
ResearchScientist
Lab Manager/Research Scientist - University of Chicago
- Thornton Lab
The Thornton Lab at the University of Chicago is seek-
ing a lab manager/research scientist. We work at the in-
terface of evolution, molecular biology, and biochemistry,
combining phylogenetic and experimental approaches
to reconstruct the historical mechanisms and dynamics
of protein evolution. We are a medium-sized group of
very collegial postdocs and students from a range of
scientic disciplines, working together to answer central
questions about the evolution of biological molecules.The lab manager/research scientist plays an important
role in the lab, conducting independent research, co-
ordinating many aspects of the lab's operations, and
training/helping others in the lab to develop, optimize,
and perform experiments and analyses. Substantial labo-
ratory experience in molecular biology and biochemistry
is essential, as is the ability to work constructively as
part of a collegial scientic group. Experience in evo-
lutionary biology, phylogenetics, and/or computational
biology is a plus but is not necessary. Good writing skills
are highly valued. The ideal candidate will demonstrate
scientic creativity, rigor, true curiosity about evolution,
and a sense of humor.
The job announcement and instructions
for applying can be found here: https://-
jobopportunities.uchicago.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-
position/JobDetails css.jsp?postingId=667056 Please
do not be put o by the title (Laboratory Manager
- Research Technician), which the University assigns
to positions like this. The job requires experience,
independence, and leadership; the person who holds it
is treated accordingly.
The University of Chicago is a fantastic place to do
science, particularly at the interface of evolution and
other disciplines. Chicago is a great city rich in high
and low culture; it is also a hipster heaven and, in the
summer, a fun beach town.
Please don't hesitate to contact me if you have any
questions.
Joe Thornton joet1@uchicago.edu
Joseph W Thornton <joet1@uchicago.edu >
UHalle
LivestockPopulationGenomics
The Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg (MLU),
Central Natural Science Collections, under the funding
directive \Networking - Developing - Researching: An
alliance for university collections" of the German Fed-
eral Ministry for Education and Research, in the project
\The Domestic Pig: Selective Breeding and Prevailing
Taste - Morphology and Genetics in 100 Generations -
Sus 100", is looking for a
1. Scientic Researcher in livestock sciences and do-
mestication research and 2. Scientic Researcher (PhD
student) in the eld of population genomics.February 1, 2017 EvolDir 77
1. position: Scientic Researcher in livestock sciences
and domestication research
This is a full-time position, limited to three years. The
salary will be commensurate with the qualications of
the successful candidate within the salary scale 13 TV-L.
Requirements: - Master degree in biology, agricultural
sciences, veterinary sciences or related disciplines; PhD
preferred - Experiences in livestock sciences and do-
mestication research preferred - Expert knowledge in
evolutionary biology, molecular genetics and biometry
mandatory - Being a good team player with excellent
communication and interpersonal as well as organiza-
torial skills for managing a huge international research
collaboration; own initiative and willingness for longer
stays at other institutions in Germany and abroad - Ex-
cellent track record of peer-reviewed papers requested
Responsibilities: - Leading coordination and implemen-
tation of the project - Revision of the historical collection
and archive material - Geo-morphometric research and
statistical analyses of historic as well as recent osteolog-
ical material - Main authorship of synthesis papers on
aspects of evolutionary biology, domestication history
and pig breeding - Coordination and content-related
compilation of the genetic- statistical evaluation and in-
tegration of the sociohumanistic studies - Co-supervision
of a PhD and organization of workshops on the subject
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg is an equal
opportunity employer. Disabled candidates with equal
qualications will be given preference. Women are
strongly encouraged to submit an application.
Please submit your full application (in electronic form as
single pdf le) with registration number: 3-11858/16-D
in the subject line until January, 31, 2017 to Dr Frank
Steinheimer, E-mail: frank.steinheimer@zns.uni-halle.de
Applications should consist of (I) a motivation letter,
(II) a recent curriculum vitae, (III) a list of publications,
(IV) academic degrees and certicates, and (V) contact
information of two individuals who could provide an
evaluation of the candidate upon request.
The announcement takes place pending on fund avail-
ability and any possible budget restriction. Application
expenses cannot be reimbursed by the Martin Luther
University.
2. position: Scientic Researcher (PhD student) in the
eld of population genomics.
This is a part-time position (65%), limited to three years.
The salary will be commensurate with the qualications
of the successful candidate within the salary scale 13
TV-L.
Requirements: - Master degree in biology, agriculturalsciences, veterinary sciences or related disciplines - Ex-
periences in livestock sciences and domestication re-
search preferred - Expert knowledge of and scientic
lab practice in molecular genetics and their analysis;
work practice in ancient DNA research preferred - Well-
founded work practice in computer-steered biostatistics
of genome data - Being a good team player with ex-
cellent communication and interpersonal skills; own
initiative and willingness to perform most work at the
Museum f ur Naturkunde (MfN) Berlin Responsibilities:
- Leading coordination, implementation and analysis
(including publication) of all molecular genetic studies
in the project; linking with respective data of mod-
ern breeds from the Leibniz Institute for Farm Animal
Biology in Dummerstorf - Publication of results in inter-
national scientic journals - Supervision of preparation
of modern pig skeletons at the MfN - Joining institu-
tional teaching requirements, supervising a technical
student assistant and preparation of workshops - Own
academic qualication (PhD) desirable
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg is an equal
opportunity employer. Disabled candidates with equal
qualications will be given preference. Women are
strongly encouraged to submit an application.
Please submit your full application (in electronic form
as single pdf le) with registration number: 3-11857/16-
D in the subject line until January, 31, 2017 to Dr
Frank Steinheimer, E-mail: frank.steinheimer@zns.uni-
halle.de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMinnesota FieldTech
PollinatorNutrition
Field Technician: Nutrition of Roadside Plants for Pol-
linators
We are seeking a eld technician for a state-funded
project on the nutrition of roadside plants for bumble-
bees and monarchs. The technician would be responsible
for surveying roadside sites, harvesting and processing
plant material and pollinator specimens, organizing data,
and coordinating research assistants. Funding is guaran-
teed for at least two months. Pending state legislature78 EvolDir February 1, 2017
approval (May 2017), the position would be funded for
an entire year. The position would start July 1, 2017.
Salary: $42,000, approximately 40 hrs/week.
The applicant must have a bachelor's of science in a
related eld (e.g., biology, entomology, plant sciences),
relevant research experience, a valid driver's license, abil-
ity to use GPS to locate established points, and ability
to communicate well both orally and in writing. An
ideal candidate would have experience conducting and
coordinating eld research, expertise in plant and pol-
linator identication, and familiarity with methods for
pollen and nectar collection. Field work will require long
hours working along roadsides under variable weather
conditions.
The technician will join a team of researchers at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota, including Emilie Snell-Rood (pri-
mary supervisor), Marla Spivak, Dan Cariveau, Karen
Oberhauser, Elizabeth Borer and Clay Carter. To ap-
ply, please submit a CV, a 1-2 page personal statement
(e.g., relevant experience and how this position would
support your long-term career goals), and contact in-
formation for 2-3 references. Applicants should apply
through http://humanresources.umn.edu/jobs Job ID#
315299. Review of applications will begin March 15th,
with a decision by April 1st. For questions, please con-
tact Emilie Snell-Rood, emilies@umn.edu. More back-
ground on the research itself can be found at: http://-
www.lccmr.leg.mn/proposals/2017/original/152-f.pdf <
http://twitter.com/SnellRoodLab >
\emilies@umn.edu" <emilies@umn.edu >
UMontana Tech PopGenomics
GENETICS LAB TECHNICIAN for ENVIRONMEN-
TAL DNA and POPULATION GENOMICS
Project: Aquatic invasive species: understanding drivers
of spread
Principal Investigators: Steve Amish and Gordon
Luikart, Flathead Lake Biological Station and Mon-
tana Conservation Genomics Laboratory, Division
of Biological Sciences, The University of Montana.
gordon.luikart@umontana.edu (406-982-3301 x249),
stephen.amish@mso.umt.edu (406-243-6749)
Start Date & Duration: February or March 2016; 1 year
with likely multi-year extension
Project Description/Summary: Aquatic Invasive Species(AIS) such as zebra and quagga mussels, Euarasian wa-
termilfoil, Asian carp and many others are spreading
across North America and causing massive economic
and ecological problems. Sensitive eDNA tests are avail-
able for early detection, monitoring, and preventing
the spread of these AIS. This position will involve re-
search and monitoring using new eDNA technologies to
help understand the drivers (or ecological correlates) of
spread of AIS. We are especially concerned about stop-
ping the spread of zebra mussels which were discovered
in Montana last summer (2016) (Fig. 1). The appli-
cant may also work on additional exciting population
genomics projects including trout and stoney adaption
to extreme environments (captivity, climate change),
and conduct sampling in beautiful areas such as Glacier
National Park, Yellowstone National Park, Flathead
Lake, and streams across Montana. Skills required: The
applicant should have substantial experience conducting
qPCR. The applicant should have demonstrated ability
to write and publish papers, and organize and manage
lab supplies. Proven ability to communicate with others
from diverse groups (managers, researchers, the public).
Applications: Send a brief letter ( <1 page) describing
your motivation and background, your CV, and the
names and contact information for three references to
both G. Luikart and S. Amish. Review of applications
will start February 1st and remain open until a suitable
candidate is hired.
Salary: Negotiable, but likely approximately $26,000
to $33,000 the rst year depending on experience and
CV. We would consider hiring a postdoc with higher
salary if the applicant has demonstrated high productiv-
ity, experience, and is passionate about understanding
drivers or correlates of AIS invasions (including sh-
killing pathogens).
Key references: see our web pages, videos: <https:/-
/bs.umt.edu/giving/default.aspx?id=1 >; & contact
us.
Figure 1 (a) zebra & quagga mussels, (b) encrusted
research equipment, and (c) a craysh encrusted with
zebra mussels. Native bull trout threatened by AIS and
climate warming.
\Luikart, Gordon" <gordon.luikart@mso.umt.edu >
USalzburg EvolutionaryBiol
Applications are invited for the position ofFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 79
Full Professor of \Evolutionary Biology of Animals"
in the Dept. Ecology & Evolution at the Paris-Lodron
University Salzburg, Austria. The desired starting date
is 01 Oct. 2017.
We seek an innovative scientist with an outstanding
track record in research and experience in academic
teaching to ll the professorship of \Evolutionary Bi-
ology of Animals" at the Dept. Ecology & Evolution
(http://www.uni-salzburg.at/ecoevo). The successful
candidate must have demonstrated a well-established
expertise in evolutionary biology and is expected to
combine experimental laboratory and eld approaches.
The candidate's research should cover aspects of meta-
zoan evolution with a focus on genotypic and/or pheno-
typic adaptation of species or species groups (individ-
uals/populations/communities) to long-term or short-
term environmental changes. Internationally recognized
expertise in research areas such as population genet-
ics/genomics, evolutionary ecology, adaptive trait evo-
lution, speciation, and/or coevolution and the applica-
tion of state-of-the-art methods (e.g., next generation
sequencing, transcriptomics) are expected. The univer-
sity's geographic location oers excellent opportunities
for researchers particularly interested in alpine environ-
ments.
The appointee will be teaching the entire range of ani-
mal evolutionary biology and diversity for the univer-
sity's Bachelor \Biology" curriculum, the recently im-
plemented Master \Biology/Ecology & Evolution" cur-
riculum, the Teachers' Education Program, and the
Doctoral Studies program, including the university's
newly established Doctorate Schools. Teaching and
evaluating students in both German and English will
be required.
The new professorship will complement the existing re-
search priorities of the Dept. Ecology & Evolution and
further strengthen its scientic prole. Cooperation with
researchers from the other biological departments and
further related and/or complementary disciplines within
the University of Salzburg as well as with local and na-
tional non-university research institutions is encouraged.
The successful candidate is expected to initiate, acquire
and implement novel externally funded national and
international research programs, e.g. Austrian Science
Fund (FWF), FWF research groups, European or other
international joint projects, etc., to establish a research
group, to show active participation in the academic
self-administration and a willingness and the relevant
qualication to take on a leadership position.
Salzburg oers not only an attractive research environ-
ment, but also excellent quality of life in a medium-sized
city with a rich cultural life, close proximity to moun-tains and lakes and easy access to the major urban
centres of Vienna and Munich.
*Minimum general requirements for the appointment
are:
1. A completed PhD compatible with the advertised
position; 2. the qualication to teach at the university
level (venia docendi or equivalent qualication); 3. ex-
cellent scientic abilities; 4. excellent pedagogical and
didactical skills; 5. managerial skills necessary to lead
an academic organization; 6. evidence of integration
within the international research community (e.g. peer
review of manuscripts and proposals, international ex-
perience and cooperations); 7. prociency in written
and spoken German.
The position is permanent and full time following by-
law UG 2002 and the Employee Act of Austria. The
payment will be according to collective agreement for
university employees of the group A1, with a minimum
salary of euro 4.842,70 before tax (14 annual payments).
The University of Salzburg is committed to increasing
the share of women in research and teaching positions
and therefore explicitly encourages female candidates
to apply. In the event of equal qualications, preference
will be given to women.
Disabled candidates or people with chronic illnesses
with the required qualications are explicitly invited to
submit their applications.
Travel and accommodation expenses arising from this ap-
plication and any potential visit cannot be reimbursed.
Applications, including the standard documents (cur-
riculum vitae, list of publications, teaching record, teach-
ing evaluation, research projects and other relevant ac-
tivities), as well as a description of the future research
and teaching concepts should be addressed to the Rector
of the Paris Lodron University of Salzburg, Univ.-Prof.
Dr. Heinrich Schmidinger and sent by email to bewer-
bung@sbg.ac.at. Informal enquiries can be directed to
ulrike.berninger@sbg.ac.at.
Applications must be received by 27 Jan. 2017.
Dr. Anja H orger University of Salzburg Department of
Ecology and Evolution Hellbrunnerstr. 34 5020 Salzburg
Austria
email: anja.hoerger@sbg.ac.at Tel: +43 662 8044-5501
anja.hoerger@sbg.ac.at80 EvolDir February 1, 2017
USaskatchewan
GroundSquirrelHeadTech
We are looking for a head eld technician to assist with,
and coordinate, eldwork on the ecology of two wild
populations of Columbian ground squirrels. The head
technician will supervise 4 student interns and coordi-
nate with graduate students involved with the project
for the period of Apr 10 to Aug 31, 2017. Fieldwork
will involve monitoring the phenology (when animals
emerge from hibernation), reproduction and survival
of individuals, data entry and data verication. The
two populations are separated by an approximately 1.5
hr. drive and will each be monitored by two separate
teams of interns. As such, it is expected that the head
technician will display strong organizational abilities,
responsibility and oversight.
This is an excellent opportunity for someone with previ-
ous eld experience, looking to advance their career in
wildlife biology or move towards graduate school. All
eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky Moun-
tains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to some
of the most majestic wildlife in North America. The
head technician will have the opportunity to view many
of these iconic species as well as interact with other
researchers in the area working on a diversity of species
and research projects.
Skills required: The successful candidate will have previ-
ous eldwork experience in a similar work environment.
Good organizational, multi-tasking and supervisory abil-
ities are essential. Possession of these skills, as evidenced
through previous experience supervising eld crews, is
desirable. Specic eld skills required are: ability to
trap, handle and observe wild mammals. The successful
applicant will also have experience in data entry, check-
ing and management of databases. A displayed interest
in ecology, wildlife, eld biology, and animal behaviour
is also required. An undergraduate degree in one of
these, or a related, eld is required. The applicant must
be able to work well with members of their own team,
as well as other users of the area (i.e., other researchers,
tourists).
Salary will be $1800-2100/month, based on level of ex-
perience. Food and accommodation are provided. The
successful candidate will be required to provide for their
own travel to Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Travel between
the eld station and Saskatoon is provided.If you wish to apply for this position, please send a CV
with a cover letter and contact details of three references
(with e-mail address), by email to Je Lane (contact
info below) before February 15, 2017. Please indicate
in your application that you are applying for the head
technician position (we are also posting for student in-
terns). All qualied candidates are encouraged to apply;
however, Canadians and permanent residents will be
given priority. Only those selected for interview will be
contacted.
Contact:
Dr. Je Lane
Department of Biology
University of Saskatchewan
usaskcgsproject@gmail.com
www.lanelab.ca \jerey.lane@usask.ca"
<jerey.lane@usask.ca >
UWarsaw FieldAssist
BirdPopulations
Field assistant position for
great and blue tit population monitoring
We seek 2 eld assistants in urban ecology to work
in the Wild Urban Evolution & Ecology Lab (http://-
leem.cent.uw.edu.pl) at the Center of New Technologies
(CeNT), University of Warsaw (Poland) for a period
of 3 months from April to June 2017 or mid-April to
mid-July. The position is part of a 2-year Polonez grant
from the Polish Science Foundation (NCN) that aims to
investigate the eects of trace metal exposure on great
and blue tit physiology (i.e. oxidative stress, telomere
length) and tness (i.e. reproduction and survival) in a
gradient of urbanisation.
Background - Current anthropogenic activities are re-
sponsible for considerable modications of the natural
environment. Those include light, noise and chemical
pollution, which may have considerable impact at the
individual level and in terms of populations' dynamics
and functioning. Given the rapid increase in urbanisa-
tion worldwide, it is becoming increasingly important to
better understand the underlying mechanisms and the
potential impacts of anthropogenic pollution on natural
populations. Chemical pollution such as trace metals
are of particularly timely concern given their implicationFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 81
in several human diseases and their noxious eect on
wildlife (e.g. oxidative stress).
Job description - The eld assistants will participate in
eldwork, in collecting phenotypic data (i.e. morpho-
metric measurements) and other biological information.
The eld assistants may also oversee sample preserva-
tion and transportation to the lab. The team will be
split into couples to monitor all sites located in gradient
of urbanisation; most sites can be reached by public
transports.
Job requirements - We seek motivated candidates with
a strong interest in eld work of wild bird populations.
A previous experience in eld work, in population mon-
itoring or in bird handling would be appreciated. Pref-
erentially, the candidate should have a theoretical back-
ground in ecology, in physiology or in population biology.
Operational Polish language is essential, but because
English is the working language in the group, the candi-
date should be able to understand and speak English.
Driving licence and ringing licence are a plus.
Employment - Part or full-time position. The eld assis-
tant may work on any day of the week including weekend
and the working hours are exible.
Salary - depends on the assistant qualications and time
involvement in the project.
How to apply - Your application should include in
PDF format: a cover letter and C.V. (including
your research experience, formation and contact in-
formation). Please send your application to mar-
ion.chatelain@cent.uw.edu.pl as early as possible and
no later than the 31 ^th of January 2017 with the term
\Field assistant position" as e-mail subject line. Selected
candidates will be invited for live interview.
Field assistant position for arthropod sampling and
identication
We seek 2 eld assistants in urban ecology to work
in the Wild Urban Evolution & Ecology Lab (http://-
leem.cent.uw.edu.pl) at the Center of New Technologies
(CeNT), University of Warsaw (Poland) for a period of 3
months from mid-April to mid-July 2017. The position
is part of a 2-year Polonez grant from the Polish Science
Foundation (NCN) that aims to investigate the eects
of trace metal exposure on great and blue tit physiology
(i.e. oxidative stress, telomere length) and tness (i.e.
reproduction and survival) in a gradient of urbanisation.
Background - Current anthropogenic activities are re-
sponsible for considerable modications of the natural
environment. Those include light, noise and chemical
pollution, which may have considerable impact at the
individual level and in terms of populations' dynamicsand functioning. Given the rapid increase in urban-
isation worldwide, it is becoming increasingly impor-
tant to better understand the underlying mechanisms
of anthropogenic activities on natural populations. The
dierences of food availability between urban and rural
sites during the breeding season and more particularly
during chicks' rearing would explain part of the eects of
urbanisation on wild populations. Therefore, it is essen-
tial to measure food availability (i.e. arthropod richness,
abundance and diversity in the case of great and blue
tits) to then draw a detailed outline of urbanisation
eects on urban wild populations.
Job description - The eld assistants will take care of
arthropod sampling (in the eld), counting and iden-
tication (in the lab) to estimate food availability in
great and blue tits. Depending on their interest and
availability, they may also participate in collecting phe-
notypic data (i.e. morphometric measurements) and
other biological information in great and blue tits. Both
assistants will work together,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Virginia DirectorResearchCenter
Bioinformatics
Director,Center for the Study of Biological Complexity
Richmond,Virginia Rank:Associate to Full Professor
VCULife Sciences seeks a Director of the Center for
the Study of BiologicalComplexity (CSBC). VCU Life
Sciences is a University^ amatrix organizationthat pro-
motes Life Sciences Research and Education. CSBC has
beenin existence for 15 years and oers undergraduate
and graduate degreesin bioinformatics. Administrative
oces are on the Monroe Park campus.Degree programs
are Bachelor of Science in Bioinformatics, Master of-
Science in Bioinformatics with a traditional thesis and
a non^ adegreeoption (Professional Master's program).
Doctoral students have a specializedtrack in the Integra-
tive Life Sciences doctoral program, which alsooperates
under VCU Life Sciences. The new director would be
expected tobring their own research program, but also
recruit a diversied set of juniortenure^ afaculty, increas-
ing the research portfolio with extramuralfunding and
expanding enrollment in the existing degree programs.82 EvolDir February 1, 2017
VirginiaCommonwealth University is a major, urban
public research universitywith national and international
rankings in sponsored research. VCUis designated as
a research university with very high research activity
bythe Carnegie Classication of Institutions of Higher
Education and is recognizedas a community^ ainstitution
by the Carnegie Foundation. VCUtakes great pride
in its commitment to creating a campus community
that embracesdiverse perspectives, cultures, experiences
and people. Located in downtownRichmond, VCU en-
rolls more than 31,000 students in 226 degree and cer-
ticateprograms in the arts, sciences and humanities.
Sixty^ aof theprograms are unique in Virginia, many of
them crossing the disciplines ofVCU's 13 schools and one
college. Medical College of Virginia Hospitals andthe
health sciences schools including the Schools of Medicine,
Dentistry,Nursing, Pharmacy and Allied Health Profes-
sions comprise VCU MedicalCenter, one of the nation's
leading academic medical centers. Today,VCU serves
an integral role in the economic health of the city of
Richmondand the region by educating the current and
future workforce, advancingresearch, and enhancing pa-
tient care. VCU, its health system and otherrelated
entities have assets of approximately $3.0 billion, which
includes $840 million in endowment funds.
Responsibilities
- Represent the Center to Life Sciences, the University,
and the community (local,regional, and national).
- Provide scholarly leadership by maintaining indepen-
dent research program andgraduate student mentorship.
- Supervise 10 full^ aterm and tenured/tenure^ aresearch
and teachingfaculty. Assign specic teaching and service
responsibilities to faculty.
- Supervise full^ aclassied sta members who run the
Center for High PerformanceComputing (CHiPC).
- Assume primary responsibility for recruitment, reten-
tion, tenure and promotion,and compliance with univer-
sity guidelines regarding faculty appointments.
- Negotiate and supervise the departmental budget.
- Grow enrollment in BNFO degree programs (B.S.,
M.S.) with over 120 graduateand undergraduate majors
and a curricula comprised of 30+ courses.
- Build on existing cross^ ainitiatives to strengthen link-
ages acrosscampus.
RequiredQualications
- Doctoral degree in related discipline from an accredited
university
- Ten years of experience in discipline- Tenured faculty member at a research active institu-
tion.
- Demonstrated experience working in and fostering a
diverse faculty, sta,and student environment or com-
mitment to do so as a faculty member atVCU
PreferredQualications
- Demonstrated commitment to undergraduate and grad-
uate education
- Current federal research funding
- Demonstration of ability to recruit tenure track faculty
and support research
- Demonstrated experWarning: base64 decoder saw pre-
mature EOF! iencein budget management
- Excellent leadership, communication and interpersonal
skills
ApplicationProcess
Interested, please apply online at https://-
www.vcujobs.com/postings/58027 tosubmit cover
letter, application, CV, and a list of three references.
Foradditional information, please contact Paul Fawcett,
Ph.D. at paul.fawcett@vcuhealth.org.
Projectedstart date is July 1, 2017. This position oers
a competitive salary,start^ a, and relocation package.
VirginiaCommonwealth University is an equal oppor-
tunity, armative actionuniversity providing access
to education and employment without regardto race,
color, religion, national origin, age, sex, political alia-
tion,veteran status, genetic information, sexual orienta-
tion, genderidentity, gender expression, or disability.
RodneyJ. Dyer, PhD Departmentof Biology Centerfor
Environmental Studies VirginiaCommonwealth Univer-
sity
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Worcester Massachusetts ResAssoc
DrosophilaMolEvol
The Findlay Lab in the Department of Biology at the
College of the Holy Cross seeks a full-time ResearchFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 83
Associate for an NSF-funded project on the impact of
newly evolved genes on male reproduction in Drosophila.
A primary responsibility of this position is to manage
the laboratory on a day-to-day basis and assist in the
training of undergraduate research students. However,
the research associate will also have an independent
research project relating to the function and evolution
of a newly evolved gene(s).
The associate will be responsible for:
-training undergraduate research students in Drosophila
husbandry and genetics and in basic molecular biology
and cytology -constructing transgenic y lines through
molecular cloning and y crossing -maintaining all lab y
stocks -monitoring, aliquoting and ordering lab reagents
-developing experimental procedures and written proto-
cols that are accessible to student researchers -complying
with lab safety regulations and interacting with the col-
lege's lab safety ocer -modeling and implementing
appropriate data management practices -assisting, on
occasion, in the preparation of materials for teaching
laboratories or outreach demonstrations -preparation of
media and reagents and maintenance of a well-organized,
orderly lab -contributing to the preparation of research
publications and presentations
Required qualications: At least two years of full-time,
wet-lab experience. Hands-on experience with the hus-
bandry and genetics of Drosophila fruit ies, as well as
with common molecular biology protocols such as PCR,
cloning, and nucleic acid isolation. Strong skills in data
analysis and oral and written communication. Ability
to teach undergraduates in a lab setting.
Preferred qualications include an advanced degree
(Master's or PhD) in genetics, cellular/molecular bi-
ology, or a related eld; experience with immunou-
orescence and confocal microscopy; experience with
CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing; experience
with molecular evolution techniques and genomedatabases; and, experience mentoring undergraduate
students.
Additional Information:
This is an Exempt level position. The College is an
Equal Employment Opportunity Employer and com-
plies with all Federal and Massachusetts laws concerning
Equal Opportunity and Armative Action in the work-
place. Holy Cross is a member of the Higher Education
Consortium of Central Massachusetts (HECCMA) and
the Boston Consortium.
To review our Employee Benet Options, please go to:
http://www.holycross.edu/human-resources/benets
Application Instructions:
To apply for this position, please submit: a cover letter
that describes your interest in the position and quali-
cations; a CV; and, the names and contact information
of two references who can provide letters of recommen-
dation upon completion of the search. In your cover
letter, please include a brief reection on how you might
contribute to the College's commitment to diversity and
inclusion (see http://holycross.edu/diversity). Further-
more, we encourage candidates to review the College's
mission at http://holycross.edu/mission, and include
any reections on contributions you might make in that
area.
To learn more about the Findlay Lab, see: https://-
sites.google.com/a/holycross.edu/ndlaylab/ Questions
about the Findlay Lab can be directed to the PI, Geo
Findlay ( gndlay@holycross.edu). Questions about the
application process should be directed to Deb Paquette
in the HR department (dpaquett@holycross.edu). To
apply, visit: https://holycross.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=3D80382 { Geo Findlay,
PhD Assistant Professor Department of Biology College
of the Holy Cross (508) 793-2655 gndlay@holycross.edu
https://sites.google.com/a/holycross.edu/ndlaylab/
\gndlay@holycross.edu" <gndlay@holycross.edu >
Other84 EvolDir February 1, 2017
ASN RegionalMeeting Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Call for Papers MaleCompetitionSpeciation CurrentZo-
ology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Call SMBE Award Nominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
ESEB OutreachFund DeadlineMar15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
FieldMuseum Chicago NSF REU BiodiversityEvolution
86
Freshwater Diatoms rbcLa gene . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Gamboa Panama Intern ButterySpeciation . . . . . . .87
GeorgetownU REU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
GreifswaldU ClimateAdapation ExchangeGrants . . 88
HarvardU VolResAssist AnolisAdaptation . . . . . . . . . 88
IIASA Austria SummerFellowships EvolModeling . .89
Instagram Course . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Low Recombination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
NSF SystBiodversity RotatingProgOcer . . . . . . . . . 90PeerCommunity in EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 91
PLE Pennsylvania SchwartzCareerFellowship . . . . . . 91
PLE Pennsylvania SummerRes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
QUBES FacultyMentoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .92
ReedWarbler BloodSamples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
SouthAfrica VolResAssist CooperativeBehaviour . . .93
SouthAfrica VolResAssist SocialMoleRats . . . . . . . . . 94
SystematicsResearchFund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UCaliforniaRiverside Trinidad ResearchInternships 95
UKansas EEB REU program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .95
UMichiganBiolStation SummerRes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UOxford VolResAssist Seabirds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
US govt scientists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UTexasAustin SummerUndergraduateRes PlantGenet-
ics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
ASN RegionalMeeting Awards
ASN Awards for Support of Regional Meetings in Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Behavior
The American Society of Naturalists solicits propos-
als from organizers of regional meetings in the elds
of ecology, evolution and behavior. The purpose of
these small awards is to promote increased participa-
tion in regional meetings that fall along the research
interests supported by the ASN and to use this sup-
port as a way of recruiting new membership to ASN.
The awards typically provide subsidized registration for
ASN members at these regional meetings. Please note
that these awards are not intended to support work-
shops. Previous awardees have included meetings such
as SEEPEG, SEEC, EVO-WIBO, and OE3C. Organiz-
ers of regional meetings should submit a brief proposal
describing the research focus of the meeting for which
funds are requested as well as details of the meeting such
as anticipated number of participants, meeting venue
and dates.
Instructions: Proposals should include two components.
One should clearly describe the (1) overlap of the re-
gional meeting with ASN research interests, (2) extent
that the support would reach out to new audiences to
grow ASN's membership, and (3) potential size of the
impact on ASN membership. The second component
should include a brief budget justifying the amount re-
quested and detailing how the funds will be used. To
standardize the applications, there is a strict one-pagelimit (US Letter size paper, 1? margins, standard [e.g.,
Times] 12-point font, and no more than six lines per inch)
for each component (i.e., 1 page for proposal, 1 page
for budget description and use of funds). We anticipate
funding 4-6 awards, typically valued at $2000- $3000.
Please send proposals to the ASN Regional Soci-
ety Liaison Committee Chair Rebecca Kimball (rkim-
ball@u.edu) by Feb. 15.
\Kimball,Rebecca T" <rkimball@u.edu >
Call for Papers
MaleCompetitionSpeciation
CurrentZoology
We are excited to solicit papers on male competition
and speciation for a special column in an upcoming issue
of Current Zoology. Please feel free to contact any of
the guest editors with inquiries.
SPECIAL COLUMN: Male Competition and Speciation
(https://academic.oup.com/cz/pages/malecompetition)
GUEST EDITORS: Alycia Lackey (aly-
cia.reynolds@gmail.com), Michael Martin ( md-
martin7@gmail.com), and Robin Tinghitella
(Robin.Tinghitella@du.edu)
DESCRIPTION: Despite our long-standing pursuit
to understand the evolution and maintenance of new
species, we still lack a clear understanding of mecha-
nisms of speciation. Speciation remains an importantFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 85
focus due to its role in the evolution and maintenance
of biodiversity; this is particularly critical given current
and predicted global change and loss of biodiversity.
Sexual selection is a powerful source of rapid evolu-
tionary change, and there is a long-standing hypothesis
that it can cause reproductive isolation (i.e., when male
mating signals and female preferences for those signals
diversify). However, this understanding of speciation
by sexual selection is largely limited to sexual selection
via female mate choice. Male competition for mates,
Darwin's second mechanism of sexual selection, can
also favor rapid and dramatic phenotypic and genotypic
changes, yet it has been all but overlooked in speciation
research.
This special column will address when and how male
competition can generate or maintain population or
species dierences. The aims of this special column are
to: 1) expand our current speciation framework to in-
clude the contribution of male competition to speciation
by sexual selection 2) examine the importance of male
competition at dierent stages of divergence (e.g., within
populations, between diverging populations, between
distinct species) 3) explore the diversity of mechanisms
by which male competition drives divergence 4) motivate
future work by identifying unanswered questions
TIMELINE: Deadline for title submission: April 1, 2017
(email to guest editor) Deadline for manuscript submis-
sion: June 10, 2017 Manucript handling (paper review-
ing + revision): August 30, 2017 Publication: 6th issue,
2017
A title should be sent to the guest editors and
manuscripts should be submitted before the deadline.
Manuscripts received after the deadline will be consid-
ered as submissions for regular issues.
Submitted papers should not have been published pre-
viously, nor will be under consideration for publication
elsewhere. Submitted manuscripts are accepted with the
understanding that they are subject to peer review and
editorial revision. Publication is free of page charges.
An example special column: Here is a recent special
column on sexual selection and speciation. Scroll down
to \Editorial" and the \Articles" that follow. https:/-
/academic.oup.com/cz/issue/58/3 Alycia R. Lackey
Postdoctoral Researcher Whiteman Lab 2112 Biology
Building Murray State University Murray, KY 42071
oce: 270-809-3224 alyciarlackey.weebly.com
alycia.reynolds@gmail.comCall SMBE Award Nominations
In 2015, SMBE instituted four new awards for: Early-
Career, Mid-Career, and Lifetime Research Achieve-
ments, and Service to the SMBE Community. We are
now calling for nominations for these awards and ask
you to consider nominating your colleagues.
The nominations will be due on 15 February, 2017.
Briey, the Junior Award for Independent Research is
intended for nominees in tenure-track positions at the
Assistant Professor level or equivalent; the Mid-Career
Award is for the research contributions of faculty near-
ing promotion to Full Professor or in the early stages
as a Full Professor; the Lifetime Contribution Award is
for exceptional contributions to the published literature
in the eld of molecular biology and evolution; and the
Community Service Award recognizes outstanding ef-
forts on behalf of the Society and the broader scientic
community. Awardees will receive a cash prize and a
trip to the 2017 SMBE Annual Meeting.
Here are links to the pages describing these awards:
Allan Wilson Junior Award for Independent Re-
search http://www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/-
AllanWilsonJuniorAwardforIndependentResearch.aspx
Margaret Dayho Mid-Career Award
http://www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/-
MargaretDayhoMidCareerAward.aspx Com-
munity Service Award http://www.smbe.org/-
smbe/AWARDS/CommunityServiceAward.aspx
Motoo Kimura Lifetime Contribution Award
http://www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/-
MotooKimuraLifetimeContributionAward.aspx
Nominations require a nomination letter, which should
clearly indicate the award under consideration and also
serve as a recommendation letter; a separate one-page
summary of the nominee's qualications for the award;
a CV of the nominee; and an additional letter of
recommendation. Self-nomination is not allowed. The
nominator need not be an SMBE member, but the
nominee must be a member of SMBE to be considered
for the award.
The materials should be compiled into a single PDF le,
and should be emailed to clapine@allenpress.com.
Best Regards,
Joe Felsenstein,
SMBE Awards Committee Chair86 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Laura Landweber President, Society for Molecular Biol-
ogy & Evolution
l2124@cumc.columbia.edu
ESEB OutreachFund DeadlineMar15
**ESEB Outreach Fund**
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach Initiative
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. The goal of this initiative is to improve public
knowledge about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educational
initiatives that promote evolution, translation of evolu-
tionary material (books, lms, and websites) intended
for a general audience, public outreach seminars, public
exhibitions, etc. Please note that scientic meetings are
not supported by these funds. While most projects will
be nanced for a sum between 1000-1500 Euro, excep-
tions can be made if a strong argument is provided for
additional funds.
Please use the application form, which can be found at
http://eseb.org/prizes-funding/outreach-fund/. Appli-
cations will be accepted twice yearly (deadlines March
15, September 15) and should be submitted by email to
Ute Friedrich (oce@eseb.org; Subject: Outreach).
{ Dr. Ute Friedrich ESEB Oce Manager Email: of-
ce@eseb.org European Society for Evolutionary Biology
- www.eseb.org oce@eseb.org
FieldMuseum Chicago NSF REU
BiodiversityEvolution
NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
in the Evolution of Biodiversity across the Tree of Life
We are looking for 8 undergraduate students to partic-
ipate in hands-on research in biodiversity science and
receive training in cutting-edge techniques and analysis
in evolutionary biology for 10 weeks during the summer
of 2017.
Applications close February 10, 2017.Students will learn research techniques that include
DNA sequencing and computational analysis of ge-
netic and genomic data, morphological measurements
and phylogenetic analysis, and microbiology and next-
generation microbial sequencing. Scientic projects to
be conducted by the students in 2017 include:
Forest Canopy Response to the Paleocene-Eocene Ther-
mal Maximum (PETM) Greenhouse Event Evolution of
Mitochondrial DNA in Ferns Diversity in Mediterranean
habitats - insights from lichenized fungi Habitat-driven
Morphological Syndromes in New Zealand Water Bee-
tles Systematics and Taxonomy of Cichlids in the Genus
Thorichthys Does diet inuence the evolution of body
size in ants? Morphometric analysis of the elaborate
soldier head in turtle ants A Small World: Uncovering
Hidden Diversity in Early Land Plants
In addition students will receive career mentoring in
a diversity of STEM elds, gain experiences in public
outreach and science communication, receive training in
ethics/responsible conduct of research, and participate
in a diversity workshop to help overcome bias in science.
https://www.eldmuseum.org/REU https://-
www.eldmuseum.org/2017-reu-program-oerings
Students will be provided a stipend, dormitory housing,
and assistance with travel costs.
Participants must be U.S. citizens or permanent resi-
dents, and an undergraduate during the entire period.
We especially encourage students from groups tradition-
ally underrepresented in science to apply.
To apply, please send complete the online applica-
tion: https://www.eldmuseum.org/2017-reu-program-
oerings Applications close February 10, 2017.
Please direct any questions to Emily Hallock (ehal-
lock@eldmuseum.org).
Please share widely.
Thank you, Corrie Moreau
Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D. jMacArthur Associate Cura-
tor - InsectsjIntegrative Research Center jDepartment
of Science and Education jField Museum of Natural
Historyj1400 South Lake Shore Drive jChicago, IL
60605 USAjOce: (312) 665-7743 jFax: (312) 665-
7754jEmail: cmoreau@eldmuseum.org jMoreau Lab
website: http://www.moreaulab.org/ jFMNH website:
http://eldmuseum.org/users/corrie-moreau jField Mu-
seum Women in Science: http://eldmuseum.org/-
womeninscience cmoreau@eldmuseum.orgFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 87
Freshwater Diatoms rbcLa gene
Dear list members,
I am a PhD student in New Zealand studying freshwater
ecology. I am interested in surveying diatom species
richness using the rbcLa gene region. I was wondering
if anyone had any suggestions for which primers to use
for amplication of this region. I have found a number
of primers published in the literature, but it does not
seem like there is a \standard".
Any help is much appreciated, and I am happy to com-
pile the responses and repost in the answers section.
Many thanks in advance,
Whakawhetai koe,
Justin Pomeranz
justin.pomeranz@pg.canterbury.ac.nz
Justin Pomeranz <justin.pomeranz@pg.canterbury.ac.nz >
Gamboa Panama Intern
ButterySpeciation
Internship on buttery speciation project in the tropics
We are seeking a research intern to work at the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) in Panama
from April 2017 for a period of at least one year. The
internship will focus on behaviour and diversication in
Heliconius butteries (for more information please see
http://www.heliconius.org).
The intern will work as part of a team involving collab-
oration between the University of Cambridge, Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universitat in Munich and STRI.
The intern will join a vibrant community of scientists
studying the origins and maintenance of tropical diver-
sity (see http://www.stri.si.edu).
The project is based in Gamboa and the intern will
be assisting a project investigating the genetic basis of
reproductive and ecological isolation between two sym-
patric Heliconius species. The project involves breeding
butteries, managing crossing experiments and conduct-ing behavioural assays. Applicants must be able to work
independently and be committed to working full time
in Panama for the duration of the project. A knowledge
of Spanish and the ability to drive would be useful but
are not essential.
A stipend of US $900/month will be provided to cover
accommodation and living costs in Panama.
An application form can be downloaded from
http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/blog/2017/01/research-
intern-posit ion-panama/ . Please send applications, or
questions, to Richard Merrill (r.merrill@zoo.cam.ac.uk).
Please use the subject header: \PANAMA RESEARCH
ASSISTANT" before 14th February 2017.
Richard Merrill <r.merrill@zoo.cam.ac.uk >
GeorgetownU REU
Dear Colleagues,
Please share this call for applications with interested stu-
dents. Some of the potential mentors work on a range of
topics in evolutionary biology, including behavior, evo-
lutionary ecology, evolutionary genetics, mathematical
modeling of biological systems, and extremophiles and
exobiology.
Environmental Science and Policy in the Nation's Capi-
tal
An NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
Program at Georgetown University
Summer 2017
Georgetown University's REU Site program in Environ-
mental Science and Policy in the Nation's Capital is
seeking talented and engaged undergraduate students.
This ten-week program will bring a cohort of ten stu-
dents to Washington, D.C. to conduct hands-on research
in environmental science at Georgetown University and
to take part in a mini-curriculum that builds research
skills and also explores the intersections of science and
public policy. Participating research mentors have ex-
pertise in elds including behavior, ecology, conserva-
tion biology, evolutionary ecology, evolutionary genetics,
mathematical modeling of biological systems, hydrology,
statistics for environmental and biological studies, and
earth science. See mentor research descriptions on the
program web site. Interested students are encouraged
to contact potential mentors directly.
The 2017 program will run from May 31 - August 5.88 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Students will be housed on the Georgetown campus
and will receive a $5250 stipend plus an allowance for
food. To be eligible, applicants must be U. S. citizens
or permanent residents, full-time students as of August,
2017, and available to participate full-time during the
program. We are striving for a diverse group, so stu-
dents from groups typically underrepresented in STEM
elds are strongly encouraged to apply.
Review of applications will begin on February 17, 2017
and will be accepted on a continuing until all positions
are lled.
For more information on the program and to ap-
ply, visit: http://reuenvscigeorgetown.weebly.com/-
For inquiries, contact the program manager Dr.
Manus Patten (mmp64@georgetown.edu), the prin-
cipal investigator Dr. Matthew B. Hamilton
(matthew.hamilton@georgetown.edu), or co-principal in-
vestigator Dr. Martha Weiss (weissm@georgetown.edu).
Sincerely, Matt
Matthew B. Hamilton, PhD
Associate Professor
Georgetown University
Department of Biology, Regents Hall 506
37th and O Streets NW
Washington, DC 20057
202-687-5924 oce 202-687-5662 fax
202-784-7105, 202-784-7181 lab
http://hamiltonlabpage.weebly.com/ http://-
reuenvscigeorgetown.weebly.com/ Matthew B
Hamilton<hamiltm1@georgetown.edu >
GreifswaldU ClimateAdapation
ExchangeGrants
Call: RESPONSE Exchange Grants
The DFG funded Research Training Group RESPONSE
(Biological Responses to Novel and Changing Environ-
ments; https://tinyurl.com/GRK2010-RESPONSE) in-
vites applications for Exchange Grants. In order to fos-
ter collaborations between RESPONSE members and
other scientists, researchers are invited to spend a pe-
riod of 2-12 weeks at one of the RESPONSE labs in
Greifswald, Germany. Exchange Grants should involve
the execution of a collaborative research project relevantto RESPONSE, i.e. on issues related to environmen-
tal change. We particularly aim to integrate research
across multiple levels of investigation, including ecology,
evolution, genetics, physiology, behaviour, theory or
modelling. The deadline for grant applications is March
1^st 2017.
Eligibility
Grantees must be hosted by a participating re-
searcher of RESPONSE (https://tinyurl.com/GRK2010-
RESPONSE) and undertake high quality scientic re-
search at the University of Greifswald. Funding by RE-
SPONSE must be acknowledged in publications result-
ing from the grantee's work in relation to the Exchange
Grant. Persons aliated with Greifswald University are
not eligible.
Application Procedure
Applications for RESONSE Exchange Grants should
include the following information:
- scientic CV including a publication list,
- letter of acceptance from the prospective RESPONSE
host,
- project title and short description of the proposed
project (max. 1200 words),
- proposed starting date and duration,
- estimated travel costs.
Applications should be submitted as one PDF le to the
spokesperson of the research training network (email to
klaus.scher@uni-greifswald.de). Funding decisions will
be made by the RESPONSE Executive Board based on
scientic quality and relevance to the aims of RESONSE.
Allowance
Exchange Grants are reimbursed on the basis of an
allowance of 400 EUR per week (for 2-12 weeks) plus
actual travel expenses up to a maximum of 500 EUR.
The grants do not cover health insurance, taxes, or
retirement scheme contributions.
Michael Sch oner <schoenerm@uni-greifswald.de >
HarvardU VolResAssist
AnolisAdaptation
The Losos Lab at Harvard University (http://-
lososlab.oeb.harvard.edu) is looking for a eld assistant
(undergraduate or graduate level) to join a team of re-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 89
searchers studying thermal adaptation and speciation in
brown anole lizards in The Bahamas. The period of this
assistantship will be from 3 May - 30 June, 2017. The
project will involve both lab and eld work. Prior eld
experience is preferred, but not necessary. All travel and
living expenses will be paid for, but no salary will be
provided. For more information (and to apply) please
contact Mike Logan at mike.logan1983@gmail.com.
Michael Logan <mike.logan1983@gmail.com >
IIASA Austria SummerFellowships
EvolModeling
Summer Fellowships for Young Scientists at the Interna-
tional Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Austria
Funding is available for PhD students interested in three
months of collaborative research during June to August
2017 on
Evolutionary and Ecological Modeling
at the International Institute for Applied Systems Anal-
ysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg, Austria.
Young scientists from all countries are eligible for
stipends provided by IIASA's Evolution and Ecology
Program (EEP) that contribute to travel and accom-
modation costs. Students from IIASA's 24 member
countries - Australia, Austria, Brazil, China, Egypt,
Finland, Germany, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, Korea,
Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan,
Russia, South Africa, Sweden, Ukraine, the United King-
dom, USA, and Vietnam - are eligible for fellowships
that provide full coverage of travel, accommodation, and
living expenses.
Model-based summer research projects are invited in
the following indicative areas:
Evolution of cooperation Governance of common goods
Systemic risk and network dynamics Eco-evolutionary
dynamics Evolutionary community ecology Food-web
evolution Vegetation dynamics Adaptive speciation Dis-
ease ecology and evolution Evolutionary conservation
biology Fisheries management Fisheries-induced evo-
lution Adaptive dynamics theory and models Spatial
models in ecology and evolution
Applicants are encouraged to prepare a research pro-
posal that corresponds to their scientic interests and
to EEP's research agenda. Accepted applicants will
begin work before the summer, by planning their re-search in collaboration with their IIASA supervisors.
Previous experiences with implementing and studying
evolutionary or ecological models are important assets
for working in EEP. To improve chances of being se-
lected, potential applicants are highly welcome to send
informal inquiries regarding their specic research inter-
ests and plans to EEP's program director Ulf Dieckmann
(dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at).
Online applications will be accepted until Wednesday,
January 11, 2017 (24:00 CET).
Since 1977, IIASA's annual Young Scientists Summer
Program (YSSP), has attracted 1800+ students from
86 countries. The YSSP 2017 will take place from June
1 to August 31. IIASA is located in the former summer
palace of Austria's royal family, ca. 15 km south of
Vienna. IIASA's summer program oers exceptional op-
portunities for acquiring experience in an international
and interdisciplinary research environment. Research
training is based on regular personal interaction with
advising scientists, and typically leads to a publication
in an international journal, as well as to a chapter in a
candidate's PhD thesis.
Some useful links:
+ Information about IIASA's Evolution and Ecology
Program http://www.iiasa.ac.at/eep + Details
about the summer program, and online applica-
tion http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/education/-
yssp/Apply/ConditionsEligibility/Conditions-and-
Eligibility.en.html + Examples of successful
YSSP projects http://www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/-
research/researchPrograms/EvolutionandEcology/-
AbouttheProgram/YSSP-in-EEP.en.html + General
information about IIASA http://www.iiasa.ac.at/-
web/home/about/whatisiiasa/what isiiasa.html Ulf
Dieckmann Program Director Evolution and Ecology
Program International Institute for Applied Systems
Analysis A-2361 Laxenburg Austria
Email dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at Phone +43 2236
807 386 Phone secretary +43 2236 807 231
Fax +43 2236 807 466 or +43 2236 71313 Web
www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP Online reprints
www.iiasa.ac.at/ ~dieckman Google Scholar
scholar.google.com/citations?user=rAcGGSgAAAAJ
DIECKMANN Ulf <dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at >90 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Instagram Course
Subject line: New class - Boost your science with Insta-
gram
Dear colleagues, Instagram can be a powerful social me-
dia tool for scientists. When used eectively, Instagram
can advance research careers and further outreach goals.
Unfortunately, very few researchers receive any training
on how to use Instagram for professional purposes.
That's where SciFund Challenge, an outreach-focused
nonprot, comes in with our new class: Using Instagram
to Boost Your Science. Over three weeks, you'll learn
how to use Instagram to further your science. Addi-
tionally, since Instagram is focused on photos, we'll also
teach you how to create better images. Even better,
by the end of the class, you'll have created a personal
Instagram plan to further your research or outreach
goals.
This class is being taught in partnership with the
Louisiana State University's College of Science and
Communication across the Curriculum program. The
class will be running for three weeks, from January 27-
February 17, 2017. The class is intended for academics
that are new to Instagram and it is open to academics
at any level, in any discipline. The class will be online,
so all countries are welcome.
he deadline to apply is January 26th, but our classes usu-
ally ll up early. Act soon if you are interested! Here's
the link for more information: http://bit.ly/2hLnMQo
Questions? Comments? Please send them my way. Jai
Ranganathan jai@scifund.org
jai.ranganathan@gmail.com
jai.ranganathan@gmail.com
Low Recombination
Request: information on species with low levels of re-
combination
Dear all,
We are currently conducting a review of species with
low levels of genome-wide recombination. Apart fromspecies in which one sex does not recombine and with
the exception of some specic chromosomes with zero
recombination (e.g., dot chromosomes in Drosophila),
most species appear to undergo at least one crossover
per chromosome pair and meiosis. We would be very
grateful for any hints on species, in which this is not
the case, that is, species with chromosomes that are less
than 50cM of total genetic length (if such species exist)
or, equivalently, that undergo less than one crossover
per meiosis. An alternative would be species, in which
crossovers occur exclusively at the ends of the chro-
mosomes, and hence with low levels of recombination
within chromosomes.
With best wishes and many thanks for any help oered,
Christoph Haag and Thomas Lenormand
Christoph Haag CNRS-UMR5175 CEFE Centre
d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive 1919, route de
Mende 34293 Montpellier cedex 5 France
E-mail : christoph.haag@cefe.cnrs.fr
\Christoph.HAAG@cefe.cnrs.fr"
<Christoph.HAAG@cefe.cnrs.fr >
NSF SystBiodversity
RotatingProgOcer
EvolDir -for announcement section Reply-To:
\Chakrabarty, Prosanta" <pchakrab@nsf.gov >
ProgramOcer.SystematicsBiodiversity.NationalScienceFoundation
The Systematics and Biodiversity Sciences Cluster
of the Division of Environmental Biology at the Na-
tional Science Foundation is searching for a Pro-
gram Director to serve on a temporary (rotat-
ing) basis. https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2016/bio16001/-
bio16001.jsp?org=BIO DEB supports fundamental re-
search on populations, species, communities, and ecosys-
tems. https://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?org=DEB
The Systematics and Biodiversity Science Cluster sup-
ports research that advances our understanding of the
diversity, systematics, and evolutionary history of or-
ganisms in natural systems.
Cheers and thanks, Prosanta
Prosanta Chakrabarty, Ph.D. Program Director Sys-
tematics & Biodiversity Sciences Cluster Division of
Environmental Biology National Science Foundation
Oce: 703-292-5190 Email: pchakrab@nsf.govFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 91
\Chakrabarty, Prosanta" <pchakrab@nsf.gov >
PeerCommunity in
EvolutionaryBiology
Dear Evoldir members,
We are pleased to announce the launch of the Peer
Community in Evolutionary Biology (PCI Evol Biol)
website: https://evolbiol.peercommunityin.org . This
website will host free, open and transparent reviews and
recommendations of preprint (i.e. prereview) articles
deposited in open archives, such as bioRxiv (biorxiv.org)
as well as recommendations of postprint (i.e. reviewed)
articles. Several recommendations for postprint articles
are already available on the home page of the website.
We warmly invite you to submit your preprint articles
to PCI Evol Biol for evaluation and recommendation
by this community.
PCI Evol Biol is currently supported
by more than 160 researchers (evol-
biol.peercommunityin.org/public/recommenders)
and we expect to be joined by many more.
Details about the aims, structure and functioning of
PCI Evol Biol can be found on the websitehelp page
(evolbiol.peercommunityin.org/about/help generic).
Briey, PCI Evol Biol is the rst community of the par-
ent project Peer Community In (peercommunityin.org).
The Peer Community In project is driven by a desire to
establish a high-quality, free, public system for identi-
fying high-quality articles through specic recommen-
dations recognized initially within, and subsequently
beyond the community, including by funding and re-
search agencies. This recommendation system will oer
a free alternative to all those uncomfortable with the cur-
rent evaluation and editing process of scientic journals,
which is very costly for research institutions.
Using PCI Evol Biol as an example, we will call for the es-
tablishment of other specic communities of researchers
(e.g. PCI Ecology, PCI Entomology) reviewing and
recommending articles in their elds. In the long term,
this project could, therefore, lead to the development
of an entirely new system of scientic publication, in
which articles are deposited in free open archives, and,
if appropriate, are reviewed and awarded a recommen-
dation providing a public guarantee of their scientic
quality.We hope you will appreciate this project and will pro-
vide it with your support, by submitting preprints of
high quality. Please tell your colleagues all about PCI
Evol Biol and its website.
Thomas Guillemaud, Benoit Facon, Denis Bourguet and
the Managing Board of PCI Evol Biol.
https://evolbiol.peercommunityin.org con-
tact@evolbiol.peercommunityin.org
tguillemaud <thomas.guillemaud@inra.fr >
PLE Pennsylvania
SchwartzCareerFellowship
PLE Schwartz Early Career Fellowship Pymatuning
Laboratory of Ecology Summer 2017
The University of Pittsburgh's Pymatuning Labora-
tory of Ecology (PLE) is pleased to oer the Frank J.
Schwartz Early Career Research Fellowship of up to
$10,000 plus up to three months of station fees and res-
idency costs for the primary investigator (PI). PLE is a
vibrant research and education facility located on Lake
Pymatuning in Northwest Pennsylvania. PLE's research
facilities are spread across 350 acres and include access
to a variety of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Its
10,000+ square feet of laboratory facilities include a eld
laboratory adjacent to an open eld that can be used for
large-scale replicated experiments, a modern molecular
laboratory for ecological or evolutionary research, and
facilities for animal, plant and aquatic studies.
This opportunity is open to researchers holding PhD
degrees in any science discipline, including all aspects of
evolution, that can benet from PLE's resources (http:/-
/www.biology.pitt.edu/facilities/pymatuning). The pur-
pose of the fellowship is to permit researchers to explore
new projects or collect preliminary data. Fellowship
funds can be used at the PI's discretion to facilitate the
research but not for compensation. Preference will be
given to individuals and projects with the potential to
develop into long-term research activities at PLE. We
especially encourage applications from individuals in the
postdoctoral or early faculty phases of their careers work-
ing on projects involving sh, but researchers holding
PhD degrees at all stages of their careers and working
on projects involving other taxa are also encouraged to
apply.
For more information about the fellowship program or re-
search opportunities at PLE, please contact the Director,92 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Dr. Cori Richards-Zawacki ( cori.zawacki@pitt.edu).
Applicants should submit a single .pdf le including their
CV, a 2-3 page proposal outlining the proposed research,
a budget detailing how the fellowship funds will be spent,
and planned dates of residence to cori.zawacki@pitt.edu,
placing the words \PLE Schwartz Early Career Fel-
lowship" in the subject line of the email. Review of
proposals will begin February 10, 2017.
{
Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D. email:
cori.zawacki@pitt.edu <email%3Acori@tulane.edu >
Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences
and Director, Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology
University of Pittsburgh
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
\cori.zawacki@pitt.edu" <cori.zawacki@pitt.edu >
PLE Pennsylvania SummerRes
The Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology (PLE) invites
applications for McKinley/Pape/Darbaker/ Grants in
Aid of Research. PLE is a vibrant research and educa-
tion facility located on Lake Pymatuning in Northwest
Pennsylvania. PLE's research facilities are spread across
350 acres and include access to a variety of aquatic and
terrestrial ecosystems (http://www.biology.pitt.edu/-
facilities/pymatuning/research). Its 10,000+ square feet
of laboratory facilities include a eld laboratory adja-
cent to an open eld that can be used for large-scale
replicated experiments, a modern molecular laboratory
for ecological or evolutionary research, and facilities for
animal, plant and aquatic studies.
McKinley/Pape/Darbaker Grants are intended to sup-
port researchers in the early stages of their ecological
and evolutionary research programs at PLE. Grant pro-
posals are submitted each year in February and several
awards are made, generally not exceeding $3,500. Most
awards go to graduate students, but consideration will
be given to recent Ph.D.'s and more senior researchers
interested in initiating new work at PLE. The due date
for 2017 grant proposals is February 10, 2017.
Please visit our website for further details about the
application process:
http://www.biology.pitt.edu/facilities/pymatuning/-research-grants=E2=80 ^A {
Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D. email:
cori.zawacki@pitt.edu <email%3Acori@tulane.edu >
Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences
and Director, Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology
University of Pittsburgh
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
\cori.zawacki@pitt.edu" <cori.zawacki@pitt.edu >
QUBES FacultyMentoring
iDigBio (via the Education and Outreach Working
Group), Kurator, AIM-UP!, and BLUE in partnership
with QUBES are pleased to oer a unique networking
and professional development opportunity for teaching
faculty interested in incorporating real natural history
collections data into their lessons and data literacy skills
into their curricula. Anticipated involvement runs from
April through the fall semester of 2017. During this Fac-
ulty Mentoring Network we will be testing, customizing,
and extending a series of biodiversity collections-based
modules that address fundamental biological principles
using real data. These modules have been developed by
members of AIM-UP and BLUE (visit here to see the
featured modules). Participants will work in a team to
optimize and implement selected materials that comple-
ment their specic curriculum.
Who Should Apply: We are looking for engaged and
enthusiastic faculty and instructors of undergraduate bi-
ology who want to bring real collections-based data into
their classrooms. We are especially keen to introduce
new people to the biodiversity collections community,
so if you are not yet familiar with natural history col-
lections, and their associated data, we welcome your
interest and potential participation.
The majority of the network activities will take place
virtually, but there will be a 2-day kick-o workshop
in Gainesville, Florida, May 24-25. All accepted appli-
cants must be available to attend the workshop, commit
to the length of the FMN, plan to implement a mod-
ule in their fall 2017 classroom, and share developed
materials. Lodging and meals for the workshop will
be provided. Some funding is available to oset travel
to the May meeting, but we encourage participants to
acquire additional funds.February 1, 2017 EvolDir 93
Requirements:
1. Be teaching in a college biology (or other related
classes like ecology, evolution, taxonomy...) course for
fall 2017. 2. Incorporate at least one of the modules into
their course during the fall 2017 semester. 3. Be able
to commit 1-2 hours every week to the project. This
includes virtual meetings April - December 2017. 4. At-
tend the entire kicko workshop in Gainesville, Florida,
May 24-25, 2017. 5. Be willing to share modied re-
sources created during the network. 6. Participate in
evaluation of the network.
Benets of Participation:
- Develop, implement, and assess eective materials and
innovative pedagogical practices for teaching with col-
lections data and incorporating data literacy skills into
the classroom. - Build collaborations with experts in
biodiversity collections data and data literacy skills. -
Work as a community of practice with diverse colleagues
at both an in person meeting in Gainesville, FL and
through a 9 month collaboration in a FMN.
All teaching faculty and instructors are encouraged to
apply. Faculty from community colleges, two-year insti-
tutions, and Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs) are
especially encouraged to apply.
Ready to apply now? Visit: https://qubeshub.org/-
groups/nhc fmn Questions? Attend the Informa-
tional Webinar on January 26, at 1:00 pm ET at
https://idigbio.adobeconnect.com/eo Contacts: Molly
Phillips (mphillips@mnh.u.edu) or Anna Monls
(mon1ak@cmich.edu)
\Hale, Alison" <HaleA@CarnegieMnh.Org >
ReedWarbler BloodSamples
Dear list members,
I am a PhD student at the University of Oslo, Norway,
investigating range shifts and adaptation in the Eurasian
reed warbler (Acrocephalus scirpaceus). I would be very
interested to hear from anyone that had blood samples
of reed warblers that I could use for DNA analyses.
If you do have samples and are interested in contribut-
ing/collaborating, I would be very happy to hear from
you.
All the best, Camilla?
\c.l.c.satre@ibv.uio.no" <c.l.c.satre@ibv.uio.no >SouthAfrica VolResAssist
CooperativeBehaviour
Volunteer Research Assistant position Causes of indi-
vidual variation in cooperative investment in the Dama-
raland Mole-Rat
I am a PhD student at the University of Cambridge
and I'm looking for a volunteer research assistant to
carry out exciting experiments with captive Damaraland
mole-rats, Fukomys damarensis. The study site is at the
Kuruman River Reserve, in the South African Kalahari
Desert.
My research, investigates the causes of individual vari-
ation in cooperative behaviour. I am particularly in-
terested in whether and how varied social experiences
throughout life can generate dierences in development
and behavioural prole. Further information about the
experiments will be provided on interview.
I am looking for applicants available for a period of 6
to 12 months starting as soon as possible. Applicants
should be hardworking, enthusiastic, physically t, and
prepared for long hours in the laboratory. Successful
applicants will be responsible to run experiments and
will be involved in data collection and management (be-
havioural observations and collection of blood, and urine
samples). Other general tasks related to animal han-
dling (hormone injections and implants) and husbandry
and data handling will also be expected. Working weeks
will not exceed 45 hours.
This position is particularly suited, but not exclusively,
for people aiming to carry on their academic education
or a management position in a research project. Success-
ful applicants can expect to gain invaluable experience
in animal handling procedures and conducting and man-
aging experiments on a daily basis. They will be trained
to work with the software ObserverXT and Microsoft
Access.
Costs of food and accommodation while at the project
will be covered.
If you are interested in this position send your CV and
cover letter stating your availability to Philippe Vullioud
(philippe.vullioud@gmail.com).
Shortlisted applicants will be invited for a Skype inter-
view.
Deadline: 05/February/2017 (the position will remain94 EvolDir February 1, 2017
open until lled)
philippe.vullioud@gmail.com
SouthAfrica VolResAssist
SocialMoleRats
SouthAfrica.VolResearchAssistant.SocialMoleRats
Cooperative breeding in Damaraland mole-rats
(Fukomys damarensis).
We are looking for voluntary research assistants to help
with our research on the completely subterranean, highly
social Damaraland mole-rat (Fukomys damarensis) in
the Kalahari. Starting between March and July 2017
for 6 months
Position 1: Behaviour and Physiology - mainly labora-
tory based
This position entails assisting in several studies on social
evolution and hormonal eects on social behaviour of
mole-rats. We are interested in the eects of hormonal
variation on allo-parental care and the eects variation
in the social environment on behaviour and physiology in
mole-rats. The research assistant will be involved in all
steps of the experiments and will mainly work in the lab-
oratory with our captive mole-rats which are housed in
large semi-natural tunnel systems. The responsibilities
include behavioural observations, hormonal measures
(blood sampling, urine sampling), obtaining morpholog-
ical measures by X-Ray, and hormonal manipulations.
The laboratory is situated in the Kuruman River Re-
serve in the southern Kalahari, Northern Cape province
of South Africa.
The successful applicant will work in a team of 5-10
persons and will receive extensive training to acquire
the skills needed for the above mentioned data collec-
tion. The research station is also the home of sev-
eral other projects studying meerkats (www.kalahari-
meerkats.com), cape ground squirrels, pied babblers,
forktailed drongos and hornbills resulting in a stimu-
lating scientic environment. Around 20-30 research
assistants are based at the station year round. Research
assistants will learn a range of skills such as remote
sensing of behaviour, endocrine sampling techniques, be-
havioural observations, data handling and management.
Applicants should be enthusiastic, willing to work hard
and keen to get involved in a research project in a remote
location.Position 2: Ecology - mainly eld based
We are conducting a capture-mark and recapture study
in which the voluntary research assistant can play an im-
portant role. Entire groups of mole-rats will be captured
and individually marked. Morphological measurements
and tissue samples will be obtained before the release
of the animals. The eld work is physically demanding
(long hours, heavy digging to capture mole-rats) and
weather conditions are very challenging (heat during the
day, very cold during the night). Field work will make
trapping during the night necessary. The assistant will
mostly be working along one more experienced scientist
but will need to work independently at times. This po-
sition requires working in a very small team in a remote
location on free ranging animals and the trapping season
will last for 3 months (starting in March or April 2017)
In both positions accommodation is provided, and re-
search assistants are paid a monthly allowance to cover
their personal costs and food. Domestic travel to the
eld site can be covered but we cannot provide an in-
ternational airfare, travel insurance, or visa fees for
applicants from overseas.
Applications received until the 22nd of January 2017
are ensured full consideration. Later applications may
be considered. Please indicate whether you apply for
position 1 or 2 or both positions.
Please apply to or contact for further information:
Markus Zottl, University of Cambridge,
mz338@cam.ac.uk
Markus Zoettl <mz338@cam.ac.uk >
SystematicsResearchFund
The call for the 2016/17 round of the Systematics Re-
search Fund is now open.
The Councils of the Linnean Society of London and the
Systematics Association jointly administer the System-
atic Research Fund.
Typical activities supported include contributions to
eldwork expenditure, the purchase of scientic equip-
ment or expertise (e.g. buying time on analytical equip-
ment), specimen preparation (including the cost of tem-
porary technical assistance), and contributions to publi-
cation costs (although we are unable to support article
processing charges). Projects of a more general or edu-
cational nature will also be considered, provided thatFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 95
they include a strong systematics component. Typical
activities not supported include attendance at scientic
meetings and contributions to student maintenance or
tuition fees. The fund does not provide payments for
Bench Fees. Projects already substantially funded by
other bodies may be disadvantaged.
Successful projects are selected by a panel of systema-
tists who represent a wide range of conceptual interests
and taxonomic groups. The value of any single award
will not exceed 1500.
The application form may be found at:
http://www.systass.org/awards/srf.shtml and
https://www.linnean.org/the-society/medals-awards-
prizes-grants/systematics-research-fund The deadline
for applications is 15th February 2017.
Please read the \Guidelines for applying for SRF fund-
ing" before completing the online application form.
Please note that only applications made using the online
form are acceptable.
Questions about the application procedure can be sent
to the SRF Administrator (srf@systass.org).
Mark Carine <M.Carine@nhm.ac.uk >
UCaliforniaRiverside Trinidad
ResearchInternships
Research Internships - Evolutionary Biology
Research interns are needed to assist in a multi-
disciplinary, multi-investigator, experimental study of
the interactions between ecology and evolution in
Trinidad. The research is led by Professor David Reznick
at the University of California, Riverside in collabora-
tion with Joseph Travis (Florida State), Tim Coulson
(Oxford), Paul Bentzen (Dalhousie U.), Andres Lopez-
Sepulcre (L'Ecole Normal Superieure, Paris) and Ron
Bassar (Oxford). We seek to integrate multiple biologi-
cal elds for the study of these interactions in experimen-
tal populations of guppies in Trinidad. Duties include
assisting in monthly censuses of guppy populations in
montane streams. The monthly censuses include long
hours in the eld and laboratory. There will also be 12
days o between each census when interns can pursue
an independent project.
Qualications: We seek interns who are entertaining the
possibility of pursuing graduate studies in some areaof ecology and evolution and who wish to gain some
additional eld research experience before doing so. Re-
search will take place in semi-remote areas of Trinidad
sometimes under bad weather conditions. Applicants
must be able to live and work well with others. Research
will involve carrying heavy packs over slippery and steep
terrain. Applicants must be in good physical condition
and be able to meet the demands of eld research under
these conditions. Ability to drive a standard transmis-
sion vehicle is desirable but not required. Applicants
with rst-aid/rst responder training, skills in auto-
mobile maintenance, and construction skills are highly
desirable. Please address these skills when applying.
Interns will be required to spend a minimum of 3-months
in Trinidad, with possibility of extension. Starting dates
are as early as May 2017. We will cover all travel and
living expenses and provide housing.
Please see our website <cnas.ucr.edu/guppy >for more
information on the project and access to reprints. Our
video menu includes a \guppy censuses" submenu that
details the main tasks associated with the internship.
Applicants should send cover letter, CV and the names
and e-mail addresses of three or more professional refer-
ences to David Reznick (gupy@ucr.edu). At least two
of the references should be academics.
Joshua Goldberg <jgold011@ucr.edu >
UKansas EEB REU program
Applications are now open for our NSF funded Research
Experience for Undergraduate (REU) program, Models
in Evolution, Ecology and Systematics. |The program
will take place May 22-July 28 2017 in the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the Univer-
sity of Kansas. In this ten week program, students
will participate in mentored, independent research and
receive training in research support skills.| \Models"
is broadly interpreted to include not only building of
theoretical models, but also testing of models (empir-
ical work). More information on projects is available
at http://eebreu.ku.edu . Students will be provided
with a generous stipend, housing and meals, and travel
to the program. Review of applications begins Febru-
ary 15, 2017 and will continue until all positions are
lled. Students must have completed one semester of
college level work (including community college), must
plan to be enrolled in an undergraduate program dur-
ing the fall of 2017, and be US citizens or permanent96 EvolDir February 1, 2017
residents.|Biology, math and computer science majors
are encouraged to apply.
Former students have been highly successful at con-
tinuing on to graduate school and obtaining the NSF
Graduate Research Fellowship.| Review of applica-
tions begins February 15 and will continue until all
positions are lled.| Questions may be addressed to
eebreu@ku.edu.
Dr. Jennifer Gleason Program Director Associate Pro-
fessor Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of
Kansas Lawrence, KS 66045
jgleason@ku.edu
UMichiganBiolStation SummerRes
The University of Michigan Biological Station (UMBS)
is now accepting applications for its Research Expe-
rience for Undergraduates (REU) program, \Climate
Change in the Great Lakes Region."
Our REU summer program runs for nine weeks (June
20 - August 19, 2017) at the U-M Biological Station
on Douglas Lake in beautiful northern Michigan. Each
REU participant will:
{ Work closely with a research mentor on a project of
mutual interest. { Design, conduct, analyze, and re-
port on their research project with guidance from the
mentor and the two program co-directors. { Partici-
pate in workshops and group discussions designed to
provide the background knowledge and technical tools
needed to carry out interdisciplinary scientic research.
{ Contribute to the body of knowledge that can help
address many of Earth's most important environmental
challenges.
COMPENSATION: Participants receive: a stipend of
$5,000; free room and board at the Station; and a travel
allowance.
DEADLINE: The deadline to apply is Wednesday,
March 1, 2017.
Application and details at: *http://lsa.umich.edu/-
content/michigan-lsa/umbs/en/students/research-
opportunities/reu-program.html* The University of
Michigan Biological Station is located on Douglas Lake
near Pellston, Michigan at the tip of the lower peninsula.
Surrounded by more than 10,000 acres of undeveloped
university-owned property, Students have quick access
to many unique habitats in the region including dune,alvar, bog, and old-growth forest. UMBS also has two
atmospheric gas sensing towers for monitoring forest
and atmospheric gas. More information is available at
http://www.lsa.umich.edu/umbs . *Stephanie Fortino*
Recruitment and Outreach Coordinator, University
of Michigan Biological Station (734) 763-8574 j
safort@umich.edu jlsa.umich.edu/umbs
\safort@umich.edu" <safort@umich.edu >
UOxford VolResAssist Seabirds
Voluntary research assistantship in seabird behaviour &
ecology Skomer Island & University of Oxford
We are looking for an enthusiastic, hardworking young
biologist to work as a voluntary Research Assistant to
help with our pelagic seabird research on Skomer Island,
Pembrokeshire, Wales, in Spring and Summer 2017. The
work will involve several research projects coordinated
by Prof Tim Guilford at Oxford's Department of Zo-
ology (see the OxNav website). We utilise state-of-the
art tracking technologies (miniature GPS, geolocators,
time-depth recorders, etc) on several species of seabirds
but mainly on Manx shearwaters. Most work will in-
volve assisting doctoral students with the day-to-day
monitoring of breeding birds and with deploying and
retrieving tracking devices. It will also involve entering
data collected in the eld into appropriate databases.
There will be a signicant amount of nocturnal work,
since the primary study species is the Manx Shearwater,
which only arrives at the colony after dark. The role will
also involve monitoring Atlantic puns tracked with
geolocators and helping with their recapture (with some
work to be carried out at dawn) as part of a project led
by Dr Annette Fayet.
Unfortunately we cannot provide a stipend but (shared
and basic) accommodation on Skomer will be provided.
However, the project is a great opportunity to gain
valuable experience in modern eld ornithology. There
will also be opportunities for the assistant to learn some
analytical techniques applied to animal movement data.
Skomer has mobile coverage and some access to Inter-
net, however movements to and from the mainland are
limited due to unpredictable wind conditions. There is a
small community of wardens, assistants and volunteers,
who are involved in the running and conservation of
the Nature Reserve, monitoring the seabird populations,
and managing the daily and over-night visitors. There
might be opportunities to visit other UK island reservesFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 97
during the project. There will also be scope for involve-
ment in other conservation and ecological projects on the
island, which is a National Nature Reserve administered
by the Wildlife Trust of South and West Wales.
Prole: we are looking for a motivated and hardworking
biologist, who likes working in the eld and can cope
with dicult working and living conditions, and who can
work with us between April and September 2017 (with
some exibility for the start and end dates). Previous
experience in the eld or in harsh conditions is desirable,
but not essential. Work on Skomer requires long hours
(with some work at night and at dawn) spent in a cold
and wet environment and considerable manual work. A
good candidate should be able to work independently
and have a reasonable level of tness. Planning to em-
bark on further research degrees in the future would be a
plus (previous assistants have engaged in doctoral stud-
ies afterwards). It is also important that the assistant
feels comfortable sharing sometimes crowded accommo-
dation with a number of colleagues over long periods
of time, and can cope with the occasional untidiness
inevitably associated with eldwork. Unfortunately, for
administrative reasons, we can only accept applications
from people having permission to work in the UK (UK
and EU citizens, UK residents, or persons with a UK
work permit).
How to apply: If you are interested, please
email a CV and a statement of interest, and
arrange for two letters of reference to be
emailed to tim.guilford@zoo.ox.ac.uk (with
oliver.padget@zoo.ox.ac.uk, james.evry@wadh.ox.ac.uk
and annette.fayet@zoo.ox.ac.uk in cc). Please note
that providing names of referees is not enough, the
candidate needs to arrange for their referees to email
us a reference (unfortunately we do not have time to
contact each referee individually). The deadline for
submitting applications (including reference letters) is
the 12th February 2017. We will interview the best
candidates on Skype shortly after and we expect to
make a decision by the end of February.
PDF link: https://goo.gl/V8YKAF James Evry
<james.evry@wadh.ox.ac.uk >
US govt scientists
Governmental scientists employed at a subset of agen-
cies have been forbidden from presenting their ndings
to the public. We have drafted the following responsefor distribution, and encourage other scientists to post
it to their websites, when feasible.
Graham Coop Professor of Evolution and Ecology UC
Davis
Michael B. Eisen Professor of Molecular and Cell Biology
UC Berkeley
Molly Przeworski Professor of Biological Sciences
Columbia University
|{
In Defense of Science
We are deeply concerned by the Trump administration?s
move to gag scientists working at various governmen-
tal agencies. The US government employs scientists
working on medicine, public health, agriculture, energy,
space, clean water and air, weather, the climate and
many other important areas. Their job is to produce
data to inform decisions by policymakers, businesses
and individuals. We are all best served by allowing these
scientists to discuss their ndings openly and without
the intrusion of politics. Any attack on their ability
to do so is an attack on our ability to make informed
decisions as individuals, as communities and as a nation.
If you are a government scientist who is blocked from
discussing their work, we will share it on your behalf,
publicly or with the appropriate recipients. You can
email us at USScienceFacts@gmail.com.
Molly Przeworski <molly.przew@gmail.com >
UTexasAustin
SummerUndergraduateRes
PlantGenetics
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is emerging as an im-
portant biofuel candidate in the United States. Our
labs (see list of collaborators below) collectively study
the ecology, genetics/genomics, physiology and agron-
omy/plant breeding of Switchgrass. We are seeking a
talented and diverse group of undergraduate students
interested in conducting a variety of research in Switch-
grass biology across the US.
Program description: This program is an opportunity
for undergraduate students to participate in mentored
independent research on the biology of Switchgrass. The
program is funded through the NSF Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) program and is associated98 EvolDir February 1, 2017
with our ongoing interdisciplinary work on the ecology,
physiology, and genomic responses of switchgrass to fu-
ture climate change. Summer students will be immersed
in research and learn basic and applied biology through
active participation in primarily eld-based work. Work-
ing as part of our research team, they will contribute to
group research projects, design short research projects,
and present their work in an end-of-summer student
symposium.
Each position is supported for 8-10 weeks beginning
the rst week of June. Students are awarded a $4500
stipend, plus a housing and food allowance, and some
funds to help defray the cost of traveling to the desig-
nated University.
Who Should Apply: Undergraduates that are not in
their senior year (typically 1st to 3rd year students),
who are either U.S. citizens or permanent residents
studying in the U.S.
Application process: The application deadline is Febru-
ary 19, 2017. Applicants should submit a 1-page cover
letter describing any relevant research experience, alongwith their motivation for joining our research group,
and include a copy of their current transcript (unocial
transcript or screenshots are acceptable). Applicants
should also ensure that two letters of recommendation
are submitted on their behalf. Only applications that
are complete will be considered. Applications and re-
quests for further information should be directed to:
Dr. Brandon Campitelli e-mail: bran-
don.campitelli@utexas.edu Subject: Switchgrass
REU 2017
For more information regarding this opportunity,
and ongoing research, please visit our website:
https://sites.cns.utexas.edu/juenger lab/summer-
research-opportunities { Brandon E Campitelli j
PhD Postdoctoral Researcher jDept. of Integrative
BiologyjCollege of Natural Sciences Clinical Assistant
ProfessorjBiology of Biofuels jFreshmen Research
Initiative University of Texas at Austin j(512) 471-9920
jPatterson Labs 638
brandon.campitelli@utexas.edu
PostDocs
Barcelona GenomicsMachineLearning . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Budapest CancerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
CharlesU Prague PolyploidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
CornellU ConservationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
CSIRO ArmidaleNSW LivestockPopGenetics . . . . . 102
Dartmouth MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
Hungary FungalEvoluitonaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 103
IndianaU Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
ISTAustria PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Luzern Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Madrid ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
ManchesterU KlebsiellaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106
MonashU Inuenza phylodynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
OhioStateU ExperimentalMicrobiomeResearch . . . 107Ottawa EvolutionBeePathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
ParisCollege de France ModelsGenomicsDiversication
107
Paris SimilarityNetworks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
PurdueU PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
SLU Sweden QuantGenBreeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
StellenboschU AntarcticPlantPhylogenomics . . . . . .110
UArizona EvolutionaryEcologicalGenomics . . . . . . . 111
UBasel PathogenEvolutionGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UCalifornia Berkeley InfectiousDiseasePopGenomics
112
UCalifornia Davis EvolutionGeneFunction . . . . . . . .112
UCalifornia Santa Cruz PopulationGenomics . . . . . 113
UCIrvine FunctionalMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 113February 1, 2017 EvolDir 99
UCopenhagen IranianForestPhylogeography . . . . . . 114
UGeorgia CropWildIntrogression . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
ULaval FishPopulationGenomics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
ULondon EvolutionaryAnalysisCancer . . . . . . . . . . . .116
UMassachusetts Amherst DawinFellow . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UmeaU 5PDF and 5PhD Metagenomics . . . . . . . . . . 117
UMinnesota PhyloComparativeMethods . . . . . . . . . . 118
UNorthCarolina Charlotte ChromosomeRearrange-ments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .118
UOslo PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
UOslo PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
UOxford EvolutionDosageComp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .121
UWarwick AncientPathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
Vienna StatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Barcelona
GenomicsMachineLearning
We oer a 22 month postdoc to work in the machine
learning area. The prole is ample, from identifying
selective sweeps to genomic selection and individual in-
terests can be discussed. Gross salary is about 30k euro
/ year. The details are below. Interested candidates
please send a letter of motivation letter, CV and emails
of contact persons.
Miguel Perez-Enciso ICREA professor Centre for
Research in Agricultural Genomics (CRAG) and
Facultat de Veterinaria UAB Campus Universitat
Autonoma Barcelona Bellaterra E-08193 Spain
Tel: +34 935636600 ext 3346 Fax: +34 935636601
miguel.perez@uab.es http://www.icrea.cat/Web/-
ScienticSta/Miguel-Perez-Enciso-255 http://-
bioinformatics.cragenomica.es/numgenomics/ Machine
learning tools to combine sequence and biologically
heterogeneous data
Research project
Big data are characterized not only by their size but
also by their heterogeneity and noisiness. These fea-
tures apply in particular to genomic data: their size
has been increasing exponentially with the advent of
new sequencing technologies, but also their complexity.
We aim at combining several available sources of infor-
mation, not only the phenotypes and sequence data,
but also, e.g., annotation features or metabolic path-
ways. An important goal is not only to provide ecient
predictors but also tools to biologically interpret the
results. We will explore machine learning tools such as
ensemble methods or deep learning to investigate two
main problems (i) genomic prediction, and (ii) inference
of selective sweeps.
Job description
We are looking for a PhD with a computational prole
and an interest in biological applications.Required
- Programming ability and experience in python.
- Quantitative and/or population genetics background
Valued
- Experience in machine learning area
We oer a 22 month year postdoc contract (extendable
up to three years if funding is available).
Group description
The numerical genomics group (http://-
bioinformatics.cragenomica.es/numgenomics/) at
Centre for Research in Agricultural Genomics (CRAG,
www.cragenomica.es) is primarily interested in the use
of high throughput sequencing technology (NGS) for
population and statistical genomics. Topics of particular
interest are studying the footprint of domestication and
articial selection and the use of sequence for genomic
selection. CRAG was recently awarded a Severo Ochoa
project for excellence centres in Spain.
Group leader
Miguel Perez-Enciso
ICREA professor
miguel.perez@uab.es
https://bioinformatics.cragenomica.es/numgenomics/
https://www.icrea.cat/Web/ScienticSta/-
Miguel-Perez-Enciso-255/ Miguel Perez Enciso
<1136012@uab.cat >100 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Budapest CancerEvolution
A postdoctoral position is available to join the recently
established Evolutionary Genomics Research Group
funded in 2016 under a highly competitive 5 year grant
from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences' \Momentum"
program as well as an ERC Starting Grant starting in
2017.
Research Topic:
Cancer is a genetic disease fuelled by somatic evolution.
Despite advances in the molecular biology of cancer
associated genes and the recent surge in the amount
of DNA sequences available for dierent cancers, our
understanding of the evolutionary mechanisms that lead
to cancer is limited and cancer mortality rates have
changed little in the last few decades. Until we unravel
cancer's basic principles, the battle against it can only
progress in inches, rather than in miles.
To address the problems quantitatively, a new eld
called the \physics of cancer" has emerged. In the con-
text of this emerging eld the Evolutionary Genomics
Research Group works to understand the evolutionary
process that leads to the breakdown of the hierarchical
organisation of healthy tissues and the emergence of
tumours, using evolutionary models, computer simu-
lations, and sequence analysis. We do this with the
aim of developing models that can predict how cancers
respond to treatment depending on their functional and
genetic diversity and guide us toward developing novel
treatment strategies and improving existing ones. In our
most recent work (Der enyi & Sz oll ~Asi 2017) we asked
how tissues generate large numbers of cells while at the
seam time minimising the accumulation of mutations
and the risk of cancer.
To answer the question we introduced a general model of
hierarchically organised self-renewing tissue and derived
the lower limit of lifetime divisional load of a tissue.
We showed that hierarchically dierentiating tissues can
approach this limit, and that this depends on uneven
divisional rates across the hierarchy. We are looking for
a postdoctoral researcher to build on these results and
work with us in exploring the evolutionary process that
lead to breakdown of hierarchical organisation of healthy
tissues. The questions that we want to answer include:
Under what conditions do hierarchically dierentiated
tumours, i.e. \cancer stem cells", evolve? Which kind
of mutation lead to cancer and in what combination, e.g.do mutations that increase symmetric vs. asymmetric
cell division rate drive tumour progression or vice versa?
Der enyi, I & Sz oll ~Asi, GJ Hierarchical tissue organiza-
tion as a general mechanism to limit the accumulation
of somatic mutations Nature Communications in press
(2017) https://doi.org/10.1101/098129 Position Details:
The successful candidate will either have a PhD in Evo-
lutionary or Computational Biology or come from a
strong quantitative background such as Physics, Ap-
plied Mathematics or Statistics with the ambition to
pursue research in Evolutionary Biology.
The position is for up to 2 years with the possibility of
extension and a salary of up to 2,000 EUR per month
conditional on experience (adjusting for cost of living
this corresponds to approx. EUR 3,000 in Berlin, 3,300
in Vienna and 4,200 in Paris [numbeo.com] ).
The research group is lead by Dr. Gergely Szol-
losi ( https://scholar.google.hu/citations?user=sPrYT-
oAAAAJ ) and Prof. Imre Derenyi ( https://-
scholar.google.hu/citations?user=kDEAL-wAAAAJ ).
The research group is hosted at Eotvos University's In-
stitute of Physics. The Institute of Physics has been
included in the Excellence Group of European Universi-
ties, and has achieved top placement in the number of
citations, the number of ERC grants, the time available
for PhD research and the gender balance of masters
students in the CHE Excellence Ranking. The research
group is associated to the Depts. of Biological Physics
and Complex Systems composed of several interdisci-
plinary research groups including those of Prof. Imre
Derenyi, Prof. Tamas Vicsek, and Prof. Istvan Csabai.
Please direct all enquiries to Dr. Gergely Szollosi
(ssolo@elte.hu). First round of applications closes March
1st 2017. Please include a CV with list of publications
(preferably referencing a google scholar prole) and a
motivation letter addressing the research topic described
above.
Dr. Gergely J Sz oll ~Asi
MTA-ELTE ,,Lend ulet\ Evolutionary Genomics Re-
search Group ERC "GENECLOCKS\ Research Group
head researcher http://ssolo.web.elte.hu Tel: 00 36 30
725 35 32
Gergely J Sz oll ~Asi<sszolo@gmail.com >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 101
CharlesU Prague
PolyploidEvolution
*Short-term postdoc position at the Department of
Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in the
working group of Population ecology* *(option for a
PhD position)*
*Consequences of polyploidization: from single traits to
population dynamics*
Understanding the consequences of polyploidization is
a major step in the attempt to understand species di-
versication. The project addresses critical gaps in our
knowledge on the role of polyploidization in the genesis
and maintenance of plant diversity. It describes dier-
ences in single traits and population dynamics between
diploids, tetraploids and newly synthesized tetraploids
by using multiple species and comparing performance
of plants coming from dierent evolutionary lineages
(dened by their haplotype proles). The results will
allow the identication of general dierences between
tetraploids and diploids. It will be one of the rst studies
to compare i) dierent cytotypes from the same evolu-
tionary lineage with dierent lineages within the same
cytotype, ii) dierences between neo-polyploids (syn-
thetically created polyploids) and their established coun-
terparts and iii) full life cycles of diploids, tetraploids
and neo-tetraploids under natural conditions.
*We seek *a highly motivated independent postdoc in-
terested in the evolution of polyploids. The postdoc
will use the existing data of the team, analyze the data
and prepare publications. Ideas for new analytical ap-
proaches are most welcome. Candidates will be expected
to produce peer-reviewed publications in high impact
factor international journals based on these data and
present their results at an international conference. We
welcome candidates interested to start their indepen-
dent research projects within our group and stay with
us past the postdoc period. A PhD position within the
framework can also be discussed.
At the moment, we dispose of a large amount of data
waiting to be analyzed and published. Specically, we
have data on:
1) the dierence of natural diploids and natural and syn-
thetic tetraploids in photoprotective and antioxidative
enzymes. These data can be combined with data on
plant tness (a manuscript on the tness data alone isabout to be submitted). This is a unique opportunity
to study the eects of polyploidization without subse-
quent evolution and between population variation in the
enzyme production patterns.
2) seed damage in natural diploids and natural and
synthetic tetraploids and diploid ospring of synthetic
tetraploid mothers. These data come from a two-year
survey and can be combined with data on plant phenol-
ogy (repeated census per individual) and tness. This is
a unique opportunity to study the eects of polyploidiza-
tion without subsequent evolution but also to account
for colchicine eects in the second generation after the
treatment and for between population variation of seed
damage.
3) pollinator communities and a range of pollinator re-
lated traits e.g. phenology, nectar production, pollen
production from several diploid-polyploid pairs from
multiple populations studied in control conditions.
4) pairwise competitive interactions between dierent
cytotypes in two species using plants of dierent phylo-
genetic origin.
5) interactions of the same species in mixture of the two
cytotypes allowing to study the development of mixed
ploidy populations using material of dierent sources
cultivated under dierent soil conditions.
6) performance (tness related traits) of dierent cyto-
types belonging to dierent evolutionary lineages allow-
ing to study the relative importance of cytotype and
lineage for species performance.
*The applicant* will be selected based on their past
publication record, ideas on the subject and additional
skills. The successful applicant is expected to bring new
expertise to the group. We will also consider candidates
interested in pursuing a PhD within the project.
*Application and project duration.* The application is
opened until being lled. The postdoc position is for a
maximum of 9 months and has to nish by December
31st 2017. The position may be prolonged by applica-
tion for a subsequent project. Conditions for the PhD.
will be explained individually.
*We oer* a young, friendly, working group broadly
interested in plant population biology and genetics with
many PhD and Master students involved in the research,
a competitive salary (by Central European standards)
and freedom to direct your work according to your inter-
ests within the broad topic of our research. Candidates
will enjoy working in a collaborative team but must be
highly self-motivated and work well independently.
*Location.* The post-doc will be primarily based
at the Charles University in the center of Prague102 EvolDir February 1, 2017
(www.natur.cuni.cz). It will, however, be partly as-
sociated with the Botanical Institute situated in a large
UNESCO heritage
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CornellU ConservationBiology
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN COASTAL CON-
SERVATION BIOLOGY
David Lodge Lab, Cornell University
A postdoctoral research position is available to pursue
collaborative research that would inform the manage-
ment and policy of coastal marine ecosystems, with a
focus on invasive species and their interactions with
other drivers of global change. Experience with environ-
mental DNA (eDNA) or related genetic methods and/or
coastal marine ecosystems would be especially valuable.
The postdoctoral fellow would join an interdisciplinary
team of researchers, and lead one or more eorts within
an NSF Coastal SEES project that includes a global net-
work of collaborators working in coastal environments.
Subprojects might focus on one or more of the following:
metagenetic characterization of freshwater and marine
communities with eDNA; quantitative analysis to fore-
cast species dispersal and range changes caused by ship-
ping and other vectors, and interactions with climate
change; quantication of the ecological and economic
impacts of invasions; and management and policy of
invasive species at local, national or global scales. Intel-
lectual leadership would be expected, with the choice
of topic(s) depending on experience and interests. Op-
portunities for collaborations exist with other biologists,
big data scientists, economists, and policy experts. The
postdoc would assist with the organization and adminis-
tration of projects, including organizing eDNA sampling
with collaborators around the world, and contribute to
on-going publication preparation. Funding is available
for at least two years. Applicant screening is rolling; the
desired start date is as soon as possible (spring 2017).
Salary and benets will be competitive. The postdoc
would be supervised by David Lodge. Collaborations
with other researchers at Cornell, Notre Dame, and
other universities will be encouraged. Applicants shouldemail (in one pdf document) a letter describing prior
research experience and current interests, a curriculum
vitae, and the names and contact information of three
references to David Lodge (DML356@cornell.edu). The
subject line of the email should read \Coastal SEES
Postdoctoral Application 2017."
\Andres, Jose" <jose.andres@usask.ca >
CSIRO ArmidaleNSW
LivestockPopGenetics
Applications are invited for a 2 year CSIRO Postdoc-
toral Fellowship in Population Genetics, to work on a
project funded by Meat & Livestock Australia (MLA).
The Postdoctoral Fellow will work with genome sequence
data from the parasite Haemonchus contortus to develop
a high throughput platform for assaying genetic variants
(SNP and/or INDEL). Accompanying the development,
the Postdoctoral Fellow will perform genetic selection
and genetic mixing experiments, analyses of genetic
structure in populations and detection of divergence be-
tween isolates. The outcomes of the work will be aimed
at developing a practical tool for population monitoring
within the Australian sheep industry.
Applications should be submitted at the website:
https://jobs.csiro.au/job/Armidale%2C-NSW-
Postdoctoral-Fellowship-in-Population-Genetics/-
381615500/ Peter Hunt
CSIRO McMaster laboratory,
Armidale, NSW, Australia
Phone +61 2 6776 1321
Fax +61 2 6776 1333
email peter.hunt@csiro.au
\Peter.Hunt@csiro.au" <Peter.Hunt@csiro.au >
Dartmouth MicrobialEvolution
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the
lab of Olga Zhaxybayeva (a.k.a. the lab of OZ) in the
Biological Sciences Department of Dartmouth College in
Hanover, NH to study evolution of gene transfer agentsFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 103
and microbial adaptations to temperature and salin-
ity. The research approaches include comparative omics
analyses, mathematical modeling, population genetics
and phylogenetics.
Qualied applicant must have a Ph.D. in bioinformatics,
applied mathematics, computer science, statistics, biol-
ogy, microbiology, or a related eld with strong interest
in molecular evolution and at least some programming
experience.
The successful candidate will join a vibrant research
and educational environment of Dartmouth College,
will have the opportunities to establish his/her own in-
dependent projects and participate in professional devel-
opment programs oered via Dartmouth's Postdoctoral
Association. More information about Zhaxybayeva's
lab is available at http://www.dartmouth.edu/ ~ecglab/
. Review of applications will begin immediately and
continue until the position is lled. Start date is nego-
tiable. Interested applicants should send a single PDF
le containing CV, one-page statement of research inter-
ests and contact information of three referees to Olga
Zhaxybayeva at ECGLabJobs@gmail.com.
Dartmouth oers competitive salary and benets along
with the opportunity to live in a picturesque rural re-
gion that oers year-round recreational activities and
is located near the culturally vibrant cities of Boston,
Montreal, and New York.
Dartmouth College is an equal opportunity/armative
action employer with a strong commitment to diver-
sity and inclusion. We prohibit discrimination on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disabil-
ity, veteran status, marital status, or any other legally
protected status. Applications by members of all under-
represented groups are encouraged.
{ Olga Zhaxybayeva, Ph.D. The Simons Foundation
Investigator and Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
logical Sciences Dartmouth College 333 LSC 78 College
Street Hanover, NH 03755 USA
Oce: (603) 646-8616 Lab: (603) 646-
9397 Email: olgazh@dartmouth.edu Web:
http://www.dartmouth.edu/ ~ ecglab/-
http://dartmouth.edu/faculty-directory/olga-
zhaxybayeva \Olga.Zhaxybayeva@dartmouth.edu"
<Olga.Zhaxybayeva@dartmouth.edu >Hungary
FungalEvoluitonaryGenomics
POSITIONS IN EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS OF
FUNGAL PLANT PATHOGENS
We are seeking talented and motivated postdoc (research
associate) and PhD student (research assistant) candi-
dates in the Fungal Genomics and Evolution Lab within
the Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit of the Biological
Research Center, with experience in molecular biology,
microbiology, light microscopy or bioinformatics.
The successful candidate will be responsible for study-
ing the evolution of the interaction between pathogenic
fungi and host plants in the context of multicellular
development using a wide range of high-throughput
techniques, including single-cell transcriptomics, com-
parative genomics and bioinformatics. Candidates are
welcome for both bioinformatics and wet-lab projects
(please specify).
The successful Candidate has: - PhD/Msc or equivalent
in biology with specialization in molecular biology, func-
tional genomics, bioinformatics or microbiology - Solid
skills in molecular biology assays, microscopy and/or
basic microbiological methods - Experience or interest
in bioinformatics, phylogenetics - Fluency in English -
Good team player traits
We oer: - Top notch projects and instrumentation - In-
ternational environment - Competitive salaries (420000
HUF, equivalent to EUR 3400 in Paris when adjusted
to cost of living in Szeged [numbeo.com]) - Extensive
collaborator network
Preferred candidates will have diverse research inter-
est, high motivation, excellent communication skills and
willingness to work both independently and as part of
a team. For more details on our research see the lab
website:
http://group.szbk.u-szeged.hu/sysbiol/nagy-laszlo-lab-
index.html Related Publications: Kohler A, Kuo A,
Nagy LG, et al. (2015) Nature Genetics 47:410-5.
Nagy GL, Ohm R, et al. (2014) Nature Communications
5:4471
Contact and application If interested, send a motivation
letter along with your CV to Laszlo Nagy (cortinar-
ius2000@gmail.com).104 EvolDir February 1, 2017
L aszl o Nagy <cortinarius2000@gmail.com >
IndianaU Phylogenomics
Postdoc in Phylogenomics
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is available in the
lab of Matthew Hahn in the Department of Biology
and School of Informatics and Computing at Indiana
University, Bloomington. The work will use phyloge-
nomic methods to study gene gain and loss across large
species trees . Our lab has developed the statistical and
computational tools necessary to study these phenom-
ena, and we are looking for a motivated individual to
extend these methods to studies involving hundreds to
thousands of genomes. The postdoctoral candidate will
also be encouraged to carry out independent work in
the lab.
There is a wide variety of research going on in the lab
in addition to the current project. For a summary of
work in the lab, please see:http://www.indiana.edu/-
~hahnlab/ The candidate must have a Ph.D., preferably
in phylogenetics, population genetics, statistical genet-
ics, or computer science. The position requires skills in
the more computational areas of biology, and a strong
record of research in these areas.
To apply, please submit (i) a letter of application, (ii) a
full CV, (iii) a brief statement of research interests, and
(iv) contact information for three references electroni-
cally to http://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/3398.
Review of applications will start immediately and will
continue until the position is lled. The exact start
date is exible, but best consideration to those applying
before February 24, 2017. Inquiries about the position
can be directed to Matthew Hahn (mwh@indiana.edu;
812-856-7001; 1001 E. 3rd St., Bloomington, IN 47405).
Indiana University has a large and active group in evo-
lutionary genetics, and considerable resources compu-
tational resources. Bloomington is situated in scenic,
hilly southern Indiana, near several parks and wilderness
areas. The cultural environment provided by the Uni-
versity is exceptionally rich in art, music, and theater.
Indiana University is an Equal Employment and Ar-
mative Action employer and a provider of ADA services.
All qualied applicants will receive consideration for em-
ployment without regard to age, ethnicity, color, race,
religion, sex, sexual orientation or identity, national
origin, disability status, or protected veteran status.Matthew Hahn Professor Department of Biol-
ogy & School of Informatics and Computing
1001 E. 3rd St. Indiana University Blooming-
ton, IN 47405 Phone: (812)856-7001 http:/-
/www.bio.indiana.edu/facultyresearch/faculty/-
Hahn.html http://www.indiana.edu/ ~hahnlab \Hahn,
Matthew William" <mwh@indiana.edu >
ISTAustria PopulationGenomics
A postdoctoral position in population and evolutionary
genomics is available in the Vicoso group at the Institute
of Science and Technology, Austria. The general focus
of the lab is the evolution of sex chromosomes, which
we investigate using a combination of experimental and
computational approaches. Questions that motivate
our research include: why do some Y/W chromosomes
degenerate while other remain homomorphic? What
forces drive some species to acquire global dosage com-
pensation, while others only compensate specic genes?
What are the frequency and molecular dynamics of sex-
chromosome turnover?
The successful applicant will work on an ERC-funded
project investigating the inuence of sex-specic selec-
tion on genome evolution. This will entail a combination
of comparative genomics and population genetics in sex-
ual and asexual species of the brine shrimp Artemia.
Candidates wishing to develop theoretical models of
sex-specic selection and genome evolution are also en-
couraged to apply.
Applicants should have obtained, or anticipate obtaining
by the start date, a PhD in biology, genetics, bioinfor-
matics, or a related eld. A strong background in one or
more the following areas is highly desired: - population
genetics - comparative genomics - molecular evolution -
bioinformatics The initial appointment is for two years,
with the possibility of extension and a minimum salary
of 49,070 Euros per year (gross).
IST Austria (www.ist.ac.at) is a young and vibrant in-
stitute dedicated to basic research, with a strong focus
on evolutionary biology (other EB groups include those
of Nick Barton and Sylvia Cremer) and ties to sev-
eral evolutionary groups in the area (www.univie.ac.at/-
evolvienna/). We are located on the outskirts of Vienna,
and the ocial language of the institute is English.
To apply, send a short summary of research interests, a
CV, up to three relevant publications/manuscripts, and
the names and contact information for three referencesFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 105
to Beatriz Vicoso (bvicoso@ist.ac.at). The review of
applications will start on February 1st and continue
until the position is lled. The start date is exible, but
an earlier start would be preferable.
More information on the lab is available at: http://-
pub.ist.ac.at/ ~bvicoso/index.html \bvicoso@ist.ac.at"
<bvicoso@ist.ac.at >
Luzern Biodiversity
The Eawag Department of Fish Ecology & Evolution
invites applications for a CEEB Synthesis Postdoc. The
CEEB (Eawag Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeo-
chemistry) is situated in Kastanienbaum near Luzern.
CEEB and its Department of Fish Ecology and Evo-
lution provide a very dynamic research environment,
unique in its operational structure as well as its physical
settings on the shores of Lake Lucerne. Its core is a
cluster of research groups dedicated to the integration
of evolutionary biology and ecosystem sciences. The
Center is well networked with the Eawag headquarters
in D ubendorf, the Institute of Ecology & Evolution
at the University of Bern and the ETH Z urich. It as-
pires to contribute to the growing synthesis between
evolutionary biology and ecosystem science.
You may visit our homepages here http://-
www.eawag.ch/en/department/shec/main-focus/
and here http://www.eawag.ch/en/research/water-for-
ecosystem/ecosystems/ceeb/ . The Postdoc will develop
concepts and outline scenarios , review literature from
currently weakly connected elds, and lead the writing
of a paper about relationships between diversication,
biodiversity and biomass across scales. The Postdoc will
be supported by all group leaders in the department.
We are looking for an ecologist or evolutionary biolo-
gist within the rst 3 years of their PhD with a solid
background in biodiversity research, excellent proven
writing skills, and a strong drive to develop synthesis.
The period of appointment is limited to 12 months,
starting no later than 1 April 2017.
Additional information: Eawag oers a unique research
and working environment and is committed to promot-
ing equal opportunities for women and men and to sup-
port the compatibility of family and work. Applications
from women are especially welcome. For more infor-
mation about Eawag and our work conditions please
consult www.eawag.ch and www.eawag.ch/en/aboutus/-working/employment . For further information please
contact Prof. Ole Seehausen (ole.seehausen@eawag.ch).
The closing date for applications is 31 January 2017.
Very important: Please submit your application (in-
cluding CV, motivation letter, and copies of academic
qualications, and the names and contact information of
three references) via the Eawag Jobs & Career webpage,
any other way of applying will not be considered. This
link will take you directly to the application form https:/-
/apply.reine.ch/673277/0492/pub/1/index.html. We
look forward to receiving your application.
\Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch" <Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch >
Madrid ComputationalBiology
A 1-year postdoctoral position in Computational Biol-
ogy/Bioinformatics/Evol. Biology/Statistics is available
in Madrid, Spain.
Brief description: Simulation and analysis of evolution-
ary processes in cancer.
Requirements:
- Postdoc younger than 30 years.
- Be registered as resident (\estar empadronado") in
Madrid, Spain, since 08-August-2016.
- Be registed in the \Fichero del Sistema Nacional
de Garant a Juvenil" (http://www.empleo.gob.es/es/-
garantiajuvenil/accesoJovenes.html).
- Full details of requirements are available, in Spanish,
at http://www.madrimasd.org/uploads/documents/-
bases reguladoras enbocm contratos preypost pej.pdf).
Further information is available from the ocial
resolution from: https://www.bocm.es/boletin/-
CMOrden BOCM/2017/01/16/BOCM-20170116-
4.PDF - Ideally, candidates should have experience
with R (and possibly also C++ programming) and be
interested in at least some of the areas dealt with in the
project (evolutionary biology, statistics, computational
biology).
Procedure:
- Given that the deadlines are extremely tight I'd sug-
gest interested candidates to contact me directly (ra-
mon.diaz@iib.uam.es or rdiaz02@gmail.com) as soon as
possible.
{ Ramon Diaz-Uriarte Department of Biochemistry, Lab106 EvolDir February 1, 2017
B-25 Facultad de Medicina Universidad Aut onoma de
Madrid Arzobispo Morcillo, 4 28029 Madrid Spain
Phone: +34-91-497-2412
Email: rdiaz02@gmail.com ramon.diaz@iib.uam.es
http://ligarto.org/rdiaz rdiaz02@gmail.com
ManchesterU KlebsiellaGenomics
Postdoc in Manchester, UK on Klebsiella genomics /
phage depolymerases. Would suit microbiologist / bioin-
formatician / genomics bod.
http://bit.ly/2iNlpPr? Mark C. Enright, Professor
of Medical Microbiology, Room E206a, John Dalton
Building, Manchester Metropolitan University, Chester
Street, Manchester, M1 5GD, United Kingdom.
Term-time oce hours Tuesdays and Thursdays 2.00 -
3.30pm.
Email M.Enright@mmu.ac.uk
Tel +44 (0) 161 247 1147 / 1153
Web http://www.shs.mmu.ac.uk/sta list/-
stabiog/default.asp?StaID=1220 Mark Enright
<M.Enright@mmu.ac.uk >
MonashU Inuenza phylodynamics
Postdoctoral position in inuenza phylodynamics at
Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
The Infectious Disease Dynamics Laboratory
(www.vjlab.io) is seeking to appoint a postdoctoral
fellow in Inuenza Phylodynamics.
The research project involves implementing and apply-
ing phylogenetic, statistical and bioinformatics meth-
ods to understand the fundamental processes governing
the evolution and epidemiology of human and animal
inuenza viruses. This will entail conducting indepen-
dent and high quality scientic research using pathogen
genome data generated within the group as well as hos-
pitals and national and international health systems.
You will work with the group head and members of the
infectious disease dynamics laboratory to incorporatesequence and associated metadata within the phylody-
namics framework and apply these methods to research
problems in the evolution of inuenza.
You will be expected to contribute to and develop re-
search projects within the research group and produce
high quality and impact publications. Our research is
highly interdisciplinary and involves substantial global
collaboration with experimental virologists, immunol-
ogists and clinicians to better understand their evolu-
tionary dynamics, and to inform control strategies.
A PhD and track record in biology, statistics, math-
ematics, computer science, or computational biology
is essential. The ideal candidate will have strong pro-
gramming and data analysis skills and experience in the
curation and analysis of large genome datasets generated
through Next-Generation Sequencing.
This role is a full-time position; however, exible work-
ing arrangements may be negotiated.
The job description, complete with the position descrip-
tion, and instructions on how to apply, can be found
at: http://careersmanager.pageuppeople.com/513/cw/-
en/job/555868/research-fellow-microbiology-medicine?
Please direct enquiries to Assoc. Prof. Vijaykrishna
Dhanasekaran
vijay.dhanasekaran@monash.edu
Application closes on Tuesday 24 January 2017, 11:55pm
AEDT
Information about Monash University and the lab.
Currently ranked 74th in the Times Higher Educa-
tion World University Rankings, Monash University
is a member of Australia's \Group of Eight" a coali-
tion of research-intensive universities, and is inter-
nationally recognised for excellence in research and
teaching. The Infectious Diseases Dynamics Labora-
tory (www.vjlab.io) is within the School of Biomed-
ical Sciences (http://www.med.monash.edu.au/sobs/)
and part of the new Monash Biomedicine Discovery
Institute (http://www.monash.edu/medicine/discovery-
institute).
Melbourne. Monash is located in Melbourne, a vibrant
cultural and recreational centre, and is consistently
rated one of the world's most liveable cities ( http://-
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World's most livable cities)
\vijay.dhanasekaran@monash.edu"
<vijay.dhanasekaran@monash.edu >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 107
OhioStateU
ExperimentalMicrobiomeResearch
Postdoctoral Research Position in Experimental Micro-
biome Research at The Ohio State University
Project: Examining the role of endemic gut bacteria in
gut epithelial tissue development and dierentiation in
an invertebrate insect model.
**Position is funded for two years and set to begin on
or after March 15th 2017.**
Location: Department of Evolution, Ecology and Or-
ganismal Biology, The Ohio State University, Columbus,
Ohio, USA
Qualications: - PhD with a strong bioinformatics
and molecular biology and/or microbiology background
(which will be assessed as part of the interview) - strong
experience with transcriptome sequencing and analysis -
excellent writing and communication skills - must have
co/authored an average of 1 paper for every 18 months of
graduate work - successful experience with grant writing
- strong teaching and mentoring experience
OSU is an equal opportunity employer with a strong
commitment to ethnic, gender, racial, lifestyle and re-
ligious diversity. We prohibit discrimination on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disabil-
ity, veteran status, marital status, or any other legally
protected status. Applications by members of all under-
represented groups are encouraged.
Eligible applicants should send a single PDF includ-
ing CV and a one-page research statement to Zakee L.
Sabree (sabree.8@osu.edu) and include [ExpMicrobiome]
in the Subject heading for correct mail routing.
Zakee L. Sabree jAssistant Professor Dept. of Evo-
lution, Ecology and Organismal Biology The Ohio
State University oce addy: 318 W. 12th Avenue,
Room 300, Columbus, OHIO, USA, 43210 lab: (614)
292-2452joce: (614) 688-1590 jfax: (614) 292-
2030 website: https://u.osu.edu/sabreelab/ email:
sabree(dot)8(at)osu(dot)edu
\Sabree, Zakee L." <sabree.8@osu.edu >Ottawa EvolutionBeePathogens
A research team at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada is
seeking a postdoctoral researcher to join the group in Ot-
tawa, Ontario to study pathogens in native bees as part
of a larger collaborative project investigating the health
of bee pollinators in Canadian agricultural landscapes.
The postdoctoral researcher would be responsible for
conducting an RNAseq analysis on already collected
native and commercial bee samples from sites across
Canada to detect bee pathogens. These samples have al-
ready been screened for 8 pathogens using a multiplexed
2 step RT-PCR approach as part of a study looking
for interactive eects between land-use, pesticides and
pathogens on native bee diversity and abundance. The
postdoc would have the opportunity to participate in
the analysis of this data as well as the new data collected
through their RNAseq work. A Phd in a related eld
with expertise in either preparing libraries for next-gen
sequencing, or in the bioinformatics analysis of data
produced via next-gen sequencing is required. The po-
sition is available for one year. Salary is dependent on
experience and will follow the SE-RES-1 annual rates of
pay. For more information or if interested in applying,
contact Sophie Cardinal Sophie.cardinal@agr.gc.ca.
scardina44@gmail.com
ParisCollege de France
ModelsGenomicsDiversication
A postdoctoral position in mathematical/computational
evolutionary biology is available to work on project
\Genomics of Diversication" in collaboration with the
three following research groups located in Paris
Amaury Lambert http://www.lpma-paris.fr/smile
Anton Crombach http://www.college-de-france.fr/-
site/en-cirb/crombach.htm H el ene Morlon http://-
www.biologie.ens.fr/phyloeco/index.html The project
aims at mixing models of species diversication with
models of genome evolution, in order to infer tempo
and modes of diversication from multi-species genomic
data.108 EvolDir February 1, 2017
We are looking for a highly motivated post-doc with
interest in probabilistic models of species diversication
and in individual-based simulations of genome evolu-
tion. Applicants should have solid mathematical and
computational skills. A background in evolutionary
genetics/speciation genomics would be welcome. Excel-
lent written, verbal, and interpersonal skills are desired.
Speaking French is not mandatory.
The project is funded by MemoLife, a scientic associ-
ation between CIRB (Center for Interdisciplinary Re-
search in Biology - Coll ege de France) and IBENS (In-
stitute of Biology of Ecole Normale Sup erieure), two
of the French most competitive research centers, both
located in the Latin Quarter in downtown Paris. The
position is initially for one year, renewable once. It will
be hosted at Coll ege de France.
Salary will be commensurate with experience and will
range from 25 to 30 K euro /yr (free of charge but before
income tax) - schools and healthcare in France are cheap
when not free.
Starting date is exible but should be prior to December
2017. Review of applications starts immediately and
will continue until position is lled. Questions should
be sent to Amaury Lambert <amaury.lambert@college-
de-france.fr
To apply please submit i) a cover letter summarizing
research interests and expertise; ii) a CV; iii) a list of
publications; and iv) names and contact information of
two references, all in a single pdf document sent to the
three of us
Amaury Lambert <amaury.lambert@college-de-france.fr
Anton Crombach <anton.crombach@college-de-france.fr
H el ene Morlon <morlon@biologie.ens.fr >
Amaury Lambert, professeur UPMC http://www.lpma-
paris.fr/pageperso/amaury SMILE group http://-
www.lpma-paris.fr/smile Stochastics & Biology group
http://www.lpma-paris.fr/ ~psb amaury.lambert@ens.fr
Paris SimilarityNetworks
Dear colleagues, Please nd below the description of
a postdoctoral position in statistics and evolution to
\improve the comparative framework based on simi-
larity networks". The EVOLUNET project, funded
by the ERC, is enhancing the use of similarity net-
works, adapted to evolutionary biology questions (http:/-
/www.evol-net.fr/index.php/fr/evolunet). Such net-works, inspired by the studies on social and regulatory
networks, allow mainly for fast inclusive comparative
analyses of both (highly) divergent and conserved molec-
ular sequences from living organisms, mobile genetic
elements, that were obtained either from lab cultures
or from environmental samples, or both. These net-
works allow in particular to detect chimeric genes (i.e.
genes made of parts with dierent evolutionary histo-
ries) and therefore to investigate the evolution of genes;
and to detect lateral gene transfer, and therefore to
investigate the evolution of genomes and microbial com-
munities. Moreover, similarity networks also allow to
compare diverse data, gathered by experts from dif-
ferent evolutionary elds, such as historical linguistics
and paleontology. The EVOLUNET project already
implemented various methods and applied them to dif-
ferent evolutionary questions. Now, network comparison
becomes the next important development for network
analyses. In particular, network comparison should be
most useful to test whether dierent similarity networks
(i.e. constructed from samples from dierent locations
and/or dierent time periods) have resulted from similar
(or from distinct) evolutionary processes. To further
develop network comparisons, especially networks of
sequences from environmental microbiomes, our lab is
now looking for a post-doctoral fellow in bio-informatics,
graph theory or evolutionary biology with a strong back-
ground in programming, who will be funded for up to
2 years by an ERC grant (for an approximate salary of
2,727 euros/ month before taxes). The candidate will
take advantage of the properties of many of the real-life
networks constructed in the lab, of our original micro-
biome data, and of algorithms from network sciences for:
-1) Developing and comparing network-based diversity
indices -2) Constituting a comparative framework be-
tween real-life sequence similarity networks and sequence
similarity networks generated based on various models
of sequence evolution The rst task implies exploring
various network-based diversity measures to compare
labelled weighted networks that harbor millions of nodes
and dozens of millions of edges. Such networks are often
too large to be directly compared by graph matching
algorithms. However, they contain precious information
regarding genetic diversity of the investigated datasets.
While diversity measures have been developed for phy-
logenetic trees or phylogenetic networks, sequence simi-
larity networks provide an additional kind of distances
among biological objects (sequences, genomes, environ-
ments) that can be investigated taking advantages of
the network topological properties, and therefore the
comparison of similarity networks should provide new
insights about the evolution of genetic diversity.
The second task relies upon descriptions of large net-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 109
works by various topological indices (diameter, cluster-
ing, distribution of motifs of a given size, ...) and by
the diversity indices considered above. These descrip-
tions will be used to test whether two networks exhibit
the same properties or not. The postdoctoral fellow
will rst test if real-life similarity networks share the
same properties as networks generated from sequences
evolved under a given model to determine whether the
data t that particular model. Such comparisons will
help the postdoctoral fellow to determine what a real-life
network properties usually are, and thus help him/her
build better null model similarity networks, specically
designed for evolutionary studies (as opposed to the ran-
dom networks often used in the graph literature that do
not always t the properties of real-life networks). The
postdoctoral fellow will also develop test statistics to
compare the topological and diversity indices of real-life
similarity networks with those of carefully simulated
networks. Such statistics will allow classifying genes
and proteins into sets that show a diversity that can
be relatively simply explained (e.g. displaying indices
compatible with known processes and evolutionary mod-
els), or require other explanations (e.g. surprisingly
extremes rates of divergence, fusion, or recombination).
Ultimately, the postdoctoral fellow will determine which
simulated networks best t with real-life networks and
develop a random graph model specically designed for
evolutionary studies, so that this model might be further
exploited by
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PurdueU PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoc: Plant ecological and evolutionary genetics
A postdoctoral position is available study the genetic ba-
sis of adaptation in native populations of the model plant
Arabidopsis thaliana. This research is part of a NSF
funded collaborative project on the genetic basis of t-
ness tradeos across environments, focusing on freezing
tolerance as a key adaptive trait. We use a combination
of eld experiments in the native environments, experi-
ments in controlled growth chambers, and -omic data to
investigate, across environments, the links between geno-
type, phenotype, and tness. Additional research in thelab is focused on the evolutionary ecology and genetic
basis of heterosis and outbreeding depression in Ara-
bidopsis. Resources available in the lab include a large
collection of lines from natural A. thaliana populations
spanning latitudinal and altitudinal gradients, recombi-
nant inbred lines and near isogenic line populations for
genetic mapping, and engineered lines (transgenic and
CRISPR-CAS9) for candidate genes. Development of
new research directions building on these themes and
resources is encouraged.
Research activities will include (but are not limited to):
Leading growth chamber experiments to estimate freez-
ing tolerance, lifetime tness, and patterns of global
gene expression; eld planting and harvesting of ex-
periments at sites in Italy (near Rome) and northern
Sweden (three to four trips per year, ~10 days each);
overseeing development of near isogenic lines (for ne
mapping), and the production and genotyping of two
new recombinant inbred line populations; data analysis;
and manuscript preparation.
A PhD in biology or related discipline is required and
preference will be given to candidates with a strong
background in plant evolutionary biology. Previous ex-
perience with the analysis of genomic data is strongly
preferred. This is initially a one-year appointment, with
the possibility of an extension of 1-2 years dependent
on funding and performance. A start date of April 1,
2017 or sooner is preferred, but this is negotiable.
Applicants should send (as a single PDF attachment)
a CV, a letter summarizing research interests, accom-
plishments, and objectives, and the names and contact
information for two professional references. Review of
applications will begin February 4, 2017 and will con-
tinue until a suitable candidate is found.
Chris Oakley oakleyc at purdue dot edu
\Oakley, Christopher G" <oakleyc@purdue.edu >
SLU Sweden QuantGenBreeding
We are looking for a highly motivated person that will
work within a newly started project focused on climate-
adapted poplars (Populus spp.) for Swedish and Baltic
regions (CLAP, https://www.slu.se/clap). The postdoc
(24 months xed term employment) will do work in
association genetics and quantitative genetics to study
the genetic architecture of phenology traits as bud burst,
bud set and growth cessation with the overall aim to110 EvolDir February 1, 2017
develop molecular markers for breeding poplars vari-
eties for use at northern latitudes. The applicant will
conduct work in the lab, in the eld and use genomic
and phenotypic data for dierent types of quantitative
genetic analyses.
Successful candidates will have a PhD degree in genetics
or equivalent eld. As postdoctoral appointments are
career-developing positions for junior researchers, we
are primarily looking for candidates with a doctoral
degree that is three years old at most. The candidate
should have proven expertise in genetics and be used
to handle large genomic and/or phenotypic datasets.
Prior experience of working with computational and/or
statistical analyses in a quantitative genetics framework
is thus highly desirable. Excellent prociency in English
is required, as English is the working language in the
research group. A driving license is preferable, as the
work will involve some eldwork in remote areas. The
project involves working within a larger research team
of around ten researchers, so candidates should have
an easy time working with others but also the ability
to work independently with your own research topics.
Creativity and drive are personal characteristics that
are desirable due to the knowledge-driven aspect of the
project. The PhD position is housed at the Department
of Plant Biology, Swedish University of Agricultural
Sciences in Uppsala, Sweden.
For mor information and instructions of how to apply
see:
http://www.slu.se/en/about-slu/jobs-vacancies/read-
more/?eng=1&Pid=2923 The Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences (SLU) is a research-intensive
university that also oers unique degree programmes
in for example rural development and natural resource
management, environmental economics, animal science
and landscape architecture. SLU has just over 3,000
employees, 5,000 students and has recently invested
heavily in a modern, attractive environment on its
campuses in Alnarp, Ume ~A and Uppsala.
P ar K. Ingvarsson Professor, Plant genomics and breed-
ing Department of Plant Biology Uppsala BioCenter
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences PO-Box
7080 SE-750 07 Uppsala, Sweden
P ar Ingvarsson <par.ingvarsson@slu.se >StellenboschU
AntarcticPlantPhylogenomics
An exciting postdoctoral position to investigate Antarc-
tic terrestrial plant phylogenomics is available at Stellen-
bosch University (http://academic.sun.ac.za/cib/team/-
academic/jleroux.asp) and the University of Johannes-
burg (http://www.molzoolab.co.za/), South Africa. The
successful applicant will be based at Stellenbosch Uni-
versity, but will be expected to spend some time at the
University of Johannesburg. The envisaged research
will address a major question in modern biology: how
has plant life evolved and spread around the Antarctic
region, both in the past and currently? This research
forms part of an international collaboration: \A Func-
tional Biogeography of the Antarctic (AFBA, see http:/-
/antarcticbiogeography.org)" as part of the Antarctic
Circumnavigation Expedition (ACE). ACE involves 22
projects, 55 researchers and 19 countries and is the rst
project of the newly created Swiss Polar Institute.
The successful candidate will be responsible for plant
phylogenomic research on selected taxa from the Antarc-
tic and Southern Ocean Islands. Using the latest phy-
logenomic and analytical approaches, the research aims
to shed light on the history of plant life in the region,
how it will respond to environmental change, and what
can be done to secure its future.
Only candidates with demonstrable (i.e. published)
skills in next generation sequencing data analyses with
an emphasis on phylogenomics will be considered. Pref-
erence will be given to candidates with previous post-
doctoral research experience and an excellent academic
track record (i.e. publications in international journals).
Successful candidates will be fully funded for 1 year,
to be extended for an additional 1 to 2 years depend-
ing on satisfactory performance. An attractive annual
bursary will be oered along with additional expenses
for research, international travel and subsistence, and
conference attendance. Individuals from all nationalities
are eligible.
To apply, please send a CV, contact details for at least
two academic references, and a brief outline of research
interests to Prof. Jaco Le Roux (jleroux@sun.ac.za) and
Prof. Bettine van Vuuren (bettinevv@uj.ac.za) by 28
February 2017. Informal inquiries are welcome. Review
of applications will begin immediately after the closing
date, and short-listed candidates will be contacted toFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 111
set up phone/Skype interviews. The envisaged start
date for the project would be March/April 2017.
Professor Jaco Le Roux Associate Professor jDepart-
ment of Botany and Zoology Core Team Member j
Center for Invasion Biology Stellenbosch University As-
sociate EditorjBiological Invasions Associate Editor j
Conservation Genetics
Oce +27 21 808 2086 Cell +27 71 304 9298
Skype jacoleroux9119 Email jleroux@sun.ac.za; jacoler-
oux01@gmail.com Web http://academic.sun.ac.za/cib/-
team/academic/jleroux.asp Address Private Bag X1,
Matieland 7602, SOUTH AFRICA
jleroux@sun.ac.za
UArizona
EvolutionaryEcologicalGenomics
The Matzkin Lab at the University of Arizona, Depart-
ment of Entomology is currently recruiting a postdoc to
work on a variety of possible projects on the evolution-
ary ecological genomics of adaptation and speciation
in cactophilic Drosophila. I am seeking a highly moti-
vated and creative individual with strong quantitative &
evolutionary genetics, molecular and/or computational
biology skills to join our evolutionary and ecological ge-
nomics lab. Good writing and communication skills will
be required for this position. Prior experience working
with Drosophila is not necessary, but a plus. Postdoc
will be based at The University of Arizona, Department
of Entomology and will have the opportunity to interact
with investigators at the BIO5 Institute and Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.
The postdoc will be involved in all research aspects of
the assigned projects, and would have the possible op-
portunity to develop projects in consultation with Dr.
Matzkin. Critical and independent thinking is very im-
portant for this position, as well as having the ability to
analyze data, write manuscripts and proposal writing.
PhD in evolutionary biology, evolutionary genet-
ics/genomics, entomology or related eld is required. A
background in quantitative and evolutionary/ecological
genetics and/or molecular and computational biology
desired. Postdoc must have excellent writing, com-
munication and critical thinking skills with at least
1-3 publications (in print or submitted). Prior experi-
ence working with Drosophila a plus but not necessary.
Background working with CRISPR/Cas9 in model ornon-model system also a plus, but not necessary.
Apply at http://uacareers.com/postings/15931. You
will need to submit a 1) cover letter briey outlining the
candidate's t to the position and future goals 2) curricu-
lum vitae 3) contact information (email and phone) for
three references, preferably including doctoral advisor
and/or postdoctoral advisor (if relevant) and 4) no more
than three relevant publication PDFs. Please contact
Luciano Matzkin (lmatzkin@email.arizona.edu) if you
have additional questions about the position or visit our
lab page, www.matzkinlab.org Outstanding UA ben-
ets include health, dental, vision, and life insurance;
paid vacation, sick leave, and holidays; UA/ASU/NAU
tuition reduction for the employee and qualied family
members; access to UA recreation and cultural activities;
and more! The University of Arizona has been recog-
nized on Forbes 2015 list of America's Best Employers
in the United States and has been awarded the 2015
Work-Life Seal of Distinction by the Alliance for Work-
Life Progress! For more information about working at
the University of Arizona, please www.whyua.com . Dr.
Luciano M. Matzkin Associate Professor Department
of Entomology BIO5 Institute University of Arizona
(520) 621-1955 www.matzkinlab.org \Matzkin, Luciano
Matias - (lmatzkin)" <lmatzkin@email.arizona.edu >
UBasel PathogenEvolutionGenomics
A postdoctoral position (full time) is available in the
newly established research group of Richard Neher
(http://neherlab.org) at the Biozentrum of the Uni-
versity of Basel. Our group works on genomics of
pathogenic viruses and bacteria with a focus on intra-
patient HIV evolution and prediction of seasonal in-
uenza virus evolution. Research in our group combines
mathematical modeling, bioinformatics, next-generation
sequencing, and methods from statistical physics to
understand the complex dynamics of host-pathogen in-
teractions. Our group is a co-developer of the real-time
virus tracking tools nextu.org and nextstrain.org. We
have recently started to extend our real-time tracking
eorts to bacterial populations.
Possible projects include (i) extension of our recent re-
sults on inuenza virus evolution to use all genomic
segments, (ii) genome evolution of bacteria or (iii) real-
time tracking applications for bacteria. The exact scope
of the projects is exible and can be tailored to the
applicants interest and skills.112 EvolDir February 1, 2017
*We are looking for:* a creative and collaborative person
with a genuine interest in evolution and with * either: -
PhD in physics, applied math, bioinformatics, computer
science and strong interest in biology - a life science
degree and strong quantitative skills * scientic comput-
ing and programming experience (ideally in python and
C/C++) * rm background in probability theory and
statistical methods
In addition, the following skills are desirable: * experi-
ence with next-generation sequencing data * population
genetic models/phylogenetic inference * data visualiza-
tion and experience with javascript/d3
*Application:* Please send your cover letter, statement
of research interests (max one page), CV, publication
list, and contact information of three references as one
pdf le to Richard Neher (richard.neher@unibas.ch).
Please state clearly in your cover letter what you want
to do and why this ts with our research. For informal
inquiries, contact Richard Neher.
*Environment:* The Biozentrum of the University of
Basel is one of the leading institutes worldwide for molec-
ular and biomedical basic research and teaching. It is
home to more than 30 research groups with scientists
from over 40 countries. Research at the Biozentrum
focuses on the areas of Cell Growth & Development, In-
fection Biology, Neurobiology, Structural Biology & Bio-
physics and Computational & Systems Biology. With
its more than 500 employees, the Biozentrum is the
largest department at the University of Basel's Faculty
of Science.
Basel is a very international city and a center of life
science research, with many life science research compa-
nies in the area, including Novartis and Roche. Several
other academic institutions are also in the city, includ-
ing the Friedrich Miescher Institute, the ETH Zurich
Biosystems Science and Engineering department, and
the Swiss Tropical Institute. The city is less than 5km
from both France and Germany and an hour and a half
from the Swiss Alps.
\richard.neher@tuebingen.mpg.de"
<richard.neher@tuebingen.mpg.de >
UCalifornia Berkeley
InfectiousDiseasePopGenomics
A postdoctoral researcher position for a highly moti-
vated young scientist is available in the group of RodrigoAlmeida in the Department of Environmental Science,
Policy and Management, at the University of California,
Berkeley, to study the dynamics of plant pathogen epi-
demics and host adaptation and specialization. The po-
sition is funded by a Horizon 2020 collaborative project
dedicated to the emerging plant pathogen Xylella fastid-
iosa. Within the broad scope of the project, developing
novel research questions will be encouraged.
Requirements Applicants must have a Ph.D. in an area
related to microbial genomics, evolution, or population
genetics; computational, programming, and quantita-
tive skills are required. The successful candidate will
be independent and have good writing skills, yet be
able to work in an interdisciplinary environment where
collaboration and synergistic interactions are expected.
Responsibilities Researcher will be responsible for ex-
perimental design, data analyses, preparation of re-
search manuscripts and project reports. Post-doctoral
researchers in our group are also expected to help mentor
and work with students and peers when necessary.
Appointment One year renewable to two years based
on satisfactory performance. Salary commensurate to
experience; starting annual salary for UC Berkeley post-
doctoral researchers immediately after obtaining a PhD
is US $48,216 salary scale follows NIH/NRSA stipend.
Start date is negotiable, but strong preference will be
given to candidates that can start by early Summer
2017.
Application Prepare a single PDF with i) a 2-page CV
that lists publications and computational skills, ii) a
research statement (up to 2 pages), and iii) three ref-
erences who could be contacted. Position will remain
open until lled; applications will be reviewed immedi-
ately upon receipt. We hope to close the position by
February 17. Send PDF directly to Rodrigo Almeida:
email- rodrigoalmeida@berkeley.edu.
\rodrigoalmeida@berkeley.edu"
<rodrigoalmeida@berkeley.edu >
UCalifornia Davis
EvolutionGeneFunction
I am looking for a postdoctoral fellow to work on
the genetics, cell biology, and biochemistry of young
Drosophila de novo genes. An ideal candidate would
have experience in Drosophila functional biology and
an interest in evolution. However, evolutionary geneti-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 113
cists enthusiastic about learning and doing y functional
biology are also encouraged to apply. There may be
opportunities to participate in other lab projects.
The Department of Evolution and Ecology at UC Davis
is the home of many evolutionary biologists and pop-
ulation geneticists, and has a strong Drosophila evolu-
tionary genetics group. The oor on which the Begun
lab is located also houses the laboratories of Graham
Coop, Chuck Langley, Michael Turelli, Artyom Kopp,
and Susan Lott. The laboratory of Joanna Chiu is in
the same building.
Applicants should send a CV with a brief statement
of research interests, and names and email addresses
of three references. I will be attending the y meeting
this year and would be happy to meet and discuss the
position. I can be contacted at djbegun@ucdavis.edu.
Compensation for this position will follow NIH guide-
lines.
\djbegun@ucdavis.edu" <djbegun@ucdavis.edu >
UCalifornia Santa Cruz
PopulationGenomics
The Corbett-Detig lab at UC Santa Cruz is hiring a post-
doctoral fellow to work on computational population
genomics. Projects in the lab are exible. For exam-
ple, research could foucs on chromosomal inversions or
admixture genetics. There will also be many opportu-
nities to collaborate on other lab projects. An ideal
candidate would have experience in genetics, analysis
of next-generation sequencing data, and would be pro-
cient in at least one programming language. Molecular
biology experience is a big plus. The most important
prerequisite is to be excited about working on interest-
ing problems in evolution by developing and applying
computational tools to sequence data.
Santa Cruz is a fantastic place to live and do research.
UCSC has a strong research community with lots of
interest in high throughput computing and evolutionary
genomics. The hiking, mountain biking, surng, and
scuba diving \basically anything outdoors, really" are
all phenomenal.
Interested candidates are encouraged to contact Russ
Corbett-Detig at rucorbet@ucsc.edu. Please send a CV
and a statement describing your research experiences,
interests, and goals. The target start date is exible,
but ideally the candidate would begin on or before July1st, 2017. Compensation for this position will follow
NIH guidelines.
russcd@gmail.com
UCIrvine
FunctionalMolecularEvolution
Postdoctoral Scholar - Briscoe Lab
Job #JPF03835
Francisco J. Ayala School of Biological Sciences - Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology
Recruitment Period
Open date: January 18th, 2017
Next review date: February 17th, 2017 Apply by this
date to ensure full consideration by the committee.
Final date: March 15th, 2017 Applications will continue
to be accepted until this date, but those received after
the review date will only be considered if the position
has not yet been lled.
Description
A NSF-funded postdoctoral scholar position is immedi-
ately available in the laboratory of Dr. Adriana Briscoe
at University of California, Irvine. Research in the
Briscoe lab is aimed at understanding the molecular
basis of color vision evolution in butteries. The lab
has recently developed a new method for expressing
invertebrate rhodopsins at levels suitable for functional
characterization of rhodopsin absorption spectra (see
Frentiu et al. 2015 Molecular Biology and Evolution).
The lab is seeking a postdoctoral scholar who will extend
this method to develop further insights into the molecu-
lar basis of spectral tuning, a form of adaptation to the
light environment. To accomplish this, the postdoctoral
researcher will use homology modeling, western blot
analysis, and functional expression of opsins in HEK293
cells to identify the amino acid residues responsible for
the tuning of buttery rhodopsins across an adaptive
radiation.
Successful candidates will collaborate with a dynamic
team of behaviorists, electrophysiologists, and evolution-
ary biologists at UC Irvine and other institutions.
Required qualications include a Ph.D. in molecular bi-
ology, biochemistry, or related elds and demonstrated
prociency with cell culture, western blot analysis, and
immunoanity purication. Desirable qualications in-114 EvolDir February 1, 2017
clude expertise in immunohistochemistry, qPCR, and
DNA sequence analysis; a strong publication record and
excellent writing/communication skills.
Duration of position is dependent upon performance
(annual appointments, with potential for renewal), and
salary will be on an NIH payscale, commensurate with
experience. Applications submitted by February 17,
2017 will be given full consideration, although applica-
tions will be reviewed until the position is lled.
Qualied candidates should submit curriculum vitae, a
one-page statement of research interests, and names and
contact information for three references to the following
on-line recruitment URL:
https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03835 For more
information about this position contact Dr. Adriana
Briscoe at abriscoe@uci.edu
Frentiu FD, Yuan F, Savage WK, Bernard GD, Mullen
SP, Briscoe AD. 2015. Opsin clines in butteries suggest
novel roles for insect photopigments. Molecular Biology
and Evolution, 32:368-79. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msu304
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Armative Action Employer advancing inclusive
excellence. All qualied applicants will receive consid-
eration for employment without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, na-
tional origin, disability, age, protected veteran status,
or other protected categories covered by the UC nondis-
crimination policy.
Adriana Briscoe Professor Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology 321 Steinhaus Hall Irvine, CA
92697 University of California, Irvine Irvine, CA 92697
Adriana Briscoe <abriscoe@uci.edu >
UCopenhagen
IranianForestPhylogeography
Postdoc in phylogeography and evolutionary genetics of
trees from the Caspian Forests of Iran Department of
Geosciences and Natural Resource Management (IGN)
Faculty of Science University of Copenhagen
The postdoc will primarily work with phylogeography
and evolutionary genetics of a range of tree species grow-
ing in the Caspian forest of northern Iran. The forests
contain tree species which are also indigenous in Europe
- for example beech, ash, oak, maple, lime, wild cherry,
elm and hornbeam. The Caspian forests date back tobefore the Pleistocene, i.e. more than 2.6 million years,
and have thus existed continuously during all the glacial
and interglacial periods in the current ice age. The
overall project, to which the postdoc will be aliated,
aims to test to which extend the Caspian forests in Iran
contain genetic potential for our European forests and
their ability to adapt to future challenges in terms of
climate change, new diseases and pests. This will imply
establishment of eld trials in Denmark and Iran with
Iranian provenances and the following 6 species have
been selected as study objects: 1) Fagus sylvatica subsp.
orientalis, 2) Fraxinus excelsior, 3) Acer velutinum, 4)
Quercus castaneifolia, 5) Carpinus betulus and 6) Alnus
subcordata. The project includes a DNA work pack-
age, which will study the population genetic structure
and evolutionary genetics of the selected species in Iran
and compare genetic diversity between the Caspian and
Danish/European forests. This will be the main subject
for the post doc.
The ideal candidate may already have postdoctoral ex-
perience, and should have an expertise in one or ideally
several of the following areas: population and evolu-
tionary genetics, bioinformatics and handling of next-
generation-sequencing data, DNA-marker development,
phylogeny and forest genetics. The applicant should be
familiar with working in a molecular genetics lab as well
as be able to do independent eld work in remote areas
of Iran for periods of up to 1-2 months.
The postdoc's duties will include research within phylo-
geography and evolutionary genetics as well as teaching.
The post may also include performance of other duties.
Further information on the Department is linked at
http://www.science.ku.dk/english/about-the-faculty/-
organisation/ .Inquiries about the position can be made
to Associate Professor Ole K. Hansen - okh@ign.ku.dk;
telephone + 45 35 33 16 47. The position is open from
May 1 2017 or as soon as possible thereafter and has a
duration of 3 years.
Terms of employment The position is covered by the
Memorandum on Job Structure for Academic Sta.
Terms of appointment and payment accord to the agree-
ment between the Ministry of Finance and The Dan-
ish Confederation of Professional Associations on Aca-
demics in the State. The starting salary is currently
up to DKK 408,730 including annual supplement (+
pension up to DKK 69,893). Negotiation for salary
supplement is possible.
The application, in English, must be submitted elec-
tronically by going to the following link: http://-
employment.ku.dk/faculty/?show=882632 Please in-
clude - Curriculum vita - Diplomas (Master and PhD
degree or equivalent) - Complete publication list - Sepa-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 115
rate reprints of 3 particularly relevant papers - Research
plan - description of current and future research plans.
In relation to the latter, the applicant is requested to
make an outline - based on the information given above
- of the studies and analyses he/she would recommend.
Please, include brief descriptions of technical and ana-
lytical methodology. Due to number of studied species,
cost-eective methods using cutting-edge DNA method-
ology will be especially appreciated. The outline should
be of maximum 250 words. The deadline for applications
is March 15 2017, 23:59 GMT +1.
After the expiry of the deadline for applications, the
authorized recruitment manager selects applicants for
assessment on the advice of the Interview Committee.
You can read about the recruitment process at http://-
employment.ku.dk/faculty/recruitment-process/. Inter-
views will be held in the rst week of April 2017.
Ole Kim Hansen <okh@ign.ku.dk >
UGeorgia CropWildIntrogression
A postdoctoral position studying the genomic conse-
quences of crop-wild hybridization in sunower is avail-
able in the Burke lab at UGA. This position will involve
population genomic analyses aimed at documenting
genome-wide patterns of introgression over the history
of sunower cultivation in North America. The results
of this research will thus provide insight into the long-
term fate of crop alleles/traits in the wild. Moreover,
when coupled with the results of prior studies of selec-
tion in experimental hybrid populations, this work will
enable an investigation of the reliability of experimental
studies for predicting long-term, real-world evolutionary
outcomes.
The ideal candidate will have a strong background in
population genetics and experience handling and ana-
lyzing large, genome-scale datasets. Funds are currently
available to support this position for up to three years,
and the successful candidate will also be given the op-
portunity to develop independent lines of inquiry.
To apply, please send your CV, a brief statement of
research interests, and contact information for three
references to: jmburke@uga.edu
Informal inquiries are also encouraged. Applications
will be reviewed on an ongoing basis until the position
is lled.Information on the plant science research community at
UGA can be found at:
https://plantcenter.uga.edu/ Information about the
UGA Department of Plant Biology can be found at:
http://plantbio.uga.edu/ And information on the Burke
lab can be found at:
http://www.theburkelab.org/ { John M. Burke,
Ph.D. Tel: 706.583.5511 <(706)%20583-5511 >
Fax: 706.542.1805 <(706)%20542-1805 >http://-
www.theburkelab.org/ University of Georgia Depart-
ment of Plant Biology Miller Plant Sciences Athens,
GA 30602
\jmburke@uga.edu" <jmburke@uga.edu >
ULaval FishPopulationGenomics 2
The Bernatchez's Lab at Univerity Laval (Qu ebec City,
Canada) is currently searching for a postdoctorate re-
searcher to be involved in our ongoing research program
pertaining to the comparative and population genomics
of shes. This research program is very well supported
from multiple funding agencies (Natural Sciences and
Engineering Research Council of Canada, Canadian
Research Chair Program, Genome Canada, Genome
Qu ebec, Fonds nature et Technologie Qu ebec) and in-
volves numerous collaborators, both national and inter-
national from over 20 countries. Our research program
aims to enhance fundamental knowledge pertaining to
the evolutionary processes responsible for generating
and maintaining genetic diversity within populations of
aquatic animals, with relevance for management and
conservation.
Depending on his/her specic expertise and qualica-
tions, the selected candidate can be involved in one
or several of the specic projects currently conducted
including either marine (Halibut, Capelin), anadro-
mous/catadomous (Salmon,Eel) or freshwater (Trout,
Whitesh), among others. Details of specic ongoing
projects can be found on our website (see below).
Required Qualications: We are primarily searching for
a prospective candidate with strong and demonstrated
bioinformatics skills in whole genome assembly who is
also familiar with scripting and programming. The ideal
candidate should also be familiar with population ge-
nomics analyses of data sets derived from whole genome
resequencing, high density SNP chips, RADseq/GBS
genotyping, as well as epigenome (methylation) data116 EvolDir February 1, 2017
sets. Candidates must be uent in English, both written
and spoken.
The position is available now and for 2 years, likely
renewable for a third year, and to be lled as soon
as possible. Salary is established according to local
University standards.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing
your research interests and qualications, a com-
plete CV and names of three references by e-mail to
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
Do not hesitate to contact me directly for any further
details or questions.
To learn more about.
Our lab, research program, publications, people:
The Canadian Research in Genomics and Conserva-
tion of Aquatic Resources https://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/research programs.htm Laval Uni-
versity : https://www.ulaval.ca/en/research.html
Qu ebec City : http://www.quebecregion.com/en/ Louis
Bernatchez, Canadian Research in Genomics and Con-
servation of Aquatic Resources Institut de Biologie
Int egrative et des Systemes, Pavillon Charles-Eugene
Marchand, Universite Laval, Qu ebec, QC G1V 0A6
Canada
Tel: 1 418 656-3402 Fax: 1 418 656-2043 Couriel:
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
Louis Bernatchez <Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca >
ULondon
EvolutionaryAnalysisCancer
We are seeking postdocs interested in using an evo-
lutionary perspective to forecast the progression and
treatment of cancer. We have open positions to join our
dynamic interdisciplinary teams (Andrea Sottoriva at
the ICR, Trevor Graham at Barts) that combines molec-
ular methods with mathematical modelling to measure
and predict cancer evolution.
We're looking for people either with bioinformatic
and/or mathematical modelling expertise, or excellent
wet-lab skills (genetics or cell biologists, particularly
those experimentalists excited about Big Data). Our
groups are highly interdisciplinary (mix of mathemati-
cians, physicists, evolutionary theorists, cell biologists,
geneticists and clinicians) and we perform theory-led
experiments to understand and predict cancer evolu-tion. Genomic analysis and Bayesian inference are our
methodologies of choice. The positions are funded by
Cancer Research UK, the Wellcome Trust and the MRC,
and are part of a close collaboration between Trevor
Graham's lab at the Barts Cancer Institute, and An-
drea Sottoriva's lab at the Institute of Cancer Research
(ICR), and postdocs are available at both institutes.
More on the roles details are here: https://-
sites.google.com/site/nottrevorgraham/home
And our recent publications are here: https://-
sites.google.com/site/nottrevorgraham/publications
http://www.sottorivalab.org/-publications.html
Interested people should feel free to get in touch with
me<t.graham@qmul.ac.uk >and they can apply here:
(Graham - Barts) https://webapps2.is.qmul.ac.uk/-
jobs/job.action?jobRef=3DQMUL9908 (Sottoriva -
ICR) http://tinyurl.com/jss289p Trevor Graham
richard.alan.nichols@googlemail.com
UMassachusetts Amherst
DawinFellow
The Graduate Program in Organismic and Evo-
lutionary Biology at University of Massachusetts
Amherst announces a two-year postdoctoral FELLOW-
SHIP/lectureship. OEB draws together more than
90 faculty from the Five Colleges (University of Mas-
sachusetts Amherst and Smith, Hampshire, Mount
Holyoke and Amherst Colleges), oering unique training
and research opportunities in the elds of ecology, or-
ganismic and evolutionary biology. Our research/lecture
position provides recent PhD's an opportunity for inde-
pendent research with an OEB faculty sponsor, as well
as experience mentoring graduate students and teach-
ing a one-semester undergraduate biology course. To
be qualied, a candidate must have a recent PhD in
a eld relevant to ecology, organismic or evolutionary
biology and proven teaching skills. Position subject to
availability of funds.
To apply online, please go to
https://umass.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=80061 and submit a
CV, statements of research and teaching interests, and
contact information (email) for 3 professional references.
Also please arrange to have a letter from your proposed
OEB faculty sponsor sent to oeb@bio.umass.edu. A list
of OEB faculty and additional information is available
at www.bio.umass.edu/oeb. Applicants should applyFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 117
by the priority deadline of January 20, 2017 in order to
ensure consideration. The position is expected to start
in August 2017. Questions about this search may be
sent to: oeb@bio.umass.edu
More information about the search can be found at:
http://gpls.cns.umass.edu/oeb/darwin-fellows The Dar-
win Fellow Program, founded in 1995, brings promising
young postdoctoral researchers to UMASS Amherst.
The two-year position provides a unique combination
of teaching and research responsibilities and is excel-
lent preparation for academic positions. The fellowship
program embodies the interdepartmental collaboration
that characterizes the OEB Graduate Program. Darwin
Fellows are active participants in OEB, acting as men-
tors to graduate students, conducting research, leading
seminar courses, and teaching courses in the Biology
Department.
\caicedo@bio.umass.edu" <caicedo@bio.umass.edu >
UmeaU 5PDF and 5PhD
Metagenomics
The Department of Ecology and Environmental Sci-
ence, Ume ~A University, Sweden, invites applicants
for 5 postdoc and 5 PhD positions in ecology, biogeo-
chemistry, paleolimnology, environmental genomics and
modelling of northern lakes
In a ve-year project, \Climate change induced regime
shifts in Northern lake ecosystems" at Ume ~A Univer-
sity, Sweden, funded by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg
Foundation, we are recruiting 5 postdocs (2- year fellow-
ships) and 5 PhD students (4-year positions). Below we
list each position with a short title indicating the focus
of the position, the name of the primary advisor/mentor,
application deadline, and a web link to the full text of
the advertisement. The full advertisements are also
appended as separate pdf les for all PhD positions and
all postdoc fellowships, respectively.
Project description Eects of climate change on ecologi-
cal communities are expected to be particularly strong at
northern latitudes. The collaborative project \Climate
change induced regime shifts in northern lake ecosys-
tems" addresses two major, climate-dependent drivers
of northern lakes: (i) altered thermal regimes, and (ii)
increased input of terrestrial dissolved organic matter
(tDOM). In a series of interconnected work packages
we will use experimental, comparative, paleo-ecological,environmental genomics and modeling approaches to
study the impact of temperature and tDOM on ecosys-
tem processes ranging from primary production and
greenhouse gas dynamics to sh production and food
web dynamics. We expect responses to these drivers to
be highly nonlinear.
PhD positions 1. Greenhouse gases in lakes (ad-
visor Jan Karlsson, deadline 20 February 2017)
https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:133460/ 2. Eects of climate change on
sh production (advisor P ar Bystr om, deadline 20
February 2017) https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/-
en/what:job/jobID:133528/ 3. Primary production
in lakes (advisor Ann-Kristin Bergstr om, deadline 20
February 2017) https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/-
what:job/jobID:133628/ 4. Modelling lake ecosystems
(advisor Sebastian Diehl, deadline 9 March 2017)
https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:133564/ 5. Long term climate and environmental
changes (advisor: Richard Bindler, deadline 20
February 2017) https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/-
en/what:job/jobID:133685/ Postdoctoral Fellowships
1. Climate impact on sh production and consumer
resource interactions (mentor P ar Bystr om, deadline
27 February 2017) http://www.umu.se/english/-
about-umu/news-events/grants/6-75-17 2. Climate
Impacts on Benthic Processes of Northern Lakes
(mentor Ryan Sponseller, deadline 27 February 2017)
http://www.umu.se/english/about-umu/news-events/-
grants/6-77-17 3. Climate impact on C cycling in lakes
(mentor Jan Karlsson, deadline 27 February 2017)
http://www.umu.se/english/about-umu/news-events/-
grants/6-76-17 4. Climate impact on methane cycling
in lakes (mentors David Bastviken and Jan Karlsson,
deadline 27 February 2017) http://www.umu.se/-
english/about-umu/news-events/grants/6-78-17 5.
Environmental genomics in northern Swedish lakes
(mentor Xia-Ru Wang, deadline 27 February 2017)
http://www.umu.se/english/about-umu/news-events/-
grants/6-79-17 Xiao-Ru Wang
Xiao-Ru Wang, PhD Dept. of Ecology and Environ-
mental Science Ume ~A Univeristy SE-901 87 Ume ~A ,
Sweden xiao-ru.wang@umu.se
Xiao-Ru Wang <xiao-ru.wang@umu.se >118 EvolDir February 1, 2017
UMinnesota
PhyloComparativeMethods
Postdoctoral Position at the University of Minnesota,
Twin Cities
A postdoctoral researcher is sought to develop phyloge-
netic comparative methods and apply them to stud-
ies of plant macroevolution. This project is a col-
laboration between the labs of Emma Goldberg at
the University of Minnesota (where the position will
be based), Itay Mayrose at Tel Aviv University, and
Tracy Heath at Iowa State University. The post-
doc will additionally work closely with Heath Black-
mon at UMN, with a postdoc and software engineer
at TAU, and with graduate and undergraduate stu-
dents at UMN and TAU. More information about
our labs is available at <http://www.umn.edu/ ~eeg
>,<http://www.tau.ac.il/ ~itaymay>,<http://-
phyloworks.org >, and<http://coleoguy.github.io >.
The work will focus on improving and applying phylo-
genetic methods for testing the inuence of traits on
lineage diversication. One line of attack is develop-
ing new model-based phylogenetic comparative methods,
targeting known weaknesses in existing approaches. The
other is creating tools for more robust testing, to stabi-
lize the use of existing and future methods; this includes
designing benchmark test suites and tests of model ad-
equacy. For all topics, the goal is to create products
that are intellectually stimulating and practically useful,
and to facilitate their adoption by the broader commu-
nity. Empirical work will make use of extensive datasets
on plant reproductive systems and chromosome counts,
and it has the potential to make one of the strongest
cases yet for the importance of species selection. The
postdoc will also contribute to new workshops teaching
phylogenetic comparative methods, to be held in the
Midwest US and in Israel.
Relevant skills and knowledge include: macroevolution
of reproductive systems and genome structure; phyloge-
netic comparative methods use and development; math-
ematics of stochastic processes; computational statistics;
database and user interface design; programming in R,
RevBayes, and C++; software tools for reproducible re-
search workows; writing clearly for both technical and
general readers; and teaching in a computer lab setting.
Expertise is not required in all these areas, however!
We are generally looking for a biologist with macroevo-lutionary interests and technical problem-solving skills.
Initial appointment will be for one year with competitive
salary (compliant with FLSA) and benets. Renewal
for up to two more years is possible, pending excellent
performance and mutual agreement. The start date
is exible. To apply, please assemble (i) a 1-3 page
cover letter that highlights how your research inter-
ests and skills t with this project, (ii) a CV, and (iii)
names and contact information for three professional
references. Materials should be submitted online at
<http://www1.umn.edu/ohr/employment/ >(Job Id
#315262). Review of completed applications will begin
on March 1, but candidates will be considered until
the position is lled. Informal inquiries are welcome,
directed to Emma Goldberg <eeg@umn.edu >.
The Twin Cities campus of the Univ Minnesota is home
to a diverse set of local collaborators, expertise, and re-
sources, particularly within the departments of Ecology,
Evolution & Behavior <cbs.umn.edu/eeb >and Plant
and Microbial Biology <cbs.umn.edu/plantbio >, the
Bell Museum <bellmuseum.umn.edu >, and the Min-
nesota Supercomputing Institute <msi.umn.edu >. The
campus is located in the heart of the Minneapolis-Saint
Paul metropolitan area, which is rich in cultural and
natural attractions (and ice skating rinks).
The University of Minnesota is committed to the policy
that all persons shall have equal access to its programs,
facilities, and employment without regard to race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status,
disability, public assistance status, veteran status, or
sexual orientation.
Emma E. Goldberg Assistant Professor Dept. of Ecology,
Evolution and Behavior University of Minnesota { Twin
Cities email: eeg@umn.edu http://www.umn.edu/ ~eeg
\eeg@umn.edu" <eeg@umn.edu >
UNorthCarolina Charlotte
ChromosomeRearrangements
The Rogers lab at UNC Charlotte is hiring a postdoc to
work on evolutionary genetics of genome structure. The
lab is interested in duplications and chromosomal rear-
rangements, their role in creating new gene sequences,
and the ways that selection acts on new genetic ma-
terial. We will survey genome structure changes in a
variety of organisms including Drosophila and humans
to determine the importance of these mutations in evolu-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 119
tion. More info at http://evolscientist.com/ . The ideal
candidate will have a thorough understanding of genet-
ics, statistics, and bioinformatics. Experience working
with Illumina short read sequencing and PacBio long
molecule sequencing will be advantageous. Experience
working with Drosophila will be benecial. Applicants
should have working familiarity with at least one pro-
gramming language, with a strong preference for Python.
Molecular biologists who wish to learn bioinformatics
or quantitative scientists interested in genetics are en-
couraged to contact the PI and discuss their research
interests.
Target start date is July 2017. Some exibility exists,
depending on circumstances. The Rogers lab supports
diversity in science. We are committed to a positive
working environment for LGBTQ individuals, underrep-
resented minorities, and women in science.
Applications should include a CV, a brief summary of
research interests, proposal for how their work will t
with the lab, and three references to be contacted on
request. Applications received by March 31st will be
given full consideration. Later applications will be con-
sidered if the position remains available. Materials can
be emailed to Rebekah.Rogers@uncc.edu. Minimum
salary will follow NIH recommendations.
Charlotte, NC is a diverse city with an excellent sym-
phony, theater, and performing arts scene. Charlotte
also oers a thriving arts scene and live music in NoDa,
excellent restaurants surrounding the Downtown, and
family-friendly programs in local museums. The cost of
living is very aordable, providing a comfortable lifestyle
for postdocs.
rroger26@uncc.edu
UOslo PopulationGenetics
*Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Population Genetics
and Biogeoraphy*
Application Deadline: 6 February 2017
Apply at: https://uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/-
application/fba371fd81b6380fd91c79df8bcfb645/-
1773755/96323?iso=gb Position as postdoctoral
research fellow available at University of Oslo, De-
partment of Biosciences, Section for Genetics and
Evolutionary Biology (EVOGENE)
The fellowship period is two years. Within the frame-work of the position duties may be assigned. Starting
date no later than 01.04.2017. No one can be appointed
for more than one xed-term period at the same insti-
tution.
*Project description*
The post-doctoralfellow will work within the frame-
work of iGran, a Norwegian Research Councilfunded
project examining the ecology and evolutionary history
of *Lophodermium piceae*, a near ubiquitous endo-
phytic fungus associated with spruce species worldwide.
The lifecylce of the fungus is tightly linked to its host, al-
though horizontal transmission of the fungus can occur.
The iGran project aims to characterize the nature of the
interaction between *L. piceae* and its hosts, its role
in the leaf microbiome of spruce needles, as well as the
role of both geography and historical events in shaping
the genetic structure of European populations of the
fungus. The post-doctoral researcher will be responsible
for a pan-European survey of the genetic structure of
*L. piceae* populations to examine the eects of the last
glacial maxima on the organism's evolutionary history.
The successful candidate will also undertake small-scale
investigations of the role of natural dispersal barriers in
shaping the genetic structure of these fungal populations.
The project will use NGS-based approaches to generate
data for SNP detection and population genetic/genomic
analysis.
*Qualications:*
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has
a strategic ambition of being a leading research faculty.
Candidates for these fellowships will be selected in accor-
dance with this, and expected to be in the upper segment
of their class with respect to academic credentials.
The candidate must have a PhD or other corresponding
education equivalent to a Norwegian doctoral degree in
molecular ecology, biogeography, or population genetics.
The research group working language is English. A good
oral command of the language is mandatory and strong
writing skills are highly desirable.
We seek a highly motivated and skilled person who is
able to work independently as a contributor to a col-
laborative team. Background knowledge in mycology
is desirable, but not essential. The post doctoral fellow
will be responsible for a pan-European assessment of
populations of a specic endophytic fungus and will be
required to manage and execute all steps of the project
including eldwork, lab work, data analysis, and writing.
The main purpose of post-doctoral research fellowships
is to qualify researchers for work in top academic posi-
tions within their disciplines.
*Essential qualications include:*120 EvolDir February 1, 2017
-wet lab experience with DNA extraction and NGS or
RADSeq library preparation
-demonstrated knowledge and skills in bioinformatics
and statistical analysis for population genetics includ-
ing knowledge of software such as Stacks, Structure,
Arlequin, poppr, or similar platform
-experience analyzing large-scale genetic/genomic
datasets (ex/ SNP data)
*Desirable qualications include:*
-good knowledge of fungal biology and biostatistics
-experience with fungal culturing'
-valid driver's license.
The main purpose of post-doctoral research fellowships
is to qualify researchers for work in top academic posi-
tions within their disciplines.
Please also refer to the regulations pertaining to the
conditions of employment for post-doctoral fellowship
positions:
http://www.uio.no/english/about/regulations/-
personnel/academic/regulations- employment-
conditions-postdoc.html
*Salary:*
Position code 1352, NOK 486 100 - 567 100 per year,
depending on qualications and seniority.
*The application must include:*
-Application letter
-CV (summarizing education, positions, administrative
experience and other qualifying activities)
-Copies of educational certicates, transcript of records,
letters of recommendation
-A complete list of publications and up to 5 academic
papers that the applicant wishes to be considered by
the evaluation committee
-Names and contact details of 2-3 references (name, rela-
tion to candidate, e-mail and telephone number) Please
remember that all documents should be in English or a
Scandinavian language
Marie Davey <davey.marie@gmail.com >
UOslo PopulationGenomics
Department of BiosciencesResearcher in population and landscape genomics
Position as research fellow available at Department of
Biosciences, Section for Genetics and Evolutionary Bi-
ology (EVOGENE).
This researcher position will begin as soon as April 2017,
but the start date can be exible. Initial appointment
is for two years.
Job description/ Project description:
The Kauserud ^As Lab at the University of Oslo is seeking
a motivated Researcher to be part of an ongoing col-
laborative project investigating the eect of forest frag-
mentation on the genetic variation of wood-decay fungi
throughout Fennoscandia. The research programme
FunGen, aims to enhance fundamental knowledge per-
taining to the evolutionary processes responsible for
generating and maintaining genetic diversity within pop-
ulations of fungi in order to provide baseline information
for improved forest management practices and conserva-
tion initiatives. This project is funded by the Research
Council of Norway (NFR), under the programme Miljo-
forsk.
For further information please visit our webpage:
http://www.mn.uio.no/ibv/english/research/sections/-
evogene/projects/fun gen/
Depending on her/his specic expertise and qualica-
tions, the selected candidate would be responsible for:
- the analysis of a RAD sequencing data set generated
from several populations of a wood-decay fungal species.
The corresponding genome has been sequenced in col-
laboration with the Joint Genome Institute. This data
set is available and the postdoc/researcher will carry
out the bio-informatics & population genomics analyses
(Task1).
- both the wetlab and computational analysis of other
polypore species sampled on a macro landscape-scale.
In this subproject, the postdoc/researcher will work in
close collaboration with other partners (NINA, NIBIO
and SLU) involved in the landscape analyses (Task 2).
The candidate will also have opportunities for imple-
menting her/his scientic ideas in dierent subprojects.
Qualications:
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has
a strategic ambition of being a leading research faculty.
Candidates for the fellowships will be selected in accor-
dance with this, and expected to be in the upper segment
of their class with respect to academic credentials.
The candidate must have obtained by the start date a
PhD or other corresponding education equivalent to aFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 121
Norwegian doctoral degree in ecology, population ge-
netics, evolutionary genomics or bioinformatics. We
seek a highly motivated and skilled person who is able
to work independently, to take own initiatives and to
have a strong interest in producing high quality research
and writing scientic publications. Good writing and
communication competencies along with excellent team
working traits are highly desirable. The ideal candidate
would have experience in preparing libraries for next-gen
sequencing (RADseq/GBS), demonstrated bioinformat-
ics skills in 'Big-data' analytical approaches and high
expertise in population genetics analyses. The candi-
date should be familiar with programming languages
like Unix and Python/Perl and have advanced statisti-
cal skills, preferably in R. Knowledge of the Norwegian
language is not required.
A good command of English is required.
Salary:
Position code 1109, Salary NOK 486 100 - 567 100 per
year ( pay grade 57 -65), depending on qualications
and seniority.
The application must include: * Application letter * CV
(summarizing education, positions, pedagogical expe-
rience, administrative experience and other qualifying
activity) * Copies of educational certicates, transcript
of records and letters of recommendation * A complete
list of publications and up to 5 academic works that
the applicant wishes to be considered by the evaluation
committee * Names and contact details of 2-3 references
(name, relation to candidate, e-mail and telephone num-
ber)
Please remember that all documents should be in En-
glish or a Scandinavian language.
In accordance with the University of Oslo's equal oppor-
tunities policy, we invite applications from all interested
individuals regardless of gender or ethnicity.
UiO has an agreement for all employees, aiming to secure
rights to research results a.o.
* Region: * Oslo
* Job type: * Contract
* Working hours: * Full-time
* Working days: * Day
* Application deadline: * 17 February, 2017
* Location: * Oslo
* Reference number: * 2017/1655
* Company homepage: * http://www.mn.uio.no/ibv/ *
Contacts: * Sundy Maurice Telephone: +47 22845918
* Questions regarding Easycruit, contact HR OcerTorunn Standal Guttormsen Telephone: +47 22 85 42
72
Sundy Maurice Researcher Mycology Group Section for
Genetics and Evolutionary Biology University of Oslo
Norway sandym@ibv.uio.no
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOxford EvolutionDosageComp
Postdoctoral Research Assistant - University of Oxford,
United Kingdom Project: Evolution of Dosage Compen-
sation on Recently Evolved Sex Chromosomes
Postdoc grade 7: 31,076 - 38,183 UK pounds per annum;
initially a 1-year contract (extendable to 3 years)
Start date: on or shortly after 1st April 2017
Location: Department of Plant Sciences, University of
Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3RB United
Kingdom
The Department of Plant Sciences of the University
of is seeking to recruit a Postdoctoral Research Assis-
tant to work on a project devoted to evolution of sex
chromosomes in plants, with the focus on evolution of
dosage compensation on recently evolved sex chromo-
somes in Silene latifolia (see refs below). The postdoc on
this project will be responsible for evolutionary genetic
analysis of high-throughput genome and transcriptome
sequence data and preparation of papers for publication.
Most of the data will be available on or soon after the
start date, so it is expected that wet lab work will be
minimal and the bulk of the work will be computer-
based. The postholder should have or be expected to
obtain a PhD or equivalent and publication record in
a relevant area (evolutionary genetics/genomics, bioin-
formatics). Signicant experience in population genetic
and genetic high throughput data analysis will be es-
sential for this project. It will be advantageous for the
successful applicant to have previous work experience
related to sex chromosome evolution, such as work with
transcriptome sequence data focused on dosage compen-
sation, as well as extensive experience in computational
and statistical analysis of biological data and expert
knowledge of one or more scripting or programming122 EvolDir February 1, 2017
languages (e.g. Perl, Python, Ruby, C&#43;&#43; or
Java etc.). The successful applicant will have high mo-
tivation with intellectual curiosity and rigour, ability to
work independently and manage multiple tasks, ability
to manage the day-to-day running of a research project
and excellent oral and written communication skills.
Informal enquiries should be directed to:
dmitry.latov@plants.ox.ac.uk. The closing date
for applications is 12.00 noon (London time) on Friday
24 February 2017. To apply formally please use vacancy
ID 126994 at https://www.recruit.ox.ac.uk/ Relevant
recent publications: Kazama et al (2016) A new
physical mapping approach renes the sex-determining
gene positions on the Silene latifolia Y-chromosome.
Sci Rep. Jan 8;6:18917. doi: 10.1038/srep18917
Papadopulos et al (2015) Rapid Y degeneration and
dosage compensation in plant sex chromosomes. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A. Oct 20;112(42):13021-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1508454112.
Dmitry A. Filatov, PhD Professor of Evolutionary Ge-
netics, Department of Plant Sciences, University of Ox-
ford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3RB United King-
dom
Dmitry Filatov <dmitry.latov@plants.ox.ac.uk >
UWarwick AncientPathogens
4 Year Research Fellow in Ancient Pathogen Statistical
Genomics (78464-117), Warwick Medical School, Uni-
versity of Warwick (Closing 15th February 2017)
This four-year fellowship will focus on the development
of novel statistical tools and analysis pipelines for an-
cient DNA metagenomes. The post is associated with
a ve year, 2M Wellcome Trust Investigator award
to determine: How old are bacterial pathogens, and
what evolutionary steps have they undergone? The re-
search fellow will address these key questions through
the analysis of hundreds of ancient metagenomes gener-
ated from human associated fossils during this project.
Statistical problems to be addressed include: infer-
ence of ancient transmission dynamics between dierent
hosts and geographical areas, de novo reconstruction
of pathogen genomes and abundances directly from
metagenomes, applications of the fossilised-birth-death
process to improve placement of ancient pathogens on
ancestral branches within time calibrated phylogenies
and applications of Bayesian non-parametrics to incor-porate time varying rates of evolution into phylogenies.
It will be co-supervised by an international team of ex-
perts headed by Prof Achtman (WMS). This will consist
of Dr Christopher Quince (WMS - metagenomics), Prof
Tanja Stadler (ETH Zurich - computational evolution)
and Prof Philippe Lemey (KU Leuven - Bayesian phylo-
genetics). The ideal candidate will have a background
in statistics or computational biology or a related quan-
titative discipline such as theoretical physics. Expertise
in quantitative data analysis is essential as is either
theoretical or applied experience, as evidenced by high
quality publications, in at least one of the following
areas: phylogenetic inference, metagenomics, statisti-
cal genomics, stochastic processes and Bayesian non-
parametrics. The closing date for applications is the
15th February 2017 for a start date of 1st March 2017
although later starts are possible. Applications should
be through the University of Warwick website job id
78464-117 (http://bit.ly/2jQv3fT) and enquiries sent to
Prof. Mark Achtman (achtmanmark@gmail.com) or Dr
Christopher Quince (c.quince@warwick.ac.uk).
\Christopher.Quince@glasgow.ac.uk"
Vienna StatisticalGenomics
THREE YEAR POSTDOC POSITION IN STATISTI-
CAL GENOMICS
The postdoctoral position will be part of a joint
project between the groups of Carolin Kosiol
(University of St. Andrews / Vetmeduni Vienna,
https://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/-
research/research-groups/kosiol-lab/ ), Gergely Sz oll osi
(Etv os University Budapest, http://ssolo.web.elte.hu/-
), Asger Hobolth (Aarhus University, http://-
www.daimi.au.dk/ ~asger/). The recent sequencing
of genomes of closely related species and of many
individuals from the same species enables the study
of speciation and the inference of the history of
populations. Standard phylogenetic methods reduce
entire populations to single points in genotypic space
by modelling evolution as a process in which a single
gene mutates along the branches of a phylogeny.
Recently, we have developed new approaches that
allow the inclusion of population genetics such as the
Wright-Fisher model (Tataru et al, Syst Biol 2016;
Hobolth, JTB 2015), that are polymorphism-aware
phylogenetic models (PoMo, Schrempf et al., JTB
2016, DeMaio et al., Syst Biol 2015) , and model gene
duplication transfer and loss (DTL, Sz oll osi et al., SystFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 123
Biol 2015; Scornavacca et al., Bioinformatics 2015) for
species tree estimation. We envisage developing new
theory and software to tackle the problem of species
tree estimation and molecular dating genome-wide.
Applications will include mammalian genomes to study
the Cambrian explosion as well as contributions to
international genome consortia.
The postdoc will be based in Vienna. Visits to Budapest
and Aarhus for close collaboration are planned. The
project is funded for three years by Wiener Technology
and Science Fund (WWTF) through the \Maths and
.." Call ( http://www.wwtf.at/programmes/ma/ ). It
also includes a PhD student and a programmer position
that will be advertised separately.
Candidates will be expected to have completed a PhD in
Computational Biology, Mathematics, Statistics, Com-
puter Science or a related eld. Prior experience witheither phylogeny, population genetics or comparative
genomics is essential. Preferably the candidate will have
experience in C or C++ and a scripting language such
as Python or Perl.
The position will be hosted by the Institute of Popu-
lation Genetics at the Vetmeduni Vienna. Vienna has
developed into an international center in evolutionary bi-
ology (http://www.evolvienna.at, http://www.popgen-
vienna.at/ ). In addition to a stimulating scientic
environment, Vienna is also a quite liveable city with af-
fordable housing, good public transport and an exciting
cultural life.
Please send informal inquires and applications
to Carolin Kosiol ck202@st-andrews.ac.at or car-
olin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at. Deadline for application is
the 15th March.
Carolin Kosiol <carolin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at >
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona MorphometricsPhylogeny Sep11-15 . . . . 124
Berlin DataAnalysisInHighThroughputBiology May29-
June2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
Berlin DatavizWithPython March13-17 . . . . . . . . . . 125
Berlin LinuxForBiologists July31-Aug4 . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Berlin Metabarcoding Apr3-7 updated . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Cameroon UndergradTropicalConservation Jul5-27 128
HarvardU DevelopmentEvolInnovation Mar3-5 . . . 129
HarvardU microMORPH Mar3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Hungary EvolutionSexRoles Apr6-9 RegistrationOpen
130
Hungary SexRoleEvolution Apr6-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Knoxville SpeciesRangeShifts May3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
Konstanz AdaptiveEpigenomics Jul24-25 . . . . . . . . . 133
Lisbon CommunityEcol Feb13-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .134
Mantua Italy InsectConservation May24-26 . . . . . . 134
MaxPlanck GraduateMeeting EvolBiol Deadline Jan15
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .135MaxPlanckInst EvolBio GraduateMeeting Coevolution
Deadline Jan15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
Naples EMBOPopulationGenomics May18-26 . . . . 136
NHM London BotanicalTaxonomicPrinciples Mar6-10
136
NHM London IntroductoryMolecPylogenetics May8-12
137
NordU Norway NGSOfNonModelOrganisms May31-
Jun1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Paris CoevolutionFitnessLandscapesEpistasis Mar1-3
138
Pconos FunctionalGenomics May25-26 . . . . . . . . . . . 138
Portugal Nature Mar20-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
UCalifornia Davis AppliedPhylogenetics Mar11-18 139
UCalifornia Davis AppliedPhylo Mar11-18 . . . . . . . 140
UCalifornia Davis Phylogenetics Mar11-18 . . . . . . . 141
UCalifornia LosAngeles ConservationGenomics . . . 142
UEdinburgh 4 PythonLinux Apr10-Jul28 . . . . . . . . . 143124 EvolDir February 1, 2017
UK LandscapeGeneticsAnalysisUsingR Nov6-10 . . 144
UK TwoPythonCourses Nov27-Dec1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
UMichigan NextProf May2-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146UWashington EvolQuantGenetics Jun5-9 . . . . . . . . .146
Barcelona MorphometricsPhylogeny
Sep11-15
Dear colleagues,
The 8th edition of the course GEOMETRIC MOR-
PHOMETRICS AND PHYLOGENY has open registra-
tion. Basic knowledge of Geometric Morphometrics is
required.
INSTRUCTOR: Prof. Chris Klingenberg (University of
Manchester, UK).
DATES: September 11th - 15th, 2017.
PLACE: Facilities of the Centre of Restauraci o i In-
terpretaci o Paleontologica, Els Hostalets de Pierola,
Barcelona (Spain).
Testimonials of previous editions: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/gm/gm-and-
phylogeny/#Testimonials PROGRAM,
1. Phylogeny, trees and phylogenetic reasoning. 2.
Brief review of geometric morphometrics (Procrustes
t, PCA, etc.). 3. Mapping traits onto phylogenies:
squared-change parsimony. 4. Practice: making/editing
Nexus les, mapping morphometric data onto the tree
(Mesquite, MorphoJ). 5. Phylogenetic signal, morpho-
metric traits and estimating phylogeny. 6. Comparative
methods: independent contrasts. 7. Application in mor-
phometrics: evolutionary allometry and size correction.
8. Practice: comparative methods (MorphoJ). 9. Appli-
cation of comparative methods: morphological integra-
tion. 10. Multi-level analyses of integration: inferring
evolutionary mechanisms. 11. Application of compar-
ative methods: partial least squares (ecomorphology,
etc.). 12. Practice; comparative methods (cont.). 13.
Morphometrics, phylogenies and qualitative characters.
14. Disparity and diversication. 15. Presentations of
group work.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/geometric-
morphometrics/geometric-morphometrics-phylogeny/
or writing to courses@transmittingscience.org
Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Institut Catal a
de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont and the Council of
Hostalets de Pierola.Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD. Sci-
entic Director Transmitting Science
www.transmittingscience.org Soledad De Esteban-
Trivigno<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Berlin DataAnalysisInHighThrough-
putBiology
May29-June2
Data analysis in high throughput biology https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course3/ >From the
29th of May to the 2nd of June 2017 in Berlin, Germany
(https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course3/).
Instructor: Dr. January Weiner (Max Planck In-
stitute for Infection Biology; https://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t14/).
Course overview
High throughput (HT) techniques such as transcrip-
tomics or metabolomics are of great signicance in many
areas of biology. With the standard techniques becoming
more aordable and new techniques being introduced
all the time, the amount of data sets generated is stag-
gering. However, statistical and computational analysis
of HT data sets present many challenges. In this course,
the students will gain the ability to independently pro-
cess and analyse HT data sets, select the appropriate
tools, functionally interpret the results as well as learn
the paradigms of computational biology and statistics
which will allow them to eciently communicate with
computational biologists.
Intended audience
In general, the course is aimed at biologists who would
like to take their data analysis in their own hands. While
an aptitude for computational work is necessary, the
main goal of the course is the application of biological
and statistical knowledge to HT sets with as little eort
as necessary.February 1, 2017 EvolDir 125
* basic computer skills (a rudimentary knowledge of pro-
gramming principles in any language is recommended,
but not mandatory) * basic understanding of statis-
tics * basic understanding of molecular techniques for
generating high throughput data
The students should be comfortable with using a com-
puter and have at least a rudimentary understanding of
computer programming. However, no specic skills are
necessary; the students will learn basic R programming
in this course.
Basic skills in statistics are necessary. The students
should understand the concepts of statistical hypothesis
testing and p-values. However, an in-depth introduction
to these concepts will also be provided.
Target student skills
* overview of commonly used high-throughput data types
* techniques for data clean-up and preparation for anal-
ysis * understanding of computational problems associ-
ated with high- throughput data analysis * statistical
problems and solutions in analysis of HT data * practical
skills in analysis methods of HT data: - basic dierential
analysis (limma, DESeq, alternative and non- paramet-
ric techniques) - set enrichment techniques (GSEA, gene
ontologies, metabolic proling and more) - multivariate
approaches to data analysis (PCA / ICA, PLS, multiple
correspondance analysis) - basic approaches in machine
learning: cross * Communication skills in statistics and
computational biology
After the course, the student should be able to pre-
pare, analyse and interpret a HT data set, including
multivariate and machine learning techniques.
Teaching format
On each day, the course will consist of four parts:
* Lecture: theoretical introduction to the days focus *
Hands-on guide: guided practical session in R where
students replicate the analysis performed by the teacher.
While the lecture is general, here specic R techniques
and R packages are introduced * Guided self-study: stu-
dents are given excercises and problems to solve and
work on them individually under the guidance of the
teacher * Individual project work: each student will
receive a transcriptomic (RNASeq or microarray) data
set to analyse throughout the course * Lecture: wrap-up
and side notes; preparation for the following day
Venue
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)
Berlin-Dahlem/Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 Berlin
Course plan* Day 1: Introduction to statistical reasoning and R o
Lecture: \Statistics gone wrong: basics of statistical
problems in HT applications" o Hands-on guide: work-
ing with R: rst steps o Guided self-study: using R for
data loading and basic statistical calculations o Individ-
ual project work: loading data for the individual project
o Lecture: \On the importance of lab books - documen-
tation and organization in computational projects"
* Day 2: Data preparation and basic dierential analyses
o Lectures: + \Steps in HT data analysis and overview
of HT techniques" + \Dierential analysis in transcrip-
tomics" o Hands-on guide: documentation with knitr,
data pre-processing, QC o Guided self-study: creating
self-documenting R code; basic steps in transcriptomic
analyses o Individual project work: basic analysis of the
individual data sets o Lecture: \So you have a list of
thousand gene names: why do we do HT analyses?"
* Day 3: Functional analysis, gene set enrichments and
biological interpretation
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin DatavizWithPython
March13-17
Dear all,
we still have a few places available (rst come, rst
served) for the \Data Manipulation and VIsualization
with Python" Workshop, 13-17 March 2017 in Berlin
(Germany) http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/-
course10/ Application deadline:
February 24th 2017.
Instructor:
Dr Martin Jones (Founder, Python for Biologists
http://pythonforbiologists.com ) http://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t1/ Course overview:
One of the strengths of the Python language is the avail-
ability of mature, high-quality libraries for working with
scientic data. Integration between the most popular
libraries has led to the concept of a \scientic Python
stack": a collection of packages which are designed to
work well together. In this workshop we will see how126 EvolDir February 1, 2017
to leverage these libraries to eciently work with and
visualize large volumes of data.
Workshop format:
The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions.
Each session consists of roughly a one hour lecture fol-
lowed by two hours of practical exercises, with breaks at
the organizer's discretion. Each session uses examples
and exercises that build on material from the previous
one, so it's important that students attend all sessions.
The last two sessions will be kept free for students to
work on their own datasets with the assistance of the
instructor. A description of the sessions can be found
at the bottom of this page.
Who should attend:
This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical
workers who are dealing with large datasets and don't
know how to investigate them to make publishable
graphics.
Requirements:
Students should have enough biological/bioinformatics
background to appreciate the example datasets. They
should also have some basic Python experience (the
Introduction to Python course will fulll these require-
ments). Students should be familiar with the use of
lists, loops, functions and conditions in Python and
have written at least a few small programs from scratch.
Students will require the scientic Python stack to be
installed on their laptops before attending; instructions
for this will be sent out prior to the course.
Venue
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)
Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 Berlin.
Curriculum
Monday 13th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 1 - Introduction and datasets
Jupyter (formerly iPython) is a programming environ-
ment that is rapidly becoming the de facto standard for
scientic data analysis. In this session we'll learn why
Jupyter is so useful, covering its ability to mix notes and
code, to render inline plots, charts and tables, to use
custom styles and to create polished web pages. We'll
also take a look at the datasets that we'll be investigat-
ing during the course and discuss the dierent types of
data we encounter in bioinformatics work.
Session 2 - Introduction to pandas
In this session we introduce the rst part of the sci-
entic Python stack: the pandas data manipulationpackage. We'll learn about Dataframes the core data
structure that much of the rest of the course will rely on
and how they allow us to quickly select, sort, lter and
summarize large datasets. We'll also see how to extend
existing Dataframes by writing functions to create new
columns, as well as how to deal with common problems
like missing or inconsistent values in datasets. We'll
get our rst look at data visualization by using pandas'
built in plotting ability to investigate basic properties
of our datasets.
Tuesday 14th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 3- Grouping and pivoting with pandas
This session continues our look at pandas with advanced
uses of Dataframes that allow us to answer more com-
plicated questions. We'll look two very powerful tools:
grouping, which allows us to aggregate information in
datasets, and pivoting/stacking, which allows us to ex-
ibly rearrange data (a key step in preparing datasets
for visualization). In this session we'll also go into more
detail about pandas indexing system.
Session 4- Advanced manipulation with pandas
In this nal session on the pandas library we'll look at
a few common types of data manipulation binning data
(very useful for working with time series), carrying out
principal component analysis, and creating networks.
We'll also cover some features of pandas designed for
working with specic types of data like timestamps and
ordered categories.
Wednesday 15th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 5-Introduction to seaborn
This session introduces the seaborn charting library by
showing how we can use it to investigate relationships
between dierent variables in our datasets. Initially we
concentrate on showing distributions
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin LinuxForBiologists
July31-Aug4
Dear all,February 1, 2017 EvolDir 127
We are happy to announce that we will be holding the
second edition of the \Introduction to Linux and work-
ows for biologists" in Berlin (Germany) from the 31th
July to the 4th August 2017.
Instructor:
Dr Martin Jones (Founder, Python for Biologists
http://pythonforbiologists.com ) http://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t1/ Overview
Most high-throughput bioinformatics work these days
takes place on the Linux command line. The programs
which do the majority of the computational heavy lifting
genome assemblers, read mappers, and annotation tools
are designed to work best when used with a command-
line interface. Because the command line can be an
intimidating environment, many biologists learn the
bare minimum needed to get their analysis tools work-
ing. This means that they miss out on the power of
Linux to customize their environment and automate
many parts of the bioinformatics workow. This course
will introduce the Linux command line environment
from scratch and teach students how to make the most
of its tools to achieve a high level of productivity when
working with biological data.
Intended audience
This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical
workers with a background in biology who want to learn
to use the Linux operating system and the command
line environment. No previous experience of Linux is
required.
Venue
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)
Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 Berlin.
Course Programme
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course1/-
curriculum/ Monday 31th - Classes from 09:30 to
17:30
Session 1 - The design of Linux
Session 2 - System management
Tuesday 1sh - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 3 - Manipulating tabular data
Session 4 - Constructing pipelines
Wednesday 2nd - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 5 - EMBOSS
Session 6 - Using a Linux server
Thursday 3rd - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30Session 7 - Combining methods
Session 8 - Combining methods
Friday 4th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 9 - Customization
Session 10
The afternoon of Friday 18th is reserved for nishing o
the next- gen workow exercise, working on your own
datasets, or leaving early for travel.
Application deadline is June 30th 2017.
Available packages:
1) \only-course" (580 euros VAT included) includes re-
freshments, lunch and course material;
2) \all-inclusive" (795 euros VAT included) includes re-
freshments, course material, accommodation and meals
(breakfast, lunch, dinner).
{
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses Coordinator
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org >
Berlin Metabarcoding Apr3-7
updated
Dear all,
here's an updated version of the syllabus for the \16S
rRNA gene Metabarcoding" workshop, 3-7 April 2017
in Berlin (Germany).
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course8/ In-
structor: Dr. Alexandre de Menezes (National
University of Ireland Galway) https://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t5/ Course overview
The 16s rRNA gene has become the standard marker for
prokaryote phylogenetic analysis, and combined with
high-throughput sequencing technologies it is widely
used to infer the structure and composition of microbial
communities. Due to the continuous improvements in
sequencing technologies and bioinformatics tools, there
is a wide choice of methods for sequencing and analysing
16S rRNA gene assemblies. This workshop is designed128 EvolDir February 1, 2017
to give students the necessary background and prac-
tical experience of the strategies for the analysis of
the diversity and structure of prokaryote communities,
covering i) experimental design and primer choices; ii)
wet-lab and library preparation options; iii) sequence
quality control and analysis and iv) statistical analysis
of microbial community data. The many sequencing
and analysis options will be discussed, whereas a more
in-depth tutorial using real sequence data will provide
an opportunity for the student to practice 16S rRNA
sequence analysis from raw sequence les to ecological
interpretation. Course material, such as presentation
slides and necessary model data, will be provided to the
students.
Targeted audience and assumed background
This workshop is intended for students and researchers
interested in microbial ecology but who are not yet very
familiar with the techniques involved. Choosing the ap-
propriate primers, library preparation kits, sequencing
methodologies and bioinformatics pipelines can be quite
daunting to the uninitiated. This workshop will allow
researchers interested more condence in their method-
ology and analyses choices. The target audience include
students of animal or plant microbiomes as well as those
studying environmental microbial communities. It is
assumed that the workshop attendees are interested in
performing 16S rRNA metabarcoding using the Illumina
MiSeq platform, although other sequencing technologies
will be discussed during the workshop.
Knowledge of Linux and R or familiarity with work-
ing in the command line will be helpful, but for those
new to the area detailed instructions will allow students
to follow the workshop. Students will need to have a
computer running either on Linux or a Linux virtual
machine running on MacOX/Windows computers. Con-
tact the instructor at ademez@gmail.com if in doubt
about computational requirements.
Workshop structure
The workshop will consist of both lectures and practical
classes. Background information will be provided to
help workshop attendees choose the appropriate experi-
mental design, primers, sequencing library preparation
kits and to contextualise the bioinformatics and sta-
tistical analysis methods. Practical tutorials will be
conducted on a step-by-step basis to guide the student
from when receiving data from a sequence provider to ob-
taining plots and tables describing microbial community
diversity, structure and relationships to environmental
variables or host data.
Venue
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 Berlin.
Session contents
Monday 3rd-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00
Session 1: the 16S rRNA gene
The use of the 16S rRNA gene as a marker for prokary-
ote phylogenetics will be discussed to introduce the
students to the concept of conserved and hypervariable
regions. The student will learn about the history of this
molecular marker and why it is the choice for prokaryote
diversity studies. The primer combinations used to tar-
get the dierent hypervariable regions will be discussed,
as well as what is known regarding their advantages
and disadvantages. The pros and cons of PCR-based
16S rRNA gene sequencing versus PCR-free shot-gun
metagenomics will also be discussed.
This session will also include an overview of current se-
quencing technologies, and the Illumina MiSeq platform
will be contrasted with other sequencing technologies
(Ion Torrent, MinIon, PacBio and Moleculo).
Session 2: sequencing experimental design and initial
hands-on exercises
Focusing on the MiSeq platform, experimental design
considerations will be discussed and topics discussed
will include sequence depth, replication, contamination
and the use of appropriate controls and mock communi-
ties. Other topics that will be taught include: metadata
collection, DNA extraction and RNA-cDNA sequenc-
ing. Demo sequence data will be used to check that the
appropriate tools are installed correctly for subsequent
practical work, and students will perform exercises in
the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Cameroon
UndergradTropicalConservation
Jul5-27
The Central African Biodiversity Alliance (CABAl-
liance) is pleased to announce a three-week undergradu-
ate eld course in tropical biology and conservation thatFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 129
will run from July 5th to 27th, 2017 in Cameroon. This
eld course will be hosted by Drexel University, UCLA,
and the Congo Basin Institute (Yadound e, Cameroon).
Classroom and eld instruction will be given on site in
Yaound e and Mbam and Djerem National Park by sci-
entists from collaborating institutions including Drexel
University, UCLA, University of Buea, University of
Hong Kong, University of Halle-Wittenberg.
Course information and application forms can
be found on the Drexel Study Abroad Website:
http://studyabroad.drexel.edu/index.cfm?FuseAction=-
Programs.ViewProgram&Program ID=47722 Applica-
tion deadline: March 1, 2017
More information on CABAlliance can be found at:
www.caballiance.org Course objectives: The overall
aim of this program is to provide training in the funda-
mentals of tropical eld research. A total of 20 under-
graduate students will participate in this course, half of
which will be from U.S. institutions and the other half
from Cameroonian and Equato-Guinean universities.
Students will work collaboratively in teams to:
- Design an independent research project in tropical ecol-
ogy - Collect data and analyze results - Write a report
in the format of a scientic publication summarizing the
aims, methods, results and conclusions of the research
project - Present project ndings to participants and
instructors at the end of the course
By participating in this program, students will:
- Understand the basic principles of conservation biol-
ogy and evaluate how these principles are applied to
problems in conservation - Read the assigned literature
and be able to critically assess the key concepts in a
discussion and written format - Demonstrate how to
research data, work through spread-sheet exercises and
manipulate software applicable to solving conservation
problems - Co-design an original research project and
work eectively as a team member in a group environ-
ment - Demonstrate an ability to eectively communi-
cate research ndings and key concepts through both
oral and written presentation
Requirements: - Currently registered as an undergradu-
ate at a U.S. institution - Participate in mandatory 3-
week online seminar prior to the program - One semester
of college-level French (Recommended) - Hold a valid
passport - Obtain all necessary vaccinations - Enjoy
working in a multi-cultural setting - Able to work under
physically strenuous conditions - All travel expenses
(ight, lodging, meals) will be covered
This course is optionally available for two credits (appli-
cable course fees apply). All successful applicants will
be required to pay a $500 commitment fee which willbe refunded upon completion of the program.
For more information, please contact: Dr. Matthew
Mitchell (mwmitchell@drexel.edu) or Dr. Katy Gonder
(gonder@drexel.edu) This project is funded through
NSF award OISE 1243524
Matt Mitchell <mwmitche@gmail.com >
HarvardU
DevelopmentEvolInnovation Mar3-5
microMORPH Workshop 2017 - The Developmental
Basis of Evolutionary Innovation
March 3-5, 2017, at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard
University, Boston, MA.
microMORPH INTERDISCIPLINARY WORKSHOPS
bring together small groups of graduate students, post-
doctoral researchers, and faculty with diverse interests
and expertise to interact and discuss critical concepts,
intellectual objectives, emerging technologies, and ana-
lytical approaches that have the potential to advance
our understanding of the evolution of plant form.
We are accepting applications from graduate students
(at all stages of their dissertation research) and post-
doctoral researchers. Eight student/postdoctoral partic-
ipants will be chosen to attend, give presentations on
their research (which should be address some aspect of
evolutionary innovation in plants), and engage in the
discussions.
microMORPH will fund travel, accommodations, and
meals for selected participants who are U.S. citizens or
who are associated with a U.S. institution/university.
Non-U.S. citizens that are not associated with a U.S.
institution are welcome to participate but will have to
fund their own travel and accommodations.
Participating Faculty Include: Je Doyle (Cornell Uni-
versity), Spencer Barrett (University of Toronto), Robin
Hopkins (Harvard University), Elizabeth (Toby) Kel-
logg (Donald Danforth Center), Lionie Moyle (Indi-
ana University), G unter Theien (Friedrich-Schiller-
University Jena), Carolyn Wessinger (University of
Kansas), Pamela Diggle (University of Connecticut),
William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University).
How to Apply: For full application instructions (includ-
ing list of required documents) and to submit applica-
tions, please visit the microMORPH website (http://-
projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).130 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Questions or Comments? Contact Becky Povilus at
RCNmicromorph@gmail.com, or visit our website at
http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph . Applica-
tion deadline extended: Applications must be submitted
by 11:30 pm January 23rd, 2017.
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
860-486-4788 <tel:860-486-4788 >
diggle@colorado.edu
HarvardU microMORPH Mar3-5
microMORPHWorkshop 2017 - The Developmental Ba-
sis of Evolutionary Innovation
March3-5, 2017, at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard
University, Boston, MA.
microMORPHINTERDISCIPLINARY WORKSHOPS
bring together small groups of graduate students, post-
doctoral researchers, and faculty with diverse interests
and expertise to interact and discuss critical concepts,
intellectual objectives, emerging technologies, and ana-
lytical approaches that have the potential to advance
our understanding of the evolution of plant form.
Weare accepting applications from graduate students
(at all stages of their dissertation research) and post-
doctoral researchers. Eight student/postdoctoral partic-
ipants will be chosen to attend, give presentations on
their research (which should be address some aspect of
evolutionary innovation in plants), and engage in the
discussions.
microMORPHwill fund travel, accommodations, and
meals for selected participants who are U.S. citizens or
who are associated with a U.S. institution/university.
Non-U.S. citizens that are not associated with a U.S.
institution are welcome to participate but will have to
fund their own travel and accommodations.
ParticipatingFaculty Include: Je Doyle (Cornell Uni-
versity), Spencer Barrett (University of Toronto), Robin
Hopkins (Harvard University), Elizabeth (Toby) Kel-
logg (Donald Danforth Center), Lionie Moyle (Indi-
ana University), G unter Theien (Friedrich-Schiller-
University Jena), Carolyn Wessinger (University of
Kansas), Pamela Diggle (University of Connecticut),
William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University).Howto Apply: For full application instructions (includ-
ing list of required documents) and to submit applica-
tions, please visit the microMORPH website (http://-
projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).
Questionsor Comments? Contact Becky Povilus at
RCNmicromorph@gmail.com, or visit our website at
http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph . Applica-
tionDeadline: Applications must be submitted by 11:30
pm January 16th, 2017.
PamelaDiggle
Professor Departmentof Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Universityof Connecticut
860-486-4788 <tel:860-486-4788 >
diggle@colorado.edu
Hungary EvolutionSexRoles Apr6-9
RegistrationOpen
EVOLUTION OF SEX ROLES
Dear Colleagues
Glad to announce that our Wshop just launched a web-
site: www.congressline.hu/evolution2017 The Registra-
tion document is downloadable from the website.
See you soon in Tihany.
Best wishes, Tamas Szekely on behalf of the organisers
===WORKSHOP INVITATION SEX-ROLE EVOLU-
TION: INTEGRATING NEURAL, BEHAVIOURAL
AND PHYLOGENETIC APPROACHES
We are glad to invite you to our Workshop that will
take place between 6th April 2017 and 9th April 2017 in
Tihany, Hungary. The event will start with wine-tasting
on Thursday 6 April, will include 2 full days for research
talks by top scientists, post-docs and students, and
an optional excursion on Sunday to a hot spa (Heviz)
and/or the historic Festetics Palace in Keszthely.
Theoretical, experimental, phylogenetic, demographic
and neuro-genomic studies of sexual selection, mating
systems, pair-bonding, parenting and reproductive be-
haviours are rapidly advancing. The objectives of the
workshop are to overview recent developments in sex
roles and associated behaviours, and allow scientists
and students to develop new ideas. The Workshop
will take place at the guesthouse of the Hungarian
Academy of Sciences at Lake Balaton. The guest-February 1, 2017 EvolDir 131
house oers a great venue for up to 60 participants,
see www.blki.hu/vendeghaz/index en.html Balaton is a
major tourist destination in Central Europe (see http:/-
/balaton.gotohungary.com/), and the Workshop will be
before the peak tourist season; so we'll have all the
scenery, folklore and tradition without the crowd. Bala-
ton is one of the best wine-growing regions in Hungary
famous for white wines including the Szurkebarat and
Juhfark.
The Workshop will focus on three main themes: (i) be-
havioural variations in sex roles and their ecological and
demographic causes, (ii) phylogenetic analyses of sex
role variations, and (iii) neuro-genomic regulation of sex
roles.
In each theme there will be seminars by invited speakers
and contributions by young scientists, post-docs and
PhD students. We will also discuss the future of sex
role research: what are the outstanding questions, what
techniques will need to be developed, and how should
the eld as such develop. The combination of dier-
ent research skills and variety of model organisms will
provide outstanding opportunities to synthesize major
research directions.
Conrmed invited speakers include:
1. Variations in sex roles
Professor Franjo Weissing
University of Groningen, Groningen
Dr Franziska Lemmel-Schadelin
University of Veterinarian Medicine, Vienna
Dr Lutz Fromhage
University of Jyvaskyla, Jyveskyla
Professor Wolfgang Goymann
Max Planck Institute, Radolfzell
Professor Jan Komdeur
University of Groningen, Groningen
2. Phylogenetic approach to sex roles
Dr Laszlo Garamszegi
Donana Biological Station, Sevilla
Dr Elina Immonen
University of Uppsala, Uppsala
Professor Jean-Michael Gaillard
CNRS-University of Lyon, Lyon
Dr Veronika Bokony
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest3. Neuro-genomic regularion of sex roles
Dr Dora Zelena
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest
Dr Araxi Urrutia
University of Bath, Bath
Dr Clemens Kupper
Max Planck Institute, Seewiesen
Professor Hans Hofmann
University of Texas, Austin
Registration fee that includes the welcome wine-tasting
on Thursday and the farewell dinner on Saturday will
be 80 EUR for students and 125 EUR for non-students.
Accommodation will be around 25 EUR per night in
shared rooms, and 30-40 EUR per night in single rooms
or apartments. Lunch and dinner will be around 10-15
EUR per meal.
Spaces are limited to 60 and we will give priority to
students oering a talk. This will be an excellent train-
ing opportunity for young scientists, and we encourage
senior scientists to bring along their students and post-
docs. We recommend registering early, since spaces will
rapidly ll up.
Application deadline: Friday, 17 February 2017. Regis-
tration will be available soon on the workshop website.
For scientic details feel free contacting one of the or-
ganisers. For administrative questions and further infor-
mation on the venue, please, contact Bea Golovanova,
CongressLine Ltd. Address: Revay koz 2, H-1065 Bu-
dapest, Hungary. Phone: + 36 1 429 0146. E-mail:
golob@congressline.hu
This will be a family-friendly event so do consider bring-
ing along your family. CongressLine Ltd will be glad to
accommodate individual requests so that you'll benet
from the o-season prices around Balaton.
We look forward to hearing from you. Best regards,
Prof Arpad Dobolyi, Hungarian Academy
of Sciences, dobolyia@caesar.elte.hu,
dobolyi.arpad@med.semmelweis-univ.hu Prof
Andras Liker, University of Pannonia, an-
dras.liker@gmail.com Prof Tamas Szekely, University of
Bath, T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html132 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Hungary SexRoleEvolution Apr6-9
WORKSHOP INVITATION SEX-ROLE EVOLUTION:
INTEGRATING NEURAL, BEHAVIOURAL AND
PHYLOGENETIC APPROACHES
We are glad to invite you to our Workshop that will
take place between 6th April 2016 and 9th April 2017 in
Tihany, Hungary. The event will start with wine-tasting
on Thursday 6 April, will include 2 full days for research
talks by top scientists, post-docs and students, and
an optional excursion on Sunday to a hot spa (Heviz)
and/or the historic Festetics Palace in Keszthely.
Theoretical, experimental, phylogenetic, demographic
and neuro-genomic studies of sexual selection, mating
systems, pair-bonding, parenting and reproductive be-
haviours are rapidly advancing. The objectives of the
workshop are to overview recent developments in sex
roles and associated behaviours, and allow scientists
and students to develop new ideas. The Workshop
will take place at the guesthouse of the Hungarian
Academy of Sciences at Lake Balaton. The guest-
house oers a great venue for up to 60 participants,
see www.blki.hu/vendeghaz/index en.html Balaton is a
major tourist destination in Central Europe (see http:/-
/balaton.gotohungary.com/), and the Workshop will be
before the peak tourist season; so we'll have all the
scenery, folklore and tradition without the crowd. Bala-
ton is one of the best wine-growing regions in Hungary
famous for white wines including the Szurkebarat and
Juhfark.
The Workshop will focus on three main themes: (i) be-
havioural variations in sex roles and their ecological and
demographic causes, (ii) phylogenetic analyses of sex
role variations, and (iii) neuro-genomic regulation of sex
roles.
In each theme there will be seminars by invited speakers
and contributions by young scientists, post-docs and
PhD students. We will also discuss the future of sex
role research: what are the outstanding questions, what
techniques will need to be developed, and how should
the eld as such develop. The combination of dier-
ent research skills and variety of model organisms will
provide outstanding opportunities to synthesize major
research directions.
Conrmed invited speakers include:1. Variations in sex roles
Professor Franjo Weissing University of Groningen,
Groningen
Dr Franziska Lemmel-Schadelin University of Veterinar-
ian Medicine, Vienna
Dr Lutz Fromhage University of Jyvaskyla, Jyveskyla
Professor Wolfgang Goymann Max Planck Institute,
Radolfzell
Professor Jan Komdeur University of Groningen, Gronin-
gen
2. Phylogenetic approach to sex roles
Dr Laszlo Garamszegi Donana Biological Station, Sevilla
Dr Elina Immonen University of Uppsala, Uppsala
Professor Jean-Michael Gaillard CNRS-University of
Lyon, Lyon
Dr Veronika Bokony Hungarian Academy of Sciences,
Budapest
3. Neuro-genomic regularion of sex roles
Dr Dora Zelena Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Bu-
dapest
Dr Araxi Urrutia University of Bath, Bath
Dr Clemens Kupper Max Planck Institute, Seewiesen
Professor Hans Hofmann University of Texas, Austin
Registration fee that includes the welcome wine-tasting
on Thursday and the farewell dinner on Saturday will
be 80 EUR for students and 125 EUR for non-students.
Accommodation will be around 25 EUR per night in
shared rooms, and 30-40 EUR per night in single rooms
or apartments. Lunch and dinner will be around 10-15
EUR per meal.
Spaces are limited to 60 and we will give priority to
students oering a talk. This will be an excellent train-
ing opportunity for young scientists, and we encourage
senior scientists to bring along their students and post-
docs. We recommend registering early, since spaces will
rapidly ll up.
Application deadline: Friday, 17 February 2017. Regis-
tration will be available soon on the workshop website.
For scientic details feel free contacting one of the or-
ganisers. For administrative questions and further infor-
mation on the venue, please, contact Bea Golovanova,
CongressLine Ltd. Address: Revay koz 2, H-1065 Bu-
dapest, Hungary. Phone: + 36 1 429 0146. E-mail:
golob@congressline.hu
This will be a family-friendly event so do consider bring-
ing along your family. CongressLine Ltd will be glad toFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 133
accommodate individual requests so that you'll benet
from the o-season prices around Balaton.
We look forward to hearing from you. Best regards,
Prof Arpad Dobolyi, Hungarian Academy
of Sciences, dobolyia@caesar.elte.hu,
dobolyi.arpad@med.semmelweis-univ.hu Prof
Andras Liker, University of Pannonia, an-
dras.liker@gmail.com Prof Tamas Szekely, University of
Bath, T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk
Tam as Sz ekely, Professor of Biodiversity Fellow of
Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin 2016/17 Dept of Biol-
ogy and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Bath BA2
7AY, UK 01225 383676 (phone), 01225 386779 (fax),
T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk (email)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Knoxville SpeciesRangeShifts
May3-5
Call for applications:
Please consider applying to an Investigative Workshop
on Species Range Shifts to be held at the National In-
stitute of Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIM-
BioS), University of Tennessee, Knoxville, May 3 - 5,
2017. Specically, we will be discussing new methods for
integrating niche models, [evolutionary] genetics, and
fossil pollen data to understand species' range dynamics
under changing climates. We hope this workshop will
lead to several group papers as well as a long-term work-
ing group initiative at NIMBioS. Faculty, post-docs, and
senior graduate students are welcome to apply.
For more information visit this website: http://-
www.nimbios.org/workshops/WS rangeshifts If you are
selected, your travel and accommodations are covered
by NIMBioS.
{ A. Michelle Lawing, PhD Assistant Professor Ecosys-
tem Science and Management Texas A&M University
2120 TAMU Centeq Building B, 223 College Station,
TX 77843
\alawing@tamu.edu" <alawing@tamu.edu >Konstanz AdaptiveEpigenomics
Jul24-25
We would like to welcome you to join a two-day in-
terdisciplinary workshop on \Adaptive Epigenomics:
Building a bridge between animal and human research"
hosted Prof. Thomas Elbert and Prof. Axel Meyer
and sponsored by the Hector Fellowship Academy. The
workshop will be held in Konstanz, Germany, from July
24-25, 2017, and is organized by Dr. Amber Makowicz
(post-doc research with Dr. Meyer), Daniela Conrad
(PhD student with Dr. Elbert) and Maggie Sefton (PhD
student with Dr. Meyer).
The goal of this 2-day workshop is to provide theoreti-
cal input on epigenetics as an evolutionary component
and important mechanism in the development of (psy-
cho)pathologies and evolutionary adaptations. In ad-
dition, providing explanations on the processing and
statistical evaluation of epigenetic data, including hands-
on exercises of small pseudo-datasets. The workshop
shall furthermore represent a platform for the interdis-
ciplinary exchange between biologists and psychologists
using epigenetic approaches to investigate the biological
underpinnings of (pathological) behavior and adapta-
tion.
Conrmed speakers include:
- Dr. Tuncay Baubec is an SNF Professor in the De-
partment of Molecular Mechanisms of Disease at the
University of Zurich.
- Dr. Vanja Vukojevic is a postdoc in the Department
of Molecular Neurosciences at the University of Basel.
- Dr. Bridgett vonHoldt is a professor in the Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology Department at Princeton Uni-
versity.
- Dr. Robert Philibert runs the Psychiatric Genetics lab
at the University of Iowa.
- Dr. Tomas Marques-Bonet leads the research group
on comparative genomics at Universitat Pompeu Fabra.
We welcome any Masters and PhD students, postdocs,
and any other young scientists in the elds of evolution-
ary biology and psychology to join us. Registration fees
include a social dinner on a boat on Lake Konstanz (July
24th), and farewell dinner at the Hotel St. Elisabeth in
Hegne (July 25th). Registration deadline for earlier-bird
rate (50 euro) is March 31st and for the normal rate134 EvolDir February 1, 2017
(100 euro) is May 31st. Space is limited to 35 people,
so please register as soon as possible.
Accommodations can be found at the Hotel St. Elis-
abeth, however, these rooms book rapidly and will re-
quire you to book well in advance (www.st-elisabeth-
hegne.de/en/hotel.html). Other accommodations can
be found in Konstanz with direct train connection to
Hegne ( ~10-12 min ride).
Konstanz is a cozy town in the south of Germany, lo-
cated near the border to Switzerland. With direct access
to beautiful Lake Konstanz and its historical old town
it is a favorite holiday destination for locals and interna-
tional tourists. Furthermore, the University of Konstanz
is one of the highest-ranking German universities. For
many years, the University of Konstanz belongs to the
German Universities Excellence Initiative, and is host
to a large, international body of students from various
elds.
Any questions in regards to the workshop
can be found on our website (http://adaptive-
epigenomics.weebly.com/) or emailed to epigenetics-
workshop@uni-konstanz.de or directly to Amber
Makowicz at amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de
Many thanks for your assistance.
Cheers, Amber { Amber M. Makowicz, Ph.D.
Hector Postdoctoral Fellow Room M821 Biology De-
partment Lehrstuhl f ur Zoologie und Evolutionsbiologie,
University Konstanz, Universit atsstra ^I2e 10, 78457 Kon-
stanz, Germany +49 (0) 7531 884660
http://meyerlab-konstanz.weebly.com/dr-
amber-makowicz.html Amber Makowicz
<amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de >Amber Makowicz
<amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de >
Lisbon CommunityEcol Feb13-17
Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course Applied Methods in
Community Ecology- February 13-17 2017 @ Lisbon,
Portugal
cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmen-
tal Changes is organizing the Advanced Course Applied
Methods in Community Ecology and Functional Ecol-
ogy by Paulo A. V. Borges & Fran cois Rigal - February
13-17 2017 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Applied Methods in Community Ecology and Functional
EcologyOBJECTIVES: This ve-days intensive course is mostly
a practical course oering an overview on dierent com-
munity ecology and macroecological methods and soft-
ware. These will include all steps of a research project,
from the optimal sampling of communities to process in-
ference from large-scale patterns of taxon, phylogenetic
and functional diversity. Specic topics will be: (1) al-
pha, beta and gamma diversity; (2) estimating diversity
from incomplete sampling; (3) partitioning taxonomic
beta diversity; (4) community-assembly rules, (5) func-
tional and phylogenetic diversity, (6) null models, (7)
rarity and species abundance distribution. Finally, stu-
dents will be asked to present own data and case studies.
See the PROGRAMME at: http://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8 Course
INSTRUCTORS: Paulo A. V. Borges (Assis-
tant Professor at Azores University, researcher
at cE3c) (http://gba.uac.pt/team/IBBC; http://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/paulo-a-v-borges) and
Fran cois Rigal (Assistant Professor at Environment and
Microbiology Team, MELODY group, University of
Pau and external collaborator of cE3c -IBBC, Azorean
Biodiversity Group) (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
member/franccedilois-rigal)
INTENDED AUDIENCE This ve days intensive course
will be open to a maximum number of 20 participants,
being directed to PhD or MSc students in Ecology,
Geography or related areas, and postdocs and other pro-
fessionals working in related topics. The course is free
for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme in
Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution
(BIODIV UL, UP) and Biology and Ecology of Global
Changes (BEAG UL, UA). For information of fees for
other participants see the programme details.
Deadline for applications: January 16 2017 For addi-
tional details about the course and to know how to regis-
ter, click here: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/-
?cat=8 For more information about the course, please
contact: pborges@uac.pt
Margarida Matos <mmmatos@fc.ul.pt >
Mantua Italy InsectConservation
May24-26
LIFE MIPP EUROPEAN WORKSHOP
24-26 May 2017
Mantua, ItalyFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 135
International workshop of the Life project \Monitor-
ing Insects with Public Participation"From 24th to
26th May 2017 the concluding workshop \Monitoring
of saproxylic beetles and other insects protected in the
European Union" will be held in Mantua (Italy).
The project LIFE11 NAT/IT/000252 (Monitoring In-
sects with Public Participation - MIPP) is developing
national guidelines for the monitoring of ve saprox-
ylic beetles species (Osmoderma eremita, Lucanus
cervus, Cerambyx cerdo, Rosalia alpina and Morimus
asper/funereus) listed in the Habitats Directive. One
innovative method tested is the use of a \molecular dog"
to detect Osmoderma eremita. The MIPP project is
also applying a citizen science approach for the map-
ping of rare insects in Italy: people collaborated with
scientists. The workshop is open to anyone interested in
entomology and in particular in: monitoring protocols,
conservation and management, habitats and biodiversity,
citizen science.
The workshop is organized by the National Center
for Study and Conservation of the Forest Biodiversity
\Bosco Fontana" in partnership with the Universities of
Roma \Sapienza" and \Roma Tre", the Council for the
Research in Agriculture, the Ministry for the Environ-
ment and the Lombardy Region. Registration is free
and the workshop is open to 80 attendees.
For registration, detailed information and contacts
please visit www.wsmipp2017.eu . The MIPP Project
is co-funded by the LIFE nancial instrument of the
European Union.
Gloria Antonini <gloria.antonini@uniroma1.it >
MaxPlanck GraduateMeeting
EvolBiol Deadline Jan15 2
Love the whooshing noise* of deadlines as they pass by?
Here is one to remember: Registration is due Jan 15 for
the
*22nd Graduate Meeting in Evolutionary Biology*
of the Germany Zoological Society (DZG) from 19th
to 21st of April 2017 at the Max Planck Institute for
Evolutionary Biology in Ploen, Germany (meeting will
be in English!).
The 2017 theme of the graduate meeting will be \An-
tagonistic Coevolution", but the meeting is open to all
graduate/PhD students and early postdocs in evolution-ary biology.
Please visit the meeting website for more information
and registration:
http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/coevolve The main goal of
the meeting is to foster interactions among early ca-
reer evolutionary biologists and provide opportunities
for presenting your work in a semi-ocial environment.
The program includes time slots for both oral and poster
presentations.
Keynote speakers: Kayla King (Oxford University)
Sylvain Gandon (CEFE Montpellier)
Local organizers: Tobias Lenz Lutz Becks
Deadline for registration is January 15th 2017.
* \I love deadlines. I love the whooshing noise they
make as they go by." - Douglas Adams, The Salmon of
Doubt
\lenz@evolbio.mpg.de" <lenz@evolbio.mpg.de >
MaxPlanckInst EvolBio
GraduateMeeting Coevolution
Deadline Jan15
The deadline is approaching for registering to the
*22nd Graduate Meeting in Evolutionary Biology*
of the Germany Zoological Society (DZG) from 19th
to 21st of April 2017 at the Max Planck Institute for
Evolutionary Biology in Ploen, Germany (meeting will
be in English!).
The 2017 theme of the graduate meeting will be \An-
tagonistic Coevolution", but the meeting is open to all
graduate/PhD students and early postdocs in evolution-
ary biology.
Please visit the meeting website for more information
and registration:
http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/coevolve The main goal of
the meeting is to foster interactions among early ca-
reer evolutionary biologists and provide opportunities
for presenting your work in a semi-ocial environment.
The program includes time slots for both oral and poster
presentations.
Keynote speakers: Kayla King (Oxford University)
Sylvain Gandon (CEFE Montpellier)
Local organizers: Tobias Lenz Lutz Becks136 EvolDir February 1, 2017
Deadline for registration is January 15th 2017.
\lenz@evolbio.mpg.de" <lenz@evolbio.mpg.de >
Naples EMBOPopulationGenomics
May18-26
One month to the deadline for registration!
EMBO, in collaboration with the Elixir-ITA, Isita and
the IGB-CNR, is pleased to inform you that the applica-
tions for the upcoming training course on \Population
Genomics: background and tools" are open.
IMPORTANT DATES for this Course:
Deadline for applications: 24/02/2017
Latest notication of acceptance: 10/03/2017
Course date: 18-26/05/2017
Venue: National Research Council, Institute of Genetics
and Biophysics, via P. Castellino 111, 80131 Naples,
Italy
A maximum of 24 candidates will be selected based on
their application.
Notications of acceptance will be sent shortly after the
closing date of registration.
Full details, including the course programme and the
application form,
at: http://meetings.embo.org/event/17-population-
genomics Instructors:
Aida Andres (Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, Germany) Andrea Manica (University
of Cambridge, UK) Andrew Clark (Cornell Univer-
sity, USA) Garrett Hellenthal (University College Lon-
don, UK) Ida Moltke (University of Copenhagen, Den-
mark) Martin Sikora (Natural History Museum of Den-
mark, Denmark) Mathias Currat (Universit e de Gen eve,
Switzerland) Olivier Delaneau (Universit e de Gen eve,
Switzerland) Pascale Gerbault (University of Westmin-
ster, UK)
Course description
Study methods in population genomics have been pro-
foundly reshaped in the last few years thanks to the
growing availability of complete genomic sequences at
population level. The rapid and recent growth of data
and methods calls for new approaches to become routine
in evolutionary genomics laboratories. The objective ofthis EMBO Practical Course is to give an overview of
state of the art methods in population genomics combin-
ing lecturing from outstanding experienced population
geneticists and software developers. All conceptual in-
novation will be presented in lectures and applied in
practice both individually and in group work.
Practicals includes computer exercises supervised by
lecturers and training assistants. After attending the
course participants will be aware of up-to-date concepts
in population genetics, capable of running analyses us-
ing software based on whole genome data sequences
and able to deal with basic aspects of any population
genomics project. This EMBO Practical Course aims at
evolutionary biologists who already have bioinformatics
skills. PhD students and Post-Doc researchers will ben-
et the most out of this course, but applications from
all candidates will be evaluated in their context.
Thank you for your interest,
The Organisers
Chiara Batini (University of Leicester, UK) Vincenza
Colonna (CNR, Napoli, IT) Allegra Via (CNR, Bari,
IT)
\Batini, Chiara (Dr.)" <cb334@leicester.ac.uk >
NHM London
BotanicalTaxonomicPrinciples
Mar6-10
Short course on taxonomic principles and tools in botan-
ical research 6-10 March 2017, Natural History Museum,
London Applications are open for a short course on
plant taxonomy and identication funded by the UK's
Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).
The course is taught by NHM taxonomic specialists and
makes use of the outstanding botanical collections of the
Museum. Specialist training is oered in vascular plants
(owering plants and ferns), bryophytes, lichens and
marine macroalgae (red, brown and green seaweeds).
The course comprises two days of lectures and demon-
strations and three days of practical sessions, compris-
ing one day in the eld and two days in the herbar-
ium/laboratory.
The course is available to environmental science re-
searchers and PhD students. There are 25 spaces avail-
able, and priority will be given to those with NERC
funding.February 1, 2017 EvolDir 137
The deadline for applications is 17th January 2017.
For more details see: http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-
science/courses-and-students/short-course-taxonomic-
principles-botanical-research.html Mark Carine
<M.Carine@nhm.ac.uk >
NHM London
IntroductoryMolecPylogenetics
May8-12
Dear Colleagues,
The Natural History Museum, London and BBSRC are
oering a one-week introductory course ^A3Integrating
molecules with taxonomy and systematics: an introduc-
tory molecular phylogenetics course for species iden-
tication and evolutionary analysis ^A2, to run from
8-12th May 2017. The course will be taught by
NHM scientists and will benet anyone wishing to
gain expertise in molecular diagnostics and phylo-
genetic analysis for systematic, taxonomic and eco-
logical studies. Note that this course assumes no
prior experience with DNA sequence analyses and is
an introductory course. As such, it is not appro-
priate for more advanced students. More informa-
tion can be found here: http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-
science/courses-and-students/integrating-molecules -
with-taxonomy-and-systematics.html
Summary: This one-week introductory-level course will
teach participants the steps involved to produce molec-
ular phylogenies from raw Sanger and next-generation
sequence data (i.e. Illumina paired-end). A phylogeny is
essential for dening species boundaries, species identi-
cations, recognition of cryptic species, testing systematic
hypotheses, identifying evolutionary and biogeographic
patterns and understanding the evolution of traits. As
such, knowing how to produce a robust tree is an indis-
pensible tool for modern taxonomists, systematists and
evolutionary biologists. By the time the participants
have completed the course, they will have had theoreti-
cal and practical experience enabling them to i) edit raw
Sanger and NGS sequence data, ii) carry out multiple
sequence alignments, iii) choose appropriate models of
sequence evolution, iv) carry out phylogenetic analyses
(including Bayesian inference, maximum likelihood), v)
interpret tree topology and nodal support, vi) produce
publication ready trees, vii) work with public sequence
repositories, vii) assemble and annotate next generation
sequence data, and viii) recognise cryptic species.Venue and duration: The Natural History Museum,
London, UK. The course will run for one week, 9.30am-
6.00pm, 8-12th May 2017.
Eligibility and how to apply: The course is available to
anyone but please note that priority will be given to
applicants supported by BBSRC, working on a BBSRC
grant or based at a BBSRC institute. There are a max-
imum of 12 places available. The course is sponsored
by BBSRC and the NHM and we are charging only a
nominal fee of 300, which includes all course costs as
well as accommodation in London and some travel costs
within the UK. Lunch and light refreshments will be
provided each day. To apply please use the application
form provided and return by the closing date: 31 March
2017. Applications will be accepted up to the deadline
and places will be decided based on merit and suitability.
Email applications to: molec NHMBBSRC@nhm.ac.uk
(Note that this is an automated email account ^A' do not
send queries. Your application will receive a bounce back
message so you know it has arrived safely). Application
forms can be found here: http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-
science/courses-and-students/integrating-molecules -
with-taxonomy-and-systematics.html
Dr Suzanne Williams Dept of Life Sciences Natural His-
tory Museum Cromwell Rd London SW7 5BD United
Kingdom Tel: + 44 (0) 207 942 5351
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/-
sta-directory/zoology/s-williams/index.html
\s.williams@nhm.ac.uk" <s.williams@nhm.ac.uk >
NordU Norway
NGSOfNonModelOrganisms
May31-Jun1
Course: NordUNorway. HighThroughputSequencin-
gOfNonModelOrganisms. May31-June1
High throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies are
being applied to a wide range of important topics in
biology. However, the analyses of non-model organisms,
for which little previous sequence information is avail-
able, pose specic problems. This course will address the
specic strengths and weaknesses of alternative HTS
technologies, the computational resources needed for
HTS, and how to analyze non-model species using HTS.
The course consists of practical training in preparing and
running fragment libraries, HTS bioinformatics training,
and lecturing/seminars of HTS approaches specically138 EvolDir February 1, 2017
targeting non-model organisms.
A detailed course description is available here.
We will accept a maximum of 10 students. The closing
date for applications is April 29.
If you have questions regarding the course, please con-
tact Prof. Truls Moum at truls.b.moum@nord.no
\Alexander-Jueterbock@web.de" <Alexander-
Jueterbock@web.de >
Paris CoevolutionFitnessLandscape-
sEpistasis
Mar1-3
Dear colleagues,
A *small* workshop entitled \co-evolution, tness land-
scapes and epistasis" will take place in Paris, at the
\Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle", 1-3 March 2017.
The workshop aims at gathering scientists with various
backgrounds (biologists, computer scientists, physicists
and mathematicians) who work on the co-evolution
within genomes, the tness landscapes or even more
generally on epistasis. The working time will be evenly
split between presentations and questions / discussions.
The list of conrmed speakers is provided below.
It will start on wednesday (March the 1st) at lunch and
will end on friday (March the 3rd) at lunch. Workshop
registration is free but mandatory (!). Meals expenses
are not included but attendees will be encouraged to
join common lunches in restaurants nearby as well as
the diner of thursday evening. Travel and hotel expenses
are also left to particpants.
The number of attendees is limited to 50. Few slots are
available for contributed talks.
To register to the workshop, please reply to this email (to
guillaume.achaz@mnhn.fr) and ll the following form:
- Full Name : - Aliation(s) : - Email :
If you would like to present your work (beware that only
few slots are available), please also provide:
- a title - a list of the author(s) - an abstract.
** Conrmed speakers **
Thomas Bataillon (Universit e de Aarhus, DK) Claudia
Bank (Gulbenkian Institute, Lisbonne, PT) Alessandra
Carbone (UPMC, Paris, FR) Kristina Crona (Wash-ington DC, USA) Luis-Miguel Chevin (CEPHE, Mont-
pellier, FR) Julien Dutheil (Institut Max Planck, Pl on,
DE) Luca Ferretti (Pribright Institute, UK) Rapha el
Guerrois (CEA, Paris, FR) Joachim Krug (Universit e
de Cologne, DE) Thomas Lenormand (CEFE, Mont-
pellier FR) Guillaume Martin (ISEM, Montpellier, FR)
Sebastian Matuszewski (EPFL, Lausane, SW) Olivier
Tenaillon (Hopital Bichat, Paris, FR) Richard Watson
(Southampton University, UK) Martin Weigt (UPMC,
Paris, FR) Daniel Weinreich (Brown University, Provi-
dence, US)
We hope to see you in Paris to share this exciting scien-
tic event,
Yours sincerely,
The organizing comitee (Guillaume Achaz, Sophie
Brouillet, Mathilde Carpentier, Jo el Pothier and Ed-
uardo Rocha)
\guillaume.achaz@mnhn.fr"
<guillaume.achaz@mnhn.fr >
Pconos FunctionalGenomics
May25-26
We are pleased to announce a \Workshop on Ecological
Functional Genomics" in the Poconos, May 25-26, 2017.
See http://www.lacawac.org/workshop-on-ecological-
functional-genomics.html for more information.
The workshop will include the following instructors:
-David Liberles, Temple University -Liang Liu, Univer-
sity of Georgia -Ananias Escalante, Temple University
-Stephanie Spielman, Temple University -Rob Kulathi-
nal, Temple University
The intended audience for the workshop is research
active undergraduates, graduate students, and postdoc-
toral researchers, although more senior researchers will
also be accepted as space permits. There are a limited
number of full scholarships available for undergraduate
researchers to attend.
The workshop will include a mix of lectures and a chance
to bring your own dataset and analyze it with guidance
from workshop instructors.
Feel free to email with any questions. David Liberles
daliberles@temple.edu
David A Liberles <tuf77157@temple.edu >February 1, 2017 EvolDir 139
Portugal Nature Mar20-24
Course Nature-Based Design Frameworks organized by
Gil Penha-Lopes and Hugo Oliveira (CCIAM, cE3c) j
March 20th-24th 2017 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives: The course will introduce participants to dif-
ferent Nature-based bodies of knowledge and experience,
such as the Biomimicry, Permaculture and Resilience
topics. With almost 2 days per topic, the students will
get a good feeling of how these topics see, do research
and implement eective and sustainable solutions tar-
geting a wide variety of societal, ecological and economic
challenges.
Course instructors Gil Penha-Lopes (Invited Assis-
tant Professor at FCUL, Leader of the Subgroup
'Adaptation and Sustainability', CCIAM, cE3c)
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/gil-pessanha-
penha-lopes And Hugo Oliveira (PhD student, CCIAM,
cE3c) http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/hugo-
ferreira-calado-de-oliveira Intended audience: This
ve days intensive course will be open to a maximum
number of 24 participants, being directed to PhD
or MSc students in Biology, Environmental studies,
Geography or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics. Minimal
formation of students: Bachelor in Biology, Geography
or related areas.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (BIODIV UL; UP) and Biol-
ogy and Ecology of Global Changes (BEAG UL; UA).
For information of fees for other participants see the
programme details.
Deadline for applications: February 24th, 2017 Candi-
dates should send a short CV and motivation letter to
Gil Penha-Lopes (email gppenha-lopes@fc.ul.pt) and
ngela Antunes (email amantunes@fc.ul.pt).
For additional details about the course and to know how
to register, click here: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
training/?cat=8 For more information about the course,
please contact: gppenha-lopes@fc.ul.pt
Margarida Matos <mmmatos@fc.ul.pt >UCalifornia Davis
AppliedPhylogenetics Mar11-18
[FINAL NOTICE] UC Davis WORKSHOP IN AP-
PLIED PHYLOGENETICS at Bodega Marine Lab-
oratory, Bodega Bay, California
March 11-18, 2017
Sponsored by the University of California, Davis and
Bodega Marine Laboratory
website: http://treethinkers.org/ Introduction Phyloge-
netic methods have revolutionized modern systematics
and become indispensable tools in evolution, ecology
and comparative biology, playing an increasingly impor-
tant role in analyses of biological data at all levels of
organization ranging from molecules to ecological com-
munities. The estimation of phylogenetic trees is now a
formalized statistical problem with general agreement
on the central issues and questions. A nearly standard
set of topics is now taught as part of the curriculum
at many colleges and universities. On the other hand,
application of phylogenetic methods to novel problems
outside systematics is an area of special excitement, in-
novation, and controversy, and perspectives vary widely.
This Spring, for the seventeenth year, we will teach a
workshop for graduate students interested in applying
phylogenetic methods to diverse topics in biology. The
one-week course is an intensive exploration of problems
to which modern phylogenetic approaches are being
applied and the most current statistical tools and ap-
proaches that are used to solve those problems. We cover
a wide range of topics in comparative phylogenetics. The
course starts with recent advances in phylogenetic infer-
ence, and then focuses on methods for making inferences
from phylogenies.
The course will be held at the Bodega Marine Labora-
tory on the beautiful Northern California coast, which
has on-site housing. The course format will involve equal
parts of lecture and hands-on software training (with
an emphasis on performing analyses using RevBayes:
http://revbayes.github.io/about.html). One afternoon
during the week will be left free for eld trips to local
natural areas.
Topics Covered * Estimating, evaluating and interpret-
ing phylogenetic trees * Recent advances in Bayesian
inference of phylogeny * Model specication issues:
model selection, adequacy and uncertainty * Diagnos-140 EvolDir February 1, 2017
ing MCMC performance * Divergence-time estimation:
relaxed clocks, fossil calibration * Species-tree estima-
tion and species delimitation * Character evolution:
ancestral-state estimation, rates of trait evolution * Lin-
eage diversication: detecting rate shifts, testing key-
innovation hypotheses
Prerequisites Available housing limits course enrollment
to~30 students. Preference is given to doctoral candi-
dates who are in the early to middle stages of their thesis
research, and who have completed sucient prerequisites
(through previous coursework or research experience)
to provide some familiarity with phylogenetic methods.
Unfortunately, because of limits on class size, postdocs
and faculty are generally discouraged from applying.
Admission and Fees Students will be admitted based on
academic qualications and appropriateness of research
interests. The course fee is $750. This includes room
and board at BML for duration of the course (arriving
March 11, leaving March 18) and return transportation
from Davis to the Bodega Marine Labs.
Application Deadline Applications are due by January
31, 2017. Please send a completed application form and
one letter of recommendation from your major advi-
sor. Applications should be sent via email as PDFs to
mikeryanmay@gmail.com. Students will be notied via
e-mail by February 4, 2017 of acceptance.
Application Forms and Information Visit the Bodega
website for additional information and to download an
application form: http://treethinkers.org/ Send all
application materials to:
Mike May Department of Evolution and Ecology 5343
Storer Hall University of California Davis Davis, CA
95616 email: mikeryanmay@gmail.com email: mikeryan-
may@gmail.com
UCalifornia Davis AppliedPhylo
Mar11-18
[SECOND NOTICE] UC Davis WORKSHOP IN AP-
PLIED PHYLOGENETICS at Bodega Marine Labora-
tory, Bodega Bay, California
March 1118, 2017
Sponsored by the University of California, Davis and
Bodega Marine Laboratory
http://treethinkers.org Introduction Phylogenetic meth-
ods have revolutionized modern systematics and becomeindispensable tools in evolution, ecology and compara-
tive biology, playing an increasingly important role in
analyses of biological data at all levels of organization
ranging from molecules to ecological communities. The
estimation of phylogenetic trees is now a formalized sta-
tistical problem with general agreement on the central
issues and questions. A nearly standard set of topics is
now taught as part of the curriculum at many colleges
and universities. On the other hand, application of
phylogenetic methods to novel problems outside system-
atics is an area of special excitement, innovation, and
controversy, and perspectives vary widely.
This Spring, for the seventeenth year, we will teach a
workshop for graduate students interested in applying
phylogenetic methods to diverse topics in biology. The
one-week course is an intensive exploration of problems
to which modern phylogenetic approaches are being
applied and the most current statistical tools and ap-
proaches that are used to solve those problems. We cover
a wide range of topics in comparative phylogenetics. The
course starts with recent advances in phylogenetic infer-
ence, and then focuses on methods for making inferences
from phylogenies.
The course will be held at the Bodega Marine Labora-
tory on the beautiful Northern California coast, which
has on-site housing. The course format will involve equal
parts of lecture and hands-on software training (with
an emphasis on performing analyses using RevBayes
<http://revbayes.github.io/about.html >). One after-
noon during the week will be left free for eld trips to
local natural areas.
Topics Covered * Estimating, evaluating and interpret-
ing phylogenetic trees * Recent advances in Bayesian
inference of phylogeny * Model specication issues:
model selection, adequacy and uncertainty * Diagnos-
ing MCMC performance * Divergence-time estimation:
relaxed clocks, fossil calibration * Species-tree estima-
tion and species delimitation * Character evolution:
ancestral-state estimation, rates of trait evolution * Lin-
eage diversication: detecting rate shifts, testing key-
innovation hypotheses
Prerequisites Available housing limits course enrollment
to~30 students. Preference is given to doctoral candi-
dates who are in the early to middle stages of their thesis
research, and who have completed sucient prerequisites
(through previous coursework or research experience)
to provide some familiarity with phylogenetic methods.
Unfortunately, because of limits on class size, postdocs
and faculty are generally discouraged from applying.
Admission and Fees Students will be admitted based on
academic qualications and appropriateness of research
interests. The course fee is $750. This includes roomFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 141
and board at BML for duration of the course (arriving
March 11, leaving March 18) and return transportation
from Davis to the Bodega Marine Labs.
Application Deadline Applications are due by January
31, 2017. Please send a completed application form and
one letter of recommendation from your major advi-
sor. Applications should be sent via email as PDFs to
mikeryanmay@gmail.com. Students will be notied via
e-mail by February 4, 2017 of acceptance.
Application Forms and Information Visit the Bodega
website for additional information and to download an
application form: http://treethinkers.org Send all ap-
plication materials to:
Mike May Department of Evolution and Ecology 5343
Storer Hall University of California Davis Davis, CA
95616 email: mikeryanmay@gmail.com
\brianmoore@ucdavis.edu" <brianmoore@ucdavis.edu >
UCalifornia Davis Phylogenetics
Mar11-18
UC Davis WORKSHOP IN APPLIED PHYLOGENET-
ICS at Bodega Marine Laboratory, Bodega Bay, Cali-
fornia
March 1118, 2017
Sponsored by the University of California, Davis and
Bodega Marine Laboratory
http://treethinkers.org Introduction Phylogenetic meth-
ods have revolutionized modern systematics and become
indispensable tools in evolution, ecology and compara-
tive biology, playing an increasingly important role in
analyses of biological data at all levels of organization
ranging from molecules to ecological communities. The
estimation of phylogenetic trees is now a formalized sta-
tistical problem with general agreement on the central
issues and questions. A nearly standard set of topics is
now taught as part of the curriculum at many colleges
and universities. On the other hand, application of
phylogenetic methods to novel problems outside system-
atics is an area of special excitement, innovation, and
controversy, and perspectives vary widely.
This Spring, for the seventeenth year, we will teach a
workshop for graduate students interested in applying
phylogenetic methods to diverse topics in biology. The
one-week course is an intensive exploration of problems
to which modern phylogenetic approaches are beingapplied and the most current statistical tools and ap-
proaches that are used to solve those problems. We cover
a wide range of topics in comparative phylogenetics. The
course starts with recent advances in phylogenetic infer-
ence, and then focuses on methods for making inferences
from phylogenies.
The course will be held at the Bodega Marine Labora-
tory on the beautiful Northern California coast, which
has on-site housing. The course format will involve equal
parts of lecture and hands-on software training (with
an emphasis on performing analyses using RevBayes
<http://revbayes.github.io/about.html >). One after-
noon during the week will be left free for eld trips to
local natural areas.
Topics Covered * Estimating, evaluating and interpret-
ing phylogenetic trees * Recent advances in Bayesian
inference of phylogeny * Model specication issues:
model selection, adequacy and uncertainty * Diagnos-
ing MCMC performance * Divergence-time estimation:
relaxed clocks, fossil calibration * Species-tree estima-
tion and species delimitation * Character evolution:
ancestral-state estimation, rates of trait evolution * Lin-
eage diversication: detecting rate shifts, testing key-
innovation hypotheses
Prerequisites Available housing limits course enrollment
to~30 students. Preference is given to doctoral candi-
dates who are in the early to middle stages of their thesis
research, and who have completed sucient prerequisites
(through previous coursework or research experience)
to provide some familiarity with phylogenetic methods.
Unfortunately, because of limits on class size, postdocs
and faculty are generally discouraged from applying.
Admission and Fees Students will be admitted based on
academic qualications and appropriateness of research
interests. The course fee is $750. This includes room
and board at BML for duration of the course (arriving
March 11, leaving March 18) and return transportation
from Davis to the Bodega Marine Labs.
Application Deadline Applications are due by January
31, 2017. Please send a completed application form and
one letter of recommendation from your major advi-
sor. Applications should be sent via email as PDFs to
mikeryanmay@gmail.com. Students will be notied via
e-mail by February 4, 2017 of acceptance.
Application Forms and Information Visit the Bodega
website for additional information and to download an
application form: http://treethinkers.org Send all ap-
plication materials to:
Mike May Department of Evolution and Ecology 5343
Storer Hall University of California Davis Davis, CA
95616 email: mikeryanmay@gmail.com142 EvolDir February 1, 2017
\brianmoore@ucdavis.edu" <brianmoore@ucdavis.edu >
UCalifornia LosAngeles
ConservationGenomics
UCLA/La Kretz Workshop in Conservation Genomics,
25 - 29 March, 2017 Conservation biology, genetics, and
evolutionary biology have had a long and intimate re-
lationship, and conservation constitutes one of the key
applications of evolutionary analysis to real-world biolog-
ical problems. The impacts of population and landscape
genetics and gene expression studies have been particu-
larly striking, and are helping to solve some of the most
pressing problems in biological conservation.
As the eld of conservation genetics continues to grow
and mature, the availability of genome-scale data stand
to make profound new contributions to our ability to
identify and protect at-risk populations and recover
those that are most endangered. However, genomic
analyses also carry a heavy burden{data sets are enor-
mous, often requiring diverse computational approaches
for assembly, quality control and analysis.
The La Kretz annual workshop provides a comfort-
able, rigorous, but informal training environment for a
small group of motivated graduate students to explore
how conservation problems can best be addressed with
genomic-level data. Our goal is to provide hands-on
experience in the ecient collection, troubleshooting,
and analysis of large data sets for conservation-relevant
problems. One of the highlights of our workshop is
active participation from members of several govern-
mental agencies who are at the forefront of endangered
species protection and management, providing a forum
for exploring the most relevant aspects of conservation
genomics to managers.
The UCLA/La Kretz workshop is held at the La Kretz
Field Station (https://www.ioes.ucla.edu/santa-monica-
mountains-research/) and Stunt Ranch Reserve (http:/-
/stuntranch.ucnrs.org/) in the heart of the Santa Monica
Mountains. Only 30 miles from UCLA and the LAX air-
port, but nestled in the relatively undeveloped 160,000
acre Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area,
the Field Station/Stunt Reserve provides an ideal loca-
tion to explore new developments in genomic science
and pressing needs in conservation and management
together in a single setting.
Our current instructor list, drawn from UCLA faculty
and several other partner institutions, includes: BenFitzpatrick (U. Tennessee Knoxville) Kirk Lohmueller
Evan McCartney-Melstad Ian Wang (UC Berkeley, ten-
tative) Brad Shaer Victoria Sork Bob Wayne Ying
Zhen Erin Toelmier Alice Mouton/Devaughn Fraser
Emily Curd/Zach Gold Agency partners represented
include: USGS BLM USFWS CDFW
Topics covered include: Overview of traditional conser-
vation genetics Next generation platforms: the best tool
for the job Data management pipelines: Quality Control
Data storage Data organization Data types and analyses:
SNPs Sequences Exploring very large data sets Func-
tional genomic data RNA-seq RADseq pipelines, from
raw reads to analyzing data Genomic data and GIS Vi-
sualizing geographic structure and demographic history
Admixture, clines, and hybridization Detecting adaptive
variation RNAseq in a conservation context eDNA as
an emerging tool Prerequisites: Available housing limits
course enrollment to ~20 students. Preference will be
given to masters and doctoral candidates who are in the
early to middle stages of their thesis research, and who
have some familiarity with using a command line inter-
face or programming languages (i.e. Perl, python etc.).
We also welcome applications from postdocs, faculty,
and government researchers, although our top priority
is graduate student applicants. We encourage appli-
cations from women, minorities, and individuals from
under-represented demographics in the sciences.
Admission and Fees: Applicants will be admitted based
on academic qualications and appropriateness of re-
search interests. The course fee is $425. This includes
food and lodging at the La Kretz Field Station, as well
as any incidental fees, for the duration of the course (ar-
riving Saturday March 25, departing Thursday March
30).
This year, the workshop is co-sponsored by a UC Cata-
lyst program grant, which will provide some student sup-
port and stang. University of California students from
any campus may apply for partial support (up to $225)
from the newly awarded Conservation Genomics Con-
sortium (https://ucconservationgenomics.eeb.ucla.edu/)
funded under the UC Catalyst program. To do so, sim-
ply note in your application that you would like to apply
for this partial support.
UCLA students are encouraged to take the La Kretz
Workshop for graduate credit. Other UC students may
also be able to take the course for credit.
Application Forms and Information: Visit the UCLA/La
Kretz Center for California Conservation Science website
for additional information:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.February 1, 2017 EvolDir 143
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEdinburgh 4 PythonLinux
Apr10-Jul28
ADVANCED PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS
DATE: Monday 24 - Friday 28 July 2017 VENUE: The
King's Buildings, The University of Edinburgh, Edin-
burgh, Scotland, UK REGISTRATION DEADLINE:
Monday 10 July 2017 noon CANCELLATION DEAD-
LINE: Monday 17 July 2017 noon PLACES: 20 (rst
come, rst served) REGISTRATION FEE: pounds 525
(includes coee/tea, but no lunch) INFORMATION:
Bert Overduin (bert.overduin@ed.ac.uk), Martin Jones
( martin@pythonforbiologists.com)
TO REGISTER: http://genomics.ed.ac.uk/services/-
advanced-python-biologists Python is a dynamic, read-
able language that is a popular platform for all types of
bioinformatics work, from simple one-o scripts to large,
complex software projects. This workshop is aimed at
people who already have a basic knowledge of Python
and are interested in using the language to tackle larger
problems. In it, we will look in detail at the parts of
the language which are particularly useful in scientic
programming, and at the tools Python oers for making
development faster and easier. The workshop will use
examples and exercises drawn from various aspects of
bioinformatics work. After completing the workshop,
students should be in a position to (1) take advantage of
the advanced language features in their own programs
and (2) use appropriate tools when developing software
programs.
\Just what I needed to start writing more complex code."
(August 2015)
\I also liked the fact that Martin spent a good amount of
one on one time talking to people helping explain spe-
cic concepts and giving people advice on their personal
academic projects." (July 2016) INSTRUCTORS
Dr. Martin Jones (Founder, Python for Biologists) Dr.
Bert Overduin (Training and Outreach Bioinformatician,
Edinburgh Genomics)
WORKSHOP FORMAT
The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions.
Each session consists of roughly a one hour lecture fol-
lowed by two hours of practical exercises, with breaks atthe organiser's discretion. Each session uses examples
and exercises that build on material from the previous
one, so it's important that students attend all sessions.
A description of the sessions can be found at the bottom
of this page.
WHO SHOULD ATTEND
This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical
workers with a background in biology and a basic knowl-
edge of Python.
Note that we are also oering a workshop Data Manip-
ulation and Visualisation with Python. The Advanced
course is aimed at people who want to develop bigger
or more complicated programs in Python, or to learn
more about the language, or to explore dierent ap-
proaches (object-oriented, functional) to programming.
The material covered is very general purpose and can
be applied to any kind of problem. The Dataviz course
is about using a set of Python libraries that are speci-
cally designed for data exploration and visualisation. In
the Dataviz course, we're going to concentrate on using
these tools to explore patterns in data, but the actual
code that we write will be very simple - mostly we will
be calling the functions and methods in these libraries.
To summarise: if you want to learn more about the
language, build more complicated programs, or need to
work with existing complicated programs, attend the
Advanced course. If you want to explore datasets, nd
patterns, produce gures and charts, attend the Dataviz
course.
REQUIREMENTS
Students should have enough biological/bioinformatics
background to appreciate the examples and exercise
problems (i.e. they should know what a protein acces-
sion number, BLAST report, and FASTA sequence is).
They should also have basic Python experience (the
Edinburgh Genomics Introduction to Python for Biol-
ogists course will full these requirements). Students
should be familiar with the use of lists, loops, functions
and conditions in Python and have written at least a
few small programs from scratch. During the workshop
students will use their own laptops. Instructions for any
software to be installed will be sent out prior to the
course.
SESSION CONTENT
1. Data structures in Python
In this session we will briey recap Python's basic data
structures, before looking at a couple of new data types
\ tuples and sets " and discussing where each should
be used. We will then see how we can combine these
basic types to make more complex data structures for144 EvolDir February 1, 2017
solving specic problems. We'll nish our discussion
by looking at specialized data types that are found in
the Python core library. This session will also be our
rst introduction to benchmarking as we talk about
the relative performance of dierent data types. In the
practical session we'll learn how to parse an input le
into a complex data structure which we can then use
to rapidly query the data. Core concepts introduced:
tuples, sets, higher-order data structures, default dicts,
Counters, big-O notation.
2. Recursion and trees
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK
LandscapeGeneticsAnalysisUsingR
Nov6-10
\Landscape (population) genetic data analysis using R"
Delivered by Dr. Rodney Dyer
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/landscape-genetic-
data-analysis-using-r-lndg02/ This course will run
from 6th - 10th November 2016 at Margam Discovery
Centre, Wales.
The term 'landscape genetics' has been applied studies
that integrate ecological context and intervening land-
scape into population genetic analyses of contemporary
processes such as gene ow and migration. This course
will cover the basics of both quantitative landscape
ecology and population genetics, focusing on how we
develop and evaluate spatial/genetic analyses using the
R platform
Course content is as follows Day 1 - Spatial & Ecolog-
ical Data - Installation & conguring R & RStudio -
Acquiring spatial data, projections, and visualization -
Vector and raster data
Day 2 - Genetic markers and basic analyses - Genetic
markers and sampling - Genetic distance, diversity, and
structure - Ordination techniques based upon genetic
markers
Day 3 - Integrating spatial and genetic data - Barrier
detection & population division - Resistance Modeling- Mantel and distance regressions - Remote sensing -
LiDAR and Hyperspectral data
Day 4 - Integrating spatial and genetic data - Spatial
autocorrelation - Network Approaches - PCMN & Re-
dundancy
Day 5 - Adaptive Genetic Variance - Outliers & gra-
dients - Quantitative genetics, why we should care. -
Chromosome walking
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Upcoming courses - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
1. ADVANCED PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS
(February 2017) #APYB http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/advanced-python-biologists-apyb01/ 2.
STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR,
SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R (February 2017)
#SIMM http://www.prstatistics.com/course/stable-
isotope-mixing-models-using-r-simm03/ 3. NETWORK
ANAYLSIS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING R (March
2017) #NTWA http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
network-analysis-ecologists-ntwa01/ 4. ADVANCES
IN MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF SPATIAL
ECOLOGICAL DATA (April 2017) #MVSP http:/-
/www.prstatistics.com/course/advances-in-spatial-
analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-data-theory-and-
practice-mvsp02/ 5. INTRODUCTION TO STATIS-
TICS AND R FOR BIOLOGISTS (April 2017) #IRFB
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
statistics-and-r-for-biologists-irfb02/ 6. ADVANCING
IN STATISTICAL MODELLING USING R (April
2017) #ADVR http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
advancing-statistical-modelling-using-r-advr05/
7. GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING R
(June 2017) #GMMR http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/geometric-morphometrics-using-r-gmmr01/
8. MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF SPATIAL
ECOLOGICAL DATA (June 2017) #MASE http:/-
/www.prstatistics.com/course/multivariate-analysis-
of-spatial-ecological-data-using-r-mase01/ 9. TIME
SERIES MODELS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING R
(JUNE 2017 (#TSME)
10. BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS
AND BIOLOGISTS (July 2017) #BIGB http:/-
/www.prstatistics.com/course/bioinformatics-for-
geneticists-and-biologists-bigb02/ 11. SPATIAL
ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R
(August 2017) #SPAE http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/spatial-analysis-ecological-data-using-r-spae05/February 1, 2017 EvolDir 145
12. ECOLOGICAL NICHE MODELLING (October
2017) #ENMR http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
ecological-niche-modelling-using-r-enmr01/ 13.
INTRODUCTION TO BIOINFORMATICS USING
LINUX (October 2017) #IBUL
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK TwoPythonCourses Nov27-Dec1
Two Python courses: INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON
FOR BIOLOGISTS DATA VISUALISATION AND MA-
NIPULATION USING PYTHON (below)
|{
INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
python-for-biologists-ipyb04/ This course is being
delivered by Dr Martin Jones, an expert in Python and
author of two text books,
Python for Biologists [http://www.amazon.com/-
Python-Biologists-complete-programming-beginners/-
dp/1492346136/] Advanced Python for Biologists
[http://www.amazon.com/Advanced-Python-Biologists-
Martin-Jones/dp/1495244377/] . Course overview:
Python is a dynamic, readable language that is a
popular platform for all types of bioinformatics work,
from simple one-o scripts to large, complex software
projects. This workshop is aimed at complete beginners
and assumes no prior programming experience. It
gives an overview of the language with an emphasis on
practical problem-solving, using examples and exercises
drawn from various aspects of bioinformatics work.
After completing the workshop, students should be in
a position to (1) apply the skills they have learned to
tackle problems in their own research and (2) continue
their Python education in a self-directed way. Intended
audience:
This workshop is aimed at all researchers and techni-
cal workers with a background in biology who want
to learn programming. The syllabus has been planned
with complete beginners in mind; people with previous
programming experience are welcome to attend as a
refresher but may nd the pace a bit slow. Teaching
format:The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see
the detailed curriculum below). Each session consists
of roughly a one hour lecture followed by two hours of
practical exercises, with breaks at the organizer's dis-
cretion. There will also be plenty of time for students
to discuss their own problems and data.
Assumed background: Students should have enough
biological background to appreciate the examples and
exercise problems (i.e. they should know about DNA
and protein sequences, what translation is, and what
introns and exons are). No previous programming ex-
perience or computer skills (beyond the ability to use
a text editor) are necessary, but you'll need to have a
laptop with Python installed.
Curriculum: Day 1: Module 1 - Introduction Module 2
- Output and text manipulation
Day 2: Module 3 - File IO and user interfaces Module 4
- Flow control 1: loops
Day 3: Module 5 - Flow control 2: conditionals Module
6 - Organizing and structuring code
Day 4: Module 7 - Regular expressions Module 8 -
Dictionaries
Day 5: Module 9 - Interaction with the le system
Module 10 - Optional free afternoon to cover previous
modules and discuss data
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Other bioinformatics courses
ADVANCED PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (February
2017) #APYB http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
advanced-python-biologists-apyb01/ BIOINFOR-
MATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOLOGISTS
(July 2017) #BIGB http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/bioinformatics-for-geneticists-and-biologists-
bigb02/ INTRODUCTION TO BIOINFORMAT-
ICS USING LINUX (October 2017) #IBUL
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-
to-bioinformatics-using-linux-ibul02/ DATA VI-
SUALISATION AND MANIPULATION USING
PYTHON (December 2017) #DVMP http://-
www.prstatistics.com/course/data-visualisation-
and-manipulation-using-python-dvmp01/ Other
evolutionary statistics courses
INTRODUCTION TO STATISTICS AND R
FOR BIOLOGISTS (April 2017) #IRFB http://-
www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-statistics-
and-r-for-biologists-irfb02/ ADVANCING IN STATIS-
TICAL MODELLING USING R (April 2017) #ADVR146 EvolDir February 1, 2017
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/advancing-
statistical-modelling-using-r-advr05/ GEOMETRIC
MORPHOMETRICS USING R (June 2017) #GMMR
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMichigan NextProf May2-5
*NextProf** Science - Future Faculty Workshop *
We would like to invite interested evolutionary biolo-
gists to the NextProf Future Faculty Workshop at the
University of Michigan. *NextProf Science *will be held
May 2-5, 2017 and is a workshop designed to encourage
talented scientists and mathematicians with a demon-
strated commitment to diversity to consider academia as
a career. The workshop is aimed at helping participants
develop strategies that will strengthen their ability to
pursue academic careers. The workshop is targeted at
scholars ready to make take the next step {postdoctoral
fellows and very advanced doctoral students. Underrep-
resented minorities and women are especially encouraged
to apply. Travel, lodging, and meals will be provided for
those selected to participate. Deadline for submission
of all application materials is February 15, 2017. Learn
more at: sites.lsa.umich.edu/nextprof-science.
Best wishes,
Gina Baucom
Regina S Baucom Assistant Professor 2059 Kraus Nat-
ural Science Building 830 North University Dept of
EEB University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109 (734)
647-8490 http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/baucom-lab rsbau-
com@umich.edu
UWashington EvolQuantGenetics
Jun5-9
Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics Workshop
Friday Harbor Laboratories, University of Washington,
5-9 June 2017Non-credit workshop. Participants arrive at Friday Har-
bor Labs on Sunday, June 4, lectures and exercises occur
June 5-9, and participants depart on Saturday, June 10,
2017.
Application deadline March 1, 2017. Applica-
tion forms and details here: http://tinyurl.com/-
EQG2017 Web page: http://depts.washington.edu/fhl/-
studentSummer2017.html#SumB-genetics Instructors:
Dr. Joe Felsenstein Department of Genome Sciences Uni-
versity of Washington, Seattle joe@gs.washington.edu
Dr. Stevan J. Arnold Department of Integra-
tive Biology Oregon State University, Corvallis ste-
van.arnold@oregonstate.edu
Previous versions of this 5-day workshop were given
at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
CENT) at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina
from 2011-2013, and then at the National Institute for
Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS) at
the University of Tennessee in Knoxville from 2014-2016.
Like past versions, the Friday Harbor version will review
the basics of theory in the eld of evolutionary quantita-
tive genetics and its connections to evolution observed at
various time scales. The aim of the workshop is to build
a bridge between the traditionally separate disciplines
of quantitative genetics and comparative methods.
Quantitative genetic theory for natural populations was
developed considerably in the period from 1970 to 1990
and up to the present, and it has been applied to a wide
range of phenomena including the evolution of dier-
ences between the sexes, sexual preferences, life history
traits, plasticity of traits, as well as the evolution of
body size and other morphological measurements. Text-
books have not kept pace with these developments, and
currently few universities oer courses in this subject
aimed at evolutionary biologists. Evolutionary biolo-
gists need to understand this eld because of the ability
to collect large amounts of data by computer, the de-
velopment of statistical methods for changes of traits
on evolutionary trees and for changes in a single species
through time, and the realization that quantitative char-
acters will not soon be fully explained by genomics.
This workshop aims to ll this need by reviewing basic
aspects of theory and illustrating how that theory can
be tested with data, both from single species and with
multiple-species phylogenies. Participants will use R, an
open-source statistical programming language, to build
and test evolutionary models.
The workshop involves lectures and in-class computer
exercises. You can consult the 2016 tutorial website for
examples, it will be found at http://www.nimbios.org/-
tutorials/TT eqg2016 The intended participants for thisFebruary 1, 2017 EvolDir 147
tutorial are graduate students, post-docs, and junior
faculty members in evolutionary biology. The work-
shop can accommodate up to 35 participants. Guest
instructors will include:
* Marguerite Butler, Biology, Univ. Hawai'i, M Anoa
* Patrick Carter, Evolutionary Physiology, Washing-
ton State University, Pullman * Adam Jones, Biol-
ogy, Texas A&M University, College Station * Brian
O'Meara, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Univ. of
Tennessee, Knoxville * Josef Uyeda, Biological Sciences,Virginia Tech, Blacksburg
Cost: $1000 to be paid to Friday Harbor Laboratories.
This fee will cover housing and meals at FHL and all
other workshop expenses, except travel. Participants
who have been admitted to attend will make their pay-
ment prior to arrival at FHL. Details of payment by
credit card or check will be provided once the applicant
has been admitted to attend.
Joe Felsenstein <joe@gs.washington.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword148 EvolDir February 1, 2017
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.