E v o l D i r
May 1, 2022
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1272 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Conferences
Asilomar California ASN symposiaProposals . . . . . . . .2
CIGENE HumanGut Apr6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Cleveland Evolution Jun24-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
ESEBCongress AbstractSubmissionExtended . . . . . . . 4
ESEBSymposium TandemRepeats 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Groningen BehavBiol Jul20-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Lisbon SocietyEvolMedicine Jul5-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Lisbon SocietyEvolMedicine Jul5-8 AbstractDeadline 5
Napoli EuroEvoDevo May31-Jun3 Registration . . . . . 6
Netherlands NLSB Jun27-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Online ConGen Sep6-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Online EvolutionInformedProteomics Apr12 . . . . . . . . 8
Online HumanPopGenetics Apr20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Online LowMutationLoad Apr27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Online Phylogenetics Apr26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Paris EvolutionOfSexChromosomes Jun9-10 . . . . . . . 10Prague DomesticationWithAncientDNA Aug14-19 .10
Prague ESEB InvasiveSpecies Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Prague ESEBInvasiveSpecies Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Prague ESEB RapidEvolutionOfColorPatterns Aug14-
19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Prague ESEB ResurrectionEcology Aug14-19 . . . . . . 13
Prague PredatorCognition Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Prague PredatorCognition Aug14-19 AbstCallReminder
14
Prague PredatorCognitionPreyDefences Aug14-19 . 15
Prague RepeatedEvolution Aug . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Praque HostPathCoevolutionImmunity Aug14-19 . .16
Praque PosttranscriptionalRegulationInEvolution
Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May13-15 DeadlineExt 17
Asilomar California ASN
symposiaProposals
AsilomarCalifornia.ASN Symposium Call.2023
The American Society of Naturalists
Proposals for Symposia at the ASN stand-alone meeting
in Asilomar 2023
Due July 01, 2022
The American Society of Naturalists will be going back
to Asilomar in Pacic Grove, California, to hold our
stand-alone conference - Asilomar 2023 - on 6-10 Jan-
uary 2023!
Have an idea for a special symposium? We want to hear
it!
The ASN Symposium Committee invites you to submit
proposals for a special symposium. Proposed sympo-
sium topics should support the Society's goal to advance
the conceptual unication of the biological sciences and
to further knowledge in evolution, ecology, behavior,
and organismal biology. Topics could center around
important emerging issues in evolution, ecology, or be-
havior or focus on a pivotal historical paper, tracingits impact and exploring current cutting-edge research
inspired by this work. A budget of up to $8,000 is avail-
able to defray travel, registration, and lodging costs for
speakers.
Proposals should include (1) a title; (2) a description of
the symposium topic (up to one page); (3) a list of six
speakers, including institutional aliations, who have
agreed to participate in the symposium; (4) a justica-
tion for the symposium, explaining why the topic and
speakers are appropriate for an ASN symposium (up to
one page).
Please submit proposals by email
(rachel.spigler[at]temple.edu) no later than mid-
night Eastern Time on July 01, 2022. Send your
proposal as a single pdf attachment, under subject
heading \ASN Asilomar 2023 Symposium Proposal". A
conrmation email will be sent within 1-2d of receipt.
In line with theASN'scommitment to diversity, we en-
courage including speakers from groups who have been
historically excluded from STEM. Therefore, proposals
that include a diverse list of speakers from a range of
backgrounds, institutions, career stages, geography, gen-
der, race etc.are especially encouraged. The Society's
selection committee will evaluate proposals based on
their potential to attracting substantial audience and
stimulate discussion, the signicance and timeliness of
the topic, and on the topic's diering substantively fromMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 3
recent symposia hosted by the Society. Applicants will
be notied of the decision before the end of July 2022.
Rachel Spigler ASN Symposium Committee
Chair Department of Biology Temple University
rachel.spigler[at]temple.edu
Rachel Spigler <rachel.spigler@temple.edu >
CIGENE HumanGut Apr6
Hi all!
The next seminar is in just one week and we are thrilled
to present our internal speaker; Dr. Sabina Leanti La
Rosa, researcher at NMBU, who will present:
Decrypting the mechanism for xanthan gum process-
ing by human gut bacteria through multi-omics and
enzymology
Abstract: Microbial communities and their enzymes
process many of the \typical" dietary nutrients acces-
sible in the human gastrointestinal tract and play an
essential role in host health and nutrition. Eating habits
of industrialized countries and gluten-free diets reect
an increasing consumption of processed foods, hence
concomitant increased intakes of \atypical" nutrients
such as food additives. While often believed to be
inert, little is known about the interactions of food ad-
ditives with the human gut microbiota and their fate
in the gut. In this talk, I will present results showing
that the human gut microbiota can process xanthan
gum, a common food additive used in bakery prod-
ucts, beverages and in gluten-free foods. Metagenomic
and metatranscriptomic analyses revealed the presence
of a common uncultured Ruminococcaceae genus (R.
UCG13) equipped with a gene cluster responsive to xan-
than gum. Detailed biochemical studies supported a
model whereby extracellular hydrolysis of xanthan gum
generates oligosaccharides that are subsequently depoly-
merized to monosaccharides by a cocktail of intracellular
enzymes. In some cases, oligosaccharides produced by
the primary degrader R. UCG13 also cross-feed other
bacterial populations equipped with their own specic
catabolic pathway. A survey of 2441 public human gut
metagenomes revealed the broad, diet-specic, distribu-
tion of these xanthan utilization loci across the world.
Overall, we show that this food additive is not inert
and has driven the evolution of interlinked trophic rela-
tionships between at least two populations within the
human gut microbiota, an adaptation that reects theincorporation of xanthan gum into human diets in the
past 50 years.
Time: Wednesday, April 6th, 12-13 CET Place: This will
be an online seminar: Click here for access to the Zoom
seminar. <https://nmbu.zoom.us/j/67064421833 >
For more information, check out the seminar web-
site: https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/ Marie
SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal Investigator,
Centre of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty
of Biosciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie Saito
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
Cleveland Evolution Jun24-28
REMINDER: The early registration discount for EVO-
LUTION 2022, the joint annual meeting of the ASN,
SSB, and SSE, is available until May 1.
Evolution 2022 is hybrid; join us in-person and/or online:
June 21 & 22: virtual conference June 24-28: in-person
in Cleveland, OH
For everyone's safety, we have strict vaccine and mask
requirements. Event sta will also be masked.
Information: http://www.evolutionmeetings.org Reg-
istration: https://www.xcdsystem.com/evolution/-
attendee/index.cfm?ID=4LdX6xZ Highlights * Many
events and programs in support of diversity, equity and
inclusion * Talk & poster submission are available once
you complete main registration. * Talk sign-up is rst-
come, rst-served, with all submissions accepted until
capacity is reached or until May 15, WHICHEVER
IS EARLIER. * All posters are accepted until June
1. * Hotel and dorm accommodations are available
* Conference-ending Super Social is a private event
at the incredible Rock & Roll Hall of Fame! * Hop-
ing to compete for the SSB Mayr or SSE Hamilton
awards? Pay careful attention to instructions: https://-
www.evolutionmeetings.org/student-awards.html * Free
on-site childcare * Cleveland has a vibrant and attrac-
tive downtown with ample options for food and drinks
near the convention center
Howard Rundle <hrundle@uottawa.ca >4 EvolDir May 1, 2022
ESEBCongress
AbstractSubmissionExtended
ESEB Congress 2022 - ABSTRACT SUBMISSION EX-
TENDED UNTIL 22 April 2022!
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology invites
you to submit your abstract for the next ESEB congress
from 14-19 August 2022 in Prague, Czech Republic.
The list of symposia is available at https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/symposia Details about sub-
mitting an abstract are available at https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page Please
note the following dates:
22 April 2022 - Abstract submission closes 10 May 2022 -
Communication of selection of contributed talks/posters
15 June 2022 - Early bird registration closes
Further details are available at https://www.eseb2022.cz
Dr. Ute Friedrich jEmail: oce@eseb.org European
Society for Evolutionary Biology jwww.eseb.org ESEB
Oce <oce@eseb.org >
ESEBSymposium TandemRepeats
2022
Dear evoldir community,
We would be very happy to welcome you at our
ESEB 2022 symposium \Tandem repeats: their role
in molecular evolution and methods" (S27), which
is open for submissions until April 15th (seehttps:/-
/www.eseb2022.czfor further details).
Keynote speakers:
Melissa Gymrek, UCSD, California
Miguel Andrade, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz
Abstracts can be submitted on:
https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page.
Deadline is April15 2022.
Tandem repeats (TRs) are adjacent repetitive stretches
of genomic DNA, found in abundance across all king-
doms of life. TRs provide a rich source of variationin populations, hence a perfect playground for natural
selection forces. Especially, shorter TRs are known for
their orders of magnitude high mutation rates compared
to SNPs and indels. TR-suitable methods and resources
are emerging one after the other allowing accurate TR
annotation and genotyping integrated into existing ge-
nomic pipeline workows. Analysis of TR variation in
populations and over longer evolutionary time suggest
STRs as a major contributor to complex traits heri-
tability with a major impact on protein function and
expression.
This symposium will focus on the typing approaches,
evolution, and functional analysis of these highly poly-
morphic elements. We aim to bring together both re-
searchers who develop and apply methods for accurate
STR genotyping, and identication of STRs relevant
for phenotypic evolution, and recent adaptations. This
way, the symposium will facilitate interactions between
researchers from dierent backgrounds and promote the
interdisciplinary study of the STRs, an emerging major
source of phenotypic variation. Therefore, we expect
this symposium to be of interest to a broad range of
researchers in the elds of bioinformatics, population
genomics, and evolutionary biology.
Organisers:
Tugce Bilgin, Columbia University, New York
Maria Anisimova, ZHAW, Zurich
ESEB also proposes a grant in order to ensure equal
opportunities. For further details:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ For more
information emailtb2879@columbia.edu
Dr. Tugce Bilgin Sonay Lecturer in Discipline Depart-
ment of Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology
Columbia University Yoga Instructor Head of Evolution-
ary Genomics Winterschool
tugcebilgin.net
Tugce Bilgin Sonay <tb2879@columbia.edu >
Groningen BehavBiol Jul20-23
Dear colleagues,
We have extended the deadlines for abstract submission
and registration for the European Conference on Be-
havioural Biology, which will be held in Groningen thisMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 5
summer (July 20-23): https://ecbb22.wordpress.com/ .
Deadline for abstract submission: May 9 Deadline for
early bird registration: May 25
After a long period of restricted interactions, the theme
of the conference is \All of Life is social!". We ex-
plore the many facets of social life, from proximate
to ultimate mechanisms in a wide variety of species.
You can submit your contributions (talks and posters)
to one of the parallel symposia with themes ranging
from social foraging to animal welfare and from cul-
tural evolution to epidemiology - or to one of the open
symposia. For symposium information, see https://-
ecbb22.wordpress.com/program-2/ . Keynote speak-
ers: David J. Anderson (California Institute of Technol-
ogy), Nicola Clayton (University of Cambridge), Audrey
Dussutour (University Paul Sabatier), Rose Thorogood
(University of Helsinki), Peter Kappeler (University of
G ottingen), Joel Levine (University of Toronto, Missis-
sauga), Franjo Weissing (University of Groningen).
For more information see https://-
ecbb22.wordpress.com/ We hope to see you in
Groningen this summer!
The organizing committee Jean-Christophe Billeter, Ple-
unie Kraak, Martine Maan & Simon Verhulst
Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sci-
ences (GELIFES) https://www.rug.nl/research/gelifes/
m.e.maan@rug.nl
Lisbon SocietyEvolMedicine Jul5-8
The Annual Meeting of the International Society for
Evolution, Medicine, and Public Health will be in-person
in Lisbon, Portugal, July 5-8. All are welcome to join
this gathering of researchers, teachers, students, and
clinicians who share an interest in how evolutionary biol-
ogy can help improve the understanding and treatment
of disease. Full information at https://ISEMPH.org
Submit your abstract now! The deadline is April 15.
All topics related to evolution, disease and health are
welcome.
Discounted meeting registration is open now; refunds
are available if your plans change.
VENUE https://isemph.org/ISEMPH2022-Travel-and-
Lodging The conference will be held at the Funda c ao
Calouste Gulbenkian (FCG, in the Portuguese acronym)
in Lisbon. FCG is a pleasant, iconic, and easily acces-
sible place in the center of Lisbon, with ample indoorand outdoor spaces. Around the FCG, there are many
options for accommodation and food, covering a wide
range of prices and styles, suitable for all.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS https://isemph.org/ISEMPH-
2022-Program Sebastian Bonhoeer, ETH, Switzerland,
Combination therapy and the evolution of drug resis-
tance
Mhairi Gibson, University of Bristol, UK, The social
and evolutionary dynamics of female genital mutila-
tion/cutting (FGM/C) abandonment
Isabel Gordo, Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, Portu-
gal, Eco-evolutionary dynamics of Escherichia coli when
it colonizes the intestinal tract
Joseph L. Graves, North Carolina A&T State University,
USA, Racial health inequality is a solved problem: Now
what do we do about it?
Gunther Janssen, Pharma PHC Centre of Excellence,
Homan-La Roche / Genentech, Switzerland, Afternoon
Discussion and Q&A on Pharma in and Evolutionary
World C.
Jessica Metcalf, Princeton University, USA, What we
can and can't predict about the evolutionary trajectory
of SARS-CoV-2
Luca Ermini, Winner of the George. C. Williams Prize
for work on Evolutionary selection of alleles in the
melanophilin gene that impacts on prostate organ func-
tion and cancer risk
Winner of the $5,000 Omenn Prize, TBA. NOMINATE
your article or another article this week: The deadline
is April 8. https://isemph.org/Omenn-Prize Questions
welcome. Manager@isemph.org or HostingCommit-
tee@ISEMPH.org or ProgramCommittee@ISEMPH.org
nesse@umich.edu
Lisbon SocietyEvolMedicine Jul5-8
AbstractDeadline
ABSTRACT DEADLINE THIS WEEK! The deadline
is April 15. All topics related to evolution, disease and
health are welcome.
The Seventh Annual Meeting of the International So-
ciety for Evolution, Medicine, and Public Health will
be in-person in Lisbon, Portugal, July 5-8. All are
welcome to join this gathering of researchers, teach-
ers, students, and clinicians who share an interest in6 EvolDir May 1, 2022
how evolutionary biology can help improve the under-
standing and treatment of disease. Full information at
https://ISEMPH.org
Discounted meeting registration is open now; refunds
are available if your plans change.
VENUE https://isemph.org/ISEMPH2022-Travel-and-
Lodging The conference will be held at the Funda c ao
Calouste Gulbenkian (FCG, in the Portuguese acronym)
in Lisbon. FCG is a pleasant, iconic, and easily acces-
sible place in the center of Lisbon, with ample indoor
and outdoor spaces. Around the FCG, there are many
options for accommodation and food, covering a wide
range of prices and styles, suitable for all.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS https://isemph.org/ISEMPH-
2022-Program Sebastian Bonhoeer, ETH, Switzerland,
Combination therapy and the evolution of drug resis-
tance
Mhairi Gibson, University of Bristol, UK, The social
and evolutionary dynamics of female genital mutila-
tion/cutting (FGM/C) abandonment
Isabel Gordo, Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, Portu-
gal, Eco-evolutionary dynamics of Escherichia coli when
it colonizes the intestinal tract
Joseph L. Graves, North Carolina A&T State University,
USA, Racial health inequality is a solved problem: Now
what do we do about it?
Gunther Janssen, Pharma PHC Centre of Excellence,
Homan-La Roche / Genentech, Switzerland, Afternoon
Discussion and Q&A on Pharma in and Evolutionary
World C.
Jessica Metcalf, Princeton University, USA, What we
can and can't predict about the evolutionary trajectory
of SARS-CoV-2
Luca Ermini, Winner of the George. C. Williams Prize
for work on Evolutionary selection of alleles in the
melanophilin gene that impacts on prostate organ func-
tion and cancer risk
Winner of the $5,000 Omenn Prize, TBA. NOMINATE
your article or another article this week: The deadline
is April 8. https://isemph.org/Omenn-Prize Questions
welcome. Manager@isemph.org or HostingCommit-
tee@ISEMPH.org or ProgramCommittee@ISEMPH.org
nesse@umich.eduNapoli EuroEvoDevo May31-Jun3
Registration
Dear Evo-Devo scientists, join us at
EURO EVO DEVO 2022 Napoli 31 May - 3 June
REGISTRATION AND POSTER SUBMISSION STILL
OPEN!
For more information visit: https://-
www.evodevonapoli.eu/ - More than 400 participants
- More than 200 talks - 28 symposia - In beautiful
Naples - Chance to visit one of the cradles of EvoDevo:
Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn
Plenary speakers:
- Paola Oliveri - Robert Cerny - Stephanie Hoehn -
Chelsea Specht
For the time table see: https://www.evodevonapoli.eu/-
timetable/ Covid regulations: We take covid-19 very
seriously and strictly follow the prescribed rules:
https://www.evodevonapoli.eu/covid-19-measures/
The local organizing committee The executive
committee of the European Society for Evolutionary
Developmental Biology
EED Society <eed.soc@gmail.com >
Netherlands NLSB Jun27-28
Registration for the NLSEB (Netherlands Society for
Evolutionary Biology) 2022 meetings is now open
NLSEB 2022 main meeting
Date: 28 June 2022
Place: Akoesticum, Ede, the Netherlands
The meeting brings together scientists from all disci-
plines working on evolutionary questions. This yearly
meeting aims to build a broad community of evolution-
ary biologists based in the Netherlands, and connect
with researchers abroad. We have exciting plenary talks
by Eric Snijder (LUMC), Jaap Kaandorp (UvA) and
Katja Peijnenburg (Naturalis), and by the winner of theMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 7
2021 Netherlands Evolutionary Biology Prize. We are
looking forward to see you in Ede!
NLSEB 2022 PhD/Postdoc Meeting
Date: 27 June 2022
Place: Akoesticum, Ede, the Netherlands
Our aim is to bring together early-career researchers
for networking, skill building opportunities and social
interactions. To achieve this goal, we oer an afternoon
program in which participants can pitch their research
interests to facilitate networking conversations, join di-
verse workshops for improving both transferable and
specialised skills, and listen to an exciting plenary talk
by Nico van Straalen.
Information about program and registration for both
meetings: http://nlseb.nl/nlseb-2022-meetings/ . Dead-
line for abstract submission for the main meeting is 2
May 2022 and deadline for registration for both meetings
is 10 June 2022.
We look forward to meeting you in person in June!
\Visser, Arjan de" <arjan.devisser@wur.nl >
Online ConGen Sep6-17
CONGEN 2022: September 6-17, 2022 Conservation
Genetics, Population Genomics, and Molecular Ecology
Workshop
The goal of ConGen 2022 is to provide training in con-
ceptual and practical aspects of population genomic
data analyses to improve understanding of the evolu-
tionary and ecological genomics of natural and managed
populations. >1
2We will have more than 15 expert in-
structors from multiple countries to help teach a breadth
of concepts and applications.
ConGen teaches fundamental statistical and computa-
tional approaches that will help prepare students and
professionals to use population genomic data in their
work. Emphasis will be on next-generation sequence
(NGS) data analysis (RADs, DNA capture, and genome
sequencing/resequencing) and interpretation of output
from fundamental and novel statistical approaches and
software programs (including R and Linux command
line). The course promotes interactions among early-
career researchers (e.g., grad students & postdocs), mid-
career faculty and agency researchers, and leaders in
population genomics to help develop our \next gen-eration" of conservation and evolutionary geneticists.
We will identify and discuss developments needed to
improve data analysis approaches to advance the eld.
This course often feels like a workshop because multiple
instructors ask questions and provide helpful comments
during another instructor's lecture to help advance learn-
ing of basic and advanced concepts and approaches.
This course will cover concepts and methods includ-
ing the coalescent, Bayesian, and likelihood-based ap-
proaches. Special lecture sessions and hands-on exer-
cises will be conducted on assessing population structure,
testing for HW proportions, detecting selection, genetic
monitoring (of >1
2Ne, >1
2FST, >1
2Nm, >1
2etc.), landscape
genomics, inbreeding detection (RoH), GWAS, popula-
tion assignment, gene ow estimation, whole-genome
sequencing & assembly, and more. It will include daily
sessions with hands-on data analysis activities, including
genotyping and data analyses using NGS data.
This course is sponsored by the American Genetic
Association, the Journal of Heredity, NASA (the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration), NSF
(the Dimensions in Biodiversity program), along with
DoveTail Genomics, and support from publications such
as Environmental DNA, Evolutionary Applications,
Molecular Ecology Resources, and Conservation
Genetics. Some sponsors give talks on new and
future technologies (e.g., Dovetail, PacBio). Many
of the expert instructors will lead hands-on data
analysis sessions using your data and dummy data sets
provided by instructors. This course/workshop has
led to publications describing the main topics, course
outcomes, and recent advances in the eld that facilitate
data analysis for population geneticists worldwide. >1
2
For example, see 4 pubs below: * Schweizer et al.
2021: >1
2https://doi.org/10.1093/jhered/esab019 *
Stahlke et al. 2020: https://academic.oup.com/-
jhered/article/111/2/227/5731771 * Hendricks et al.
2018: >1
2https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/-
10.1111/eva.12659 * Benestan et al. 2016: >1
2http:/-
/onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/mec.13647/-
full * Andrews and Luikart 2014: >1
2http://-
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/mec.12686/-
abstract COST TO ATTEND ONLINE The cost to
participate in ConGen 2022 is $840 US if you pay before
July 1st or $890 US if you pay after July 1st. This
cost includes lectures (live and recorded) by at least 15
expert instructors, online question and answer sessions
during and after hands-on exercises with worksheets
and dummy datasets, copies of lecture PowerPoint
slides, along with ConGen-2022 Swag (T-shirt, mug).
Course materials are also available after the end of the
course to all students in a box repository including
all recorded lectures and class materials and slides for8 EvolDir May 1, 2022
many months after ConGen.
The online course supports a virtual server implemen-
tation for a majority of the software and tools for the
course. This allows students to jump into data analysis
with less downtime needed to install bio-informatics
tools. Linux line commands will be used for several
analyses during the course. A 1-2 hours tutorial on
Linux will be given a week before the course for those
needing to learn Linux line commands for population
genomics data analysis, before the course.
The 2022 course will be online using Zoom along with a
blog/forum (via
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Online
EvolutionInformedProteomics
Apr12
ISCBacademy EvolCompGen/SMBE Webinar
COMBINING EVOLUTION AND PROTEOMICS TO
DISCOVER PROTEIN COMPLEXES CONSERVED
ACROSS PLANTS
Claire McWhite, PhD
April 12th, 10:30 EDT
Participation is free for members of ISCB or SMBE,
but registration is required. https://www.iscb.org/-
cmsaddon/registration conference/cosi28 Plants are
are foundational for global ecological and economic sys-
tems, but most plant proteins and and many protein
complexes remain uncharacterized. In plants, highly du-
plicated protein families pose challenges for protein iden-
tication, which is heavily reliant on unique peptides.
To address this problem, we developed an evolution-
informed proteomics strategy that combines orthology
analysis with mass spectrometry. We applied this strat-
egy to 13 plant species of scientic and agricultural
importance, greatly expanding the known repertoire of
stable protein complexes in plants. We recovered known
complexes, conrmed complexes predicted to occur in
plants, and identied previously unknown interactions
conserved over 1.1 billion years of green plant evolu-
tion. The resulting map oers a cross-species view ofconserved, stable protein assemblies shared across plant
cells and provides a mechanistic, biochemical framework
for interpreting plant genetics and mutant phenotypes.
McWhite et al. A Pan-plant Protein Complex
Map Reveals Deep Conservation and Novel Assem-
blies. Cell. 2020;181(2):460-474.e14. https://-
doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.049 The joint EvolComp-
Gen/SMBE webinar serves as an online journal club to
promote discussion of recent results presented by early
career researchers.
For futher information, contact: Dannie Durand,
Carnegie Mellon University, durand@cmu.edu
Online HumanPopGenetics Apr20
Hi all!
At the next seminar, Eaaswarkhanth Muthukrishnan,
Research Scientist, New York University Abu Dhabi will
present:
Insights into the ne-scale population structure and con-
tributions of ancient genetic adaptations to metabolic
traits in modern-day Kuwaiti Arabs.
Abstract: Being at the crossroads between Africa and
Eurasia, the Arabian Peninsula has experienced several
waves of human migrations despite the prevailing ex-
treme and varying environmental conditions; therefore,
the resident populations have a high genetic diversity.
In this talk, I will present our recent works that ex-
plored the regional genetic heterogeneities and admix-
ture history of populations inhabiting the Peninsula.
In addition, I will highlight interesting ancient genetic
adaptations once key to survival for Kuwaiti ancestors
in the harsh desert environment that predispose their
descendants to debilitating metabolic diseases.
Time: Wednesday, April 20th, 12-13 CET Place:
This will be an online seminar: Click here for access
to the Zoom seminar. <https://nmbu.zoom.us/j/-
67064421833 >
For more information, check out the seminar website:
https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/ *We have
two postdoc positions* https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/-
available-jobs/job/224555/postdoctoral-fellows-within-
genome-biology Marie SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track
Principal Investigator, Centre of Integrative Genet-
ics (CIGENE), Faculty of Biosciences, Norwegian
University of Life Sciences https://sites.google.com/-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 9
view/saitou-lab Marie Saito <marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
Online LowMutationLoad Apr27
Hi all!
The next seminar is in just one week and we are pleased
to present Professor Leif Andersson, Uppsala University.
He will give a talk entitled:
Low mutation load in a supergene underpinning alter-
native male mating strategies in ru.
Abstract: Rus are shorebirds with an elaborate lekking
behavior involving three male morphs with dierent
mating strategies: Independents, Satellites, and Faeders.
The latter two are heterozygous for dierent versions
of a supergene maintained by an inversion that were
estimated to have occurred about 4 million years ago.
Faeders carry an intact inversion while the Satellite allele
is recombinant, both of which are expected to accumu-
late high mutational load because they are recessive
lethals. Here we have constructed a highly contiguous
genome assembly of the inversion region for both the In-
dependent and Satellite haplotypes. The recombination
event(s) between an inverted and non-inverted chromo-
some creating the Satellite allele must have occurred
recently (within the last 100,000 years) based on the
minute sequence divergence between the Satellite and
Independent alleles in the recombinant regions. Con-
trary to expectations, we nd no expansion of repeats
and only a very modest mutation load on the Satel-
lite allele in the nonrecombinant region despite high
sequence divergence (1.46%). The essential centromere
protein CENPN gene is disrupted by the inversion, and
surprisingly is as well conserved on the inversion hap-
lotypes as on the noninversion haplotype. The results
suggest that the inversion may be much younger than
previously thought.
Time: Wednesday, April 27th, 12-13 CET Place: This
will be an online seminar
For more information, check out the seminar web-
site: https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/ Marie
SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal Investigator,
Centre of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty
of Biosciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie Saito
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >Online Phylogenetics Apr26
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to invite you to our ongoing virtual
seminar series: \Horizontal evolutionary processes in
phylogenetics" (https://www.shh.mpg.de/2022486/tide-
seminar-series).
We are excited to announce our next speaker in the
series: Elizabeth Hayman (University of Oxford).
The event will take place on Tuesday 26 April 2022 at
2pm (CET).
|
Title: Recoverability of ancestral recombination graph
topologies
Abstract:
Ancestral recombination graphs (ARGs) are the exten-
sion of phylogenetic trees to include recombination, a
powerful evolutionary process that shapes the genetic di-
versity of many species. The topology of this graph gives
us important information on the evolution of a species,
but algorithms to reconstruct an ARG from species data
are often reliant on sample sequences carrying informa-
tive patterns of mutations. In this talk I will present
exact results concerning the probability of recovering
the true topology of an ARG under the coalescent with
recombination and gene conversion. These expressions
give us an indication of the uncertainty in reconstructed
ARGs, and we see that for parameter values realistic for
biological species (in particular SARS-CoV-2), the prob-
ability of reconstructing genealogies that are close to the
truth is low. This is joint work with Anastasia Ignatieva
and Jotun Hein (https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.04848).
{
To attend the seminar, please subscribe to our mail-
ing list onto which a zoom link will be sent prior to
the event. Use the form at the bottom of this page:
https://www.shh.mpg.de/2022486/tide-seminar-series
Feel free to circulate to anyone who might be interested.
Looking forward to seeing you there!
The tide research group https://www.shh.mpg.de/tide
Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History
Tide Seminars <tide-seminars@shh.mpg.de >10 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Paris EvolutionOfSexChromosomes
Jun9-10
Dear all, We are thrilled to announce a conference
on the evolution of sex chromosomes and super-
genes, in Paris, France, June 9-10th 2022, at the
College de France. Attendance will be free and
without registration (within room limits) and talks
will be available online afterwards. More informa-
tion soon here: https://www.college-de-france.fr/site/-
tatiana-giraud/symposium-2022-06-09-09h00.htm We
will have talks by Doris Bachtrog, Laurent Keller,
Tanja Slotte, Thomas Lenormand, Jessica Abbott, Ta-
tiana Giraud, Stephen Wright, Alison Wright, Paul Jay,
Daniel Jeries, Emma Berdan, Tim Connallon, Deborah
Charlesworth, Mathieu Joron, Aline Muyle, Simon Mar-
tin, Iulia Darolti, Yannick Wurm, Christelle Fra >1
2sse,
Ricardo Rodriguez de la Vega, Gabriel Marais, Nicolas
Perrin, Diego Cortez, Michel Hood Organizing comitee:
Tatiana Giraud, Paul Jay, Ricardo Rodriguez de la Vega
Funding: College de France, Fondation Jean-Fran >1
2ois
et Marie-Laure de Clermont Tonnerre
Tatiana Giraud
Directrice de recherches CNRS Professeur au Coll >1
2ge
de France Membre de l'acad >1
2mie des sciences IDEEV,
B >1
2timent 680, 12 route RD128 91190 Gif-sur-Yvette
Universit >1
2Paris-Saclay 91400 Orsay France
phone: +33 1 69 15 56 69 + 33 6 34 64 45 14 fax: +33
1 69 15 46 97
English: https://www.ese.u-psud.fr/en/team-
members/tatiana-giraud/ Francais: https://-
www.ese.u-psud.fr/personnel/tatiana-giraud/ @GenEco-
Evo http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/ Tatiana Giraud
<tatiana.giraud@u-psud.fr >
Prague
DomesticationWithAncientDNA
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
We'd like to kindly remind you that the abstract submis-sion deadline for our symposium titled \Domestication:
Fresh insights from ancient genomics" is approaching.
The symposium will be part of the ESEB meeting in
Prague between August 14-19, 2022.
More information about the ESEB meeting can be found
below and at the conference website: www.eseb2022.cz
S33: Domestication: Fresh insights from ancient ge-
nomics
Animal and plant domestication events have fundamen-
tally changed human societies in multitude ways, while
biologically shaping the domesticated species themselves.
The tempo and mode of domestication processes, the
subsequent dynamics of transport, breeding and intro-
gression between domesticates and their wild relatives,
the genetic bases of selected traits, as well as the so-
cial and biological impacts of animal husbandry and
farming on humans have long been investigated, using
either archaeological evidence or inferences from biolog-
ical studies of extant species. The advent of ancient
genomics, however, has been a game changer. The last
few years have seen a wide range of spectacular work
that rewrote domestication histories of dierent species,
from dogs to chicken. This session aims to bring to-
gether the most recent and exciting work on animal and
plant domestication, covering both the reconstruction
of demographic history, analyses of selective sweeps, ev-
idence for relaxation of constraints, as well as studies
on ancient pathogens.
Invited speakers
Dr. Laurent Franz, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit >1
2t
M >1
2nchen, Germany
Dr. Catarina Ginja, Universidade do Porto, Portugal
Organisers
Mehmet Somel, Middle East Technical University,
Turkey ( somel.mehmet@gmail.com)
Anders G >1
2therstr >1
2m, Stockholm University, Sweden
( anders.gotherstrom@arklab.su.se)
Eva-Maria Geigl, Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS,
France ( Eva-maria.GEIGL@ijm.fr)
Dates
Registration opens: February 2022
The abstract submission deadline: April 15, 2022
Selected contributions to be announced by: May 10,
2022.
Early-bird registration closes: June 15, 2022
Useful links
Abstract submission page: https://www.eseb2022.cz/-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 11
en/call-for-abstracts-page Equal opportunities grant:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ Looking
forward to seeing you in Prague!
Eva-Maria, Anders, and Mehmet
Mehmet Somel METU Dept. Biology / ODT >1
2
Biyoloji B >1
2l >1
2m >1
206800 Ankara, Turkey Tel:
+90-543-9799060; Oce: +90-312-2106460 Email:
msomel@metu.edu.tr Lab: compevo.bio.metu.edu.tr
aDNA Lab: http://adna.bio.metu.edu.tr/ Eco-Evo So-
ciety of Turkey: https://ekoevo.org Mehmet Somel
<msomel@metu.edu.tr >
Prague ESEB InvasiveSpecies
Aug14-19
Dear Eco-Evo Enthusiasts,
Take the opportunity to submit your contribution for an
oral talk or poster at the symposium \Eco-evolutionary
dynamics and feedbacks in invasive species" (S19), that
will be held in Prague, The Czech Republic as part of
the Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary
Biology (14-19 August 2022, https://www.eseb2022.cz).
The symposium aims to discuss the integration of eco-
evo concepts in biological invasions. Abstract submis-
sion is open until 22 April: https://www.eseb2022.cz/-
en/call-for-abstracts-page Symposium description: In-
troduced alien species are remarkable in their unusual
ability to experience rapid evolutionary and ecological
changes on relatively short time scales following their
introductions to novel ranges. As a result, biological
invasions oer valuable insights into processes that con-
tribute to our understanding of population responses
to climate change, ecosystem function, extinction and
diversication events, with implications for species man-
agement and conservation. While a rich literature ex-
ists on the ecology and evolution of invasive species,
much less is known about how ecological properties
and evolutionary changes inuence one another, namely,
the so-called \eco-evolutionary dynamics" and \eco-
evolutionary feedbacks". Thus, this symposium aims
to discuss the innovative integration of concepts from
these two elds into the study of invasion biology. In
particular, we welcome studies that focus on topics such
as interactions between genome architecture and envi-
ronmental change, adaptive traits and their ecological
consequences, post-introduction evolution, feedbacks
between organisms and resource dynamics, eects ofevolution of dispersal on range expansions, and the
interplay between theoretical population genetics and
ecological demography. In addition, talks could focus
on evolutionary diversication, niche displacement or
extinction of resident species induced by invaders. We
also encourage studies on ecological genomics that could
be applied to non-model invasive populations.
Invited speakers: Carol Eunmi Lee (University
of Wisconsin), https://carollee.labs.wisc.edu/-
CarolPersonal.html Katrina Dlugosch (University
of Arizona), https://www.dlugosch-lab.net/people
Travel aid ESEB provides funding opportunities to
attend the meeting for students and young researchers:
(https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/conference-travel-
award/) as well as for underrepresented groups including
care giving women: https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/-
equal-opportunities-initiative/congress-attendance-aid-
grant/ . Early-bird registration is open until 15 June
2022.
Symposium organizers: Ramona Irimia, Isolde van
Riemsdijk (University of T ubingen, Germany) and Ar-
mand Cav e-Radet (University of Rennes 1, France and
University of T ubingen).
For questions related to the symposium, please contact
us at: ramona-elena.irimia@uni-tuebingen.de.
We look forward to receiving your abstracts and meeting
you in Prague!
Ramona-elena Irimia <ramona-elena.irimia@uni-
tuebingen.de >
Prague ESEBInvasiveSpecies
Aug14-19
Dear Eco-Evo enthusiasts,
Take the opportunity to submit your contribution for
a talk or poster at the symposium \Eco-evolutionary
dynamics and feedbacks in invasive species" (S19), that
will be held in Prague, The Czech Republic as part of
the Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary
Biology (14-19 August 2022, https://www.eseb2022.cz).
The symposium aims to discuss the integration of
eco-evo concepts in biological invasions. Abstract
submission deadline is open until 22 April: https:/-
/www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page Sympo-
sium description: Introduced alien species are remark-
able in their unusual ability to experience rapid evolu-12 EvolDir May 1, 2022
tionary and ecological changes on relatively short time
scales following their introductions to novel ranges. As
a result, biological invasions oer valuable insights into
processes that contribute to our understanding of popu-
lation responses to climate change, ecosystem function,
extinction and diversication events, with implications
for species management and conservation. While a rich
literature exists on the ecology and evolution of invasive
species, much less is known about how ecological prop-
erties and evolutionary changes inuence one another,
namely, the so-called \eco-evolutionary dynamics" and
\eco-evolutionary feedbacks". Thus, this symposium
aims to discuss the innovative integration of concepts
from these two elds into the study of invasion biology.
In particular, we welcome studies that focus on topics
such as interactions between genome architecture and
environmental change, adaptive traits and their ecologi-
cal consequences, post-introduction evolution, feedbacks
between organisms and resource dynamics, eects of
evolution of dispersal on range expansions, and the
interplay between theoretical population genetics and
ecological demography. In addition, talks could focus
on evolutionary diversication, niche displacement or
extinction of resident species induced by invaders. We
also encourage studies on ecological genomics that could
be applied to non-model invasive populations.
Keynote speakers: Carol Eunmi Lee (Univer-
sity of Wisconsin), https://carollee.labs.wisc.edu/-
CarolPersonal.html Katrina Dlugosch (University of
Arizona), https://www.dlugosch-lab.net/people Travel
aid ESEB provides funding opportunities to attend the
meeting for students and young researchers: (https:/-
/eseb.org/prizes-funding/conference-travel-award/) as
well as for underrepresented groups including care giving
women:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ . Early-bird
registration is open until the 15 June 2022.
Symposium organizers: Ramona Irimia, Isolde van
Riemsdijk (University of T?bingen, Germany) and Ar-
mand Cav?-Radet (University of Rennes 1, France
and University of T?bingen). For questions related
to the symposium, please contact us at: ramona-
elena.irimia@uni-tuebingen.de
We look forward to receiving your abstracts and meeting
you in Prague!
danimontesinos@gmail.comPrague ESEB
RapidEvolutionOfColorPatterns
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
The abstract submission deadline for the ESEB 2022
conference has been extended to the 22nd of April, so
there is still time to submit your abstract to our sym-
posium S15 \Rapid evolution of color patterns".
The symposium will be held at the Congress of the Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology in Prague, 14-19
August 2022 (https://www.eseb2022.cz/). Symposium
description
Animal and plant color patterns are labile characters
that are involved in important biological functions such
as reproduction, predator evasion, pollinator attraction,
and thermoregulation. A fascinating feature of color vari-
ation is that it can evolve rapidly in new environments,
as highlighted by dramatic examples in peppered moths,
cichlid shes, and *Heliconius* butteries. Beyond these
classic cases, technological advances in high-throughput
sequencing, phenotyping, and gene editing, have opened
new pathways to study rapid evolution using color pat-
terns in a diversity of models. Among other examples,
recent studies have highlighted the role of transpos-
able elements in bualo coat coloration, chromosome
re-arrangement in buttery wing patterns, and trans-
generational plasticity in ower coloration in response
to predation. This symposium will assemble researchers
who use animal and plant color patterns as models to
evaluate the diversity of factors driving and constraining
rapid phenotypic evolution. We will foster transdisci-
plinary discussions addressing long-standing questions
on the genetic substrate of recurrent adaptation and
the mechanistic scale of convergence. Ultimately, we
hope to gain a more comprehensive understanding of
the mechanisms underlying rapid adaptation.
Invited speakers
Mar Sobral, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela,
Spain
Patricia Beldade, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Abstract submission deadline: 22 April 2022Abstract
submission page: https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-
for-abstracts-page Conference attendance aid grant:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 13
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ For any
questions, contact Sandra Goutte (sg5533@nyu.edu) or
Yann Bourgeois (yann.bourgeois@port.ac.uk)We look
forward to reading your abstracts! Sincerely, Sandra
and Yann
{ Sandra Goutte, Ph.D. Research Associate New York
University Abu Dhabi Saadiyat Island campus P.O. Box
129188 Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
+971 505 8383 96 Twitter: @sandra goutte CalPhoto:
goo.gl/1ZqDk5 <http://calphotos.berkeley.edu/-
cgi/img query?where-genre=Animal&where-
photographer=Sandra+Goutte >Flickr: https:/-
/www.ickr.com/photos/133250906@N05/ <https://-
www.ickr.com/gp/133250906@N05/g4196q >
Sandra Goutte <sg5533@nyu.edu >
Prague ESEB ResurrectionEcology
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues, Submission deadline for the ESEB 2022
conference has been extended to the 22nd of April.
We invite your submission to the Symposium 12 \Resur-
rection ecology as a tool for the study of rapid evolution"
at the ESEB 2022 conference in Prague.
Link for submissions and other key information are
below.
Invited speakers: Niek Scheepens, Goethe-Universit at
Frankfurt, Germany Luisa Orsini, University of Birm-
ingham, UK
Abstract
It is now accepted that rapid evolution (within a dozen
generations) can occur, contrary to the classical Dar-
winian view that assumes slow pace of evolution. Rapid
evolution is particularly frequent in response to contem-
porary anthropogenic modication of the environment
(e.g. climate change, pollution), although demonstrating
its adaptive character remains challenging.
Resurrection ecology (RE) is an inventive approach to
study evolution based on the ancestral populations re-
viving (decades old) from dormant forms (seeds, spores,
cysts). Comparing ancestral and current genotypes is a
powerful methodology for demonstrating adaptive rapid
evolution, although often limited by the fortuitous avail-
ability of ancestral material in sediments or seed banks.
Being at its beginnings, it is important that good REpractices are established to set up the premises for future
studies.
This symposium covers various challenges and innova-
tions of RE: 1) practical issues such as constituting or
recovering appropriate propagule banks, their conser-
vation, and the limits of available model organisms in
relation to their life history traits, 2) analytical method-
ology (population and quantitative genetics) disentan-
gling selective from stochastic evolutionary processes,
and 3) case studies in various organisms illustrating the
power of RE to demonstrate rapid evolution. We thus
aim at providing insights into RE possibilities, but also
inspiring actions for future RE studies.
Abstract submission deadline: 15. April 2022
Registration opens: February 2022
Early-bird registration closes: 15. June 2022
Abstract submission page: https://www.eseb2022.cz/-
en/call-for-abstracts-page Equal opportunities grant:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ For any
further questions, contact bojana.stojanova@osu.cz or
pierre-olivier.cheptou@cefe.cnrs.fr
Sincerely,
Bojana Stojanova, Ostrava University, Czech Repub-
lic Pierre-Olivier Cheptou, CEFE-CNRS, Montpellier,
France Ane ^Aka Eli a ^Aov a, Ostrava University, Czech
Republic
Bojana S <bojana.stojanova@gmail.com >
Prague PredatorCognition Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
Abstract submission deadline for the ESEB 2022
Congress has been extended until 22 April, so if you are
considering attending the symposium \Predator cogni-
tion and the evolution of prey defence strategies" (S.16),
there is a little more time for submitting your abstracts.
The meeting will be held in Prague, Czech Republic
on 14-19 August 2022; see https://www.eseb2022.cz for
further details.
Symposium description: Animals employ numerous
strategies to avoid predation, and the evolution of cam-
ouage, aposematism, mimicry and other forms of an-
tipredator defence is at the core of research interest
of evolutionary biologists. As shown by recent studies14 EvolDir May 1, 2022
focused on interactions between prey defences and preda-
tor cognitive mechanisms, understanding the selective
forces driving the evolution of prey defence strategies
requires studying their coevolution with predator percep-
tion, cognition, and subsequent behavioural responses.
Furthermore, these studies have also highlighted the
importance of studying predator cognition in ecologi-
cally relevant settings and testing behavioural responses
in addition to investigating sensory capabilities. This
approach has made it possible to address new questions,
such as what factors inuence predator decisions to
attack potentially dangerous prey, how prey defences
and predator cognitive mechanisms interact through the
predation sequence, how predators respond to multicom-
ponent and multimodal defences, and how predators
use individual and social information about prey. This
symposium aims to bring together current experimental,
comparative and theoretical approaches to study interac-
tions between predator cognitive mechanisms and prey
defence strategies, identify the factors shaping predator
behavioural responses, establish critical gaps in our un-
derstanding of the evolution of antipredator defences,
and outline directions for future research.
Our keynote speakers are Johanna Mappes (University
of Helsinki) and Tom Sherratt (Carleton University).
Abstracts can be submitted on: https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page. The
call is open until the 22nd of April 2022.
Early-bird registration is open until the 15th of June
2022.
ESEB also proposes a conference attendance aid
grant. For further details, see: https://eseb.org/-
prizes-funding/equal-opportunities- initiative/congress-
attendance-aid-grant/
If you have any questions or for further information
please contact us.
All the best, Bibiana & Alice
Alice Exnerova Department of Zoology, Charles Univer-
sity, Prague, Czech Republic exnerova@natur.cuni.cz
Bibiana Rojas Department of Interdisciplinary Life
Sciences, Konrad Lorenz Institute of Ethology, Uni-
versity of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria bib-
iana.rojas@vetmeduni.ac.at
\doc. Mgr. Alice Exnerov >1
2, Ph.D."
<alice.exnerova@natur.cuni.cz >Prague PredatorCognition Aug14-19
AbstCallReminder
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS CLOSES 22 APRIL
Dear colleagues,
The call for abstracts for the ESEB 2022 Congress closes
on 22 April, so if you are planning to attend the sym-
posium \Predator cognition and the evolution of prey
defence strategies" (S.16), please submit your abstract
at your earliest convenience.
You can access the abstract submission portal by visit-
ing https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page
. The meeting will be held in Prague, Czech Republic
on 14-19 August 2022; see https://www.eseb2022.cz for
further details.
Early-bird registration is open until the 15th of June
2022.
Symposium description: Animals employ numerous
strategies to avoid predation, and the evolution of cam-
ouage, aposematism, mimicry and other forms of an-
tipredator defence is at the core of research interest
of evolutionary biologists. As shown by recent studies
focused on interactions between prey defences and preda-
tor cognitive mechanisms, understanding the selective
forces driving the evolution of prey defence strategies
requires studying their coevolution with predator percep-
tion, cognition, and subsequent behavioural responses.
Furthermore, these studies have also highlighted the
importance of studying predator cognition in ecologi-
cally relevant settings and testing behavioural responses
in addition to investigating sensory capabilities. This
approach has made it possible to address new questions,
such as what factors inuence predator decisions to
attack potentially dangerous prey, how prey defences
and predator cognitive mechanisms interact through the
predation sequence, how predators respond to multicom-
ponent and multimodal defences, and how predators
use individual and social information about prey. This
symposium aims to bring together current experimental,
comparative and theoretical approaches to study interac-
tions between predator cognitive mechanisms and prey
defence strategies, identify the factors shaping predator
behavioural responses, establish critical gaps in our un-
derstanding of the evolution of antipredator defences,
and outline directions for future research.
Our keynote speakers are Johanna Mappes (UniversityMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 15
of Helsinki) and Tom Sherratt (Carleton University).
If you have any questions, please contact us.
All the best, Bibiana & Alice
Alice Exnerova Department of Zoology, Charles Univer-
sity, Prague, Czech Republic exnerova@natur.cuni.cz
Bibiana Rojas Department of Interdisciplinary Life
Sciences, Konrad Lorenz Institute of Ethology, Uni-
versity of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria bib-
iana.rojas@vetmeduni.ac.at
\doc. Mgr. Alice Exnerov >1
2, Ph.D."
<alice.exnerova@natur.cuni.cz >
Prague
PredatorCognitionPreyDefences
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
Our ESEB 2022 symposium \Predator cognition and the
evolution of prey defence strategies" (S.16) is now open
for abstract submissions (see https://www.eseb2022.cz
for further details)and registration.
The meeting will be held in Prague, Czech Republic on
14-19 August 2022.
Symposium description: Animals employ numerous
strategies to avoid predation, and the evolution of cam-
ouage, aposematism, mimicry and other forms of an-
tipredator defence is at the core of research interest
of evolutionary biologists. As shown by recent studies
focused on interactions between prey defences and preda-
tor cognitive mechanisms, understanding the selective
forces driving the evolution of prey defence strategies
requires studying their coevolution with predator percep-
tion, cognition, and subsequent behavioural responses.
Furthermore, these studies have also highlighted the
importance of studying predator cognition in ecologi-
cally relevant settings and testing behavioural responses
in addition to investigating sensory capabilities. This
approach has made it possible to address new questions,
such as what factors inuence predator decisions to
attack potentially dangerous prey, how prey defences
and predator cognitive mechanisms interact through the
predation sequence, how predators respond to multicom-
ponent and multimodal defences, and how predators
use individual and social information about prey. This
symposium aims to bring together current experimental,
comparative and theoretical approaches to study interac-tions between predator cognitive mechanisms and prey
defence strategies, identify the factors shaping predator
behavioural responses, establish critical gaps in our un-
derstanding of the evolution of antipredator defences,
and outline directions for future research.
Our keynote speakers are Johanna Mappes (University
of Helsinki) and Tom Sherratt (Carleton University).
Abstracts can be submitted on: https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page. The
call is open until the 15th of April 2022.
Early-bird registration is open until the 15th of June
2022.
ESEB also proposes a conference attendance aid
grant. For further details, see: https://eseb.org/-
prizes-funding/equal-opportunities- initiative/congress-
attendance-aid-grant/
Should you have any questions or for further information
please contact us.
All the best, Bibiana & Alice
Alice Exnerova Department of Zoology, Charles Univer-
sity, Prague, Czech Republic exnerova@natur.cuni.cz
Bibiana Rojas Department of Interdisciplinary Life
Sciences, Konrad Lorenz Institute of Ethology, Uni-
versity of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria bib-
iana.rojas@vetmeduni.ac.at
\doc. Mgr. Alice Exnerov >1
2, Ph.D."
<alice.exnerova@natur.cuni.cz >
Prague RepeatedEvolution Aug
Ol a jovens amigos,
please consider submitting an abstract to the *ESEB
2022 symposium: S09. Parallel and repeated evolu-
tion in adaptive radiation*; organized by me, Rosemary
Gillespie and Michael D. Martin.
*Invited talks* Jae Young Choi - \Ancestral polymor-
phisms shape the adaptive radiation of Metrosideros
across the Hawaiian Islands" Joana I. Meier - \The ge-
nomics of parallel adaptive radiations in cichlid shes
and Neotropical butteries" Gabriel Jamie - \The per-
sistence of polymorphisms across species radiations"
*Symposium description* The interplay between abiotic
and biotic factors in shaping evolution is best under-
stood when species evolve repeatedly under similar se-16 EvolDir May 1, 2022
lective regimes, providing evolutionary 'replicates' to
understand the processes of adaptation and diversi-
cation. Adaptive radiation, in particular, can often
provide a link between lineage diversication, ecology
and the phenotype. Recent advances in sequencing tech-
nologies have allowed the understanding of the genetic
basis underlying some adaptive radiations (e.g. a beak
diversication locus in Darwin Finches) and have con-
rmed the role of hybridization and reshuing of alleles
into novel and favourable combinations that facilitate
the repeated exploration of ecological space (e.g. ex-
tended evolutionary synthesis). In parallel, progress in
ecological analysis, such as the determination of niche-
occupation (e.g. hypervolumes) has the potential to
clarify the role of ecology in driving repeated evolution
and the evolvability of phenotypes. These advances,
currently underway, still lack integration. To ll this
gap, we propose a symposium focusing on integrating
genomics, ecology, and phenotype, and specically ben-
eting from repeated evolution in adaptive radiations.
We will welcome contributions from diverse study sys-
tems, as well as multidisciplinary approaches including
various sources of data (genetics, morphology, ecology,
physiology).
*To those submitting* We encourage submissions from
earlycareer researchers and underrepresented groups in
science.
*Direct link* https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-
abstracts-page *Deadline April 15th, 2022*
My best to you, Jos e {
jcerca.github.io
Twitter (@IslandGenomics) <https://twitter.com/-
IslandGenomics >
Postdoctoral researcher in Evolutionary Genomics &
Bioinformatics
Norwegian University of Science and Technology
Jos e Cerca <jose.cerca@gmail.com >Praque
HostPathCoevolutionImmunity
Aug14-19
As part of the 2022 conference of the European Society
for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), we are organizing
Symposium S38, entitled:
*Molecular evolution and trade-os in host-pathogen
interactions and host immunity*
The ESEB conference will be held August 14-19 in
Prague
*Deadline for abstract submission is April 15*
Registration: https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-
abstracts-page Symposium abstract:
Host-pathogen interactions are considered one of the
major drivers for evolutionary change and maintenance
of genetic diversity. Host immune systems constantly
adapt to the rapidly evolving pathogens, utilising re-
ceptor variability and diverse and redundant eector
mechanisms to recognise and ght the wide range of
infecting agents. Thus, understanding the genotype-
phenotype interactions ensuring resistance is challenging.
Furthermore, it is becoming increasingly apparent that
the evolutionary trajectories of these immune systems
are not only shaped by parasites, but also constrained
by various immunological and metabolic trade-os or
the need to dierentiate self from non-self in order to
prevent autoimmunity. Dierent life-history strategies
of the host and uctuating environmental conditions,
including changes in parasite communities, might re-
quire dierent degrees of immune plasticity and immune
investment strategies. This symposium aims to bring
together theoretical concepts and empirical examples
highlighting these factors that shape the evolution of an
optimal immune response, considering immunogenetic,
cellular, metabolic, and ecological perspectives. We also
welcome examples of host-parasite interactions and re-
search in disease ecology inuencing the evolutionary
trajectory of host immunity. Our aim is to attract a
wide range of presentations that will allow discussion of
the main current challenges in the evolutionary research
of host immunity.
Invited speakers:
1) Prof. Andrea Graham (Princeton University): \The
evolution of powerful yet perilous immune systems"May 1, 2022 EvolDir 17
2) Prof. Sophie Armitage (Freie Universit >1
2t Berlin):
\Selecting for tolerance: Examining the consequences for
host and pathogen"
3) Prof. Dana M. Hawley (Virginia Tech): \Integrative
studies of host and pathogen evolution in a songbird:
what immune systems can tell us about tolerance and
virulence"
4) Prof. Lars R >1
2berg (Lund University): \The causes
of pathogen-mediated balancing selection"
Organizers:
Ana Teles, Helena Westerdahl, Michal Vinkler, Robert
Peu >1
2, Tobias Lenz
We would be happy to see you in Prague!
Prof. Dr. Tobias Lenz, Heisenberg-Professor Research
Unit for Evolutionary Immunogenomics University of
Hamburg Department of Biology Institute of Cell and
Systems Biology of Animals Martin-Luther-King-Platz
3 20146 Hamburg, Germany
Email: tobias.lenz@uni-hamburg.de
http://www.biologie.uni-hamburg.de/-
evolutionaryimmunogenomics Tobias Lenz
<tobias.lenz@uni-hamburg.de >
Praque PosttranscriptionalRegula-
tionInEvolution
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
The conference of the European Society for Evolutionary
Biology (ESEB) will be held in Prague, Czech Republic
14-19th of August. We invite abstracts to our sympo-
sium S28:
*Beyond transcription: the role of post-transcriptional
gene regulation in adaptation and evolution*
The selected presenters will be invited to contribute to
a Special Issue with the journal Heredity, edited by the
symposium organizers.
*Abstract submission is open until April 15th https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page* Sympo-
sium description: Gene expression regulation plays a
central role in adaptive divergence and evolution, yet
our understanding of adaptive post-transcriptional diver-
gence is in its infancy. Recent studies have demonstrated
the potentially important role of variation in alternativetranscript splicing and other post-transcriptional pro-
cesses in adaptation and evolution in several systems.
For example, multiple studies have shown the impor-
tant role of splicing dierences in encoding for discrete
adaptive phenotypes; many others have demonstrated
independent evolution in splicing and transcript abun-
dance, providing alternative paths for selection to act
upon. However, compared to transcription levels, many
questions remain e.g., regarding the role of variation
in transcript splicing under dierent eco-evolutionary
contexts, the rate of splicing versus expression evolution,
or the mechanisms through which splicing alters pheno-
types. We argue that now is the time for a symposium
on the role of post-transcriptional processes in adapta-
tion and evolution to set the path for future research.
The aim of this symposium is to synthesise our current
level of understanding on the role of post-transcriptional
variation in dierent eco-evolutionary contexts and di-
verse taxa, and highlight the role of novel analytical and
technological approaches, such as long-read sequenc-
ing, in driving our understanding of post-transcriptional
processing across the tree of life.
Keynote speakers: Dr. Alison Wright, University of
Sheeld, UK Dr. Manuel Irimia, Centre for Genomic
Regulation, Spain
We are committed to equal and diverse representation
of groups among the selected presentations/posters.
For any questions do not hesitate to contact us. We are
looking forward to your contributions!
Symposium organizers, Jukka-Pekka Verta (University
of Helsinki) & Arne Jacobs (University of Glasgow)
Jukka-Pekka Verta, Ph.D. Evolution, Conservation
and Genomics research group University of Helsinki,
Finland https://researchportal.helsinki./en/persons/-
jukka-pekka-verta \Verta, Jukka-Pekka" <jukka-
pekka.verta@helsinki. >
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis
May13-15 DeadlineExt
EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION EXTENDED TO
APRIL 15 (THIS FRIDAY!) No limits on number of
individuals per lab
Dear Colleagues,
After a two-year absence, The TENTH annual Yosemite
Symbiosis Workshop will take place on May 13th-15th,18 EvolDir May 1, 2022
2022 at the Sierra Nevada Research Institute, Yosemite
National Park. We have really missed having this meet-
ing over the last two years. In the previous nine years,
this meeting became a great venue for a diversity of
symbiosis researchers. We hope to continue to attract a
diverse group in 2022!
Keynote speaker 2022: Michelle Nishiguchi, UC Merced
COVID19 Safety:
Attendees will be required to attest to full vaccination
status against SARS-CoV2 during the registration pro-
cess.
Rapid antigen tests will be made upon arrival at the
conference (provided by us) to provide an extra layer of
safety for attendees
The meeting will occur indoors, and masks will be re-
quired during meeting sessions when the opportunity
for social distancing will be limited.
Meals, and coee/snack breaks will be provided outside
weather permitting. Temperatures in mid-May are usu-
ally mild, but there is always some chance that it will
be cold and or rainy during the meeting.
Information about our meeting:
Why attend?
Our continuing goal is to better integrate the broad
groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis research.
Yosemite serves as an ideal site as it is both beautiful
and secluded. This will be our 10th annual meeting and
we have been consistently attracting scientists from all
over the country and overseas.
Who will be there?
The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants) and
we seek to focus on scientists interested in cooperation,
mutualism, and symbiosis. In the past we have covered a
range of symbiosis topics from ecology and evolution to
molecular mechanisms in dierent model and non-model
systems.We have removed restrictions on the number of individ-
uals per lab.
When is the meeting?
The talks and formal meeting will be held May 14th and
15th, 2022, though we make accommodation arrange-
ments available for attendees to arrive on Friday the
13th to provide opportunities to enjoy the park. There
will be a welcome party on the evening of arrival, Friday
May 13th. Since time at the conference is limited, we
ask attendees to submit an abstract and a preference
(talk versus poster). Priority will be given to those pre-
senting. Abstract and early bird registration will be due
on APRIL 15 2022.
Where is the meeting?
This is the best part! The meeting takes place at the
Sierra Nevada Research Station, in Wawona California,
within the border of Yosemite National Park!
What will it cost?
Advanced Registration (deadline April 15st, 2022) Stu-
dents: $230, Postdocs $250, PIs $300 Late registration
(deadline April 19th, 2022) Students: $260, Postdocs
$280, PIs $330
Registration AND payment page is here: https://-
snri.ucmerced.edu/form/symbiosis-workshop-2022
Please make sure to REGISTER rst then PAY
Please direct any questions to the organizers:
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
*Joel L. Sachs* (he, him, his) *Professor, *Department
of Evolution Ecology & Organismal Biology University
of California, Riverside Zoom: http://ucr.zoom.us/-
my/Sachsevolution Oce (951) 827-6357 / Fax (951)
827-4286 / http://www.sachslab.com *Post address*:
Sachs Lab - UC Riverside 3401 Watkins Dr., 1229 Spieth
Hall, Riverside, CA 92521
Joel Sachs <joels@ucr.edu >
GradStudentPositionsMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 19
AarhusU EvolutionSpermatogenesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
AarhusU HaploidSexSpecicSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
ArcticU Norway Marine sedaDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
AuburnU EvolutionPlantParasites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
AustralianNatlU ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 22
EstonainULifeSci eDNACrayshPathogens . . . . . . . . 22
ETH Zurich EvolutionaryEcosystemEcology . . . . . . . 23
INRAE BordeauxU OakPangenomicAdaptation . . . 24
JenaU Two EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
KU Leuven InsectSocietyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Mainz Germany HistoricalPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MasseyU CricketEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MaxPlanckInst AncestralRecombGraphs . . . . . . . . . . 28
MaxPlanckInst Jena HostDiseaseBehaviour . . . . . . . .28
Munster EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
SLU Uppsala HoneyBeeImmunityEvolution . . . . . . . .29
TechU Dresden OrganismicMolecularBiodiversity . . 30
TrentU ForensicGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UBielefeld SpeciesInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
ULausanne Two PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UMontpellier RainForestEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33UMontpellier SpatialPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . 34
UMuenster SticklebackTapeworms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
UNeuchatel ComparativeGenomicsButteries . . . . . .36
UNewSouthWales ParentalAgeAndFitness . . . . . . . . . 36
UPadua EvolutionCorrection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UPadua EvolutionEcologyConservation . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UPadua GenomicFishSexDetermination . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UParis Saclay TransposableElementsAdaptation . . . 39
UppsalaU ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
UppsalaU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UQueensland ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UToronto Fishgenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UtrechtU FungusInsectInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UWarsaw 2 SmallMammalsPaleogenomics . . . . . . . . . 44
UWolverhampton SkinkPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UWolverhampton SkinkPhylogenetics LastCall . . . . 46
UZurich GenomicsPlantInsectCoadaptation . . . . . . . .47
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
WSL Switzerland TreeAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
AarhusU EvolutionSpermatogenesis
PhD position: Evolution of spermatogenesis across pri-
mates and its consequences for fertility and speciation
A PhD position is open (application deadline May 1,
2022) in the group of Mikkel H. Schierup at the Bioinfor-
matics Research Centre, Aarhus University, with a start
date between August and December 2022. The project
will employ large scale single cell transcriptomics from
testis samples of more than ten dierent primate species
to infer evolutionary processes and their consequences
for sperm quality (fertility) and the creation of reproduc-
tive barriers between emergent species. The hypothesis
of genetic conicts between the sex chromosomes for
transmission to the mature sperm cell will be investi-
gated. According to the interest of the candidate, the
PhD can be purely computational/method development
or be a mixture of computational and experimental work.
For a more detailed description and application, please
visit
https://phd.nat.au.dk/for-applicants/open-
calls/february-2022-1/single-cell-analysis-of-
spermatogenesis-in-primates-drivers-of-reduced-
male-fertility-and-speciation . Interested candidates
are encouraged to contact Mikkel Heide Schierup
(mheide@birc.au.dk) for further information.Get your graduate degree at a top 100 university
The Graduate School of Natural Sciences at Aarhus
University is looking for a number of bright, enthusi-
astic and ambitious candidates who are interested in
pursuing a PhD education. The University is located in
Aarhus, Denmark, which provides international students
with a safe and stable environment, a high standard
of living and a wealth of social opportunities. Besides
having an excellent reputation that enables our PhD
graduates to nd outstanding employment prospects,
Aarhus University oers attractive working conditions,
research support and campus resources. Read more
about all the benetshere. Applications are accepted
from college students and graduates with an academic
record corresponding to a Bachelor's or Master's degree.
Application deadline is 1 May 2022 at midnight (23:59
CEST), with a starting date of 1 August 2022 or later.
Mikkel HeideSchierup Novo Nordisk Distinguished In-
vestigator Bioinformatics Research Centre, Aarhus Uni-
versity, CF Mollers Alle Building 1110, 8000 Aarhus C
Denmark Ph: +4527782889 Email:mheide@birc.au.dk
http://www.birc.au.dk/ ~mheide Mikkel Heide Schierup
<mheide@birc.au.dk >20 EvolDir May 1, 2022
AarhusU
HaploidSexSpecicSelection
Applications are invited for a PhD fellow-
ship/scholarship at Graduate School of Natural
Sciences, Aarhus University, Denmark, within the
Computer Science programme. The position is available
from August 2022 or later.
Title: Haploid and sex-specic selection: modelling and
detection in deep mutational scanning of sperm samples
and trios
Research area and project description: Background:
Traditionally, population genetics models focus on se-
lection in the diploid phase. However, there is also in
principle ample potential for selection to occur during
the haploid phase both in female and male gametes. In
principle, haploid selection can be very eective rela-
tive to diploid where dominance often occurs and blurs
the eect of positive or negative selection. A few docu-
mented cases in animal plants and fungi attest to the
potential importance of haploid selection and theory
demonstrates that haploid selection is s neglected mech-
anism that can potentially aect rates of adaptation,
the magnitude and purging of inbreeding depression and
the load of deleterious mutations detected in genomes or
even provide a plausible explanation for sex dierences
in recombination rates (a ubiquitous nd that remains
poorly understood). However, empirically detecting
haploid selection is challenging.
Project: This project is a unique opportunity to do that:
we will generate deep mutational scanning datasets that
can also be leveraged to examine in detail how haploid se-
lection can aect both new variants but also pre-existing
variants (SNPs where the father is heterozygous). The
project is funded by the Novo Nordisk foundation as
an interdisciplinary Data Science collaborative project
between the Department of Growth and Reproduction
at Copenhagen University Hospital (Kristian Almstrup),
and Aarhus University with the department of Math-
ematics (Asger Hobolth), the department of Molecu-
lar Medecine (S >1
2ren Besenbacher & Lasse Marrety)
and the Bioinformatics Research Centre (Mikkel Heide
Schierup & Thomas Bataillon).
The candidate will work on developing new evolutionary
methods to analyze data from testes and sperm samples
as well as pre-existing trio data. The relative weight oftheoretical modeling, methods development and data
analysis will depend on the interests of the candidate.
Candidates interested in further information should
please contact Thomas Bataillon (tbata@birc.au.dk).
For technical reasons, you must upload a project descrip-
tion. When - as here - you apply for a specic project,
please simply copy the project description above, and
upload it as a PDF in the application. If you wish to,
you can indicate an URL where further information
can be found. Please note that we reserve the right to
remove scientic papers, large reports, theses, and the
like.
Qualications and specic competences: Applicants
must have at least one year of a Master's degree in
molecular biology, mathematics, statistics, bioinformat-
ics or similar and have an interest in addressing biologi-
cal problems with large scale data analyses. An interest
in evolutionary biology and/or population genetics will
be an advantage. The PhD study can be three years
(with an MSc) or four years (with one year of an MSc
completed at the time of enrollment)
Place of employment and place of work: The place of
employment is Aarhus University, and the place of work
is Bioinformatics Research Center, Aarhus University,
Universitetsbyen 81, DK-8000 Aarhus C., Denmark.
Contacts: Applicants seeking further information for
this project are invited to contact: Associate Professor
Thomas Bataillon, e-mail: tbata@birc.au.dk Professor
Mikkel Schierup, e-mail: mheide@birc.au.dk
How to apply: For information about application re-
quirements and mandatory attachments, please see
the Application guide <https://phd.nat.au.dk/for-
applicants/application-guide/ >. Please read the Appli-
cation guide thoroughly before applying and note the
GSNS language skills requirement.
When ready to apply, go to https://phd.nat.au.dk/for-
applicants/apply-here/ (Note, the online application
system opens 1 March 2022)
1. Choose May 2022 Call with deadline 1 May 2022 at
23:59 CEST. 2. You will be directed to the call and
must choose the programme \Computer Science". 3.
When lling in information about the project, please
choose: \Haploid and sex-specic selection: modelling
and detection in deep mutational scanning of sperm
samples and trios (Hssmdd)" in the dropdown menu in
the box named \Study".
Please note:
* The programme committee may request further infor-
mation or invite the applicant to attend an interview. *
The project will only be initiated if nal funding (fromMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 21
the graduate school/the faculty) is secured.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ArcticU Norway Marine sedaDNA
PhD Fellowship in Marine sedaDNA of Northern Ecosys-
tems
A PhD position is available at the Arctic University Mu-
seum of Norway, UiT - the Arctic University of Norway.
The appointed PhD Fellow will be part of the newly
established Norwegian Centre for Arctic Ecosystem Ge-
nomics (ArcEcoGen) and will be part of the coastal
working group.
The position will focus on increasing our understanding
of long-term changes in marine northern ecosystems,
especially within coastal environments. The aim is to
reconstruct whole ecosystem dynamics through time by
extracting sedimentary ancient DNA (sedaDNA) from
Arctic marine sediment cores.
Goals of the positions are
* Quantify the sensitivity of the sedaDNA method for
marine sediments. * Reconstruct past eukaryotic com-
munities from sediment cores. * Compare the past with
modern eukaryotic communities. * Establish new refer-
ence sequences for hitherto undescribed/unsequenced
species.
The modern-day data produced in this study will serve
as a reference point for the assessment of human im-
pact in coastal ecosystems in the future. Data will
be explored to include trait analyses and other prox-
ies, which will increase our understanding of dierent
environmental drivers on ecosystem development and
changes.
More information and application through jobb-
norge: PhD Fellowship in Marine sedaDNA of
Northern Ecosystems (222583) jUiT The Arctic
University of Norway (jobbnorge.no) <https://-
www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/222583/phd-
fellowship-in-marine-sedadna-of-northern-ecosystems
>
Andreas Altenburger Associate Professor, curator of
marine invertebrates P: +47 77 64 49 02 jM: +47 46127 840 andreas.altenburger@uit.no The Arctic Univer-
sity Museum of Norway UiT The Arctic University of
Norway
Andreas Altenburger <andreas.altenburger@uit.no >
AuburnU EvolutionPlantParasites
I'm looking for a PhD or MS student to join my lab
at Auburn University and work on the evolution of
plant pests and pathogens. Our goal is to increase
the sustainability of agriculture by advancing our un-
derstanding of the evolution of two important traits:
resistance to pesticides, and virulence (that is, just how
harmful a parasite or pathogen is to its host). This
is a cross-disciplinary project and students will have
opportunities to participate in evolutionary modeling,
data science, and experimental research with bacterial
pathogens, their insect vectors, and some of their host
plants.
The position starts in August 2022, that is, the start of
the fall semester. It comes with a competitive twelve-
month stipend, health insurance, and a tuition waver.
Candidates who would add to the ethnic, gender, and
socioeconomic diversity of the academy are strongly
urged to apply. If you're interested, please send me an
email with your CV and any questions you might have
about the position before the end of April.
Cheers! Nate B Hardy
Associate Professor Department of Entomol-
ogy and Plant Pathology Auburn Univer-
sity Email: n8@auburn.edu Website: http://-
hardylab.skullisland.info Hardy Lab jMaking sense
of insect diversity <http://hardylab.skullisland.info/
>Our best guess is that about one third of all
multicellular species are insects that eat plants. It's
only a guess because most species are undocumented.
hardylab.skullisland.info
Nathaniel Hardy <nbh0006@auburn.edu >22 EvolDir May 1, 2022
AustralianNatlU
ConservationGenomics
This project will suit a student with an interest in con-
servation genetics, molecular biology and bioinformatics
The Lord Howe Island stick insect, thought to be ex-
tinct but recently rediscovered, has become emblematic
of the dangers faced by island species in the face of
anthropogenic change. A planned reintroduction eort
aims to rescue this species, one of the rarest insects
in the world, from the brink of extinction. Our aims
ar?e to explore the unique genome biology of this in-
sect, and use it as a model for adaptation to captivity
and to the post-release environment. Our project was
just funded for three years, and will build on the recent
development of numerous genomic resources, such as a
high-quality genome assembly. The project will com-
bine cutting-edge molecular techniques and innovative
approaches to genotyping of unusual material (historical
and non-destructively sampled in the eld) with analysis
of next-generation sequencing data. This project will
blend fundamental science investigating genome evolu-
tion with research outcomes that will directly contribute
to ongoing conservation eorts. Thus, skills obtained
during this degree will be relevant to academia, as well
as the conservation sector, including government and
NGOs.
Suitable applicants need to be highly motivated with
a strong academic and research background. Demon-
strated ability to conduct independent research is re-
quired, with experience in the molecular lab, and some
experience in programming or data analysis being de-
sirable. Applicants should hold rst class honours or
equivalent experience. The successful student will need
to apply to ANU for enrollment, for international ap-
plicants ideally by this year's April 15 deadline. The
successful applicant will receive a stipend scholarship
and research funds, including computer and travel fund-
ing.
Location: We will be based in the Division of Ecology
and Evolution at the Research School of Biology at the
Australian National University in Canberra, Australia.
The project will also be supported by Zoos Victoria,
who hold a large captive population of the LHI stick
insects at Melbourne Zoo, and are closely involved with
the recovery eort on Lord Howe Island. Field work to
collect additional samples is likely to be involved.Expression of interest: Expressions of interest should be
submitted directly to Alexander.Mikheyev@anu.edu.au.
International applicants should contact me by April 5,
2022, though the earlier the better so that we can co-
ordinate the ANU application due on the 15th. Please
include a brief statement on why you are interested in
this project, a CV and contact details for references.
Following assessment of applications one applicant will
then be invited to formally apply to the ANU. The
successful applicant will be able to start as soon as pos-
sible. You can also nd out more information about the
graduate program by clicking on the \Higher Degree by
Research" tab at http://biology.anu.edu.au/education/-
degree-programs alexander.mikheyev@anu.edu.au
EstonainULifeSci
eDNACrayshPathogens
Estonian UniLifeSci.Craysh Pathogens eDNA
PhD student position in freshwater craysh pathogens
We are seeking a highly motivated student holding a
Master's degree in Biosciences, Genetics, Environment,
or a similar eld for a four-year fully-funded PhD to
study freshwater craysh and their pathogens using envi-
ronmental DNA (eDNA) and other molecular methods.
The research will be carried out at the Estonian Univer-
sity of Life Sciences (Institute of Veterinary Medicine
and Animal Sciences, Chair of Aquaculture) on the topic
of \Detection of craysh pathogens and distribution of
invasive alien craysh species in Estonia using modern
molecular methods". The successful applicant will join a
collaborative project under the supervision of Dr Katrin
Kaldre, Dr Lilian Pukk and Dr Jane Oja. The Chair of
Aquaculture has a multinational team of postdocs, PhD
and master students and technicians, and the applicant
will have the opportunity to work extensively with other
team members.
The PhD student will participate in the following re-
search tasks: 1) Applying eDNA methodology for the
detection of non-native invasive craysh species (NICS)
and the causative agent of craysh plague A. astaci
in Estonia; 2) Mapping the distribution of NICS and
pathogen A. astaci in Estonian waterbodies using eDNA
methodology; 3) Mapping the spread of burn spot dis-
ease and its causative agents from diverse species, both
in Estonian natural waterbodies and in craysh farms,
using eDNA metabarcoding; 4) Developing and imple-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 23
menting a procedure to detect DNA from pathogen(s)
from tissue or water samples by using species- specic
qPCR assay.
Requirements: - The PhD candidate should be highly
motivated, intellectually curious and sociable; - Should
have at least basic experience working in a molecular
laboratory, as well as some basic bioinformatics skills;
- Willing to participate in eldwork; - Ability to work
both independently and in a team; - Must be uent in
English (written and spoken).
Following are an advantage: - Experience with phys-
iology experiments; - Experience with pathogens or
craysh; - Willingness to present project results at in-
ternational conferences and be a co-author in research
publications.
How to apply:
Applications should be sent to katrin.kaldre@emu.ee and
include a motivation letter (less than 1 page with aca-
demic background, research experience, interests, and
goals) and a CV and contact details of two references
and a copy of your master ^As degree certicate.
Submission deadline is June 1, 2022.
Starting date: September 2022.
Salary/Scholarship: According to local agreement for
PhD students (approximately 1400 EUR/month).
If you have questions, contact Katrin Kaldre (ka-
trin.kaldre@emu.ee).
Katrin Kaldre <katrin.kaldre@emu.ee >
ETH Zurich
EvolutionaryEcosystemEcology
PhD position in evolutionary ecology of aquatic ecosys-
tems
The open PhD position is based at Eawag, the Swiss
Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology,
in the Department of Fish Ecology & Evolution, in
Kastanienbaum.
The position is based in the group of Dr Blake Matthews
and is part of a 4-year funded SNF project, entitled:
\The eco-evolutionary eects of predators in aquatic
ecosystems". The Matthews group focuses on the eco-
logical dynamics of natural selection, and the reciprocal
interactions among ecological, ecosystem, and evolu-
tionary dynamics. The successful applicant will be adoctoral student at ETH Zurich, and be co-supervised
by Prof. Dr Jukka Jokela in the department of En-
vironmental Systems Science. The funded project is
in collaboration with the groups of Dr Philine Feulner
(Eawag) and Dr Ryan Greenway (University of Kon-
stanz).
The PhD project will involve extensive eld work in
Southern Greenland, in order to explore how stickle-
back aect the species composition and trait variation
of macroinvertebrate communities and life history evo-
lution of zooplankton, and how stickleback evolve in
response to both predation and prey community dynam-
ics.
Ideally, the candidate has a background in evolution-
ary ecology, some experience with eld work in aquatic
settings, and an interest in learning about aquatic in-
vertebrate taxonomy (primarily benthic communities)
and life-history evolution of zooplankton. The group's
working language is English and uency in writing and
speaking is required. Knowledge of German or French
is not required.
The position is situated in the Department of Fish Ecol-
ogy & Evolution: The Department is part of Eawag's
Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry
(CEEB), which is located on the shore of Lake Lucerne
and is a strong nucleus of Eawag research groups aimed
at integrating evolutionary biology, community ecology,
and ecosystem science. The PhD student will interact
with a diverse range of researchers studying community
ecology, evolutionary biology, ecological genetics, ecosys-
tem science, and applied environmental science. More in-
formation about the current research group and ongoing
projects can be found at www.blakematthewslab.com
Eawag oers an excellent working environment where
sta can contribute their strengths, experience and
ways of thinking. We promote gender equality and
are committed to sta diversity and inclusion. The
compatibility of career and family is of central impor-
tance to us. For more information about Eawag and
our work conditions please consult www.eawag.ch and
www.eawag.ch/en/aboutus/working/employment. We
strongly encourage applications from researchers identi-
fying as a member of a historically marginalised group.
Applications should include a cover letter with a concise
statement about your previous education and research
experience, your vision for the future and in particu-
lar your motivation to work on this project (1 page
maximum), a curriculum vitae including (if applicable)
any publications or a copy of a MSc thesis, copies of
your academic qualications, and names and contact
information of 2-3 academic references (please do not
include letters with the application).24 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Any questions about the position can be directed to
blake.matthews@eawag.ch
Screening of applicants will begin immediately, and the
closing date is 30 April 2022.
We look forward to receiving your application. Please
send it via this link: https://apply.reine.ch/673277/-
0929/pub/1/index.html any other way of applying
will not be considered. The link can also be
found here: https://www.blakematthewslab.com/news
Blake.Matthews@eawag.ch
INRAE BordeauxU
OakPangenomicAdaptation
We are looking for a highly motivated student for a PhD
position within the project \Pan-genome evolutionary
dynamics and role of structural variants in local adapta-
tion within the European white oak species complex".
PhD STUDENT POSITION - Pangenomic and role of
structural variants in oak adaptation - Based at UMR
Biogeco INRAE - University of Bordeaux - Subject area:
Population genetics and genomics - Application deadline:
20 May 2022.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION This PhD project will focus
in understanding the evolutionary dynamics of genomes
in perennial species and contruct a pan-genome to in-
vestigate the role of structural variants (SVs) in key
adaptive traits such as drought resistance and bud burst.
The PhD candidate will be in charge of the bioinformat-
ics, comparative and population genomics analyses of
the data already available at UMR Biogeco for the white
oak species (high quality genome assemblies, long and
short read sequencing, pool-seq...). More information
at https://www.adum.fr/as/ed/propositionFD.pl?site=-
edse (see below for more instructions).
PROFILE We expect candidate proles with skills in
evolutionary ecology/population genomics and strong
will to deepen his.her bioinformatics skills or al-
ternatively candidates with skills in bioinformat-
ics/computing science and strong interest in evolution-
ary processes. The work involves mostly computer work
and programming with opportunities for eld work.
SUPERVISION The PhD student will be supervised
by Dr. Ludovic Duvaux and Dr. Christophe Plomion
(INRAE - Biogeco) and will be registered at the \Sci-
ences et environnements" Doctoral School (https://ed-
environnements.u-bordeaux.fr/en) of the University ofBordeaux.
Contacts: - Ludovic Duvaux: ludovic.duvaux@inrae.fr -
Christophe Plomion: christophe.plomion@inrae.fr
HOW TO APPLY Interested applicants should
contact the supervisors to get more details (lu-
dovic.duvaux@inrae.fr and christophe.plomion@inrae.fr)
then apply by May 20, 2022.
- Go to https://www.adum.fr/as/ed/-
propositionFD.pl?site=ed se - click the tab
\Sp >1
2cialit >1
2 >1
2cologie  >1
2volutive, fonction-
nelle et des communaut >1
2s" - click the the link
\Dynamique  >1
2volutive du pan-g >1
2nome et r >1
2le des
variants structuraux dans l'adaptation locale au sein du
complexe d'esp >1
2ces des ch >1
2nes blancs europ >1
2ens"
- click the button \candidater" - choose the language
on the top left \EN" or \FR" - then Create an account
if needed
COLLABORATIONS AND NETWORKING The PhD
student will be able to interact with our network of
collaborators. Locally, strong interactions already ex-
ist with Veronique Decrooq & Quynh-Trang Bui (BFP,
INRAE Bordeaux). They work on the genomic bases
of adaptation and domestication in apricot trees and
share the same interest in SV and tree pan-genome
dynamics. Thus, a long term collaboration is ongoing.
The candidate will also collaborate with national ex-
perts in genome assemblies and annotations (Jean-Marc
Aury from G >1
2noscope, William Marande from CN-
RGV, INRAE URGI sta members), structural variation
analyses (Olivier Panaud, from Perpignan University),
comparative genomics and population genetics (within
the BIOGECO and BFP).
FULL SUMMARY WITH OBJECTIVES: Structural
variation (SV) - i.e. pieces of DNA being deleted, in-
serted, or rearranged among chromosomes - strongly
inuences gene content and genome structure within
and between closely related species. SV may have strong
impacts on phenotypes of ecological and agronomical
interest but are poorly captured when genotypes are
produced in comparison to one single reference genome.
Consequently, the evolutionary dynamics of SV in nat-
ural populations (mutation rate, role of selection in
shaping genetic variation) and their role in local adap-
tation remain poorly documented compared to that of
single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), especially in
forest tree species. Hence, in order to capture variation
of SV and its impact on phenotypic variation, compara-
tive and evolutionary genomics areas are now turning to
pan-genome based analyses of genetic variation. White
Oaks are species of ecological, economic and cultural
importance in Europe, accounting for a third of the
metropolitan French forests (i.e. 5M ha). These popu-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 25
lations display signs of stress or even decline related to
biotic and abiotic stresses and their adaptive potential
in the context of climate changes is uncertain. The
genome of the pedunculate oak was sequenced recently,
providing the blueprints to
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
JenaU Two EvolutionaryEcology
PhD student position (m/f/d) in Evolutionary Ecology
of Color Polymorphisms in Grasshoppers
We oer a part-time position (65%, 26 hours per week),
limited until 31 December 2025 (more than 3 years) and
starting as soon as possible. Evaluation of applications
will start on 21 May 2022 and will end when the position
if lled. The position will be hosted by the Population
Ecology Group at at Jena University (Germany).
The project deals with the ecological and evolutionary
consequences of a widespread color polymorphism in
grasshoppers. Practical work includes behavioral exper-
iments in the eld and in the laboratory. The aim is to
understand the individual behavioral strategies and the
reasons for the maintenance of the color polymorphism.
The project is supervised in the Population Ecology
group, which provides a strong environment for evolu-
tionary ecological work and has proven experience on
work on grasshoppers. The project is embedded within
the DFG-funded Collaborative Research Center (CRC)
\A New Synthesis on Individualization: Niche Choice,
Niche Conformity, Niche Construction".
Your responsibilities: - ||| You work on individual
behavioral strategies in grasshoppers - ||| You plan,
perform and analyze behavioral experiments in the eld
and in the laboratory - ||| You collaborate with
other research groups of the Collaborative Research
Centre - ||| You write scientic publications for
international peer-reviewed journals - ||| You work
on your own scientic qualication project (PhD)
Your prole: - ||| Completed Master's degree prefer-
ably with a biological focus - ||| Very good knowl-
edge of written and spoken English - ||| Experience
with eld and/or behavioral ecology work and ability toorganize yourself - ||| Knowledge of at least one sta-
tistical program (ideally R) - ||| Proven experience
in scientic writing
We oer: - ||| Remuneration based on the provisions
of the Collective Agreement for the Public Sector of the
Federal States (TV-L) at salary scale E13 depending
on the candidate's personal qualications , including a
special annual payment in accordance with the collective
agreement. - ||| You will work in a DFG-funded
Collaborative Research Center (SFB-TRR 212) - |||
Independent work with intensive scientic supervision
- ||| Participation in diverse conceptual and quan-
titative research with an interdisciplinary character -
||| Interesting and varied tasks on an international
level and participation in international conferences - |
|| A Graduate Academy for doctoral candidates and
postdocs; - ||| A family-friendly working environ-
ment with a variety of oers for families: University
Family Oce 'JUniFamilie' and exible childcare ('JU-
niKinder);
Candidates with severe disabilities will be given prefer-
ence in the case of equal qualications and suitability.
Are you eager to work for us? Then submit your detailed
written application, preferably by email (as a single PDF
le), stating the vacancy ID 122/2022 by 21 May 2022 to:
Prof. Dr. Holger Schielzeth, Friedrich Schiller Univer-
sity Jena, Institut of Ecology and Evolution, Dornburger
Str. 159, 07743 Jena, E-Mail: popecol@uni-jena.de
|{
PhD student position (m/f/d) in Evidence Synthesis on
the Evolutionary Ecology of Individualized Niches
We oer a part-time position (65%, 26 hours per week),
limited until 31 December 2025 (more than 3 years) and
starting as soon as possible. Evaluation of applications
will start on 21 May 2022 and will end when the position
if lled. The position will be hosted by the Population
Ecology Group at at Jena University (Germany).
The project deals with systematic meta-analyses on in-
dividual niche specialization within the DFG- funded
Collaborative Research Center (CRC) \A New Synthesis
on Individualization: Niche Choice, Niche Conformity,
Niche Construction". The project has a synthesis char-
acter within the CRC and is simultaneously quantitative
and conceptual. It promotes a conceptual overview while
strengthening quantitative understanding of individual-
ized ecological niches. The project oers the opportunity
to develop a unique scientic prole that is of high de-
mand in within and outside academia. The work will
be supervised in the Population Ecology Group Jena,
which deals with evolutionary ecology issues and has
proven experience with meta-analyses.26 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Your responsibilities: - ||| You work on individual
niche specialization in the light of systematic literature
analyses - ||| You perform comprehensive reviews
of the published literature on selected topics - |||
You implement advanced statistical analyses - |||
You collaborate with other research groups of the Col-
laborative
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
KU Leuven InsectSocietyEvolution
Graduate Position
KULeuven.CastePlasticityInSocialInsects
PhD position: The evolution of caste plasticity and
caste dimorphism in insect societies
We invite applications for a 3-year fully funded PhD
position on the evolution sociality in insects (FWO-
FAPESP project) Specically, the project will study
the occurrence of social insect caste plasticity in func-
tion of reproductive role and the origin of queen-worker
caste dimorphism across a range of primitively and ad-
vanced eusocial temperate and Neotropical ants, bees
and wasps. Comparative genomics techniques, light
sheet uorescence microscopy (LSFM) brain imaging
and behavioural experiments will be used to study shift-
ing patterns in the evolution of behavioural plasticity
in eusocial insects, including possible tissue trade-os
and changes in the modularity in brain gene expres-
sion patterns. In addition, we will investigate how the
origin of queen-worker caste dimorphism was built on
pre-existing gene regulatory networks in primitively eu-
social ancestors. We are looking for a highly motivated
candidate with an MSc degree (or equivalent) in Biol-
ogy or a related eld. The successful applicant should
have a background in behavioural ecology or evolution-
ary biology, should be able to carry out both lab and
eld work, and should have a keen interest to learn
techniques required for the execution of this project,
including both brain imaging techniques & comparative
genomics analyses. Prior experience in working with so-
cial insects and statistics are advantageous. The project
forms part of a collaboration with Prof. Nascimento
(USP-Ribeir >1
2o Preto, Brazil) and Prof. Oliveira (UABBarcelona Spain). This implies that while much of
the work will be carried out in Leuven, there will be
the opportunity to also carry out eld trips to Brazil
and Spain. We are a multidisciplinary lab (https://-
bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/tw/) working on questions related
to social evolution and use social insects as our prin-
cipal model system. The working language of the lab
is English. KU Leuven is among one of the most pres-
tigious universities in the world (48 >1
2in the ranking
of THE 2019) and oers good employment conditions
(https://www.kuleuven.be/personeel/jobsite/en). Leu-
ven is a historic university city with a vibrant student
life. Leuven is a 15-minute train ride away from Brus-
sels International Airport and a 20-minutes train ride
from Brussels itself (https://www.kuleuven.be/english/-
living).
If you are interested, please send an application as a
single pdf le containing your CV, a 1-page motiva-
tion letter, your previous research activities, BSc and
MSc grades, publications (if available), and the names
and email addresses of two potential referees. Applica-
tions should be sent to the promoter Prof. Tom Wense-
leers (tom.wenseleers@kuleuven.be), and co-promoter
Dr. Cintia Akemi Oi (cintiaakemi.oi@kuleuven.be) with
the subject [PhD application NAME]. Application dead-
line & starting date: exible, the position will remain
open until lled. Do not hesitate to contact us if you
would have any further questions.
Prof. Tom Wenseleers & Dr. Cintia Akemi Oi Labo-
ratory of Socioecology and Social Evolution Dept. of
Biology, KU Leuven, Naamsestraat 59, 3000 Leuven,
Belgium https://bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/tw/ Cintia Akemi
Oi<cintiaakemi.oi@kuleuven.be >
Mainz Germany
HistoricalPopGenetics
PhD student position open in Computational method
development in historical population genetics
We oer a part-time position (65%), for 3 years and start-
ing as soon as possible. Evaluation of applications will
start on 15th June 2022 and will end when the position
is lled. The position will be hosted by the Palaeoge-
netics Group at the Johannes Gutenberg University of
Mainz, Germany (https://palaeogenetics-mainz.de).
The project aims to develop methods to reconstruct
kinship relationships within historical cemetery popula-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 27
tions. The approaches developed will then be applied
to genome data of early medieval skeletal populations.
Therefore, the PhD will be involved in the development
of methods in the elds of statistical genomics, bioin-
formatics, mathematical genetics, populations genetics,
and Palaeogenetics. The project is supervised in the
Palaeogenetics group one of the international leading
groups in the eld of Ancient DNA Research. The
project is DFG funded and in Cooperation with the
University of T ubingen, Germany.
Your prole
Completed Master's degree (or Diploma), preferably
within the eld of biology, genomics, statistics, bioin-
formatics or mathematics Very good knowledge of writ-
ten and spoken English knowledge in bioinformatics,
evolution, and statistics As the PhD project is interdis-
ciplinary it requires historical- archaeological interest
as well as a scientic will to develop new methods for
computer
We oer:
The candidate will become part of a team of internation-
ally leading computer scientists, anthropologists and
archaeologists/historians. Independent work with in-
tensive scientic supervision Participation in diverse
conceptual and quantitative research with an interdis-
ciplinary character Interesting and varied tasks on an
international level and participation in international
conferences Remuneration based on the provisions of
the Collective Agreement for the Public Sector of the
Federal States (TV-L) at salary scale E13depending on
the candidate's personal qualications, including a spe-
cial annual payment in accordance with the collective
agreement
Candidates with severe disabilities will be given prefer-
ence in the case of equal qualications and suitability.
We aim to increase women in the eld of research and
teaching and therefore encourage female researchers to
apply.
Are you eager to work with us? Then submit your
detailed written application, preferably by email (as
a single PDF le) to: Joachim Burger, Palaeogenetics
group, Johannes Gutenberg Universit at Mainz, Anselm-
Franz-von-Bentzel-Weg 7, D-55128 Mainz, Germany,
Email: anthro2@uni-mainz.de
\Despr es, Dr. Viviane" <despres@uni-mainz.de >MasseyU CricketEvolution
An ecologically friendly solutionis required to manage
an endemic cricket (w ct^ a) in New Zealandvineyards. A
lack of knowledge of ground w ct^ a (Hemiandrus) ecology
is currently hindering the development of successful,
sustainable management tools. Using a range of eco-
logical methods, the factors that determine the spatial
and temporal distribution and abundance of this insect
species will be investigated. This project will combine
eld work to estimate population densities and life his-
tory traits with studies of diet and olfactory responses
to plant volatiles, in native and modied habitats.
This project is part of a collaboration between scientists
at Massey University and The New Zealand Institute
for Plant & Food Research Limited, with support from
the New Zealand Wine Futures Fund and New Zealand
wineries. AWildlife & Ecologyprogramme in the School
of Natural Sciences (Massey University) is investigating
the diversity of Orthoptera in New Zealand and seek-
ing to understand their biotic and abiotic interactions
within the ecosystems of Aotearoa. This involves an
array of approaches including geometric morphometrics,
ecological niche modelling, behavioural and population
biology, genetics and chemical ecology.
The scholarship: A tax-free living allowance stipend of
NZ$30,000 per annum for 3 years, tuition fees to be
conrmed.
Location: The successful applicant will join the School of
Natural Sciences on the Manawatu campus of MasseyU-
niversity (Palmerston North, NZ), and will undertake
eld work based near vineyards in South Island, New
Zealand in cooperation with Plant & Food Research sta.
Massey University is a smoke-free work environment.
Research Group:Te Taha Tawhitiresides within the
Wildlife & Ecology Group in the School of Nat-
ural Sciences. Lead researchers areMary Morgan-
RichardsandSteve Trewick Who we're looking for:
You'll need a good rst degree from an interna-
tionally recognised university (minimum upper sec-
ond class Hons) or a Master's degree in an appro-
priate subject. You should have a background in
Ecology/Biology/Evolution/Entomology, good statis-
tics skills (preferably R) and an interest in insect-plant
interactions. A good understanding of experimental
design and ability to work outdoors, independently and
as a part of a research team are welcomed, and prefer-28 EvolDir May 1, 2022
ablypast experience in conducting eldwork. English
language prociency and excellent communication skills
are required. You will be part of a vibrant research
group at Massey University where you will contribute to
regular lab meetings, and also to departmental seminars.
How to Apply: Expressions of interest should be submit-
ted, along with a CV, toProf Mary Morgan-Richards.
Kind regards
Steve
Prof. Steve Trewick Wildlife & Ecology Group - Evolu-
tionary Ecology and Genetics Massey University, Pri-
vate Bag 11-222, Palmerston North, New Zealand 4410
evolves.massey.ac.nz Tel: DD. 06 951 7842
Read our colourful book on evolutionary ecology in New
Zealand
https://sites.massey.ac.nz/wildlifenz/ shpond
Steve Trewick <S.Trewick@massey.ac.nz >
MaxPlanckInst
AncestralRecombGraphs
The Transmission, Infection, Diversication & Evolution
Group (tide) is a Max Planck Independent Research
Group at the Max Planck Institute for the Science of
Human History.
We are looking for a Master student to work on the
development of an R package for the manipulation and
visualization of ancestral recombination graphs. An-
cestral recombination graphs are used to represent the
evolution of organisms in the presence of recombination
or horizontal gene transfer. The package will likely ex-
tend the existing ggtree package for the visualisation of
phylogenetic trees.
This work will benet ongoing projects in our group
and could result in a scientic publication. Candidates
should have procient skills in R programming. Previ-
ous experience or knowledge of phylogenetics would be
appreciated but is not mandatory.
Interested parties are invited to contact Dr. Arthur
Kocher at kocher@shh.mpg.de
Kind regards,
Dr. Dorit Wammetsberger Recruitment Manager
Max-Planck-Institut f >1
2r Menschheitsgeschichte/ Max
Planck Institute for the Science of Human HistoryKahlaische Str. 10 07745 Jena, Germany
Fon: +49 3641 686936 wammetsberger@shh.mpg.de
\Wammetsberger, Dorit"
<wammetsberger@shh.mpg.de > \Wammetsberger,
Dorit" <wammetsberger@shh.mpg.de >
MaxPlanckInst Jena
HostDiseaseBehaviour
Parasitism and social behaviour in ants
We invite applications for a fully funded PhD position
to work on the behavioural and chemical ecology of ne-
matode infections in ants with the groups of Yuko Ulrich
(ulrichlab.com) and Markus Knaden (ice.iwww.mpg.de/-
228656/odor-guided-behavior) at the Max Planck Insti-
tute for Chemical Ecology in Jena, Germany.
Background: Parasites can aect virtually any aspect
of host biology, including behavior. Eects range from
manipulations of host behavior that increase parasite
transmission to changes in host social behaviour (e.g.,
social distancing) that reduce transmission. Social in-
sects and their parasites include some of the best-known
examples of behavioral eects at both ends of this spec-
trum (1, 2), but the mechanisms driving these changes
are rarely known.
Nematodes of the genus Diploscapter infect the postpha-
ryngeal gland of ants (3), an organ involved in the spread
of cuticular hydrocarbons among nestmates. Cuticu-
lar hydrocarbons play a central role in communication
within ant societies: they are the basis for the formation
of a \colony odor", which is in turn used for nestmate
recognition (i.e, self vs. non-self discrimination) (4). It
is currently unknown whether nematode infections in
the postpharyngeal gland can aect the ants' nestmate
discrimination ability, and if so, what the consequences
on aggressive behavior, colony composition, and parasite
transmission are.
Project Description: You will combine behavioural and
chemical analyses to study the eect of experimental
infections with Diploscapter nematodes in the clonal
raider ant Ooceraea biroi (5), an emerging model for
the study of social behaviour (6). You will investigate
whether and how nematodes aect ant cuticular hydro-
carbon proles and the ability of ants to discriminate
nestmates from non-nestmates, and how this in turn
aects the transmission success of the parasite and the
tness of host colonies. Depending on your interests, thisMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 29
project can develop to address more detailed questions
on the sensory and nutritional aspects of the interaction
between host and parasite, intergenerational eects of
infections on the host, or comparative approaches using
other ant-nematode species pairs. The project provides
opportunities for internal and external collaborations.
Candidate prole:
- Master's degree (or equivalent) in biology or related
eld
- Proactive, dynamic, and curious
- Excellent communication and organizational skills
- Prociency in written and spoken English
- Experience with behavioural assays or chemical analy-
ses in insects are desirable but not necessary
Applications should be submitted online through
the online portal of the graduate school (Interna-
tional Max Planck Research School, IMPRS): https:/-
/www.ice.mpg.de/296548/current-call by May 6, 2022.
Informal inquiries about the position can be addressed
to Yuko Ulrich (yulrich@ice.mpg.de).
The Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology provides
a thriving, international, and multidisciplinary research
environment, state-of-the-art facilities and equipment,
and world-class colleagues working on evolutionary bi-
ology, and insect chemical ecology and neuroethology.
The working language of the institute is English. For
more information, please visit www.ice.mpg.de. The
Max Planck Society is committed to equal opportunities
and diversity (www.mpg.de/equal opportunities). We
welcome qualied applicants from all backgrounds.
References:
1. D. P. Hughes, F. Libersat, Parasite manipulation of
host behavior. Curr. Biol. 29, R45-R47 (2019).
2. S. Cremer, S. A. Armitage, P. Schmid-Hempel, Social
immunity. Curr. Biol. 17, R693-702 (2007).
3. G. J. Poinar, Nematode Parasites and Associates of
Ants: Past and Present. Psyche 2012, (2012).
4. P. P. Sprenger, F. Menzel, Cuticular hydrocarbons
in ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) and other insects:
how and why they dier among individuals, colonies,
and species. Myrmecological News 30, 1-26 (2020).
5. G. Alciatore et al., Immune challenges increase net-
work centrality in a queenless ant. Proceedings of the
Royal Society B-Biological Sciences 288, (2021).
6. Y. Ulrich, J. Saragosti, C. K. Tokita, C. E. Tarnita,
D. J. C. Kronauer, Fitness benets and emergent divi-
sion of labour at the onset of group living. Nature 560,
635-638 (2018).yuko ulrich <yulrich@ice.mpg.de >
Munster EvolutionaryGenomics
Dear all,
Later this year, I will be recruiting a PhD student to in-
vestigate the genomic signatures related to the evolution
of beetle sociality, here in Munster within the group of
Erich Bornberg-Bauer at the Institute for Evolution and
Biodiversity. The position will involve genome assembly
as well as several comparative genomics and molecular
evolution methods to investigate how sub- and eusocial-
ity arose in beetles, and how this compares to other
transitions to sociality in insects.
I will post more details later but if you could help
me identify some interesting candidates, that would be
greatly appreciated. Any talented students who are
interested in this project are welcome to contact me
directly or refer to my website for more details on my
work (bornberglab.org/people/harrison/).
Thank you and best wishes, Mark
Mark C. Harrison, Dr. Westf >1
2lische Wilhelms-
Universit >1
2t Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity
Evolutionary Bioinformatics Group H >1
2erstrasse 1a
D-48149 M >1
2nster, Germany
H >1
2erstrasse 1a, Room 3 Tel: +49-(0)251 - 83-21508
Web: bornberglab.org/people/harrison/
Mark Harrison <m.harrison@uni-muenster.de >Mark
Harrison <m.harrison@uni-muenster.de >
SLU Uppsala
HoneyBeeImmunityEvolution
The Department of Ecology (SLU) is looking to recruit
a PhD candidate, whom will be fully funded, to work
on a research theme related to characterizing the im-
mune system and responses of the honeybee to be able
to understand trade-os and adaptations happening in
populations evolving resistance/tolerance to diseases
both on the phenotypic and genetic level. Are you in-
terested in understanding social insect immunity and
host-parasite interactions in a scientically and soci-30 EvolDir May 1, 2022
etally relevant eld of honeybee health? Would you like
to collaborate internationally and communicate with
stakeholders? Then this PhD position should be of in-
terest to you. Our doctoral education aims to develop
your creative and analytical thinking and to strengthen
your research, communication, and outreach skills. The
position will be placed within the internationally distin-
guished honeybee research group where the successful
candidate will be oered a stimulating context with
colleagues who focus on various aspects of bee health
and have an extensive collaborative network.
The goal of this project is to produce a comprehensive
overview of the ecological immunity of honeybees by
combining phenotypic and genomic measurements. The
successful candidate is expected to carry out supervised
research leading to a PhD thesis within this topic as
well as taking PhD courses to the equivalent of 45 cred-
its. This will involve characterize individual immunity
across various life stages; setting up eld experiments to
examine and evaluate dierent behavioural and physio-
logical traits of honeybees in relation to their biological
performance specically relating to disease resistance
and tolerance; exploring immunity trade-os that may
potentially result from resistance in order to develop
mitigation strategies to improve honeybee health and
the resilience of beekeeping. RNA-seq will also be used
to look at gene expression variation between phenotypes.
Qualications: The successful applicant is required to
have completed an MSc degree (or equivalent) in Bi-
ology / Ecology / Evolutionary Biology / Molecular
Biology or similar subject. Skills in planning, executing,
and reporting scientic studies, as well as experience
with statistical analyses are meriting. The applicant
should have the ability to work both independently and
in a team. Proven ability to communicate excellently
in written and spoken English is essential. A driving
license is required. Experience working with honeybees
and molecular assays /genomics will be considered of
high additional merit. Application:
The written application shall contain:
A letter of motivation, describing the applicants previous
academic and professional experience and motivation in
relation to the project
* Curriculum vitae * Copy of degree incl. transcript
of academic records * Copy of degree thesis * A list
of two reference persons familiar with the applicant's
qualications. * Certied knowledge of the English
language
We welcome your application no later than April 30th,
2022, apply via the website: https://www.slu.se/-
en/about-slu/work-at-slu/jobs-vacancies/?rmpage=-job&rmjob=6487&rmlang=UK A person has basic
eligibility for third cycle education if he or she has
taken a second cycle qualication or has completed
course requirements of at least 240 higher education
credits, including at least 60 higher education credits at
second cycle education. Upper secondary school grade
equivalent to English B/English 6 is a basic requirement.
Selection among applicants is made with reference to
the written application including curriculum vitae,
dissertation for masters or undergraduate degree,
reference persons, certied knowledge of the English
language and an interview. Personal merits will play a
signicant role in the recruitment process.
Please observe that applicant/s chosen to participate in
an interview shall hand in certied true copies of certi-
cates, diplomas and transcripts from previous studies at
an internationally recognized higher education institu-
tion (university or university college) and transcripts in
connection to the interview. If the applicant is a foreign
citizen, we require a certied copy of the page in your
passport with your personal data and photography.
Read more about the PhD education at SLU at
www.slu.se/en/education/postgraduate-studies/ The
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) is a
world-class international university with research, educa-
tion and environmental assessment within the sciences
for sustainable life. Its principal sites are in Alnarp,
Ume ~Aand Uppsala, but activities are also conducted
at research stations, experimental parks and educational
establishments throughout Sweden. We bring together
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
TechU Dresden
OrganismicMolecularBiodiversity
Dear colleagues,
we would be glad if you could announce our master's
programme on evoldir
Course: TU Dresden, Germany, Master's Program \Or-
ganismic and Molecular Biodiversity" in October 2022.
Details of the program and enrolment can be
found here: https://tu-dresden.de/ihi-zittau/-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 31
studium/studienangebot/organismic-and-molecular-
biodiversity?set language=en Kind regards
Christiane Ritz
Christiane Ritz <christiane.ritz@senckenberg.de >
TrentU ForensicGenomics
The project: An interdisciplinary project funded by
NSERC Discovery Horizons aims to develop biomark-
ers to estimate time since death in participation with
Canada's rst human decomposition facility - REST[ES].
This posting is for a PhD student and the project will
integrate a variety of genomic assays and machine learn-
ing approaches to uncover post-mortem time-dependent
signatures.
The team: Consisting of anthropologists, chemists and
population geneticists, the applicant will join an interdis-
ciplinary team with access to the unique REST[ES] facil-
ity. The successful applicant will be based at Trent Uni-
versity (Ontario, Canada) and supervised by Drs. Aaron
Shafer (TU) and Shari Forbes (UQTR / REST[ES]).
Qualications: The PhD student must meet the re-
quirements of the Environmental and Life Sciences OR
Applied Modeling and Quantitative Methods Gradu-
ate Programs at TrentU. Basic programming skills (R /
Unix) will be an asset; MSc and non-domestic applicants
will be considered.
How to apply: Send a CV and 2 referee contacts to aaron-
shafer@trentu.ca. Anticipated start date is September
2022 or January 2023.
aaronshafer@trentu.ca
UBielefeld SpeciesInteractions
* Open PhD position in the Theoretical Biology group
and NC ^3 at Bielefeld University, Germany. Application
deadline May 4*
Dear evoldir community,
We are looking for a PhD student to join the The-
oretical Biology group and the Collaborative Re-
search Centre \A Novel Synthesis of Individual-
isation across Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution:Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construc-
tion (NC ^3, https://www.uni-bielefeld.de/fakultaeten/-
biologie/forschung/verbuende/sfb nc3/)". The PhD
project will focus on developing a modeling framework
to investigate how species interactions (e.g. consumer-
resource, host-parasite, or competitive interactions) are
shaped by individual trait variation within species as
well as by niche choice, niche conformance (closely re-
lated to phenotypic plasticity), and niche construction,
the three key processes investigated by the collaborative
research centre NC ^3. The PhD student will be part of
a highly interactive research environment in the research
centre, with seminars, retreats, research clouds, and in
particular also collaborations with the empirical groups
in the research centre.
Research tasks (95 %) - development of eco-evolutionary
models - mathematical analysis of models - implementa-
tion in a programming language (e. g. R, C++, Python)
- simulation studies - writing of scientic publications
- collaboration with other research groups within the
collaborative research centre
Other tasks (5 %) - organisation tasks in the research
group and collaborative research centre
We expect: - a university degree (e.g. Master) in a
relevant scientic discipline, e. g. biology, mathematics,
physics, or bioinformatics - aspiration and ability to do
a doctorate - programming skills in at least one pro-
gramming language (e. g. R, C++, Python) - interest
in both biological and mathematical questions - excel-
lent command of scientic English, written and oral -
motivation and communication skills to work as part of
an interdisciplinary collaborative team
Preferred experience and skills: - experience with math-
ematical modeling - working knowledge of ecology and
evolution
Please send your application including a motivation let-
ter, CV, copies of certicates, and contact details of
two references as a single pdf to meike.wittmann@uni-
bielefeld.de and put the code Wiss22329 in the subject
line. The application deadline is May 4, 2022.
For full details, see the ocial advertisement at:
https://uni-bielefeld.hr4you.org/job/view/1375/-
research-position-phd-student?page lang=en Best
wishes,
Meike Wittmann
Meike Wittmann Junior Professor of Theoretical Bi-
ology Bielefeld University, Faculty of Biology Post-
fach 10 01 31, 33501 Bielefeld, Germany Oce: W4-
101 Phone: +49 521 106 67627 meike.wittmann@uni-
bielefeld.de https://www.uni-bielefeld.de/fakultaeten/-32 EvolDir May 1, 2022
biologie/forschung/arbeitsgruppen/theoretical/ Meike
Wittmann <meike.wittmann@googlemail.com >
ULausanne Two PlantEvolution
Two PhD positions in the Department of Ecology and
Evolution, University of Lausanne, Switzerland
1. Experimental evolution at species range margins 2.
Evolution of plant sexual systems
Two PhD position are open in John Pannell's lab in
the Department of Ecology and Evolution, University
of Lausanne, to study (1) the evolution of plant popu-
lations at and beyond species range margins or (2) the
evolution of plant sexual systems.
Further details about the lab, including recent pa-
pers on which this project will build, can be found at:
https://www.unil.ch/dee/pannell-group, or on writing
to john.pannell@unil.ch.
Project 1: Experimental evolution at species range mar-
gins This project will use experimental evolution to test
contrasting hypotheses for the eects of migration in
either promoting or hindering adaptation in marginal
populations. It will thus build on, and build bridges be-
tween, two strands in the lab: research on the demogra-
phy, evolution and genomics of species range expansions
and metapopulations; and the use of experimental evolu-
tion to address general questions in evolutionary biology.
The project will involve establishing experimental popu-
lations at a number of sites across Europe and following
their evolution over several successive generations, with
the aim of building three mutually informative datasets
to determine how admixture and selection in marginal
populations aect (1) their demography (and population
viability), (2) the quantitative genetics of morphological,
life-history and physiological traits with an inuence
on local adaptation in marginal environments, and (3)
the genomic architecture of responses to selection in
dierent environments and in the context of dierent
sources of admixture.
Project 2: Evolution of plant sexual systems The aim of
this project is to advance our understanding of sexual-
system transitions in plants, with a primary focus on
evolutionary transitions between hermaphroditism and
dioecy. The scope of the project can be partly tailored
to the particular interests of the successful applicant and
could involve a range of angles. We are currently par-
ticularly interested in using experimental evolution toaddress questions concerning the quantitative genetics
and genomic architecture of sexual-system transitions,
including but not only sex chromosomes. The student's
project could benet from involvement in conducting
and analysing results from an experimental evolution
study that has been running for more than a decade. It
could also include eld observations and experiments,
theoretical modelling and/or genomic analysis. There
is scope to choose from a number of dierent study
systems for empirical work.
Research scope and skills sought The student should
have broad interest in evolutionary biology and a foun-
dation in evolutionary biology, ecology and/or quantita-
tive/population genetics, with an interest in quantitative
and statistical analysis of large datasets. He/she should
also have good written and oral communication skills.
The project will involve close collaboration other lab
members and project partners across Europe, and the
successful candidate should thus both be self-motivated
and have a collaborative spirit. Although not a require-
ment (the language of the lab and the research environ-
ment of the department is English), some knowledge of
French would be an asset.
Host Department and University The Department of
Ecology and Evolution hosts a broad range of research
groups, and its members enjoy a lively intellectual and
social life. Although the University of Lausanne is fran-
cophone, the department is highly international, and
all its research activity and seminars are conducted in
English. The University has seven faculties and approx-
imately 14,300 students and 3,900 researchers from over
120 countries. It is situated on a beautiful campus on
the shore of Lake Geneva, and is close to the Swiss and
French Alps.
Starting dates Both project could start from September
2022, but the starting dates are exible and could po-
tentially brought forward or delayed to accommodate
the timing of an excellent candidate.
Applications Informal enquiries should be sent to John
Pannell (john.pannell@unil.ch). Formal applications for
both positions should be uploaded using the link below.
Applications should include (1) a cover letter detailing
your research interests, experience and motivation for
applying, (2) a CV, (3) an example of previous research
work (an article, preprint or master thesis chapter, and
(4) the names of two referees. All applications received
by the 15.05.2022 will receive full consideration.
Application link. https://bit.ly/3KdR9ok University
equality policy The University of Lausanne promotes
an equitable representation of men and women among
its sta and encourages applications from women and
minority groups.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 33
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMontpellier RainForestEvolution
PhD position in spatial components of tropical rain
forest diversication, Montpellier, France
Project name: \Macroevolutionary determinants of An-
nonaceae species richness patterns"
Institutes and researchers involved: - Universit >1
2de
Montpellier (France) & IRD: Dr. Thomas Couvreur
- Maastricht University (The Netherlands): Dr. Roy
Erkens
Within the ERC funded GLOBAL project, we are seek-
ing a highly motivated student to undertake a PhD (3
years) on the evolutionary and spatial determinants of
Annonaceae species richness patterns across tropical
rain forests.
Research Area and Project Description: The ERC Con-
solidator project \GLOBAL" aims to unravel the evo-
lutionary history and diversication of tropical rain
forests (TRF) at a global scale. The project focuses
on the pantropical Annonaceae plant family, an impor-
tant component of TRF worldwide with around 2550
species. During the project we will sequence nearly
all species of the family. For each species, around 460
Annonaceae-specic exons and the angiosperm universal
exons (353) will be sequenced. This dataset will provide
one of the rst robust and near-complete phylogenies
of any major pantropical plant families to date. This
dataset will be used to test numerous TRF evolutionary
hypotheses at a global and local scales. GLOBAL is
highly collaborative with numerous collaborators from
across the globe, especially in tropical countries. This
will provide opportunities for the PhD to interact with
a wide range of researchers during the PhD.
The PhD will tackle questions related to the spatial as-
pects of Annonaceae evolution, testing major hypotheses
of tropical plant distribution at global (eg \odd man
out") and local scales (e.g. what determines diversity
at local levels?). The PhD student will have access to
the full Annonaceae phylogeny (+2000 species; which
will already be generated and dated), data on the dis-
tribution of Annonaceae globally (of which the studentwill contribute in building), and a large morphological
trait dataset.
Qualications and Specic Competences: The applicant
must have a recognized Master degree in evolution or
ecology (or equivalent). The candidate should demon-
strate a proven interest in evolutionary biology and/or
spatial analysis of biodiversity. Experience with tropical
biodiversity especially tropical rain forests is a plus. The
candidate must have a proven record in one or several of
the elds listed here: macroevolutionary diversication
analyses using dated phylogenetic trees; spatial anal-
yses of biodiversity (generate maps globally, estimate
species richness); inferring species distribution ranges
or species distribution modeling; experience in handling
large datasets.
In addition, the applicant should have a good knowledge
of programming languages such as R and/or Python (or
a strong will to learn/master such languages). Finally,
the student will have a good level of spoken and written
English and good communication skills. International
applicants who do not have English as their rst lan-
guage must prove strong English language writing skills
and uency. Knowledge of French is a plus, but not
mandatory. The candidate should also have excellent
organizational and communication skills.
Place of Employment and Work: The student will
be based at the \Institut de Recherche pour le
D >1
2veloppement" (IRD), UMR DIADE, DYNADIV
team, 911 Avenue Agropolis, Montpellier, France. Mont-
pellier is a pleasant Mediterranean town with a vibrant
and internationally recognized research community, es-
pecially in evolutionary biology (University of Mont-
pellier). The successful candidate will be enrolled at
the Universit >1
2de Montpellier (France) for the PhD
diploma.
Start date: The position needs to start by October 1st
2022 at the latest.
Application deadline: May 16th 2022 (23.59 Paris time).
You will receive an automatic response when you sub-
mit your application. If you do not, please email the
application again.
Application procedure: A short list of applicants will be
selected by a committee shortly after the deadline for ap-
plications. An interview will be planned for short listed
applicants, only via zoom, planned for early June. The
application must be in English and include a motivation
letter, a 2-page max curriculum vitae, degree certicate,
full list of publications (including in press, submitted,
or in prep), names and email of two recommenders (no
recommendation letter should be sent in the application;
recommenders will potentially be contacted directly af-34 EvolDir May 1, 2022
terwards). All interested candidates are encouraged to
apply, regardless of their personal background.
Contact: All questions about the project or the employ-
ment conditions, can be directly addressed to Thomas
Couvreur, thomas.couvreur@ird.fr
For applications please send the below les (PDF format)
to the following emails: annonaceae4ever@gmail.com.
- Updated CV
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMontpellier
SpatialPopulationGenomics
We (Rapha >1
2l Leblois, Arnaud Estoup, and Fran >1
2ois
Rousset) propose a *fully-funded 3-years PhD position*
starting in September 2022 at the CBGP in Montpel-
lier on the *development, test and application of new
methods for estimating local and recent demographic
parameters from genomic data under spatialized mod-
els*.
The project is anchored, notably through its applications
on real datasets, in a double context: (i) conserva-
tion biology (component of the DevOCGen project
: https://biodivoc.edu.umontpellier.fr/recherche/-
projets-consortium/projet-de-consortium-devocgen/,
50% of the funding) and (ii) management of organ-
isms of agronomic interest (INRAE component :
https://www6.montpellier.inrae.fr/cbgp, 50% of the
funding).
A short summary of the subject is available
at the end of this email. More detailed in-
formation, in french (but can be easily trans-
lated using e.g. DeepL), ca be downloaded here
: https://lesender.renater.fr/?s=download&token=-
5ecf3c15-24-4d21-921e-2423eed7e255 This project is
multi-disciplinary at the border of several elds: pop-
ulation genetics, ecology, statistics and computer sci-
ence. Minimal knowledge of all these elds and in-depth
knowledge in one or more of them is expected. An im-
portant part of the project will involve the simulation of
population genomics data and the analysis of these sim-
ulations. A strong taste for computational approachesand programming is therefore required (C++, R).
We are therefore looking for a candidate who is highly
motivated by methodological developments in popula-
tion genetics/genomics, with a master's degree in evolu-
tionary biology, bio-statistics or mathematical comput-
ing, and a strong interest in evolutionary biology and
ecology.
The student will benet from an extremely favorable
work environment within the CBGP, the Montpellier
scientic community, and the DevOCGen project (more
than 20 researchers in 11 UMR, 6 bioinformatics and
sequencing platforms, and 4 non-permanent funded re-
searchers).
Interested applicants should send their CV and a half-
page motivation letter
by May 26th to raphael.leblois@inrae.fr
Interviews will take place in early June.
Do not hesitate to spread this announcement around
you and to contact us for more information,
Have a nice day,
Rapha >1
2l & Arnaud & Fran >1
2ois
raphael.leblois@inrae.fr
arnaud.estoup@inrae.fr
francois.rousset@umontpellier.fr
Short summary of the proposed thesis topic:
*New developments for inferring local and recent popula-
tion demographics from genomic data and applications
for the management of threatened populations and or-
ganisms of agronomic interest.*
The development of agro-ecological approaches for the
management of pests and benecials, as well as their vec-
tors and antagonists, requires a better understanding of
the local demographic functioning of their populations.
Similarly, the management of threatened populations
requires a detailed knowledge of the demographic and
genetic status of these populations: population sizes,
fragmentation, dispersal, inbreeding... Among the key
factors to characterize, population densities/sizes and
dispersal abilities, at a small geographical scale, as well
as their variations over the recent past, are often poorly
known but crucial to better understand the dynamics
of these populations. Spatialized genomic data contain
information on these demographic parameters, but cur-
rent analysis methods do not allow for the use of all this
information. Furthermore, the resulting demographic
estimates often involve large spatial and temporal scales
of limited practical interest. The goal of this project
is to ll this methodological gap, by developing newMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 35
tools for estimating local demographic parameters, as
well as their recent variations, from genomic data using
spatialized demo-genetic models. In continuation of our
current work on spatialized population genetic mod-
els and the development of simulation-based inference
methods, the PhD student will focus on: (1) implement
temporal changes of demographic parameters in our
spatialized genomic simulator GSpace; (2) develop a set
of new statistics summarizing the genomic information
relevant for the inference of the parameters of interest;
(3) couple them to powerful simulation-based inference
methods; (4) test the level of spatio-temporal complex-
ity that can be considered depending on the type and
amount of data available. In order to validate their
practical interest, these developments will be thought,
tested and applied in two quite dierent contexts: (1)
the study and management of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMuenster SticklebackTapeworms
The Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity at the
University of Muenster, Germany, is seeking to ll the
position of a
Doctoral Student (Ph.D position)
(salary level TV-L E 13)
for the externally funded project SFB/TRR 212 at the
earliest possible date. We are oering a xed-term posi-
tion (65%) for 3 years.
Your tasks:
The position is part of the Collaborative Research Cen-
tre (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Indi-
vidualisation across Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution:
Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construction
(NC3), as granted by the German Research Foundation
(DFG).
This PhD project deals with the ecological and evolu-
tionary eects of parasite virulence. In this project,
you will investigate the niche construction eects of
a trophically transmitted tapeworm parasite (Schisto-
cephalus solidus) on individual three-spined stickleback
sh. The project aims to show how these eects cascadefrom the individual to the ecosystem level and alter
eco-evolutionary dynamics. The successful candidate
will be involved in mesocosm experiments to investi-
gate how parasite virulence aects individual trophic
specialisation of the hosts. We also aim to identify
the physiological and metabolic traits associated with
these individual dierences. The successful candidate
will further take advantage of transcriptomic datasets
to identify the immuno-physiological traits associated
with host niche individualisation, and contribute to the
development of computational models that will bridge
the gap between individual, population, and community
processes.
Our expectations:
Applicants should be highly motivated scientists of any
nationality, who are interested in interdisciplinary work.
They should have the equivalent of a master degree in
biology, preferentially with a focus on evolution and
ecology, or related elds. A background, and ideally
some experience, in any of the following areas will be
useful: sh handling and care, limnology, molecular
skills, individual-based models, as well as a good under-
standing of statistics. Applicants should have excellent
communication skills and be able to work both inde-
pendently and as part of a multidisciplinary team. The
working language of the Institute and the lab is English,
and good prociency in spoken and written English is a
requirement.
Advantages for you:
The University of Muenster is a large vibrant university
hosting a number of excellent scientic institutions
(http://www.uni-muenster.de/en/ ). The Institute
for Evolution and Biodiversity provides a stimulating
research environment with a number of scientic groups
researching diverse topics centred on dierent aspects of
evolution. The successful candidate will join the team
of Professor Joachim Kurtz, focussing on host-parasite
coevolution and ecological immunology. As a part
of the Collaborative Research Centre SFB/TRR 212
(https://www.uni-bielefeld.de/fakultaeten/biologie/-
forschung/verbuende/sfb nc3/), the project will involve
intensive collaboration with consortium partners at the
Universities of Muenster and Bielefeld. The town of
Muenster itself has many students and presents a dy-
namic environment with many cultural and social events
throughout the year (http://www.muenster.de/en/).
The University of Muenster is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and is committed to increasing the proportion of
women academics. Consequently, we actively encourage
applications by women. Female candidates with equiva-
lent qualications and academic achievements will be
preferentially considered within the framework of the36 EvolDir May 1, 2022
legal possibilities.
The University of Muenster is committed to employing
more sta with disabilities. Candidates with recognised
severe disabilities who have equivalent qualications are
given preference in hiring decisions.
Are you interested?
Then we look forward to receiving your application,
written in English, in one single pdf le by 22 April
2022 at Dr. Jaime Anaya-Rojas (jaime.anaya-rojas@uni-
muenster.de). Please note that we cannot consider other
le formats. Applications should include 1) a cover let-
ter with a statement of research interests and motivation
(max. 1 page), 2) a CV including details about univer-
sity degrees, research experience and publications, and
3) contact details of at least two referees.
Joachim Kurtz <joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de >
UNeuchatel
ComparativeGenomicsButteries
This is the nal call to apply for the graduate position
outlined below - the deadline is the 22nd of April.
The project is funded through a Swiss National Science
Foundation Eccellenza Professorial Fellowship that was
awarded to me and with which I will start the Biodi-
versity Genomics at the University of Neuchatel this
year.
Project: Unravel the genomic architecture and evolu-
tionary impact of chromosomal fusion and ssion in
Lepidoptera
Barriers to gene ow that lead to reproductive isola-
tion are essential for speciation. Large-scale genomic
rearrangements through chromosomal fusion and ssion
may represent such barriers, but the underlying genomic
features and their contribution to speciation are poorly
understood. This project aims to resolve the genomic
architecture and evolutionary impact of chromosomal
fusion and ssion in one of the most karyological di-
verse groups of butteries - Erebia. You will generate
chromosome-scale genome assemblies and analyse them
with comparative genomic and phylogenomic methods.
The goal is also to assess the impact of these chro-
mosomal rearrangements on rates of speciation. The
prospective PhD student will be supervised by Kay
Lucek and be part of the Biodiversity Genomics group
at the University of Neuchatel in Switzerland.Your prole: Enthusiastic, self-driven, responsible, and
highly-motivated; excellent communication and inter-
personal skills in verbal and written English; a strong
work ethic. The ideal candidate brings strong concep-
tual thinking together with profound genomic and/or
bioinformatic skills. Applicants should have a Master
degree in evolutionary biology, genomics, bioinformatics,
or close related elds. We oer you: A cutting-edge,
four-year position fully funded by the Swiss National
Science Foundation (SNSF), based at the Institute of
Biology, University of Neuchatel, Switzerland. The In-
stitute oers a vibrant and interdisciplinary research
environment, combining a broad spectrum of research
activities in life sciences, including evolutionary genetics,
conservation, ecology and microbial biology. Salary and
social benets are provided according to University of
Neuchatel rules. Neuchatel is an enchanting historic
Swiss city, well connected and oering a broad range of
cultural and recreational activities.
Starting date: The anticipated starting date is the 1st
of August 2022, with some exibility.
Application: Motivated applicants should submit (1) a
one-page letter describing yourself, your career goals,
and your match to the above-mentioned project, (2) a
CV describing your education, publications, and rele-
vant work experience, (3) copies of undergraduate and
masters/diploma transcripts, and (4) contact informa-
tion of two references. The application deadline is 22nd
of April 2022. Please, send all the information in a single
PDF to Kay Lucek (kay.lucek@unibas.ch). For further
questions, please contact me @ kay.lucek@unibas.ch
Kay Lucek <kay.lucek@unibas.ch >
UNewSouthWales
ParentalAgeAndFitness
Location: UNSW Sydney, Evolution & Ecology Re-
search Centre and School of Biological, Earth and En-
vironmental Sciences. UNSW is one of Australia's top
research-intensive universities. The Evolution & Ecol-
ogy Research Centre includes labs working on a range
of topics in evolutionary ecology and genetics.
Project: I'm looking for motivated PhD candidates to
investigate how parental age and environment aect
ospring development and tness. Two positions are
available.
Despite over a century of research on the biology of age-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 37
ing, one intriguing aspect of ageing - the widely observed
tendency for older parents to produce ospring with re-
duced lifespan and tness - remains poorly understood.
Such eects could be a major source of variation in
individual tness, and could play a role in the evolution
of ageing. Building on recent work by the Bonduriansky
lab and others, this research will address the mecha-
nisms mediating these eects, the roles of mothers vs.
fathers, and the role of the ambient environment. This
project will also contribute new theory on the evolution-
ary implications of such eects.
Applicants should be highly motivated, and should have
a strong academic background (including writing and
quantitative skills) and previous research experience
(preferably including publications). PhD students in
the Bonduriansky lab are expected to play a central
role in developing their projects, and to be able to work
independently on their research.
Both domestic and international students are eligible for
these PhD positions. If interested, please send an email
to Russell Bonduriansky (r.bonduriansky@unsw.edu.au)
outlining your qualications and why you are interested
in this project. Please include a CV and contact details
for two academic referees who could provide supporting
letters. A subset of applicants will be invited to sub-
mit full applications to the UNSW Graduate Research
School.
For information on graduate studies at UNSW,
please see: https://research.unsw.edu.au/-
graduate-research r.bonduriansky@unsw.edu.au
http://www.bonduriansky.net/index.htm
r.bonduriansky@unsw.edu.au
UPadua EvolutionCorrection
Call for PhD students in Ecology, Evolution and Con-
servation at Padua University is open: apply by May
13, 2022
Start date: Oct 2022
PLEASE NOTE: Respect to my previous posting, I cor-
rected the email address for the colleague prof. Telmo
Pievani and updated the links. My apologies for the
inconvenience.
Information about the available topics, the training
program and the application procedure can be found
at https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/ The board of
the curriculum EVOLUTION, ECOLOGY and CON-SERVATION of the BIOSCIENCES PhD program at
Padua University, invites applications from highly mo-
tivated and outstanding students with specic interest
for evolutionary and ecological research.
Padua University is top ranked in Italy and among world
Universities. The Department of Biology is rated as ex-
cellent by the Italian Ministry of Education, Universities
and Research (MIUR).
Our PhD students have access to rst-class facilities
at the Biology Department and work within a friendly
and strong international research community under the
supervision of experts of the eld. Research opportu-
nities are multi-disciplinary, spanning the whole range
of biological research. Interdisciplinary approaches are
encouraged as well as the interaction among PhD stu-
dents (approx. 80 PhD students are enrolled at the
Biology Department), post-docs and the over 80 faculty
members of the Department.
Proposed research topics include: - Exploring species
interactions in wetland restoration and their eects
on ecosystem processes and services. Contacts: Prof.
Laura Airoldi and Dr. Davide De Battisti, e-mail:
laura.airoldi@unipd.it davide.debattisti @unipd.it -
Studying gymnosperms to understand seed plants evo-
lution: unraveling reproductive mechanisms in Ginkgo
biloba L. Contact: Prof. Barbara Baldan, e-mail: bar-
bara.baldan@unipd.it - The ecological role of dissolved
oxygen oscillations in marine ecosystems. Contact: Dr.
Alberto Barausse, e-mail: alberto.barausse@unipd.it -
Evolutionary routes to endemism in alpine rockfoils.
Contacts: Dr Francesco Dal Grande and Prof. Bar-
bara Baldan, e-mail: francesco.dalgrande @unipd.it bar-
bara.baldan@unipd.it - Eects of heatwaves on reproduc-
tion and behaviour in a model insect species. Contact:
Prof. Clelia Gasparini, e-mail: clelia.gasparini@unipd.it
- How the theory of evolution is evolving. Contact:
Prof. Telmo Pievani, e-mail: dietelmo.pievani@unipd.it
Sexual selection in a changing world. Contact: Prof. An-
drea Pilastro, e-mail: andrea.pilastro@unipd.it - Mate
choice, personality, and evolutionary genomics in fresh-
water shes. Contact: Prof. Gil Rosenthal, e-mail:
gil.rosenthal@unipd.it - Environmental DNA applica-
tion to monitor biodiversity and to detect alien species
in freshwater and lagoon ecosystems. Contact: Prof.
Lorenzo Zane, e-mail: lorenzo.zane@unipd.it
Based on the excellence of applications, from 3 to
4 PhD Scholarships will be funded. Details on the
potential research projects are reported in https:/-
/dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/leadmin/dottorato/-
Evolution Ecology andConservation 42022.pdf
Furthermore, 2 additional PhD Scholarships will
be funded for specic \priority research grants" on:38 EvolDir May 1, 2022
- Understanding resilience mechanisms in marine
restoration. Contact: Prof. Laura Airoldi, e-mail:
laura.airoldi@unipd.it - Environmental DNA applica-
tion to coastal marine ecosystems for the preservation of
ecosystem functions and services under climate change
pressure and overshing. Contact: Prof. Lorenzo Zane,
e-mail: lorenzo.zane@unipd.it
Details on the priority research grants are avail-
able at: https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/leadmin/-
dottorato/Priority Research Grants 42022.pdf Candi-
dates are encouraged to carefully read the potential
research projects and to e.mail the reference persons for
further details. When applying, please also check the
news at https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/leadmin/-
dottorato/Important notices 2022.pdf On behalf of the
Evolution, Ecology and Conservation board:
Lorenzo Zane (lorenzo.zane@unipd.it) Professor of Ecol-
ogy Department of Biology - Padua University (IT)
Lorenzo Zane <lorenzo.zane@unipd.it >
UPadua
EvolutionEcologyConservation
Call for PhD students in Ecology, Evolution and Con-
servation at Padua University is open: apply by May
13, 2022
Start date: Oct 2022
Information about the available topics, the training
program and the application procedure can be found
at https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/ The board of
the curriculum EVOLUTION, ECOLOGY and CON-
SERVATION of the BIOSCIENCES PhD program at
Padua University, invites applications from highly mo-
tivated and outstanding students with specic interest
for evolutionary and ecological research.
Padua University is top ranked in Italy and among world
Universities. The Department of Biology is rated as ex-
cellent by the Italian Ministry of Education, Universities
and Research (MIUR).
Our PhD students have access to rst-class facilities
at the Biology Department and work within a friendly
and strong international research community under the
supervision of experts of the eld. Research opportu-
nities are multi-disciplinary, spanning the whole range
of biological research. Interdisciplinary approaches are
encouraged as well as the interaction among PhD stu-dents (approx. 80 PhD students are enrolled at the
Biology Department), post-docs and the over 80 faculty
members of the Department.
Proposed research topics include: - Exploring species
interactions in wetland restoration and their eects
on ecosystem processes and services. Contacts: Prof.
Laura Airoldi and Dr. Davide De Battisti, e-
mail: laura.airoldi@unipd.it davide.debattisti@unipd.it
- Studying gymnosperms to understand seed plants evo-
lution: unraveling reproductive mechanisms in Ginkgo
biloba L. Contact: Prof. Barbara Baldan, e-mail: bar-
bara.baldan@unipd.it - The ecological role of dissolved
oxygen oscillations in marine ecosystems. Contact: Dr.
Alberto Barausse, e-mail: alberto.barausse@unipd.it -
Evolutionary routes to endemism in alpine rockfoils.
Contacts: Dr Francesco Dal Grande and Prof. Bar-
bara Baldan, e-mail: francesco.dalgrande@unipd.it bar-
bara.baldan@unipd.it - Eects of heatwaves on reproduc-
tion and behaviour in a model insect species. Contact:
Prof. Clelia Gasparini, e-mail: clelia.gasparini@unipd.it
- How the theory of evolution is evolving. Contact: Prof.
Telmo Pievani, e-mail: telmo.pievani@unipd.it Sexual
selection in a changing world. Contact: Prof. An-
drea Pilastro, e-mail: andrea.pilastro@unipd.it - Mate
choice, personality, and evolutionary genomics in fresh-
water shes. Contact: Prof. Gil Rosenthal, e-mail:
gil.rosenthal@unipd.it - Environmental DNA applica-
tion to monitor biodiversity and to detect alien species
in freshwater and lagoon ecosystems. Contact: Prof.
Lorenzo Zane, e-mail: lorenzo.zane@unipd.it
Based on the excellence of applications, from 3 to
4 PhD Scholarships will be funded. Details on the
potential research projects are reported in https:/-
/dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/leadmin/dottorato/-
Evolution Ecology andConservation 32022.pdf
Furthermore, 2 additional PhD Scholarships will
be funded for specic \priority research grants" on:
- Understanding resilience mechanisms in marine
restoration. Contact: Prof. Laura Airoldi, e-mail:
laura.airoldi@unipd.it - Environmental DNA applica-
tion to coastal marine ecosystems for the preservation of
ecosystem functions and services under climate change
pressure and overshing. Contact: Prof. Lorenzo Zane,
e-mail: lorenzo.zane@unipd.it
Details on the priority research grants are avail-
able at: https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/leadmin/-
dottorato/Priority Research Grants 32022.pdf Candi-
dates are encouraged to carefully read the potential
research projects and to e.mail the reference persons for
further details. When applying, please also check the
news at https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/leadmin/-
dottorato/Important notices 2022.pdf On behalf of the
Evolution, Ecology and Conservation board:May 1, 2022 EvolDir 39
Lorenzo Zane (lorenzo.zane@unipd.it) Professor of Ecol-
ogy Department of Biology - Padua University (IT)
Lorenzo Zane <lorenzo.zane@unipd.it >
UPadua
GenomicFishSexDetermination
A PhD position on \Genetic/Genomic basis of sex de-
termination in sh of aquaculture interest" is available
at the Doctoral Course in Veterinary Science (Padua
University).
Apply by May 13, 2022 Information about
the application can be found at https://-
www.dottorato.veterinaria.unipd.it/enrollment
Start date: Oct 2022
GENETIC/GENOMIC BASIS OF SEX DETERMI-
NATION IN FISH OF AQUACOLTURE INTEREST
In teleost sh, sex determination mechanisms are
extremely diverse ranging from the presence of evi-
dent heterochromatic sex chromosomes to simultane-
ous hermaphroditism. When genetic sex determination
(GSD) is observed the underlying mechanisms might be
diverse even between closely related species or within the
same species. In several sh species of aquaculture inter-
est, it would be of great benet to have tools that allow
sex identication during early developmental stages. It
is the case of the athead grey mullet (Mugil cephalus),
whose roe is a highly sought seafood consisting of raw
or dried female gonads. In some Mediterranean areas
it represents an important product for the local econ-
omy. Genetic markers at the FSHR (follicle-stimulating
hormone receptor) gene were recently identied in M.c.
by means of whole-genome sequencing (Ferraresso et
al., 2021). However, genetic screening of natural pop-
ulations from dierent geographic origins showed an
incomplete penetrance of this character underling the
possibility that also other genetic and non-genetic (envi-
ronmental) factors may play a role in sex-determination
of M.c. The project has 5 lines of possible development:
1) Genomic scan searching for additional markers of sex
determination in M.c.; 2) Application of the existing
markers for sex sorting in early sh developmental stages
aimed at raring only female individuals for \bottarga"
production; 3) Genotype-assisted individual breeding in
order to maximize the percentage of female ospring;
4) Extension of the population analysis to gain a wider
geographic picture of the penetrance of the FSHR sex-
associated markers; 5) Extension of the genetic/genomicstudy to other mullet species (i.e. Liza spp.) that are
relevant for \bottarga" production.
CITED REFERENCE Ferraresso S., Bargelloni L., Bab-
bucci M., Cannas R., Follesa M.C., Carugati L., Melis
R., Cau A., Koutrakis M., Sapounidis A., Crosetti D.,
Patarnello T. (2021). Fshr: a sh sex-determining lo-
cus shows variable incomplete penetrance across at-
head grey mullet populations. iScience, 24 (1), art. no.
101886. DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2020.101886
FIVE PUBLICATIONS RELATED TO THE RE-
SEARCH TOPIC FOR THE CANDIDATE INTER-
VIEW Geroy B., Douhard M. The adaptive sex in
stressful environments. Trends Ecol. Evol. 2019; 34:
628-640 Houston, R.D. et al. Harnessing genomics to
fast-track genetic improvement in aquaculture. Nature
Reviews Genetics 2020; 21, 7: 389-409 Moore E.C.,
Roberts R.B. Polygenic sex determination. Curr. Biol.
2013; 23: R510-R512 Palmer D.H., Rogers T.F., Dean
R., Wright A.E. How to identify sex chromosomes and
their turnover. Mol. Ecol. 2019; 28: 4709-4724 Ribas
L., Liew W.C., D >1
2az N., Sreenivasan R., Orb >1
2n
L., Piferrer F. Heat-induced masculinization in domes-
ticated zebrash is family-specic and yields a set of
dierent gonadal transcriptomes. Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA.2017; 114(6):E941-E950
Contact person Prof. Tomaso Patarnello Dept.
of Comparative biomedicine and food science Viale
dell'Universit >1
2, 16 35020 Legnaro, Padova, Italy Tel.:
+39.049.827.2977 e-mail: tomaso.patarnello@unipd.it
Lorenzo Zane <lorenzo.zane@unipd.it >
UParis Saclay
TransposableElementsAdaptation
[PhD advertisement Univ. Paris Saclay] ADAPTIVE
ROLE OF TRANSPOSABLE ELEMENTS IN FRUIT
TREES IN RESPONSE TO BIOTIC STRESS, deadline
for application : 29 April 2022
We are seeking candidates for a PhD to joint
the Cornille?s Lab (ECLECTIC group?: http://-
moulon.inrae.fr/en/equipes/eclectic/) working on the
genomics and ecology of fruit tree-pest interactions at
the laboratoire G?n?tique Quantitative et Evolution-Le
Moulon at the Institut Diversit? ?cologie et ?volution du
Vivant (https://www.ideev.universite-paris-saclay.fr/-
en/) at Universit? Paris Saclay (https://www.universite-
paris-saclay.fr/en Ile-de-France, France) within the ANR40 EvolDir May 1, 2022
PLEASURE project (https://anr.fr/Project-ANR-21-
CE20-0005).
Keywords: adaptation, fruit trees, epigenomics - methy-
lation, gene expression, evolution, pests?
Objectifs The aim of the PhD project is to investigate
the eect of TE insertion on gene expression in response
to biotic stress in fruit trees, using a population genomics
lens. To that aim, the PhD candidate will undertake a
rigorous analysis of the impact of TE insertion polymor-
phism on gene expression in crop and wild populations
of an emblematic fruit tree, the apple tree, for which
a very large amount of genomic data is available. The
PhD project is structured into two interconnected ques-
tions, that will be subsequently Investigated, which rely
on exposure of crop and wild apple populations to pest
attack and the investigation of the involvement of TEs
in this stress response: 1) What is the eect of TE
insertion on gene expression in response to biotic stress
in a context of fruit tree domestication? 2) What is the
impact of DNA methylation variants in TE repression in
response to biotic stress in the context of fruit tree do-
mestication? ? M?thods -populations genomics of trans-
posable elements; -epigenomics (methylation marks);
-bioinformatics (scripting in perl/python/shell, access
to informatics clusters); -experiments in controlled con-
ditions (aphid rearing, apple culture) -molecular biology
(RNA and DNA extraction).
Prole and skills required? Knowledge in 1) evolution-
ary biology and population genomics is required (in
gene expression analyses or on transposable elements
evolution will be a plus) and 2) bioinformatics (writing
scripts, e.g., in perl/python/R/shell, access to comput-
ing clusters). Knowledge of 3) epigenomics will be a
plus. The candidate should not necessarily be familiar
with tree or insect models.
Collaborations? The PhD candidate will take advan-
tage of the collaborative network involved in the project:
CNRGV (molecular biology expert), URGI (expert on
TE annotation), GQE-Le Moulon (expert in population
and comparative genomics, fruit tree biology).
Application. Two steps process: - Before the 28th April:
https://www.adum.fr/as/ed/voirproposition.pl?site=-
PSaclay&matricule prop=39544? - The candidate will
be selected by the lab between the 28th April to the
9th May to defend the project at the Doctoral school
Science du V?g?tal in June 2022.
Feel free to contact directly at amandine.cornille@cnrs.fr
Leader of the?Ecological genomics of multi-species
interactions?group CNRS?Researcher G?n?tique
Quantitative et ?volution - Le Moulon? Universit?
Paris-Saclay -?INRAE - CNRS - AgroParisTech?Institut Diversit? Ecologie et Evolution du Vivant
j?12 Route 128 j?91272 Gif-sur-Yvette j?France
phone : +33 6 72 44 85 55 j?+33 1 69 33 23
52? Twitter:?@CornilleAmand or @PommierVerger
Google Scholar prole :?https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=EqIE2h8AAAAJ&hl=fr Personal page
:?http://moulon.inrae.fr/personnes/acornille/ Group
page:???http://moulon.inrae.fr/en/equipes/eclectic/
On the ESEB-STN network on the ecological genomics
of coevolution:?https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/special-
topic-networks/stn-current-networks/ecological-
genomics-of-coevolutionary-interactions/ On the wild
apple orchard project:?https://www.ideev.universite-
paris-saclay.fr/en/the-orchard?or @PommierVerger
Amandine Cornille <amandine.cornille@gmail.com >
UppsalaU ConservationGenomics
Uppsala University. PhD position in Conservation Ge-
nomics - Apply by May 20
A PhD student position in Conservation Genomics and
Immunogenetics is available at the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Genetics, Uppsala University, Sweden.
Uppsala University is a comprehensive research-intensive
university with a strong international standing. Our
ultimate goal is to conduct education and research of the
highest quality and relevance to make a long-term dif-
ference in society. Our most important assets are all the
individuals whose curiosity and dedication make Upp-
sala University one of Sweden's most exciting workplaces.
Uppsala University has over 54,000 students, more than
7,500 employees and a turnover of around SEK 8 billion.
The Department of Ecology and Genetics is an interna-
tional environment with sta and students from all over
the world. Our research spans from evolutionary ecology
and genetics to studies of ecosystems. For more infor-
mation, see www.ieg.uu.se . Project description/duties:
Climate change is predicted to increase temperatures
worldwide and increase climatic instability. This will
signicantly impact infectious disease dynamics, altering
pathogen distribution and disease intensity. Ectotherms
are particularly susceptible to thermal changes, as they
are dependent on the ambient environment to regulate
their physiological processes, including the immune re-
sponse. This PhD position will investigate how climate
warming will impact immunocompetence in the sand
lizard (Lacerta agilis), a vulnerable, temperate species
in Sweden. It will integrate experimental biology withMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 41
genomics, transcriptomics and epigenomics, applying
population genetics and genome-wide association ap-
proaches. The selected candidate will mainly engage in
large-scale population genomics and quantitative genet-
ics analyses that require solid bioinformatics skills. The
candidate will also conduct eld work, immune chal-
lenge experiments and molecular lab work to produce
additional datasets. Additional duties include active
participation in the research group activities, training
of junior group members in relevant techniques and
engagement in collaborative projects.
Qualications required: To be eligible for a PhD-student
position the applicant must hold a master degree (or
equivalent) within evolutionary biology, ecology, bioin-
formatics or a related eld. The ideal candidate will
be highly motivated and have a strong interest in evo-
lutionary biology and conservation genomics. A high
standard of spoken and written English is required.
Qualications desired: Experience with genomic tech-
niques and bioinformatic analysis is highly advantageous,
as well as an enthusiasm for eld work.
If you have any questions regarding the position, please
contact Mette Lillie, mette.lillie@ebc.uu.se
For further information on the position and to ap-
ply, please visit the following site at Uppsala Univer-
sity: https://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=497892 The application deadline is 20 May,
2022.
Mette Lillie
Department of Ecology and Genetics
EBC, Uppsala University
Norbyv agen 18D
75236 Uppsala
Sweden
Email: mette.lillie@ebc.uu.se
N ar du har kontakt med oss p ~AUppsala univer-
sitet med e-post s ~Ainneb ar det att vi behandlar
dina personuppgifter. F or att l asa mer om hur vi
g or det kan du l asa h ar: http://www.uu.se/om-uu/-
dataskydd-personuppgifter/ E-mailing Uppsala Univer-
sity means that we will process your personal data. For
more information on how this is performed, please read
here: http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-
policy Mette Lillie <mette.lillie@ebc.uu.se >UppsalaU PopulationGenomics
A PhD student position in Population genomics is avail-
able at the Department of Ecology and Genetics, Pro-
gram in Plant Ecology and Evolution, Uppsala Uni-
versity, Sweden, with Martin Lascoux, Pascal Milesi
and Henrik Hallingb ack (Forestry Research Institute of
Sweden).
The Department of Ecology and Genetics is an inter-
national environment with sta and students from all
over the world. Our research spans from evolutionary
ecology and genetics to studies of ecosystems. For more
information, see www.ieg.uu.se. The Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Centre to which the Department belongs is one of
the world's leading research institutions in evolutionary
biology. It is part of Uppsala University, which has
been ranked very high among all European Universities
in the subject of evolutionary biology. Our lab is part
of the Program of Plant Ecology and Evolution that
excels in many aspects of genetics and evolution and
oers an inspiring international atmosphere. There are
ample opportunities for interaction with PhD-students,
PostDocs and researchers working on related topics. We
are tightly linked to the Science for Life Laboratory
(https://www.scilifelab.se) and have access to advanced
laboratory infrastructure, high performance computing
resources and bioinformatics support.
Project description: Climate change puts our forests at
risk, and current forest biomass production is neither
secure, sustainable nor sucient to meet the future de-
mands of the energy and process industry sector, nor
well-placed to meet additional societal goals for for-
est biodiversity, recreation, and aesthetics.The recently
funded 'TREES FOR ME' is a centre of excellence on
fast growing broadleaves, i.e. poplar, aspen, hybrid
aspen and birch, for sustainable forests, materials and
energy. In total, 13 PhD students will be recruited to
the centre. Within the Centre, Uppsala University, in
close collaboration with the Forestry Research Institute
of Sweden, will be more specically responsible for de-
veloping genomics tools related to the establishment of
genomic selection in birch breeding. This will require
a ne-scale understanding of the genetic structure and
the pattern of local adaptation in birch across Scandi-
navia.The project will be based on genome resequencing
of extensive collection of birch trees along latitudinal
gradients. The project will also benet from the avail-42 EvolDir May 1, 2022
ability of range-wide collection of birch material, from
previous resequencing eorts in birch and from interna-
tional collaborations. In addition to contribute to the
establishment of genomic selection these data will also
be used to address evolutionary questions.
For further information on the position and to ap-
ply, please visit the following site at Uppsala Univer-
sity: https://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=492202 The deadline for application is
June 1, 2022.
Martin Lascoux Department of Ecology and Ge-
netics EBC, Uppsala University Norbyv agen 18D
75236 Uppsala Sweden Tel +46 (0) 18 471 64
16 Email Martin.Lascoux@ebc.uu.se https://-
lascouxlab.wordpress.com N ar du har kontakt med
oss p ~AUppsala universitet med e-post s ~Ainneb ar
det att vi behandlar dina personuppgifter. F or att
l asa mer om hur vi g or det kan du l asa h ar: http:/-
/www.uu.se/om-uu/dataskydd-personuppgifter/
E-mailing Uppsala University means that we will
process your personal data. For more information
on how this is performed, please read here: http://-
www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-policy Martin
Lascoux <martin.lascoux@ebc.uu.se >
UQueensland
ExperimentalEvolution
PhD Scholarship: The costs and consequences of antimi-
crobial resistance in microbial communities
Applicants are invited for a fully funded PhD position
in the group of Dr Andrew Letten at the University of
Queensland to study resource competition and antimi-
crobial resistance evolution in microbial communities.
Background: Ecological theory provides a powerful
framework for understanding the competitive balance
between sensitive and resistant bacteria, and therefore
the evolution of resistance (Letten et al, 2021 Nature
Eco Evo). The primary goal of this ARC funded project
is to go beyond the theory and test how well we can pre-
dict the evolution and persistence of resistant bacteria
in microbial communities under the highly variable envi-
ronmental conditions typical of most microbial systems
(from soils and water to the gut). This is critical not
only for our fundamental understanding of microbial
competition and evolution, but also ultimately for the
identication and development of new ecologically-awarestrategies for managing resistance.
A wide variety of investigatory approaches fall within the
scope of the project including high throughput screening
and competition assays, molecular work, mathematical
modelling, and computer simulations. The PhD student
will have ample room to take the project in a more
experimental or computational/theoretical direction de-
pending on their interests and background. This is to
say that highly motivated students that are primarily
interested, or have a strong background, in either em-
pirical or computational/theoretical research are both
encouraged to apply. Similarly, the project is suitable
to students coming from a microbiology or molecular
background interested in ecological and evolutionary
research, or those coming from an ecological or evolu-
tionary background who are interested in bringing their
knowledge to microbial systems.
A working knowledge of laboratory research, experimen-
tal evolution and/or mathematical modelling would be
of benet to someone working on this project. The
applicant will demonstrate academic achievement in the
eld(s) of ecology, evolutionary biology, microbiology
or molecular biology and the potential for scholastic
success. A background or knowledge of R or Python
programming and ecological and/or evolutionary theory
is highly desirable.
The student will be based in the School of Biological
Sciences at The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Australia. We are a research-intensive University and
our School comprises more than 100 academic and post-
doctoral research sta, and ~200 higher-degree research
students. The student and project will benet from
the School's formidable research expertise in ecology,
evolutionary biology and genetics, physiology, and math-
ematical, statistical and computational biology.
As a scholarship recipient, you'll receive:
- Living stipend of $28,854 per annum tax free (2022
rate), indexed annually - Tuition fees covered - Single
Overseas Student Health Cover (international appli-
cants)
Please contact Dr Andrew Letten (a.letten@uq.edu.au)
as soon as possible if you are interested (including a CV
and a brief statement on your research background and
interests). More information on the recruitment process
here https://graduate-school.uq.edu.au/project/costs-
and-consequences-antimicrobial-resistance-microbial-
communities . Andrew Letten
Lecturer School of Biological Sciences The University
of Queensland Brisbane QLD 4072 Australia
phone: +61 7 336 52454May 1, 2022 EvolDir 43
www.andrewletten.net Andrew Letten
<a.letten@uq.edu.au >
UToronto Fishgenetics
Genetics of Endangered and Invasive Freshwater Fishes
in the Great Lakes Basin, University of Toronto
The Lovejoy and Mandrak labs (mandraklab.ca) have
an opening for an MSc or PhD student for September
2022.
Diet overlap analysis is a conventional method for evalu-
ating potential competition. Such analyses are typically
undertaken by sacricing sh and dissecting their stom-
achs to determine the contents. A common non-lethal
method is to wash the stomach contents out through
the mouth using gastric lavage. However, a major short-
coming of both methods is that it is often dicult to
identify stomach contents owing to gastric acid break-
down, particularly if the prey does not have resistant
body parts (e.g. exoskeletons). Recent advances of
genetic methods suggest that stomach contents can be
identied to species using a genetic metabarcoding ap-
proach (Mychek-Londer et al. 2020). The student will
further develop and conduct stomach contents DNA and
eDNA analyses to determine the diet of invasive and
endangered sh species. The project includes Indige-
nous, provincial, and federal partners and is funded by
GEN-FISH (gen-sh.ca). The successful candidate could
also apply to the FishCAST NSERC Create program
(shcast.ca).
Candidates should have genetics laboratory experience,
excellent written and oral communication skills, quanti-
tative skills, and other relevant skills. The student will
be enrolled in the graduate Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology (MSc) or Department of Physical
and Environmental Sciences (PhD) and be based at the
University of Toronto Scarborough.
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to di-
versity within its community and especially welcomes
applications from racialized persons / persons of colour,
women, Indigenous / Aboriginal People of North Amer-
ica, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ2S+ persons, and
others who may contribute to the further diversication
of ideas.
The University strives to be an equitable and inclusive
community, and proactively seeks to increase diversity
among its community members. Our values regardingequity and diversity are linked with our unwavering com-
mitment to excellence in the pursuit of our academic
mission.
Interested students should send a letter of intent, resume,
unocial transcripts, and a writing sample to
Nathan Lovejoy Department of Biological
Sciences University of Toronto Scarborough
nathan.lovejoy@utoronto.ca
Nathan Lovejoy <nathan.lovejoy@utoronto.ca >
UtrechtU FungusInsectInteractions
UTRECHT UNIVERSITY. PHD POSITION FUNGUS-
INSECT INTERACTIONS
Job description Infected animals often behave dier-
ently from healthy animals. These changes can involve
precise manipulations caused by parasites to increase
that parasite's chances to spread. How exactly ma-
nipulative parasites can alter host behaviour is largely
unknown. Uncovering the parasite compounds and host
pathways involved could have both medical and agri-
cultural applications through the discovery of novel
drugs and holistic methods to battle insect pests. The
behaviourally tractable \zombie ant system" has the
potential to expose the mechanisms underlying parasitic
behavioural manipulation and fundamentally transform
perceptions of parasite-host interactions and their be-
havioural ecology eects. Our research group uses these
fungus-infected \zombie ants" as a model to study dis-
ease progression, related behavioural phenotypes, and
the mechanisms underlying those phenotypes. We love
to push the boundaries when it comes to available tech-
niques for this novel model system, so we often nd
ourselves adopting and creating new tools to answer our
research questions.
The nature of the research that you will be involved
in is naturally integrative. As such, your work will
involve a variety of tasks spanning the elds of molec-
ular microbiology, genetics, genomics, and behavioural
ecology:
- Apply gene-editing and other molecular microbiol-
ogy and genetics technology to study the function of
candidate manipulation compounds. - Produce and
analyse genomics and transcriptomics datasets to re-
veal host pathways involved in altered behaviours. -
Conduct infection and compound exposure experiments
with a variety of invertebrate host organisms ranging44 EvolDir May 1, 2022
from established model systems to ant colonies collected
from nature. - Use quantitative behavioural tracking
software and conducting statistical analyses to study
disease-related behavioural phenotypes. - Participate
in yearly eld expeditions to Florida (USA) to collect
carpenter ant colonies.
Qualications
You t well within our research team when you are
ambitious, creative, and highly motivated. Next to that,
you have a strong interest in parasite-host interactions,
fungal biology and/or insect behaviour. It works in
your favour if you have already developed good working
knowledge in experimental design and statistics.
We would also like you to bring the following:
- a Master's degree with a background in molecular bi-
ology, genetics, microbiology or a related eld; - prior
experience with genomics or transcriptomics data gener-
ation and analysis (ideally, but not necessary); - prior ex-
perience with insect handling, collecting and husbandry
(ideally, but not necessary, at the very least you are not
squeamish around insects); - programming skills or the
willingness to develop them; - great oral and written
communication skills in English.
Oer
- A full-time position for 4 years; - Enrolment in the
PhD Programme Environmental Biology within the
Graduate School of Life Sciences https://www.uu.nl/-
en/research/institute-of-environmental-biology/-
education/phd-programme-environmental-biology
- A full-time gross salary starting at euro 2,443 in
the rst year and increasing to euro 3,122 in year
four (scale P Collective Labour Agreement Dutch
Universities (cao)); - 8% holiday bonus and 8.3%
end-of-year bonus; - A pension scheme, partially paid
parental leave, and exible employment conditions
https://www.uu.nl/en/organisation/working-at-
utrecht-university/terms-of-employment based on the
Collective Labour Agreement Dutch Universities.
In addition to the employment conditions laid down
in the CAO for Dutch Universities, Utrecht University
has a number of its own arrangements. For example,
there are agreements on professional development, leave
arrangements and sports. We also give you the oppor-
tunity to expand your terms of employment via the
Employment Conditions Selection Model. This is how
we like to encourage you to continue to grow. About
the organisation
The Department of Biology <https://www.uu.nl/en/-
organisation/department-of-biology >hosts a large num-
ber of research chairs, which are organized within twoinstitutes: the Institute for Biodynamics and Biocom-
plexity <https://www.uu.nl/en/organisation/institute-
of-biodynamics-and-biocomplexity >(IBB) and the In-
stitute of Environmental Biology
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UWarsaw 2
SmallMammalsPaleogenomics
Two PhD student positions available at the Laboratory
for Paleogenetics and Conservation Genetics, University
of Warsaw in small mammal paleogenomics projects led
by Mateusz Baca, PhD.
Project 1 - \Paleogenomic analysis of small mam-
mals in the reconstruction of species responses to
climate change" more info: https://www.uw.edu.pl/-
wp-content/uploads/2022/03/job-oer cent-12-2022-
sonata-bis-10-baca-phd-student-en.pdf Project
2 - \Reconstruction and calibration of genome-
based phylogeny of the Microtus genus using the
Middle Pleistocene genomes" more info: https://-
www.uw.edu.pl/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/job-
oer cent-13-2022-opus-20-baca-phd-student-en.pdf
If you're interested in sequencing genomes of modern
and subfossil small mammals and reconstructing their
evolutionary histories, phylogenetic relationships, and
responses to past climate changes, we encourage you to
apply for these scholarships!
Application deadline: 25 April 2022
Mateusz Baca <m.baca@cent.uw.edu.pl >
\Laboratory of Paleogenetics and Conservation Genetics,
University of Warsaw" <m.molak@cent.uw.edu.pl >
UWolverhampton
SkinkPhylogenetics
Fully funded PhD to study the \Phylogenetic relation-
ships and biogeography of the sphenomorphin skinks"May 1, 2022 EvolDir 45
Based at the University of Wolverhampton, UK. Appli-
cation deadline is 29th April 2022. Open to UK and
International applicants. The position comes with an
annual salary of GBP15,608 + tuition fees+ research
expenses.
Skinks are the most diverse family of reptile, comprising
a quarter of all lizard species: 7-9 subfamilies/tribes, 168
genera and ca. 1,744 species. Of these, over a third of
all species, in 32 genera, belong to the tribe Sphenomor-
phini (formally in the subfamily Sphenomorphinae sensu
Shea, 2021 Zootaxa, 5067(3), 301-351). Despite this high
diversity, internal evolutionary relationships within the
Sphenomorphini have remained poorly studied and may
not form a true (monophyletic) taxonomic group. The
sphenomorphin skinks have a wide geographic distribu-
tion spanning major biogeographic barriers, occurring
across Asia, Australasia and the Americas.
Western Melanesia including New Guinea sits at the
crossroads of Asia, Australia, and the Pacic and is
one of the most interesting, puzzling, and understudied
hyperdiverse regions on Earth. Despite being highly
diverse, most taxonomic groups have lacked research
focus. The sphenomorphin skinks of Western Melanesia
occupy a substantial proportion of the region's lizard
diversity but little is still known about them. Nine
genera of sphenomorphin skinks are known to occur
in the Western Melanesian region (Alpinoscincus, Fo-
jia, Glaphyromorphus, Nubeoscincus, Ornithuroscincus,
Palaia, Papuascincus, Prasinohaema, Sphenomorphus)
yet the number of species within these genera are known
to be underestimated and their relationships largely
unknown. This PhD project aims to provide a bet-
ter understanding of the evolutionary relationships and
historical biogeographic patterns among the sphenomor-
phin skinks, using cutting edge molecular approaches.
The project aligns with Dr Simon Maddock (University
of Wolverhampton, UK) and Dr Fred Kraus' (University
of Michigan, USA) recently funded NERC-NSF grant,
\Origins and expansion of endemic biodiversity in west-
ern Melanesia and their relation to tectonic evolution",
and it is expected that the successful applicant will
develop (alongside collaborators) additional research
questions relating to the origins of Western Melanesian
sphenomorphin skinks, following the generation of initial
results and the applicant's interests.
With the onset of high-throughput sequencing meth-
ods, previously unavailable molecular data are now
accessible from museum specimens with recently de-
veloped archival DNA methods. These advance-
ments enable us to address questions relating to
poorly sampled taxa, and the PhD project will ex-
ploit this by generating novel sequence data for mi-tochondrial DNA and ultraconserved elements (UCEs)
(https://www.ultraconserved.org <http://%28https//-
www.ultraconserved.org >/) from historic museum sam-
ples as well as freshly collected samples. The PhD
project will primarily be genetics based, however, it will
also provide the successful applicant with the opportu-
nity to undertake some eldwork to collect sphenomor-
phin DNA samples (and specimens).
The successful applicant will be based at the University
of Wolverhampton, UK, which boasts excellent labo-
ratory facilities and has recently received an internal
1million research investment fund for bioscience research.
The successful candidate will be expected to work closely
with the postdoctoral researcher, the research assistant,
and other project partners on Maddock and Kraus' joint
NERC-NSF grant. The ideal candidate should have an
interest in evolutionary biology and ideally be willing
to undertake eldwork in a challenging environment
(provisionally Papua New Guinea). Additionally, the
candidate should be reliable, patient, enthusiastic, com-
mitted to scientic research, able to work both as part of
a team and individually and they should show sensitivity
and adaptability to foreign cultures. Candidates with
prior lab and eld experience will have an advantage.
The project would benet from independent direction
by the successful candidate depending on their interests
and preliminary results.
The supervisory team will be led by Simon Maddock
(University of Wolverhampton, UK) and will be co-
supervised by Fred Kraus (University of Michigan, USA).
Informal and formal enquiries should be directed to Si-
mon Maddock (s.maddock@wlv.ac.uk). Interviews will
be scheduled for the week commencing 6th June 2022.
The PhD candidate will be encouraged to apply for
additional funding to support eld and museum work
(with Dr Maddock's support) to cover any additional
costs
Specic requirements of applicants: >A rst or upper
second-class honours degree in biology or zoology, or a
related eld.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html46 EvolDir May 1, 2022
UWolverhampton
SkinkPhylogenetics LastCall
Fully funded PhD to study the \Phylogenetic relation-
ships and biogeography of the sphenomorphin skinks"
Based at the University of Wolverhampton, UK. ** Ap-
plication deadline is THIS FRIDAY (29th April 2022).
Open to UK and International applicants. The position
comes with an annual salary of GBPpounds 15,608 +
tuition fees+ research expenses.
Skinks are the most diverse family of reptile, comprising
a quarter of all lizard species: 7'9 subfamilies/tribes, 168
genera and ca. 1,744 species. Of these, over a third of
all species, in 32 genera, belong to the tribe Sphenomor-
phini (formally in the subfamily Sphenomorphinae sensu
Shea, 2021 Zootaxa, 5067(3), 301-351). Despite this high
diversity, internal evolutionary relationships within the
Sphenomorphini have remained poorly studied and may
not form a true (monophyletic) taxonomic group. The
sphenomorphin skinks have a wide geographic distribu-
tion spanning major biogeographic barriers, occurring
across Asia, Australasia and the Americas.
Western Melanesia'including New Guinea'sits at the
crossroads of Asia, Australia, and the Pacic and is
one of the most interesting, puzzling, and understudied
hyperdiverse regions on Earth. Despite being highly
diverse, most taxonomic groups have lacked research
focus. The sphenomorphin skinks of Western Melanesia
occupy a substantial proportion of the region's lizard
diversity but little is still known about them. Nine
genera of sphenomorphin skinks are known to occur
in the Western Melanesian region (Alpinoscincus, Fo-
jia, Glaphyromorphus, Nubeoscincus, Ornithuroscincus,
Palaia, Papuascincus, Prasinohaema, Sphenomorphus)
yet the number of species within these genera are known
to be underestimated and their relationships largely
unknown. This PhD project aims to provide a bet-
ter understanding of the evolutionary relationships and
historical biogeographic patterns among the sphenomor-
phin skinks, using cutting edge molecular approaches.
The project aligns with Dr Simon Maddock (University
of Wolverhampton, UK) and Dr Fred Kraus' (University
of Michigan, USA) recently funded NERC-NSF grant,
\Origins and expansion of endemic biodiversity in west-
ern Melanesia and their relation to tectonic evolution",
and it is expected that the successful applicant willdevelop (alongside collaborators) additional research
questions relating to the origins of Western Melanesian
sphenomorphin skinks, following the generation of initial
results and the applicant's interests.
With the onset of high-throughput sequencing meth-
ods, previously unavailable molecular data are now
accessible from museum specimens with recently de-
veloped archival DNA methods. These advance-
ments enable us to address questions relating to
poorly sampled taxa, and the PhD project will ex-
ploit this by generating novel sequence data for mi-
tochondrial DNA and ultraconserved elements (UCEs)
(https://www.ultraconserved.org <http://%28https//-
www.ultraconserved.org >/) from historic museum sam-
ples as well as freshly collected samples. The PhD
project will primarily be genetics based, however, it will
also provide the successful applicant with the opportu-
nity to undertake some eldwork to collect sphenomor-
phin DNA samples (and specimens).
The successful applicant will be based at the University
of Wolverhampton, UK, which boasts excellent labo-
ratory facilities and has recently received an internal
pounds 1million research investment fund for bioscience
research. The successful candidate will be expected
to work closely with the postdoctoral researcher, the
research assistant, and other project partners on Mad-
dock and Kraus' joint NERC-NSF grant. The ideal
candidate should have an interest in evolutionary bi-
ology and ideally be willing to undertake eldwork in
a challenging environment (provisionally Papua New
Guinea). Additionally, the candidate should be reliable,
patient, enthusiastic, committed to scientic research,
able to work both as part of a team and individually
and they should show sensitivity and adaptability to
foreign cultures. Candidates with prior lab and eld
experience will have an advantage. The project would
benet from independent direction by the successful
candidate depending on their interests and preliminary
results.
The supervisory team will be led by Simon Maddock
(University of Wolverhampton, UK) and will be co-
supervised by Fred Kraus (University of Michigan, USA).
Informal and formal enquiries should be directed to Si-
mon Maddock (s.maddock@wlv.ac.uk). Interviews will
be scheduled for the week commencing 6th June 2022.
The PhD candidate will be encouraged to apply for
additional funding to support eld and museum work
(with Dr Maddock's support) to cover any additional
costs
Specic requirements of applicants: >A rst or upper
second-class honours degree in biology or >zoology, or
a related eld.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 47
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UZurich
GenomicsPlantInsectCoadaptation
PhD position in genomics of plant-insect coadaptation
A PhD position funded by the Swiss National Science
Funds is available by 1st of July in my group at the
Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany,
University of Z >1
2rich, for a period of four years. The
position is to study the genomic bases of real-time plant-
insect coevolution. In the project, experimental coevolu-
tion will be performed to test predictions derived from
the geographic mosaic of coevolution theory, using Bras-
sica rapa and Pieris rapae as plant-pollinator-herbivore
model system. The successful applicant will be study-
ing the genomic bases of coadaptation in Brassica and
Pieris, using genomic and phenotypic data. Analyses of
selection, GWAS, and co-GWAS will be performed to
identify loci that (co)evolve in the interacting organisms.
I am looking for a highly motivated PhD candidate
to join my team working on evolutionary question in
the context of plant-insect interactions. I oer a vi-
brant, collaborative work environment and high-quality
supervision. Several of my past PhD students have pub-
lished as rst authors in the highest-ranking journals
such as Science, Nature Communications, New Phytolo-
gist, Functional Ecology, etc.; many have consecutively
attained PostDoc positions at renowned academic in-
stitutions. You should have a Master (or comparable)
degree in any eld of biology and a thorough interest
in evolutionary biology; prociency in English, both
orally and written, is also required. Prior experience in
bioinformatics, genomics analyses, GWAS, and scientic
publishing is an advantage.
Our department is located in the university botanical
gardens and houses modern molecular and ecological
labs, including greenhouses and climate chambers for
plant cultivation. The University of Z >1
2rich has a broad
research coverage of organismal and molecular biology,
and several research groups work on evolutionary topics
(www.lifescience-zurich.ch). The city of Z >1
2rich also
oers excellent quality of life as well as an attractive
surrounding for outdoor sports.If you are interested in the job, please send me by
e-mail (orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch) a letter describ-
ing your motivation, CV, copy of degrees, publications
(manuscripts), and e-mail addresses of two academic
referees, by 1st of May 2022 (the job will remain open
until lled). Please send all documents in a single le. If
you have any further questions, don`t hesitate to contact
me.
\Florian P. Schiestl" <orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch >
\Florian P. Schiestl" <orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch >
Vienna PopulationGenetics
PhD positions in Population Genetics - apply by April
21
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on-site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a love for evolutionary research
and a background in one of the following disciplines:
evolutionary genetics, functional genetics, theoretical or
experimental population genetics, bioinformatics, math-
ematics, statistics.
Topics include:
- Did selsh DNA from Neanderthals infect our human
genomes? - Evolution from de novo mutations - inuence
of elevated mutation rates. - Evolution of sex-specic
neuronal signaling. - Impact of para-mutations on the
invasion dynamics of TEs. - Inference of selection sig-
natures from time-series data. - Invasion dynamics of
dierent TEs. - Leveraging long-read sequencing for
population genetics of TEs. - Long-term dynamics of
local Drosophila populations. - Studying the evolution
of gene expression with single cell RNA-Seq. - Studying
speciation during experimental evolution. - Tempera-
ture adaptation in Drosophila: phenotypic adaptation.
Only complete applications (application form, CV, mo-
tivation letter, university certicates, indication of the
two preferred topics in a single pdf) received by April 21,
2022 will be considered. Two letters of recommendation
need to be sent directly by the referees.
PhD students will receive a monthly salary based on cur-
rently 2.237,60 before tax according to the regulations48 EvolDir May 1, 2022
of the Austrian Science Fund (FWF).
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can be
found at www.popgen-vienna.at { Dr. Julia Hosp
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics Coordi-
nator
www.popgen-vienna.at https://twitter.com/-
PopGenViennaPhD c/o Institut f >1
2r Mathematik,
Universit >1
2t Wien & Institut f >1
2r Populationsgenetik,
Veterin >1
2rmedizinische Universit >1
2t Wien
T +43 1 25077 4302
Julia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at Ju-
lia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at
WSL Switzerland TreeAdaptation
WSL.Switzerland.AdaptationGenomicsForestTrees
The Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Land-
scape Research WSL is part of the ETH Domain. Ap-
proximately 600 people work on the sustainable use and
protection of the environment and on the handling of
natural hazards.
The Research Unit Biodiversity and Conservation Bi-
ology studies the impact of the environment and land
use on the diversity of life. In the framework of the
ERC Consolidator Grant, MyGardenOfTrees, the Evo-
lutionary Genetics Group (https://sites.google.com/-
view/evolgenetgroup) oers for the duration of 3-years
starting as soon as possible a position for a PhD Student
in \Adaptation during range expansion in European
beech. The Evolutionary Genetics Group is interested
in understanding the roles of demography and natural
selection in shaping the life-histories and the genetic com-
position of forest tree populations across the landscape.
The group uses eld experiments, statistical models,
and individual-based computer simulations to answer
fundamental evolutionary questions and to aid adap-
tive forest management decisions. MyGardenOfTrees
(https://www.mygardenoftrees.eu/) is establishing an
unprecedented species range-wide transplant experiment
to assess the capacity of growth and regeneration of two
forest tree species, European beech and silver r, as
well as their Mediterranean and oriental sister species.
The experimental part of the project is based on partic-
ipatory science and involves foresters all across Europe.
Two PhD students will be engaged on this project work-ing on complementary topics.
The current PhD position will focus on understanding
the adaptive and demographic processes that have led to
the range expansion of European beech (Fagus sylvatica
L.) after the last glacial maximum. Fagus sylvatica is
best considered as a species complex whose current range
extends from Spain to northern Iran. Despite the large
genetic diversity of beech populations in Minor Asia and
on the Balkan peninsula, a single lineage has colonized
most of Europe. Did the colonizing lineage have superior
performance, and does it outperform other lineages still
today? Could current beech die-back across Europe be
partly attributed to the reduced genetic diversity due
to the expansion load beyond ongoing unprecedented
climate change? Could the introduction of other beech
lineages and hybridization between them be used to
adapt European beech forests to future climate change?
The selected PhD student will investigate these ques-
tions using a combination of genomics (whole genome
sequence data), common garden experiments (performed
by foresters) and environmental data. The PhD project
will involve roughly 15% eld and lab work, 50% data
analysis (and simulations), and 35% dissemination and
thesis writing.
The ideal candidate holds a Masters degree in evolution-
ary biology, population genetics, bioinformatics, plant
science or in a related discipline and has a keen interest
in evolutionary biology, statistics and bioinformatics.
Advanced knowledge in R and/or python are necessary
and interests in database management is a plus. We are
looking for a person who is motivated to pursue a scien-
tic career and who is curious, creative, responsible and
can work independently. Fluency in English and excel-
lent written and oral communication skills are expected.
The PhD thesis will be supervised by Dr Katalin Csill ery
(WSL, leader of the Evolutionary Genetics Group), Prof
Dr Yvonne Willi (University of Basel), Dr Christoph
Sperisen (WSL), and will be in collaboration with the
Genetic Diversity Center of the ETH Zurich. The PhD
student will be based at WSL in Birmensdorf with short
stays at the University of Basel. The PhD degree will be
awarded by the University of Basel and the Zurich-Basel
Plant Science Center's PhD program in Plant science.
Applications, including a motivation letter, a sum-
mary of past relevant accomplishments, a CV, and the
names and contact details of two referees should be
sent to Mich ele Bucher, Human Resources WSL, by
uploading the requested documents through the WSL
webpage: https://apply.reine.ch/273855/1312/pub/1/-
index.html Applications via email will not be considered.
The position remains open until lled. Katalin Csill ery,
katalin.csillery(at)wsl.ch, Tel. +41 44 739 23 43, will
be happy to answer any questions or oer further infor-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 49
mation. The WSL strives to increase the proportion of
women in its employment, which is why qualied women
are particularly called upon to apply for this position.
Katalin Csill ery, Group Leader, Evolutionary Genetics
Group, Biodiversity and Conservation Biology Unit
Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL, Z urcherstrasse111, 8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland Oce: Bi MG E
oor, Tel:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Jobs
BotanicGarden Berlin PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
BrownU ResAssist WildlifeMetagenomics . . . . . . . . . .50
Caltech Tech FunctionalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
ClemsonU MolecularGeneticsTechnician . . . . . . . . . . . 51
CornellU 2 ResTech CnidarianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . .52
NatHistMuseum Luxembourg CuratorEcology . . . . . 53
NorthEasternU TeachingBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . .54
PennsylvaniaStateU SymbiosisEvolutionMicrobiome 54
PurdueU GenomicsLabManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
RBG Kew ResLeader FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
RBG Kew ResLeader FungalEvolution DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
RBG Kew ResLeader PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
RZSS EdinburghZoo ConservationGeneticsBiobank 58
Senckenberg Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
StanfordU LifeSciTech EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . 60
TrinityU TeachingEvolBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UAberdeen FieldWork ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . .60UAmsterdam EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UBirmingham Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
UCalifornia Berkeley LabManager PupshCichlidEvolu-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UCalifornia Irvine LabTechManager Genomics . . . . 63
UCalifornia LosAngeles LabTech ConservationGenomics
64
UColorado Boulder InvertZoologyCollectionsManager
64
UConnecticut ResTech TapewormPhylogenetics . . . 65
UdelRosario Bogota VertebrateEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 65
UIdaho ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
ULeicester UK Lectureship PopulationGenomics . . .67
UOregon ResAssist EcologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UTexas Austin ResTech EvolutionaryMorphology . 68
WellesleyCollege TeachingEvolution VisitingLecturerPo-
sitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
BotanicGarden Berlin
PlantEvolution
Dear EvolDir community,
the Botanic Garden Berlin looks for an experienced
plant taxonomist/systematist to lead the research
group \plants" at the Botanic Garden Berlin. You'll
nd the job announcement here (in German only):
https://www.fu-berlin.de/universitaet/beruf-karriere/-
jobs/wiss/59 ze-botanischer-garten-botanisches-
museum/BG-Bo-Berlin|Leitung-Panzen.html If you
know of any interested colleagues, we'd be pleased ifyou could forward the information accordingly. Best
wishes Eva
Dr. Eva H >1
2ner Wissenschaftliche Koordinatorin
Botanischer Garten Berlin
Telefon: +49 30 838 59964 Mobil: +49 30 176 183 850
63 e.haener@bo.berlin
Freie Universit >1
2t Berlin ZE Botanischer Garten und
Botanisches Museum Berlin K >1
2nigin-Luise-Stra >1
2e
6-8 14195 Berlin
#BoBerlin Internationales Wissenszentrum der Botanik
\H >1
2ner, Eva" <E.Haener@bo.berlin >\H >1
2ner,
Eva"<E.Haener@bo.berlin >50 EvolDir May 1, 2022
BrownU ResAssist
WildlifeMetagenomics
We are seeking a Research Assistant in Molecular Ecol-
ogy at Brown University.
Link to the job application: https:/-
/brown.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/-
sta-careers-brown/jobs/details/Research-
Assistant REQ177255?q=REQ177255 *Job De-
scription:*
The lab of Dr. Tyler Kartzinel at Brown University
(www.kartzinellab.com) is seeking a Research Assistant
to support research on the diets, microbiomes, and
metagenomes of wildlife. The Research Assistant will
devote ~80% of their time to specic research projects
and the remaining ~20% time to general maintenance
and lab support. The Research Assistant will be wel-
comed as a full lab member and be expected to attend
lab meetings and to contribute to a supportive and in-
teractive lab atmosphere. The Research Assistant will
interface with varied research facilities including the
Brown University Genomics Facility, Brown University
Herbarium, Brown Center for Animal Resources and
Education and diverse collaborators on our NSF-funded
projects around the world. This is a unique opportunity
to become deeply involved in exciting research at the
interface of ecology, genetics, and conservation. As such,
it is well-suited for a college graduate seeking additional
experience before graduate school.
The ideal start date will be May or June 2022 , with
some exibility possible for the successful applicant.
This is a xed term position with a current end date of
April 30, 2023, however this may be extended based on
funding and performance.
*Responsibilities*
- Executing standard molecular biology laboratory pro-
tocols involving DNA extraction, PCR, gel electrophore-
sis, and similar procedures. Keep organized records of
research samples and experiments. Collaborate with
postdocs and students in the lab when requested by the
Principal Investigator. - General lab maintenance, such
as preparing reagents and keeping equipment functional.
- General lab support, such as obtaining purchase orders
and placing orders to ensure supplies are kept in stock
in coordination with the Principal Investigator.
*Qualications*- Bachelor's degree in life science (biology, molecular
biology, ecology, or related sciences). - Undergraduate
research experience or previous experience working in
a laboratory setting. - Basic molecular ecology tech-
niques including sample preparation, DNA extraction,
PCR. - Excellent organization, record-keeping, task-
prioritization, and ability to communicate with a di-
verse team of people. - Ability to self-motivate and
work independently. - Ability to think critically and
solve problems. - Ability to complete tasks in a timely
manner. - Ability to learn new skills quickly. - Ability
to organize datasets and perform general lab mainte-
nance and support. - Demonstrated ability to support
a community of diverse perspectives and cultures in an
inclusive environment.
All oers of employment are contingent upon successful
completion of a background check.
Recruiting Start Date:
2022-03-22-07:00
Job Posting Title: Research Assistant
Department: Institute at Brown for Environment and
Society
Grade: Grade 7
Worker Type: Employee
Worker Sub-Type:
Fixed Term (Fixed Term)
Time Type: Full time
Scheduled Weekly Hours: 37.5
Position Classication: Onsite
Submission Guidelines:
Please note that in order to be considered an applicant
for any sta position at Brown University you must
submit an application form for each position for which
you believe you are qualied. Applications are not kept
on le for future positions. Please include a cover letter
and resume with each position application.
Vaccination Requirements:
In order to maintain 90% or greater universal vacci-
nation rates on campus, all newly hired employees at
Brown University must receive the nal dose of the
COVID-19 vaccine before they begin work, unless they
are approved for a medical or religious exemption. All
employees must also receive a COVID-19 booster within
thirty (30) days of becoming eligible. For more informa-
tion, please visit the Healthy Brown site.
Still Have Questions?May 1, 2022 EvolDir 51
If you have any questions you may contact employ-
ment@brown.edu.
EEO Statement:
Brown University is an E-Verify Employer.
Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and
inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA
employer, Brown considers applicants for employment
without regard to, and does not discriminate on the
basis of, gender, sex, sexual orientation, gender iden-
tity, national origin, age, race, protected veteran status,
disability, or any other legally protected status.
Tyler Kartzinel Peggy and Henry D. Sharpe, Jr. Assis-
tant Professor of Environmental Studies Brown Univer-
sity
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Caltech Tech FunctionalGenetics
The Parker lab at Caltech is searching for
a functional genetic technician to generate
evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca the study of
behavior and chemical ecology. The successful appli-
cant will work with the Principal Investigator and
lab members (graduate students and postdocs) to
establish and maintain engineered beetle lines created
using CRISPR/CAS9 gene editing and transposon-
mediatedlab at Caltech is searching for a functional
genetic technician transgenesis technologies.
The position requires competence in molecular biology
techniques for the design and construction of plasmid
vectors and sgRNAs for insect genome engineering. The
position also demands careful screening and husbandry
of insect cultures. Necessary bioinformatic skills can be
acquired through training in the Parker lab (https://-
www.beetles.caltech.edu/)
Job Duties:
- Molecular biology methods (DNA/RNA extraction,
PCR, cloning, DNA synthesis). - Design and synthesis
of sgRNAs and transformation vectors for gene editing
and transgenic manipulation of rove beetles. - Screening
and husbandry of transgenic and mutant rove beetles toestablish stable genetically modied lines. - Work with
genomic and transcriptomic data for the above tasks.
- Maintenance of genetically modied beetles. - Work
with postdocs and students on design and engineering
of project- specic genetic constructs.
Basic Qualications:
BS in a biology-related eld with a minimum of 2 years
of relevant work experience. Demonstrated molecular
biology experience.
Preferred Qualications:
Experience with insect genetic manipulation. Experi-
ence with plasmid design and construction. Experience
with insect transgenesis. Experience with insect rear-
ing/husbandry.
Required Documents:
Resume
Apply: https://phf.tbe.taleo.net/phf03/ats/careers/-
v2/viewRequisition?org=CALTECH&cws=37&rid=-
6514 For more info contact: joep@caltech.edu
Joe Parker, Ph.D. California Institute of Technology
Division of Biology and Biological Engineering 1200 E.
California Blvd. MC 216-76 Pasadena, CA 91125
Tel: +1 626 395 8729 https://www.beetles.caltech.edu/
\Parker, Joseph" <joep@caltech.edu >
ClemsonU
MolecularGeneticsTechnician
The Clemson University Center for Human Genetics
and the Greenwood Genetic Center have been awarded
a ve year Phase I COBRE in Human Genetics grant to
understand the genetic, genomic, and epigenetic mecha-
nisms by which molecular genetic variation aects tran-
scriptional and other molecular networks in health and
disease. The Research Core of the COBRE in Human
Genetics is seeking a Molecular Genetics Technician to
support the genomics research of Research and Pilot
Project Leaders and their laboratories. Ideally, the suc-
cessful applicant will have previous molecular biology
and genomics experience, including (but not limited to)
basic molecular biology and next generation sample and
library preparation for Illumina short read and Pacic
Biosciences long read sequencing. However, this is not
required and training in these techniques will be pro-
vided. Salary will be commensurate with credentials52 EvolDir May 1, 2022
and experience.
Enquiries should be addressed to Dr. Trudy F. C.
Mackay, Self Family Endowed Professor and Director
of the Center for Human Genetics, Clemson University,
Self Regional Hall, 114 Gregor Mendel Circle, Green-
wood, SC 29646 (tmackay@clemson.edu). Applications
must include a cover letter explaining the qualications
for this position and the names of three references. The
position is available immediately. Clemson University
is an equal opportunity employer.
To apply, go to jobs.clemson.edu and apply for job ID
106592.
TRUDY F. C. MACKAY, PhD, FRS
SELF FAMILY ENDOWED CHAIR OF HUMAN GE-
NETICS
DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR HUMAN GENETICS
PROFESSOR OF GENETICS AND BIOCHEMISTRY
Center for Human Genetics
Clemson University
110 Self Regional Hall
114 Gregor Mendel Circle
Greenwood, SC 29646
w 864-889-0522
c 919-604-6531
tmackay@clemson.edu
Trudy Frances Charlene Mackay
<tmackay@clemson.edu >
CornellU 2 ResTech
CnidarianEvolution
Research Technician in the Babonis Lab at Cornell Uni-
versity
In the Babonis Lab, we use the dynamic processes of em-
bryogenesis and tissue morphogenesis to understand how
novel traits arise. We seek to hire a highly motivated
junior research technician (postbac) and a senior techni-
cian (lab manager) to work in a research lab dedicated
to studying the cellular, molecular, and developmental
biology of cnidarians (corals, sea anemones, jellysh).
Primary responsibilities for the technicians will be to
support ongoing research in the lab and to overseemaintenance of the animal colony (sea anemones, tube
anemones, and corals). Animal maintenance includes
preparing seawater, maintaining animal-safe conditions,
cleaning animal dishes, feeding/preparing adults for
spawning, and caring for embryos. This portion of the
research requires the ability to carry 5 gallons of water
(~40 lbs) over short distances. The technicians will also
assist in the generation and phenotypic analysis of mu-
tations produced by genome editing (CRISPR/Cas9) in
sea anemones. Analyses associated with this research
include extracting genomic DNA, performing PCR and
gel electrophoresis, molecular cloning, and basic DNA
sequence analysis. The technicians will analyze phe-
notypes in wildtype and mutant animals using in situ
hybridization, immunouorescence, and RNA extrac-
tion for quantitative PCR. Many of these techniques
will require the use of microscopy (light, confocal, and
electron microscopy). An additional portion of the work
will involve general lab maintenance, including: order-
ing and organization of consumables, assisting in the
training of incoming students and postdocs in relevant
techniques, and summarizing data, preparing gures,
and reporting results at lab meetings. Specic duties
will be coincident with experience.
Both positions are full-time (39 hrs/wk), one-year ap-
pointments with the possibility of extension annually
based on continued available funding and successful
work performance. Review of applications will begin
May 1, 2022 and the positions will remain open until
lled.
For additional details and to apply, visit:
Junior tech position (postbac): https:/-
/cornell.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/-
CornellCareerPage/job/Ithaca-Main-Campus/-
Lab-Research-Technician|Dept-of-Ecology|
Evolutionary-Biology|Technician-III WDR-
00030793-1 Senior tech position (lab manager):
https://cornell.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/-
CornellCareerPage/job/Ithaca-Main-Campus/Sr-
Lab-Technician-Lab-Manager|Dept-of-Ecology|
Evolutionary-Biology|Technician-IV WDR-00030794-
1 Leslie Babonis <lsb257@cornell.edu >May 1, 2022 EvolDir 53
NatHistMuseum Luxembourg
CuratorEcology
Job: NatHistMuseum Luxembourg.CuratorEcology
The National Museum of Natural History of Luxem-
bourg is hiring a replacement for a retiring Curator
(senior researcher) in Ecology. We encourage all inter-
ested parties to apply, especially if you have experience
in research on invasive species. People with molecular
experience are welcome. The detailed job description
can be (in French) under https://tinyurl.com/45kzjj32
or in English below. It is a strict requirement that appli-
cants have to be EU nationals and that they are uent
(written and spoken) in one of the three administrative
languages of Luxembourg (Luxembourgish, French or
German). The deadline for applications is the 27th of
May 2022. The email address of a person taking general
enquiries can be found on https://tinyurl.com/45kzjj32.
If you decide to apply via the website given above, you
need to postulate as an \Employ >1
2". Hope to see you
soon in Luxembourg!
Job advertisement Who is recruiting? National Museum
of Natural History - Collections and Research - Ecology
Section The National Museum of Natural History is a
cultural and research institute located in the Grund. Its
Collections and Research department studies and docu-
ments natural heritage, geodiversity and biodiversity in
general and ecology and exotic species in particular.
Tasks Contribute to the museum's activities and projects
related to biodiversity and ecology; Design and imple-
mentation of scientic research projects in the eld of
biodiversity and ecology; Invasive alien species: moni-
toring species, coordinating and feeding the neobiota.lu
internet portal, representing the Museum in national
and European working groups on invasive alien species;
Creation of a network of applied research actors in the
eld of biodiversity protection and ecology to ensure
knowledge transfer; Exchange of expertise with mu-
seum sections and external institutions; Exchange and
analysis of data from dierent species groups; Organisa-
tion of national and international scientic conferences
and symposia; Writing of reports, practical guides and
scientic publications; Accompanying university stu-
dents in their nal studies (bachelor, master, doctorate,
postdoc) in the framework of the Museum's projects;
Organisation of and contribution to exhibitions at the
Museum; Organisation of and participation in the Mu-seum's awareness-raising and popularisation activities.
Prole Technical skills
Excellent project management skills in the eld of ecol-
ogy and biodiversity research at national and interna-
tional level; Excellent knowledge of native species and
habitats, including methods of species recording in the
eld, with a focus on species ecology and habitat man-
agement, in relation to maintaining species populations
and target habitats; Good knowledge of invasive alien
species; Good knowledge of statistical data analysis, GIS
and the use of the Recorder-Lux database; Prociency
in writing scientic reports and publications; Very good
writing and speaking skills; Experience in managing
working groups and in supervising nal year university
projects (master, bachelor, doctorate) and postdocs; Ex-
perience in acquiring external funding; Knowledge of
national and European legislation and regulations in
the eld of nature protection; Good oral and written
knowledge of one of the three administrative languages
of the country and of English.
Assets
Possession of a PhD in natural sciences (ecology, bi-
ology, environmental sciences); Additional experience
in a museum context in the elds of: collections, en-
vironmental education, scientic communication and
popularisation, exhibitions, etc; Basic knowledge of the
other two administrative languages; Good knowledge of
oce tools (Word, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Skype,
Zoom, InDesign); Mastery of the management of a CMS
such as Wordpress.
\Alain.FRANTZ@mnhn.lu"
<Alain.FRANTZ@mnhn.lu >54 EvolDir May 1, 2022
NorthEasternU
TeachingBioinformatics
Job: Assistant/Assoc Teaching Professor of Bioinfor-
matics at Northeastern
Review of applications begins on April 15
About the Opportunity
The successful applicant will have the knowledge to de-
velop and teach Bioinformatics courses at the Master's
level. The person in this position reports to the Director
of the Biotechnology and Bioinformatics Programs.
Responsibilities:
Assistant /Associate Teaching Professor is sought to
teach full time in the College of Science Bioinformatics
Professional Science Master's (PSM) Program. This po-
sition is located at the Northeastern University Boston
Campus. The Bioinformatics PSM degree program is
designed to allow students to pursue advanced training
and excel in bioscience while simultaneously developing
highly valued business.
The Assistant/Associate Teaching Professor will teach
six (6) courses per academic year in the Bioinformatics
Program. This role will work on growing the enrollment
in the Department's Professional Master's program in
Bioinformatics, and work with the Program Director
and the Dean's Oce to expand the range of concen-
trations oered. Teaching responsibilities are subject to
modication based on the program's needs and at the
Director of Bioinformatics Programs' discretion based
upon time commitment of the service requirement. This
unique position seeks to integrate professional prac-
tice into the classroom, specically with respect to the
Bioinformatics and Data Science market in Biotech and
Pharma.
Teaching responsibilities include the following: review
and learning of key teaching points within existing
instructor guides, and a willingness to support high-
quality teaching and standards through preparation of
lectures based on course materials provided; eective
facilitation of rich, respectful debates and discussions in
an in-person or online class; timely review and grading
of assignments with appropriate coaching and feedback
to the students; consistent connection with students and
their performance; adherence to Northeastern's policies.
Qualications:Candidate must have a Ph.D. in Biotechnology, Bioinfor-
matics, Cellular Biology, or related eld by the appoint-
ment start date, and commitment to teaching excellence
at the university level. Candidates with expertise in
Genetics or Evolution with considerable bioinformatics
experience are welcome to apply. Candidate should
possess relevant programming languages as well as a
thorough understanding of leading computational ap-
proaches to bioinformatics. Position requires excellent
communication skills and the ability to work produc-
tively and successfully interact with students, faculty,
sta, and industry partners. Demonstrated industrial
experience in the biotechnology industry desirable, but
not required.
Diversity at Northeastern:
Northeastern University is an equal opportunity em-
ployer, seeking to recruit and support a broadly diverse
community of faculty and sta. Northeastern values
and celebrates diversity in all its forms and strives to
foster an inclusive culture built on respect that arms
inter-group relations and builds cohesion.
All qualied applicants are encouraged to apply and will
receive consideration for employment without regard
to race, religion, color, national origin, age, sex, sexual
orientation, disability status, or any other characteristic
protected by applicable law.
To learn more about Northeastern University's commit-
ment and support of diversity and inclusion, please see
www.northeastern.edu/diversity . Apply Here:
https://northeastern.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
en-US/careers/job/Assistant-Associate-Teaching-
Professor{Bioinformatics R103927 Review of applica-
tions begins on April 15
For more information contact Kevin Broadbelt: https:/-
/cos.northeastern.edu/people/kevin-broadbelt/
\Lotterhos, Katie" <k.lotterhos@northeastern.edu >
PennsylvaniaStateU
SymbiosisEvolutionMicrobiome
Several Positions on Reproductive Symbiosis, Gut Mi-
crobiome, and Evolution
A lab manager, postdoc, or research professor posi-
tion is available to work on the evolutionary genetics
of animal-bacteria-phage symbioses and animal micro-
biomes/viromes in the lab of Seth and Sarah BordensteinMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 55
at Penn State University in University Park, PA. Key
focal areas include functional genetics of selsh repro-
ductive symbioses in insects, computational analyses of
microbiome/virome variation across humans, and the
microbiology of host speciation.
Current Lab Research Directions:
- Genetics and mechanisms of the competition between
Wolbachia endosymbionts, bacteriophage, and host sex-
ual reproduction using transgenics, cell biology, repro-
ductive biology, microscopy, and multi-omics
- Patterns and causes of human microbiome and virome
variation using multi-omic data, statistical tests, epi-
demiology, social sciences, machine learning, and wet
lab experiments
- Functional genetics of bacteriophage lysis in animal en-
dosymbionts using protein purications, enzyme assays,
cell culture, and transgenics
- Microbiome-assisted speciation of hosts and phylosym-
biosis
Additional Information:
The full position description and application link with
relevant papers are here: https://jobrxiv.org/job/-
pennsylvania-state-university-microbiome-center-huck-
institutes-of-the-life-sciences-departments-of-biology-
and-entomology-27778-research-positions-on-symbiosis-
and-the-microbiome-sciences/ The Bordenstein lab
(https://lab.vanderbilt.edu/bordenstein/) is moving to
Pennsylvania State University at University Park in
the summer of '22 to direct the Microbiome Center in
the Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences and join the
Departments of Biology and Entomology in the Eberly
College of Science and College of Agricultural Sciences.
Pennsylvania State University is an innovative hub
of life science research with 16 National Academy of
Science members, 24 campuses, numerous outdoor
adventures, a thriving life sciences enterprise with
centers and institutes, and 18 disciplines ranked in the
top ten nationally for research expenditures.
Applications:
If interested, please email inquiries to
s.bordenstein@psu.edu in a single pdf with (i) a
cover letter that summarizes start date and the relevant
experience / specic reasons for interest in the research
position; (ii) a CV that includes contact information
for three+ references (name, position, mailing address,
telephone number, and e-mail address); and (iii) 1st
authored publications, posters, and lectures.
s.bordenstein@psu.eduPurdueU GenomicsLabManager
Genomics Laboratory Manager
Job Summary
The Genomics Laboratory Manager will provide man-
agement, oversight, supervision, and maintenance of
research labs in Department of Forestry and Natural
Resources on the Purdue University campus, including
genomics lab (PFEN 141), tree physiology lab (PFEN
158), and forest ecology, silviculture & soils lab (PFEN
G041). In this role, you will be responsible for oversight
of all activities taking place in afore mentioned labs.
Additional duties will include:
Curate collections of biological samples (e.g., animal tis-
sue, seeds, etc.) and the raw, unpublished research data
produced by students or visiting scientists (e.g., DNA
sequence, GIS, phenology, etc.) in a logical, eective,
and accessible manner
Train students and visiting scientists how to use/search
the databases and nd biological samples in the freezers
Assist with bioinformatic analyses of nucleotide sequence
data using R or other platforms
Ensure proper maintenance and coordinated use of lab-
oratory equipment
Maintain inventories and order supplies
Train and oversee departmental personnel, students and
visiting scientists in proper and safe methods, techniques
and procedures for use of specic research equipment
Maintain compliance with relevant federal, state and
university safety regulations for the laboratories and
relevant animal use regulations for departmental animal
care facilities
Ensures quality control within labs
Prepare and maintain common use chemicals and bio-
logicals
Monitor freezers and respond/react to failures in a
timely fashion
Coordinate personnel activity, manage projects, assist
with and conduct specic research projects
Help design experiments and research
Participate in the development and implementation of
policies along with faculty directors of the labs56 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Perform other organizational and administrative duties
as assigned
Required: Bachelor's degree in wildlife, sheries,
forestry, biology, chemistry, biochemistry, molecular
biology, or related eld 2 years of general laboratory
experience (or MS degree plus one year of experience) Im-
mersive research experience Strong organizational and
communication skills Skills with equipment and proto-
cols used in chemical and molecular analyses Ability to
diagnose/troubleshoot equipment failures Knowledge of
purchasing procedures knowledge of BSL-2 safety proce-
dures and associated work Knowledge of relevant safety
procedures Computer skills (e.g., MS Oce, R and other
statistical analyses, etc.) Basic skills in pipeline analyses
of genomic and transcriptomic sequence data
Preferred: Experience with supervision of technical per-
sonnel Experience with various computational platforms
(e.g., Mac, PC, Unix, etc.)
Additional Information: Purdue will not sponsor an
employment related visa for this position A background
check will be required for employment in this position
FLSA: Exempt (Not Eligible For Overtime) Retirement
Eligibility: Dened Contributions Waiting Period Pur-
due University is an EOE/AA employer. All individuals,
including minorities, women, individuals with disabili-
ties, and veterans are encouraged to apply
Prof. Andrew DeWoody Depts. of Forestry & Natural
Resources and Biological Sciences Purdue University
West Lafayette, IN, USA dewoody@purdue.edu 765-491-
6109
RBG Kew ResLeader
FungalEvolution
Research Leader - Comparative Fungal Biology
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/research-leader-
comparative-fungal-biology-481146.html The Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew (RBG Kew) is a leading plant
science institute, UNESCO World Heritage Site, and
major visitor attraction. Our mission is to understand
and protect plants and fungi for the well-being of people
and the future of all life on Earth. We are working to
end the unprecedented extinction crisis and to help
create a world where nature is protected, valued by all
and managed sustainably. We will achieve these goals
by drawing on our leading scientic research, unrivalled
collections of plants and fungi, global network ofpartners, inspirational gardens at Kew and Wakehurst,
and our 260 years of history. Join us on our journey as
protectors of the world's plants and fungi.
Reporting to the Senior Research Leader in Comparative
Fungal Biology, you will be an outstanding and inspir-
ing scientist with a relevant PhD and post-qualication
experience in fungal biology and evolution, comparative
genomics, metagenomics, and/or phylogenomics. You
will be responsible for leading your own research group,
providing day- to-day supervision for post-docs, PhD
students, Future Leader Fellows, and integrating the
team's activities broadly throughout Kew Science.
We are looking for someone with innovative ideas seek-
ing to develop their career as an independent researcher,
leader and mentor, with interest for teaching and out-
reach. We want you to have a collaborative outlook to
support and enhance Kew's mycological research, work-
ing with all relevant stakeholders across Kew Science,
and to engage with the broader strategic landscape of
Kew as a whole.
Please upload a research plan with your application
form.
The salary will be 38,200 per annum.
This role is based at Kew with the option of regular
home working, subject to operational requirements.
Our fantastic benets package includes opportunities for
continuous learning, a generous annual leave entitlement,
exible working to help you maintain a healthy work-life
balance, an Employee Assistance Programme and other
wellbeing support such as cycle to work scheme and dis-
counted gym membership. We also oer a competitive
pension, an employee discount scheme and free entry
into a wide range of national museums and galleries, as
well access to our own beautiful gardens at Kew and
Wakehurst.
If you are interested in this position, please submit your
application through the online portal:
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/research-leader-
comparative-fungal-biology-481146.html We are
committed to equality of opportunity and welcome
applications from all sections of the community. We
guarantee to interview all disabled applicants who meet
the essential criteria for the post.
Dr. Ester Gaya Senior Research Leader jComparative
Fungal Biology Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond,
Surrey, TW9 3DS, UK Tel.:+44(0)208 332 5381 Email:
e.gaya@kew.org
Ester Gaya <ester.gaya@gmail.com >May 1, 2022 EvolDir 57
RBG Kew ResLeader
FungalEvolution DeadlineExtended
Research Leader - Comparative Fungal Biology
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/research-leader-
comparative-fungal-biology-481146.html The Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew (RBG Kew) is a leading plant
science institute, UNESCO World Heritage Site, and
major visitor attraction. Our mission is to understand
and protect plants and fungi for the well-being of people
and the future of all life on Earth. We are working to
end the unprecedented extinction crisis and to help
create a world where nature is protected, valued by all
and managed sustainably. We will achieve these goals
by drawing on our leading scientic research, unrivalled
collections of plants and fungi, global network of
partners, inspirational gardens at Kew and Wakehurst,
and our 260 years of history. Join us on our journey as
protectors of the world's plants and fungi.
Reporting to the Senior Research Leader in Comparative
Fungal Biology, you will be an outstanding and inspir-
ing scientist with a relevant PhD and post-qualication
experience in fungal biology and evolution, comparative
genomics, metagenomics, and/or phylogenomics. You
will be responsible for leading your own research group,
providing day- to-day supervision for post-docs, PhD
students, Future Leader Fellows, and integrating the
team's activities broadly throughout Kew Science.
We are looking for someone with innovative ideas seek-
ing to develop their career as an independent researcher,
leader and mentor, with interest for teaching and out-
reach. We want you to have a collaborative outlook to
support and enhance Kew's mycological research, work-
ing with all relevant stakeholders across Kew Science,
and to engage with the broader strategic landscape of
Kew as a whole.
Please upload a research plan with your application
form.
The salary will be 38,200 per annum.
This role is based at Kew with the option of regular
home working, subject to operational requirements.
Our fantastic benets package includes opportunities for
continuous learning, a generous annual leave entitlement,
exible working to help you maintain a healthy work-life
balance, an Employee Assistance Programme and otherwellbeing support such as cycle to work scheme and dis-
counted gym membership. We also oer a competitive
pension, an employee discount scheme and free entry
into a wide range of national museums and galleries, as
well access to our own beautiful gardens at Kew and
Wakehurst.
If you are interested in this position, please submit your
application through the online portal:
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/research-leader-
comparative-fungal-biology-481146.html We are
committed to equality of opportunity and welcome
applications from all sections of the community. We
guarantee to interview all disabled applicants who meet
the essential criteria for the post.
Dr. Ester Gaya Senior Research Leader jComparative
Fungal Biology Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond,
Surrey, TW9 3DS, UK Tel.:+44(0)208 332 5381 Email:
e.gaya@kew.org
Ester Gaya <ester.gaya@gmail.com >
RBG Kew ResLeader
PlantEvolution
Research Leader - Comparative Fungal Biology
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/research-leader-
comparative-fungal-biology-481146.html The Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew (RBG Kew) is a leading plant
science institute, UNESCO World Heritage Site, and
major visitor attraction. Our mission is to understand
and protect plants and fungi for the well-being of people
and the future of all life on Earth. We are working to
end the unprecedented extinction crisis and to help
create a world where nature is protected, valued by all
and managed sustainably. We will achieve these goals
by drawing on our leading scientic research, unrivalled
collections of plants and fungi, global network of
partners, inspirational gardens at Kew and Wakehurst,
and our 260 years of history. Join us on our journey as
protectors of the world's plants and fungi.
Reporting to the Senior Research Leader in Comparative
Fungal Biology, you will be an outstanding and inspir-
ing scientist with a relevant PhD and post-qualication
experience in fungal biology and evolution, comparative
genomics, metagenomics, and/or phylogenomics. You
will be responsible for leading your own research group,
providing day- to-day supervision for post-docs, PhD
students, Future Leader Fellows, and integrating the58 EvolDir May 1, 2022
team's activities broadly throughout Kew Science.
We are looking for someone with innovative ideas seek-
ing to develop their career as an independent researcher,
leader and mentor, with interest for teaching and out-
reach. We want you to have a collaborative outlook to
support and enhance Kew's mycological research, work-
ing with all relevant stakeholders across Kew Science,
and to engage with the broader strategic landscape of
Kew as a whole.
Please upload a research plan with your application
form.
The salary will be 38,200 per annum.
This role is based at Kew with the option of regular
home working, subject to operational requirements.
Our fantastic benets package includes opportunities for
continuous learning, a generous annual leave entitlement,
exible working to help you maintain a healthy work-life
balance, an Employee Assistance Programme and other
wellbeing support such as cycle to work scheme and dis-
counted gym membership. We also oer a competitive
pension, an employee discount scheme and free entry
into a wide range of national museums and galleries, as
well access to our own beautiful gardens at Kew and
Wakehurst.
If you are interested in this position, please submit your
application through the online portal:
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/research-leader-
comparative-fungal-biology-481146.html We are
committed to equality of opportunity and welcome
applications from all sections of the community. We
guarantee to interview all disabled applicants who meet
the essential criteria for the post.
Dr. Ester Gaya Senior Research Leader jComparative
Fungal Biology Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond,
Surrey, TW9 3DS, UK Tel.:+44(0)208 332 5381 Email:
e.gaya@kew.org
Ester Gaya <ester.gaya@gmail.com >
RZSS EdinburghZoo
ConservationGeneticsBiobank
RZSS WildGenes Biobank Coordinator
Location: Royal Zoological Society of Scotland - Edin-
burgh Zoo
About UsThe charity that owns both RZSS Edinburgh Zoo and
RZSS Highland Wildlife Park are looking for committed,
compassionate and conservation-minded individuals to
join our expert sta team. RZSS aims to connect people
with nature and safeguard species from extinction, a
mission that sees us work both here in Scotland and in
over 20 countries around the world. From inspiring the
next generation about wildlife in our parks to protecting
chimpanzees in the Ugandan rainforest; looking after
some of the worlds most endangered species to saving
the Scottish wildcat, RZSS is making a huge dierence
and we need your help to continue to grow.
The role
The Royal Zoological Society of Scotlands WildGenes
team are looking for a Biobank Coordinator. Based at
Edinburgh Zoo, the post will involve the archiving of
genetic material for the long-term preservation of DNA
from animals in zoo collections, processing donations
and loans from zoos in the UK, and providing samples
to conservation researchers across Europe. Our biobank
is one of the four biobank hubs within the European As-
sociation of Zoos and Aquaria network as well as being a
member of the Cryoarks initiative (www.cryoarks.org), a
UK based partnership that is standardising approaches
to biobanking within the university, zoo and museum
sectors. A key part of the role will be supporting the
management of these existing partnerships as well as the
day-to-day running of the facility so we can safeguard
genetic samples for the benet of conservation research
both now and into the future. It is a part-time 3-year
xed term role working 22.5 hours per week.
Who we are looking for
The successful candidate will hold a BSc in a relevant
scientic discipline plus job experience in a relevant role.
Ideally, they will have knowledge of standard molecu-
lar genetic laboratory techniques and the preservation
of DNA as well as excellent communication skills for
working with project partners including those in the
university, zoo and museum sectors.
Salary
The position sits within Band C ( 21,747 - 24,923 Per
Annum for FT equivalent position)
Interested?
For full information on how to apply, please visit the
RZSS vacancy page and follow the instructions: http:/-
/www.rzss.org.uk/job-vacancies/ Closing date: Sunday
1st May 2022
Invitation to interview will be by email/phone during
the 3rd week of May 2022.
For any questions and queries, please email Dr Alex BallMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 59
at aball@rzss.org.uk quoting Biobank Coordinator as
the subject.
Our mission is to connect people with nature and safe-
guard species from extinction.
The RZSS strives to be an equal opportunities employer.
Registered Charity SC00406
Alexander Ball <aball@rzss.org.uk >
Senckenberg Bioinformatician
For over 200 years the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung represents one of the most relevant insti-
tutions investigating nature and its diversity. Currently,
scientists from more than 40 countries conduct research
in the elds of biodiversity, earth system analysis and
climate change in seven Senckenberg Institutes across
Germany.
Following its mission to analyse and document biodiver-
sity in earth system dynamics - to serve science and soci-
ety, Senckenberg fosters curiosity-driven and application-
oriented research. In Senckenberg at Frankfurt we seek
to ll the position of a
Bioinformatician (m/f/d)
(full time)
This position is funded by a ve-year project designed
to combine cutting edge technology for studying both
the anatomical and genomic basis for evolutionary nov-
elties in molluscs, and test whether genomic novelties
are more strongly associated with armour and shell mor-
phology or rather physiological adaptations that allow
the invasion of new niche spaces.
Your job would be to provide bioinformatics capacity es-
pecially in de novo genome assemblies of mollusc species.
Your tasks:
Genome assembly and annotation of mollusc species
that are sequenced via the LOEWE TBG and external
partners using state-of-the-art sequencing technologies
and compute infrastructureSupport other members of
the research group working on morphological features to
identify specic research questionsPerform independent
research in collaboration with other members of the
research group, the LOEWE-TBG, Senckenberg Ocean
Species Alliance, and external collaborators on mollus-
can genomicsPerform comparative analyses of resulting
genomes including for phylogenomicsYour prole:
Master degree or equivalent training and experience in
bioinformatics / computational biology, genomics or a
related area; a PhD degree in these elds is an advantage
but not strictly requiredExperience with shell scripting
and Unix toolsPrevious experience in genomics, genome
assembly and/or annotation using non-model organisms,
preferably molluscsFamiliarity with measures of genome
assembly data quality and completeness, troubleshoot-
ing, screening data for contaminationGenuine curiosity
and interest in nature, the oceans and their inhabitants,
and especially molluscs What can you expect?
An interesting and challenging task in a dynamic and
stimulating team of researchers, technicians and commu-
nicatorsExcellent benets and work-life balance: Flexi-
ble working hours - dual career service - leave of absence
due to family reasons - parent-child-oce - annual spe-
cial payment - company pension scheme - Senckenberg
badge for free entry in museums in Frankfurt - leave of
30 days/ year
Senckenberg supports equal opportunity for men and
women and places an emphasis on fostering career op-
portunities for women and under-represented groups.
Qualied women and other under-represented groups
are strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualied
applicants with disabilities will be given preference.
Senckenberg is a globally connected institute. The work-
ing language within this project is English. Frankfurt is
a vibrant, international, culturally diverse city and one
of the world's travel hubs. We welcome candidates from
all nations and will provide support with your relocation
process.
Location: Frankfurt am Main
Volume of employment: 100 % full-time position (40
weekly working hours)
Type of contract: Employment shall start as soon as
possible and will be limited for a two-year contract
Would you like to apply?
Please submit two documents as email attachments:
download and complete the information form for this
position from http://sosa.senckenberg.de. This form
will be considered anonymously and will be used for
the initial short-listing processa single pdf including a
cover letter and your CV (not anonymous), including
names and contact details of three professional refer-
ences. The one-page cover letter should address your
t to the advertised position as described above. Use
the code created for the form for \blind review" also
in the cover letter and in the le namePlease submit
two les (see above), mentioning the reference of this60 EvolDir May 1, 2022
job oer ( #01-22014) until 11 May 2022 by e-mail to:
recruiting@senckenberg.de.
For more information, please contact Prof. Dr Julia
Sigwart (julia.sigwart@senckenberg.de).
Mit freundlichen Gr uen / Yours sincerely
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.
Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a  c 22 BGB)
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-21, 60325 Frankfurt
am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1319 Elsen, Carina
Team Personalbeschaung (Recruiting)
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
- 1564 di-Biase, Maria
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
StanfordU LifeSciTech
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Petrov lab in the Department of Biology at Stanford
University, (http://petrov.stanford.edu/) has a position
for a full-time research assistant at the Life Science Tech-
nician I level with interests in genomics, evolutionary,
or molecular biology.
The main responsibilities of the successful candidate
will be performing high-throughput DNA extractions
and library preparation for next-generation sequencing.
These duties will largely be carried out using existing
protocols, though protocol optimization and use of newlab equipment is expected. One year or more full-time
lab experience and experience with handling samples
in high throughput formats (plate-based) is preferred.
Please include your CV with GPA and a cover letter
with a description of your research interests and career
goals.
The full position description and application link
are here: https://careersearch.stanford.edu/jobs/-
life-science-technician-1-16488?et=1INEfr2p3 Life
Science Technician 1 in School of Humanities and
Sciences, Stanford, California, United States <https:/-
/careersearch.stanford.edu/jobs/life-science-technician-
1-16488?et=1INEfr2p3 >This position is represented
by SEIU Local 2007 and the collective bargaining
agreement between the university and SEIU Local 2007
governs the terms..... careersearch.stanford.edu Tuya
Yokoyama
Tuya Yokoyama <osmo3@stanford.edu >
TrinityU TeachingEvolBehavior
One year lecturer- Animal Behavior, Trinity Uni-
versity https://www.trinity.edu/human-resources/-
employment-opportunities/faculty/38526 https:/-
/www.trinity.edu/human-resources/employment-
opportunities/faculty/38526
UAberdeen FieldWork
ClimateAdaptation
Paid summer entomological eld work in Norway and
Finland The Lancaster Lab within the University of Ab-
erdeen School of Biological Sciences (Aberdeen UK) is
looking for a short-term research technician (3 months)
to join our team to investigate ecological and evolution-
ary processes associated with range shifts caused by
climate change. As climates are warming, many species,
and particularly insects, are moving to higher latitudes
that have become newly suitable. To better understand
this process, our team will be travelling to Norway and
Finland in summer 2022 to conduct latitudinal sampling
transects of the rapidly-range expanding insect species,
the blue-tailed damsely (Ischnura elegans). FieldworkMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 61
will be conducted by a postdoctoral research associate
and 1-2 research technicians (this post). The job re-
quires eld sampling (capturing damselies by net), and
taking eld data and samples to a high quality and
precision.
Good identication skills are a plus, as is the ability to
occasionally work long hours in the eld under various
weather conditions. Previous eldwork experience a
plus. Job open to UK and EU applicants.
Salary will be approx.  >1
220,000 pa with placement ac-
cording to qualications and experience; travel expenses
will further be covered.
We aim to have someone in post by May 20, 2022, and
the rst review of applications will be April 15, 2022.
Please send informal enquiries or CV and cover letter
to Lesley Lancaster, e-mail:lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk
Lesley Lancaster <lesleytherese@gmail.com >
UAmsterdam EvolutionaryEcology
At the Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dy-
namics (IBED), University of Amsterdam, we seek to
appoint an early career assistant professor for a tenure
track in the area of Evolutionary Ecology in rapidly
changing environments.
At IBED, we investigate how species relationships de-
termine the structure and stability of biological com-
munities, and how the integrity of these communities is
inuenced or compromised by processes such as species
extinction, the introduction of non-native invaders, and
the growth of harmful species. Within EPB, our re-
search comprises fundamental and applied investigations
at the level of individual variation, population genetics
and community dynamics, to understand the process
of speciation, the evolution of resistance, the evolution
of endangered and invasive species, and evolution in
the face of climate change. Specically, we are working
on evolutionary questions related to plant communities,
plant-herbivore, herbivore-herbivore, predator-herbivore
and host-pathogen interactions, both within and be-
tween species.
We are looking for candidates that can complement the
research program of the department of Evolutionary
and Population Biology (EPB, seehttps://ibed.uva.nl/-
content/research-departments/epb/epb.html) at IBED,
that covers a broad range of topics related to theeco-evolutionary dynamics of species interactions in
challenging environments.The ideal candidate will also
strengthen collaborations between existing research lines
within EPB as well as within IBED, and link funda-
mental research on evolutionary ecology with applied
areas such as (urban) planning, nature conservation or
pest management and values public engagement and
outreach.
As for education, the EPB Department is involved in the
educational programs of the BSc-programs (i) Biology
and (ii) Future Planet Studies, and the MSc-programs (i)
Ecology and Evolution and (ii) Future Planet Ecosystem
Science, and teaches courses in the elds of behavioral
and physiological biology, (eld) ecology, neurobiology
and evolutionary biology, among others.
More specic information on the job prole, salary
and qualication requirements can be found in this
link: https://vacatures.uva.nl/UvA/job/Tenure-
Track-Assistant-Professor-in-Evolutionary-Ecology-
in-Rapidly-Changing-Environments/746023102/ .If
you have more questions about this vacancy, you can
contact Astrid T. Groot, Head of the Department
of Evolutionary and Population Biology (EPB),
a.t.groot@uva.nl.
Do you recognize yourself in the job prole? Then we
look forward to receiving your application by 20 May
2022.Please note that applications can only be done
online through the link above. The University of Ams-
terdam is actively promoting to increase diversity and
inclusion at the faculty level. Even though this position
is open to all early-career scientists in the eld of evo-
lutionary ecology, we especially encourage early-career
scientists from underrepresented minorities to apply,
and in case of equal suitability priority will be given to
these scientists.
Prof. dr. Astrid T. Groot Department head Evolu-
tionary and Population Biology (EPB) Institute for
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics (IBED) Univer-
sity of Amsterdam Visiting address: Science Park 904,
1098 XH Amsterdam Postal address: P.O. Box 94240,
1090 GE Amsterdam Room nr. C3.210 +31 20 525 5400
a.t.groot@uva.nl Personal website Department website
Astrid Groot <a.t.groot@uva.nl >62 EvolDir May 1, 2022
UBirmingham Bioinformatics
University of Birmingham UK - Data Analyst in
Bioinformatics and Biostatistics - School of Biosciences
- 99486 https://bham.taleo.net/careersection/-
external/jobdetail.ftl?job=220000PH&tz=-
GMT%2B01%3A00&tzname=Europe%2FLondon
Background
To undertake data analysis of multi-omics datasets gen-
erated by the Environmental Genomics Group within
the research elds of environmental change, evolution
and ecotoxicology.
Summary of Role
Analyse data generated with high throughput sequenc-
ing technologies within specied research grants and
contribute to writing research outputs Analyse and in-
terpret research ndings and results with the support
of a project leader Contribute to undergraduate and
postgraduate student supervision Support research in
the group through expert analytical support
Main Duties/Responsibilities
Carry out bioinformatics data analysis on transcrip-
tomics, genomics, methylomics and ATAC Seq data
generated from experimental exposures Develop appro-
priate pipelines or skilfully use existing pipelines for
multi-omics data analysis Analyse and interpret data,
applying biostatistics on high throughput multi-omics
posters Contribute to satellite projects in the eld of eco-
toxicology, metagenomics and metabarcodingSupport
the work and development of PhD students in research
related work Provide guidance, as required, to support
sta and any students who may be assisting with the
research Develop research objectives and proposals for
own or joint research, with assistance of a mentor if
required Apply knowledge in a way that develops new
intellectual understanding Present research outputs, in-
cluding drafting academic publications or parts thereof,
for example at seminars and as posters Contribute to
public engagement activities of benet to the College
and the University, often under supervision of a project
leader Undertake management/administration arising
from research Deal with problems that may aect the
achievement of research objectives and deadlines Decide
in consultation with the principal investigator as appro-
priate, on the most appropriate way of undertaking the
specied research activities Decide in consultation withthe principal investigator as appropriate how to anal-
yse and interpret the data from the specied research
activities Decide in consultation with the principal inves-
tigator as appropriate what knowledge to draw on and
how to apply it to develop new intellectual understand-
ing Promotes equality and values diversity acting as a
role model and fostering an inclusive working culture
Person Specication
PhD-degree or near completion in bioinformatics, com-
putational biology or biology with demonstrated com-
putation skills. Alternatively a Master in one of
the elds mentioned is acceptable if accompanied by
a demonstrated hands-on experience of at least 3
years.Demonstrated skills in biostatistics Literacy in
machine learning is preferred A short postdoctoral expe-
rience is preferred but not required Analytical capability
Ability to identify analytical tools most suitable to the
re searchability to communicate complex information
clearly Ability to work both independently and as a
tameability to assess resource requirements and use
resources eectively Understanding of and ability to
contribute to broader management/administration pro-
cesses Contribute to the planning and organising of the
research programme and/or specic research project
Knowledge of the protected characteristics of the Equal-
ity Act 2010, and how to actively ensure in day today
activity in own area that those with protected charac-
teristics are treated equally and fairly
Informal enquires to Dr Luisa Orsini,
email:l.orsini@bham.ac.uk
Luisa Orsini <l.orsini@bham.ac.uk >
UCalifornia Berkeley LabManager
PupshCichlidEvolution
The Martin Fish Speciation Lab seeks an enthusiastic
and detail-oriented part-time laboratory manager for
research on the rapid evolution and ecological diversi-
cation of new sh species. Primary responsibilities
will involve caring for laboratory pupsh and cichlid
colonies, molecular genetics, behavioral data collection,
and specimen curation in the Museum of Vertebrate
Zoology. Tasks include daily feeding and maintenance
of the sh colonies, maintenance of recirculating aquatic
systems, DNA extractions and genomic library prepara-
tion, curation and dissection of preserved sh specimens,
behavioral observations, and training undergraduate re-
searchers. Interest in ichthyology, evolution, genomics,May 1, 2022 EvolDir 63
and ecology is highly desirable. This position would
be excellent preparation for graduate school and there
will be opportunities to pursue independent research
interests.
Pupshes present a rare opportunity to investigate the
recent origins of a spectacular adaptive radiation and
the evolution of novel niches (e.g. scale-eating) local-
ized to a single Bahamian island despite thousands of
similar Caribbean environments. Our lab also investi-
gates Cameroon crater lake cichlids, one of the most
celebrated examples of sympatric speciation in nature,
and the role of gene ow in their diversication.
Education and Experience Required:
We are seeking applicants with strong attention to de-
tail who are thorough, well-organized, and able to work
collaboratively with other researchers. Preferred quali-
cations include a B.S. or B.A. in Biology (or related
eld) and either some molecular training or experience
with animal care. However, no previous research experi-
ence is necessary; on-the-job training will be provided
for all tasks. The successful applicant will enjoy caring
for animals in a low-stress and exible work environ-
ment. Those with a passion for aquarium shkeeping
and possible interest in applying to graduate school
are strongly encouraged to apply. For more informa-
tion on our research, please check out our website <
http://ib.berkeley.edu/labs/martin/ >. Salary:
This will initially be an hourly position with the possibil-
ity for a permanent sta position after one year. Salary
is$20 per hour plus benets. Work schedule is exible
and includes some weekend sh care responsibilities, but
is expected to be approximately 20 hours per week.
Start Date: Late spring or summer 2022 (or sooner if
desired). This position is for one year with the potential
for a permanent sta position after one year.
To apply, please email Chris Martin
(chmartin@berkeley.edu) within the next two weeks
with your resume/CV, GPA, and describe why you are
interested in this position, career goals, and any past
research or animal care experience.
The position is listed here: https:/-
/careerspub.universityofcalifornia.edu/-
psp/ucb/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/-
HRS HRAM.HRS APP SCHJOB.GBL?Page=-
HRS APP JBPST&Action=U&FOCUS=-
Applicant&SiteId=21&JobOpeningId=-
33668&PostingSeq=1 However, please reach out
to me directly before applying through the portal.
Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis starting
next week.Christopher Martin Assistant Curator of Ichthyology,
Museum of Vertebrate Zoology Assistant Professor, De-
partment of Integrative Biology University of California,
Berkeley http://ib.berkeley.edu/labs/martin/ @shspe-
ciation
chmartin@berkeley.edu
UCalifornia Irvine LabTechManager
Genomics
The Lee lab in the Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology at the University of California, Irvine invites
applications for an Assistant specialist (technician/lab
manager). Our group studies how the widespread ge-
netic parasites, transposable elements, inuence genome
function and evolution through epigenetic mechanisms.
Toward this end, we combine functional genomics, com-
putational biology, experimental genetics, and evolution-
ary biology.
Our lab is part of the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology (https://ecoevo.bio.uci.edu/-
), the Center for Evolutionary Genetics (https://-
evogen.bio.uci.edu/), and Center for Complex Biologi-
cal Systems (https://ccbs.uci.edu/). More information
about our research interests can be found at http://-
grylee.science/ Requirements for the position include:
- a B.S. in Biology or related degree - at least one-
year independent experience with standard molecular
biology techniques (e.g., DNA/RNA extractions, PCR,
qPCR) in a research laboratory setting - experience
and demonstrated ability to execute complex protocols
(e.g., Next-generation sequencing library preparation) -
attentive to details and strong organizing skills - strong
communication skills - can work independently as well
as collaboratively - be comfortable working with fruit
ies
Preferences will be given to candidates with experience
with functional genomics or Drosophila genetics.
Responsibilities of the position include - execute and
optimize molecular biology experiments for genomics
studies - maintain Drosophila culture and make genetic
crosses - maintain laboratory equipment and inventory
(including ordering supplies) - assist projects of other
members of the lab when necessary
The initial appointment is for one year with potential
extension and/or renewal based on work performance
and availability of funding support.64 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Qualied candidates should submit curriculum vitae
along with the names and contact information of three
references to the following recruitment URL: https://-
recruit.ap.uci.edu/JPF07080 Please contact Grace Lee
(grylee@uci.edu) for any questions. Informal inquiries
are welcome.
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Armative Action Employer advancing inclusive
excellence. All qualied applicants will receive consid-
eration for employment without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, na-
tional origin, disability, age, protected veteran status,
or other protected categories covered by the UC nondis-
crimination policy.
Grace Yuh Chwen Lee <grylee@uci.edu >
UCalifornia LosAngeles LabTech
ConservationGenomics
The California Conservation Genomics Project is hiring
a lab assistant in the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology at the University of California, Los
Angeles.
For more information and to apply, please visit https://-
hr.mycareer.ucla.edu and search for Requisition # 36047
Description: The Conservation Genomics Lab Tech-
nician will primarily support the laboratory research
requirements of the CCGP, a state-wide initiative that
seeks to assemble a large multispecies genomic data set
for California's wild taxa. The incumbent is to assist in
the processing of tissues and DNA extracts and generate
genomic libraries for next-generation sequencing in a
high-throughput research setting. In addition, in collab-
oration with the Associate Director, the incumbent is to
troubleshoot to ensure the project progresses. Previous
experience in a molecular biology laboratory is essential.
Incumbent is to help with similar research tasks support-
ing related projects. Incumbent is responsible for some
general lab management, including equipment mainte-
nance and supply stock ordering. To learn more about
the CCGP, please visit https://www.ccgproject.org .
Skills:
1. Demonstrated experience in basic molecular biology
benchwork.
2. Experience in DNA isolation and quantitation.
3. Experience in PCR and whole-genome library prep.4. Experience working with non-model organisms.
5. Competence in common computer programs (e.g., Mi-
crosoft Oce, or other word processing and spreadsheet
programs).
6. Experience with development and/or use of relational
databases.
7. Demonstrated excellence in organization, attention
to detail, and keeping thorough and up-to-date records.
8. Ability to manage several tasks, keeping all on track
and organized.
9. Ability to maintain cooperative working relationships
in the laboratory.
10. Eective communication skills (verbal and written).
11. Ability to follow and enforce laboratory safety guide-
lines.
Erin Toelmier <eto@ucla.edu >
UColorado Boulder
InvertZoologyCollectionsManager
The University of Colorado Boulder Museum of Natural
History invites applications for an Invertebrate Zoology
Collections Manager position! We seek an individual
with interests in non-insect invertebrates to guide the
continued growth and management of the physical col-
lections and associated resources including archives and
paper records, databases, images, and genomic resources.
The collections manager will work with the Curator of
Invertebrate Zoology to develop policy and procedures,
grow the collection, write grant proposals, participate
in informal and formal teaching and training, assist
with shared administrative duties, and help develop and
implement a long-term collections strategy consistent
with American Association of Museums accreditation
requirements, standards, and the best methodologies.
We are looking for candidates who have
- Prociency with the taxonomy, nomenclature, prepa-
ration, dry and uid preservation of invertebrate speci-
mens and their DNA. - Experience managing zoological
collections, including cataloging and accessioning spec-
imens, processing loans, acquiring applicable permits
and licenses to ensure legal compliance with regulations
pertaining to biological collections, and a working knowl-
edge of standard methodologies curation standards. -
Data management skills, including specimen digitiza-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 65
tion, data workow design, data cleaning and migra-
tion, and facilitating data integration with national and
global biodiversity data aggregator services (e.g., GBIF,
iDigBio). - Ability to write successful collections im-
provement grant proposals, and experience developing
collections policies and protocols. - Ability to manage
projects, students, and volunteers. - Ability to interface
professionally with the university, public, governmen-
tal & research communities. - Attention to detail and
accuracy. - Excellent teamwork and communication
skills.
A M.S. degree in relevant eld (Biology, Zoology, or
Museum Studies) with at least three years' experience
working in zoology collections. This experience should
include solid understanding of care and management of
invertebrate collections.
The University of Colorado oers excellent benets, in-
cluding medical, dental, retirement, paid time o, tuition
benet and ECO Pass. The University of Colorado Boul-
der is one of the largest employers in Boulder County
and oers an inspiring higher education environment.
Learn more about the University of Colorado Boulder.
The University of Colorado Boulder is committed to
building a culturally diverse community of faculty, sta,
and students dedicated to contributing to an inclusive
campus environment. We are an Equal Opportunity
employer, including veterans and individuals with dis-
abilities.
To apply, please submit the following materials:
- A current resume. - A cover letter that specically
tells us how your background and experience align with
the requirements, qualications, and responsibilities of
the position.
We may request references at a later time.
Please apply by April 14th, 2022 for prompt considera-
tion.
Please apply through here: https://jobs.colorado.edu/-
jobs/JobDetail/?jobId=38066 Jingchun Li Curator of
Invertebrate Zoology jingchun.li@colorado.edu
Jingchun Li <Jingchun.Li@Colorado.EDU >UConnecticut ResTech
TapewormPhylogenetics
The Caira, Jockusch and Wegrzyn labs at the University
of Connectiut, Storrs are looking for a research techni-
cian to employ next-generation sequencing technology
and associated bioinformatics in support of a project on
tapeworm phylogeny. This position is suitable for recent
graduates with some molecular research experience and
an interest in gaining more in-depth experience before
applying to graduate school, as well as individuals with
an MS in biology or a related eld.
Application deadline: April 20, 2022
The full position description and application link
are here: https://jobs.hr.uconn.edu/en-us/job/-
496200/research-assistant-1 Elizabeth Jockusch
<elizabeth.jockusch@uconn.edu >
UdelRosario Bogota
VertebrateEvolution
The Department of Biology (https://-
www.urosario.edu.co/Programa-de-Biologia/inicio/),
Faculty of Natural Sciences (FNC) at the Universidad
del Rosario (Bogot a, Colombia) seeks applicants for one
full-time tenure track professor in Vertebrate Zoology.
Candidates are expected to have a PhD in Vertebrate
Zoology including Organismal Biology, Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology aspects. We seek candidates
with a strong publication record working in any area
of vertebrate biology, and on any vertebrate group,
whose work emphasizes eld-based studies within an
evolutionary context. Possible research areas include
(but are not limited to) phylogenetics, biogeography,
adaptation, speciation, evolutionary genetics, genomics,
and comparative morphology. Postdoctoral experience,
success in obtaining third party research funding,
training in collections and teaching experience will be
of added value. The successful candidate is expected
to engage in scholarly activities, mentor graduate and
undergraduate students, investigate broad questions
related to the origin and diversication of vertebrates,66 EvolDir May 1, 2022
and lead research projects. The position involves about
40% research, 20% academic service and 40% teaching,
which will include about two courses per semester,
including an undergraduate course on Vertebrate
Zoology. It is also anticipated that the candidates will
establish collaborations with professors and students
from across the Biology Department and the Earth
System Sciences program, and with other academic
units at Universidad del Rosario.
Applications must be written in English and include: 1)
a detailed CV with a complete list of publications and
funding awarded; 2) reprints of three selected papers;
3) a Research Statement summarizing the candidate's
experience, interests and an outline of the research plan
that can be potentially developed at Universidad del
Rosario (2 pages); 4) a Teaching Statement describing
teaching experience and philosophy as well as pedagogic
strategies (4-5 min video-english); and 5) two recom-
mendation letters.
Monthly salary is competitive for both Colombian and
international standards and will be determined by a
University-wide point system, based on research and
teaching experience. Publications in high-ranking jour-
nals are yearly recognized following the University nan-
cial incentives policy. Non-native speakers are encour-
aged to apply and will be given two years to strengthen
their Spanish communication skills and take an exam
at the Multicultural and Multilingual Center at Univer-
sidad del Rosario, or take an international DELE B2
exam. Non-native speakers who have obtained the BSc,
MSc or PhD in Spanish speaking countries are exempt
from these exams.
The ideal starting is July 2022, but other dates can be
arranged. Please send your application by e-mail at
f.cn@urosario.edu.co no later than May 30th 2022 indi-
cating the position you are applying for. For questions
about the positions and life in Colombia please contact
Prof. Camilo Salazar (camilo.salazar@urosario.edu.co).
Universidad del Rosario is a prestigious Colombian Uni-
versity that typically ranks in the top ve universities in
the country and in the top 50 in Latin America. It was
founded in 1653 and has a long tradition in the areas
of Medicine, Law, Economics and, Social and Political
Sciences. The Faculty of Natural Sciences (FNC) was
founded in 2008, with the goal of creating strong un-
dergraduate and graduate programs that excel in both
teaching and research. At present, the FNC has 25 full
time faculty members and incorporates the undergradu-
ate programs of Earth System Science and Biology, a
Master, and PhD Program in Natural Sciences. The
FCN has a vigorous and growing research agenda and
published over 90 international peer-reviewed articlesin 2021 (https://www.urosario.edu.co/facultad-ciencias-
naturales/Inicio/).
{
Carolina Pardo-Diaz, Ph.D.
Decana
Facultad de Ciencias Naturales
Universidad del Rosario
Bogot a, Colombia
Tel.(+571) 2970200 ext. 4032
Carolina Pardo D az <cabardia@gmail.com >
UIdaho ConservationGenomics
Research Scientist Position in Conservation Genomics
and Molecular Ecology
University of Idaho
We are excited to recruit a Research Scientist with exper-
tise in Conservation Genomics and Molecular Ecology
to join our research team at the University of Idaho
(UI), Moscow Campus.
The Research Scientist will join a dynamic faculty, post-
doc and graduate student team focused on conservation
genomic and molecular ecology research projects across
the Western US and around the world. Our team also
has the goal of providing training for local and inter-
national students and outreach to managers and policy
makers. We have already developed strong relation-
ships and have current funded genomic projects with
state, federal, tribal and international partners. This
research scientist would work with the collaborating
faculty listed below to conduct a variety of policy and
management relevant projects in wildlife conservation
and management, sh ecology and sheries manage-
ment, and environmental monitoring, and work with
faculty to apply for future funding. Other responsi-
bilities include student mentoring and training related
to next-generation sequencing, transcriptomics, eDNA
monitoring, diet metabarcoding and associated bioinfor-
matic analyses. The research scientist will have access
to UI resources such as genomics and computational
core facilities and collaborative research groups in the
Institute for Interdisciplinary Data Sciences (IIDS), the
Institute for Modeling Collaboration and Innovation
(IMCI) and the Idaho EPSCoR-NSF Genes by Environ-
ment (GEM3) program. Funding is available for 2 yearsMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 67
with the opportunity to start in Summer 2022.
Priority application deadline is April 26th and applica-
tions will be accepted until the position is lled. The UI
is an equal opportunity and armative action employer
committed to assembling a diverse, broadly trained
faculty and sta. Women, minorities, people with dis-
abilities and veterans are strongly encouraged to apply.
For more information and application submission, see
https://uidaho.peopleadmin.com/postings/35585 Re-
cruitment Team: Lisette Waits and Chris Caudill - De-
partment of Fish and Wildlife Sciences and Bioinformat-
ics and Computational Biology Program (BCB), College
of Natural Resources, and Paul Hohenlohe - Department
of Biology, BCB Program, College of Science Contact
Lisette Waits lwaits@uidaho.edu with questions.
LISETTE WAITS Distinguished Professor Department
HeadFish and Wildlife Sciences College of Natural Re-
sources
lwaits@uidaho.edu 208-885-7823 875 Perimeter Drive
MS1136jMoscow ID 83844-1136
www.uidaho.edu/cnr/faculty/waits \Waits, Lisette
(lwaits@uidaho.edu)" <lwaits@uidaho.edu >
ULeicester UK Lectureship
PopulationGenomics
We are seeking a Lecturer in Population Genomics to
join the Department of Genetics & Genome Biology at
the University of Leicester, UK.
This new post represents an exciting opportunity to
conduct research and teaching in the eld of popula-
tion genomics and its application to problems including
complex disease in humans. Your role will align with
strategic priorities in the Department and the College
of Life Sciences, while beneting from the excellent
interdisciplinary environment provided by the wider
University.
You will conduct high-quality research in areas such as
demographic history, admixture, adaptation, genotype-
phenotype relationships and gene-environment interac-
tions, using the tools of genomics at the population scale.
Your research in population genomics will be expected
to enrich human health research in Leicester, where
there are opportunities to collaborate with outstanding
researchers within the NIHR Biomedical Research Cen-
tre (BRC), the Leicester Precision Medicine Institute,and the Centre for Ethnic Health Research working on
genetic epidemiology and functional genomics across a
range of diseases including cardiovascular, respiratory
and infectious disease, diabetes, cancer and multiple
long term health conditions. Colleagues also include ge-
neticists studying non-model organisms including social
insects, mammals and plants. Our accessible campus
and collegiate atmosphere facilitates interdisciplinary
collaboration with archaeologists and geographers in
considering temporal and spatial contexts.
To support your work, you will generate funding through
research grants. You will have the opportunity to super-
vise PhD students associated with several funded Doc-
toral Training Partnerships including BBSRC MIBTP,
MRC Advanced Interdisciplinary Models (AIM), NERC
CENTA2, and our Wellcome Trust Genetic Epidemiol-
ogy & Public Health Genomics programme.
You will also form part of a team delivering innovative
teaching across a range of undergraduate and postgrad-
uate programmes in genetics, genomics, and bioinfor-
matics. This includes delivering lectures, practicals
and seminars, designing and marking assessments, and
personal tutoring. You will enhance teaching and learn-
ing by contributing to the administration of modules
and continually improving your own understanding and
skills.
We will support you in developing your research and
teaching career and, in turn, you will play a key role in
ensuring our continued success and fullling our future
ambitions.
About you: You are a researcher with a growing or es-
tablished reputation, a high-quality publication prole
and exciting and potentially fundable research ideas.
You will also have excellent networking skills, which
you will use to seek out opportunities for collaboration,
both internally and externally. You will be capable of
inspiring excitement for learning in our undergraduate
and post-graduate students, and able to provide them
with the very best experience, using your expertise and
skill to ensure that all reach their potential.
Additional information: For full details and how to ap-
ply, visit: https://jobs.le.ac.uk/vacancies/4550/lecturer-
in-population-genomics.html Informal enquiries are wel-
come, to: Prof Mark Jobling (maj4@le.ac.uk), Prof
Chris Bayliss (cdb12@le.ac.uk) or Prof Jacqui Shaw
(Head of Department, js39@le.ac.uk).
Closing date: 05 May 2022
\Jobling, Mark A. (Prof.)" <maj4@leicester.ac.uk >68 EvolDir May 1, 2022
UOregon ResAssist
EcologicalGenomics
The Streisfeld lab (http://streisfeldlab.weebly.com <
http://www.uoregon.edu/ ~mstreis >) in the Institute
of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Oregon is
looking to hire a research assistant to help with multiple
projects on the ecological genomics of adaptation and
speciation in plants (mostly Mimulus). The position in-
volves a combination of laboratory and greenhouse work.
Review of applications is ongoing, but the position will
remain open until lled. Please contact me with any
questions. Please see the full job ad, with instructions
on how to apply and other details, here:
https://careers.uoregon.edu/en-us/job/528775/-
pro-tem-research-assistant Matt Streisfeld
mstreis@uoregon.edu
<http://www.uoregon.edu/~mstreis >
Matt Streisfeld <mstreis@uoregon.edu >
UTexas Austin ResTech
EvolutionaryMorphology
The Kemp Lab (http://www.kemplab.com) seeks to hire
a research technician to contribute to an NSF-funded
project on the long-term stability of adaptive radiations,
using the fossil record of Caribbean Anolis lizards as a
model system. The successful candidate will perform
data collection on a large dataset of high-resolution X-
ray chromatography (CT) scans for use in downstream
analyses of morphological diversication and extinction
in changing environments.
Prior experience analyzing CT data is required, and
prior experience with natural history collections and
reptile osteology is preferred.
The Kemp Lab is actively involved in K-12 outreach,
and several educational modules will be developed as
part of this project. Thus, candidates with an interest
in K-12 education are highly encouraged to apply.
A cover letter is required for this position and should
describe the applicant's interest in the position and out-line their skills and experiences that directly relate to
this position.
For more information, and to apply: https://-
utaustin.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UTsta/job/UT-
MAIN-CAMPUS/Research-Engineering-Scientist-
Assistant|Kemp-Lab R00019400 We will begin
reviewing applications on May 16 until the position is
lled.
Melissa E. Kemp, PhD Assistant Professor, Department
of Integrative Biology The University of Texas at Austin
mkemp@austin.utexas.edu www.thekemplab.com
mkemp@austin.utexas.edu
WellesleyCollege TeachingEvolution
VisitingLecturerPositions
The Biological Sciences Department at Wellesley Col-
lege is conducting a search for several visiting lecturers
(part-time or full-time) to teach lectures and labs for
several introductory organismal biology, and introduc-
tory cellular and molecular biology courses, biostatistics
and ecology. Strong interest in undergraduate teaching
is preferred.
We are preparing for in-person instruction during the AY
'22-'23. Ideal candidates will have a minimum of a Mas-
ter's degree in a relevant eld. Teaching these courses
will oer an excellent opportunity for a current/recent
graduate student or post-doc to obtain teaching experi-
ence at an elite liberal arts institution in a department
with dedicated faculty.
Please consider this opportunity even if you are not in
the area since Wellesley College oers subsidized faculty
housing for visiting lecturers at more than 0.5FTE...and
the fall in New England is stunning!
Interested candidates should contact the department
chair, Yui Suzuki (ysuzuki@wellesley.edu), with ques-
tions and/or send 1) a cover letter, 2) curriculum vitae
and 3) contact information for 3 references to him di-
rectly.
Wellesley College is an Armative Action/Equal Oppor-
tunity Employer committed to Inclusive Excellence, and
we encourage persons of all genders, persons of color,
and persons with disabilities to apply. The college is
committed to enriching its educational experience and
its culture through the diversity of its faculty, adminis-
tration, and sta.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 69
Andrea Sequeira, PhD (pronouns she/her) Gordon and
Althea Lang '26 Professor of Biological Sciences Welles-
ley College, Wellesley MA 02481 Biology DepartmentFB page https://www.facebook.com/wellesleybiology/
Andrea S Sequeira <asequeir@wellesley.edu >
Other
ASN SSB SSE EvolutionMeetings AssistMeetingOcer
69
CallBiodiversityProposals FrenchFoundation . . . . . . .70
DonalHickey HasPassed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
FlowCytometry For GenomeSize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Phillipines FellowshipTeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Seminar ESEB STN Speciation Apr12 . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
SMBE Awards NominationsApplications Apr15 . . . 72SMBE Awards NominationsApplications ExtDeadlin-
eApr30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73
SMBE IDEA ProposalCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
SMBE Nominations Apr15 LastCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UKonstanz FieldAssist LaplandBirds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Webinar DemysifyingGraduateSchool Apr21 . . . . . . . 77
ASN SSB SSE EvolutionMeetings
AssistMeetingOcer
Evolution meetings - Assistant Meeting Ocer
The Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE), on behalf
of the Joint ASN/SSB/SSE council, seeks a member of
one or more of our societies to help plan and run our
annual scientic conference - the Evolution meetings
(https://www.evolutionmeetings.org). The meetings are
coordinated by a Chief Meeting Ocer (CMO), an aca-
demic who oversees all aspects of the meeting and who is
responsible for nal decisions about schedules, activities
and venues, in consultation with a tri-society Joint Meet-
ing Committee (JMC) and the larger ASN/SSB/SSE
Joint Council. The CMO also acts as the principal liai-
son with a Professional Conference Organizer (PCO),
whose responsibilities include executing the logistics of
conference management, interactions with vendors and
service providers, and helping identify and negotiate
contracts with future meeting venues. Joint CMOs are
also possible.
We are currently seeking an Assistant Meeting Ocer
who will help the CMO(s) with organization, including
interfacing with society councils and other stakehold-
ers, producing the scientic program, and providingacademic insight to help guide the work of the PCO.
Specic duties will be determined by the CMO and
the JMC, in consultation with the AMO. Assistants
normally serve a 3-year term and, if interested, may
transition into the lead CMO role at some point, with
approval of the JMC. Helping run our meetings is an
important and valuable service to our societies and our
eld which is largely a volunteer eort, but the AMO
will be given a stipend of $5000/year in appreciation.
All meeting attendance costs will also be covered, as well
as any other costs associated with carrying out meeting
responsibilities.
The time commitment is variable but is expected to
average a few hours/week, ramping up at certain times
depending on particular tasks and in the month preced-
ing the meeting. Much of the time is spent in electronic
communication and virtual meetings, but there are also
some duties at the conference.
This position is best suited to someone who has at-
tended several of our recent meetings, has academic
organizational and leadership experience, enjoys team-
work, and would nd it rewarding to serve the societies
by fostering dynamic and high-quality meetings. We
welcome expressions of interest; please email these to
mailto:evolution.meetings@gmail.com with 'AMO posi-
tion' in the subject and include any relevant experience
and a CV. These will be reviewed on a rolling basis with
the goal of lling this position by summer 2022, with
working starting then on the 2023 meeting (to be held70 EvolDir May 1, 2022
in Albuquerque, NM from June 21-15). There are no
geographic restrictions, nor citizenship or residency re-
quirements, but attendance at the 2023 and subsequent
meetings is expected and in-person attendance at the
2022 meeting would be an asset.
About the annual conference: The Evolution meeting
is the joint conference of the American Society of Nat-
uralists, the Society for the Study of Evolution, and
the Society of Systematic Biologists. The conference
is held in a dierent location every year, primarily in
the United States but occasionally in other countries.
Recent and future locations include Portland OR, Prov-
idence RI, Cleveland OH, and Albuquerque NM. The
meeting is the premier opportunity for sharing research
on evolutionary biology. The conference attracts be-
tween 1500-2000 attendees and includes more than 1,000
oral presentations, 400-500 posters, a diverse array of
social events, and a variety of workshops. It runs for
approximately 5 days (depending on satellite events) in
mid-late June. Evolution 2022 will be our rst hybrid
meeting, with options for virtual and in-person partici-
pation, and we anticipate this continuing in future years.
Evolution has an enforced meeting Code of Conduct and
a strong commitment to promoting equity and inclusion.
More information is available on the conference web site:
http://www.evolutionmeetings.org, including complete
programs from recent meetings. Conferences are run
on a break-even basis with careful attention given to
minimizing registration costs for attendees.
Howard Rundle <hrundle@uottawa.ca >
CallBiodiversityProposals
FrenchFoundation
Dear Sir, Madam,
I am contacting you about a new call for proposals
that the French Foundati= on for Biodiversity Research
launched today to fund three innovative projec= ts re-
lating to the synthesis of ideas and concepts and/or
the analysis of e= xisting data. The main aim of these
projects should be to improve scienti= c knowledge of
biodiversity and demonstrate how we can use this knowl-
edge t= o better protect it. The submitted projects can
deal with any topic related to biodiversity, in the elds
of natural sciences and/or human and social sciences.
More information can be found here https://-
www.fondationbiodiversite.fr/en/actualite/call-for-
proposals-frb-cesab-2022-opening-of-the-call/ Don'thesitate sharing the information in your network.
[signature 701717591]
Marie-Claire Danner
SCIENCE OFFICER
IPBES TSU FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF SUSTAIN-
ABLE USE OF WILD SPECIES
CHARG ~AE DE COMMUNICATION
CESAB (CENTRE DE SYNTH ~ASE ET D'ANALYSE
SUR LA BIODIVERSIT ~A)
+33 (0)6 71 66 46 58
FRB-CESAB : 5 rue de l' ecole de m edecine, 34000
MONTPELLIER
Marie-Claire DANNER <marie-
claire.danner@fondationbiodiversite.fr >
DonalHickey HasPassed
Donal Hickey passed on April 7th after a short battle
with cancer.
Donal has always been a good, true and loyal friend to
me ever since I started o at the University of Alberta as
a young PhD student. Donal, after completing his PhD
with Dick Lewontin, started o his career at Brock Uni-
versity, then moved on to the University of Ottawa and
then Concordia University. Ever since I have known him
he was a friend and a mentor to all that knew him. He
was a valued member of the Genetics Society of Canada
and served as its President. He published regularly in a
career that spanned almost 50 years.
I still use his simple and clear explanation of how trans-
posable elements can be deleterious and yet still spread
in a population in my undergraduate classes. This ex-
planation will now be tinged with fond memories of a
great scholar.
Brian GoldingMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 71
FlowCytometry For GenomeSize
Hi,
Does anyone know a company (or any research organ-
isation) that can estimate plant genome size via ow
cytometry based in the UK.
Many thanks, Mark
Dr Mark A. Chapman M.Chapman@soton.ac.uk +44
(0)2380 594396
Biological Sciences University of Southampton Life Sci-
ences Building 85 Higheld Campus Southampton SO17
1BJ
Mark Chapman <markchapman4774@gmail.com >
Phillipines
FellowshipTeachingEvolution
Other:EvolBiol 6monthTeachingFellowshipPhillipines
Teach General Biology and Research methods at a pri-
vate high school in the Philippines and help develop and
catalog an intertidal invertebrate biodiversity project.
We, Science Corps, are looking for 1 broadly trained evo-
lutionary biologist, with a recent PhD (up to four years
after graduation), for a fully paid fellowship to help
build science capacity at our partner location, CVIF
in Jagna, Bohol, Philippines . The Central Visayan
Institute Foundation (CVIF) is a private highschool
that serves as a host location for Science Corps Fellows.
This summer and Fall 2022, CVIF is looking for a PhD
level evolutionary biologist to teach Biology and help
the research team at the school use MinION sequencing
to produce a gene bank for phylum Mollusca from the
Bohol Sea (as baseline data).
Science Corps is a small group of scientists running a non-
prot that sends recent PhD graduates to teach science
abroad. Fellows travel to partner institutions to develop
science curriculum, teach in secondary school classrooms,
and build community-based research projects. In addi-
tion to building science capacity at these host locations,
we also aim to oer fellows a life-changing experience.They are given the opportunity to spend time in beau-
tiful locations, immerse themselves in dierent cultures,
and learn from their host educators-all while making
positive contributions to these communities.
The deadline for this specic fellowship opportunity for
an evolutionary biologist in the Philippines is June 30th,
but we still encourage you to contact us if you would
like to be considered for a later appointment.
To nd out more about us and apply, please go to
https://science-corps.org Stephen Harris
<harris.stephen.e@gmail.com >
Seminar ESEB STN Speciation
Apr12
Dear colleagues,
The next session of the monthly online seminar se-
ries organised by the ESEB-funded STN network |
Integration Of Speciation research| (for more info|:
[ https://speciation-network.pages.ist.ac.at/ ] ) will be
held on Tuesday the 12th of April 2022, 9 am CET.
This session will be the rst of a series of three address-
ing the general topic of how to understand the relative
importance of dierent barriers to gene ow and out-
line best practices to measure them, with a focus on
phenotypes and traits.
The rst session on this general topic will focus on \
What is reproductive isolation: promises and pitfalls
in measuring reproductive barriers". We will welcome
as speakers Anja Westram (Nord University, Norway)
and Daniel Ortiz-Barrientos (University of Queensland,
Australia). The session will last 1.5 hours, with the rst
hour dedicated to the two talks from our speakers and
questions, and the last half-an-hour dedicated to a more
general discussion.
To attend the session live, please follow the link below :
Webinar link:
[ https://gu-se.zoom.us/j/61007486919?pwd=-
bXYyY2l6UjU5UG5tNUNuNVdnUXZiZz09 ] Passcode:
940593
Talks (but not the discussion session) are recorded and
made available [ https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UClEkDdE 5sDw70SQq78DIAA jhere ].
The IOS network does not only aim at scientic inte-72 EvolDir May 1, 2022
gration, but also integration of the community. A main
objective on this front is to foster diversity and inclu-
sion across the eld. The seminar series and subsequent
discussion is open to everyone, from students to estab-
lished researchers and non-scientists alike. In order to
maximise the geographic diversity of attendees, we will
alternate between two time slots every other month: 5
pm CET and 9 am CET. Please help us to circulate
this email to anyone who may be interested, especially
those in countries that are typically underrepresented
in scientic discourse.
The programme of the seminar series is announced by
email, on Twitter ( @Speciation net ) and on the IOS
network website. People who wish to receive automat-
ically the programme and other news from the IOS
network can sign up to the network mailing list from
the IOS website.
We look forward to seeing you there!
The STN IOS organising committee
Jonna Kulmuni (chair), Chris Cooney, Sean Stankowski,
Carole Smadja (co-chairs), Sonal Singhal, Liz Scordato,
Joana Meier, Richard Merrill, Konrad Lohse, Nick Bar-
ton and Roger Butlin.
Dr. Carole Smadja Directrice de recherche CNRS -
CNRS Senior researcher Directrice adjointe de l'ISEM
- ISEM Deputy director carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr
T el : +33 (0)4 67 14 92 70
Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier - In-
stitute of Evolutionary Science of Montpellier (ISEM)
[ mailto:carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr ] [ tel:+33 (0)4
67 14 92 70 ] [ mailto:carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr ]
[ https://isem-evolution.fr/ ] ISEM UMR 5554 cc065
Campus Triolet - Universit e de Montpellier - 34095
Montpellier Cedex 05 {
Carole Smadja <carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr >SMBE Awards
NominationsApplications Apr15
SMBE Awards 2022:
15 April deadline for nominations and applications
Dear SMBE Members,
Please be reminded of the deadline approaching for:
1. The SMBE Graduate Student Excellence Awardpro-
vides a forum for young investigators to showcase their
exemplary research at the annual meeting.We show-
case the winners of this award at the Graduate Student
Excellence Symposium, which will be part of SMBE
Everywhere symposia in 2022. More details for the
symposium will follow in the coming months.
Eligibility:Current graduate students and postdoctoral
researchers who are members of the Society and who
received their primary doctoral-level degree no earlier
than July 2021 are eligible. Eligibility extensions can be
granted for any career disruption or delay; such an exten-
sion should be requested in a cover letter.Approximately
eight winners will be selected every year to cover the
broad spectrum of research covered by SMBE.
How to apply:You must email a scientic abstract
(not to exceed 300 words for body of abstract), title
of proposed presentation, and your Curriculum Vitae
tosmbe@allenpress.com.
The deadline for applications for this award is15 April
2022.
2. SMBE seeks nominations for Faculty Awards for
Early-Career Excellence, Mid-Career Excellence, Life-
time Contribution, and Community Service. Please con-
sider nominating those of your colleagues you believe
deserve to be rewarded for their extraordinary achieve-
ments and dedication to the eld. Updated descriptions
of the awards follow; please read them carefully.
Nominations require a nomination letter, which should
clearly indicate the award under consideration and also
serve as a recommendation letter; a separate one-page
summary of the nominee's qualications for the award;
a CV of the nominee; and an additional letter of rec-
ommendation. Self-nomination is not allowed. The
nominator need not be an SMBE member, but the nom-
inee must be a member of SMBE to be considered for
the award.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 73
SMBE Early-Career Excellence Award
This annual award is intended for outstanding members
of the SMBE community who are in the early stages of
an independent research career (3-7 years post-Ph.D).
The primary signal of research excellence is a trajectory
of innovative, creative research that is moving the eld
of Molecular Biology and Evolution forward. The ideal
candidate will be one whose career embodies the values
of the society, for example in mentoring, outreach, and
teaching. The prize includes recognition at the annual
SMBE banquet, a cash prize of $2000 and a travel award
to attend the annual meeting.
SMBE Mid-Career Excellence Award
This annual award is intended for outstanding members
of the SMBE community who are in the midst of their
research careers (8-15 years post-Ph.D.). The primary
criterion is a record of truly outstanding research that
has contributed broadly to the eld of Molecular Biology
and Evolution.The ideal candidate will be one whose
career embodies the values of the society, for example in
mentoring, outreach, and teaching. The prize includes
recognition at the annual SMBE banquet, a cash prize of
$2000 and a travel award to attend the annual meeting.
SMBE Lifetime Contribution Award
This annual award is intended for outstanding senior
members of the SMBE community (25 years post-Ph.D.).
The primary criterion is a record of truly outstanding
research that has contributed broadly to the eld of
Molecular Biology and Evolution. The ideal candidate
will be one whose career embodies the values of the
society, for example in mentoring, outreach, and teach-
ing. The prize includes recognition at the annual SMBE
banquet, a cash prize of $2000 and a travel award to
attend the annual meeting.
SMBE Community Service Award
This special award will be awarded to members of SMBE
who have provided exceptional service to SMBE and
the broader scientic community. The term \service"
applies broadly to include specic service to the com-
munity (such as to the SMBE journals, the Council or
annual meetings) and also service that includes scientic
outreach and education. The prize includes an award
of$2000 as well as reimbursement to attend the annual
meeting.
The materials should be compiled into a single PDF le,
and should be emailed to
smbe@allenpress.comby or before 15 April 2022.
For more information on each award and the specic
application details please see the links below:Early-Career Excellence Award
Mid-Career Excellence Award
Lifetime Contribution Award
Community Service Award
Sincerely,
Harmit Malik, Past President James McInerney, Presi-
dent
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
smbe@allenpress.com
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
<smbe@allenpress.com >
SMBE Awards
NominationsApplications
ExtDeadlineApr30
SMBE Awards 2022: 30 April EXTENDED deadline
SMBE Awards 2022:
30 April EXTENDED deadline for nominations and
applications
Dear SMBE Members,
Please be reminded of the EXTENDED deadline ap-
proaching for:
1. The SMBE Graduate Student Excellence Awardpro-
vides a forum for young investigators to showcase their
exemplary research at the annual meeting.We show-
case the winners of this award at the Graduate Student
Excellence Symposium, which will be part of SMBE
Everywhere symposia in 2022. More details for the
symposium will follow in the coming months.
Eligibility:Current graduate students and postdoctoral
researchers who are members of the Society and who
received their primary doctoral-level degree no earlier
than July 2021 are eligible. Eligibility extensions can be
granted for any career disruption or delay; such an exten-
sion should be requested in a cover letter.Approximately
eight winners will be selected every year to cover the
broad spectrum of research covered by SMBE.
How to apply:You must email a scientic abstract
(not to exceed 300 words for body of abstract), title
of proposed presentation, and your Curriculum Vitae
tosmbe@allenpress.com.
The deadline for applications for this award is30 April74 EvolDir May 1, 2022
2022.
2. SMBE seeks nominations for Faculty Awards for
Early-Career Excellence, Mid-Career Excellence, Life-
time Contribution, and Community Service. Please con-
sider nominating those of your colleagues you believe
deserve to be rewarded for their extraordinary achieve-
ments and dedication to the eld. Updated descriptions
of the awards follow; please read them carefully.
Nominations require a nomination letter, which should
clearly indicate the award under consideration and also
serve as a recommendation letter; a separate one-page
summary of the nominee's qualications for the award;
a CV of the nominee; and an additional letter of rec-
ommendation. Self-nomination is not allowed. The
nominator need not be an SMBE member, but the nom-
inee must be a member of SMBE to be considered for
the award.
SMBE Early-Career Excellence Award
This annual award is intended for outstanding members
of the SMBE community who are in the early stages of
an independent research career (3-7 years post-Ph.D).
The primary signal of research excellence is a trajectory
of innovative, creative research that is moving the eld
of Molecular Biology and Evolution forward. The ideal
candidate will be one whose career embodies the values
of the society, for example in mentoring, outreach, and
teaching. The prize includes recognition at the annual
SMBE banquet, a cash prize of $2000 and a travel award
to attend the annual meeting.
SMBE Mid-Career Excellence Award
This annual award is intended for outstanding members
of the SMBE community who are in the midst of their
research careers (8-15 years post-Ph.D.). The primary
criterion is a record of truly outstanding research that
has contributed broadly to the eld of Molecular Biology
and Evolution.The ideal candidate will be one whose
career embodies the values of the society, for example in
mentoring, outreach, and teaching. The prize includes
recognition at the annual SMBE banquet, a cash prize of
$2000 and a travel award to attend the annual meeting.
SMBE Lifetime Contribution Award
This annual award is intended for outstanding senior
members of the SMBE community (25 years post-Ph.D.).
The primary criterion is a record of truly outstanding
research that has contributed broadly to the eld of
Molecular Biology and Evolution. The ideal candidate
will be one whose career embodies the values of the
society, for example in mentoring, outreach, and teach-
ing. The prize includes recognition at the annual SMBE
banquet, a cash prize of $2000 and a travel award toattend the annual meeting.
SMBE Community Service Award
This special award will be awarded to members of SMBE
who have provided exceptional service to SMBE and
the broader scientic community. The term \service"
applies broadly to include specic service to the com-
munity (such as to the SMBE journals, the Council or
annual meetings) and also service that includes scientic
outreach and education. The prize includes an award
of$2000 as well as reimbursement to attend the annual
meeting.
The materials should be compiled into a single PDF le,
and should be emailed to
smbe@allenpress.comby or before 30 April 2022.
For more information on each award and the specic
application details please see the links below:
Early-Career Excellence Award
Mid-Career Excellence Award
Lifetime Contribution Award
Community Service Award
Sincerely,
Harmit Malik, Past President James McInerney, Presi-
dent
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
smbe@allenpress.com
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
<smbe@allenpress.com >May 1, 2022 EvolDir 75
SMBE IDEA ProposalCall
SMBE IDEA (Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access)
2022 Proposal Call
SMBE, through the IDEA (Inclusion, Diversity, Equity
and Access) task force, aims to address all forms of
exclusion in our society. With this in mind, a budget of
up to $25,000 per year will be dedicated to initiatives
that help reduce inequities in molecular biology and
evolution research. The task force would therefore like
to invite members of SMBE to propose initiatives that
would take place in the year 2022/2023. Examples of ini-
tiatives could include, but are not limited to, workshops,
symposia, training opportunities, stand-alone featured
talks, or inequity data collection in particular groups,
countries, or regions (to name a few).
Guidelines and instructions for proposals
- At least one of the organizers must be a member of
SMBE. Please note that you can apply for a comple-
mentary SMBE membership by contacting the SMBE
council.
- A short description (between half and one full page)
of the proposed idea should be submitted by email to
smbe.contact@gmail.com for review by 16th May 2022.
This is the initial submission. Submissions should ad-
dress how the proposal will help advance the goals of
the SMBE IDEA task force.
- The initial submission should include the names and
full contact information of all organizers and involved
institutions. Universities/organizations providing ad-
ditional nancial support, if involved, should also be
listed.
- Initial submissions will be reviewed and pre-selected by
the IDEA task force, and candidates will be notied with
a decision within 3 weeks after the initial submission
deadline (by 6th June).
- If the initial submission is selected, organizers are
expected to submit a full project plan by email to
smbe.contact@gmail.com by 25th July 2022. This must
include a budget and time plan, as well as relevance and
expected short and long-term impacts of the initiative
on inclusion, diversity, equity and/or inclusion. The
IDEA task force commits to aiding organizers during
the development of the project plan.
- Successful proposals will be notied by 15th August2022.
- All deadlines are 5pm local time.
Additional information
- To promote the submission of initiatives, the task force
will host an open workshop (open to all SMBE members
and not restricted to those who submitted an initiative)
on \How to design project proposals" during the SMBE
IDEA symposium (at the annual SMBE conference) on
the 11th and/or 12th of July (date to be conrmed).
- Organizers should submit a report ( ~2 pages) of the
activity to the SMBE IDEA committee within 3 months
of its completion.
Dr Lulu Stader Executive Administrator, So-
ciety for Molecular Biology and Evolution
smbe.contact@gmail.com <smbe.meetings@gmail.com >
On behalf of the SMBE IDEA task force
Dr Lulu Stader Executive Administrator, So-
ciety for Molecular Biology and Evolution
smbe.contact@gmail.com <smbe.meetings@gmail.com >
\Lulu Stader (SMBE admin)"
<smbe.contact@gmail.com >
smbe.contact@gmail.com
SMBE Nominations Apr15 LastCall
Dear Colleagues,
Last call for SMBE leadership nominations - due April
15!
We are writing to solicit nominations for SMBE
President-Elect, Secretary and 2 Councilors whose terms
will begin on January 1, 2023. All of these positions are
for a duration of three years.
As the society grows and thrives, council members play
important roles in guiding its development and in so-
liciting and implementing programs that support our
members, while enriching opportunities for young sci-
entists from around the world, and overseeing our two
excellent journals (MBE and GBE) as well as our annual
meeting, regional meetings, and satellite meetings.
Nominations will be reviewed by the nominations
committee* who will then put forward a slate
of two candidates for each position for member-
ship vote. Past and current council members are
at this URL: https://www.smbe.org/smbe/ABOUT/-76 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Council.aspx Please send nominations with a brief state-
ment in support of your suggestion (self-nominations are
welcome) to Justin Blumenstiel <jblumens@ku.edu >
and Nadia Singh <secretary.smbe@gmail.com >.
*Nota bene: we ask the nominators to conrm explic-
itly that the person they are nominating has already
conrmed their willingness to run for oce.
Please send your nominations by Friday, April 15, 2022.
We look forward to hearing from you!
Sincerely yours,
Nadia Singh Secretary of SMBE, on behalf of the Nom-
inations Committee*
and
Justin Blumenstiel Chair of Nominations Commit-
tee *The Nominations Committee is composed as fol-
lows: Justin Blumenstiel (Chair), University of Kansas,
United States Andrea Betancourt, University of Liver-
pool, United Kingdom Tal Dagan, Christian-Albrechts
University of Kiel, Germany David Enard, University
of Arizona, United States Jun-Yi Leu, Academia Sinica,
Taiwan Aurora Ruiz-Herrera, Universitat Aut?noma de
Barcelona, Spain Yonas Tekle, Spelman College, United
States Nadia Singh (ex ocio), University of Oregon,
United States
Justin Blumenstiel Associate Professor Chair, Gradu-
ate Admissions Committee Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology University of Kansas Lawrence,
KS 66045
jblumens@ku.edu
\No Drosophila female could conceivably lay two billion
eggs in her lifetime". Lewontin and Hubby. 1966.
jblumens@ku.edu
UKonstanz FieldAssist
LaplandBirds
2 Expenses-paid eld assistant positions for a project
investigating dispersal of Siberian jays in Swedish Lap-
land
For the upcoming eld season (15.6.-1.10.2022), we are
looking for 2 highly motivated, expenses-paid eld volun-
teers to assist with our eld project (principal investiga-
tor Dr. Michael Griesser, University of Konstanz). The
study site is located near Arvidsjaur in Swedish Lap-land. An overview over our past work can be found here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JaH6wjAYAiE
Our current project investigates the eect of social in-
teractions on the dispersal of Siberian jays. The work
of the eld volunteers will be to help with catching,
radio-tagging and colour-ringing birds, sampling blood,
conducting population censuses and behavioral obser-
vations, and managing data. This work will provide
insights into a long-term study system and will be car-
ried out in managed and pristine boreal forests. Our
eldwork may at times involve walking up to 15km per
day.
Qualications: 1) Bird ringing and mist-netting expe-
rience 2) Field work experience, preferably involving
behavioural observations and experiments 3) Radio tag-
ging and radio tracking experience is a plus 4) Ability to
work in small teams and sociable personality 5) Driver's
license (manual transmission) 6) Fluent in English
We will cover accommodation, travel expenses from and
to the study site (up to 360 euros return), as well as
on-site living expenses (food).
Applications, including a CV, letter of motivation (1
page), and the name of two referees, should be sent
to Michael Griesser michael.griesser@uni-konstanz.de,
preferably in a single PDF.
Applications received until 2. May 2022 will be given
full consideration.
Michael Griesser Group Leader, Heisenberg Fellow De-
partment of Biology University of Konstanz
https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
IEIH0xkAAAAJ Michael Griesser
<michael.griesser@uni-konstanz.de >May 1, 2022 EvolDir 77
Webinar
DemysifyingGraduateSchool Apr21
Dear colleagues,
The Rutgers Ecology & Evolution graduate program
(https://ecoevo.rutgers.edu/) is hosting an online info
session and Q&A for undergraduates who may be inter-
ested in graduate school in ecology and evolution but are
either unaware of the opportunities or unfamiliar with
the process. Please join us! Or, if you have students
who may be interested, I???d be grateful if you could
forward our invitation.
The session will be a 90-minute Zoom webinar and will
include faculty and a grad student panel with opportuni-
ties to ask questions. We???ll focus on demystifying the
graduate school experience, oer some brief descriptions
of research and career paths in the eld, and give advice
on nding and applying to a lab.
The session will be Thursday, April 21st, from2:30 - 4:00 pm EDT. Participants must register
in advance at https://rutgers.zoom.us/webinar/-
register/WN mh5RaGzvRYCX9ZWabLJ7Zg We also
have a yer available at https://drive.google.com/-
le/d/1ulD t12PyVyXKE2PqzPvovPZGKvZC0J/-
view?usp=sharing This is the third event of this type
that we have hosted, after high demand for our rst
events last year.
If you have any questions about the event or our pro-
gram, please feel free to reach out! Thanks so much for
your help distributing this announcement and hope to
see you later this month.
Sincerely, Malin Pinsky
Malin Pinsky (he/him/his) Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Graduate Program in Ecology & Evolution Depart-
ment of Ecology, Evolution, and Natural Resources, Rut-
gers University 14 College Farm Rd., New Brunswick,
NJ 08901 USA malin.pinsky@rutgers.edu j@pinskylab
http://pinsky.marine.rutgers.edu I recognize that at
my institution, we learn, teach, and live on or near the
ancestral homelands of the Munsee Lenape and Lenni-
Lenape. I acknowledge my institution's role in histories
of dispossession and recognize my own responsibility to
our Indigenous connections.
Malin Pinsky <malin.pinsky@gmail.com >
PostDocs
BoyceThompsonInst Cornell PlantCyanobacteriaSym-
biosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Brussels PDForPhD InvertEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
ClemsonU Toxicogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
CNRS UGrenobleAlpes EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . 80
CornellU 2 PopulationStatisticalGenetics html . . . . .81
CornellU CnidarianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81
Eawag Lucern AquaticEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . .82
Hateld UK SalmonVirusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
HolarU Iceland FitnessVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
INRA Rennes PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Koblenz PopulationsGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
Konstanz TaxonomySpeciesDelimitation . . . . . . . . . . .86
Krakow EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
KU Leuven PolarSeascapeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Laramie Wyoming WildlifeDataScientist . . . . . . . . . . 89LMU Munich SymbioticStress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
LundU PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
NHM London MachineLearningCranialSutureEvolution
91
NMNH Smithsonian FormFunctionSpiderEvolution 92
Norway eDNA Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
OkinawaInstSciTech 4 Evolution html . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
OklahomaStateU ModellingDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
RBG Kew FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Senckenberg 3 LichenGenomics html . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Senckenberg MolluscBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
SwissOrnithInst GenomicConictTEsSVs . . . . . . . . . .98
Switzerland InsectBirdMovements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
TempleU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
UAruba TropicalSeascapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UBualo EcolEvolBio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10178 EvolDir May 1, 2022
UCalifornia SanFrancisco HumanEvolutionMachine-
Learning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UCambridge EnvironmentalMicrobialGenomics . . .102
UCambridge EvolutionBrazillianInvasiveMoths . . . 103
UCollege London ResAssoc StatisticalPhylogenetics 103
UConnecticut SticklebackEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UDurham SnowPetrelPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UEastAnglia DrsophilaLifeHistory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105
ULausanne PlantSexualSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UNaples PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .106UOtago PopulationGenomicsRats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UPorto LittorinaAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UPrimorska WildlifeMonitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UPuertoRico 2 ButteryEvolution html . . . . . . . . . . 109
UTexas Austin MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .110
UZurich ExptEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .110
WSL Switzerland EcolEvolDataScience . . . . . . . . . . .111
WSL Switzerland ScienticOutreachCoordinator . 111
YaleU PopulationGenomicAedesalbopictus . . . . . . . 112
BoyceThompsonInst Cornell
PlantCyanobacteriaSymbiosis
The Fay-Wei Li lab (fernway.net) at Boyce Thompson
Institute & Cornell University is looking for two postdoc-
toral researchers to work on bryophyte-cyanobacteria
symbiosis, funded by NSF Dimensions of Biodiversity
grant.
Plant symbiosis with nitrogen-xing cyanobacteria is
a unique form of mutualistic association that has inde-
pendently evolved in diverse lineages including a few
species of bryophytes, ferns, cycads, and one small genus
of owering plants. Compared to other nitrogen-xing
microbes, cyanobacteria are generally less dependent on
the plant host, and therefore could be an ideal partner
for engineering symbiotic nitrogen xation into crop
plants. However, our current understanding of plant-
cyanobacteria symbioses is limited. The phylogenetic
diversity of cyanobionts has been largely unexplored,
and very few studies have investigated variation in the
symbiotic interaction. In addition, most genetic research
has solely focused on the model cyanobiont Nostoc punc-
tiforme, and the plant genes involved in symbiosis re-
main unknown. Hornworts one of the three bryophyte
lineages are an ideal system to study cyanobacterial sym-
biosis, primarily because of the groundwork laid by our
lab and collaborators. This project aims to investigate
the phylogenetic, functional, and genetic dimensions of
hornwort-cyanobacteria symbiosis.
Essential Job Functions:
The postdocs are encouraged to develop their own re-
search questions as long as they are related to hornwort-
cyanobacteria symbiosis. These could include:
1. Carry out microcosm experiments to examine
hornwort-cyanobacteria symbiotic interaction and test
selectivity and specicity.2. Sequence and analyze hornwort and cyanobacteria
genomes, and correlate the genomic features with sym-
biotic behaviors.
3. Identify the chemical signals exchanged between
hornworts and cyanobacteria.
4. Characterize the genetic elements underlying the
symbiosis.
Qualications
1. Ph.D. in plant science, microbiology, bioinformatics,
or related elds.
2. Ability to work independently and creatively.
Anticipated start date: June-September 2022
To Apply: Applicants should contact Fay-Wei
Li (329@cornell.edu) and/or through this link:
https://recruiting.paylocity.com/Recruiting/Jobs/-
Details/1054711 Fay-Wei Li <329@cornell.edu >
Brussels PDForPhD InvertEvolution
1 year research position (PhD or Post-doc) in Late
Quaternary evolutionary dynamics of invertebrates in
Antarctic lakes - apply by 29.4.22
Context The Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sci-
ences (Brussels) is recruiting a research assistant (PhD
or postdoc level) who will be employed in the recently
started project HabitAnt: Past and future habitabil-
ity in Antarctic lakes: succession, colonization, extinc-
tion, and survival in glacial refugia, funded by BelSPO
BRAIN-BE. The project is coordinated by Ghent Uni-
versity and also includes the University of Liege; at these
partner institutions, a PhD student each has already
been recruited.
The young researchers work will be organized to de-
sign three complementary sub-projects. Several projectMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 79
tasks will be conducted in close collaboration between
the respective research groups. Fossil DNA from lake
sediment cores will be sequenced and used to develop
molecular phylogenies of focal taxa to study the pro-
cesses that contributed to the present-day diversity of
organisms in Antarctic lakes. Studied evolutionary pro-
cesses include long-term persistence of biota in glacial
refugia, their extinction, colonization, diversication,
and biological succession in response to past climate
and environmental changes.
Job description The job is a supporting Antarctic re-
search on the evolutionary history of lake invertebrates.
The job tasks include: - Analyses of recent lake sedi-
ment samples and determination of selected invertebrate
groups (ostracods, rotifers, copepods). - Extraction of
fossil DNA and the development of DNA libraries for
high- throughput sequencing with a focus on inverte-
brates. - Construction of multi-gene molecular phy-
logenies. - Bioinformatics and statistical analysis of
metagenomic and DNA amplicon datasets. - Usage of
Antarctic databanks.
Prole: - Interest in Antarctic and evolutionary research
of lacustrine organisms. - Willingness to sample under
extreme circumstances.
Diploma: - Master or similar degree (for postdocs: also
PhD) in biology, biochemistry or biotechnology.
Technical competencies: - Experience with determining
freshwater invertebrates. - Genetic laboratory skills for
DNA extraction from ancient samples and sample prepa-
ration for high-throughput sequencing. - Experience
with bioinformatic analyses of eDNA or metabarcoding
approaches. - Experience with phylogenetic analyses.
Generic competences: - Good organization skills. - Good
social skills (as communication with dierent project
partners is required). - Good skills in problem solving.
- Good writing and presentation skills. - Willingness
to participate in additional training courses (probably
abroad), and to follow and implement novel technical
advancements in high throughput sequencing and sub-
sequent analysis.
Positive additional points are: - (For potential PhD stu-
dents: interest to inscribe as PhD student at a Belgian
university). - Interest in Antarctic freshwater fauna and
evolutionary research . - Active knowledge of English.
We oer: - A full-time position as assistant for minimal
1 year with the possibility for extension after positive
evaluation. - Salary according to the statutory pay scale
grade SW1. - Free public transport between your home
and the institute. - A dynamic, challenging, variable and
stimulating research framework. - High-quality trainingto develop hard and soft skills, and opportunities to
participate in sampling campaigns to Antarctica and
international scientic conferences.
Application: Please send your cv and motivation letter
(preferably by email) before 30.4.22 to Royal Belgian
Institute of Natural Sciences Isa Schon Vautierstraat 29
1000 Brussels ischoen@naturalsciences.be
The interviews will take place in the rst week of May
2022.
Isabelle Schon <ischoen@naturalsciences.be >
ClemsonU Toxicogenomics
Postdoctoral position in Toxicogenomics at the Center
for Human Genetics at Clemson University
The Center for Human Genetics at Clemson Univer-
sity invites applications for a postdoctoral position as
part of the European Commission-funded PrecisionTox
consortium, which encompasses collaboration between
15 institutions in Europe and the United States. This
European-funded project seeks to identify biomarkers
predictive of chemically induced adverse health eects
in humans via the systematic use of distantly related
animal species from across the tree of life and the highly
interdisciplinary mix of genomics, metabolomics, evo-
lutionary theory, quantitative genetics, data science,
and toxicology. Within this project, our group focuses
on allelic variants and genetic networks that determine
variation in sensitivity to select environmental toxicants
using the Drosophila melanogaster Genetic Reference
Panel of sequenced inbred lines. This project ts within
a larger interest in our laboratory to dene the dynamics
of the genotype-phenotype relationship in the presence
of genome by environment interactions.
The successful applicant will have a record of research
productivity in genetics/genomics, solid statistical skills,
and expertise in whole-genome DNA and RNA sequenc-
ing and analyses. Previous experience with Drosophila
is desirable but not required. The person in this position
will have excellent verbal and written communication
skills and the ability to function independently while
at the same time being able to work as a member of a
team.
The start date is January/February 2023, and the du-
ration of support is for three years, with a competitive
salary and benets.80 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Applications should be addressed to Robert R. H. An-
holt, Ph.D. (ranholt@clemson.edu), including a cover
letter, curriculum vitae with a list of publications, and
the names and contact information of three references.
Apply at http://apply.interfolio.com/106099 . Clemson
University promotes a diverse and inclusive environment
and welcomes applicants regardless of age, disability,
gender, nationality, ethnicity, religion, sexual orienta-
tion, or gender identity.
TRUDY F. C. MACKAY, PhD, FRS
SELF FAMILY ENDOWED CHAIR OF HUMAN GE-
NETICS
DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR HUMAN GENETICS
PROFESSOR OF GENETICS AND BIOCHEMISTRY
Center for Human Genetics
Clemson University
110 Self Regional Hall
114 Gregor Mendel Circle
Greenwood, SC 29646
w 864-889-0522
c 919-604-6531
tmackay@clemson.edu
Trudy Frances Charlene Mackay
<tmackay@clemson.edu >
CNRS UGrenobleAlpes
EvolutionaryGenomics
2Y POST-DOC POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NOMICS & MOLECULAR EVOLUTION CNRS, Univ.
Grenoble Alpes, France
\Natural selection does not work as an engineer works.
It works like a tinkerer - a tinkerer who does not know
exactly what he is going to produce." (F. Jacob, 1977).
Standing on the shoulders of Fran cois Jacob, among oth-
ers, in our team we aim at understanding and predicting
biological functions by rationalizing evolutionary prop-
erties that can be extracted from the immense resource
of publicly available genome sequences.
Here, we are looking for a postdoc aiming at applying
phylogenomics and co-evolution approaches to tackle
the problem of the emergence and evolution of enzymefunctions. Specically, the recruited researcher will in-
vestigate evolutionary properties of a specic class of
enzymes that are involved in the biosynthesis pathway of
the ubiquinone [1,2], a molecule that is key to the energy
metabolism of bacteria and eukaryotes. The project,
funded by the Agence National de la Recherche, consists
in an interdisciplinary framework that combines compar-
ative genomics (recruited postdoc), biophysical models
of molecular dynamics (Isabelle Andr e's team, Toulouse
Biotechnology Institute) and biochemical experiments
(our team). A major goal is to provide predictions
of natural, articial and ancestral enzymes (enzymes
resurrection) that will be experimentally tested.
The post-doctoral contract is for 2 years with exten-
sion possibilities. The recruited post-doc will benet
from a rich interdisciplinary environment provided i)
by our computational group, which includes compar-
ative genomics, machine/deep learning methods and
biophysics, ii) by our team TrEE, which focuses on
biology (from experimental evolution to biochemistry)
and health questions and iii) Isabelle Andr e's team in
Toulouse.
* Candidate's prole: we are looking for a highly mo-
tivated young scientist with a strong background in
computational biology, evolutionary genomics or mathe-
matical methods, with a strong interest to investigate
the evolution of biological functions.
* Starting date: 2022 - Position open till lled
* Contacts: sophie.abby@univ-grenoble-alpes.fr and
ivan.junier@univ-grenoble-alpes.fr.
To apply, please send your CV, a motivation letter, and
the names and contact information of two references to
Sophie Abby and Ivan Junier. For more details, informal
enquiries are also welcome.
* Links: TrEE comp bio group: https://tree-
timc.github.io/compbio/ TrEE team: https://-
www.timc.fr/en/tree Online position announce-
ment : https://jobrxiv.org/job/compbiotree-27778-
postdoc-position-in-evolutionary-genomics-molecular-
evolution/ * References: [1] Pelosi et al. \Evolution
of Ubiquinone Biosynthesis: Multiple Proteobac-
terial Enzymes with Various Regioselectivities To
Catalyze Three Contiguous Aromatic Hydroxylation
Reactions". mSystems, 2016. https://doi.org/10.1128/-
msystems.00091-16 [2] Abby et al. \Advances in
bacterial pathways for the biosynthesis of ubiquinone".
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA)-Bioenergetics,
2020. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbabio.2020.148259
Sophie Abby <sophie.abby@gmail.com >May 1, 2022 EvolDir 81
CornellU 2
PopulationStatisticalGenetics html
<pre>The Wei Lab at Cornell University is looking for
2-3 postdoctoral fellows. The start date is exible but
can be as soon as possible.
We are looking for highly motivated postdoctoral fel-
lows with a background in population and/or statistical
and/or evolutionary genetics, strong statistical and pro-
gramming skills, and an ability to perform independent
research. Potential projects include, but are not limited
to:
1. Inferring demographic history from genome sequences
using ancestral recombination graphs. 2. Statistical
methods for understanding the evolution of complex
traits in light of admixture. 3. Methods for analyzing
genomic time series data of SARS-CoV-2 and experi-
mental evolution. 4. Inferring the relationship between
dominance and selection. 5. Understanding the evolu-
tion of life history, including but not limited to aging,
sexual reproduction, and variance in ospring number.
6. Detecting genes underwent selection due to infectious
diseases in recently admixed populations. 7. Under-
standing the gene conversion landscape in human popu-
lations. 8. Algorithmic and data structure development
in scaling methods to massive datasets.
As a postdoctoral fellow, you will have the opportunities
to:
1. Collaborate closely with the PI and receive both low-
level and high-level support on your research. 2. Mentor
and collaborate with students at the graduate and/or
undergraduate levels. 3. Develop your project ideas
aligned with the direction of the lab. 4. Collaborate
with other scientists from the Department of Compu-
tational Biology, the Cornell scientic community, and
more broadly. 5. Grow your research program and plan
for the next stages of your career.
Potential postdoctoral fellows are very much encour-
aged to get in touch. Generally, the most useful emails
will touch on your background and previous work, how
our research interests may intersect, your timeframe for
seeking a position, and include a copy of your CV and
the contact information of three references.
Contact: Prof. April Wei Cornell University april-
wei@cornell.edu https://aprilweilab.github.io April Wei
<xw583@cornell.edu ><\pre> <\pre>
CornellU CnidarianEvolution
Postdoc Position in the Babonis Lab at Cornell Univer-
sity
Open until lled
The Babonis Lab in the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology at Cornell University seeks to
hire a highly motivated postdoc to work on the cellu-
lar, molecular, and developmental biology of cnidarians
(corals, sea anemones, jellysh). The Babonis Lab is
interested in understanding the origin of taxon-specic
traits (novelties) across levels of organization. Primary
areas of interest in the lab currently include: the func-
tional diversication of cnidocytes (stinging cells), the
emergence of specialized animal secretory cell types, the
evolution of stem cell identity, and the origin of novel
genes. The Babonis Lab uses a broad range of taxa
and techniques for interrogating the evolutionary and
developmental drivers of novelty and provides a highly
collaborative and interdisciplinary environment to sup-
port exploratory studies and maximize opportunities
for discovery. For more information on our interests,
visit: www.babonislab.com . To qualify, applicants must
have a Ph.D. (or be close to earning one) and exper-
tise in molecular biology, genetics, and biochemistry.
The ideal candidate will also have signicant experience
with transgenesis, functional genomics and genome edit-
ing (including CRISPR/Cas9 technology), gene delivery
techniques (e.g. microinjection, electroporation), and
expertise in DNA and RNA sequencing and analysis.
The position will be appointed initially for 1 year with
the option to renew pending satisfactory performance
and available funding. Salary is commensurate with
NIH standards.
To apply, please visit https://academicjobsonline.org/-
ajo/jobs/21484 .Please submit a current curriculum
vitae, a 1-page statement of research interests detailing
experience with the required and preferred techniques,
and contact information for two professional references.
Review of applications will begin May 1, 2022, and will
continue until the position is lled.
Leslie S. Babonis, PhD (she/her) Assistant Professor
Curator of Marine Invertebrates Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology Cornell University82 EvolDir May 1, 2022
E145 Corson Hall Ithaca, NY 14853
babonislab.com lsb257@cornell.edu
Eawag Lucern
AquaticEvolutionaryGenomics
Eawag, the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science
and Technology, is an internationally networked aquatic
research institute within the ETH Domain (Swiss Fed-
eral Institutes of Technology). Eawag conducts research,
education and expert consulting to achieve the dual goals
of meeting direct human needs for water and maintain-
ing the function and integrity of aquatic ecosystems.
Eawag's Department of Fish Ecology & Evolution has
an opening for a Postdoc in Evolutionary Genomics of
Aquatic Ecosystems
The position, based in the group of Philine Feulner, is
funded for 2 years within the project \The eco- evolu-
tionary eects of predators in aquatic ecosystems". The
project funded by the Swiss National Science Founda-
tion is led by Blake Matthews (Eawag) and also includes
a collaboration with Ryan Greenway (University of Kon-
stanz). The Fish Genomics group of Philine Feulner
focuses on evolutionary questions regarding the genetic
basis of adaptation and speciation, and the inuences
of various evolutionary processes such as selection, drift,
mutation, and recombination on genome evolution.
The project will investigate multiple stickleback pop-
ulations in small to medium sized lakes across South-
ern Greenland, using a combination of existing whole
genome data sets and new sequencing conducted
throughout the project. The rst major goal of the
project is to infer demographic histories for dierent
lake populations and explore to which respect coloniza-
tion histories varied and inuenced phenotypic varia-
tion across lakes. The second goal is to track initial
evolutionary changes of stickleback from a recent experi-
mental introduction of stickleback into six experimental
ponds. This will involve existing sequencing data from
the ancestors and new data sequenced from the rst
few generations. Within the larger project, which is
also including a PhD position, the genomic data of the
sticklebacks will be interpreted in the context of how
stickleback evolve in response to both predation and
prey community dynamics.
The candidate will be in charge of the analysis of next
generation whole genome data of sticklebacks, the de-velopment of bioinformatics pipelines and tools, and the
interpretation and publication of the results. There will
be opportunities to gain eld experience in Southern
Greenland, to develop their own research skills, and
to assist in the supervision of Bachelors and Master
students. Ideally, the candidate has a profound interest
in Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics and has
earned a PhD in a relevant eld of evolutionary biol-
ogy, or bioinformatics. Excellent communication skills
in English and ability and will to work in a team are
essential. The group's working language is English and
uency in writing and speaking is required. Knowledge
of German or French is not required.
The position is situated in the Department of Fish
Ecology & Evolution: www.eawag.ch/en/department/-
shec/. The Department is part of Eawag's Center for
Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry (CEEB), which
is located on the shore of Lake Lucerne and is a strong
nucleus of Eawag research groups aimed at integrating
evolutionary biology, community ecology, and ecosys-
tem science www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/. The
postdoc will interact with a diverse range of researchers
studying community ecology, evolutionary biology, eco-
logical genetics, ecosystem science, and applied envi-
ronmental science. The Fish Genomics group is also
aliated to the Institute of Ecology and Evolution of
the University of Bern www.iee.unibe.ch, and the suc-
cessful candidate will have a unique opportunity to
take advantage of both these excellent academic en-
vironments. More information about the current re-
search group and ongoing projects in both groups can
be found at www.eawag.ch/en/department/shec/main-
focus/sh-genomics/ and www.blakematthewslab.com
. Eawag is a modern employer and oers an excel-
lent working environment where sta can contribute
their strengths, experience and ways of thinking. We
promote gender equality and are committed to sta
diversity and inclusion. The compatibility of career and
family is of central importance to us. For more infor-
mation about Eawag and our work conditions please
consult www.eawag.ch and www.eawag.ch/en/aboutus/-
working/employment. We strongly encourage applica-
tions from researchers identifying as a member of a
historically marginalized group.
Applications should include a cover letter with a concise
statement about your previous education and research
experience, your vision for the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 83
Hateld UK SalmonVirusEvolution
We seek an ambitious and skilled postdoctoral scien-
tist to undertake innovative research into combatting
infectious disease outbreaks in animals.
Through close collaboration with global industrial part-
ners and national government agencies, you will help
pioneer how virus genomic sequencing approaches can be
adapted and adopted to provide real-time information
critical for informing interventions. You will become a
key member of Dr Sarah Hill's research group during
the 3-year post.
Key challenges will involve the design and renement
of rapid targeted and metagenomic genome sequencing
approaches that can be used successfully within var-
ied animal health, farming and aquaculture contexts.
By combining newly generated virus genome sequences
with detailed epidemiological, ecological, and industry
data (including rarely available data on the network
of individual host movements between farms), you will
help gain high-resolution insights into the factors that
drive virus transmission and the repeated emergence
of new virulent strains. You will focus on explaining
the transmission of two viruses within the production
network of farmed Atlantic salmon.
Working in close partnership with the world's largest
provider of animal health diagnostics will allow you
to access samples and rarely available industry data
from producers across the globe. Through funded visits
to Norway and Scotland you will develop strong rela-
tionships with industry partners, which will enable you
to see the impact of your work and help achieve the
widespread adoption of the methods that you design.
We will support you to travel to international and na-
tional conferences, and to access opportunities at the
RVC and elsewhere that will enhance your professional
career development. You will be encouraged to pub-
lish in high impact, international journals, including
through collaborating with other researchers within the
RVC community working on a range of emerging ani-
mal and human pathogens. Please see Dr Hill's Google
Scholar prole for examples of her recent work, including
collaborative publications inScience,NatureandLancet
Infectious Diseases.
The successful applicant will hold (or be about to receive)
a PhD-level degree in a suitable subject, preferably invirus genomics orgenomic epidemiology. We are seeking
candidates with either expertise focused on exploring
novel sequencing methods, or candidates with a broader
skill-set spanning both wet-laboratory sequencing and
computational approaches.
We encourage interested candidates to contact Dr Hill
(sahill@rvc.ac.uk), who would be very pleased to infor-
mally discuss this role further. Further information on
the role and person specication is available athttps:/-
/jobs.rvc.ac.uk/vacancy.aspx?ref=PPS-0086-22 . \Hill,
Sarah" <sahill@rvc.ac.uk >
HolarU Iceland FitnessVariation
Post-doctoral position on understanding the determi-
nants of spatio-temporal variability of life-history traits
in small populations
H >1
2lar Universityseeks a three-year post-doctoral fel-
low for an Icelandic Research Council (RANNIS) funded
project. The goal is to study spatial and temporal vari-
ation in tness, using data collected in a longitudinal
study of sixteen small, isolated populations of Arctic
charr found in lava caves, which we have followed since
2012.
The project is led by Assoc. Prof Camille Leblanc
and Prof Bjarni K. Kristj >1
2nsson. It is part of a
large collaboration across H >1
2lar University, Iceland
(Prof. Sk >1
2li Sk >1
2lason), University of Edinburgh
(Dr. Kasha Strickland, Dr. Elizabeth Mittell), Univer-
sity of St. Andrews, Scotland (Dr. Michael Morrissey)
and University of Jyv >1
2skyl >1
2, Finland (Assoc. Prof.
Katja R >1
2s >1
2nen).
The phenotype is an important determinant of the dy-
namic interactions between ecological and evolutionary
processes. However, to date, there is limited understand-
ing of how spatio-temporal variation in phenotypes is
related to tness in the wild. Our study uses longitudi-
nal data across a unique system of sixteen isolated small
populations of Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus) inhabit-
ing lava caves near lake M >1
2vatn, Iceland. Individual-
based data has been collected from these populations
since 2012. This study system allows us to ask ques-
tions about the interplay between phenotypic traits (e.g.
growth and morphology) and tness (reproductive suc-
cess and survival) and how ecological factors shape this
relationship in space and time.
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoctoral can-84 EvolDir May 1, 2022
didate with strong quantitative skills, which will be
applied to this unique study system. The post-doctoral
fellow has the opportunity to: 1) use molecular tools
to establish genetic pedigrees and assess reproductive
success; 2) use mark-recapture data to estimate survival;
and 3) combine these with individual-based phenotypic
data to understand the interplay between ecological,
phenotypic and tness variation. The postdoctoral fel-
low will have opportunities to develop the focus of their
work and will be encouraged to further develop their
research career by opportunities in developing spin o
projects, and through student supervision.
Location: The candidate will be based at the Dept.
of Aquaculture and Fish Biology (DAFB - http://-
holaraquatic.is ) at H >1
2lar University (HU, North Ice-
land). The candidate is also encouraged to spend time
at the institutes of the collaborators. HU is situated in
the beautiful village of H >1
2lar (Skagafj >1
2rdur), with
oces and research laboratories in the nearby town
Sau >1
2 >1
2rkr >1
2kur. DAFB is an active research centre,
where the postdoc is part of a dynamic international
team of graduate students and faculty. The beautiful
natural setting and central location in North of Iceland,
allow both outdoor and cultural activities.
Requirements: The candidate must hold a PhD degree
in Ecology or Evolution or a related discipline. The ideal
candidate should have a strong interest in evolutionary
ecology and strong quantitative skills. A background in
bioinformatics and/or analysis of quantitative genetic
and/or long-term data sets would be an advantage. The
candidate should have shown ability to publish their
own ndings, enjoy working in a dynamic group, and
have experience with eldwork. The candidate should
be able to work independently as well as a part of a
team.
The working language is English. A valid driving license
is a requirement.
This is a 100% position for three years. Salary is in
accordance with the current collective wage and salary
agreement between the relevant union, and the Minister
of Finance in Iceland. Rights and obligations follow
the Act 70/1996 on the Rights and Obligations of Civil
Servants.
Applicants should send an application letter, labelled
with their name, with a statement of research interests
and relevant experience (max. 2 pages), curriculum
vitae with a list of publications, copies of academic qual-
ications and the names and e-mail addresses of three
referees, as a single pdf to bjakk@holar.is. The deadline
for application is May 1.
For further information contact Dr Bjarni K.Kristj >1
2nsson (bjakk@holar.is) or Dr. Camille Leblanc
(camille@holar.is).
Bjarni K. Kristj >1
2nsson, pr >1
2fessor
H >1
2sk >1
2linn  >1
2H >1
2lum / H >1
2lar University
Fiskeldis og skal >1
2r >1
2 >1
2ideild / Department of
aquculture and sh biology
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
INRA Rennes PopulationGenetics
*Theoretical impacts of reproductive modes on the dy-
namics of genetic diversity of invasive populations and
application on the case of the aquatic invasive plant,
/Ludwigia grandiora subsp. hexapetala/.*
*Post-doc position*at INRAE, L'institut Agro, UMR
ESE in Rennes (west coast of *France*), 18-month po-
sition.
*Keywords:*population genetics, invasive species, repro-
ductive modes (clonality, allogamy, autogamy), demog-
raphy, spatial structure, dispersal.
*Context:*
|{
Invasive species are good opportunities to understand
how para- and peri-patric populations contribute to the
biological evolution of organisms. Reproductive modes
are key component to understand and predict the suc-
cess of invasive species, with deep consequences on their
demography, dispersal, genetic and phenotypic evolu-
tion and adaption to the new habitats. Understanding
the impacts of reproductive modes, demography and
dispersal on the genetic diversity of a newly introduced
species colonizing new areas will help predicting evolu-
tions of invasive populations and inferring the ecological
and evolutionary processes driving their biology.
The ANR Clonix2D project ^1 is an international, col-
laborative project aiming at understanding the evo-
lutionary consequences of partial clonality on genetic
diversity and it structure during colonization events us-
ing a multidisciplinary approach involving mathematical
modelling, simulations, and population genomics using
various model species across the eurkaryotic domain.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 85
We developed demogenetic models and methods to un-
derstand, track and predict the evolution of partially
clonal, polyploid populations colonizing new areas. We
currently use these mathematical models to infer the
ecological and evolutionary processes ongoing on the
major aquatic invasive populations of /Ludwigia grandi-
ora/ subsp. /hexapetala /(Lgh) colonizing western Eu-
rope watersheds. We demonstrated that this decaploid
/Ludwigia/ species reproduces using both sexuality and
clonality and mates through a self-incompatible with
at least one self-compatible type capable of selng. We
recently acquired a huge genotyping dataset on 37 pop-
ulations over the Loire watershed, including temporal
and parentage sampling on fewer populations.
We propose a postdoc position for 18 months to ex-
plore the ecological and evolutionary processes ongoing
in these partially-clonal polyploid invasive populations,
using their current genetic diversity and structure.
*Conditions:*
|{
The recruited applicant will join the genetic, ecology and
evolution group of INRAE/Institut Agro group working
on theoretical and applied population biology in Rennes
(France) with direct collaboration with Solenn Stoeckel
(Demecology, IGEPP ^2 ) and Dominique Barloy (Evo-
lutionary ecology of systems perturbed by biological
invasions and xenobiotics, ESE ^3 ) for 18 months, daily
available for group discussions, analyses and co-writings.
Monthly gross salary from 2 800 euro to 3 000 euro , de-
pending on professional experience, including vacation.
Our team and Rennes research community constitute a
friendly, open, inclusive, egalitarian and ecient envi-
ronment to tackle ecological and evolutionary studies
about invasive species, reproductive modes and the dy-
namics of genetic diversity within species, with skilled
people in genetics, ecology, mathematical modelling and
computing sciences., collaborative analyses
*Duties:*
|{
The candidate will actively contribute to the analysis,
interpretation and publication of the existing equations
and datasets, specially developed and acquired for this
project.
These datasets include i/ the numerical outputs of
the adaptable mathematical and simulation models, ii/
the already-acquired /Ludwigia grandiora/ genotyp-
ing dataset across western Europe, and iii/ additional
already-acquired genotyping datasets on partially clonal
and potentially allo- and auto-gamous species across
the eukaryote domains (publicly available, or in col-laboration within the project with partners studying
algae, fungi, tree species, recently spreading into new
areas). We expect the postdoc to integrate their work
in the living, friendly and established collaboration be-
tween Ifremer MARBEC (Sophie Arnaud-Haond) and
Universityof Kansas (Maria E. Orive), and with ANR
Clonix2D project partners, including Universidad Aus-
tral de Chile (Marie-Laure Guillemin), INRAE Nancy
(Fabien Halkett), University of Alabama at Birmingham
(Stacy Krueger-Hadeld), INRAE Bordeaux (St ephanie
Mariette) and CNRS Rosco (Myriam Valero). We pro-
pose to use the /Ludwigia/ dataset as an application
of a more general study of the impacts of reproductive
modes on the dynamics of genetic diversity in invasive
populations using mathematical and simulation outputs
of our own customisable developments, and, in a second
step, to extend the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Koblenz PopulationsGenetics
University of Koblenz, Institute for Integrated Natural
Sciences
Postdoctoral or PhD Position in Population Genetics
Application deadline: 15th May 2022
The Department of Zoology, Institute for Integrated
Natural Sciences, at the University of Koblenz, invites
applications for a
Postdoctoral or PhD Position.
In case of appropriate experience, the position can also
be lled as a PhD position.
Preferred starting date: July 1st 2022
Duration: 3 years
Salary: German salary scale (TV-L 13, 100% PostDoc,
66% PhD)
We invite applications from highly motivated candidates
with a keen interest in population genetics. The posi-
tion is available within the externally funded project
\Condition, dispersal, and population connectivity of two
buttery species in agricultural landscapes". Using two86 EvolDir May 1, 2022
species with contrasting dispersal ability, we will explore
constraints on dispersal in traditional and modern agri-
cultural landscapes. We will use an integrated approach
combining eld collections, common garden experiments,
GIS analyses, and ne-scale landscape genomics.
Our department works mainly in the elds of evolu-
tionary ecology and conservation biology. For further
information please visit:
https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Klaus Fischer
The successful candidate will (1) hold a Ph.D. or M.Sc.,
preferably in population genetics, (2) have experience
with molecular genetic laboratory work, population and
landscape analyses, and (3) be capable of doing eld
work. Experience with ddRADseq and SNPs will be
advantage. Excellent English communication skills are
essential.
The University of Koblenz is an equal opportunity em-
ployer.
To apply, please provide (i) a letter of motivation includ-
ing a statement of your research experience, (ii) a sci-
entic CV including publication list (if any) and copies
of relevant certicates, (iii) names and contact details
of two academic referees. Applications should be sub-
mitted electronically as a single PDF le to bewerbung-
k21@uni-koblenz.de before May 15th 2022. Please men-
tion your name and the call number (25-2022) in your
application and in the header of your email.
For any enquiries please contact Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer
via e-mail:
klausscher@uni-koblenz.de
For the ocial advertisement see: https://www.uni-
koblenz-landau.de/de/uni/organisation/stellen/-
wissenschaftli che-stellen
Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer
Institut f >1
2r Integrierte Naturwissenschaften
Abteilung Biologie
Universit >1
2t Koblenz-Landau
Universit >1
2tsstra >1
2e 1
D-56070 Koblenz
klausscher@uni-koblenz.de
Phone: +49-261-287-2238
Klaus Fischer <klausscher@uni-koblenz.de >Konstanz
TaxonomySpeciesDelimitation
Postdoctoral position in Taxonomy, Species Delimita-
tion & Evolutionary Biology
University of Konstanz, Department of Biology, Chair
of Zoology and Evolution
Konstanz, Germany.
Earliest starting date: June 1st, 2022 or later
Description
A fully funded post-doctoral scholar position for 2 years
will be available after the 1st of June at Prof. Axel
Meyer lab to work on DFG funded work related to
species delimitation in sympatric and allopatric pop-
ulations of live-bearing shes. The project aims at
integrating whole-genome resequencing data and phe-
notypic data to conduct species delimitations applying
coalescent-based integrative taxonomic approaches and
to validate these by contrasting their outcome to empiri-
cally determined degree of reproductive isolation among
species pairs. We seek applicants with a background in
some of the following areas: evolutionary biology, tax-
onomy, phylogenetics and eld research. We encourage
applicants with bioinformatic skills.
The Meyer Lab at the Department of Biology at Univer-
sity of Konstanz, is interested in the origins of adapta-
tions, speciation, and phylogenomics of shes, in partic-
ular the cichlid sh adaptive radiations from Nicaragua
and Africa. A total of three research groups two of
which are headed by Junior Group Leaders make up the
evolutionary biology group (15 members total in the
lab).
The University of Konstanz and the Department of Bi-
ology are among the most highly ranked institutions
in Germany and provide a lively and academically out-
standing research environment. Konstanz is a lovely
historic town located on Lake Constance on the south-
ern border between Germany and Switzerland. The
University of Konstanz and the Department of Biology
are among them most highly ranked institutions in Ger-
many and provide a lively and academically outstanding
research environment. Konstanz is a lovely historic town
located on Lake Constance on the southern border be-
tween Germany and Switzerland. Appointments are
initially for three years and it comes with a competitiveMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 87
salary,and excellent health and retirement benets.
Qualications
Required: PhD in Taxonomy, Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology or Genetics/Genomics.
Preferred: Experience working with genomic data, a
strong conceptual background in evolutionary biology,
experience with eld work.
Application Instructions
To Apply Submit the following documents to
julian.torres-dowdall@uni-konstanz.de: - One page
Cover Letter - C.V. - A relevant publication or
manuscript in preparation - Contact information for
2 References
Applications will be considered until the position is
lled.
Informal inquiries about the position are encouraged:
julian.torres-dowdall@uni-konstanz.de
Julian Torres-Dowdall <julian.torres-dowdall@uni-
konstanz.de >Axel Meyer <axel.meyer@uni-
konstanz.de >
The University of Konstanz is an equal opportunity
employer and tries to increase the number of women
in research and teaching. The University of Konstanz
is committed to further the compatibility of work and
family life and has onsite child care facilities
Julian Torres Dowdall <julian.torres-dowdall@uni-
konstanz.de >
Krakow EvolutionaryPhysiology
Polish Academy of Sciences INC Krakow
Poland.EvolEcolPhysiol
Postdoc position in the project \Integrating eects of an-
thropogenic and natural stressors across the organism's
life cycle" at the Institute of Nature Conservation Polish
Academy of Sciences in Krakow, Poland in collaboration
with KU Leuven, Belgium.
The aim of the project is to understand how environ-
mental stressors: native and invasive alien predators,
increased temperature and seasonal time constraints
inuence key life history traits in aquatic invertebrates
(bluetail damsely) through changes in physiology and
behaviour.
Requirements: - PhD in biology or ecology (PhD defencenot earlier than 7 years before the year of employment
in the project; this period does not include breaks re-
lated to maternity leave) - Strong motivation for project
work - Experience in eld and laboratory work on ani-
mals - Experience in laboratory analysis of biochemical
parameters - Publication record in leading ecological
journals (at least ve articles published within last ve
years) - Advanced skills in statistics in R environment
- Fluency in English, written and spoken - Additional
attribute: experience in and enthusiasm for working in
an international team; valid driving license.
Responsibilities and job description: - Preparing eld
equipment and laboratory installations for experiments
- Animal eld sampling - Rearing experiment in climate
chambers - Measurements of life history, behavioural
(INC PAS in Krakow, Poland) and physiological traits
(Univ. in Leuven, Belgium) - Involvement in work during
irregular working hours (as eld work and lab experi-
ment require) - Attendance in national and international
conferences/workshops - Colaboration with other group
members - Running statistical analyses and writing
manuscripts of scientic publications.
Required documents (combined in one PDF le): - Cover
letter - Scientic curriculum vitae (including a list of
publications) - Scan of Doctorate diploma - Contact
details of two academics who can provide a reference.
I have funding from the National Science Centre,
Poland (grant no. 2019/33/B/NZ8/00521) Contract
of employment: full time for up to 15 months
Starting date of employment: May/June, 2022 Ap-
plication due date: 1 May, 2022 Salary: monthly
gross salary ca. 8 000 PLN, ensuring a pretty good
standard in Poland (average wage in Poland: +/-
5 700 PLN gross) Principal investigator: Dr hab.
in^A>. Szymon ^Aniegula, http://www.iop.krakow.pl/-
pracownicy,102,szymon sniegula.html The posting
is here, https://www.iop.krakow.pl/les/344/-
callpost doceng2022 3.pdf To apply, please
send combined in one PDF le documents to szy-
mon.sniegula@gmail.com with 'postdoc 2022' in the
subject heading.
Applications will be reviewed starting 1 May, 2022, and
will be accepted until the position is lled.
Please contact Szymon Sniegula (szy-
mon.sniegula@gmail.com) if you have any questions
about the position.
Szymon Sniegula <szymon.sniegula@gmail.com >88 EvolDir May 1, 2022
KU Leuven PolarSeascapeGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW IN POLAR SEASCAPE
GENOMICS at KU Leuven, Belgium - Extended call
The KU Leuven invites scholars to apply for a 12 months
postdoctoral fellowship on polar seascape genomics at
the Division 'Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Con-
servation' (KU Leuven).
The research prole focuses on advanced expertise in
seascape genomics to investigate research questions at
the interface of marine evolution and global change biol-
ogy. More specically the candidate will determine the
ecological and evolutionary interdependency of popula-
tions by studying the genetic structure, connectivity and
adaptation of polar sh in the environmental context of
the Southern Ocean and Arctic Sea. You genotype sh
taxa with high throughput genomic tools and analyse
connectivity and adaptation patterns with individual-
and population-based statistical models. The study will
result in advice on the conservation management of
polar sh tting in a context of ocean-wide resource
management. The position is funded by the Federal Gov-
ernment and the European Union. The appointment is
expected to start on July 1, 2022.
Marine science oers excellent prospects for a career,
especially during the United Nations Decade of Ocean
Science for Sustainable Development 2021-2030. We
are looking for a motivated and internationally oriented
colleague with an excellent research record.
The Division 'Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Con-
servation' hosts 10 professors active in ecology, evolution
and ecosystem services. The Laboratory of Biodiversity
and Evolutionary Genomics (LBEG) focuses on marine
ecology and evolution, and collaborates closely with
sta at the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences,
associated to the project. Research assignment
The candidate is expected to further develop the analysis
of high-throughput (RADseq) genotypes with bioinfor-
matic and biostatistical tools, and prepare high quality
scientic publications. You will be supported in your
research by colleagues skilled in molecular tools and
bioinformatic pipelines, and in the oceanographic and
biological context of polar research.
Education The candidate has the option to take part
in the teaching program at the KU Leuven to a limited
extent.Service Scientic, societal and internal services are an
integral part of the assignment.
Requirements * PhD in Marine Science, Oceanography,
Molecular Ecology or related disciplines. * Intermediate
to excellent programming skills. * Experience with polar
environments is an asset. * The quality of your research
is proven by publications in leading international top
25% journals. * International research experience is an
important advantage. * Your spoken and written En-
glish is excellent. The ocial administrative language
at KU Leuven is Dutch.
Oer * We oer employment in an intellectually chal-
lenging environment. KU Leuven is a research-intensive,
internationally oriented university that carries out both
fundamental and applied scientic research. Our univer-
sity is highly inter- and multidisciplinary focused and
strives for international excellence. * We oer state-of-
the-art access to data banks, statistical expertise and
computational facilities. * KU Leuven oers a remu-
neration according to the grade of postdoctoral fellow,
and free public transport or a bike allowance between
home/work. * You will work in Leuven, a historic, dy-
namic, sustainable and vibrant city located in the heart
of Belgium, within twenty minutes from Brussels. Leu-
ven is located less than two hours from Paris, London
and Amsterdam.
Interested? More information on the content of
the job can be obtained from prof. Filip Volckaert
(KU Leuven) at phone +32 16 32 39 72 and email
lip.volckaert@kuleuven.be. The website of KU Leuven
- LBEG is https://bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/lbeg . Appli-
cation format and deadline Please apply no later than
May 30, 2022 via the online application tool (KU Leuven
academic jobs - https://www.kuleuven.be/personeel/-
jobsite/jobs/60097059). We request a motivation letter,
CV, summary of your PhD thesis, a short commentary
on your 5 most signicant publications, evidence of ac-
complished skills and competences, and contact details
of 3 reference persons with full addresses. Interviews
will be organized in June 2022.
KU Leuven places foremost importance on research in-
tegrity and ethical conduct and will therefore ask you
to sign an integrity statement upon appointment. KU
Leuven is committed to creating a diverse environment
and are therefore equal opportunity employers. They
explicitly encourage candidates from groups that are
currently underrepresented at the university to submit
their application. KU Leuven seeks to foster an environ-
ment where all talents can ourish, regardless of gender,
age,
/May 1, 2022 EvolDir 89
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Laramie Wyoming
WildlifeDataScientist
Laramie Wyoming.WildlifeDataScientist
The Merkle Research Group (https://-
merkleresearchgroup.org/) at the University of
Wyoming is seeking a Wildlife Data Scientist to
work at the interface of data science and the ecology
and conservation of animal movement. The scientist
will develop and publish independent research in
collaboration with the Wyoming Cooperative Fish and
Wildlife Research Unit and our state, federal, and NGO
partners. The scientist will also provide data science
service to multiple units at University of Wyoming
including the Merkle Research Group and Wyoming
Geographic Information Science Center.
Research themes can be geared to the scientist's interests
but must center on the ecology and conservation of ani-
mal movement. The scientist will have the opportunity
to play a strong role in leading data science activities
(e.g., GIS workow development, R package develop-
ment, database development and management) relative
to several research and conservation programs within
the Merkle Research Group. Further, the scientist will
play a leadership role in developing a wildlife ecology
component to the University of Wyoming's brand-new
School of Computing.
Minimum qualications include: 1) PhD in wildlife
ecology, quantitative ecology, Information Technology,
computing, or related eld; 2) Procient with R and Ar-
cGIS; 3) Strong career interest in developing connections
between data science and ecology; 4) Experience with
managing and analyzing remote sensing and GPS collar
data; 5) Excellent written, verbal, and interpersonal
communication skills; and 6) Excellent peer-reviewed
publication record for career stage.
Desired qualications include: 1) Experience working
with interdisciplinary teams; 2) Experience coordinating
analytical teams; 3) History working with eld biolo-
gists and wildlife managers; 4) Knowledge of various
database programs and web mapping protocols (e.g.,
SQL Server, C#, JavaScript, Shiny).
The following documents are required to apply: onlineapplication form (link below), detailed cover letter,
CV, and contact information for four work-related
references. The Wildlife Data Scientist will be employed
by the University of Wyoming. We envision this
position to be relatively long-term, and we have
3-yrs of funding secured. The person must relocate
to Laramie, WY. Salary will be approx. $55,000
depending on experience and includes full University
of Wyoming benets. The preferred start date is
September 2022. Review of applicants will begin 4
May 2022. Please direct questions related to this
position to Dr. Jerod Merkle (University of Wyoming)
at jmerkle@uwyo.edu. Use the following link to
apply: https://eeik.fa.us2.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/-
CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX 1/job/220406 .
Jerod Merkle <jmerkle@uwyo.edu >
LMU Munich SymbioticStress
Postdoctoral position: \Stress tolerance of symbiotic
and free-living organisms"
We seek applicants with interests and background knowl-
edge in the elds of Comparative Genomics, Bioinfor-
matics, Population Genomics, Evolutionary Biology or
Fungal Ecology to perform post-doctoral research in
order to understand stress tolerance in symbiotic taxa,
relative to their free-living relatives, using comparative
transcriptomic and ecophysiological approaches.
Applicants should have the ability to work independently
and publish their results in well-respected peer-reviewed
journals. Applicants are required to have eective com-
munication skills, both oral and written, and should
be able to work and integrate in a team. Experience
with bioinformatics for genomic/transcriptomic analy-
ses is required. R-programming and analytical skills
are considered advantageous. Experience with fungi or
algae is desirable, and candidates possessing this ex-
perience will rank higher. Advantageous are skills in
python or another programming language. Essential
are German language skills and excellent manuscript
writing skills. Applicants should have a doctorate in the
eld of bioinformatics, population genetics, genomics or
comparable.
Salary and benets are in accordance with a public ser-
vice position in Germany (collective agreement TV-L
E13, 50%). The contract shall start as soon as possible
and will be limited to 12 months, with a possibility for
extension depending on performance. Equally qualied90 EvolDir May 1, 2022
handicapped applicants will be given preference.
Our major research areas are population genetics, sys-
tematics and ecology of symbiotic fungi. The main study
systems of our group are the model lichen lungwort (Lo-
baria pulmonaria) and other species of the Peltigerales.
Lungwort is an epiphytic lichen which has been studied
extensively regarding its ecology and dispersal biology.
Extensive genome sequence datasets are already avail-
able for lungwort, including multiple assembled and
annotated genomes of the mycobiont and of its primary
photobiont, the green alga Symbiochloris reticulata. Our
group has recently sequenced, assembled and annotated
the genomes of several additional lichen symbionts.
The greater Munich area hosts two large Universities
and several large research institutes. Faculty of biology
of the LMU is characterized by a vibrant, international
research environment setting the stage for fruitful col-
laborations. The candidate's workplace will be located
near the premises of the beautiful Botanical Gardens of
Munich in the Nymphenburg area.
With its beautiful old town, green spaces such as the
forests along the Isar river, English Garden, Nymphen-
burg castle, numerous beer gardens and active night life,
arguably, Munich is one of the cities with highest life
quality in Germany. An interesting feature of Munich is
its location proximate to the Alps, providing interesting
opportunities both for biological studies and for various
recreational activities.
Applications consisting of a CV, publication list, pos-
sible starting date, and a short statement of research
interests (maximum 1 single-spaced page in length),
names and contact information of up to three references
should be prepared in a single pdf le and sent by email
to Silke Werth, werth@bio.lmu.de. Review of applica-
tions will start on April 15th 2022, but applications will
be accepted until a suitable candidate has been found.
Information on the research environment at Univer-
sity of Munich can be found here: www.en.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de Information on relocation to LMU can
be found here: www.en.uni-muenchen.de/about lmu/-
contact/int oce/index.html Prof. Dr. Silke Werth
LMU Munich Systematics, Biodiversity and Evolu-
tion of Plants Menzingerstrae 67 80638 Munich Ger-
many Phone: +49 89 17861 207 Silke Werth <
werth@bio.lmu.de >
Werth <werth@biologie.uni-muenchen.de >LundU PlantGenomics
LundU.PlantGenomics&Bioinformatics
Post-doctoral Fellow Position
Lund University, Sweden
https://lu.varbi.com/en/what:job/jobID:499575/ We
are looking for a postdoctoral fellow
We are accepting applications for a two-year postdoctor-
ate fellow position in bioinformaitcs and plant genomics
to developing an optimized system of using DNA and
RNA NGS and mapping data to identify genes associ-
ated with how a crop plant responds to biotic treatment
for biocontrol and biostimulation. The candidate will
use traditional and advanced machine learning-based
approaches. In addition, the project will collaborate
with researchers in other disciplines, including medicine,
biostatistics, and paleogenomics.
See the link above for full details.
Review of applications begins on mid-May 2022.
Overview:
Candidates are expected to have an interest in plant
biology alongside strong computational skills with a
background in statistics, computer science, and/or a
related eld. Candidates are also expected to have ex-
perience with plat genomics. The candidate will work
jointly with Dr. Eran Elhaik, Prof. Allan Rasmusson
(Lund University) and Prof. Laura Grenville-Briggs
(Sveriges lantbruksuniversitet (SLU), Alnarp).
If you have questions about the poisition, please email
me, but apply on the website, not by email.
Kind regards,
Eran Elhaik, Ph.D. Assoc. Professor in genomics
Lund University Faculty of Science Department of Bi-
ology SE 223 62 Lund Visiting address: S??lvegatan
35
Tel: +46 46-222 9419 Fax: +46 46-222 44 25
eran.elhaik@biol.lu.se http://www.eranelhaiklab.org/
Eran Elhaik <eran.elhaik@biol.lu.se >May 1, 2022 EvolDir 91
NHM London MachineLearningCra-
nialSutureEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Associate - Machine Learning and
Computer Vision for Cranial Suture Evolution through
the Synapsid-Mammal Transition
We are currently advertising for a 2-year Postdoctoral
Research Associate in Machine Learning and Computer
Vision at the Natural History Museum, London. The
Natural History Museum is one of the world's top muse-
ums and is internationally recognised as a leader in the
study of the natural world through its collections and its
role as a centre of excellence in scientic research and in
the presentation of natural history through exhibitions,
public programmes, publications and the web. This post
will be based jointly in the Department of Life Sciences
at the Natural History Museum (primary institution)
and the School of Engineering at London South Bank
University, working with PI Anjali Goswami, Co-Is En-
rico Grisan, Alana Sharp, and Arkhat Abzhanov, and
PDRA Heather White. The successful applicant for this
post will be responsible for developing machine learning
and computer vision tools for the automated extraction
of cranial suture morphology and skull shape from 3D
meshes for living and fossil specimens spanning the past
and present diversity of synapsids, the clade that today
is represented by mammals
This post is funded by a Leverhulme research grant that
will focus on the evolution of cranial sutures through
the synapsid to mammal transition. The mammal skull
performs numerous critical functions, from prey capture
and feeding to protecting the brain to ghting. These
functions impose enormous pressures which are buered
by the skull's shock absorbers: cranial sutures. These
highly variable joints between skull bones are intimately
linked with ecology and development, but their complex
3D anatomy makes them tricky to capture using tradi-
tional methods. As a result, we know almost nothing
about their macroevolutionary patterns. Bridging imag-
ing, machine learning, cranial function and evolution,
this project will reconstruct suture evolution and its role
in one of the most important events in the history of life:
the rise of mammals. The successful candidate will work
closely with the PIs, Co-Is, and an evolution PDRA in
developing these methods and applying them to a new
cranial dataset for synapsids. They will be expected
to lead on scientic publications describing these newmethods, including open access, user-friendly tools, and
present at conferences, as well as promote the project at
various outreach events at the NHM and outside the mu-
seum as the opportunity arises. We provide a friendly,
exible, and collaborative environment to accommodate
and support diverse circumstances, backgrounds, and
needs.
Main Responsibilities
* Develop novel machine learning and computer vision
tools for automated extraction of cranial suture morphol-
ogy from 3D meshes * Lead or contribute to development
and renement of tools for automated capture of skull
shape data from 3D meshes * Develop tools applicable
to surface and micro-CT scans * Write well-documented
code and produce user-friendly tools for open access
dissemination * Work closely with project team, includ-
ing Evolution PDRA, PI, and Co-Is for delivery of the
full project * Lead and contribute to research publica-
tions * Present results at scientic conferences * Travel
to work with collaborators as needed * Contribute to
future research proposals
Person Specication
Essential:
* PhD in Computer Vision, Machine Learning, or a
relevant subject, completed or submitted by the time
of starting this position. * Experience with 3D data
and models * Experience developing ML models in R or
Python * Ability to work independently, but also as part
of a team * Demonstrated ability to complete a research
project(s) * Track record of publications in international
peer-reviewed journals * Strong communication skills;
experience in presenting research at conferences
Desirable:
* An interest in natural sciences and evolutionary biol-
ogy * Experience with morphometric analyses in R *
Experience in presenting research results to the public
Salary: 38,797 (Full time, 24 month xed term contract)
Deadline, Wednesday, April 20, 2022, 5pm BST
(GMT+1)
Interviews expected week of May 2
To apply
If that sounds like you, please apply online
on the Natural History Museum's careers por-
tal: https://careers.nhm.ac.uk/templates/CIPHR/-
jobdetail 2394.aspx You should upload the following
documents:
* A comprehensive curriculum vitae giving details of
relevant achievements in recent posts as well as your92 EvolDir May 1, 2022
education and professional qualications. * A cover-
ing letter that summarises your interest in this post,
providing evidence of your ability to match the criteria
outlined in the role competencies.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NMNH Smithsonian
FormFunctionSpiderEvolution
Postdoctoral Fellowship: Combining Functional Data
with 3D Morphometrics to Understand the Evolution
of Spider Chelicerae (\Jaws")
Drs. Hannah Wood and Je Shultz are seeking a 2-year
Postdoctoral Fellow. The appointment has the possibil-
ity to extend one year, for a total of three years. The
Fellow will be primarily based at the National Museum
of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, in Wash-
ington DC, working with Hannah Wood, but will also
collaborate closely with Je Shultz at the University of
Maryland, College Park. The ideal applicant will have a
strong interest in morphology and evolution, strong ca-
pabilities to work and learn independently, and a proven
publication record.
This Postdoctoral Fellowship is funded by the National
Science Foundation and has the goal of examining the
evolution of cheliceral form and function across spi-
ders using several dierent methodologies: 1) gathering
UCE sequence data and phylogenetic analysis; 2) micro-
Computed-Tomography scanning and 3D-morphometric
analysis; 3) histological sectioning; 4) high-speed videog-
raphy of cheliceral strikes; 5) comparative phylogenetic
techniques.
There is exibility in tailoring this position to the ap-
plicant's research interests. Ideally though, the Post-
doctoral Fellow will have experience or a strong interest
in learning how to analyze and process 3D shape data
from micro-Computed-Tomography scans. The Fellow
will have some freedom to develop their own projects,
although ideally their research interests will align with
the goals of the project, that of using phylogenetics
and functional morphology to understand morphologi-
cal diversication. Applicants can come from a variety
of backgrounds, but we are particularly interested inthose with a strong interest in functional morphology
and evolution.
Responsibilities include: - Initiate and perform research
on the morphology, function and evolution of spider
chelicerae (\jaws"), and writing up the results of this
research for publication in peer-reviewed journals. - Col-
laborating with other personnel involved in the project,
which includes PIs, graduate and undergraduate stu-
dents, and interns at both NMNH and UMD. - Par-
ticipating and presenting at scientic conferences. -
Participating in outreach activities, such as interacting
with the public at NMNH and developing activities for
children at \Bug Camp", and acquiring mentoring expe-
rience. - Career development with the goal of building
a strong CV and job application prole.
Starting salary is $61,915, and includes benets for
Smithsonian non-federal Trust hires and built-in salary
increases each year. The position can begin as soon as
the NMNH hiring process is complete - typically taking
3 months.
To be considered, send an email to Hannah
(woodh@si.edu) or Je (jshultz@umd.edu) that includes
the following attachments: 1) a cover letter expressing
your interest and your qualications for the position,
2) your curriculum vitae, and 3) names and contact
information of 2-3 professional references.
To receive full consideration, submit your application
by April 20, 2022; however, we will consider applicants
until the position is lled.
Please email Hannah Wood (woodh@si.edu) or Je
Shultz (jshultz@umd.edu) with any questions or con-
cerns about this position.
Hannah M. Wood Research Entomologist Department
of Entomology National Museum of Natural History
Smithsonian Institution
WoodH@si.eduMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 93
Norway eDNA Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Bioinformatics of eDNA
A position as Postdoctoral Research Fellow in bioinfor-
matics of eDNA is available at the Arctic University
Museum of Norway, UiT. The appointment is for two
years. The workplace is at UiT in Troms >1
2. You must
be able to start in the position no later than 6 months
after receiving the oer. You will conduct research as
a part of the newly established Norwegian Centre for
Arctic Ecosystem Genomics (ArcEcoGen) and will be
part of the methodological development working group.
The position will focus on developing new methods for
processing and annotating DNA metabarcoding data.
Our group has been analysing modern and ancient envi-
ronmental samples using DNA metabarcoding for many
years. We have a large collection of datasets correspond-
ing to these samples, and a great deal of expertise on
how to process them modularly. We now want to take
advantage of this data collection to develop an ecient
machine learning-based system capable of establishing
cleaning and annotation rules for multiple broad taxo-
nomic groups conditional on the ecosystem studied. The
rules and annotations proposed by the system can be
compared with those established empirically. While the
architecture of the system remains to be dened in col-
laboration with the person recruited, it should be based
on a database that can archive all the raw data and their
annotation, and on, for example, a machine learning
system backed up by this database. The position holder
will also participate in teaching, outreach, and assis-
tance to the ArcEcoGen members. It is expected that
the position holder will participate in research group
collaboration and professional networks nationally and
internationally and will also be encouraged to obtain ex-
ternal funding from national and international funding
agencies (e.g. RCN/EU).
https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/-
223609/postdoctoral-research-fellow-in-bioinformatics-
of-edna See also other positions here: https://-
uit.no/research/arcecogen Prof. Inger Greve Alsos
The Arctic University Museum of Norway UiT -
The Arctic University of Norway NO-9037 Troms >1
2
Norway Telephone: +47 77 62 07 96 Telefax: +47
77 64 51 05 Email: inger.g.alsos@uit.no NOTE
THAT WE ARE RECRUITING 9 POSITIONS:
https://uit.no/research/arcecogen#news 768037 http:/-/en.uit.no/ansatte/inger.g.alsos http://ecogen.no/
https://www.iceagent.no/ http://svalbardora.no/
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8610-1085 Inger Greve
Alsos <inger.g.alsos@uit.no >Inger Greve Alsos
<inger.g.alsos@uit.no >
OkinawaInstSciTech 4 Evolution
html
<pre>The Marine Macroevolution Unit at the Okinawa
Institute of Science and Technology (OIST) is looking
for a postdoc or sta scientist in Ichthyology. Position
is for 3+ years (dependent on progress) and start date
is exible. https://www.oist.jp/careers/postdoctoral-
scholar-or-sta-scientist-ichthyology We seek a highly
motivated, expert researcher with a deep knowledge
of sh biodiversity, including but not limited to sys-
tematics, taxonomy, and ecology. The researcher will
pursue groundbreaking projects on ichthyological top-
ics, such as the origins of the Indo-Pacic biodiversity
hotspot, diversication of sh groups, description and
characterization of species and communities, and/or the
inuence of environmental and ecological factors on sh
biodiversity.
Responsibilities: - Lead innovative projects focused on
the ichthyological interests of the Marine Macroevolu-
tion Unit. - Publish results in high-quality journals. -
Present at national and international conferences.
Qualications: (Required) - PhD in Ichthyology, Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology, Organismal Biology, Fish-
eries, Systematics or related eld with dissertation fo-
cused on shes. - Deep experience and understanding
of sh biodiversity and taxonomy, with expertise in at
least one major clade. - Interest in biodiversity, macroe-
cology, and/or systematics questions. - Experience with
specimens and museum collections, including imaging,
preservation and dissection. - Familiarity with various
descriptive and quantitative methods in Ichthyology (e.g.
systematics, Phylogenetic Comparative Methods, CT
imaging, geometric morphometrics, community metrics,
etc.). - Willingness to develop knowledge about clades,
areas, and events of interest to the unit if outside of past
experience (e.g. paleoichthyology, evolutionary develop-
ment). - Willingness to learn new methods as needed. -
Willingness to collaborate with other units in the Marine
Science and Ecology at OIST and other labs outside.
- Willingness to travel to museum collections or eld
sites. - Good spoken and written English skills, includ-94 EvolDir May 1, 2022
ing relevant scientic terms and concepts. Japanese is
not required but classes are provided to OIST employees
and their families.
(Preferred) - Prociency in phylogenetic comparative
methods and image processing. - Prociency in quan-
titative methods (e.g. Systematics, Phylogenetic Com-
parative Methods, geometric morphometrics, CT scan
data, etc). - Prociency in R or other programming
language. - Prociency in molecular phylogenetics. -
Track record of publications demonstrating broad in-
terests in shes, including descriptive, systematic, and
macroevolutionary.
Term: Full-time, the postdoctoral position (PhD <5
years) is initially for one year and can be extended to
2 more years based on performance and mutual agree-
ment. The sta scientist position (PhD >5 years) is
initially for one year and can be extended further based
on performance and mutual agreement.
Benets:
- Relocation, housing and commuting allowances -
Annual paid leave and summer holidays - Health
insurance (Private School Mutual Aid http://-
www.shigakukyosai.jp/ ) - Welfare pension insurance
(kousei-nenkin) - Worker's accident compensation insur-
ance (roudousha-saigai-hoshou-hoken)
Submission Documents: Single PDF with Title \Last-
Name FirstName PositionArea" including:
- Cover letter including brief statements of research in-
terests and interest in the unit (3 pages max). - List of
top three representative publications (or manuscripts in
prep) with one paragraph summary of key ndings and
scientic value for each. - Contact information for 3 rec-
ommendations (will be contacted after rst evaluation)
- Full CV including publication list. * Prior to the start
of employment all new hires are required to successfully
complete a background check. Personal information in-
cluding employment history and academic background
should be submitted to third-party administrators after
a conditional oer of employment.
Application Due Date: June 1, 2022 for full considera-
tion. Applications will continue to be screened until the
position is lled.
How To Apply: Apply by emailing your Submission
Documents to:
Lauren.Sallan[at]oist.jp
(Please replace [at] with @ before using this email ad-
dress)
Declaration:
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
OklahomaStateU ModellingDisease
Post-doctoral position in statistical modelling of infec-
tious diseases and biodiversity
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Research As-
sociates in to join the Stephens lab in the Department
of Integrative Biology at Oklahoma State University.
The position is associated with a project funded by NIH
\Spillover of Ebola and other loviruses at ecological
boundaries."
The successful candidate will build statistical models of
large-scale disease dynamics and biodiversity, primarily
spillover and outbreak risk for Ebola and other African
loviruses, participate in database development, and
develop project workows in R. Knowledge of statistical
modelling, machine learning (such as boosted regression
trees), GIS, prociency with R and experience either
with macroecological analyses or statistical analyses of
disease dynamics are required. Additional skills such as
knowledge of disease ecology,Ebolavirusecology and evo-
lution, economic or biodiversity analyses, mathematical
modelling, phylodynamics or phylogenetic comparative
methods in general are welcome but not essential.
Required qualications are a Ph.D. in ecology, evolu-
tionary biology, statistics, economics, epidemiology or
closely related elds. Candidates with a past record
of publication in disease ecology, macroecology, or eco-
nomics will be given preference. Candidates must have
excellent English writing and verbal communication
skills, as well as an established record of productivity
(i.e., at least one previous peer reviewed publication).
The position will initially have a duration of one year,
with possibility of extension to a second year depend-
ing on satisfactory performance and funding availability.
Compensation will include $53,760 for 12 months of
salary, as well as health insurance and other benets.
Send all inquiries to Patrick Stephens
at(patrick.stephens@okstate.edu). To apply, please
submit a (1) cover letter addressing how your expertise
meets the position requirements, (2) a CV, (3) one
representative publication, and (4) contact info (phone
and email) for three references toPatrick Stephens
(patrick.stephens@okstate.edu). In the subject line ofMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 95
your e-mail, please include your name and the name of
the position (i.e., \Application for Statistical Modeling
of Spillover Risk: LASTNAME"). Applicationsreceived
by May 16, 2022 will receive full consideration. However,
recruiting will continue until the position is lled
so applications received after this date may still be
considered. We value the diversity of perspectives that
a team made up of individuals with varied backgrounds
will possess and encourage applications from members
of groups underrepresented in STEM.
Oklahoma State University, as an equal opportunity
employer, complies with all applicable federal and state
laws regarding non-discrimination and armative ac-
tion. Oklahoma State University is committed to a
policy of equal opportunity for all individuals and does
not discriminate based on race, religion, age, sex, color,
national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, gen-
der identity/expression, disability, or veteran status with
regard to employment, educational programs and ac-
tivities, and/ or admissions. For more information,
visit https:///eeo.okstate.edu . \Stephens, Patrick"
<patrick.stephens@okstate.edu >
RBG Kew FungalEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Associate - Comparative Fungal
Biology
Apply here: https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/-
postdoctoral-associate-comparative-fungal-biology-
481299.html The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew (RBG
Kew) is a leading plant science institute, UNESCO
World Heritage Site, and major visitor attraction. Our
mission is to understand and protect plants and fungi
for the well-being of people and the future of all life
on Earth. We are working to end the unprecedented
extinction crisis and to help create a world where nature
is protected, valued by all and managed sustainably.
We are seeking a highly motivated scientist to
perform research on fungal phylogenomics to anal-
yse, interpret, and publish genome data gener-
ated by the 'Discovering the Fungal Tree of Life'
(DFToL) project (https://www.kew.org/science/our-
science/projects/fungal-tree-of-life); and to explore the
viability of our collections and their associated traits in
fungal genomics research.
You will join Kew's science sta as a Postdoctoral Re-
search Associate, conducting and publishing outstand-
ing research and helping to develop funding streams tofurther support your science within the Comparative
Fungal Biology team, part of Trait Diversity and Func-
tion, one of ve Priorities in the Science Directorate.
This position will provide you with the opportunity and
skills to gain international recognition.
You will be an enthusiastic early career scientist with
a PhD in a relevant subject area (we are seeking can-
didates with bioinformatics skills and desirably fungal
knowledge) and, ideally, some postdoctoral experience.
You will have a proven aptitude for delivering excellent
science publications and demonstrated potential to raise
research income. You will be an outstanding and en-
thusiastic communicator who is ready to engage with
students, peers and the general public.
The salary will be 35,000 per annum.
This role is based at Kew with the option of regular
home working, subject to operational requirements.
Our fantastic benets package includes opportunities for
continuous learning, a generous annual leave entitlement,
exible working to help you maintain a healthy work-life
balance, an Employee Assistance Programme and other
wellbeing support such as cycle to work scheme and dis-
counted gym membership. We also oer a competitive
pension, an employee discount scheme and free entry
into a wide range of national museums and galleries, as
well access to our own beautiful gardens at Kew and
Wakehurst.
Dr. Ester Gaya Senior Research Leader jComparative
Fungal Biology Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond,
Surrey, TW9 3DS, UK Tel.:+44(0)208 332 5381 Email:
e.gaya@kew.org
Ester Gaya <ester.gaya@gmail.com >
Senckenberg 3 LichenGenomics html
<pre>Job announcement ref. #11-22010
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
is a member of the Leibniz Association and is based in
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. SGN conducts natural
history research with more than 800 employees and re-
search institutions in six federal states. Within SGN, the
Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(SBiK-F) explores the interactions between biodiversity,
climate, and society.
The Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre invites applications for a96 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Postdoctoral Researcher (m/f/d) in Movement Ecology
of Asiatic Wild Ass
(full-time position, 100%)
We are seeking a candidate (m/f/d) with a strong back-
ground in quantitative ecology to advance research in the
movement ecology of Asiatic wild ass (Equus hemionus,
Khulan in Mongolian). Possible topics include research
related to animal movement behaviors, habitat selec-
tion, human disturbance, and related elds. We expect
strong quantitative and conceptual skills, basic ecologi-
cal knowledge, and an interest in understanding drivers
of animal movements in relation to changes in land use
and climate.
The research program is part of a scientic collabora-
tion among SBiK-F, the Wildlife Conservation Society
Mongolia (WCS Mongolia), and Inland Norway Univer-
sity of Institute of Applied Sciences (INN). You will
have the opportunity to work on GPS tracking data of
Khulan in relation to anthropogenic developments and
climate change in the Mongolian Gobi ecosystem. You
will collaborate with natural scientists and movement
ecologists at SBiK-F and colleagues from WCS Mongo-
lia and INN. Research questions will revolve around the
eect of infrastructure on behavior and habitat selection
and could also relate to activity patterns and navigation
mechanisms in relation to key resources (e.g. water
points). We expect you to be highly motivated to col-
laborate with researchers and conservation practitioners
in Mongolia.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to develop
your own research questions in collaboration with a large
international and interdisciplinary research team, span-
ning expertise in movement ecology, community ecology,
social ecology, and ecosystem functions at SBiK-F.
Tasks and Responsibilities
Develop models quantifying impacts of anthropogenic
developments on movement and habitat selection of Khu-
lanDevelop your own research questions related to Khu-
lan movement behaviorPrepare training materials for
students and researchers in MongoliaTravel to Mongoli-
aPublish research results in international peer-reviewed
journalsPresent research results at scientic conferences
Your Prole
A PhD degree in Ecology, Geography, or a related eld-
Excellent quantitative and statistical skills, excellent
programming skills in R, and programming of large
databasesExperience with movement and spatial analy-
sesEnthusiasm for collaborating across institutions and
coordinating interdisciplinary and collaborative research
projectsSalary and benets are according to a full-time public
service position in Germany (TV-H E13, 100%). The
position is a one-year xed-term post with a possible
extension for one further year.
The Senckenberg Research Institutes support equal op-
portunity of men and women and therefore strongly
invites women to apply. Equally qualied handicapped
applicants will be given preference. The place of em-
ployment is in Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
You would like to apply?
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job oer (ref.#11-22010) until May 12th, 2022
by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf document) and
include
a cover letter detailing research interests and experi-
encea detailed CVcopy of your certicationcopies of two
publicationscontact details of two potential academic
referees To:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
This project takes place in the working group of Profes-
sor Thomas M uller.
For scientic enquiries please contact Dr. Nandintsetseg
Dejid (nandintsetseg.dejid@senckenberg.de).
Mit freundlichen Gr uen / Yours sincerely
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.
Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a  >1
222 BGB)
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-21, 60325 Frankfurt
am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1319 Elsen, Carina
Team Personalbeschaung (Recruiting)
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
- 1564 di-Biase, MariaMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 97
- 1204 Reitinger, Jasmin
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1445
Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
Direktorium: Prof. Dr. Klement Tockner, Prof. Dr.
Katrin Bohning-Gaese, Dr. Martin Mittelbach, Prof.
Dr. Andreas Mulch, Prof. Dr. Karsten Wesche;
Pr asidentin: Dr. h.c. Beate Heraeus;
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Senckenberg MolluscBioinformatics
We are recruiting a bioinformatician focussing on mollus-
can genomics in the lab group of Prof Dr Julia Sigwart
based in the Senckenberg Research Institute and Mu-
seum, Frankfurt, Germany. This position will support a
research programme investigating rare and \superweird"
molluscs including target species with extraordinary
adaptations and body forms. This is advertised as a
postdoctoral position but a PhD is not strictly required
- skills and experience are more important than quali-
cation - please circulate widely.
Application deadline 11 MAY
To apply, please submit a CV, cover letter, and the
anonymous application information form (details below)
to recruiting@senckenberg.de
Job posting ref. #01-22014
For over 200 years the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung represents one of the most relevant insti-
tutions investigating nature and its diversity. Currently,
scientists from more than 40 countries conduct research
in the elds of biodiversity, earth system analysis and
climate change in seven Senckenberg Institutes across
Germany.
Following its mission to analyse and document biodiver-
sity in earth system dynamics - to serve science and soci-
ety, Senckenberg fosters curiosity-driven and application-
oriented research. In Senckenberg at Frankfurt we seek
to ll the position of a Bioinformatician
This position is funded by a ve-year project designed
to combine cutting edge technology for studying boththe anatomical and genomic basis for evolutionary nov-
elties in molluscs, and test whether genomic novelties
are more strongly associated with armour and shell mor-
phology or rather physiological adaptations that allow
the invasion of new niche spaces.
Your job would be to provide bioinformatics capacity es-
pecially in de novo genome assemblies of mollusc species.
Your tasks:
- Genome assembly and annotation of mollusc species
that are sequenced via the LOEWE TBG and external
partners using state-of-the- art sequencing technologies
and compute infrastructure - Support other members of
the research group working on morphological features
to identify specic research questions - Perform inde-
pendent research in collaboration with other members
of the research group, the LOEWE-TBG, Senckenberg
Ocean Species Alliance, and external collaborators on
molluscan genomics - Perform comparative analyses of
resulting genomes including for phylogenomics
Your prole:
- Master degree or equivalent training and experience
in bioinformatics / computational biology, genomics
or a related area; a PhD degree in these elds is an
advantage but not strictly required - Experience with
shell scripting and Unix tools - Previous experience in
genomics, genome assembly and/or annotation using
non-model organisms, preferably molluscs - Familiarity
with measures of genome assembly data quality and
completeness, troubleshooting, screening data for con-
tamination - Genuine curiosity and interest in nature,
the oceans and their inhabitants, and especially molluscs
What can you expect?
- An interesting and challenging task in a dynamic and
stimulating team of researchers, technicians and com-
municators - Excellent benets and work-life balance:
Flexible working hours - dual career service - leave of ab-
sence due to family reasons - parent-child-oce - annual
special payment - company pension scheme - Sencken-
berg badge for free entry in museums in Frankfurt -
leave of 30 days/ year
Senckenberg supports equal opportunity for men and
women and places an emphasis on fostering career op-
portunities for women and under-represented groups.
Qualied women and other under-represented groups
are strongly encouraged to apply. Part time options are
available. Equally qualied applicants with disabilities
will be given preference.
Senckenberg is a globally connected institute. The work-
ing language within this project is English. Frankfurt is
a vibrant, international, culturally diverse city and one98 EvolDir May 1, 2022
of the world's travel hubs. We welcome candidates from
all nations and will provide support with your relocation
process.
Location: Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Volume of employment: 100 % full-time position (40
weekly working hours)
Type of contract: Employment shall start as soon as
possible and will be limited for a two-year contract
Remuneration: According to a German public service
collective agreement TV-H EG 13
\julia.sigwart@senckenberg.de"
<julia.sigwart@senckenberg.de >
SwissOrnithInst
GenomicConictTEsSVs
*Postdoc position: Escalation of TE-related genomic
conict under hybridization in birds*
An SNSF-funded 2-3-year postdoc position on bird
genomics is available in the research group of Reto
Burri at the Swiss Ornithological Institute (http://-
www.vogelwarte.ch), Switzerland.
*The Project* The project is fully funded by the Swiss
National Science Foundation (SNSF). It focuses on a
songbird system characterized by pervasive hybridiza-
tion to test key hypotheses on the role of escalating
genomic conicts between TEs and their repressors in
reproductive isolation. To this end, the research lever-
ages extensive linked-read genome resequencing data to
test the hypotheses that (1) hybrids exhibit increased
TE proliferation and thereby increased rates of chro-
mosomal rearrangements (SVs) and (2) the TE-related
genomic conict constrains gene ow between species.
The research builds on available state-of-the-art genomic
resources.
*The working environment* The research group is in-
terested in the molecular underpinnings of phenotypic
adaptation and speciation in birds and the trajecto-
ries along which they evolve. To this end, we apply
population genomic, phylogenomic, and comparative
genomic tools on large-scale whole-genome resequencing
data. The host institution, the Swiss Ornithological
Institute (http://www.vogelwarte.ch), is a non-prot re-
search institute in Switzerland. We perform research on
birds to address basic scientic and applied/conservation
questions, disseminate information on bird ecology andconservation to the public, media, and authorities, and
provide foundations for the eective conservation of
birds. Together with our partners, we aim to ensure
that nature benets from the existing scientic knowl-
edge.
*Your specic tasks and qualications* The success-
ful applicant holds a PhD degree and has experience
in genomics and/or population genomics, ideally with
a specialization in the inference and analyses of TEs
and/or SVs and a solid background in population ge-
nomics, or genomics of adaptation/speciation. Your
main tasks will be the inference and validation of TEs
and SVs at population scale and the testing of hypothe-
ses deriving from theories on genomic conict and its
role in speciation.
*We oer* - A dynamic, young, international research
group working on bird population genomics - Collabo-
rations with leading international researchers - A salary
in accordance with the regulations of the Swiss National
Science Foundation (http://www.snf.ch) at the salary
scale of the Swiss Ornithological Institute (ca. 80'000.-
CHF gross in the rst year).
The position is open for 2-3 years. Preferred starting
date is 1st September 2022. Please submit your appli-
cation *in a single PDF*, including (i) a motivation
letter detailing your research interests and t to the
position (max. 2 pages), (ii) your CV including publi-
cations, and (iii) contact details of 2-3 academic refer-
ences. Please submit your application by email to Reto
Burri (reto.burri@vogelwarte.ch). Applications will be
reviewed from 1st June on until the position is lled. For
more information about the project and the position,
please contact Reto Burri (reto.burri@vogelwarte.ch).
Reto Burri <Reto.Burri@vogelwarte.ch >
Switzerland InsectBirdMovements
Post-doctoral researcher (80 - 100%) \Aerial insect and
bird movements, 80 - 100%
Apply here: https://my.jobalino.ch/de/jobpreview/2720
Company prole The Swiss Ornithological Institute
(http://www.vogelwarte.ch/) in Sempach is a non-prot
foundation supported by the public and focuses on a
wide range of research topics on wild birds within and
beyond Switzerland. We aim to acquire the scientic
basis for the understanding of biological systems and
for the conservation of birds and their habitats. In theMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 99
bird migration department, we aim at understanding
the temporal and spatial patterns of bird migration by
quantifying mass migration across Europe using radar
and tracing the routes of individual birds with the help
of geolocators. To understand migratory bird move-
ments, we also study the movements of other taxa such
as bats and insects, to uncover cross-taxa interactions
and the impacts these have on migratory birds.
Job description The MoveInEurope project is an inter-
national scientic collaboration aiming at quantifying
the biomass ows and movement patterns of aerial in-
sects in Europe, from regional to continental scales
and over timescales from days to years, using radar
data. We are particularly interested in identifying the
atmospheric, climatic, and landscape/habitat drivers of
migratory animal movements. MoveInEurope grew out
of GloBAM (https://globam.science/), a BioDivERsa
(http://www.biodiversa.org/) research project with part-
ners in Switzerland, Belgium, Finland, The Netherlands,
and the USA.
We are seeking to ll a postdoctoral researcher position
within the MoveInEurope project to: (1) analyse the
interactions between bird and insect abundances and
movements, and (2) improve the taxonomic detail of
insect identication from radar data.
Your tasks - Enhance the extraction of biological in-
formation (especially insects) from radar data through
improvements in signal processing, feature extraction,
and classication algorithms, and the collection of in-
sect eld/air reference data - Analyse data from >15
radars across Europe to quantify bird and insect abun-
dances and movements over time, and in particular the
links between the two taxa - Upscale estimates from
vertical-looking radars using weather radar data
Your prole - PhD in ecology, biology, remote sensing,
or related discipline - Background in radar aeroecol-
ogy, migration ecology, or other relevant elds - Strong
quantitative skills and prociency in a programming
language, preferably R - Excellent communication skills
and interest in working in a collaborative project
We oer - An international, dynamic, and exible re-
search group working on animal migration - Collabora-
tion with leading national and international researchers
- Salary in accordance with the regulations of the Swiss
Ornithological Institute ( ^A6200 CHF gross per month
in the rst year). - The position is for 2 years with
possibility of extension for an additional year, with a
preferred starting date of 1 July 2022.
Contact text Application and contact We look forward
to receiving your online application by 15 May 2022.
Please send your application documents (motivationletter detailing your research interests and t to the
position requirements - max 2 pages, your CV with
publication list, and contact details of two academic
references) in a single PDF le. Other applications will
not be considered
Interviews will take place in the second half of May
2022. For more information about the position or the
MoveInEurope project, please contact Birgen Haest
(mailto:Birgen.Haest@vogelwarte.ch) and Silke Bauer
(mailto:Silke.Bauer@vogelwarte.ch).
The Swiss Ornithological Institute is committed to in-
creasing the representation of women in leadership roles
and research and specically encourages applications
from qualied women.
Birgen Haest <Birgen.Haest@vogelwarte.ch >
TempleU EvolutionaryGenomics
Multi-year NIH-funded support is anticipated for a post-
doctoral researcher in the Hey lab at Temple University.
Experience in evolutionary or population genetic theory,
particularly in mathematical modelling or statistical
analysis of evolutionary genomic data, is desired. The
successful candidate will become a member of both
the Center for Computational Genetics and Genomics
(CCGG) and the Institute for Genomic and Evolutionary
Medicine (iGEM) at Temple University.
Project Description: The primary focus of the re-
search will be on the development and application
of improved analyses of selected and neutral substi-
tutions, building on an approach rst described in
doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2023575118
The salary will follow current NIH postdoctoral guide-
lines, based on years of postdoctoral experience. Full
benets are included.
Applicants should submit the following in a single docu-
ment as an attachment to hey@temple.edu: (1) a cover
letter (include expected completion date of PhD, if ap-
propriate), (2) a CV, and (3) contact information for
three references.
Temple is an R1 university, located in the heart of
historic Philadelphia, and is the sixth largest provider
of graduate school education in the USA. Situated in
close proximity to New York City and Washington DC,
Philadelphia is the birthplace of America and home to
many academic and research institutions.100 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Temple University is an equal opportunity, equal access,
armative action employer committed to achieving a
diverse community.
Jody Hey hey@temple.edu Director, Center for Com-
putational Genetics and Genomics Professor, Depart-
ment of Biology Temple University 1900 N. 12th Street
Philadelphia, PA 19122
Jody Hey <hey@temple.edu >
UAruba TropicalSeascapeGenetics
The University of Aruba, in collaboration with KU Leu-
ven (Belgium), and facilitated with funding from the
European Development Fund (EDF), set up the SIS-
STEM (Sustainable Island Solutions through Science,
Technology, and Engineering (STEM)) program. This
program includes a Bachelor program and research cen-
ter in bio-environmental engineering, technology, engi-
neering, informatics, and data sciences. We are looking
for a motivated, and internationally oriented scholar
with an excellent research record and a sound apprecia-
tion for research and outreach in a small island context
for a 15-month postdoctoral fellowship on:
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW IN TROPICAL
SEASCAPE GENETICS (1 fte.)
The fellow is embedded in the SISSTEM program (Uni-
versity of Aruba) and the Division ???Ecology, Evolution
and Biodiversity Conservation??? (KU Leuven). Ma-
rine science in the perspective of small islands oers
excellent prospects for a career, especially during the
United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable
Development 2021-2030.
Research assignment: The research prole focuses on
advanced expertise in seascape genetics to investigate
research questions at the interface of marine evolution
and global change biology. More specically the can-
didate will determine the ecological and evolutionary
interdependency of populations by studying the genetic
structure and connectivity of tropical corals in the en-
vironmental context of the Southern Caribbean Sea
(Southern Antilles). You genotype four coral taxa with
high throughput genetic tools and analyze connectiv-
ity patterns with an individual- and population-based
statistical models. The study will result in advice on
the conservation management of coral reefs tting in
a context of regional anthropogenic impact. The po-
sition is funded by the European Union. The candi-date is expected to further develop the analysis of high-
throughput microsatellite genotypes with biostatistical
tools, and prepare high-quality scientic publications.
You will be supported in your research by colleagues
skilled in molecular tools and data analysis, and in the
oceanographic and biological context of tropical research.
Scientic, societal, and internal services are an integral
part of the assignment.
The ideal candidate:
??? Is an excellent, internationally oriented researcher
and strengthens a research program at the forefront of
seascape genomics;
??? Publishes at the highest scientic level in top 25%
journals of her/his research eld;
??? Holds a Ph.D. in Marine Science, Oceanography,
Molecular Ecology, or related disciplines.
??? Well acquainted with molecular ecology.
??? Skilled in academic teaching.
??? Holds adequate diving certication.
??? International research experience is an important
advantage.
??? Has excellent verbal and written communication
skills in English.
We oer full-time employment in an intellectually chal-
lenging environment, in an exciting EU-funded project
for a one 15 months contract. The selected candidate
will work in Aruba and Leuven and is embedded in the
SISSTEM teaching and outreach program at the UA.
The contract provides an attractive benets package
including APFA pension, additional health insurance,
and a competitive wage.
Interested? Visit our website and submit through our
career portal: https://careers.portal.ua.aw before Fri-
day, April 15, 2022, your motivation letter, resume, a
summary of your Ph.D. thesis, a short commentary on
your 5 most signicant publications, evidence of accom-
plished skills and competencies, and contact details of 3
reference persons with full addresses. Interviews will be
organized in the second half of April 2022.
View an extensive version of this vacancy on our ca-
reer portal: https://careers.portal.ua.aw. If you need
further information regarding the position, contact
prof. Eric Mijts (UA) via email eric.mijts@ua.aw.
and/or prof. Filip Volckaert (KU Leuven) via email
lip.volckaert@kuleuven.be. One (or more) job inter-
views, a medical exam, an assessment test, and a certi-
cate of good conduct are in accordance with our rules
of application and a standard part of our recruitment
and selection procedure.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 101
Filip Volckaert <lip.volckaert@kuleuven.be >
UBualo EcolEvolBio
Exciting opportunity for an Ecological and/or Evolution-
ary Biology Postdoctoral Associate in the Department
of Biological Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences,
University at Bualo.
Job posting link: https://www.ubjobs.bualo.edu/-
postings/33804 The Santos Laboratory (https://-
arts-sciences.bualo.edu/biological-sciences/faculty/-
faculty-directory/scott-santos.html), recently relocated
to the University at Bualo, utilizes a variety of
molecular tools, computational approaches and eld-
and laboratory-based studies to examine the ecol-
ogy, evolution, genetics, physiology, and symbiosis
biology of a range of terrestrial and aquatic (both
freshwater and marine) organisms, including host- and
environmentally-associated microbiomes.
In the above context, three broad areas of current re-
search are:
- Phylogeography and physiology of microbiomes and
crustaceans from the anchialine ecosystem of the Pacic
Basin - Animal-microbial interactions via grazing or
symbioses - The genetic basis of coloration variation
and longevity in crustaceans
The successful candidate will have a chance to work
with existing, as well as generating novel, large-scale
datasets including genomic (DNA/RNA) resources. The
candidate will have the opportunity to collaborate with
researchers from multiple institutions and government
agencies on projects involving the above. The candidate
would also be expected to work with Dr. Santos on
developing research proposals to funding agencies such
as the National Science Foundation (NSF) in the above
areas. The Santos Lab has a history of having diverse
personnel and a multidisciplinary research program and
is interested in recruiting from dierent backgrounds to
continue this tradition.
The candidate should have a Ph.D. preferably in ecolog-
ical and/or evolutionary biology, population genetics,
physiology, computational biology, bioinformatics, or
microbiology. Experience in handling large datasets
(e.g., high-throughput sequencing data), programming
and scripting (e.g., Python, R), and familiarity with
UNIX/LINUX operating environments is preferred.
If you are interested, please submit your CV, names ofthree references, and a brief (no more than 1.5-page)
cover letter outlining research interests and career goals
(including personal perspectives in diversity, equity, and
inclusion in the biological sciences). Applications will
be accepted until the position is lled.
Outstanding Benets Package Working at UB comes
with benets that exceed salary alone. There are per-
sonal rewards including comprehensive health and re-
tirement plan options. We also focus on creating and
sustaining a healthy mix of work, personal and academic
pursuit - all in an eort to support your work-life eec-
tiveness. Visit our benets website to learn about our
benet packages.
About The University at Bualo The University at Buf-
falo (UB) is one of America's leading public research
universities and a agship of the State University of
New York system, recognized for our excellence and our
impact. UB is a premier, research-intensive public uni-
versity dedicated to academic excellence. Our research,
creative activity and people positively impact the world.
Like the city we call home, UB is distinguished by a
culture of resilient optimism, resourceful thinking and
pragmatic dreaming that enables us to reach others
every day. Visit our website to learn more about the
University at Bualo.
As an Equal Opportunity / Armative Action employer,
the Research Foundation will not discriminate in its em-
ployment practices due to an applicant's race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, na-
tional origin and veteran or disability status.
Minimum Qualications: - PhD (or MD) preferably
in ecological and/or evolutionary biology, population
genetics, physiology, computational biology, bioinfor-
matics, or microbiology conferred within the past ve
years.
Preferred Qualications: - Experience in handling large
datasets (e.g., experience genome-wide sequencing data),
programming and scripting (e.g., Python, R), and fa-
miliarity with UNIX/LINUX operating environments is
preferred.
Interested applicants should submit: - a CV - names
of three references - a brief (no more than 1.5-page)
cover letter outlining research interests and career goals
(including personal perspectives in diversity, equity, and
inclusion in the biological sciences).
Please do not send application materials directly to
the posting contact. Please use posting link (https://-
www.ubjobs.bualo.edu/postings/33804) for applying
to this opportunity.
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled.102 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Scott R. Santos Empire Innovation Professor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia SanFrancisco
HumanEvolutionMachineLearning
Multiple Postdoctoral Positions in Computational Biol-
ogy, Evolution, and Machine Learning
Multiple funded postdoctoral scholar positions are avail-
able in the lab of John A. (\Tony") Capra at the Uni-
versity of California, San Francisco. The positions oer
competitive salaries above the NIH scale, benets, and
support for moving expenses.
The Capra Lab develops integrative computational meth-
ods for interpreting genomes to answer fundamental
questions about human disease and evolution. We
have open positions in several areas: - Interpreting
the genomes of archaic hominins and ancient humans
- Designing machine learning methods for electronic
health records
- Developing novel methods for analyzing the genomes
of individuals with undiagnosed disease
- Mapping the genetics of gene regulation in human
brain network evolution
For more information about the group and our work,
visit http://www.capralab.org/ . The successful candi-
dates will lead projects under one or more of the areas
listed above. There is substantial room for the develop-
ment and initiation of new projects. The scholars will
benet from the diverse and collaborative environment
in the Capra Lab and UCSF. They will also obtain train-
ing and experience in teaching, mentoring, and project
management.
The Capra Lab is located in the Bakar Computational
Health Sciences Institute, the campus hub for computa-
tional method development and data integration. We
also collaborate closely with the active UCSF Evolution-
ary Genomics community.
A record of successful publications and a PhD in bioinfor-
matics, genetics, evolution, computer science, statistics,
or a similar discipline is preferred. Programming andanalytical skills are essential for these positions. We wel-
come interested candidates from diverse backgrounds.
Interested applicants should send a CV and a cover
letter outlining qualications and research interests to
Tony Capra <FIRSTNAME@capralab.org >with the
phrase \postdoc application" in the subject line. Please
provide contact information for three references.
Tony Capra http://www.capralab.org/ Tony Capra
<tony@capralab.org >
UCambridge
EnvironmentalMicrobialGenomics
The Ecosystems and Global Change Group led by Prof
Andrew Tanentzap at the University of Cambridge
(www.ecosystemchange.com) is seeking a full-time
Post-Doctoral Research Associate (PDRA). The
PDRA will join a new project funded by the Canada-
Inuit Nunangat-United Kingdom Arctic Research
Programme (https://www.ukri.org/what-we-oer/-
browse-our-areas-of-investment-and-support/canada-
inuit-nunangat-uk-arctic-research-programme/). The
project seeks to develop a community-led wildlife health
monitoring programme for Nunavik with a highly
multidisciplinary team of 14+ Inuit, Canadian, and UK
researchers, including anthropologists, epidemiologists,
and veterinarians. The PDRA will interact with this
larger team and receive additional supervision from
Prof James Wood (www.vet.cam.ac.uk/sta/professor-
james-wood-obe).
The primary goal of this post is to develop and vali-
date novel techniques to detect wildlife diseases at a
watershed-scale using eDNA/eRNA. The PDRA will be
responsible for co-designing sampling approaches with
Inuit partners and embedding in local communities to
sample drainage waters across Nunavik. In the lab, they
will use state-of-the-art genomics approaches to estimate
the presence and abundance of known pathogens of con-
cern. These estimates will be validated with targeted
qPCR assays on tissue samples collected from a range of
keystone Arctic species (e.g., caribou, ptarmigan, seal,
beluga Arctic char) by local hunting and trapping as-
sociations. Using the sequencing data, the PDRA will
also identify gene transfer events and emerging zoonosis
risks.
A key objective of the project is to build long-term ca-
pacity in Inuit Nunangat research in accordance with
the National Inuit Strategy on Research. The PDRAMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 103
will therefore develop online training materials in bioin-
formatics and deliver a short course at the end of the
project on the analysis of genetic sequence data at the
Nunavik Research Centre.
The post can start immediately, and funds are available
for up to 36-months subject to satisfactory completion
of a 6-month probationary period. Salary ranges from
 >1
233,309 to  >1
240,927 per year.
The successful candidate must have a proven track
record of publication in leading peer-reviewed journals,
ideally demonstrating innovative approaches in the study
of eDNA/eRNA. They will have a PhD in microbial ge-
nomics, bioinformatics or a related subject. A track
record of engagement with community-led science, and
some experience with developing training materials, is
highly desirable.
Questions about the post should be directed to Prof
Andrew Tanentzap (ajt65@cam.ac.uk).
Apply at https://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/34625/ by
the 13 May 2022.
Andrew Tanentzap <ajt65@cam.ac.uk >
UCambridge
EvolutionBrazillianInvasiveMoths
More information here: https://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/-
job/34326/ A Research Associate post is available for
20-24 months in the Insect Evolution and Genomics
Group directed by Chris Jiggins in the Department of
Zoology at the University of Cambridge. Start date
from 1st of June - 1st of October.
The position is funded by a Bilateral BBSRC-FAPESP
award (BB/V001329/1) with collaborators Celso Omoto
and Alberto Soares in Sao Paulo, Brazil; Tom Walsh
at CSIRO in Australia; and Frank Chan from the Max
Planck in Tuebingen.
The successful candidate will study ongoing pesticide
resistance evolution of a highly damaging invasive moth
in South America, Helicoverpa armigera, which has been
found to hybridise with native H. zea.
They will lead the sampling and genomic analyses to
study contemporary evolution of Helicoverpapests in
Brazil initially assessing the extent and prevalence of
each species in new outbreaks, with a particular focus on
the economically valuable Bt soybean. They will work
in close collaboration with Brazilian colleagues at theUniversity of Sao Paulo to design a monitoring scheme
for new outbreaks, collate information from farms, carry
out genome sequencing on existing or new F2 screen-
ing crosses, and study the genetic basis of any novel
insecticide resistance or host plant adaptations.
The successful candidate should have PhD in a relevant
subject such as evolutionary biology, genetics, or biologi-
cal sciences. They should have excellent communication
skills in English and Portuguese (written and oral), good
understanding of evolutionary biology, and strong quan-
titative skills. They should have keen interest in crosses,
QTLs, and GWAS methods and experience with com-
puter programming / scripting / data analysis (e.g. R,
Python, unix shell). Please see the Further Particulars
for other essential and desirable requirements.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed
to: Professor Chris Jiggins Email: cj107@cam.ac.uk
Fixed-term: The funds for this post are available up
until 31 May 2024.
\G. Montejo-Kovacevich" <mgm49@cam.ac.uk >
UCollege London ResAssoc
StatisticalPhylogenetics
Research Associate in computational genomics in Uni-
versity College London, - Ref: 1883743
Research Associate in computational genomics, at De-
partment of Genetics, Evolution & Environment, UCL
Grade: 7 Hours: Full Time Salary: Grade 7  >1
236,770 -
 >1
244,388 per annum including London Allowance
Duties and Responsibilities The post holder will work
in the group of Professor Ziheng Yang FRS to conduct
research in the area of computational genomics. You
will become a member of a research team that takes an
integrative approach to speciation biology by combining
computational science, eld ecology, and genomic anal-
ysis. The project is a collaboration with Anne Yoder
(Duke University, genomics) and Marina Blanco (Duke
Lemur Center; behavioural eld ecology).
The successful candidate will participate in the develop-
ment of Bayesian inference methods and implementation
of computer software for analysing genomic sequence
data from closely related species under the multispecies
coalescent model. They may be expected to design and
implement computational algorithms, conduct computer
simulation, analyse genome-scale datasets, and write104 EvolDir May 1, 2022
up results for publication in international peer-reviewed
journals. For a sample of our recent work in this area,
please see Flouri et al. 2020 Mol Biol Evol 37:1211-1223;
Jiao & Yang 2021 Syst Biol 70:108-119; Jiao et al. 2021
Nat Sci Rev 8:nwab127; Zhu & Yang 2021 Mol Biol Evol
39:3993-4009.
The post is funded by the NERC for 23 months in the
rst instance. The post is available immediately.
Key Requirements We seek a research scientist with ex-
pertise in computer programming (C/C++), Bayesian
inference (MCMC), or computational and speciation
genomics.
A PhD (or working towards a PhD) in one of the fol-
lowing areas is essential: computational science (e.g.,
C programming for HPC), statistical inference (e.g.,
MCMC), and phylogenomics and population genomics.
Individuals with a biology PhD are invited to apply if
they can demonstrate strong computational/statistical
skills. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary collabora-
tive environment is essential, as is uency with Linux. A
proven track record of eective research will be required.
Please note: Appointment at Grade 7 is dependent upon
having been awarded a PhD; if this is not the case, ini-
tial appointment will be at Research Assistant Grade
6B (Salary  >1
232,217 -  >1
233,958 per annum, includ-
ing London Allowance) with payment at Grade 7 being
backdated to the date of nal submission of the PhD
thesis (including corrections).
Further Details A job description and person specica-
tion, can be accessed at the bottom of this page. Please
ensure you read these carefully before applying for the
post.
To apply for the vacancy please follow the link at the
bottom.
If you would like to discuss the post please contact
Professor Ziheng Yang FRS at z.yang@ucl.ac.uk.
If you have any queries regarding the application
process please contact Biosciences stang on bio-
sciences.stang@ucl.ac.uk quoting the vacancy refer-
ence number: 1883743. UCL Taking Action for Equality
We will consider applications to work on a part-time,
exible and job share basis wherever possible. Closing
Date: 8 May 2022 Latest time for the submission of
applications: 23:59 Interview date: TBC
Our department holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award,
in recognition of our commitment to advancing gender
equality. This appointment is subject to UCL Terms
and Conditions of Service for Research and Support
Sta.
Please use these links to nd out more aboutUCL working life <https://www.ucl.ac.uk/human-
resources/working-ucl/jobs-ucl >including the
benets we oer and UCL Terms and Condi-
tions < http://www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/salary scales/-
Support Research tcs.php >related to this job.
\Yang, Ziheng" <z.yang@ucl.ac.uk >\Yang, Ziheng"
<z.yang@ucl.ac.uk >
UConnecticut SticklebackEvolution
University of Connecticut Job: Postdoctoral Researcher
studying evolution of gene co-expression networks in
stickleback
A postdoctoral research position is available in
Dr. Daniel Bolnick's research group (https://-
bolnicklab.wordpress.com), in the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution at the University of Connecticut. The
position is available for up to four years, supported by
a National Science Foundation Rules of Life: Emerging
Networks grant. A consortium of researchers recently es-
tablished 8 replicate whole-lake experimental evolution
populations of threespine stickleback. The postdoc will
apply network statistics methods to study changes in
gene co-expression networks as the experimental popula-
tions evolve, and diverge. The postdoc may also pursue
analyses that integrate the gene expression networks
with host-parasite, predator-prey and host-microbiome
networks. The project also entails developing and apply-
ing innovative analytical methods in network statistics,
in collaboration with Dr. Tina Eliassi Rad (Northeast-
ern University, http://eliassi.org) and Miaoyan Wang
(Univ Wisconsin Madison, https://pages.stat.wisc.edu/-
~miaoyan/index.html). Additional project collaborators
include Dr. Rowan Barrett, Dr. Kathryn Milligan-
McClellan, and Dr. Jesse Weber. Opportunities exist
to pursue side-projects along with the core project task.
Tasks: The postdoctoral researcher may contribute to
some or all of the following activities: eld work to
collect samples, laboratory work to generate sequencing
libraries for transcriptomics and genomics, bioinformatic
processing of sequence reads, developing or adapting
network statistics methods, applying existing network
analysis tools to gene expression data, and publishing
manuscripts arising from the work. It is not expected
that the postdoc would have prior mastery of all these
elements.
Duration: The position is currently funded for up to
four years, with extensions subject to availability ofMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 105
grant funds. The start date is exible.
Qualications: Applicants must have a PhD in evo-
lutionary biology, genetics, computational biology, or
statistics with an emphasis on network analysis. Previ-
ous research experience and publications should demon-
strate a commitment to basic research, ethical conduct
of research, computational skills, organizational ability,
and publication productivity. Prior experience with
generating or analyzing genomic or transcriptomic data
is strongly preferred. Expertise in statistical analysis of
network data is preferred.
Applications should electronically submit a single pdf
le with:
1) a Coverletter outlining research achievements, skills,
and goals as pertinent to the advertised project.
2) a copy of the applicant's CV,
3) copies of up to three publications or submitted
manuscripts
4)) A list of three references, with contact information
(email, telephone, and mailing address). We will request
letters directly from these references, after identifying
top candidates. Please notify the references that they
may be contacted by Dr. Bolnick for recommendations.
An initial application should be emailed to Dr. Daniel
Bolnick ( daniel.bolnick@uconn.edu ). Include the
subject line \Network Evolution Postdoc: <YOUR
NAME >". Applications will be reviewed beginning
May 15 and will remain open until the position is lled.
For questions about this position, please email Dr.
Bolnick (daniel.bolnick@uconn.edu). For informa-
tion about the Bolnick Lab visit the lab website
(https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com ), lab photostream
(https://www.ickr.com/photos/98765823@N08/-
albums), and Dr. Bolnick's Google Scholar
page (https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
3Dcfwxm0AAAAAJ&hl=3Den ).
The University of Connecticut is an Equal Opportunity
Employer. Applicants with questions about disability
services can privately discuss their application with
the University of Connecticut Disability Services Of-
ce. A statement of BolnickLab values can be found
here: https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com/2015/10/01/-
labvalues/
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick Editor-In-Chief, The American
Naturalist Professor, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
& Institute for Systems Genomics
daniel.bolnick@uconn.edu
MAIL TO: Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology 75 N. Eagleville Road, Unit 3043 University ofConnecticut Storrs, CT 06269-3043, USA
Oce Phone: 860-486-3156 Lab Phone: 860-486-3937
Cell Phone: 512-809-6217
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UDurham SnowPetrelPopGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Associate in Antarctic Molecular
Ecology at the University of Durham, UK
(3 years)
Foraging ecology and population genomics of the snow
petrel using ancient and modern DNA and metagenomic
analysis of stomach oil deposits (up to thousands of years
old) in the context of climate change. Skills in ancient
DNA and genomics desirable.
Application Deadline: May 24th, 2022, 23:59 BST. For
full details see: https://antsie.webspace.durham.ac.uk/-
2022/04/26/pdra-Antarctic-molecular-ecology/ For in-
formal inquiries contact erin.mcclymont@dur.ac.uk and
a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk
\HOELZEL, RUS A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
UEastAnglia DrsophilaLifeHistory
Two positions open at the University of East Anglia.
CLOSING DATE: 5thApril
Title: I see / smell / touch / hear and therefore I am: sex
dierences in perception alter survival and reproduction.
Applications are invited for the posts of Senior Research
Associate and Research Technician, on a new BBSRC-
funded project (joint between UEA - PI T Chapman;
Co-I Alex Maklakov - and the University of Leeds - Co-
I Amanda Bretman) to investigate, using the fruity
model system, the importance and contrasting roles of
perceptual eects of the social and sexual environment
on lifespan, ageing and reproduction in males versus
females. We aim to test how these eects are linked to106 EvolDir May 1, 2022
sex-specic eects of nutrient sensing genes that them-
selves have well-documented eects on lifespan.
Post-doc post:
https://myview.uea.ac.uk/webrecruitment/pages/-
vacancy.jsf?vacancyRef=RA1950 Tech post:
https://myview.uea.ac.uk/webrecruitment/pages/-
vacancy.jsf?vacancyRef=TC799 Closing date: 5th
April 2022
Prof Tracey Chapman jSchool of Biological Sciences
University of East Anglia, Norwich Research Park, Nor-
wich, NR4 7TJ
Email:tracey.chapman@uea.ac.uk
Web:traceychapmanresearch.com
\Tracey Chapman (BIO - Sta)"
<Tracey.Chapman@uea.ac.uk >
ULausanne PlantSexualSystems
Postdoc, University of Lausanne, Switzerland: Evolu-
tion of plant sexual systems
A postdoc position is open in John Pannell's lab in
the Department of Ecology and Evolution, University
of Lausanne, to study the evolution of plant sexual
systems, with a focus on evolutionary transitions be-
tween hermaphroditism and dioecy. The scope of the
project can be partly tailored to the particular interests
of the successful applicant. We are currently using ex-
perimental evolution to address questions concerning
the quantitative genetics and genomic architecture of
sexual-system transitions, including but not only sex
chromosomes. The postdoc could potentially play a
leading role in taking this study forward (it is now in its
11th year), with substantial latitude to use the genetic
material generated so far to conduct further experiments
and/or investigate the genomic architecture of responses
to selection. The postdoc could also study aspects of
sex-chromosome evolution in plants, working on one of
three dierent study systems we have developed in the
lab to understand links between sex chromosomes, sex
allocation and sexual dimorphism.
The project could start from September 2022, but
the starting date is exible. Further details about
the lab, including recent papers on which this project
will build, can be found at: https://www.unil.ch/dee/-
pannell-group, or on writing to john.pannell@unil.ch.Research scope and skills sought The successful can-
didate for this position should have a strong interest
and background in evolutionary biology and evolution-
ary genomics, including wet-lab skills and experience
in the analysis of genomic data. He/she should also
have proven ability to write up research results, as
demonstrated in published or accepted papers, or in
high-quality preprints, good communication and inter-
personal skills, and an ability to work in a team. Al-
though not a requirement (the language of the lab and
the research environment of the department is English),
some knowledge of French would be an asset. Ideally,
the candidate will have received his/her PhD in the last
couple of years.
Host Department and University The Department of
Ecology and Evolution hosts a broad range of research
groups, and its members enjoy a lively intellectual and
social life. Although the University of Lausanne is fran-
cophone, the department is highly international, and
all its research activity and seminars are conducted in
English. The University has seven faculties and approx-
imately 14,300 students and 3,900 researchers from over
120 countries. It is situated on a beautiful campus on
the shore of Lake Geneva, and is close to the Swiss and
French Alps.
Applications Informal enquiries should be sent to John
Pannell (john.pannell@unil.ch). Formal applications
should be uploaded to the link below and should include
(1) a cover letter detailing your research interests, ex-
perience and motivation for applying, (2) a CV, (3) an
example of previous research work (one or more pub-
lished articles or preprints, or thesis chapters, and (4)
the names of two referees. All applications received by
15 May 2022 will receive full consideration.
Application link: https://bit.ly/3xMZAog University
equality policy The University of Lausanne promotes
an equitable representation of men and women among
its sta and encourages applications from women and
minority groups.
John Pannell <john.pannell@unil.ch >
UNaples
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Position at the University of Naples Fed-
erico II, Italy
We are accepting applications for a two-years post doc-May 1, 2022 EvolDir 107
torate fellow position in plant evolutionary genomics to
identify genes and processes associated with evolutionary
and functional switch from kidney shaped to dumb-bell
stomata among related sedge (Cyperus) species.
Review of applications begins on mid-May 2022.
OVERVIEW:
We are looking for an enthusiastic candidate with an
interest in plant biology alongside a strong background
in next-generation sequencing and bioinformatic analy-
ses. The candidate must have completed a Ph.D. degree
in the last three years, preferably in the areas of plant
genomics, gene expression, molecular evolutionary bi-
ology, phylogenetics, computational biology and must
show a clear record of research in these areas. The work
will focus on bioinformatics methods to analyse genomic
and transcriptomic data and to estimate the tempo
and mode of genes evolution from comparative genomic
data. In addition, the candidate will collaborate with
researchers at ETH Zurich.
HOW TO APPLY:
To apply, please submit in one PDF le: (i) one page
cover letter including motivation and research interests,
(ii) a CV, and (iii) contact information for two references
electronically, to cozzolin@unina,it. Review of applica-
tions will continue until the position is lled. Job can
start as early as July 2022.
*The selected candidate will be required to present o-
cial credentials from all his/her academic degrees.
If you have questions about the position, please email
me.
Kind regards,
Prof. Salvatore Cozzolino Ph.D Dept. of Biology Uni-
versity of Naples Federico II Complesso Universitario di
Monte S. Angelo Via Cinthia, 80126, Napoli, Italia Build-
ing 7, room 0D-27 Email: cozzolin@unina.it Phone:+39-
081679186 (room); +39-081679185 (lab) https://-
www.docenti.unina.it/salvatore.cozzolino Questa email
 >1
2stata esaminata alla ricerca di virus da AVG. http://-
www.avg.com salvatore cozzolino <cozzolin@unina.it >
salvatore cozzolino <cozzolin@unina.it >
UOtago PopulationGenomicsRats
We are seeking an outstanding Postdoctoral Fellow to
carry out research for a new project (Population ge-
nomics in Norway and Ship rat populations in Aotearoa).This project is funded by Predator Free 2050, to develop
genomic datasets that allow an understanding of gene
ow in Norway and Ship rat populations in Aotearoa.
This project will be carried out as part of a broader PF
2050 project, investigating the application of genetic-
based control methods to eradicate rat populations in
Aotearoa.
We welcome applications from postdoctoral candidates
who have experience in molecular biology, evolutionary
and population genetics/genomics, and bioinformatics.
To be successful in this role you will be highly self-
motivated and be able to work alongside a wide variety
of people. In addition, you will have a strong com-
mitment to research excellence with a track record of
high research productivity based on international, peer-
reviewed publications commensurate for career stage.
This role is based in the Department of Anatomy, at
the University of Otago, and working in collaboration
with researchers from Plant and Food Research. The
Department makes major contributions to the under-
graduate and postgraduate education of students in
science, medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, physiotherapy,
medical laboratory sciences, and physical education. Its
research activities fall within four interdisciplinary pro-
grammes encompassing: biological anthropology; clini-
cal anatomy; neuroscience; reproduction, genomics and
development.
This is a full-time, xed term position for two years (1
July 2022 - 30 June 2024).
Applications from M?ori and Pacic candidates, and
tangata Tiriti, are warmly encouraged.
Please address any questions to Catherine Collins
(catherine.collins@otago.ac.nz)
For more information and to apply: https://-
otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=-
3Den&job=3D2200760 Working at Otago - Your Career,
University of Otago (s01) Click the link provided to see
the complete job description. otago.taleo.net
catherine.collins@otago.ac.nz
UPorto LittorinaAdaptation
The Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics research group
at the Research Centre in Biodiversity and Genetic
Resources CIBIO/InBIO, University of Porto, Por-
tugal ( EVOLGEN- https://cibio.up.pt/en/groups/-108 EvolDir May 1, 2022
evolutionary-genetics-and-genomics-evolgen/) is recruit-
ing a postdoc researcher to work in the project \ The
role of chromosomal inversions in adaptation and re-
productive isolation across the speciation continuum "
funded by the Portuguese Science Foundation (FCT),
aiming to develop quality research in adaptation and
speciation, specically focused on the role of chromoso-
mal rearrangements in diversication in marine snails
of the genus Littorina.
Overview : We will generate whole-genome sequencing,
including long reads and Hi-C, and SNP data to infer
new chromosomal rearrangements/structural variants
in Iberian populations of L. saxatilis, their frequencies
and their evolutionary history using model-based
demographic inference . We will also characterize
genetically and phenotypically individuals collected
across environmental transects encompassing hybrid
zones between and within ecotypes, which will be
complemented by mating experiments and correlations
with environmental variables. The candidate is mainly
expected to analyze (comparative and population)
genomic s datasets, but also to participate in sampling,
eldwork, phenotyping and possibly (depending on the
prole) lab work. The selected candidate will work
directly with the Principal Investigator Rui Faria at
CIBIO ( [ https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
ubDybpQAAAAJ&hl=en jhttps://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=ubDybpQAAAAJ&hl=en ] ; https://-
rmigueldefaria.wixsite.com/farialab-1) and the co-PI
Professor Roger Butlin (University of Sheeld,
UK: [ https://www.sheeld.ac.uk/biosciences/-
people/academic-sta/roger-butlin j https://-
www.sheeld.ac.uk/biosciences/people/academic-
sta/roger-butlin ] ), as well as with all the project
team, including: Miguel Carneiro, Pedro Andrade and
Fernando Lima (CIBIO); Kerstin Johannesson (Uni-
versity of Gothenburg, Sweden), Anja Westram (IST,
Austria); Juan Galindo (University of Vigo, Spain); and
Vitor Sousa (CE3C, University of Lisbon, Portugal);
and the vibrant international research team working in
Littorina (https://littorina.group.shef.ac.uk/).
The expected prole: Highly-motivated evolutionary
genetic s specialist with strong bioinformatic skills, self-
driven, responsible, excellent communication (orally and
written) skills and high work ethic standards, enjoy
team work, be fascinated by the relationships between
organisms and their natural environment , and some
molecular lab experience (Having completed the PhD is
mandatory)
We oer: 2 years and 7 months contract for a full-time
post with a m onthly remuneration to be paid as set by
article 23 (3) of RJEC, corresponding to level 33 of the
Single Salary Table, approved by Order no. 1553-C/2008of December 31st, i.e. 2153,94 Euros.
Workplace: BIOPOLIS/CIBIO - Research Center in Bio-
diversity and Genetic Resources, in Campus de Vair ao,
Rua Padre Armando Quintas n ^Ao7, Vair ao, Portugal
and may involve travel in Portugal and abroad , namely
in Spain, UK and Sweden, among others , for eldwork,
meetings, etc.. Biopolis is the largest Portuguese project
in Environmental Biology, Ecosystems and Biodiversity
and aims to transform [ http://cibio.up.pt/en/ jCIBIO
] into an international superstructure linking scientic
research with civil society and the business sector to
address the emerging global challenges
Application : For additional information and formaliza-
tion of applications please visit: [ https://www.cibio.pt/-
?p=2054jhttps://www.cibio.pt/?p=2054 ] . The fol-
lowing documents must be submitted in a PDF format:
i) Curriculum vitae , ii) Motivational Letter , iii) Qual-
ications Certicate ; iv) Name and contact of two
references; v) Breve description of the most relevant re-
search activities in the last 5 years (max. 1 page) ; and
vi) and o ther relevant documentation . Applications
close on 2022, the 15th of May.
Next Steps: We expect to contact you by email within
one week after the closing date to let you know whether
or not you have been shortlisted to participate in the
next stage of the selection process.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UPrimorska WildlifeMonitoring
The University of Primorska is the coordinating institu-
tion of the Horizon 2020 project Step change focusing on
citizen science for wildlife monitoring. We are looking
for a post doc with experience in camera traps and data
analysis.
Your tasks: You should be able to implement a com-
prehensive approach to combine spatial and presence
information with fragmentation of the landscape, time-
frame, ecological characteristics of the area etc. You are
also expected to be able to run and test models to vali-
date collected data and infer past and future trends and
you are expected to contribute to project management.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 109
Good communication skills with stakeholders would be
appreciated.
Your prole: - A relevant university education with a
completed doctoral/PhD degree and a strong potential
in research. - Relevant knowledge and willingness to
work in ecological statistics. - Willingness to supervise
graduation/master theses, and to promote young scien-
tists. - Excellent spoken and written English is required.
Slovene would be advantageous.
We oer: - The advertised position is for an initial pe-
riod of 2 years - The position will be paid accordingto
category of the Collective agreement for employees at
Slovenian universities.
Application instructions: Interested applicants are re-
questedto send the application in electronic form to
stepchange@famnit.upr.si, and \Postdoc in wildlife man-
agement" in the object. Please attach in pdf format: - A
cover letter explaining your interest in the position and
how you t the description - a CV - a list of publications
highlighting the with ve the most relevant ones.
Application deadline: May 08th, 2022
Best regards,
Elena Prof. dr. Elena Buzan, Vice-Dean
Faculty of Mathematics, Natural Sciences and Informa-
tion Technologies University of Primorska Glagoljaska 8,
SI-6000 Koper, Slovenia Phone: +386 5 6117570, Fax:
+386 5 6117571 E-mail: elena.buzan@famnit.upr.si
Web:
https://www.famnit.upr.si/sl/zaposleni-in-sodelavci/-
elena.buzan/ Elena <elena.buzan@famnit.upr.si >
UPuertoRico 2 ButteryEvolution
html
<pre>University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras: Buttery
wing color pattern evolutionary and functional genomics
Two Postdocs positions in evolutionary and functional
genomics.
The Papa's lab (https://www.riccardopapalab.com) is
in San Juan, the capital of the beautiful island of Puerto
Rico, which provides amazing research opportunities and
lifestyle. The selected postdoc will explore the genetic
and epigenetic source of variation for natural selection
and adaptation to work upon.This research project will
investigate what governs patterns diversity, what limitsit, and what promotes its potentials. To do so, methods
of pure genetics, phylogenetics, epigenetics, single cell
genomics, developmental cell biology, and functional
genomics will be utilized. The nal goal is to charac-
terize the molecular architecture of single cells/scales of
unique colors.
Two NSF-funded postdoctoral positions are available in
the laboratory of Dr. Riccardo Papa in the Department
of Biology of the University of Puerto Rico, R o Piedras
Campus. These positions are looking to increase di-
versity in the research group and foster collaboration
and knowledge transfer. The laboratory has a rich back-
ground in studying the natural history of Heliconius but-
teries, with a genomic, evolutionary developmental fo-
cus. Our research is using high-end genomic approaches
and functional assays to characterize the genetic and
epigenetic architecture of color pattern development in
butteries. We are using whole genome resequencing,
ATAC-seq, ChIP-seq and CRISPR to better understand
the pathways involved in color pattern development and
their evolution. We have enough data to test strong
hypotheses in buttery wing color pattern development
using a single cell genomic approach. Our lab has state
of the art genomic technology which includes, an Illu-
mina Miseq, an Illumina NextSeq 2000, and a single
cell 10X Chromium among many other equipment. We
generate all the data locally and can perform CRISPR
experiments using our buttery rearing facility.
SPECIAL REQUISITES
The candidate must have completed a Ph.D. degree,
preferably in the areas of genomics, population genetics,
developmental biology and or computational biology.
The position requires skills in the areas of genomics,
development and computational biology, and a strong
record of research in these areas. Being highly moti-
vated will be necessary to collaborate with National and
International research groups. The work will focus on
bioinformatics methods to analyze large genomic and
epigenomic data. Specically, this includes generating
single cell genomic data and building pipelines to assem-
ble and analyze such dataset (epigenetic and expression)
to determine cell fate and buttery's wing color pat-
tern development with a precision never available before.
Candidates from Minority Serving Institutions (MSI)
are strongly encouraged to apply for the position
HOW TO APPLY
To apply, please submit in one PDF le: (i) one page
cover letter including motivation and research inter-
ests, (ii) a CV, and (iii) contact information for two
references electronically, to riccardo.papa@upr.edu and
rpapa.lab@gmail.com. Review of applications will start
immediately and will continue until the position is lled.110 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Job can start as early as July 2022.
*The selected candidate will be required to present o-
cial credentials from all his/her academic degrees.
This job opportunity is nanced with external funding
and does not consider the expectation of a probation
position.
Riccardo Papa Full Professor, Department of Biology
Director of High Throughput Sequencing Facility Uni-
versity of Puerto Rico - R o Piedras Julio Garc a D az
(JGD) 213 Rio Piedras, San Juan PR 00931
tell: 787-764-0000 ext 4827(oce) or 7764(lab) fax:
787-764-3875 Lab WebPage (under construction):
http://www.wix.com/ricpapa/Papa-Riccardo-Lab Topi-
cos 2013 (Genomic Frontiers in Modern biology):http:/-
/biotopicsuprrp.weebly.com/index.html Riccardo Papa
<rpapa.lab@gmail.com >
<\pre> <\pre>
UTexas Austin MolecularEvolution
Postdoctoral Positions at the University of Texas at
Austin
Postdoctoral positions in the areas of molecular evo-
lutionary biology, population genetics, bioinformatics,
microbial and viral diversity, and/or genomics are avail-
able in the research groups of Howard Ochman or Nancy
Moran at the University of Texas.
Potential research topics include:
 >1
2Evolutionary Dynamics of Microbiomes
 >1
2Determinants of Genome Evolution in Bacteria and
Viruses
 >1
2Molecular Mechanisms Underlying Host-Microbe
Interactions
Applicants should be curious, and able to formulate their
own ideas and research directions. Successful applicants
will play a major role in dening their own research
projects.
Salary, in the range of $55,000 to $60,000, will be com-
mensurate with academic level and experience, and
accompanied by funds for relocation.
Initial appointments would be for one year, with po-
tential to extend to 2 or 3 years. UT Austin oers a
stimulating academic and research environment, with
outstanding colleagues and facilities in microbial sci-ences, genomics and computation. Austin is a vibrant
city with many options for recreation and cultural ac-
tivities.
If interested, please send a C.V and brief statement of
research interests and career goals to Kim Hammond
(kim.hammond@utexas.edu).
Please include the names and contact information
for two or three references familiar with your sci-
entic work. Please direct any queries about
projects, positions or timing to Howard Ochman
(howard.ochman@austin.utexas.edu).
\Ochman, Howard" <howard.ochman@austin.utexas.edu >
\Ochman, Howard" <howard.ochman@austin.utexas.edu >
UZurich ExptEvolutionaryBiology
Postdoc in experimental evolutionary biology
A postdoctoral fellowship in evolutionary biology is
available in the laboratory of Andreas Wagner at the
University of Zurich. The fellow will study the evolution
and evolvability of biomolecules either through experi-
mental evolution or through the large-scale analysis of
adaptive landscapes, using methods such as CRISPR-
Cas genome editing. Lab members are a group with
very diverse backgrounds and research projects, unied
by their interests in evolution and life's fundamental
organizational principles. Recent experimental work in
the lab ranges from the directed evolution of proteins
to experimental evolution of microbes (e.g., Zheng et
al., Science 2020; Karve and Wagner, Molecular Biology
and Evolution 2022). Ongoing projects characterize
adaptive landscapes of biomolecules via deep-scanning
mutagenesis. The successful candidate will have exi-
bility in designing their own project, as long as it falls
within the purview of the lab's general research area
(see also http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/wagner/).
We are looking for an individual who has received his
or her PhD within the last ve years, who is highly
self-motivated and can work independently on a project
that he or she will help develop. The successful candi-
date will have a strong background in microbiological
techniques and molecular cloning. Applicants with expe-
rience in approaches such as deep-scanning mutagenesis,
molecular barcoding, and CRISPR-Cas-based library
design will be especially welcome. Experience with
ow cytometry, as well as with computational analysisMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 111
of high-throughput DNA sequence data, and machine
learning applied to biological data will be a plus, as
will be a research history in evolutionary biology. The
position oers a highly competitive salary of up to three
years on annually renewable contracts.
The working language in the laboratory is English. Ger-
man skills, although helpful, are not essential.Zurich is
a highly attractive city in beautiful surroundings, with
a multinational population, and many educational and
recreational opportunities.
To be considered, please send a single (!)
PDF le merged from the following parts to
jobs.wagner@ieu.uzh.ch: CV including publication list,
academic transcripts, three academic references. In
addition, we require a brief sketch of an experimental
evolution project that you would like to pursue, and
that is part of a brief statement of research interests
not exceeding three pages. Please include the word
\EXPPDOC22" in the subject line of your application.
Applications will be considered until May 3, 2022,
or until the position has been lled. The position is
available from September 1, 2022.
Annette Schmid Administrative Assistant of Prof. A.
Wagner/ HR University of Zurich Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology andEnvironmental Studies Wagner
lab, Y27-J52 Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Z urich
Switzerland Mail to:annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch
Monday (whole day), Home oce: Tuesday - Thursday
(morning)
IEU wagnerjobs <jobs.wagner@ieu.uzh.ch >
WSL Switzerland
EcolEvolDataScience
WSL.Switzerland.EcolEvolDataScience
The Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Land-
scape Research WSL is part of the ETH Domain. Ap-
proximately 600 people work on the sustainable use and
protection of the environment and on the handling of
natural hazards. The Research Unit Biodiversity and
Conservation Biology studies the diversity of life in its
various forms, from genetic diversity to the diversity of
species and ecosystems as well as their interactions.
In the framework of the Swiss Forest Lab project
RemHybridMon the Evolutionary Genetics Group
(https://sites.google.com/view/evolgenetgroup) is look-ing from July 1st, or by arrangement, for 12 months
for a PostDoc in ecological/evolutionary data science
(80-100% workload).
RemHybridMon is aimed at developing a cost-eective
remote sensing tool to monitor the hybridization be-
tween closely related beech species (Fagus spp.) upon
their introduction in the framework of assisted migra-
tion programs. Monitoring the rate of hybridization
and the spread of adaptive genetic variants using eld
sampling and genetic evaluation is impractical and ex-
pensive. This project will use state-of-the art genomics
and optical spectroscopy to develop a protocol based on
machine learning to uncover the relationship between
the two. Field data will be collected by our team at
three sites during the summer of 2022. Although the
position will be based at the WSL, the future postdoc
will closely interact with Prof Dr Meredith Schuman and
her research group in Spatial Genetics at the University
of Zurich (https://www.geo.uzh.ch/en/units/sg.html)
Desk space will be available at both institutions.
Ideal candidates hold a PhD degree in imaging
spectroscopy, data science, and/or population ge-
nomics/bioinformatics. Experience with machine learn-
ing, uency in python and in R are essential for this
position. Fluency in English (oral and written) as well as
experience in writing scientic publications is expected.
The language of both groups is English.
Please send your complete application to Mich >1
2le
Bucher, Human Resources WSL, by uploading the re-
quested documents through our webpage. https://-
m.reine.ch/273855/1304/pub/1/index.html Applica-
tions via email will not be considered. Dr Katalin
Csill >1
2ry, katalin.csillery(at)wsl.ch, will be happy to
answer any questions. The WSL strives to increase the
proportion of women in its employment, which is why
qualied women are particularly called upon to apply
for this position.
Katalin Csill >1
2ry<kati.csillery@gmail.com >Katalin
Csill >1
2ry<kati.csillery@gmail.com >
WSL Switzerland
ScienticOutreachCoordinator
Scientic & Outreach Coordinator for Biodiversity Re-
search (60-80%)
We oer an interesting and versatile workplace in a di-
versied research environment. You will act both as112 EvolDir May 1, 2022
manager of activities of the WSL Biodiversity Center, as
a support scientist for collaborative research and facili-
tator of outreach activities. You will provide logistical
and management support for the main activities hosted
by the Biodiversity Center. You will be responsible for
networking across existing activities, groups, units and
programs within WSL, nationally and internationally,
and you will identify and support opportunities for in-
teractions between WSL researchers and practitioners.
You will work closely with the head and the steering
committee of the WSL Biodiversity Center to foster
research and outreach excellence and contribute to prod-
ucts and initiatives of the Center including support with
data analyses and writing. You have a PhD in biology,
ecology, environmental sciences, or in a related eld
and several years of experience working in a scientic
environment. You have proven skills in networking, co-
ordination and organizing teams of scientists and/or
practitioners. Your communication skills are strong and
you are uent in English and at least in one national lan-
guage of Switzerland (GE, FR, IT). You are experienced
in biodiversity research and ideally skills in modelling
and analysing biodiversity data (preferably R). Finally,
you have experience in writing scientic articles and
producing outreach publications and you do like to work
in an international team.
Please send your complete application to Miche ~Ale
Bucher, Human Resources WSL, by uploading the re-
quested documents through our webpage. We will start
reviewing applications by mid of April and will continue
until we nd a suitable candidate. Applications via
email will not be considered. Dr. Catherine Graham,
leader of the Biodiversity Center +41 (0)44 739 23 61,
catherine.graham(at)wsl.ch, will be happy to answer any
questions or oer further information. The WSL strives
to increase the proportion of women in its employment,
which is why qualied women are particularly called
upon to apply for this position.
https://apply.reine.ch/273855/1300/pub/1/-
index.html deborah.leigh@wsl.ch
YaleU
PopulationGenomicAedesalbopictus
A position as a postdoctoral researcher/fellow in pop-
ulation and evolutionary genetics is available at theDepartment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale
University, in Dr. Adalgisa (Gisella) Caccone research
group.
Project description: This project is part of an NIH
funded project in its 4th year to look at the evolutionary
history of an invasive mosquito species, Aedes albopicts,
the tiger mosquito, capable of vectoring several viral
diseases.
We are using whole genome data and SNP-chip data
to reconstruct the invasion history and reconstruct de-
mographic dynamics in the invasive range. We are also
carrying out a GWAS analyses to describe the genetic
architecture of a trait, diapause, which has enabled this
species to also invade temperate areas.
The Yale PI is Adalgisa Caccone (https://-
caccone.yale.edu/). The project is in collaboration
with with the research groups of Peter Armbrsuster
(Georgetown University) and Jacob Crawford (Verily
LifeScience). The position is for one year for possibility
of renewal for a second year depending on performance
and funding.
Duties: The postdoctoral hire will be responsible for
collecting and analyzing population genomic data, in-
cluding SNP chip and whole genome data.
Qualications required: For this position, the candidate
must hold a PhD degree within evolutionary biology or
another relevant eld, with experience in population and
landscape genomics and phylogeography. They need to
be able to express themselves uently in spoken and
written English, work independently, thrive in a mul-
ticultural and collaborative environment, and willing
to support the training of undergraduate and graduate
students.
You are welcome to submit your application by April
30, 2022. Applications will be reviewed as they come.
The tentative start of the position is July 2022. To
apply please send a CV and a description of your in-
terest and qualications and how they t with the
job description to Adalgisa (Gisella) Caccone (adal-
gisa.caccone@yale.edu).
Adalgisa Caccone Senior Research Scientist ESC 140
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Yale University 21
Sachem St. New Haven, CT 06520 Tel 203-432-5259 fax
203-432-7394
\Caccone, Adalgisa" <adalgisa.caccone@yale.edu >May 1, 2022 EvolDir 113
WorkshopsCourses
Cleveland PaleobotanyRevBayes Jun24 . . . . . . . . . . .113
Finland MathEcolEvolution Aug21-28 . . . . . . . . . . . .113
Groningen AnthropoceneSummerSchool Jul3-8 . . . 114
Online ConservationGenomics Jun27-30 . . . . . . . . . . 114
Online EukaryoticMetabarcoding Jul4-8 . . . . . . . . . . 114
Online GenomeAssembly May16-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Online IntroAncientMetagenomics Aug1-5 . . . . . . . .116
Online IntroductionToSnakemake May3-4 . . . . . . . . 117
Online IntroMultivariateEvolAnalysis May9-11 . . . 117
Online IntroToTidyverse Jul18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Online MacroevolutionaryAnalyses May2-6 . . . . . . . 118
Online MappingTraitEvolution Jul4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Online NanoporeDirectRNASequencing Jun24-26 .119Online Palaeogenomics May17-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Online PhylogeneticAnalysisUsingR Jul18-22 . . . . . 121
Online PopulationGeneticsUsingR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
Online SpatialDataAnalysis Apr25-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
StAgustine Florida AdaptiveEvolution Jul24-27 . . 123
Subject:Workshop:Online NatHist Alaska May24-26 124
Switzerland ArticialSelection Aug22-25 . . . . . . . . . 124
UGroningen Anthropocene Jul3-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Vairao Portugal DomesticAnimalArchaeogenomics
May23-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Venice EvoDevoCharacters Aug22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Cleveland PaleobotanyRevBayes
Jun24
SSB is sponsoring a workshop on paleobotany and
divergence time estimation at the 2022 Evolution Meet-
ing in Cleveland, Ohio. Participants will learn about
morphometric methods for fossil analysis and how to
combine data from extinct and extant taxa to estimate
divergence times in RevBayes. The workshop will take
place on June 24th and grants (up to $600 for travel
and other costs) are available for graduate students who
are US citizens through an NSF award. To apply, please
ll out this form <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/-
1FAIpQLSfDppXsugVm2x8TjU5DMIuSP 1TTAjGHI j1kvvrfF3HuWKvg/-
viewform >; review of applications will begin April
15th. Feel free to contact Dr. Rocio Deanna (ro-
cio.deanna@gmail.com) with any questions about the
workshop.
*Dr. Roc >1
2o Deanna* University of Colorado
at Boulder (US) Instituto Multidisciplinario
de Biolog >1
2a Vegetal (CONICET-UNC, Ar-
gentina) *https://rociodeanna.weebly.com <
https://rociodeanna.weebly.com >*
Rocio Deanna <rociodeanna@gmail.com >Rocio
Deanna <rociodeanna@gmail.com >Finland MathEcolEvolution
Aug21-28
THE HELSINKI SUMMER SCHOOL ON MATHE-
MATICAL ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 2022
Application deadline extended to 10 May
We are glad to announce the 7th edition of The Helsinki
Summer School on Mathematical Ecology and Evolu-
tion, an EMS-ESMTB School in Applied Mathematics,
to be held between 21 and 28 August 2022 in Turku,
Finland.
The core program consists of ve series of lectures:
Josef Hofbauer (University of Vienna): Dynamical sys-
tems in mathematical ecology Gergely Rost (Univer-
sity of Szeged): The mathematics of infectious diseases
Pieter Trapman (Stockholm University): Stochastic
models of epidemics Jarno Vanhatalo (University of
Helsinki): Linking ecological models to data through
Bayesian statistics Christian Hilbe (Max Planck Insti-
tute for Evolutionary Biology): Dynamics of social be-
haviour
All young researchers working in mathematical ecology
can apply from all countries, especially from Europe and
the Mediterranean. The school is aimed at graduate114 EvolDir May 1, 2022
students of mathematics, but we also welcome students
of biology with sucient background in mathematics,
advanced undergraduates, and postdocs.
For more information and details of the application
procedure, please visit the school's webpage
https://wiki.helsinki./display/BioMath/-
The+Helsinki+Summer+School+on+Mathematical+Ecology+and+Evolution+2022
With best regards, Eva Kisdi (eva.kisdi@helsinki.)
\Kisdi, Eva" <eva.kisdi@helsinki. >
Groningen
AnthropoceneSummerSchool Jul3-8
Welcome to the Anthropocene! Summer School at the
University of Groningen 3 - 8 July 2022 For whom: PhD,
Master, and advanced Bachelor students Deadline for
application: 1 May 2022
https://www.rug.nl/education/summer-winter-
schools/anthropocene/?lang=en Topics covered:
Paleontology: Shifts in subsistence and environmental
impact Evolutionary biology: Are we friendly neighbors?
Interspecies relationships Geology: Will Homo sapiens
leave a geological mark? Ethics & Philosophy: How
anthropocentric is the Anthropocene?
With contributions by Will Roebroeks (ULeiden),
Katherine MacDonald (ULeiden), Liesbeth Bakker
(NIOO/UWageningen), Barbara Gravendeel (Natu-
ralis/UNijmegen), Erle Ellis (UMaryland), Will Stef-
fen (Australian Natl U), Jan Zalasiewicz (ULeicester),
Raymond Corbey (ULeiden). Organised by Daniella
Vos (UGroningen), Kees Klein Goldewijk (UUtrecht),
Martine Maan (UGroningen).
More information at: https://www.rug.nl/education/-
summer-winter-schools/anthropocene/?lang=en Con-
tact: anthropoceneschool@rug.nl
m.e.maan@rug.nl
Online ConservationGenomics
Jun27-30
Dear all,we have the last seats available for the 2nd edition of
the Conservation Genomics course in June (27th-30th).
This course will introduce attendees to how the tools of
population genomics can be used to inform conservation.
The instructors will guide students through study de-
sign, genomic data collection methods, handling of raw
genomic data, and SNP ltering to produce a dataset.
Then, we will work through a suite of analyses look-
ing at population structure, local adaptation, eective
population size, inbreeding and relatedness. We will
provide background on the theory and application of
these analyses, and then run hands-on exercises running
analyses and interpreting results. Through hands-on
exercises, the course will teach basic bioinformatics skills
and how to manipulate, visualize and interpret genomic
data and patterns in a conservation related context.
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course62/ )
Full list of our courses and Workshops: ( https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops )
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
Online EukaryoticMetabarcoding
Jul4-8
Dear all,
we have the last seats available for the 7th edition of
the Eukaryotic Metabarcoding course.
Dates: online 4th-8th July
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course4/ )
This workshop gives an overview of metabarcoding pro-
cedures with an emphasis on practical problem-solving
and hands-on work using analysis pipelines on real
datasets. After completing the workshop, students
should be in a position to (1) understand the poten-
tial and capabilities of metabarcoding, (2) run complete
analyses of metabarcoding pipelines and obtain diversity
inventories and ecologically interpretable data from rawMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 115
next-generation sequence data and (3) design their own
metabarcoding projects, using bespoke primer sets and
custom reference databases.
The syllabus has been planned for people which have
some previous experience running simple commands in
Unix and using the R environment (preferently RStudio)
for performing basic plots and statistical procedures.
Best regards, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online GenomeAssembly May16-19
The University of Connecticut's Computational Biology
Core is oering a workshop on genome assembly.
The workshop will cover basic concepts and walk
through the code for several strategies on a high per-
formance computing cluster. The goal is to familiarize
attendees with the steps necessary to sequence, assemble,
and evaluate a genome.
All code required to complete the full analysis will
be provided in a public github repository, and session
recordings will be available to all participants after the
workshop.
The workshop will take place over 4 days for 3-3.5 hours
each day.
Dates: May 16-19 2022 Time (ET): Day 1: 8:30am-
12:00pm, Days 2-4 9.00am - 12.00pm Location: Online
Cost: $350/$483USD for UConn aliated/External at-
tendees.
Workshop schedule: Day 1: Introduction to Linux/HPC
Day 2: Introduction to k-mer analysis, high throughput
sequencing, quality control of sequence data, contam-
inant detection Day 3: Genome assembly strategies
and short-read assembly Day 4: Long-read and hybrid
assembly, post-processing, assembly benchmarking
Registration:
To register, please follow this link: https://forms.gle/-
daCLSmFtDhJQ7ndQA Other upcoming virtual work-
shops: RAD-seq - June 6-9 2022 Variant detection with
WGS - July 25-28 Dierential expression analysis with
RNA-seq, reference genome based - August 22-25Workshop FAQ:
Who should attend?
Anyone who wants to learn the fundamentals of genome
assembly.
What are the prerequisites?
Prior bioinformatic experience is not required. We have
dedicated the rst day of the workshop to the basics of
Linux and high performance computing.
What do I need?
You will need your own laptop to use, have a recent
version of R, RStudio installed, and some other ap-
plications. We will send you details of software and
installation instructions with your registration acknowl-
edgement email.
Can I bring my own data?
We will provide experimental datasets for use during
the workshop, as this helps to keep the workshop mov-
ing. There will be time, however, to discuss your own
datasets and how you might work with them outside of
the workshop.
How much does it cost?
The registration fee is $350/$483USD for UConn ali-
ated/External attendees.
How do I pay?
The fee is due at the time of registration. UConn af-
liates can use KFS accounts. The only other means
of payment we currently accept is credit card. Due to
some complications we cannot accept international wire
transfers at this time.
Where is the workshop?
It will be held on Zoom.
How do I apply?
All registration is \rst-come, rst-served." There is
no application process. Sign up as soon as possible to
ensure your place in the workshop.
Do you oer scholarships or tuition waivers?
Yes. For each workshop we oer waivers to up to two
attendees without other funding sources. Preference
will be given to students from primarily undergraduate
institutions, from countries classied by the World Bank
as low or middle-income, and those from underrepre-
sented groups. Applicants for waivers may submit a one
paragraph justication to cbcsupport@uconn.edu.
Questions?
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to con-116 EvolDir May 1, 2022
tact us at cbcsupport@uconn.edu
\Reid, Noah" <noah.reid@uconn.edu >
Online IntroAncientMetagenomics
Aug1-5
Dear colleagues,
The SPAAM Community is oering a new 5 day virtual
summer school course sponsored by the Werner Siemens
Foundation:*Introduction to Ancient Metagenomics*.
DATE AND SCHEDULE: Online from Monday 1st to
Friday 5th of August from 09:00 to 17:00 (CEST, Leipzig
time zone).
ORGANISERS: Dr. Christina Warinner (Harvard Uni-
versity, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthro-
pology) and James Fellows Yates (Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leibniz Institute for
Natural Product Research and Infection Biology Hans
Kn- ll Institute).
INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Aida Andrades Valtue- a, Dr.
Thiseas C. Lamnidis, Dr. Arthur Kocher, Dr. Alex H-
bner, Dr. Irina Velsko, Dr. Alexander Herbig, Megan
Michels, Alina Hi- , Clemens Schmid, Maxime Borry
(and more TBC)
COURSE OVERVIEW: Ancient metagenomics applies
cutting-edge metagenomic methods to the degraded
DNA content of archaeological and paleontological spec-
imens. The rapidly growing eld is currently uncovering
a wealth of novel information for both human and natu-
ral history, from identifying the causes of devastating
pandemics such as the Black Death, to revealing how
past ecosystems changed in response to long-term cli-
matic and anthropogenic change, to reconstructing the
microbiomes of extinct human relatives. However, as
the eld grows, the techniques, methods, and workows
used to analyse such data are rapidly changing and
improving.
In this *hands-on summer school (block praktikum)*-
we will go through the main steps of ancient metage-
nomic bioinformatic workows, familiarising students
with the command line, demonstrating how to process
next-generation-sequencing (NGS) data, and showing
how to perform de novo metagenomic assembly. Focus-
ing on host-associated ancient metagenomics, the course
consists of a combination of lectures and hands-on ex-
ercises, allowing participants to become familiar withthe types of questions and data researchers work with.
Round table discussions with experts at each stage of
the workow will be held to allow participants to get
advice on their own projects and research.
By the end of the course, participants will have an un-
derstanding of how to eectively carry out the major
bioinformatic components of an ancient metagenomic
project in an open and transparent manner. Atten-
dees will be eligible for ECTS points (awarded by the
JSMC Graduate School, Friedrich-Schiller University,
Germany) or a certicate of completion (Max Planck -
Harvard Research Center, MHAAM).
SYLLABUS
Day 1
- * Lecture: Introduction to NGS data - * Practical 1:
BareBonesBash 1 - * Practical 2: BareBonesBash 2 - *
Round table: Introductions
Day 2
- * Lecture: Introduction to ancient DNA - * Practical
1: Bytesize git - * Practical 2: ancientMetagenomeDir
- * Practical: nf-core/eager - * Round table: Project
organisation
Day 3
- * Lecture: Introduction to metagenomics - * Practical
1: Introduction to R and the tidyverse - * Practical 2:
Taxonomic proling, OTU tables and visualisation - *
Round table: Taxonomic classiers
Day 4
- * Lecture Introduction to microbial genomics - * Prac-
tical 1: Genome mapping - * Practical 2: Genome
assembly - * Roundtable: Databases
Day 5
- * Lecture Evolutionary biology - * Practical 1: Phyloge-
nomics - * Practical 2: Functional genomics - * Round
table: Workshop review
ELIGIBILITY: The course is aimed at masters students
and early-stage PhD students, to a maximum of 25
participants. Course instruction will take place online.
APPLICATIONS: Applications are open from April
19 to June 1 2022. To apply, please visit our web-
site: https://spaam-community.github.io/wss-summer-
school/ For questions or more information, contact
James Fellows Yates (james fellows yates@eva.mpg.de)
or Christina Warinner (christina warinner@eva.mpg.de)
Best regards Christina and James
{ James A. Fellows Yates
Microbiome Sciences Group, Dept. of ArchaeogeneticsMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 117
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
Dept. of Paleobiotechology Leibniz Institute for Natural
Product Research and Infection Biology Hans Kn- ll
Institute
\James A. Fellows Yates"
<james fellows yates@eva.mpg.de >\James A. Fellows
Yates" <james fellows yates@eva.mpg.de >
Online IntroductionToSnakemake
May3-4
Dear all,
we have the last few seats left for the Snakemake course
with Dr. Johannes K >1
2ster (University of Duisburg-
Essen, GER).
Dates and time: 3-4 May (2-8 pm Berlin time zone)
This course will introduce the Snakemake workow de-
nition language and describe how to use the execution
environment to scale workows to compute servers and
clusters while adapting to hardware specic constraints.
Further, it will be shown how Snakemake helps to create
reproducible analyses that can be adapted to new data
with little eort.
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course41/ )
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us at ( mailto:info@physalia-courses.org )
Best regards, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org > \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >Online
IntroMultivariateEvolAnalysis
May9-11
ONLINE COURSE - Introduction To Multivariate Anal-
ysis In Ecology And Evolutionary Biology
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/online-course-
introduction-to-multivariate-analysis-in-ecology-
and-evolutionary-biology-imae01-this-course-will-be-
delivered-live/ Please feel free to share!
ABOUT THIS COURSE
This community analytics course is designed for students
who have recently started their projects or researchers
who are starting using the R ecosystem. During this
three-day course, we will cover the basic concepts of
multivariate analysis and their implementation in R.
This course is a complement to the PR Statistic oering
allowing also beginners and non-programmers to dis-
cover the statistical tools needed to analyze an ecological
dataset in research, natural resource management or
conservation context. This course is not geared toward
any particular taxonomic group or ecological system.
We will cover diversity indices, distance measures and
multivariate distance-based methods, clustering, classi-
cation, and ordination techniques. We will focus on
the concept of the methods and their implementation
on R using dierent R packages. We will use real-world
examples to implement analyses, such as describing pat-
terns along gradients of environmental or anthropogenic
disturbances, quantifying the eects of continuous and
discrete predictors, data mining. The course will consist
of lectures, work on R code scripts, and exercises for
participants.
Please feel free to contact oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
with any questions.
https://www.prstatistics.com/live-courses/ https://-
www.prstatistics.com/recorded-courses/ Oliver Hooker
PhD. PR statistics
Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prstatistics.com >118 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Online IntroToTidyverse Jul18-21
Dear all, we have the last seats available for the course
\DATA ANALYSIS WITH THE TIDYVERSE" in July
(18th-21st).
The course will be held online and it is a mixture of
lectures and practical exercises. During the week, we'll
cover dplyr, tidy data, tibbles, dates/times and string
manipulation, Data Visualization using ggplot2 and
functional programming with purr.
Course website:( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/tidyverse/ )
Best regards, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online MacroevolutionaryAnalyses
May2-6
Dear colleagues,
There are a few slots available for Transmitting Sci-
ence online course Introduction to Macroevolutionary
Analyses Using Phylogenies - 10th Edition.
Dates: May 2nd-6th, 2022 Monday to Friday, from 15:00
to 19:00 (Madrid time zone)
Instructor: Dr. Juan L. Cantalapiedra (Universidad de
Alcal >1
2, Spain)
COURSE OVERVIEW
Phylogenetic trees have changed the way we study and
understand life on Earth. Taking phylogenetic informa-
tion into account in our analyses is critical to account
for the non-independence of biological data. Also, phy-
logenies allow us to get a deep-time perspective of the
processes that have shaped the evolutionary history
of groups, including diversication and trait evolution.
This course will introduce participants to the use, mod-ication and representation of phylogenetic trees. Also,
we will focus on the use of phylogenetic information to
reconstruct ancestral characters and biogeographic histo-
ries, using dierent phylogenetic comparative methods.
This course will also tackle trait evolution modelling
and the assessment of phylogenetic signal. Finally, we
will learn about the shape of phylogenetic trees and its
evolutionary causes, and how to estimate the rates of
diversication throughout the history of groups. Par-
ticipants are encouraged to bring their data sets to
use in the practical classes. The course includes an
optional rst introductory day to basic R. Important
note: Please bear in mind that this course is not about
reconstructing (building) phylogenetic trees. Software:
Mesquite, FigTree, R (ape, TreeSim, TreePar, Geiger,
OUwie, BioGeoBEARS).
You can nd more information at https:/-
/www.transmittingscience.com/courses/-
evolution/introduction-macroevolutionary-
analyses-using-phylogenies/ or writing
courses@transmittingscience.com
Best wishes
Sole
{ Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD Director Trans-
mitting Science www.transmittingscience.com Twitter
@SoleDeEsteban Orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-
2049-0890 Under the provisions of current regulations
on the protection of personal data, Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of 27 April 2016 (GDPR), we inform you that
personal data and email address, collected from the data
subject will be used by TRANSMITTING SCIENCE
SL to manage communications through email and prop-
erly manage the professional relationship with you. The
data are obtained based on a contractual relationship or
the legitimate interest of the Responsible, likewise the
data will be kept as long as there is a mutual interest for
it. The data will not be communicated to third parties,
except for legal obligations. We inform you that you can
request detailed information on the processing as well as
exercise your rights of access, rectication, portability
and deletion of your data and those of limitation and op-
position to its treatment by contacting Calle Gardenia,
2 Urb. Can Claramunt de Piera CP: 08784 (Barcelona)
or sending an email to info@transmittingscience.com
or http://transmittingscience.com/additional-terms. If
you consider that the processing does not comply with
current legislation, you can complain with the super-
visory authority at www. aepd.es . Condentiality. -
The content of this communication, as well as that of
all the attached documentation, is condential and is
addressed to the addressee. If you are not the recipi-
ent, we request that you indicate this to us and do notMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 119
communicate its contents to third parties, proceeding
to its destruction. Disclaimer of liability. - The sending
of this communication does not imply any obligation
on the part of the sender to control the absence of
viruses, worms, Trojan horses and/or any other harmful
computer program, and it corresponds to the recipient
to have the necessary hardware and software tools to
guarantee both the security of its information system
and the detection and elimination of harmful computer
programs. TRANSMITTING SCIENCE SL shall not
be liable.
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.com >
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.com >
Online MappingTraitEvolution
Jul4-8
Dear colleagues,
Transmitting Science is oering a new edition of the
course Mapping Trait Evolution 5th edition. This course
will be held live online (synchronous). Max 16 partici-
pants.
Dates: July 4th-8th, 2022, from 14:00 to 18:00 (Madrid
time zone)
Instructor: Jeroen Smaers (Stony Brook University,
USA)
COURSE OVERVIEW
The course provides a comprehensive overview of the
state-of-the-art methods in mapping phenotypic trait
evolution and will provide participants with a spring-
board to using these methods to answering their own
research questions.
We focus on analyses that use a phylogenetic tree and
observed trait information from tip taxa (extant and/or
extinct) to describe how traits have changed along the
branches of a phylogeny. The course covers methods
that estimate and test patterns related to changes in
mean, covariation, and rate. Applications for contin-
uous and categorical, and univariate and multivariate
research designs are discussed.
At the end of this course, participants will have devel-
oped an understanding of:
(1) Brownian motion and Ornstein-Uhlenbeck modelsof evolution.
(2) How these models can be applied to estimate and
test patterns of trait evolution.
(3) What the advantages and disadvantages are of dif-
ferent models/methods.
(4) How to recognize which model/method is most appro-
priate given a particular dataset and research question.
We provide several data sets that will be used to exem-
plify the application of these methods. We do, however,
encourage participants to work with their own data so
as to get direct experience with analysing precisely what
they expect to analyse.
Methods from the following R packages will be dis-
cussed: ape, geiger, phytools, evomap, l1ou, bayou,
surface, OUwie, mvMORPH, geomorph (this list may
change as new packages become available).
Important note: Please bear in mind that this course is
not about reconstructing (building) phylogenetic trees,
the methods we cover in this course assume that a phy-
logeny is known.
You can nd more information here: https:/-
/www.transmittingscience.com/courses/-
evolution/mapping-trait-evolution/ or writing
courses@transmittingscience.com
Best wishes
Sole
{ Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD Director
Transmitting Science www.transmittingscience.com
Twitter @SoleDeEsteban Orcid: https://orcid.org/-
0000-0002-2049-0890 Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.com >
Online
NanoporeDirectRNASequencing
Jun24-26
Dear all,
registration is now open for the 2nd edition of the course
\AN INTRODUCTION TO NANOPORE DIRECT RNA
SEQUENCING".
Dates: 24-26 June
This course is structured over 3 days of theoretical and
hands-on training and covers the majority of the con-
cepts and challenges commonly faced when analysing120 EvolDir May 1, 2022
direct RNA-Seq data. It will start from common tasks
such as data QC and gene expression quantication and
then move on to more advanced topics such as transcrip-
tome assembly, polyA-tail length measurements and
RNA modications detection.
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course59c/ )
Our other online courses: ( https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/ )All the best,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online Palaeogenomics May17-21
Dear colleagues,
Transmitting Science is oering a new course: Intro-
duction to Palaeogenomics - concepts, methods and
applications of ancient human and non-human DNA
data.
Date and schedule: Online live sessions from Monday
17th to Friday 21st of May from 16:00 to 21:00 (GMT+2,
Madrid time zone).
Instructors: Dr. Marcela Sandoval Velsaco (University
of Copenhagen, Denmark) and Dr. Jazm >1
2n Ramos-
Madrigal (University of Copenhagen, Denmark).
COURSE OVERVIEW:
Ancient DNA (aDNA) research, dened as the retrieval
and analysis of DNA sequences from various degraded
biological materials, has been evolving as a research
eld for four decades. Through advances in DNA iso-
lation and amplication techniques, sequencing tech-
nologies and data analysis pipelines, the eld has rev-
olutionized and transitioned to what we now know as
palaeogenomics. DNA extracted from archaeological
samples, and museum specimens has proven useful to
study species and life on earth from the genomic per-
spective. It has made it possible to measure changes in
genetic diversity through time, test hypotheses about
the association of environmental phenomena and ge-
netic changes in natural populations, and to resolve
long-standing questions about the evolutionary relation-ships between species.
In a combination of interactive lectures and hands-on
practical sessions, this course will provide a theoretical
overview of molecular biology laboratory techniques for
the retrieval of aDNA from ancient samples from dif-
ferent species and an introduction to the bioinformatic
pipelines for the analysis of palaeogenomic data. Stu-
dents will be introduced to the standard bioinformatic
methods often used in palaeogenomic projects for the
analysis of aDNA data from human and non-human sam-
ples. We will also review the history and developments
of the eld to understand how it came to be what it is
today, and consider and discuss the practical problems
of ancient DNA recovery, the theoretical problems as-
sociated with the interpretation of palaeogenomic data,
and the ethical implications embedded in this type of
research.
At the end of the course, students will have gained
a general understanding of common key methods and
tools used in palaeogenomics projects: from the basics
in the eld to the interpretation of the results, as well
as ethical and responsibility aspects and implications of
aDNA research.
More information and registration: https://-
www.transmittingscience.com/courses/genetics-and-
genomics/introduction-to-palaeogenomics-concepts-
methods-and-applications-of-ancient-dna-data/ With
best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD Director Trans-
mitting Science www.transmittingscience.com Twitter
@SoleDeEsteban Orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-
2049-0890 Under the provisions of current regulations
on the protection of personal data, Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of 27 April 2016 (GDPR), we inform you that
personal data and email address, collected from the data
subject will be used by TRANSMITTING SCIENCE
SL to manage communications through email and prop-
erly manage the professional relationship with you. The
data are obtained based on a contractual relationship or
the legitimate interest of the Responsible, likewise the
data will be kept as long as there is a mutual interest for
it. The data will not be communicated to third parties,
except for legal obligations. We inform you that you can
request detailed information on the processing as well as
exercise your rights of access, rectication, portability
and deletion of your data and those of limitation and op-
position to its treatment by contacting Calle Gardenia,
2 Urb. Can Claramunt de Piera CP: 08784 (Barcelona)
or sending an email to info@transmittingscience.com
or http://transmittingscience.com/additional-terms. If
you consider that the processing does not comply withMay 1, 2022 EvolDir 121
current legislation, you can complain with the supervi-
sory authority at www. aepd.es . Condentiality. - The
content of this communication, as well as that of all the
attached documentation, is condential and is addressed
to the addressee. If you are not the recipient, we request
that you indicate this to us and do not communicate its
contents to third parties, proceeding to its destruction.
Disclaimer of liability. - The sending of this communi-
cation does not imply any obligation on the part of the
sender to control the absence of viruses, worms, Trojan
horses and/or any other harmful computer program,
and it corresponds to the recipient to have the necessary
hardware and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Online PhylogeneticAnalysisUsingR
Jul18-22
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the course \Phylogenetic Anal-
ysis Using R" - 9th Edition. This course will be held
live online (synchronous). Max 16 participants.
DATES: July 18th-22nd, 2022 from 13:00 to 18:30
(Madrid Time Zone)
INSTRUCTORS:
Dr. Emmanuel Paradis (Institut de Recherche pour le
D eveloppement, France) and Dr. Klaus Schliep (Graz
University of Technology, Austria)
COURSE OVERVIEW
This course is for biologists dealing with the analysis
of multiple molecular sequences at several levels: Popu-
lations, species, clades, communities. These biologists
address questions relative to the evolutionary relation-
ships among these sequences, as well as the evolutionary
forces structuring biodiversity at dierent scales.
The objectives of the course are: (i) to know how to
choose a strategy of molecular data analysis at the in-
ter^A\or intraspecic levels, (ii) to be able to initiate
a phylogenetic analysis starting from the les of molecu-
lar sequences until the interpretation of the results and
the graphics.The software used for this course will be centered on
the R language for statistics. This will include the use
of specialized packages particularly ape, phangorn, and
adegenet.
You can nd more information at https://-
www.transmittingscience.com/courses/evolution/-
phylogenetic-analysis-using-r/ or writing to
courses@transmittingscience.com
Best wishes
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD Director Trans-
mitting Science www.transmittingscience.com Twitter
@SoleDeEsteban Orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-
2049-0890 Under the provisions of current regulations
on the protection of personal data, Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of 27 April 2016 (GDPR), we inform you that
personal data and email address, collected from the data
subject will be used by TRANSMITTING SCIENCE
SL to manage communications through email and prop-
erly manage the professional relationship with you. The
data are obtained based on a contractual relationship or
the legitimate interest of the Responsible, likewise the
data will be kept as long as there is a mutual interest for
it. The data will not be communicated to third parties,
except for legal obligations. We inform you that you can
request detailed information on the processing as well as
exercise your rights of access, rectication, portability
and deletion of your data and those of limitation and op-
position to its treatment by contacting Calle Gardenia,
2 Urb. Can Claramunt de Piera CP: 08784 (Barcelona)
or sending an email to info@transmittingscience.com
or http://transmittingscience.com/additional-terms. If
you consider that the processing does not comply with
current legislation, you can complain with the supervi-
sory authority at www. aepd.es .
Condentiality. - The content of this communication,
as well as that of all the attached documentation, is
condential and is addressed to the addressee. If you are
not the recipient, we request that you indicate this to
us and do not communicate its contents to third parties,
proceeding to its destruction.
Disclaimer of liability. - The sending of this communi-
cation does not imply any obligation on the part of the
sender to control the absence of viruses, worms, Trojan
horses and/or any other harmful computer program,
and it corresponds to the recipient to have the neces-
sary hardware and software tools to guarantee both the
security of its information system and the detection and
elimination of harmful computer programs. TRANS-
MITTING SCIENCE SL shall not be liable.
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno122 EvolDir May 1, 2022
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.com >
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.com >
Online PopulationGeneticsUsingR
PR STATISTICS RECORDED COURSES
Moving our courses online due to the COVID pandemic
has allowed us to archive all our previous courses and
oer them in a recorded format.
https://www.prstatistics.com/recorded-courses/ This
is ideal for;
People with busy schedules who can't take long periods
o work to attend workshops.
Allows attendees to work at their own pace with email
support.
Suitable for people from all timezones.
The recordings are taken from our Live Online Courses
which ensures all materials and software packages are
constantly up-to-date.
You can now complete our past course;
Fundamentals Of Population Genetics Using R
(FOPG01R) https://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
fundamentals-of-population-genetics-using-r-fopg01r/
Please email oliverhooker@prstatistics.com with any
questionson enquiries or you can book directly using
the link above Please feel free to share anywhere you
see t.
Oliver
Oliver Hooker PhD. PR statistics
Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prstatistics.com >
Online SpatialDataAnalysis
Apr25-28
The methods taught are used frequently in Population
Genetics and Landscape genetics so relevant to evolu-
tionary data. Lesson 8 for example is purely focused
on the Mantel test and problems you may encounter
applying it to Pop-Gen / Landscape-Gen data.ONLINE COURSE -Advances In Spatial Analysis Of
Multivariate Ecological Data: Theory And Practice
(MVSP05) This course is pre-recorded with live help
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/advances-in-
spatial-analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-data-theory-
and-practice-mvsp05/ Instructor- Prof. Pierre
Legendre
25th - 28th April 2022
Please feel free to share!
ABOUT THIS COURSE
The course will describe recent methods (concepts and
R tools) that can be used to analyse spatial patterns
in community ecology. The umbrella concept of the
course is beta diversity, which is the spatial variation of
communities. Researchers in spatial ecology, population
genetics and landscape genetics will nd these methods
useful as they are applicable to all types of communi-
ties (bacteria, plants, animals) sampled along transects,
regular grids or irregularly distributed sites. The new
methods, collectively referred to as spatial eigen-function
analysis, are grounded into techniques commonly used
by community ecologists, which will be described rst:
simple ordination (PCA, CA, PCoA), multivariate re-
gression and canonical analysis, permutation tests. The
choice of dissimilarities that are appropriate for com-
munity composition data will also be discussed. The
focal question is to determine how much of the commu-
nity variation (beta diversity) is due to environmental
sorting and to community-based processes, including
neutral processes. Recently developed methods to par-
tition beta diversity in dierent ways will be presented.
Extensions will be made to temporal and space-time
data.
Monday 25th
Lesson 1: Ordination in reduced space Section 1.0. Or-
dination in reduced space: An introduction Section
1.1. Principal component analysis (PCA) Section 1.2.
Correspondence analysis (CA) Section 1.3. Principal co-
ordinate analysis (PCoA) Section 1.4. Metric ordination
methods in ecology (included with 1.3)
Practical 1
Tuesday 26th
Lesson 2: Dissimilarities and transformations
Lesson 3: Tests of statistical signicance
Lesson 4: Linear regression Section 4.1 Multiple linear
regression Section 4.2 Partial regression and variation
partitioning
Practical 2May 1, 2022 EvolDir 123
Wednesday 27th
Lesson 5: Canonical analysis
Lesson 6: Beta diversity Section 6.1. Partitioning beta
diversity Section 6.2. Replacement and richness dier-
ence Section 6.3. Temporal beta diversity
Practical 3
Thursday 28th
Lesson 7: Spatial modelling Section 7.1. Origin of spatial
structures in ecology Section 7.2. Spatial eigenfunction
modelling Section 7.3. Space-time interaction
Lesson 8: Mantel test in spatial analysis
Practical 4
We have already scheduled our FREE course seminars
for this course .
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/advances-in-
spatial-analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-data-theory-
and-practice-mvsp05s/ if you would like access to the
recording please email oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
https://www.prstatistics.com/free-seminars/ Please
feel free to contact oliverhooker@prstatistics.com with
any questions.
Thanks,
Oliver
Oliver Hooker PhD. PR statistics
Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prstatistics.com >
StAgustine Florida
AdaptiveEvolution Jul24-27
Detecting adaptive evolutionary events in genomes of
polar species at the Whitney Laboratory for Marine
Bioscience, St. Augustine, Florida July 24-27, 2022
National Science Foundation awards #1935635 and
#1935672 A two-day workshop will be held at the Whit-
ney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience (University of
Florida) during July 24 - 27, 2022. Participants should
plan to arrive on the afternoon of July 24th and depart
in the afternoon of July 27th. The workshop organizers,
Dr. Scott Santagata and Dr. Joseph Ryan, will lead
participants through a series of computational exercises
having the following goals.
Construct orthologous gene assignments (OrthoFinder),
prune paralogous genes (PhyloPYPruner), align orthol-ogous gene (MAFFT), and multi-gene phylogenetic re-
lationships (IQ-TREE).
Establish collaborative research groups to test for genes
under positive selection from diverse organisms and
habitats (e.g., polar, terrestrial, marine, tropical) using
genomic and transcriptomic datasets.
Evaluate current analytical methods for determining
positive selection (e.g., PAML, HyPHy) and their sta-
tistical signicance.
Participants are encouraged to work with their own
NGS-based datasets, but sample datasets will also be
provided and analyzed using a bioinformatics platform.
Applicants with transcriptomic datasets that span eco-
logical boundaries (e.g., high vs. low latitudinal habitats,
marine vs. freshwater habitats, deep vs. shallow water
habitats, etc.) will be given priority. However, any-
one who is interested in learning these techniques is
encouraged to apply.
Lodging will be provided in the Research Vil-
lage Cottages at the Whitney Laboratory (https://-
www.whitney.u.edu/about/housing/) at no cost to par-
ticipants. Funds will also be provided to oset the
costs of round trip travel based on the number of par-
ticipants and demonstrated need. Workshop facilities
and housing are in accordance with ADA guidelines,
and we will work with any students needing accom-
modations. Researchers from underrepresented groups
and/or with disabilities are particularly encouraged to
apply. Workshop will include a code of conduct to help
ensure a safe and inclusive space. The workshop will
incorporate structured participation to ensure balance
in participation and encourage inclusion. It will include
activities that facilitate interaction within small groups.
Mentorship opportunities will be facilitated through
encouraging post-workshop interaction and mentoring.
To apply please visit http://ryanlab.whitney.u.edu/-
polar workshop/. The application (due date: June 1st,
2022) requires: A) Current CV, B) 400-word description
detailing your research experiences and how this work-
shop ts into your overall career goals, and C) Estimated
funds needed for round trip travel. D) Sars-CoV-2 Vac-
cination Status. Applications may be accepted after the
due date depending on the number of applicants and
amount of available funds.
Scott Santagata, Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Life Sciences Building, Room
261 Long Island University-Post 720 Northern
Blvd. Greenvale, NY 11548-1300 Phone:516-
299-3029 Website: https://sites.google.com/site/-
scottsantagata/Labpage Researchgate: https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Scott Santagata Scott
Santagata <Scott.Santagata@liu.edu >124 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Subject:Workshop:Online NatHist
Alaska May24-26
SEAK2022 Workshop May 24-26 - 2ndannouncement
We are pleased to announce SEAK2022 - a virtual
Workshop May 24-26 focusing on the natural history of
SE Alaska, and neighboring regions along the British
Columbia coast. We are seeking presentations on cli-
mate change, ice sheet dynamics, volcanic geohazards,
Ice Age refugia, biodiversity, and biogeographic history.
Please visit the workshop website for more information
and updates:
http://www.glyfac.bualo.edu/Faculty/briner/-
SEAK2022/ Note that the deadline for a talk
suggestion has been extended to April 29!
Deadline for abstract submission is May 6. Registration
is free.
Registration:To indicate interest and suggest a talk, click
here and ll out the Google form(please also ll out the
form if you have already emailed us with your interest)
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/-
1FAIpQLSfgKvMr8vSJghrJoaZQCxGXfAfaGqtEJ-
ev6MxVMh9CgET-Yg/viewform)
If you have any questions about registration, please
emailjbriner@bualo.edu.
The program will be dictated by those interested in
participating. We envision having one day focused on
identifying gaps in knowledge about the geologic history,
with a focus on past glaciation and volcanism in the
Quaternary. We envision another day focused on iden-
tifying gaps in knowledge of biodiversity patterns and
biogeographic history through the last glaciation and
across the Holocene. We plan to make time for break-
out discussions that will lead to a workshop report that
identies key gaps in knowledge, and how to ll them.
Best wishes from the organizers,
Jason Briner
Charlotte Lindqvist
University at Bualo
Charlotte Lindqvist <cl243@bualo.edu >Switzerland ArticialSelection
Aug22-25
Workshop on \The evolutionary consequences of unin-
tended articial selection on population tness" in the
Swiss Alps on Aug 22-25, 2022
In a remote but well-equipped hotel (https://-
www.faeralp.ch/) in the Jungfrau-Aletsch-Bietschhorn
UNESCO World Heritage.
Faculty participating: - Fanie Pelletier (University of
Sherbrooke, Canada) - Anna Kuparinen (University
of Jyv >1
2skyl >1
2, Finland) - Andrea Pilastro (Univer-
sity of Padua, Italy) - Philine Feulner (EAWAG-ETHZ,
Switzerland) - Marty Kardos (Northwest Fisheries Sci-
ence Center NOAA, USA) - J. Andrew de Woody (Pur-
due University, USA) - Claus Wedekind (University of
Lausanne, Switzerland)
The workshop is open to PhD students, postgraduate
students, postdocs and academics from all universities
worldwide, but the number of participants is limited to
30.
Abstract: Wild populations are shaped by natural selec-
tion, sexual selection, and (mostly unintended) articial
selection. The latter include, for example, a decline of
the mean breeding value for horn size in response to
trophy hunting, or reduced individual growth rates in re-
sponse to size-selective shing. Previous research in this
context has concentrated on the evolutionary responses
in the specic traits that are under selection. The eects
of unintended articial selection on population tness
are still largely unclear. Articially changed selection
regimes can increase the genetic load of natural popula-
tions, either by directly selecting against individuals of
high breeding value for tness (e.g. if fast growth is an
indicator of low genetic load), or by relaxing natural and
sexual selection and hence reducing purifying selection
(e.g. in supportive breeding programs). We will discuss
the problem in the context of current environmental
changes and the potential of rapid evolution.
Application is now open. Participants are expected to
present and discuss their work in the light of the topic
of the workshop. Please send a title and abstract before
May 15th, 2022.
Further information: https://www.cuso.ch/activity/-
?p=1128&uid`11 Claus Wedekind Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution, Biophore, University of Lausanne,May 1, 2022 EvolDir 125
1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. Tel. +41 21 692 42 50, Fax
+41 21 692 42 65 https://www.unil.ch/dee/wedekind-
group Claus Wedekind <claus.wedekind@unil.ch >
Claus Wedekind <claus.wedekind@unil.ch >
UGroningen Anthropocene Jul3-8
Welcome to the Anthropocene! Summer School at the
University of Groningen 3 - 8 July 2022 For whom: PhD,
Master, and advanced Bachelor students Extended dead-
line for application: 15 May 2022, 23:59 CET
https://www.rug.nl/education/summer-winter-
schools/anthropocene/?lang=en Topics covered:
Paleontology: Shifts in subsistence and environmental
impact Evolutionary biology: Are we friendly neighbors?
Interspecies relationships Geology: Will Homo sapiens
leave a geological mark? Ethics & Philosophy: How
anthropocentric is the Anthropocene?
With contributions by Will Roebroeks (ULeiden),
Katherine MacDonald (ULeiden), Liesbeth Bakker
(NIOO/UWageningen), Barbara Gravendeel (Natu-
ralis/UNijmegen), Erle Ellis (UMaryland), Will Stef-
fen (Australian Natl U), Jan Zalasiewicz (ULeicester),
Raymond Corbey (ULeiden). Organised by Daniella
Vos (UGroningen), Kees Klein Goldewijk (UUtrecht),
Martine Maan (UGroningen).
Martine E. Maan Associate Professor and Rosalind
Franklin Fellow Groningen Institute for Evolutionary
Life Sciences (GELIFES) University of Groningen PO
Box 11103 9700 CC Groningen The Netherlands +31
(0)50 363 2196
Visiting address: Nijenborgh 7 9747 AG Groningen The
Netherlands building 5171, room 01.42
http://www.rug.nl/sta/m.e.maan \m.e.maan@rug.nl"
<m.e.maan@rug.nl >
Vairao Portugal
DomesticAnimalArchaeogenomics
May23-27
REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO
APRIL 25THE ARCHAEOGENOMICS OF DOMESTIC ANI-
MALS
*May 23-27, 2022 jBIOPOLIS-CIBIO-InBIO jVair >1
2o,
Portugal *
Diachronic genetic studies are required in order to in-
fer the origins and evolutionary trajectories of domestic
animals. Data spanning long time scales from zooarchae-
ological specimens allow the investigation of genomic
variation within populations over time. Analysis of
ancient DNA opens a direct window into the past for
reconstruction of the genetic history of animal popula-
tions.
The objective of this course is to provide an overview
of the most recent Archaeogenomics ndings on the
origin and evolution of domestic animals. It will also
cover some of the recommended bioinformatics tools
and methods for the study of ancient DNA genomics
data. There will be hands-on sessions, including bioin-
formatics on how to lter, infer damage patterns and
authenticate next-generation-sequencing data obtained
from archaeological specimens, as well as on population
genomics. One invited speaker in Archaeogenomics will
also contribute to the course.
At the end of the course students should understand
the importance of including genomic data concerning
past populations to make evolutionary inferences, as
well as get familiar with the challenges and peculiarities
of ancient DNA analysis.
IMPORTANT DATES Registration deadline: April 25,
2022 Notication of acceptance: April 18, 2022 Full
details, including the course programme and instruc-
tors, application form, selection criteria and require-
ments, can be found here: https://www.biodiv.pt/en/-
events/the-archaeogenomics-of-domestic-animals/ This
course is aimed at Ph.D. students, postdocs and other
researchers in the elds of evolutionary biology, zooar-
chaeology and archaeology with a specic interest in
Archaeogenomics.
*Cat**arina Ginja, PhD* Researcher, Team Leader
ARCHGEN < https://cibio.up.pt/en/groups/-
archaeogenetics-archgen/ >Ci >1
2ncia ID: 8511-380F-
548D <https://www.cienciavitae.pt/portal/8511-
380F-548D >ORCID ID: 0000-0003-2278-7089 <
https://orcid.org/my-orcid >
1. CIBIO, Centro de Investiga >1
2 >1
2o em Biodiver-
sidade e Recursos Gen >1
2ticos, InBIO Laborat >1
2rio
Associado, Campus de Vair >1
2o, Universidade do Porto,
4485-661 Vair >1
2o, Portugal
2. BIOPOLIS Program in Genomics, Biodiversity and
Land Planning, CIBIO, Campus de Vair >1
2o, 4485-661126 EvolDir May 1, 2022
Vair >1
2o, Portugal
ARCHAIC project: Archaeogenetics of Iberian Cattle
<http://archaic.campus.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/ >
Catarina Ginja <catarinaginja@gmail.com >Catarina
Ginja <catarinaginja@gmail.com >
Venice EvoDevoCharacters
Aug22-26
Dear all,
EXTENDED DEADLINE: we will still be accepting
applications until APRIL 30!
*** Venice Summer School 2022 - The character concept
in metabolic, physiological, and developmental evolu-
tion *** Aug 22 - Aug 26, 2022, Centro Culturale Don
Orione Artigianelli, Venice, IT
Organisers: Johannes Jaeger, Complexity Science Hub
(CSH), Vienna, AT, jaeger@csh.ac.at James DiFrisco,
KU Leuven, BE, james.difrisco@kuleuven.be
Teaching Panel:
Graham Budd, University of Uppsala, SE
James DiFrisco, KU Leuven, BE Scott Gilbert, Swarth-
more College, USA Thomas Hansen, University of Oslo,
NO
Johannes Jaeger, Complexity Science Hub (CSH) Vi-
enna, AT
Ant onia Monteiro, National University of Singapore, SG
Edwige Moyroud, Sainsbury Laboratory, Cambridge,
UK Laura Nu no de la Rosa, Universidad Complutense
de Madrid, ES
Mihaela Pavlicev, University of Vienna, AT Nicole Re-
pina, Friedrich Miescher Institut, Basel, CH
G unter Wagner, Yale University, USA
Course description:
The concept of \characters" lies at the heart of many
central issues in evolutionary biology. Characters dis-
tinguish taxa, cause tness dierences, and generally
are the fundamental units of comparison for studies
of phenotypic evolution. Historically, the concept of
characters originated in morphology and comparative
anatomy, where it was intimately connected to the issue
of homology. At the same time, characters in evolu-
tionary genetics have been understood as the eectivedimensions along which a population is evolving. Both
the more historical and functional conceptions of biolog-
ical characters presuppose that phenotypes are modular
enough that it makes sense to compare or model parts
of organisms directly rather than whole organisms. To-
day, the notion of characters or traits is increasingly
used to describe dynamic lower-level phenomena such as
metabolic, physiological, and developmental processes.
This raises a number of challenging but interesting con-
ceptual issues. How can we dene characters or traits
when the object under study is a process? Is it pos-
sible to modularize regulatory mechanisms into quasi-
independent characters? What light can contemporary
systems biology shed on the partitioning of the pheno-
type into characters? We do not yet have answers to
these important questions. We have gathered a select
group of empirical investigators and theoreticians from
the elds of biochemistry, physiology, developmental
biology, and evolutionary biology together with mathe-
matical modelers, and philosophers of biology to discuss
how characters can be dened, identied, and charac-
terized in the age of integrative systems biology. Is it
still useful to talk about characters? And if so, what
should the concept incorporate to guide research in the
right direction? Evolutionary biology lies at the very
heart of biology. Therefore, this topic is relevant far
beyond its boundaries. Properly tackling it requires
the kind of transdisciplinary exchange of ideas and ap-
proaches we are planning to implement in this course.
The summer school is mainly aimed at early-stage (PhD
or postdoc) empirical and theoretical researchers with
a general background and/or interest in developmental
and/or evolutionary biology. More senior investigators
are welcome to apply as well. Exceptions can be made
for motivated masters students. Participants of previ-
ous Venice Summer Schools in Evo-Devo are expressly
encouraged to reapply as this course has an entirely
dierent topic than previous editions. The course will
equip participants with the conceptual tools to engage
in a productive discussion of the notion of \characters,"
and to relate this notion to their own research questions
and explanations.
*** Detailed programme, further information, and regis-
tration at:
https://meetings.embo.org/event/21-evolution-venice
Applicants are required to submit an academic CV, and
a motivation letter. Optionally, also add an abstract if
you would like to present your own work as an elevator
pitch on the rst day of the course.
*** EXTENDED APPLICATION DEADLINE: Apr 30,
2022. Applicants will be notied whether they have
been accepted (or not) by May 15, 2022. The payment
deadline for successful applicants is Jun 30, 2022.May 1, 2022 EvolDir 127
Follow @VeniceEvoDevo on Twitter for updates.
On behalf of all the organisers, Yogi Jaeger
Dr. Johannes Jaeger Freelance Researcher, Philosopher& Educator Associate Faculty, Complexity Science Hub
(CSH), Vienna
Johannes Jaeger <yoginho@gmail.com >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.