E v o l D i r
June 1, 2013
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Conferences
Asilomar AmerSocNatl Jan13-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Barcelona EuropeanDrosophilaRes Oct16-19 . . . . . . . .3
Barcelona EvolMulticellularity Sep30-Oct1 2 . . . . . . . .3
Barcelona Systematics Sep25-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Cardi Omics Sep9-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Cardi Omics Sept9-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 OnsiteChildcare . . . . . . . 5
Cornell AGA2013 Jul20-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Cornell NonmodelGenomics July23-24 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Cornell Speciation Jul20-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Denmark EvoDemography Oct6-10 DeadlineExtended
7
Edinburgh ComplexGeneticTraits May10 . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Fiji ONLINE BarcodingBiodiversity Jul8-12 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Fredericton VolvoxEvolution Jul31-Aug3 DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
IGFL Lyon GenomeEvolution Oct7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Kunming 5thBarcodeOfLife Oct27-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10Lausanne QuestForOrthologs3 Jul24-26 . . . . . . . . . . . 11
London EvolutionBehaviouralMechanisms Dec5-6 . 11
London Evolution Infectious Disease May17 . . . . . . . 12
London InsectImmunityEvol May31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Marseilles 17thEvolBiol Sep17-20 Deadline . . . . . . . . 13
Montreal BiodiversityMathematics Sep16-20 . . . . . . .13
NMNH Washington Phylogenetics May20-21 . . . . . . 14
Paris MicrobialEvolution Oct2-5 CallAbstracts . . . . 15
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 UndergradMentors
16
Snowbird Utah Evolution2013 Jun21-25 Housing 2 16
UCambridge HumanOrigins Jul5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UGroningen IndividualDierences Nov1-3 . . . . . . . . . 17
UNewEngland Genomics Jul14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics Jun13-15 ExtDead-
line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
UWisconsin Madison SoberFest May24-25 . . . . . . . . . 18
WageningenU EvolutionaryAgriculture May13 . . . . .19
Asilomar AmerSocNatl Jan13-15
The American Society of Naturalists is holding an inde-
pendent meeting (\21st Century Naturalists: integrat-
ing pattern and process to understand biodiversity")
at the Asilomar conference center on the Monterey
Peninsula, California, on January 13-15 2014. Infor-
mation about the meeting is now available at http://-
w3.biosci.utexas.edu/amnatasilomar/ .The website will
be updated periodically with additional information.
Registration and lodging will open in early July. To be
added to the email list for further updates, email amsoc-
naturalists@gmail.com with a subject message \Sub-
scribe Asilomar".
The goal of the 2014 American Society of Naturalists
meeting is to bring together a diverse array of biol-
ogists, including evolutionary biologists, behaviorists,
and ecologists, who might not normally encounter oneanother at their regular meetings. This will be a small
conference to promote new conversations and ideas (at-
tendance is limited). We wish to create a unique set-
ting where graduate students, postdocs, and faculty can
carry out discussions that dene new research directions
for our disciplines, and promote integration between bi-
ological disciplines including the fusion of theory, data,
and new technologies for data acquisition.
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick
Early Career Scientist Howard Hughes Medical Insti-
tute
Associate Professor Section of Integrative Biology One
University Station C0990 University of Texas at Austin
Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu https://webspace.utexas.edu/-
dib73/TheBolnickLab/Home.html danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.eduJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 3
Barcelona EuropeanDrosophilaRes
Oct16-19
Deadline approaching: 2 June 2013
The upcoming European Drosophila Research Confer-
ence in Barcelona (Oct. 16-19) will have a sympo-
sium dedicated to Population Genetics and Evolution
(Chaired by Benjamin Prud'homme, Nicolas Gompel
and myself). http://edrc2013.org In addition Josefa
Gonzalez and Thomas Flatt organize a workshop on
\Creating a European Drosophila Population Genomics
Network"
The deadline for submitting abstracts is 2 June 2013!
Christian Schl otterer Institut f ur Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 1210 Wien Aus-
tria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vienna Gradu-
ate School of Population Genetics http://www.popgen-
vienna.at schlotc@gmail.com
Barcelona EvolMulticellularity
Sep30-Oct1 2
Registration is now open
ICREA Conference on the evolution of multicellularity
Barcelona, Spain, September 30-October 1, 2013
we are pleased to announce the ICREA Conference on
the Evolution of Multicellularity to be held Septem-
ber 30th - October 1st, 2013, in Barcelona (Spain).
The transition to multicellular life represents one of the
most important events in the history of life. Yet, de-
spite its signicance, little is known about the mech-
anisms involved in this transition. In recent years,
emerging data from various elds are providing new
insights into this major evolutionary transition. With
advances in theoretical, molecular/cell biology and ge-
nomics approaches, there is a clear need for further
conversation and collaborative eorts between exper-
imentalists and theoreticians. The ICREA Conference
on the Evolution of Multicellularity will bring togetherresearchers with diverse backgrounds with the goal of
stimulating and fostering inter-disciplinary discussion
and collaborations. The talks will be organized around
six mini-symposia encompassing the major topics and
approaches related to the evolution of multicellularity.
The six symposia are: 1) Origins and mechanisms; 2)
Development and Gene regulation; 3) Genomics ap-
proaches and insights; 4) Theoretical approaches; 5)
Social Evolution; 6) Computational and synthetic ap-
proaches. For additional information and updates (in-
cluding preliminary program, registration and abstract
submission deadlines) please visit the Conference page
at www.multicellularity2013.com/).
Please note that registration is free but limited to 100
participants.
Invited speakers:
Douglas H. Erwin Philip Donoghue Andrew H. Knoll
David C. Queller J. Mark Cock Stuart A. Newman
Gregory J. Velicer Richard E. Michod Daniel Richter
Pauline Schaap
Organizers:
I naki Ruiz-Trillo, Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-
CSIC) Ricard V. Sol e, Institut de Biologia Evolu-
tiva (UPF-CSIC) Aurora Nedelcu, University of New
Brunswick
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-
partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, NB
Canada E3B 5A3 phone: (506) 458-7463
Aurora Nedelcu <anedelcu@unb.ca >
Barcelona Systematics Sep25-27
Dear Friends and Colleagues:
You are kindly invited to attend the II Iberian Congress
of Biological Systematics - CISA 2013 that will take
place in Barcelona from September 25-27, 2013.
CISA2013 aims to provide an arena for presenting lead-
ing research in biosystematics, to encourage participa-
tion of young researchers and to stir up fruitful discus-
sion in the eld.
Registration and abstract submission is now
open. Please, visit our website athttp://-
www.CISA2013.orgfor registration and further in-
formation on the program, invited speakers, social
events, fees and deadlines.4 EvolDir June 1, 2013
The CISA2013 Organizing Committee
j.gomez-zurita@ibe.upf-csic.es
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-11
The International Biogeography Society (IBS) and the
Australian National University (ANU) would like to in-
vite you to the INTERNATIONAL BIOGEOGRAPHY
SOCIETY EARLY CAREER CONFERENCE 2014.
The conference will take place in Canberra, ACT,
Australia between the 7thand the 11 th of Jan-
uary 2014, and is jointly supported by the IBS
(http://www.biogeography.org/), the ANU Centre
for Macroevolution and Macroecology (http://-
macroevoeco.com/), and the ANU-CSIRO Centre for
Biodiversity Analysis (http://cba.anu.edu.au/). The
event aims to bring together early career researchers,
along with more experienced scientists, working on
many aspects of biogeography.
REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
WILL BEGIN IN JUNE 2013.
The schedule of the conference is as follows:
-On the 7th of January, we will oer workshops for a
limited number of participants on methods of phyloge-
netics and modelling species distributions.
-On the following three days (8th-10th of January
2014), talks and posters will be presented by attendees
across three symposia:
1.SPECIES DISTRIBUTION ACROSS TIME AND
SPACE (Dan Warren - ANU)
2.BIODIVERSITY TURNOVER ACROSS SPATIAL
SCALES (Dan Rosauer - ANU)
3.ADVANCES IN PHYLOGENETIC METHODS
FOR BIOGEOGRAPHY (Marcel Cardillo, Haris
Saslis-Lagoudakis, Peter Cowman - ANU)
-On the nal day (11th of January 2014), several eld
trips will be oered around the region of Canberra.
The conference will be held at ANU Commons
(http://commons.anu.edu.au/), on the ANU campus.
Workshops will be run at the teaching facilities of
the Research School of Biology, ANU, a new com-
plex with purpose build rooms for computer centric
workshops. ANU is within a few minutes walk to
the main attractions and amenities of Canberra
CBD, including restaurants, bars and museums(http://www.visitcanberra.com.au/). Several accom-
modation options are oered near the venue ( http:/-
/www.visitcanberra.com.au/Accommodation.aspx).
Additional budget accommodation options will be
provided for students.
Canberra is the capital of Australia, and is surrounded
by beautiful nature, including several nature reserves,
where visitors can see many iconic Australian animals
(the platypus, koalas, kangaroos, wombats, wallabies),
and plants (banksias, eucalypts), as well as cave sys-
tems. The coast is only a couple of hours away and
Sydney approximately a 3 hour drive.
Student participation will be supported by awards of-
fered by the IBS. More information to follow.
We look forward to welcoming you to Canberra in Jan-
uary 2014!
The ANU Organising Committee
Haris Saslis-Lagoudakis
Peter Cowman
Dan Warren
Dan Rosauer
Marcel Cardillo
ibsconference2014@gmail.com
IBS Early Career Conference 2014
<ibsconference2014@gmail.com >
Cardi Omics Sep9-11
Announcement: 1st international Environmental
Omics Synthesis conference
Cardi University, UK, 9-11th Sept. 2013
See: http://www.environmentalomics.org/ieos2013 As
part of the NERC - Mathematics and Informatics for
Environmental 'Omics Data Synthesis directed pro-
gramme, we are pleased to announce the rst in a series
of annual conferences. This year the session topics will
be
- Learning from the past to inform the future - Ecologi-
cal 'Omics: from workows to adaptation - Epigenetics
- Evolutionary 'Omics: models and applications - Inte-
grated and Systems 'Omics - Community ecology: from
metagenomics to function and synthetic biology
Keynote speakers: - Prof. Eske Willerslev, Centre forJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 5
GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark -
Prof. John Colbourne, Chair of Environmental Ge-
nomics, University of Birmingham - Prof. Jack Gilbert,
Earth Microbiome Project, University of Chicago
Registration open! Abstract submission open!
on behalf of Peter Kille and the iEOS organising com-
mittee.
Daniel
{ Daniel Barker http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/-
db60 The University of St Andrews is a charity regis-
tered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
Cardi Omics Sept9-11
FIRST INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
'OMICS SYNTHESIS CONFERENCE
Cardi University, UK, 9-11 September 2013
http://www.environmentalomics.org/ieos2013 CALL
FOR ABSTRACTS
We are pleased to announce the rst ever conference on
'omics applications, tools and resources, focused on the
environmental sciences.
The meeting is targeted both at current and future
users of 'omics, and for developers of bioinformatics
and 'omics technologies. This includes dedicated in-
troductory talks and training sessions on day one, for
those who are new to the eld, followed by two days
of world-class science presentations delivered by sev-
eral international leaders in environmental 'omics. The
conference will promote exchange of ideas between all
of these groups.
We encourage submission of abstracts to be considered
for oral and poster presentation, and in particular en-
courage submissions from PhD students and postdoc-
toral researchers.
To register - with optional submission of an abstract -
see:
http://environmentalomics.org/ieos registration AB-
STRACT DEADLINE: 1 July 2013 REGISTRATION
DEADLINE: 1 August 2013
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS: Professor Eske Willerslev,
Natural History Museum of Denmark Professor Jack
Gilbert, University of Chicago Professor John Col-bourne, University of Birmingham
INVITED SPEAKERS include: Professor Terry
Brown, University of Manchester Professor Robin Al-
laby, University of Warwick Dr Andrew Whitehead,
University of California, Davis Professor Kevin Chip-
man, University of Birmingham Dr Joe Shaw, Indiana
University
SPONSORED in part by the NERC, STFC, Thermo
Fisher Scientic, and BGI.
On behalf of the iEOS organising committee,
Daniel
{ Daniel Barker http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/-
db60 The University of St Andrews is a charity regis-
tered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
OnsiteChildcare
SMBE on-site Childcare
2013 Annual Meeting of the Society for Molecular and
Evolution
July 7-11, Chicago, USA
We are pleased to annouce that this year, on-site child-
care services will be available to parents attending
SMBE 2013 in Chicago!
Childcare will be available from 8:00AM - 6:30 PM at
the conference venue (Hyatt Regency Chicago), divided
into morning and afternoon sessions, on July 8-11. Li-
censed childcare workers will provide fun activities for
kids in a safe, caring environment.
Thanks to a generous grant from the Society for Molec-
ular Biology & Evolution, attendees will be charged a
signicantly reduced rate for the service.
Detailed information about rates and payments can be
found on:
http://smbe2013.org/2013/Registration/Childcare-
Information.aspx Additionally, we are oering an
EARLY BIRD SPECIAL up to a 20% discount for
parents who pre-register their children before May
30th.
Space is limited, so register you child soon!
Questions about childcare and payment can be directed6 EvolDir June 1, 2013
to cornellacademy4kids@gmail.com (please put 'SMBE
2013' in the subject line)
We look forward to meeting you and your children.
Maria D. Vibranovski Assistant Professor Department
of Genetics and Evolutionary Biology University of
S~ ao Paulo Rua do Mat~ ao 27, Cidade Universit aria S~ ao
Paulo, SP, 05508-090 Brazil
Phone : +55 (11) 3091-0952 e-mail : mdv@ib.usp.br
mdv@ib.usp.br
Cornell AGA2013 Jul20-22
Register by Saturday for Early Bird rates for SPECI-
ATION CONTINUUM: A Discussion on the Origin of
Species, the 2013 Symposium of the American Genetic
Association. July 20-22 at Cornell University in beau-
tiful Ithaca, NY.
Early bird registration cost is $150 for stu-
dents/postdocs, $200 professional. AGA student
awards available! Registration includes all lunches
and reception tickets, plus a 1-yr AGA membership.
Already a member? You'll get an additional year at
no cost.
All talks are invited (see list below), and there will be
a poster session open to all participants. Submit your
poster title with registration. The Carl Becker House
dormitory is located near the lecture hall and recep-
tion/poster location and is an inexpensive and con-
venient accommodation option. Immediately follow-
ing the symposium, 23-24 July, will be the workshop,
NEXT GENERATION POPULATION GENOMICS
FOR NONMODEL TAXA.
For details and registration, please visit the AGA
website, http://www.theaga.org/ and click on the sym-
posium logo. Or check out our Facebook page, https:/-
/www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation
Symposium Speakers:
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Sergey Gavrilets, Univer-
sity of Tennessee, Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Alex Buerkle, University of Wyoming
Bill Etges, University of Arkansas Rosemary Gillespie,
University of California Rick Harrison, Cornell Univer-
sity Scott Hodges, University of California Jim Mal-
let, Harvard University and University College London
Tami Mendelson, University of Maryland Sean Mullen,
Boston University Mohamed Noor, Duke UniversityKevin Oh, Cornell University Brett Payseur, Univer-
sity of Wisonsin-Madison Katie Peichel, University of
Washington Trevor Price, The University of Chicago
Howard Rundle, University of Ottawa Rebecca Safran,
University of Colorado Maria Servedio, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill Laurie Stevison, Univer-
sity of California, San Francisco, Institute for Human
Genetics Sara Via, University of Maryland John Willis,
Duke University
Kerry Shaw, President American Genetic
Association mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu
http://www.theaga.org/ AGAJOH
<AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu >
Cornell NonmodelGenomics
July23-24 3
Early bird registration is open for the 2013 Symposium
of the American Genetic Association, to be held July
20-22 at Cornell University in beautiful Ithaca, NY
{ SPECIATION CONTINUUM: A Discussion on the
Origin of Species.
Registration cost is $150 for students/postdocs, $200
professional through 1 June. AGA student awards
available! Registration includes all lunches and recep-
tion tickets, plus a 1-yr AGA membership. Already
a member? An additional year will be added to your
membership.
All talks are invited (see list below), and there will be
a poster session open to all participants. Submit your
poster title with registration. The Carl Becker House
dormitory is located near the lecture hall and recep-
tion/poster location and is an inexpensive and conve-
nient accommodation option.
For details and registration, please visit the AGA web-
site, http://www.theaga.org/ and click on the sympo-
sium logo. Or check out our Facebook page, https:/-
/www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation Im-
mediately following the symposium, 23-24 July, will be
the workshop, NEXT GENERATION POPULATION
GENOMICS FOR NONMODEL TAXA. Goal: to com-
pare and discuss the strengths and weaknesses of dier-
ent approaches to genome sequencing and bioinformat-
ics when studying population genomics in nonmodel
species.
Course fee: $150. Capacity is 45 students { applications
received before May 15 will receive priority considera-June 1, 2013 EvolDir 7
tion. AGA travel awards are available. See the AGA
website or Facebook page for links to workshop and
application details.
Workshop Instructors:
Matthew Hare, Department of Natural Resources, Cor-
nell University Nancy Chen, Department of Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University Andy Clark,
Department of Molecular Biology & Genetics, Cor-
nell University Alex Buerkle, Department of Botany,
University of Wyoming Pierre De Wit, University of
Gothenburg, Sweden
Symposium Speakers:
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Sergey Gavrilets, Univer-
sity of Tennessee, Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Alex Buerkle, University of Wyoming
Bill Etges, University of Arkansas Rosemary Gillespie,
University of California Rick Harrison, Cornell Univer-
sity Scott Hodges, University of California Jim Mal-
let, Harvard University and University College London
Tami Mendelson, University of Maryland Sean Mullen,
Boston University Mohamed Noor, Duke University
Kevin Oh, Cornell University Brett Payseur, Univer-
sity of Wisonsin-Madison Katie Peichel, University of
Washington Trevor Price, The University of Chicago
Howard Rundle, University of Ottawa Rebecca Safran,
University of Colorado Maria Servedio, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill Laurie Stevison, Univer-
sity of California, San Francisco, Institute for Human
Genetics Sara Via, University of Maryland John Willis,
Duke University
Kerry Shaw, President American Genetic Asso-
ciation mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu http://-
www.theaga.org/ agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Cornell Speciation Jul20-22
Early bird registration until June 1st for SPECIATION
CONTINUUM: A Discussion on the Origin of Species,
the 2013 Symposium of the American Genetic Associ-
ation, to be held July 20-22 at Cornell University in
beautiful Ithaca, NY.
Registration cost is $150 for students/postdocs, $200
professional. AGA student awards available! Registra-
tion includes all lunches and reception tickets, plus a
1-yr AGA membership. Already a member? You'll get
an additional year at no cost.All talks are invited (see list below), and there will be
a poster session open to all participants. Submit your
poster title with registration. The Carl Becker House
dormitory is located near the lecture hall and recep-
tion/poster location and is an inexpensive and conve-
nient accommodation option.
Immediately following the symposium, 23-24 July, will
be the workshop, NEXT GENERATION POPULA-
TION GENOMICS FOR NONMODEL TAXA.
For details and registration, please visit the AGA
website, http://www.theaga.org/ and click on the sym-
posium logo. Or check out our Facebook page, https:/-
/www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation
Symposium Speakers:
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Sergey Gavrilets, Univer-
sity of Tennessee, Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Alex Buerkle, University of Wyoming
Bill Etges, University of Arkansas Rosemary Gillespie,
University of California Rick Harrison, Cornell Univer-
sity Scott Hodges, University of California Jim Mal-
let, Harvard University and University College London
Tami Mendelson, University of Maryland Sean Mullen,
Boston University Mohamed Noor, Duke University
Kevin Oh, Cornell University Brett Payseur, Univer-
sity of Wisonsin-Madison Katie Peichel, University of
Washington Trevor Price, The University of Chicago
Howard Rundle, University of Ottawa Rebecca Safran,
University of Colorado Maria Servedio, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill Laurie Stevison, Univer-
sity of California, San Francisco, Institute for Human
Genetics Sara Via, University of Maryland John Willis,
Duke University
Kerry Shaw, President American Genetic Asso-
ciation mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu http://-
www.theaga.org/ agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Denmark EvoDemography Oct6-10
DeadlineExtended
Due to a large number of \I was about to submit" mes-
sages, the deadline for abstracts has been extended to
May 15th.
The Evolutionary Demography Society (EvoDemoS)
invites submission of abstracts for our rst meeting,
October 6-10 at the University of Southern Denmark
in Odense, Denmark.
The overarching goal of this meeting is to establish8 EvolDir June 1, 2013
EvoDemoS as a cohesive community of researchers. For
this purpose we will emphasize introducing the mem-
bers of EvoDemoS to each other's work and providing
opportunities for discussion and interaction. We there-
fore welcome talks and posters in all aspects of evolu-
tionary demography, life history evolution, and evolu-
tionary aspects of the population ecology of all taxa.
We hope you will join us.
Details, including abstract submission and registra-
tion, can be found here: http://www.sdu.dk/en/-
OmSDU/Institutter centre/MaxO/EvoDemoS Daniel
Levitis Assistant Professor Max-Plank Odense Center
on the Biodemography of Aging Institute of Biology
University of Southern Denmark levitis@biology.sdu.dk
Levitis@demogr.mpg.de
Edinburgh ComplexGeneticTraits
May10
The Edinburgh Alliance for Complex Trait Genetics (E-
ACTG) holds occasional meetings to present and dis-
cuss research in this area. The Fourth E-ACTG Meet-
ing is being held on the afternoon of Friday 10th May
at The Royal Society of Edinburgh on George Street
in the centre of Edinburgh. If you are interested in
this area and can make it to Edinburgh you are very
welcome to attend.
We have a really interesting and varied programme in-
cluding some excellent external speakers (see below).
Registration is free and we'll be providing lunch and
refreshments to complement the excellent science cour-
tesy of Wellcome ISSF funding.
To register, please email: chris.haley@roslin.ed.ac.uk
giving your name and aliation. Let us know if you
have any special needs and we'll do our best to accom-
modate them. Spaces are strictly limited, so please get
in touch soon. The last date for registration (if not full
already) is Monday May 6th.
Chris Haley and Josephine Pemberton
Draft Programme - E-ACTG 4th Meeting 12.30-18.00
Friday May 10th Royal Society of Edinburgh
Kenneth Baillie (The Roslin Institute and R(D)SVS)
Coexpression analysis of genome-wide signals for dis-
ease association
Camillo Berenos (Institute of Evolutionary Biology)Evolutionary genomics of body size in Soay sheep
Frank Chan (Max Planck Institute for Developmental
Biology, T ubingen) How do the mice get so big? - Com-
plex trait genomics in response to selection
Sarah Harris (Centre for Cognitive Aging and Cognitive
Epidemiology) Global methylation content and cogni-
tive and physical ability in old age: the Lothian Birth
Cohort 1936
David Hume (The Roslin Institute and R(D)SVS) Pro-
moting the genome
Augustine Kong (deCODE, Iceland) Haplotype sharing
and time to common ancestor: resolving various genet-
ics problems including the studies of rare variants and
disease susceptibility variants
Albert Tenesa (The Roslin Institute and MRC Institute
of Genetics and Molecular Medicine) Whole-genome
modelling of colorectal cancer risk
Veronique Vitart (MRC Human Genetics Unit, MRC
Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine) Genome-
wide association analysis for circulating urate levels
Chris Haley MRC Human Genetics Unit, MRC Insti-
tute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine University
of Edinburgh Western General Hospital Crewe Road,
Edinburgh, EH4 2XU, UK Chris.Haley@igmm.ed.ac.uk
+44 131 3322471
Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary
Studies University of Edinburgh Easter Bush Midloth-
ian, EH25 9RG, UK Chris.Haley@roslin.ed.ac.uk +44
131 651 9100
Josephine Pemberton <j.pemberton@ed.ac.uk >
Fiji ONLINE BarcodingBiodiversity
Jul8-12 CallAbstracts
Dear Colleagues,
We have received many expressions of interest from po-
tential presenters and attendees but many of them lack
the travel support necessary to attend a conference in
Fiji. Since both barcoding and collection digitization
are community-based initiatives, the organizers have
decided to make this an open, distributed Webinar.
People who would like to be presenters or attendees will
be able to do so from anywhere. As soon as the agenda
has been nalized we will issue a call for registration
which will be limited to 100 web-participants.June 1, 2013 EvolDir 9
The Consortium for the Barcode of Life (CBOL) at
the Smithsonian Institution and CSIRO in Canberra,
Australia, are the co-organizers of a full-day sympo-
sium/workshop at the 12th Pacic Science Association
Inter-Congress, Suva, Fiji 8-12 July 2013. The session
is endorsed by the Oceania GBIF Node and the Global
Taxonomy Initiative of the Convention on Biological
Diversity. The description of the session is presented
below. You will see that the day will be divided between
presentations on barcoding as a tool for digitizing col-
lections and a training workshop on other digitization
techniques.
DEADLINE: The organizers invite you to submit ab-
stracts by 15 June. Applicants for the barcoding ses-
sion should send abstracts to David Schindel (schin-
deld@si.edu) and for the digitization session to Beth
Mantle (Beth.Mantle@csiro.au).
====CONNECTING BIODIVERSITY COL-
LECTIONS IN THE PACIFIC: DIGITIZATION
THROUGH DNA BARCODING AND INFORMAT-
ICS
David E. Schindel, Consortium for the Barcode of Life,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC, USA
Beth Mantle, Australian National Insect Collection,
CSIRO, Canberra, ACT, Australia
Reference collections in museums, herbaria, botanical
gardens, zoos and other repositories are critical infras-
tructure for research, education, regulation and legisla-
tion related to biodiversity. These collections provide
documentation of research results as well as long-term
changes in nature. Patterns of ecological, evolutionary
and anthropogenic changes often go unseen and undoc-
umented until samples from these collections material
are analyzed and re-analyzed using the latest technol-
ogy. In order to be accessible and eective, reference
collections need to be digitized and their data and meta-
data made available to the research and education com-
munity, to policy-makers, and to the general public.
Digitization in the most general sense is the associa-
tion of an organism and its characteristics to a unique
identier that can be indexed for later searching and
retrieval. It can take several forms, ranging from digi-
tal capture of label data (date and place of collection,
taxonomic identication) to digital image capture and
even DNA sequencing.
This full day session will include a half-day sympo-
sium of contributed presentations on DNA barcoding
and a half-day instructional workshop on biodiversity
informatics. The DNA barcoding symposium will con-
tribute toward development of a regional strategy for
Oceania for construction and use of standardized bar-code libraries. These libraries could serve basic research
in ecology and evolution and/or applications such as
the protection of endangered species and control of in-
vasive alien species such as agricultural pests. The
biodiversity informatics workshop will showcase initia-
tives such as the Global Biodiversity Information Fa-
cility (GBIF), the Atlas of Living Australia (ALA),
New Zealand Organisms register (NZOR), and digitiza-
tion initiatives such as iDigBio and Australia's Virtual
Herbarium (AVH). This session will explore applica-
tions and network tools appropriate for the small and
scattered countries and territories of Oceania. Partic-
ipants will learn the latest approaches to the digitiza-
tion of natural history collections and explore how these
could be applied to their collections. The session will
conclude with a round-table discussion on strategic de-
velopment of, and support for, biodiversity informatics
in the Oceania region.
The Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Di-
versity (CBD) has expressed its support for this pro-
posed workshop as a contribution to enhancing capac-
ity in taxonomy (a goal of CBD's Global Taxonomy
Initiative, GTI) and strengthening informatics infras-
tructure in the Pacic region. Academic collaborations
on biodiversity facilitate achievement by CBD Parties
in the region of Aichi Biodiversity Target 9 (invasive
alien species) and Target 19 (Biodiversity science).
\Schindel, David" <schindeld@si.edu >
Fredericton VolvoxEvolution
Jul31-Aug3 DeadlineExtended
The 2nd International Volvox Conference
EARLY REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUB-
MISSION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO JUNE 15TH
Please join us for the 2nd International Volvox Con-
ference (focused on the green alga Volvox and its close
relatives) to be held July 31 V August 3, 2013, in Fred-
ericton (New Brunswick, Canada). This is the second of
what we hope to be a long series of Volvox meetings to
be held every other year, alternating with the Chlamy-
domonas meetings. The rst meeting, in 2011, was a
great success (www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/). Volvocine al-
gae have become an important model system for the
evolution of multicellularity, development and cellular
dierentiation, and lately have yielded important re-
sults in elds as diverse as genomics, hydrodynamics,10 EvolDir June 1, 2013
and social evolution. We hope that the meeting will
continue to foster exchange of ideas and expertise and
will initiate new collaborations. We also wish to attract
new people and to build a stronger Volvox community.
The meeting (through contributed papers and posters)
will highlight various aspects of the biology, taxonomy,
ecology, development, genetics/genomics and evolution
of Volvox and its relatives. For additional information
and updates please visit the Conference page at http:/-
/www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC2013).
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-
partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, NB
Canada E3B 5A3 phone: (506) 458-7463
Aurora Nedelcu <anedelcu@unb.ca >
IGFL Lyon GenomeEvolution Oct7
English The Institute of Functional Genomics, Lyon
(IGFL), France, is organizing an international meeting
celebrating its scientic inauguration, on Monday
October 7, 2013. Research in the IGFL focuses on how
genomes control fundamental aspects of animal devel-
opment, physiology, and evolution. We have gathered
an exciting panel of speakers including a Nobel Prize
laureate and international leaders in the elds of De-
velopment, Evolution, and Physiology. Details can be
found on the IGFL website at http://ig.ens-lyon.fr/-
accueil?set language=en&cl=en . The objective of
this meeting is to bring together scientists from these
inter-connected disciplines, and ensure a good inter-
action with the scientic community at IGFL, local
and French institutions. The list of conrmed speakers
and other information can be found in our meeting
poster here: http://ig.ens-lyon.fr/accueil/dossier-
images/divers/COLLOQUE INAUGURAL PO
STER.gif. A preliminary program is also available
here: http://ig.ens-lyon.fr/accueil/ig/documents/-
program preliminary Registration is now open (and
will be closed on September 1st 2013) at: http://-
colloquedr7.dr20.cnrs.fr/pre-inscription.php?colloque
A symbolic fee of 30 Euros will be charged to
participants who wish to attend the meeting.
For assistance on accommodations in Lyon or for any
other information, please contact the organizing com-
mittee at inauguration-colloque.ig@ens-lyon.fr
French L1Institut de G enomique Fonctionnelle de Lyon
(IGFL) organise un colloque international pour c el ebrer
son inauguration scientique le Lundi 7 Octobre 2013.Les th emes de recherche au sein de l1IGFL ont pour
objectif de comprendre comment le g enome contr^ ole les
aspects fondamentaux du D eveloppement, de la Physi-
ologie, et de l1Evolution chez les animaux. Nous avons
rassembl e un panel d1intervenants de haut niveau, com-
prenant un laur eat Prix Nobel et des leaders interna-
tionaux en D eveloppement, Physiologie et Evolution.
Plus de d etails sont disponibles sur le site web de
l1IGFLhttp://ig.ens-lyon.fr/ .
L1objectif de ce colloque est de r eunir des scientiques
dans ces domaines interconnect es an de permettre
une interaction fructueuse avec la communaut e sci-
entique au sein de l1IGFL, la communaut e locale
et nationale. La liste des intervenants conrm es
peut ^ etre consult ee sur l1ache du colloque 
http://ig.ens-lyon.fr/accueil/dossier-images/divers/-
COLLOQUE INAUGURAL PO STER.gif. Le
programme pr eliminaire peut aussi ^ etre consult e sur le
sitehttp://ig.ens-lyon.fr/accueil/ig/documents/-
program preliminary.
Pour vous inscrire, connectez-vous sur le site http://-
colloquedr7.dr20.cnrs.fr/pre-inscription.php?colloque=
83 .Le co^ ut de l1inscription est de 30 Euros, et la date
limite est le 1er Septembre, 2013.
Pour obtenir des informations sur l1h ebergement  a
Lyon, ou pour toute autre information, veuillez
contacter le comit e d1organisationinauguration-
colloque.ig@ens-lyon.fr .
Abderrahman Khila <abderrahman.khila@ens-
lyon.fr >
Kunming 5thBarcodeOfLife
Oct27-31
Fifth International Barcode of Life Conference
27-31 October 2013, Kunming, Yunnan, China
Dear Colleagues and Friends
The Kunming Institute of Botany (KIB) and Kunming
Institute of Zoology (KIZ), research institutes of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), invite you to join
us in Kunming, China from 27-31 October 2013 for the
Fifth International Barcode of Life Conference. The
conference is co-hosted by the International Barcode
of Life Project (iBOL) and the iBOL China National
Committee, in consultation with the Consortium for
the Barcode of Life (CBOL). DNA barcoding has comeJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 11
a long way since December 2011 when we met in Ade-
laide for the Fourth International Barcode of Life Con-
ference. The 2013 conference will provide an opportu-
nity for delegates from around the globe to showcase
and discuss scientic advancements in DNA barcoding
and the wide-ranging socio-economic applications de-
veloped since the Adelaide Conference, and to review
the progress in this eld over the past decade. The
Kunming conference will bring barcode researchers to-
gether to exchange ideas and plan new activities, and
to learn about barcoding activities in China and the re-
gion. The theme of the conference is ^A^AGlobal Change
and the Barcode of Life: Challenges and Opportuni-
ties^A^A. The conference will be held at the Lian Yun
Hotel near Green Lake with a stunning view of Kun-
ming. There will be two days of pre-conference work-
shops, including full-day short courses that will intro-
duce participants to the lab protocols of DNA barcod-
ing and to the management and analysis of barcode
data. The week of events will culminate in a bar-
coding event for the public in the Kunming Botanic
Garden of KIB. Registration will be limited by the
capacity of the conference venue, so please register
soon to ensure your participation. Please also continue
to check this website (http://dnabarcodes2013.org or
http://dnabarcodes2013.csp.escience.cn) as we add in-
formation (see Important Dates). To receive future no-
tices, online registration is needed.
We look forward to meeting you in Kunming in Octo-
ber!
For more details on the conference program, exhibi-
tion, abstract submission, and registration and accom-
modation kindly visit:http://dnabarcodes2013.orgor
http://dnabarcodes2013.csp.escience.cn
Best wishes
DNAbarcodes 2013 Secretariat
DNAbarcodes <dnabarcodes2013@mail.kib.ac.cn >
Lausanne QuestForOrthologs3
Jul24-26
Dear colleagues,
We invite applications to the third Quest for Orthologs
meeting, in Lausanne, Switzerland, July 24-26.
The QfO is an international scientic meeting that cov-
ers all aspects of orthology prediction, benchmarking,and application.
Further details at http://edu.isb-sib.ch/course/-
view.php?id=3D144 Marc
Marc Robinson-Rechavi Department of Ecology and
Evolution Biophore 3219, University of Lausanne, 1015
Lausanne, Switzerland tel: +41 21 692 4220 fax: +41
21 692 4165 http://bioinfo.unil.ch/ Twitter: @marc rr
Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics http://www.isb-
sib.ch/groups/lausanne/eb-robinson-rechavi.html La
liberte ne s'use que quand on ne s'en sert pas
Marc.Robinson-Rechavi@unil.ch
London
EvolutionBehaviouralMechanisms
Dec5-6
We are pleased to announce that this year's ASAB Win-
ter Conference will be held on 5-6 December, at the
usual location of London Zoo (ZSL Meeting Rooms).
The topic is 'The Evolution of Behavioural Mecha-
nisms' and the keynote speakers will be Melissa Bate-
son, Reuven Dukas, Simon Laughlin and Marlene Zuk.
For more information, to submit an abstract (dead-
line: 16 August) or to register your interest, please
visit http://tinyurl.com/winterasab2013 or contact us
at madorganiser@gmail.com.
We look forward to seeing you in London!
Tim Fawcett, Andy Higginson & Pete Trimmer Mod-
elling Animal Decisions (MAD) group, University of
Bristol
{
Dr Tim W. Fawcett Room B72 School of Biological Sci-
ences University of Bristol Woodland Road Bristol BS8
1UG United Kingdom
+44 117 9287478 (oce) +44 7789 126382 (mobile)
tim.fawcett@cantab.net
www.timwfawcett.com tim.fawcett@gmail.com12 EvolDir June 1, 2013
London Evolution Infectious Disease
May17
British Ecological Society Centenary Symposium on
Evolutionary Ecology of Infectious Disease
Friday, 17 May 2013 from 09:15 to 19:00
London, United Kingdom
Register at: http://-
besevolutionsymposium.eventbrite.co.uk Ecologists
have played a central role in developing the hugely suc-
cessful theory of the epidemiology of infectious disease
and this theory in turn has stimulated a great interest
in the role of disease in natural communities. British
Ecological Society (BES) members have inuenced
the development and advancement of the eld, with
many of the key papers published in BES journals. In
recognition of this the BES is holding a meeting in its
centenary year on the evolutionary ecology of infectious
disease. The aim of the meeting is to highlight a num-
ber of ways in which ecology impacts on the evolution
of and evolutionary implications of infectious disease,
and how evolution may further impact on ecological
dynamics. Talks will range from examining the role
of ecology in determining host-parasite coevolutionary
dynamics and to the parasite mediated evolution of
sex, to how ecology drives plastic immune responses
in hosts and determines the abundance of species,
through to implications for the control of tropical
disease. The day will nish with a discussion of
future directions and how a better understanding of
the evolutionary ecology of parasites will allow us to
manage disease eectively in human, agricultural and
natural populations.
Programme
9.15 Registration with tea, coee & pastries
10.00 Professor Angus Buckling, University of Exeter
Ecological determinants of host-parasite coevolution
10.40 Professor Andrea Graham, Princeton University
St. Kilda's Soay sheep, from environmental to immune
dynamics and back again
11.20 Coee break
11.50 Professor Joanne Webster, Imperial College Lon-
don Do schistosomes maximize tness over changing
environments?12.30 Professor Curt Lively, Indiana University Infec-
tious disease and the evolutionary ecology of sex
13.10 Lunch
14.10 Dr Heather Fergusson, University of Glasgow
Evolution of vector behavior in response to control
14.50 Professor Janis Antonovics, University of Virginia
Disease and the abundance and distribution of species
15.30 Reactors session
16.30 Drinks reception
B.L.Koskella@exeter.ac.uk
London InsectImmunityEvol May31
Dear all
There are still some slots available for talks at the
Royal Entomology Society Infection and Immunity spe-
cial interest group meeting 2013, which will be held
on the 31st May 2013 in the Fogg Building at Queen
Mary, University of London. The meeting is an infor-
mal one-day conference with a series of twenty minute
talks. We particularly encourage PhD students and
PostDocs to speak, although more senior researchers
are of course also welcome. If anyone would like to
attend or to speak, please get in touch by the end of
this week so that we can nalise numbers. Just email
me (r.knell@qmul.ac.uk) or Petros Ligoxygakis (pet-
ros.ligoxygakis@bioch.ox.ac.uk).
The total cost for the meeting is not yet nalised but
is likely to be in the region of $10 or less, which will
include lunch and coee. Following the meeting there
will be an opportunity to enjoy the scenic ambience and
exciting avours available in the East End of London.
Please pass this on to anyone who might be interested
who isn't listed above, such as other people in your lab
or department who we might have missed o acciden-
tally.
regards
Rob Knell
Rob Knell r.knell@qmul.ac.uk School of Biological and
Chemical Sciences, QMUL.
+44 (0)20 7882 7720
Research http://webspace.qmul.ac.uk/rknell/
Book now out: Introductory R, A Beginner's
Guide to Data Visualisation and Analysis usingJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 13
R www.introductoryr.co.uk r.knell@qmul.ac.uk
Marseilles 17thEvolBiol Sep17-20
Deadline
Dear all
the dead line for the abstract submissions for the 17th
EBM is june 30 more info including the list of the
rst accepted abstract is available : http://sites.univ-
provence.fr/evol-cgr/ all the best Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-
provence.fr >
Montreal BiodiversityMathematics
Sep16-20
Mathematics for an evolving biodiversity September 16-
20, 2013 CRM, Montr eal (Canada)
*EARLY REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUB-
MISSION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO JUNE 15TH*
**Contributed talks and posters are welcome**
http://www.crm.umontreal.ca/2013/Biodiversity13/-
index e.php Hosted by the Center for Mathematical
Research in Montr eal (Canada), in the context of
MATH FOR PLANET EARTH YEAR 2013 <
http://mpe2013.org/ >
Organizers : Jonathan Davies (McGill), Amaury Lam-
bert (UPMC Univ Paris 6 and Coll ege de France), Nico-
las Lartillot (Montr eal)
List of invited speakers
Graham Bell (McGill University) Troy Day (Queen's
University) Rampal S. Etienne (University of Gronin-
gen) R egis Ferri ere (Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie
(Paris 6)) Sergey Gavrilets (University of Tennessee)
Emma Goldberg (University of Illinois) Luke Harmon
(University of Idaho) Stephen Hubbell (UCLA) Steven
Kembel (UQAM) Mark McPeek (Dartmouth College)
Arne Mooers (Simon Fraser University) Mark Pagel
(University of Reading) Todd Parsons (Univ. Pierre
et Marie Curie (Paris 6)) Pedro Peres-Neto (UQAM)
Daniel Rabosky (University of Michigan) Richard Ree(Field Museum of Natural History) Liam Revell (Uni-
versity of Massachusetts Boston) James Rosindell (Im-
perial College) Mike Steel (University of Canterbury)
Chi Tran (Universit e des Sciences et Technologies de
Lille) John Wiens (University of Arizona)
Conference agenda
This workshop will provide an overview of recent theo-
retical and methodological developments for modeling
the complex evolutionary dynamics that have shaped
the structure of contemporary biodiversity. Theoreti-
cal work at the interface between ecology and evolu-
tionary studies will be presented, as well as its applica-
tions to empirical data. This will include mathematical
and probabilistic modeling, statistical methodologies,
and new insights obtained from biological data. Ac-
cordingly, the workshop will gather a variety of partici-
pants within the elds of probability, statistics, ecology
and evolutionary biology, and working on the following
themes:
- Likelihood-based phylogenetic tests of macroevolu-
tionary hypotheses, based on models of diversication
patterns incorporating density dependence, heterogene-
ity among lineages and species selection eects, as well
as various models of trait evolution.
- Ecophylogenetics, and theories such as the neutral
theory of biodiversity, for deriving macroevolutionary
models of species distribution and turnover from rst
principles of community ecology.
- Adaptive dynamics and other models of evolving bio-
diversity, for linking micro-evolution and adaptation
with global ecological patterns.
- Probabilistic models of phylogeography, and their role
in our understanding of biodiversity gradients.
You might also be interested in the workshop
on 'Mathematics and Sequence Evolution: Biologi-
cal Models and Application', organized by Mathieu
Blanchette (McGill) and Herv e Philippe (Montr eal),
which will take place the following week, Septem-
ber 23-27 2013, in Montr eal, also in the con-
text of the thematic semester on biodiversity and
evolution organized by the Center for Mathemat-
ical Research: <http://www.crm.umontreal.ca/act/-
theme/theme 2013 2en/mathematics sequence evolu-
tion13 e.php >. You may want to make the most of your
time in Montr eal and attend both events.
nicolas.lartillot@umontreal.ca14 EvolDir June 1, 2013
NMNH Washington Phylogenetics
May20-21
The Third Annual Spring Symposium Hosted by
NMNH's Frontiers in Phylogenetics Program is ap-
proaching:
Please register for one or both days using this link (ad-
mission is free):
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1psN38yqyZz7mpgQqC8DczlHuqstfWQisQoRQSnqvO8M/-
viewform Registration will close at the end of the day
on Wednesday, May 15, 2013
\Genome-scale Phylogenetics"
Frontiers in Phylogenetics 3rd Annual Spring Sympo-
sium Baird Auditorium, National Museum of Natural
History Washington, DC, May 20 & 21, 2013
Day 1 (Monday May 20) - Symposium Day 2 (Tuesday
May 21) - Discussion Topics (schedule below)
DAY 1 - Symposium 9:30-9:35 Opening Remarks and
Logistics Michael Braun, Frontiers in Phylogenetics
Program, NMNH
9:35-9:45 Introduction and Welcome to the Smithso-
nian Eva Pell, Undersecretary for Science, Smithsonian
Institution
9:45-10:30 My Students Could Do My Thesis in Five
Minutes; How to Cope with the Next Generation Rob
DeSalle, Sackler Institute of Comparative Genomics,
AMNH
10:30-11:00 Using Whole Genomes to Resolve the Avian
Tree of Life Erich Jarvis, Duke University Medical Cen-
ter
11:00-11:30 Break
11:30-12:00 Molecular Phylogenies, Genomics and the
Bacterial Species Concept Margaret Riley, University
of Massachusetts Amherst
12:00-12:30 Phylotranscriptomics to Bring the Under-
studied Ostracoda into the Fold Todd Oakley, Univer-
sity of California Santa Barbara
12:30-14:00 Lunch Break
14:00-14:30 Evolution via the Grape Vine - Insights
from Transcriptome Sequence Data Jun Wen, Depart-
ment of Botany, NMNH14:30-15:00 Genome-scale Phylogenetics of Rapid
Adaptive Radiation: RAD Sequence Data Illuminates
the History of Lake Victoria Cichlids Catherine Wag-
ner, Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science
and Technology
15:00-15:30 Break
15:30-16:00 Shotgun in the Dark or a Rie in the Day-
light? The Case for Using Single Copy Orthologous
Gene Capture in Phylogenetics Gavin Naylor, Hollings
Marine Lab, College of Charleston and Medical Univer-
sity of South Carolina
16:00-16:30 Achieving Phylogenomic Nirvana: Ultra-
conserved Elements (UCEs) Capture History at the
Species, Population, and Individual Levels Brant Fair-
cloth, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, University of California, Los Angeles
16:30-17:00 Unsolved Challenges- Panel Discussion on
Future Directions
DAY 2 - Discussion
Baird Auditorium, National Museum of Natural His-
tory Washington, DC, Tuesday May 21, 2013
9:00 - 9:30 workow for phylo-transcriptomics; RNA
from very small samples; Ostracoda Todd Oakley Uni-
versity of California Santa Barbara
9:30 - 10:00 informatics workow for phylo-
transcriptomics; insects Adam Bazinet University
of Maryland
10:00 - 10:30 transcriptome assembly, preparation
for downstream analysis; corals Shaadi Pooayei-Mehr
American Museum of Natural History
11:30 - 11:00 BREAK
11:00 - 11:30 laboratory and informatic methods for
exon capture; elasmobranchs Gavin Naylor College of
Charleston
11:30 - 12:00 \Exon capture and assembly for bony sh
phylogenetics: is paralogy a problem?" Guillermo Orti
George Washington University
12:00 -13:30 LUNCH
13:30 - 14:00 generation and analysis of RAD-seq data;
cichlid sh Catherine Wagner Swiss Federal Institute
for Aquatic Science and Technology
14:00 - 14:30 UCEs, RAD-seq, amplicon-seq on
MiSeq/HiSeq Brant Faircloth University of California
Los Angeles
14:30 - 15:00 informatics workow for bacterial phy-
logenomics Marc Allard U.S. Food and Drug Adminis-
trationJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 15
15:00 - 15:30 BREAK
15:30 - 16:00 \Whole genome phylogeny of Archaea as
an example of how to tackle the extremes: ancient di-
vergences, long branches, and missing data" Rebecca
Dikow National Museum of Natural History
16:00 - 16:30 \New approaches to species tree estima-
tion in the presence of Incomplete Lineage Sorting"
Tandy Warnow University of Texas
16:30 - 17:00 broad issues in phylogenomic analysis:
gene selection; assignment of orthology; matrix assem-
bly (impact of missing data); data quality in general
Sabrina Simon American Museum of Natural History
KINGSTONS@si.edu
Paris MicrobialEvolution Oct2-5
CallAbstracts
Dear Colleague,
We are pleased to inform you that the scientic
programme of IMMEM-10, the 10th edition of the
International Meeting on Microbial Epidemiological
Markers, has been updated. The novel version is
available through the conference web site at http://-
www.immem-10.org . Novel sessions have been added:
Novel typing methods for pathogen surveillance, Prac-
tical use of typing methods in epidemiology, Molecular
epidemiology of viral zoonoses, and a Round table on
the Global Microbial Identier initiative.
We remind you that the call for abstracts is open.
Please register and submit your abstract(s) by using the
online form available in the \call for abstracts" page.
The submission deadline is June 15th, 2013.
We recommend all participants to arrange their accom-
modation in Paris as early as possible. Automn is a
high season in Paris, and there are several medical con-
gresses and sporting events in October, in particular,
so hotels should be booked early.
Travel grants and free registration can be oered to a
number of young scientists ( <36 years). Please see our
website.
Sylvain Brisse Institut Pasteur, Paris, France on be-
half of the Organizing Committee http://www.immem-
10.org IMMEM-10 topics The ability of microbes
- bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites - to mutate
rapidly, disseminate and adapt to new hosts and envi-
ronments, forces us to increase our capabilities for theearly recognition of novel strains of pathogens, and to
understand the factors that contribute to their diver-
sity, evolution and dissemination. IMMEM-10 will ad-
dress a variety of topics related to pathogen emergence,
population-level diversity, evolution of virulence and
antibiotic resistance, strain tracking, typing networks,
public health and surveillance, novel typing approaches,
high-throughput sequencing, genomics, and molecular
epidemiology of infectious diseases. The meeting will
take place at Institut Pasteur, in the heart of Paris.
Scientic Sessions Bioinformatics tools for genome-
based microbial surveillance Outbreak genomics and
epidemiology Population genetics, phylogenomics,
emergence Molecular typing and epidemiology Novel
typing methods for pathogen surveillance Practical
use of typing methods in epidemiology Typing and
surveillance networks in practice Round table: the
Global Microbial Identier initiative Phylodynamics
of viral pathogens Molecular epidemiology of viral
zoonoses Virulence: diagnostic and epidemiology Re-
sistance: diagnostic and epidemiology Diagnostic by
high-throughput sequencing Social networks and trans-
mission modelling Molecular Epidemiology from Global
Health to One Health
Conrmed speakers: Mark Achtman (Warwick Uni-
versity, UK) Andrea Ammon, European Center for
Disease Control, Stockholm, Sweden Siv Andersson,
Uppsala University, Sweden John Besser, CDC, At-
lanta, USA Herv e Bourhy, Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France Alessandra Carattoli, Institute of Public Health,
Rome, Italy Stewart Cole, Global Health Institute,
Lausanne, Switzerland Christian Drosten, Bonn Uni-
versity, Germany Pierre Formenty , World Health Or-
ganization, Gen eve, Switzerland Alex Friedrich, Uni-
versity Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands
Peter Gerner-Smidt, Center for Disease Control, At-
lanta, USA Matthew Gilmour, Public Health Agency
of Canada, Winnipeg, Canada Hajo Grundmann, Na-
tional Institute for Public Health (RIVM), Bilthoven,
The Netherlands J org Hacker, Leopoldina Academia,
Berlin, Germany Dag Harmsen, Universit atsklinikum
M unster, M unster, Germany Alan Hay, MRC Na-
tional Inst. for Medical Research, UK Ren e Hen-
driksen, DTU, Denmark Keith Jolley, Oxford Uni-
versity, UK Philippe Lemey, Leuven, Belgium Mar-
tin Maiden, Oxford University, Oxford, UK Claudine
M edigue, CEA-Genoscope, Evry, France Stephan Nie-
mann, Borstel, Germany Julian Parkhill, Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK Tim Peto, Uni-
versity of Oxford, UK Laurent Poirel, Univ. Paris Sud,
Kremlin-Bic^ etre, France Marc Struelens, European
Center for Disease Control, Stockholm Anne-Mieke
Vandamme, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven,16 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Belgium Fran cois-Xavier Weill, Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France
Early fee registration: June 30, 2013 Standard fee: 400
^ a: Studentfee : 300^a:Abstractsubmissiondeadline :
June 15;2013Howtoregister :www:immem 
10:orgContactus :immem 10@pasteur:fr
Sylvain BRISSE <sylvain.brisse@pasteur.fr >
Snowbird Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
UndergradMentors
Mentors Needed for Undergraduate Diversity at Evolu-
tion 2013
The Undergraduate Diversity at Evolution program will
be bringing 20 talented and diverse undergraduates to
the Evolution meetings this June 21-25 in Snowbird,
Utah. The undergrads will present a poster, partici-
pate in professional development activities and receive
career-oriented mentoring.
An overview of the program can be found at:
www.nescent.org/eog/undergraddiversity We are solic-
iting names of graduate students, postdocs and faculty
members who would like to serve as mentors during
the meetings. Mentors meet with pairs of students and
attend talks with them, introduce them to colleagues,
network and generally make the meetings a welcom-
ing place for them. Although costs are not covered for
mentors it is an unusually rewarding experience.
Contact Richard Kliman (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu) if
you are interested in serving as a mentor.
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Snowbird Utah Evolution2013
Jun21-25 Housing 2
Housing and Childcare Updates:1. Housing for the conference is available at Crys-
tal Inn, which is at the base of Little Cottonwood
Canyon.Crystal Inn oers free airport shuttles. In the
AM Crystal Inn will transport to a nearby bus stop
for public transportation to Snowbirdand there will be
complementary shuttle service from the meeting site
back to the hotel late in the evening (10 PM).Rooms
are still available at Snowbird from June 23 ^rd on-
wards.Call Snowbird accommodations for more infor-
mation (1-800-232-9542).
2. Cabin rental (sleeps up to 14 with two bathrooms
and kitchen) is available at Snowbird for the duration
of the meeting.Call Snowbird accommodations for more
information (1-800-232-9542).
3. Priority childcare registration ends June 3 ^rd .Con-
tact Camp Snowbird for more information By email:
campsnowbird@snowbird.com (please put 'Evolution
2013' in the subject line) By phone: (801) 933-2256
Evolution 2013 is the joint annual meeting of the
Society for the Study of Evolution <http://-
www.evolutionsociety.org/ >(SSE), the Society
of Systematic Biologists <http://systbiol.org/ >
(SSB), and the American Society of Naturalists <
http://www.amnat.org/ >(ASN), on June 21-25,
2013, at the Snowbird Alpine Village <http://-
www.snowbirdmeetings.com/?portfolio=snowbird-
restaurants >.
This meeting is the premier annual opportunity for
sharing scientic research related to evolution. Sym-
posia presentations, concurrent contributed papers, and
poster sessions will be presented by the 1,400 expected
participants. Product and service providers will con-
tribute to the meeting through their exhibits. Social
activities will include an opening reception, mixers with
each evening poster session, and a super-social/award
ceremony - *all of these mixers and receptions are in-
cluded with registration.*
Evolution 2013 meets jointly with the *iEvoBio <
http://ievobio.org/ >* conference, which brings to-
gether biologists interested in evolution, systematics,
biodiversity, software, and mathematics.
You can still register for the conference - for
more information visit the conference web site:
http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/index.html
cruzan@pdx.edu
UCambridge HumanOrigins Jul5June 1, 2013 EvolDir 17
CALL FOR PAPERS - RELOCATING HUMAN ORI-
GINS - WHAT IF ADAM LIVED IN THE FOREST?
LOCATION: University of Cambridge ORGANIZERS:
Doctoral Students, Division of Biological Anthropology
DATE: July 5, 2013
NOW ACCEPTING ABSTRACTS FOR: \ 15 Minute
Oral Presentations Live at Conference Remotely Web-
cast Pre-Recorded and Archived on Conference Website
" Posters
THEME: Conventional scientic wisdom holds that
modern humans evolved in the East African savannah.
But what if the cradle of human evolution was actu-
ally the Central African forest, as hinted by new Y-
chromosome results? How might this change our under-
standing of human evolution? This conference explores
the implications of a forest origin for human population
genetics, disease ecology, social systems, and cultural
evolution.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS: Prof Mark Thomas, Univer-
sity College London: Genetics of Forest Ancestry Dr
Corey Fincher, University of Glasgow: Origins of cul-
tural and biological diversity Dr Tom Currie, University
College London: Habitat Productivity & Ethnolinguis-
tic Diversity Dr Peter Walsh, University of Cambridge:
Disease, Social Complexity & Innovation
Can't make it to Cambridge? The entire conference
will be webcast.
PLEASE SEND YOUR ABSTRACTS TILL
07/06/2013 TO:
bioanth-conference2013-abstracts@lists.cam.ac.uk
Alexander Moerseburg
Alexander M orseburg <am2037@cam.ac.uk >
UGroningen IndividualDierences
Nov1-3
International Conference on Individual Dierences
(20th KNDV Congress of Zoology) 1-3 November 2013
Groningen, The Netherlands
www.rug.nl/fwn/indiv This meeting aims to bring to-
gether dierent perspectives on the importance, mech-
anisms, function and evolution of consistent individ-
ual dierences at dierent levels of biological organ-
isation. Jointly organised by the Groningen Centres
for Behaviour and Neurosciences (http://www.rug.nl/-research/cbn/) and Ecological and Evolutionary Stud-
ies (http://www.rug.nl/research/cees/), under the aus-
pices of the Royal Dutch Zoological Society (http://-
kndv.science.ru.nl/index.html).
Plenary speakers include: Stephen Suomi (National
Institute of Child Health & Human Development,
Bethesda, Maryland) Renee Duckworth (University of
Arizona) Jonathan Seckl (University of Edinburgh)
Distinguished Zoologist Lecture: Judy Stamps (Univer-
sity of California at Davis)
We welcome contributions to the following seven sym-
posia: . Individuality and neurobiology . Individuality
and chronobiology . Individuality and energetics . In-
dividuality and behaviour . Individuality and ecology,
evolution and biodiversity . Individuality: applications
and implications (welfare, biomedicine and conserva-
tion) . Individuality and aging
In addition, it will be possible to submit contributions
to a general symposium. Registration and Abstract
submission for oral and poster contributions is now
open. Check the conference website: www.rug.nl/fwn/-
indiv Dr. Martine E. Maan
University of Groningen Department of Behavioural Bi-
ology room 5171-1.42 +31 (0)50 363 2196 visiting ad-
dress: Nijenborgh 7 - 9747 AG Groningen mailing ad-
dress: PO Box 11103 - 9700 CC Groningen packages:
Nijenborgh 4 - 9747 AG Groningen
www.rug.nl/sta/m.e.maan www.martinemaan.nl
M.E.Maan@rug.nl M.E.Maan@rug.nl
UNewEngland Genomics Jul14-19
Please join us as we convene 10 years after the rst
GRC on Ecological & Evolutionary Genomics!
July 14-19, 2013 University of New England Biddeford,
Maine
Speakers and Discussion Leaders will present cutting-
edge genome-enabled approaches that are being used
to further our understanding of how organisms adapt
to changing environments. Specic topics to be ad-
dressed include critical research challenges in popula-
tion genetics, the study of genome evolution, the evo-
lution of complex phenotypes, and environmental and
global change biology. We have made explicit emphasis
on \ecogenomics", population genomics, and the bioin-
formatics required to understand the transition of geno-18 EvolDir June 1, 2013
type to phenotype.
We would like to invite you to attend this conference
and join our community in discussing the frontiers and
future challenges in this research area. Gordon Re-
search Conferences are an ideal venue for informal and
interactive discussions in beautiful locations in New
England.
Speakers and Discussion Leaders: Julien Ayroles, Cor-
nell University Rowan Barrett, Harvard University
Holly Bik, UC Davis Mark Blaxter, The University of
Edinburgh Justin Borevitz, The Australian National
University Monica C. Mu~ noz-Torres, LBNL Sinead
Collins, The University of Edinburgh Graham Coop,
UC Davis Karel De Schamphelaere, Ghent University
Maren Friesen, Michigan State University Omer Gokc-
umen, Harvard University Michael Hansen, Aarhus
University Paul Hebert, University of Guelph Jessica
Hellmann, University of Notre Dame Paul Hohenlohe,
University of Idaho Chris Jiggins, University of Cam-
bridge Felicity Jones, Max Planck Institute Ellen Ket-
terson, Indiana University Mikhail Matz, University of
Texas, Austin Gos Micklem, University of Cambridge
Stephen Palumbi, Stanford University Michael Pfren-
der, University of Notre Dame David Plachetzki, UC
Davis John Quackenbush, Harvard University Christina
Richards, University of South Florida Loren Rieseberg,
University of British Columbia Emilie Snell-Rood, Uni-
versity of Minnesota Victoria Sork, UC Los Angeles De-
nis Tagu, INRA-RENNES Diethard Tautz, Max-Planck
Institute Anne Todgham, San Francisco State Univer-
sity Thomas Turner, UC Santa Barbara Andrew White-
head, UC Davis
For registration information and the speaker pro-
gram, visit the GRC website: http://www.grc.org/-
programs.aspx?year=2013&program=ecolevol Best
wishes, Gretchen E. Hofmann & John Colbourne, Mike
Herman & Jack Werren
Michael Herman <mherman@ksu.edu >
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics
Jun13-15 ExtDeadline
** EXTENDED DEADLINES!! **
Arthropod Genomics 2013 Onward Seventh Annual
Arthropod Genomics Symposium and VectorBase
Workshop, June 12 V June 15, 2013, University of
Notre Dame** EXTENDED DEADLINE for abstract submission
and registration V FRIDAY, MAY 31, 2013
For more information, visit the website at: http://-
globalhealth.nd.edu/7th-annual-arthropod-genomics-
symposium/ \Eck Institute for Global Health - ( eigh
)"<eigh@nd.edu >
UWisconsin Madison SoberFest
May24-25
Program
All sessions will be held at the Pyle Center (location
info)
An interactive map of all workshop events can be found
here.
Friday - 5/24
9:00am - Welcome to Soberfest; introductory remarks
by Larry Shapiro
9:15am - 10:30am - Paradoxes of Consistency and (Re-
vising) the Logic of Belief
Branden Fitelson (Rutgers)
Chair: John Basl (Bowling Green)
10:45am - 12:00pm - Recalibrating Morgan's Canon
Eric Saidel (George Washington)
Chair: John Koolage (Eastern Michigan)
1:45pm - 3:00pm - Embodied Cognition and Emotion
Fred Adams (Delaware)
Chair: Melinda Hogan (Kwantlen Polytechnic)
3:15pm - 4:30pm - Non-Causal Features of Causal Ex-
planation
Angela Potochnik (Cincinnati)
Chair: Matt Kopec (Colorado)
4:45pm - 6:00pm - KEYNOTE - Golden Gettier: What
We (Should Have) Learned
Fred Dretske (Duke)
Chair: Zac Ernst (Missouri)
6:30 - 9:00 Dinner at Steenbock's on Orchard http:/-
/steenbocksonorchard.com/ - be sure to let me
(joel@joelvelasco.net) know if you prefer chicken or a
vegetarian entree. There will also be a cash bar.June 1, 2013 EvolDir 19
Saturday - 5/25
9:00am - 10:15am - Is it Prudent to be an Evidentialist?
Chris Stephens (University of British Columbia)
Chair: Shannon Spaulding (Oklahoma State)
10:30am - 11:45am - Deconstructing the Future: Cau-
sation, Interventionist Thinking, and the non-Identity
Problem
Tom Bontly (Connecticut)
Chair: Matt Barker (Concordia)
1:45pm - 3:00pm - Does the philosophy of biology have
any use?
Steven Orzack (The Fresh Pond Research Institute)
Chair: Paul Anders (Mount Marty)
3:15pm - 4:30pm - What is Science? Popper and Evo-
lutionary Theory
Mehmet Elgin (Mu Ala University, Turkey)
Chair: Deborah Mower (Youngstown)
4:45pm - 6:00pm - KEYNOTE - Which of the many
things that are causes of a sensory impression is the
one being perceived?
Denny Stampe (University of Wisconsin) Chair: Greg
Novack (Wayne State)
6:30 - 9:00 Dinner at Porta Bella restaurant http://-
www.portabellarestaurant. biz/ - This will be appetiz-
ers and a cash bar.
After dinner: Malcolm Forster has invited everyone to
come to his apartment for an after dinner party Satur-
day night. The address is 620 N Carroll St, Apt 713.
This is about a 10 minute walk from Porta Bella (about
about the same back to the Lowell Center).
program selection committee: Marc Ereshefsky, Uni-
versity of Calgary Larry Shapiro, University of Wis-
consin Joel Velasco, California Institute of Technology
organizing committee: Joel Velasco Marc Ereshefsky
Denis Walsh Andr e Ariew Branden Fitelson Larry
Shapiro Daniel Hausman Malcolm Forster
orzack <orzack@freshpond.org >
WageningenU
EvolutionaryAgriculture May13Symposium: Genetics of social life: Agriculture meets
evolutionary biology
On the 13th of May 2013, the Animal Breeding and
Genomics Centre of Wageningen University organizes
a symposium on social genetic eects.
Program
08:30 Welcome and coee
09:00 Welcome by Prof. Johan van Arendonk
09:10 Dr. Piter Bijma - The quantitative genetics of
socially aected traits: consequences for evolution of
trait values and response to articial selection
10:00 Dr. Jason B. Wolf - A mapping approach to study
social eects
10:50 Coee Break
11:20 Dr. Hannah Dugdale - Social genetic eects in
parental care behaviour
12:10 Katrijn Peeters - Social interactions in laying hens
12:25 Eric Bastiaans - Laboratory evolution of geno-
types that cheat on multicellularity in fungi
12:40 Lunch
13:40 Dr. Alastair Wilson - Does competition constrain
life history evolution in the wild?
14:30 Dr. Lyanne Brouwer - Social genetic eects of
parental care in wild populations
14:45 Naomi Duijvestein - A Genome Wide Association
study for social genetic eects of androstenone in boars
15:00 Coee break
15:30 Prof. Laurent Keller - Genetic and social eects
on ant social organization
16:20 Dr. Andrea Wilson - Social genetic eects and
infectious diseases
16:50 Discussion & conclusion by Prof. Johan van
Arendonk
17:00 Drinks
Location: Hotel de Nieuwe Wereld, Marijkeweg 5, 6709
PE Wageningen, The Netherlands
Date: May 13 2013
Fee: Free
Registration: Send an email to eur.bartels@wur.nl. At
registration, provide your name, department, company,
and if you have diet restrictions. Deadline for registra-
tion is May 8 2013.
Information about the symposium can be found here
(http://www.wias.nl/courses/view course.php?ID=-20 EvolDir June 1, 2013
227).
Course: Social genetic eects: Theory and genetic anal-
ysis
>From May 14 until May 16 2013, the Animal Breeding
and Genomics Centre of Wageningen University orga-
nizes a course on social genetic eects.
Aim: The course focusses on the theory and genetic
analysis of social eects (Indirect Genetic Eects).
Throughout the course the aim will be to learn use-
ful approaches and strategies for analysing your own
data. Data analysis exercises will be carried out by
participants using ASReml. You can bring your own
data.
Teacher:
- Piter Bijma, Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre,
Wageningen University, the Netherlands.
Outline:
Day 1
- Trait-models with Indirect Genetic Eects (IGE; also
known as associative eects, social eects or competi-
tion eects)
Day 2
- Consequences of IGEs for heritable variation and re-
sponse to selection. Specic attention will be given to
kin and group selection, and an overview of empirical
results obtained with dierent selection methods will be
given. Models with IGEs on tness will also be covered
briey
- Dinner
Day 3
- The estimation of genetic parameters and breedingvalues for direct and indirect genetic eects will be cov-
ered, using mixed model methods. Approximately half
of the time will be spent on lectures and half of the
time on computer practical using exercises and/or your
own data. Please bring your own laptop with ASReml.
Please let us know if you have no ASReml licence.
Course Fee1 : A. WIAS PhD's2 $ a 300.00 B. Other
PhD's, post-docs, academia and WU sta $ a 400.00 C.
Industry $ a 500.00
1Fee include course materials, daily coee, tea and
lunch, and a course dinner. Hotel accommodation and
traveling is not included. 2For Wias PhD students with
an approved TSP WIAS pays the fee.
Location: Hof van Wageningen, Lawickse Allee 9, 6701
AN Wageningen, the Netherlands.
Registration: Send an email to Esther.Ellen@wur.nl
Dates: May 14 V 16, 2013 The course will start on
Tuesday May 14 at 9:00 am. The course will end at
5.00 pm on Thursday 16th of May.
Information about the course and hotel accommoda-
tion can be found here (http://www.wias.nl/courses/-
view course.php?ID=226).
Symposium and Course Organisation: Esther
Ellen (Esther.Ellen@wur.nl) and Fleur Bartels
(Fleur.Bartels@wur.nl)
Dr. Esther D. Ellen Postdoc
Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre, Wageningen
UR (University & Research Centre) P.O. box 338, 6700
AH Wageningen, The Netherlands De Elst 1, 6708 WD
Wageningen, The Netherlands
Email: esther.ellen@wur.nl Website: http://-
www.wageningenur.nl/abg/ www.disclaimer-nl.wur.nl
\Ellen, Esther" <esther.ellen@wur.nl >
GradStudentPositions
CanterburyChristChurchU CelegansLifespan . . . . . . 21
GLIER UWindsor PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
GLIER UWindsor PopulationGenetics AquaticInva-
sives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22IndianaStateU 2 EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 22
IowaStateU MorphologicalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
PennState EvolutionaryGeneticsMimicry . . . . . . . . . . 23
StonyBrookU AppliedEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24June 1, 2013 EvolDir 21
UAberdeen DamselyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UBielefeld SalamanderGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
UEdinburgh EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UEdinburgh StatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UFlorida AntEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
UGrenoble StatGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UGroningen TheoreticalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UHelsinki EvolutionButteryImmunity . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
ULausanne EvolutionSocialInsects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
ULaval GenomicsBehaviouralManipulation . . . . . . . . 29URennes PolyploidGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UUppsala EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UValencia EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UWesternOntario 2 EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . 32
UZurich 2 Biodemography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UppsalaU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
WageningenU BehaviouralManipulation . . . . . . . . . . . 34
iDiv Leipzig PlantBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
CanterburyChristChurchU
CelegansLifespan
Natural variation in lifespan and the response to dietary
restriction in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Lifespan is regulated by both genetic and environmen-
tal factors. Some environmental eects on lifespan, par-
ticularly those that result in dietary restriction (DR),
are widely conserved across species. For instance, DR
prolongs life in ies, worms and primates, and evidence
is mounting that it also does so in humans. The nema-
tode worm Caenorhabditis elegans is one of the most
important model species in developmental biology and
genetics.
Recent work undertaken at Canterbury Christ Church
University (CCCU), in collaboration with Dr Jan Kam-
menga at Wageningen University, has identied a ge-
nomic region that aects lifespan and the response to
DR in C. elegans. This work also indicates that the lines
used to construct the mapping panel used in this work
are suciently diverged that regions of their genome
are incompatible. This is a feature associated with the
early stages of speciation. Critically, many of these in-
compatibilities aect lifespan and block the eects of
DR on lifespan. Understanding this link and identi-
fying the underlying genes is therefore important for
understanding the control of lifespan and DR, and also
for understanding speciation. This work also demon-
strate that to understand variation in lifespan and in
the eects of DR, more advanced mapping panels must
be used and combined analyses of lifespan, DR and in-
compatibilities undertaken.
Supervised by Dr Simon Harvey and Dr Lee Byrne at
CCCU, this project aims to:
(1) Identify the specic gene(s) underlying the lifespan
and DR eects we have already discovered. (2) Screen anewly created panel for incompatibilities, lifespan and
the eects of dietary restriction on lifespan.
(3) Determine the basis of the linkage between the in-
compatibilities and lifespan.
This position will start 1st October 2013 and the stu-
dent will be based at Canterbury Christ Church Uni-
versity, Kent, UK, but may be required to visit col-
laborators in Wageningen. The position is funded by
CCCU, which provides a stipend of $11,700 pa and cov-
ers the cost of tuition. Applicants should be familiar
with, and ideally experienced in, both microbiological
and molecular techniques.
The closing date for this position is 31st May
and the application form for this position is avail-
able here http://tinyurl.com/c6hqxcm, on the Times
Higher Education jobs listings and on CCCU's
jobs page (http://www.canterbury.ac.uk/AboutUs/-
Workhere/Workhere.aspx).
If you wish to discuss this position, then please contact
Simon Harvey (simon.harvey@canterbury.ac.uk).
simon.harvey@canterbury.ac.uk
GLIER UWindsor PopGenetics
M.Sc. or Ph.D. Examining the Population Genetics of
Aquatic Invasive Species (Sept 2013)
The Conservation Genetics Lab at the Great Lakes In-
stitute for Environmental Research (GLIER) has two
paid assistantships available for new graduate students
to explore the population genetics of Aquatic Invasive
Species (AIS). The successful candidate will be a mo-
tivated and outstanding student with a background in
Biology (B.Sc. or M.Sc.) and an interest in population
genetics; experience with molecular biology techniques
and analysis is preferred.22 EvolDir June 1, 2013
As a member of NSERC's Canadian Aquatic Species
Invasion Network (CAISN), you will join aliates from
academia, government and industry across Canada in
developing our knowledge of and tools to deal with AIS
{ widely recognized as one of the greatest threats to
global biodiversity. As a student in GLIER's Envi-
ronmental Science graduate program, you will benet
from world-class facilities, researcher expertise, focus
on real world problems, and opportunities for work-
ing with GLIER's extensive collaborators and networks
while making a dierence in science, policy and innova-
tion. The opportunity to train on cutting edge equip-
ment within a collaborative atmosphere of world-class
researchers will foster independence and advanced tech-
nical skills, increasing and diversifying your future em-
ployment possibilities.
The successful graduate student(s) will be supported on
a combination of Research Assistantships and Teaching
Assistantships totaling over $20,000/year.
We are currently accepting applications to begin study
in September 2013. To apply, please send a letter of
intent, curriculum vitae, and the names and email ad-
dresses of three references. For more information about
the positions, please feel free to contact Dr. Daniel
Heath (heath@uwindsor.ca). For more information
about GLIER or CAISN, please see www.uwindsor.ca/-
glier and www.caisn.ca . saraj@uwindsor.ca
GLIER UWindsor
PopulationGenetics
AquaticInvasives
M.Sc. or Ph.D. Examining the Population Genetics of
Aquatic Invasive Species (Sept 2013)
The Conservation Genetics Lab at the Great Lakes In-
stitute for Environmental Research (GLIER) has two
paid assistantships available for new graduate students
to explore the population genetics of Aquatic Invasive
Species (AIS). The successful candidate will be a mo-
tivated and outstanding student with a background in
Biology (B.Sc. or M.Sc.) and an interest in population
genetics; experience with molecular biology techniques
and analysis is preferred.
As a member of NSERC's Canadian Aquatic Species
Invasion Network (CAISN), you will join aliates from
academia, government and industry across Canada in
developing our knowledge of and tools to deal with AIS{ widely recognized as one of the greatest threats to
global biodiversity. As a student in GLIER's Envi-
ronmental Science graduate program, you will benet
from world-class facilities, researcher expertise, focus
on real world problems, and opportunities for work-
ing with GLIER's extensive collaborators and networks
while making a dierence in science, policy and innova-
tion. The opportunity to train on cutting edge equip-
ment within a collaborative atmosphere of world-class
researchers will foster independence and advanced tech-
nical skills, increasing and diversifying your future em-
ployment possibilities.
The successful graduate student(s) will be supported on
a combination of Research Assistantships and Teaching
Assistantships totaling over $20,000/year.
We are currently accepting applications to begin study
in September 2013. To apply, please send a letter of
intent, curriculum vitae, and the names and email ad-
dresses of three references.
For more information about the positions,
please feel free to contact Dr. Daniel Heath
(dheath@uwindsor.ca).
For more information about GLIER or CAISN,
please see www.uwindsor.ca/glier and www.caisn.ca .
saraj@uwindsor.ca
IndianaStateU 2
EvolutionaryGenomics
Two PhD opportunities in Ecological Genomics
We are looking for two motivated students interested
in behavioral, evolutionary, and ecological genomics to
join our laboratory at Indiana State University (ISU).
These graduate positions are part of an exciting new
interdisciplinary initiative at ISU, The Center for Ge-
nomic Advocacy (TCGA), which is focused on the ap-
plication of genomic technology to the betterment of
society. TCGA is developing a state-of-the-art next
generation sequencing facility, which will be used to
provide hands-on experiences for students as well as
strong infrastructure for modern genomic studies.
Graduate research will be expected to combine
traditional behavioral ecology studies with next-
generation sequencing technology to examine the evo-
lution of polymorphism in the white-throated sparrow
(www.whitethroatedsparrow.org). Students will con-
duct extensive laboratory work as well as participate inJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 23
eld based data collection during the breeding season in
the Adirondack Mountains of NY. This species exhibits
a clear link between phenotype and genotype, making
it an ideal system in which to pinpoint the determi-
nants of complex sexual and parental behavior. We
have amassed 25 years of detailed data on this species
making it possible to identify the genetic, epigenetic,
and environmental bases of behavior. Morphs of the
white-throated sparrow provide a unique opportunity
to study intraspecic genomic dierences, which have
resulted from two separate, yet linked evolutionary tra-
jectories - such results can transform our understanding
of the evolution of genomes.
To apply, please send a letter of intent, curriculum vi-
tae, and the names and email addresses of 3 references.
Applications will be accepted until June 15, 2013.
For more information about the positions, please
feel free to contact Dr. Elaina M. Tuttle
(Elaina.Tuttle@indstate.edu) or Dr. Rusty A. Gonser
(Rusty.Gonser@indstate.edu), at The Center for Ge-
nomic Advocacy (TCGA), Indiana State University,
Terre Haute, IN 47809.
For more information about the lab, the department,
and the university, see: www.whitethroatedsparrow.org
http://www.indstate.edu/biology/-
http://www.indstate.edu/home.php
http://www.indstate.edu/sogs/
Michael.Romanov@indstate.edu
IowaStateU MorphologicalEvolution
A PhD position is available in the laboratory of Dr.
Dean Adams at Iowa State University as part of several
NSF funded projects examining rates of morphological
evolution of complex traits in salamanders and scallops.
The broad goals of these projects are to investigate the
tempo and mode of macroevolution of complex traits,
to develop analytical approaches to identify patterns
of evolution of shape in a phylogenetic context, and to
empirically evaluate such patterns in several groups of
animals (salamanders and scallops).
Prospective graduate students interested in geometric
morphometrics, macroevolution, and evolutionary the-
ory are encouraged to apply. Successful applicants may
develop an independent research project within these
areas, or one that complements or extends other re-
search in the lab. For more information about the re-
search in our lab please visit our website:http://www.public.iastate.edu/~dcadams/ Interested
candidates should contact Dr. Dean Adams at
dcadams@iastate.edu.
Dean
{ Dr. Dean C. Adams Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Department
of Statistics Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011
www.public.iastate.edu/ ~ dcadams/ phone: 515-294-
3834
Dean Adams <dcadams@iastate.edu >
PennState
EvolutionaryGeneticsMimicry
A PhD Graduate Student Research Assistantship is
currently available in the Hines Lab at Pennsylvania
State University to study the evolutionary genetics and
developmental mechanisms underlying mimetic color
variation in bumble bees. This project is highly in-
tegrative, including training in the areas of genetics,
genomics, developmental biology, pigment chemistry,
systematics, and entomology, and will likely involve bee
rearing and eld research. Additional research opportu-
nities may be available for students interested in study-
ing related topics, including buttery mimicry, ecolog-
ical eld research, bioinformatic approaches to evolu-
tionary questions, and/or projects intersecting evolu-
tionary genetics with systematics. Enrollment for this
position is through the Entomology graduate program
(http://ento.psu.edu/), although options may be avail-
able in one of several other PSU graduate programs
(Biology, Genetics, Bioinformatics and Genomics, or
Ecology). Enrollment for Fall 2013 or Spring 2014 pre-
ferred.
For more information on this project and other
research directions in the lab visit http://-
www.personal.psu.edu/hmh19/. Interested students
should email Dr. Heather Hines (hmh19@psu.edu)
with a statement of interest and curriculum vitae.
hmh19@psu.edu
StonyBrookU AppliedEvolution24 EvolDir June 1, 2013
The Department of Ecology and Evolution at Stony
Brook seeks MA students for their Applied Ecology and
Applied Evolution Programs
Deadline: June 1, 2013.
The masters program in Applied Ecology is intended
to address the need for professionals in environmen-
tal sciences at federal, state, county, and other levels of
government, environmental departments of large indus-
trial companies and smaller environmental consulting
rms, and non-governmental conservation and environ-
mental protection organizations. The Applied Evolu-
tion concentration will also prepare students for work
in these sectors, specically for technical positions that
require genetic, evolutionary and population based an-
alytical skills. Career paths in biotechnology, forensics
and biomedicine will also be available to graduates of
this program. Both concentrations are useful for fur-
ther specialized degree programs or careers in educa-
tion. Both programs are particularly strong in quan-
titative skills, providing enhanced career opportunities
for those with mastery in this area.
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/masters.htm { Liliana
M. Davalos
Assistant Professor Consortium for Inter-Disciplinary
Environmental Research (CIDER), and Ecology and
Evolution, SUNY Stony Brook
Oce phone: 631 632 1554
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/davaloslab/-
TheLab.html Associate Editor, Molecular Phyloge-
netics and Evolution http://www.sciencedirect.com/-
science/journal/10557903 \Liliana M. Davalos"
<lmdavalos@gmail.com >
UAberdeen DamselyEvolution
UAberdeen.NicheEvolution
Body:
PhD POSITION IN NICHE EVOLUTION IN IS-
CHNURA DAMSELFLIES AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF ABERDEEN
Under changing climates, many organisms are facing
dramatic range shifts and expansions. The evolution-
ary constraints and consequences accompanying these
geographic shifts are little understood, but are critical
for understanding the processes of adaptation, nicheevolution, and generation and maintenance of genetic
diversity.
This project will investigate the evolutionary con-
straints on and consequences of niche evolution in the
blue-tailed damsely, Ishnura elegans, which has ex-
panded its range northward in Great Britain by over
150 km in the past 50 years. The project involves eld-
work across the UK, and potentially also in Sweden.
Field and genetic (genome-wide SNP) data will be used
to test alternative hypotheses about niche evolution and
adaptation to novel ecological conditions under range
expansion. The ideal student shows initiative and in-
dependent thought, but will be provided with full train-
ing and support to ensure a strong basis in evolutionary
and population genetic theory, and prociency in ana-
lytical techniques, (e.g.,) genomic, landscape genetic,
and species distribution models.
This position is based within the Ecology research
group the University of Aberdeen, a cutting-edge re-
search community with many opportunities for col-
laboration. The student will work primarily un-
der Dr. Lesley Lancaster, and further information
about her research interests can be found here:http://-
www.nceas.ucsb.edu/~lancaster . Funding Notes:
Applicants for a studentship must have obtained, or be
about to obtain, an upper second class UK honours de-
gree, or the equivalent qualications gained outside the
UK.
Funding is available to UK nationals or those EU na-
tionals who can demonstrate that they have been resi-
dent in the UK for three years.
You should apply for Degree of Doctor of Philosophy
in Biological Sciences, to ensure that your application
is passed to the correct College for processing.
More information about how to apply can be
found here: http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=45283 Enquiries should be
made to sbspgadmin@abdn.ac.uk.
Lesley Lancaster <Lesley.Lancaster@biol.lu.se >
UBielefeld SalamanderGenomics
UBielefeld Germany.EcologicalGenomicsSalamanders
PhD position in ecological genomics of salamanders
University of Bielefeld, Department of Animal Be-June 1, 2013 EvolDir 25
haviour, Unit Molecular Ecology and Behaviour, Ger-
many
PhD Position in ecological genomics exploring parallel
habitat adaptation in salamanders Application dead-
line: July 12th 2013
In a continuously changing world, the adaptation to
new or altering environmental conditions is one of the
most elementary and crucial biological processes. Al-
though we have much data on how habitat adaptation
can aect phenotypes and population structure of in-
dividuals, we need also to gain deeper insights into the
genetic architecture of habitat-dependent adaptation.
In this context, the study of parallel adaptive evolu-
tion is very promising to illuminate underlying pro-
cesses and mechanisms. Unlike any other vertebrate
group, amphibian species display a fascinating breadth
of habitat-specic adaptations to aquatic and terrestrial
habitats. The re salamander, a terrestrial salamander
species that give birth to fully developed larvae repre-
sents a nice natural system to study the genomics of
parallel habitat adaptation. As larvae are deposited in
quite dierent aquatic habitats, ranging from rst order
streams to completely stagnant periodic ponds, they
have adapted to quite dierent ecological conditions.
We have intensively studied the ecology and popula-
tion genetics of two distinct species of re salamanders
V Salamandra salamandra in Germany and Salaman-
dra infraimmaculata in Israel, with a special focus on
how larvae can adapt to these dierent environmental
conditions. We are now exploring in the frame of an in-
ternational cooperative research program the genomics
of parallel habitat adaptation in the re salamander by
transcriptome and gene expression analyses. By char-
acterizing the ecological conditions of parallel habitat
adaptation in these two species and by simultaneously
screening a large number of genes for patterns of evolu-
tionary divergence, we aim to link the ecology of habi-
tat adaptation and gene expression patterns to a very
detailed extent.
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD candidate
who is willing to perform intensive eldwork in sala-
mander habitat sites, both in Germany and Israel, and
to perform common environment experiments with sub-
sequent gene expression analysis. The main objective
of the PhD study will be to identify existing selection
pressures (e.g. desiccation, presence of predators, drift,
etc.) in the various habitat types and to test how larvae
from dierent habitats can cope with specic selection
pressures in common environment experiments. These
larvae will then be also analysed for gene expression
patterns and thus the identication of selection depen-
dent genes or group of genes will be possible.The research will be carried out in the framework of
the German-Israeli Project Cooperation (DIP) nanced
by the German Research Foundation (DFG) genomics:
analysis of gene expression underlying parallel habitat
adaptation in distinct salamander species. The candi-
date will join an international team of leading scien-
tists in the eld of Ecology (Prof. Dr. Leon Blaustein,
University of Haifa), Molecular Ecology (Dr. Sebas-
tian Steinfartz, University of Bielefeld), Evolutionary
Genomics (Dr. Arne Nolte, Max-Planck Institute of
Evolutionary Biology), Evolution and Bioinformatics
(Prof. Dr. Alan Templeton, University of Haifa) and
River Ecology (Prof. Dr. Markus Weitere, Helmholtz-
Centre for Environmental Research - UFZ). Moreover
she/he will strongly interact with other PhD and post-
doc researchers in genomics and bioinformatics, as well
as with scientists in Germany and in Israel. The po-
sition (65% TV-L E13) will start at the beginning of
October 2013 and is funded for three years.
Please send your application until July 12th 2013, in-
cluding a curriculum vitae, a letter of motivation why
you are interested in the project and addresses for refer-
ences (e-mail addresses and telephone numbers) of two
referees as a merged PDF to:
Dr. Sebastian Steinfartz Assistant Professor in Molec-
ular Ecology and Behaviour
Department of Animal Behaviour University of Biele-
feld Germany Telephone: +49 521 106 2653 Email:
sebastian.steinfartz@uni-bielefeld.de
We expect to interview candidates in the course of Au-
gust 2013.
Dr. Sebastian Steinfartz Assistant Professor of Molec-
ular Ecology University of Bielefeld Department of An-
imal Behaviour Morgenbreede 45 D-33615 Bielefeld
Telephone: +49 521 106 2653 Fax: +49 521 106
2998 E-mail: sebastian.steinfartz@uni-bielefeld.de web-
page: http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/vhf/SF/-
index.html Co-Editor of Amphibia-Reptilia http://-
www.brill.nl/amphibia-reptilia
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEdinburgh EvolutionaryBiol26 EvolDir June 1, 2013
NERC-funded PhD studentship available at the Insti-
tute of Evolutionary Biology, University of Edinburgh,
UK.
http://www.ed.ac.uk/schools-departments/biology/-
evolutionary-biology/home The studentship will start
in October 2013, and will cover full fees and provide a
stipend to cover living costs (for UK students). The
stipend is determined by NERC and is standard (see
http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/postgrad/).
The period is three years in the rst instance, with
possible extension depending on training needs.
Applicants are encouraged to contact (including
their CV) potential supervisors, at the Institute
of Evolutionary Biology (http://www.ed.ac.uk/-
schools-departments/biology/evolutionary-biology/-
sta-proles), who will provide further information on
the application procedure. Applicants should decide a
priori the area and laboratory that is of most interest
to them, and then contact the appropriate potential
supervisor.
Applicants should contact supervisors ASAP, as we
plan to move quickly on recruitment.
Further information at http://www.ed.ac.uk/schools-
departments/biology/evolutionary-biology/research-
opportunities
Professor Tom Little Chair of Evolutionary Biology In-
stitute of Evolutionary Biology Kings Buildings Uni-
versity of Edinburgh EH9 3JT UK
+44 131 650 7781
tom.little@ed.ac.uk
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/tlittle/
Tom Little <tom.little@ed.ac.uk >
UEdinburgh StatisticalGenomics
Warning: base64 decoder saw premature EOF! PhD
project title: Statistical inference from genomic data
Department/Institution: Department of Genetics &
Genomics, The Roslin Institute, University of Edin-
burgh
Primary supervisor: Pam Wiener
Project description: Genomics is currently revolutioniz-
ing many areas of biology. One application is the search
for regions of the genome that show evidence of selec-
tion, while another is to make inferences about pop-ulation history. However, selection and demographic
events can produce similar genomic signals, making it
dicult to distinguish the two forces. Regions showing
clear evidence of selection may be investigated further
for their association with traits favoured by humans (in
the case of articial selection) or corresponding to en-
vironmental adaptation (natural selection). The aims
of this PhD project are (1) to evaluate available sta-
tistical methods for detection of selection and demo-
graphic events in terms of their applicability to genomic
datasets with dierent features, (2) to improve and fur-
ther develop methods, including distinguishing between
the roles of selection and demography, and (3) to apply
these methods to data from livestock and other species
to make inferences about their histories.
Relevant references: S. Wilkinson, et al. 2013.
Signatures of diversifying selection in European
pig breeds. PLoS Genetics 9(4):e1003453. http:/-
/www.plosgenetics.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/-
journal.pgen.1003453 Wiener, P. and R. Pong-Wong.
2011. A regression-based approach to selection
mapping. Journal of Heredity 102: 294-305.
Wiener, P. and S. Wilkinson. 2011. Deciphering
the genetic basis of animal domestication. Pro-
ceedings of the Royal Society B. 278: 3161-3170.
http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/-
278/1722/3161.full?sid=bca8a388-2f03-485c-89ee-
a042e135c933 Wiener, P., et al. 2011. Information
content in genome-wide scans: concordance between
patterns of genetic dierentiation and linkage map-
ping associations. BMC Genomics 12: article 65.
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2164/12/65
Specications: Candidates must normally hold a rst
or upper second class degree in a related subject area.
Good quantitative skills, as well as English writing and
oral skills, are essential and programming skills are
desirable; additional training in genetics and genome
analysis is available at the University. To qualify
for funding, students must be UK or EU citizens
with home tuition fee status. http://www.ed.ac.uk/-
studying/postgraduate/fees-nance/fee-status The
studentship will cover University tuition fees plus a
salary commensurate with regular UK postgraduate
stipends, approximately $13,726 (16,166) per annum.
The expected start date is October 2013 and the
studentship is 4 years in length.
Applications, including a cover letter and full CV with
names and addresses (including email addresses) of two
academic referees, should be sent to:
Pam Wiener, The Roslin Institute, The University of
Edinburgh, Easter Bush, Midlothian EH25 9RG, UK
Email: pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.ukJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 27
Informal queries requesting further information are wel-
come.
Closing date: 31 May 2013
Pam Wiener The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick)
School of Veterinary Studies University of Edinburgh
Easter Bush, Midlothian EH25 9RG, UK
phone: 44 (0) 131 651 9209 email:
pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.uk
pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.uk
UFlorida AntEvolution
Call for applications: Masters Position in Ant Biology
at the University of Florida
Research Focus: ant diversity, population genetics and
citizen science.
Qualications: Bachelor's degree in entomology or
closely related biological science. Applicants who have
an intellectual interest in ants, evolution, ecology and
outreach are especially encouraged to apply. Demon-
strated ability to complete projects. Excellent written
and oral communication abilities. Minimum GPA of
3.5 and competitive GRE scores are desired. Expe-
rience with the following will be an asset, but is not
required: insect classication, collections management,
systematics, DNA extraction and amplication (PCR),
eldwork, outreach/teaching.
Apply: Interested candidates should send a let-
ter by email addressed to Dr. Andrea Lucky at
alucky@u.edu with the subject header ms position in
ant biology. Please include CV, statement of purpose
and names and contact information of three references.
Application deadline is May 31, 2013, with the ideal
start date in Fall 2013.
Andrea Lucky, PhD Entomology/Nematology
University of Florida 970 Natural Area Drive
Gainesville, FL 32611-0620 Phone: (352) 273-
3952 Email: alucky@u.edu www.andrealucky.com
www.schoolofants.org alucky@u.edu
UGrenoble StatGenPhD position in statistical genetics at the University of
Grenoble (France)
Title: Genomic imputation and haplotype phasing us-
ing large-scale statistical machine learning.
The candidate will be in a diverse research en-
vironment working with both a lab of statistics
for population genetics (http://membres-timc.imag.fr/-
Michael.Blum/) and a lab of machine learning (http://-
lear.inrialpes.fr/people/mairal/). Grenoble is a univer-
sity town located in a beautiful alpine environment.
Subject: The amount of generated biological data
grows at an unprecedented pace. Statistical and
machine-learning research eorts are increasingly
needed to analyse the large-scale biological data. As
part of this research eort, the objective of the PhD
candidate will be to develop statistical algorithms that
can scale with the massive dimension of genomic data.
One major use of genomic data is to make associations
between genomic features and disease traits. Key tech-
nical steps in making associations between genes and
diseases consists of identifying the genetic variants that
are co-located on the same chromosome (phasing) and
imputing missing genetic variants based on reference
panels (genotype imputation). These two steps are per-
formed with statistical algorithms that may hit a com-
putational wall soon because of the massive dimension
of the genomic data. The objective of the PhD will be
to develop statistical models and algorithms for han-
dling massive data. A rst direction will be to adapt
matrix completion techniques, which are are popular for
web recommender systems and which can also provide
accurate and fast results for genotype imputation. The
proposed models and algorithms will be implemented in
an open-source software during the course of the PhD
project.
Prole: The typical background of the candidate will be
in statistics or machine learning. Students from related
disciplines, such as physics, computer sciences or math-
ematics are also welcome to apply. Applicants with
a genuine interest for interdisciplinary PhD education
will be preferred.
The Phd candidate will be co-supervised by Julien
Mairal, INRIA researcher in machine learning and
Michael Blum, CNRS researcher in Bayesian statisti-
cal genetics.
Deadline: Applicants should send by email a CV and
a recommendation letter from an academic reference
before the 31st of May.
Contacts: Michael Blum http://membres-
timc.imag.fr/Michael.Blum/ Michael.blum@imag.fr28 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Julien Mairal http://lear.inrialpes.fr/people/mairal/-
julien.mairal@inria.fr
Blum michael <michael.blum@imag.fr >
UGroningen TheoreticalEvolution
We are looking for a candidate to ll a PhD position in
theoretical ecology, with some evolutionary aspects..
The project is titled \Competition theory with a domi-
nance/tolerance trade-o: a mathematical approach to
predict species abundances and distributions. Model
development, analysis, and application to data on salt
marsh." The supervisors areClaire de Mazancourt and
Bart Haegeman, Station d'Ecologie Exp erimentale de
Moulis, and Rampal S. Etienne, Centre for Ecologi-
cal and Evolutionary Studies, University of Groningen,
The Netherlands. The student will be based at the
Centre for Biodiversity Theory and Modelling, Station
d'Ecologie Exp erimentale de Moulis, Ari ege, France,
with visits to the University of Groningen, The Nether-
lands.
For more information see http://www.sevab.ups-
tlse.fr/fr/popup/detailsSujet.php?id=758(in
French) or contact Claire de Mazancourt
(claire.demazancourt@ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr) or Rampal
Etienne (r.s.etienne@rug.nl).
We are looking for a candidate with - good communica-
tion skills in English - experience in theoretical ecology
or a background in mathematics/physics or similar and
anity for biology
Interested candidates should apply before *31
MAY 2013* by sending a CV and the names
of three references to Claire de Mazancourt
(claire.demazancourt@ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr) or Rampal
Etienne (r.s.etienne@rug.nl).
{
Rampal S. Etienne Associate Professor, Commu-
nity and Conservation Ecology Group University of
Groningen The Netherlands +31 50 363 2230 http:/-
/www.rug.nl/sta/r.s.etienne/research Visiting ad-
dress: Centre for Life Sciences Nijenborgh 7 9747 AG
Groningen The Netherlands
Mail address: Box 11103 9700 CC Groningen The
Netherlands
\R.S. Etienne" <R.S.Etienne@rug.nl >UHelsinki
EvolutionButteryImmunity
PHD STUDENT POSITION IN ECOLOGY AND
EVOLUTION OF IMMUNE DEFENCE IN A BUT-
TERFLY METAPOPULATION AT THE UNIVER-
SITY OF HELSINKI
Applications are invited for a PhD fellowship to
study the interplay between ecology and genet-
ics in shaping immune defence in natural butter-
y (meta)population. The project is funded by
the Kone Foundation (http://www.koneensaatio.//-
tiivistelmaet/#Saastamoinen: in Finnish only) Moti-
vated students with a MSc degree in ecology, evolution-
ary biology or molecular biology (or other related elds)
are encouraged to apply. Prior expertise in experimen-
tal design, statistical analysis or laboratory work are a
bonus but your most important assets are enthusiasm
for research, motivation to learn new things, and ability
to work independently while being an active member of
a research team.
The project is centered within a larger study of the
ecological processes and the underlying genetic mecha-
nisms that allow the Glanville fritillary buttery (Meli-
taea cinxia) to cope with environmental challenges in
the wild. This particular project will focus on the im-
mune defence. In your project you will ask what are
the signicance of encapsulation response in terms of
disease and parasitism resistance, how does it relate
to other immunological assays, and if between individ-
ual variation inuenced by population dynamics? In
practice, you will carry out eld work in the ~Aland Is-
lands archipelago (SW Finland) and conduct experi-
mental work in the laboratory and under semi natural
eld conditions. There is also potential to use recently
developed genomic tools to identify genes involved in
immune defence. You are expected to present your
ndings in scientic meetings and workshops, as well
as prepare publications for international scientic jour-
nals.
The research group of Dr Marjo Saastamoinen is part
of the Metapopulation Research Group, Centre of Ex-
cellence appointed by the Academy of Finland, where
you'll nd a wide range of expertise in ecological and
evolutionary questions within a spatial framework.
Please send your application toJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 29
marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki. by 7 June 2013.
Attach a CV (with publications included), a copy
of your transcript records (= printout of the courses
you've completed during your MSc), contact details
of two references (e.g. MSc thesis supervisor), and
a letter (MAX 1 page) with a description of your
researcher interests and why you would be a suitable
candidate for the project.
The work is scheduled to start in August 2013. The
Phd student will receive a personal researcher grant
(2100 per month, 25200 annually). The Kone Foun-
dation grants funding one year at the time, so funding
for the successive years need to be applied.
For more information, please contact Dr Marjo
Saastamoinen (marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki.) and
visit the website at (https://tuhat.halvi.helsinki./-
portal/en/persons/marjo-anna-kaarina-%280d792de9-
7077-4683-8e2b-4e15b5e9620d%29.htm). For infor-
mation on the University of Helsinki, please visit:
http://www.helsinki./university/index.html Marjo
Saastamoinen, PhD Metapopulation Research Group
Department of Biological Sciences PO Box 65 (Vi-
ikinkaari 1) FI-00014 University of Helsinki FINLAND
Phone +358 9 191 57741
marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki.
ULausanne EvolutionSocialInsects
PhD position: communication and decision-making in
social insects, University of Lausanne (Switzerland)
We invite applications for a 3-year SNSF (Swiss Na-
tional Science Foundation) funded PhD position at the
University of Lausanne, Switzerland. We are looking
for a highly motivated student to study communica-
tion, learning and decision-making in ants and bees. In
many social insect species, workers communicate about
protable food sources or nest-sites. Honeybees, for
example, use the waggle dance to direct nest-mates
to protable resources. Many ants and tropical bees
use pheromone trails. However, not all species com-
municate about foraging sites and even in species with
communication foragers often search for food indepen-
dently. The project investigates the circumstances that
favour dierent information-use strategies and explores
the relationship between exible individual foraging
strategies and colony tness. The research will include
experimental work in and around Lausanne, with a pos-sibility to perform eld work in Brazil and/or develop
simulation models. The main study animals are honey-
bees, ants and stingless bees.
We are looking for a candidate with a Masters degree
(or equivalent) in Biology and a strong background in
behaviour, ecology or evolution. Good English skills
and an ability to work independently are important.
Experience with social insects, statistical or modelling
methods and a basic knowledge of French are helpful
but not a requirement.
Supervisors and laboratory: Dr. Christoph Gr uter
(principal supervisor) & Prof. Laurent Keller, Labo-
ratory of Evolutionary Genetics and Ecology of Social
Life, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.
Web Sites: www.socialinsect-research.com,
www.unil.ch/dee/page6763.html How to apply:
applications include (1) a one-page cover letter describ-
ing your motivation, previous research activities and
current research interests, (2) a CV, (3) two reference
letters and (4) publications (if existing; e.g. MSc the-
sis). Send all documents except the publications in a
single pdf le. Applications must be written in English
and should be sent to christophgrueter77@gmail.com
before the 15th July 2013. Earliest possible start date
is the 1st of September 2013.
Informal enquiries: christophgrueter77@gmail.com
Dr. Christoph Grueter University of S~ ao Paulo Facul-
dade de Filosoa Ci^ encias e Letras de Ribeir~ ao Preto
Departamento de Biologia Av. Bandeirantes, 3900
14040-901 - Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil Tel: 0055 16
3602 3815 Website: www.socialinsect-research.com
Christoph Grueter <C.Grueter@sussex.ac.uk >
ULaval
GenomicsBehaviouralManipulation
PHD POSITION: GENOMIC AND PROTEOMIC
MECHANISMS OF BEHAVIOURAL TAKE-OVER
OF STICKLEBACKS BY A PARASITIC FLAT-
WORM
We are looking for a motivated student to join our team
to work on the ecological genomics of host-parasite
interactions at UNIVERSIT E LAVAL, Quebec City,
Canada. Our labs are part of the Biology Department
and are located in the INSTITUTE OF INTEGRA-
TIVE AND SYSTEMS BIOLOGY. The PhD position
oered is part of a FRQNT- Equipe project (Quebec,30 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Canada) to study the interaction between the genomes
of the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus)
and of its atworm parasite (Schistocephalus solidus).
The project leaders are Dr. Nadia AUBIN-HORTH
(behavioural genomics and neuroendocrinology) & Dr.
Christian LANDRY (bioinformatics, evolutionary ge-
nomics and proteomics). We work in collaboration with
Dr. Iain BARBER (evolution of host-parasite interac-
tions and their consequences) from University of Leices-
ter.
PROJECT: Sticklebacks parasitized by the cestod at-
worm do not show the normal behavioural response to
predation risk and, as a consequence, are more fre-
quently captured by their bird predator. These be-
haviour modications are often presented as adapta-
tions of the parasite to enhance transmission rates to
its nal bird host in order to complete its life cycle,
as the changes in stickleback behaviour occur speci-
cally when the atworm is ready to mature in its nal
host, suggesting a stage-specic active manipulation by
the parasite. However, we know very little about the
molecular mechanisms that underlie this host-parasite
interaction. Our team aims to answer questions about
the molecular changes happening in the host and the
parasite and how their genomes interact.
Motivated students with a MSc degree in life sciences
(ecology, evolution, molecular biology or other related
elds) are encouraged to apply. A strong interest for an
INTEGRATIVE APPROACH, combining novel tools
in GENOMICS, PROTEOMICS and BIOINFORMAT-
ICS with BEHAVIOURAL ASSAYS and pharmaco-
logical manipulation and working actively in a team
is a must. Prior experience in animal behaviour, en-
docrinology, molecular biology, genomics, proteomics,
bioinformatics or statistical analysis is an advantage.
A PhD fellowship is available for 3 years for the chosen
candidate.
To apply, please send an email including a CV, a letter
describing your research experience in link with the
project and your research interest, your diplomas and
transcripts, and the names and email addresses of 3 ref-
erences (including your M.Sc. Advisor). Applications
will be accepted until July 15, 2013 or until a candidate
is selected. The position will start in September 2013.
For more information about the position, please feel
free to contact the head of the team, Dr. Nadia
Aubin-Horth (Nadia.Aubin-Horth@bio.ulaval.ca).
For more information about the labs, see: http:/-
/wikiaubinhorth.ibis.ulaval.ca/Main Page http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/landrylab/en/pmwiki.php Nadia
Aubin-Horth Associate professor Biology Department
Institute of Integrative and Systems Biology Laval
University Quebec City (QC) G1V 0A6 CanadaAubin-Horth Nadia <Nadia.Aubin-
Horth@bio.ulaval.ca >
URennes
PolyploidGenomeEvolution
*Three-year funded PhD fellowship available at Univer-
sity of Rennes 1 (UMR CNRS 6553 Ecobio), France:*
***Evolution of polyploid genomes and functional in-
novation: *
The history of plants is punctuated by recurrent events
of genome duplications (polyploidy) which led to the
emergence of most existing angiosperm lineages and to
increased complexity of functions that played a crit-
ical role in species adaptation. This functional evo-
lution has important ecological consequences (such as
the expansion of invasive species) and is also widely
exploited in agriculture (domestication of polyploid
species). Understanding of the molecular mechanisms
associated with genome duplication (especially in hy-
brid /i.e./ allopolyploid contexts) is currently the sub-
ject of active research in the scientic community.
The goal of the thesis is to understand how eco-
logically important functions may take place during
evolution following genome duplication, using genus
/Spartina/ (Poaceae, Chloridoideae) as a model sys-
tem. /Spartina/ species are perennial grasses colo-
nizing salt-marshes. Polyploidy and interspecic hy-
bridization are recurrent in this genus where various
ploidy levels are encountered from tetraploid (2n@)
to dodecaploid (2n0-122). The planned studies will
focus on the hexaploid species /Spartina alterniora/
and /Spartina maritima/ and their recent hybrid and
invasive allopolyploid (/Spartina anglica/) derivatives.
The recent technological and methodological develop-
ments resulting from high-throughput sequencing now
oer new opportunities for integrated approaches in
evolutionary and ecological genomics.Various molec-
ular approaches (genomic, transcriptomic and pro-
teomic) will be combined to biochemical, physiological
phenotyping and phylogenetic analyses. Handling of
high-throughput data and bioinformatic processing are
planned.
The project is developed in the research group \Mecha-
nisms and Origins of Biodiversity (MOB)" under super-
vision of Prof. Malika Ainouche in the framework of an
International Associated Laboratory \ECOGEN: Eco-
logical Genomics of Polyploidy" with the support of theJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 31
Partner University Funds through a collaborative pro-
gramme with Prof. JF Wendel (Iowa State University,
USA).
Applicants must have a Master (or equivalent) degree
and must apply at the Ecole Doctorale Vie Agro Sant e
(VAS) of University of Rennes 1 (http://www.vas.univ-
rennes1.fr/ ) * BEFORE 9 JUNE 2013 * to participate
to the Annual Competitive Admission Process which
includes 2 steps: 1) Pre-selection based on application
2) Interview with the selection committee (26-27 june
2013); interviews in English or French. The results will
be available before July 6th.
Detailed information on the application process is
provided on the VAS website (http://www.vas.univ-
rennes1.fr/ ). The applicants will have to specify their
choice regarding this PhD thesis, /i.e/. reference 102
in the list provided on the VAS website. Interested
applicants are invited to contact (with CV) Malika
Ainouche (malika.ainouche@univ-rennes1.fr) BEFORE
submitting their application
Prof. University of Rennes 1 UMR CNRS 6553 Ecobio
Bat. 14A Campus de Beaualieu 35 042 Rennes Cedex
tel +33 (0)2 23 23 51 11
Malika Ainouche <malika.ainouche@univ-rennes1.fr >
UUppsala EvolutionaryGenetics
PhD position in evolutionary genetics, Uppsala
A PhD-student position in evolutionary genetics is
available at the Department of Evolutionary Biology,
Uppsala University. Starting date 15th of August 2013,
or as agreed upon.
Project description: Non-genetically inherited or epige-
netic factors are now known to have a major impact on
most biological processes, including evolutionary pro-
cesses and heredity. In your PhD project, you will fo-
cus on the causes and consequences of paternal non-
genetic eects transferred from the father to the o-
spring. You will use the zebrash as a model system
to investigate such sperm-mediated epigenetic eects
by combining experimental work with next generation
sequencing methods to elucidate the possible mecha-
nisms.
See the Immler lab web-page for more informa-
tion and recent publications (http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
Research/IEG/evbiol/research/Immler/) or contact Si-mone Immler directly (Simone.Immler@ebc.uu.se).
Qualications: An MSc degree (or equivalent) in a rel-
evant eld is required. The ideal candidate is highly
motivated with thorough education and strong interest
in evolutionary biology and potentially developmental
biology. Previous experience with experimental setups,
the wet-lab and some basic bioinformatics are bene-
cial. Candidates must be uent in English.
Conditions: The PhD training comprises four years of
full time research and studies. The successful candi-
date will receive a fellowship the rst year and a PhD-
student position year 2-4. The position can be com-
bined with up to 20% of teaching assistantship, which
will then prolong the position accordingly. Please con-
tact Simone Immler (Simone.Immler@ebc.uu.se, +46
18 471 6465) for more information. Union represen-
tatives are Anders Grundstr om, Saco-r adet +46 18 471
5380 och Carin S oderh all, TCO/ST +46 18 471 1996,
Stefan Djurstr om, Seko +46 18 471 3315.
How to apply: The application should include 1) a let-
ter describing your research interests and motivation
for PhD studies, 2) a short description of your edu-
cation, 3) a CV, 4) an authorized copy of your MSc
degree, 5) the names and contact information (address,
email address, and phone number) of at least two ref-
erence persons, 6) relevant publications (including MSc
thesis). The application must be written in English.
You are welcome to submit your application no later
than 21st of June 2013, UFV-PA 2012/1600. Use the
link below to access the application form: http://-
www2.personalavd.uu.se/jobb/appform.php?lang=-
en&case=UFV-PA%202013/1600 Dr Simone Immler
Evolutionary Biology Centre Evolutionary Biology
University of Uppsala Norbyv agen 18d SE - 752 36
Uppsala Sweden
Email: simone.immler@ebc.uu.se Phone: +46 (0)18
471 6465 Homepage: http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
forskning/IEG/evbiol/forskning/Immler/ Simone
Immler <simone.immler@ebc.uu.se >
UValencia EvolutionaryBiol
mBEI Mster en Biologa Evolutiva Integrativa Univer-
sitat de Valncia Curso2013-2014
What: Masters Degree in Integrative Evolutionary Bi-
ology32 EvolDir June 1, 2013
When: 2013-2014
Where: Cavanilles Institut on Biodiversity and Evolu-
tionary Biology - University of Valncia
Places available for new students: 24
Languages used in class: Spanish and English
More information:
http://www.uv.es/biodiver/c/docencia/index.htm
Contact:
manuel.serra@uv.es
Guillem Prez i de Lanuza <guillem.perez-
lanuza@uv.es >
UWesternOntario 2
EvolutionaryPhysiology
*Evolutionary Physiology in the cold: 2 PhD stu-
dentships*
Several PhD positions available in the Sinclair lab, De-
partment of Biology, University of Western Ontario.
1.Evolutionary physiology of insect freeze toler-
ance.This project will use a combination of transcrip-
tomics and physiology to determine the common fac-
tors that allow some insects to withstand internal ice
formation.
2.Overwintering adaptations associated with the north-
ward spread of the invasive land snail /Cepaea
nemoralis/.This project will use a combination of phys-
iology and population genetics to examine evolutionary
change in cold tolerance of an invasive snail whose geo-
graphic range is expanding beyond that predicted from
its native distribution in Europe.In collaboration with
Dr. Annegret Nicolai.
The Sinclair lab is a vibrant, social and diverse group
of individuals dedicated to understanding how winter
drives natural processes.We are question-driven, and
use a wide range of techniques, and interact with a
broad range of collaborators in Canada and abroad.The
Sinclair lab provides an exceptional training environ-
ment, and members have enjoyed success, winning
scholarships, awards... and occasionally even jobs!
The Department of Biology has a large graduate pro-
gramme that provides competitive stipends, exible
start dates, excellent training and sensible times-to-
completion.The University of Western Ontario is lo-cated in London, Ontario, Canada, and has over
5000 graduate students on a beautiful urban cam-
pus.London, situated mid-way between Detroit and
Toronto, has a population of 450,000, a thriving arts
scene, and all amenities expected for a city its size.
Exceptional students from any nationality are en-
couraged to apply, however, applications from
Canadian citizens and permanent residents are
especially encouraged.For more information, visit
publish.uwo.ca ~bsincla7, or contact Dr. Brent Sinclair,
bsincla7@uwo.ca. Applications should include a cover
letter, CV and unocial copy of an academic transcript
(a scanned version is ne) and should be received by
August 31, 2013.
{
Dr Brent Sinclair Associate Professor, Department of
Biology Biological & Geological Sciences Room 2078
(Lab: Room 2056) University of Western Ontario, 1151
Richmond St N, London, Ontario N6A 5B7
bsincla7@uwo.ca tel: 519-661-2111 ext 83138; Fax 519-
661-3935 http://publish.uwo.ca/ ~ bsincla7/ Come to
ISEPEP5! 12-16 August, 2013, London, ONtario,
Canada http://www.uwo.ca/biology/ISEPEP5/ Brent
Sinclair <bsincla7@uwo.ca >
UZurich 2 Biodemography
Subject: Two Biodemography PhD Positions at Uni-
versity of Zurich
There are two biodemography PhD positions available
in my research group at the University of Zurich. The
details of these position can be found here: http://-
popecol.org/temp/PhD UZH.pdf The prospective can-
didates are welcome to contact me with any questions.
All the best, Arpat Ozgul
Assistant Professor of Population Ecology
Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental
StudiesjUniversity of Zurich Oce: 34-J-24 jTel: +41
(0)44 63 *54746* jarpat.ozgul@ieu.uzh.ch jpopecol.org
Arpat Ozgul <arpat.ozgul@ieu.uzh.ch >June 1, 2013 EvolDir 33
UppsalaU PopulationGenetics
PhD position in population genomics
2013-05-15
at the department of Plant Ecology and Evolution,
EBC, Uppsala University, Sweden^ aApplication no later
than 2013-06-15. UFV-PA 2013/1479.
Project description: Polyploidy, or whole genome du-
plication (WGD), occurs in virtually all vascular plants
and has played a major role in evolution. In your PhD
project you will take advantage of the recent develop-
ments in sequencing technology and previous studies in
the Capsella genus to characterize genomic and phe-
notypic changes associated to WGD in the shepherd's
purse (C. bursa-pastoris), a recently formed tetraploid
weed. You will rst conduct whole-genome resequenc-
ing and gene expression studies of accessions from Eu-
rope and from China. In a second step, the associa-
tion between genomic variation and putative adaptive
traits will be assessed through association and linkage
mapping. These data, together with data in its diploid
relatives, will be used to address questions about the
genomic consequences of WGD between species and
between groups of accessions within species and ques-
tions on the consequences of WGD for putative adap-
tive traits. Part of this work will be done in close coop-
eration with research groups in Canada and China.^ aAn
important part of your work will include statistical and
genome analyses of large DNA sequence data sets from
a number of Capsella genomes. In addition, molecu-
lar and experimental studies of specic pathways and
phenotypic traits may be included. The exact work-
plan of the thesis will be settled together with the
doctoral student. The PhD student will be based in
the group of Martin Lascoux at the Evolutionary Bi-
ology Center. (http://www.ebc.uu.se/forskning/IEG/-
Plant/Research groups/Lascoux group/)^ a^ a
Qualications: An MSc degree or equivalent in a rel-
evant eld is required. We seek a highly motivated
student with thorough education and strong interest
in evolutionary genetics/genomics, and population ge-
netics. Previous experience with bioinformatical and
statistical analysis of modern sequence data is required
and a working knowledge of Perl and Python or related
programming languages is highly recommended. We
are looking for individuals who can work independently
but also as part of a team. Candidates must be uent inEnglish (orally and written). The successful candidate
will receive her/his postgraduate training within the
postgraduate school at the Evolutionary Biology Cen-
tre (http://www.ebc.uu.se/?languageId=1) that is one
of world's leading research institutions in evolutionary
biology.^ a
Conditions: The postgraduate training comprises four
years of full time studies. The successful candi-
date will receive a postgraduate fellowship the rst
year (15500SEK/month) and a postgraduate position
year 2-4 (23100-27500 SEK/month). The position
can be combined with up to 20% of teaching assis-
tantship, which will then prolong the position accord-
ingly. Please feel free to contact Martin Lascoux (Mar-
tin.Lascoux@ebc.uu.se, +46 18 471 6416) for more in-
formation. Union representatives are Anders Grund-
str om, Saco-r ~Adet, tel. +46 18 471 53 80 och Carin
S oderh all, TCO/ST, tel. +46 18 471 19 96, Stefan
Djurstr om, Seko, tel. +46 18 471 33 15.^ a^ a
How to apply: Please prepare a letter of intent includ-
ing descriptions of 1) your motivation for PhD stud-
ies in general and for this position in particular, 2)
your education, especially in evolutionary biology, ge-
netics/genomics/bioinformatics, molecular biology, and
statistics. The application should further include a CV,
an authorized copy of your MSc degree, and the names
and contact information (address, email address, and
phone number) of at least two reference persons. Rele-
vant publications (including BSc/MSc thesis) should be
enclosed. The application must be written in English.^ a
You are welcome to submit your application no later
than June 15, 2013, UFV-PA 2013/1479. Use the link
below to access the application form.
http://www2.personalavd.uu.se/jobb/-
appform.php?lang=en&case=UFV-PA%202013/1479
Martin Lascoux Department of Ecology and Genetics
EBC, Uppsala University Norbyv agen 18D 75236 Upp-
sala Sweden Tel +46 (0) 18 471 64 16 Fax +46 (0) 18
471 64 57
martin Lascoux <Martin.Lascoux@ebc.uu.se >
Vienna PopulationGenetics
Reminder: Call deadline for PhD positions at The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics:34 EvolDir June 1, 2013
*May 30, 2013*:
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
Applications from highly motivated and outstanding
students with a background in one of the following dis-
ciplines will be considered: bioinformatics, statistics,
evolutionary genetics, functional genetics, theoretical
and experimental population genetics. Students from
related disciplines, such as physics or mathematics are
also welcome to apply.
Topics include:
- Analysing next generation sequencing data and un-
derstanding the sampling properties of high throughput
technologies - The 1001 Genomes Project: Population
genetics of *Arabidopsis thaliana* - Speciation genetics
in European columbines (*Aquilegia*) - Mutagenesis in
the germline with age - Population genetic inference
using Pool-Seq data - Evolution of gene expression in
*Drosophila* - Speciation genomics: mapping of hybrid
incompatibilities - Inference of selection from time se-
ries data - Understanding the ecology and genetics of an
adaptive trait in * Drosophila* embryos - Mathemati-
cal models of spatially varying selection in subdivided
populations - Statistical methods for detecting selective
sweeps using genome-wide data - The footprint of adap-
tive gene introgression after secondary contact - Proba-
bilistic models for the population genetics of molecular
evolution - Inferring selection using *Drosophila* whole
genome sequence data
Only complete applications (CV, motivation letter, uni-
versity certicates, indication of the two preferred top-
ics in a single pdf) received by 30.05.2013 will be con-
sidered. Two letters of recommendation need to be sent
directly by the referees.
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can be
found at www.popgen-vienna.at Dr. Julia Hosp Vienna
Graduate School of Population Genetics Coordinator
www.popgen-vienna.at c/o Institut f ur Populations-
genetik Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 A-1210 Vi-
enna
Tel: +43 1 25077 4338 Fax: +43 1 25077 4390
julia.hosp@gmail.comWageningenU
BehaviouralManipulation
A PhD position is available at the Laboratory of Virol-
ogy, Wageningen University, to study the mechanism of
viral manipulation of insect behaviour.
Job description:
We are looking for a talented and highly motivated PhD
student to study the mechanism of viral manipulation
of insect behaviour. More and more examples accumu-
late of viruses that manipulate the behaviour of their
hosts to increase transmission probability. The goal of
this study is to unravel the molecular mechanisms be-
hind behavioural manipulation by viruses in insects, for
which caterpillars infected with baculoviruses will be
used as a model. As a rst step in this research, a viral
gene that induces hyperactivity in baculovirus-infected
caterpillars was identied. In this project you will apply
transcriptomic and proteomic approaches to reveal dif-
ferences in expression patterns and protein content be-
tween hyperactive insects as a consequence of infection
with the wild type virus and insects infected with mu-
tant viruses that do not induce this behaviour. These
data will provide information about signal transduction
pathways and insect eector genes that lead to altered
host behaviour. A number of dierentially regulated
genes and proteins will be selected for follow-up studies
(including both molecular and behavioural analyses) to
conrm and specify their role in parasitic manipulation.
Requirements:
We ask: the candidate will have an MSc degree in Bi-
ology, Molecular Life Sciences or Biotechnology. Ex-
perience with bioinformatics is highly recommended.
Knowledge on molecular biology and virology is advan-
tageous, as is aection with behavioural studies. The
candidate should have experience with working with
complex data sets in a biological setting and will be pro-
cient in the English language. Excellent interpersonal
and communication skills are essential, as well as the
ability to work in a multidisciplinary team in a collab-
orative spirit. The candidate should also be prepared
to assist in the education of BSc and MSc students.
Conditions of employment:
We oer a full-time position (38 hours), initially for
1 year after which a go/no go decision will be taken
on extension with another three years. Gross salaryJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 35
per month 2062 in the rst year, rising to 2664 per
month in the fourth year, for a fulltime appoint-
ment. The candidate will be based at the Labora-
tory of Virology in Wageningen. Occasional visits to
collaborating institutes in Europe are expected. The
PhD candidate will be oered a course program via
the graduate school Production Ecology and Resource
Conservation, which can be tailored to the desires of
the candidate and the research team. Information
on the research: Dr. Vera Ros, +31(0)317 484461
(vera.ros@wur.nl) and Prof. Dr. Monique van Oers
+31(0)317 485082 (monique.vanoers@wur.nl). Infor-
mation on the selection procedure: Mrs. Eva Siebelink
(eva.siebelink@wur.nl).
Don't send your application directly to the peo-
ple mentioned above but use the website to ap-
ply www.wageningenur.nl/en/jobs/vacancies .Contract
type: Temporary, Tijdelijk dienstverband.
Organisation:
Wageningen UR (University & Research centre) The
Laboratory of Virology is part of the Plant Science
Group of Wageningen University. We are situated at
the recently established Wageningen Campus. Cur-
rently, over 30 researchers, including technicians, PhD
students and Postdocs work in the Laboratory of Vi-
rology. We oer a lively, research-driven work environ-
ment. Research in the Laboratory of Virology focuses
on plant viruses, arboviruses and insect viruses. Plant
viruses form a major threat for crops and ornamen-
tals and are often transmitted by insect vectors. Ar-
boviruses are transmitted by insects as well and cause
disease in humans and animals. Insect-infecting viruses
on the other hand are pathogenic to insects and are
used to control pest insects. Insect viruses are also in
use biotechnologically to produce recombinant proteins
in insect cells for instance for vaccines. Our research
concentrates on virus-host and virus-vector interactions
viruses, with special attention for defence mechanisms,
viral evasion strategies and host manipulation mecha-
nisms.
Wageningen University & Research centre Delivering a
substantial contribution to the quality of life. That's
our focus each and every day. Within our domain,
healthy food and living environment, we search for an-
swers to issues aecting society such as sustainable food
production, climate change and alternative energy. Of
course, we don't do this alone. Every day, 6,500 people
work on the quality of life, turning ideas into reality, on
a global scale. Could you be one of these people? We
give you the space you need.
For further information about working at Wageningen
UR, take a look at www.wageningenur.nl/en/Jobs.htm. Additional information:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
iDiv Leipzig PlantBiodiversity
The German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search (iDiv) is one of the seven National Research
Centres funded by the German Research Founda-
tion (DFG). It is located in the city of Leipzig and
jointly hosted by the Martin Luther University Halle-
Wittenberg (MLU), the Friedrich Schiller University
Jena (FSU), the University of Leipzig (UL) and the
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research (UFZ).
It is supported by the Max Planck Society, the Leib-
niz Association, the Klaus Tschira Foundation and the
Free State of Saxony. Its central mission is to promote
theory-driven synthesis and data-driven theory in this
emerging eld. The concept of iDiv encompasses the
detection of biodiversity, understanding its emergence,
exploring its consequences for ecosystem functions and
services, and developing strategies to safeguard biodi-
versity under global change.
Embedded in the active research environment of iDiv,
the Young BioDiversity Research Training Group
(yDiv) will be established. Its goal is to educate a new
generation of scientists in transdisciplinary biodiversity
research, who will have gained expertise both in exper-
imental as well as theoretical elds of research.
The University of Leipzig oers the following position:
Doctoral fellowship (initially limited to 3 years, 65 per-
cent of a full-time employment) Salary: Entgeltgruppe
13 TV-L on Plant Physiology/Biospectroscopy
Topic/job description: - development of measuring pro-
tocols for IR spectroscopy - development of mathemat-
ical algorigthms for spectral analysis (chemometrics) -
biochemical quantication of selected components of
material from dierent plants - integration of IR re-
sults into a theoretical background of species specic
C-allocation pattern
Requirements / expected prole: - an excellent mas-
ter's degree in a relevant eld of research - experience
in biochemical analysis of plant material - experience in36 EvolDir June 1, 2013
in-vivo spectroscopy of plants - experience of multivari-
ate statistical analyses - good use of spoken and written
English and ambition to publish in international jour-
nals - creativity, enthusiasm and endurance
We oer you a PhD position, aliated with the Univer-
sity of Leipzig and supervised by Prof. Christian Wil-
helm, department of Plant Physiology, Institute of Biol-
ogy/University of Leipzig (http://www.uni-leipzig.de/-
~paphys).
Applications are accepted until May 20, 2013.
All applications should include:
- lled application form (download under http:/-
/www.idiv-biodiversity.de/ydiv/positionsjobs - cover
letter describing research interests & relevant experi-
ence - curriculum vitae - one letter of recommendation
- MA/BA/Diploma certicates
Applications should be directed to the yDiv coordinator
Dr. Jula Zimmermann (ydiv@idiv-biodiversity.de) in a
single PDF le with reference le number (54/2013) in
the subject line.
We prefer applications in electronic form (hard copy
applications can be sent to Dr. J. Zimmermann; Ger-
man Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research - iDiv;
Deutscher Platz 5e; 04103 Leipzig)
For queries on the application process please contact
ydiv@idiv-biodiversity.de
{
*Dr. Jula Zimmermann *
/Scientic Coordinator of the Graduate School - yDiv /
Wissenschaftliche Koordinatorin der Graduiertenschule- yDiv German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig/
//iDiv Logo
Phone +49(0)341-97-33125 Fax +49(0)341-
97-31264 Email jula.zimmermann@idiv-
biodiversity.de <mailto:friederike.heinze@idiv-
biodiversity.de >
German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search(iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig Deutscher Platz 5d
04103 Leipzig Germany
iDiv ist ein Forschungszentrum der Deutschen
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). Es ist eine zentrale
Einrichtung der Universit at Leipzig im Sinne des
x92 Abs. 1 S achsHSFG und wird zusammen mit
der Martin-Luther-Universit at Halle-Wittenberg,
der Friedrich-Schiller-Universit at Jena sowie dem
Helmholtz-Zentrum f ur Umweltforschung (UFZ)
betrieben. Sieben aueruniversit are Einrichtungen
unterst utzen iDiv nanziell sowie durch ihre Expertise:
das Max-Planck-Institut f ur Biogeochemie (MPI BGC),
das Max-Planck-Institut f ur chemische Okologie (MPI
CE), das Max-Planck-Institut f ur evolution are An-
thropologie (MPI EVA), das Leibniz-Institut Deutsche
Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen
(DSMZ), das Leibniz-Institut f ur Panzenbiochemie
(IPB), das Leibnitz-Institut f ur Panzengenetik und
Kulturpanzenforschung (IPK) und das Leibniz-
Institut Senckenberg Museum f ur Naturkunde G orlitz
(SMNG). USt-IdNr. DE 141510383
Jula Zimmermann <jula.zimmermann@idiv-
biodiversity.de > Jula Zimmermann
<jula.zimmermann@idiv-biodiversity.de >
Jobs
ArizStateUniv TechSupport . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
FloridaStateU REU Summer2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
FloridaStateU Tech Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
GeorgeWashingtonU ResTech SpermEvol . . . . . . . . . .38
HongKong EvolutionaryBotanist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
LausanneU EntomologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Lyon GroupLeaders EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40MRC Edinburgh StaBioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Montpellier 5 InstCompBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
OregonStateU Teaching Evolution Ecampus . . . . . . . 42
PurdueU Lecturer EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
RowanU Parttime TeachEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
UAlabama LabTech SuccessionDynamics . . . . . . . . . . 43
UAlabama ResTech DrosophilaGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 44June 1, 2013 EvolDir 37
UBritishColumbia BiologyDepartmentHead . . . . . . . 44
UCalifornia Davis Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UColorado TeachingEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UCopenhagen Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
UGeorgia ResearchTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UHelsinki ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UOklahoma LabManager Metagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UOulu Geneticist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UPennsylvania Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49URhodeIsland ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UTampa TeachingEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UVirginia LabTech LizardEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UZurich Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UppsalaU 10 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Vienna EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Vienna ResAssoc EvolutionaryModeling . . . . . . . . . . . 53
ArizStateUniv TechSupport
Technology Support Position
A sta position is available in the Center for
Evolutionary Medicine at Arizona State University
(cemi.asu.edu). We invite applicants with expertise in
system administration and desktop support. Knowl-
edge of evolution and/or bioinformatics is a plus.
You can see a detailed job description at the following
tiny URL:
http://goo.gl/fgbbt
You must submit a complete application at the above
URL. Applications will be reviewed immediately.
If you have any questions, please contact Sudhir Kumar
(s.kumar@asu.edu).
s.kumar@asu.edu
FloridaStateU REU Summer2013
Summer Research Experience for Undergraduates
Undergraduates interested in gaining research experi-
ence in evolutionary biology are invited to apply for
a summer National Science Foundation Research Ex-
perience for Undergraduates (REU) position available
this summer in the lab of Emily Moriarty Lemmon at
Florida State University. The summer REU student
will help conduct genetic analyses of population struc-
ture in chorus frogs (Pseudacris) to test whether behav-
ioral changes in phenotype correlate with population
and landscape level genetic changes. The REU stu-
dent will learn molecular techniques for working withDNA (traditional genotyping and high-throughput se-
quencing) and bioinformatic techniques for analyzing
sequence data. Candidates should have an interest
in evolutionary genetics and learning statistical meth-
ods for analyzing genetic data. Compensation will be
$480 per week (corresponding to $12.00/hr; for approx-
imately 8 hours/day; 5 days/week) for a total of 8 weeks
and will also include a $1,200 stipend for housing and
$1,208 for subsistence during the 8 week period. For
students planning on graduate school, this experience
would look great on your resume.
To apply for this position, please contact Dr. John
Malone at jmalone@bio.fsu.edu and include a CV along
with contact information for three references.
jmalone@bio.fsu.edu
FloridaStateU Tech Phylogenomics
Research Scientist / Postdoctoral Researcher Organiza-
tion: Florida State University Job Location: Tallahas-
see, FL Job Description: To join our integrative labora-
tory team, which is generating data for phylogenomics,
phylogeography, and population genetics on a massive
scale using enrichment procedures and high-throughput
sequencing (i.e., Illumina). Researcher will serve as the
project coordinator, organizing collaborative research
projects, managing the laboratory, developing novel ap-
plications for hybridization-based enrichment, provid-
ing training to laboratory members, and performing
bench-level molecular work (e.g., library preparation,
hybrid enrichment). Researcher will have opportunities
for authorship and co-authorship on relevant papers.
Qualications: Candidate must have demonstrated or-
ganizational skills, excellent laboratory experience and
troubleshooting skills, a strong background in molecu-
lar biology, good experience in protocol development,
solid leadership skills, and a record of high productiv-38 EvolDir June 1, 2013
ity. Candidate must have the strong interpersonal skills
necessary for interacting with a wide range of collabo-
rators. Candidates with a background in genomic data
collection and/or several years of experience in molec-
ular laboratory management will be given precedence
during application review. Start Date: June-Sept 2013
(earlier end of this range preferred) Characteristic Du-
ties: - Organize and manage collaborative projects - As-
sist in development and troubleshooting of new genomic
protocols - Conduct various bench level experiments
- Oversee assistant laboratory technicians - Maintain
laboratory (order reagents, etc. or delegate these du-
ties) - Provide advice and/or training in molecular tech-
niques to fellow lab members - Assist in mentoring un-
dergraduate lab projects - Attend weekly meeting for
planning experiments Essential requirements: (1) BS,
MS, or PhD degree with either graduate experience or
a minimum of two years of professional molecular lab-
oratory experience (2) Strong background in molecular
biology techniques (3) Excellent organizational, time
management, and communication skills required; must
be able to work independently, solve problems, and in-
teract with lab members. Contact Information: chorus-
frog@bio.fsu.edu Please insert \Lemmon Lab Research
Scientist" in subject header and attach a CV. Letters
will be requested as needed. About Our Organization:
The researcher selected will become part of the integra-
tive laboratory groups of Alan Lemmon and Emily Mo-
riarty Lemmon in the Department of Biological Science
at Florida State University (in state capital Tallahas-
see, Florida). Our research interests and active research
areas include theoretical and empirical phylogenetics,
genomics, bioinformatics, speciation, behavioral evolu-
tion, phylogeography, population genetics, and devel-
opment of new methods for data collection and data
analysis for high-throughput phylogenomics.
For information about Florida State University:
www.bio.fsu.edu/ For information about Tallahassee,
Florida: www.visittallahassee.com/ For informa-
tion about research in the Lemmon Laboratories:
www.evotutor.org/LemmonLab/ www.bio.fsu.edu/-
chorusfrog/index.html www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-
moriarty-lemmon.php Emily Moriarty Lemmon
Department of Biological Science Florida State
University 319 Stadium Drive, P.O. Box 3064295
Tallahassee, FL 32306-4295 Phone: 850-645-9170
http://www.bio.fsu.edu/chorusfrog/index.html http:/-
/www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-moriarty-lemmon.php
chorusfrog@bio.fsu.eduGeorgeWashingtonU ResTech
SpermEvol
Research Technician working on Drosophila sperm evo-
lution, genetics and development
A Research Technician position is available in the lab of
Mollie Manier (http://mkmanier.expressions.syr.edu/-
home), a beginning assistant professor in the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences at the George Washington
University (http://departments.columbian.gwu.edu/-
biology/) in Washington, D.C. My research program
investigates the evolutionary, molecular and develop-
mental mechanisms of rapid diversication of reproduc-
tive traits. The goals of the current project are (1)
to understand the molecular genetics behind the ex-
traordinarily long sperm of Drosophila (up to 5.8 cm
in length), (2) to describe the molecular evolution of
sperm length genes across the Drosophila lineage, and
(3) to investigate their roles during spermatogenesis.
The technician will provide technical support for
research on the molecular and evolutionary genet-
ics and developmental biology of sperm length in *
Drosophila*. Responsibilities of the position include,
but are not limited to, ordering materials and sup-
plies; preparing media, reagents and materials; procur-
ing and maintaining laboratory *Drosophila* stocks
and other lab organisms; hiring and managing under-
graduate work study students and researchers; assisting
the PI and postdoc in designing and executing experi-
ments; and R&D of protocols.
The successful candidate must be familiar with or able
to be trained in all methods employed in the lab, in-
cluding Drosophila culture and handling, DNA and
RNA extraction and amplication, qPCR, sequencing,
Drosophila testis dissection, Drosophila RNAi knock-
down, RNA in situ hybridization, protein immunohis-
tolocalization, tissue culture, uorescence microscopy,
and data management and analysis. The position re-
quires neatness, attention to detail, good organizational
skills, independence, and the ability to work well with
and manage others. Evening and weekend hours will
sometimes be necessary for time-sensitive collecting and
experiments.
The minimum degree required for this position is
BA/BS in biology or related eld, with specialization
in developmental biology, molecular and cell biology,June 1, 2013 EvolDir 39
evo-devo or evolutionary biology priortized. Previous
research experience and/or a graduate degree will also
be prioritized. The position is available August 1, 2013,
but the exact start date is somewhat negotiable. Fund-
ing is available for three years, with continuation after
the rst year commensurate upon mutual agreement.
Starting salary is $30,000 with benets, commensurate
upon experience.
To apply, e-mail Dr. Mollie Manier at
maniermk@gmail.com with (1) your CV, (2) a
statement of interest including a summary of your
research experience and goals for the next ve years,
(3) unocial transcripts from your undergraduate in-
stitution, and (3) contact information for 3 references.
Application deadline is May 15.
maniermk@gmail.com
HongKong EvolutionaryBotanist
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Senior Botanist/Senior Ecolo-
gist
JOB SUMMARY The general remit of the post is to
implement KFBG's plant and forest conservation and
restoration strategy through planning and implement-
ing plant conservation, plant biodiversity assessment
and forest restoration projects in Hong Kong. The work
will be underpinned by analysing ecological, molec-
ular and environmental data, developing regional to
international-level policy recommendations for biodi-
versity conservation, communicating ndings to stake-
holders in biodiversity conservation and writing scien-
tic publications and reports relevant to nature conser-
vation. Major projects of the team include permanent
forest dynamic plots, forest restoration projects and
conservation projects for rare and endangered plants of
the region. The job holder will manage a team of three
scientic and ve to seven ground sta to implement the
above duties and to maintain the routine operations of
KFBG's native tree nursery and herbarium.
Applicants should have a PhD and Postdoctoral ex-
perience in the eld of botany or ecology (preferably
restoration ecology), a minimum of 10 years work-
ing experience, strong leadership skills with experi-
ence of supervising a team and managing large inter-
nally/externally funded projects. Strong communica-
tion skills in English, advanced knowledge of statistics,strong computational skills are required. Experience in
supervising MSc and PhD students would be a plus.
The job holder will primarily be based in Hong Kong,
but she/he may also need to work outside Hong Kong
to implement projects.
Interested parties should send a detailed CV, expected
salary, and a short essay (describing relevant work ex-
perience and reasons for interest in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gscher@kfbg.org
gscher@kfbg.org
LausanneU EntomologyEvolution
The Faculty of Biology and Medicine of the University
of Lausanne, Switzerland invites applications for the
position of a tenure-track Assistant Professor in Ento-
mology. The position is at the Department of Ecology
and Evolution, but is also linked to the Museum of Zo-
ology and Botanical Garden.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution (http://-
www.unil.ch/dee) has a long track record of excellence
in research.
A start-up package, a state-of-the-art research infras-
tructure as well as an annual research allowance for po-
sitions and consumables will be available within an en-
vironment favoring collaborations. The successful can-
didate is expected to develop an internationally recog-
nized research program funded by external sources and
take a leading role in a new initiative aimed at devel-
oping interactions between the University of Lausanne
and the Museum of Zoology and the Botanical Garden.
Pre-existing knowledge of French is not required but the
successful candidate is expected to be able to teach in
French within 2 years. She/he will also supervise Mas-
ters and PhD students and participate to other training
activities.
The job description is available on the Internet site
http://www.unil.ch/fbm/page64812.html . Further in-
formation may be obtained from the Chair of the
Search Committee, Prof. Jan R. van der Meer (Jan-
Roelof.VanDerMeer@unil.ch)
The applications, in English, will include the curricu-40 EvolDir June 1, 2013
lum vitae, the list of publications with copies of the ve
most signicant ones, a brief statement of the research
program and teaching experience, as well as three ref-
erences (names and contact information). They should
be submitted online by August 16th 2013 as a single
pdf le at www.unil.ch/iafbm/application . Seeking to
promote an equitable representation of men and women
among its sta, the University encourages applications
from women.
{ Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution University of Lau-
sanne Le Biophore, CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
Lyon GroupLeaders EvolBiol
CALL for NEW RESEARCH GROUP LEADERS,
LYON, FRANCE Deadline 15th of July 2013
The Institut de G enomique Fonctionnelle de Lyon
(IGFL) currently hosts 13 groups (approx. 110 per-
sonnel). The Institute has just moved to a newly com-
missioned 3200 sq. m. building, within the multidisci-
plinary campus of Lyon-Gerland, and, in line with its
expansion, is hiring additional groups.
Research at the IGFL focuses on the role of the genome
in animal physiology, developmental biology and evo-
lution. In addition, the IGFL is actively seeking to
strengthen its research in bioinformatics and modelling
at the genomic scale.
IGFL groups have full access to state-of-the-art core
services, including high throughput sequencing tech-
nologies, X-Ray microtomography, 2D and 3D imag-
ing and morphometrics, transgenic animal facilities
(mouse, sh, drosophila), bioinformatics, mass spec-
trometry, proteomics, FACS sorting, histology and elec-
tron microscopy.
The IGFL proposes two distinct calls for outstanding
young scientists wishing to start their own team as well
as established group leaders interested in joining the
IGFL:
#1-2013 Non-thematic call Group leaders with a strong
interest in animal-based research falling within the sci-
entic mission of the Institute - namely physiology and
physiopathology, developmental biology and evolution-
ary sciences - may apply to this call.#2-2013 Genomics Group leaders performing research
on whole genome data analysis, gene regulatory net-
works, modelling of biological processes to understand
genome structure and evolution may apply to this call.
In addition to oce space the Institute can accommo-
date the requirement for wet laboratory facilities.
Applications (in English, specifying the call reference
in the subject line) should include curriculum vitae,
a short description of achievements and records of
self-nancing, a proposed research program of max.
10 pages and contact details for 3 professional ref-
erences. The deadline for applications is July 15th
2013. Please send as a single PDF named LAST-
NAME IGFL 2013.pdf to direction.ig@ens-lyon.fr En-
quiries should also be directed to this address. http:/-
/ig.ens-lyon.fr The IGFL is run by the Ecole nor-
male sup erieure de Lyon, the Centre National de la
Recherche Scientique, Universit e Lyon 1 and the In-
stitut National de Recherche Agronomique.
fred<frederic.brunet@ens-lyon.fr >
MRC Edinburgh
StaBioinformatician
Sta Bioinformatician, MRC Human Genetics Unit
(Edinburgh, UK)
The MRC Human Genetics Unit (HGU; http://-
www.hgu.mrc.ac.uk/) has an exciting opportunity for
a bioinformatician, to work on prestigious projects at
the cutting edge of biomedical science, as a member
of our permanent sta. The post holder will be ex-
pected to interact with members of the Bioinformatics
sta, the wider computational community and HGU
scientic sta; initiating and working on diverse collab-
orative projects independently. The MRC HGU hosts
a variety of internationally competitive groups working
on major problems in human genetics and disease with
excellent opportunities for high impact collaborations
with leading researchers. The successful applicant
will join a dynamic and expanding community of
experimental and computational biologists in the MRC
IGMM (http://www.igmm.ac.uk/), a new institute
bringing together the MRC HGU, the Edinburgh
Cancer Research Centre (http://www.ecrc.ed.ac.uk/)
and the University of Edinburgh Molecular Medicine
Centre (http://www.mmc.med.ed.ac.uk/). They will
join our other computational biologists in the new
Systems Medicine building, custom designed forJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 41
computational biology, to open in 2015. Applicants
should be able to demonstrate programming skills and
possess published experience in the analysis of genome
scale biological datasets, particularly high throughput
sequencing data. We also envisage duties in the in-
stallation/ maintenance of bioinformatics applications
and provision of advice/ training to users. This post
would suit a biologist with good programming skills or
a computer scientist with strong interests in biology/
bioinformatics. The closing date is 31st May 2013 and
informal inquiries to Colin.Semple@igmm.ed.ac.uk are
welcome. Candidates should apply via the University
of Edinburgh jobs site quoting vacancy reference num-
ber 013670: https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk Colin A.
M. Semple Head of Bioinformatics MRC Human Ge-
netics Unit MRC Institute of Genetics and Molecular
Medicine University of Edinburgh Tel: +44 (0)131 332
2471 x4034 Email: Colin.Semple@igmm.ed.ac.uk Web:
http://www.hgu.mrc.ac.uk/Users/Colin.Semple/
Colin.Semple@igmm.ed.ac.uk
Montpellier 5 InstCompBiol
::::::::::::::: TITLE ::::::::::::::::
Young investigator positions at the Institute for Com-
putational Biology of Montpellier (France)
::::::::::::::: BODY ::::::::::::::::
FOR DIFFUSION AND APPLICATION!
The Institute for Computational Biology (IBC) of
Montpellier is seeking to hire ve young investigators,
one for each of ve work-packages (see below). These
young researchers will benet from an exceptional sci-
entic environment combining the presence of numer-
ous leading international biocomputational researchers
at IBC with a vibrant community of biologists in Mont-
pellier.
REQUIREMENTS and RESPONSIBILITIES
Applicants will typically have a PhD, a high level of
publishing, strong communication skills, and a taste for
multidisciplinary research. A post-doc experience in in-
ternational research will be much appreciated. These
young researchers will play a key role in the Institute
life. Most of their time will be devoted to a scien-
tic project. In addition, they are expected to actively
participate in the coordination of workpackages, in the
hosting of foreign researchers and in the organization of
seminars and events (summer schools, conferences...).Positions are for up to 4 years with a salary above the
French post-doc standard.
HOW TO APPLY
For more information and to apply for these posi-
tions:http://www.ibc-montpellier.fr/ Deadline: June
15, 2013
DETAILS OF EACH WORK PACKAGE
WP1: Algorithms for High Throughput Sequencing
This project aims at designing and developing new algo-
rithms for the analysis of millions of sequences, involv-
ing complex techniques in text indexation, compression
and algorithmics on classical or high performance com-
puting architectures. These novel algorithms form the
core of bioinformatics programs that will help investi-
gating the transcriptome complexity. In the framework
of a large cancer genomics project, we will exploit these
programs to analyze over 100 tumoral genomes and
transcriptomes as well as their normal counterparts.
The candidate will participate in either of two aspects:
(1) practical algorithms and indexing data structures
for NGS processing; (2) bioanalysis of cancer genomes
and transcriptomes.
WP2: Evolutionary genomics
This project involves evolutionary analyses of large-
scale genomic data, at the interface between phylogeny
and population genetics. The candidate will develop
research on some of the following topics: inference of
very large phylogenies, reconciliation of gene/species
trees at a genomic scale, detection of selection, inference
of population divergence, dating and migration stud-
ies, simulation-based inference. Application domains
will be quite open, with emphasis on virus evolution
and plant genomes. We are seeking a candidate with a
strong background in mathematical and computational
evolutionary biology, with interest in applications and
software development.
WP3: Pathogen proteome annotation
This project aims at the development and integration
of bioinformatics tools for an interdisciplinary project
dealing with structural and/or functional annotations
of pathogen proteomes. We are seeking a high level
computer scientist with strong experience in bioinfor-
matics; knowledge in 3D protein structures and/or sta-
tistical learning would be a plus. The successful candi-
date will have good knowledge in one or several of the
following topics: statistical learning, hidden Markov
models, pattern matching, 3D and geometry algorith-
mics, protein domains, unstructured regions, tandem
repeats, gene ontology
WP4: 4D Image processing during plant and animal42 EvolDir June 1, 2013
development
This project involves the Integration of 4D imaging
data with functional genomics in plant and animal de-
velopmental biology. The candidate will contribute to
the development of a software platform for image anal-
ysis. Two main directions are proposed: storage, an-
notation and handling of volumetric images obtained
by confocal or light-sheet laser microscopy and devel-
opment of a concept of 4D atlases, whereby cellular (e.
g. geometry, mechanics) and molecular (e. g. gene ex-
pression) parameters can be projected onto \average"
organ geometries. The nal aim is to provide novel
solutions to explore the genotype to phenotype rela-
tionships. Candidates will have a strong background in
computer science and analysis of volumetric and seg-
mented images.
WP5: Advanced Biological Databases in plant ge-
nomics
This project aims at the design and implementation of
a data framework for plant genomics. We are seeking a
candidate with strong experience in distributed data
management, in particular data integration, a good
grasp on implementation aspects and interest for bi-
ology applications.
{
Olivier Gascuel
{ Directeur de Recherche Institut de Biologie Computa-
tionnelle LIRMM, UMR 5506 CNRS - Universit e Mont-
pellier 2 Case courrier 06011, 95 rue de la Gal era
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
OregonStateU Teaching Evolution
Ecampus
Greetings |
There is a job opening for a full-time Instructor to de-
velop and teach two lower-division non-majors courses
- one in evolution and one in ecology - as Ecampus (on-
line) oerings at Oregon State University.
To review posting and apply, go to http://-
oregonstate.edu/jobs. Apply to posting #0010647. Forfull consideration, apply by June 1, 2013. OSU is an
AA/EOE.
Contact me if you have questions about the position:
Dee Denver: denver[at]cgrb.oregonstate.edu
More details:
The Department of Zoology invites applications for a
full-time (1.0 FTE), 12-month, xed-term Instructor
position. Reappointment is at the discretion of the De-
partment Chair.
Position is responsible for the development and instruc-
tion of two lower-division Ecampus courses focused on
introductory evolutionary biology and ecology. Posi-
tion provides leadership and coordination of Zoology
departmental Ecampus course oerings, in partnership
with the OSU Ecampus oce.
The Zoology Department receives support for its aca-
demic program from the College of Science. In addition
to the faculty's activities in research and service, it has
teaching responsibilities in nearly every undergraduate
major at OSU. The department has developed an in-
ternationally recognized graduate program in conserva-
tion and evolutionary biology and marine ecology with
faculty working in these areas at the level of the cell,
organism, and community.
The College of Science provides a core instructional role
at OSU, supporting the ideals of learning, discovery,
and engagement that are the foundation of a land-grant
university. The College embraces instruction and re-
search, in disciplines ranging from the physical to the
biological sciences, that are based in unbiased inquiry
and a dedication to discovery and innovation. The Col-
lege of Science is committed to partnering with industry
and public agencies to address some of the most com-
pelling challenges of today and tomorrow.
denvedee@cgrb.oregonstate.edu
PurdueU Lecturer EvolBiol
The Purdue University Department of Biological Sci-
ences in West Lafayette, Indiana is advertising a Con-
tinuing Lecturer position. Applicants must have a
Ph.D. in the biological sciences or related discipline and
preferably two years of teaching experience at the uni-
versity level. The successful candidate will teach lec-
ture courses in a sophomore-level ecology & evolution
class and introductory genetics for majors. The initialJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 43
contract for this position is two years with potential of
continuation based on performance.
Applications must be submitted electronically to
https://hiring.science.purdue.edu as single PDF les
that include a detailed curriculum vitae, names and ad-
dresses of three references, a 2-3 page summary of state-
ment of teaching interests and/or philosophy. Inquiries
should be directed to Continuing Lecturer Search Com-
mittee, Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue Uni-
versity, 915 West State Street, West Lafayette, IN
47907-2054 or emailed to search@bio.purdue.edu. Re-
view of applications will continue until position is lled.
dbos@purdue.edu
RowanU Parttime TeachEvolution
Three-Quarter-Time Instructor/Assistant Professor in
Biological Sciences, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ
The Department of Biological Sciences at Rowan Uni-
versity invites applications for a one-year, 3/4-time In-
structor / Assistant Professor position beginning Sept.
1, 2013. The successful candidate will teach a total
of four courses and 18 instructor credits across the fall
and spring semesters. A new contract may be available
in the following year, contingent on position approval,
course needs, and professional performance. Courses
taught will include majors-level lab courses in cell biol-
ogy and in one or more of the following specializations:
genetics, microbiology or virology. The successful can-
didate will contribute appropriate service to the depart-
ment, and will have the opportunity to pursue research
or participate in collaborative research programs within
our department and the University.
For more information on the position and how to apply,
please see: http://www.rowan.edu/jobs/info.cfm?id=-
1627 Luke Holbrook, PhD Professor of Biological Sci-
ences Rowan University
Science Hall 201 Mullica Hill Rd. Glassboro, NJ 08028
Phone: 856 256 4500 x3457 FAX: 856 256 4478 E-mail:
holbrook@rowan.edu
holbrook@rowan.eduUAlabama LabTech
SuccessionDynamics
Research Technician in Community Ecology at The
University of Alabama
The Howeth Laboratory at the University of Alabama
invites applications for a full-time research technician
in community ecology beginning August 15, 2013. The
technician will be involved in projects which aim to un-
derstand (1) succession in pond metacommunities and
(2) the role of metacommunity dynamics in aecting
the establishment, spread, and impact of non-native
species, using freshwater plankton communities as a
model system. The position is for 12 months, with re-
sponsibilities divided equally between eld and labora-
tory work. Field work may include out-of-state travel
for several weeks, and mesocosm experiments at the
University of Alabama Tanglewood Biological Station.
Laboratory work may include identication and enu-
meration of zooplankton, culturing of zooplankton, wa-
ter chemistry analyses, and microsatellite DNA analy-
ses.
Required qualications: BS or MS in Biology, Ecol-
ogy, or related science. Ability to tolerate harsh eld
conditions when necessary. Basic computer skills and
familiarity with major software programs (word pro-
cessing and database management). Ability to interact
congenially with students.
Preferred qualications: Previous experience in fresh-
water ecology and/or molecular ecology.
Relevant Links:
Department of Biological Sciences: http://bsc.ua.edu/
Center for Freshwater Studies: http://as.ua.edu/cfs/
University of Alabama: www.ua.edu Tuscaloosa, Al-
abama is a vibrant university community with numer-
ous cultural and recreational opportunities available.
The newly constructed Tuscaloosa Amphitheater, lo-
cated on the banks of the Black Warrior River and just
minutes from the UA campus, brings a variety of shows
and musicians to the city. Recreational activities such
as canoeing and hiking are quite popular in the nearby
Black Warrior and Sipsey River natural areas, and the
Talladega National Forest.
Salary is commensurate with experience. Visit UA's
sta employment website at http://jobs.ua.edu for
more information and to apply. All applicants should44 EvolDir June 1, 2013
submit a cover letter, a statement detailing relevant re-
search experience, contact information for three refer-
ences, and a CV. Job close date 05/30/2013. EOE/AA
{
Jennifer Howeth, PhD Assistant Professor Department
of Biological Sciences Program in Ecology, Evolution,
and Systematics
University of Alabama Box 870206 1106 Bevill Build-
ing, 201 7th Ave. Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0206
http://bsc.ua.edu/jennifer-howeth/
jghoweth@as.ua.edu
UAlabama ResTech
DrosophilaGenetics
The University of Alabama is seeking qualied appli-
cants for a Research Technician to work in a Drosophila
genomics lab. The successful candidate will assist the
Principal Investigator (Laura Reed) in a 5-year NIH
funded project to map the genetic basis of dietary vari-
ation in endophenotypes (e.g. gene expression, metabo-
lites) relating to diabetes and obesity in Drosophila
melanogaster. Bachelor of Science degree or higher
in a discipline related to the position and one year of
relevant experience required; some experience working
with molecular genetic techniques is required. Must
be willing to make at least a two-year commitment
to the position. Visit Employment Opportunities at
http://jobs.ua.edu for more information and to apply.
EEO/AA
Laura K. Reed Assistant Professor Dept. of Biolog-
ical Sciences University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa Of-
ce: 2330 SEC, Lab: 2322 SEC Mailing address: Box
870344, Tuscaloosa AL 35487
oce: 205-348-1345 lab: 205-348-1368
lreed1@bama.ua.edu http://ygxe.ua.edu/ \Reed,
Laura" <lreed1@ua.edu >
UBritishColumbia
BiologyDepartmentHeadThe Irving K. Barber School of Arts and Sciences at the
University of British Columbia, Okanagan Campus, in-
vites applications for the position of Head of Biology.
This administrative Unit is one of eight Units within
the Irving K. Barber School of Arts and Science and
has a total of 21 faculty members and 6 sta mem-
bers. Graduate students have access to two vibrant
graduate programs: the Biology graduate program and
the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology graduate pro-
gram. Undergraduate programs include majors in Biol-
ogy, Biochemistry, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
Microbiology and Zoology.
The ideal candidate will be in the early stages of the Full
Professor rank, although a senior Associate Professor
may also be considered. The Head1s position includes
a faculty appointment. We are seeking a candidate with
demonstrated excellence in research, teaching, leader-
ship and management skills, with proven ability to lead
and motivate faculty, sta, and students. Field of re-
search specialization can be related to any area of Biol-
ogy (including Evolutionary Biology) or Biochemistry.
Desirable attributes include a strong record of pub-
lished research and external funding as well as prior
experience in academic administration and undergrad-
uate and graduate education.
The Head will provide administrative, intellectual, and
academic leadership of the Unit and will serve on the
Faculty1s Leadership Team. The Head is expected to:
(i) oversee the overall operation of the Unit, including
the budget (ii) ensure that courses are suitably staed
(iii) take an active role in advancing the Unit1s pro-
grams and activities through curriculum and program
review, (iv) foster collegial interaction among faculty
members, (v) mentor members of the Unit, (vi) con-
duct annual evaluations of each faculty member in the
Unit, and (vii) serve as the advocate for Unit members
within the Faculty and the University. Direct experi-
ence with managing reappointment, tenure and promo-
tion processes and familiarity with budget processes are
considered assets. As a faculty member of the Unit, the
Head will be expected to maintain an active research
program in his/her chosen eld, to supervise graduate
students, and otherwise contribute to the Unit1s teach-
ing programs.
The position of Head will be available July 1, 2014 with
a ve-year renewable term. The Head reports directly
to the Dean of Arts and Sciences. UBC hires on the
basis of merit and is committed to employment equity.
All qualied persons are encouraged to apply. We es-
pecially welcome applications from members of visible
minority groups, women, Aboriginal persons, persons
with disabilities, persons of minority sexual orientations
and gender identities, and others with the skills andJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 45
knowledge to engage productively with diverse commu-
nities. Government regulations require that Canadians
and permanent residents of Canada will be given pri-
ority. All appointments are subject to budgetary ap-
proval.
UBC is one of the world's top universities. The univer-
sity has two distinct campuses, one in Vancouver and
one in Kelowna. UBC1s Okanagan campus, located in
the city of Kelowna, at the heart of the Okanagan Val-
ley has over 8,400 students in six Faculties, including
strong graduate programs at all levels. Kelowna is con-
nected by direct ights to major Canadian and USA
cities and the region is considered one of the most de-
sirable regions to live in Canada.
For more information about the Faculty, see http:/-
/www.ubc.ca/okanagan/academic/welcome.html How
to Apply Applicants should provide: A cover letter that
clearly identies all related administrative experience,
including a statement of the candidate1s philosophy or
approach to leadership; an up-to-date curriculum vitae;
statements of a program of research and of teaching
interests; evidence of teaching ability; and the name,
title, and contact information of three referees. Fol-
lowing the initial review of applications, candidates se-
lected for further consideration will be asked to pro-
vide letters from the referees. All documents must be
submitted as e-mail attachments and sent to recruit-
ment.bsas@ubc.ca. Preferred formats are Microsoft
Word (.doc) and Adobe Acrobat (.pdf). Please put
the competition title (Head, Unit 2-13) on the subject
line of the e-mail and state whether you are currently
legally entitled to work in Canada. The deadline for
applications is August 31, 2013.
Please direct inquiries to: Associate Dean Barbara
Rutherford, Irving K. Barber School of Arts and Sci-
ences (barbara.rutherford@ubc.ca)
michael.russello@ubc.ca
UCalifornia Davis Bioinformatics
The Ross-Ibarra laboratory (www.rilab.org) at the Uni-
versity of California Davis is seeking a bioinformatician
to head a project involving parentage analysis, imputa-
tion, and phasing of genomes from two large mapping
populations in a study of inbreeding depression in maize
and its wild relatives.
The position description and application can be foundhere:
www.employment.ucdavis.edu/applicants/-
Central?quickFinde159
Jerey Ross-Ibarra
Dept. of Plant Sciences 262 Robbins Hall, Mail Stop
4 University of California One Shields Ave Davis, CA
95616
www.rilab.org Tel: 530-752-1152 Fax: 530-752-4604
rossibarra@ucdavis.edu
UColorado TeachingEvolBiol
Science Teaching Fellow
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
(EBIO), at the University of Colorado, Boulder, invites
applicants for the position of Science Teaching Fellow
to assist with enhancing teaching and learning in our
undergraduate courses.
Candidates should hold a doctoral degree in Biology,
Biology Education or a related eld and have excel-
lent organizational, interpersonal communication, team
building and collaboration skills. The candidates pri-
mary interest and some experience should be in sci-
ence education. Experience in developing active learn-
ing curricula and coaching educators is highly desirable.
The successful candidate will collaborate with new fac-
ulty towards the following goals: formulate learning
goals, develop an active learning-based curriculum that
aligns with the learning goals, provide feedback on fac-
ulty teaching practices, and assess learning gains.
The salary for this 1-year appointment will be compet-
itive and commensurate with experience. Applicants
should submit a single pdf containing their CV, a state-
ment of teaching philosophy, and the names, phone
numbers, and email addresses of three individuals who
can serve as references to Andrew Martin at the fol-
lowing email address: am@colorado.edu. To ensure full
consideration, applications must be received by June
30, 2013. We seek someone to ll this position prior to
the beginning of the fall 2013 semester.
The University of Colorado at Boulder is an Equal Op-
portunity/Armative Action Institution committed to
cultural diversity and compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act. Women and minorities encour-
aged to apply. We invite applications from qualied46 EvolDir June 1, 2013
candidates who share our commitment to diversity. The
University of Colorado conducts background checks on
all nal applicants being considered for employment.
Andrew Martin Professor University of Colorado A
mind once stretched by a new idea never regains its
original dimensions.
Andrew Martin <Andrew.Martin-1@colorado.edu >
UCopenhagen Bioinformatics
Closing soon!!!
A position for a Bioinformatician, for two years with
the possibility for an extension of ve years, is avail-
able from June 1, 2013 or as soon as possible there-
after. The successful applicant will be associated with
the Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate
www.macroecology.ku.dk within the Natural History
Museum of Denmark.
The selected candidate will work in collaboration with
CMEC scientists on research lines aiming at assess-
ing past and current population dynamics and extinc-
tion processes and how can this knowledge about the
past help to better predict the future impacts of global
change in biological diversity.
The successful candidate will provide bioinformatics
with the main tasks of downloading, managing and an-
alyzing phylogeographic/population genetic data from
public databases (GENBANK, NCBI, EMBL), with the
aim of building a phylogeographic dataset for a variety
of dierent taxa (plants and animals) across dierent
biomes. The bioinformatician will also work together
with a PhD student and a post-doctoral researcher
to implement population genetic and phylogeographic
analyses, and will provide support for other bioinfor-
matic needs as they arise. Experience in managing and
maintaining clusters and/or multi-core large worksta-
tions is needed.
The successful candidate will have an MsC or a PhD
title in population genetics, molecular biology or com-
puter science. Applicants must have experience in gath-
ering large dataset from public DNA database, includ-
ing NGS datasets. Experience with bioinformatics tools
like BIO++ or BIOPearl would clearly be an advan-
tage. The successful applicant will be competent in the
programming languages Perl, Java, Python, C or C++
and demonstrable experience working in UNIX/Linux
environments. We will also strongly consider appli-cants with in bioinformatics, phylogenetic and sta-
tistical phylogeographic analyses, including likelihood-
based, Bayesian coalescent modeling (such as ABC and
HABC models).
The bioinformatician will be employed by the Uni-
versity of Copenhagen, Natural History Museum and
will work at the Center for Macroecology, Evolution
and Climate (CMEC), a Center of Excellence directly
funded by the Danish National Research Foundation
and comprising 40 researchers from 16 dierent coun-
tries working on multi-disciplinary research line http:/-
/macroecology.ku.dk. Within CMEC, the Phylogeog-
raphy and Extinction Theme is a key area of research
focus over the next few years.
CMEC is part of the Natural History Museum of Den-
mark, a dynamic research environment containing dif-
ferent Centers of Excellence and a successful track
record of graduating Masters and PhD students and
hosting postdoctoral researchers from all over Europe,
North America and Asia.
For more information on the position or the Center
for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate, or to submit
an application, click here: http://macroecology.ku.dk/-
opportunities new/ (When you reach the job portal,
tick the research/science box.)
Applicants seeking further information are invited to
contact: Associate Professor David Nogu es-Bravo,
phone +45 35321314 email: dnogues@bio.ku.dk
Applications should be submitted no later than 10 May
2013.
Katharine A. Marske, Ph.D.
Postdoctoral Researcher Center for Macroecology, Evo-
lution and Climate Department of Biology University
of Copenhagen DK-2100 Copenhagen  Denmark
+45 35 32 13 34 http://macroecology.ku.dk/ KA-
Marske@bio.ku.dk
UGeorgia ResearchTech
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN UNIVERSITY OF
GEORGIA, ATHENS, GA
I anticipate hiring a research technician with an imme-
diate start date. My laboratory conducts research in
evolutionary and ecological genetics of invasive species.
Qualications are an undergraduate degree in BiologyJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 47
or related eld with 1 or more undergraduate or grad-
uate courses in genetics, and some research experience.
Experience with PCR and molecular biology protocols
is necessary. Salary will be commensurate with experi-
ence.
I would prefer to hire a recently graduated undergradu-
ate who is interested in working in an academic setting
for at least a year before starting graduate school.
The working conditions, intellectual atmosphere, and
facilities in Genetics at Georgia are excellent. Athens
is a lovely and inexpensive place in which to live with
all of the advantages of and culture of a 200 year-old
university town. You may wish to look at the Depart-
ment of Genetics' web site at: www.genetics.uga.edu .
Applications will be accepted until a suitable candidate
is found.
For more information, please contact me by e-mail at:
mauricio@uga.edu
Interested persons should send by e-mail a letter of ap-
plication, a CV and the name, phone number and e-mail
address of 2 references.
Rodney Mauricio, Ph.D. Department of Genetics Uni-
versity of Georgia Athens, GA 30602-7223
Lab Web Page: http://www.genetics.uga.edu/-
mauriciolab=0APIRE Grant Web Page: http://-
www.genetics.uga.edu/pire
mauricio@uga.edu
UHelsinki ConservationBiol
University Lecturer conservation biology, with special
emphasis on the ecological and evolutionary issues of
conservation biology
Position announced on: May 13, 2013 Apply at latest
on: Jun 14, 2013 Fixed-term: Permanent
Employer: Faculty of Biological and Environmental
Sciences Department of Biosciences
The University of Helsinki is among the leading multi-
disciplinary research universities in the world and the
most versatile institution of scholarship, education and
intellectual stimulation in Finland. In addition to its
11 faculties, the University of Helsinki includes several
independent institutes, some of which are jointly oper-
ated with other universities. Some 35,000 students are
currently pursuing an undergraduate or postgraduatedegree at the University.
The Department of Biosciences in the Faculty of Biolog-
ical and Environmental Sciences, University of Helsinki,
is Finland's largest and most prominent institution en-
gaged in the research and teaching of the biosciences.
The Department of Biosciences, based in the Viikki Sci-
ence Park, is among the largest departments of the Uni-
versity. Its budget is EUR 24 million, and it employs
over 300 people. The Department is divided into six di-
visions, namely those of biochemistry, ecology and evo-
lutionary biology, physiology and neuroscience, plant
biology, genetics, general microbiology. The Depart-
ment coordinates the administration and provision of
basic teaching for all students during the rst few years
of study, but each of the above major subject divi-
sions are independently responsible for their teaching
and research. The Department also oers a degree pro-
gramme that provides students with the qualication
of a biology teacher.
The Department of Biosciences invites applications for
the position of
UNIVERSITY LECTURER
The eld of the position is conservation biology, with
special emphasis on the ecological and evolutionary is-
sues of conservation biology.
The duties of the university lecturer include providing
basic and intermediate level teaching, supervising and
examining theses, conducting research in the eld and
attending to any other duties involving the discipline.
Moreover, the duties include coordinating and develop-
ing teaching for international students.
According to the University of Helsinki Regulations,
holders of university lectureships are required to pos-
sess an applicable doctoral degree, to have the abil-
ity to provide high quality research-based teaching and
to supervise theses and dissertations. When assessing
the qualications of the applicants, attention shall be
paid to scientic publications and other research re-
sults of scientic value, teaching experience and peda-
gogical training, the ability to produce learning materi-
als, other teaching merits and, if necessary, a teaching
demonstration.
University lecturers are required to be competent in the
language in which they provide instruction. Accord-
ing to the Government Decree on Universities, univer-
sity instructors must have at least satisfactory oral and
written skills in Finnish and Swedish. Foreign citizens,
non-native Finnish citizens or citizens who have not
been educated in Finnish or Swedish may be exempted
from this requirement without a separate application.
To successfully attend to the duties of the position, ap-48 EvolDir June 1, 2013
pointees must also have good English skills.
The salary will be based on levels 5-7 of the job require-
ment scheme for teaching and research personnel in the
salary system of Finnish universities. In addition, the
appointee will be paid a salary component based on
personal work performance.
Applications must be accompanied by a CV, a list of
publications and other documents that may be rele-
vant to lling the position, or alternatively, an aca-
demic portfolio containing the above-mentioned doc-
uments. Applicants who do not intend to enclose an
academic portfolio with their applications must enclose
a brief written report of their qualications which they
deem relevant to the assessment of their teaching skills.
Further information about the academic portfolio and
assessment of teaching qualications can be obtained
from the Faculty Oce or the Faculty's website, or from
the following website: http://www.helsinki./henkos/-
academicportfolio/index.htm . Applications addressed
to the head of the Department of Biosciences, to-
gether with the required enclosures, must be delivered
to the following address: Registry of the University of
Helsinki, P.O. Box 33 (Yliopistonkatu 4), 00014 Univer-
sity of Helsinki, Finland, or to hy-kirjaamo@helsinki..
The closing date for applications is June 14, 2013. (The
Registry closes at 15.45 local Helsinki time.)
Further information may be obtained from
Professor Veijo Kaitala, +358 9 19157723,
veijo.kaitala@helsinki..
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOklahoma LabManager
Metagenomics
Title of Position: Laboratory Manager - Research As-
sociate
Position requires a Masters or higher degree in biolog-
ical science related eld, with at least ve years of ex-
perience in genomics (metagenomics preferred). Strong
organization skills and the ability to manage a genomics
wet-lab is a must. Duties include next generation DNA
sequencing library preparation, molecular cloning, ex-traction and amplication of degraded/low copy num-
ber DNA. Earliest start date: July 1, 2013. Salary:
50K plus fringe. Email resumes or CVs to Cecil M.
Lewis, cmlewis@ou.edu, with \Laboratory Manager -
Research Associate" in the subject line.
Located in Norman, Oklahoma, University of Okla-
homa's Molecular Anthropology Laboratories special-
izes in anthropological genomics and metagenomics.
Current projects include characterizing diverse host-
associated microbiomes using biological samples col-
lected from traditional indigenous communities, non-
human primates, and archaeological \ancient" ma-
terials. An example of recent interviews: http:/-
/ehp.niehs.nih.gov/121-a118/. Our labs are located
in the SRTC (http://srtc.ou.edu/index.php), a new
building with several research groups working in en-
vironmental genomics (e.g., http://ieg.ou.edu/) and
genome sequencing (e.g., http://www.genome.ou.edu/-
). Our building also houses part of OSCER, OU's
supercomputer (http://www.oscer.ou.edu/). In 2008,
CNN/Money Magazine ranked Norman as the sixth
best small city within the United States.
cmlewis@ou.edu
UOulu Geneticist
Geneticist position at the University of Oulu, Finland
The Department of Biology at the at the University
of Oulu (Finland) (www.oulu./english/) invites ap-
plications for Senior research fellow position in ge-
netics, a position for ve years or permanent, de-
pending on the qualications. The duties include
independent research, teaching, B.Sc., M.Sc. and
Ph.D. student supervision and participation in de-
partmental administration. The Biology Department
has many research groups in and evolutionary and
population biology and several in population genet-
ics, with topics such as population genetics of adap-
tation of plants, and conservation genetics, statisti-
cal genetics. The applicant research should t in
this environment and complement the current research
prole. In addition, the department includes animal
physiologists and plant biologists. Please see details
(in English) at http://www.hallinto.oulu./yhallint/-
kuulutus/26-04-13 srgenetics.pdf .For further informa-
tion, please be in touch with Outi.Savolainen@oulu..
Outi Savolainen Department of Biology and Biocen-
ter Oulu FIN-90014 University of Oulu +358(8)5531782June 1, 2013 EvolDir 49
+358405168900 outi.savolainen@oulu.
Outi Savolainen <Outi.Savolainen@oulu. >
UPennsylvania Bioinformatics
Assistant Professor, Penn Institute for Biomedical In-
formatics
Posting Department:
Posted Date: 05/07/2013
Expire Date: 05/07/2015
To apply: http://www.med.upenn.edu/apps/-
faculty ad/index.php/d3300
The Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics at the
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Penn-
sylvania seeks candidates for an Assistant Professor po-
sition in the tenure track. The successful applicant will
have experience in the eld of bioinformatics research.
Applicants must have an M.D. and/or Ph.D degree and
have demonstrated excellent qualications in research
and education.
The faculty appointments will be at the Assistant Pro-
fessor level in the tenure track in an appropriate de-
partment in the School of Medicine. Applicants are
expected to establish robust independent funding for
their research program.
This Institute is enabled by a recent multi-million dollar
gift and focused on the science of biomedical informat-
ics. The Institute will integrate informatics disciplines
from bioinformatics, to translational, clinical, and pub-
lic health informatics.
The University of Pennsylvania, founded by Benjamin
Franklin, is a world-class research institution located
near the center of Philadelphia. All of Penn's twelve
schools are located within walking distance of one an-
other. The Perelman School of Medicine at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania is one of the top ranked medical
schools in the nation for research and NIH funding.
We seek candidates who embrace and reect diversity
in the broadest sense.
The University of Pennsylvania is an equal opportunity,
armative action employer.
Sarah Tishko, Ph.D. David and Lyn Silfen Uni-
versity Professor Departments of Genetics and
Biology University of Pennsylvania Tel: 215-746-2670 tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu http://-
www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/
tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu
URhodeIsland ConservationGenetics
Position #1 Research Associate I (NRS/Lab) position
at the University of Rhode Island
Perform independent research work at the Regional
Conservation Genetics Laboratory (RCGL) at the Uni-
versity of Rhode Island. Organize, coordinate, and
supervise support sta, including volunteers and stu-
dents, engaged on the project. This position is lim-
ited to 03/31/2014 with extension contingent on fund-
ing. Visit the URI jobs website at: https://jobs.uri.edu
to apply and view complete details for job posting #
(6001082). Please attach two documents (PDF) to
the online Employment Application: (1) A cover let-
ter, and (2) Resume, which includes the names and
contact information of three references. Applications
will close May 17, 2013. Only online applications will
be accepted. The University of Rhode Island is an
AA/EEOD employer and values diversity.
Oce of Human Resources University of Rhode Is-
land 80 Lower College Road Kingston, RI 02881
USA Phone: 401-874-2416 Fax: 401-874-5741 Human-
res@etal.uri.edu
Position #2 Research Associate I (NRS/Field) position
at the University of Rhode Island
Perform independent research work in support of the
Regional Conservation Genetics Laboratory (RCGL)
at the University of Rhode Island. Organize, coor-
dinate, and supervise support sta, including volun-
teers and students, engaged on the project. This posi-
tion is limited to 03/31/2014 with extension contingent
on funding. Visit the URI jobs website at: https:/-
/jobs.uri.edu to apply and view complete details for
job posting # (6001081). Please attach two documents
(PDF) to the online Employment Application: (1) A
cover letter, and (2) Resume, which includes the names
and contact information of three references. Applica-
tions will close May 17, 2013. Only online applications
will be accepted. The University of Rhode Island is an
AA/EEOD employer and values diversity.
Oce of Human Resources University of Rhode Is-
land 80 Lower College Road Kingston, RI 02881
USA Phone: 401-874-2416 Fax: 401-874-5741 Human-50 EvolDir June 1, 2013
res@etal.uri.edu
Sincerely, T.J.
{
T.J. McGreevy Jr., Ph.D. Research Associate IV Di-
rector of the Regional Conservation Genetics Lab-
oratory Department of Natural Resources Science
Room 109 Coastal Institute in Kingston 1 Greenhouse
Road University of Rhode Island Kingston, RI 02881
tjmcg@my.uri.edu oce: (401) 874-4040 cell: (401)
481-6151 lab: (401) 874-5812
Thomas Mc Greevy Jr <tjmcg@my.uri.edu >
UTampa TeachingEvolBiol
Assistant Professor of Biology - Term
The Department of Biology in the College of Natural &
Health Sciences at The University of Tampa invites ap-
plications for a full-time, renewable term (non-tenure-
track) position as Assistant Professor beginning in Au-
gust 2013. Position will have primary teaching respon-
sibilities in Introductory Biology for science majors,
non-science major courses, and potentially a course in
the area of the applicants' expertise. Area of expertise
for this position is open.
Review of applications will begin immedi-
ately and continue until the position is lled.
Posting Date: 04-23-2013; Open until lled
jobs.ut.edu/applicants/Central?quickFindQ856
Details below: The department is interested in attract-
ing a broadly trained biologist to complement the exist-
ing faculty in biology. Opportunities for collaborative
research involving undergraduates and current mem-
bers of the faculty are possible using research space and
equipment that may be made available by on-campus
collaborators.
Candidates are expected to have a commitment to ex-
cellence in teaching and mentoring student research. A
typical teaching load is 12 to 15 contact hours in a 14-
week semester.
Ph.D. preferred (strong ABD/MS candidates consid-
ered), prior teaching and research experience with un-
dergraduates is desirable. A personal commitment to
quality undergraduate teaching and advising is essen-
tial.
The University of Tampa is a medium-sized compre-hensive, private university that delivers challenging and
high-quality educational experiences to a diverse group
of learners. Located in the heart of one of the most
dynamic commercial regions of Florida, the University
has been providing education, training, and leadership
skills to the Tampa Bay community through unique
partnerships with business, government, the arts, and
cultural entities for over 70 years. The University of-
fers a wide array of study areas and pre-professional
programs through a strong core curriculum rooted in
the liberal arts, a residentially based educational expe-
rience, a commitment to an international focus, and a
practical, experiential approach to learning. The Uni-
versity is growing and enrolls approximately 6900 stu-
dents from 50 states and nearly 130 countries.
The College of Natural and Health Sciences oers rig-
orous, high quality curricula in biology, marine sci-
ence, environmental science, chemistry, biochemistry,
physics, forensic science, exercise science, public health,
allied health, sport management and nursing; all de-
signed to prepare students for challenges and opportu-
nities that lie ahead. Our faculty are excellent teach-
ers, both in the classroom and working with students
on an individual basis. UT has invested heavily in the
development of our college's teaching and research fa-
cilities and laboratories. Our college continually fosters
relationships with organizations in the greater Tampa
Bay area and elsewhere to provide students with the
opportunity to pursue an internship, volunteer, or in-
teract with professionals working in their chosen eld.
Each department also oers study abroad courses that
students can take for credit toward their degree. For
more information, see: http://www.ut.edu/natural-
and-health-sciences . Applicants are electronic (see link
below). Applicants will be requested to attach a cover
letter, current curriculum vitae, a statement of research
interest, teaching philosophy and a copy of your gradu-
ate transcript. In addition, applicants will be requested
to enter name and email address for three (3) reference
providers. Posting Date: 04-23-2013; Open until lled
jobs.ut.edu/applicants/Central?quickFindQ856
nmb@berkeley.edu
UVirginia LabTech LizardEvol
The lab of Robert Cox in the Department of Biology at
University of Virginia invites applications for a Labo-
ratory Technician to assist with research on the evolu-June 1, 2013 EvolDir 51
tion, ecology, and physiology of lizards. Research in the
lab focuses on sexual conict, sexual dimorphism, life-
history evolution, quantitative genetics, animal physi-
ology, and behavioral endocrinology.
The primary research responsibility is the care and
maintenance of a large breeding colony of lizards, which
includes training and coordinating student volunteers,
overseeing the daily care of animals, maintaining equip-
ment and cleaning cages, collecting and archiving data,
and participating in research projects through data
analysis and bench work potentially ranging from hor-
mone assays to DNA extraction, PCR, and genotyping.
Initial projects will be closely supervised with increased
independence possible as experience and expertise are
developed.
A Bachelor's degree in Biology or a related discipline
is required at the time of hire. Strong organizational,
computer, and communication skills are essential, and
experience with animal care and basic molecular biol-
ogy techniques are desirable.
Ideal start date would be between June and August of
2013. This position is for one year. Application materi-
als should be received by May 16 for full consideration.
Further details and instructions for applying to this po-
sition can be found at the Jobs@UVa website:
https://jobs.virginia.edu Search for posting 0612071.
Questions about the position can be directed to Robert
Cox (rmc3u@virginia.edu)
Questions about the application procedure can be di-
rected to Mary Liberman (ml5ac@virginia.edu)
{ Robert M. Cox Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Virginia P.O. Box 400328 Char-
lottesville, VA 22904-4328
Oce: (434) 982-1987 Lab: (434) 243-3399
047 Gilmer Hall http://faculty.virginia.edu/coxlab/
cox.robert.m@gmail.com
UZurich Evolution
The Faculty of Science at the University of Zurich in-
vites applications for a
Professorship in Environmental Science / Ecology
at the Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environ-
mental Studies. The Institute conducts research in the
elds of ecology, evolution, behaviour and the environ-ment. We seek an outstanding and innovative ecologist
who is familiar with evolutionary concepts. Examples
of areas of interest are animal ecology, community ecol-
ogy, conservation biology, and functional ecology.
The successful candidate will have a record of excellent
research for their career stage. She or he will develop
a strong, independent program of empirical research
on animals or animal-plant interactions, and will con-
tribute to graduate and undergraduate teaching (in En-
glish or German) in environmental science and ecology.
The position will be lled preferentially at the level of
associate or tenure-track assistant professor.
The University of Zurich provides generous research
support, including earmarked funds for personnel and
running expenses, and competitive start-up packages.
Zurich oers a stimulating scientic environment, and
extensive opportunities for collaborations. Switzerland
provides excellent opportunities for external funding of
research.
Application packages should include a cover letter,
a full curriculum vitae (see http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/-
static/documents/ for guidelines), a vision statement of
research interests and the names and addresses of three
potential referees. Applications should be addressed to
Prof. Dr. Michael O. Hengartner, Dean of the Fac-
ulty of Science, University of Zurich, and submitted as
a single PDF document at www.mnf.uzh.ch/ese by 20
June 2013.
For further information, please contact Prof. Dr. Bar-
bara K onig, Institute of Evolutionary Biology and En-
vironmental Studies, at barbara.koenig@ieu.uzh.ch, or
visit the homepage at www.ieu.uzh.ch . The University
of Zurich is an equal opportunities employer. Applica-
tions from women are particularly encouraged.
lukas.keller@ieu.uzh.ch
UppsalaU 10 EvolBiol
10 TENURE-TRACK ASSISTANT PROFESSOR-
SHIPS OPEN AT UPPSALA UNIVERSITY
The Faculty of Science and Technology at Uppsala Uni-
versity makes a unique eort by seeking 10 junior re-
search scientists at the very foremost international level
within all of science and technology. The level of hire is
equivalent to the US assistant professorship or the UK
associate senior lecturer, with the possibility of promo-
tion to associate professor / senior lecturer after four52 EvolDir June 1, 2013
years of employment. The positions are open to any
area of research within natural sciences and technology,
including evolutionary biology broadly dened, and can
be placed at any of our 10 departments. For EvolDir
subscribers, these positions oer a possibility of becom-
ing aliated with our Evolutionary Biology Centre (see
below).
Excellence and potential in research and teaching are
the prime selection criteria. Each position comes with
signicant start-up funds. To be eligible, applicants
must have received their doctoral degree no more than
7 years prior to the application deadline, which is June
23, 2013.
Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scandi-
navia and is ranked among the top-100 universities in
the world. It is a complete university with all three
major disciplinary domains and 10 dierent Faculties
represented. The Faculty of Science and Technology
has excellent infrastructure and laboratory facilities at
dedicated campus areas where the working atmosphere
is truly international, with regular recruitment of PhD
students, post-docs and faculty from abroad. Uppsala
is a vibrant college town conveniently situated close
to Stockholm (and even closer to the Arlanda airport)
with beautiful and easy accessible surroundings.
For evolutionarily oriented scientists, positions would
be placed at our Evolutionary Biology Centre (EBC).
EBC is a vibrant international research environment
that hosts what might be the largest aggregation of
evolutionary biologists in the world. Here, the De-
partment of Ecology and Genetics (IEG) houses many
renowned research groups covering a wide range of re-
search themes in evolutionary ecology, evolutionary bi-
ology, genetics and genomics, limnology, biogeochem-
istry, conservation biology and molecular evolution.
More information about IEG can be found at http:/-
/www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/ More information
about EBC can be found at http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
More information about the positions and research
in science and technology in Uppsala can be found at
http://teknat.uu.se/forskning/oppna-lektorat/ More
information about Uppsala University can be found at
http://www.uu.se A full announcement of these posi-
tions, including a description of the application proce-
dure, is available at http://www.uu.se/jobb/teacher/-
annonsvisning?tarContentId=242814&languageId=1
We warmly welcome applications from candidates
within the evolutionary biology community!
{
Prof. G oran Arnqvist Animal Ecology Department
of Ecology and Genetics Evolutionary Biology CentreUniversity of Uppsala Norbyv agen 18D SE - 752 36 Up-
psala Sweden
Email: Goran.Arnqvist@ebc.uu.se Phone: +46-(0)18-
471 2645 Cell phone: +46-(0)70-2935032 Fax: +46-
(0)18-471 6484 Homepage with PDF reprints and
more at: http://www.anst.uu.se/goarn789/index.html
Goran.Arnqvist@ebc.uu.se
Vienna EvolutionaryPhysiology
In order to further develop the cooperation in organ-
ismic biology between the University of Vienna and
the University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, and to
strengthen integrative biology, both universities agreed
to establish a joint professorship. They hereby an-
nounce the position of a
Full Professor of Physiology with a focus on Ornithol-
ogy
(full-time permanent position under private law - Uni-
versity Law 2002 x98). Both universities intend to in-
crease the number of women on their faculties, partic-
ularly in high-level positions, and therefore specically
invite applications by women. Among equally quali-
ed applicants women will receive preferential consid-
eration.
The applicant must have an outstanding record in sys-
temic physiology of birds, ideally in combination with
cellular and molecular mechanisms. A particular focus
should be on the physiology of seasonal processes of
birds and its relation to migration. We search for a re-
searcher who combines skills in physiology, a systems-
biology approach across levels of organization, and a
lively interest in studying animals in their natural en-
vironments.
The applicant's expertise should also serve to comple-
ment existing research groups in the Department of In-
tegrative Biology and Evolution of the University of
Veterinary Medicine and in the Center of Organismal
Systems Biology of the Faculty of Life Sciences of the
University of Vienna, working in the elds of physiol-
ogy, ecology, evolution and animal behaviour. Along
with the establishment of a bird physiology research
program, the applicant will lead the newly established
Center for avian migration of Austria (\ Osterreichische
Vogelwarte"). Further, the applicant is expected to
participate in the curricula of BSc, MSc and diploma
study programs of both universities. The documenta-June 1, 2013 EvolDir 53
tion of adequate teaching experience (habilitation or
equivalent) is expected. Both universities of Vienna
are committed to expand English teaching. Successful
candidates will have the following qualications:
* PhD and post-doctoral experience at a university or
other research institution (Austrian or equivalent inter-
national academic degree in the relevant eld) * Out-
standing research and publication record, with an ex-
cellent reputation as an active member in the inter-
national academic community (Habilitation (venia do-
cendi) or equivalent international qualication in the
relevant eld is desirable) * Experience in designing,
procuring and directing major research projects, and
willingness and ability to assume the responsibility of
team leadership * The ability to acquire third party
funding for nancing research in a substantial amount
* Experience in university teaching, and willingness and
ability to teach at all curricular levels, to supervise the-
ses, and to further the work of junior academic col-
leagues * Experience in personnel management, orga-
nizational and communication skills
Both universities expect the successful candidate to ac-
quire, within three years, prociency in German su-
cient for teaching in Bachelor programmes and partici-
pation in committees.
The University of Vienna and the University of Veteri-
nary Medicine, Vienna oer:
* Attractive terms and conditions of employment with
a negotiable and performance-related salary, associated
with a retirement fund * a \start-up package" for the
initiation of research projects * an attractive and dy-
namic research location in a city with a high quality
of life and in a country with excellent research fund-
ing provision * Grant for relocation to Vienna, where
appropriate
Candidates should send an application containing at
least the following documents:
* Academic curriculum vitae * Brief description of cur-
rent research interests and research plans for the imme-
diate future * List of publications together with
a) specication of ve key publications judged by the
applicant to be particularly relevant to the advertised
professorship together with an explanation of their rel-
evance
b) PDF versions of these ve publications provided ei-
ther as email attachments or through URLs of down-
loadable copies
* List of talks given, including detailed information
about invited plenaries at international conferences *
List of projects supported by third-party funds * Shortsurvey of previous academic teaching and list of super-
vised PhD theses
University professors will be classied according
to the Collective Bargaining Agreement <http:/-
/personalwesen.univie.ac.at/kollektivvertrag-
/mitarbeiterinnengruppen/ >for University Sta
into the salary group A1. The salary will be individ-
ually negotiated under consideration of the previous
career development and in case of an appointment
from
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Vienna ResAssoc
EvolutionaryModeling
University Assistant (= Research Associate/Senior
Postdoc), 6 years in Evolutionary Modeling at the Uni-
versity of Vienna
The mathematics and biosciences group (MaBS) at the
University of Vienna is looking for a strong and highly
motivated candidate for a university assistant position
in evolutionary modeling. The research focus is exible
and includes work in population genetics or genomics,
quantitative genetics, and evolutionary ecology. See the
MaBS homepage (www.mabs.at) for further informa-
tion on our research interests.
In recent years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centers in evolutionary biology
(www.evolvienna.at). In addition to a stimulating sci-
entic environment, Vienna also oers an extraordinar-
ily high quality of life. Aordable housing, excellent
public transport, great restaurants, a range of inter-
national schools, two operas, two music centers, many
theaters and museums in combination with a pleasant
climate make Vienna one of the most attractive cities
in Europe.
The successful candidate will have a record of high qual-
ity research in evolutionary modeling. S/he is expected
to develop and maintain an independent research pro-
le and to attract extramural funding. In addition to
research, the candidate will contribute to teaching and
supervise students. The position will be oered for 654 EvolDir June 1, 2013
years and comes with a competitive salary. The start-
ing date is October 2013 or later (negotiable).
Formal requirement is a PhD and a strong background
and interest in quantitative evolutionary research (an-
alytical or computational modeling). Prior postdoc ex-
perience and the proven ability to attract funding are
desirable. The working language is English, German
skills are not essential.
Applications should include: # Cover letter # CV with
publication list and grants, # summary of past and fu-
ture research plans, # teaching experience, # names
and email addresses of three potential referees.
Full applications (preferably as a single pdf) shouldbe sent via the Job Center to the University of
Vienna (http://jobcenter.univie.ac.at, email: jobcen-
ter@univie.ac.at), with cc to Joachim Hermisson
(joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at) # no later than June
9th, 2013 # referenced to the identication number
3988. Informal inquiries (encouraged) should be sent
to Joachim Hermisson.
Joachim Hermisson Professor for Mathematics and Bio-
sciences University of Vienna Department for Math-
ematics Nordbergstr. 15, 1090 Vienna, Austria and
Max F.Perutz Laboratories Dr.-Bohrgasse 9, 1030
Vienna, Austria phone: +43 (0) 1 4277 50648
email: joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at www.mabs.at
joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at
Other
ASN regional meetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
BBSRC futureFunding EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Cameroon VolFieldAssistant PopBiology . . . . . . . . . . 55
Campanula samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
ConGenOmics TravelGrants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
E-Z96 Plant DNA Kit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
Evolution Video Contest Deadline May31 . . . . . . . . . 57
Evolution deception . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Experimental design EEB textbook answers . . . . . . . 58
Fish pathogen samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Invisorb DNAPlantKit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58Jaenike 1978 Evo Theo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .58
LGBTQ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
LilyLeafBeetle samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Megabalanus coccopoma Micros . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
NGS dataset inquiry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Paper by Muck Lampert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Phyloseminar PhilHugenholtz Jun27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
SNP heat stress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Software BORICE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
nextRAD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
ASN regional meetings
The American Society of Naturalists (ASN) invites or-
ganizers of local or regional conferences specializing in
the areas of ecology and evolution to apply for funds
to enhance and support student participation in their
meetings.
Previous awards in the range of $500-$1500 have been
used to support plenary speakers, provide student pre-
sentation awards, and reduce registration fees for ASNstudent members.
Please send a short letter describing the intended uses
of funds to the chair of the ASN Regional Liaison Com-
mittee, Mike Whitlock (whitlock@zoology.ubc.ca). Re-
quests should be made at least a month before the reg-
istration opens for the meeting and include information
about the expected size and focus of the meeting. In-
formal inquiries in advance of a written proposal are
welcome.
Michael Whitlock whitlock@zoology.ubc.ca
Department of Zoology - University of British Columbia
6270 University Blvd, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4
CANADA phone: (604) 822-2069 FAX: (604) 822-2416June 1, 2013 EvolDir 55
Michael Whitlock <whitlock@zoology.ubc.ca >
BBSRC futureFunding EvolBiol
Dear all,
One of the major UK Research Councils, the Biotech-
nology and Biological Sciences Research Council, is ask-
ing for opinions on what the most important research
areas and technological developments in biosciences
might be over the next ve to 10 years. The BBSRC
is an important source of funding in the UK for evolu-
tionary biology (especially evolutionary genetics) and
animal behaviour, and this survey provides us in the
evolution community with the opportunity to highlight
the importance of understanding evolutionary change.
Without appreciating the role of evolution, many of the
proposed solutions to the crises of food security, climate
change, and emerging diseases and pests, may fail to
deliver.
The BBSRC says the survey results will inform its long-
term strategic plan and will be discussed by the council
and its advisory network. Anyone can take part in the
survey, but the BBSRC says it is particularly keen to
hear from PhD students and postdoctoral researchers
(so do please pass it on).
The survey is open until 3 June and can be accessed at:
http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/news/policy/2013/130517-n-
strategic-workshop-survey.aspx Dr David M Shuker
Lecturer in Behavioural Ecology School of Biology
University of St Andrews St Andrews KY16 9TH
United Kingdom
dms14@st-andrews.ac.uk
Cameroon VolFieldAssistant
PopBiology
**VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANT** for popu-
lation biology and behavioral ecology eldwork in
CAMEROON, Sept. through Dec. 2013
We are seeking a eld assistant for three months (mid-
September through mid-December) to help with a host-
parasite mimicry study on the brood parasitic indigo-birds and their hosts the estrildid nches. Field-
work will be centered around a small town in central
CAMEROON. The objective of the study is to gain
an understanding of the evolution of mimicry between
the parasite nestlings and the host nestlings in sym-
patric species. Fieldwork will include nest searching,
song recording and mist-netting birds.
Applicants must be willing and able to walk long dis-
tances in very hot, dry weather and to tolerate rustic
accommodations. Previous eld experience with birds
is a plus. Assistants must provide their own airfare to
Cameroon, however travel within Cameroon, room, and
board will be provided.
Please email a cover letter that addresses your qualica-
tions for this position, a CV with undergraduate GPA,
and contact information for 3 references. Review of
applications will begin immediately and continue until
position is lled.
Email materials and questions to Allison Lansverk,
lansverka12@students.ecu.edu.
\Lansverk, Allison" <lansverka12@students.ecu.edu >
Campanula samples
Dear EvolDir members
We are starting a project on the evolutionary history
and biogeography of the Campanula rotundifolia group
(angiosperm, Campanulaceae), which includes some 50-
60 morphologically-related taxa with dierent ploidy
levels.
We are looking for leaf tissues and seeds from popu-
lations sampled across the European mountain ranges
(i.e. between the Spanish Sierra Nevada and the
Carpathians) for next-generation sequencing and ow
cytometry analyses.
We would like to ask you for help with plant collec-
tion in the eld. >From each population, we need EI-
THER well-dried leaf material (silica gel can be pro-
vided upon request) from 5 individuals and a well- pre-
served herbarium voucher, OR 5 mature fruits (cap-
sules) from 5 dierent individuals. The plants belong-
ing to this group are generally easy to separate from
other Campanula species (a specic determination is
not necessary at that stage). A detailed sampling pro-
tocol will be sent to all people willing to support this
project.56 EvolDir June 1, 2013
It would be amazing if you could contribute with some
samples growing close to your working place or collected
during forthcoming eld trips. Contact addresses and
plant localities are also highly appreciated.
Many thanks in advance for your help!
Best wishes,
Guilhem Mansion (1) Ludo Mueller (2) Federico Lue-
bert (2)
(1) Freie Universit at Berlin, Botanischer Garten
und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, K onigin-
Luise-Strae 6 - 8, 14195 Berlin, Germany (E-mail:
g.mansion@bgbm.org) (2) Freie Universit at Berlin, In-
stitut f ur Biologie - Botanik, Altensteinstrae 6, 14195
Berlin, Germany (E-mail: ludo.muller@fu- berlin.de;
uebert@zedat.fu-berlin.de)
Annex - Species included in the Campanula rotundi-
folia group C alaskana (A. Gray) Wight C albanica
Witasek C baumgartenii Becker C baumgartenii subsp.
beckiana (Hayek) Podlech C bertolae Colla C bohemica
Hruby C caespitosa Scop. C cantabrica Feer C carnica
Schiede C carnica subsp. puberula Podlech C cochleari-
ifolia Lam. C excisa Schleich. C carioides Timb.-
Lagr. C forsythii (Arcang.) Podl. C fritschii Witasek C
gentilis Kovanda C giesekiana Vest C gracillima Podl.
C hercegovina Degen & Fiala C herminii Homanns.
& Link C hispanica Willk. C intercedens Witasek C
jaubertiana Timb.-Lagr. C jurjurensis Pomel C jus-
tiniana Witasek C longisepala Podl. C macrorhiza Gay
ex A. DC. C marcenoi Brullo C marchesettii Witasek
C micrantha Bertol. C moravica (Spitzner) Kovanda C
petiolata A. DC. C pindicola Ald en C pollinensis Podl.
C praesignis Beck C precatoria Timb.-Lagr. C pseu-
dostenocodon Lacaita C pulla L. C raineri Perpenti C
rhomboidalis L. C romanica Savul C rotundifolia L.
C ruscinonensis Timb.-Lagr. C sabatia De Not. C
scheuchzeri Vill. C serrata (Kit.) Hendrych C serrata
subsp. recta (Dulac) Podlech C stenocodon Boiss. &
Reuter C tanfanii Podl. C tatrae Borbas C trojanensis
Kovanda & Ancev C velebitica Borb as C willkommii
Witasek C witasekiana Vierh. C xylocarpa Kovanda
Dr Guilhem Mansion
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-
Dahlem Freie Universit at Berlin K onigin-Luise-Strae
6 - 8 14195 Berlin
http://www.bgbm.fu-berlin.de/bgbm/STAFF/wiss/-
Mansion/default.htm Email: g.mansion@bgbm.org
Tel.: +49 30 838 50 128 Fax: +49 30 838 50 218
\Mansion, Guilhem" <g.mansion@BGBM.ORG >ConGenOmics TravelGrants
TravelGrants - ConservationGenomics
Dear colleagues,
The European Research Networking Programme
\ConGenOmics", supported by the European Science
Foundation, invites applications for travel grants in-
tended to foster collaborations between European re-
searchers working on topics related to the Programme.
We will support the exchange of researchers, ideally
targeting at early careers researchers such as PhD stu-
dents and postdocs. We invite applications for short
visits (1-2 weeks) as well as longer exchange visits (up
to 4 months) to foster scientic interactions between in-
stitutions from dierent countries. The planned visits
should be directly relevant to the scope of the ConGe-
nOmics network, which include topics such as:
- Development and transfer of genomic knowledge and
approaches in a conservation context
- Experimental study of the (genomic) mechanisms be-
hind important biological processes of relevance for con-
servation
- Application and development of data handling and
processing strategies in conservation genomics
- Application of community and metagenomics in con-
servation biological context
After assessment of scientic merit and relevance to the
ConGenOmics network, priority will be given to appli-
cations in the following order:
- knowledge exchange between contributing countries
- knowledge exchange between a contributing coun-
try and a non- contributing ESF member country or
the associated USA Ecogenomics network Ecological
Genomics Institute (EGI) at Kansas State University
(KSU).
- knowledge exchange between a contributing country
and a non-ESF member country in Europe
- knowledge exchange between a contributing country
and any country not covered by 1-3
Further information and instructions on how to apply
are available at
http://www.ru.nl/congenomics/grants-application/-
travel-grants/ Deadline for submission: 31 MayJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 57
2013
philippine.vergeer@wur.nl
E-Z96 Plant DNA Kit
Dear evoldir members, anybody has used the Plant
DNA kit E-Z 96of OMEGA ?, What about the amount
and quality of the DNA extracted?
Thank in advance,
Miguel Angel Gonz alez{ Associate ResearcherDepart-
ment of Molecular Biodiversity and DNA BankJard n
Bot anico Canario \Viera y Clavijo"Unidad Asociada al
CSICCabildo de Gran Canaria
canariensis750@hotmail.com
Evolution Video Contest Deadline
May31
NESCent Evolution Film Festival - Submission Dead-
line Approaching (May 31st)!
Scientists and science educators of all stripes (students,
postdocs, faculty, and full- or part-time science com-
municators) are invited to enter the third annual Evo-
lution Video Competition, sponsored by the National
Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent). To enter,
please submit a video that explains a fun fact, key con-
cept, compelling question, or exciting area of evolution
research in THREE MINUTES OR LESS.
Entries may be related or unrelated to your own re-
search, and should be suitable for use in a classroom
(K-12, undergraduate, graduate - your choice). Videos
should be both informative and entertaining. (In other
words, no taped lectures or narrated Powerpoint pre-
sentations!) Animations, music videos, and mini docu-
mentaries are all fair game.
The nalists will be screened at the 2013 Evolution
meeting in Snowbird, Utah. (You do not need to at-
tend the conference in order to enter a video.)
First- and second-place winners will receive up to
$1,000 and $500, respectively, to cover travel expenses
to the meeting of their choice, any time within a yearof the festival.
The deadline to submit your video(s) is FRIDAY, MAY
31st, 2013.
For more information (and to see entries from previous
years) please visit lmfestival.nescent.org
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Evolution deception
Evolutionary consequences of deception: Call for sub-
missions
The Journal CURRENT ZOOLOGY (ISSN 1674-5507,
http://www.currentzoology.org) is preparing one spe-
cial issue, Evolutionary consequences of deception, for
the rst issue of 2014. Deadline for abstract submission:
July 1 , 2013; Deadline for manuscript submission: Sept
10, 2013.
Title and abstract submissions should be sent to
the guest editors, Dr. Lindstedt-Kareksela Carita
<carita.a.lindstedt@jyu. >and Dr. Mikael Mokkonen
>. You may send your manuscript now or by the
deadline. Manuscripts should be submitted to the
special column via CURRENT ZOOLOGY webpage
at http://www.currentzoology.org, or via ScholarOne
Manuscripts http://mc03.manuscriptcentral.com/-
currentzoology. Manuscripts received after the
deadline will be considered as submissions for regular
issues.
Submitted papers should not have been published pre-
viously, nor will be under consideration for publica-
tion elsewhere. Submitted manuscripts are accepted
with the understanding that they are subject to peer
review and editorial revision. There are no publica-
tion or processing charges. Please visit the Instructions
for Authors before submitting a manuscript (http:/-
/www.currentzoology.org/instruct.asp . Dr. Carita
Lindstedt-Kareksela
Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences
University of Jyv askyl a P.O. Box 35 FIN-40014 Univer-
sity of Jyv askyl a58 EvolDir June 1, 2013
email: carita.a.lindstedt@jyu.
Experimental design EEB textbook
answers
... \Experimental Design for the Life Sciences" by
Graeme Ruxton and Nick Colegrave, published by Ox-
ford. This book has been advocated by many people
(26 so far!, actually almost everyone who has replied
to my original email). It seems to be the community's
clear favorite. Some folks suggested complementing it
with some selected readings from here and there, most
notably with Hurlbert's 1984 paper of Pseudoreplica-
tion. Now let's see what my students say... Rafa
||{ Mensaje original ||{ Asunto: introduc-
tory text for experimental design in EEB Fecha:
Mon, 22 Apr 2013 19:17:23 +0200 De: Rafael
Rubio de Casas <rubiodecasas@ugr.es >Para:
evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca
Dear evoldir members, I am looking for a good book on
experimental design that could be used at the early un-
dergraduate level. It is hard to know exactly what I am
after. It would have to be descriptive, with very simple
and graphical examples, cover a wide variety of topics
and ideally describe both empirical and modeling ap-
proaches. I guess it would probably be something like
Gotelli & Ellison's \Primer in Ecological Genetics" but
focused on experimental design in ecology and evolu-
tion. Maybe \Experimental design in organismal biol-
ogy for dummies" if such a thing exists... Does anyone
know of a good title? Thanks in advance, Rafa {
Rafael Rubio de Casas *Departamento de Ecolog a* <
http://ecologia.ugr.es >Facultad de Ciencias Universi-
dad de Granada Granada, E-18071 (+34) 958 249 861
rubiodecasas@ugr.es
Fish pathogen samples
I am looking for DNA samples from two dierent sh
pathogens to be used as positive controls for envi-
ronmental sampling. The pathogens of interest are
Flavobacterium psychrophilum and Saprolegnia ferax.If you have DNA samples that you would be willing to
donate, or if you can suggest someone for me to contact,
please send me an email (matt.lemay@ubc.ca).
Best regards,
Matt Lemay
PhD Candidate, University of British Columbia
(Okanagan Campus)
matt.lemay@ubc.ca
Invisorb DNAPlantKit
Dear evoldir members, since there are few people
that have replied about the Plant DNA kit E-Z 96of
OMEGA, and the memebers that have used this kit
have not obtained \excellent" results. Has anyone used
the DNA extraction kit of Invisorb - DNA Plant HTS
96 kit/C?, and what about the amount and quality of
the DNA extracted?
Thank in advance, Miguel Angel
{ Associate ResearcherDepartment of Molecular Biodi-
versity and DNA BankJard n Bot anico Canario \Viera
y Clavijo"Unidad Asociada al CSICCabildo de Gran
Canaria
canariensis750@hotmail.com
Jaenike 1978 Evo Theo
Dear all,
I am looking for a often-cited, but hardly accessible pa-
per by John Jaenike (1978, An hypothesis to account
for the maintenance of sex within populations. Evol.
Theor. 3: 191-194.) If you by any chance have a pdf
for this paper in your collection could you please send
me a copy?
Many thanks, Yun
ytao3@emory.eduJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 59
LGBTQ
Folks,
I'm collaborating on a survey of the experiences of
LGBTQ individuals working in science, tech, engineer-
ing, and math, and I'm hoping that the EvolDir com-
munity will help us share it with as many people as
possible. We're using a \snowball sample" distribution
model, in which we as respondents to help distribute
links to the survey to their own professional and per-
sonal networks, so we can hear from as many people as
possible.
There's more information below my signature,
or you can go directly to the survey website,
www.queerstem.org, to learn more, take the survey, and
nd out how to help spread the word.
thanks! Jeremy Yoder
|- Jeremy B. Yoder Postdoctoral Associate University
of Minnesota Department of Plant Biology
www.jeremybyoder.com jbyoder@umn.edu
Sent with Sparrow (http://-
www.sparrowmailapp.com/?sig)
In the elds of science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (STEM), the social experiences of lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgendered, or queer (LGBTQ) pro-
fessionals are often overlooked. Those of us who work
in STEM research or teaching know that LGBTQ col-
leagues are out there, if we know where to look, but we
know very little about the LGBTQ folks who work in
STEM, as a group. Basic, general information regrad-
ing the following questions is hard to come by:
What do we study? What kinds of institutions do we
work at? What kinds of communities do we live in?
What degree of acceptance and support have we found
in our chosen career elds?
We are conducting a new, nationwide survey to begin
to answer some of these questions, by eliciting feed-
back from as large a sample of LGBTQ folks working
in STEM elds as possible. By participating, you will
contribute to eorts to document the contributions of
LGBTQ individuals to STEM elds and inform advo-
cacy eorts to improve occupational experiences.
Although we welcome as much feedback as possible,
please note that this survey is primarily targeted to-ward individuals who have completed an initial Bach-
elor's or Technical degree and are working in a STEM
eld within or outside of academia. Undergraduate ex-
periences are unique and several quality studies exist
regarding LGBTQ identity across elds of study at the
postsecondary level{with this survey we aim to ll a
dierent gap in the eld.
The survey should take about 15-20 minutes to com-
plete, and will ask about your research, your career
path, your gender identity and sexual orientation, and
your experience at the institution where you work and
the community in which you live.
Thank you in advance for your valuable feedback!
Take the survey here: http://www.queerstem.org/-
p/take-survey.html jbyoder@gmail.com jbyo-
der@gmail.com
LilyLeafBeetle samples
Dear Evoldir members,
We are investigating the route(s) of invasion of the lily
leaf beetle (Lilioceris lilii) in North America.
We would be grateful to anyone willing to send us
ethanol-preserved samples (15-30 individuals) from
Eurasia.
This conspicuous red insect lives exclusively on lilies
(Lilium) and fritillary (Fritillaria), you may have seen
it in your garden or in public parks.
(http://invasives.biodiversityireland.ie/wp-content/-
uploads/lily leafbeetle-U.S-fact-sheet.pdf)
Please contact me for further information ('collection
kit', mailing addresses, etc).
Alessandro Dieni, Candidat Msc.
Laboratoire Jacques Brodeur - Institut de Recherche
en Biologie V eg etale Universit e de Montr eal 4101 Sher-
brooke Est - Bureau G202 Montr eal, Qc, Canada, H1X
2B2
T el ephone (514) 343-6111 #82548 Courriel :
alessandro.dieni-lafrance@umontreal.ca
Alessandro Dieni <a.dieni.umontreal@gmail.com >60 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Megabalanus coccopoma Micros
EvolDir,
I am working on the population genetic structure of the
Titan Acorn Barnacle, Megabalanus coccopoma. Cur-
rently we are hoping to discover if microsatellites have
already been designed for this species. If you have any
knowledge of microsatellite primers for this species or
if you know of a primers for a related species that have
worked with M. coccopoma I would love to hear from
you.
Thanks, Alicia Reigel
Alicia Reigel Georgia Southern University
ar04609@georgiasouthern.edu
Alicia Reigel <ar04609@georgiasouthern.edu >
NGS dataset inquiry
Dear all,
My name is Enrique Gonzalez and I am developing
a pipeline to analyse population structure from NGS
dataset as part of my PhD thesis. I was searching for
several NGS raw les (in .fna and .qual or .fastq) to test
my pipeline, but I didn't nd nothing. I only found
papers on this topic and supplementary material are
tables and more tables.
Do you have these kind of les? If you have fasta and
quality les (or fastq les), could you use your data to
test it, please?
Thanks for your attention and sorry for the inconve-
niences
Best regards,
Enrique
Enrique Gonzalez-Tortuero Department Biology II
Evolutions okologie Ludwig-Maximilien-University,
Munich Grosshaderner Strasse 2 82512 Planegg-
Martinsried, Germany email: tortuero@bio.lmu.de
Enrique Gonzalez Tortuero <tortuero@biologie.uni-
muenchen.de >Paper by Muck Lampert
Dear Members,
does any one have access to the paper
P Muck, W Lampert. 1984 An experimental study of
the importance of food conditions for the relative abun-
dance of calanoid copepods and cladocerans. I. Com-
parative feeding studies with Eudiaptomus gracilis and
Daphnia longispina. Archiv f ur Hydrobiologie. 66 (2)
157-179.
If so, I would be grateful if you could send me a pdf
copy of the paper.
Best regards
Miguel
Miguel Barbosa Visiting Postdoctoral Researcher Scot-
tish Oceans Institute School of Biology University of St
Andrews KL16 8LB Scotland
\Miguel Barbosa(Gmail)" <migosas@gmail.com >
Phyloseminar PhilHugenholtz Jun27
Next talk: Carl Woese's grand view of life that just
keeps getting grander\ Phil Hugenholtz (University of
Queensland)
Most microorganisms cannot be grown in pure culture
(or at least not easily). This has been apparent for
decades by comparing the number of cells seen under a
microscope to the fraction of those cells that will grow
into colony forming units (typically <1%). The objec-
tive classication of cellular life by comparative rRNA
analysis pioneered by Carl Woese provided the rst
grand view of the tree of life and also provided the ref-
erence framework upon which his friend and colleague,
Norman Pace, developed ways to directly survey micro-
bial communities via their rRNA sequences without the
need to grow them. This put our degree of ignorance of
the microbial world into perspective: dozens of major
microbial lineages have emerged over the last 20 years
that lack even a single cultured representative. New
approaches, such as deep metagenomics and single cellJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 61
genomics, are now transforming the rRNA-based phy-
logenetic outlines of the tree of life into a fully-edged
genome-based view of the tree. I will present a recent
snapshot overview of the genome tree of the bacterial
and archaeal domains and examples of functional in-
sights in the context of a more complete view of micro-
bial evolution.
West Coast USA: 16:00 (04:00 PM) on Thursday, June
27 East Coast USA: 19:00 (07:00 PM) on Thursday,
June 27 UK: 00:00 (12:00 AM) on Friday, June 28
France: 01:00 (01:00 AM) on Friday, June 28 Japan:
08:00 (08:00 AM) on Friday, June 28 New Zealand:
11:00 (11:00 AM) on Friday, June 28
{ Frederick "Erick\ Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
SNP heat stress
Dear All,,
I am about develop a project detecting heat stress genes
in local sheep. I hope that an advice is avilabe about
SNP chips or specic marker primers that could do so.
Are you awarewhether SNP chips of Sheep consor-
tium/Illumina could do so.
Kindest regards,
Raed
Dr. Raed Al-Atiyat Animal Breeding and Genetics An-
imal Sci. Dep., Agriculture Faculty Mutah University,
Jordan. Ph(W): +962 3 2372380 Ext 6555 Fax: +962
3 2323 154 Mobile: +962 777926168
Raed al-atiyat <ratiyat2003@yahoo.com.au >
Software BORICE
Dear EvolDir,
I would like to announce the release of the BORICE
1.0 software package. BORICE (Bayesian Outcrossing
Rate and Inbreeding Coecient Estimation) is free soft-
ware developed to estimate the mean outcrossing rate
and inbreeding coecient of populations from progenyarrays using Bayesian methods. BORICE is compati-
ble with both Windows and Mac OS X. To learn more
about how this software works, its uses, and for the
purposes of citing this software, please refer to the fol-
lowing publication:
Koelling, V. A., P. J. Monnahan, and J. K. Kelly. 2012.
A Bayesian method for the joint estimation of outcross-
ing rate and inbreeding depression. Heredity 109: 393-
400. doi:10.1038/hdy.2012.58
The BORICE software and supporting documents can
be downloaded at: http://www2.ku.edu/~eeb/faculty/-
kellyj.shtml Vanessa Koelling IRACDA Postdoctoral
Fellow The University of Kansas Dept. of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology 5032 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunny-
side Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 vkoelling@ku.edu 785-
864-3848
vkoelling@ku.edu
nextRAD
*SNPsaurus announces launch of nextRAD genotyp-
ing*
*Enables genotyping by sequencing on low input sam-
ples*
May 15, 2013. SNPsaurus, a genomic services company
based in Eugene, Oregon, today announced the launch
of their nextRAD genotyping platform. The nex-
tRAD (Nextera-tagmented reductively-amplied DNA)
marker platform is designed for genotyping large popu-
lations and for samples with limited availability of ge-
nomic DNA.
\The distinguishing feature of nextRAD compared to
other genotyping-by-sequencing methods is that it does
not use restriction enzymes to reduce the complexity
of the genome." said SNPsaurus founder Eric John-
son. \This allows us to make high quality sequencing
libraries that sample thousands to hundreds of thou-
sands of loci across a genome from less than 10 ng total
genomic DNA."
Director of Research Paul Etter said, \We tried to de-
sign nextRAD for the rapidly increasing capabilities of
next-generation sequencers. It has the throughput for
genotyping thousands of samples because of the stream-
lined protocol and the ability to multiplex hundreds of
samples in a lane of a sequencer."
SNPsaurus also unveiled their nextRAD Project Ex-62 EvolDir June 1, 2013
plorer, at http://snpsaurus.com/project/, an online
tool for exploring the parameters of a genotyping
project, from low-coverage mapping of recombinant in-
bred lines to high-coverage genotyping for creating ge-
netic maps, and getting a project price estimate.
SNPsaurus has licensed nextRAD technology from the
University of Oregon.
*About SNPsaurus**SNPsaurus is a privately owned genomic services com-
pany founded in 2013. Based in Eugene, Oregon,
SNPsaurus works with researchers to rapidly provide
high-quality genotyping data.*
*contact:*
*Eric Johnson, founder*
<eric@snpsaurus.com >
PostDocs
Ames Iowa InuenzaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
AuburnU Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Berlin ConservationGenetics Repost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Berlin PostdocConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64
CSIRO Canberra GenomicsAustralianFinches . . . . . 65
CSIRO Canberra GenomicsClimateAdaptation . . . . 66
Cleveland PlasmodiumPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . 67
CornellU CassavaGenomicSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
DalhousieU AppleGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
DurhamU PopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
ETH Zurich Eawag HostParasitoid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Europe PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
FUBerlin PhylogenomicsOfNymphaeales . . . . . . . . . . 70
Germany 3 FungalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .70
Grenoble MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
INRA Nouzilly France ReproductivePhylogenetics . 72
INRIA Lille France Statistical genomic rearrangement
72
ImperialCollege London MicrobialCommunityEvolu-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Jyvaskyla Finland BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
KansasStateU Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
LBBE Lyon AncestralGenomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
Melbourne MCRI StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
MountSinai NewYork EvolutionaryMedicineInformat-
ics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75NorthCarolinaStateU PlantPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 76
SangerInst ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
StanfordU AntEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
StellenboschU PotatoGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Switzerland Evolutionarydynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
SydneyAustralia GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UArizona Evolability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UArizona VertebratePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UBielefeld EvolutionSalamanders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
UCalifornia Berkeley InvasionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UCollege London Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UEdinburgh EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UIdaho PlantPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .82
UInnsbruck Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UMelbourne EvolutionCooperation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UMichigan PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UOklahoma MetagenomicBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . .84
UPorto LivestockPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UToronto MutualismEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UTuebingen EvolutionFishFluorescence . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UTurku Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UUtah EvolutionPlantHerbivore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
UWisconsin Madison PopulationModeling . . . . . . . . . 87
Vanderbilt EvolutionPregnancy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Vienna DrosophilaAdaptationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Ames Iowa InuenzaEvolutionPost Doctoral Associate Vacancy
The vacancy is assigned to the Intervention Strategies
to Control Viral Diseases of Swine project, Virus and
Prion Research Unit, National Animal Disease Center,June 1, 2013 EvolDir 63
Ames, Iowa. The incumbent's overall responsibility is
to evaluate the genetic evolution of inuenza A viruses
(IAV) identied in the US Department of Agriculture
(USDA) swine inuenza virus (SIV) surveillance system
by sequence analysis and computational biology tools
and pair with in vitro and in vivo characterization of se-
lected viruses. Identifying the relative representation of
subtypes, phylogenetic types, and whole genome vari-
ants in the swine population in geographic and tempo-
ral contexts will allow monitoring of the genetic evolu-
tion of IAV in swine. The resulting data will provide sci-
entic based approaches for IAV intervention strategies,
vaccine and diagnostic test development, and pandemic
preparedness. The research assignment requires a PhD
degree with emphasis on bioinformatics and computa-
tional biology with additional knowledge of virology,
microbiology, and research techniques.
The incumbent's specic objectives within the research
assignment are to:
1. Participate with a team of virologists, diagnosticians,
and bioinformaticists to assemble, validate, and deposit
fully assembled sequences into GenBank or other se-
lected databases from high throughput next generation
sequence techniques and/or traditional Sanger sequenc-
ing. 2. Conduct computational evolutionary biology
analyses with fully assembled swine IAV sequences in
the context of contemporary and historical isolates for
determination of phylogenetic relationships, lineages,
interspecies transmission, and/or reassortment events.
Adapt existing database(s) for ecient management of
swine IAV surveillance data. 3. Interact and liaise with
National Veterinary Services Laboratory sta to trans-
fer knowledge and skills as appropriate, with National
Surveillance Unit sta for data management, and with
NADC scientic sta for associated in vitro and in vivo
study of select SIV isolates.
Contact: Amy L. Vincent DVM, PhD National Ani-
mal Disease Center, USDA-ARS 1920 Dayton Avenue
Ames, IA 50010
(515) 337-7557 amy.vincent@ars.usda.gov
Amy L. Vincent DVM, PhD National Animal Disease
Center, USDA-ARS 1920 Dayton Avenue Ames, IA
50010
(515) 337-7557 amy.vincent@ars.usda.gov
\Vincent, Amy" <Amy.Vincent@ARS.USDA.GOV >AuburnU Phylogenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow in Metazoan Phylogenomics at
Auburn University
We are looking for a postdoc to work on phylogenomics
analyses of higher-level metazoan groups, especially an-
nelids. The successful candidate should have knowledge
of high-throughput sequencing (i.e., Illumina and/or
comparable) approaches for transcriptome and genomic
data. They will be expected to be procient with
shell scripting, BioPerl, and/or Biopython. Duties
will include pipeline development, analyses of existing
and/or new data, and assisting others with bioinformat-
ics needs. The individual will be expected to produce
rst-authored papers as well as collaborate on others.
This is a one-year position with the possibility of re-
newal pending satisfactory work.
The laboratory is jointly operated by Dr. Scott Santos
and Dr. Ken Halanych. Information about the labora-
tory can be founds at:
http://www.auburn.edu/academic/cosam/-
departments/biology/molette lab/index.htm Ap-
plicants must have a Ph.D. in an appropriate eld.
The candidate selected for this position must be able
to meet eligibility requirements to work in the United
States at the time the appointment is scheduled to be-
gin, continue working legally for the proposed term of
employment; excellent communication skills required.
Women and minorities are strongly encouraged to
apply.
This announcement is informal in nature and candi-
dates of interest will be asked to submit a formal ap-
plication for complete consideration.
If interest please send a CV and a statement of interest
to Ken Halanych at Ken@auburn.edu (please note our
mail system is limited to 25Mb messages). Review of
applications will begin 20 May 2013, and will continue
until a suitable applicant is found.
Kenneth Halanych <ken@auburn.edu >
Berlin ConservationGenetics Repost64 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Because of formatting errors in the previous announce-
ment, this is a repost of an announcement for a vacant
postdoc position at the Freie Universitat Berlin:
Full time position (E 13 TV-L FU), limited to 1 year
The Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-
Dahlem is carrying out research projects and conser-
vation measures on threatened plants of Germany. The
core of these activities is formed by a new research and
development project that has been developed in coop-
eration with and is nanced by the German Federal
Agency for Nature Conservation. Within this project,
a selection of threatened plants that are native in Ger-
many will be analyzed with molecular methods. Based
on the genetic variability and phylogeographic history
of populations, conservation scenarios will be elabo-
rated. The project has been developed in cooperation
with and is nanced by the German Federal Agency for
Nature Conservation.
We are currently seeking a dedicated postdoc for de-
veloping a scientic program on \In situ and ex situ
conservation of plants" for our institution and linking
it up with existing projects and activities in our fo-
cal area \Biodiversity of the Euro-Mediterranean Area"
and in the \Dahlem Seed Bank". Within this frame-
work, the successful applicant will be supported in con-
ducting own research in conservation genetics and in
raising additional funds for the continuation of his/her
work at our institution.
Requirements:
University degree in biology or related elds Desired
qualications:
Knowledge and deep interest in conservation genetics
Experience with relevant methods in populations genet-
ics and phylogeography, e.g. AFLP and microsatellite
screening
Good general knowledge of statistics and statistical
software (e.g. R)
Very good command of German and English
Motivation and ability to work in an interdisciplinary
team
Please send your application and documents (CV, cer-
ticates) with the reference code \Ex-Situ/In-Situ" un-
til 27 May 2013 to:
Freie Universitat Berlin Zentraleinrichtung Botanischer
Garten und Botanisches Museum - AV - Konigin-Luise-
Str. 6-8 14195 Berlin
For further information please contact Dr Cor-
nelia Loehne (c.loehne@bgbm.org; Tel. +49 30838 50135). The original announcement (in Ger-
man) can be found here: http://www.fu-berlin.de/-
service/stellen/st 2013/st 20130429.html Ludo Muller
<ludo muller@yahoo.com >
Berlin PostdocConservationGenetics
Full time position (E 13 TV^ aL FU), limited to 1 year
The Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum
Berlin^ aDahlem is carrying out research projects
and conservation measures on threatened plants of
Germany. The core of these activities is formed by a
new research and development project that has been
developed in cooperation with and is nanced by the
German Federal Agency for Nature Conservation.
Within this project, a selection of threatened plants
that are native in Germany will be analyzed with
molecular methods. Based on the genetic variability
and phylogeographic history of populations, conserva-
tion scenarios will be elaborated. The project has been
developed in cooperation with and is nanced by the
German Federal Agency for Nature Conservation.
We are currently seeking a dedicated postdoc for de-
veloping a scientic program on \In situ and ex situ
conservation of plants" for our institution and linking
it up with existing projects and activities in our focal
area \Biodiversity of the Euro^ aMediterranean Area"
and in the \Dahlem Seed Bank". Within this frame-
work, the successful applicant will be supported in con-
ducting own research in conservation genetics and in
raising additional funds for the continuation of his/her
work at our institution.
Requirements:
University degree in biology or related elds Desired
qualications: Knowledge and deep interest in conser-
vation genetics Experience with relevant methods in
populations genetics and phylogeography, e.g., AFLP
and micro^ asatellite screening Good general knowledge
of statistics and statistical software (e.g., R) Very good
command of German and English Motivation and abil-
ity to work in an interdisciplinary team
Please send your application and documents (CV, cer-
ticates) with the reference code \Ex^ aSitu/In^ aSitu"
until 27 May 2013 to:
Freie Universita It Berlin Zentraleinrichtung Botanis-
cher Garten und Botanisches Museum ^ a AV ^ a
KoInigin^ aLuise^ aStr. 6^ a8 14195 BerlinJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 65
For further information please contact Dr Cor-
nelia Lo Ihne (c.loehne@bgbm.org; Tel. +49 30
838 50135). The original announcement (in Ger-
man) can be found here: http://www.fu=E2=80=-
90berlin.de/service/stellen/st 2013/st 20130429.html
ludo.muller@fu-berlin.de
CSIRO Canberra
GenomicsAustralianFinches
Advertised Job Title: OCE Post Doc fellow in Evolu-
tionary Rescue through Physiological Genomics of Aus-
tralian Finches Salary Range: $81K to $88K plus up
to 15.4% Superannuation Location:Australian National
Wildlife Collection, Crace, Australian Capital Territory
Tenure: 3 years Relocation Assistance: May be pro-
vided to the successful candidate Residency Status: All
Candidates
Role Overview:
CSIRO oers PhD graduates an opportunity to launch
their scientic careers through our Oce of the Chief
Executive (OCE) Postdoctoral Fellowships. Successful
applicants will work with leaders in the eld of science
and receive personal development and learning oppor-
tunities.
Applications are invited for a three-year OCE Post-
doctoral Fellowship in Evolutionary Rescue (ER). ER
posits that evolution might occur suciently fast to ar-
rest population decline under new environmental chal-
lenges and allow population recovery before extinction
occurs. It stresses short-term evolutionary dynamics
and focuses on genetic variants of large eects and abso-
lute rather than relative tness. This project addresses
an emerging key area in Evolutionary Rescue - the ge-
netic and genomic mechanisms of adaptation to climate
change. It will use the tools provided by the pub-
lished, annotated Zebra Finch genome as3roadmap2
for genomic study of how the 17 other native Aus-
tralian and ve introduced nches have adapted to di-
verse climates. For example, two native species are con-
ned to the continent1s wettest temperate forests, one
to tropical forests, nine to monsoonal savannas, two
to arid deserts and four to inland eastern Australia.
Australian nches, therefore, are a comparative system
with which we can explore genomic underpinnings of
traits important in adaptation to climate change and
gene-environment interactions in natural populations.
Duties and Key Result Areas:The Postdoctoral Fellow will be mentored but will be
responsible for:
-performing high-throughput genotyping and detec-
tion of thousands of single-nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) in up to 30 individuals across the geographical
ranges of at least two nch species from arid, tropical
and temperate climates -identify genomic regions under
selection by outlier analysis or other methods to iden-
tify sites with high diversication relative to the nch
species' genome -screening for patterns of gene expres-
sion across the geographical and climatic ranges of the
nch species; -seek correlations among patterns of gene
expression, outlier loci and environmental variables
across species to pinpoint genomic regions of interest to
climatic adaptation. -test whether genes and gene func-
tions are dierentially expressed and present/absent in
species living in dierent climatic regimes (e.g., tropi-
cal and arid versus temperate zones). -Work with other
team members and provide support and/or supervision
of junior sta or students, etc. -Produce high qual-
ity scientic and technical outputs including journal
articles, conference papers and presentations, patents
and technical reports. -Develop innovative concepts
and ideas for further research. -Regularly review rel-
evant literature and patents. -Contribute to the eec-
tive functioning of the research team and help deliver
upon CSIRO1s organisational objectives. -Participate
in CSIRO1s postdoctoral training program.
*CSIRO's postdoctoral training program is a structured
training program that will be developed between you
and a CSIRO scientist. The program will allow you to
further develop your skills in research, planning, man-
agement and communication. Training and develop-
ment plans will be designed to develop fellows1capabil-
ities to the level expected of an independent researcher.
Each plan will include on-the-job and course-based de-
velopment encompassing:
-Discipline-specic techniques and protocols -
Professional growth -Project management -
Communication and inuencing skills -Working
and collaborating with others
For further information please see http://-
www.csiro.au/Portals/Careers/Postdoctoral-
Fellowships/Postdoctoral-F ellowships.aspx
Selection Criteria: Please note: Under CSIRO policy
only applicants who meet all the essential criteria can
be appointed
Pre-Requisite: A PhD, or will shortly satisfy the re-
quirements for a PhD degree, in a relevant scientic
discipline. Owing to the terms of CSIRO Postdoctoral
Fellowships, you must not have more than 3 years rel-66 EvolDir June 1, 2013
evant post doctoral experience.
Essential Criteria:
1.Demonstrated ability to conduct innovative research
in vertebrate genomics and informatics. 2.Demon-
strated ability to develop experimental plans and pur-
sue novel research approaches. 3.Demonstrated orig-
inality, creativity and innovation in solving problems
and introducing new directions and approaches.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CSIRO Canberra
GenomicsClimateAdaptation
Advertised Job Title: OCE Postdoctoral Fellow ' Ge-
nomics of Climate Adaptability
Salary Range: $81K to $88K plus up to 15.4% Superan-
nuation Location:Black Mountain, Canberra, Australia
Tenure: Specied Term of 3 years Relocation Assis-
tance: May be provided to the successful candidate
Residency Status: All Candidates
Role Overview: CSIRO oers PhD graduates an op-
portunity to launch their scientic careers through our
Oce of the Chief Executive (OCE) Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships. Successful applicants will work with leaders
in the eld of science and receive personal development
and learning opportunities.
The Position: There is mounting evidence for large dif-
ferences between species in their ability to adapt to cli-
mate change. On one hand some climate specialists'
conned to tropical or semi-tropical rainforest habitats
may have negligible ability to adapt to altered climate
regimes (see eg Nature 470: 479; Science 325:1244). On
the other hand some generalist species may become in-
vasive in the disrupted ecosystems generated by climate
change. There would clearly be profound consequences
for biodiversity management strategies if these patterns
prove to be general phenomena.
CSIRO, University of Melbourne and Monash Univer-
sity have therefore begun a large, multidisciplinary col-
laboration to test a range of species for their pheno-
typic and genotypic abilities to adapt to altered cli-
mates, and to determine the genomic basis for theseabilities. The initial focus has been on 20 Drosophila
species but we are also extending our work to other
species, including bactroceran fruit ies. The current
position focuses mainly on potentially invasive species,
including a mix of Drosophila and Bactrocera. Your
primary responsibilities will include bioinformatic and
biostatistical analyses of genome data but you will also
have the opportunity to contribute to empirical studies,
including some complementary metabolic work.
Duties and Key Result Areas:
The Postdoctoral Fellow will be mentored but will be
responsible for:
- Undertake research on the comparative genomics of
climate stress responses in Drosophila and Bactrocera.
-Develop innovative concepts and ideas for further re-
search. -Under broad supervision, assist in the planning
and preparation of research proposals and carryout in-
vestigations requiring originality, creativity and inno-
vation. -Cooperate with others to build an eective
research team. -Work with other team members and
provide support and/or supervision of junior sta or
students, etc. -Produce high quality scientic and tech-
nical outputs including journal articles, conference pa-
pers and presentations, patents and technical reports.
-Regularly review relevant literature and patents. -
Contribute to the eective functioning of the research
team and help deliver upon CSIRO1s organisational ob-
jectives. -Participate in CSIRO1s postdoctoral training
program.*
*CSIRO's postdoctoral training program is a structured
training program that will be developed between you
and a CSIRO scientist. The program will allow you to
further develop your skills in research, planning, man-
agement and communication. Training and develop-
ment plans will be designed to develop fellows1capabil-
ities to the level expected of an independent researcher.
Each plan will include on-the-job and course-based de-
velopment encompassing:
-Discipline-specic techniques and protocols -
Professional growth -Project management -
Communication and inuencing skills -Working
and collaborating with others For further infor-
mation please see http://www.csiro.au/Portals/-
Careers/Postdoctoral-Fellowships/Postdoctoral-F
ellowships.aspx
Selection Criteria:
Please note: Under CSIRO policy only applicants who
meet all the essential criteria can be appointed
Pre-Requisite: A PhD, or will shortly satisfy the re-
quirements for a PhD degree, in a relevant scienticJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 67
discipline. Owing to the terms of CSIRO Postdoctoral
Fellowships, you must not have more than 3 years rel-
evant postdoctoral experience.
Essential Criteria:
1.Demonstrated ability to conduct innovative research
in genome bioinformatics / biostatistics and preferably
also some training in biochemistry. 2.Demonstrated
ability to develop experimental plans and pursue novel
research approaches. 3.Demonstrated originality, cre-
ativity and innovation in solving problems and intro-
ducing new directions and approaches. 4.Ability to
work with a broad range of people from varying research
backgrounds and evidence of strong oral and written
communication skills, including the ability to publish
the results of scientic research in scientic journals.
5.Demonstrated ability to work independently under
minimal supervision while contributing to overall team
performance and proven ability to meet performance
deadlines during the course of the project.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Cleveland
PlasmodiumPopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral researcher - Plasmodium genomics
A postdoctoral position is available to work on Plas-
modium vivax population genomics with David Serre
(http://www.lerner.ccf.org/gmi/serre/) at the Cleve-
land Clinic Genomic Medicine Institute.
P. vivax is the main cause of malaria outside Africa
but little is known about its biology since the para-
site cannot be easily propagated in vitro. In the frame
of a NIH-funded project, we are sequencing parasite
genomes from blood samples of infected Cambodian pa-
tients to better characterize genetic diversity and orga-
nization of the P. vivax population and identify genetic
loci underlying resistance to antimalarial drugs. Possi-
bilities also exist for a successful candidate to develop
new projects related to the overall goals of this research.
An ideal candidate would have prior experience with
next-generation sequencing data, strong quantitative,
computational and programming skills, and a recordof published work in population genetics. Applicant
should hold a Ph.D. in Biology, Genetics, Bioinformat-
ics, Statistics or a related eld, as well as strong written
and oral communication skills. The position is available
immediately.
Applicants should send a single pdf including a CV,
contact information for three references, and a cover
letter to serred@ccf.org
serred@ccf.org
CornellU CassavaGenomicSelection
Postdoctoral Associate: Genomic Selection in Cassava
A Postdoctoral Associate position is available to work
in the area of genomic selection in the Department
of Plant Breeding and Genetics at Cornell University.
This position is part of an exciting international project
to implement genomic selection in cassava led by Jean-
Luc Jannink. The goal of this project is to increase
the rate of genetic improvement of cassava for farm-
ers in sub-Saharan Africa. Although the project is
applied, we will be collecting a lot of sequence and
phenotype data that can also be used to explore more
basic issues in quantitative genetics and methods for
genomic prediction, genotype imputation etc. Infor-
mation about the project can be found at http://-
www.nextgencassava.org . The ideal candidate will
have expertise in statistical genomics and plant breed-
ing. Responsibilities will include independent research
in development and evaluation of prediction models,
analysis of empirical data, and training of scientists and
students. Programming skills and working knowledge
of mixed models are desirable, as are good communi-
cation skills, including preparation of manuscripts and
the ability to explain complex material to non-experts,
and knowledge of plant breeding practices. The posi-
tion will involve close collaboration with the bioinfor-
matics team and with cassava breeders in Nigeria and
Uganda. Travel to Africa will be expected.
The position is available July 1. Applications will be re-
viewed until a suitable candidate is found. The initial
appointment will be made for one year, with renewal
contingent on satisfactory performance (the project is
funded until 2017). Cornell is an equal opportunity
employer.
Inquiries or applications can be sent to Martha Ham-
blin (mth3@cornell.edu).68 EvolDir June 1, 2013
A list of publications from the Jannink group can
be found at http://www.ars.usda.gov/pandp/people/-
people.htm?personid=40650 Martha Hamblin
\Martha T. Hamblin" <mth3@cornell.edu >
DalhousieU AppleGenomics
The Myles lab at Dalhousie University
(www.cultivatingdiversity.org) invites applications
for a postdoctoral position in apple genomics.
The position is available from July 1st, 2013 for a du-
ration of 2 years with the possibility of extension.
We are seeking a postdoc to work on the analysis of
genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) data generated from
a diverse collection of more than 1000 apple cultivars.
The successful applicant will have extensive experience
with computer programming and will preferably have
experience with Java and at least one other program-
ming language. No previous experience in agriculture
is required. The aim of the project is to develop novel
imputation algorithms that will allow us to better ex-
ploit GBS data. Experience handling next-generation
DNA sequence data and software development will be
considered a major asset. We will also use these data
to elucidate the evolutionary history of apples, so expe-
rience with population genetics and evolutionary anal-
yses of genome-wide polymorphism data will also be
considered an asset.
The location of the lab is in Kentville, Nova Scotia,
Canada, but we will consider applicants who wish to
work remotely. For more information about the Myles
lab, please visit:
www.cultivatingdiversity.org Interested appli-
cants can send a cover letter and a CV to
jobs@cultivatingdiversity.org{
Sean Myles Assistant Professor Canada Research
Chair in Agricultural Genetic Diversity Fac-
ulty of Agriculture Dalhousie University Mo-
bile: 902-690-7093 Lab Manager: 902-365-8463
Fax: 902-679-2311 www.cultivatingdiversity.org
sean.michael.myles@gmail.comDurhamU PopGenomics
Deadline for Post-Doctoral Research Associate position
in Population Genomics extended to 24 May 13
PDRA Position at Durham University
Post-Doctoral Research Associate position in Popula-
tion Genomics for the project \Adaptation and drift
in the deep sea - investigating the evolution of di-
versity in a 'uniform' environment". This is a 3-
year position funded by the Natural Environment Re-
search Council (NERC) to investigate the population
genomics and phylogenetics of deep sea sh species in
the genus Coryphaenoides. Single nucleotide polymor-
phisms (SNP) will be developed by RAD tag sequencing
for two focal species (DNA from 400+ individuals al-
ready available in the lab archive), one found in deep
demersal habitat, and the other in the abyss. Popula-
tion genomic analysis will investigate evolutionary pro-
cesses generating diversity at both neutral and func-
tional loci (e.g. functional loci associated with adap-
tation to depth). Phylogenetic analyses will compare
neutral and functional loci for phylogenies constructed
using DNA from 50-60 congeneric species that inhabit
a range of depths, from 500-1000m down to the abyss
at 4-5 km.
The ideal candidate will have experience with next gen-
eration sequencing methodologies and genome analysis
software, be able to use script writing languages (such
as Perl or Python), and have a general understanding
of bio-informatics associated with the analysis of sec-
ond generation DNA sequence data. Candidates who
have some relevant experience and the background to
allow them to learn these methods will also be consid-
ered. The candidate should also have skills associated
with the use of population genetics and phylogenetic
software packages, and there will be some labwork as-
sociated with DNA amplication and preparation for
Sanger sequencing.
The project is a collaboration between the Molecular
Ecology Group in Durham and the Centre for Genomic
Research in Liverpool, to begin on 29 July 2013. The
Post-doc will be based in Durham (UK), but the po-
sition is open to all nationalities. A PhD in a related
eld is required and relevant post-doctoral experience
and publications highly desirable.
Contact Rus Hoelzel if you have any questions, andJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 69
to apply please send your c.v., a cover letter, and
have three letters of reference sent to Prof. Hoelzel
at a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk.
\HOELZEL A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
ETH Zurich Eawag HostParasitoid
The Evolutionary Ecology group based at Eawag
Dubendorf and ETH Zurich in Switzerland is conduct-
ing research on host-parasite interactions. We are par-
ticularly interested in the topic of symbiont-mediated
coevolution, that is in hosts adapting to their parasites
by symbiosis with protective microorganisms, and in
the parasites counteradapting to these protective sym-
bionts. Our main study organisms are aphids, their
bacterial endosymbionts and hymenopteran parasitoids
of aphids.
To strengthen our team we are inviting applications for
a
POSTDOC POSITION IN GENETICS OF HOST-
PARASITE INTERACTIONS
We are seeking an enthusiastic postdoc with interest in
host-parasite coevolution and experience in generating
and analyzing next-generation sequencing data, ideally
in transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq). A PhD is re-
quired for this position. The expected starting date is
1 October 2013, but can be negotiated.
This Postdoc position is funded by the Swiss Na-
tional Science Foundation and is available for 2 years.
The successful candidate will be working in the Evo-
lutionary Ecology group led by Christoph Vorburger
(www.evec.ethz.ch). This group is associated with
the Institute of Integrative Biology at ETH Zurich,
Switzerland (http://www.ibz.ethz.ch), as well as with
the Department of Aquatic Ecology at Eawag, the
Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Tech-
nology (http://www.eawag.ch). These institutions of-
fer a stimulating work environment, ample opportu-
nities for collaboration, and excellent facilities, in-
cluding the state-of-the-art Genetic Diversity Center
(www.gdc.ethz.ch). Salary and benets are competi-
tive. Dubendorf is adjacent to Zurich, a city known for
its excellent quality of life.
Applications have to be submitted online via the fol-
lowing link: http://internet1.reine.ch/673277/0199/-
++publications++/1/index.html . Please include a
cover letter explaining your motivation, research inter-ests and relevant experience, a curriculum vitae, publi-
cation list, and the names and contact details of three
academic references as a single PDF le. Deadline for
applications is 31 May 2013. For enquiries about this
position please contact Christoph Vorburger (+41 58
765 51 96; christoph.vorburger@eawag.ch).
We are looking forward to your application.
Christoph.Vorburger@eawag.ch
Europe PlantEvolution
Our fellowship programme is open to all elds of plant
sciences, including but not limited to evolutionary bi-
ologists.
PLANT FELLOWS - The International Post doc Fel-
lowship Programme in Plant Sciences
Next deadline for applications: 24th June 2013 at
17.00.00, Zurich local time
PLANT FELLOWS is an international post doc fellow-
ship programme in the eld of plant sciences co-funded
by the SEVENTH FRAMEWORK PROGRAMME
(FP7) Marie Curie Actions ' People, Co-funding of Re-
gional, National and International Programmes (CO-
FUND) and is centrally managed at the Zurich-Basel
Plant Science Center: www.plantsciences.ch It is of-
fering post-doc fellowships between 12 and 24 months,
spread between three dierent mobility schemes (in-
coming, outgoing and reintegration) at more than 20
universities, research institutions and industry part-
ners all over the world. The fellows of the programme
can benet from a postdoc training programme in-
cluding transnational mobility, industrial placements,
career events and courses dedicated to training in en
trepreneurship and complementary skills.
PLANT FELLOWS is open to all elds of research in
plant sciences and to applicants of any nationality ful-
lling the following eligibility criteria: - Only experi-
enced researcher can benet from the PLANT FEL-
LOWS programme. Thus the applicant must, at the
time of recruitment be in possession of a doctoral de-
gree or have at least four years of full- time equiva-
lent research experience. Both options need to be veri-
ed by certicates, which will be reviewed by the selec-
tion committee. - At the date for application submis-
sion, the applicant must not have resided or carried out
his/her main activity (e.g. work, studies) in the coun-
try of the host organisation for more than 12 months70 EvolDir June 1, 2013
in the 3 years immediately prior to the application sub-
mission. - The transnational mobility shall come under
one of the following 3 fellowship schemes: incoming,
outgoing or re-integration mobility.
The general eligibility criteria are set out in the
PLANT FELLOWS guide for applicants available at
the PLANT FELLOWS website: www.plantfellows.ch
The applicant shall be available for the post within 5
months after receiving the notication of acceptance of
application.
The application for a PLANT FELLOWS post doc fel-
lowship needs to be submitted electronically via an on-
line application system at the PLANT FELLOWS web-
site.
The forms of grants and maximum reimbursement
rates, which will be oered, are specied in the PLANT
FELLOWS guide for applicants.
Do not hesitate to contact the programme ocer Mrs.
Romy Kohlmann (info-at-plantfellows.ch) for any fur-
ther questions.
To learn more about the programme activities, the ap-
plication and selection procedures as well as the host
organisations please visit: www.plantfellows.ch Romy
Kohlmann, M.A. ' Programme Ocer PLANT FEL-
LOWS - Zurich-Basel Plant Science Center - ETH
Z urich, LFW B 51 - Universit atstrasse 2 - 8092 Z urich
phone: 0041 44 632 47 96 - fax: 044 632 18 26 (Monday-
Thursday)
Kohlmann Romy <romy.kohlmann@usys.ethz.ch >
FUBerlin
PhylogenomicsOfNymphaeales
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher to
work on chloroplast phylogenomics of Nymphaeales
at the Freie Universitaet Berlin (Germany). The
project is supervised by Prof. Thomas Borsch (http:/-
/www.bcp.fu-berlin.de/biologie/arbeitsgruppen/-
botanik/ag borsch/index.html) and will be executed
in collaboration with the Berlin Centre for Ge-
nomics in Biodiversity Research (BeGenDiv; http:/-
/www.begendiv.de). It is a full-time position (40
hours/week) that will initially be limited to 2 years
and that includes teaching at the Bsc and/or MSc level
(max. 4 hours/week). The salary will be calculated
according to E 13 TV-L. Starting date: June 2013, or
soon thereafter.Requirements: - PhD in Biology or similar discipline -
Experience in phylogenetics/-genomics - Good knowl-
edge about systematics and diversity of owering plants
- Good statistical knowledge and experience with han-
dling large datasets - Good knowledge of German and
English, both written and spoken
Applications should include a motivation letter, de-
tailed CV and the contact details of at least two ref-
erees, and can be sent to:
FU Berlin Institut fuer Biologie - Botanik Prof. Dr.
Thomas Borsch Altensteinstr. 6 14195 Berlin
or by E-mail to: systbot@zedat.fu-berlin.de.
Deadline for applications is June 7, 2013 and informal
inquiries are welcome at t.borsch@bgbm.org.
ludo muller@yahoo.com
Germany 3 FungalGenomics
The LOEWE Excellence Cluster for Integrative Fungal
Research (IPF), a joint initiative of four universities and
Senckenberg invites applications for \Three Postdoc-
toral Fellowships in Functional Genetics or Genomics
of Fungi"
The positions are available from 1st of July 2013 to
30st of June 2015, with a possibility of extension for 6
months.
We are seeking a highly motivated individual whose
research will be adding signicantly to the LOEWE
excellence cluster 'Integrative Fungal Research (IPF)'.
The aim of the cluster is to synergistically tie to-
gether biodiversity, genetics and applied biochem-
istry/biotechnology.
The IPF is equipped with state of the art scientic
instrumentation and oers an ideal environment for
young researchers. It is envisaged that the successful
applicants will develop their scientic prole and inde-
pendence and will develop a vigorous research agenda.
Apart from a competitive allowance the fellowship also
includes a core funding for research and comes with spe-
cial benets for young researchers with children. Inter-
national applications are especially welcome.
The successful applicant will have a strong background
in functional genetics/genomics of fungi or fungal ana-
logues. Expertise in genome analyses, developmental
biology, heterologous expression, functional assays, orJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 71
related topics is welcome.
We expect a solid publication record, good written and
oral communication skills in English, and the capabil-
ity of developing and testing scientic hypothesis and to
explore new areas of research. The willingness to write
research proposals is benecial. Experiences in acquir-
ing extramural funding are a plus. The fellowship al-
lowance depends on previous experience and scientic
excellence. The selection committee will pay special
attention to the research proposal. Projects with links
to biodiversity or biotechnology will be especially wel-
come.
If interested, please contact Prof. Dr. Marco Thines
(marco.thines@senckenberg.de) and submit your appli-
cation including a cover letter, CV, statement of re-
search achievements, a detailed proposal of future re-
search (about three pages) certicates (PhD, MSc, BSc,
or similar), and the names of three scientists who could
provide references. Applications should be submitted
as a single PDF le.
Review of applications will start on the 18th of May
2012 and will continue until all positions have been
lled.
Jenny Koeppchen
Jenny Koeppchen <Jenny.Koeppchen@senckenberg.de >
Grenoble MicrobialEvolution
A post-doctoral position is available for three years
with Dominique Schneider in the Laboratory \Adapta-
tion and Pathogenicity of Microorganisms", University
Joseph Fourier, Grenoble, France. The position is part
of a European research project, called EvoEvo, with
four other partners (Guillaume Beslon INRIA Lyon,
Santiago Elena CSIC Spain, Susan Stepney University
of York, Paulien Hogeweg University of Utrecht).
Evolution is the major source of biological complexity
on Earth, at the origin of all the species we can ob-
serve, interact with or breed. At a shorter scale, evolu-
tion is at the heart of the adaptation process for many
species, in particular microorganisms (e.g. bacteria and
viruses...). Microbial evolution not only results in the
emergence of the species itself but also contributes to
real-time adaptation of the organisms when facing per-
turbations or environmental changes. Thus, these or-
ganisms are not only organized/by/ evolution, they are
also organized/to/ evolve.Molecular systems that are involved in the evolution-
ary process are themselves shaped by past evolution.
This implies that evolution is able to inuence its own
course. This evolution of evolution (\EvoEvo") is at
the heart of many phenomena overlooked by evolution-
ary algorithms, like second-order evolution, evolution of
robustness, of evolvability, of mutation operators and
rates, co-evolution... Yet, all these processes are at
work in living organisms including bacteria and viruses,
accelerating their evolution and enabling them to adapt
rapidly and eciently to environmental changes like
new drugs, to ght the immune system or to colonize
diverse ecological niches.
In our laboratory in Grenoble, the project will con-
sist in observing, quantifying and characterizing \evo-
lution of evolution" in microorganisms at the level of
genomes, biological networks and populations. We will
address experimentally the pace of evolution of microor-
ganisms and relate it to their robustness, evolvability
and open-endedness. In particular, we will address the
relationship between robustness and evolvability by di-
rectly testing whether more robust genotypes are also
more evolvable or, by contrast, whether they adapt in
a slower pace to new environmental conditions. We
will tackle these issues using the longest-running evolu-
tion experiment from Richard Lenski with/Escherichia
coli/. It provides a powerful methodology to analyse
the molecular basis of adaptation and to draw a rigor-
ous phenotype-to-genotype map. We will gain a bet-
ter understanding of the \evolution of evolution" phe-
nomenon that is still poorly understood. EvoEvo will
contribute evolutionary theory by allowing understand-
ing of the surprisingly high pace of evolution of microor-
ganisms. It will enable us to understand if/when/how
the characteristics of the genotype-to-phenotype map-
ping are selected in real evolving systems that have to
adapt to new conditions.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Molecular
and Evolutionary
Biology, or related elds. Expertise in molecular biol-
ogy, genome sequencing, and global transcription pro-
les is requested. In addition, the candidates should
have computational skills for analyses of genome se-
quences and transcription proles.
To apply, please submit applications by e-mail to Do-
minique Schneider, including (1) a CV, (2) a brief state-
ment of past accomplishments and PDFs of most rele-
vant publications, (3) research interests and (4) names
and contact information of three referees.
Dominique Schneider Laboratoire Adaptation et
Pathog enie des Microorganismes CNRS UMR5163 Uni-
versit e Joseph Fourier Institut Jean Roget Domaine de72 EvolDir June 1, 2013
la Merci BP170 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9 France
Phone: +33 (0) 4 76 63 74 90 Fax: +33 (0) 4 76 63 74
97 E-mail: dominique.schneider@ujf-grenoble.fr
Dominique Schneider <dominique.schneider@ujf-
grenoble.fr >
INRA Nouzilly France
ReproductivePhylogenetics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Reproduc-
tive and Behavior Laboratory at the INRA institute
in Nouzilly, France. This lab specializes in developing
phylogenetics and evolutionary methodologies to study
biological functions such as reproduction and lipid
metabolism. In particular, there is a need for a bet-
ter understanding of how genes involved in metabolism
are evolving by gene appearance, gene loss, positive
selection, gene conversion.... Candidate should have
PhD experience in evolutionary biology, bioinformat-
ics, computer science, or related elds. Funding for this
position is available from spring 2014 during 8 months.
For informal enquiries, contact Dr. Philippe Monget
via?email: pmonget@tours.inra.fr.\
Best, Philippe
Philippe Monget <Philippe.Monget@tours.inra.fr >
INRIA Lille France Statistical
genomic rearrangement
Postdoctoral position in Statistical genomic rearrange-
ment in Lille/France
A postdoctoral position is available within the BONSAI
team, a bioinformatics research group between INRIA
Lille - Nord Europe and LIFL (UMR 8022 CNRS, Uni-
versity Lille, France). - Duration : 12 months - Starting
date : between June 2013 and October 2013
Description
The position is funded by a Nord-Pas-de-Calais re-
gion grant for a scientic project on the application
of Bayesian models and Markov chains Monte Carlo
(MCMC) sampling techniques to the analysis of ge-nomic rearrangements.
The successful candidate will work on exploring and
developing new Bayesian probabilistic models for the
analysis of genome evolution based on the evolution of
genomic breakpoints.
Application
The ideal candidate should hold: - either a PhD in
Probability and Statistics with a taste for applications
in bioinformatics, - or a PhD in Computer Science /
Computational Biology with an expertise in Probabil-
ity and Statistics.
If the Ph.D. thesis is not yet defended, the candidate
should provide the planned defense date.
Before applying, candidates should email their detailed
CV with a list of publications, and a short description
of their current research interests and future research
plans to Aida.Ouangraoua@inria.fr .
- Application deadline: May 20, 2013. http://-
tinyurl.com/dxlh4s4 aida.ouangraoua@inria.fr
ImperialCollege London
MicrobialCommunityEvolution
Salary $32,100 - $40,720 per annum (maximum start-
ing salary $34,720)
We are looking for a Research Associate who will lead
large-scale, high-throughput eco-evolutionary experi-
ments using bacteria collected from natural environ-
ments.
Laboratory studies of adaptation to novel environments
are well documented, but very little is known about
how species evolve in nature. This position oers the
opportunity to combine eld and laboratory investiga-
tions of how microbes adapt to changing environments.
Previous research in the group has shown that, while
interactions among random collections of microbes tend
to be competitive (Foster & Bell, 2013, Current Biol-
ogy, 22: 1845), positive interactions emerge when mi-
crobial strains coevolve in closed microcosms (Lawrence
et al. PLoS Biology, 2013, 10: e1001330). The project
will build on these results by investigating how bacte-
rial species adapt while they are embedded within com-
plex communities containing hundreds or thousands of
species.
The project will complement ongoing research beingJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 73
undertaken in Professor Barraclough's and Dr Bell's
research groups, which investigate the biodiversity and
evolution of microbial communities, and will be based
at the Silwood Park Campus.
You must have a PhD (or equivalent) in microbiology,
evolution, ecology, or a closely related discipline and a
strong background in experimental microbial ecology.
Experience of conducting large-scale ecological experi-
ments is also essential.
Experience in molecular microbiology, including next-
generation sequencing, and diversity surveys using 16S
sequencing is desirable. Experience of statistical anal-
ysis of complex ecological datasets using R or similar
software would also be an advantage.
You must have excellent verbal and written commu-
nication skills, and be able to write clearly and suc-
cinctly for publication. You must also be able to re-
late well with others, form positive relationships with
a wide range of people and to work as part of a team,
as well as independently. The ability to develop and
apply new concepts and have a creative approach to
problem-solving will be required.
Closing Date
Our preferred method of application is online via this
website:
https://www4.ad.ic.ac.uk/OA HTML/OA.jsp?page=-
3D/oracle/apps/irc/candidateSelfService/-
webui/VisVacDispPG&akRegionApplicationId=-
821&transactionid=1394171123&retainAM=-
Y&addBreadCrumb=S&p svid=41105&p spid=-
1629668&oapc=7&oas=UqKhtoBHrug-
bHmgRICYJw. . Should you have any administrative
queries please contact: Mrs Diana Anderson - 020 7594
2207 or email d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk
t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk
Jyvaskyla Finland
BacterialEvolution
Postdoc position University of Jyv askyl a:
We are searching for a candidate for a postdoctoral
position at the Department of Biological and Environ-
mental Science, University of Jyv askyl a, Finland. The
work would involve development of qPCR for the sh
pathogen Flavobacterium columnare to study the eect
of strain competition on the evolution of virulence un-der varying resource conditions. The position is for 2
years, starting preferably in August, 2013.
Please send letters of interest and CV (single pdf le) to
jouni.k.taskinen@jyu. and/or katja.pulkkinen@jyu.
Short description of the project can be found
at http://users.jyu./ ~ pukaan/research.html
katja.pulkkinen@jyu.
KansasStateU Phylogenetics
Postdoctoral Research Associate { Phylogenetics and
Polyploidy
A two-year postdoctoral position is available in the
laboratory of Dr. Carolyn Ferguson in the Division
of Biology at Kansas State University (Manhattan,
Kansas). The successful candidate will investigate phy-
logenetics of several polyploid complexes in the genus
*Phlox *(Polemoniaceae) using both traditional and
next-generation sequencing approaches. This research
contributes to a collaborative project focused on poly-
ploidy and aspects of diversity in *Phlox* in the south-
western U.S. (including studies in phylogenetics, pop-
ulation genetics, morphology, ecology and taxonomy).
The postdoctoral researcher will work under the men-
torship of the PI, and will interact with collaborat-
ing investigators as well as graduate and undergrad-
uate students. Minimum qualications: a Ph.D. (by
start date) with emphasis on Systematics, Evolution-
ary Biology or related discipline. Preferred qualica-
tions: strong molecular biology laboratory skills; and
excellent writing and interpersonal skills. The salary
is $40,000 plus benets, with the position available on
a 12-month appointment contingent on need for ser-
vices and funding. The position is available immedi-
ately but the start date is exible. Review of applica-
tions will begin 20 May 2013, and continue until the
position is lled. To apply, send a cover letter, CV, up
to three publications, and arrange to have two letters
of reference sent to biology@ksu.edu. Inquiries are wel-
comed and should be addressed to Carolyn Ferguson,
ferg@ksu.edu. Kansas State University is an equal op-
portunity employer and actively seeks diversity among
its employees. Background check required.
Carolyn J. Ferguson Associate Professor Curator of the
Herbarium (KSC) Division of Biology Kansas State
University Manhattan, KS 66506-4901 ph: 785-532-
316674 EvolDir June 1, 2013
ferg@ksu.edu
LBBE Lyon AncestralGenomes
Integrative methods for reconstructing ancestral
genomes
A 2 year (+1) post-doctoral position is available to
work on integrative methods for reconstructing ances-
tral genomes in the Bioinformatics and Genome Evolu-
tion (BGE) group at the LBBE in Lyon, France (http:/-
/lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/?lang=en).
The researcher will work in collaboration with Vincent
Daubin, Bastien Boussau, Gergely Szollosi and Eric
Tannier, in the context of the ANCESTROME project.
ANCESTROME (http://ancestrome.univ-lyon1.fr) is a
large collaborative project funded by the French Na-
tional Research Agency .
The project aims at building integrative models and
studying the genomes of extant living organisms to re-
construct evolutionary intermediates together with the
evolutionary processes that have generated them. A
critical step in the development of methods to recon-
struct the evolution of genomes is the modeling of the
processes that relate gene phylogenies to species phy-
logenies. We have developed methods for integrating
events of gene duplication, gene loss and lateral gene
transfer in the simultaneous reconstruction of species
and gene histories. These methods yield much better
estimates of the gene content of ancestral genome, and
hence open the door to accurate reconstructions of an-
cestral species characteristics. These include not only
cellular and genome organization, or metabolic capabil-
ities, as deduced from genome content, but also virtu-
ally any internal or external factor that has left a trace
in the genomic record, in particular details of the envi-
ronment to which the species has adapted, its resources,
symbionts or demography.
In a series of recent papers, we have used probabilis-
tic models and high performance computing meth-
ods on the HOGENOM (http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/-
databases/hogenom/acceuil.php) database to start ex-
ploiting genomes as documents of evolutionary history
(see references below).
Possible avenues of research include:
- Reconstructing ancestral genomes, phenotypes and
environments- Modeling coevolution of genes and genomes...
The successful candidate will have a strong background
in computational biology or probabilistic models. Good
programming skills are essential. A good understand-
ing of the concepts of evolutionary biology is a plus.
The LBBE oers a highly stimulating scientic en-
vironment, and Lyon is a lively, beautiful, history
rich city (see http://whc.unesco.org/en/list/872/) with
great food. The researcher will also have the opportu-
nity to visit collaborating labs in the no less interesting
cities of Budapest and Berkeley.
Please send a CV and motivation letter including
references to Vincent Daubin (vincent.daubin@univ-
lyon1.fr) and Bastien Boussau (bastien.boussau@univ-
lyon1.fr).
Keywords: Probabilistic Models, Phylogenetics, Evolu-
tion of Life on Earth, Evolutionary Genomics, Coevo-
lution, HPC
References: - Sz ollosi GJ, Tannier E, Lartillot N,
Daubin V. Lateral Gene Transfer from the Dead. Syst
Biol. 2013 May 1;62(3):386-397. - Boussau B, Sz ollosi
GJ, Duret L, Gouy M, Tannier E, Daubin V. Genome-
scale coestimation of species and gene trees. Genome
Res. 2012 Nov 6. - Sz ollosi GJ, Boussau B, Abby SS,
Tannier E, Daubin V. Phylogenetic modeling of lateral
gene transfer reconstructs the pattern and relative tim-
ing of speciations. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Oct
23;109(43):17513-8. - B erard S, Gallien C, Boussau B,
Sz ollo\si GJ, Daubin V, Tannier E. Evolution of gene
neighborhoods within reconciled phylogenies. Bioinfor-
matics. 2012 Sep 15;28(18):i382-i388. - Abby SS, Tan-
nier E, Gouy M, Daubin V. Lateral gene transfer as a
support for the tree of life. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S
A. 2012 Mar 27;109(13):4962-7. - Sz ollosi GJ, Daubin
V. Modeling gene family evolution and reconciling phy-
logenetic discord. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;856:29-51.
- Abby SS, Tannier E, Gouy M, Daubin V. Detect-
ing lateral gene transfers by statistical reconciliation of
phylogenetic forests. BMC Bioinformatics. 2010 Jun
15;11:324. - Boussau B, Daubin V. Genomes as docu-
ments of evolutionary history. Trends Ecol Evol. 2010
Apr;25(4):224-32. - Penel S, Arigon AM, Dufayard JF,
Sertier AS, Daubin V, Duret L, Gouy M, Perri ere G.
Databases of homologous gene families for comparative
genomics. BMC Bioinformatics. 2009 Jun 16;10 Suppl
6:S3.
Vincent Daubin <daubinster@gmail.com >June 1, 2013 EvolDir 75
Melbourne MCRI
StatisticalGenetics
Post-doc, Statistical Genetics Murdoch Childrens Re-
search Institute
Position Title Postdoctoral Research Assistant
(Ref# 724/2013) Position Description See http://-
www.mcri.edu.au/careers-students/careers/current-
vacancies/ Group Statistical Genetics Employer
Murdoch Childrens Research Institute Location (Mel-
bourne) Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, Victoria
Work Type Full-time Classication MCRI Research
Scale (AUD 75,404 - 80,939 p.a. plus superannuation
and salary packaging benets) Closing Date 7 June
2013
Applications are invited for a Post-doctoral Researcher
to join the Statistical Genetics Group at the Murdoch
Childrens Research Institute, headed by Dr Stephen
Leslie. The group's work focuses on methodological
developments for the analysis of high throughput ge-
netic data and the application of these methods to stud-
ies of disease and natural population variation. These
methods typically combine modern computationally-
intensive statistical approaches with insights from pop-
ulation genetics models. Specically the group works
on statistical methods for imputing immune system
(and other) genes from incomplete genetic data; the
application of these methods to studies of autoimmune
and other diseases; methods for detecting and con-
trolling for population stratication; and understand-
ing the causes and consequences of genetic variation in
populations. The group has strong established collab-
orations with the Donnelly and McVean groups at the
Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Gene tics in Oxford.
The position involves working on problems at the cut-
ting edge of human genetics, and represents an exciting
opportunity for a statistical geneticist, or someone with
a strong statistical background and skills wishing to
move into this eld. The successful applicant will work
on developing statistical methods for detecting and con-
trolling for population stratication, with particular fo-
cus on incorporating such methods into genetic (and in
particular genome-wide) association studies. The ap-
pointee will also contribute to other research projects
in statistical genetics as directed by the group leader.
He/ she will be encouraged to develop his/ her inde-
pendent research projects where appropriate.We are seeking a highly motivated scientist, with a PhD
in statistics or a closely related area. Applications are
encouraged from people who can demonstrate a strong
statistical or other quantitative background and wish
to move into statistical genetics research. Ideally you
will have experience of genetic analyses but this is not
essential. You must have considerable programming ex-
perience with a low level language (e.g. C, C++) and
preferably also with the statistical software R. The suc-
cessful applicant will have an aptitude for visualizing
data, problem solving and careful statistical analysis.
You should be able to work alone and collaboratively,
and be able to digest and communicate scientic ideas
eectively. The position is available for two years with
the possibility of extension.
Informal enquires can be directed to Stephen Leslie
(stephen.leslie@mcri.edu.au).
Applications close at 9am Friday 7th June 2013. Late
applications will not be considered.
REF: 724/2013
Please send written applications (in PDF format)
addressing the Key Selection Criteria (see http://-
www.mcri.edu.au/careers-students/careers/current-
vacancies/), Academic Transcripts, Cover Letter and
CV containing details of 3 referees, quoting the above
mentioned reference number to Human Resources via
recruitment@mcri.edu.au.
stephen.leslie@mcri.edu.au
MountSinai NewYork
EvolutionaryMedicineInformatics
Postdoctoral Scholar in Evolutionary Medicine and In-
formatics
We are currently accepting applications for post-docs
combining computational genomics, molecular evolu-
tion, and disease biology. Candidates should have a
Ph.D. in biology, genetics, computer science, statistics,
bioinformatics, computational biology, or a related eld
and knowledge of molecular evolution. Knowledge or
experience in complex genetic traits and network biol-
ogy are a plus. The ideal candidate for this position
will have substantial input to the specic nature of the
research project. However, the project should broadly
t within the lab's goals of understanding how evolu-
tion plays a role in shaping and understanding com-
plex health traits. There are opportunities to develop76 EvolDir June 1, 2013
novel integrative evolutionary methods, analyze clini-
cal genomic data, and to work on evolutionary analy-
sis projects that could have a direct impact on human
health.
Interested candidates should send a CV and a
short (1 page) description of both research inter-
ests and ideas for possible projects to me at dudley-
labmssm@gmail.com. Review of applications will be-
gin in April 2013, and will continue until the position
is lled.
Joel Dudley, PhD Director of Biomedical In-
formatics Assistant Professor of Genetics and
Genomic Sciences Institute for Genomics and
Multiscale Biology Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai http://research.mssm.edu/-
dudley/ http://www.linkedin.com/in/joeldudley
joel.dudley@gmail.com
NorthCarolinaStateU
PlantPopGenetics
A postdoctoral research scholar position in plant pop-
ulation genetics is immediately available at North Car-
olina State University in the Crop Science Department.
The researcher will conduct research on maize genetics.
Large samples of inbred and outbred maize landraces
will be grown in a short day-length nursery. Each plant
will be sequenced to identify parentage and inbreeding
level and measured for numerous traits related to t-
ness. The researcher will be responsible for analysis
of inbreeding depression at the gene level and testing
prediction models for phenotypes.
Requirements: Ph.D. degree in plant breeding, plant
population genetics, or plant genetics. Experience with
collection of plant phenotype data in eld experiments.
Knowledge of quantitative and population genetics.
Knowledge of SAS or R programming.. Signicant
travel will be required for experiment management and
data collection.
Experience with maize genetics and bioinformatics is
preferred.
Interested persons can apply directly at jobs.ncsu.edu.
Search for position number 00103312.
For further information, contact:
Jim Holland
Department of Crop ScienceNorth Carolina State University
Raleigh, NC 27695-7620
919-513-4198
james holland@ncsu.edu
Jim Holland <james holland@ncsu.edu >
SangerInst ComparativeGenomics
THREE-YEAR POST-DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP
IN COMPARATIVE GENOMIC INSIGHTS INTO
PARASITE GENOME FUNCTION
Applications are invited for a three-year post-doctoral
fellowship held jointly at the Sanger Institute and
European Bioinformatics Institute under these in-
stitutes' \ESPOD" fellowship programme (http://-
www.ebi.ac.uk/research/postdocs/espods).
The above webpage includes a link to an abstract
of this project (and others in the programme). Full
project details are available at http://www.ebi.ac.uk/-
sites/ebi.ac.uk/les/groups/research oce/Goldman-
Berriman.pdf The successful candidate will work in the
Goldman Group at EMBL-European Bioinformatics
Institute (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/research/goldman)
and Matt Berriman's Parasite Genomics group at the
Sanger Institute (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/research/-
projects/parasitegenomics).
Applications should be sumitted by e-mail to the EBI
Research Oce <roce@ebi.ac.uk >by 26 July 2013.
Nick Goldman tel: +44-(0)1223-492530 EMBL - Euro-
pean Bioinformatics Institute fax: +44-(0)1223-494468
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge
CB10 1SD, UK
goldman@ebi.ac.uk
StanfordU AntEvolution
A postdoctoral position is available in the Gordon lab
in the Department of Biology at Stanford University.
The project will involve developing and testing mod-
els of how ants assess interaction rate. The ideal can-
didate will have experience in behavioral experimentsJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 77
with ants (or other insects) and some background in
mathematics or computer science. The position is for a
recent Ph.D. for one year with a possibility of renewal.
Interested candidates should contact Deborah Gordon
by email (dmgordon@stanford.edu). Please include a
single PDF attachment containing your CV, a brief de-
scription of past research accomplishments and future
goals, and the names and email addresses of 2 potential
references.
Deborah M Gordon Professor, Dept of Biology Stan-
ford University http://www.stanford.edu/~dmgordon
\Deborah M. Gordon" <dmgordon@stanford.edu >
StellenboschU PotatoGenomics
Postdoctoral position available in the Department of
Genetics, Stellenbosch University (20 May 2013)
A postdoctoral position is available in the Molecular
Plant and Animal Research Group, Department of Ge-
netics, Stellenbosch University with the focus on \Asso-
ciation mapping in Potato for advancement of Marker
Assisted Selection for specically Potato Virus Y dis-
ease resistance in South Africa". This project is a col-
laborative eort with Agrocorp and Tubertek South
Africa.
Breeding for enhanced cultivars in potato is a neces-
sary, but time consuming process encumbered by the
polyploid, heterozygous, non-inbred and clonal nature
of the crop. With the sequencing and publishing of
the potato genome in 2011 and associated marker de-
velopment [mainly of Single Nucleotide Polymorphism
(SNP) markers] the potential for molecular breeding in
the crop has been enhanced. The development of an
8300 SNP array with genome-wide marker coverage at-
tests to this.
Disease resistance is one of the main breeding aims for
many crops, as it is for potatoes. The nature of this re-
sistance can vary from simple, Mendelian, single gene,
vertical resistance to more complex, multi-gene (quan-
titative traits), horizontal resistance. Although work
has been done on many single genes, quantitative trait
loci (QTL) work is a laborious process, which in the
past mainly relied on the creation of segregating map-
ping families. Quantitative variation is however pro-
posed to be a more durable form of resistance as is has
been shown that pathogens could potentially more eas-
ily overcome single gene resistance.During the past decade, association mapping, com-
monly applied in human- and livestock genetics, has
shown greater promise and power for the genomic map-
ping of complex quantitative traits in plants as com-
pared to traditional linkage mapping.
It is the aim of this study to combine the potential
and power of association mapping to identify genetic
markers (SNPs) showing association with phenotypic
variance mostly related to disease traits (specically
to potato virus Y) in order to expedite the process
of marker assisted selection in this species for growth
under South African conditions. To this eect we
will make use of the recently published and developed
genome sequence and SNP Innium array developed by
the SOLCAP community.
The successful candidate will primarily be responsi-
ble for: 1) Phenotypic evaluations, SNP data analysis
and association mapping of potato cultivars in terms of
Potato Virus Y resistance. 2) Identifying a set of mark-
ers associated with PVY resistance (known and novel
QTL). 3) Development of robust marker assay to test
for associated phenotypes in South African cultivars.
4) Advancement of marker assisted breeding of PVY
resistance in South African potato breeding.
Minimum requirements: PhD with specialization in
association mapping or any closely related discipline.
Candidates should have prociency in the relevant
software packages, and experience with handling and
analysing large scale SNP data. Experience within the
eld of potato genetics in general and potato virus stud-
ies in particular would serve as a strong recommen-
dation. The ideal candidate should also have proven
project management experience and ability to set dead-
lines and meet milestones.
This position is available for 3 years and commence-
ment of duties is set for September 2013.
Interested researchers are requested to send their CV
including details of at least 2 references to Prof. Rou-
vay Roodt-Wilding at roodt@sun.ac.za
Closing date: 10 June 2013
\Roodt-Wilding, R <roodt@sun.ac.za >"
<roodt@sun.ac.za >
Switzerland Evolutionarydynamics
A collaborative research team led by Blake Matthews,78 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Ole Seehausen, and Bernhard Wehrli are seeking a
postdoctoral researcher with a background and inter-
est in evolutionary biology, community ecology, and/or
ecosystem science.
The aim of the project is to understand the interaction
between eco-evolutionary dynamics and the functioning
of aquatic ecosystems. Specically, we are interested in
how organism-mediated changes to the temporal and
spatial heterogeneity of ecosystems can alter environ-
mental sources of selection, so as to either promote
or constrain further adaptive evolution. The project
involves large-scale eco-evolutionary experiments that
address fundamental links between the ecology and evo-
lution of food webs and the physical environment and
biogeochemistry of aquatic ecosystems. An ideal candi-
date would have some experience with next generation
sequencing methodologies and strong analytical abili-
ties for the analysis of ecological communities.
Eawag's Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeo-
chemistry (CEEB) is located on the shore of Lake
Lucerne in Switzerland, and is a strong nucleus of
Eawag research groups aimed at integrating evo-
lutionary biology, community ecology, and ecosys-
tem science http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/-
index EN. The postdoc will interact with a diverse
range of researchers studying community ecology, evo-
lutionary biology, ecological genetics, ecosystem sci-
ence, and applied environmental science.
The starting date for the postdoc is exible, but a start-
ing date in 2013 is preferred. Applications should in-
clude a cover letter, a curriculum vita, and the names
of three references. Copies of 3-5 prior publications will
also be considered if made available via PDF.
Please submit your application by 1 July 2013. Appli-
cations must be submitted online via this link: http://-
internet1.reine.ch/673277/0201/++publications++/-
1/index.html For further information: please contact
Blake Matthews by email (blake.matthews@eawag.ch),
or visit our webpages below.
Blake Matthews: http://homepages.eawag.ch/-
~ matthebl/Welcome.html Ole Seehausen: http:/-
/www.eawag.ch/about/personen/homepages/-
seehauso/index EN Bernhard Wehrli: http://-
www.eawag.ch/about/personen/homepages/wehrli/-
index Blake.Matthews@eawag.ch
SydneyAustralia GenomeEvolutionThe Darling lab at the University of Technology Syd-
ney, in collaboration with Dr. Erik Matsen's group
at Fred Hutchison Cancer Research Center, is explor-
ing statistical inference algorithms for the next gen-
eration of genome evolution models. We have the
opportunity to support an inspired postdoctoral re-
searcher to join in this eort. In this role you would
develop novel statistical methods and software to an-
alyze genomes and metagenomes in forensic and en-
vironmental systems. You would be developing scal-
able approaches to Bayesian inference of phylogenetic
models of genome evolution. Approaches of interest
include Sequential Monte Carlo methods, Variational
Bayes, hybrid SMC/MCMC approaches, and approxi-
mate Bayesian methods.
As a Postdoctoral Research Associate experience and
qualications will include (but not be limited to):
* Ph.D in computer science, statistics, bioinformat-
ics, or quantitative population genetics * Knowledge
of Bayesian phylogenetic inference * Strong computa-
tional, mathematical and/or statistical skills * Software
engineering in C++, Java or Python
UTS oers a friendly and collaborative work culture at
its city campus, which is undergoing an exciting rede-
velopment program. The appointee will join a commit-
ted and energetic team within the ithree institute of the
Faculty of Science.
Salary: $65,539 - $79,822pa. plus 17% superannuation.
See the UTS page for further information and to apply:
http://www.jobs.uts.edu.au/job/job details.cfm?id=-
813415 Contact Aaron Darling with questions:
aaron.darling@uts.edu.au
{ Aaron E. Darling, Ph.D. Associate Professor, ithree
institute University of Technology Sydney Australia
http://darlinglab.org twitter: @koadman
aaron.darling@uts.edu.au
UArizona Evolability
A postdoc position is available to work with Joanna
Masel (http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel) at
the University of Arizona in Tucson. A popular tourist
destination surrounded on all four sides by mountain-
ous national and state parks, Tucson is a vibrant city
of nearly a million people with an attractive climate.
The EEB department in Tucson was ranked in the topJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 79
10 by US News & World Report.
The Masel group's main research interests are in ro-
bustness and evolvability, using a mixture of analytical
theory, bioinformatic and simulation approaches. In
previous work (Rajon & Masel 2011 PNAS), we ex-
plored the evolutionary consequences of the simple fact
that all molecular processes, from transcription to pro-
tein interactions, are subject to errors. The evolution
of error rates is bistable. One attractor represents a
global proofreading solution that avoids making errors
at many loci at once, the other a local robustness solu-
tion, where errors happen at high rates but the conse-
quences of each error have evolved, one locus at a time,
to be benign. Populations that evolved the local solu-
tion were much more evolvable, with selection acting
on the consequences of errors acting as a playground to
explore and prescreen possible future mutations.
We are looking for a postdoc to extend this and related
work (Rajon & Masel 2013 Genetics) to examine sexual
as well as asexual populations, and to test the contro-
versial hypothesis of the adaptive evolution of evolv-
ability. In other words, might the high evolvability of
local solutions cause their prevalence to increase?
A strong quantitative background, good programming
skills, and previous modeling experience are all re-
quired. A background in evolutionary theory is strongly
preferred. Some interest in the molecular biology of
transcription, translation, protein folding and binding,
and the errors in each of these processes is an advan-
tage. The position is available starting August 26, 2013,
and is renewable, with funding secured for at least two
years.
Contact Joanna Masel at masel@u.arizona.edu for more
information and/or to apply.
masel@email.arizona.edu
UArizona VertebratePhylogenomics
Postdoctoral position in vertebrate phylogenomics and
evolution at the University of Arizona
A postdoctoral position is available in the recently re-
located laboratory of John Wiens in the Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of
Arizona (http://www.wienslab.com/Home.html). The
successful applicant will work on one (or more) of sev-
eral projects related to the phylogenomics and evolu-
tion of reptiles and amphibians. The successful appli-cant will be expected to generate rst-authored papers
and will have the opportunity to collaborate on many
others. The position should be for two years (given a
successful rst year), starting in the fall of 2013.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in evolutionary bi-
ology (or a related eld) by the time the position
starts. The ideal candidate will have experience in
next-generation sequencing and the associated compu-
tational approaches for analyzing these data, as well as
interest in phylogenetics and comparative approaches
in evolution and ecology. Experience with reptiles and
amphibians is desirable but not necessary. Demon-
strated skills in writing and data analysis will factor
heavily in selecting candidates, as will creativity, re-
search productivity, and the ability to learn new ap-
proaches and to work well with others.
The EEB department at the University of Arizona is
currently ranked as one of the top ten in the country.
Tucson is a fun town surrounded by amazing scenery
and biodiversity (with mountain wilderness areas on
three sides), and has an incredible herpetofauna.
Review of applications will begin June 1, 2013 and will
continue until the position is lled. I hope to have the
opportunity to meet with some candidates for the posi-
tion at the Evolution meetings in Snowbird, Utah (June
22V26).
To apply, please send electonically a cover letter (in-
cluding research interests and relevant experience), full
CV, three PDF reprints, and contact information for
two references to: wiensj@email.arizona.edu
John J. Wiens Professor Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology University of Arizona Tucson, AZ
85721-0088
E-mail: wiensj@email.arizona.edu Web: http:/-
/www.wienslab.com/Home.html John Wiens
<wiensj@life.bio.sunysb.edu >
UBielefeld EvolutionSalamanders
University of Bielefeld, Department of Animal Be-
haviour, Unit Molecular Ecology and Behaviour, Ger-
many
Application deadline: June 7th 2013
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoc to join
our research team, to study mechanisms and processes
of parallel habitat adaptation in the re salamander.80 EvolDir June 1, 2013
The research will be carried out in the framework of
the German-Israeli Project Cooperation (DIP) nanced
by the German Research Foundation (DFG) genomics:
analysis of gene expression underlying parallel habitat
adaptation in distinct salamander species.
Although a lot of data on the consequences of habi-
tat adaptation at the phenotypic and population struc-
ture levels are available, we are currently missing
deeper insights into the genetic architecture of habitat-
dependent adaptation. The study of parallel adaptive
evolution is very promising to identify genes and under-
lying genetic mechanisms of how individuals can adapt
to dierent environmental conditions. Due to their fas-
cinating breadth of habitat-specic adaptations as well
to aquatic and terrestrial habitats, amphibians provide
ideal systems to study the impact of ecological adapta-
tion on the genome level under natural conditions. In
the past, we have intensively studied the ecology and
population genetics of two distinct species of re sala-
manders V Salamandra salamandra in Germany and
Salamandra infraimmaculata in Israel, with a special
focus on how larvae can adapt to the dierent condi-
tions experienced until metamorphosis in contrasting
habitats such as streams and ponds. This international
cooperative research program is aimed to extend and
to combine the ecological-genetic framework of parallel
habitat adaptation in the re salamander exemplied
for two distinct species to the level of the transcrip-
tome and gene expression analysis. By characterizing
the ecological conditions of parallel habitat adaptation
in these two species and by simultaneously screening
a large number of genes for patterns of evolutionary
divergence, we aim to link the ecology of habitat adap-
tation and gene expression patterns to a very detailed
extent.
The postdoc candidate will join an international team
of leading scientists in the eld of Ecology (Prof. Dr.
Leon Blaustein, University of Haifa), Molecular Ecol-
ogy (Dr. Sebastian Steinfartz, University of Biele-
feld), Evolutionary Genomics (Dr. Arne Nolte, Max-
Planck Institute of Evolutionary Biology), Evolution
and Bioinformatics (Prof. Dr. Alan Templeton, Uni-
versity of Haifa) and River Ecology (Prof. Dr. Markus
Weitere, Helmholtz-Centre for Environmental Research
- UFZ). Moreover she/he will strongly interact with two
other postdoc researchers, one in genomics and one in
bioinformatics, as well as with involved PhD students
based in Germany and in Israel. The candidate is ex-
pected to perform intensive rst hand ecological charac-
terizations of larval habitat structure (e.g. niche mod-
elling) and habitat analysis by performing stable iso-
tope analysis to infer food web structure for larval habi-
tats in Germany and in Israel. These analyses will becrucial to understand and interpret observed gene ex-
pression patterns of larvae from these habitat types and
to be able to connect gene expression data with the ob-
served ecology of the larvae. The successful candidate
is furthermore expected to work closely together with
the ecologically oriented PhD student in the project.
The PhD student will mainly focus on the impact of
certain habitat specic selection pressures (e.g. desic-
cation risk, ush oods, predators, etc.) on the larvae
and how these impact gene expression.
We expect applications from highly motivated and
qualied young scientists holding a PhD, preferably
with a postdoc experience, but most importantly with
a strong research background and interest in ecology
and evolution of organisms and experience with ge-
netic/genomic methods. Experience with amphibians
would be desirable, but is not mandatory. The candi-
date is supposed to be based in Germany. However, as
this project involves intensive eldwork also in Israel,
the candidate should be highly exible and willing to
live for some months also abroad. The position will
come with a full TV-L E13 salary with a gross income
around 59,000 $ a/year. The position is initially sched-
uled for two years with the option for a prolongation of
one year.
Please send your application until June 7th, including
a curriculum vitae, copies of academic certications in-
cluding PhD certication, PhD thesis, a letter of moti-
vation why you are interested in the project and ad-
dresses (e-mail addresses and telephone numbers) of
two referees as a merged PDF to:
Dr. Sebastian Steinfartz Assistant Professor in Molec-
ular Ecology and Behaviour Department of Animal Be-
haviour University of Bielefeld Germany Telephone:
+49 521 106 2653 Email: sebastian.steinfartz@uni-
bielefeld.de
We expect to contact/interview candidates starting
from the middle of June on.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia Berkeley
InvasionEvolutionJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 81
Invasions, interactions and global change
Two postdoctoral positions are available at the Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley, to conduct bridging
research connecting the themes of invasion biology,
species interactions and global change, focused on
the San Francisco Bay Area. On-going projects in-
clude studies of interactions of plants with their sym-
bionts and diseases, insect herbivores and their natu-
ral enemies, as well as associated economic impacts.
Ecosystems under study include those associated with
legumes, grapes, and olives, but also natural systems
and the urban/natural interface. Research in other rel-
evant areas and systems is also encouraged, including
quantitative analyses of community structure in space
and time and novel approaches for the study of inva-
sions, including citizen science.
This project is part of the Berkeley Initiative for Global
Change Biology (BiGCB). It is one of seven integrated
research projects focused on global change forecast-
ing for California ecosystems. Project leaders include
Ellen Simms, George Roderick, Wayne Sousa, Rodrigo
Almeida, Nick Mills, and David Zilberman. Associated
departments include Integrative Biology, Environmen-
tal Science Policy and Management, and Agricultural
and Resource Economics.
Details: - Each postdoc will be for 1 year, but renewable
for up to 2 years. - Expectations for the position include
relevant research and coordinating a graduate seminar.
- Connections with on-going projects is encouraged.
Please contact individual project leaders using website
links above. - The scholars will also be required to par-
ticipate in and collaborate with other projects associ-
ated with the Berkeley Initiative in Global Change Biol-
ogy (BiGCB). - Salary is commensurate with experience
as set by UC policies (see http://vspa.berkeley.edu/-
postdocs). - Start date: 1 July 2013, or negotiable.
Requirements: - Ph.D. in relevant eld. Successful can-
didates must start appointment before accruing more
than three years of research experience since receipt
of Ph.D. - Demonstrated ability to communicate eec-
tively in both writing and speaking, through publica-
tions and contributed talks. - Expertise in area relevant
to project.
To apply: Send the following as attachments to an
email with the header \Invasion Postdoc" to glob-
alchange@berkeley.edu. Applications will be accepted
starting today (1 May).
1. Statement of research interests (no more than 3
pages), including summary of Ph.D. project. 2. CV
including education, publications, contributed papers.
3. Names and email addresses of 3 people who haveagreed to provide letters of recommendation if asked.
Deadline: The First Review Date of applications is 22
April 2013.
roderick@berkeley.edu
UCollege London Bioinformatics
Dear all,
UCL's Research Department of Genetics, Evolution
and Environment invites expressions of interest from
potential applicants to NERC's Independent Research
Fellowships in Bioinformatics.
NERC has recently launched a research programme
in \Mathematics and Informatics for Environ-
mental 'Omic Data Synthesis" and funds 5-year
fellowships for early-career scientists wishing to
establish independent research groups. More infor-
mation on the scheme and the background of the
programme can be found on the NERC website
(http://www.nerc.ac.uk/research/programmes/-
omics/events/ao-bioinformaticsfellowships.asp).
If you have the appropriate expertise and would like to
apply for a fellowship hosted in our department, please
get in touch with Max Reuter (m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk).
We will support selected candidates through all stages
of their application.
Our department fosters young talent and provides a
stimulating and multi-discilinary research environment.
It has strengths in evolutionary and statistical genet-
ics, genomics, evo-devo and environmental and biodi-
versity research. For more information about our re-
search, please visit the department's website (http://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/) as well as those of departmental
sub-nuits including the UCL Genetics Institute (http:/-
/www.ucl.ac.uk/ugi/) and the Centre for Biodiversity
and Environment Research (http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
cber/).
Best regards, Max
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London Darwin Building Gower Street London WC1E
6BT, UK
Phone: +44-20-76792201 (internal 32201)
Lab: http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ~ ucbtmre/-82 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Labsite/ Department: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
gee Centre for Ecology and Evolution: http://-
www.ceevol.org.uk m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk
UEdinburgh EvolBiol
Postdoctoral Researcher, University of Edinburgh
Applications are invited for a 5-month appointment as
Post-doctoral Researcher based in the Institute of Evo-
lutionary Biology, University of Edinburgh. The posi-
tion is funded by a Wellcome Trust project grant.
Applicants should have, or shortly obtain, a PhD in
evolutionary genetics or bioinformatics and have expe-
rience in computer programming and population genet-
ics or molecular evolution. The project aims to increase
the understanding of the nature and strength of natu-
ral selection operating in various kinds of functional
elements of the mammalian genome. In particular, the
post holder could work on the evolutionary genetics of
adaptation in the murid genome by analysis of next-
generation sequence data of multiple individuals sam-
pled from natural populations.
Informal enquiries can be made to pe-
ter.keightley.ed.ac.uk
Peter Keightley Professor of Evolutionary Genet-
ics Institute of Evolutionary Biology University of
Edinburgh West Mains Rd Edinburgh EH9 3JT
UK http://homepages.ed.ac.uk/eang33/ Full applica-
tions by 24th June 2013 can be made under refer-
ence 014484 at https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/ pe-
ter.keightley@ed.ac.uk
UIdaho PlantPhylogenetics
Postdoctoral Research Position at the University of
Idaho - Phylogeny and Evolution Castilleja (paint-
brushes)
Position Description: The postdoctoral researcher
will work in the lab of David Tank (http://-
phylodiversity.net/dtank/) to study diversication dy-
namics in the diverse North American clade of
Castilleja (Orobanchaceae). The postdoc will focuson assembly and analysis of next-generation sequenc-
ing data using subgenomic approaches (microuidic
PCR, sequence capture) and phylogenetic comparative
analysis of biogeographic, morphological, and ecologi-
cal data, especially in relation to polyploidy. Research
will require the integration of cytological, morphologi-
cal, ecological, and molecular phylogenetic approaches.
In addition, the postdoc will have the opportu-
nity to participate in teaching a 2-week Advanced
Field Botany course for upper division undergradu-
ates and early career graduate students. More in-
formation about the course can be found at http://-
webpages.uidaho.edu/dtank/AFB/ Required Quali-
cations: Ph.D. in Botany, Biology, Evolution, or related
discipline.
Preferred Qualications: Experience with molecular
phylogenetics, next-generation sequencing data, phylo-
genetic comparative methods, and at least basic compu-
tational experience (e.g. Unix, R, Python). Evidence
of strong writing and communication skills.
The position is available starting immediately, but the
start date is exible. The appointment is for one to
three years, with annual extensions dependent on sat-
isfactory performance.
Please apply by sending a cover letter, CV, and con-
tact information for three references to David Tank
(dtank@uidaho.edu). General inquiries are welcome.
David C. Tank Assistant Professor & Director, Still-
inger Herbarium University of Idaho 208.885.7033
dtank@uidaho.edu http://www.phylodiversity.net/-
dtank/ dtank@uidaho.edu
UInnsbruck Bioinformatics
PostDoc: UInnsbruck.Bioinformatics
MOLECULAR ECOLOGY, INSTITUTE OF ECOL-
OGY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK PostDoc posi-
tion
We seek to hire a PostDoc with training in bioin-
formatics. The position is a 36-months position at
the Molecular Ecology group of the Institute of Ecol-
ogy, starting from 1 March 2014. Centering on
the Alpine Space, the group's mission is interdisci-
plinary research, embedded in international collabo-
ration networks. A list of research topics can be
found at: http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/-June 1, 2013 EvolDir 83
molecular ecology.html.en. The successful candidate
will participate in the next-generation sequencing of
Alpine insects.
***Responsibilities*** 1. de-novo assembly and an-
notation of ant and Drosophila transcriptomes and
genomes, using mainly Illumina data 2. analysis
of genome sequences of pooled individuals, including
search for selection signatures 3. provision of advice
/ training to users in analysing high-throughput se-
quencing data and participation in other bioinformat-
ics tasks as need arises in the group 4. participation in
manuscript writing 5. participation in preparing grant
applications 6. contact and collaboration with a range
of scientists and laboratory technicians at the Faculty
of Biology in Innsbruck, at other Austrian research fa-
cilities, and internationally
***Selection criteria*** A. PhD degree in bioinformat-
ics or equivalent area B. published research experience
in bioinformatics, especially in the de-novo assembly
and annotation of genomes using high-throughput se-
quencing data C. excellent skills in the installation /
maintenance of Linux systems for bioinformatic pur-
poses D. prociency in Biopython, R, scripting lan-
guages (e.g. awk, Perl) E. experience in the use of rel-
evant software packages for transcriptome and genome
analysis (e.g. Trinity, Mira, SOAPdenovo, SAMtools)
F. ability to work as part of a multi-disciplinary team
G. ability to work independently H. very good knowl-
edge of English
***Salary*** The annual gross salary is Euro 47,765.20.
The contract includes health insurance and 5 weeks of
holidays annually.
***How to apply*** To apply, please submit by E-mail
to<birgit.schlick-steiner@uibk.ac.at >: a cover letter,
systematic point-by-point replies as to your readiness
for the responsibilities and how you meet the selec-
tion criteria, brief statement of research interests, cur-
riculum vitae, and complete list of publications. Also,
arrange for at least one letter of recommendation to
be sent to <birgit.schlick-steiner@uibk.ac.at >Applica-
tions must be written in English. Review of applica-
tions will begin immediately and continue until a suit-
able candidate has been found. The University of Inns-
bruck is striving to increase the percentage of female
employees and therefore invites qualied women to ap-
ply. In the case of equivalent qualications, women will
be given preference. An oer of employment is con-
tingent on a satisfactory pre-employment background
check.
***The research institution and its environment*** De-
tailed information about the Molecular Ecology group
can be found at http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/-forschung/molecular ecology.html.en. The University
of Innsbruck has a long-standing and internationally
renowned tradition in life sciences and oers a vibrant
research atmosphere. It has 27,000 students and 4,000
sta members. Innsbruck is situated in the Alps and
very close to Switzerland, Germany and Italy; scenery
and outdoor recreation are fantastic.
***More information needed?*** For more in-
formation, please contact: Birgit Schlick-Steiner
<birgit.schlick-steiner@uibk.ac.at >
Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner Professor of Molecular Ecology
Institute of Ecology University of Innsbruck
Technikerstr. 25 6020 Innsbruck, Austria
Phone: +43 512 507-51750 Fax: +43 512
507-51799 http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/-
forschung/molecular ecology.html.en Birgit.Schlick-
Steiner@uibk.ac.at
UMelbourne EvolutionCooperation
RESEARCH FELLOW Department of Zoology Faculty
of Science The University of Melbourne, Australia
Salary: AUD$61,138 - AUD$82,936 p.a. (PhD entry
level AUD$77,290 p.a.) plus 9% superannuation An
exciting opportunity at the University of Melbourne to
join a group investigating the nature and role of chemi-
cal signals and sensory conditions in the evolution of co-
operation in an ant/lycaenid buttery mutualism. You
will undertake eld-work in Queensland, New South
Wales, and Victoria, and may also be involved in labo-
ratory work at Harvard University.
Employment Type: Full-time (xed-term) position
available until 30 June 2015
Enquiries only to: Prof Mark Elgar Tel +61 3 8344 4338
Email m.elgar@unimelb.edu.au
Close date: 23 June 2013
For position information and to apply online go to
www.hr.unimelb.edu.au/careers, click on 'Search for
Jobs' and search under the job title or job number
0031438.
advertising-hr <advertising-hr@unimelb.edu.au >84 EvolDir June 1, 2013
UMichigan PopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral Associate in Population Genomics
Postdoctoral positions are available with Jerey Kidd
in the Department of Human Genetics and Depart-
ment of Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics
at the University of Michigan Medical School. These
positions are focused on population genomic analysis
to learn about the demographic history of populations
and species and how demography interacts with selec-
tion to create observed patterns of variation. Multiple
projects are available in a number of systems, including
human populations (particularly African populations),
dogs, and other species.
Qualications The applicant should have a Ph.D. in
genetics, ecology and evolution, anthropology, molec-
ular biology, bioinformatics, computational biology or
a related eld and have experience in the analysis of
genome-wide data. Excellent written and oral commu-
nication skills are required.
Successful applicants will be part of a cutting-edge re-
search program in genomics with ample opportunities
for collaboration with researchers at the University of
Michigan and around the world.
To apply, send a CV, cover letter describing your re-
search experiences and ongoing research interests, and
contact information for up to three references to Jerey
Kidd at jmkidd@umich.edu
jmkidd@med.umich.edu
UOklahoma
MetagenomicBioinformatics
Title of Position: Post-doctoral Fellow (bioinformatics
emphasis) - Research Associate
Position text: Position requires previous bioinformatics
training, with emphasis in metagenomics and analysis
of next-generation DNA sequencing data (HiSeq/MiSeq
preferred). Prociency with programming languages
\R" and either Perl or Python are expected. Earliest
start date: July 1, 2013. Salary: 60K plus fringe. Emailresumes or CVs to Cecil M. Lewis, cmlewis@ou.edu,
with \Post-doctoral Fellow (bioinformatics emphasis) -
Research Associate" in the subject line.
Located in Norman, Oklahoma, University of Okla-
homa's Molecular Anthropology Laboratories special-
izes in anthropological genomics and metagenomics.
Current projects include characterizing diverse host-
associated microbiomes using biological samples col-
lected from traditional indigenous communities, non-
human primates, and archaeological \ancient" ma-
terials. An example of recent interviews: http:/-
/ehp.niehs.nih.gov/121-a118/. Our labs are located
in the SRTC (http://srtc.ou.edu/index.php), a new
building with several research groups working in en-
vironmental genomics (e.g., http://ieg.ou.edu/) and
genome sequencing (e.g., http://www.genome.ou.edu/-
). Our building also houses part of OSCER, OU's
supercomputer (http://www.oscer.ou.edu/). In 2008,
CNN/Money Magazine ranked Norman as the sixth
best small city within the United States.
cmlewis@ou.edu
UPorto
LivestockPopulationGenomics
TWO POST DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSO-
CIATES IN BIOINFORMATICS AND POPULATION
GENETICS
The Population Genomics and Traits Group at CIBIO-
University of Porto (http://cibio.up.pt) is seeking can-
didates for two Posdoctoral fellowships. The success-
ful candidates will be expected to engage in a vigorous
basic and applied research program focused on NGS
(next generation sequencing) and SNPchip data from
several domestic species and their wild relative species.
The initial appointment to this position is for three
years with a possible extension to six years. Requires
a PhD in biology eld or computer sciences with a
solid background on population genetics and evolution
as well strong experience with bioinformatics program-
ming languages in a unix environment (Perl, Python,
Javascript, SQL) and compiled languages (e.g. C++),
relational databases, and construction of computational
pipelines. Ability to work independently and with the-
oretical and empirical population genetics researchers is
important.The projects, which include SNPChip, and
Pool-Seq data require exper ience in working with large
SNP data sets and sequence data. Good programmingJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 85
skills and familiarity with the available analysis tools
are essential. The goal of the research is to test hy-
potheses related to animal domestication and molecular
adaptation of populations and species to extreme envi-
ronments. The postdoctoral research will be mainly fo-
cused in population genomics, selection, and demogra-
phy of wild/domestic (livestock) species their parasites
from all over the world. This work will include a large
amount of data analysis, simulation, and bioinformat-
ics. Several interesting datasets are in hand, which will
allow the postdoc to analyze data and publish quality
manuscripts relatively quickly to advance the eld.
Instructions to Applicants: Applicants should submit
by email a cover letter describing interests, skills (in-
cluding any specic experience with the job respon-
sibilities listed above), prior scientic experience (at
least 1 year of posdoc and not less than 5 published
papers), and 3 publications (.pdfs) from peer-reviewed
journals (one at least as rst author), their CV, and
the names and contact information of 2 people who
can provide letters of reference. Applications as well as
demands for further information should be sent to Al-
bano Beja-Pereira to the following email address: pos-
doccall2012@cibio.up.pt
The successful candidate will apply to the Portuguese
National Science Agency (FCT) and it's expected to
start working in the rst months of 2014. Fellowship
wage will be 1495 euros /month (tax-free), with social
security and national health system assess included.
Application review will start at June 15, 2013 and con-
tinue until the position is lled.
albanobp@fc.up.pt
UToronto MutualismEvolution
Postdoctoral Position in the Ecology or Evolution of
Mutualism
A postdoctoral position is available in the Frederickson
Lab in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology at the University of Toronto. My lab conducts
research on the ecology and evolution of mutualism in
a range of systems, especially protective ant-plant mu-
tualisms, seed dispersal by ants, and, increasingly, in-
teractions between bacteria and their plant or insect
hosts.
The ideal candidate will have a clear intellectual vision
of promising directions and unresolved fundamentalquestions in mutualism ecology or evolution. Projects
may involve greenhouse or molecular work, eld exper-
iments, or behavioral research on live ant colonies in
the lab. Lab members currently do eld research at the
University of Toronto's eld station, the Koer Scien-
tic Reserve at Jokers Hill (ksr.utoronto.ca), as well as
in the Peruvian Amazon and elsewhere.
The successful candidate will primarily conduct inde-
pendent research and work towards publishing in peer-
reviewed journals; the postdoc will also be expected
to mentor students and to perform some light admin-
istrative duties. The position is for 1 year, with the
possibility of a second year depending on both progress
and available funding. The preferred start date is Au-
gust 1, 2013, but the position could start as early as
July 1, 2013 or as late as January 1, 2014. The salary
is $40,000 Canadian a year.
Interested candidates should contact me by email
(m.frederickson@utoronto.ca). Please include a single
PDF attachment containing your CV, a brief descrip-
tion of past research accomplishments and future goals,
and the names and email addresses of 2 potential ref-
erences.
Toronto is a vibrant, multicultural city on the shore of
Lake Ontario, with a high quality of life. The EEB
department is home to an interactive, collegial group
of ecologists and evolutionary biologists, and currently
supports a strong group of postdoctoral fellows with
diverse research interests.
{ Megan Frederickson Assistant Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of
Toronto 25 Harbord Street Toronto, Ontario, M5S 3G5,
Canada Email: m.frederickson@utoronto.ca Web: mu-
tualism.ca
m.frederickson@utoronto.ca
UTuebingen
EvolutionFishFluorescence
Two Year Postdoctoral Academic Associate in the eld
of sh visual ecology
The successful candidate will be integrated in an ongo-
ing research programme within the Animal Evolution-
ary Ecology unit. We study the function and evolu-
tion of sh uorescent patterns using state-of-the-art
spectrometry equipment, microscopy and sh keeping
infrastructure. The successful candidate is expected86 EvolDir June 1, 2013
to develop a high-prole research programme and con-
tribute to our teaching in marine visual ecology. The
successful candidate should have a PhD in relevant
elds such as e.g. theoretical and empirical analysis of
light in marine environments, sh tissue pigmentation,
sh colour vision or sh neuroanatomy.
We cooperate with other groups with complementary
expertises, both nationally and internationally. The
teaching load is 60 h during winter and summer term
each.
The employment will be eected by the central admin-
istration of the university. The position is fulltime and
limited up to two years. The pay scale classication
refers to the German federal public service scale 13
(TV-L).
Disabled candidates will be given preference over other
equally qualied applicants. The University seeks to
raise the number of women in research and teaching
and therefore urges qualied women to apply.
Please send a single PDF to
oce.michiels@biologie.uni-tuebingen.de including
a motivation letter as well as a full CV. Please include
details on research interests and accomplishments,
teaching experience, external funding plus names and
email addresses of at least two referees. Closing date
for applications is 1 July 2013. Earliest appointment is
1 October 2013.
Prof. Dr. N. Michiels, University of T ubingen, Faculty
of Science, Institute of Evolution and Ecology, Animal
Evolutionary Ecology, Auf der Morgenstelle 28, 72076
T ubingen, Germany
Nico Michiels <nico.michiels@gmail.com >
UTurku Bioinformatics
*Research assistant or researcher in (evolutionary)
bioinformatics*
A position is available for a bioinformatics research as-
sistant or researcher in Academy Professor Craig Prim-
mer's research group (see http://users.utu./primmer
for more details) at the University of Turku, Finland.
The successful applicant will be expected to assist and
train research group members in bioinformatics tasks
related to the evolutionary genomics research being
conducted in the group. This includes writing scripts
for data processing and developing, maintaining anddocumenting analysis pipelines for various forms of
molecular data from non-model organisms, including
next-generation sequencing, proteomics and transcrip-
tomics. They will also be responsible for the general
maintenance of computing facilities in the group. De-
pending on the interests of the successful applicant, col-
laboration in the group's research projects, as well as
carrying out their own research e.g. as a part of a PhD
project, is also possible.
Applications will be considered from candidates hold-
ing either a Masters or PhD degree in bioinformatics
or a bioinformatics related eld. Good knowledge of
relevant programming languages (Perl, python, R etc.)
is essential. A demonstrated interest and/or experi-
ence in evolutionary biology is an advantage, as is be-
ing creative, exceptionally patient and a willingness to
acknowledge Windows as an operating system under
some circumstances.
Informal inquires and applications should be addressed
to Acad. Prof. Craig Primmer (craig.primmer@utu.).
Applications (one single pdf le) should include a full
CV that includes details of formal training and practi-
cal experience in bioinformatics, a list of publications
and contact details of at least two referees. Review of
applications will commence on May 15 with the pre-
ferred starting date being by July. The position is ini-
tially available until the end of 2013, but an extension is
likely to be possible. The salary range will be according
to the university pay scale and will depend on the ed-
ucation level and relevant experience of the successful
applicant.
{
Craig Primmer
Academy Professor Division of Genetics and Physiology
Department of Biology Pharmacity 20014 University of
Turku FINLAND
Oce +358 2 333 5571 Mobile +358 40 1560 365
Fax. +358 2 333 6598 craig.primmer@utu. http://-
users.utu./primmer pharm.shihab@gmail.com
UUtah EvolutionPlantHerbivore
Postdoctoral position, May, 2013: The Kursar/Coley
lab is looking for a Ph.D. in evolution or ecology with an
interest in plant-herbivore interactions. Useful, though
not essential, is a background in chemistry, including
analytical chemistry, metabolomics, chemoinformatics,June 1, 2013 EvolDir 87
or the analysis of large data sets from LC-MS or GC-
MS.
The primary responsibility will be the analysis by LC-
MS of the secondary metabolites, including non-protein
amino acids, saponins and highly diverse phenolics, of
multiple species in a genus of tropical tree, Inga, in a
project funded by NSF. Our lab owns and has full-time
access to a Waters I-class UPLC with a Xevo-G2 Q-ToF
detector. The position also entails care of the LC-MS.
All maintenance is covered by contract. The ideal can-
didate will have an excellent record of publication. The
position also entails interacting with graduate students
and co-supervision of undergraduates.
We study the divergence of defenses in a phylogenetic
context among species of the tropical tree genus, Inga,
a process that may be central to speciation and coex-
istence. The position is exible such that, in addition
to the core metabolomics goals, one also may focus on
related aspects of particular interest to the candidate.
The University of Utah encourages applications from
individuals with disabilities, minorities, veterans, and
women and is an equal opportunity and armative ac-
tion employer.
The position is available on September 1 for an initial
period of 1 year, with an option of up to 1 additional
year. Salary (plus full benets) will be commensurate
with experience and qualications. Please provide a
CV, the contact information for three references, and
a short (500- to 1000-word) statement regarding your
future, long-term goals. Address questions and applica-
tions to Tom Kursar at kursar@biology.utah.edu http:/-
/biologylabs.utah.edu/coley Closing: July 15.
Renae Curtz <renaecurtz@biology.utah.edu >
UWisconsin Madison
PopulationModeling
Post Doctoral Fellow - Population Modeling
Department of Forest and Wildlife Ecology, University
of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The successful candidate
will work on a NSF-funded project to develop a
Bayesian population model that incorporates informa-
tion on the spatial distribution of related individuals
derived using genetic methods. The post-doc will be
housed at Groningen University in the Netherlands,but will be a University of Wisconsin-Madison employee
and collaborate with faculty at both universities.
REQUIREMENTS: Applicants should have a doctoral
degree in quantitative ecology, biostatistics, population
genetics, or closely related discipline by the start date.
A strong publishing record, programming experience
(Python, Perl, and/or C), population genetics back-
ground, and population modeling skills are essential.
SALARY AND CONDITIONS: The position will be
available Sept 1, 2013 and the duration of the appoint-
ment is 13 months. Salary will be $44,000 per year plus
benets.
APPLICATION/CONTACT INFORMATION: Appli-
cants should send a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and
contact information for three references in a single pdf-
le to Dr. Zach Peery at mpeery@wisc.edu. The CV
should contain a list of publications and information
describing relevant skills and experience. Reviews of
material will begin June 30, 2013 and continue until a
suitable candidate is found.
Zach Peery Graduate Research Assistant Department
of Forest and Wildlife Ecology University of Wisconsin
Russell Labs 1630 Linden Dr. Madison, WI 53706
rickaes@gmail.com
Vanderbilt EvolutionPregnancy
A postdoctoral position is available to join a new
collaboration between the Abbot and Rokas labs
at Vanderbilt University. We are seeking candi-
dates with strong backgrounds in evolutionary ge-
netics and genomics, with expertise in statisti-
cal/computational/quantitative genetics. The primary
appointment will be in the Abbot lab, but the candi-
date will join a team of faculty, postdocs, graduate stu-
dents, and technicians in Biological Sciences at Vander-
bilt. The Abbot lab studies social evolution and species
interactions between insects and microbes, using a va-
riety of evolutionary and molecular approaches.
The candidate will be encouraged to develop inde-
pendent research and training directions. However,
the candidate will be a primary associate in Ab-
bot & Rokas' team working in a new March of
Dimes-funded transdisciplinary Center, the goal of
which is to elucidate the biology of birth timing and
the pathogenesis of preterm birth to allow evidence-
based development of preventative measures (http:/-88 EvolDir June 1, 2013
/www.marchofdimes.com/news/11085.html). Preterm
birth is a frequent and often devastating adverse out-
come of pregnancy, and the single most challenging
problem in modern obstetric practice and child health.
As part of the new Center, the Abbot & Rokas labs are
developing the computational and conceptual tools nec-
essary for generating a comprehensive evolutionary syn-
thesis of human pregnancy. Our goal is to generate a set
of database tools that will build bridges between evolu-
tionary biologists, geneticists, developmental biologists,
physiologists, obstetricians, and social anthropologists,
and to exploit the power of cross-species comparisons
and macroevolutionary history in order to elucidate hu-
man birth timing and disease susceptibility.
The Department of Biological Sciences at Vanderbilt
University has a diverse research faculty. The depart-
ment is centrally located on the main campus, and ad-
joins the Vanderbilt University Medical Center. Van-
derbilt researchers enjoy the participation of excellent
undergraduates and the resources of a thriving medical
center. Our campus is located in the heart of Nashville,
an up-and-coming, yet friendly and inexpensive city
situated amidst the rolling hills of biologically diverse
middle Tennessee. Candidates should send a CV and
contact information for three references to Dr. Patrick
Abbot, patrick.abbot@vanderbilt.edu. The position is
eective immediately / July 1ST 2013 onward.
Patrick Abbot Department of Biological Sciences
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37235 Tel.
615.936.2550 patrick.abbot@vanderbilt.edu http://-
vanderbilt.edu/abbotlab/Home.html See also: Antonis
Rokas (http://as.vanderbilt.edu/rokaslab/)
patrick.abbot@Vanderbilt.Edu
Vienna
DrosophilaAdaptationGenetics
A postdoctoral position is available at the Institute
of Population Genetics, Vetmeduni Vienna (Austria).
The research focus of the Institute of Population Ge-
netics is on understanding the genetics of adaptation.
This central question in evolutionary biology is being
tackled using up-to-date methods and a variety of ap-
proaches, including experimental evolution, quantita-tive genetics, functional genetics, empirical population
genetics, bioinformatics and statistics.
The successful candidate will have access to an excellent
data set on thermal adaptation in Drosophila including:
1) Genome-wide polymorphism data from laboratory
selection experiments exposing Drosophila to dierent
temperature regimes.
2) Gene expression data of Drosophila populations
evolved to dierent temperatures in the laboratory
3) GWAS data for traits related to thermal adaptation
4) Genome-wide polymorphism data for natural popu-
lations from environments with dierent temperatures
We are searching for a candidate with a keen interest to
understand adaptation in Drosophila by combining in-
formation from these proprietary data sets. Given the
scale of the experiment, sound statistical knowledge is
benecial and programming skills are essential.
In recent years, Vienna has developed into one of
the leading centers in evolutionary biology (http:/-
/www.evolvienna.at). In addition, Vienna is home
to the VDRC Stock Center, and a high-prole
Drosophila research community, most notably at the
IMP (http://www.imp.ac.at/) and the IMBA ( http:/-
/www.imba.oeaw.ac.at/). In addition to a stimulating
scientic environment, Vienna also oers an extraordi-
narily high quality of life. Aordable housing, excellent
public transport, great restaurants, a range of inter-
national schools, two operas, two music centers, many
theaters and museums in combination with a pleasant
climate make Vienna one of the most attractive cities
in Europe.
The position is available from July 2013.
The application should be emailed to chris-
tian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at as a single pdf
containing CV, list of publications, a statement of
research interests, and the names of three references
with contact details. While the search will continue
until the position is lled, applications should be
received by June 8, 2013 to ensure full consideration.
Christian Schl otterer Institut f ur Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 1210 Wien Aus-
tria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vienna Gradu-
ate School of Population Genetics http://www.popgen-
vienna.at schlotc@gmail.comJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 89
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona PhylogeneticMorphometrics Sep3-6 2 . . . 89
China Conservation Oct19-Nov30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
CostaRica Amphbian Jul29-Aug12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
CostaRica AmphibianDecline Jul29-Aug12 . . . . . . . . 91
KazimierzWielkiU EstimatingPlantMatingSystem
Jun3-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
LaFouly Switzerland ExperimentalTheoEvolution
Jun12-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
LakeheadU AncientDNA variable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
Madrid MasterEvolutionaryBiol Autumn . . . . . . . . . . 94
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig LanguageEvolution Dec2-3 94
Montana ConGen Sep2-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .95
Montana Congen PopulationGenetics Sep2-7 . . . . . . 96NESCent EvolutionaryQuantGenetics Aug5-10 . . . . 96
NESCent OntologiesEvolutionaryBiol Jul29-Aug3 . 97
NESCent Durham GMODSummerSchool Jul19-23 .97
Portugal Evolution Jul15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98
Poznan Poland Bioinformatics Aug19-23 . . . . . . . . . . 98
Shenzhen HumanPopulationGeneticAnalyses Oct14-18
98
UNordland NGSofNonmodelOrganisms Jun11-18 . . 99
Valencia GenomicsHealth Jun24-Jul26 . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
Venice EvoDevo Sep23-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Vienna eFLOWERSummerSchool Jul3-10 . . . . . . . . 100
Barcelona
PhylogeneticMorphometrics Sep3-6
2
Dear colleagues:
Last call for registration to the course \GEOMETRIC
MORPHOMETRICS AND PHYLOGENY- Fourth
edition". End of registration with reduced fee May Th.
INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Chris Klingenberg (University of
Manchester, UK) .
DATES: September 3-6, 2013; 30 teaching hours.
PLACE: Els Hostalets de Pierola, Barcelona (Spain).
Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Institut
Catal a de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont and the
Council of Hostalets de Pierola.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/-
gm/gm-and-phylogeny/ or writing to
courses@transmittingscience.org
This workshop provides an overview of the interface be-
tween geometric morphometrics and phylogenetics. It
aims to give an overview of the dierent approaches and
methods that link the two elds and to enable partic-
ipants to apply them to their own research problems.
Lectures that introduce concepts and methods are inte-grated with demonstrations of software that put them
into practice right away. The main emphasis is on map-
ping shape data on existing phylogenies to reconstruct
the evolutionary history of shape diversication, as well
as comparative methods that take phylogeny into ac-
count. To enhance the practical approach of the work-
shop, participants are encouraged to bring their own
data to conduct analyses and discuss results.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno, PhD.
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
China Conservation Oct19-Nov30
A eld course is due to be running in Xishuangbanna,
China this year Registration is now open, and a limited
number of scholarships are available http://www.pfs-
tropasia.org/2013/05/afec-x-china-2013/
alice Hughes <drachughes@hotmail.co.uk >90 EvolDir June 1, 2013
CostaRica Amphbian Jul29-Aug12
Hello,
Below is a brief description of the Organization for
Tropical Studies' Microbial Ecology of Amphibian De-
cline, an upcoming graduate-level specialty course
which will be taught in Costa Rica from July 29 - Au-
gust 12, 2013. The course is worth 2 graduate aca-
demic credits transferable to all institutions within the
Organization for Tropical Studies consortium, which in-
cludes over 50 universities in the USA, Latin America,
South Africa and Australia. This course may be of in-
terest to students in the elds of microbial ecology, am-
phibian ecology, vertebrate survey techniques, disease
ecology and amphibian decline, emphasizing on modern
approaches: genomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
http://ots.ac.cr/images/downloads/education/-
graduate/specialty-courses/amphi biandecline.pdf
Your circulation of this material among graduate stu-
dents in dierent departments and programs would be
greatly appreciated.
Many thanks!
{
Microbial Ecology of amphibian decline
Microbes are essential components of the environment
because they provide key services that support ecosys-
tem functioning. Our ability to understand these mi-
crobes has advanced substantially due to the recent de-
velopment of rapid, low-cost, high-throughput sequenc-
ing. Entire microbiomes can now be characterized to
understand both the identity and function of microbes
within these communities. As a result, we are now
gaining insights into microbial communities that are
associated with animals. These recent developments in
technology poise the eld of microbial ecology to make
important discoveries and advances regarding their re-
lationship to amphibian decline.
This course will present students with a variety of topics
relevant to the microbial ecology of amphibian decline,
emphasizing on modern OMICS approaches (genomics,
proteomics and metabolomics). During the rst part of
the course at La Selva Biological Station, students will
learn to identify and sample amphibians in the eld, de-
tect by culture dependent and molecular techniques of
both symbiotic and pathogenic microbes including Ba-trachotrychium dendrobatidis (Bd) and ranavirus, as
well as build phylogenetic trees and analyze complete
genomes of these microbes. At the end of this period,
students will be able to design their own hypotheses
and test them the following week at the University of
Costa Rica, employing a combination of genetic, pro-
teomic and metabolomics approach.
Course Content
Through eldwork, computer-based and laboratory
analyses, this course will help students gain basic
knowledge and hands-on experience in the following di-
verse elds: amphibian ecology, vertebrate survey tech-
niques, disease ecology, isolation and laboratory culture
of amphibian pathogens, microbial ecology and diver-
sity, host-microbe symbioses, molecular biology, phylo-
genetics, next generation sequencing technologies, com-
parative genomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
Participants
The course will be held in Costa Rica and is limited to
20 students. We anticipate that half of the students will
come from Latin American institutions and about half
from U.S. institutions. All participants should be uent
in English. A working knowledge of Spanish would be
useful.
The course is intended for graduate students with an
interest in amphibian conservation, microbial ecology
or global change biology.
Course Instructors: Adrian Pinto Director, Microscopic
Structures Research Center. Course Coordinator.
Ibrahim Zu~ niga Microscopic Structures Research Cen-
ter. Microbiology research.
Invited Faculty
Bruno Lomonte Instituto Clodomiro Picado, Proteomic
research.
Godofredo Solano Centro de Investigaciones en Produc-
tos Naturales. Metabolomics research.
Gilbert Alvarado, DVM Microscopic Structures Re-
search Center. Pathology research.
Gabriel Vargas, Microscopic Structures Research Cen-
ter. Bioinformatics research.
Juan Abarca Microscopic Structures Research Center.
Field research.
Course dates: July 29 - August 12, 2013 (arrive July
28, depart 13 August)
Application Deadline: June 14, 2013. For priority con-
sideration, followed by open enrollment until lled.
Tuition: OTS consortium applicants $2300; non-June 1, 2013 EvolDir 91
member applicants $2900
Tuition includes: all lodging (hotel and biological re-
search stations), all meals, all transportation within
Costa Rica, all course materials (sample equipment and
lab). Does not cover personal expenses or airfare.
Partial need-based scholarships are available; priority
given to OTS consortium and Latin American appli-
cants.
For more information please consult the OTS website
www.ots.ac.cr
or write to Andr es Santana andres.santana@ots.ac.cr or
Barbara Lewis barbara.lewis@ots.ac.cr for application
information
andres.santana@ots.ac.cr
CostaRica AmphibianDecline
Jul29-Aug12
Hello all,
Below is a brief description of the Organization for
Tropical Studies' Microbial Ecology of Amphibian De-
cline, an upcoming graduate-level specialty course
which will be taught in Costa Rica from July 29 - Au-
gust 12, 2013. The course is worth 2 graduate aca-
demic credits transferable to all institutions within the
Organization for Tropical Studies consortium, which in-
cludes over 50 universities in the USA, Latin America,
South Africa and Australia. This course may be of in-
terest to students in the elds of microbial ecology, am-
phibian ecology, vertebrate survey techniques, disease
ecology and amphibian decline, emphasizing on modern
approaches: genomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
http://ots.ac.cr/images/downloads/education/-
graduate/specialty-courses/amphi biandecline.pdf
or
http://bit.ly/10MDY4T
Your circulation of this material among graduate stu-
dents in dierent departments and programs would be
greatly appreciated.
Many thanks!
{
Microbial Ecology of amphibian decline
Microbes are essential components of the environmentbecause they provide key services that support ecosys-
tem functioning. Our ability to understand these mi-
crobes has advanced substantially due to the recent de-
velopment of rapid, low-cost, high-throughput sequenc-
ing. Entire microbiomes can now be characterized to
understand both the identity and function of microbes
within these communities. As a result, we are now
gaining insights into microbial communities that are
associated with animals. These recent developments in
technology poise the eld of microbial ecology to make
important discoveries and advances regarding their re-
lationship to amphibian decline.
This course will present students with a variety of topics
relevant to the microbial ecology of amphibian decline,
emphasizing on modern OMICS approaches (genomics,
proteomics and metabolomics). During the rst part of
the course at La Selva Biological Station, students will
learn to identify and sample amphibians in the eld, de-
tect by culture dependent and molecular techniques of
both symbiotic and pathogenic microbes including Ba-
trachotrychium dendrobatidis (Bd) and ranavirus, as
well as build phylogenetic trees and analyze complete
genomes of these microbes. At the end of this period,
students will be able to design their own hypotheses
and test them the following week at the University of
Costa Rica, employing a combination of genetic, pro-
teomic and metabolomics approach.
Course Content
Through eldwork, computer-based and laboratory
analyses, this course will help students gain basic
knowledge and hands-on experience in the following di-
verse elds: amphibian ecology, vertebrate survey tech-
niques, disease ecology, isolation and laboratory culture
of amphibian pathogens, microbial ecology and diver-
sity, host-microbe symbioses, molecular biology, phylo-
genetics, next generation sequencing technologies, com-
parative genomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
Participants
The course will be held in Costa Rica and is limited to
20 students. We anticipate that half of the students will
come from Latin American institutions and about half
from U.S. institutions. All participants should be uent
in English. A working knowledge of Spanish would be
useful.
The course is intended for graduate students with an
interest in amphibian conservation, microbial ecology
or global change biology.
Course Instructors:
Adrian Pinto Director, Microscopic Structures Re-
search Center. Course Coordinator.92 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Ibrahim Zu~ niga Microscopic Structures Research Cen-
ter. Microbiology research.
Invited Faculty
Bruno Lomonte Instituto Clodomiro Picado, Proteomic
research.
Godofredo Solano Centro de Investigaciones en Produc-
tos Naturales. Metabolomics research.
Gilbert Alvarado, DVM Microscopic Structures Re-
search Center. Pathology research.
Gabriel Vargas, Microscopic Structures Research Cen-
ter. Bioinformatics research.
Juan Abarca Microscopic Structures Research Center.
Field research.
Course dates: July 29 - August 12, 2013 (arrive July
28, depart 13 August)
Application Deadline: June 14, 2013. For priority con-
sideration, followed by open enrollment until lled.
Tuition: OTS consortium applicants $2300; non-
member applicants $2900
Tuition includes: all lodging (hotel and biological re-
search stations), all meals, all transportation within
Costa Rica, all course materials (sample equipment and
lab). Does not cover personal expenses or airfare.
Partial need-based scholarships are available; priority
given to OTS consortium and Latin American appli-
cants.
For more information please consult the OTS website
www.ots.ac.cr
or write to Andr es Santana andres.santana@ots.ac.cr or
Barbara Lewis barbara.lewis@ots.ac.cr for application
information
andres.santana@ots.ac.cr
KazimierzWielkiU
EstimatingPlantMatingSystem
Jun3-6
\Estimating mating system and gene ow in plants,
with special emphasis to trees"
Dates: 3-6.06.2013
Venue: Kazimierz Wielki University, Institute of Ex-
perimental BiologyChodkiewicza 30, Building F, Bydgoszcz, Poland
Website: http://www.gene-ow.ukw.edu.pl/index.htm
This workshop is a unique opportunity to broaden
knowledge and experience on how to study mating pat-
terns and gene ow in plants. The workshop is of-
fered for students, post-docs and interested researchers
from the partner institutions of EVOLTREE Network.
Registration will be on the rst-in rst-served basis.
The number of attendants is limited to about 20 per-
sons. If less than 20 persons will register from within
EVOLTREE, other people from outside the network
will be welcomed. There is no registration fee.
The following subjects are intended to be discussed:
Introduction to mating systems and gene ow; Mi-
crosatellites as genetic markers for estimating mat-
ing system and gene ow; Indirect inferences on gene
ow based on spatial genetic structure; Indirect assess-
ment of gene ow based on pollen pool structure (Two-
Gener/KINDIST); Correlated mating systems; Princi-
ples of paternity analysis; Spatially explicit models for
pollen dispersal; Inverse modeling of propagule disper-
sal; Inference on pollen and seed dispersal based on
naturally established seedlings; 'Among population dis-
persal' - assignment methods as a tool for long distance
gene ow estimation; Current limitations and future
perspectives on estimating gene ow.
The workshop will be organized into morning and after-
noon sessions. Morning sessions will provide theoreti-
cal knowledge on the methodology and statistical pro-
cedures used in mating system and gene ow studies.
In the afternoon sessions, there will be computer lab
where specic software used for estimation of gene ow
will be presented and some examples of gene ow stud-
ies provided. This is a lab with hands-on the computers
so each participant will be able to get training on the
software (Spagedi, Kindist, Cervus, NM+). We expect
that there will be also time for consultations with lec-
turers on specic topics interested for the participants.
One all-day eld trip is planned.
Up to 30 participants (based on rst-on, rst-served
basis) are welcome.
Registration deadline: April 30th , 2013 (now extended
until full board completed)
Lecturers (conrmed):
Olivier Hardy (University of Brussels, Belgium)
Juan Jose Robledo-Arnuncio (CIFOR-INIA, Spain)
Igor J. Chybicki (Kazimierz Wielki University, Poland)
El>bieta Sandurska (Kazimierz Wielki University,June 1, 2013 EvolDir 93
Poland)
Jaros3aw Burczyk (Kazimierz Wielki University,
Poland)
Organizing committee:
Chair: Jaroslaw Burczyk [burczyk@ukw.edu.pl]
Registration, travel and accommodation assistance:
Sandra Jankowska- Wr oblewka [jankowska-
wroblewska@ukw.edu.pl]
Micha3Chmielewski [chmielewski@ukw.edu.pl]
Local support:
Ewa Sztupecka [sztupecka@ukw.edu.pl]
Katarzyna Kowalkowska [kasiakow@ukw.edu.pl]
Additional contact detail:
Phone: +48-52-3419199
+48-52-3419198
+48-52-3419197
Fax: +48-52-3419184
www(dot)ukw(dot)edu(dot)pl
MID: 3520499 19:34:01 05/06/13
Jarek Burczyk <burczyk@ukw.edu.pl >
LaFouly Switzerland
ExperimentalTheoEvolution
Jun12-15
We still have a few open slots for the workshop \Bridg-
ing theoretical and experimental evolution" in La Fouly
(Valais, Switzerland) from June 12-15 2013.
The aim of the proposed workshop is to unite exper-
imental and theoretical evolutionary biologists, both
working to resolve fundamental questions at the cen-
ter of a century-old debate. For example - what is the
distribution of tness eects of new, segregating, and
xed mutations? What is the relative importance of
adaptation vs. genetic drift in the evolution of natural
populations? By combining expertise across wet and
dry lab biology, and due to the progress of new genomic
technologies, it is becoming increasing possible to gain
traction on these questions which are fundamental to
any basic understanding of the very mode and tempo
of the evolutionary process.The workshop will bring together top researchers in the
eld and students in la Fouly, a remote and beautiful lo-
cation in the Swiss Alps (see www.lafouly.net), allowing
for close interactions and vivid exchanges. The scien-
tic program will consist in 2 1/2 days of a mixture
of talks by invited speakers and students, and posters
sessions.
The workshop will end by a hike to some nearby magnif-
icent view points over the Mont Dolent and Mont-Blanc
region.
Invited speakers:
Martin Ackermann (ETH Zurich, Switzerland) Dan
Bolon (University of Massachussetts, USA) Michael
Desai (Harvard University, USA) Isabel Gordo (Insti-
tuto Gulbenkian Ci^ encia, Lisbon, Portugal) Oskar Hal-
latschek (Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-
Organization, G ottingen, Germany) Peter Keightley
(University of Edinburgh, UK) Alex Wong (Carleton
University, Ottawa, Canada)
Cost: 400 CHF for non-CUSO students, including con-
ference fees, meals and accommodation (with sleeping
bags).
Web site and registration (max 35 students):
http://biologie.cuso.ch/ecologie-evolution/dpee-
activities/detail-activity/item/courses/bridging-
theoretical-and-experimental-evolution/ Note that
deadline for registration is extended to May 15th,
and that a maximum of 35 students can participate.
Whereas the primary target are PhD students, other
people can attend, knowing that priority will be given
to CUSO members and students presenting talk or
poster.
The organizers:
Je Jensen
Laurent Excoer
Claudia Bank
Stephan Peischl
Stephan Peischl Post-doc CMPG Institute of Ecology
and Evolution University of Bern Baltzerstrasse 6 CH-
3012 Bern Switzerland Phone: +41 31 631 30 36 Fax:
+41 31 631 48 88 Email: stephan.peischl@iee.unibe.ch
stephan.peischl@iee.unibe.ch
LakeheadU AncientDNA variable94 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Practical DNA Training Program:
A two-week (9 business days) intensive laboratory-
based training program designed to teach participants
the fundamentals of molecular techniques including
DNA extraction, amplication (using PCR), sequenc-
ing and interpretation.
This training program is oered at various times
throughout the year and we will work with you to nd
a suitable time for training.
Special Oer: Save the Tax! Save $455.00 by attending
the Practical DNA Training Program June 17-27, 2013.
For more information please contact us at 807-343-
8877 or paleodna@lakeheadu.ca or visit our website
www.ancientdna.com and click on 'Training Programs'.
Thank you.
Karen.
{ Karen Maa Administrative Assistant Paleo-DNA
Laboratory 1294 Balmoral Street, 3rd Floor Thunder
Bay, Ontario P7B 5Z5 Telephone: 1-866-DNA-LABS
or 1-807-343-8616
Karen Maa <kmaa@lakeheadu.ca >
Madrid MasterEvolutionaryBiol
Autumn
Dear EvolDir members:
The Master in Evolutionary Biology at Complutense
University of Madrid (Spain) is about to open its ap-
plication period for the new course, starting in autumn
2013.
The Master is an ocial postgraduate program directed
to students seeking a comprehensive introduction to the
major questions in evolutionary biology. To complete
the program, students have to complete 60 ECTS cred-
its. All students take four compulsory courses (The
genetic basis of evolution, Natural selection and adap-
tation, Phylogenetic Systematics, Patterns and pro-
cesses in macroevolution, each 6 ECTS) and produce a
Master's Thesis (12 ECTS). The program is completed
with four other 6-credit courses, to be chosen among
the following: Molecular phylogenies, Phylogeography
and its applications, Animal phylogeny, Evolution and
phylogeny of plants, Life-history evolution, Mechanisms
of speciation in plants, Principles of experimental de-
sign in ecology, Data analysis in ecology and evolution,Methods in evolutionary biology.
Information about the Master: http://www.ucm.es/-
info/zoo/evolucion/inicio.html Prospective students
should submit applications 21 May 2013 - 17 Jun 2013
(there may be another application period in autumn,
which will open only if there are available places: 4-11
Sep 2013). All required information about the docu-
ments required to complete applications is available at
the university website.
Best regards,
Javier P erez-Tris
jperez@bio.ucm.es
jperez@ucm.es
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig
LanguageEvolution Dec2-3
CALL FOR PAPERS Workshop: Talking Neolithic:
The Indo-European Homeland Problem versus the Ori-
gin(s) of the First European Farmers Venue: Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology Date:
December 02-03, 2013
ORGANIZERS: Bernard Comrie (Max Planck Insti-
tute for Evolutionary Anthropology), Guus Kroonen
(Copenhagen University)
CONFIRMED INVITED SPEAKERS Dr. P. Heggarty
(MPI EVA Leipzig) Prof. M.A. Jobling (University of
Leicester) Prof. J.P. Mallory (Queens University) Prof.
J. Salmons (University of Wisconsin) Prof. P.C.H.
Schrijver (Utrecht University)
CONTEXT In recent years, the study of archaeological
DNA and strontium isotopes has been shedding more
and more light on the origins and migrations of the rst
European farmers. The evidence now seems to conrm
that the dispersal of agricultural techniques from Ana-
tolia to Central and Northwest Europe was not merely
cultural, but truly $B!H(Bdemic$B!I(B, i.e. induced by
migrating farmers.
At the background of this, the debate on the location
of the Indo-European homeland recently sparked into
life again. In 2012, the widely supported theory that
the Indo-European languages reached Europe during a
Bronze Age expansion wave from the Ukrainian steppes
was challenged once more by the rival Out-of-Anatolia
hypothesis. This hypothesis, which claims that theJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 95
Indo-Europeans spread from Anatolia in the wake of
agriculture, gained world-wide media attention after its
implementation in a new model for language expan-
sions. Meanwhile, current research on the pre-Indo-
European loanwords in Germanic, Celtic, Greek and
Latin reveals that the separate Indo-European dialects
borrowed a signicant part of their agricultural termi-
nology from extinct Neolithic languages. This seems to
suggest that the Indo-Europeans and the earliest Eu-
ropean farmers were two culturally and linguistically
distinct groups.
The questions that thus arise are: $B!H(BExactly
how agricultural were the Indo-Europeans and how
Indo-European were Europe$B!G(Bs rst agricultural-
ists?$B!I(B
CALL The international workshop Talking Neolithic
aims at creating an interdisciplinary focus on the Euro-
pean Neolithic in order to tackle 1. the Indo-European
homeland problem and Indo-European expansions, in
particular from the perspective of 2. the origin and na-
ture of extinct prehistoric European languages, and 3.
the spread of agriculture and/or the rst European agri-
culturalists. The objective is to compare ndings from
dierent historical disciplines and unite them into a
cross-disciplinary perspective. Within this framework,
linguists, geneticists and archaeologists are invited to
submit a paper of no longer than 20 minutes on any of
these three or closely related topics. Abstracts should
not exceed 400 words, t on a single page, and must
be sent to Guus Kroonen (guus(a)hum.ku.dk) no later
than June 1, 2013. Please be sure to include your name,
institute and contact information (land and e-mail ad-
dress).
Guus Kroonen <Guus@hum.ku.dk >
Montana ConGen Sep2-7
ConGen 2013 Population Genomic Data Analysis
Course http://www.popgen.net/congen2013/ Recent
Approaches for Estimation of Population Structure,
Gene-ow, Landscape Genomics, Selection Detection,
and the Analysis of Next-Gen Sequence Data.
2-7 September 2013 Flathead Lake Biological Station,
Montana, USA http://www2.umt.edu/bs/ Applica-
tions for 2013 edition are now open!
Objective: To provide training in conceptual and prac-
tical aspects of data analysis for the conservation ge-nomics of natural and managed populations. Empha-
sis will be on next generation sequence data analysis
(RADs, exon capture, and whole genome sequence anal-
yses) and interpretation of output from recent novel
statistical approaches and software programs. The
course also will allow daily discussions among young
researchers (students/participants) and leaders in con-
servation genomics to help develop the \next genera-
tion" of conservation geneticists. We will identify and
discuss developments needed to improve data analy-
sis approaches. This course will cover analysis meth-
ods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate
Bayesian, and likelihood-based approaches.
Who should apply: Ph.D. students, post-docs, and pop-
ulation biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics
and a course in population ecology. Applicants must
have a basic background in population genetic data
analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg propor-
tions and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be
limited to 25-30 people allowing ecient instruction
with hands-on computer exercises during the course.
Priority will be given to persons with their own data to
analyze (for example graduate students at the end of
their degree program).
Course/Workshop Format: For each subject, we typi-
cally provide 30-45 minutes of background, theory, dis-
cussion and introduction to concepts. Immediately fol-
lowing, we will conduct data analyses together for 30-60
minutes using relevant software programs and real data
sets. Evening hands-on computer sessions and lodging
together of the instructors and students in the same lo-
cation (the beautiful Flathead Lake eld station) will
allow for extensive exchange and facilitate learning.
Cost (before July 1st): $US 1,300 - which includes all
lodging, meals (& coee breaks etc.), transportation
(to/from airport and Glacier National Park), a eld
trip to Glacier Park, and power point slide shows of all
lectures (as well as audio-visual recordings of each lec-
ture, including \question & answering sessions"). USD
$1,500 if payment after July 1st.
Deadline for application is 1 July, 2013
More information on http://www.popgen.net/-
congen2013/ tiagoantao@gmail.com
Montana Congen
PopulationGenetics Sep2-796 EvolDir June 1, 2013
ConGen 2013 Population Genomic Data Analysis
Course http://www.popgen.net/congen2013/ Recent
Approaches for Estimation of Population Structure,
Gene-ow, Landscape Genomics, Selection Detection,
and the Analysis of Next-Gen Sequence Data.
2-7 September 2013 Flathead Lake Biological Station,
Montana, USA http://www2.umt.edu/bs/ Applica-
tions for 2013 edition are now open!
Objective: To provide training in conceptual and prac-
tical aspects of data analysis for the conservation ge-
nomics of natural and managed populations. Empha-
sis will be on next generation sequence data analysis
(RADs, exon capture, and whole genome sequence anal-
yses) and interpretation of output from recent novel
statistical approaches and software programs. The
course also will allow daily discussions among young
researchers (students/participants) and leaders in con-
servation genomics to help develop the \next genera-
tion" of conservation geneticists. We will identify and
discuss developments needed to improve data analy-
sis approaches. This course will cover analysis meth-
ods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate
Bayesian, and likelihood-based approaches.
Who should apply: Ph.D. students, post-docs, and pop-
ulation biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics
and a course in population ecology. Applicants must
have a basic background in population genetic data
analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg propor-
tions and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be
limited to 25-30 people allowing ecient instruction
with hands-on computer exercises during the course.
Priority will be given to persons with their own data to
analyze (for example graduate students at the end of
their degree program).
Course/Workshop Format: For each subject, we typi-
cally provide 30-45 minutes of background, theory, dis-
cussion and introduction to concepts. Immediately fol-
lowing, we will conduct data analyses together for 30-60
minutes using relevant software programs and real data
sets. Evening hands-on computer sessions and lodging
together of the instructors and students in the same lo-
cation (the beautiful Flathead Lake eld station) will
allow for extensive exchange and facilitate learning.
Cost (before July 1st): $US 1,300 - which includes all
lodging, meals (& coee breaks etc.), transportation
(to/from airport and Glacier National Park), a eld
trip to Glacier Park, and power point slide shows of all
lectures (as well as audio-visual recordings of each lec-
ture, including \question & answering sessions"). USD
$1,500 if payment after July 1st.Deadline for application is 1 July, 2013
More information on http://www.popgen.net/-
congen2013/ tiagoantao@gmail.com
NESCent
EvolutionaryQuantGenetics Aug5-10
Title: Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics Instruc-
tors: Stevan Arnold, Joe Felsenstein, Thomas Hansen,
Trudy Mackay, Brian O'Meara, Patrick Phillips, Liam
Revell, Josef Uyeda Dates: August 5-10, 2013 Ap-
plication review begins: June 1, 2013 Website:
academy.nescent.org Where: National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center, Durham, NC, USA
As part of the NESCent Academy, we are pleased to
open applications for Evolutionary Quantitative Ge-
netics. In this workshop we will review the basics of
theory in the eld of evolutionary quantitative genetics
and its connections to evolution that is observed at var-
ious time scales. Quantitative genetics deals with the
inheritance of measurements of traits that are aected
by many genes. Quantitative genetic theory for natural
populations was developed considerably in the period
1970-90 and up to the present time. It has been applied
to a wide range of phenomena including the evolution
of dierences between the sexes, sexual preferences, life
history traits, plasticity of traits, as well as the evo-
lution of body size and other morphological measure-
ments. Textbooks have not kept pace with these de-
velopments, and currently few universities oer courses
in this subject aimed at evolutionary biologists. There
is a need for evolutionary biologists to understand this
eld because of the ability to collect large amounts of
data by computer, the development of statistical meth-
ods for changes of traits on evolutionary trees and for
changes in a single species through time, and the re-
alization that quantitative characters will not soon be
fully explained by genomics. This workshop aims to
ll this need by reviewing basic aspects of theory and
illustrating how that theory can be tested with data.
Participants will learn to use R, an open-source sta-
tistical programming language, to build and test evo-
lutionary models. The intended participants for this
workshop are graduate students, postdocs, and junior
faculty members in evolutionary biology.
The course is co-sponsored by the American Society of
Naturalists, and reduced tuition will be oered to par-
ticipants who are ASN members.June 1, 2013 EvolDir 97
Questions? email academy@nescent.org
{
karen.cranston@gmail.com
@kcranstn
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@gmail.com >
NESCent
OntologiesEvolutionaryBiol
Jul29-Aug3
Title: Ontologies for evolutionary biology Instruc-
tors: Melissa Haendel, Matt Yoder, Jim Balho,
Erik Segerdell Dates: July 29-August 3, 2013 Ap-
plication review begins: June 1, 2013 Website:
academy.nescent.org Where: National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center, Durham, NC, USA
Evolutionary research has been revolutionized by the
explosion of genetic information available, and ontolo-
gies must play a central crucial in relating this knowl-
edge to observable diversity. Ontologies provide scaf-
folding that interconnects many kinds of observations;
across species, they provide evolutionary, developmen-
tal, and mechanistic insights. The theme for this year's
course is 'enrichment'. We aim to help participants en-
rich their research through the use of ontologies, to en-
rich existing ontologies with new content, and to bring
new domain expertise to the ontology community.
The course will start with introduction to ontology de-
velopment and design (using OWL, Protege), including
best practices for community interoperability. We will
explore, explain, and demonstrate how ontologies are
being used within the eld of evolutionary biology. We
will then focus on providing new material for and con-
ceptual links between key existing ontologies and biodi-
versity informatics. Specics will include strategies for
ontology integration, mash-up of data using dierent
ontologies, visualization tools, data stores leveraging
ontologies, limits to ontological expression, and ontol-
ogy manipulation tools and tricks. Following the intro-
ductory materials, we will apply what we have learned
in the context of individual research projects and par-
ticipants should come prepared with a research problem
that they would like to use ontologies to help address.
Questions? email: academy@nescent.org
{karen.cranston@gmail.com @kcranstn
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@gmail.com >
NESCent Durham
GMODSummerSchool Jul19-23
Learn how to get started with GMOD's toolkit for ge-
netics and genomics, GMOD in the Cloud!
July 19-23, 2013; NESCent, Durham, North Carolina
http://gmod.org/wiki/2013 GMOD Summer School
The 2013 GMOD Summer School is the best way
to get to grips with GMOD in the Cloud, GMOD's
suite of genomic and genetic software. Over ve days,
attendees will learn how to install, congure, and run
popular GMOD software for visualization, storage,
and dissemination of genetic and genomic data. The
following software is covered:
- Chado, a species-independent database schema cover-
ing many areas of genetic and genomic data; - GBrowse,
the ubiquitous genome browser; - GBrowse syn, a syn-
teny browser built on GBrowse; - Galaxy, analysis
and computation pipeline; - JBrowse, genome browsing
evolved; - MAKER, automated annotation pipeline; -
Tripal, a slick web interface for displaying and editing
data from Chado; and - WebApollo, distributed com-
munity genome annotation tool (built on JBrowse).
There are additional sessions on setting up a GMOD in
the Cloud virtual machine in the Amazon cloud, and
common le formats.
Courses are taught by members of the software develop-
ment teams, and there are work sessions in the evenings
for participants to talk to the developers or apply what
they have been taught to their own data.
For more information and to apply, visit http://-
gmod.org/wiki/2013 GMOD Summer School. There
are some scholarship funds available for those from un-
derrepresented minorities.
All applications should be in by June 10th. If you have
any questions, please contact the GMOD help desk at
help@gmod.org.
Hope to see you there!
Thanks, Amelia Ireland GMOD Community Support
http://gmod.org jj@gmodproject
amelia.ireland@gmod.org98 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Portugal Evolution Jul15-19
CALL FOR STUDENTS: 1st International SUMMER
School on Evolution
Early Bird Registration deadline coming up!
July 15th - 19th, 2013 jCi^ encia Viva Knowl-
edge Pavilion, Lisbon, Portugal Website: http://-
evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt/summer Early Bird registra-
tion until May 31st, 350 euro Late Registration until
June 15th, 450 euro
About the courses
Module 1: EVOLutionary theory Courses are taught
by: Lu s Villarreal, Ilya T emkin, Frietson Galis.
Module 2: sociocultural Evolution Courses are taught
by Fiona Jordan, Marion Blute, Nathalie Gontier &
Emanuele Serrelli.
Module 3: philosophy of biology Courses are taught by
Derek Turner, Fr ed eric Bouchard, Michael Ruse.
The course program is online at: http:/-
/evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt/summer/sub/pro/-
program.php All courses are taught at a level
accessible to Master, PhD and post-doctoral students
in the exact, life, human and sociocultural evolutionary
sciences. Students of evolutionary biology, evolution-
ary developmental biology, virology, paleontology,
evolutionary linguistics, evolutionary anthropology,
and philosophy of biology will especially benet from
these courses. Students will be provided a mandatory
reading list which will form the basis of lectures and
discussions. There are neither examinations nor paper
assignments.
REGISTRATION FEE 350 euro for the whole week,
regardless the number of courses you chose.
HOW TO ENROLL You can enroll for a specic mod-
ule (therefore following a 30-hour course on the subject)
or you may choose three courses of your specic inter-
est.
About the SUMMER School The School is organized
by the Applied Evolutionary Epistemology Lab of the
Centre for Philosophy of Science of the University of
Lisbon, in collaboration with Ci^ encia Viva and with
the support of the John Templeton Foundation.
SUBSCRIBE TO THE SUMMER SCHOOL MAIL-
INGLIST http://eepurl.com/n2EGb Websites http:/-/evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt, http://appeel.fc.ul.pt
Find us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/-
events/374500115949579
appeelannouncements@fc.ul.pt
Poznan Poland Bioinformatics
Aug19-23
Category: Course Topic: Poznan Summer School of
Bioinformatics 2013
Dear colleagues,
We are extremely happy to announce 10th edition of
Poznan Summer School of Bioinformatics. This meet-
ing takes place in Faculty of Biology at Adam Mick-
iewicz University in Poznan (Poland) from 19th to 23rd
August 2013. This year the course will cover several
areas of research at the interface between molecular bi-
ology and evolution focusing on using genetic and ge-
nomic data to infer phylogenetic relationships, identify
unknown samples, gain knowledge about mechanisms
of molecular evolution. The course is tailored for those
who already have some basic knowledge in bioinformat-
ics and nd it necessary and interesting to learn more
about bioinformatics applications in molecular evolu-
tion and phylogenomics. The course consists of lec-
tures and hands-on - this combination should t best
your needs as you have a chance to try out the discussed
methods yourself.
For further information please visit our website: http:/-
/bioinformatics-school.pl Please forward this an-
nouncement to anyone who might be interested.
Best regards, PSSB Organizing Committee Contact:
genomics@amu.edu.pl
Bioinfo School <genomics@amu.edu.pl >
Shenzhen
HumanPopulationGeneticAnalyses
Oct14-18
Centre for Bioinformatics at University of Copenhagen
and Beijing Genomics institute invites you to a PhDJune 1, 2013 EvolDir 99
Course in
*Human Population Genetic Analyses*
with an emphasis on Next-Generation Sequencing
Data.
Dates: Oct 14-18, 2013. Venue: Beijing Genomics In-
stitute, Shenzhen, China.
This course provides a one week comprehensive in-
troduction to a number of topics and common re-
search tools used in analyses of human population ge-
netic data, including genetic drift, coalescence theory,
population structure, natural selection, linkage dise-
quilibrium, association mapping and admixture analy-
ses. Using computer exercises students will be familiar-
ized with common research tools including IM, Struc-
ture, PLINK, ANGSD, and pipelines for analyzing Next
Generation Sequencing data. The fee for the course is
$200 (waived for students from BGI or Department of
Biology, University of Copenhagen) and includes dor-
mitory style accommodation and food.
Instructors: Rasmus Nielsen, Noah Rosenberg, Anders
Albrechtsen, Ida Moltke and Thornn Korneliussen.
For sign up and questions, please email: cphsummer-
course@gmail.com. Registration deadline: September
1st 2013.
Rasmus Nielsen
rasmus nielsen@berkeley.edu
UNordland
NGSofNonmodelOrganisms
Jun11-18
PhD course: high throughput sequencing of non-model
organisms
Time: June 11-18, 2013
At: Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture, University
of Nordland
High throughput sequencing technologies are being ap-
plied to a wide range of important topics in biology.
However, the analyses of non-model organisms, for
which little previous sequence information is available,
pose specic problems. This course will address the spe-
cic strengths and weaknesses of alternative HTS tech-
nologies, the computational resources needed for HTS,
and how to analyze non-model species using HTS. Thecourse consists of a practical training module on the Ion
Torrent PGM, HTS bioinformatics training, and lectur-
ing/seminars of HTS approaches specically targeting
non-model organisms.
Find more information and application form on our
web pages <http://www.uin.no/omuin/fakulteter/-
fba/phdakvakultur/courses/Pages/High-throughput-
sequencing-of-non-model-organisms.aspx >.
The registration deadline is May 29.
If you think anyone in your network would be interested
in the course, please forward this information to them!
[cid:103113605@18052011-19E4] Best regards, Ms.
G~Aril Fr ~Amyr Borgen PhD coordinator Faculty of Bio-
sciences and Aquaculture Phone: 75517351 E-mail:
gfb@uin.no http://www.uin.no
G~Aril Fr ~Amyr Borgen <Goril.Fromyr.Borgen@uin.no >
Valencia GenomicsHealth
Jun24-Jul26
Applications are now open for the Third Edition of
the CSISP Summer School. These courses are ad-
dressed at students and professionals in the biomed-
ical, public health and related disciplines in biology
and medicine. The school will run from June 24 un-
til July 26, 2013 and will be focused on \Genomics
and Health". Further information can be obtained at
http://www.csisp.gva.es/en/summer-school We look
forward seeing you in Valencia!
Fernando Gonzalez.
{
Prof. Fernando Gonzalez Candelas Catedr atico
de Gen etica / Professor of Genetics Unidad Mixta
Gen omica y Salud CSISP-UV/Instituto Cavanilles
Universitat de Valencia Phone: (+34) 963543653
- 961925961 C/ Catedr atico Jose Beltran, 2 FAX:
(+34) 963543670 E-46980 Paterna (Valencia) SPAIN
e-mail: fernando.gonzalez@uv.es http://www.uv.es/-
%7Egonzalef/index.htm ResearcherID: G-5681-2010
fernando.gonzalez@uv.es100 EvolDir June 1, 2013
Venice EvoDevo Sep23-27
Summer School on Evolutionary Developmental Biol-
ogy Conceptual and Methodological Foundations
3rd Edition: From Gene Networks to Organismal Sys-
tems
Venice, 23-27 September 2013
Organizers: Alessandro Minelli, Gerd B. M uller and
Giuseppe Fusco School director: Johannes Jaeger
School sponsors: Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed
Arti, Venice and Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution
and Cognition Research, Vienna. Location: Istituto
Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Palazzo Franchetti,
Venice
Taching panel: J. Jaeger, School Director (Centre for
Genomic Regulation - CRG, Barcelona), C. Alonso
(University of Sussex), P. Beldade (Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ci^ encia, Lisbon), G.E. Budd (University
of Uppsala), G. Fusco (University of Padova), G. Giri-
bet (Harvard University), V. Grieneisen (John Innes
Centre, Norwich), R. Jenner (Natural History Museum,
London), A. McGregor (Oxford Brookes University),
A. Minelli (University of Padova), C. Mirth (Instituto
Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, Oeiras), G.B. M uller (Konrad
Lorenz Institute, Vienna)
Deadline for applications: May 30th 2013
For details, visit http://extra.istitutoveneto.it/-
EDB2013/ Giuseppe Fusco Department of Biology
University of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-35131 Padova
Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax +39.049.827.6230
e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it webpage http://-
dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >
Vienna eFLOWERSummerSchool
Jul3-10
Dear colleagues,
Applications are invited for the rst eFLOWER Sum-
mer School to take place in Vienna, Jul. 3-10, 2013. Alldetail are below and on our website (www.eower.org).
Do not hesitate to pass this along to any potentially
interested students.
Kind regards,
Herv e
ORGANIZERS: Herv e Sauquet (Univ. Paris-Sud) and
J urg Sch onenberger (Univ. Vienna)
LOCATION: Faculty Centre of Biodiversity, University
of Vienna, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Wien, Austria
DATES: 3-10 July 2013 (six working days); the week-
end (6-7 July) may be used to explore Vienna
NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS: 12
PURPOSE: To speed up data entry in the PROTEUS
database in order to reach the rst targets of the
eFLOWER project (www.eower.org). The School will
consist primarily in massive entry of oral trait data,
based on published descriptions, for a target list of
species representing all angiosperm families, assisted by
eFLOWER project coordinators, and interspersed with
lectures by experts on a diversity of relevant topics for
the project. Preliminary analyses and exciting new re-
sults will be expected and presented by the end of the
School. All participants (PhD students, master stu-
dents) will be oered co-authorship on the eFLOWER
paper using the data from the School and have the
chance to use PROTEUS for their own projects in
their home labs as well as to continue collaborating on
eFLOWER. The School oers a unique opportunity to
learn about oral structure and evolution, angiosperm
phylogeny, and contemporary macroevolutionary meth-
ods; great networking opportunity for students in an
informal and friendly atmosphere.
INVITED SPEAKERS: Peter Endress (University of
Zurich), Maria von Balthazar (University of Vienna),
Susana Magall on (Universidad Nacional Aut onoma de
M exico), Brian O'Meara (University of Tennessee; vir-
tual lecture).
PROFILE OF PARTICIPANTS: We target primarily
early PhD students as well as master students with
some knowledge of plant morphology, systematics, and
phylogenetics. Students of owering plant Evo-Devo
are also welcome to apply.
APPLICATION: To apply, send a letter of motivation
and your CV in a single PDF le to herve.sauquet@u-
psud.fr and juerg.schoenenberger@univie.ac.atby 31
May 2013. Your letter should be no more than one
page and explain clearly why you think the eFLOWER
Summer School will be benecial to your research and
how you think your experience and expertise will ben-June 1, 2013 EvolDir 101
et the project.
COSTS: Each participant will receive a travel grant for
up to 250 Eur. Accomodation in a nearby youth hos-
tel (including breakfast) will be covered by the School.
Other meals and travel insurance are not included and
need to be covered by the participants themselves.Herv e Sauquet
Ma^ tre de Conf erences / Assistant Professor Uni-
versit e Paris-Sud 11 Lab. Ecologie, Syst ematique,
Evolution (ESE) CNRS UMR 8079, b^ at. 360 91405 Or-
say, France Tel/Fax: +33 169154991/+33 169154697
E-mail: herve.sauquet@u-psud.fr www.eower.org
herve.sauquet@gmail.com
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.