E v o l D i r
March 1, 2011
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Conferences
Almada Portugal PrimateDiversity Sep14-17 . . . . . . . . 2
Amsterdam InsectEvolution Oct2-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Banﬀ CanSocEcolEvol May12-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
CollegeNewEngland EvolutionaryGenomics Jul10-15 4
Edinburgh EvolTransposableElements Apr1 2 . . . . . . 5
Edinburgh Immunology Evolution Jun30 . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Estonia TemperatureAdaptation Apr28-30 . . . . . . . . . . 6
GhentU PlantCompartiveGenomics Apr11-12 . . . . . . . 6
Houston CamelConservation Sep16-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Irapuato Mexico GenomicsBiodiversity Jul23-25 . . . . 7
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics Jun9-12 . . . . . . . . . . . 8
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics Jun9-12 Registra-
tionOpen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
KualaLumpur DNA Barcoding Jun14-17 DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Kyoto SMBE Jul27-30 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
London EcolMarcoevolution Mar9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
London MacroevolutionaryResearch Mar9 . . . . . . . . . 12
Lunteren Netherlands GalaxyCommunity May25-26 13
Montpellier EvolutionaryRescue Jun7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
NESCent Durham GMOD Mar Registration . . . . . . . 14
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22 CallAbstracts . . . . . . . . . . 15Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22 RegistrationOpen . . . . . . 16
NottinghamU EvolutionaryParasitology Apr12-14 . 16
OhioU Athens Bioinformatics May2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Plymouth PlanktonBiodiversity Sep22-23 . . . . . . . . . . 18
Roscoﬀ Brittany DiseaseEvolution Jun25-29 . . . . . . . 18
Seia Portugal 17th EMPSEB Aug10-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Spain EMBO ComparativeGenomics Oct15-20 . . . . . 19
Switzerland EconomicsEvolution Apr17-20 . . . . . . . . 20
Tuebingen ESEB 2011 Aug20-25 ParallelEvol CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25 RegistrationDeadline
21
Tuebingen ESEB 2011 MacroEvolution Aug20-25
Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Tuebingen ESEB ExperimentalEvol Aug20-25 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Tuebingen ESEB Genomics Aug20-25 CallAbstracts 22
UMichigan DiseaseEvolution Apr16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UOklahoma Evolution 2011 Jun17-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
WestVirginia MalariaEvolution Aug1-Aug4 . . . . . . . . 24
Almada Portugal PrimateDiversity
Sep14-17
ˆ aDiversity within Primatologyˆ a
IV CONGRESS OF THE EUROPEAN FEDERA-
TION FOR PRIMATOLOGY
Invitation
You are cordially invited to attend the fourth congress
of the European Federation for Primatology (EFP).
This congress will be hosted by the Portuguese Prima-
tological Association (APP), at Almada, from 14th ˆ a
17th September 2011.
This meeting will coincide with the 3rd Iberian Prima-
tological Conference, which gathers together the 5thPortuguese ans the 9th Spanish Primatological Confer-
ences.
Diversity will be the main theme of the congress.
By diversity we mean diversity of research topics, diver-
sity of approaches in primatology, diversity of species
or diversity between individuals.
This conference aims to build strong scientiﬁc bridges
between European primatologists facilitating the estab-
lishment of network contacts and hopefully engaging
European scientists in co-operative research activities.
We are looking forward to see you in Almada!
Date
14th - 17th September 2011 (from Wednesday to Sat-
urday).
The proposed format will allow congress participants to
stay over the weekend for sight-seeing and social events.
VenueMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 3
The conference will take place in the library building
that belongs to the C ˜Amara Municipal de Almada (Al-
mada, Portugal).
Almada is a small city located 15 minutes away from the
South of Lisbon (across the bridge over Tagus River).
For more speciﬁc information regarding the access to
Almada and Almada surroundings please see
http://www.almadadigital.pt/portal/page/portal/-
ACDV2 Conference oﬃcial language
English is the conference language.
Abstracts for both oral and poster communications
must be submitted in English and all presentations
must be given in English.
More information will be provided soon!
For more informations, please go to:
http://apprimatologia.com/Actividades/-
CEP2011.aspx Maria Joana Ferreira da Silva
<silvamaria ju@hotmail.com >
Amsterdam InsectEvolution Oct2-5
Conference Announcement
The Sixth International Symposium on Molecular In-
sect Science October 2-5 2011 Amsterdam, The Nether-
lands
The Sixth International Symposium on Molecular In-
sect Science is the ﬁrst of the series to be held outside
of the USA. Previous Symposia, organized by the Uni-
versity of Arizona’s Center for Insect Science, have been
met with great enthusiasm.
By holding the Symposium in Amsterdam, in collab-
oration with Elsevier, it is hoped that the meeting
will be even more accessible to scientists and their stu-
dents in Europe, Asia, Australasia, and elsewhere. Ab-
stracts are now being accepted in the following cat-
egories: <http://www.molecularinsectscience.com/-
submit-abstract.html >Genomics and Proteomics
Arthropod EvoDevo Neurobiology (Antagonistic and
Symbiotic) Interactions Toxicology and Insecticide Re-
sistance Immunity Endocrinology Chemical Ecology
and Behaviour Pest Control Biotechnology Disease
Models and Drug Discovery Submission deadline: April
8th 2011 To submit your abstract, or for more informa-
tion, visit: www.molecularinsectscience.com <http:/-
/www.molecularinsectscience.com/index.html >Matt Smaldon Group Marketing Communications
Manager ELSEVIER Science & Technology |The
Boulevard |Langford Lane |Kidlington |Oxford |OX5
1GB|UK Tel: +44 (0)1865 843644 |Fax: +44 (0)1865
843971 |Mobile: +44 (0)7789 982934
Elsevier Limited. Registered Oﬃce: The Boulevard,
Langford Lane, Kidlington, Oxford, OX5 1GB, United
Kingdom, Registration No. 1982084 (England and
Wales).
m.smaldon@elsevier.com
Banﬀ CanSocEcolEvol May12-15
The University of Calgary is pleased to host the
6th annual CSEE meeting from May 12-15 ( http://-
www.ecoevo.ca/banﬀ2011 ) in the beautiful mountain
town of Banﬀ, Alberta.
The meeting will be held in the Banﬀ Centre,
a globally respected conference facility ( http://-
www.banﬀcentre.ca ).
Talks and plenary sessions will feature over 40 invited
speakers representing leaders as well as rising stars in
the ﬁelds of ecology and evolution from over 30 in-
stitutions across Canada and internationally. Special
symposia themes include systematics and biodiversity,
mountain ecology, pollinator biodiversity and pollina-
tion services, the genetics of evolution and species iso-
lation, population ecology, and paleobiodiversity. Sub-
missions for contributed talks and posters in all areas of
ecology and evolution are welcome. Titles and abstracts
for oral presentations and posters can be submitted us-
ing the registration links below.
The Canadian Institute of Ecology and Evolution
(CIEE) will be hosting three one-day workshops on May
16th for a nominal fee. The workshops (and instructors)
include:
1) Mathematical Modeling in Ecology and Evolution
(Dr. Sarah P. Otto) 2) Statistics in R (Dr. Dolph
Schluter) 3) Phylogenetics in R (Dr. Luke Harmon)
Additionally, there will be a symposium for women
entering ecology and evolution today (SWEEET).
SWEEET is a symposium intended to address issues
that inﬂuence the advancement of women from post-
graduate degrees into academic, government, and in-
dustry positions in Ecology and Evolution.
Optional organized ﬁeld trips include a visit to the4 EvolDir March 1, 2011
beautiful Kananaskis valley, “Benn’s Big Game Hike”
in Banﬀ, and a fossil ﬁeld trip.
REGISTRATION REMINDER: If you plan to at-
tend the CSEE meeting this year in Banﬀ and
have not yet registered, please register soon at:
http://www.ecoevo.ca/banﬀ2011 MEMBERSHIP RE-
NEWAL: If you haven’t already done so, please re-
new your membership at http://www.ecoevo.ca/en/-
index.htm (or you can renew when you pay for the
meeting).
The registration deadline for eligible student members
interested in receiving one of the 30 travel grants spon-
sored by the CSEE is FEBRUARY 24.
The deadline for registration at a reduced fee for the
2011 meeting is next week (March 1).
We are looking forward to hosting you in Banﬀ!
Local Organizing Committee: Sean Rogers, Jeﬀ Hutch-
ings, Brian Kopach, Leanna Lachowsky, Heather Proc-
tor, Mary Reid, Kathreen Ruckstuhl, Jessica Theodor,
Jana Vamosi
Sean M. Rogers Alberta Ingenuity New Faculty Assis-
tant Professor Department of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Calgary 2500 University Drive N.W. Cal-
gary, AB, Canada T2N 1N4 Oﬃce Phone: 403-210-
8573 Lab Phone: 403-220-7907 Fax (403) 289-9311
www.ucalgary.ca/˜srogers srogers@ucalgary.ca
CollegeNewEngland
EvolutionaryGenomics Jul10-15
Plan to attend the Gordon Conference on Ecological
and Evolutionary Genomics! Date: July 10-15, 2011
GRC Location: College of New England, Biddeford
Maine
The 2011 Gordon Conference on Evolutionary & Eco-
logical Genomics will present cutting-edge research on
using genomics approaches to study adaptation of or-
ganisms to changing environments, genome evolution
and population genetics, as well as the evolution of com-
plex phenotypes. In particular, several of the talks this
year will highlight evidence for evolution at the molecu-
lar and phenotypic levels in response to climate change.
A diversity of sessions will highlight recent results from
natural as well as experimental populations, and will
cover both non-model and model species. There will be
an exciting balance between ecologists using genomicsto study adaptation in rapidly evolving systems, as well
as genomicists using large-scale sequence, expression
and functional assays to study variation among pop-
ulations and species.
The conveners Loretta Johnson (Kansas State Univer-
sity) and Gretchen Hofmann (UC Santa Barbara) are
committed to assembling a diverse conference with a
mix of high proﬁle established scientists and as well as
post-docs and grad students early in their professional
careers. We plan to select some submitted abstracts for
invited talks. We are actively applying for funds to al-
low graduate students and others to attend. Although
attendance at Gordon conferences is by application, we
intend to admit as many as we can on a ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst
serve basis. The collegial atmosphere of this Confer-
ence, with discussion sessions as well as opportunities
for informal gatherings in the afternoons and evenings,
provides an avenue for scientists from diﬀerent disci-
plines to brainstorm and promotes cross-disciplinary
collaborations. We hope to see you there, at the College
of New England!
More information and application and registration in-
formation can be found at the Gordon Conference web
sitehttp://www.grc.org Conﬁrmed speakers include:
PLENARY SPEAKER: Thomas Mitchell-Olds: Ad-
vances in the emerging ﬁeld of ecological and evolu-
tionary genomics
GENOMICS OF RAPID EVOLUTIONARY
CHANGE
Bill Bradshaw (rapid evolution and genetic changes
in timing of life history traits in the pitcher plant
mosquito),
Ary Hoﬀmann (molecular and genomic evolution of
thermal clines in Drosophila)
Mike Lynch (mechanisms of evolution at the genomic
and phenotypic levels, origins of gene-structural com-
plexity)
GENETIC ARCHITECTURE OF LOCAL ADAPTA-
TION IN HETEROGENOUS ENVIRONMENTS
David Lowry (local adaptation in Mimulus in response
to salt and drought),
Luciano Matzkin (host adaptation in cactophilic
Drosophila),
Cynthia Weinig (Molecular evolutionary ecology of
plant adaptation to heterogeneous settings)
Mark Ungerer (evolutionary genomics of transposable
elements in sunﬂower
GENOMIC RESPONSES TO STRESSMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 5
Dick Roelofs (adaptive variation in response to metals
in spring tails)
Ana Caicedo (evolutionary genomics of weedy rice,
adaptive variation in wild tomatoes in response to en-
vironmental stresses)
MOLECULAR EVOLUTION AND GENOMICS of
SPECIES INTERACTIONS
Jack Werren (Wolbachia genome evolution, host-
Wolbachia interactions)
May Berenbaum (ecological genomics of host-plant in-
teractions, genomic ecology of global climate on plant-
insect interactions)
Ralf Sommer (genetic studies of species interactions and
the ecology of Pristionchus nematodes)
Mike Herman (ecological genomics of nematode-
bacterial interactions)
GENETIC BASIS OF ADAPTIVE VARIATION
Jim Marden (functional genomics of dispersal and fe-
male fecundity in Melitaea cinxia butterﬂy metapopu-
lations,
Hopi Hoekstra (adaptive variation in pigmentation in
mice)
PHENOTYPIC PLASTICITY and GENOTYPE x
ENVIRONMENT INTERACTIONS
Puni Jeyasingh (Genes and ecological stoichiometry, eu-
trophication and microevolutionary change in Daphnia.
Louis Bernatchez (population and quantitative genet-
ics, functional genomics, ﬁsh populations of conserva-
tion concern)
–
ˆ a Loretta Johnson ˆ a Associate Professor ˆ a Co-
Director Ecological Genomics Institute ˆ a http://-
ecogen.ksu.edu/ ˆ a Division of Biology ˆ a Kansas State
University ˆ a Manhattan KS 66506-4901 ˆ a Oﬃce: 785-
532-6921 ˆ a www.ksu.edu/johnsonlab
johnson@k-state.edu
Edinburgh
EvolTransposableElements Apr1 2
Meeting on Transposable Elements, Edinburgh, April
2011A one-day meeting on “Transposable elements: their
functional and evolutionary biology” will be held at
Surgeons’ Hall, Edinburgh, UK on April, 1, 2011. This
is the annual Spring Meeting of the Genetics Society
of the UK, and details of meeting arrangements and
registration can be found on the Genetics Society web-
site ( http://www.genetics.org.uk/ ). Please register by
March 17.
Laurence Hurst will give the Genetics Society Medal
Lecture for 2010 at this meeting. Other speak-
ers are Mark Batzer, Casey Bergman, Tom Bureau,
Hugo Dooner, Tom Eickbush, Adam Eyre-Walker, and
Zsuzsanna Izsvak.
Brian Charlesworth <brian.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk >
Edinburgh Immunology Evolution
Jun30
Dear all,
We are pleased to invite you to the postponed Cen-
tre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution (CIIE) one-
day symposium on ’Wild Immunology“ in Edinburgh
on Thursday, June 30th. We have a great list of diverse
speakers and it should be an exciting day.
The aim of the symposium is to bring together re-
searchers from diverse disciplines to address a central
question in infectious disease biology and immunology:
Why should we try to understand infection and immu-
nity in wild systems? Speciﬁcally, how does the im-
mune response operate in the wild and how does multi-
ple co-infection and commensalism impact the immune
response and host health in natural systems?
We have a broad programme of speakers, ranging from
laboratory immunologists to infectious disease ecolo-
gists, working on wild birds, wild and laboratory ro-
dents, or wild sheep, and studying questions that range
from the dynamics of co-infection, to how commensal
organisms aﬀect parasites and immune development.
Our goal is to bring speakers of various expertise to-
gether to try and ﬁnd meaningful ways to bring im-
munological tools to the study of wild populations.
Speakers: ˆ a Judi Allen (University of Edinburgh) ˆ a
Jan Bradley (University of Nottingham) ˆ a Mark Viney
(University of Bristol) ˆ a Jim Kauﬀman (Cambridge
University) ˆ a Andrea Graham (Princeton University) ˆ a
Steve Paterson (University of Liverpool) ˆ a Ken Smith
(Cambridge University) ˆ a Richard Grencis (University6 EvolDir March 1, 2011
of Manchester) ˆ a Kathy McCoy (Bern University) ˆ a Pe-
ter Turnbaugh (Harvard University):
If you’d like to attend, you need to register using
the online registration form on the website http://-
ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/ . Thereˆ as a registration fee of ˆA£10.
Lunch will be provided for all registered attendees.
You can contact the organisers by e-mailing
ciie@ed.ac.uk
We look forward to welcoming you on 30th June.
Cheers, Amy Pedersen & Simon Babayan
Amy B. Pedersen, Advanced Fellow Centre for Immu-
nity, Infection and Evolution
Institutes of Infection, Immunology Research and Evo-
lutionary Biology University of Edinburgh Kings Build-
ings Ashworth Labs, West Mains Road Edinburgh EH9
3JT, UK
amy.pedersen@ed.ac.uk +44(0) 131 650 8674
Ashworth 2 - 4.07 http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/-
research/groups/apedersen/ Amy Pedersen
<amy.pedersen@ed.ac.uk >
Estonia TemperatureAdaptation
Apr28-30
REGISTRATION DEADLINE APPROACHING:
Science meeting
“Evolutionary and plastic responses of animal growth
to diﬀerent temperatures: adaptations and constraints”
will be held in Tartu, Estonia from April 28 to April
30, 2011. The meeting is organized by the European
Science Foundation research networking programme
“Thermal adaptation in ectotherms: Linking life his-
tory, physiology, behaviour and genetics”.
Support for students/junior scientists is available.
For further information and registration, see
http://www.ut.ee/ ˜ tiited/thermadapt/ SUMMARY:
The symposium aims to bring together evolutionary
ecologists and physiologists working on temperature-
driven a) plastic and b) evolutionary changes in 1)
growth rates and 2) body sizes of various (inverte-
brate and vertebrate) ectothermic animals. Responses
to temperature is a topic in which the interplay of dif-
ferent evolutionary forces (primarily, selection and con-straints) is particularly obvious. Interdisciplinary ef-
forts in this ﬁeld are therefore likely to contribute sub-
stantially to an improved and more integrated under-
standing of evolutionary processes. Furthermore, clar-
ifying conceptual and terminological problems would
serve the needs of both theoretical and applied research
on thermal adaptation, and beyond.
Toomas Tammaru professor of zoology http:/-
/www.ut.ee/ ˜ tammarut Toomas Tammaru
<tammarut@ut.ee >
GhentU PlantCompartiveGenomics
Apr11-12
Dear,
the ﬁrst international Conference on *Comparative and
Regulatory Genomics in Plants* will be held at VIB -
Ghent University (Belgium), 11-12 April 2011.
This conference will give an overview of the most re-
cent developments in plant genomics and will discuss
the integration of experimental high-throughput data
with computational approaches. Topics include plant
next-gen genome sequencing, genome evolution, com-
parative transcriptomics, systems biology, ChIP proﬁl-
ing and plant regulatory networks.
Contribute? *Abstract submission deadline for con-
tributed talks is February 28th.*
Titles invited speakers:
* Georg Haberer - The Oryza glaberrima Genome:
Comparative Studies in the Genus Oryza. MIPS, Ger-
many * Pat Heslop-Harrison - Diversity, evolution and
the banana genome in a comparative context. Univer-
sity of Leicester, UK * Beat Keller - Patching gaps in
plant genomes results in gene movement and erosion
of colinearity. University of Z¨ urich, Switzerland * Ste-
fan Rensing - Genome-wide phylogenetic comparative
analysis of plant transcriptional regulation: a timeline
of loss, gain, expansion, and correlation with complex-
ity. Freiburg University, Germany * Nathaniel Street
- A cross-species transcriptomics approach to identify
genes involved in leaf development. Umea University,
Sweden * Staﬀan Persson - A systems biology approach
to cellulose production in higher plants. MPI Pots-
dam, Germany * Erich Grotewold - Gene-speciﬁc and
genome-wide ChIP approaches to study plant transcrip-
tional networks. Ohio State University, USAMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 7
For more details, check the Conference and Workshop
website here <http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/-
crgevent/ >.
Best regards,
the scientiﬁc committee,
Klaas Vandepoele Yves Van de Peer Rony Swennen
Lieven De Veylder Dirk Inz´ e
Prof. Dr. Klaas Vandepoele Tel. 32 (0)9 33 13822 VIB
Department of Plant Systems Biology, Ghent Univer-
sity Technologiepark 927, 9052 Gent, Belgium E-mail:
Klaas.Vandepoele@psb.vib-ugent.be Website: http://-
bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/ Conference& Workshop
Comparative& Regulatory Genomics in Plants
Website: http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/-
crgevent/ Klaas Vandepoele
<klaas.vandepoele@psb.vib-ugent.be >
Houston CamelConservation
Sep16-18
Second International Conference on Camelid Genetics
and Reproductive Technology is being organized by Al-
paca Registry, Inc. and the Alpaca Research Founda-
tion. It will be held in Houston, Texas, on Septem-
ber 16-18, 2011. Geneticists and reproductive scien-
tists from around the world including the Middle East,
Europe, Australia, South America, and North Amer-
ica will convene in Houston to exchange information
on the latest developments in their ﬁelds. The con-
ference will be open to alpaca breeders, veterinarians,
scientists, and all those interested in genetic improve-
ment. Registration will be limited to 200 on a ﬁrst
come ﬁrst served basis. State of the Art Lectures tar-
geted at all attendees will be delivered in the morning.
The afternoons will be devoted to concurrent breeder
and scientist break-out sessions. Poster sessions will
also be held where attendees can speak personally with
the presenters. Topics to be covered include: Color
Genetics, Suri Genetics, Genetics of Infertility, Candi-
date Genes for Choanal Atresia, Alpaca Genome Map-
ping, Chromosome Mapping, Genetics of viruses aﬀect-
ing camelids such as Corona virus and BVDV, Embryo
Transfer (ET), Artiﬁcial Insemination (AI), Cost, ben-
eﬁts, and risks of assisted reproduction, Role of the
ARI EPD program in genetic improvement, Mecha-
nisms of induction of ovulation, and Infertility. Visit
www.camelidconference.com to view the latest informa-tion and to register.
warjohns@mail.nih.gov
Irapuato Mexico
GenomicsBiodiversity Jul23-25
The 2011 Symposium of the American Genetic Asso-
ciation, to be held from July 23-25 in Irapuato and
Guanajuato, Mexico, is devoted to the theme of ge-
nomics and biodiversity. The 2011 meeting marks the
ﬁrst time in the AGA’s 100+ years history that it has
met in Mexico.
This year’s theme recognizes the remarkable new Lab-
oratoria Nacional Genomica para la Biodiversidad
(LANGEBIO), the National Laboratory of Genomics
for Biodiversity, located in Irapuato, Guanajuato, Mex-
ico. The Laboratory’s mission is “to bring together
interdisciplinary groups to carry out cutting-edge re-
search and to generate genetic knowledge about Mex-
ican biodiversity.” The meeting also recognizes that
Mexico is ranked 5th in the world in terms of biodi-
versity, leading all other countries in, for example, the
number of reptiles, pines and cacti. What better place
to celebrate the role of genomics in generating knowl-
edge of biodiversity than the National Laboratory of
Genomics?
The meeting will bring together top scientists from
around the world, with particular emphasis on scien-
tists from Mexico, to showcase research highlights of ge-
nomics and biodiversity. The talks will span the biota,
from microbes to humans, and will combine cutting-
edge genomics of model systems with the ﬁrst genera-
tion of genomics studies on non-model systems.
The meeting opens July 23 with a day-long symposium
at LANGEBIO where attendees can meet LANGEBIO
scientists and see their remarkable research facility. The
talks on July 24th and 25th (half day) will be held in the
wondrous Spanish colonial town of Guanajuato (about
40 km from Irapuato), a World Heritage site with am-
ple accommodation and restaurants. Attendees can ﬂy
into Leon (about three hours north of Mexico City by
car) and stay in Guanajuato. The meeting will end
with a banquet at the historic Mision Guanajuato on
the evening of the 25th and a day-long ﬁeld trip on the
26th to survey biodiversity in the area and the equally
stunning city of San Miguel de Allende. We hope to see
you there!8 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Watch the AGA website – more details coming soon.
Scott V Edwards, President American Genetic Associ-
ation
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
Jun9-12
Arthropod Genomics 2011: Exploring Diversity,
Relating Similarity 5th ANNUAL ARTHROPOD
GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM June 9 12, 2011, in
Kansas City, USA http://www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml
Please save the dates and plan to attend the 5th Annual
Arthropod Genomics Symposium, Exploring Diversity,
Relating Similarity, June 9 to 12, 2011, in Kansas City
at the Marriott hotel on the beautiful Country Club
Plaza. Registration will open in January.
KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Marc A.T. Muskavitch
DeLuca Professor of Biology Boston College Ad-
vancing vector genetics through the power of vector
genomics
FEATURED SPEAKERS: Gregor Bucher Department
of Developmental Biology Georg-August University,
G?ttingen, Germany Beetle: Genome wide RNAi
screen for embryonic and metamorphic development in
Tribolium
Owain Edwards Invertebrate Genomics and Evolu-
tion CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences Perth, Australia DNA
methylation and phenotypic plasticity in the pea aphid,
Acyrthosiphon pisum
Cassandra Extavour Dept of Organismic and Evolu-
tionary Biology Harvard University Overcoming the
gene discovery bottleneck for arthropod evo-devo: Cre-
ating de novo developmental transcriptomes
Toni Gabald ˜A3n Center for Genomic Regulation
(CRG) Barcelona, Spain Arthropod genomes as seen
through the lens of evolution
Cheryl Y. Hayashi Department of Biology University of
California, Riverside Spider silks: Functional and evo-
lutionary insights into high-performance materials
Mary Ann McDowell Biological Sciences University of
Notre Dame A tale of two sand ﬂy genomes: Phleboto-
mus papatasi and Lutzomyia longipalpis
Pedro L. Oliveira Instituto de Bioqu ˜A’mica M ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdicaPrograma de Biologia Molecular e Biotecnologia Uni-
versidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and Instituto Na-
cional de Ci ˜Ancia e Tecnologia em Entomologia Molec-
ular Rio de Janeiro, Brazil An insight into the tran-
scriptome of the digestive tract of the blood sucking
bug, Rhodnius prolixus
Michael Pfrender Biological Sciences University of
Notre Dame Genome structure, functional diversiﬁca-
tion, and Genome X environment interactions in Daph-
nia
Dorith Rotenberg Plant Pathology Kansas State Uni-
versity A genomics-based approach to identify insect
molecular components associated with vector compe-
tency in Frankliniella occidentalis, the primary thrips
vector of Tomato spotted wilt virus
Herv ˜Ac/circlecopyrtSeitz Laboratoire de Biologie Mol ˜Ac/circlecopyrtculaire
Eucaryote CNRS/Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt Paul-Sabatier
Toulouse, France Genomics of small RNAs in in-
sects
Alexandra C. Wilson Department of Biology University
of Miami Genomic insights into nitrogen upgrading and
recycling in the aphid [Buchnera] symbiosis
Guojie Zhang Beijing Genome Institute Shenzhen,
China BGI’s recent activity on insect genomic research
WORKSHOPS A pre-symposium workshop, Genome
Project 101, by Scott Cain, OICR, and Dave Clements,
Emory University; Thursday afternoon, June 9, 4:00-
6:00 p.m.
Comparative genomics with the generic synteny
browser (GBrowse syn): Conﬁguration and display of
various co-linearity data types, by Sheldon McKay,
iPlant, will be presented Saturday morning, June 11.
ORGANISM MEETINGS Friday afternoon/evening,
June 10 Meet with scientists who are also working
with your organism of interest during small group gath-
erings. If you are interested in coordinating topics
and leading discussions as a group leader, please e-
mail dmerrill@ksu.edu . Additional information will be
posted to the conference website as details are ﬁnalized.
POSTER SESSIONS: There will be two poster sessions.
A few platform presentations will be chosen from sub-
mitted poster ubstracts. The deadline for submission
of poster abstracts is May 18.
TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM Thursday af-
ternoon, June 9 Pre-Symposium Workshop Thursday
evening, June 9 Keynote presentation and welcome re-
ception Friday & Saturday, June 10 and 11 - Platform
and Poster sessions Friday afternoon/evening, June
10 Organism meetings Saturday morning Gbrowse syn
Workshop Sunday morning, June 12 Roundtable dis-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 9
cussion focusing on I5k with Kevin J. Hackett, USDA,
and the ArthropodBase Consortium. All are invited to
attend!
Noon, Sunday, June 12 - Activities will conclude.
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION: Participate in a
roundtable discussion with the ArthropodBase Con-
sortium regarding the generation of integrated arthro-
pod genome databases and tools for genome projects.
Discussion will focus on I5k, led by Kevin J. Hackett,
USDA. Symposium attendees are encouraged to attend.
PRE-CONFERENCE MEETINGS: -International Tri-
bolium Meeting, 6/8 and 6/9. -International Aphid
Genomics Consortium, 6/9.
REGISTRATION: Registration will be open in Jan-
uary. Monitor our website, www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml and watch for the next announce-
ment.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
Jun9-12 RegistrationOpen
REGISTRATION IS NOW OPEN to attend Arthro-
pod Genomics 2011: ˆA Exploring Diversity, Relating
Similarity 5th ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS
SYMPOSIUM June 9 ˆ a 12, 2011, in Kansas City, USA
http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2011
Deadline to Register at Early-Bird Rates: ˆA Wednesday,
March 30, 2011
Other important deadlines: ˆAˆA *Poster Abstract Sub-
missions: ˆA Wednesday, May 18 ˆAˆA *Hotel Reserva-
tions: ˆA Wednesday, May 18, or until room block is ﬁlled
Please plan to attend the 5th Annual Arthropod
Genomics Symposium, ˆ aExploring Diversity, Relat-
ing Similarity,ˆ a June 9 to 12, 2011, in Kansas City
at the Marriott hotel on the beautiful Country Club
Plaza. ˆAˆAˆA A complete brochure is available at: ˆA
ˆA http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2011/images/-
Brochure-2011.pdf
REGISTRATION is now open. ˆA (Access http://-
www.k- state.edu/agc/symp2011/register.html “ ˆA toregister online.)
VENUE: ˆA The symposium will take place at the
Kansas City Marriott on the beautiful Country Club
Plaza.
PRE-CONFERENCE MEETINGS: -International Tri-
bolium Meeting, 6/8 and 6/9. -International Aphid
Genomics Consortium, 6/9.
WORKSHOPS June 9: ˆA A pre-symposium workshop,
ˆ aGenome Project 101,ˆ a by Scott Cain, OICR, and Dave
Clements, Emory University; Thursday afternoon, June
9, 4:00-6:00 p.m.
June 11: ˆA ˆ aComparative genomics with the generic
synteny browser (GBrowse syn): Conﬁguration and
display of various co-linearity data types,ˆ a by Sheldon
McKay, iPlant, will be presented Saturday morning,
June 11.
KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Marc A.T. Muskavitch
DeLuca Professor of Biology Boston College
ˆ aAdvancing vector genetics through the power of
vector genomicsˆ a ˆA FEATURED SPEAKERS: Gregor
Bucher Department of Developmental Biology Georg-
August University, G?ttingen, Germany ˆ aiBeetle:
Genome wide RNAi screen for embryonic and meta-
morphic development in Triboliumˆ a ˆA Owain Edwards
Invertebrate Genomics and Evolution CSIRO Ecosys-
tem Sciences Perth, Australia ˆ aDNA methylation and
phenotypic plasticity in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon
pisumˆ a
Cassandra Extavour Dept of Organismic and Evolu-
tionary Biology Harvard University ˆ aOvercoming the
gene discovery bottleneck for arthropod evo-devo: ˆA
Creating de novo developmental transcriptomesˆ a
Toni Gabald ˜A3n Center for Genomic Regulation
(CRG) Barcelona, Spain ˆ aArthropod genomes as seen
through the lens of evolutionˆ a
Cheryl Y. Hayashi Department of Biology University
of California, Riverside ˆ aSpider silks: ˆA Functional and
evolutionary insights into high-performance materialsˆ a
Mary Ann McDowell Biological Sciences University of
Notre Dame ˆ aA tale of two sand ﬂy genomes: ˆA Phle-
botomus papatasi and Lutzomyia longipalpisˆ a
Pedro L. Oliveira Instituto de Bioqu ˜A’mica M ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdica
Programa de Biologia Molecular e Biotecnologia Uni-
versidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and Instituto Na-
cional de Ci ˜Ancia e Tecnologia em Entomologia Molec-
ular Rio de Janeiro, Brazil ˆ aAn insight into the tran-
scriptome of the digestive tract of the blood sucking
bug, Rhodnius prolixusˆ a
Michael Pfrender Biological Sciences University of10 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Notre Dame ˆ aGenome structure, functional diversiﬁca-
tion, and Genome X environment interactions in Daph-
niaˆ a
Dorith Rotenberg Plant Pathology Kansas State Uni-
versity ˆ aA genomics-based approach to identify insect
molecular components associated with vector compe-
tency in Frankliniella occidentalis, the primary thrips
vector of Tomato spotted wilt virusˆ a
Herv ˜Ac/circlecopyrtSeitz Laboratoire de Biologie Mol ˜Ac/circlecopyrtculaire
Eucaryote CNRS/Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt Paul-Sabatier
Toulouse, France ˆ aGenomics of small RNAs in
insectsˆ a
Alexandra C. Wilson Department of Biology University
of Miami ˆ aGenomic insights into nitrogen upgrading
and recycling in the aphid [Buchnera] symbiosisˆ a
Guojie Zhang Beijing Genome Institute Shenzhen,
China ˆ aBGIˆ as recent activity on insect genomic re-
searchˆ a
ORGANISM MEETINGS Friday afternoon/evening,
June 10 Meet with scientists who are also working
with your organism of interest during small group gath-
erings. ˆA If you are interested in coordinating topics
and leading discussions as a group leader, please e-
mail dmerrill@ksu.edu . ˆA Additional information will
be posted to the conference website as details are ﬁnal-
ized.
POSTER SESSIONS: There will be two poster ses-
sions. ˆA A few platform presentations will be chosen
from submitted poster abstracts. ˆA
TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM ˆAˆA Thurs-
day afternoon, June 9 ˆ a Pre-Symposium Workshop ˆAˆA
Thursday evening, June 9 ˆ a Keynote presentation and
welcome reception ˆAˆA Friday & Saturday, June 10 and
11 - Platform and Poster sessions
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
KualaLumpur DNA Barcoding
Jun14-17 DeadlineExtended
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS DNA Barcoding of Paciﬁc
Invasive and Pest Species 22nd Paciﬁc Science Congress
14-17 June 2011: Kuala Lumpur, MalaysiaDEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION: EXTENDED TO 1
MARCH 2011
Researchers, institutional oﬃcials, and students are in-
vited to submit abstracts for oral and/or poster presen-
tations concerning DNA barcoding for the identiﬁcation
and control of invasive and pest species in the Paciﬁc
region.
“DNA barcoding” is a technique proposed by Dr. Paul
Hebert (Univ. of Guelph, Canada) in 2003 for identi-
fying species using a short standardized gene sequence.
Since making this proposal, barcodes have been deter-
mined for more than 1 million specimens from approxi-
mately 100,000 species. Barcoding is becoming a widely
used tool for:
* Basic taxonomy, * Identifying species in ecological
studies and biodiversity monitoring; and * Identifying
species of concern to government regulators and others,
such as: o Agricultural pests and invasive species, o En-
dangered and protected species, and o Disease vectors.
iBOL, the International Barcode of Life project, and
QBOL, the Quarantine Barcode of Life project) are
building DNA barcode reference libraries of invasive
and pest species. CBOL, the Consortium for the Bar-
code of Life, is promoting partnerships and support for
the use of DNA barcoding to these and similar prob-
lems. This full-day symposium/workshop has three
goals:
1. Disseminate information on DNA barcoding and the
International Barcode of Life Project; 2. Provide an op-
portunity for local and international initiatives on the
identiﬁcation and control of invasive species to share
information (e.g., QBOL, IPPC); and 3. Identify op-
portunities and priorities for DNA barcoding activities
on invasives in the Paciﬁc.
Guidelines for Submission of Abstracts
All abstracts must be submitted through an online
form available at http://www.dnabarcodes2011.org/-
barcodeAbstract.php . Abstracts can be submitted for:
* Longer oral presentation (15-20 minutes) on major
initiatives by regions, countries, networks or other as-
sociations to improve scientiﬁc collections in the Paciﬁc
and their access and use; * Short “lightning presenta-
tion” (5 minutes) on speciﬁc initiatives to improve col-
lections in an institutions; and/or * Presentations for
poster display.
Please be sure to designate the type of presentation you
would like to make on the submission form. Abstracts
not accepted for oral presentation will automatically
be considered for presentation as posters. If you want
your abstract considered only for oral presentation andMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 11
do not want to be considered for poster presentation,
please select “Oral presentation only” under Preference
on the submission form.
Review and Selection of Abstracts
All abstracts will be reviewed by a Steering Committee
for the relevance and quality of their scientiﬁc content.
Authors will be notiﬁed if their abstract has been ac-
cepted by 1 April 2011.
Preparation and Submission of Abstracts
Abstracts should be written in English using
the online form ( http://www.dnabarcodes2011.org/-
barcodeAbstract.php ). The text you submit will be
used by the Technical Program Committee to review
your abstract. Some formatting (bold, italics, under-
lining) will be lost. If your abstract is accepted you
will be asked to upload a Word ﬁle with the abstract
exactly as you would like it to appear in the Conference
Program.
We look forward to receiving your abstract and to
seeing you at the Paciﬁc Science Congress in Kuala
Lumpur in June!
Dr. David Schindel, Consortium for the Barcode of Life
Email: schindeld@si.edu
“Schindel, David” <schindeld@si.edu >
Kyoto SMBE Jul27-30 CallSymposia
February 1st, 2011
Call for symposia and workshops to be held in SMBE
2011 Kyoto
Dear SMBE members, we would like you to submit ap-
plication for symposia and workshops to be held in
SMBE 2011 Kyoto. Please visit its website [ http:/-
/SMBE2011.lab.nig.ac.jp] for detailed information on
this conference.
There are seven time slots for symposia and workshops
as follows.
Wednesday, July 27th, 2011 27-M: <Morning Session >
9:30-12:00 27-A: <Afternoon Session >13:30-16:00 27-
E:<Evening Session >16:30-19:00
Thursday, July 28th, 2011 28-M: <Morning Session >
9:30-12:00 28-A: <Afternoon Session >13:30-16:00 28-
E:<Evening Session >16:30-19:00
Friday, July 30th, 2011 30-M: <Morning Session >9:30-12:00
There are two places inside Kyoto University Campus
for SMBE 2011 Kyoto Conference. One is Centennial
Clock Tower Hall (designated as “C”), and the other
is Shiran Kaikan (designated as “S”). It takes about
8-minute walk to go from one place to the other. Avail-
able rooms are as follows. This list applies to all time
slots.
For Symposia: C-1: Centennial Clock Tower Hall First
Floor, Main Auditorium (max. 500 persons) S-1: Shi-
ran Kaikan Inamori Hall (max. 220 persons) S-2: Shi-
ran Kaikan Yamanouchi Hall (max. 190 persons)
For Workshops: C-3: Centennial Clock Tower Hall
Second Floor Seminar Room 1 (max. 50 persons) C-
4: Centennial Clock Tower Hall Second Floor Seminar
Room 2 (max. 50 persons) S-3: Shiran Kaikan Annex
Seminar Room 1 (max. 90 persons) S-4: Shiran Kaikan
Annex Seminar Room 2 (max. 90 persons)
Therefore, in total, we can have up to 21 symposium
sessions and 28 workshop sessions.
<Symposium application >Proposed Symposium title:
Proposer’s name(s) and aﬃliation(s): Brief explanation
(~200 words): Proposed Time slot (such as 27-M): If
you plan a symposium longer than one time slot, please
indicate such as 27-A&-E. Proposed Room to be used
(such as C-1): Expected list of speakers (name and aﬃl-
iation): Possible ﬁnancial support: SMBE 2011 Orga-
nizing Committee may be able to support travel fee for
up to one speaker only. Other speakers should be sup-
ported by themselves or other supports. Oral presen-
tation submitters may also be included as non-invited
speakers, if their contents are appropriate.
<Workshop application >Proposed Workshop title:
Proposer’s name(s) and aﬃliation(s): Brief explanation
(~200 words): Proposed Time slot (such as 30-M): If
you plan a workshop longer than one time slot, please
indicate such as 28-M&-A. Proposed Room to be used
(such as C-3): Expected list of speakers (name and af-
ﬁliation): Possible ﬁnancial support: SMBE 2011 Or-
ganizing Committee will not support travel fee for any
speaker. All invited speakers should be supported by
themselves or other supports. Oral presentation sub-
mitters may also be included as non-invited speakers,
if their contents are appropriate.
Deadline of application: Monday, February 28th, 2011
Submit to: SMBE2011@lab.nig.ac.jp
SMBE 2011 Kyoto Global Organization Committee
SMBE 2011 Kyoto Domestic Organization Committee
Saitou Naruya Professor, Division of Population Ge-
netics, National Institute of Genetics Professor (con-12 EvolDir March 1, 2011
current), Department of Genetics, Graduate University
for Advanced Studies Professor (concurrent), Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences, University of Tokyo
Postal mail: Mishima, 411-8540, Japan
Email: nsaitou@genes.nig.ac.jp Phone/FAX:
+81-55-981-6790/-6789 Web Home Page:
sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/ ~saitou/index-j.html
Saitou Naruya <nsaitou@genes.nig.ac.jp >
London EcolMarcoevolution Mar9
We warmly invite you to a CEE Symposium on “Inte-
grating Ecology into Macroevolutionary Research” to
be held at the Zoological Society of London meeting
rooms on 9th March (9am - 6pm).
Our updated schedule of speakers includes: Luke Har-
mon
University of Idaho
New Frontiers for the Comparative Analysis of Adap-
tive Radiations
Gavin Thomas
Bristol University
Can models of trait evolution tell us anything about
the evolutionary process?
Sam Turvey
Zoological Society London
What can the recent fossil record actually tell us about
past and present human-caused extinction¿‘
James Rosindell
Leeds University
Neutral theory and macroevolution
Lynsey McInnes
Imperial College
Evolution and ecology of the species:area relationship
in mammals
Bill Baker
Kew Gardens, London
Museum model diversiﬁcation of palms in the earliest
tropical rain forests
Anjali GoswamiUniversity College London
Convergence, competition, and constraints: case stud-
ies in carnivore evolution
Andy Purvis
Imperial College
Species ecology and macroevolutionary dynamics of
Cenozoic planktonic foraminifera
Helene Morlon
CNRS, Paris
Reconciling molecular phylogenies with the fossil record
Kanchon Dasmahapatra
University College London
Phylogenetic and mimetic relationships in Neotropical
butterﬂies
Tim Barraclough
Imperial College
Are there evolutionarily signiﬁcant units of diversity
above the level of species?
We have one poster slot left, available on a ﬁrst come
ﬁrst serve basis. Please email us to reserve the slot.
To register for the symposium and to receive fur-
ther updates on the schedule for the day please email
lynsey.mcinnes01@imperial.ac.uk. Attendance will cost
£5.00, payable on the day, to cover refreshments.
Best wishes, Lynsey McInnes & Ally Phillimore
Lynsey McInnes PhD Student Imperial College London
Silwood Park Campus
http://www.bio.ic.ac.uk/research/apurvis/-
lynsey.htm http://www.justgiving.com/-
oﬀset silwood carbon ”McInnes, Lynsey“
<lynsey.mcinnes01@imperial.ac.uk >
London MacroevolutionaryResearch
Mar9
We warmly invite you to a CEE Symposium on “Inte-
grating Ecology into Macroevolutionary Research” to
be held at the Zoological Society of London meeting
rooms on 9th March (9am - 6pm).
Talks will include:
Luke Harmon (University of Idaho) New frontiers forMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 13
the comparative analysis of adaptive radiations
Gavin Thomas (Bristol University) Can models of trait
evolution tell us anything about the evolutionary pro-
cess?
Sam Turvey (ZSL) What can the recent fossil record
actually tell us about past and present human-caused
extinction?
James Rosindell (Leeds University) The macroevolu-
tionary predictions of ecological neutral theory
Lynsey McInnes (Imperial College) Evolution and ecol-
ogy of the species:area relationship in mammals
Anjali Goswami (University College London) TBA
Andy Purvis (Imperial College) Species ecology and
macroevolutionary dynamics of Cenozoic planktonic
foraminifera
H´ el` ene Morlon (CNRS, Paris) Modelling diversity dy-
namics using time backwards
Kanchon Dasmahapatra (University College London)
Phylogenetic and mimetic relationships in Neotropical
butterﬂies
Tim Barraclough (Imperial College) Are there evolu-
tionarily signiﬁcant units of diversity above the level of
species?
We will have eight poster slots available on a ﬁrst come
ﬁrst serve basis. Please email us to reserve a slot.
To register for the symposium and to receive fur-
ther updates on the schedule for the day please email
lynsey.mcinnes01@imperial.ac.uk.
Attendance will cost £5.00, payable on the day, to cover
refreshments.
Best wishes,
Lynsey McInnes & Ally Phillimore
“McInnes, Lynsey” <lynsey.mcinnes01@imperial.ac.uk >
Lunteren Netherlands
GalaxyCommunity May25-26
2011 Galaxy Community Conference May 25-26 Lun-
teren, The Netherlands May 25-26 in Lunteren, The
Netherlands
We are pleased to announce the 2011 Galaxy Com-
munity Conference, being held May 25-26 in Lun-teren, The Netherlands. The meeting will feature two
full days of presentations and discussion on extending
Galaxy to use new tools and data sources, deploying
Galaxy at your organization, and best practices for us-
ing Galaxy to further your own and your community’s
research. See http://galaxy.psu.edu/gcc2011/ for com-
plete details.
ABOUT GALAXY: Galaxy is an open, web-based plat-
form for accessible,reproducible, and transparent com-
putational biomedical research.
- Accessibility: Galaxy enables users without program-
mingexperience to easily specify parameters and run
tools and workﬂows. - Reproducibility: Galaxy cap-
tures all information necessary sothat any user can re-
peat and understand a complete computational anal-
ysis. - Transparency: Galaxy enables users to share
and publishanalyses via the web and create Pages–
interactive, web-based documents that describe a com-
plete analysis.
Galaxy is open source forall organizations. The pub-
lic Galaxy service ( http://usegalaxy.org ) makesanalysis
tools, genomic data, tutorial demonstrations, persistent
workspaces,and publication services available to any
scientist that has access to theInternet. Local Galaxy-
servers can be set up by downloading the Galaxyappli-
cation and customizing it to meet particular needs.
CONFERENCE OVERVIEW: This event aims to en-
gage a broader community of developers, data produc-
ers, tool creators, and core facility and other research
hub staﬀ to become an active part of the Galaxy com-
munity. We’ll cover deﬁning resources in the Galaxy
framework, increasing their visibility and making them
easier to use and integrate with other resources, how
to extend Galaxy to use custom data sources and cus-
tom tools, and best practices for using Galaxy in your
organization.
Additional topics include, but are not limited to: *
Talks submitted by the Galaxy community * Integra-
tion of tools (including NGS analysis tools) and dis-
tributed job management * Deployment of Galaxy in-
stances on local resources and on the Cloud * Manage-
ment of large datasets with the Galaxy Library Sys-
tem * Using the Galaxy LIMS functionality at NGS
sequencing facilities * Visualizing Data without leaving
Galaxy * Performing reproducible research * Perform-
ing and sharing complex analyses with Workﬂows * An
“Introduction to Galaxy” session, oﬀered on May 24,
for Galaxy newcomers.
REGISTRATION: The conference fee is euro 100 on
or before April 24, and euro 120 after that. The
meeting is being held at the Conference Centre De14 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Werelt in Lunteren, The Netherlands, which is also
the conference hotel. You are encouraged to regis-
ter early, as space at the hotel (and at the “Intro to
Galaxy” session) is limited and is likely to ﬁll up before
the conference itself does. See http://galaxy.psu.edu/-
gcc2011/Register.html ABSTRACT SUBMISSION:
Abstracts are now being accepted for short oral pre-
sentations. Proposals on any topic of interest to the
Galaxy community are welcome and encouraged. The
abstract submission deadline is the end of February
28. See http://galaxy.psu.edu/gcc2011/Abstracts.html
SPONSORS: The 2011 Galaxy Community Conference
is co-sponsored by the US National Science Founda-
tion (NSF, http://www.nsf.gov/ ), and the Netherlands
Bioinformatics Centre (NBIC, http://www.nbic.nl/ ).
NBIC is a collaborative institute of the bioinformatics
groups in the Netherlands. Together, these groups per-
form cutting-edge research, develop novel tools and sup-
port platforms, create an e-science infrastructure and
educate the next generations of bioinformaticians.
We are looking forward to a great conference and hope
to see you in the Netherlands!
The Galaxy and NBIC Teams
–http://galaxy.psu.edu/gcc2011/ http://getgalaxy.org
http://usegalaxy.org/ clementsgalaxy@gmail.com
clementsgalaxy@gmail.com
Montpellier EvolutionaryRescue
Jun7
Dear all,
An international conference on “Evolutionary rescue”
will be held in Montpellier, June 7th 2011, Grand Am-
phith´ eatre du CNRS, France.
Programme and registration on http://-
www.evorescu.univ-montp2.fr/ While global change
might be causing the 6th major extinction crisis on
Earth, we know very little about how evolutionary
responses may modulate the response of biodiversity
to these changes. Can we make general predictions
about situations where evolutionary responses are
most likely to occur and to mitigate or aggravate the
demographic response of species to global change?
Can we identify target species or groups of species
for which incorporating evolutionary responses in
ecological forecasts is most needed?
The aim of this conference is to synthesize recent ad-vances improving our understanding of the role of evo-
lutionary mechanisms in species responses to global
change and of how these mechanisms may aﬀect bio-
diversity patterns.
Four topics will be discussed: 1) The race between de-
cline and adaptation 2) The interplay between migra-
tion, adaptation and plasticity 3) Evolving communities
in changing environments 4) From microvelolutionary
to macroevolutionary patterns and back
For more information on the programme and reg-
istration, see the website http://www.evorescu.univ-
montp2.fr/ . Registration is free but you must register
to attend. There is no deadline for registration: regis-
tration will be closed when the capacity of the lecture
room (165 attendees) is exceeded. So visit our website
quickly! Book your hotel room very soon as well (June
is a busy time for conferences in Montpellier).
For questions, contact: evorescu@univ-montp2.fr
Hoping to see you in Montpellier, next June,
The organizers: Oph´ elie Ronce (ISEM, France), Nicolas
Mouquet (ISEM, France), Andrew Gonzalez (McGill
University, Canada)
Ophelie Ronce Genetique et Environnement cc 65 In-
stitut des Sciences de l’Evolution de Montpellier UMR
5554 Universite Montpellier II, Place Eugene Bataillon
34095 Montpellier cedex 5
tel: 33 (0)4 67 14 32 50 fax: 33 (0)4 67 14 36 22
NOTE THE NEW E-MAIL ADRESS:
ophelie.ronce@univ-montp2.fr
http://www.isem.cnrs.fr/ ophelie.ronce@univ-
montp2.fr
NESCent Durham GMOD Mar
Registration
Registration is now open for the March 2011
GMOD Meeting ( http://gmod.oicr.on.ca/wiki/-
March 2011 GMOD Meeting ). This meeting is part of
GMOD Americas 2011, an event that includes a day of
Satellite Meetings, a GMOD Course (ialready full), and
for the ﬁrst time, an “Introduction to GMOD” session
the night before the meeting for GMOD newcomers.
GMOD Americas 2011 events are being held at the US
National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in
Durham, North Carolina, United States.March 1, 2011 EvolDir 15
As with previous GMOD meetings, this meeting
will have a mixture of project talks, component
talks, and user talks. Our guest speaker is Dr.
Eric Stone of North Carolina State University.
Dr. Stone will talk about his experience on the
“Drosophila Genome Reference Panel,” a project that
is sequencing 192 lines. See http://gmod.oicr.on.ca/-
wiki/March 2011 GMOD Meeting#Agenda=A0for
more. The agenda is driven by attendee sug-
gestions, and you are encouraged to add your
suggestions now ( http://gmod.oicr.on.ca/wiki/-
March 2011 GMOD Meeting#Agenda Proposals ).
For examples of what happens at a GMOD
meeting, see the writeup of the September 2010
GMOD Meeting ( http://gmod.oicr.on.ca/wiki/-
September 2010 GMOD Meeting ), or any previous
meeting. GMOD meetings are an excellent way to
meet GMOD developers and users and to learn (and
aﬀect) what’s coming in the project.
Registration for the March 2011 GMOD Meeting is $80
on or before February 18 <<<< ======$95 after
February 18
Please register early, both to save money, and ensure a
spot. You are also strongly encouraged to sign up for
(or propose) a Satellite Meeting (more details to come).
Details on transportation, suggested lodging, and other
logistics are on the GMOD Americas 2011 page.
This meeting, and all GMOD Americas 2011 events, are
jointly sponsored by NESCent and the Galaxy Project.
Dave Clements Galaxy Project
– http://gmod.org/wiki/GMOD Americas 2011
http://nescent.org http://usegalaxy.org/ http://-
getgalaxy.org clementsgalaxy@gmail.com
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22
CallAbstracts
The Call for Abstracts for full talks is now open for
the 2011 conference on Informatics for Phylogenet-
ics, Evolution, and Biodiversity (iEvoBio), at http://-
ievobio.org/ocs/index.php/ievobio/2011 . See below for
instructions.
Accepted talks will be about 15-20 minutes in length
and will be presented during the full talk sessions in
the morning of each of the two conference days, follow-
ing the day’s keynote presentation.Submitted talks should be in the area of informatics
aimed at advancing research in phylogenetics, evolu-
tion, and biodiversity, including new tools, cyberinfras-
tructure development, large-scale data analysis, and vi-
sualization.
Submissions consist of a title and an abstract at most
1 page long. The abstract should provide an overview
of the talk’s subject. As the number of program slots
for full talks is limited, the abstract should give enough
detail so reviewers can decide whether the submission
merits a full talk or whether it should be moved to one
of the Lightning Talk sessions. If the subject of the talk
is a speciﬁc software component for use by the research
community, the abstract must state the license and give
the URL where the source code is available so reviewers
can verify that the open-source requirement(*) is met.
The deadline for submission is March 18, 2011. We
intend to notify authors of accepted talks before early
registration for iEvoBio (and Evolution) ends. Further
instructions for submission are at the following URL:
http://ievobio.org/ocs/index.php/ievobio/2011/-
schedConf/cfp Full talks are 1 of 5 kinds of contributed
content that iEvoBio will feature. The other 4 are: 1)
Lightning talks (5 mins long), 2) Challenge entries,
3) Software bazaar demonstrations, and 4) Birds-of-a-
Feather gatherings. The Call for Challenge entries is
already open (see http://ievobio.org/challenge.html ).
The calls for contribution to the other 3 sessions will
open later, and will remain open until shortly before
the conference or until the respective track ﬁlls up.
More details about the program and guidelines for con-
tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org .
You can also ﬁnd continuous updates on the con-
ference’s Twitter feed at http://twitter.com/iEvoBio
, or subscribe to the low-traﬃc iEvoBio announce-
ments mailing list at http://groups.google.com/group/-
ievobio-announce iEvoBio is sponsored by the US
National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in
partnership with the Society for the Study of Ecolution
(SSE) and the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB).
Additional support has been provided by the Encyclo-
pedia of Life (EOL).
The iEvoBio 2011 Organizing Committee: Rob Gu-
ralnick (University of Colorado at Boulder) (Co-chair)
Cynthia Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) (Co-chair) Dawn
Field (UK National Environmental Research Center)
Mark Holder (University of Kansas) Hilmar Lapp
(NESCent) Rod Page (University of Glasgow)
(*) iEvoBio and its sponsors are dedicated to promot-
ing the practice and philosophy of Open Source soft-
ware development (see http://www.opensource.org/-16 EvolDir March 1, 2011
docs/deﬁnition.php ) and reuse within the research com-
munity. For this reason, if a submitted talk con-
cerns a speciﬁc software system for use by the re-
search community, that software must be licensed
with a recognized Open Source License (see http:/-
/www.opensource.org/licenses/ ), and be available for
download, including source code, by a tar/zip ﬁle ac-
cessed through ftp/http or through a widely used ver-
sion control system like cvs, Subversion, git, Bazaar,
or Mercurial. Authors of full talks who cannot meet
this requirement at the time of submission should state
their intentions, and are advised that the requirement
must be met by June 19, 2011, at the latest.
Robert Guralnick <Robert.Guralnick@colorado.edu >
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22
RegistrationOpen
Registration is now open for the conference on Infor-
matics for Phylogenetics, Evolution, and Biodiversity
(iEvoBio), at http://ievobio.org/register.html . iEvo-
Bio aims to be a forum bringing together biologists
working in evolution, systematics, and biodiversity,
with software developers and mathematicians. The
goal of iEvoBio is both to catalyse the development
of new tools, and to increase awareness of the possibili-
ties oﬀered by existing technologies (ranging from stan-
dards and reusable toolkits to mega-scale data analysis
to rich visualization). The inaugural meeting in 2010
(seehttp://ievobio.org/2010 ) attracted over 300 partic-
ipants.
The 2-day meeting will take place June 21-22, 2011,
in Norman, OK, jointly with the 2011 Evolution Meet-
ings as a satellite conference. The event will feature
traditional elements, including a keynote presentation
at the beginning of each day and contributed talks, as
well as more dynamic and interactive elements, includ-
ing a challenge, lightning talk-style sessions, a software
bazaar, and Birds-of-a- Feather gatherings.
The topic of this year’s challenge is Data Integration.
Cash prizes will be awarded for ﬁrst place ($1,000) and
runner-up entries. The winning entries will be selected
by a vote of the iEvoBio meeting participants. More de-
tails about the challenge will be provided in a separate
announcement.
Attendees can register jointly for Evolution and iEvo-
Bio at a discount, or only for the iEvoBio conference.For more information about registration, venue, travel,
or accommodations please visit the Evolution 2011 web-
site at http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu/ . More de-
tails about the program and guidelines for contributing
content are available at http://ievobio.org . You can
also ﬁnd continuous updates on the conference’s Twit-
ter feed at http://twitter.com/ iEvoBio , or subscribe
to the low-traﬃc iEvoBio announcements mailing list
athttp://groups.google.com/group/ievobio-announce
iEvoBio is sponsored by the US National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center (NESCent) in partnership with the
Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE) and the Sys-
tematic Biologists (SSB). Additional support has been
provided by the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL).
The iEvoBio 2011 Organizing Committee: Rob Gural-
nick (University of Colorado at Boulder) (Co-Chair)
Cynthia Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) (Co-Chair) Dawn
Field (UK National Environmental Research Center)
Mark Holder (University of Kansas) Hilmar Lapp
(NESCent) Rod Page (University of Glasgow)
hlapp@nescent.org
NottinghamU
EvolutionaryParasitology Apr12-14
British Society for Parasitology Spring Meeting with
Ecology & Evolution Sessions throughout (12th - 14th
April 2011), Nottingham University.
Abstract deadline: 11th February 2011 Registration
deadline: 18th February 2011 Registration and abstract
submission at http://www.bsp.uk.net/events.php?id$
Following the great success of the Ecology / Evolution-
ary theme at last year’s British Society for Parasitol-
ogy Spring Meeting at Cardiﬀ University, the organ-
ising committee would like to invite you to join them
again at Nottingham for this year’s meeting which will
again include a full series of sessions entirely devoted
to ecological and evolutionary parasitology.
Session Topics:
Wild vertebrates as natural models in immunology
Convened by Dr Joseph Jackson (Aberystwyth Uni-
versity) and with invited speaker Dr Andrea Graham
(Princeton University, USA). Dr Graham’s work ulti-
mately aims to understand how natural selection has
shaped strategies for both host defence and parasite
transmission.
Parasites and Behaviour Convened by Dr Jo CableMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 17
(Cardiﬀ University) and with invited speaker Prof
Janice Moore (Colarado State University, USA). Prof
Moore’s research focuses on the evolution of host be-
havioural manipulation by parasites.
Ecological and Evolutionary Impacts of Parasites on
Hosts Convened by Dr Andrew MacColl and with in-
vited speaker Prof Armand Kuris (UCSB, USA). Prof
Kuris is best known for his work revealing the role of
parasites in ecosystem structure and function in ma-
rine systems, and the applied consequences of this for
ﬁsheries management and biological control.
Medicine Meets Ecology Convened by Dr Jo Lello
(Cardiﬀ University). This open session will examine
how ecological and evolutionary approaches are cur-
rently, or could in the future, help to improve medical
practice in dealing with parasites and related issues.
Co-infection Consequences Convened by Dr Jo Lello
(Cardiﬀ University). This session will cover both
parasite-parasite and pathogen-parasite combinations,
looking at how these infections impact upon the host,
the parasite dynamics and the evolution of host-
parasite relationships.
Modelling Parasites Convenor TBC and with invited
speaker Dr Andrew Fenton (Liverpool University). Dr
Fenton’s work focuses on the use of simple population
dynamic theory as a tool for understanding the epi-
demiology and evolution of parasites with a current fo-
cus on the evolution of macroparasite life-history strate-
gies.
Wildlife, Biodiversity and Disease Convenor Dr Sarah
Perkins (Cardiﬀ University). This session will explore
the eﬀects of wildlife and biodiversity on the emergence
and transmission of infectious diseases.
WORKSHOP: Getting the most from your data - us-
ing the best statistical methods. Leaders Dr Jo Lello
(Cardiﬀ University) & Prof Mike Stear (Glasgow Uni-
versity); Those interested in this session should bring
along their laptops where possible and ensure that they
have loaded the freeware statistical package R and have
a basic understanding of how it works. On request a
simple Getting started with R guide can be obtained
directly from Dr Lello (lelloj@cf.ac.uk).
Joanne Lello <LelloJ@cardiﬀ.ac.uk >
OhioU Athens Bioinformatics
May2-4GLBIO 2011 - Call for Abstracts
The 6th Annual Great Lakes Bioinformatics Conference
(GLBIO), the newest oﬃcial conference of the Inter-
national Society for Computational Biology (ISCB), is
pleased to announce the call for abstracts for 2011
GLBIO 2011, formerly known as OCCBIO, will be
hosted by Ohio University in Athens, Ohio on May 2-4,
2011
Oral presentations will be selected from the sub-
mitted abstracts. To submit your abstract, please
go to http://www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/-
glbio/2011/call forabstracts.shtml Oral presentations
will be selected from the submitted abstracts. To sub-
mit your abstract, please click here.
As in past years, this conference will provide an inter-
disciplinary forum for discussing approaches, research
ﬁndings, and educational experiences regarding compu-
tational investigations of biological problems.
An important goal of the conference continues to be
fostering long-term collaborative relationships among
informatics and life sciences researchers and educa-
tors from academia, government and industry, spanning
Ohio and adjacent states.
This meeting is not only for experts in bioinformat-
ics, but also for faculty, students and staﬀ who make
substantial use of bioinformatics tools in their work, or
would like to expand such use.
Please note the following conference deadlines: Feb. 21,
2011: Deadline for Submission of Abstracts for Oral
Presentations March 21, 2011: Authors Notiﬁed of Ab-
stract Acceptance March 28, 2011: Deadline for Sub-
mission of Abstracts for Poster Presentations April 4,
2011: Early Bird Registration Ends May 2-4, 2011:
Conference Begins.
Online registration is now available. Visit glbio.org or
click here to register.
Conference Chairs: Lonnie Welch, Ohio University
Terry Lewis, OARnet
Program Chairs:Program Chairs: Jundong Liu, Ohio
University Robert Colvin, Ohio University Jim Caval-
coli, University of Michigan
Sponsors: ISCB The Ohio University OARnet Ohio Su-
percomputer Center
Quick Links
GLBIO Website http://-
www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/occbio/-
GL2011/ Call for Abstracts http://-
www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/glbio/2011/-18 EvolDir March 1, 2011
callforabstracts.shtml Sponsor Information http:/-
/www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/occbio/-
GL2011/sponsorship.shtml Registration http://-
www.iscb.org/cms addon/conferences/glbio2011/-
register/index.php Keynote Speakers
Michael Becich, Director of the Center for Pathology
Informatics, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
Elodie Ghedin, Asst. Professor of Computational Biol-
ogy, University of Pittsburgh
Al Hero, R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of
Engineering, University of Michigan
Richard Lenski, John Hannah Professor of Microbial
Ecology, Michigan State University
GLBIO is also seeking proposals for Invited Sessions,
Panel Discussions, and Tutorials - please go to http:/-
/glbio.org for more information.
Ohio Supercomputer Center |1224 Kinnear Road |
Columbus |OH|43212
Kathryn Kelley <terry@osc.edu >
Plymouth PlanktonBiodiversity
Sep22-23
Plankton 2011: An international symposium on plank-
ton biodiversity and global change in the aquatic sys-
tems.
To celebrate the 80th Anniversary of the Continu-
ous Plankton Recorder Survey, The Sir Alister Hardy
Foundation for Ocean Science will host Plankton
2011. It will seek to identify causes and conse-
quences of long-term changes in plankton communi-
ties in fresh and marine waters. The Symposium will
be held on 22nd and 23rd September 2011 in Ply-
mouth Guildhall. For more information and to reg-
ister your interest please go to www.plankton2011.org
Gemma Brice Plankton 2011: Biodiversity & Global
Change Plymouth, UK. 22/23 Sept 2011 Abstract
submission to www.plankton2011.org Gemma Brice
<Gemma.Brice@sahfos.ac.uk >Roscoﬀ Brittany DiseaseEvolution
Jun25-29
Roscoﬀ Brittany.Emerging Fungal Disease&Evolution.June25-
292011
First Call <<New and Emerging Fungal Diseases of
Animals and Plants : evolutionary aspects in the con-
text of global changes >>
Registration deadline: 15th March 2011.
The CNRS and Conferences Jaques Monod are hosting
a 4-day meeting at the French Marine Biology research
station in Roscoﬀ, Brittany on the evolution and dy-
namics of emerging fungal pathogens. This meeting
will focus on the rapidly widening impacts that fungi
are having on human, plant and animal health by con-
sidering the factors that drive their emergence within an
evolutionary context. Speciﬁcally, the meeting will con-
sider the extent that anthropogenically-mediated envi-
ronmental change is facilitating fungal range expansions
and genotypes, and to what extent this is predictable.
The meeting will bring together leading evolutionary
biologists, theoreticians and fungal biologists/ecologists
in a beautiful setting at the French National Marine Bi-
ology Station, Roscoﬀ, to consider these questions and
to formulate new research strategies.
Plenary speakers:
Francois Balloux ; Imperial College London, UK Lynne
Boddy ; University of Cardiﬀ, UK Bruno Le Cam ;
INRA Angers, France Ignazio Carbone ; North Car-
olina State University, USA Jean Carlier ; CIRAD
Montpellier, France Jean Marie Cornuet ; Centre de
Biologie et de Gestion des Populations Christopher
Gilligan ; University of Cambridge, UK Francois Del-
motte ; INRA Bordeaux, France Marie-Laure Desprez-
Loustau ; INRA Bordeaux, France Matthew Fisher
; Imperial College London Sylvain Gandon ; CNRS
Centre dˆ aEcologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive Montpel-
lier, France Trenton Garner ; Insitute of Zoology, UK
Greg Gilbert ; University of California, Santa Cruz Ta-
tiana Giraud ; CNRS - Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdˆ aOrsay, France
Michael Hood ; Amherst College, USA Clive Brasier ;
Forestry Commission, UK Levente Kiss ; Plant Protec-
tion Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences
Linda Kohn ; University of Toronto, Canada Marc
Henri Lebrun ; INRA BIOGER, France Celeste Linde
; Australian National University David Lodge ; Uni-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 19
versity of Notre Dame, USA Benoit Marcais ; INRA
Nancy, France Bruce McDonald ; ETH Zurich, Switzer-
land Michael Milgroom ; Cornell University, USA In-
grid Parker ; University of California, Santa Cruz Amy
Pedersen ; Sheﬃeld University, UK Anne Pringle ;
Sheﬃeld, USA Virginie Ravigne ; CIRAD Montpellier,
France Eva Stukenbrock ; University of ˜Arhus, Den-
mark John Taylor ; University of California at Berke-
ley, USA Frank van den Bosch ; BBSRC, Rothamsted
Research, UK
Conference website:
http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/-
CJMemergingdiseases2011/ To participate, please
contact:
Matthew Fisher <matthew.ﬁsher@imperial.ac.uk >Ta-
tiana Giraud <tatiana.giraud@u-psud.fr >
See you there!
–
Tatiana
Tatiana Giraud
Departement Genetique et Ecologie Evolutives Labo-
ratoire Ecologie, Syst ˜Ac/circlecopyrtmatique et Evolution UMR
8079 CNRS-UPS-AgroParisTech B ˜Atiment 360 Univer-
sit˜Ac/circlecopyrtde Paris-Sud 91405 Orsay cedex France
phone: +33 1 69 15 56 69 + 33 6 34 64 45 14 fax: +33
1 69 15 46 97
English: http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/pages perso/-
spip.php?article21 Francais: http://www.ese.u-
psud.fr/pages perso/spip.php?article41
http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/ tatiana Giraud
<tatiana.giraud@u-psud.fr >
Seia Portugal 17th EMPSEB
Aug10-15
Registration is now open for the 17th European
Meeting of PhD Students in Evolutionary Biology
(EMPSEB).
Another great encounter of students in Evolution is in
the making! This yearˆ as meeting will take place from
10-15 August 2011 in Portugal, in the beautiful village
of Seia, located in the Serra de Estrela mountain range.
We encourage all PhD students in evolutionary biol-
ogy to apply and join us this summer. EMPSEB istraditionally a great platform for young Evolutionary
Biology graduates to present their work and to meet
their peers from all over Europe in a friendly, social
environment.
A small selection of senior scientists will be present to
provide guidance, give feedback, and of course share
their own research in a plenary talk. We are happy to
be able to conﬁrm the following speakers:
Madan Babu - Cambridge, UK Bertus Beaumont -
Delft, the Netherlands Trine Bilde - Aarhus, Denmark
Loun ˜As Chikhi - Oeiras, Portugal
Tom Tregenza - Exeter, UK Ana Rivero - Montpellier,
France Walter Salzburger - Basel, Switzerland Marcelo
Sanchez - Z¨ urich, Switzerland G¨ unter Wagner - Yale,
USA
Registration will close on April 15th. Because
of a limited number of slots, your registration
does not equal participation, but we will conﬁrm
participation before May 1st. Participation will
cost ˆ a ¬290.T oregister, aswellasformoreandup −
to−dateinformation, pleasecheckourwebsite :
http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/empseb 17orcontactusdirectlyatempseb 17@googlegroups.com.
If you would like to advertise the meeting in your insti-
tution, please send us an email with your postal address
and we will send you poster and ﬂyers.
We hope to welcome you in Seia this August!
The organizing committee,
Marisa Oliveira (president) Pedro Lima (secretary)
Barbara Vreede (treasurer) Rui Castanhinha Marc
Gouw Alexandre Leit ˜A£o Cl˜Audia Mendes
pedro lima <lima.pt@gmail.com >
Spain EMBO ComparativeGenomics
Oct15-20
Comparative genomics of eukaryotic microorganisms:
understanding the complexity of diversity
15 - 20 October |2011|Sant Feliux |Spain Website:
http://events.embo.org/11-comparative-genomics/
COMPARATIVE GENOMICS OF EUKARYOTIC
MICROORGANISMS: UNDERSTANDING THE
COMPLEXITY OF DIVERSITY
We invite you to participate in the upcoming EMBO
conference on Comparative Genomics of Eukaryotic
Microorganisms to be held in San Feliu de Guixols,20 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Spain, 15-22 October 2011 (see Website: http://-
events.embo.org/11-comparative-genomics/ ).
This conference will address the big evolutionary ques-
tions of what makes a eukaryote, how multicellular-
ity arose, the evolution of reproduction, pathogenesis,
and so on. Lineages of the Eukaryotic Tree of Life
(TOL) that until now received only moderate atten-
tion, such as the Excavates, Archaeoplastids, Amoebo-
zoa and Choanozoa, will be discussed, together with
the better studied Chromalveolates and Fungi.
There will be opportunities for participants to present
both short talks and posters, which will be conducted
interactively with plenty of time reserved for questions
and discussions. In addition there will be interactive
workshops on ’Do It Yourself’ genomics, databases and
bioinformatics.
This is the 4th time the meeting will be held at this
very nice venue on the Costa Brava, on the Mediter-
ranean near Barcelona. The weather is still generally
nice at this time of year and the food is great. There
will be free shuttle buses from the Barcelona airport.
There are still spaces available and room for more
short talks as well as poster presentations. We hope
to see you at what will be an exciting and infor-
mative meeting. Please contact Heather Barnett
at heather.barnett@nottingham.ac.uk +44-(0)115-823
0354 for details.
Teun Boekhout, Amparo Querol and Ed Louis, confer-
ence organisers
Teun Boekhout
CBS Fungal Biodiversity Centre
Uppsalalaan 8
3584 CT Utrecht
The Netherlands
t.boekhout@cbs.knaw.nl
Teun Boekhout <t.boekhout@cbs.knaw.nl >
Switzerland EconomicsEvolution
Apr17-20
REGISTRATION DEADLINE APPROACHING: 10th
FEB
Conference on ˆ aSocial Decision Making: Bridg-
ing Economics and Evolutionary Biologyˆ awww.evolvingeconomics.com Date 17 April-20
April 2011
Location Monte Verita, Ascona, Switzerland.
Purpose The ﬁelds of evolutionary biology and eco-
nomics have similar foundations, both attempting to
explain individual decisions based on the costs and ben-
eﬁts of particular actions. However, the two ﬁelds also
rely upon very diﬀerent working assumptions about
how and why individuals take the actions that they do.
Our conference sets out to create an environment that
is conducive to dialogue, mutual learning, and the de-
velopment of new collaborations between the two ﬁelds
by focusing on an area of mutual interest: decision-
making in social interactions. Sessions will pair leading
economists and evolutionary biologists to discuss spe-
ciﬁc topic so as to explore the common interests be-
tween the ﬁelds.
Conﬁrmed Speakers Professor Colin Camerer, Califor-
nia Institute of Technology Professor Alan Grafen, Ox-
ford University Professor Arnon Lotem, Tel Aviv Uni-
versity. Professor John McNamara, University of Bris-
tol Professor Paul Seabright, Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdes Sciences
Sociales de Toulouse Professor David W. Stephens, Uni-
versity of Minnesota Professor Stuart A. West, Oxford
University Professor Peyton Young, Oxford University
Abstracts We are inviting abstracts for posters or
contributed talks. When registering, please indicate
whether you wish to present, and include a title and
abstract.
Conference fees Conference fees include registration,
welcome drink, accommodation for three nights in
Monte Verit ˜A and full board (breakfast, lunch and din-
ner).
Students: 400CHF for sharing a twin room, 440CHF
for a single room. Post-docs/researchers: 450CHF for
sharing a twin room, 490CHF for a single room. Pro-
fessors: 500CHF for sharing a twin room, 550CHF for
a single room.
Registration Registration deadline: 10th February
2011. Please visit the registration page on the con-
ference website: http://www.evolvingeconomics.com/
There are only 60 places for delegates to attend this
conference.
Further information Web: http://-
www.evolvingeconomics.com/ E-mail:
info@evolvingeconomics.com
Organising Committee Claire El Mouden, Oxford Uni-
versity Lorenz Goette, University of Lausanne Laurent
Lehmann, University of Neuch ˜Atel Daniel J. Rankin,
University of Z¨ urich Stuart A. West, Oxford UniversityMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 21
Claire El Mouden <claire.elmouden@chch.ox.ac.uk >
Tuebingen ESEB 2011 Aug20-25
ParallelEvol CallAbstracts
ESEB 2011 Parallel Evolution Symposium - Call for
abstracts We would like to invite you to submit your
abstracts for oral or poster presentations to the sympo-
sium “Parallel Evolution” at the ESEB meeting 20-25
August 2011 in T¨ ubingen, Germany.
Please ﬁnd further information on the submission pro-
cess and the link to abstract submission here: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm DEADLINE:
28TH FEBRUARY.
Symposium:
Parallel evolution is the emergence of the similar pheno-
types in independent lineages. The evolution of parallel
(or convergent) morphologies can be a response to sim-
ilar selection pressures. Alternatively, developmental
or genetic constraints could lead to convergence. This
symposium focuses on the genetic and developmental
basis as well as on the ecological circumstances of par-
allel evolution.
Invited speakers:
Hopi E. Hoekstra (Harvard University) Louis
Bernatchez (Laval University)
Organizers:
Walter Salzburger (University of Basel, wal-
ter.salzburger@unibas.ch) Moritz Muschick (University
of Basel, moritz.muschick@unibas.ch)
Please approach us with any questions you might have
regarding the symposium. For further information on
the meeting please visit the oﬃcial website: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/index.htm We are very much look-
ing forward to meeting you in T¨ ubingen in August!
Walter Salzburger and Moritz Muschick
moritz.muschick@unibas.ch
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25
RegistrationDeadline13th Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary
Biology Tuebingen, Germany, 20-25 August 2011
DEADLINE COMING UP: Registration and ab-
stract submission CLOSE on 28 February. See
www.eseb2011.de for details
Important remarks 1. Registration, abstract submis-
sion and booking of accommodation are three separate,
independent processes. Make sure you have ﬁnished all
three. ALthough there is no deadline for accommoda-
tion, space in the small city of Tuebingen is limited.
Late bookings will have to take into account that they
will be housed in nearby towns.
2. Regular posters will receive exceptional visibility:
All posters will be up for the duration of the meeting,
lunch will be served in the poster area, three separate
poster sessions will highlight one third of the posters
each, there will be poster prize(s), free drinks, and sev-
eral novel activities that will encourage people to see
you at your poster. In other words: If your oral sub-
mission is not accepted, enjoy the upgrade to a poster!
Consider going for one without the detour.
Yours, Nico Michiels
Nico Michiels, Prof. Dr. Animal Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Faculty of Biology Auf der Morgenstelle 28 72076
Tuebingen Germany
Tel. +49 7071 2974649 Fax +49 7071 295634 Mobile
+49 170 4758003
nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de http://-
www.evoeco.uni-tuebingen.de http://www.eve.uni-
tuebingen.de Nico Michiels <nico.michiels@uni-
tuebingen.de >
Tuebingen ESEB 2011
MacroEvolution Aug20-25 Deadline
Dear all,
The deadline for abstract submission to ESEB 2011
is fast approaching and we invite abstract submissions
for oral and poster presentations in the symposium on
“Predicting macroevolution from microevolution”.
ESEB 2011 Meeting (European Society for Evolution-
ary Biology meeting, Tuebingen, Germany 20-25 Au-
gust 2011).
ABSTRACTS submission is now open at: http:/-
/www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm DEADLINE22 EvolDir March 1, 2011
for abstract submission is the 28TH OF FEBRUARY
2011.
Symposium description
Most current quantitative macroevolutionary models
are divorced from the ecological and microevolution-
ary processes that underpin broad-scale evolutionary
trends. This symposium will explore how theory, em-
pirical data and methodological approaches from di-
verse ﬁelds including community ecology and evolu-
tionary genetics can reveal the processes that underpin
macroevolutionary patterns.
Invited speakers: Oliver Pybus (Oxford University),
Emma Goldberg (University of Illinois),
Organizers: Gavin Thomas, Bristol,
gavin.thomas@bristol.ac.uk Rob Freckleton, Sheﬃeld,
r.freckleton@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Contact us for further information. Conference de-
tails are available here <http://www.eseb2011.de/-
index.htm >.
Dr. Gavin Thomas NERC Postdoctoral Fel-
low School of Biological Sciences University of
Bristol Woodland Rd. Bristol BS8 1UG +44
(0)117 9288041 Gavin.Thomas@bristol.ac.uk http://-
seis.bris.ac.uk/ ˜ gt0027/index.html Gavin Thomas
<gavin.thomas@bristol.ac.uk >
Tuebingen ESEB ExperimentalEvol
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
Dear all,
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster pre-
sentations in the symposium on “Experimental evolu-
tion across the microbe/macrobe divide” at the ESEB
2011 Meeting (European Society for Evolutionary Biol-
ogy meeting, Tuebingen, Germany 20-25 August 2011).
ABSTRACTS submission is now open at: http:/-
/www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm DEADLINE
for abstract submission is the 28TH OF FEBRUARY
2011.
Symposium description
Experimental evolution is one of the most powerful ap-
proaches available for the study of microevolutionary
processes and has been used since the early age of evo-
lutionary biology and genetics. It oﬀers the possibility
to study a very broad range of problems from enzymeeﬃciency to ecosystem organisation, from adaptation to
changing environment to antidrug resistance evolution
and from ageing to host-pathogen coevolution. Exper-
imental evolution, as any method, has some favourite
experimental models but they represent a great bio-
logical diversity: virus, prokaryotes, unicellular eukary-
otes and multicellular animals and plants. This biologi-
cal diversity translates into diversity in generation time
and mutation rate, which in turns translate into a diver-
sity of genetic mechanisms underlying the phenotypic
changes observed. The goal of the proposed symposia
is to bring together scientists using experimental evolu-
tion of a variety of organisms and to ask very diﬀerent
biological questions, so as to favour exchange around
the commons and potentials of this method. Moreover
this symposium will be a great opportunity to highlight
how emerging next generation techniques can be com-
bined with EE for greater understanding of the genetic
basis of evolution.
Invited speakers:
Graham Bell (McGill University), Richard E. Lenski
(Michigan State), Tadeusz Kawecki (University of Lau-
sanne)
Organizers:
Rhonda R. Snook, Sheﬃeld, r.snook@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Nick Colegrave, Edinburgh, n.colegrave@ed.ac.uk
Thomas U. Berendock, Dresden,
thomas.berendonk@tu-dresden.de Oliver Kaltz,
Montpellier, oliver.kaltz@univ-montp2.fr St´ ephanie
Bedhomme, Val´ encia, stebed@upvnet.upv.es Santiago
F. Elena, Val` encia, sfelena@ibmcp.upv.es
Contact us for further information. Conference de-
tails are available here ( http://www.eseb2011.de/-
index.htm ).
Stephanie Bedhomme <stebed@upvnet.upv.es >
Tuebingen ESEB Genomics
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
**ESEB 2011 Evolutionary ecological genomics sympo-
sium - Call for abstracts** We invite abstract submis-
sions for oral and poster presentations in the sympo-
sium on Evolutionary ecological genomics at the ESEB
meeting 2011 (European Society for Evolutionary Biol-
ogy meeting, Tuebingen 20-25 August 2011, Germany).
ABSTRACTS submission is open at: http:/-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 23
/www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm DEADLINE
for abstract submission is the 28TH OF FEBRUARY.
*The symposium:* Progress in ecological genomics is
hindered by limited genome information in non-model
species and the lack of an ecological context in genetic
model species. This symposium will focus on integrat-
ing cutting edge molecular biology in model and non
model organisms within an evolutionary and ecological
context. Our aim is to understand adaptive responses
in multidimensional selection pressures in the wild. Our
symposium aims to attract contributions from aquatic
and terrestrial systems as well as vertebrates and inver-
tebrates to present advances in the ﬁeld of ecological
genomics and promote constructive discussion.
*Invited speakers:* We are honored to have FOUR in-
vited speakers with expertise in complementary ﬁelds
of ecological genomics, functional genomics, and evolu-
tion. Their research focuses on diﬀerent model systems
including both genetic model and non-model species.
Ilkka Hanski, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1) 00014 University of
Helsinki
Michael Pfrender (Department of Biological Sciences,
University of Notre Dame, 109B Galvin Life Sciences,
Notre Dame, IN 46556, PH)**
Hopi Hoekstra (Harvard University, Department of Or-
ganismic and Evolutionary Biology, Museum of Com-
parative Zoology, 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA
02138 USA)
Katie Peichel (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Cen-
ter, 1100 Fairview Ave. N. PO Box 19024 Seattle, USA)
*Organizers:* Luisa Orsini, Catholic University Leu-
ven, Belgium (luisa.orsini@bio.kuleuven.be) Christophe
Eizaguirre, Leibniz Institute for Marine Sciences (IFM-
Geomar), Kiel, Germany (ceizaguirre@ifm-geomar.de)
For further information on the symposium feel free
to contact the organizers. For logistic details on
the conference refer to the ESEB webpage ( http://-
www.eseb2011.de/index.htm ). Do not forget to register
before submitting your abstract.
Luisa Orsini & Christophe Eizaguirre
–
Dr Luisa Orsini Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven,
Ch. Deberiotstraat 32, 3000 Leuven, Belgium
Phone: +32 016323851 Fax: +32 016320771
e-mail luisa.orsini[at]bio.kuleuven.be website: http:/-
/bio.kuleuven.be/de/dea/people.php Luisa Orsini
<luisa.orsini@bio.kuleuven.be >UMichigan DiseaseEvolution Apr16
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce this year’s Early Career
Scientist Symposium, to be held Saturday, April 16,
2011 at the Blau Auditorium at the Ross School of
Business on the campus of the University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor. The theme this year will be “Infectious
Disease across Scales”. Our outstanding lineup of up-
and-coming ﬁeld leaders will address diverse ecological
and evolutionary aspects of host-pathogen and -parasite
systems from within individual hosts to the broad com-
munity of multiple hosts and pathogens. The keynote
address will be given by Prof. Steven Frank of the Uni-
versity of California at Irvine, who will describe “Three
unsolved puzzles in infectious disease”.
Register to attend and obtain more information by
going to http://sitemaker.umich.edu/ecss2011/home .
Registration is free of charge but we strongly encour-
age you to register so we may provide adequate food
and refreshment. Graduate students from all universi-
ties and all disciplines are invited to present their work
during a lunchtime poster session. Further information
on posters will be forthcoming. Lunch will be provided
at the poster session and a dinner reception will follow
the symposium.
Looking forward to your participation,
Aaron King
on behalf of the 2011 ECSS organizing committee:
Aaron King, Mercedes Pascual, Pej Rohani, Andres
Baeza, Micaela Martinez-Bakker, Gail Kuhnlein
– Aaron A. King, Ph.D. Ecology & Evolutionary Bi-
ology Mathematics Center for the Study of Com-
plex Systems University of Michigan GPG Public Key:
0x6E74F51B
kingaa@umich.edu
UOklahoma Evolution 2011
Jun17-21
The Evolution 2011 website is now open for registration24 EvolDir March 1, 2011
www.evolution2011.ou.edu < http://-
www.evolution2011.ou.edu >
Sincerely,
Larry Weider, Rich Broughton, and Ingo Schlupp
tri-chairs, Evolution 2011 Organizing Committee
Department of Zoology
University of Oklahoma
Norman, OK 73019
“Weider, Lawrence J.” <ljweider@ou.edu >
WestVirginia MalariaEvolution
Aug1-Aug4
*FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT*
* *
International Workshop on Malaria and
Related Haemosporidian Parasites of Wildlife
Monday August 1st V Thursday August 4th, 2011
National Conservation Training Center, Shepherd-
stown, West Virginia
Sponsored by the NSF Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates1
Dear Colleagues,
The NSF-sponsored Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates (Malari-
aRCN) is pleased to announce our ﬁrst annual work-
shop on the malaria parasites and closely related
haemosporidians of natural populations of vertebrates.
The four day workshop will include both ﬁeld and lab-
oratory exercises as well as lectures and discussions led
by RCN members2.
Topics to be covered through the workshops exercises
include vertebrate ﬁeld capture techniques, blood sam-
pling and preparation of blood smears, sample voucher-
ing and cryopreservation, light microscopy for parasite
species identiﬁcation and parasite and cell counts, DNA
extraction and PCR screening of parasites, sequence
data analysis including phylogenetics, and databas-
ing. Discussion topics will include, but are not limited
to, the basic biology, phylogenetics and systematics of
Haemosporida, community ecology of parasites, coevo-
lution of parasites and hosts, the evolution of virulence,and conservation and disease.
The workshop will commence on Monday morning, Au-
gust 1st, and continue through until the afternoon of
Thursday, August 4th. The workshop will be followed
by a three day meeting on the malaria and related
haemosporidian parasites of wildlife, organized by the
same RCN group.
All food, lodging and workshop events will take place
at the US Fish & Wildlife Services National Conserva-
tion Training Center in Shepherdstown, West Virginia,
a site easily accessible through Washington, D.C., area
airports.
The workshop is geared towards graduate students,
postdoctoral researchers, and other investigators new
to the ﬁeld of wildlife haemosporidians. We will be
accepting applications in early 2011 and encourage in-
dividuals from outside the United States, particularly
from developing countries. Funds will be available for
travel, accommodation, and meals for selected appli-
cants. Additional information on the workshop in-
cluding an overview of the four days of events will be
provided with the Second Workshop Announcement as
well as on an oﬃcial workshop website (to be launched
in early 2011). In the meantime, further information
can be obtained from the workshop organizers (email:
MalariaRCNWorkshop@gmail.com).
1 The Research Coordination Network for Haemo-
sporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates (RCN), sponsored
by the U. S. National Science Foundation and funded
through 2015 at the University of Missouri-St. Louis,
was established to promote communication among re-
searchers working on the ecology and evolution of
haemosporidian parasites of vertebrate wildlife popula-
tions. A website for the network ( www.malariarcn.org )
will be available early in 2011. In the meantime,
inquiries can be directed to R. E. Ricklefs at rick-
lefs@umsl.edu.
2 Workshop organizers include Ellen Martinsen (Smith-
sonian Institution), Patricia Parker (University of Mis-
souri V St. Louis), Staﬀan Bensch (Lund University),
and Gediminas Valkiunas (Nature Research Center,
Vilnius). Other members of this RCN include Robert
Ricklefs (University of Missouri V St. Louis), Robert
Fleischer (Smithsonian Institution), Ravinder Sehgal
(San Francisco State University), Susan Perkins (Amer-
ican Museum of Natural History), Tom Smith (Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles), Carter Atkinson
(USGS), and Robert Adlard (Queensland Museum).
**The workshop is likely to be of interest to evolution-
ary biologists as it will center around the systematics
of a very successful and diverse group of parasites ofMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 25
natural vertebrate populations and include laboratory
exercises involving phylogenetic analysis of parasite lin-
eages and readings and discussions on the evolutionary
history of the parasites including cospeciation of hosts
and parasites as well as the evolution of virulence.
Ellen Martinsen, Ph.D. |Postdoctoral Fellow Smithso-
nian Conservation Biology Institute Center for Conser-vation and Evolutionary Genetics National Zoological
Park Mail: P.O. Box 37012, MRC 5503, Washington,
DC 20013-7012 Location: 3001 Connecticut Ave., NW,
Washington, DC 20008 T 202-633-4119 |F 202-673-0040
|Email ellensarah.martinsen@gmail.com
Ellen Martinsen <ellensarah.martinsen@gmail.com >
GradStudentPositions
Barcelona ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
DonanaStation BiologicalInvasions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
DurhamU GeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
EastCarolinaU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
FloridaIntlU USDA PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 27
GoettingenU ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
HumboldtStateU FishConservationGenetics . . . . . . . 28
IMPRS Berlin EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
JagiellonianU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Liverpool StatGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
LundU AlgalPopulationDiﬀerentiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
RoyalHollowayU London 2 LearningAdaptation . . . 31
TromsoU Museum Biosystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UCanterbury EvolutionBirdOdours . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UEdinburgh PlantTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UHalle BeeParasiteInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36UHelsinki SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ULausanne ModelingSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
ULausanne PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UNeuchatel LymeDiseaseEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UNorthCarolina Wilmington PopulationGenetics . . 38
UOslo AvianEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UppsalaU 11 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UPretoria EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
USheﬃeld EvolutionaryTheoryDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UTasmania AvianConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UVienna CompBiol ConserGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UWyoming PlantPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UZurich MonkeyBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
VrijeU Netherlands EvolutionOfLearning . . . . . . . . . . 45
Wageningen GeneticVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Barcelona ClimateAdaptation
PHD OPPORTUNITY IN BARCELONA
A four year PhD studentship is available to study the
adaptation of porcine creole breeds to extreme climates
using new sequencing technologies. During the thesis,
whole genome sequence data from pigs adapted to heat
(tropical and subtropical animals) and altitude (An-
dean altiplano) will be analyzed. This data will be
combined with extant and forthcoming data on Illu-
mina SNP data. The project is in cooperation with
diverse international groups. The student will workin a multidisciplinary group with expertises in quanti-
tative, population and molecular genetics. The work
will be developed in a new center in Agrigenomics
(www.cragenomica.es ) within the campus of Universi-
tat Autonoma of Barcelona ( www.uab.es ). Ample op-
portunity exist for interaction with other groups and
to train in Bionformatics and in animal breeding and
genetics, including the newly founded National Center
for Genomic Analysis, which hosts several Illumina se-
quencers.
The fellowship does not require a MSc title and no re-
striction on nationality exists, although more paper-
work is required for non European students. The fel-
lowship is accompanied by travel allowances to visit for-
eign labs and medical insurance.26 EvolDir March 1, 2011
We are looking for highly motivated students with an
interest in population and quantitative genetics and
bioinformatics as applied to livestock. Interested stu-
dents please email CV including the transcript of Uni-
versity record with full qualiﬁcations, and name and
email of two professionals who can provide references
at miguel.perez@uab.es .
Miguel Perez-Enciso ICREA professor Dept. Cien-
cia Animal i dels Aliments Facultat de Veterinaria
Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona 08193 Bellaterra,
SPAIN Phone: +34 93 581 4225 Fax: +34 93
581 2106 miguel.perez@uab.es http://www.icrea.cat/-
Web/ScientiﬁcForm.aspx?key=255 “Sebastian E.
Ramos-Onsins” <sebas@ramos.net >
DonanaStation BiologicalInvasions
Prof Andy Green ( http://www.ebd.csic.es/andy ) and
Dr Ciro Rico from the Biological Station of
Do˜ nana-CSIC (EBD-CSIC, Sevilla, Spain; http://-
www.ebd.csic.es ) are proposing a PhD opportunity, to
apply for a 4-year JAE-predoc funding.
Issue: The PhD will focus on key mechanistic processes
that enable invasive invertebrate species to establish in
the face of novel environmental conditions. We aim to
test the roles that propagule pressure, greater physi-
ological tolerance and enemy release play in the suc-
cessful establishment of invasive species and declines
of native species. Studied organisms are two inva-
sive crustaceans (one caridean shrimp and one brine
shrimp) with major impacts on their native European
and Mediterranean congeners. The candidate must
have a strong interest in ecology and evolution, espe-
cially in biological invasions. The student will acquiere
skills in molecular work, especially on gene expression
and population genetics. The student will also conduct
experiments in aquaria and mesocosms, but also work
in the ﬁeld.
Ideal proﬁle: - Highly motivated student with a Higher
degree, Engineer diploma or Masters degree in Ecology,
Environmental Sciences, Evolution, Genetics or similar.
- Outstanding grades ( >2/4); published papers would
be a competitive advantage. - Experience in molecular
work (gene expression, population genetics or similar)
would be greatly appreciated. - Good level of written
English. Spoken English or Spanish is essential.
We are looking for candidates with EITHER outstand-
ing grades OR relevant molecular experience. Thosewith neither need not apply.
Candidates should send their CV, details of the grades
for their degree, and a presentation letter (in English
or Spanish) stating their interest and suitability for the
position, and the names and contact details of two ref-
erees to both Andy Green (ajgreen@ebd.csic.es) and
Ciro Rico (ciro@ebd.csic.es).
lejeusne@ebd.csic.es
DurhamU GeneticDiversity
PhD studentship in the School of Biological and
Biomedical Sciences, Durham University
Genetic diversity, population connectivity and popula-
tion dynamics of a top predator species in the context
of Holocene environmental change.
The primary objective is to test for a relationship be-
tween historical environmental change (especially as-
sociated with climate change and deforestation) and
the genetic diversity, population structure and popu-
lation dynamics of an alpha predator species in Eu-
rope. The expectation is that habitat change or loss
will be reﬂected in periods of population decline. The
initial focus will be on the lynx. During the Holocene
native felids suﬀered the eﬀects of human persecution
and landscape modiﬁcation, and the range of the lynx
in Europe is now greatly reduced. There has been in-
terest in the reintroduction of the species to its former
range, however their eﬀective re-introduction must be
based on understanding the historical pattern of ge-
netic diﬀerentiation and distribution. Ancient DNA
and coalescent methods will be applied to investigate
the population genetics and demographic trends of
the species over the course of the Holocene. For fur-
ther details of this project contact Prof. Rus Hoelzel
(a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk), and for reference to a similar
study recently completed in Durham see de Bruyn et
al. (2009) PLoS Genetics 5: e1000554.
The studentship would be funded through the NERC
algorithm, and the full studentship is open only to UK
nationals. Applicants should have an undergraduate
degree and preferably a master’s degree in a relevant
subject. Please send a c.v., course records and a cover
letter to a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk, have two letters of rec-
ommendation sent to the same email address, and sub-
mit an application online at the Durham University web
site by 4 March 2011.March 1, 2011 EvolDir 27
“HOELZEL A.R.” <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
EastCarolinaU PopulationGenetics
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITIONS: POPULA-
TION GENETICS, PHYLOGENOMICS, AND COM-
PARATIVE GENOMICS OF LEGUMES AT EAST
CAROLINA UNIVERSITY
Graduate student (Ph.D. or M.S.) positions are avail-
able in the laboratory of Dr. Ashley N. Egan in the De-
partment of Biology, East Carolina University. We seek
highly motived colleagues to study evolutionary genet-
ics and genomics of the plant tribe Phaseoleae (family
Leguminosae/Fabaceae) that includes many species of
economic importance (soybean, common bean, jicama,
etc). Research interests in our lab include bioinfor-
matics, computational biology, molecular systematics,
evolutionary and population genetics, and evolutionary
comparative genomics.
Research activities can involve ﬁeldwork in the US and
abroad, next-generation DNA sequencing, and phylo-
genetic, phylogenomic, and comparative genomic anal-
yses. Opportunities exist for students to develop inde-
pendent projects making use of considerable 454 tran-
scriptome data collected from several species across
phaseoloid legumes. For an outline of current projects
and prospective projects in the lab, please go to http:/-
/www.ecu.edu/cs-cas/biology/egan ashley.cfm .
Prospective students with a background in genomics,
botany, phylogenetics, and/or population genetics are
encouraged to apply. Evidence of robust quantita-
tive/analytical skills, strong work ethic, passion for in-
vestigating scientiﬁc questions, ability to work in both
ﬁeld and laboratory conditions and collaborative skills
will all be vital for the success of potential candidates.
Students will be supported by a combination of research
and teaching assistantships.
Applications should include: cover letter with state-
ment of research interests, CV, transcripts, and
GRE scores. The packet must be sent to
Dr. Ashley Egan (egana@ecu.edu). In addi-
tion, please have three references send letters to
the same e-mail address. Also follow the direc-
tion for applications to the Department of Biol-
ogy ( www.ecu.edu/biology ) athttp://www.ecu.edu/cs-
cas/biology/applyingforadmission.cfm and, for PhD1s,
apply to the Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in Bi-
ological Sciences ( www.ecu.edu/idpbs ) . Applicationreview begins immediately for a start date of August
2011.
Ashley N. Egan, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Depart-
ment of Biology North Carolina Center for Biodi-
versity Howell Science Complex ’ Mailstop 551 East
Carolina University Greenville, NC 27858-4353 Oﬃce:
N303a/N304 Lab: N304/N305 Phone (252) 328-4244
fax (252) 328-4178 egana@ecu.edu
“Egan, Ashley” <EGANA@ECU.EDU >
FloridaIntlU USDA
PopulationGenetics
Dear Brian,
Could you please forward the following for posting to
evoldir?
SIX MS RESEARCH ASSISTANTSHIPS IN AGROE-
COLOGY at Florida International Universitys Earth
and Environment Department, Miami, Florida: We
have six Research Assistantships at the Masters level
funded by the USDA National Needs Fellows (NNF)
Program for two years. While enrolled in the Mas-
ter of Sciences in Environmental Studies degree pro-
gram, candidates will conduct research in the areas
of soil microbiology, soil science, natural resource eco-
nomics, agroecology and sustainable agriculture, pop-
ulation genetics, land use change and urban ecology,
water resources, GIS applications in sustainable agri-
culture, and/or forest resources. Students are ex-
pected to test and analyze research data, prepare re-
search manuscripts, as well as make research presen-
tations at local, regional and national meetings. Stu-
dents are encouraged to perform studies related to re-
search projects in collaboration with USDA agencies,
Students will also participate in general activities re-
lating to our Agroecology Program growth and devel-
opment. Some of the duties involve mentoring under-
graduate USDA-funded Multicultural Scholar students
and interns, as campus Organic Garden activities, ur-
ban community garden education and service, farmers
markets, and agroecology event management. A B.S.
degree in soil science, ecology, microbiology, biochem-
istry, environmental science, or closely related discipline
is required. Some of the additional requirements are:
US Citizenship or residency, demonstrated excellence in
course work, excellent written and oral communication
skills, and ability to work independently and as a team28 EvolDir March 1, 2011
member. Each Fellow receives $18,500 per year for
two years, and in-state and out-of-state tuition waivers.
For further details about these positions please contact
Dr. Krish Jayachandran, Associate Professor and Co-
Director of Agroecology Program, phone 305-348-6553,
jayachan@ﬁu.edu and Dr. Mahadev Bhat, Professor
and Co-Director of Agroecology Program, Phone 305-
348-1210, bhatm@ﬁu.edu To apply, please visit Florida
International Universitys University Graduate School
(UGS) website ( http://gradschool.ﬁu.edu/ ) and send
us a copy of your completed application. The dead-
line for this National Needs Fellowship screening and
acceptance is March 31, 2011.
– Eric Bishop von Wettberg Biological Sciences Florida
International University Miami, Fl, USA
Center for Tropical Plant Conservation Fairchild Trop-
ical Botanic Garden Coral Gables, Fl, USA
Eric J Bishop-von Wettberg <ebishopv@ﬁu.edu >
GoettingenU ComparativeGenomics
The ˆ aGeomicrobiology and Symbiosisˆ a research group
(http://www.uni-goettingen.de/en/102704.html ) in
the Courant Research Centre (CRC) for Geobiology,
University of G¨ ottingen, Germany invites applications
for a Ph.D. position funded through the German
Research Foundation (DFG).
Topic: A comparative genomics approach will be ap-
plied to study the evolution of a host-speciﬁc symbio-
sis between Niphargus amphipods and sulfur-oxidizing
Thiothrix bacteria. This ectosymbiosis occurs within
sulﬁde-rich limestone caves in Italy (Dattagupta et al.,
2009, ISME J 3, 935ˆ a943; Flot et al., 2010, BMC Evol
Biol 10: 171ˆ a184). Genome analyses of the symbionts
will be complemented with cultivation-based and bio-
chemical methods to examine the basis for host speci-
ﬁcity. The project will involve ﬁeld collections, lab
work, and extensive bioinformatic analyses.
Environment: G¨ ottingen is a quaint German university
town with an international student-based community.
The CRC Geobiology oﬀers state-of-the-art analytical
facilities and an excellent environment for interdisci-
plinary research. Genome analyses with be done in
collaboration with the G¨ ottingen Genomics Laboratory
(http://www.g2l.bio.uni-goettingen.de/ ).
Requirements: Candidates should hold a Masterˆ as de-
gree in Biology, have a strong background and/or in-terest in Bioinformatics, and be ﬂuent in English. In-
ternational applicants and women are encouraged to
apply. Disabled persons with equivalent aptitude will
be favored.
Employment: A two-year position is oﬀered, with the
possibility of extension to three years. Salary is approx-
imately 65% of the German TV-L system, level 13.
Application: Candidates should send a curriculum
vitae and a statement of research interest to Dr.
Sharmishtha Dattagupta (sdattag@uni-goettingen.de)
by March 31, 2011. They should also arrange for letters
to be sent by two referees to the above email address.
Sharmishtha Dattagupta <sdattag@uni-
goettingen.de >
HumboldtStateU
FishConservationGenetics
*Position/Title: MS Graduate Assistantship *
*Agency/Location: Humboldt State University De-
partment of Fisheries Biology*
*Responsibilities:** Study conservation genetics of the
federally endangered tidewater goby in northern Cali-
fornia. Project involves use of a time series of collec-
tions to evaluate metapopulation dynamics in tidewater
goby. *Project will involve ﬁeld collection and labora-
tory genetic assays. *Successful candidate will work
with major advisor to develop a project. Collaboration
with the US Fish and Wildlife Service is also expected.*
*Qualiﬁcations:** Applicants should have a BS in ﬁsh-
eries, ecology, or a related ﬁeld with competitive GPA
and GRE scores. Prefer experience with genetics meth-
ods and exposure to microsatellite genotyping and anal-
ysis.*
*Salary: **Approximately $11,550/yr plus
$2,600/term towards tuition*
*Closing Date:** until ﬁlled*
*Contact:** Submit a letter of interest, resume, unof-
ﬁcial transcripts and GRE scores, and contact infor-
mation for three references to Andrew Kinziger: An-
drew.Kinziger@humboldt.edu. Formal acceptance to
the M.S program at Humobldt State University is re-
quired.*
*Web link: ** http://www.humboldt.edu/ﬁsheries/*
*Additional Project Background:*March 1, 2011 EvolDir 29
The project will be extension of past work recently pub-
lished in Molecular Ecology (McCraney et al., 2010).
The main goal will be to determine levels of genetic di-
versity, genetic structure, and stability in genetic struc-
ture through time (2006 to 2010 or 5-6 generations)
in the north coast tidewater goby (Eucyclogobius new-
berryi). The interesting conservation genetics question
would involve studying metapopulation dynamics fo-
cusing on the potential for recolonization of extirpated
populations. Previous investigations of the federally en-
dangered tidewater goby showed that artiﬁcially frag-
mented populations within Humboldt Bay exhibited
higher genetic diﬀerentiation and lower genetic diver-
sity relative to naturally fragmented populations (Mc-
Craney et al. 2010). It was unclear whether these pat-
terns were the result of multidecadal isolation and lack
of migration among geographically separated popula-
tions or if periodic recolonization of fragmented habi-
tats combined with founder eﬀects (e.g., metapopula-
tion dynamics) were responsible. Determining which
process is operating can provide insights into the ex-
tent of migration between Humboldt Bay tidewater
goby populations. Such information is key for man-
agement because it would indicate the likelihood of re-
colonization of extirpated populations.
**
Andrew P. Kinziger, Ph.D. Associate Professor and Cu-
rator of Fishes Department of Fisheries Biology Hum-
boldt State University One Harpst Street Arcata CA
95521
707-826-3944
“Andrew P. Kinziger”
<Andrew.Kinziger@humboldt.edu >
IMPRS Berlin
EvolutionaryGenomics
Reminder - application deadline in two weeks:
There are funded PhD positions in bioinformatics avail-
able at the International Max Planck Research School
for Computational Biology and Scientiﬁc Computing in
Berlin, Germany, for autumn 2011.
This is a structured 3-year PhD program aimed at stu-
dents holding a master’s or comparable degree in bioin-
formatics, scientiﬁc computing, mathematics, physics,
computer science, or biology. Students with a degree
in mathematics, computer science and physics shouldhave the relevant biological background, whereas stu-
dents with a degree in biology are expected to show
profound knowledge in mathematics and computer sci-
ence. Exceptional students with a bachelor’s degree and
the necessary background in bioinformatics can apply
to the preparatory program, which aims to lead the stu-
dent to a PhD degree after a year of coursework and 3
years of PhD research.
Areas of research include evolutionary genomics, com-
putational systems biology, proteomics, mathematical
modeling. For further details please visit our website
atwww.imprs-cbsc.mpg.de . The IMPRS-CBSC is a
joint program between the Max Planck Institute for
Molecular Genetics, the Freie Universit¨ at Berlin and
the CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Bi-
ology, Shanghai. The program language is English.
Please apply via our website at www.imprs-
cbsc.mpg.de/application.shtml before the 25th
of February or contact Kirsten Kelleher (kelle-
her@molgen.mpg.de) for further information.
–
Kirsten Kelleher IMPRS-CBSC Coordinator Max
Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics Ihnestrasse 73
14195 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 8413-1154 Fax: +49 30 8413-1152 Email:
kelleher@molgen.mpg.de www.imprs-cbsc.mpg.de
kelleher@molgen.mpg.de
JagiellonianU EvolutionaryGenetics
Institute of Environmental Sciences at the Jagiellonian
University, Krak ˜A3w, Poland
The leading Polish institute in:
Behavioral ecology, Evolutionary genetics and life his-
tories, Physiological and bioenergetics, Ecotoxicology
and industrial pollutants, Ecosystem ecology, environ-
mental education and management
Is opening applications for:
ˆ ao¯4-year interdisciplinary doctoral studies programme
in ecology in English, with net-scholarships 2200 PLN
per month, oﬀering research in Poland and half-year
placements in academic centres outside Poland and a
choice of 4 out of 8 courses from diﬀerent scientiﬁc dis-
ciplines conducted by eminent Polish and foreign spe-
cialists30 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Application deadline: 10 June 2011
Detailed information, containing the description of re-
search projects proposed for PhD students, proﬁle of
the applicant and the application instructions are avail-
able at:
www.eko.uj.edu.pl/ecology ˆ aLaunching interdisci-
plinary doctoral studies programme in ecology in En-
glish and increasing the didactic potential of the staﬀ of
the Institute of Environmental Sciences at the Jagiel-
lonian Universityˆ a
Project co-ﬁnanced by the European Union under the
European Social Fund
Ecology <ecology@uj.edu.pl >
Liverpool StatGenetics
We are seeking to appoint an outstanding candidate
for a PhD studentship position in Medical Entomol-
ogy/ Statistical Genetics: Liverpool School of Tropi-
cal Medicine UK and Wellcome Trust Sanger Instutute
(UK). Enquiries should be directed toward the super-
visors (contact details below) by February 25th.
Genome-wide association studies for insecticide resis-
tance in the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae
Project Summary Resistance to the insecticides used
for malaria control is widespread in the African malaria
vector, Anopheles gambiae. The Donnelly group uses
microarray and association-mapping technologies to de-
tect genes that are associated with insecticide resis-
tance and develops assays for detecting these resistance
associated mutations for use in Africa. The student
will be part of a collaboration with Professor Dominic
Kwiatkowski of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
(www.sanger.ac.uk ) to use next-generation sequenc-
ing technologies for genome-wide association studies
(GWASs) of insecticide resistance in An. gambiae. The
student will spend time at the LSTM, sites in sub-
Saharan Africa and at the Sanger Institute.
Required Skills The student will undertake hypothesis-
driven exploration of an existing data set and will
thereby acquire a range of skills in bioinformatics and
statistics. These skills will then be applied to a genome
wide association study of an insecticide resistance phe-
notype. The only speciﬁc skills that the student would
require is that they were numerate. All analytical
and biological techniques would be acquired during theproject. The project would suit biology graduates in
ecology, population genetics or evolutionary biology al-
though graduates in applied mathematics and statis-
tics/biostatistics are also encouraged to apply.
For further information, please contact the supervisors
directly: Supervisors Primary supervisor: Dr Martin
Donnelly <http://www.lstmliverpool.ac.uk/research/-
academic-groups/staﬀ-proﬁles/martin-donnelly >
Secondary supervisor(s): Dr David Weetman <
http://www.lstmliverpool.ac.uk/research/academic-
groups/staﬀ-proﬁles/david-weetman >, Professor
Dominic Kwiatkowski <http://www.sanger.ac.uk/-
research/faculty/dkwiatkowski/ >(Wellcome Trust
Sanger Institute)
http://www.lstmliverpool.ac.uk/learning–teaching/-
lstm-courses/research-degrees/studentships/-
insecticide-resistance-in-anopheles-gambiae Dr
Martin James Donnelly, Reader in Vector Biol-
ogy, Vector Group, Liverpool School of Tropical
Medicine, Pembroke Place, Liverpool, L3 5QA
UK Tel +44(0) 151 705 3296 Fax +44(0) 151 705
3369 Email m.j.donnelly@liv.ac.uk Web http://-
donnelly.openwetware.org/Home.html Skype martin-
donnelly
D.Weetman@liverpool.ac.uk
LundU
AlgalPopulationDiﬀerentiation
PhD Scholarship in Aquatic ecology
Dispersal barriers in an invasive bloom-forming alga
Job description The aim of the research project is to
identify the barriers to dispersal in a microalgal species
that forms blooms in freshwater lakes. This research
has implications for the understanding of the dispersal
of microalgae and microorganisms in general, as well
as for predicting the occurrence of new algal blooms.
The approach is to determine the importance of physi-
cal versus biological dispersal barriers by analyzing the
genetic diversity patterns. The current hypothesis is
that physical dispersal barriers are important for gen-
erating genetic diﬀerentiation. Instead, diﬀerentiation
among microalgal populations might be explained by
so called founder eﬀects. Founder eﬀects refer to the
dominance of strains or species that arrive ﬁrst to a new
habitat. In laboratory and mesocosm experiments, pri-
ority eﬀects and invasion sequence will be investigatedMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 31
in the algal species Gonyostomum semen. The position
will be based at the unit of Aquatic Ecology, Depart-
ment of Biology, Lund University, in southern Sweden.
The PhD project is a part of a larger project ﬁnanced
by Formas (The Swedish Research Council for Environ-
ment, Agricultural Sciences, and Spatial Planning), and
will involve collaboration with other PhD students and
a group at Gothenburg University (Ass. Prof. Anna
Godhe). The project is suitable for applicants who
would like to combine ecology and population genetics
with molecular biological tools. The practical work will
include PCR-based techniques, analyses of population
genetic data, algal culturing, and microscopy. Experi-
mental work will be performed both in the laboratory
and in the ﬁeld. In addition, the PhD student will be
able to join the Research School in Genomic Ecology
(GENECO) in Lund. This program will give access
to a network of other PhD students and researchers
in genomic ecology, annual meetings, workshops, travel
grants to visit other institutions, as well as a career
mentor.
Eligibility/Entry Requirements Requirements for this
position are an MSc or comparable degree in ecology
preferably with an aquatic and/or molecular ecological
specialization. The successful candidate will have very
good experience in molecular techniques. A driver’s li-
cense is required, as is very good knowledge of written
and spoken English.
For further information please contact:
Karin Rengefors, Professor +46 46 2228427
karin.rengefors@limnol.lu.se
Type of employment: Limit of tenure, 18 months, af-
ter that doctoral employment Extent: 100 % Location:
Department of Biology (Ecology), Lund First day of
employment: 2011-03-01 or as soon as possible Oﬃcial
Records Number: NPA 2011/9
Basis of Assessment Regulations for employment as
a postgraduate student can be found in the Swedish
Statute Book (SFS 1998:80). Only those admitted to
postgraduate studies can be appointed to such a posi-
tion. When appointing applicants to such a position,
ﬁrst and foremost their ability to beneﬁt from post-
graduate studies must be taken into consideration. In
addition to pursuing postgraduate studies, the doctoral
student may also perform other duties, including re-
search, teaching and administration, according to the
speciﬁc regulations.
Application Procedure
Last Day of Applying 2011-02-06
Please apply on-line on: http://admin.lu.se/o.o.i.s?id=
22598&Dnr=375341&Type=E Appointment Proce-dure
Complete information about the application process
can be found here: http://www.naturvetenskap.lu.se/-
o.o.i.s/11729 Applications for advertised positions must
be received by the date speciﬁed in the announcement.
Lund University promotes an equal opportunities code.
We encourage both men and women to apply for this
position.
Applications will be destroyed or returned (upon re-
quest) six months after the decision of employment has
become ﬁnal. Applications from the employed and from
those who appeal the decision will not be returned.
Karin Rengefors, PhD Professor in Limnology Di-
rector of the Graduate School in Genomic Ecology
(GENECO) Limnology, Biology Department Lund Uni-
versity Ecology Building 22362 Lund, Sweden
e-mail: karin.rengefors@limnol.lu.se phone: +
46462228427 URL: http://www.limnol.lu.se/ New!
International Society for the Study of Harmful Algae
(ISSHA) http://www.issha.org Karin Rengefors
<Karin.Rengefors@limnol.lu.se >
RoyalHollowayU London 2
LearningAdaptation
ROYAL HOLLOWAY
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
PhD Studentship
School of Biological Sciences
Synergistic eﬀects of parasites and pesticides on be-
haviour, learning and ﬁtness in two key pollinators
Global declines in pollinators threaten a key ecosystem
service and thus the viability of terrestrial ecosystems
and agricultural productivity. Ongoing research sug-
gests that single factors are not responsible for these
declines, although parasites, pesticides, management
practices and habitat loss have all been implicated.
This project will combine the expertise of two groups,
Dr Mark Brown’s and Dr Nigel Raine’s, in the School of
Biological Science, Royal Holloway University of Lon-
don, to determine the synergistic impacts of parasites
and pesticides on behaviour, learning and ﬁtness in two
key pollinators - the bumble bee Bombus terrestris and
the honey bee Apis mellifera.
In a world of agricultural intensiﬁcation, understanding32 EvolDir March 1, 2011
how anthropogenic chemicals (pesticides, herbicides,
miticides) impact ecosystem service providers is a cen-
tral question in applied ecology and sustainability stud-
ies. Similarly, the emergence of new parasites and dis-
eases, and the disruption of established host-parasite
systems through land-use and climate change, makes
understanding the impact of parasites on important
host systems central to sustainable ecosystem manage-
ment. However, whilst neither chemicals nor parasites
live in a vacuum, almost nothing is known about their
potential synergistic eﬀects. The two major agricul-
tural pollinators - B. terrestris and A. mellifera - are
impacted by both parasites and pesticides. Here we
will use a series of controlled laboratory and ﬁeld ex-
periments to determine the synergistic impact of these
actors on key aspects of bee biology, including survival,
learning, behaviour and ﬁtness.
Applicants should be interested in, and have skills in,
some or all of the following areas: animal behaviour, en-
tomology, parasitology, physiology, pollinator biology.
Informal enquiries may be directed to Dr Mark
Brown (mark.brown@rhul.ac.uk) and Dr Nigel Raine
(nigel.raine@rhul.ac.uk).
For full details, visit http://www.rhul.ac.uk/-
Biological-Sciences/Vacancies . The application
form http://www.rhul.ac.uk/BioSci/Vacancies/-
SBSPhD2011.doc should be submitted with a CV to
tracey.jeﬀries@rhul.ac.uk by 17th March.
References
Alaux C et al. 2010 Interactions between Nosema mi-
crospores and a neonicotinoid weaken honey bees (Apis
mellifera). Environmental Microbiology 12:774-782
Brown MJF et al. 2000 Condition-dependent expres-
sion of virulence in a trypanosome infecting bumble
bees. Oikos 91:421-427
Gegear et al. 2006 Bumble-bee foragers infected by
a gut parasite have an impaired ability to utilize ﬂo-
ral information. Proceedings of the Royal Society B
273:1073-1078
Raine NE, Chittka L. 2008 The correlation of learn-
ing speed and natural foraging success in bumble-bees.
Proceedings of the Royal Society B 275: 803-808
ROYAL HOLLOWAY
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
PhD Studentship
School of Biological Sciences
The adaptive value of learning in diﬀerent ecologicalcontexts
Despite much research into the mechanisms of learning
we still know little about how cognitive traits might
be adapted to diﬀerent ecological conditions. Antici-
pated environmental change is almost certain to aﬀect
the structure and dynamics of pollination systems. A
more complete understanding of pollinator behaviour
means we will be better able to predict how the pol-
lination of crops and wild ﬂowers will be aﬀected by
environmental change.
Learning is an important way in which animals can re-
spond to changes in their environment. Many pollina-
tors are faced with a complex food-collecting environ-
ment: dozens of ﬂower types which not only vary in
colour, shape and scent, but also in the quantity and
quality of pollen and nectar available. The rewards on
oﬀer can change very rapidly over the course of the
day, so learning to modify ﬂower choices could be ad-
vantageous. There is a range in learning performance
among bee colonies with individuals in some colonies
learning much faster than others. So what maintains
this variability in cognitive abilities if faster learning
performance is at a selective advantage?
This project uses the bumblebee (Bombus terrestris)
as a model system. In the laboratory several genera-
tions of bees can be raised each year and this will form
the basis of selection experiment to examine the her-
itability of learning performance. ’Fast-’ and ’slow-’
learning bumblebee colonies will be bred, and the for-
aging performance of these colonies will then be tested
in a range of habitats to assess the ecological condi-
tions to which cognitive behavioural phenotypes are
best adapted. This project will also examine how vari-
ation in learning
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
TromsoU Museum Biosystematics
http://www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=72709 Re-
search Fellow in biosystematics at Troms ˜A University
Museum
Application deadline: 17 March 2011 The following
reference number must be quoted in your application:March 1, 2011 EvolDir 33
2011/457
The University of Troms ˜A has a research fellow posi-
tion in biosystematics (botany) vacant from 1st of July
2011 for applicants who would like to complete a PhD
degree.
The period of appointment is four years.
For further information, please contact
project leaders Inger Greve Alsos, e-mail:
inger.g.alsos@uit.no <mailto:inger.g.alsos@uit.no >
or Torbj ˜Arn Alm, e-mail:
torbjorn.alm@uit.no <mailto:torbjorn.alm@uit.no >
or head of Department of Natu-
ral Sciences: Karl Frafjord, e-mail:
karl.frafjord@uit.no <mailto:karl.frafjord@uit.no >,
phone + 47 77 64 50 00.
The position is connected to the Department of Natural
Sciences, Troms ˜A University Museum, and the success-
ful applicant will be enrolled in the PhD programme of
the Faculty of Biosciences, Fisheries and Economics at
the University of Troms ˜A. The Department of Natural
Sciences presently employs 25 staﬀ members, including
10 permanent scientiﬁc positions and 5 PhD students.
The department has large scientiﬁc collections, docu-
menting more that 130 years of research in North Nor-
way and other northern regions. The research at the de-
partment covers both taxonomy and ecology, and our
molecular laboratory is used for studies in taxonomy,
phylogeography, and conservation genetics of various
organisms including fungi, plants and animals.
The PhD position is within the ﬁeld of conservation ge-
netics and taxonomy of vascular plant species. Poten-
tial research topics are taxonomy of poorly separated
sister species or complicated species complexes, genetic
and morphological distinctiveness of disjunct popula-
tions, conservation genetics of rare or disjunct species,
and correlation between levels of genetic variation and
viability of populations. The research group has long
experience in taxonomy and ecology of vascular plant
species growing in northern Norway and Svalbard, and
thus the PhD study should focus on species occurring
within these areas. Examples are the rare Stellaria
hebecalyx and S. pojoenis, or the extremely disjunct
Lysiella oligantha and Trisetum alpestre.
The successful applicant must document knowledge in
botany at Masterˆ as level. Furthermore, the successful
applicant must fulﬁll the requirements for admission to
the facultyˆ as PhD programme, cf. ˆA§6 of Regulations
for the degree of Philosophiae Doctor (PhD) at The
University of Troms ˜A, English translation and the fac-
ultyˆ as supplementary regulations.
Applicants must have a good command of English andpreferable also Norwegian. Skills in Russian are of ad-
vantage as part of the ﬁeld work may take place in
Russia.
The normal period of appointment is four years. The
PhD study is standardized to three years. The fourth
year consists of teaching or other duties for the univer-
sity, organized according to a distribution formula of 25
% per year in agreement with the Head of Department
of Natural Sciences, Troms ˜A Museum, cf. Directive for
duties for research fellows (in Norwegian only)
A shorter period of appointment may be given if the
research fellow has already completed parts of his/her
researcherˆ as education, or when previous appointments
to educational positions (research fellow, research assis-
tant or equivalent) are counted as part of the duration
of the research fellowship, so that the combined dura-
tion of the researcherˆ as education is three years.
The remuneration is in accordance with the State wage
scale code 1017. A compulsory contribution of 2 % is
made to the Norwegian State Pension Fund.
For applications for appointment, an application for ad-
mission to the PhD study must be enclosed; application
form in English.
A two pages description outlining the academic basis of
the doctoral degree project must be included with the
application.
Within three months after commencement at the latest
a ﬁnal plan for the researcher education must be ap-
proved and regulated by contract. The plan shall also
state who is responsible for providing academic super-
vision. Admission to the doctoral degree programme is
a prerequisite for commencement as a research fellow.
If an admission contract has not been signed within the
deadline, as stated in the work contract, the employer
may cancel the work contract, cf. ˆA§1-3 (8) in Regula-
tions concerning terms and conditions of employment
for the posts of postdoktor (post-doctoral research fel-
low), stipendiat (research fellow), vitenskapelig assis-
tent (research assistant) and spesialistkandidat (resi-
dent) - (in Norwegian): http://www.lovdata.no/for/-
sf/kd/kd-20060131-0102.html Troms ˜A Museum is the
oldest scientiﬁc institution in northern Norway,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html34 EvolDir March 1, 2011
UCanterbury EvolutionBirdOdours
Scholarships for Graduate Studies at School of Biolog-
ical Sciences, University of Canterbury, Christchurch,
New Zealand
Topic: Predation risk and the evolution of odours in
island birds
Two fully funded Ph.D. scholarships are available to
study the evolution of odours in island birds and role
these may play in increasing predation risk from intro-
duced mammalian predators.
Background to project: Some New Zealand birds ap-
pear to have strong odours. For example, even to the
insensitive human nose, kiwi smell like ammonia, while
the odour of the kakapo has been likened to a dusty vi-
olin case. Strong odours are unusual in birds, but com-
mon in mammals, which use odours for communication
and locating food. Preliminary work has revealed that
strong odours may be widespread among New Zealand
birds, and that these odours arise from the preen waxes
produced in the uropygial gland. Preen waxes function
to maintain feathers, but may also attract predators
that use olfaction to locate prey. The ﬁrst objective of
this project is to determine if there are diﬀerences in the
composition of preen waxes between island and conti-
nental birds and if these are the result of their diﬀering
evolutionary histories with predatory mammals. The
New Zealand area provides an ideal system for study-
ing odours and predation risk as the preen wax com-
position can be compared across a number of island
birds that evolved without mammalian predators and
their close phylogenetic relatives that co-evolved with
predators in continental Australia. The second objec-
tive of this project is to then test whether diﬀerences
in odours now put island birds at greater risk from in-
troduced mammalian predators. This study will not
only increase our understanding of the evolution and
function of odours in birds, but also determine whether
these odours are now playing a previously unrecognised
role in the decline of island birds.
1) Ph.D. Project 1: Does the composition of preen wax
and the ontogeny of preen wax production vary with
predation risk? Predation is the greatest source of nest
failure for continental birds, and it is not unusual for 50-
80% of nests to be lost to predators. Most predation is
due to mammals which locate nests through the odours
of eggs or nestlings. In contrast, birds on many oceanic
islands, including New Zealand, evolved in the absence
of predatory mammals. This diﬀerence in risk shouldselect for reduced odours in continental species, in or-
der to camouﬂage nests from predators locating prey
by olfaction. In this part of the project, the candidate
will test this hypothesis by comparing the composition
of preen waxes of a variety of island and continental
birds. If predation has shaped the evolution of avian
odours, then the preen waxes of island species should be
relatively more volatile than those of their closest con-
tinental relatives. Diﬀerences in the ontogeny of preen
wax, and the seasonal pattern of preen wax production
are also expected to diﬀer between island and continen-
tal species. This project will involve ﬁeld work in New
Zealand, Australia and several oﬀshore islands.
2) Ph.D. Project 2: Do the odours of island birds in-
crease their risk of predation from exotic mammalian
predators? The vulnerability of island birds to exotic
predators (e.g. rats, feral cats) is well known and has
been attributed to their behavioural naivety towards
novel predators and life histories that limit their ability
to tolerate high predation rates. As island birds also ap-
pear to have more conspicuous odours than continental
birds that co-evolved with mammals, the production of
more volatile preen waxes may also increase the prob-
ability that island birds and their nests are detected
by exotic mammalian predators. In this part of this
study, the candidate will test if the odour of island birds
and their nests increases the risk of predation by exotic
mammalian predators using a variety of ﬁeld and lab-
based studies. Field work is required in New Zealand,
Australia and oﬀshore islands.
Applicants for either position require either a B.Sc.
Honours or M.Sc. in Biology. Candidates must be pre-
pared to work in remote ﬁeld locations and travel for
several months at a time. Scholarship includes stipend
of $NZ 25,000 per year and cost of tuition fees. Du-
ration of scholarship is 3 years. Non-residents of New
Zealand will be required to obtain a student visa for
the period of study.
Application deadline: 1 March 2011 Start date: by ne-
gotiation but before 1 June 2011
To apply: Please send C.V. and cover letter to
Dr. James Briskie (address above) or by email
(Jim.Briskie@canterbury.ac.nz).
This email may be conﬁdential and subject to legal
privilege, it may not reﬂect the views of the Univer-
sity of Canterbury, and it is not guaranteed to be virus
free. If you are not an intended recipient, please no-
tify the sender immediately and erase all copies of the
message and any attachments.
/March 1, 2011 EvolDir 35
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UEdinburgh PlantTaxonomy
MSc Degree/Postgraduate Diploma in the Biodiversity
and Taxonomy of Plants
Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh/ University of Ed-
inburgh
Programme Philosophy The MSc in Biodiversity and
Taxonomy of Plants was established by the University
of Edinburgh and the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh
(RBGE) to address the growing worldwide demand for
trained plant taxonomists and whole-plant scientists.
A detailed knowledge of plants and habitats is funda-
mental to their eﬀective conservation. To communicate
such knowledge accurately and eﬀectively, training is
required in plant taxonomy -“ the discipline devoted to
plant diversity and evolution, relationships, and nomen-
clature. The MSc is perfect for those wishing to develop
a career in many areas of plant science:
Survey and conservation work in threatened ecosys-
tems Assessment of plant resources and genetic diver-
sity Taxonomic research Management of institutes and
curation of collections A stepping stone to PhD research
and academic careers
Edinburgh is a unique place to study plant taxonomy
and diversity. The programme and students beneﬁt
widely from a close partnership between RBGE and
the University of Edinburgh (UoE). RBGE has one of
the worlds best living collections (15,000 species across
our four specialist gardens -” 5% of world species),
an herbarium of three million specimens and one of
the UKs most comprehensive botanical libraries. The
School of Biological Sciences at UoE is a centre of ex-
cellence for research in Plant Sciences and Evolutionary
Biology. Recognised experts from RBGE, UoE, and
from diﬀerent institutions in the UK deliver lectures
across the whole spectrum of plant diversity. Most
course work is based at RBGE, close to major collec-
tions of plants, but students have full access to the ex-
tensive learning facilities of the university.
Aims and Scope The MSc provides biologists, conser-
vationists, horticulturists and ecologists with a wide
knowledge of plant biodiversity, as well as a thorough
understanding of traditional and modern approaches topure and applied taxonomy. Apart from learning about
the latest research techniques for classiﬁcation, students
should acquire a broad knowledge of plant structure,
ecology, and identiﬁcation.
Programme Structure This is an intensive twelve-month
programme and involves lectures, practicals, workshops
and essay writing, with examinations at the end of
the ﬁrst and second semesters. The course starts in
September of each year and the application deadline is
normally 31 March.
Topics covered include: Functions and philosophy of
taxonomy Evolution and biodiversity of the major plant
groups, fungi and lichens Plant geography Ecology of
plants and ecosystems Conservation and sustainabil-
ity Production and use of ﬂoras and monographs Bio-
diversity databases Phylogenetic analysis Population
and conservation genetics Tropical ﬁeld course, plant
collecting and ecology Curation of living collections,
herbaria and libraries Plant morphology, anatomy and
development Cytotaxonomy Molecular systematics
Fieldwork and visits to other institutes are an integral
part of the course. There is a two-week ﬁeld course to
a tropical country in which students are taught ﬁeld
collection and identiﬁcation of tropical plants ecologi-
cal survey techniques. The summer is devoted to four
months of a major scientiﬁc research project of the stu-
dents choice or a topic proposed by a supervisor. These
research projects link in directly with active research
programmes at RBGE.
Entry Requirements Applicants should ideally hold a
university degree, or its equivalent, in a biological, hor-
ticultural, or environmental science, and above all have
a genuine interest in plants. Relevant work experience
is desirable but not required. Evidence of proﬁciency
in English must be provided if this is not an applicants
ﬁrst language.
Funding The University of Edinburgh provides a lim-
ited number of studentships. Other international fund-
ing bodies have supported overseas students in the past.
More information can be obtained in the course hand-
book.
Further Information For further details on the
programme, including a course handbook please
visit the RBGE website: http://www.rbge.org.uk/-
msctaxonomy You can also contact the Course director
or Education Department at RBGE, or the Postgradu-
ate Secretary of the University of Edinburgh:
MSc course Director, Dr Louis Ronse De Craene Royal
Botanic Garden Edinburgh Tel +44 (0)131 248 2804
Email: l.ronsedecraene@rbge.ac.uk Postgraduate Sec-
retary, The University of Edinburgh School of Biologi-36 EvolDir March 1, 2011
cal Sciences, Darwin Building The Kings Buildings, Ed-
inburgh EH9 3JR, UK Tel +44 (0)131 650 7366 Email:
icmbpg@ed.ac.uk
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UHalle BeeParasiteInteractions
Two PhD positions on honey bee-parasite interactions
and host bee behaviour
Two PhD students are sought for a project on the ecol-
ogy of honey bee V parasite interactions within the labs
of Robin Moritz and Robert Paxton at the University
of Halle, Germany. The goals of the research are to
understand interactions among bee parasites and their
impact on honey bee behaviour. The doctoral students
will contribute to the recently funded BML (German
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Food) project FIT
BEE (collaborating partners are spread across Germans
many state bee institutes) that explores recent issues in
honey bee health in relation to bee management. Re-
search will involve lab and ﬁeld-based experiments as
well as molecular genetic analysis of honey bees and
their pathogens. We seek highly motivated individuals
with an interest in host-parasite interactions as well as
molecular genetic skills.
The working language of the labs is English, though
knowledge of German or willingness to learn German
is of advantage. The two groups of Moritz and Paxton
make for a strong proﬁle in bee biology and genetics
at the University of Halle ( http://www.mol-ecol.uni-
halle.de/). The positions are available for 3 years and
we aim for a start date in spring 2011. Halle is a de-
lightful, historical city approximately 1.5 hours SW of
Berlin. The salary is on the standard German PhD
scale E13 (half), which translates to approximately
Euro 17,500 per annum dependent on experience.
Further details of the position can be obtained from
Robert Paxton (robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de )
or Robin Moritz (robin.moritz@zoologie.uni-halle.de).
Please send applications to posts D 33/2011 - D
34/2011 as a single pdf ﬁle to include a cv, a
statement of research interests and goals (maximum
1 page), and contact details of two referees, topetra.weber@zoologie.uni-halle.de by 24th February
2011.
Robert Paxton <robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de >
UHelsinki SocialEvolution
PhD position, 4 years: Genomic consequences of low
relatedness in ant societies University of Helsinki, De-
partment of Biosciences
The diﬀerentiation into queen and worker castes is the
foundation of advanced insect sociality, and is based
on diﬀerences in gene expression between the castes.
Caste speciﬁc expression also aﬀects how natural se-
lection works on the genes. Because workers do not
reproduce themselves, selection on genes expressed in
workers depends on the relatedness between workers
and the queens they help. In ants, relatedness between
queens and workers varies widely, but little is known
about how this aﬀects selection on genes based on their
expression pattern.
In order to study these questions, the project ˆ aGenomic
consequences of low relatedness in ant societiesˆ a,
funded by the Academy of Finland and carried out
at the University of Helsinki, Finland, is looking for
a highly motivated PhD student. The ideal candidate
has an MSc in biological sciences, with experience of
molecular genetics lab work and analyses of gene se-
quence data), ability and desire to acquire new skills,
enthusiasm for research and applying genetical meth-
ods to evolutionary questions, and an ability to work
independently as well as in a team.
The Phd student is expected to analyse sequence vari-
ation and signatures of selection on genes with caste
speciﬁc expression patterns, and set the results in a
comparative framework. The main focus will be on
comparing selection in unicolonial ants (such as the
Argentine ant and unicolonial Formica wood ants) that
have extremely low relatedness societies with their non-
unicolonial relatives. In addition to this main approach,
the project can be expanded to include other directions,
depending on the skills and interests of the student, the
progress of the project and the increasing availability of
genomic resources in ants.
The position is funded for four years,
with a salary according to the Univer-
sity of Helsinki salary system (ca. 2000
ˆ a¬permonth ).T hestartingdateisflexible, butJune −March 1, 2011 EvolDir 37
July2011 ispreferred.
The PhD thesis will be supervised by Dr. Heikki
Helanter¨ a and Prof. Pekka Pamilo, and carried out
in close collaboration with The Centre for Social Evo-
lution at the University of Copenhagen (Prof. Jacobus
J. (Koos) Boomsma, Dr. Jes S. Pedersen, Dr. Morten
Schi˜Att). The research group of Dr. Heikki Helanter¨ a
is part of the group studying social evolution in ants
at the Department of Biosciences at the University of
Helsinki (Prof. Lotta Sundstr¨ om, Prof. Pekka Pamilo,
Dr. Perttu Sepp¨ a and others).
Send your application to heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ.
Attach (as pdfˆ as) a CV, publication record, contact de-
tails of two references, and a two page (max) descrip-
tion of your research interests and why you would be
a suitable candidate for the project. Screening of the
applications will start on 1st of March 2011, and will
continue until a suitable candidate is found.
More info: heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/ants/Heikki.htm http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/ants/
heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ
ULausanne ModelingSpeciation
PhD position in mathematical modeling of speciation
A PhD position is open for a collaborative project be-
tween the labs of Prof. Marc Robinson-Rechavi (Evolu-
tionary Bioinformatics) and Dr. Nicolas Salamin (Phy-
loinformatics). The project concerns the mathematical
modeling of speciation and extinction rates of species.
The model will be applied to phylogenetic and genomic
data, and linked to fossil data, in collaboration with
Prof. Phil Donoghue (University of Bristol). The stu-
dent will participate to research projects on plant and
vertebrate evolution.
The project is expected to shed light on the impact of
genome evolution on the diversity of species, with im-
plications for our understanding of the history of life,
as well as for conservation biology. The student will re-
ceive training in bioinformatics / biomathematics and
in evolutionary biology.
We are looking for an autonomous and ambitious stu-
dent, with a strong mathematical background, and
knowledge of biology. Previous experience with evo-
lutionary biology is a plus but not a requirement. En-thousiasm for inter- disciplinary work is necessary: the
student will need to interact productively with evolu-
tionary biologists, genome biologists, computer scien-
tists, and paleontologists, and read the corresponding
range of scientiﬁc literature.
Please send a CV and contact information of two
references to: marc.robinson-rechavi@unil.ch; nico-
las.salamin@unil.ch
Websites for additional information: http://-
bioinfo.unil.ch/ http://www.unil.ch/phylo –
Nicolas Salamin Department of Ecology and Evolution
University of Lausanne 1015 Lausanne Switzerland
tel: +41 21 692 4270 fax: +41 21 692
4165 http://www.unil.ch/phylo Swiss Insti-
tute of Bioinformatics http://www.isb-sib.ch/-
groups/Computational Phylogenetics.htm nico-
las.salamin@unil.ch
ULausanne PopulationGenomics
PhD position in population genomics of adaptation to
nutritional stress in Drosophila University of Lausanne,
Switzerland
We are looking for an autonomous and motivated
PhD student for a project focusing on the genomic
bases of tolerance to chronic larval malnutrition in
Drosophila. The project will use Illumina cDNA se-
quencing (RNAseq) to study changes in gene expres-
sion proﬁles, coding polymorphisms, and splicing vari-
ants resulting from >100 generations of experimental
evolution under nutritional stress, aiming to identify
candidate molecular mechanisms of larval malnutrition
tolerance. It has been increasingly recognized that re-
sponses to nutritional stress during development may
have far-reaching consequences for adult life, including
the rate of aging. At the same time, mechanisms of
responses to nutritional environment seem highly con-
served. Thus understanding how evolution shapes these
responses is likely to throw light on early-life determi-
nants of human aging and metabolic disease.
The PhD student will be co-supervised by Tad Kawecki
(Department of Ecology and Evolution, http://-
www.unil.ch/dee/page47578 en.html ) and Ioannis Xe-
narios (SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Depart-
ment of Integrative Genomics, http://www.unil.ch/-
cig/page16826.html ) at the University of Lausanne,
Switzerland. The candidates should have a background38 EvolDir March 1, 2011
in biology and strong computational skills (bioinformat-
ics, statistics, and/or computer programming). The
project will involve laboratory experiments (ﬂy breed-
ing, RNA extraction), but the main workload will be in
data analysis and interpretation.
The position will be available from late spring 2010; a
later starting date could be negotiated. It is oﬀered
in the framework of a ProDoc program in Population
Genomics and the students will have an opportunity to
proﬁt from specialized courses in that area. The candi-
dates are required to have completed a Masters degree
before the beginning of the PhD. Funding is available
for three years (an extension is possible but not guaran-
teed) with a salary of CHF 40800 per year plus a possi-
ble supplement for contribution to teaching. English is
the language of the lab, and pre-existing knowledge of
French is not required; however, learning some French
would make life in Lausanne much easier.
Lausanne is a medium-sized city on the shores of Lake
Geneva, surrounded by a wine growing region and
within one hour of the Alps. It oﬀers a great variety of
cultural, recreational and outdoor opportunities.
To apply, send a single pdf or rtf ﬁle with a mo-
tivation letter, cv, description of your research ex-
perience and interest, and names of 2-3 referees to
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch, putting “PhD position” in
the subject line. The review of applications will start
on March 15, 2011 and will continue until suitable can-
didates are found.
Tad Kawecki
– Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Bio-
phore CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
UNeuchatel LymeDiseaseEvolution
2
PhD position in Ecology & Evolution of Lyme disease
Department of Biology, University of Neuch ˜Atel
One PhD position is available for research on the ecol-
ogy and evolution of Lyme disease, which is caused by
the bacteria, Borrelia burgdorferi, and is transmitted
among vertebrate hosts by Ixodes ticks. Our lab is in-
terested in studying the interactions between the three
players (pathogen, tick, host) at various levels of bio-logical organization (physiology, behavior, population
ecology). The types of questions that our lab is in-
terested in are: (1) what are the eﬀects of parasites
on hosts? (2) Why donˆ at hosts evolve resistance to
parasites (trade-oﬀs between anti-parasite defenses and
other life history traits)? (3) What factors determine
parasite virulence? The prospective PhD student is
welcome to come up with his or her own thesis project.
The University of Neuch ˜Atel has a strong group of para-
sitologists that study host-vector-pathogen interactions
across a wide range of biological organization (molecu-
lar biology, physiology, and evolution and ecology).
Job requirements: The position requires an indepen-
dent, highly motivated, enthusiastic, and scientiﬁcally
curious individual with a strong background in ecology,
evolutionary biology, or related ﬁelds. Molecular tech-
niques, ﬁeld experience, and statistical data analysis
skills are useful. The applicant must have a Masterˆ as
degree. The position requires teaching of undergradu-
ate biology labs in French so language skills are useful.
Start data: The position is available on June 1, 2011.
Salary is determined by the Institute of Biology.
Application requirements: Formal applications should
be in English and include: (1) a 1-2 page cover letter
indicating research interests, (2) your CV (including a
list of publications), and (3) two letters of reference. In-
formal enquiries and formal can be submitted by email
to: maarten.voordouw@unine.ch
Maarten Voordouw Institute of Biology University of
Neuchatel Rue Emile-Argand 11 CH-2000, Neuchatel
Switzerland Tel. 0041 32 718 3114
The website is still a work in progressˆ a
www2.unine.ch/Jahia/site/labpar/op/edit/pid/15585
Maarten Voordouw <mjvoordouw@gmail.com >
UNorthCarolina Wilmington
PopulationGenetics
PhD assistantship - marine population genetics We seek
a PhD student in marine population genetics. The goals
of the project are to combine population genetic, life
history, morphological, and demographic data to char-
acterize stock structure of southern ﬂounder in North
Carolina and US South Atlantic waters. The project is
management-oriented and is funded by the North Car-
olina Marine Resources Fund, yet the ideal candidate
would have general interests in evolution and spatialMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 39
analysis of marine populations.
The student is expected to focus on molecular genetic
aspects of the project, but also to integrate information
coming from the life history, morphological, and demo-
graphic components of the study. We are particularly
interested in exploring spatially explicit “seascape ge-
netic” analyses. The strongest candidate would have a
background in quantitative analysis in evolution and/or
ecology. Speciﬁc experience in landscape genetic or
population genetic analysis would be a plus, but is not
mandatory. Also a plus is some background in techni-
cal aspects of the molecular biology, which in this case
will include mitochondrial DNA sequencing and AFLP
DNA ﬁngerprinting. The ideal student will have com-
pleted an MS degree in evolutionary biology, marine
ecology, ﬁsheries, or a related ﬁeld and should be able
to demonstrate strong academic ability, but exceptional
candidates possessing only a BS degree will also be con-
sidered.
The project represents a collaborative eﬀort by UNCW
researchers Fred Scharf (ﬁsheries ecology) and Michael
McCartney (molecular ecology), and NC Biologist
Chris Batsavage. McCartney will serve as the major
advisor for the student, but they will have the oppor-
tunity to collaborate and build relationships with mul-
tiple researchers from UNCW, NC Sea Grant, NCDMF,
and NOAA.
Home department: Department of Biology and Marine
Biology, University of North Carolina Wilmington, 601
South College Rd., Wilmington, NC 28403.
Start date: August 2011 Salary: Annual stipend
of $22,000 with full tuition support. Contact: In-
terested students should contact (via email) Michael
McCartney (mccartneym@uncw.edu) or Fred Scharf
(scharﬀ@uncw.edu). Please include a recent CV and
contact information for three references.
Michael A. McCartney Associate Professor Center
for Marine Science UNC Wilmington 5600 Marvin
Moss Lane Wilmington NC 28409 (910)962-2391 voice
(910)962-2410 fax
“McCartney, Michael” <mccartneym@uncw.edu >
UOslo AvianEvolutionaryGenomics
Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis
(CEES) PhD Research Fellow in evolutionary biology,
ref. no. 2011/2162The CEES is a centre of excellence for integrative bio-
logical research and is well-funded. It provides a stim-
ulating research environment, situated at the Depart-
ment of Biology, with many young international and
Norwegian scientists working on a variety of theoretical
and empirical topics within ecology, evolution, popula-
tion genetics, genomics, phylogenetics, molecular biol-
ogy, and statistical methodology. The CEES is chaired
by Nils Chr. Stenseth and currently employs 16 per-
manent employees, 43 postdocs/researchers, 32 PhD
students and 30 MSc students. Information about the
centre can be found at http://www.cees.uio.no/ The
PhD fellow will be part of a project funded by The
Norwegian Research Council. The position as PhD is
tentatively available from April 1st on the project ˆ aOn
the evolutionary genomics and behavioral ecology of
homoploid hybrid speciation in Passer sparrowsˆ a.
The PhD position is for a period for 3 years.
Job Description We seek to employ a candidate on the
project: ˆ aOn the evolutionary genomics and behavioral
ecology of homoploid hybrid speciation in Passer spar-
rows.ˆ a The successful candidate will work in a research
team that works on evolutionary processes related to
speciation. The project focuses on diﬀerent species of
sparrows and in particular the Italian sparrow (Passer
italiae) that appears to be a stabilized hybrid form be-
tween the house sparrow (P. domesticus) and the Span-
ish sparrow (P. hispaniolensis). The project includes
ˆ a comparative genomics using 454-technology ˆ a analy-
sis of genetic variation across transects through hybrid
zones ˆ a phylogeographic studies of the species complex
ˆ a association studies of traits aﬀecting reproductive
barriers using a candidate gene approach ˆ a ecological
and behavioural studies related to assortative mating
in aviaries and in the ﬁeld ˆ a breeding experiments in
aviaries to investigate the inheritance of mate prefer-
ences and potential genetic incompatibilities between
the species.
The successful candidate will be involved in 3-4 of these
subprojects pending on qualiﬁcations and interests. Re-
quirements
We search for a candidate with a strong background
in evolutionary biology. Experience with evolutionary
genetic methods is required. Experience with evolu-
tionary ecological or behavioural work on free-living or
captive animals is a further asset. Applicants must hold
a MSC-degree (or equivalent).
The purpose for the fellowship is research training lead-
ing to a successful completion of a PhD degree. The
fellowship requires admission to the research training
program at the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences. Appointment to a research fellowship is con-40 EvolDir March 1, 2011
ditional upon admission to the Facultyˆ as research train-
ing program. An approved plan for the research train-
ing must be submitted no later than one month af-
ter taking up the position, and the admission approved
within three months. C
A good command of English is required for all stu-
dents attending the University of Oslo. International
students who are not native speakers of English must
document their proﬁciency in English.
Salary Pay Grade 48-56 (NOK 383 700 - 440 500 per
year, depending on qualiﬁcations)
The application must include ˆ a a cover letter including
a statement of interest, summarizing the applicantˆ as
scientiﬁc work and interests and describing how she/he
ﬁts the requirements for the position, ˆ a a CV including
a list of published and unpublished works, ˆ a transcripts
of records, copies of certiﬁcates and grades from bach-
elor and master level, ˆ a two letters from reference per-
sons or names and addresses of two reference persons,
and ˆ a copies of relevant published papers. Applicants
may be called in for an interview.
To apply for the position, please see https:/-
/uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/application/-
166821195605002bd72a9a6f572090fb/514022/-
64421?iso=gb Foreign applicants are advised to
attach an explanation of their Universityˆ as grading
system. Please remember that all documents should
be in English or a Scandinavian language.
In accordance with the University of Osloˆ as equal op-
portunities policy, we invite applications from all inter-
ested individuals regardless of gender or ethnicity.
UiO has an agreement for all employees aiming to se-
cure rights to research results a.o.
ˆ a Region: ˆ a Oslo ˆ a Job type: ˆ a Contract ˆ a Working
hours: ˆ a Full-time ˆ a Working days: ˆ a Day ˆ a Application
deadline: ˆ a February 25th 2011 ˆ a Location: ˆ a Blindern,
Oslo ˆ a Reference number: ˆ a 2011/2162 ˆ a Home page:
ˆ ahttp://www.matnat.uio.no
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU 11 EvolutionaryBiol11 PhD AND POST-DOC POSITIONS IN EVOLU-
TIONARY BIOLOGY AND GENOMICS AT THE
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY CENTRE, UPPSALA
UNIVERSITY
A Centre of Excellence in the interface of evolution-
ary biology and genomics has been established at the
Dept of Evolutionary Biology of the Evolutionary Bi-
ology Centre (EBC) of Uppsala University. The en-
vironment consists of several relatively young research
groups (Urban Friberg, Anders Gotherstrom, Simone
Immler, Mattias Jakobsson Hanna Johannesson, Tanja
Slotte and Jochen Wolf) with Hans Ellegren being Head
of the unit. Currently, there are about 20 PhD stu-
dents, 15 post-docs and some bioinformaticians working
within these groups, with the great majority having a
background from international universities. Thanks to
a number of competitive grants recently obtained, the
environment will now signiﬁcantly expand by recruiting
several new PhD students and post-docs.
An overview of the research activities in the envi-
ronment can be found at our web pages ( http://-
www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol/ ). A common
theme is that we address key questions in evolution-
ary biology, like speciation, local adaptation, life his-
tory evolution, and molecular evolution, using genomic
approaches. Study organisms include natural bird and
plant populations, Neurospora, Drosophila, zebra ﬁsh,
domestic animals and humans. We have tight connec-
tions with several other research programs at the Evo-
lutionary Biology Centre (see http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
Research/IEG/ and a centre-wide graduate school “The
genomics of phenotypic diversity in natural popu-
lations” ( http://www.ebc.uu.se/education/postgrad/-
gradschool/ ) is organized from here.
Below are brief descriptions of the positions cur-
rently open. Further details about each of
these, including necessary qualiﬁcations, are avail-
able at http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol/-
open positions/ or can be obtained from the named
group leader. Informal inquiries and applications
should be sent to the respective supervisor. Common
to all positions is that we ask applicants to provide a
CV, a statement of research interests and the name and
contact details of at least two references. The positions
remain open until ﬁlled.
1. PhD position: Haploid selection in animals Sexual
reproduction in eukaryotic organisms entails the exis-
tence of two sexes (males and females) and two life
phases (haploid and diploid). Selection acting diﬀer-
ently in the two sexes and the two phases causes con-
ﬂicts, which aﬀect evolutionary processes. This PhD
project aims to address questions about the causes andMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 41
consequences of sexual selection across ploidy levels in
animals. Experimental work using the zebraﬁsh Danio
rerio as a model system will bring answers to these ques-
tions. For more information please see our web pages
or contact Simone Immler (Simone.Immler@ebc.uu.se).
2. PhD position: Natural selection on gene regulation
Changes in gene regulation have long been hypothe-
sized to underlie adaptive phenotypic evolution. In this
project, we aim to test this hypothesis and quantify the
long-term impact of selection on regulatory sequences.
The project will involve the use of genomic methods
to study sequence and gene expression variation in the
emerging plant model system Capsella. For more infor-
mation please see our web pages or contact Tanja Slotte
(Tanja.Slotte@ebc.uu.se).
3. PhD position: Whole-genome analysis of microsatel-
lite evolution Next-generation sequencing (NGS) allows
gathering a wealth of information on microsatellite vari-
ability both within and between species. Using re-
cently assembled whole-genome sequences from mul-
tiple avian and mammalian species, this project aims
to increase our understanding of the evolution of mi-
crosatellites and polymorphism at these loci. More-
over, this project also aims at using NGS microsatellite
data to identify genomic regions subject to strong selec-
tive sweeps in natural populations of ecological model
organisms, using microsatellites. For more informa-
tion please see our web pages or contact Hans Ellegren
(Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se).
4. PhD position: Speciation genomics in a famous
avian hybrid zone The hybrid zone between carrion and
hooded crows (Corvus [corone] corone / cornix) is a
text book example of incipient speciation that is well
characterized from an ecological and behavioural per-
spective. We investigate its genetic architecture with
a set of genomic tools currently including genome as-
sembly, re-sequencing of several European populations
and RNAseq-based transcriptome analyses. For more
information please see our web pages or contact Jochen
Wolf (Jochen.Wolf@ebc.uu.se).
5. PhD position: Sex diﬀerences in aging
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlUPretoria EvolutionaryBiol
Two positions available at the Forestry and Agricul-
tural Biotechnology Institute (FABI), in association
with the Department of Zoology and Entomology, at
the University of Pretoria. FABI is a world-class, in-
ternationally recognized institute dedicated to under-
standing and promoting health in native and planta-
tion forests, with a strong focus on insect and fun-
gal ecology, genetics/genomics, systematics and biolog-
ical control ( http://www.fabinet.up.ac.za/ ). Speciﬁc
projects can be tailored to student interests and back-
ground, but primary focal areas include: 1) understand-
ing population feedbacks between the introduced pine
woodwasp (Sirex noctilio) and various native and in-
troduced organisms (including but not limited to: pine
weevils, bark beetles, fungi, and baboons), and 2) as-
sessing ecological and evolutionary processes driving in-
sect community overlap between native and exotic trees
(e.g, spillover of introduced insects from exotic hosts
onto native trees, and host expansion/switching of na-
tive fauna onto exotic plantation species). More infor-
mation is available upon request. Both projects are
funded, and include a student bursary to cover Univer-
sity fees and living expenses.
Pretoria, the administrative capital of South Africa, is a
modern city situated in the northern center of the coun-
try in the highveld (high elevation savanna). The area
is has a moderate climate with wet summers and dry
winters, is culturally diverse with 11 oﬃcial languages
(English is the language of choice at FABI, where stu-
dents come from over 40 countries). The University is
located within driving distance of many amazing loca-
tions including the Drakensburg Mountains and Kruger
National Park, with hiking and biking (together with
giraﬀe, wildebeest and all manner of fascinating biodi-
versity) within the city limits.
PhD students will typically have completed an MSc de-
gree (except under special circumstances). An inter-
est in insect, plant and/or fungal ecology and evolu-
tion is essential, as is a working facility with English.
Students with a drivers license and ﬁeld/lab experi-
ence preferred. Please send a CV, statement of in-
terest and a short writing sample to Dr. Jeﬀ Garnas
(jeﬀ.garnas@fabi.up.ac.za).
Jeﬀ Garnas <jeﬀ.garnas@fabi.up.ac.za >42 EvolDir March 1, 2011
USheﬃeld
EvolutionaryTheoryDisease
Dear colleagues, please consider disseminating details
on this PhD position among your ﬁnal-year undergrad-
uates. Applications from UK home-students and EU
citizens are welcome.
Best wishes, James Marshall
PhD in Evolutionary Theory and Disease
This PhD will investigate evolutionary aspects of dis-
ease. Many diseases have at their root a failure of one
level of biological complexity to exert suﬃcient control
over a lower level; examples include cancer (failure of
the body to control replication of cell-lines) and certain
genetics disorders such as Down’s syndrome (failure to
ensure fair chromosomal segregation during gamete for-
mation). Still other diseases are caused by pathogens
that must cooperate in order to achieve and sustain the
infection of a host; one well-known example of this is
acquired antibiotic resistance in some bacterial strains.
Over the past 50 years theory to describe the evolu-
tion of social behaviour between genetic relatives, and
across multiple levels, has been developed. The theory,
however, is typically abstract, and aims to determine
conditions under which altruism will or will not suc-
ceed due to natural selection. The challenge of this
project will be to translate such theory and consider its
potential application to understanding diseases. New
theory on evolution in ﬁnite populations may also need
to be applied or developed.
This project is deliberately underspeciﬁed, and the suc-
cessful candidate will be an exceptional individual, who
will have great freedom to pursue directions that inter-
est them and seek out novel research collaborations.
They will have a background in a numerate discipline
such as mathematics, computer science, or physics, ide-
ally with some knowledge of probability, statistics and
stochastic modelling. A demonstrated interest in bi-
ology and medicine is a deﬁnite advantage. They will
become part of the newly established Behavioural and
Evolutionary Theory Lab at the University of Sheﬃeld,
Department of Computer Science, under the direction
of Dr James Marshall.
About the Behavioural and Evolutionary Theory Lab
The Behavioural and Evolutionary Theory Lab is an
interdisciplinary collection of individuals interested inhow and why behaviours evolve. We are interested in
behaviours and behavioural mechanisms, and their evo-
lutionary function. We apply a range of theoretical
approaches, from mathematics and statistics, decision
theory, computer science, and physics. Particular top-
ics of interest are currently the evolution of social be-
haviour, such as altruism and cooperation, and optimal
decision-making mechanisms in groups, such as social
insects, and in individuals. The Lab is part of the De-
partment of Computer Science, University of Sheﬃeld,
and is physically based in the interdisciplinary Kroto
Research Institute.
Applications are invited from UK home students and
EU citizens. Fees and a stipend will be paid for the
duration of the studentship. Apply online or contact
Dr Marshall if you require further information. Closing
date: Feb 27th.
Bibliography
[1] Burt, A. and Trivers, R. (2006) Genes in Con-
ﬂict: the Biology of Selﬁsh Genetic Elements. Har-
vard University Press. [2] Foster, K.R. (2005) Hamilto-
nian medicine: why the social lives of pathogens matter.
308, 1269-1270. [3] Merlo et al. (2006) Cancer as an
evolutionary and ecological process. Nature Reviews
Cancer 6, 924-935. [4] Okasha, S. (2006) Evolution and
the Levels of Selection. Oxford University Press.
James A. R. Marshall Department of Com-
puter Science University of Sheﬃeld http://-
staﬀwww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/people/J.Marshall/ James
Marshall <James.Marshall@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
UTasmania
AvianConservationGenetics
Scholarship for MSc/PhD study at the School of Zool-
ogy, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia
Topic: Conservation genetics of the Providence Petrel
A fully funded research project with scholarship is avail-
able for immediate start.
Background to project: Petrels are often important
seabird species with respect to nutrient inputs to
oceanic islands, where they commonly nest. However,
on Norfolk Island (southwest Paciﬁc) a huge colony
of Providence Petrels ( >1 million breeding pairs) was
hunted to extinction by humans during the early 1800’s.
In the following 200 years the vegetation of Norfolk Is-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 43
land has declined, with ensuing problems of erosion,
and degradation of habitat for other imperiled taxa
such as the endemic Norfolk parakeet. For these rea-
sons, managers seek to re-establish a population of
Providence Petrel on Norfolk Island by releasing in-
dividuals sourced from Lord Howe Island (over 1000
km away). Similar colony re-establishments have al-
ready been performed successfully for petrel species on
other islands. However, in this case an important con-
servation implication is the fate of a small Providence
Petrel colony at Phillip Island ( ~30 individuals, only 4
km from Norfolk... not the “Phillip Island” near Mel-
bourne). Individuals at Phillip Island exhibit diﬀerent
behaviour from those at Lord Howe (e.g. time of re-
turn to colony), and could represent the sole-perilously
small- population of a distinct species.
The aim of this study is to assess the distinctiveness of
Lord Howe and Phillip Island Providence Petrels. The
project will use a variety of genetic techniques (nuclear
introns, microsatellites, mitochondrial DNA) to deter-
mine whether the Phillip Island colony may require
consideration before proceeding with re-establishing a
Norfolk Island colony. Molecular analysis will also be
performed on paleontological Norfolk Island material,
to assess the genetic distinctiveness of this now extinct
colony. Comparisons of morphology and call dialect
will also be performed. The breeding season occurs in
May, and a ﬁeld trip to Phillip Island to collect blood
samples in 2011 is a possibility if a student can enroll
in time. The scope of the project can be varied to rep-
resent either an MSc or PhD study.
The project is based at the University of Tasmania
(http://www.utas.edu.au ), one of Australia’s oldest
universities, with great opportunities for intellectual
development and also outdoor recreation. The Cen-
tral Science Laboratory contains a large, well-equipped
molecular genetics facility. Work on the paleontologi-
cal material will be conducted with Dr. Trevor Worthy
(University of New South Wales) and Dr Jeremy Austin
at the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA ( http://-
www.adelaide.edu.au/acad/ ). Dr David Priddel and
Nicholas Carlile from the NSW Department of Envi-
ronment and Climate Change will oversee ﬁeldwork.
Applicants require a BSc with a substantial research
component to part of their study (the latter may have
been achieved by diﬀerent means depending on the
country of study; within Australia this typically rep-
resents a BSc Honours degree). Demonstrated exper-
tise with molecular laboratory procedures is desirable
(DNA extraction, PCR, DNA sequencing, microsatel-
lite genotyping) but not essential, as are interests in
conservation biology, molecular ecology, and species de-
lineation.The Scholarship comprises $AUS 22,500 per year (2
years for MSc; 3 years for PhD with a possible 6 month
extension). Student fees will be required if the you are
not an Australian or New Zealand citizen, or an Aus-
tralian permanent resident ($AUS 18,400 per year for
MSc; $AUS 19,376 per year for PhD), unless you are
able to attract your own scholarship, in which case the
fees will be waived. Students from a non-English speak-
ing background will require proof of English-language
ability (e.g. an IELTS of 6.5).
To apply: Please send a cover letter expressing your
interest (in the form of an e-mail), contact details of
at least two referees, and an curriculum vitae to Dr.
Chris Burridge (chris.burridge@utas.edu.au). Applica-
tions remain open until the position is ﬁlled.
Chris Burridge School of Zoology University of Tasma-
nia Private Bag 5 Hobart, Tasmania 7001 Australia
e-mail: chris.burridge@utas.edu.au phone:
+61 3 6226 7653 fax: +61 3 6226
2745 web: http://fcms.its.utas.edu.au/-
scieng/zoo/pagedetails.asp?lpersonId=5232
Chris.Burridge@utas.edu.au
UVienna CompBiol ConserGenetics
Graduate position: University of Vienna
Two PhD student positions (3-year contract with
an annual salary of 25000 Euros) are available at
the Center for Integrative Bioinformatics Vienna
(CIBIV) headed by Prof. Arndt von Haeseler. The
prospective PhD students will develop algorithmic ap-
proaches to tackle computational challenges araised
in conservation genetics, e.g., integrating ecologi-
cal/economical/geographical factors into conservation
planning using genetic sequence data and phylogenetic
methods. The project is also involed with real data
analysis of, e.g., the Cape ﬂora of South Africa or the
european mammals.
The positions are funded through the Vienna graduate
school in computational science, a newly founded grad-
uate school of the University of Vienna. The three-year
PhD program is run entirely in English and will start
with an international group of students in summer 2011.
The doctoral school covers a wide areas of ﬁelds from
Physics (Prof. Dellago), Chemistry (Prof. Hofacker),
Bioinformatics (Prof. von Haeseler) to Mathematics
(Prof. Scherzer) and Computer Science (Prof. Hen-44 EvolDir March 1, 2011
zinger). Every student will have two advisors from two
diﬀerent ﬁelds.
The successful candidate should be self-motivated with
a masters degree (or equivalent) in Bioinformatics or
Computer Science. We require very good English skills.
Applications should be sent to the oﬃce of the graduate
school and, therefore, include: CV, motivation letter
and preferred research areas, abstract of your master
thesis (not obligatory), transcript of grades of your un-
dergraduate and master studies, two letters of recom-
mendation, proposed starting date.
Applications may be sent by February 15, 2011 by
email in one printable pdf ﬁle with ﬁles included in
the above order to Ms. Claudia Muellauer: clau-
dia.daniela.muellauer(AT)univie.ac.at. At the end of
March or beginning of April the shortlisted candidates
will be invited to an interview in person in Vienna.
For further questions please contact Ms. Claudia Muel-
lauer.
BUI Quang Minh <minh.bui@univie.ac.at >
UWyoming
PlantPopulationGenetics
Graduate Assistantship available in Restoration Ecol-
ogy and Genetics at the University of Wyoming
A doctoral assistantship is available in the Dept of Re-
newable Resources at the University of Wyoming to
study restoration ecology and genetics of native plant
species beginning August 2011. A long-term goal of the
lab is to characterize adaptive traits in native ﬂora that
are key for restoration success. The candidate who is
awarded this graduate student assistantship may par-
ticipate in current projects, or develop his/her own re-
search direction. The available stipend will also include
tuition and fees as well as health care. Prospective
students with a background in ecology and evolution,
population genetics, and/or natural resources are en-
couraged to apply.
Applicants should send a cover letter and copies of tran-
scripts, GRE scores, resume and contact information
for 3 references to: khuﬀord@uwyo.edu Please submit
applications by February 25, 2011.
Kristina Huﬀord, Assistant Professor
Dept. of Renewable ResourcesUniversity of Wyoming
1000 E. University Ave.
Dept. 3354
Laramie, WY 82071
Oﬃce:(307) 766-5587
Department info. http://www.uwyo.edu/renewable/-
Application info. http://www.uwyo.edu/renewable/-
info.asp?p=3D22152 The University of Wyoming is
located in Laramie, a town of 27,000 in the heart of
the Rocky Mountain West. Wyoming is investing in
its university, helping to make it a leader in academics,
research and outreach. The university has state-of-the-
art facilities in many areas and is a cultural center for
the state. Located on a high plain between the Laramie
and Snowy Range mountains, Laramie has more than
200 days of sunshine a year and near year-round out-
door activities that include skiing, hiking, camping, bi-
cycling, ﬁshing and climbing. The community provides
the advantages of a major university and a distinc-
tive identity as an important city in a frontier state.
Laramie is near many of Colorado’s major cities and
university communities (Fort Collins: 1 hour; Boulder:
1.5 hours; Denver: 2 hours; Colorado Springs; 4 hours).
khuﬀord@uwyo.edu
UZurich MonkeyBehaviour
PhD-position on the causes and consequences of be-
tween group conﬂicts in vervet monkeys
Hiring Organization: Anthropological Institute and
Museum, University of Zurich Winterthurerstrasse 190
8057 Zurich, Switzerland
Position Description: Within the framework of a
large collaborative project between the universities of
Neuchatel (Prof. Dr. R. Bshary), St. Andrews (Prof.
Dr. A. Whiten) and Zurich (Prof. Dr. C.P. van Schaik
& Dr. M. Kr¨ utzen) on the evolution of social behaviour
in vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops), the An-
thropological Institute and Museum (AIM) at the Uni-
versity of Zurich oﬀers a three year, full-time PhD-
position to investigate the causes and consequences of
between-group conﬂicts in South African vervet mon-
keys. The successful candidate is expected to spend
a considerable amount of time at our ﬁeld-site in
Kwazulu-Natal -up to a minimum of 10 months per
year over the ﬁrst two years- collecting and supervis-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 45
ing the collection of: 1) behavioural (both observa-
tional and experimental) and ranging data (GPS- and
VHF-telemetry) on ten habituated groups, and 2) de-
tailed information on the local vegetation (structural
and ﬂoristic make-up as well as phenology). In addi-
tion, genetic samples will be collected to allow detailed
genetic analyses on, e.g. population structure, within-
and between-group relatedness, and paternity. For the
genetic part of this project, the PhD-student will re-
ceive all required training at the AIM.
Qualiﬁcations/Experience: We invite applications from
students holding (or expecting to obtain prior to July
2011) an MSc.-degree in Biology/Anthropology or other
relevant academic ﬁeld. Previous experience collecting
and analyzing behavioural and movement data, espe-
cially in a (sub-)tropical environment will be highly
advantageous. Applicants should moreover be proﬁ-
cient in written and spoken English, have excellent so-
cial skills, and be able to work both independently and
in a large, interdisciplinary team.
Salary/funding: The salary will be in accordance with
Swiss national regulations for doctoral students and
amounts to CHF 40,200.- over the ﬁrst year, up to
CHF 46,200.- over the third year. In addition, an an-
nual contribution of up to CHF 2,000.- will be made to
cover travel expenses between Zurich and the ﬁeld site
in South Africa.
Term of Appointment: Initial appointment will be for a
1 year period which, after satisfactory evaluation, will
be extended to a total duration of 3 years. The suc-
cessful candidate is expected to start by 01.07.2011.
Application Deadline: Applications will be accepted
until the position is ﬁlled. Promising candidates will be
invited for an interview and oral presentation of their
MSc-thesis or other relevant work in the week of 11 -15
April.
Contact Information: Applications consisting of a cover
letter stating research experience and interests, a de-
tailed curriculum vitae (up to 2 pages), and the names
and e-mail addresses of two referees can be sent elec-
tronically to Dr. Erik Willems, e.willems@aim.uzh.ch.
A more detailed project description can be obtained
upon request.
Dr. Erik P. Willems Postdoctoral Researcher Anthro-
pological Institute and Museum University of Zurich
Winterthurerstrasse 190 8057 Zurich Tel: +41-(0)4463
55435 Fax: +41-(0)4463 56804
e.willems@aim.uzh.chVrijeU Netherlands
EvolutionOfLearning
PhD student in Evolutionary Ecology (f/m)
The department of Animal Ecology, Vrije Universiteit
Amsterdam, The Netherlands has a PhD position avail-
able for the project:
“Evolution of learning rate in parasitoid insects”
Insects are excellent learners, but it is unclear if learn-
ing behaviour evolves independently for each diﬀer-
ent learning context. This project studies learning
rate of parasitic wasps which use olfactory and visual
cues to ﬁnd hosts and food. The two most important
questions are if the rate of learning is correlated be-
tween learning with diﬀerent cues and rewards, and are
there common genetic mechanisms underlying learn-
ing in diﬀerent contexts. Experimental work will in-
clude sequence and expression analysis of candidate
genes involved in learning processes, selection experi-
ments and behavioural assays. The research will be
carried out at the VU University in Amsterdam, in col-
laboration with the Netherlands Institute of Ecology
(NIOO-KNAW) in Wageningen. This project is funded
by the Netherlands Organization for Scientiﬁc Research
(NWO-ALW) awarded to prof. dr. Jacintha Ellers.
Tasks - Executing scientiﬁc research as detailed in the
project description. - Publication of results of the re-
search in scientiﬁc journals as well as in a thesis. -
Assisting in undergraduate courses given within the In-
stitute of Ecological Science. - Following the PhD edu-
cational programme as prescribed by the institute.
Required skills and education - MSc degree in Biol-
ogy, preferably with advanced courses in animal ecol-
ogy, evolutionary biology, molecular biology, and an-
imal behaviour, or equivalent. - Proﬁciency in both
written and spoken English. - Excellent social skills,
ability to work independently and high motivation will
be assets.
Details The initial appointment will be for a period of
1 year. After satisfactory evaluation of the initial ap-
pointment, it can be extended for a total duration of 4
years. This period has to result in a written thesis. You
can ﬁnd information about our excellent fringe bene-
ﬁts of employment at www.workingatvu.nl Salary The
salary will be in accordance with university regulations
for academic personnel, and amounts 2.042,- gross per46 EvolDir March 1, 2011
month in the ﬁrst year up to 2.612,- in the fourth year
(salary scale 8.5) based on a full-time employment.
Information and applications Upon request, appli-
cants can obtain the complete project description from
D˜Ac/circlecopyrtsir˜Ac/circlecopyrte Hoonhout (tel. +31 20 5987004; de-
siree.hoonhout@falw.vu.nl). Further information can
be obtained from Prof. Dr. J. Ellers (tel. +31 20
5987076; jacintha.ellers@falw.vu.nl). Please, send your
application, including your expression of interest (with
a brief statement of your personal research aims and
interests), a detailed resume, and two reference names
before January 30th, 2011 addressed to Prof. Dr. B.
Oudega, Dean Faculty of Earth & Life Sciences, Vrije
Universiteit. You may also send your application by
e-mail at: falw-vacatures@falw.vu.nl.
Please mention the vacancy number 1.2010.00338 in the
e-mail header or at the top of your letter and on the
envelope.
Jacintha Ellers <jacintha.ellers@falw.vu.nl >Jacintha
Ellers <jacintha.ellers@falw.vu.nl >
Wageningen GeneticVariation
PhD Research position: Genetic variation in mecha-
nisms underlying seasonal timing in the wild.
The vacancy is at the Netherlands Institute of Ecology
(Wageningen) and the research group Chronobiology,
Centre of Behaviour and Neurosciences, University of
Groningen.
Seasonal timing of reproduction and growth has major
ﬁtness consequences. Due to climate change species are
shifting their timing but not all at the same rate, lead-
ing to directional selection on timing. To predict the
rate at which species may adapt to their warming world
a better understanding of the genetic variation within
the mechanisms underlying seasonal timing is essential.
The research will be carried out on winter moths and
great tits, part of the well studied food chain of oak,
winter moth and great tit. While the research on great
tits will correlative and experimental ﬁeld work studies
the research on winter moths will be mainly labora-
tory based experimental work. The project is at the
forefront of interdisciplinary research on evolutionaryecology and physiological mechanisms, making an im-
portant contribution to our insights in the evolutionary
and ecological impact of climate change.
The PhD student will be appointed at the Univer-
sity of Groningen but the research will be carried out
at the Animal Ecology Department of the Nether-
lands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW) in Wagenin-
gen (see www.nioo.knaw.nl ) in close collaboration with
the research group Chronobiology at the University of
Groningen.
For more information you can contact Prof.
Marcel Visser, phone +31 317 473439, e-mail:
m.visser@nioo.knaw.nl, Prof. Domien Beersma e-mail:
d.g.m.beersma@rug.nl or Dr Roelof Hut, e-mail:
r.a.hut@rug.nl
You should have an MSc or equivalent in Biology or a
related discipline, preferably with a strong background
in Behavioural Ecology, Evolutionary Ecology or Evo-
lutionary Physiology. You are expected to have an ex-
cellent academic record (list of examination marks from
your university study) and be curious, creative and am-
bitious. You should be able to write scientiﬁc articles
and reports (to be proven by your graduation thesis or
another comparable report) and be ﬂuent in English
both in writing and speech.
The University of Groningen oﬀers a salary of minimal
EUR 2,042 gross a month in the ﬁrst year to maximal
EUR 2,612 gross a month in the ﬁnal year based on a
full-time position. It is a temporary assignment for a
period of 4 years. First you will get a temporary po-
sition of 1.5 years with the perspective of prolongation
with another 2.5 years. After the ﬁrst year, there will
be an evaluation as to the feasibility of successful com-
pletion of the PhD thesis within the next three years.
Closing date 14 March 2011
Apply via a web form at:
http://www.tangram-tis.nl/10378/Kandidaten/-
Inschrijven/00347-0000004566 Prof. Dr Marcel
E. Visser Head of Department Animal Ecology
Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW)
New adress: P.O. Box 50, 6700 AB Wagenin-
gen, The Netherlands Phone: +31-317-473439
E-mail: m.visser@nioo.knaw.nl Personal page:
www.nioo.knaw.nl/users/mvisser
“Visser, Marcel” <M.Visser@nioo.knaw.nl >March 1, 2011 EvolDir 47
Jobs
BardCollege NY Biostatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Dexter NM LabManager PopulationGenetics . . . . . . 47
FloridaStateU FruitFlyAllometry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Geneva MuseumDirector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
GeorgeWashingtonU CommunityEvolution . . . . . . . . 48
IndianaU EvolEcol SummerStudent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Kadoorei 3 Conservation Botany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Munich ChairPaleontology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
NHM Paris BacterialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
NorthernArizonaU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
RhodesU SystematicEntomology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UAuckland ComputationalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UBern FieldAssist BirdEvolution 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54UCincinnati CaveﬁshEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UGeorgia ResTech InvasivePlants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UHull EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UKansas ResTech PhenotypicVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
ULondon MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UMarseille EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
USDA WashingtonDC ParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 57
USheﬃeld ResAssoc BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . 58
UWisconsin ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UWisconsin Madison PopGenQuantGenEvolGen . . 59
UWisconsin Madison PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 60
UWyoming WildlifeConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
BardCollege NY Biostatistics
The Biology Program at Bard College is seeking appli-
cants for a full-time, one-year visiting faculty position
at the assistant professor level, beginning in the fall of
2011. The successful candidate will teach a biostatis-
tics course, a 100-level course each semester, and an ad-
vanced seminar course one semester. The candidate’s
speciﬁc area of expertise is ﬂexible but should comple-
ment the program’s existing strengths in ecology, evolu-
tion, microbiology, molecular biology and biochemistry.
The successful candidate will possess a Ph.D. and will
be expected to involve undergraduates in their research.
More information about the curriculum and current fac-
ulty research can be found at http://biology.bard.edu .
Bard is a highly selective private liberal arts college
with approximately 1,900 students, located 90 miles
north of New York City on the Hudson River. Ap-
plicants should submit curriculum vitae, research and
teaching statements, and the contact information for
three references by email only to: Professor Philip
Johns at hr11007@bard.edu. Review of applications
will begin on March 21st and will continue until the
position is ﬁlled. Bard College is an equal opportunity
employer and we welcome applications from candidates
who contribute to our diversity. AA/EOE.
philip johnsAssistant Professor Biology Program Bard College
Annandale-on-Hudson, NY 12504
johns@bard.edu bugs@bard.edu 845.752.2338
johns@bard.edu
Dexter NM LabManager
PopulationGenetics
Dexter National Fish Hatchery & Technology Center
in Dexter, NM is seeking applicants for the Molec-
ular Ecology Program with experience in lab man-
agement and conservation, evolutionary and popula-
tion genetics. The following position is now open
through the USAJobs website, please click on the link
below to view/print the full vacancy announcement.
For questions concerning the vacancy please contact
Izhar Kahn (Izhar Khan@fws.gov) or Manuel Ulibarri
(Manuel Ulibarri@fws.gov) at 575-734-5910 ext 16 and
12.
R2-11-442217-MS-DEU Interdisciplinary (Genet-
ics/Lab Manager) GS-0401/0482-9/11 Term Appoint-
ment NTE 13 Months, but may be extended up to
4 years at management’s discretion Dexter NFHTC,
Dexter, NM
Open: 02/23/11 Close: 03/08/1148 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Manuel Ulibarri@fws.gov
FloridaStateU FruitFlyAllometry
Position open for a 15 month project investigating al-
lometry in fruit ﬂy wings in the laboratory of David
Houle, Florida State University. This Laboratory Tech-
nician position will involve measurement of ﬂies, qrt-
PCR, data management, ﬂy husbandry, and supervi-
sion of undergraduate assistants. Required qualiﬁca-
tions are a Bachelor?s degree in science or equivalent
experience, and knowledge of computer software. Some
programming experience is desirable. This project will
provide excellent experience in research in evolution-
ary biology in a pleasant working environment, and
is likely to result in authorship on publications for a
capable, enthusiastic employee. Salary from $28,000,
depending on experience. Contact Rosa Moscarella
rmoscarella@bio.fsu.edu for more information.
rmoscarella@bio.fsu.edu
Geneva MuseumDirector
Position announcement for Museum Director (Geneva,
Switzerland)
The Museum director is responsible for ensuring the
management of the Mus ˜Ac/circlecopyrtum d’histoire naturelle of
the City of Geneva (Switzerland) and its subsidiary, the
Mus˜Ac/circlecopyrte d’histoire des sciences.
Candidates are expected to provide leadership for both
the scientiﬁc missions and the management of these in-
stitutions and contribute to the cultural policy of the
City of Geneva.
The assignment implies varied responsabilities. Candi-
dates are expected to develop exhibition programs and
multidisciplinary scientiﬁc projects ; to ensure the qual-
ity of the exhibitions and the good dissemination of
knowledge ; to set objectives and ﬁnd sponsors for the
exhibitions, the management of collections and the sci-
entiﬁc research ; to feed and develop collaboration with
the scientiﬁc community, in Switzerland and abroad.
The successful candidate will be assisted by the admin-
istrator for the ﬁnancial and HR management.Person speciﬁcation : PhD (or equivalent) degree in Zo-
ology or Geosciences ; a solid experience in project and
HR management ; a good acquaintance with the mu-
seum ﬁelds, attested by a strong record of scientiﬁc and
general-public publications. Excellent French language
skills. English and German language skills required.
General conditions for formal application are available
onwww.ville-geneve.ch Closing date for application :
April 1, 2011 Selection process : late Spring 2011 Start-
ing date to be discussed
Contact : Danielle Decrouez, Director
danielle.decrouez@ville-ge.ch +41 22 / 418 63 21
Natalie Gressot Assistante de direction Direc-
tion du d ˜Ac/circlecopyrtpartement T. +41(0)22 418 65 11
natalie.gressot@ville-ge.ch
D˜Ac/circlecopyrtpartement de la culture Route de Malagnou 19
Case postale 9 1211 Gen ˜Ave 17 www.ville-ge.ch/culture
Natalie.Gressot@ville-ge.ch
GeorgeWashingtonU
CommunityEvolution
Faculty Position in Community Evolution Department
of Biological Sciences, The George Washington Univer-
sity
The Department of Biological Sciences of the George
Washington University is accepting applications for a
tenure-track faculty member at the rank Assistant Pro-
fessor with expertise in the ﬁeld of Community Ecology.
We are searching broadly for candidates who study the
ecological and evolutionary factors structuring commu-
nities, including anthropogenic factors such as invasive
species, pollution, fragmentation, or climate change.
Research interests could encompass terrestrial, fresh-
water, or marine communities or investigations of ur-
ban ecology using a community approach. Teaching re-
sponsibilities would include an undergraduate course in
global ecology and a graduate course in his or her area
of expertise. The successful candidate will carry out re-
search capable of attracting external grants and help us
build a program with a strong environmental biology or
ecological research focus. Basic Qualiﬁcations: a Ph.D.
in an appropriate discipline, postdoctoral experience,
ability to teach global ecology, and accomplishments in
biological research in community ecology demonstrated
by publications in peer-reviewed journals.March 1, 2011 EvolDir 49
Application Procedure: to be considered please send
electronically a complete curriculum vitae, brief de-
scriptions of teaching and research plans, three publica-
tions, and the names and contact information for three
references to John Lill at GWecosearch@gmail.com
Only complete applications will be considered. Review
of Applications will begin on March 13, 2011, and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
The George Washington University is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer. The University
Search Committee seeks to attract an active, culturally
and academically diverse faculty of the highest caliber.
John T. Lill, Ph.D. Associate Professor George Wash-
ington University Department of Biological Sciences
2023 G Street, NW, Suite 340 Washington, DC 20052
(202) 994-6989 (202) 994-6100 [FAX] lillj@gwu.edu
John Lill <lillj@gwu.edu >
IndianaU EvolEcol SummerStudent
The Rieseberg lab at Indiana University is looking for a
highly-motivated student to participate in an evolution-
ary genetics research project this summer. The project
will examine the evolutionary and ecological basis for
ﬂowering time divergence in the silverleaf sunﬂower, He-
lianthus argophyllus, which is native to coastal south
Texas.
The project participant will gain experience in ﬁeld-
work and data collection by independently managing
one site of a large evolutionary genetics experiment, ei-
ther at the Welder Wildlife Foundation Park near Sin-
ton, TX or the Mission-Aransas National Estuarine Re-
search Reserve headquarters in Port Aransas, TX. Par-
ticipants will also have the opportunity to develop an
independent project of their own design.
The successful applicant will be eﬃcient, self-
motivated, and pay careful attention to detail. Appli-
cants must be able to tolerate (or enjoy) working out-
doors in any type of weather, must have a valid driver’s
license, and must be current full-time students (under-
graduate or graduate) at an accredited post-secondary
institution. Unfortunately, students who are graduat-
ing Spring 2011 are not eligible for this position. Pre-
vious research experience and access to a vehicle are
helpful, but are not required. The participant will re-
ceive a stipend of $4,000 for the summer.To apply, please send a cover letter and curriculum
vitae along with two references (academic or work-
related) to Brook Moyers (brook.moyers@gmail.com).
Applications are due March 4, 2011. To apply, please
send a cover letter and curriculum vitae along with two
references (academic or work-related) to Brook Moy-
ers (brook.moyers@gmail.com). Applications are due
March 4, 2011.
For more information, contact Brook Moyers
(brook.moyers@gmail.com) or check out the Rieseberg
lab at http://www3.botany.ubc.ca/rieseberglab/
brook.moyers@gmail.com
Kadoorei 3 Conservation Botany
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Senior Conservation Geneticist
JOB SUMMARY Applications are invited for a perma-
nent Senior Conservation or Population Geneticist posi-
tion at Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden (KFBG) in
Hong Kong. The general remit of the post is to improve
the integration of genetic information into conserva-
tion programmes and to manage a Genetic Laboratory.
The successful candidate will study the eﬀect of habitat
fragmentation on the genetic diversity and the adapt-
ability of populations of South Chinese and Indochi-
nese plants at various geographical and temporal scales.
The obtained results will be used to develop a decision-
making framework for integrating genetic information
into conservation programmes. Key conservation ge-
netics concepts and research ﬁndings should be sum-
marised and communicated in user-friendly handbooks,
scientiﬁc publications and online resources for conser-
vation practitioners and conservation management.
Applicants should have a PhD in the ﬁeld of popula-
tion or conservation genetics. Strong communication
skills (written and oral), advanced knowledge of popu-
lation and statistical genetics, and computational skills
are required. Additional knowledge in genomics, anal-
ysis of high-throughput sequencing data and computer
programming (Perl/Python/R/) are a plus.
Daily duties will include managing the genetic labora-
tory and projects, supervising junior laboratory staﬀ as
well as analysing genetic samples and interpreting the
results.
Application Method Interested parties should send a
detailed CV, expected salary, and a short essay (de-50 EvolDir March 1, 2011
scribing relevant work experience and reasons for inter-
est in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
—–
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Botanist (Plant Identiﬁcation
and Records Oﬃcer)
JOB SUMMARY Applications are invited for a perma-
nent Botanist position at Kadoorie Farm and Botanic
Garden (KFBG) in Hong Kong. The general remit of
the post is to identify specimens collected at ﬁeld sur-
veys in South China and Indochina, assist in herbarium
management and to manage the specimen database.
The successful candidate will conduct ﬁeld work and
participate in survey projects in Hong Kong, South
China and Indochina, work on taxonomy and conser-
vation status assessment of plant genera, handling and
processing botanical information, conducting plant con-
servation research and providing capacity building.
Applicants should have a PhD in plant taxonomy, plant
biodiversity and/or plant conservation. Strong com-
munication skills (written and oral) and knowledge of
the local ﬂora are required. Additional knowledge in
herbarium management software, phylogenetics, GIS
and computer programming are a plus.
Interested parties should send a detailed CV, expected
salary, and a short essay (describing relevant work ex-
perience and reasons for interest in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
—–
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Botanist (Plant Ecology and
Forest Restoration)
JOB SUMMARY Applications are invited for a perma-
nent Botanist position at Kadoorie Farm and Botanic
Garden (KFBG) in Hong Kong. The general remit
of the post is to use the ﬁndings of research into the
ecology of plants to conduct forest restoration projects.
The successful candidate will conduct ﬁeld work and
participate in survey projects in Hong Kong, South
China and Indochina, map forest ecosystems using
ﬁeldmap technology, develop an understanding of the
life-cycle dynamics of plants to pinpoint which factorsare causing population declines, conduct projects to
understand biotic and abiotic habitat requirements of
plants and conduct forest enrichment and restoration
projects.
Applicants should have a PhD in plant ecology or for-
est restoration. Strong communication skills (written
and oral) and knowledge of the local ﬂora are required.
Additional knowledge in herbarium management soft-
ware, soil science, GIS and computer programming are
a plus.
Daily duties will include managing our native tree nurs-
ery and supervising work teams and junior staﬀ.
Interested parties should send a detailed CV, expected
salary, and a short essay (describing relevant work ex-
perience and reasons for interest in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
Munich ChairPaleontology
Munich, Germany: Research Associate (“Wis-
senschaftlicher Assistent”) position at the Chair of Pa-
leontology & Geobiology, Molecular Geo- & Paleobiol-
ogy Lab.
We invite applications for a research associate (“Wis-
senschaftlicher Assistent”) at the Chair of Paleontol-
ogy & Geobiology (Molecular Geo- & Palaeobiology
Lab) of the Department of Earth- and Environmental
Sciences and the GeoBio-CenterLMU of the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) M¨ unchen.
The successful candidate will join a young, interna-
tional and dynamic lab that applies a molecular geo-
and palaeobiological approach ˆ a including molecular bi-
ology, genomics, and molecular phylogenetic techniques
in reconciliation with the fossil record ˆ a in a research
programme that focusses on temporal and spatial as-
pects of the evolution, diversiﬁcation and biomineral-
ization of geobiologically important marine invertebrate
taxa like sponges, corals, and echinoderms ˆ a lately also
vertebrates. More information about the lab can be
found at <www.mol-palaeo.de >.
You will have access to newly refurbished and fully
equipped >200 sqm molecular labs including twoMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 51
seawater aquaria systems, stereo- & compound
(ﬂuorescent) microscopes ( <http://www.palmuc.de/-
mol-labs-en.html >), in-house stable isotope and
geo-histology labs and a 64-core Linux cluster. Further
equipment is available through the GeoBio-CenterLMU
(<http://www.geobio-center.uni-muenchen.de >),
through which you will also have access to the Bavarian
Natural History Collections ( <http://www.snsb.de
>), with >30 Mio. items one of the largest biodiversity
collections in Germany.
We are seeking a highly motivated applicant with an ex-
cellent track-record of international publications. The
working language of the group is English, and appli-
cants from abroad are encouraged to apply.
Requirements: PhD in Geosciences, Biology or related
ﬁeld less than four years ago; 1-2 years of Post-Doc
experience preferred; excellent English language skills.
German language skills (or willingness to acquire those
quickly) is certainly an advantage for teaching under-
graduate courses. SCUBA diving license, bioinformat-
ics/computer programming or molecular skills are a
bonus but not mandatory.
Duties: ˆ a Support the Chair of Paleontology & Geobi-
ology in research and teaching ˆ a Develop own research
projects that supplement the themes of the research
group ˆ a Acquire third-party funding through national
and/or international funding agencies ˆ a Teach courses
in the Bachelor and Masters Programs in Geosciences
(various geo- & paleobiology topics) for 5 hours per
week ˆ a Participate in the academic self-administration
The position is intended for further qualiﬁcation (Ger-
man “Habilitation”) and is available for 2 times three
years (starting from 01.07.2011). If the “Habilita-
tion” is successfully completed after the ﬁrst of six
years, the position can be extended for another four
years, depending on performance. The position will
be paid according to the German public servant salary
scheme A13 (“Beamtenbesoldung”, Akademischer Rat
auf Zeit).
Application: Send application including CV, Publica-
tion list, PDFs of your three most signiﬁcant pub-
lications, a maximum one-page research statement,
and details of 2 referees in a single PDF document
(only) by email to Mrs. Monika Brinkrolf (Secretary):
m.brinkrolf(at)lrz.uni-muenchen.de. Application dead-
line is March 31, 2011. Informal enquiries about the
position may be directed to Prof. Dr. Gert W¨ orheide
(woerheide(at)lmu.de).
The Department of Earth- and Environmental Sci-
ences (Section Palaeontology & Geobiology) of the
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at Munich oﬀers an ex-cellent multidisciplinary research environment, one of
its particular strength being due to the close interac-
tion between Geosciences and the Biological Faculty in
the framework of the GeoBio-CenterLMU ( <http://-
www.geobio-center.uni-muenchen.de >).
The LMU Munich is the leading research university in
Germany, with a more than 500-year-long tradition,
and builds upon its success in the Excellence Initia-
tive, a Germany-wide competition promoting top-level
university research. Munich has also been repeatedly
voted Germany’s most livable city.
The LMU Munich is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative
Action Employer and has an aﬃrmative action policy
for the disabled.
– Prof. Dr. Gert W¨ orheide Molecular Geo-
& Palaeobiology Department of Earth and Envi-
ronmental Sciences & GeoBio-CenterLMU Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universitaet Muenchen Richard-Wagner-
Straße 10 80333 Muenchen Germany
Phone: +49 (89) 2180-6718 Fax: +49 (89) 2180-6601
E-Mail: woerheide@lmu.de www.palmuc.de |www.mol-
palaeo.de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
NHM Paris BacterialGenomics
Assistant-Professor position in Bacterial genomics and
metagenomics, EPHE/Natural History Museum, Paris
A tenure-track position as an assistant professor in bac-
terial genomics, metagenomics and statistical genet-
ics is available at the EPHE /Integrative Population
Biology /research group (Veuille Lab) in the Natural
History Museum in Paris. The lab combines large
empirical datasets and computational approaches to
studying microbial population genetics (see http://-
www.thierrywirth-lab.com/ ). Current work in the lab
focuses on a range of topics including (i) bacterial biodi-
versity and connectivity in Paciﬁc Archipelagos, (ii) the
interplay of sex and virulence in bacteria (/Escherichia
coli/), (iii) the evolutionary history, demography and
spread of major diseases using next-generation sequenc-
ing data. Our lab beneﬁts from an excellent background52 EvolDir March 1, 2011
in theoretical and modern population genetics (bioin-
formatics, modelisation, ABC, demogenetics) as well
as an interdisciplinary research environment based on
national and international collaborations (Institut Pas-
teur, Max-Planck Institute).
The successful candidate should have a postdoctoral ex-
perience, a strong background in computer science and
statistics, and a deep interest in evolutionary genetics.
A strong experience in genomewide and massive parallel
sequencing datasets analyses is required. Programming
skills and proﬁciency in unix-based computational envi-
ronments are essential; ﬁnally a good publication record
is required. She/he will also be involved in teaching ac-
tivities in the /Biology, Health and Ecology/ Master
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including
a CV, copies of relevant publications and contact
information for at least two references) should be
emailed to both Thierry Wirth at wirth@mnhn.fr and
veuille@mnhn.fr The starting date can be as early as
October 2011.
Prof. Thierry Wirth
Mus´ eum National d’Histoire Naturelle - EPHE De-
partment of Systematics and Evolution UMR-CNRS
7205 16, rue Buﬀon, 75231 Paris cedex 05 France tel.
+33 (0) 1 4079 8036; gsm. +33 (0) 648155320 email:
wirth@mnhn.fr url: http://www.thierrywirth-lab.com
gilabert@mnhn.fr
NorthernArizonaU Bioinformatics
Faculty Position in Bioinformatics, Northern Arizona
University
The College of Engineering, Forestry and Natural Sci-
ences invites applications for a tenure track position
in the area of Bioinformatics at either the assistant
or associate level, to begin August 2011. Although
outstanding candidates from all areas of Bioinformat-
ics will be considered, we are particularly interested
in committed educators with strong practical experi-
ence in bioinformatics software development and appli-
cation. The successful candidate will be expected to
play a leadership role in the development of an under-
graduate training program in bioinformatics, requiring
a solid combination of technical, program development,
communication, and leadership skills. Candidates must
be particularly committed to undergraduate education,
and must be able to teach core software developmentcourses in a Bioinformatics program, as well as upper-
division and graduate courses in their specialty area.
Candidates must also have a strong commitment to de-
veloping a scholarly record in either Bioinformatics or
related pedagogy.
The position requires an earned doctorate in Computer
Science or a Biological Science for either the assistant or
associate level. Additionally, for the associate level can-
didates will be required to have teaching, research and
service experience consistent with COFS guidelines for
promotion to Associate Professor. Please see http://-
home.nau.edu/provost/ for more information on COFS
guidelines.
Preferred qualiﬁcations include: For appointment at
rank of Assistant Professor: - Demonstrated skill in
applied software development and application, partic-
ularly in the bioinformatics area. - Demonstrated skill
in pedagogy and undergraduate education. - Demon-
strated skill teaching core courses in Computer Science,
Biology or Biochemistry. - Outstanding oral and writ-
ten communication skills. - Demonstrated administra-
tive and program management skills. - Candidates with
a demonstrated commitment supportive of the multi-
cultural needs of Northern Arizona University and the
surrounding area are strongly desired.
For appointment at rank of Associate Professor: - The
preferred qualiﬁcations for the Assistant rank, AND;
- Strong scholarly or industry record in bioinformatics
or related pedagogy. - Direct experience in design, de-
ployment, and development of new academic programs,
particular in the bioinformatics area.
Northern Arizona University has a student population
of about 25,000 at its main campus in Flagstaﬀ and at
about 30 sites across the state. Committed to a diverse
and civil working and learning environment, NAU has
earned a solid reputation as a university with all the fea-
tures of a large institution but with a personal touch,
with a faculty and staﬀ dedicated to each student’s suc-
cess.
While our emphasis is undergraduate education, we of-
fer a wide range of graduate programs and research.
Our institution has carefully integrated on-campus edu-
cation with distance learning, forming seamless avenues
for students to earn degrees.
Flagstaﬀ has a population of about 62,000, rich in cul-
tural diversity. Located at the base of the majestic San
Francisco Peaks, Flagstaﬀ is 140 miles north of Phoenix
at intersection of Interstate 17 and Interstate 40.
The Bioinformatics position described here is inherently
interdisciplinary in nature, spanning the departments
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Chem-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 53
istry, and Biological Sciences, all of which are housed in
the College of Engineering, Forestry, and Natural Sci-
ences. NAU has a strong history of dedication to un-
dergraduate education, with graduate degrees oﬀered
in selected ﬁelds, including a doctoral program in Biol-
ogy, and Masters and Masters of Engineering programs
in Chemistry and Computer Science, respectively.
To apply, send: (1) a cover letter highlighting your par-
ticular qualiﬁcations for this position; (2) a curriculum
vitae; and (3) names and contact information for three
references, to: Dr. Eck Doerry, BioInformatics Search
Committee Chair, Box 4073 MGEN, Northern Arizona
University, Flagstaﬀ, AZ 86011-5600. Only complete
application packets sent in hardcopy to this address will
be reviewed.
The search will remain open until the position is ﬁlled
or closed; however, the screening committee will begin
reviewing applications on February 28, 2011.
NAU is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Em-
ployer and is responsive to the needs of dual-career cou-
ples. We are committed to a diverse faculty and specif-
ically seek individuals supportive of the multicultural
needs of Northern Arizona University and the surround-
ing area. Minorities, women, veterans and persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Please see http://-
www.cefns.nau.edu/ for further information about the
college, NAU or the Flagstaﬀ area.
–
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
RhodesU SystematicEntomology
Senior Lecturer/Lecturer: Systematic or evolutionary
entomology
Recognising that diversity is important in achieving
excellence, Rhodes University especially encourages
South African members of designated groups to apply.
Responsibilities will include teaching at an Honours,
and all undergraduate levels, with signiﬁcant contribu-
tions to evolutionary biology (including some genetics)
and entomology. The successful candidate is expected
to carry out postgraduate supervision within the de-partment, take on some departmental administration,
and develop a strong research programme.
To apply, please email your completed application form,
accompanied by a substantial letter of motivation, cur-
riculum vitae, academic transcripts and copies of certiﬁ-
cates to: jobs- yellow@ru.ac.za Or you can post your ap-
plication to: Recruitment & Selection Section, Rhodes
University, P O Box 94, Grahamstown, 6140. For more
information please contact 046 603 7265.
It is essential that prospective candidates read the fur-
ther particulars relating to this post and University and
that all relevant documentation is submitted. Failure
to submit such documentation will result in an appli-
cation not being considered.
For more information about the Department of Zoology
and Entomology, kindly visit their website on: http:/-
/www.ru.ac.za/zoologyandentomology/ Closing Date:
12h00, 28 February 2011
–
/~~~–~\Martin H. Villet \\\/ Dept of Zoology &
Entomology |/ Rhodes University \*/ Grahamstown,
South Africa 6140
Email: M.Villet@ru.ac.za Tel +27 [0]46 603 8527 FAX:
+27 [0]46 622 4377 Editorial board, Psyche - http:/-
/www.hindawi.com/journals/psyche/ Editorial board,
Open Forensic Science Journal
Martin <M.Villet@ru.ac.za >
UAuckland ComputationalEvolution
The University of Auckland is looking for a top aca-
demic to join its diverse and internationally renowned
Department of Computer Science. The successful ap-
pointee will have a PhD, demonstrated excellence in
research, and a commitment to high quality research-
informed teaching.
The Department is interested in candidates in the area
of design and application of statistical models and com-
putational methods to tackle problems in computa-
tional biology using genomic data. The successful can-
didate is expected to develop her/his own independent
research program, but would also be expected to work
with existing faculty members including Associate Pro-
fessor Alexei Drummond and Dr Stephane Guindon,
who are both lead authors of popular software pack-
ages in the ﬁeld of computational evolution, BEAST54 EvolDir March 1, 2011
and PhyML, which are being developed at the Univer-
sity of Auckland.
The appointee will also be expected to teach at un-
dergraduate and postgraduate levels in their specialist
area, at introductory levels more widely, and to engage
in research and publication both personally and by the
supervision of research students.
The appointment will be made at Lecturer level. This
is a 5-year ﬁxed term, full time position based on the
University of Auckland’s city campus
For further information please contact Professor
Gill Dobbie, Head of Department of Computer
Science on +64-9-3737 599 ext 83949 or email
g.dobbie@auckland.ac.nz For further informa-
tion about the Department please visit http://-
www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/ . For the oﬃcial job advertise-
ment, please visit http://www.auckland.ac.nz/uoa/-
home/about/opportunities/ (Job ID: 12789)
– Stephane Guindon Department of Statistics Uni-
versity of Auckland http://www.stat.auckland.ac.nz
s.guindon@auckland.ac.nz
UBern FieldAssist BirdEvolution 4
Field assistants in evolutionary ecology of Great tits
(Parus major)
We are seeking highly motivated ﬁeld assistants inter-
ested in taking part in ﬁeld studies in Bern, Switzer-
land. Applicants will be part of the evolutionary ecol-
ogy team (Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Univer-
sity of Bern).
Our projects aim to investigate: - Interactions of par-
asite and predator-induced maternal eﬀects; - The ex-
pression of carotenoids and sexual signals. and are all
based in Bern (Switzerland)
We will require ﬁeld assistants that will help with all
the aspects of the work, including checking nests, ring-
ing the birds, catching adults, performing treatments,
and more. Applicants with a Msc in Biology/Ecology
and/or with bird handling or ﬁeld experience would
have an advantage. Motivation will play a key role;
the work is hard and demanding, takes place in chang-
ing weather and requires long hours at times. One of
the studies will start around the 15 of March 2011 until
the end of June 2011 and the other ones in the end of
March/beginning of April until the end of June. FluentEnglish, French or Italian speaking and a valid Euro-
pean driving license are required.
Travel expenses will be paid and accomodation will be
covered; additionally, the ﬁeld assistants will receive
another salary per month to cover the expenses.
Applicants can send us a letter + CV as soon as possible
and ask for further details or questions on the following
email addresses:
Alessandra Basso Institute of Ecology and Evolution
University of Bern Baltzerstr. 6 3012 Bern E mail:
ale84. basso@tiscali.it Phone: +41 31 631 30 18 Mobile:
+41 78 696 11 19
Viviana Marri E mail: viviana.marri@iee.unibe.ch
Phone: +41 31 631 30 18 Mobile: +41 76 798 33 81
Lea Maronde E mail: leamaronde@gmx.de
Phone: +41 31 631 30 20 Mobile: +41 78 798 20 06
“ale84.basso@tiscali.it” <ale84.basso@tiscali.it >
UCincinnati CaveﬁshEvolution
Jr. Research Associate (210UC2195) Caveﬁsh Evolu-
tionary Genetics/Genomics.
A full-time technician is available starting this Winter
Quarter, 2011, in the laboratory of Dr. Josh Gross, in
the Department of Biological Sciences, at the Univer-
sity of Cincinnati. Dr. Gross’s lab studies the evolution
of regressive and constructive changes in blind Mexican
caveﬁsh. Duties will include working at UC’s Uptown
Campus in Cincinnati, OH. For beneﬁts eligibility, a
one-year commitment is required. Preference will be
given to a candidate who can commit to a second year.
The technician will be responsible for basic lab mainte-
nance, monitoring and maintenance of a ﬁsh husbandry
room, and performing molecular genetic, phenotypic,
and statistical analyses. While experience with quan-
titative trait locus (QTL) analysis and linkage map-
ping is not required, a willingness to learn such tech-
niques and train others is necessary. Experience with
basic molecular techniques, such as DNA/RNA isola-
tion, PCR, cloning, as well as basic microscopy, are
required.
The candidate should have a BA or BS in biol-
ogy, genetics, molecular biology, or a related degree,
have previous experience performing independent re-
search, the ability to work well in a group envi-
ronment, and a willingness to supervise undergradu-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 55
ates. The position is ideal for a highly motivated
person interested in gaining ﬁeld and laboratory skills
prior to starting graduate school or other work in
the life sciences. Salary is commensurate with expe-
rience. If you should have any questions about this
position, please feel free to email Dr. Josh Gross
at joshua.gross@uc.edu. In order to apply, go to:
<https://www.jobsatuc.com/applicants/jsp/shared/-
frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=1297278562351 >. The
position number is 210UC2195.
grossja@ucmail.uc.edu
UGeorgia ResTech InvasivePlants
A research professional with previous experience in
molecular biology techniques is need to help perform
research on the impacts of an invasive plant on na-
tive plants and soil microbial communities at the Uni-
versity of Georgia, in Athens, GA. This NSF funded
project seeks to understand how native plants and gar-
lic mustard have evolved in response to one another
over the course of this 150 year old invasion, and the
role that soil microbes (especially mycorrhizal fungi)
have played in this interaction. This technician will be
responsible for performing and overseeing laboratory
and greenhouse research on plant-soil microbe inter-
actions. In the laboratory, this will entail extracting
and purifying DNA from soil and root samples, am-
plifying speciﬁc gene regions with PCR, and prepar-
ing products for analysis by core facilities. Labora-
tory work may also require clearing and staining root
samples and quantifying fungal infection under micro-
scopes. In the greenhouse, the technician will help
with propagating native and invasive plants from seeds,
and in establishing and maintaining greenhouse exper-
iments. Some ﬁeld work in nearby locations may be
required, but will not be the primary focus of this po-
sition. Finally, the technician will be responsible for
maintaining a functional lab by keeping stock of sup-
plies and ordering when necessary, will ensure that data
are properly recorded and backed-up, and will help su-
pervise undergraduate assistants. Eduction and ex-
perience required: Master’s degree or equivalent ex-
perience, including experience with DNA extraction,
PCR ampliﬁcation, gel electrophoresis, sequence anal-
ysis, plant propagation Preference will be given to ap-
plicants with experience in ecological, evolutionary, or
agricultural research with plant systems, and/or those
with experience in microbiology, fungal culture, mycor-rhizal techniques, or next- generation sequencing (esp.
454 pyrosequencing). Salary range: $30-35,000/year
for up to 3 years. To apply, please submit a cover
letter and CV/resume to: http://www.hr.uga.edu/-
recruitment/employment/hire app.html Please email
me at ralankau@uga.edu with any questions. Sincerely,
Richard Lankau
Assistant Professor Department of Plant Biology Uni-
versity of Georgia
ralankau@gmail.com
UHull EvolutionaryBiol
We would welcome applications from all types of evo-
lutionary biologist, to join Hull’s strong, diverse and
international Evolutionary Biology Group. You do not
have to be primarily a ’zoologist’, just to be prepared
to contribute to the teaching of the zoology degree pro-
gramme. The oﬃcial advert is below. Closing Date: 17
February 2011 Dave
Lecturer in Biological Sciences University of Hull - De-
partment of Biological Sciences
We seek to appoint a Functional Ecolo-
gist/Evolutionary Biologist (with expertise in Zoology)
ready to make a contribution to the high quality
research and research led teaching which characterizes
our department.
The Department of Biological Sciences has an inter-
national reputation for research in areas of Functional
Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Environmental Manage-
ment and Biomedical Science. It has an excellent rep-
utation for research led teaching and learning.
Currently the department has strengths in a number
of interrelated areas of organismal, evolutionary and
molecular biology and in experimental ecology in both
terrestrial and aquatic environments. Current research
includes microbial functional ecology, eco-toxicology,
chemical ecology, ecosystem services, and physiological,
behavioural and evolutionary studies.
The successful applicant will be an experienced re-
searcher with a strong publication record in an area
which will strengthen the Department1s submission to
the UK Research Excellence Framework (REF) specif-
ically in the areas of evolutionary biology and/or func-
tional ecology. They will have a proven ability of pub-
lishing international quality research and attracting in-56 EvolDir March 1, 2011
dependent research funding as well as a strong desire to
contribute to the teaching of zoology in the department.
To discuss this role informally, please contact Dr Gra-
ham Scott on 01482 466424 or email: g.scott@hull.ac.uk
For information about the Department of Biological
Sciences visit www.hull.ac.uk/biological sciences For
the application procedure: http://www.jobs.ac.uk/-
job/ACD571/lecturer-in-biological-sciences Closing
Date: 17 February 2011
Dr Dave Lunt Evolutionary Biology Group Department
of Biological Sciences University of Hull Hull HU6 7RX
UK
d.h.lunt@hull.ac.uk +44 (0)1482 465514 http:/-
/www.hull.ac.uk/biosci http://davelunt.net
D.H.Lunt@hull.ac.uk
UKansas ResTech
PhenotypicVariation
An NIH-funded Research Technician position is avail-
able in Stuart Macdonald’s lab in the Department of
Molecular Biosciences at the University of Kansas. The
Macdonald lab explores the genetic basis of complex
phenotypic variation within and between species using
Drosophila as a model system. We seek an enthusi-
astic individual to supervise and carry out large-scale
genetics/genomics projects, and to oversee various lab
activities. The responsibilities of the technician will in-
clude maintaining and using a large panel of Drosophila
strains, and helping with quantitative genetic experi-
ments. The successful candidate should be motivated,
organized, and careful, and should have excellent oral
and written communication skills. Salary will be com-
mensurate with experience and will include beneﬁts.
Required qualiﬁcations are a Bachelors degree in bi-
ology or a related ﬁeld, and demonstrable experience
conducting research in a (broadly-deﬁned) genetics or
molecular biology laboratory. Preference will be given
to candidates with signiﬁcant experience in the labora-
tory (including troubleshooting and optimizing proto-
cols). Prior experience with Drosophila is not essential,
but would be an asset.
The position is open and review of applications will be-
gin on Feb 15 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Informal inquires are welcome and can be directed to
Stuart Macdonald (sjmac@ku.edu). To apply, complete
an online application at https://jobs.ku.edu (positionnumber 00207629). Attach a cover letter (describing
your interest in the position and any relevant exper-
tise), a full CV, and complete contact information for
3 referees. EO/AA Employer.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Department of Molecular
Biosciences 4043 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
University of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
oﬃce: 785-864-5362 lab: 785-864-5777 fax: 785-864-
5321 email: sjmac@ku.edu web: http://web.ku.edu/-
sjmac/ sjmac@ku.edu
ULondon MolecularEvolution
Senior Lecturer / Reader in Molecular Ecology and
Evolution School of Biological Sciences Royal Holloway,
University of London, UK
Applications are invited for the above post, to com-
mence by 1 September 2011. The position is for a
Senior Lecturer or Reader (roughly equivalent to an
American Associate Professor), and we are therefore
seeking an individual with an excellent research record.
Royal Holloway has established a reputation for innova-
tive research in ecology and evolutionary biology, and
the successful candidate will complement existing ac-
tivities, especially in the areas of evolutionary ecology,
ecological genetics, macroecology, systems biology and
molecular phylogenetics.
Informal enquiries are welcome to the Head of
School, Professor Peter Bramley (+44 1784 443555;
p.bramley@rhul.ac.uk), the Director of Research,
Professor Vincent Jansen (+44 1784 443179; vin-
cent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk ) or the Head of Ecology, Evo-
lution and Behaviour, Dr Ian Barnes (+44 1784 443652;
ian.barnes@rhul.ac.uk).
Further details about the position and the department,
and an application form, are available to download at
http://www.rhul.ac.uk/jobs/home.aspx . The closing
date for applications is 12 noon, 14th March and we
will be holding interviews on the 29th March.
Ian.Barnes@rhul.ac.uk
UMarseille EvolutionaryBiolMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 57
A Professor position is open in 2011 for the EBM lab
Research proﬁle:
The candidate will be a theoretical biologist, with re-
search experience in one or more of the following areas:
Population genetics, Evolutionary Biology, Phylogeny,
Comparative genomics and Post genomics.
The successful candidate will be encouraged to develop
its own research project and to interact with biologists,
mathematicians, and informaticians, of the EBM team.
Education Proﬁle:
The candidate will teach :
Population Genetics, Comparative genomics and post
genomic at master and bachelor level.
the CV and other ﬁles should be load at
A Professor position is open in 2011 for the EBM lab
Research proﬁle:
The candidate will be a theoretical biologist, with re-
search experience in one or more of the following areas:
Population genetics, Evolutionary Biology, Phylogeny,
Comparative genomics and Post genomics.
The successful candidate will be encouraged to develop
its own research project and to interact with biologists,
mathematicians, and informaticians, of the EBM team.
teaching Proﬁle:
The candidate will teach :
Population Genetics, Comparative genomics and post
genomic at master and bachelor level.
the necessary ﬁles can be loaded between the 02/24 to
the 03/24 at the following adress
https://www.galaxie.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/ensup/candidats.html Pierre
Antoine Pontarotti
UMR 6632 Universit´ e de Aix Marseille/CNRS . http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol/
USDA WashingtonDC
ParasiteEvolution
The Animal and Natural Resources Institute, Agricul-
tural Research Service, USDA is looking for a Research
Leader for the Animal Parasitic Diseases Laboratory.The incumbent serves as a member of the management
team, providing research coordination and administra-
tive leadership to a scientiﬁcally diverse staﬀ.
The incumbent serves as the Research Leader in the
Animal Parasitic Diseases Laboratory (APDL), Animal
and Natural Resources Institute, Beltsville, MD. As the
Research Leader in APDL, the incumbent is respon-
sible for directing multidisciplinary and multi-faceted
research programs that address animal and zoonotic
parasitic diseases problems. The research program en-
compasses eight research projects with total funding
of $6.9 million per year and nearly $1 million of ad-
ditional funds through grants and CRADAs. The in-
cumbent provides scientiﬁc leadership as well as coor-
dinates interactions between ARS scientists and fed-
eral and state agencies, universities, and foreign institu-
tions. The incumbent’s personal research is directed at
population genetics, phylogeography and molecular sys-
tematics related to exploring the development and dis-
semination of drug resistance by nematode parasites in
ungulates while contributing to a broader understand-
ing of population structure and diversity among animal
and zoonotic parasites.
Major research objectives related to ruminants and
helminths are to: (1) explore ﬁne scale population
structure based on appropriate mitochondrial and nu-
clear markers for economically important gastrointesti-
nal and other nematodes in ruminants; (2) explore the
distribution and dissemination of the genes that de-
ﬁne multi-spectrum drug resistance in nematode pop-
ulations; (3) contribute to deﬁning diversity (genetic
and genealogical) for nematode faunas in domestic and
wild ungulates. Classic methods related to animal sam-
pling and epidemiology will be used to obtain suﬃcient
sample numbers and with ample geographical distribu-
tion for proper analysis. It is expected that molecu-
lar techniques such as PCR and DNA sequencing will
be used to process and genetically deﬁne the samples.
These and other molecular techniques will be applied
to existing as well as user developed protocols which
may utilize pre-deﬁned genetic markers or require de-
veloping new genetic markers for genus, species and/or
isolate identiﬁcation. Demonstrated expertise working
with currently available as well as user modiﬁed com-
puter programs which compile and statistically evaluate
the data will be required to achieve research goals.
The position is located in the vicinity of Washington,
D.C. (in nearby Beltsville, Maryland)
The full announcement may be found here:
http://snipurl.com/1ykuhw Applications accepted
through March 4, 201158 EvolDir March 1, 2011
“Rosenthal, Benjamin”
<Benjamin.Rosenthal@ARS.USDA.GOV >
USheﬃeld ResAssoc
BehaviouralEvolution
Research Associate in Computational Complexity and
Behavioural Evolution University of Sheﬃeld, UK Du-
ration: 18-months with potential for extension Dead-
line: 25th March 2011
This post will develop novel approaches to understand-
ing the evolution of animal behaviour, by applying com-
putational complexity and information theoretic ap-
proaches to the analysis of mechanisms for implement-
ing animal behaviour. The classic approach to under-
standing behavioural evolution is in terms of models of
optimal behaviour. Optimality theory is invaluable as
a benchmark to assess a given behaviour or behavioural
model against, but typically requires unrealistic limita-
tions on the behaviour under consideration, and hence
results in ’complex models for simple environments’ [2].
However, real animals inhabit complex environments,
and use simple rules of thumb to deal with them [1].
There is clearly a trade-oﬀ between the marginal ﬁt-
ness gain from having a more and more complex be-
havioural model for an environment, and the ﬁtness
costs of the additional resources required for imple-
menting that model. To date, the approach to un-
derstanding this trade-oﬀ has been somewhat heuris-
tic. This project will seek to apply computational com-
plexity theory and information theory in an attempt to
gain a more quantitative understanding of the trade- oﬀ
between behavioural complexity and behavioural opti-
mality. It is expected that the successful candidate will
quickly take a lead in developing a research programme
and securing funding to continue it. Researchers who
have demonstrated an ability to direct their own re-
search programme, whether during doctoral studies or
subsequently, are therefore particularly encouraged to
apply. We particularly welcome applications from the-
oretical computer scientists, theoretical physicists, and
mathematicians. A demonstrated interest in biology
would be an advantage. The successful candidate will
become part of the newly established Behavioural and
Evolutionary Theory Lab at the University of Sheﬃeld,
Department of Computer Science, under the directionof
Dr James Marshall ( http://staﬀwww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/-
people/J.Marshall/ ). It is anticipated that there will
be opportunities for interaction with the Modelling An-imal Decisions research group directed by Professors
Alasdair Houston and John McNamara (Mathematics)
at the University of Bristol ( http://www.bristol.ac.uk/-
biology/research/behaviour/mad/ ).
References — [1] Gigerenzer, G., Todd, P.M. et al.
(1999) Simple Heuristics that Make Us Smart. Ox-
ford University Press. [2] McNamara, J.M and Hous-
ton, A.I. (2009) Integrating function and mechanism.
Trends in Ecology and Evolution 24, 670-675.
For access to the full job advert, visit http://-
staﬀwww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/people/J.Marshall/lab/-
Join Us.html — James A. R. Marshall Department
of Computer Science University of Sheﬃeld http:/-
/staﬀwww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/people/J.Marshall/ James
Marshall <James.Marshall@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
UWisconsin ClimateAdaptation
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR–CLIMATE CHANGE &
NATURAL RESOURCES
The Department of Forest and Wildlife Ecology, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison announces an Assistant
Professor position in the area in climate change research
(including evolutionary responses). Focus is on impacts
of climate change on wild birds and/or mammals and
their habitats and the adaptive management of natural
resource systems emphasizing climate change impacts.
9 month tenure-track academic position–75% Re-
search/25% Teaching
This position will emphasize climate change mitigation
and adaptation in the adaptive management of com-
plex ecological systems. Focus on natural resource sys-
tems in the region and their resident mammals and
birds. The successful candidate will be expected to
work closely with natural resource agencies and other
groups involved in climate change research and re-
sponse.
In addition to developing an externally-funded research
program, the successful candidate will be expected to
teach 1 new undergraduate course on climate change
impacts and response. Additional responsibilities in-
clude participation in faculty-led graduate seminars in-
cluding those related to her/his area of expertise, men-
toring graduate students (masters and doctoral level)
and post- doctoral researchers.
Degree and area of specialization:March 1, 2011 EvolDir 59
Earned Ph.D. prior to appointment in a topic consistent
with impacts of climate change on wildlife and forests
and the adaptive management of climate change im-
pacts on natural resource systems. Relevant disciplines
could include (but are not limited to) wildlife ecology,
forestry, natural resources, climate science, decision sci-
ences/ decision analysis and/or applied decision meth-
ods, etc. We will consider candidates from the social
and biological sciences, and those who bridge the two.
Applicants must be eligible to work in the USA and pos-
sess excellent English-language communication skills.
Minimum number of years and type of relevant work
experience:
Post-Ph.D. research and teaching experience is desir-
able but not essential. Preference will be given to candi-
dates that present evidence of excellent teaching skills,
a record of publishing in peer- reviewed journals, suc-
cess attracting extramural funding.
To apply: to ensure full consideration, please apply by
March 7, 2011. Submit in a single PDF ﬁle a cover
letter, CV, statements of research and teaching (not to
exceed two pages each) and the names of your three
references. Please have the 3 letters of recommenda-
tion sent directly to Laurie Ballentine via email ls-
ballen@wisc.edu or FAX (608-262-9922)
Please name your application ﬁle Climate-
Change YourLastName.pdf and Email it to Laurie
Ballentine, lsballen@wisc.edu with a subject line:
Climate Change Position.
Queries should be directed to Professor Scott Craven,
Chair, Search Committee srcraven@wisc.edu (608 263-
6325)
carollee@wisc.edu
UWisconsin Madison
PopGenQuantGenEvolGen
Tenure tracks FACULTY POSITIONS in Population,
Quantitative, Computational, and/or Evolutionary Ge-
netics, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, UNI-
VERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MADISON
The College of Agricultural and Life Sciences at the
University of Wisconsin (UW) Madison has long been
a world leader in experimental and theoretical popu-
lation and quantitative genetics. To continue to build
strength in these areas, we seek to hire two tenuretrackassistant professors in the areas of population, quan-
titative, computational, and/or evolutionary genetics.
Candidates for these positions will be considered in
three broad research areas:
Integration of population genetics and genomescale ap-
proaches to elucidate evolutionary mechanisms within
and between populations
Quantitative genetics of economically important ani-
mals or crops
Integration of experimental, computational, and/or
theoretical approaches to population and quantitative
genetics
In addition, the successful candidates will help to pro-
mote a deeper and more profound understanding of
population, quantitative and evolutionary genetics in
UW undergraduate and graduate students. Faculty
members hired through the initiative will be expected
to spend part of their teaching eﬀorts in courses that
serve departmental needs and part of their eﬀorts in
courses that serve a broader collegewide and cam-
puswide community.
Areas of interest include experimental and theoreti-
cal research that draw fundamental insights into the
connections between molecular function and genetic
variation, experimental evolution, ecological genetics,
and research that addresses emerging issues in human
health, ecology, natural resources or food security; and
quantitative and computational approaches that foster
genetic improvement of agriculturally important ani-
mals or crops. Four departments have worked collabo-
ratively to outline the vision and needs for the initiative:
Agronomy, Animal Sciences, Entomology, and Genet-
ics. Each faculty position will be located in one of these
four departments.
The successful candidates will be capable of develop-
ing a strong, independent, extramurallyfunded research
program; developing an innovative undergraduate and
graduate teaching program; building collaborative re-
lationships in research and instructional programs; and
contributing to service and outreach functions of the
Department, College, University and professional so-
cieties. Earned doctorate with expertise in popula-
tion, quantitative, computational, and/or evolution-
ary genetics is required. Postdoctoral experience is
highly desirable. Interested individuals are welcome
and encouraged to contact Professor Irwin Goldman
directly by phone at (608) 2627781 or by email at ilgo-
ldma@wisc.edu to discuss this position opportunity.
HOW TO APPLY: Send CV, a 12 page statement of
research interests and plans, a statement of teaching
philosophy, and arrange to have three letters of refer-60 EvolDir March 1, 2011
ence sent to Dr. Irwin Goldman, pvl66521, by mail to
CALS/UWMadison, 240 Agricultural Hall, 1450 Lin-
den Drive, Madison, WI 53706 OR electronically to
pvl66521@cals.wisc.edu.
Applicants can ﬁnd further information on the Evo-
lution Institute web site at www.evolution.wisc.edu
or each of the four departmental websites: Agron-
omy: http://agronomy.wisc.edu/ Animal Sciences:
http://www.ansci.wisc.edu/ Entomology: http:/-
/www.entomology.wisc.edu/ Genetics: http://-
www.genetics.wisc.edu/ Applicants furnishing all
materials by March 31, 2011 will receive priority in
consideration.
NOTE: Unless conﬁdentiality is requested in writing,
information regarding the names of applicants must be
released upon request. Finalists cannot be guaranteed
conﬁdentiality. The College of Agricultural and Life
Sciences views recruiting women and minority faculty
members as central to its strategic goals. The Univer-
sity of Wisconsin is an Equal Opportunity and Aﬃr-
mative Action Employer.
jbrunet@wisc.edu
UWisconsin Madison
PopulationGenetics
TENURE-TRACK Faculty Positions in POPULA-
TION, QUANTITATIVE, COMPUTATIONAL,
and/or EVOLUTIONARY GENETICS, College of
Agricultural and Life Sciences, UNIVERSITY of
WISCONSIN-MADISON
The College of Agricultural and Life Sciences at the
University of Wisconsin (UW) -Madison has long been
a world leader in experimental and theoretical popu-
lation and quantitative genetics. To continue to build
strength in these areas, we seek to hire two tenure-track
assistant professors in the areas of population, quanti-
tative, computational, and/or evolutionary genetics.
Candidates for these positions will be considered in
three broad research areas:
Integration of population genetics and genome-scale ap-
proaches to elucidate evolutionary mechanisms within
and between populations
Quantitative genetics of economically important ani-
mals or crops
Integration of experimental, computational, and/ortheoretical approaches to population and quantitative
genetics
In addition, the successful candidates will help to pro-
mote a deeper and more profound understanding of
population, quantitative and evolutionary genetics in
UW undergraduate and graduate students. Faculty
members hired through the initiative will be expected
to spend part of their teaching eﬀorts in courses that
serve departmental needs and part of their eﬀorts in
courses that serve a broader college-wide and campus-
wide community.
Areas of interest include experimental and theoreti-
cal research that draw fundamental insights into the
connections between molecular function and genetic
variation, experimental evolution, ecological genetics,
and research that addresses emerging issues in human
health, ecology, natural resources or food security; and
quantitative and computational approaches that foster
genetic improvement of agriculturally important ani-
mals or crops. Four departments have worked collabo-
ratively to outline the vision and needs for the initiative:
Agronomy, Animal Sciences, Entomology, and Genet-
ics. Each faculty position will be located in one of these
four departments.
The successful candidates will be capable of devel-
oping a strong, independent, extramurally-funded re-
search program; developing an innovative undergradu-
ate and graduate teaching program; building collabo-
rative relationships in research and instructional pro-
grams; and contributing to service and outreach func-
tions of the Department, College, University and pro-
fessional societies. Earned doctorate with expertise in
population, quantitative, computational, and/or evolu-
tionary genetics is required. Postdoctoral experience
is highly desirable. Interested individuals are welcome
and encouraged to contact Professor Irwin Goldman
directly by phone at (608) 262-7781 or by email at il-
goldma@wisc.edu to discuss this position opportunity.
HOW TO APPLY: Send CV, a 1-2 page statement of
research interests and plans, a statement of teaching
philosophy, and arrange to have three letters of refer-
ence sent to Dr. Irwin Goldman, pvl66521, by mail to
CALS/UW-Madison, 240 Agricultural Hall, 1450 Lin-
den Drive, Madison, WI 53706 OR electronically to
pvl66521@cals.wisc.edu.
Applicants can ﬁnd further information on the Evo-
lution Institute web site at www.evolution.wisc.edu or
each of the four departmental websites:
Agronomy: http://agronomy.wisc.edu/ Animal Sci-
ences: http://www.ansci.wisc.edu/ Entomology:
http://www.entomology.wisc.edu/ Genetics: http:/-
/www.genetics.wisc.edu/ Applicants furnishing allMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 61
materials by March 31, 2011 will receive priority in
consideration.
NOTE: Unless conﬁdentiality is requested in writing,
information regarding the names of applicants must be
released upon request. Finalists cannot be guaranteed
conﬁdentiality.
The College of Agricultural and Life Sciences views re-
cruiting women and minority faculty members as cen-
tral to its strategic goals. The University of Wisconsin
is an Equal Opportunity and Aﬃrmative Action Em-
ployer.
jbrunet@wisc.edu
UWyoming WildlifeConservation
Assistant Unit Leader-Wildlife |U.S. Geological Sur-
vey|Wyoming Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research
Unit|Department of Zoology and Physiology |Univer-
sity of Wyoming
Salary: $71,901 - $93,470
Closing: 02 March, 2011
Responsibilities: Conduct innovative research on the
ecology, conservation and management of terrestrial
non-game wildlife species in the Great Plains and Rocky
Mountain region; address research needs of state and
federal resource management agencies, especially the
Wyoming Game and Fish Department; participate as
faculty in the Department of Zoology and Physiology.
Qualiﬁcations: Education: PhD in wildlife science,
ecology, zoology, conservation biology, or related ﬁeld.
Experience: Postdoctoral, agency, or faculty researchexperience in wildlife management, animal ecology, or
conservation biology. Other: Record of publishing in
the peer-reviewed literature; interest in building a re-
search program that integrates basic and applied as-
pects of non-game wildlife species; record of obtaining
research funding; ability to develop research program
involving academic and agency collaborators.
The University and Laramie: The Zoology and Physiol-
ogy Department has a vibrant group of researchers fo-
cused on ﬁsh, wildlife, and ecology. The department has
65 graduate students, making it one of the largest and
most productive departments at the University (total
enrollment is ˆ a 11,000). Several outstanding outdoor
laboratories are available in Wyoming, including the
Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem and numerous moun-
tain and plains systems. Field and laboratory facilities
oﬀ campus include the Red Buttes Environmental Labs
(captive animal facilities) and the UW-NPS AMK Field
Station located at the base of the Tetons on the shore
of Jackson Lake. Laramie, Wyoming is a small uni-
versity town of approximately 27,000, nestled between
the Laramie Range to the east and the Snowy Range
to the west. On the high plains at 7,200 ft elevation
within the Rocky Mountain region, Laramie’s neigh-
boring mountains and plains provide numerous oppor-
tunities for hiking, skiing, biking, hunting and ﬁshing
and a high quality of life.
Apply: http://www.usajobs.gov Announcement: ATL-
2011-0321
Contact: Dr. Matthew Kauﬀman mkauﬀm1@uwyo.edu
Matt Carling Asst. Professor Department of Zoology
& Physiology Berry Biodiversity Conservation Center
University of Wyoming
www.uwyo.edu/carlinglab (p) 307.766.6169
mcarling@uwyo.edu
Other
AlgonquinPark VolFieldAssist PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . 62
AncientDNA from MuseumBirds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
AncientDNA from MuseumBirds answers . . . . . . . . . . 62Expected Heterozygosity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
FIS calculation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Himalayan ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6462 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Honduran FrogPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Hudson paper request . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
IJEB issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Large mirrored trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Malaysia VolFieldAssist WaspBehaviourEvolution . 65
Migrate 3 0 query . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
MillionTaxa DistanceTree . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
MillionTaxa DistanceTree answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
NESCent seeks Hackathon Whitepapers . . . . . . . . . . . 67
NSF EvoDevoNetwork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Problematic Barcode datasets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68Queensland VolFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
RockyMountains VolFieldAssist SquirrelEvolution . 69
Software MetaPIGA2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Software RAxML-Lightv1 0 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Spittlebug samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
SSB ErnstMayrAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
SSB GradStudResearchAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
StKilda Volunteer MousePopulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Sweden FieldAssist BirdEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
AlgonquinPark VolFieldAssist
PlantEvol
We are seeking a volunteer ﬁeld assistant for work be-
ing conducted in Algonquin Park (Ontario, Canada)
this summer. We are looking for an individual who can
commit to a minimum of two weeks in the ﬁeld anytime
between mid-July and the end of August.
The conditions are quite rugged. We camp in the in-
terior of the park. This is not a campground. There
are no facilities, meaning there is: 1.no running wa-
ter, other than the river, 2. no indoor plumbing, 3.
no electricity, 4.no cell phone reception. All necessary
camping gear and food will be provided.
The study is of a population of ﬂowering plants that
grows along the shores of the Petawawa river. Gener-
ally, we are interested in the reproductive biology, and
evolution of mating systems in ﬂowering plants. Indi-
viduals with an interest in evolutionary biology, and
speciﬁcally plant mating system evolution will be pre-
ferred.
Interested applicants should contact Maggie at
mbartkow@dal.ca
– Magdalena Bartkowska, M.Sc. Biology Department
Dalhousie University phone:494-8005
Magdalena Bartkowska <MBARTKOW@dal.ca >
AncientDNA from MuseumBirds
Dear EvoLDir Members:I am going to start with ancient DNA analysis of gal-
liforms resident in museums and aged between 50 and
150 years. We are going to loan classic toe pads from
mounted birds or skins. As beginner in the ﬁeld (I had
just past experience in collaboration with Spanish and
US colleagues that have done this work in their labs),
I would like to receive some feedback about the use of
commercial DNA extraction kits. Especially given my
samples are from not so ancient specimens, after having
read many literature records, I feel that commercial kit
such as Promega DNA IQ (or others similar to) could
work well.
Is there anyone who has successfully employed DNA IQ
kit on toe pads from stuﬀed birds ?
All suggestions are really welcomed
Thanks
Filippo Barbanera Department of Biology Via A. Volta,
6 I - 56126 Pisa (PI) Italy
Filippo Barbanera <fbarbanera@biologia.unipi.it >
AncientDNA from MuseumBirds
answers
ANSWERS
USEFUL PAPERS LISTED AT THE END
(1) Here is a paper about turkey DNA, some of the
samples used were toe clippings. you should email Dr.
Camilla Speller for more questions, she did the research.
I am sure she can help you with this. her email is:
(2) We extracted DNA from foot pad tissue by using a
traditional Proteinase K digest, followed by a PureGene
protocol, but any other protocol for ProtK and tissue
sampels should work well. Before the procedure startsMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 63
you should let the tissue soak for 1-2 days in the ProtK
buﬀer (ProtK added). Then do a few cycles of freezing
+thawing the tissue with the buﬀer in liquid nitrogen
to break cell walls (say, 10 times or so). Then probably
a few more days with ProtK and the tissues will dis-
solve (add ProtK newly after every night or so.). We
will soon submit a manuscript in which that method is
used, please let us know if you want to try it out.
Robert H. S. KRAUS PhD student Resource Ecology
Group Wageningen University, The Netherlands Email
robert.kraus@wur.nl
(3) Have a look at the papers by Giri Athrey; he
did the same kind of work very recently. His email:
giri.athrey@tamu.edu
Eric Pante Department of Biology University of
Louisiana at Lafayette P.O. Box 42451, Lafayette,
LA 70504 Lab: (337) 482-6494 Web: www.ull.edu/-
˜ egp0628 (4) I haven’t worked on birds, but I have
extracted DNA from equivalent age mouse specimens,
using the Qiagen Blood and Tissue DNA kits. Iused
pretty much the standard protocol, leaving the tissue
to lyse overnight in the proteinase K (rather than the
minimum 3 hrs) and, to get more concentrated DNA
at the end, eluted the sample with half the amount of
elution buﬀer. Obviously, contamination is potentially
a huge problem to be aware of.
Good luck,
Eleanor eleanor.jones@ebc.uu.se
(5) I haven’t used the kit you are asking about, but I
have had success with the Chargeswitch Forensic DNA
Putiﬁcation Kit from Invitrogen and with the DNeasy
Tissue kit from Qiagen (see attached paper). Incuba-
tions with prot K were overnight. Note that I rehy-
drated the samples ﬁrst, this makes it a lot easier to
cut them up into very small pieces.
Sanne Boessenkool Postdoctoral Researcher NCB -
National Centre for Biosystematics Natural History
Museum University of Oslo P.O. Box 1172 Blindern
NO-0318 Oslo, Norway Visiting address: Sars’ gate
1, T ˜Ayen Phone: +47 22851777 www.nhm.uio.no/-
forskning-samlinger/forskning/forskningsgrupper/-
ncb/ (6) What kind of markers do you intend to
use? We have used similar samples for SNPs and the
Puregene DNA isolation kit worked ﬁne, although I
advise you to test on the fragment length and amount
of DNA always and assume that half of your samples
may have been degraded too much.
Rudy Jonker M.Sc. Ph.D. Candidate Resource Ecology
Group Wageningen University e: rudy.jonker@wur.nl
i:www.reg.wur.nl/UK/Staﬀ/Jonker t: +31(0)317-485304 Skype: rudyjonker
(7) I have ventured on a similar thing a couple years ago
(see attached paper). We used the Quiagen Kit (I think
you should be able to ﬁnd my query in the archives
of evoldir, from somewhen between summer 2007 and
summer 2008). DNA extraction was no problem, con-
tamination was one. Archive DNA usually comes in
small quantities, and is easily contaminated. To en-
sure that your results are really from your samples, you
might want to make use of a lab that is specialised on
ancient and archive DNA processing. We ended up hav-
ing the samples run in Allan Bakers Lab (Toronto), but
the facility here in Sheﬃeld can also do such things.
Julia Schroeder Research Associate Dept of An-
imal and Plant Sciences University of Sheﬃeld
Sheﬃeld, S10 2TN Tel: +44 (0)114 222 0112 http:/-
/julia-schroeder.staﬀ.shef.ac.uk/JSchroederSite/
Research interests.html julia.schroeder@gmail.com
(8) I used the Qiagen DNeasy spin columns puriﬁca-
tion kit for extracting DNA from bird foot pads 40
- 120 years of age. Sometimes it worked quite well,
sometimes worse, depending on the museum where I
got the samples from. The amount of DNA was always
low, the concentration was adjustable by using less of
elution buﬀer down to a given minimal amount. We
used very small amplicons for sequencing (150 - 300
bp). This worked quite well in most of the samples
given that they came from a museum collection where
it worked well at all. The reason for why my professor
wanted me to use a kit instead of a manual maxiprep
was that he wanted to have very standardised and well
comparable results.
Severin Uebbing Dept. Evolutionary Biology Evolu-
tionary Biology Centre (EBC) Uppsala University Nor-
byv¨ agen 18D SE-752 36 Uppsala Sweden
(9)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Expected Heterozygosity
Hi,
I am doing a project on population genetics using ISSR-64 EvolDir March 1, 2011
PCR. I have calculated expected heterozygosity but was
wondering if it is safe to directly compare with the
expected heterozygosity calculated from other studies
that use diﬀerent molecular markers? Also would any-
one know if using ISSR-PCR to calculate expected het-
erozygosity is safe, bearing in mind that it is dominant
data?
Thankyou, Adam
adam radage <adam radage@msn.com >
FIS calculation
I have three populations of 45 individuals each. They
were genotyped for microsatellites in order to get FIS
and FST. I would like to have a FIS value for each pop-
ulation, considering all loci together and after that, I
would like to know if each FIS is statistically diﬀerent
from zero. I have tried Genepop and Arlequin with no
success.
– Hozana Dantas Laborat´ orio de Gen´ etica Aplicada
Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco
hozanadantas@gmail.com
Himalayan ClimateAdaptation
Dear all, I am ﬁnishing a PhD on the evolutionary
and physiological ecology of predator population re-
sponses to climate change along the Western Antarc-
tic Peninsula. I am interested in connecting with re-
searchers working on climate change issues in the Hi-
malaya Mountains. I would greatly appreciate any in-
formation you can oﬀer. Please email me at: kgor-
man@sfu.ca
Kind regards,
Kristen
kgorman <kgorman@sfu.ca >Honduran FrogPopulationGenetics
Hi,
I am doing my dissertation on population and landscape
genetics of two frog species using ISSR-PCR. I have
collected 20 specimens of each species from 3 diﬀerent
locations (60 in total) and I am looking at whether el-
evation is having a diﬀerential eﬀect on the gene ﬂow
of the two species. I am having trouble with the Man-
tel test, which I am obtaining from GenAlEx. At the
moment I have been using euclidean distance which
has given a higher correlation for one species (r=0.418)
than the other (r=0.356). The species with the higher
correlation has also given larger unbiased Nei’s genetic
distances and a larger amount of genetic variation has
been partitioned among groups in AMOVA, leading me
to conclude that elevation is causing this. This has also
ﬁtted well, because this species has lower elevational
tolerances that the other. Is this what the mantel test
also suggests from the r values I have given, that is,
does a larger r suggest elevation is eﬀecting gene ﬂow
of this species? I have also seen in papers that a Partial
Mantel test is used, which from what I understand looks
at other possible routes the species could be taking and
incorporates this into the analysis to see if the correla-
tion is better, would anyone know if my understanding
is correct? Also would anyone know how to perform a
partial Mantel test? On GenAlEx? At the moment for
the Mantel test using euclidean distance, I have been
using global positions of each individual, I cannot see
how other distances would be incorporated and this is
my main problem. Also if someone could explain the
use of looking at euclidean distance in a Mantel when
three sites are involved, especially in relation to possible
barriers that would be very helpful.
I hope someone can help me out, Adam.
adam radage <adam radage@msn.com >
Hudson paper request
Hi all,
Does anyone have a pdf version of the following article?March 1, 2011 EvolDir 65
Bruce Hudson, David A. Clayton, and Jerome
Vinograd, 1968. Complex Mitochondrial DNA.
Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol 33: 435-442.
doi:10.1101/SQB.1968.033.01.050
Thanks a lot in advance.
E
Ehsan Kayal PhD Candidate Department of Ecology,
Evolution, and Organismal Biology Iowa State Univer-
sity 253 Bessey Hall Ames, IA 50011 ekayal@iastate.edu
ehsan.kayal@gmail.com
IJEB issue
Kyoichi Sawamura, Chau-Ti Ting, Leonie Moyle, and I
are putting together a special thematic issue on specia-
tion for the International Journal of Evolutionary Biol-
ogy. We hope to organize a collection of papers that will
address speciation from as many diﬀerent perspectives
as possible: molecular mechanisms, phylogenetic pat-
terns, quantitative genetics, relationship between intra-
and interspeciﬁc variation, evolutionary and ecological
forces, etc. We think that putting together a multi-
faceted and well-rounded portfolio of work will raise
the prominence of each paper and showcase every con-
tribution in the best possible light.
The link to the oﬃcial call for papers is included be-
low. Interested authors can get in touch with any of the
editors (about the science), or with Yasmine Moussa,
Editorial Staﬀ member at Hindawi Publishing, regard-
ing any logistical and administrative issues.
Best wishes,
Artyom
http://www.sage-hindawi.com/journals/ijeb/si/-
spen.html – Artyom Kopp Department of Ecology
and Evolution University of California - Davis One
Shields Ave Davis CA 95616 oﬃce (530) 752-8657
lab (530) 752-8328 fax (530) 752-9014 http://-
www.eve.ucdavis.edu/kopplab/ akopp@ucdavis.edu
akopp@ucdavis.edu
Large mirrored treesHello all,
I’m hoping to ﬁnd a program that will simultaneously
display two competing topologies in a mirrored image
(which illustrates topological discordance). I have two
large trees with equivalent taxon samples (n9), but it
will be a pain to illustrate topological discordance by
hand in Adobe.
Any help or info is appreciated!
Mike Sandel - University of Alabama
Michael Sandel <kwksand@yahoo.com >
Malaysia VolFieldAssist
WaspBehaviourEvolution
VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANT needed for 3
months starting early May 2011, for study of hover
wasp behavioural ecology in peninsular Malaysia (note:
these are small wasps that do not sting, with average
colony sizes <5 individuals!). The work will involve
helping a PhD student to census and observe colonies
as part of experiments to elucidate the basis of help-
ing behaviour in these wasps. The successful appli-
cant must be prepared to work hard and have an in-
terest in behavioural/evolutionary biology and enthu-
siasm for ﬁeldwork. A driving licence is essential and,
because the work involves recording colour marks on
individual animals, the job would not be suitable for
someone who is colour-blind! For further details of how
to apply and the research that we do, see: http://-
www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/ﬁeldlab/ . Accomodation will
be provided, and air fare (from the UK) will be re-
imbursed on successful completion of the ﬁeld trip,
with the applicant needing to pay for only their own
food/personal expenses, which are relatively cheap in
Malaysia. Accomodation will be a room in a small
ﬂat shared with the PhD student and (for the ﬁrst 2-3
weeks) supervisor - relatively good for tropical research
(shower, cooking facilities, TV etc.), and is in a small
village which is a centre for bird-watchers.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE
Applicants should send a covering letter and a
CV, including contact details (including e-mail ad-
dresses/telephone nos.) for the applicant and 2-3 refer-
ees who would be available to provide references during
February and March 2011. Applicants must be avail-
able for interview in the UK during that time, and re-
view of applications will begin 18 March and continue66 EvolDir March 1, 2011
until the position is ﬁlled.
Applications should be sent to:
Professor Jeremy Field, School of Life Sciences, John
Maynard Smith Building University of Sussex Brighton
BN1 9QG, UK.
Or e-mail your application as a single Word document
to: j.ﬁeld@sussex.ac.uk.
Jeremy Field <j.ﬁeld@sussex.ac.uk >
Migrate 3 0 query
Recently I have run multiple DNA sequence data sets
with the program Migrate 3.0 and run into a similar
problem with each one. Often, about midway through
sampling, one of my values for theta will jump wildly
from, say, (theta = 0.8) to (theta >1 x 10 ^12). In some
cases, multiple theta values will do this, sometimes it
is only one theta. I can run the same data set twice
and diﬀerent thetas will do this in diﬀerent runs. Has
anyone else run into this problem, and can it be ﬁxed?
Joel Anderson <Joel.Anderson@tpwd.state.tx.us >
MillionTaxa DistanceTree
if someone has an enormous table with pairwise dis-
tances between 1 million protein sequences, and he
wants to build a tree out of that (say, using neighbor
joining), is there a way to do that?
Thanks,
Rutger
Dr. Rutger A. Vos School of Biological Sciences Philip
Lyle Building, Level 4 University of Reading Reading
RG6 6BX United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0) 118 378 7535
http://www.nexml.org http://rutgervos.blogspot.com
rutgeraldo@gmail.com
MillionTaxa DistanceTree answersDear EvolDir,
a few days ago I posted a query about how to construct
a distance tree for 1 million taxa. I posted this query
on behalf of someone else (the “OP”, if you like), who
has assembled a very large dataset of pairwise Smith-
Waterman distances between various proteins. The
OP’s plan was to use these distances to give some struc-
ture to a landscape of proteins (orthologs and paralogs
from a variety of taxa) by clustering them by distance.
Various responders assumed/hoped that the OP also
has a sequence alignment, but that’s actually not the
case.
Here’s a summary of the responses received:
Several responders suggested tools that operate directly
on distances. Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis suggested
that QuickTree/QuickJoin ( http://www.daimi.au.dk/-
˜mailund/quick-join.html ) might be of use. Jeﬀ Boore
suggested a pipeline called PHRINGE ( http://-
oomycetes.genomeprojectsolutions-databases.com/ )
that is quite close, in spirit, to what the OP is trying
to achieve.
A number of responders (Jason Stajich, Paramvir
Dehal, Mark Holder) suggested FastTree ( http://-
www.microbesonline.org/fasttree/ ). However, this re-
quires a protein alignment, which the OP doesn’t have.
Brian Foley discussed the problem of aligning this many
sequences, with some special case suggestions for doing
this using an HMMer model. Not really the situation
that the OP is dealing with, but an interesting problem
nonetheless.
Others (Xuhua Xia, Jason Caravas) discussed the is-
sue of allocating memory for this many pairwise dis-
tances - the implication being that, if that’s taken
care of, number-crunching thru all these pairs using
neighbor-joining (however implemented) is something
that is done in linear time and therefore manageable.
For example, Xuhua Xia suggested that this could
be done using DAMBE, memory requirements permit-
ting. Jason Caravas suggested that one could also re-
implement the neighbor-joining algorithm, which isn’t
that complex (and usefully described in Joe Felsen-
stein’s book “Inferring Phylogenies”).
Ruchira S. Datta recommended a paper ( http:/-
/bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/24/13/-
i41.abstract?keytype=ref&ijkey=tHbUa129vjtj6z )
that discusses algorithms that don’t require the entire
distance matrix in memory at once.
Thank you all for your responses!
RutgerMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 67
– Dr. Rutger A. Vos School of Biological Sciences Philip
Lyle Building, Level 4 University of Reading Reading
RG6 6BX United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0) 118 378 7535
http://www.nexml.org http://rutgervos.blogspot.com
rutgeraldo@gmail.com
NESCent seeks Hackathon
Whitepapers
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent), in keeping with its objective to promote col-
laborative development of open-source, reusable, and
standards-supporting informatics resources, sponsors
highly collaborative, face-to-face software development
events, called “hackathons” (see [1]). To ensure that
this program continues to be responsive to user needs
and to tap into the expertise and creativity of the evolu-
tionary biology community, NESCent is soliciting short
whitepapers (2-6 pages) [2] on potential target areas for
future hackathons.
To further encourage submissions, we have now dis-
tilled speciﬁc guidelines for proposing hackathon events,
based on the experiences gained from events we have
sponsored in the past: http://informatics.nescent.org/-
wiki/Hackathon Whitepaper Guidelines The Center’s
Call for Informatics Whitepapers [3] includes not only
hackathons, but also a large spectrum of other ini-
tiatives to be undertaken by the Center, including
training, software development, collaborative ontol-
ogy development, and coordination of data standards.
Whitepapers are accepted at any time and reviewed on
an on- going basis.
URLs: [1] Collaborative cyberinfrastructure
events and programs organized by NESCent:
http://informatics.nescent.org/wiki/Main Page
[2] NESCent Call for Informatics Whitepa-
pers http://www.nescent.org/informatics/-
whitepapers.php [3] Hackathon Whitepaper
Guidelines: http://informatics.nescent.org/-
wiki/Hackathon Whitepaper Guidelines [4]
Past NESCent-sponsored hackathons: http://-
informatics.nescent.org/wiki/Main Page#Hackathons
hlapp@nescent.orgNSF EvoDevoNetwork
We would like to announce a new funding and network-
ing opportunity for researchers in evolutionary and eco-
logical developmental biology: a National Science Foun-
dation Research Coordination Evo-Devo-Eco Network
called EDEN ( http://edenrcn.com/ ).
The major aims of EDEN are the following: To fund
research exchange grants allowing active interchange of
tools and techniques among labs working on emerging
model systems. To fund undergraduate internships in
the ﬁeld of Evo-Devo-Eco with an emphasis on emerg-
ing model systems. To document the tools and tech-
niques being used and developed in these organisms
and make them publicly available for future users. To
promote interactions across the Evo-Devo-Eco commu-
nity through conference funding and the sponsorship
of workshops. EDEN’s ﬁrst deadline for funding ap-
plications is October 31, 2010. You can read about
the funding available at http://edenrcn.com/funding/
. If you are working at the interface of the ﬁelds of
development, evolution, and ecology, and/or with non-
traditional model organisms, you have probably found
yourself developing new techniques and tools. Perhaps
you have used well-established protocols from tradi-
tional model organisms as a starting point, but have
had to modify these protocols by painstaking trial and
error, without the beneﬁt of a large research community
to support work on your organism.
If you are working with well-established model organ-
isms, perhaps you would like to add an evolutionary
or comparative dimension to your work, but have not
worked with other organisms before.
With the support of the National Science Foundation,
we have developed a new research coordination network
called EDEN (Evo-Devo-Eco Network) to help address
these challenges. You can read about EDEN’s activi-
ties and opportunities at http://edenrcn.com/ . Please
consider “joining” EDEN by ﬁlling out a brief survey
about your lab’s areas of expertise. You can complete
the survey on our website at
http://edenrcn.com/join/ or by clicking here
http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/JoinEDEN This
survey will allow your lab to be added to a searchable
database of scientists, organisms and techniques that
will soon be available on the EDEN website. With this68 EvolDir March 1, 2011
database, other researchers in development, evolution
and ecology will be able to to learn about your work,
hopefully facilitating new and useful networks and col-
laborations.
We encourage you to go to EDEN’s website to read
more about it, and to check back frequently for future
calls for applications, protocols, and workshop and sym-
posia announcements.
Please feel free to email us at edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu
with questions about the program, and forward this
email to colleagues who you think would be interested
in EDEN.
Barbara Perlo <perlo@fas.harvard.edu >
Problematic Barcode datasets
Dear colleagues,
I am working on a manuscript comparing diﬀerent
methods for analyzing DNA barcodes and am looking
for ’problematic’ barcode datasets (i.e. species are not
reciprocally monophyletic in a NJ tree).
Preferably, these datasets are published and contain at
least 4 non-monophyletic species (and >10 sequences
per species). Also, they should be reasonably clean of
identiﬁcation errors.
If anyone has a dataset matching most of these criteria
(or knows where to ﬁnd one), please let me know.
Obviously, authors of the datasets used will be cited.
Thanks!
Robin
robin.vanvelzen@wur.nl
Robin van Velzen PhD student Biosystematics Group
Wageningen University
Wageningen Campus, Radix building 107, Room
W4.Aa.095 Droevendaalsesteeg 1, 6708 PB Wagenin-
gen, The Netherlands PO Box 647, 6700 AP Wagenin-
gen, The Netherlands Tel. +31 (0)317 483425 http://-
www.bis.wur.nl Robin.vanVelzen@wur.nl
Queensland VolFieldAssistField assistant position available to study limits to
adaptation in Australian rainforest Drosophila
***The deadline for applications for this position has
been extended to 7th February 2011***
We are looking for a motivated, hardworking volun-
teer to help conduct ﬁeldwork in northern Queensland
as part of a project examining limits to adaptation in
rainforest Drosophila. This project is based at the Uni-
versity of Bristol, UK (PI Dr Jon Bridle, postdoc Dr
Eleanor O’Brien), and involves collaboration with re-
searchers at the University of Queensland (Professor
Mark Blows) and the University of Melbourne (Profes-
sor Ary Hoﬀmann). This position represents an excel-
lent opportunity to be involved in exciting research in
evolutionary biology, and would suit someone seeking
direct experience of a ﬁeld-based project in this area.
The role of the volunteer will be to assist with collec-
tion of Drosophila at several locations in the rainforest
in northern Queensland, sort ﬁeld-collected specimens,
maintain live stocks and perform other duties as re-
quired. Training will be provided in Drosophila identi-
ﬁcation and maintenance, although previous experience
would deﬁnitely be helpful.
Essential requirements: (1) BSc in evolutionary biology,
genetics, ecology or a related discipline. (2) Willingness
to spend long days working in rainforest in hot, humid
conditions. (3) Ability to work carefully and meticu-
lously, with close attention to detail. (4) Enthusiasm
and the ability to work closely as part of a team. (5) A
full driving licence.
Previous ﬁeldwork experience and 4 wheel-driving ex-
perience would also be an advantage.
The volunteer must be able to spend up to 8 weeks in
the ﬁeld from mid-March - May 2011. Full living ex-
penses (meals and accommodation) will be paid during
this period. We are also able to make a contribution of
up to 400 GBP (approx. $AU630) towards the costs of
travel to the ﬁeld site.
Applications should be received by the 7th February
2011, and must include a cover letter and CV, includ-
ing the names of two referees.
To request further information about this position,
or to apply, please contact Dr Eleanor O’Brien
(eleanor.obrien@bristol.ac.uk).
– Dr. Eleanor O’Brien Postdoctoral Researcher School
of Biological Sciences University of Bristol
Ph: +44 (0)117 928 7470
Eleanor.OBrien@bristol.ac.ukMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 69
RockyMountains VolFieldAssist
SquirrelEvolution
Field Assistants Required-Columbian ground squirrels
Sheep River Provincial Park, Alberta, Canada
We are looking for 3 volunteers to assist with ﬁeld-
work for the period of April 07 to Aug 30, 2011.
The project investigates the evolutionary ecology of
Columbian ground squirrels. As a member of the study,
assistants will be involved with monitoring the phenol-
ogy (when animals emerge from hibernation), reproduc-
tion and survival of individuals. Fieldwork will involve
live-trapping and handling of animals, behavioural ob-
servation and assistance with the measurement of phys-
iological (metabolism) traits on free-ranging animals.
This is an excellent opportunity to gain experience
working with a collaborative research team on a long-
term study of a wild mammal. Opportunities exist for
side-projects for interested and motivated applicants.
All ﬁeldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky
Mountains of western Alberta, Canada, home to some
of the most majestic wildlife in North America. We will
be staying at the University of Calgarys R.B. Miller re-
search station in Sheep River Provincial Park, Alberta
(http://bgs.ucalgary.ca/facilities/facilities ). You will
interact with other researchers working with ground
squirrels on a diversity of projects in behavioural and
population ecology. Additionally, the ﬁeld station is
home to a number of other researchers working on a
variety of projects, ranging from insects to large mam-
mals.
Food, accommodation and travel to and from Calgary
or Edmonton, Alberta are provided. Training will be
provided and no experience is necessary, but candidates
should have an interest in a number of the following
(the more the better!): ecology, evolutionary biology,
wildlife, ﬁeld biology, and animal behaviour. Periods
of time will be spent camping and, as such, success-
ful applicants need to enjoy the outdoors, be up-beat,
positive, responsible and work well as a member of a
team.
If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details of
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email to
Jeﬀ Lane (contact info below), by March 01, 2011.
Contact:Dr. Jeﬀ Lane
Centre dEcologie Fonctionelle et Evolutive
Centre National de la Recherche Scientiﬁque
34293 Montpellier Cedex 5
France
u.columbianus@hotmail.com
Jeﬀ Lane <u.columbianus@hotmail.com >
Software MetaPIGA2
Dear all,
Thanks to the feed back of users, we have ﬁxed bugs
and added several functionalities to *MetaPIGA2* (a
robust implementation of the Metapopulation Genetic
Algorithm (metaGA) for large phylogeny inference un-
der Maximum Likelihood).
Most importantly, a bug WAS CAUSING OUT-OF-
MEMORY PROBLEMS WITH LARGE DATASETS
when using the Likelihood Ratio Test (LRT), the
Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), or the Bayesian
Information Criterion (BIC) for automated selection of
substitution models that best ﬁt the data. This has
now been solved. By the way, general memory require-
ments have also been reduced by half and the likelihood
computation is approximately 20% faster.
Multi-core processing has been extended to model test-
ing as well. Multiple minor bugs have been ﬁxed (all
described in the “change log”).
For updating MetaPIGA2, either download the new
version from http://www.metapiga.org or launch your
previous version of MetaPIGA2 while connected on the
internet (and the auto-update system will propose you
to update).
MetaPIGA2 is described in: Helaers & Milinkovitch
BMC Bioinformatics 2010, 11: 379 http://-
www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/1471-2105-11-
379.pdf The metaGA algorithm is described in: Lem-
mon & Milinkovitch; PNAS, 99: 10516-10521 (2002)
http://www.pnas.org/content/99/16/10516.full.pdf
Stay tuned for protein models, soon to be implemented
in MetaPIGA.
Best wishes, Michel and Rapha¨ el.
Prof. Michel C. Milinkovitch Laboratory of Artiﬁcial
& Natural Evolution Dept of Genetics & Evolution70 EvolDir March 1, 2011
University of Geneva Sciences III, 30, Quai Ernest-
Ansermet 1211 Gen` eve 4, Switzerland
Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch
Tel +41(0)22 379 67 85 Fax +41(0)22 379 67 95
www.lanevol.org Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch
Software RAxML-Lightv1 0 0
Dear Community,
RAxML-Light v 1.0.0 is now available for download
under GNU GPL at: http://wwwkramer.in.tum.de/-
exelixis/software.html RAxML-Light is a strapped-
down RAxML version for conducting tree searches on
very large trees under the CAT approximation of rate
heterogeneity.
It’s key features are:
1. A light-weight eﬃcient checkpointing and restart
capability 2. A highly optimized ﬁne-grain MPI paral-
lelization that allows you to concurrently compute the
likelihood of a single tree on hundreds or thousands of
processors, provided that you have a low latency inter-
connect.
A usage manual is included in the source code archive.
This is the ﬁrst release of this code, so please send me
an email in case of problems, bugs, incomplete docu-
mentation etc.
Cheers,
Alexis
Dr. Alexandros Stamatakis
Group Leader: Scientiﬁc Computing Group (Exelixis
Lab & HPC Infrastructure) Heidelberg Institute for
Theoretical Studies (HITS gGmbH)
Schloss-Wolfsbrunnenweg 35 D-69118 Heidelberg Ger-
many
Tel: +49 162 8541515 (Mobile) +49 6221 533240 (Of-
ﬁce) Fax: +49 6221 533298 Skype: stamatak Email:
Alexandros.Stamatakis@h-its.org WWW: http:/-
/wwwkramer.in.tum.de/exelixis/ http://www.h-
its.org/english/research/sco/index.php Amtsgericht
Mannheim/HRB 337446 Managing Directors: Dr. h.c.
Klaus Tschira/Prof. Dr.-Ing. Andreas Reuter
alexandros.stamatakis@gmail.comSpittlebug samples
Dear all,
I am a PhD student from the Faculty of Sciences of
Lisbon University, Portugal, and I am currently inter-
ested in the study of the genetic structure and the ge-
netic basis of the dorsal colour polymorphism of the
spittlebug *Philaenus spumarius* (Insecta, Hemiptera,
Aphrophoridae) and related species of the same genus.
I am having some diﬃculties getting samples from some
geographic regions. I would greatly appreciate the con-
tacts of some people who would be able to help me to
get samples from *P. spumarius* from Balkans and east
of Europe, *P. loukasi* and *P. signatus*from Greece,
*P. arslani* from Liban and P. *italosignus *from Italy.
Thank you,
Ana Rodrigues
Computational Biology and Population Genomics re-
search group (CoBig2, * http://cobig2.fc.ul.pt* ).
Centro de Biologia Ambiental
Departamento de Biologia Animal
Faculdade de Ciˆ encias da Universidade de Lisboa
Edif´ ıcio C2, sala 2.3.22
1749-016 Lisboa
Portugal
Ana Soﬁa Rodrigues <ana87bartolomeu@gmail.com >
SSB ErnstMayrAward
Society of Systematic Biologists Ernst Mayr Award
(Graduate Student Award)
The Ernst Mayr Award is given to the presenter of the
outstanding student talk in the ﬁeld of systematics at
the annual meetings of the Society of Systematic Biolo-
gists. The award consists of $1000, a special certiﬁcate,
and a two-year subscription to the journal Systematic
Biology.
Who is Eligible. Members of the Society who are stu-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 71
dents or have completed their Ph.D. within the last 15
months are eligible. Applicants may be from any coun-
try, but must be members of SSB, and are advised to
join the Society as soon as possible to be considered
(to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6 ). Previ-
ous Mayr award winners are not eligible.
Application Procedure. Applications should be sent
to the current SSB Awards Committee Chair (Sydney
Cameron), at ssb-apps@life.illinois.edu. E-mail submis-
sions are required. IN THE SUBJECT LINE OF THE
E-MAIL, please indicate the SSB award category as
“Mayr Award” followed by ﬁrst name initial and last
name.
Applicant Procedure:
1. To be eligible for this award, you will need to email a
400-word abstract of your talk to the SSB Mayr Awards
Committee (ssb-apps@life.illinois.edu) by April 1, 2011.
All candidates will be notiﬁed of their status no later
than April 10, 2011. Please note that the cut-oﬀ date
for talk submission is April 17, 2011, which coincides
with the ﬁnal day for “early bird” registration of the
annual Evolution meeting, this year “Evolution 2011”,
hosted by the University of Oklahoma in Norman, OK.
This gives you at least a week between notiﬁcation of
acceptance by the committee and talk submission dead-
line date. 2. If selected as a Mayr Award candidate, cre-
ate a login on the Evolution 2011 registration site and
register for the meeting. 3. After receiving veriﬁcation
of registration payment, you will receive a special code
via email that will allow you to login to the Evolution
2011 Presentation Submission site. When you submit
your title and keywords you will be given an option to
declare your candidacy for the SSB Ernst Mayr Award.
4. Your presentation will be placed in the Ernst Mayr
Student Presentation Award session for Evolution 2011.
Again, you must ﬁrst register and pay for the meeting
before we can place your talk into the session.
Judging. Based on the submitted abstracts, the Mayr
Awards Committee (appointed by the Awards Chair)
will select a maximum of 16 applicants for inclusion in
the Ernst Mayr Award session, which will be held at a
single venue as a continuous session.
Talks will be judged on creativity, quality, excellence of
research, and quality of presentation. Abstracts should
clearly indicate methods used, conclusions, and the rel-
evance to systematics. Presentations focusing on other
areas of biology (ecology, behavior, genetics, popula-
tions or molecular biology, etc.) that lack a strong sys-
tematics emphasis are not eligible.
Co-Authors. The paper may be co-authored. It is un-
derstood that the ideas, data and conclusions presentedare primarily and substantially the work of the student
presenter, and the intention is that the student presen-
ter will be senior author on the published version of the
paper.
Notiﬁcation of Winner. The winner of the award will be
announced at the SSB business meeting in Normal and
again during the banquet awards ceremony (compli-
mentary ticket provided) at the conclusion of the Evo-
lution Meetings, whereupon the winner will be given an
award certiﬁcate. An announcement of the winner will
also be published in Systematic Biology.
– Sydney A. Cameron Assoc. Prof. Department of
Entomology and Program in Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation Biology University of Illinois 320 Morrill
Hall 505 S. Goodwin Ave. Urbana, IL 61801
ofc ph. 217-333-2340 lab ph 217-333-2170 cell ph 217
766-5631 scameron@life.illinois.edu
www.life.illinois.edu/scameron Sydney Cameron
<scameron@life.illinois.edu >
SSB GradStudResearchAward
Society of Systematic Biologists Graduate Student Re-
search Award
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) announces
the 2011 annual Graduate Student Research Award
competition. The purpose of these awards is to assist
students in the initiation (ﬁrst two years) of their sys-
tematics projects and in the collection of preliminary
data to pursue additional sources of support (e.g., Doc-
toral Dissertation Improvement Grants from the Na-
tional Science Foundation) or to enhance dissertation
research (e.g., by visiting additional ﬁeld collection sites
or museums). Applicants may be from any country,
but must be members of SSB, and are advised to join
the Society as soon as possible to facilitate their appli-
cations (to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6 ).
Previous awardees may not re-apply, but previous ap-
plicants who were not selected for funding are encour-
aged to re-apply. Awards will range between $1,200 -
$2000 and approximately seven to ten awards will be
made. The list of awardees below includes examples of
successful proposals for you to download.
How to apply All application materials must be in elec-
tronic format. Applicants and those writing letters of
recommendation are required to use pdf format, rather
than Word or some other application, to minimize diﬃ-72 EvolDir March 1, 2011
culties in ﬁle transfer. Applicants should send all mate-
rials (except letters of recommendation) in a SINGLE
pdf ﬁle. Letters of recommendation should be sent sep-
arately by the referees in pdf format or in the text of
an e-mail; please include the FULL NAME OF APPLI-
CANT in recommendation letters.
Applicants must submit
1. a curriculum vitae (one page) 2. brief research pro-
posal including objectives, methods, signiﬁcance, and
schedule (max. three single-spaced pages including lit-
erature cited and any ﬁgures and tables) 3. budget and
budget justiﬁcation (1 page) 4. and arrange for two
letters of recommendation; one letter must be from the
student’s current graduate advisor.
The research proposal must clearly state the current
stage of the proposed research and the current year
and status of the student. PLEASE INCLUDE AP-
PLICANT’S CONTACT E-MAIL ADDRESS AT THE
TOP OF THE APPLICATION ITSELF. Both Masters
and Ph.D. students in their FIRST TWO YEARS are
eligible. Systematics is interpreted broadly to include
questions below and above the species level, molecular
and morphological approaches, and issues of pattern
and process. Funding is not limited to any particular
aspect of research, but rather is available for ﬁeld, mu-
seum/herbarium, and/or laboratory work.
Please email all application materials and queries to
SSB Awards Committee ssb-apps@life.uiuc.edu . IN
THE SUBJECT LINE OF THE E-MAIL, PLEASE IN-
DICATE “Student Research” FOLLOWED BY FIRST
INITIAL AND LAST NAME.
To be considered for this year’s award, application ma-
terials, including letters of recommendation, must be
received electronically no later than March 31, 2011.
– Sydney A. Cameron Assoc. Prof. Department of
Entomology and Program in Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation Biology University of Illinois 320 Morrill
Hall 505 S. Goodwin Ave. Urbana, IL 61801
ofc ph. 217-333-2340 lab ph 217-333-2170 cell ph 217
766-5631 scameron@life.illinois.edu
www.life.illinois.edu/scameron Sydney Cameron
<scameron@life.illinois.edu >
StKilda Volunteer
MousePopulationsVolunteer wanted for 5 weeks from 8th March 2011
(plus 2 days travel either side), to help with live trap-
ping of ﬁeld mice on St Kilda, a small archipelago
180km oﬀ the west coast of Scotland.
Responsibilities consist of helping to set up trapping
grids on remote parts of the island, prepping and clean-
ing traps, handling mice and recording data. You will
be living as part of a small group of researchers in re-
stored cottages on the remotest ﬁeld site in the British
Isles; the accommodation is fairly basic but the scenery
is spectacular! A great opportunity to acquire small
mammal ﬁeld experience.
A brief news report and footage of the project
can be found on the BBC news website - http://-
www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-highlands-islands-
11168757
You must be available for the full duration of the ﬁeld
work, and preference will be given to people with a
background in biological sciences. Volunteers must be
ﬁt and conﬁdent enough to carry 18kg backpacks over
steep and rocky terrain, and happy to work in all weath-
ers.
Helicopter ﬂights between St Kilda and Benbecula
(Outer Hebrides) will be provided, as will food and
board whilst on St Kilda. Reasonable travel expenses
within Scotland will also reimbursed.
To apply for this volunteer position, please send a CV
and brief covering letter, plus details of one or two ref-
erees who can be contacted at short notice by email to:
Tom Black (t.w.black@sms.ed.ac.uk).
T.W.Black@sms.ed.ac.uk
Sweden FieldAssist BirdEvolution
Field assistants in evolutionary ecology of two sym-
patric ﬂycatcher species (Ficedula hypoleuca and F. al-
bicolis).
Pied and collared ﬂycatchers are closely related migra-
tory passerines that breed in Europe and co-occur on
Baltic Islands of ¨Oland and Gotland. In the contact
zone they tend to compete over nesting sites and food
resources; they also hybridize occasionally. A ﬁeld work
on ﬂycatchers gives an excellent and rewarding oppor-
tunity to be involved in exciting research in evolution-
ary biology. It will give you an insight into interspe-
ciﬁc interactions between competing species, impact of
blood parasites on their hosts as well as into hands-onMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 73
research on long-studied wild bird populations. This
position is perfect for someone who seeks direct expe-
rience of a ﬁeld-based project.
The ﬁeld stations are situated on Swedish island ¨Oland.
The ﬁeld work will involve measuring and sampling ﬂy-
catcher chicks, nest-box checking, song recording, col-
lecting and managing breeding data. We won?t cover
travel or food expenses, but we oﬀer a salary, free ac-
commodation and a transport once on-site.
Training will be provided in species recognition and
data collection, although previous ﬁeldwork experience
would deﬁnitely be an advantage. Essential require-
ments:
(1) Fluency in English (2) Willingness to spend long
days working in the forest, sometimes in harsh weatherconditions (3) Ability to work eﬃciently but carefully
at the same time (4) Enthusiasm and the ability to work
closely as part of a team (5) A driving license.
Field assistants should be able to spend in the ﬁeld 6-8
weeks between early May and late June 2011.
Applications should be received by the 6th March 2011,
and must include a cover letter and CV.
To request further information about this posi-
tion, or to apply, please contact Katarzyna Kulma
(katarzyna.kulma@ebc.uu.se), Department of Animal
Ecology; Evolutionary Biology Centre (EBC), Uppsala
University
email: katarzyna.kulma@ebc.uu.se email:
katarzyna.kulma@ebc.uu.se
PostDocs
Australian InstMarineSci CoralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 74
BangorU CichlidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
BiKF Germany PlantMolecularClocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
CNRS GifsurYvette EvolutionSexualReproduction . 75
DukeU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ETH Zurich EvolutionFungicideResist . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ETHZurich InsectDiﬀerentiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Frankfurt ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
InstitutPasteur MicrobialPopulationGenomics . . . . . 78
InstZoology London BeeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
IPasteur PopStatGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
LundU ImmunityAdaptations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
LundU ProtistMetagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
MichiganStateU EvolutionEducation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Montpellier FishGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Montpellier ModellingBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
NatlInstGenetics MishimaJapan GenomeEvolution 84
NorthCarolinaStateU BiologicalComplexity . . . . . . . . 84
OhioStateU USDA InsectVectorEvolution . . . . . . . . . 85
Oregon USForestService GrassPopulationVariation 85
Rockefeller InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UAlgarve PlastidOrigins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UArizona OriginMulticellularity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UCalifornia SanFrancisco EvolutionaryGenomics . . 87
UCambridge BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UCambridge EvolutionaryCancerGenomics . . . . . . . . 88UCambridge SequencingStatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UGeorgia PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UKansas BeetleSystmatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
ULeicester SticklebackEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UMelbourne AvianSocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UMontana InsectSymbiontGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UNewSouthWales ModellingViralEvolution . . . . . . . . 91
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill MaleMateChoice 2 . . . . 91
UOslo AvianEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UOxford PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UOxford PlantEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UppsalaU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UppsalaU GeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UppsalaU HoneybeeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UQueensland ConservationPlanning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UReading ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
USheﬃeld 2 EvolutionBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UTexas MDAnderson StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 97
UToronto EvolutionaryBiol 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UTurku SticklebackEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 98
UUtah SolanaceaeSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UWisconsin Madison EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics
100
Vienna PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10074 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Australian InstMarineSci
CoralEvolution
Super Science Fellowships
The Australian Institute of Marine Science is the lead-
ing national organisation researching tropical marine
ecosystems. The Institute has world-class laboratory
facilities, two modern research vessels and extensive
technical support. Facilities are being enhanced with
$55M of capital funds from the Australian Government.
This will include a state-of-the- art experimental ocean
simulator in an extensive seawater precinct to support
innovative research into coral spawning, water quality
and climate change.
As part of the Australian Government’s Super Sci-
ence Initiative (Marine and Climate), AIMS has re-
ceived competitive funding from the Australian Re-
search Council to support three exceptional early-career
researchers. Successful applicants will conduct original
research within a Project entitled “A Changing Climate
on the Great Barrier Reef: Present and Future Impli-
cations”, with a focus on the following topics:
1. Interactive eﬀects of changing climate and water
quality on corals and coral reefs (Position No. 468)
2. Coral cellular microbes: community transitions and
roles in a changing climate (Position No. 469) 3. Coral
associated viruses: pathogens, mutualists or agents of
evolution in a changing climate (Position No. 470)
These fellowships are available from 1 July 2011. Fel-
lowship numbers 469 and 470 will address the roles of
bacteria and viruses on the ecology and evolution of
corals, e.g. the evolution of new traits through lateral
gene transfer. Further, the bacterial and viral com-
munities associated with corals will be identiﬁed using
next generation sequence analysis, i.e., there is also rel-
evance to the ﬁeld of systematics. More information
about these jobs and detailed application kits can be
found at www.aims.gov.au/employment . Successful
candidates will join a collaborative, multidisciplinary
team addressing important questions about the future
of coral reefs. Ideal candidates will be high achievers
with up to 3 years of postdoctoral experience in directly
relevant research. Positions are available for 3 years
ﬁxed term and will be based in Townsville, Queens-
land. Generous working conditions apply including a
commencing salary of AU$73,714 - AU$81,091 plus su-
perannuation and other beneﬁts.
Project speciﬁc inquiries may be made to:* Position No. 468 - Dr Katharina Fabricius
(k.fabricius@aims.gov.au)
* Position No. 469 - Dr David Bourne
(d.bourne@aims.gov.au)
* Position No. 470 - Dr Madeleine van Oppen
(m.vanoppen@aims.gov.au)
General enquiries may be directed to AIMS
Research Manager, Dr Lyndon Llewellyn
(L.Llewellyn@aims.gov.au).
Closing date for all positions is 4 March 2011.
AIMS is an EEO Employer and promotes a smoke free
work environment
Kylie Tomarchio <K.Tomarchio@aims.gov.au >
BangorU CichlidEvolution
A three-year postdoctoral position is available in the
School of Biological Sciences to work with Profes-
sor G.F. Turner (george.turner@bangor.ac.uk) applying
high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatic methods
to the study of evolution and speciation. The focus of
the research group is on speciation of African cichlid
ﬁshes, for which an increasing amount of molecular in-
formation is becoming available, including full genome
sequences. The appointee will join the large, thriving
team in the Molecular Ecology and Fisheries Genetics
Group ( http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/ ), in new purpose-
built molecular laboratories in the Environment Cen-
tre, Wales, investigating the origins and signiﬁcance of
population and species biodiversity in animals.
Applicants should have a broad interest in evolution,
genetics and ecology, excellent writing and interper-
sonal skills, with a strong willingness to work as part of
a team, and to work to deadlines on research publica-
tions and grant applications. A background in molec-
ular genetics or bioinformatics and an interest in using
high-throughput sequencing methods is essential. The
successful candidate will be expected to start as soon
as possible.
Further details and application forms can be
found at http://www.bangor.ac.uk/corporate/-
vacancies/home.php?jobdetails=1&reference=11-10/-
10&category2=Academic Closing date for applica-
tions: 1.00 p.m. Monday 7th March, 2011.
Interviews will be held on 28th March, 2011.March 1, 2011 EvolDir 75
nitram8@hotmail.com
BiKF Germany
PlantMolecularClocks
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-F)
is a new interdisciplinary institute with the mission to
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions of biodiversity and climate change on the
organism level. It has been founded by the Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-
University Frankfurt am Main, and other partners. The
Centre is funded by the Federal State of Hesse through
its Initiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Eco-
nomic Excellence (LOEWE). It provides a new, dy-
namic research environment that integrates a variety of
disciplines from both natural and social sciences. The
Project Area A “Evolution and Climate” invites appli-
cations for the position of a
Postdoctoral Researcher Plant Biogeogra-
phy/Molecular Clocks Ref. A29b
The Department of Systematics, Evolution and Climate
Change, lead by Prof. Alexandra N. Muellner ( http://-
www.bik-f.de/root/index.php?page id=262 ), is seeking
a botanist with a research focus on plant evolution and
historical biogeography. The successful applicant is ex-
pected to develop an extramurally funded research pro-
gram, as well as collaborating with other staﬀ members.
The position entails basic teaching obligations.
Applicants should hold a Ph.D. in Botany or in another
relevant subject and have a solid publication record.
Preference will be given to applicants with skills in at
least one of the following areas: historical biogeography,
molecular clocks, ecological phylogenetics, evolutionary
ecology. Competence in general biostatistical methods
and knowledge of the Central European ﬂora are an
advantage. Excellent written and oral communication
skills in English and the interest in joining a multidis-
ciplinary team are required.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service po-
sition in Germany (TV-H E 13). The Research Centre
BiK-F advocates gender equality. Women are there-
fore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualiﬁed
severely handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence. The contract shall start as soon as possible and
will initially be restricted to three years. The duty
station will be Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The
employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fUEr Natur-forschung. Please send your application by e-mail at-
tachment (pdf), mentioning the reference of this po-
sition (#A29b) and including a letter outlining your
suitability for the position, a detailed CV, contact de-
tails of 2 referees and a copy of your PhD certiﬁcate
before 2 March 2011 to: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mos-
brugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Cli-
mate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. E-mail to Service and
Finances: recruiting@senckenberg.de, and cc to alexan-
dra.muellner@senckenberg.de.
For scientiﬁc enquiries please write to Prof.
Dr. Alexandra N. Muellner (e-mail: alexan-
dra.muellner@senckenberg.de).
Many thanks and Kind regards
recruiting <recruiting@senckenberg.de >
CNRS GifsurYvette
EvolutionSexualReproduction
Post-doctoral Research Associate (22 months) in pro-
teomic analysis at the CNRS (Gif-sur-Yvette France)
The “Centre National de la Recherche Scientiﬁque”
(CNRS) is starting a new program funded by the
French National Research Agency “ANR”, called Sex-
Dro. The aim of the program is to study chemical
signals (pheromones and seminal peptides) involved in
sexual reproduction and their evolution. The project is
coordinated by Dominique Joly ( http://www.legs.cnrs-
gif.fr ).
The postdoc will perform comparative proteomic anal-
yses on the seminal ﬂuid of the species of the
melanogaster subgroup. Work will be carried out
at the mass spectrometry lab of the /lessmuchInstitut
de Chimie des Substances Naturelles /greatermuchof the /lessmuch
Centre de Recherches /greatermuchat Gif-sur-Yvette ( http://-
www.icsn.cnrs-gif.fr ) located at 30 km south from
Paris, 45 mn by suburban train.
The candidate will be in charge of the MS method de-
velopment and validation and of computational analy-
sis of the data. He (she) will use the data obtained by
mass spectrometry using nano LC/MS/MS orbitrap af-
ter the digestion of proteins separated by SDS-PAGE.
Skills in protein sequencing by tandem mass spectrom-
etry will be a plus. The candidate will use the protein
or genomic sequence databases to identify proteins of76 EvolDir March 1, 2011
interest. In this context a good knowledge of genomic
and proteomic databases and their maintenance is re-
quired. Experience with label free quantiﬁcation tech-
niques would be also appreciated.
The successful candidate will work in collaboration with
both evolutionary biologists and biochemists. Starting
date will be ﬂexible but preferentially not after Septem-
ber 31st.
The net salary will be around 1900 euros per month,
including social security, depending on the applicant’s
experience.
Candidates should send the following information be-
fore March 31th 2011 : - a detailed CV; - a cover letter
stating the research interests and experience describing
the qualiﬁcations for this position; - two letters of rec-
ommendation; - a list of publications with the pdfs of
the most appropriate papers regarding the position.
Please send these documents to both : Dominique
Joly Laboratoire Evolution,G´ enomes et Sp´ eciation
Dominique.Joly@legs.cnrs-gif.fr and Jean Pierre LE
CAER Institut de Chimie des Substances Naturelles
lecaer@icsn.cnrs-gif.fr
With my very best regards, Dominique
Dominique JOLY Directrice-adjointe Laboratoire Evo-
lution, Genomes et Speciation Equipe G´ en´ etique
´Evolutive, Reproduction et Adaptation des Drosophiles
(G´ERAD) CNRS - UPR 9034 - bat 13 Avenue de
la Terrasse F-91198 Gif sur Yvette Cedex France
Tel: (33) 1 69 82 37 34 Fax: (33) 1 69 82 37 36
E-mail:joly@legs.cnrs-gif.fr Web: http://www.legs.cnrs-
gif.fr/ Dominique Joly <Dominique.Joly@legs.cnrs-
gif.fr >
DukeU PopulationGenomics
Applications are welcomed from individuals interested
in working with Marcy Uyenoyama and David L. Swof-
ford on the development of sampling-based statistical
methods for inference of rates of introgression between
populations and the existence and location of incom-
patibility loci. Here, incompatibility loci are sites at
which variants are neutral in their home context and
deleterious in other contexts. Incompatibility loci may
include factors contributing to reproductive isolation
between diﬀerent species or to local adaptation in sub-
populations of a single species.Applicants should have a background in statistics, com-
putation, bioinformatics, population genetics, or a re-
lated ﬁeld. The postdoctoral scholar may participate
in research in one or more of the following key areas:
(1) Population genetics
First-principle analysis of the evolutionary dynamics of
incompatibility loci and neutral sites elsewhere in the
genome
(2) Genome-scale sequence analysis
Bioinformatic analysis of population samples of
genomes
(3) Sampling-based inference
Construction and implementation of likelihood-based
or likelihood-free methods for inferring the existence
and location of incompatibility loci
Funding is presently available and the appointment may
continue for up to three years. Please send a CV, a brief
statement of research interests, and contact information
for two or three references to marcy@duke.edu.
M. K. Uyenoyama Department of Biology 130 Science
Drive Box 90338 Duke University Durham, NC 27708-
0338 USA
Tel: 1-919-660-7350 Fax: 1-919-660-7293 email:
marcy@duke.edu
marcy@duke.edu
ETH Zurich
EvolutionFungicideResist
POSTDOC POSITION IN POPULATION BIOL-
OGY OF FUNGICIDE RESISTANCE AT THE ETH
ZURICH
A postdoc position is available in the Theoretical Bi-
ology Group of Sebastian Bonhoeﬀer at the Institute
of Integrative Biology, ETH Zurich. The main research
area of the group is the population biology and genetics
of infectious diseases. With the advertised position we
are planning to expand our research to mathematical
models of the evolution of fungicide resistance in plant
pathogens. The ideal candidate has both strong quan-
titative skills (mathematics, programming, statistics)
as well as background in the relevant areas of biology
(population biology, infectious diseases, resistance, epi-
demiology).March 1, 2011 EvolDir 77
In the Theoretical Biology Group postdocs can develop
their research with a high degree of independence. The
group provides a stimulating environment with a broad
range of expertises and ample opportunities for collab-
oration. For more information on research and cur-
rent members of the Theoretical Biology Group see
www.tb.ethz.ch . The group has strong links with sev-
eral experimental groups (Experimental Ecology: Paul
Schmid-Hempel; Molecular microbial ecology: Martin
Ackermann). Moreover a close collaboration with the
Bruce McDonald’s plant pathology group is foreseen.
The ideal starting date is May/June 2011. Salary is
approximately 80,000 Swiss Franks per year. Zurich is
a great place to live and to do research. It is the home
of two big universities (the University of Zurich and
the ETH), and is an attractive city in beautiful sur-
roundings with a multinational population and many
educational and recreational opportunities.
To apply send a letter describing your interest
in this position, a CV and the names and con-
tact addresses of two referees by email to sebas-
tian.bonhoeﬀer@env.ethz.ch. To enable automatic e-
mail ﬁltering please mention “PPP-Application” as the
subject of the mail. Review of applications will begin
on March 1, 2011.
Sebastian Bonhoeﬀer Theoretical Biology, Institute of
Integrative Biology, ETH Zurich www.tb.ethz.ch se-
bastian.bonhoeﬀer@env.ethz.ch
ETHZurich InsectDiﬀerentiation
Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Molecular Entomol-
ogy ETH Zurich, Applied Entomology
The project deals with worldwide patterns of genetic
diﬀerentiation in an invasive moth pest that has fol-
lowed its fruit tree hosts around the globe. To under-
stand the processes by which this invasive species col-
onizes new regions, the postdoctoral research assistant
will analyze samples (representing the global distribu-
tion of this insect species) at available polymorphic mi-
crosatellite loci, and evaluate structuring and diﬀeren-
tiation of populations using state-of-the art techniques.
Interpretation of data will link to historical records of
infestation and routes of trade.
ETH Applied Entomology investigates insect-plant in-
teractions, particularly as a basis for more sustainable
pest and crop management, and projects range fromthe molecular to the ecosystem level. Main languages
spoken in the group are English and German.
Candidates with a PhD in a relevant discipline and
strong experience with molecular methods are invited
to apply. Expertise in entomology and in state-of-the
art population genetic analysis techniques is advanta-
geous.
The position can be ﬁlled immediately, or upon agree-
ment. The duration of the appointment is one year,
with option for extension contingent on performance
and opportunity.
Review of applications will start immediately and con-
tinue until a suitable candidate is found. Send Cur-
riculum Vitae, a list of methods you are familiar with,
indication of the earliest possible starting date, as well
as addresses with phone numbers of three references to
Prof. Dr. Silvia Dorn.
Prof. Dr. Silvia Dorn ETH Zurich / Applied En-
tomology (Subject: Postdoc Molecular Entomology)
Schmelzbergstrasse 9 / LFO, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland
or e-mail: silvia.dorn@ipw.agrl.ethz.ch; (Subject: Post-
doc Molecular Entomology).
For informal inquiries, contact Dr. Dominique Mazzi
e-mail: dominique.mazzi@ipw.agrl.ethz.ch
dominique.mazzi@ipw.agrl.ethz.ch
Frankfurt ConservationGenomics
Job Advertisement Ref 04-11002
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f¨ ur Naturforschung has an in-
ternational reputation in all ﬁelds of Natural History
research. It runs six research institutes and two muse-
ums in Germany and is also custodian of the UNESCO
World Heritage Site at Messel.
The Senckenberg Research Institute, department Lim-
nology and Nature Protection Research, Gelnhausen is
looking for a researcher for the following project:
PostDoc/PhD Positions available in
Wildlife/Conservation Genomics
In the frame of a joint research project, the National
Reference Center for Genetic Analyses of Large Car-
nivores at Senckenberg Research Institute in Frank-
furt/Main and the Leibniz institute for Zoo and
Wildlife Research in Berlin (IZW) invite applica-
tions for one postdoctoral, Frankfurt and one post-78 EvolDir March 1, 2011
doctoral (or two PhD) positions, Berlin in the ﬁeld
of Wildlife/Conservation Genomics: We are looking
for candidates with a strong background in molecu-
lar biology, population genetics, and/or bioinformatics.
Preferably, one candidate with experience in the de-
velopment of SNP based maker panels and one person
with experience in handling of large amounts of geno-
typic data will be chosen. Organizational skills and
the willingness for frequent travels between the research
partners in Frankfurt, Berlin, Munich, and further in-
stitutions among Europe are required. A proﬁciency of
English is essential. The candidates develop and apply
genome-wide, SNP based marker panels for endangered
European carnivores. Markers will be used for genotyp-
ing large amounts of samples from Central Europe and
adjacent regions. The ultimate goal of the project is
to identify source regions, migration routes, and gene
ﬂow patterns in order to understand recent recoloniza-
tion and spread of Central and Western Europe by elu-
sive carnivores, such as wolf, lynx, otter, and further
species. The implementation of a comprehensive geno-
type database will serve as the basis for understanding
large scale dispersal patterns of European carnivores.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in biology
or a related discipline. This is a temporary position
at the E13 level (fulltime) for Postdocs (or E13 half-
time for PhD candidates), limited to 3 years and will
be available from May, 1st, 2011. The position of IZW,
Berlin may be split in two PhD positions, if suitable
candidates apply. The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f¨ ur
Naturforschung and the Leibniz institute for Zoo and
Wildlife Research (IZW) are equal opportunity employ-
ers and encourage women to apply for these positions.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference. The places of work will be Frank-
furt am Main (Senckenberg station Gelnhausen) and
Berlin. Please submit your application electronically
with the usual documents until March 11th, 2010 to:
Administrative Director Dr. Johannes Heilmann c/o
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f¨ ur Naturforschung Sencken-
berganlage 25 D-60325 Frankfurt/Main E-mail: re-
cruiting@senckenberg.de
For further information please contact by E-mail:
cnowak@senckenberg.de
Many thanks and kind regards
recruiting <recruiting@senckenberg.de >InstitutPasteur
MicrobialPopulationGenomics
2 years post-doctoral position in microbial population
genomics, Institut Pasteur, Paris, FRANCE.
We seek a motivated and productive postdoctoral re-
searcher to work on the population-level genomic di-
versity of pathogenic bacteria. The project is funded
by the French Region Ile-de-France (DIM Malinf pro-
gramme) and will focus on the evolutionary processes
(gene ﬂux, natural selection) that shape the diversity
of Klebsiella and Salmonella genomes. The objectives
also include the identiﬁcation of novel pathogenicity
and antibiotic-resistance determinants.
Institut Pasteur is one among leading institutes in
the study of infectious diseases and in microbial ge-
nomics. The project is a collaboration among popula-
tion and statistical geneticists (D. Falush, Germany; M.
Achtman, Ireland), medical microbiologists, genomics
platforms and microbiologists interested in functional
aspects of host-pathogen interactions (P. Sansonetti’s
lab).
The successful candidate is expected to: - Analyze
raw data from high-throughput sequencers - Contribute
to annotation and perform comparative genomics of
assembled genomes - Quantify gene ﬂux within and
among species - Detect selection footprints in genomes
- Develop innovative bioinformatics tools to improve
microbial comparative genomics.
The candidate should have a strong background in evo-
lutionary biology or genomic data analysis, including
some programming capabilities.
Duration: 2 years, available immediately; to be ﬁlled
before June 1st, 2011.
Salary: 2,100 euro netto per month, plus social (medi-
cal insurance,...) advantages.
Application (detailed CV, cover letter, references): Dr.
Sylvain Brisse - sylvain.brisse@pasteur.fr Genotyping of
Pathogens and Public Health (PF8) Institut Pasteur,
Paris, FRANCE
Sylvain Brisse <sbrisse@pasteur.fr >March 1, 2011 EvolDir 79
InstZoology London BeeEvolution
Institute of Zoology Zoological Society of London
Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Molecular Ecol-
ogy Two year ﬁxed term contract Starting Salary
GBP25,958 plus GBP3,554 London weighting
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research as-
sistant with experience in molecular ecology to work on
a project investigating the biology of a range of bum-
blebee species, both estimating the dispersal distance
of emerging queens to establish new colonies and the
foraging range of worker bees. Candidates would ide-
ally have an interest in social insect biology and experi-
ence in microsatellite loci genotyping and mitochondrial
DNA sequencing.
The post is funded for 24 months under the Insect Polli-
nator Initiative and is available from 14th March 2011.
Informal enquires and requests for further details can
be directed to Bill Jordan (bill.jordan@ioz.ac.uk, 0207
449 6631).
Applications, with a covering letter, a current CV and
names and full contact details of three academic ref-
erees, should be sent to Human Resources, Zoological
Society of London, Regent’s Park, London NW1 4RUK
(email HR@zsl.org) by 28th February 2011.
Dr W C Jordan Institute of Zoology Zoological Society
of London Regent’s Park London NW1 4RY Tel: 0207
449 6631 Fax: 0207 586 2870 www.zsl.org/billjordan
bill.jordan@ioz.ac.uk
IPasteur PopStatGenetics
POSTDOC IN POPULATION AND STATISTICAL
GENETICS, Pasteur Institute, Paris A postdoc-
toral position in population and statistical genet-
ics is available in the Human Evolutionary Genetics
Unit (Quintana-Murci’s Lab), in the Department of
Genomes and Genetics at Institut Pasteur in Paris.
The lab combines large empirical datasets and com-
putation approaches to study human population genet-
ics, for more information see http://www.pasteur.fr/-research/heg . Current work in the lab focuses on a
wide range of topics, including (i) the study of the rel-
ative eﬀects of demography and natural selection in
the shaping of human genome variability using next-
generation sequencing data, (ii) the genomic control of
gene expression related to both mRNA and microRNA
and immunity-related processes, (iii) the inﬂuence of
lifestyle (nomadic hunter-gathering to sedentary farm-
ing) on human adaptation to environmental pressures,
but project details for the successful candidate are ﬂex-
ible. Our lab beneﬁts from the large and outstanding
community of researchers in population genetics, micro-
biology, immunology and computational biology at the
Pasteur Institute, providing a working interdisciplinary
research environment.
Applicants must have a strong background in statis-
tics and computer science and a desire to do research
in genetics and evolutionary biology, or a strong back-
ground in theoretical population genetics with experi-
ence analyzing genomewide datasets (expression and/or
genetics data). Programming skills and proﬁciency in
unix-based computational environments are essential.
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including a
CV, copies of relevant publications and contact infor-
mation for at least two references) should be emailed to
Lluis Quintana-Murci at <quintana@pasteur.fr >. The
starting date is negotiable, and could be as early as
June 2011.
Lluis QUINTANA-MURCI UP Human Evolutionary
Genetics, CNRS URA3012 Institut Pasteur 25, rue du
Dr. Roux 75724 Paris Cedex 15 France
Tel: +33 1 40 61 34 43 Fax: +33 1 45 68 86 39 e-mail:
quintana@pasteur.fr
LundU ImmunityAdaptations
Post doc: Immunity adaptations & migration (ref num-
ber: PA 2011/113)
Centre for Animal Movement Research (CAnMove),
Department of Biology, Lund University, Sweden.
A 2-year post doc stipend is available from 1 August
2011 in the project: ’Immunological and physiologi-
cal adaptations to migration: comparing migrating V
sedentary bird populations and species’.
Research on adaptations for migration in birds has tra-
ditionally focussed on traits aﬀecting ﬂight eﬃciency,80 EvolDir March 1, 2011
such as wing loading and body mass. However, dif-
ferent physiological and genetic adaptations (e.g., in
basal metabolic rate (BMR) and immune function) in
relation to variation in migration distance of popula-
tions/species can also be expected.
We oﬀer a post-doc position on a project that focus
on comparing immunological and physiological adapta-
tions in long-distance versus short-distance/sedentary
bird species. Initially, we have two projects in mind.
(1) BMR and immunity in migratory and sedentary
populations of robins (Erithacus rubecula). In this
project, we will compare BMR, innate and acquired
immunity between dark-legged medium- distance mi-
grating robins (winter in S Europe) and light-legged
sedentary robins (winter in S Sweden). Birds will be
measured soon after capture when in migration mode
as well as in mid-winter under indoor conditions. (2)
Immune gene diversity in long- and short-distance mi-
grating vs. sedentary songbirds. In the second project,
we want to investigate if the broader range of para-
sites to which long-distance migrant birds are exposed
in their tropical winter quarters as compared with e.g.
sedentary temperate species, is reﬂected in the diver-
sity of their immune genes (e.g., Major Histocompati-
bility Complex, MHC, genes). MHC diversity will be
analysed using amplicon 454 sequencing on a set of indi-
viduals from sedentary, temperate and tropical migrant
passerines taking phylogeny into account.
The successful candidate will be responsible for cap-
turing and sampling of the robins in the indoor study,
for conducting basic immunological and molecular lab
work, and for analysing the data.
We are looking for a highly motivated and experi-
enced postdoctoral co-worker with a background in e.g.,
molecular ecology, immunological ecology, animal be-
haviour, functional or evolutionary ecology. Applicants
should have considerable experience of laboratory work
using molecular and/or immunological (ELISA) meth-
ods (preferrably both types of methods). Experience
of analysing DNA sequence data and (simple) bioinfor-
matics analyses will be seen as additional advantages.
Moreover, the postdoc will work a lot with handling
birds (when catching birds in the wild and when sam-
pling captive birds), and we therefore also rate experi-
ence in handling birds as a further advantage,
Research environment:
CAnMove ( www.canmove.ekol.lu.se ) is a centre of ex-
cellence for trans-disciplinary research on the causes
and consequences of animal movements, funded by a
Linnaeus grant from the Swedish Research Council and
Lund University. CAnMove research aims to resolve
some of the most challenging questions in biology, suchas the genetic control programs of migration, the ﬂuid
dynamics of animal ﬂight, and adaptations for and evo-
lution of migration. In CAnMove we also study disper-
sal and speciation, spread of diseases, costs of migration
and how climate change aﬀect migrating animals.
Lund University ( www.lu.se ) is one of Europe’s fore-
most universities and Sweden’s strongest for research.
Here, tradition combines with dynamic development
and cutting edge qualiﬁcations. 46 000 students study
at the university, which has 6 000 employees. The Ecol-
ogy Building at Lund University is one of Europe’s
largest centres for Ecology with over 200 senior scien-
tists, postdocs and PhD students.
Applications: Applications, marked with reference
number (see below), and the documents the applicant
wishes to cite (CV, publication list, reference letter,
etc) shall be sent to Registrator, Lund University, Bi-
ologiska institutionen, Solvegatan 37, SE-223 62 Lund.
All documents shall be attested.
Reference number: PA 2011/113 Last date of applica-
tion: 7 March 2011 Start date: 1 August 2011 (or after
agreement) Position: 2 years stipend 100%
For further information, please contact Dennis Has-
selquist (dennis.hasselquist@zooekol.lu.se), Jan-Ake
Nilsson (jan-ake.nilsson@zooekol.lu.se) or Helena Wes-
terdahl (helena.westerdahl@zooekol.lu.se).
Dennis Hasselquist / Professor Department of Biology
Molecular Ecolgoy & Evolution Group Lund Univer-
sity Ecology Building SE-223 62 Lund, Sweden Email:
dennis.hasselquist@zooekol.lu.se
Dennis Hasselquist <Dennis.Hasselquist@zooekol.lu.se >
LundU ProtistMetagenomics
Lund University hereby announces the following vacant
Stipend At the Department of biology within CAnMove
and the project “Community metagenomics of Antarc-
tic Protists - the importance of history versus environ-
ment”.
Project description
This postdoc project concerns the recent scientiﬁc dis-
coveries that eukaryotic microorganisms (protists) have
cosmopolitan species as well as species with restricted
biogeographies. In order to study microbial communi-
ties it is imperative to know their taxonomic diversity.
Through the use of molecular techniques, the diversityMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 81
of protists has been shown to be much higher than what
older methods indicated. Dispersal and subsequent col-
onization of new habitats have important consequences
for community composition. An important question is
thus whether community composition of aquatic pro-
tists is a consequence of environmental ﬁltering, mass
eﬀects, historical processes or a mix of the previous pro-
cesses.
In this project, marine and freshwater protist composi-
tion will be investigated in a lake metacommunity that
includes marine-derived and glacial melt-water lakes.
Lakes operate very much as islands, imposing certain
geographic limitations to populations, as well as dis-
persal among populations. In a system of remotely
located (Antarctica) recently formed lakes, the com-
munity composition of protists will be analyzed using
454-technology. Community similarity will be tested
for both historical (biogeographical) and environmental
eﬀects (salinity). Samples collected from 20 Antarctic
lakes on a gradient of salinity (0-300), distance from the
sea, and lake age, are available for analyses. No travels
to Antarctica will be conducted.
The postdoctoral project will include sample prepara-
tion for 454 sequencing as well as bioinformatic analyses
of the sequence data using publicly available or custom
made pipelines. Moreover, clonal cultures of dinoﬂag-
ellates from a subset of the lakes are available for lab-
oratory experiments related to the research topic.
CAnMove
CAnMove is a centre of excellence for trans-disciplinary
research on the causes and consequences of animal
movements, funded by a Linnaeus grant from the
Swedish Research Council and Lund University. Our
vision is to become a world-leading centre for research
on animal movement. CAnMove research aims to re-
solve some of the most challenging questions in biology,
such as the genetic control programs of migration, the
mechanisms for animal navigation, the ﬂuid dynamics
of animal ﬂight, and the evolution of migration. In
CAnMove we also study dispersal and speciation, ef-
fects of movements on populations, spread of diseases
and how climate change aﬀect migrating animals. CAn-
Move aim to develop and use new tracking technology
to track movements of organisms across scales, from
small daphnia and insects to large albatrosses and sea
turtles moving across wide areas of the globe.
Qualiﬁcations
The successful applicant is a highly motivated postdoc-
toral stipend with a strong interest in protist ecology
and evolution. A PhD in limnology, marine biology,
biological oceanography, microbial ecology, or equiva-lent, is required. Speciﬁcally, the applicant should have
substantial and documented experience with molecular
techniques (PCR, sequencing) and previous experience
of phylogenetic analyses, population genetic analyses
and/or genomic analyses. He/she preferably has expe-
rience of culturing and/or microscopy of protists. Very
good spoken and written English is required. As the
postdoctoral stipend will be part of CAnMove - Cen-
tre for Animal Movement Research, a general interest
in ecology as well as the ability to interact and collab-
orate with other members is considered an important
quality.
To be eligible for a stipend a person must have suc-
cessfully completed a PhD degree or have correspond-
ing scientiﬁc competence in a relevant subject area.
The applicant needs to have a PhD not older than 5
years from a non-Swedish university and can not have
been employed at Lund University. Priority should be
given to candidates who have completed their degree
no more than three years before the last date for appli-
cations. Candidates who have completed their degree
earlier than this should receive equal priority if special
grounds exist, for example documented leave of absence
because of illness or parental leave.
For information on stipend:
Karin Rengefors, Karin.Rengefors@limnol.lu.se
, Phone: +46 46 2228427 Web: http://-
www.limnol.lu.se/limnologen/person detalj.asp?id=-
3D28 For information on CAnMove postdoc program:
Lars-Anders Hansson, Lars-
Anders.Hansson@limnol.lu.se , Phone: +46 46
2224169,
For information on CAnMove activities:
Susanne ˚Akesson, Susanne.akesson@zooekol.lu.se ,
Phone: +46 46 2223705
Web page: www.canmove.ekol.lu.se/ Application
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
MichiganStateU EvolutionEducation
Post-Doctoral Research/Teaching Associate Evolution
Education Michigan State University82 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Applications are now being accepted for a Post-doctoral
Associate in Evolution Education at Michigan State
University (MSU). This NSF-funded position involves
the development, implementation and assessment of the
eﬀectiveness of a set of online integrative case studies to
help undergraduate students learn evolutionary princi-
ples and concepts. Case study development and testing
will occur as a member of an interdisciplinary team of
educators and researchers in the Lyman Briggs College
(LBC) and the College of Natural Science at MSU, led
by Dr. Merle Heidemann and Dr. Jim Smith. The po-
sition also involves a mentored teaching experience in
LBC. The post-doc will work as a teaching team mem-
ber in the LBC Biology Program and will co-lead an
Introductory Biology course in the 3rd semester of this
2- year position.
Candidates should have an earned doctorate in a bi-
ological discipline or in biology education. Experience
assessing student learning is desirable, but not required.
This position is for 2 years and will begin on July 1,
2011. Applications review will begin Mar. 1, 2011 and
will continue until the position is ﬁlled. Starting salary
will be in the range of $40 - $42 K, depending on expe-
rience.
Applicants should send a statement of interest, cur-
riculum vitae, and arrange to have three letters of ref-
erence sent to Dr. Jim Smith, either by email (jim-
smith@msu.edu ), or by US Mail (Lyman Briggs Col-
lege, East Holmes Hall, East Lansing, MI 48825-1107).
MSU is an aﬃrmative-action, equal-opportunity em-
ployer. Applicants who are not U.S. citizens or per-
manent residents must provide a document of employ-
ment authorization for the U.S. Persons with disabil-
ities have the right to request and receive reasonable
accommodation. MSU is committed to achieving excel-
lence through cultural diversity. The university actively
encourages applications and/or nominations of women,
persons of color, veterans, and persons with disabilities.
Dr. James J. Smith Michigan State University Lyman
Briggs College East Holmes Hall E. Lansing, MI 48825-
1107 tel: (517) 353-3939 fax: (517) 432-2758
and:
Department of Entomology 201 CIPS E. Lansing, MI
48824 tel: (517) 432-2029 fax: (517) 353-4354
email: jimsmith@msu.edu web: www.msu.edu/user/-
jimsmith Jim Smith <jimsmith@msu.edu >Montpellier FishGenomics
18-month post-doctoral position in ﬁsh genomics, Uni-
versit´ e Montpellier 2, UMR CNRS 5554 Institut des
Sciences de l’Evolution de Montpellier, Montpellier,
FRANCE.
We seek a motivated and productive postdoctoral re-
searcher to work on genomic aspects of fasting in sea
bass (Dicentrarchus labrax), a major ﬁnﬁsh aquacul-
ture species in Europe. The project is funded by the
French National Research Agency (ANR; RegulBASS
programme) and aims to better ﬁgure out the deter-
minism of starvation tolerance in this species. A draft
of the genome is already available in this species, to-
gether with other genomic resources (e.g. RNA-seq
runs were carried out during the project). The project
encompasses acquisition and analysis of data from high-
throughput sequencers, study of diﬀerential gene ex-
pression as well as identiﬁcation of polymorphisms.
Main objectives include (i) the delineation and identiﬁ-
cation of diﬀerentially expressed genes among selected
individuals/families and (ii), among those genes, the
search of relevant polymorphisms involved in the geno-
type/phenotype relationship and physiological perfor-
mance of ﬁsh.
Located close to the Mediterranean Sea, the Univer-
sit´ e Montpellier 2 is a leading French university rank-
ing eight among French universities, and third outside
the Paris area. The UMR CNRS 5554 ISE-M (Institut
des Sciences de l’Evolution Montpellier) is a leading
European institute in evolutionary biology and is now
dedicating a large portion of its activities to evolution-
ary genomics. The RegulBASS project gathers ﬁsh bi-
ologists, ﬁsh physiologists and quantitative geneticists,
and beneﬁts from the genomics and bioinformatics plat-
forms located in the university or in the institute itself.
The position will involve both experimental and anal-
ysis work. The candidate should have a strong back-
ground in transcriptomics and in bioinformatics for the
analysis of large sequence datasets (sequence trimming,
assembly and annotation). The candidate should also
be able to design and carry out experiments for ana-
lyzing gene expression. Knowledge of ﬁsh population
genetics would be appreciated.
Basic skills in French would also be a plus.
Duration: 18 months, available immediately; to beMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 83
ﬁlled before June 1st, 2011. Salary: 1,800 euro per
month, netto.
Application (detailed CV, cover letter,the names and
contact information for 3 references): Dr. Bruno
Guinand guinand@univ-montp2.fr Conservation & Do-
mestication des Poissons Universit´ e Montpellier 2 UMR
CNRS 5554 Montpellier, FRANCE
bruno.guinand@univ-montp2.fr
Montpellier ModellingBiodiversity
Postdoctoral position :**
*Comprehensive modelling of agro-biodiversity in rela-
tion to seed exchange networks.*
*Contacts: *francois.massol@cemagref.fr;
pierre.martin@cirad.fr; sophie.caillon@cefe.cnrs.fr
*Host Institute*: Center of Evolutionary and Func-
tional Ecology (UMR 5175-CEFE), CNRS, Montpel-
lier, France.
*Closing date for application: *April, 1 2011
*Starting date: *May 2011 (negotiable)
*Duration: *24 months
*The postdoctoral project*
The postdoctoral project is part of a global project (3
years) funded by the French Foundation for Research on
Biodiversity (FRB) through its CESAB program (cen-
tre national de synth` ese et d’analyse sur la biodiver-
sit´ e). This project deals with strengthening manage-
ment of agro-biodiversity through social networks us-
ing an interdisciplinary method for analyzing how lo-
cal seed systems impact the diversity of domesticated
plants.
The goal of the project is to studythe structure of seed
exchange networks (SEENs) among farmers, i.e. the
ﬂuxes of ’seeds’ (generic term for all plant propagation
vectors, including true seeds and vegetative propagules)
andprovide comprehensive models relating plant biodi-
versity to socio-cultural and geographic factors. The
general question is to assess how SEEN structure – the
signiﬁcations, directions and intensities of seed ﬂuxes
among individuals or groups exchanging seeds, and the
distribution of genealogical, socio-cultural or geograph-
ical distance among these individuals or social entities
– impacts agro-biodiversity.The post-doctoral fellow will be the project’s keystone
person. He/She will lead the analysis of 12 datasets
from 10 societies/countries and answer questions from
distinct disciplines by interacting with the diﬀerent spe-
cialists involved – anthropologists, ecologists, ethnobi-
ologists, geographers and modelers. This multidisci-
plinary group will provide a large number of opportu-
nities for the post-doctoral fellow to increase his/her
connections to empirical disciplines, as well as assisting
him/her with meta-analysis and network modeling.
*Candidate requirements*
**
We seek a candidate with skills in network modelling
and meta-analysis. The successful candidate will need
to synthesize and compile data from various sources
into a cohesive database and will personally conduct
the network modelling and meta-analysis. He/She will
need to show an interest in sharing knowledge with so-
cial scientists, and will need to coordinate the diﬀerent
tasks. We expected a candidate with strong skills in
writing scientiﬁc articles.
/1. Publications/
Two types of articles are expected: (i) method paper(s),
to publish the methodology and results on the main
mechanisms of seed networks in international peer-
reviewed journals (articles will be signed by all members
of the team and the post-doctoral fellow will be ﬁrst
author), and (ii) other articles presenting the results
of each study case (led by the principal investigator in
charge of each dataset and signed by the post-doctoral
fellow).
/2. Software and training/
A software will be developed for specialists in net-
work analysis and researchers in social and natural sci-
ences from Northern and Southern countries, resource
managers, NGO stakeholders and farmers. The post-
doctoral fellow will contribute to the development of
this software through the implementation of network
modeling algorithms, and participate in the training
workshops dedicated to the use of this software.
*Practical information*
The post-doctoral fellow will be employed for 2 years
starting in May 2011 (negotiable). He/she will be
based at the Center for Functional and Evolutionary
Ecology (UMR5175) in Montpellier, France ( http://-
www.cefe.cnrs.fr ). The gross salary will be 45,000 euros
per year (35,000 euros net pay).
Please send a letter and a CV outlining research ex-
perience and interests, publications, a list of skills and
other relevant professional information.84 EvolDir March 1, 2011
– Adeline Barnaud UMR DiA-PC, ´ equipe DYNADIV
IRD Montpellier 911, avenue Agropolis BP 64501 34394
Montpellier cedex 5 France
Tel : +33 (0)4 67 41 64 39 Fax : +33 (0)4 67
41 62 22 Website : https://sites.google.com/-
site/plantbiodiversityadaptation/home “ade-
line.barnaud@ird.fr” <adeline.barnaud@ird.fr >
NatlInstGenetics MishimaJapan
GenomeEvolution
Invitation to apply for NIG Postdoctoral Fellow
Saitou Laboratory, National Institute of Genetics
(NIG), Mishima, Japan Lab Home Page: http://-
sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/ We are studying various aspects of
genome evolution in wide spectrum of organisms, from
human to bacteria in our laboratory at NIG.
Kenta Sumiyama ( http://sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/-
˜ sumiyama/index-e.html ), assistant professor in
Saitou laboratory, is studying evolutionary mecha-
nisms at genomic level regarding innovation in the
body plan evolution of vertebrates. He aims to identify
genomic regions that enabled phenotypic evolution,
through bioinformatics and genetically engineered
animal systems. Hiscurrent theme is analyzing cis-
regulatory elements of the mammalian homeobox genes
that confer the body plan innovations. We are seeking
for a motivated postdoc candidate for this project.
Experiences in molecular biology and/or genetic
engineering in developmental biology are desirable.
Having skills in bioinformatics is preferable, but not
prerequisite for application. One can learn computer
analysis techniques after joining our lab. Please ask
Kenta Sumiyama (ksumiyam@lab.nig.ac.jp) for project
details.
Please download pdf ﬁle at “NIG Postdoctoral Fellows
2011” at NIG Home Page ( http://www.nig.ac.jp/index-
e.html ) to obtain detailed information on this fellow-
ship.
Expected date of job starting: April 1, 2011 Deadline
of application: February 14, 2011 We will ask candi-
date person to give presentation via internet if one is
currently out of Japan.
Saitou Naruya Professor, Division of Population Ge-
netics, National Institute of Genetics Professor (con-
current), Department of Genetics, School of Life Sci-
ence, Graduate University for Advanced Studies Pro-fessor (concurrent), Department of Biological Sciences,
Graduate School of Science, University of Tokyo Coun-
cil Member (concurrent), Japan Science Council
Home Page: sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/ ~saitou/ Postal ad-
dress: Mishima, 411-8540, Japan TEL/FAX +81-55-
981-6790/6789 Email: saitounr@lab.nig.ac.jp
nsaitou@genes.nig.ac.jp
NorthCarolinaStateU
BiologicalComplexity
NC State University Distinguished Postdoctoral Fel-
lows in Biological Complexity
* *
North Carolina State University is embarking on a
new university-wide interdisciplinary initiative in bio-
logical complexity encompassing systems genetics, be-
havioral neurogenetics and neurogenomics, genome-
environment interactions, ecological genetics, systems
ecology, climate change, computational biology and
bioinformatics.
Associated with the new initiative in biological com-
plexity is a distinguished postdoctoral fellowship pro-
gram. Applicants are expected to be near completion
of a terminal doctorate degree, have a strong research
record with evidence of exceptional scholarship, and
embrace interdisciplinary research. Fellows will receive
competitive stipends and independent research funds to
initiate an innovative research program with guidance
from a multidisciplinary mentoring committee in areas
covered by the initiative in biological complexity.
To apply for faculty or fellowship positions, go to
jobs.ncsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind-258 (posi-
tion number 100552), and provide a cover letter, cur-
riculum vitae, a three-sentence statement of the most
signiﬁcant scientiﬁc problem(s) to be addressed in the
near future, and statements of research interests. Three
letters of recommendation should be sent to Trudy
Mackay (trudy mackay@ncsu.edu). Review of appli-
cations will begin immediately, and continue until the
positions are ﬁlled.
NCSU is an AA/EO employer. All qualiﬁed applicants
will receive consideration for employment without re-
gard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age,
veteran status or disability. In its commitment to diver-
sity and equity, NC State University seeks applicationsMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 85
from women, minorities, and persons with disabilities.
NC State welcomes all persons without regard to sexual
orientation. ADA Accommodations: please call 919-
515-5727.
– Trudy F. C. Mackay, PhD, FRS William Neal
Reynolds and Distinguished University Professor of Ge-
netics Department of Genetics North Carolina State
University Campus Box 7614 Raleigh, NC 27695-
7614 Tel: 919-515-5810 Fax: 919-515-3355 Email:
trudy mackay@ncsu.edu
Trudy Mackay <trudy mackay@ncsu.edu >
OhioStateU USDA
InsectVectorEvolution
USDA-ARS: POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSO-
CIATE
We have a great opportunity for a recent Ph.D. to join
the USDA, ARS, Corn and Soybean Research Unit at
The Ohio State University, OARDC in Wooster, OH as
a POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE. This
is a two year appointment to conduct team research
with ARS scientists and OSU faculty and students to
investigate evolutionary, comparative and population
genomics of insect vectors of corn and soybean virus
diseases.
Please refer to the announcement #RA-11-048-H
at http://www.afm.ars.usda.gov/divisions/hrd/-
hrdhomepage/vacancy/pstdclst.htm . Thank you,
Andy
Andrew Michel Assistant Professor Dept. of Entomol-
ogy 210 Thorne Hall Ohio Agricultural Research and
Development Center The Ohio State University 1680
Madison Ave Wooster, OH 44691 Ph: 330-263-3730
Cell: 330-347-8652 Fx: 330-263-3686
michel.70@osu.edu
Oregon USForestService
GrassPopulationVariation
Postdoctoral Research Associate, USDA Forest Service
Paciﬁc Northwest Research Station, Corvallis, OregonA postdoctoral research position is available at the
USDA Forest Service Paciﬁc Northwest Research Sta-
tion in the Plant Genetics, Ecology and Management
Team based in Corvallis, Oregon. The candidate will
participate in genetics research to explore population
variation in adaptive traits of native grasses and forbs of
the interior western United States. Adaptive variation
is studied using a genecological approach in which vari-
ation as expressed in common garden trials is related
to the environments of seed sources. The employee
will use the knowledge gained from genecology stud-
ies to evaluate alternatives for delineating seed zones
and guiding population movement for reestablishing
productive, healthy and diverse native plant communi-
ties, both in the short-term and in the long-term given
diﬀerent climate change scenarios. Qualiﬁcations in-
clude: US citizen; completed PhD in ecology, botany,
forestry, biology, genetics or related ﬁeld prior to begin-
ning of employment; demonstrated knowledge of statis-
tical analysis including general linear models and mul-
tivariate analysis; demonstrated skills in communicat-
ing science through publications and public speaking.
The position is full-time for a minimum of 13 months
and a maximum of 48 months and will be ﬁlled at the
U.S. Government GS-11 or 12 level, dependent upon
qualiﬁcations. Starting date is ﬂexible, but the dead-
line for application is March 25, 2007. To apply, send
curriculum vitae and cover letter indicating interests
and qualiﬁcations, along with you publication list, col-
lege transcripts (unoﬃcial okay), and contact informa-
tion for at least three professional references to: Brad
St.Clair, USDA Forest Service, Forestry Sciences Lab-
oratory, 3200 SW Jeﬀerson Way, Corvallis, OR, 97331;
email: bstclair@fs.fed.us.
bstclair@fs.fed.us
Rockefeller InsectEvolution
Postdoctoral position in genomics and behavioral ge-
netics
A two year postdoctoral position is available in the
Laboratory of Insect Social Evolution (PI Daniel Kro-
nauer) at Rockefeller University. The project will in-
volve genomic analyses and large scale RNA-Seq ex-
periments to understand the molecular underpinnings
of social behavior, social regulation, and caste diﬀer-
entiation in an ant model system. Genome sequencing
will be conducted in collaboration with a commercial
facility, which will also provide bioinformatics analyses86 EvolDir March 1, 2011
and advanced training for the postdoc. The position
starts in summer 2011 and an extension beyond two
years is possible.
The Laboratory of Insect Social Evolution will be a
newly established lab at the Rockefeller University cam-
pus on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. More informa-
tion can be found at: http://newswire.rockefeller.edu/-
?page=engine&id=1091 Rockefeller University sup-
ports a vibrant research community in behavioral ge-
netics and the successful candidate will have the op-
portunity to interact with leading researchers in the
ﬁeld.
The ideal candidate for the position will have a strong
background in bioinformatics as well as an interest
in behavioral genetics and large-scale gene expression
analyses. Applications will be accepted until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled.
To apply, please submit the following items to Daniel
Kronauer at dkron@fas.harvard.edu - your CV - con-
tact information for three references - a short cover let-
ter describing your background and research interests
(not more than one page)
I’m looking forward to hearing from you!
Best regards,
Daniel Kronauer
Present address: Museum of Comparative Zoology
Labs / Harvard University / 26 Oxford St / Cambridge,
MA 02138
Daniel Kronauer <dkron@fas.harvard.edu >Daniel
Kronauer <dkron@fas.harvard.edu >
UAlgarve PlastidOrigins
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral researcher
position at the Centro de Ciencias do Mar (CC-
MAR), University of the Algarve (CCMAR - http:/-
/www.ccmar.ualg.pt/ ) in the research group of Cymon
J. Cox (Plant systematics and bioinformatics). The
successful applicant will participate in the project ti-
tled “The origin and early diversiﬁcation of plants: a
phylogenomic approach employing novel composition-
heterogeneous methods” funded by the Portuguese
Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT). The
project will be conducted in collaboration with T.M.
Embley (Newcastle University, UK) and P.G. Foster(Natural History Museum, London, UK).
Background Plant chloroplasts are derived from an an-
cient endosymbiotic capture of a cyanobacterium by a
heterotrophic eukaryotic ancestor, an event which led
to the diversiﬁcation of three primary plant lineages,
namely, the glaucocystophytes, red algae, and green
plants, and the eventual emergence of terrestrial ecosys-
tems. The endosymbiosis marked a crucial episode
in cell and Earth history, yet our understanding of
the phylogenetic context surrounding this momentous
event remains obscure in part due to the technical limi-
tations of current phylogenetic methodology in relation
to the reconstruction of deep evolutionary divergences.
The project will be conducted entirely in silico and im-
plement novel non-stationary composition models in a
phylogenomic context. Ideally, the successful candidate
will have a strong background in phylogenetic analy-
ses, Unix/Linux computing, and bioinformatics (biopy-
thon/bioperl, cluster management, relational databas-
ing, etc). An extensive publication record will also be
advantageous. The position is available immediately
until the end of December 2012 and is open to all na-
tionalities. The researcher will receive a salary of 1495
euros/month.
Applications should be submitted before 28th of Febru-
ary of 2011 to Cymon J. Cox (cymon@ualg.pt). Ap-
plicants should send a covering letter detailing their
research interests, a current C.V., and the email ad-
dresses for 3 professional referees. Informal enquires
are welcome to the same address.
CCMAR is located on the Gambelas campus, 4km from
Faro, the capital city of the Algarve and close to Faro
International Airport (FAO). http://www.ualg.pt/-
index.php?option=com google maps&Itemid=-
2311&lang=en FCT announcement (in Por-
tuguese): http://www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/-
index.aspx?task=global&jobId=21992&lang=pt
–
Cymon J. Cox
Auxiliary Investigator Plant Systematics and Bioinfor-
matics Research Group (PSB) Centro de Ciencias do
Mar (CCMAR) - CIMAR-Lab. Assoc.
cymon.cox@googlemail.com
UArizona OriginMulticellularityMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 87
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION
Genomics and bioinformatics of the origin of multicel-
lularity
A post-doctoral position in genomics / bioinformat-
ics / computational biology is available immediately
in the laboratory of Dr. Richard E. Michod ( http://-
www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Michod/ ) in the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University
of Arizona, Tucson ( http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu ).
A major focus for this research group is the origin and
evolution of multicellularity using the volvocine algal
lineage as a model system. To better understand this
transition, we have recently completed the genome se-
quencing of Pleodorina starrii, one of the key organisms
in this group. We are currently sequencing the nuclear
genomes of three other members (G. pectorale, A. gu-
bernaculifera and T. socialis) in the lineage.
The project aims to understand the genetic and ge-
nomic underpinnings for the evolutionary transition to
multicellularity in the volvocines, which involves inves-
tigating key steps (for example the emergence of spe-
cialized cell types) during this transition. We wish to
understand the molecular basis for these processes us-
ing the sequence data we are generating and seek a
postdoctoral fellow to help in performing these analy-
ses. Interested parties would have a background in ge-
nomics, bioinformatics or computational biology. The
requirements include an understanding of comparative
and evolutionary genomics, phylogenetics, data mining
as well as other skills for the analyses of large amounts
of sequence data. The individual should be motivated,
able to work independently and collaboratively with
others in the lab.
To apply, please e-mail (michod@u.arizona.edu) with
the following information: a statement detailing your
research interests and qualiﬁcations, a CV, and the
names and contact information of three references.
Please describe what interests you about this post-
doctoral position and whether you have any par-
ticular ideas that you wish to pursue. Please
direct any inquiries about the position to Rick
Michod (michod@u.arizona.edu) or Pierre Durand
(pierre.durand@wits.ac.za).
The initial appointment is for one year, with an addi-
tional two years’ funding possible conditional on satis-
factory performance. The position is funded by an NSF
grant, at 36K per year (plus beneﬁts).
The University of Arizona is an EO/AA Employer.
Rick Michod <michod@u.arizona.edu >UCalifornia SanFrancisco
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Positions in Evolutionary and Computa-
tional Genomics
Postdoctoral positions are available in the laboratory
of Dr. Ryan Hernandez at the University of Cali-
fornia San Francisco (Mission Bay campus). The re-
search focus will be in the general area of evolutionary
and/or computational genomics, and is geared toward
understanding the evolutionary forces that contribute
to health disparities across human populations. In our
computational lab, we use detailed simulations, model-
ing, and analysis of high throughput genome sequencing
data in humans and other mammals. Research projects
will focus on developing novel techniques for applying
principals of population and evolutionary genomics to
medical resequencing studies. Ongoing collaborations
involve comprehensive studies of patterns of global ge-
netic diversity as part of the 1000 Genomes Project,
the genetic basis of asthma in admixed populations,
and the genomics of host-pathogen interactions. Suc-
cessful candidates will be expected to develop novel
computational/statistical methods for addressing spe-
ciﬁc biological hypotheses, and to perform analyses of
large-scale genomics data. Ideal candidates will have
a background in a quantitative ﬁeld (such as computer
science, statistics, or applied mathematics), experience
in performing genetics/genomics research, and a strong
track-record of accomplishment in research.
Qualiﬁcations:
- Ph.D. in bioinformatics, computer science, statistics,
genetics, molecular biology, applied mathematics, or a
related ﬁeld. - Research experience (with ﬁrst-author
publications) in population genetics or a related ﬁeld.
- Proﬁciency in programming, ideally in C or C++,
scripting languages such as perl, and familiarity with
R. - Comfortable with large data sets, computer clus-
ters, and databases.
Applicants should send a CV and the names and email
addresses of at least two references to Ryan Hernan-
dez <ryan.hernandez@ucsf.edu >. Informal inquiries
are also welcome.
Ryan D. Hernandez, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, In-
stitute for Human Genetics, and California Institute88 EvolDir March 1, 2011
for Quantitative Biosciences (QB3) University of Cali-
fornia San Francisco UCSF MC 2552 Byers Hall Room
503C 1700 4th Street San Francisco, CA 94158-2330
Phone: (415) 514-9813
Email: ryan.hernandez@ucsf.edu Email:
ryan.hernandez@ucsf.edu
UCambridge BehaviouralEvolution
Post-doctoral Research Associate - Behavioural Ecol-
ogy Group
Reference: PF07806
Salary range: £27,319 - £35,646 per annum Limit of
tenure applies
This position, based at the Department of Zoology, Uni-
versity of Cambridge, is available for up to 3 years
from 1 June 2011 to work with Dr Rebecca Kilner
and her team in the Behavioural Ecology group. For
background information and examples of our recent
work, please see http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/zoostaﬀ/-
bbe/Kilner/Rebecca1.htm The project ’Cooperation,
conﬂict and mutualism in burying beetle family life’
involves running laboratory experiments on a pedi-
greed population of burying beetles (Nicrophorous
vespilloides) to identify sources of individual variation
in cooperative behaviour.
To apply, and for Further Information, please
see: http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/zooone/-
administration/vacancy.html Anastasia Nezhentseva
<an286@hermes.cam.ac.uk >
UCambridge
EvolutionaryCancerGenomics
We are seeking a post-doctoral research asso-
ciate to join a very active computational biol-
ogy and statistics research group (see http://-
www.compbio.group.cam.ac.uk/ ) to work in the area
of evolutionary cancer genomics. The position will be
based in the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Research
Institute ( http://www.cambridgecancer.org.uk/ ).
A background in the application of probabilistic andstatistical methods in the biological or medical sciences
is advantageous. Experience in stochastic computation
is preferred. Applicants with experience in the anal-
ysis of high-throughput genomic data are encouraged
to apply. Experience with R, Bioconductor and paral-
lel/distributed computing is advantageous.
Further details may be found at: http:/-
/www.admin.cam.ac.uk/oﬃces/hr/jobs/-
vacancies.cgi?job=7838 Simon Tavar´ e
<st321@cam.ac.uk >
UCambridge SequencingStatistics
We are seeking a post-doctoral research asso-
ciate to join a very active computational biol-
ogy and statistics research group (see http://-
www.compbio.group.cam.ac.uk/ ) to work on the devel-
opment of statistical methodology for sequencing tech-
nologies.
A background in the application of statistical meth-
ods in the biological and medical sciences is advan-
tageous. Statistical bioinformatics experience, includ-
ing familiarity with R and Bioconductor, is preferred.
Applicants with experience in the analysis of high-
throughput genomic data are encouraged to apply. Ex-
perience with parallel/distributed computing is advan-
tageous.
The position will be based in the Cancer Re-
search UK Cambridge Research Institute ( http:/-
/www.cambridgecancer.org.uk/ ). Further details
may be found at: http://www.admin.cam.ac.uk/-
oﬃces/hr/jobs/vacancies.cgi?job=7789 Simon Tavar´ e
<st321@cam.ac.uk >
UGeorgia
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
A postdoctoral position in plant evolutionary genetics
is available in the new lab of Andrea Sweigart in the
Department of Genetics at the University of Georgia.
Research in the lab will focus on the genetics of spe-
ciation in the model ﬂowering plant Mimulus (see
www.mimulusevolution.org ) using molecular and func-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 89
tional approaches, ﬁeld experiments, and population
genomics. Projects in the lab will include mapping and
characterizing hybrid incompatibility genes; character-
izing the genetics of ﬂowering time and habitat diver-
gence; investigating the mechanisms and consequences
of polyploid speciation; and studying the population ge-
nomics of divergence with gene ﬂow. The postdoc will
also be encouraged to develop his/her own independent
research projects. The ideal candidate will have a back-
ground in evolutionary genetics, as well as strong skills
in bioinformatics and/or molecular biology.
For more information about Univ. of Georgia’s Depart-
ment of Genetics, please visit:
http://www.genetics.uga.edu/
Additional information about my research can be found
at:
http://www.genetics.uga.edu/sweigartlab/ The start
date may be as early as August 15, 2011. To apply,
please email a CV, a brief statement of research inter-
ests, and contact information for 2-3 academic refer-
ences to: andrea.sweigart@mso.umt.edu.
andrea.sweigart@gmail.com
UKansas BeetleSystmatics
A POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER POSITION is
available in the laboratory of Dr. Caroline Chaboo
whose research area is chrysomelid beetle systematics.
The selected candidate will help initiate a long-term
survey and inventory of the arthropod faunas at mul-
tiple sites along an elevational transect in Peru and
explore questions involving arthropod diversity in re-
lation to elevation, climate change, and human im-
pacts. The postdoctoral fellow will work within a
highly active team comprising the PI, foreign collabo-
rators, graduate students, and undergraduate students.
Field teams will collaborate closely with investigators
from the Entomology Department, Museo de Historia
Natural, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos
(MUSM) Lima, Peru. The postdoctoral work will focus
on ﬁeld collection, sorting and curation, identiﬁcation,
imaging, data-basing, and dissemination of entomolog-
ical specimens. The candidate will assist in the over-
sight and training of undergraduate student employees.
Additional training will be provided in molecular sys-
tematics, collection management software (Specify 6),
grantsmanship, and statistical analyses. The successfulcandidate will be expected to develop a research pro-
gram within their taxon of specialization and commu-
nicate results in publications and at society meetings.
The candidates will be required to have completed a
Ph.D. in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology or Ento-
mology earned within the past four years from an ac-
credited university. The ideal candidate will have ex-
perience with arthropod sampling methods, curation,
and making identiﬁcations. Funding is available for one
year with possibility of extension. Apply to: https://-
jobs.ku.edu and search for Position 00208948. Applica-
tion review date 02/26/2011. For more information see
Chaboo website: http://www2.ku.edu/ ˜ eeb/faculty/-
chaboo.shtml EO/AA employer.
Dorothy Johanning Program Assistant Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology University of Kansas Lawrence,
KS 66045 785/864-5889
“Johanning, Dorothy” <jdorothy@ku.edu >
ULeicester SticklebackEvolution
Post Doctoral Research Associate in Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy
University of Leicester, UK
We seek an enthusiastic and highly motivated biol-
ogist to join a NERC- funded collaborative project,
working with Dr. Iain Barber (PI: Biology, http://-
tinyurl.com/barberlab ) and Dr. Ezio Rosato (Co-I: Ge-
netics, http://www2.le.ac.uk/departments/genetics/-
people/rosato/research ) . The aim of the project is
to investigate the impact of environmental change on
the nest building behaviour and synthesis of Spiggin -
a protein glue used in nest construction - by male three-
spined stickleback ﬁsh, and to study the ﬁtness conse-
quences of these eﬀects. The PDRA will design, run
and analyze lab-based experimental behavioural stud-
ies investigating the eﬀects of ﬂow regime on stickleback
nest construction and undertake molecular studies ex-
amining the expression of Spiggin genes in response to
changing environments. The successful applicant will
ideally be an evolutionary or behavioural ecologist with
experience in the design, implementation and analysis
of behavioural studies, and possess good molecular bi-
ology skills. Direct experience of qPCR would be an
advantage, but is not essential. The position is full
time and is available immediately to run to May 31st
2012. Informal enquiries are encouraged and should
be addressed to Iain Barber (email: ib50@le.ac.uk,90 EvolDir March 1, 2011
tel: +44(0)116 252 3462). Salary: Grade 7 (pt 31)
£30,747p.a.
Full details of application procedure and further par-
ticulars at:
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/ACH393/post-doctoral-
research-associate-in-behavioural-molecular-ecology/
Dr Iain Barber Senior Lecturer in Animal Biology
Room 228b (through Lab 226) Adrian Building Depart-
ment of Biology College of Medicine, Biological Sciences
and Psychology University of Leicester Leicester LE1
7RH UK
Tel: +44(0)116 252 3462 Fax: +44(0)116 252 3330
email: ib50@le.ac.uk
Barber lab website: http://tinyurl.com/barberlab
ib50@leicester.ac.uk
UMelbourne AvianSocialEvolution
Research fellowship: Investigating the evolutionary
ecology of personalities in social birds
Project outline:
In many animals, individuals diﬀer consistently in
suites of correlated and heritable behaviours, compa-
rable to human personalities. Recent research suggests
that personalities should inﬂuence key socio-ecological
processes, but they have rarely been studied in this con-
text. We will use an experimental approach to deter-
mine how a) personality aﬀects critical social and life-
history decisions in a cooperatively breeding bird and
b) early social environment contributes to the develop-
ment of personality.
The study will involve assaying the personalities of
birds in a wild population of individually marked su-
perb fairy wrens and conducting intensive ﬁeld obser-
vations and manipulations to reveal associations be-
tween personality and dispersal, mate choice, cooper-
ation and parental care. Moreover, we aim to disentan-
gle the genetic and environmental factors that shape
personality development, using cross-fostering experi-
ments and molecular approaches to link polymorphism
in candidate genes to personality variation. This re-
search should have both fundamental and applied sig-
niﬁcance.
Investigators and funding:
The study is funded by the Australian Research Coun-cil and is a collaborative project between A/Prof Raoul
Mulder and Dr Michael Magrath (University of Mel-
bourne, Australia) and Dr Niels Dingemanse and Prof
Bart Kempenaers (Max Planck Institute for Ornithol-
ogy, Germany).
The research fellowship:
The Research Fellow will be based at the Depart-
ment of Zoology, University of Melbourne, Australia.
They will be responsible for designing, executing, and
analysing ﬁeld experiments at a ﬁeld site near Mel-
bourne (Serendip Sanctuary), implementing ﬁeld tech-
niques ranging from mist-netting to captive behavioural
assays, and focal observations. The fellow will coordi-
nate ﬁeld schedules and help direct a small team of
research students and assistants. The fellow will also
contribute to the preparation of manuscripts for publi-
cation and may contribute to molecular genotyping.
The fellow will receive an annual salary of between
A$65,852 - A$76,299, depending on experience. The
position is full-time (but part-time may be considered)
and is available from 01/04/2011 (later start nego-
tiable) until 31/12/2013.
Applications:
Application details, including speciﬁc selection crite-
ria, can be found at www.jobs.unimelb.edu.au, Position
number 00257256.
Online applications are preferred.
Applications will close Feb 28th 2011.
For further information please contact:
A/Prof Raoul Mulder
Tel +61 3 83446245
r.mulder@unimelb.edu.au
magrath@unimelb.edu.au
UMontana InsectSymbiontGenomics
A postdoctoral position in insect symbiont genomics
is available in the laboratory of John McCutcheon, in
the Division of Biological Sciences at the University of
Montana in Missoula.
The McCutcheon lab is part of a team of USDA-funded
researchers studying the spread of an invasive insect
throughout the southeastern United States. The post-
doc involved with this work will be responsible for se-March 1, 2011 EvolDir 91
quencing the complete genome of a bacterial insect sym-
biont, and for performing population structure experi-
ments using multi-locus genotype data. These projects
will involve the generation and analysis of large next-
gen sequencing datasets, and so candidates with bioin-
formatic experience are strongly preferred. However,
interested applicants with molecular biology, microbi-
ology, or entomology backgrounds are encouraged to
apply.
The appointment is expected to be for 1.5 years, and
could start as early as April 2011. Applications will
be reviewed immediately and will continue until the
position is ﬁlled. To apply, please email a cover let-
ter, CV, and the names of three references to John
McCutcheon (john.mccutcheon@umontana.edu). Fur-
ther information about the lab and the university
are available at the McCutcheon lab website ( http:/-
/mccutcheonlab.dbs.umt.edu/ ).
john.mccutcheon@mso.umt.edu
UNewSouthWales
ModellingViralEvolution
We are still accepting applications for a postdoc po-
sition in Sydney (see below). The salary package is
$71,000–$76,000 plus superannuation and leave load-
ing. The closing date for applications is 1 March 2011.
Post-doctoral position in mathematical modelling of vi-
ral evolution, Sydney, Australia
A post-doctoral position funded by the Australian Re-
search Council is available at the University of New
South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, Australia. The success-
ful applicant will be part of a collaborative team in-
volved in modelling the evolution and epidemiology of
viruses. The investigators of the team are Mark Tanaka
and Peter White (UNSW), Katia Koelle (Duke Uni-
versity) and Roland Regoes (ETH Zurich). The post-
doctoral researcher will develop mathematical models,
implement computer simulations, and design statisti-
cal methods to analyse genomic data. The successful
applicant will have the opportunity to contribute to a
range of projects.
The selection crteria are: a PhD in a quantitative disci-
pline such as theoretical biology, bioinformatics, mathe-
matics, statistics, physics or computer science; a strong
research track record in mathematical modelling or bio-
statistics; an interest in viral evolution; proﬁciency withLinux or Unix and computer programming languages,
preferably C and R; excellent oral and written commu-
nication skills; the ability to work eﬀectively as part of
a team as well as independently; knowledge of OHS re-
sponsibilities and a commitment to attending relevant
OHS training; knowledge of equal opportunity princi-
ples.
For the full information package see http://-
www.hr.unsw.edu.au/services/recruitment/jobs/-
26111020.html Informal enquiries to Mark Tanaka,
email: m.tanaka@unsw.edu.au
m.tanaka@unsw.edu.au
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill
MaleMateChoice 2
Second posting: review of applications starts Feb 15.
Postdoctoral Position at the University of North Car-
olina, Chapel Hill
A position is available for a Postdoctoral Research As-
sociate in the lab of Maria Servedio at the University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, to work on theoretical
models of male and mutual mate choice. The applicant
will be expected to develop an independent research
project(s) in addition to collaborating with the PI on
theoretical projects. Prior experience with theoreti-
cal modeling techniques, a strong mathematical back-
ground, and programming skills is preferred. A Ph.D.
and a strong background in evolution is required.
Research in the Servedio lab concentrates developing
mathematical models of speciation and mate choice.
Please see http://www.bio.unc.edu/Faculty/Servedio/-
Lab/Home.html or contact Maria Servedio (serve-
dio@email.unc.edu) for more information on projects
ongoing in the lab.
The appointment is for 1-2 years starting preferably in
the summer of 2011 (start date ﬂexible). Send applica-
tions including a CV, description of research experience
and interests, brief description of background in theory
and related skills, and names and addresses of three ref-
erences to Maria Servedio at servedio@email.unc.edu
Informal inquiries are welcome as well. Review of ap-
plications will begin on Feb 15 and continue until the
position is ﬁlled.
servedio@email.unc.edu92 EvolDir March 1, 2011
UOslo AvianEvolutionaryGenomics
Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis
(CEES)
Position as post doc/researcher in evolutionary biology,
ref. no. 2011/2183
A 3-year position as post doc or researcher is available
from April 1st 2011 on the project ˆ aOn the evolutionary
genomics and behavioral ecology of homoploid hybrid
speciation in Passer sparrowsˆ a.
The candidate will be part of a project funded by
The Norwegian Research Council. The CEES is a
centre of excellence for integrative biological research
and is well-funded. It provides a stimulating research
environment, situated at the Department of Biology,
with many young international and Norwegian scien-
tists working on a variety of theoretical and empirical
topics within ecology, evolution, population genetics,
genomics, phylogenetics, molecular biology, and statis-
tical methodology. The CEES is chaired by Professor
Nils Chr. Stenseth and currently employs 16 faculty
members, 43 postdocs/researchers, 32 PhD students
and 30 MSc students. Information about the centre
can be found at http://www.cees.uio.no Job descrip-
tion We seek to employ a post doc candidate/researcher
on the project: ˆ aOn the evolutionary genomics and
behavioral ecology of homoploid hybrid speciation in
Passer sparrows.ˆ a The successful candidate will work in
a research team that works on evolutionary processes
related to speciation. The speciﬁc project focuses on
diﬀerent species of sparrows and in particular the Ital-
ian sparrow (Passer italiae) that appears to be a sta-
bilized hybrid form between the house sparrow (P. do-
mesticus) and the Spanish sparrow (P. hispaniolensis).
The project includes ˆ a comparative genomics using 454-
technology ˆ a analysis of genetic variation across tran-
sects through hybrid zones ˆ a phylogeographic studies
of the species complex ˆ a association studies of traits
aﬀecting reproductive barriers using a candidate gene
approach ˆ a ecological and behavioural studies related to
assortative mating in aviaries and in the ﬁeld ˆ a breeding
experiments in aviaries to investigate the inheritance of
mate preferences and potential genetic incompatibili-
ties between the species.
The successful candidate will be involved in 3-4 of these
subprojects pending on qualiﬁcations and interests.Requirements Applicants must hold a equivalent to a
Norwegian PHD degree and we search for a candi-
date with a strong background in evolutionary biology.
Experience with evolutionary genetic/genomic research
and/or evolutionary ecological or behavioural studies
of wild or captive animals are required. Candidates
that are interested in, and able to combine genetic and
ecological approaches are particularly attractive for the
position.
The position requires good skills in writing and speak-
ing English.
The main purpose of post-doctoral research fellowships
is to qualify researchers for work in top academic posi-
tions within their disciplines. No one can be appointed
for more than one period at the same institution. Please
also refer to the regulations pertaining to the conditions
of employment for post-doctoral fellowship positions.
Salary Postdoctoral Research Fellow (SKO, 1352)/ re-
searcher (SKO 1109), pay grade: 57 ˆ a 64 (NOK 448
200ˆ a 510 000 depending on qualiﬁcations and senior-
ity).
The application must include: ˆ a Application letter in-
cluding a statement of interest, summarizing the appli-
cant’s scientiﬁc work and interests and describing how
she/he ﬁts the description of the person we seek ˆ a CV
(summarizing education, positions, pedagogical expe-
rience, administrative experience and other qualifying
activity), including a list of published and unpublished
works ˆ a Copies of educational certiﬁcates, transcript of
records, letters of recommendation ˆ a A complete list of
publications and up to 5 academic work that applicant
wishes to be considered by the evaluation committee
ˆ a Names and contact details of 2-3 references (name,
relation to candidate, e-mail and telephone number)
To apply for the position, see https:/-
/uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/application/-
bd3c765e4dd0bb5ﬀ004c91082fb7f86/514022/-
64421?iso=gb Foreign applicants are advised to
attach an explanation of their University’s grading
system. Please remember that all documents should
be in English or a Scandivian language.
The University of Oslo has an agreement for all
employees, aiming to secure rights to research re-
sults a.o. http://www.uio.no/english/for-employees/-
employment/position/intellectual-rights/ In accor-
dance with the University of Osloˆ as equal opportunities
policy, we invite applications from all interested indi-
viduals regardless of gender or ethnicity.
ˆ a Region: ˆ a Oslo
/March 1, 2011 EvolDir 93
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UOxford PlantEvolution
Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford,
Independent Research Fellows Event 2011
The Plant Sciences Department, University of Oxford,
is an internationally leading centre of excellence in plant
sciences, ranked equal third of 52 UK Biological Sci-
ences research institutions in RAE 2008 and based in
the central multidisciplinary science area of Oxford.
We seek applications from outstanding researchers who
would like to be Independent Research Fellows within
our department.
Those already holding or intending to apply for such
fellowships may apply to attend a two-day departmen-
tal Independent Research Fellows Event on 10th and
11th May 2011. If invited to this event, you will be
asked to present a talk about your proposed area of
research and have the opportunity to discuss in depth
your proposals, the future development of your group
and your future career plans with senior departmental
academic staﬀ. Following the event, selected candidates
will be mentored in the writing of fellowship applica-
tions and/or oﬀered the opportunity to move existing
fellowships to the Department of Plant Sciences.
Further details are available on the Department of
Plant Sciences website www.plants.ox.ac.uk Please
email a two-page summary of your research plan and
your CV and arrange for two letters of recommenda-
tion to be emailed to debbie.reeves@plants.ox.ac.uk by
noon on Friday 18th March.
Debbie Reeves <debbie.reeves@plants.ox.ac.uk >
UOxford PlantEvolution 2
Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford,
Independent Research Fellows Event 2011
Event: 11- 12 May. Deadline for applications: 18
March.The Department of Plant Sciences seeks applications
from outstanding researchers who would like to be In-
dependent Research Fellows within our department.
The Department of Plant Sciences, University of Ox-
ford, is an internationally leading centre of excellence
in plant sciences, ranked equal third of 52 UK Biological
Sciences research institutions in the national Research
Assessment Exercise 2008. Based in the vibrant central
multidisciplinary science area of Oxford University, it
encompasses the full spectrum of contemporary plant
science research and teaching. Annually, UK and inter-
national research bodies fund several prestigious fellow-
ships to enable up-and-coming research leaders to start
conducting independent research, and the Department
of Plant Sciences seeks to work with the best scientists
to secure such fellowships in basic and applied plant
biology.
Those already holding or intending to apply for such
fellowships may apply to attend a two-day departmen-
tal Independent Research Fellows Event on 11th and
12th May 2011. If invited to this event, you will be
asked to present a talk about your proposed area of re-
search, and discuss in depth with senior departmental
academic staﬀ your research proposals, the future de-
velopment of your group and your future career plans.
Following the event, selected candidates will be men-
tored in the writing of fellowship applications and/or
oﬀered the opportunity to move existing fellowships to
the Department.
To apply to attend the event, please email a two-page
summary of your research plan and your CV and ar-
range for two letters of recommendation to be emailed
to debbie.reeves@plants.ox.ac.uk by noon on Friday
18th March.
Further details are available on the Department of
Plant Sciences website www.plants.ox.ac.uk Debbie
Reeves <debbie.reeves@plants.ox.ac.uk >
UppsalaU EvolutionaryBiology
11 PhD AND POST-DOC POSITIONS IN EVOLU-
TIONARY BIOLOGY AND GENOMICS AT THE
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY CENTRE, UPPSALA
UNIVERSITY
A Centre of Excellence in the interface of evolution-
ary biology and genomics has been established at the
Dept of Evolutionary Biology of the Evolutionary Bi-94 EvolDir March 1, 2011
ology Centre (EBC) of Uppsala University. The en-
vironment consists of several relatively young research
groups (Urban Friberg, Anders Gotherstrom, Simone
Immler, Mattias Jakobsson Hanna Johannesson, Tanja
Slotte and Jochen Wolf) with Hans Ellegren being Head
of the unit. Currently, there are about 20 PhD stu-
dents, 15 post-docs and some bioinformaticians working
within these groups, with the great majority having a
background from international universities. Thanks to
a number of competitive grants recently obtained, the
environment will now signiﬁcantly expand by recruiting
several new PhD students and post-docs.
An overview of the research activities in the envi-
ronment can be found at our web pages ( http://-
www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol/ ). A common
theme is that we address key questions in evolution-
ary biology, like speciation, local adaptation, life his-
tory evolution, and molecular evolution, using genomic
approaches. Study organisms include natural bird and
plant populations, Neurospora, Drosophila, zebra ﬁsh,
domestic animals and humans. We have tight connec-
tions with several other research programs at the Evo-
lutionary Biology Centre (see http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
Research/IEG/ and a centre-wide graduate school “The
genomics of phenotypic diversity in natural popu-
lations” ( http://www.ebc.uu.se/education/postgrad/-
gradschool/ ) is organized from here.
Below are brief descriptions of the positions cur-
rently open. Further details about each of
these, including necessary qualiﬁcations, are avail-
able at http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol/-
open positions/ or can be obtained from the named
group leader. Informal inquiries and applications
should be sent to the respective supervisor. Common
to all positions is that we ask applicants to provide a
CV, a statement of research interests and the name and
contact details of at least two references. The positions
remain open until ﬁlled.
1. PhD position: Haploid selection in animals Sexual
reproduction in eukaryotic organisms entails the exis-
tence of two sexes (males and females) and two life
phases (haploid and diploid). Selection acting diﬀer-
ently in the two sexes and the two phases causes con-
ﬂicts, which aﬀect evolutionary processes. This PhD
project aims to address questions about the causes and
consequences of sexual selection across ploidy levels in
animals. Experimental work using the zebraﬁsh Danio
rerio as a model system will bring answers to these ques-
tions. For more information please see our web pages
or contact Simone Immler (Simone.Immler@ebc.uu.se).
2. PhD position: Natural selection on gene regulation
Changes in gene regulation have long been hypothe-sized to underlie adaptive phenotypic evolution. In this
project, we aim to test this hypothesis and quantify the
long-term impact of selection on regulatory sequences.
The project will involve the use of genomic methods
to study sequence and gene expression variation in the
emerging plant model system Capsella. For more infor-
mation please see our web pages or contact Tanja Slotte
(Tanja.Slotte@ebc.uu.se).
3. PhD position: Whole-genome analysis of microsatel-
lite evolution Next-generation sequencing (NGS) allows
gathering a wealth of information on microsatellite vari-
ability both within and between species. Using re-
cently assembled whole-genome sequences from mul-
tiple avian and mammalian species, this project aims
to increase our understanding of the evolution of mi-
crosatellites and polymorphism at these loci. More-
over, this project also aims at using NGS microsatellite
data to identify genomic regions subject to strong selec-
tive sweeps in natural populations of ecological model
organisms, using microsatellites. For more informa-
tion please see our web pages or contact Hans Ellegren
(Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se).
4. PhD position: Speciation genomics in a famous
avian hybrid zone The hybrid zone between carrion and
hooded crows (Corvus [corone] corone / cornix) is a
text book example of incipient speciation that is well
characterized from an ecological and behavioural per-
spective. We investigate its genetic architecture with
a set of genomic tools currently including genome as-
sembly, re-sequencing of several European populations
and RNAseq-based transcriptome analyses. For more
information please see our web pages or contact Jochen
Wolf (Jochen.Wolf@ebc.uu.se).
5. PhD position: Sex diﬀerences in aging
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU GeneticDiversity
*Post-doc project in genetic diversity and population
resource use***
UppsalaUniversityis currently recruiting a postdoc for
a project dealing with the importance of genetic di-
versity for population abundances and population wideMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 95
resource use. Zooplankton of the genus /Daphnia/ and
ﬁsh species will be used as model systems. The aim is
to investigate:
1. The importance of genetic variation for plasticity
and population wide resource use 2. The importance of
genetic variation for variation in population densities
AFLP will be used to asses the genetic variation of pop-
ulations and stable isotopes to study resource use. The
project is planned to be conducted both in ﬁeld and
experimental studies.
The successful candidate should have a PhD in a related
ﬁeld. It is required that the candidate has documented
experience of AFLP or some similar molecular genetic
method. An experience of research associated with the
interaction between ecology and population genetics is
preferable. Previous work on /Daphnia/ or ﬁshes, or
use of stable isotopes is an advantage.
The postdoc is intended to start no later than May
2011. The funding is a scholarship of 240 000 SEK/year
(? EUR 24 000/year and non-taxable), and currently
given for one year, but there are possibilities for a pro-
longation up to two years.
The project will be conducted at Department of Ecol-
ogy and Genetics at Uppsala University, Sweden, more
precisely in the subdepartment of Population Biology.
The department has a strong focus on molecular ecol-
ogy. This department is located at the Evolutionary
Biology Centre housing about 400 researchers with a
strong proﬁle in ecology, evolution and systematic.
The applicant should send in a personal letter
describing yourself and a CV including publica-
tion list by email (see below) no later than 20
Feb. For more information contact: ¨Orjan ¨Ostman,
+46 (0)18-471 26 80, orjan.ostman@ebc.uu.se Home-
page: Homepage: http://www.iee.uu.se/popbiol/-
default.php?type=personalpage&lang=en&id=130 or-
jan.ostman@ebc.uu.se
UppsalaU HoneybeeGenomics
Please post the following message:
A post-doctoral position is available immediately at
Uppsala University to work on next-generation se-
quence analysis of honeybee populations.
We have initiated a project to survey genetic variation
across the genome in a number of subspecies and lines ofhoneybee using next- generation sequencing on the AB
SOLiD system. These include natural races sampled
from around the world and experimental lines subjected
to artiﬁcial selection. The main aim of the project is to
identify signatures of selection in these data in order to
understand the nature of genetic adaptation and ﬁnd
genetic variants responsible for traits of interest. The
main duty of the postdoc will be bioinformatic analysis
of the data generated.
The project is led by Matthew Webster at Uppsala
University (UU) in collaboration with the honeybee re-
search group in the Swedish University of Agricultural
Sciences (SLU) led by Ingemar Fries and the Uppsala
Genome Centre. It will also beneﬁt from interactions
with the groups of Leif Andersson (UU and SLU) and
Kerstin Lindblad-Toh (UU and Broad Inst.), both in-
volved in similar analyses in other species.
Uppsala is the fourth largest city in Sweden situated in
pleasant surroundings close to Stockholm.
The ideal candidate should have: A PhD in bioin-
formatics, evolutionary/population genetics or related
area. Experience in analysis of data from next-
generation sequencing platforms. Skill in scripting (e.g.
perl) and statistical data analysis (e.g. R).
The duration of the position will be at least 2 years.
Please address informal inquiries by email to Matthew
Webster, who will send details of how to apply.
Matthew Webster matthew.webster@imbim.uu.se
Dept. of Medical Biochemistry and Micro-
biology, Uppsala University www.imbim.uu.se
matthew.webster@imbim.uu.se
UQueensland ConservationPlanning
Post-Doctoral Research Fellow in Landscape Genet-
ics School of Geography, Planning and Environmental
Management University of Queensland (Brisbane, Aus-
tralia)
Excellent opportunity for an early career researcher to
work in a stimulating and challenging research team en-
vironment. The School of Geography, Planning and En-
vironmental Management is one of the largest Schools
of this type in Australia with 34 full-time academic staﬀ
who are widely published internationally and have ex-
tensive research backgrounds. It is a vibrant, multidis-
ciplinary School with extensive teaching and research96 EvolDir March 1, 2011
programs. The School has a strong international re-
search proﬁle with active Research Centres across its
ﬁelds of expertises.
The role: Applications are invited for an 18 month
ﬁxed-term Post-Doctoral Research Fellow position to
work on an ARC funded project involving the follow-
ing collaborators: the University of Queensland, the
Queensland Museum, Redland City Council, Moreton
Bay Regional Council, Logan City Council, Gold Coast
City Council and the Queensland Department of En-
vironment and Resource Management. The aim of the
project is to integrate genetic information into models
of species distributions and apply these new models to
systematic conservation planning.
The person: Applicants should have completed a PhD
in a relevant discipline and have a strong desire to de-
velop a successful and productive research career. They
should have expert knowledge in the area of landscape
genetics and have strong quantitative skills, preferably
in the area of spatial analysis and statistics. Genetics
laboratory experience, including DNA sequencing and
microsatellite genotyping, is also essential, as well as
evidence of successful publication of peer-reviewed re-
search articles.
Remuneration: The remuneration package will be in the
range $67,958 - $72,949 p.a., plus employer superannu-
ation contributions of 17% (total package will be in the
range $79,511 - $85,351 p.a.). This is a full-time, ﬁxed
term appointment for 18 months at Academic level A.
Application details: The position description and selec-
tion criteria can be found at: http://www.uq.edu.au/-
jobs/index.html?page=151866&pid=11217 ORhttp:/-
/www.seek.com.au/Job/post-doctoral-research-fellow-
in-landscape-geneti cs/in/brisbane/19085224
Contact: To discuss the role contact Dr Jonathan
Rhodes, email j.rhodes@uq.edu.au or Dr Jessica Wor-
thington Wilmer, email jessicaww@qm.qld.gov.au
Send applications to Human Resources, School of Geog-
raphy, Planning and Environmental Management, The
University of Queensland, St Lucia, Qld 4072, or email
hr@gpem.uq.edu.au.
Applications close 4 March 2011. Reference No .
3012628
jessica.wilmer@qm.qld.gov.au
UReading ExperimentalEvolutionA postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Louise
Johnson in the School of Biological Sciences at the
University of Reading, UK. The project involves engi-
neering bacterial strains to reassign stop codons, and
using experimental evolution and whole genome re-
sequencing to investigate the evolutionary and genomic
consequences of genetic code change.
This 3 year project is in collaboration with Michael
Brockhurst (University of Liverpool) and Robert Jack-
son (University of Reading), and funded by the Lev-
erhulme Trust. Candidates should have a PhD and
laboratory experience in microbiology or molecular bi-
ology; experience of mathematical modelling and pro-
gramming are preferred but not essential. The closing
date for applications is 28th March 2011 and interviews
will be held on the 7th April.
For further information and a job description please see
the following link:
https://www.reading.ac.uk/about/jobs/-
tlive webrecruitment/wrd/run/ETREC107GF
.open?VACANCY ID%3d0940743KV5%1BUSESSION ˚AD25A39CF7C48D18EFD2DB35EEF2AFA
<https://www.reading.ac.uk/about/jobs/-
tlive webrecruitment/wrd/run/ETREC107G
F.open?VACANCY ID%3d0940743KV5%1BUSESSION ˚AD25A39CF7C48D18EFD2DB35EEF2AFA&W
VID“93791XsD&LANG=USA >
&WVID”93791XsD&LANG=USA
The University of Reading is a leading research uni-
versity in the UK, situated in the town of Reading
40 miles to the west of London. Information about
the School of Biological Sciences is available via its
website http://www.reading.ac.uk/biologicalsciences/-
biosci-index.aspx .
Informal enquiries are welcome - please contact me at
the email address below.
Louise
Dr Louise Johnson RCUK Fellow, School of Biological
Sciences Room 302a Lyle Building University of Read-
ing, RG6 6BX, UK Phone +44 118 378 4432
l.j.johnson@reading.ac.uk
USheﬃeld 2 EvolutionBehaviour
I have a couple of postdoc positions open on human
behavioural ecology at the University of Sheﬃeld, and
because I am hoping to ﬁnd candidates with a degree
on evolutionary biology and strong background on e.g.March 1, 2011 EvolDir 97
quantitative genetics.
Two postdoc positions on human behavioural ecology
at the Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, Uni-
versity of Sheﬃeld
We are looking for two post-doctoral research associates
to work at the interface between evolutionary biology,
epidemiology, demography and anthropology on the ge-
netic, ecological and demographic factors inﬂuencing
life-history patterns and senescence rate in humans.
The overall aim of the project is to understand the
evolutionary ecology of human reproductive behavior
across the large demographic and social changes occur-
ring during the past 200 years, and how natural selec-
tion has aﬀected human populations at diﬀerent peri-
ods. The post-holder will be in charge of managing
and analysing a large pedigree database on the demog-
raphy of historical Finnish families spanning the time
since early 1700s until the end of 1900s. More infor-
mation about the research group is available at http:/-
/www.huli.group.shef.ac.uk/ . The successful candidate
will have a PhD in evolutionary biology or related topic
and a good track record of publishing in leading spe-
cialist or multidisciplinary journals. Strong statistical
skills are essential. The post is ﬁxed-term with a start
date of 1st April 2011 (or as soon as possible thereafter)
and an end date of 31st March 2013 with a possibil-
ity of an extension subject to funding. The work will
be performed at the Department of Animal and Plant
Sciences, University of Sheﬃeld - one of the largest de-
partments in the UK devoted to the study of whole
organism biology. We are ranked joint 3rd in the UK
for biology research and 70% of our research activity
has been judged to be “world-leading” or internation-
ally excellent (RAE 2008). The position is funded by
the European Research Council (ERC). Closing date:
14.3. 2011.
For all on-line application system queries and support,
contact: e-Recruitment@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
For informal enquiries about this job and department,
contact: Dr Virpi Lummaa v.lummaa@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
or +44 (0)114 2220051
– Dr. Virpi Lummaa Department of Animal and Plant
Sciences University of Sheﬃeld Western Bank, Sheﬃeld
S10 2TN United Kingdom
tel. +44 (0)114 222 0051 fax. +44 (0)114 222
0002 email. v.lummaa@sheﬃeld.ac.uk http://-
www.huli.group.shef.ac.uk/ http://www.shef.ac.uk/-
aps/staﬀ/acadstaﬀ/lummaa.html Virpi Lummaa
<V.Lummaa@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >UTexas MDAnderson
StatisticalGenetics
Postdoctoral Research Position in Statistical Genetics
A postdoctoral position in statistical genetics is avail-
able in the lab of Dr. Paul Scheet at the University
of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
The focus of the lab is the development of statistical
methods to analyze genetic and genomic data, with ap-
plications to human disease mapping and inference.
The lab provides an excellent environment for study-
ing statistical and computational genomics, with close
proximity to collaborators across the Texas Medical
Center and a strong statistical genetics group in the
Department of Epidemiology. Dr. Scheet has NIH-
funded projects for statistical methods development
and for collaborations at multiple institutions, includ-
ing St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital (PI: Mary
Relling). There are opportunities for collaborative
mentorship from colleagues Gary Rosner (Johns Hop-
kins) and Yongtao Guan (Baylor College of Medicine).
M. D. Anderson has topped U.S. News & World Re-
port’s list for cancer care (“America’s Best Hospitals”)
7 of the last 9 years and is located in the Texas Med-
ical Center (TMC), the world’s largest. The proxim-
ity of the TMC to Rice University and the Museum
District, light rail connections to world-class perform-
ing arts and professional sporting venues, and a large
and modern Chinatown make accessible a uniquely cos-
mopolitan and aﬀordable city.
The applicant should be working towards or have re-
ceived a Ph.D. (or equivalent) in statistics, biostatistics,
bioinformatics, computer science, quantitative biology
or genetics/genomics, or a related ﬁeld with strong com-
putational background.
To apply, send a cover letter with information
about research experience and interests, a CV, and
the names and contact information for 3 references
to: pascheet@mdanderson.org. Please visit http://-
epi.mdanderson.org/scheet for more information.
PAScheet@mdanderson.org98 EvolDir March 1, 2011
UToronto EvolutionaryBiol 2
***Reminder: Review of applications for the Postdoc-
toral Fellowship in the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology at the University of Toronto will be-
gin on Feb. 1, 2011***
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
<www.eeb.utoronto.ca >at the University of Toronto
invites applications for Departmental Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships in the areas of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, broadly deﬁned. One position is available this year,
and we expect that another will become available next
year through an ongoing EEB Postdoctoral Fellowship
Program. Positions may continue for two years, subject
to review after one year, and can begin as early as July
1, 2011. The salary starts at $40,000 per year, with
research expenses covered by the Postdoctoral Advisor.
The Fellow will be a fully participating member in the
Department. Candidates must identify and communi-
cate with a potential advisor (or advisors) in advance
of the application process. All full-time faculty mem-
bers at the St. George (downtown) campus of the Uni-
versity of Toronto are eligible to serve as advisors (see
www.eeb.utoronto.ca/postdoc/ for a list of potential
supervisors). Opportunities for teaching in an upper
level course may be available, if the candidate wishes
to teach.
To apply, applicants should ﬁrst contact and obtain the
agreement of a faculty advisor (or co-advisors). After-
wards, applicants should submit a cover letter clearly
indicating the proposed faculty advisor(s), a curricu-
lum vitae, copies of 2 publications, and a short (1-
3 pages) description of past research accomplishments
and future research plans. Applicants should include
names and e-mail addresses of two potential referees.
Applicants should also indicate the date they will be
available to begin the position. All application ma-
terials must be submitted as PDF’s in a single email
to: Elizabeth Rentzelos <chairsec.eeb@utoronto.ca >
<mailto:chairsec.eeb@utoronto.ca >. Review of appli-
cations will begin on Feb. 1, 2011.
The University of Toronto is a leading academic insti-
tution in Canada with over 60 faculty members spe-
cializing in ecology and evolution. Strong links exist
between the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology and the Royal Ontario Museum, the Centre
for Global Change, the Centre for Environment, andthe Faculty of Forestry. The University owns a nearby
ﬁeld station dedicated to ecological research (the Kof-
ﬂer Scientiﬁc Reserve, ksr.utoronto.ca). The depart-
ment also has a partnership with the Ontario Ministry
of Natural Resources that helps provide access to infras-
tructure, including lab facilities in Algonquin Provin-
cial Park ( www.harkness.ca ), funding, and long-term
data sets. Genomic analyses are supported by theCen-
tre for the Analysis of Genome Evolution and Function
(www.cagef.utoronto.ca ).
– Megan Frederickson Assistant Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of
Toronto 25 Harbord Street Toronto, Ontario, M5S
3G5, Canada Email: m.frederickson@utoronto.ca Web:
labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/frederickson
Megan Frederickson <m.frederickson@utoronto.ca >
UTurku
SticklebackEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc in Evolutionary Genomics/Bioinformatics-
threespine sticklebacks
A post-doctoral position is available to study phe-
notypic evolution in threespine stickleback in Erica
Lederˆ as research group at the University of Turku, Fin-
land ( http://users.utu.ﬁ/eriled ). This position is part
of an Academy of Finland funded project which aims to
use a systems biology approach to identify the molec-
ular mechanisms responsible for the evolution of sex-
ual dimorphism as well as various adaptive phenotypic
traits.
Requirements: Candidates are expected to have a PhD
in biology or a related ﬁeld and a strong background in
molecular biology and genetics and/or bioinformatics.
Researchers with previous experience (in any organism)
in evolutionary genomics or molecular biology, in par-
ticular involving microarray analysis, next-generation
sequencing, and/or bioinformatics are welcome to ap-
ply. The candidate is expected to be able to express
him/herself ﬂuently in English (written and spoken),
be able to work both independently and as a member
of a team, both nationally and internationally, and con-
tribute to the supervision of PhD and MSc students.
To apply: Please send a letter describing your research
interests and qualiﬁcations, a CV (including publica-
tion list), and contact information for three references
(who will provide a letter of reference) to Erica LederMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 99
(erica.leder@utu.ﬁ).
Review of applications will commence on February 28
with the preferred starting date being April 2011. The
position is initially available for 2 years, but an ex-
tension may be possible. The salary range is 3000 -
3800 EUR per month, depending on the previous post-
doctoral experience of the candidate. Informal inquiries
should also be addressed to Erica Leder.
Research Environment: The successful applicant will
be part of an active research climate in the ﬁeld of evo-
lutionary genomics including interaction and collabo-
ration with Professors: Craig Primmer, Juha Meril¨ a,
and Michael Bell. We are part of the Systems Biology
Research Group at the Turku Centre for Biotechnol-
ogy and core facilities for microarray analysis, next-
generation sequencing, and proteomics are available
through this aﬃliation. Turku, Finlandˆ as 5th largest
city (176 000 people), is located in the South-Western
part of Finland. It has a rich cultural history and is
the gateway to a beautiful archipelago. The University
of Turku is one of the major multidisciplinary universi-
ties in Finland and the City of Turku was ranked third
in the most recent classiﬁcation of medium-sized Euro-
pean ˆ aSmart Citiesˆ a ( http://www.smart-cities.eu )
Background/Example Publications: Leder EH, JM
Cano, T Leinonen, RB Oˆ aHara, M Nikinmaa, CR
Primmer, and J Meril¨ a. (2010) Concentration of
female-biased expression on the X chromosome as an
intermediate step in the evolution of sex chromosomes.
Molecular Biology and Evolution 27: 1495-1503
Papakostas, S, LA V ˜Allestad, CR Primmer & EH
Leder. 2010. Proteomic Proﬁling of Early Life Stages
of European Grayling (Thymallus thymallus). Journal
of Proteome Research, 9:4790ˆ a4800.
Leder EH, Meril¨ a J, & Primmer CR. (2009) A ﬂexible
whole-genome microarray for transcriptomics in three-
spine sticklebacks. BMC Genomics 10: 426
–
Erica Leder, PhD Academy Research Fellow Division of
Genetics and Physiology Dept of Biology (Vesilinnantie
5) 20014 University of Turku Finland
mobile +358 50 3398204 tel. +358 2 3337086 fax. +358
2 3336680
Erica Leder <eriled@utu.ﬁ >UUtah SolanaceaeSystematics
Postdoctoral Position in Solanaceae Systematics. A
postdoctoral position at the University of Utah is avail-
able in the area of Solanaceae systematics. Several
projects are underway, including one to produce a
global monograph of the genus Solanum (Solanaceae).
Solanum includes between 1000 and 2000 species
and is one of the largest genera of angiosperms.
The species level taxonomy, including images, keys
and specimen data, are being made available over
the Internet on the Solanaceae Source webpage at
www.solanaceaesource.org . Other projects include sys-
tematic and phylogenetic studies of other genera in
the Solanaceae. Responsibilities include monographic
taxonomy of selected groups of Solanaceae; specimen
and image databasing and manipulation; ﬁeld work for
the collection of herbarium, seed and silica gel sam-
ples; generation of molecular data for phylogeny recon-
struction (mainly sequences of chloroplast and nuclear
genes); maintenance and analysis of living greenhouse
collections of Solanaceae; data analysis, presentation,
and publication; training and supervision of undergrad-
uate lab assistants; and oversight of routine lab activ-
ities. Candidates should have a Ph.D. and experience
in plant systematics, ﬁeld work and with working in a
team; experience with Solanaceae is preferred but not
required, as is experience with molecular systematics
and a variety of methods of data analysis. The posi-
tion is available for one year beginning in April 2011
and extendable for up to several years as long as funds
are available and satisfactory progress is demonstrated.
Electronic submission of applications is encouraged.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until a suitable candidate is chosen. Applicants
should submit a statement of interest and description of
past experience, a curriculum vitae, and contact infor-
mation (names, email addresses, and phone numbers)
of three references to:
Lynn Bohs Department of Biology 257 South 1400 East
University of Utah Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA
E-mail: bohs@biology.utah.edu Phone: [1] (801) 585-
0380 Bohs lab - http://biologylabs.utah.edu/bohs/-
Solanaceae Source - www.solanaceaesource.org Infor-
mation on the Biology Department at the University of
Utah is available at www.biology.utah.edu The Univer-
sity of Utah is an Equal Opportunity Employer.100 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Lynn Bohs <bohs@biology.utah.edu >
UWisconsin Madison
EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Genet-
ics/Genomics
A postdoctoral position is available immediately (one
year, renewable) in the Laboratory of Professor Carol
Lee in the Center of Rapid Evolution (CORE) at the
University of Wisconsin, Madison to work on a project
in collaboration with Joana Silva at the Institute for
Genome Sciences. The research focuses on the evolu-
tionary genetics and genomics of invasive populations.
We are exploring the systematic and functional compo-
sition of microbial communities associated with an in-
vading host, the copepod Eurytemora aﬃnis, and how
microbial-host interactions shift following habitat in-
vasions. The project will make extensive use of mi-
crobiome and metagenome methodologies to study the
microbiota, and of transcriptome sequencing and analy-
ses to characterize metabolic shifts within the copepod
host.
Requirements for this position include a Ph.D., a strong
background in molecular biology/genomics and strong
analytical and quantitative skills. Relevant training
and experience include research in metagenomics, cul-
turing of bacteria from environmental samples, tran-
scriptomics, and genomic data analysis.
Applicants should email a cover letter, CV, a brief
statement of research interests and experience, and
up to three representative publications to: car-
ollee@wisc.edu. Applicants should also arrange for
three letters of recommendation to be sent by email.
Any questions regarding this position are welcome. Ap-
plication Deadline: March 30, 2010.
The University of Wisconsin, Madison provides an in-
tellectually vibrant research environment, with ~37 bi-
ology departments and ~800 biology faculty, including
a strong community of evolutionary biologists and ge-
neticists. The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.Carol Eunmi Lee, Ph.D. Associate Professor Center
of Rapid Evolution (CORE) 430 Lincoln Drive, Birge
Hall University of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706 car-
ollee@wisc.edu
https://mywebspace.wisc.edu/carollee/web/Lee/-
Lee.html carollee@wisc.edu
Vienna PopGenetics
Statistical genetics and population genetics in Vienna
Several postdoctoral positions in statistical genetics
and population genetics are immediately available in
the Nordborg group at the Gregor Mendel Insti-
tute. Major projects include genome-wide association
mapping and systems genetics using 1,001 fully se-
quenced lines ofA rabidopsis thaliana, speciation ge-
netics in a variety of plant species, and population ge-
netics of vervet monkeys. More information is avail-
able at http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/research-groups/-
magnus-nordborg . Applicants are expected to have
completed (or be close to completing) a PhD in a closely
related ﬁeld, to have published (or be close to pub-
lishing) in major international journals, and have ex-
perience with genomic data (e.g., next-generation se-
quencing data) as well as strong quantitative training
(including programming). Please send an e-mail de-
scribing your background and interest in our projects,
accompanied by a CV and the names of three referees
to Dr. Magnus Nordborg.
Applications are open now and will be considered until
positions are ﬁlled.
Cheers,
MN
Magnus Nordborg, Scientiﬁc Director Gregor Mendel
Institute Dr. Bohr-Gasse 3 1030 Vienna, Austria
T: +43 1 79044-9000 F: +43 1 79044-9001 mag-
nus.nordborg@gmi.oeaw.ac.at
http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at iChat A/V: nord-
borg@mac.com
“Nordborg, Magnus” <magnus.nordborg@gmi.oeaw.ac.at >March 1, 2011 EvolDir 101
WorkshopsCourses
Arolla Switzerland EvolBiol Jun26-Jul2 . . . . . . . . . . 101
FortCollins Colorado ComparativeGenomics Jul10-23
102
FortCollins Colorado MolEvol Jul24-Aug6 . . . . . . . . 102
Frauenchiemsee Phylogenetics Aug7-12 . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Guarda Switzerland EvolBiol Jun18-25 . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Hungary NicheTheorySpeciation Aug29-31 . . . . . . . 104
KelloggBiolStation EvolEcol Jun6-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Montreal PopulationGenomics GeneticEpidemiology
May30-Jun3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
NESCent WEBS EvolutionaryBiol Nov6-9 . . . . . . . 107
Okinawa ComparativeGenomics May16-Jun3 . . . . . 107
OxfordU CompuationalBiol Jul11-Aug20 . . . . . . . . . 108OxfordU CompuationalBiol Jul11-Aug20 2 . . . . . . . 109
Panama TropicalEvolution Apr11-May25Panama
TropicalEvolution Apr11-May25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Phyloseminar ComparativeDiversity Feb25 . . . . . . . 110
Roscoﬀ France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics May15-
28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UCD Dublin MastersEvolBiol Sep . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UPadova EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UppsalaU QTLmapping Apr5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UWashington StatisticalGenetics Jun13-Jul1 . . . . . 113
Valencia Spain MEPPA 2011 May30-Jun3 . . . . . . . . 113
Vienna Austria NGSworkshop May23-27 . . . . . . . . . 113
Arolla Switzerland EvolBiol
Jun26-Jul2
Dear Colleagues, we still have a few places available at
this workshop, please bring it to the attention of po-
tential participants. Tad Kawecki
Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the Alps
26 June- 2 July 2011 Arolla, Switzerland
3 ETSC credit points
Faculty: John Pannell (University of Oxford, UK)
Mike Ritchie (University of St. Andrews, UK) Jerome
Goudet (University of Lausanne, Switzerland) Tadeusz
Kawecki (University of Lausanne, Switzerland)
Target participants: PhD students, advanced master
students This workshop, based on a concept developed
by Steve Stearns and John Maynard Smith, takes place
in a small Alpine village (Arolla), which will allow you
to focus while being able to enjoy the landscape and
the Alpine ﬂora. The main goals of this course are to
develop the following skills: - developing your scientiﬁc
ideas through discussions in groups - thinking critically
and expressing oneself clearly - turning a general idea
into a research project - writing a research proposal
and defending it It is you, the students, who will be in
charge in this course. You will be divided in groups of
4-5 students. In those groups, you will work on yourideas. You, as a group, will decide what the important
questions in broadly deﬁned evolutionary biology are,
you will choose one, and attempt to develop a proposal
for a research project that will address it. The faculty
will visit the groups during the discussions to answer
your questions, provide coaching and give you feedback
on your projects, but they will generally take the back
seat. Additionally, the faculty will give informal talks
about their research and be available for informal dis-
cussion with individual students. At the end you will
present your projects to other participants, and we will
party.
Costs: CHF 430.- for room and board.
More information under http://biologie.cuso.ch/-
ecologie-evolution/activities/detail-activity/item/-
courses/evolutionary-biology-workshop-in-the-alps-1/
To apply, send a single ﬁle (pdf or rtf) containing a
short motivation letter, a cv and the name of your
scientiﬁc advisor to tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch.
Deadline for application: 28 February 2011.
– Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Bio-
phore CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch102 EvolDir March 1, 2011
FortCollins Colorado
ComparativeGenomics Jul10-23
Workshop on Comparative Genomics, North America
2011
Fort Collins, Colorado, USA
10 - 23 July 2011
Application Deadline: 15 May is the preferred applica-
tion deadline, after which time people will be admitted
to the course following review of applications by the
admissions committee. However, later applications will
certainly be accepted.
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WCG
Scott A. Handley, Michael Cummings and Kendra
Nightingale, Co-Directors
The Workshop on Comparative Genomics consists of a
series of lectures, demonstrations and computer labo-
ratories that cover various aspects of comparative ge-
nomics focusing on next-generation sequencing data.
Faculty are chosen exclusively for their eﬀectiveness in
teaching theory and practice in comparative genomics.
Included among the faculty are developers and other
experts in the use of computer programs and pack-
ages such as ABySS, bowtie, velvet, bioperl, Scrip-
ture, GMOD, Gbrowse, Galaxy, PyCogent, QIIME
who provide demonstrations and consultations. The
course is designed for established investigators, post-
doctoral scholars, and advanced graduate students. Sci-
entists with strong interests in the uses of short-read
sequence data, analytical methods, comparative struc-
ture of genomes, metagenomics, genome visualization
tools and related areas are encouraged to apply for ad-
mission. Lectures and computer laboratories total ~90
hours of scheduled instruction. Admission is limited.
No programming experience is required, however, de-
tailed instruction suitable for the novice will be pro-
vided during the early days of the Workshop on the use
of the command line, editing tools and basic scripting.
Topics to be covered include: - Linux command line
usage and scripting for next-generation sequence anal-
ysis - Sequencing technologies and study design - Se-
quence data quality control - Assembly and alignment
- Functional annotation - Transcriptomics - Metage-
nomic analysis - Evolutionary genomics - Population
genomics2011 Fee: 1800 USD does not include other meals or
housing. Special discounted housing and meals are
available on the campus of Colorado State University.
For more information and online application see the
Workshop web site -
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WCG
and for housing and payment information see -
https://regstg.com/Registration/RegForm.aspx?rid=-
3Dd41e4a6a-bf9f-40f0-8b0a-74fba75088b4&action=add
The Workshop on Molecular Evolution is also being of-
fered immediately after the Workshop on Comparative
Genomics.
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WME
mike@umiacs.umd.edu
FortCollins Colorado MolEvol
Jul24-Aug6
Workshop on Molecular Evolution, North America 2011
Fort Collins, Colorado, USA
24 July - 6 August 2011
Application Deadline: 15 May was the preferred appli-
cation deadline, after which time people will be admit-
ted to the course following review of applications by the
admissions committee. However, later applications are
accepted.
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WME
Michael P. Cummings, Scott A. Handley and Kendra
Nightingale, Co-Directors
The Workshop consists of a series of lectures, demon-
strations and computer laboratories that cover various
aspects of molecular evolution. Faculty are chosen ex-
clusively for their eﬀectiveness in teaching theory and
practice in molecular evolution. Included among the
faculty are developers and other experts in the use
of computer programs and packages such as BEAST,
*BEAST, DataMonkey, FigTree, Genealogical Sorting
Index, GARLI, HyPhy, LAMARC, MAFFT, MrBayes,
and SeaView who provide demonstrations and consul-
tations.
The course is designed for established investigators,
postdoctoral scholars, and advanced graduate students
with prior experience in molecular evolution and related
ﬁelds. Scientists with strong interests in molecular evo-
lution, phylogenetics, population genetics, and relatedMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 103
ﬁelds are encouraged to apply for admission. Scheduled
lectures and computer laboratories total ~90 hours of
instruction. Admission is limited and highly competi-
tive.
Topics to be covered include:
- Phylogenetic analysis: theoretical, mathematical and
statistical bases; sampling properties of sequence data;
Bayesian analysis; hypothesis testing - Maximum likeli-
hood and Bayesian theory and practice in phylogenetics
and population genetics: coalescent theory; estimation
of population genetic parameters - Detecting positive
selection: theory and practice; codon models - Dating
phylogenies: theory and practice - Coalescent species
trees
2011 Fee: 1100 USD does not include other meals or
housing. Special discounted housing and meals are
available on the campus of Colorado State University.
For more information and online application see the
Workshop web site -
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WME
and for housing and payment information see -
https://regstg.com/Registration/RegForm.aspx?rid=-
3D76c8770d-9b70-44e5-9d1d-804beeceb915&action=-
add The Workshop on Comparative Genomics
is also being oﬀered immediately before the
Workshop on Molecular Evolution, see http:/-
/www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WCG
mike@umiacs.umd.edu
Frauenchiemsee Phylogenetics
Aug7-12
To whom it may concern,
the Master’s programme “Ecology, Evolution and Sys-
tematics” is holding its annual Summer School 2011
on “Phylogenetics: new applications, pitfalls and chal-
lenges” from the 7th to the 12th of August, 2011, at
the Frauenchiemsee, Germany.
As I wasn’t quite sure how to send the information,
please see below or attachment for the information that
is to be posted.
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to con-
tact me.
Regards, Alice Edler
for website:Dear all,
the Ludwig-Maximilian-University of Munich’s Mas-
ter’s programme in Evolution, Ecology and Systemat-
ics (EES) is hosting its annual summer school from 7 -
12 August, 2011, on “Phylogenetics: new applications,
pitfalls and challenges”. We invite PhD students and
advanced Master’s students to join us at Frauenchiem-
see!
Application deadline is May 31st, 2011. Please send
a full CV, a statement about your research inter-
ests/current projects (max. half page), a statement
about why you want to attend the summer school - ex-
plicitly addressing how you expect to beneﬁt and what
you can contribute (max. half page). Please send your
application by email, preferably as a single PDF ﬁle to
Dr. Alice Edler (ees@bio.lmu.de).
Invited speakers: Prof. Dr. Olaf Bininda-Emonds
(University of Oldenburg, Germany), Prof. Dr.
Nicholas Lartillot (University of Montreal, Canada),
Prof. Dr. John Wiens (Stony Brook University, USA).
Organisers: Prof. Dr. Dirk Metzler LMU BioCen-
ter Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried
Phone: +49 89 2180 74108 Fax: +49 2180 74104 Email:
metzler@biologie.uni-muenchen.de Website: http://-
evol.bio.lmu.de/ statgen/ Dr. Alice Edler EES Pro-
gram Coordinator Graduate Program in Evolution,
Ecology & Systematics, University of Munich (LMU)
Biozentrum - Department Biologie II Grosshaderner
Str. 2 D-82152 Planegg-Martinsried, Germany
Phone: 49 (0)89-2180-74234 Email: ees@biologie.uni-
muenchen.de
For further information on the summer school, feel
free to contact the organisers or see the sum-
mer school website ( http://www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/-
Summer school 2011).
–
Dr. Alice Edler EES Program Coordinator Gradu-
ate Program in Evolution, Ecology& Systematics, Uni-
versity of Munich (LMU) Biozentrum - Department
Biologie II Grosshaderner Str. 2 D-82152 Planegg-
Martinsried, Germany Phone: 49 (0)89-2180-74234
ees@biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Guarda Switzerland EvolBiol
Jun18-25104 EvolDir March 1, 2011
Workshop in evolutionary biology for master students
and ﬁrst or second year PhD students.
It is my pleasure to announce this years Guarda work-
shop in Evolutionary Biology. The main aim of this 1
week course is to develop the skills to produce an inde-
pendent research project in evolutionary biology. The
course is for students with a keen interest in evolution-
ary biology.
The course takes place 18.-25. June 2011 in the Swiss
mountain village Guarda. Faculty includes Richard
Lenski, Peter and Rosemary Grant, Sebastian Bonho-
eﬀer and Dieter Ebert (organizer).
The course is intended for master (Diploma) students
and early PhD students. For the course 3 ECTS credit
points are awarded.
The web page with all the details can be found under:
http://www.evolution.unibas.ch/teaching/guarda/-
index.htm Please communicate this information to
interested students.
dieter ebert
http://evolution.unibas.ch/ Universit¨ at Basel, Zoolo-
gisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1 4051 Basel, Switzerland
Tel. +41-(0)61-267 03 60
dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
Hungary NicheTheorySpeciation
Aug29-31
Workshop announcement
Niche theory & speciation workshop
August 29-31, 2011
Keszthely (Lake Balaton), Hungary
http://nichews.elte.hu Framework : ESF Research
Networking Programme Frontiers of speciation research
(FroSpects)
http://www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/FroSpects/-
index.html Generation and maintenance of species
diversity used to be distinct subjects of evolutionary
genetics and ecology. During the workshop we shall
discuss as many connections as possible between these
strongly related facets of biological diversity. Over
the last decade robust empirical evidence has been
accumulating on the mechanisms maintaining species
coexistence and on frequency-dependent selection,ecological divergence as well as on sympatric speci-
ation. The invited participants work on empirical
and theoretical problems of the evolution of niche
segregation and genetics of speciation that provide a
unique opportunity to relate the ecological and genetic
approaches to speciation.
The Darwinian idea for the origin of species connects
divergence to weakening struggle for existence. It is
inherently related to Darwin’s view on reduced compe-
tition between species with diﬀerent roles in the econ-
omy of nature. In modern terms, Darwinian speciation
is based on niche segregation. In particular, adapta-
tion to diﬀerent environmental conditions (“habitats”)
and to diﬀerent regulating factors (“resources”) can be
seen as complementary ways of reducing competition.
Selection for reduced competition leads to robust co-
existence. The idea of Darwinian speciation requires
a Darwinian approach also to ecology where the vari-
ous ways of population regulation are in the focus of
interest.
Both empirical and theoretical contributions to these
issues are welcome.
If you would like to attend and contribute please
write an email to G´ eza Mesz´ ena, geza.meszena@elte.hu
subject=NicheWorkshop-LakeBalaton2011, at your
earliest convenience, but not later than 7 March 2011.
G´ eza Mesz´ ena, main organizer
Department of Biological Physics, E¨ otv¨ os University
P´ azmany P´ eter s´ et´ any 1A, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary
Phone:
+36 1 372 2786
Email:
Geza.Meszena@elte.hu
Other organizers:
Ake Branstrom, Ulf Dieckmann,
Liz P´ asztor, Andr´ as Szil´ agyi
Conﬁrmed participants so far:
Peter Abrams (Toronto, Canada)
Joel Brown (Chicago, USA)
Daniel Dykhuizen (Stony Brook, USA)
´Eva Kisdi (Helsinki, Finnland)
Olof Leimar (Stockholm, Sweden)
Andrew Hendry (Montreal, Canada)
Joachim Hermisson (Vienna, Austria)
Robert D. Holt (Gainesville, USA)March 1, 2011 EvolDir 105
Jim Mallet (London, UK)
Axel Meyer (Konstanz, Germany)
Ole Seehausen (D¨ ubendorf, Switzerland)
Jonathan Silvertown (London, UK)
Jorge Soberon (Lawrance, USA)
G´ eza Mesz´ ena, PhD Associate Professor Department of
Biological Physics E¨ otv¨ os University P´ azm´ any 1A, H-
1118 Budapest Hungary Phone: +36 1 372-2786 Mo-
bile: +36 20 973-9204 Fax: +36 1 372-2757 Email:
geza.meszena@elte.hu Web: http://evol.elte.hu/˜geza
geza.meszena@elte.hu
KelloggBiolStation EvolEcol
Jun6-24
ELME is a summer educational program at Michigan
State Unviersity’s Kellogg Biological Station devoted
to Enhancing Linkages between Mathematics and Ecol-
ogy.
ELME 2011 will focus on evolutionary ecology, partic-
ularly game theory and Adaptive Dynamics (Geritz et
al. 1998). In this hands-on three-week course, students
will learn the basics of Adaptive Dynamics and apply
their knowledge to independent modeling projects us-
ing the computer program Mathematica.
Dates: June 6-24, 2011
Hours: Mon-Fri 9-5
Instructors: Stefan Geritz (University of Helsinki) &
Christopher Klausmeier (Michigan State University)
Target audience: 12-18 graduate students and post-
docs; exceptional undergraduates will be considered
Prerequisites: At least one semester experience in the-
oretical ecology/evolution. Previous exposure to AD
and Mathematica useful but not required.
Format: A mixture of lecture, guided computer labs,
and independent/team projects
To apply, email elme2011@kbs.msu.edu the following:
- your CV - a statement of research interests and why
you’d beneﬁt from the course - a statement of rele-
vant educational/research experience, including related
coursework - the name of a reference who you’ve asked
to email a letter of support
Deadline for applications: March 15, 2011Financial support to cover room and board and help
defray transportation costs is available. Let us know
if this is not necessary. Academic credit, if desired, is
available at appropriate MSU rates. Let us know if this
is desired.
For more info see <http://www.kbs.msu.edu/-
education/elme >or email elme2011@kbs.msu.edu.
Christopher Klausmeier Kellogg Biological Station De-
partment of Plant Biology Michigan State University
Hickory Corners MI 49060
Web: http://preston.kbs.msu.edu/ Email:
klausme1@msu.edu
Christopher Klausmeier <klausme1@msu.edu >
Montreal PopulationGenomics
GeneticEpidemiology May30-Jun3
Montreal Spring School of Population Genomics and
Genetic Epidemiology
May 30 -“ June 3, 2011
Seewww.montrealspringschool.ca for details
Day 0 -” May 30th (Optional for those who need a re-
view
(Concurrent Sessions)
Review of Genetics
Instructors: Camille Malouf and Mathieu Bourgey
Time: 8:00am -“ 12:00pm
ˆA Mendel’s Laws of Genetics The chromosome theory
of heredity Linkage and genetic recombination >From
genes to genotype
ˆA Population Genetics Genetic Variability Assessing
the genetic diversity of populations Main evolutionary
forces Applications of population genetics
Review of Epidemiology
Instructor: Ellen Freeman
Time: 8:00am -” 12:00pm
This lecture will review basic concepts in Epidemiol-
ogy, including measures of disease frequency, study de-
signs, and measures of association. We will also discuss
principles of causal inference including recognizing and
controlling for bias and confounding and detecting in-
teractions. Examples from genetic epidemiology will106 EvolDir March 1, 2011
be presented and attendants will be asked to read and
discuss an article from this ﬁeld.
Review of Biostatistics
Instructor: Nathalie Malo
Time: 1:00 -“5:00pm
The lecture will review concepts in probability and
statistics. Topics will include sample space and event,
union and intersection, conditional probability and in-
dependence, Bayes- Theorem, common probability dis-
tributions, and the concept of likelihood. Statistical in-
ference methods will be discussed, including maximum
likelihood estimation, conﬁdence intervals, and hypoth-
esis testing (large sample tests, exact and permutation
tests).
The related computer lab will illustrate the use of some
of these biostatistical tools using the R software. At-
tendants will also be given practice exercises with R.
Day 1 -” May 31st (note that exact hours will be ad-
justed to ﬁt lunch and coﬀee breaks etc.)
Introductory Concepts in Human Populations and
Medical Genomics
Instructor: Laurent Excoﬃer
Time: 8:00am -“ 12:00pm
Principles of population genetics: This lecture will
cover some of the major concepts in human population
genetics including random genetic drift and the deriva-
tion and properties of the basic coalescence model.
(Laurent Excoﬃer 8:00am -” 10:30am).
1. Random Genetic Drift
1.1. The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium law
1.2. The Wright-Fisher Model of random genetic drift
1.3. Eﬀective population size
2. Gene trees and the basic coalescence model
2.1. Coalescence under diﬀerent demographic scenarios
(e.g., population growth)
Introductory Concepts in Genetic Epidemiology
Instructor: Alexandre Alca ˜As
Time: 1:00pm -“ 4:15pm
We will ﬁrst brieﬂy introduce concepts and designs to
study familial aggregation followed by basic principles
of linkage and association analysis for qualitative traits.
Topics covered will include designs and analytical meth-
ods used to study genetic linkage. Both parametric and
non-parametric linkage analysis will be covered. Pre-
sentation of the concepts will be followed by a computerlab application using real data and currently available
software such as MLB.
Invited Lecture
Speaker: Andrew Clark
Time: 4:15 -” 5:00pm
Day 2 -“ June 1st
Introductory Concepts in Human Populations and
Medical Genomics
Instructors: Luis Barreiro and Lluis Quintana-Murci
Time: 8:00am -” 12:00pm
Human population genomics: This lecture will intro-
duce the students to the most recent genomic datasets
on human genome diversity. We will discuss the con-
tribution of HapMap and the 1000 genomes project to
the better understanding of human evolution and the
development of genome-wide association studies. The
following concepts will be presented:
Mutation and recombination
Recombination at pedigree level -“ concept of linkage
disequilibrium (LD)
Measures of LD and its decay
Tagging SNPs
Population mutation parameter, population recombi-
nation rate
lab will introduce methods of analyzing data from the
HapMap project.
Demography of human populations: This lecture will
introduce the diﬀerent models to explain human evo-
lution. It will give an overview of the most recent ge-
netic data explaining the human origins and migration
patterns. It will concentrate on phylogeographic stud-
ies, mostly concerning uniparentally-inherited genomes.
(Lluis Quintana-Murci 10:30am -” 12:00pm).
Introductory Concepts in Genetic Epidemiology
Instructors: Alexandre Alca ˜As and H ˜Ac/circlecopyrtl˜Ane
V˜Ac/circlecopyrtzina
Time: 1:00pm -“ 5:00pm
This lecture will cover designs and analytic methods for
genetic association studies. Methods to investigate di-
rect (candidate locus) and indirect (linkage disequilib-
rium mapping) associations with human disease will be
introduced. Both family-based and population based
designs will be presented.
Presentation of the concepts will be followed by a com-
puter labMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 107
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
NESCent WEBS EvolutionaryBiol
Nov6-9
DearColleagues,
We are writing to introduce you to WEBS (Women
Evolving Biological Sciences), an annual three-day sym-
posium aimed at addressing the retention of female sci-
entists and issues related to the transition of women
from early career stages to tenure track positions and
leadership roles in academic and research settings. Past
WEBS symposium in 2007, 2008, and 2010 were huge
successes. Early career participants as well as our se-
nior scientist panelists reported feeling inspired and
equipped with new connections and tools that they ex-
pect will help them in their career in the years to come.
We would appreciate your assistance in passing along
this information to any of your colleagues who you think
will be interested in our program.
WEBS will target early career women in the Biological
Sciences with an emphasis on ecology and evolutionary
biology. In particular, it will focus on women who have
earned their doctoral degrees within the past two to
eight years and who do not have tenure in order to ad-
dress the critical transition period from graduate stud-
ies and post-doctoral positions to permanent research
and teaching positions. The symposium will provide
a forum for professional development, including aware-
ness and improvement of academic leadership skills; op-
portunities to establish mentoring relationships; and re-
sources for developing professional networks. The 2011
symposium will be held at NESCent (National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center) in Durham, NC, November
6-9, 2011.
Please visit our website ( http://-
www.webs.washington.edu ) for details and application
materials. Feel free to contact us with any questions
you might have (websinfo@u.washington.edu). Appli-
cations open March 1, 2011 and will be due on April
15, 2011.
Sincerely, Samantha Forde, Ph.D. Claire Horner-
Devine, Ph.D. Joyce Yen, Ph.D.Samantha E. FordeAssistant Professor, adjunct Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Cal Teach Development
and Outreach University of California 831-459-1541
forde@ucsc.edu
Okinawa ComparativeGenomics
May16-Jun3
Dear Colleagues,
We are now soliciting applications for the Quantitative
Evolutionary and Comparative Genomics workshop at
the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology. This
is the second year we are oﬀering this workshop. Last
year’s was a great success, and we would like to see
the same high-level applicants in Okinawa this summer.
We already have an excellent pool of lecturers (see be-
low). I hope you can either apply to participate in the
workshop, or bring this opportunity to the attention of
talented graduate students, post-doctoral fellows and
advanced undergraduates.
Yours, Alexander Mikheyev
http://www.oist.jp/qecg2011/May 16 - June 3, 2011.
*OIST covers accommodation and travel expenses for
all participants. Application deadline March 15, 2011.*
*Conﬁrmed Lecturers: <http://www.oist.jp/-
qecg2011/doku.php?id=3DPeople >*
- Dan Andersson, *Uppsala Universitet*, *Gene am-
pliﬁcation and adaptation in bacteria* - Philip Hast-
ings, *Baylor College of Medicine*, *Mechanisms of
CNV* - Joachim Hermisson, *University of Vienna*,
*Population genetic models of adaptation* - Takehiko
Kobayashi, *National Institute of Genetics, Japan*,
*Repetitive genes & concerted evolution* - Thomas
Lenormand, Centre d’Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evo-
lutive, Montpellier, *Molecular basis of adaptation in
mosquitoes* - Michael Lynch, *Indiana University*,
*Recombination* - Gilean McVean, *Oxford*, *TBD*
- Simon Myers, *Oxford*, *Genealogical methods for
detecting selection and inference of admixture his-
tory* - Molly Przeworski, *University of Chicago*,
*Distinguishing hitchhiking from background selection*
- David Romero, *Centro de Ciencias Gen´ omicas,
UNAM*, *Gene conversion and the migrating Hol-
liday junction* - Susan Rosenberg, *Baylor College
of Medicine*, *DNA repair mechanisms* - Mikkel
Schierup, *Aarhus University,* *Reconstructing pre-
speciation recombination events* - Guy Sella, *Hebrew108 EvolDir March 1, 2011
University of Jerusalem*, *Signatures of adaptation* -
Yun Song, *UC Berkeley*, *Conditional sampling dis-
tributions in population genetics with recombination*
- Joel Stavans, *Weizmann Institute of Science*, *Op-
tical probes of recombination* - Cliﬀord Zeyl, *Wake
Forest University*, *Looking at the beneﬁts of sex us-
ing experimental evolution approaches*
OIST Summer School and Workshop: Quantitative
Evolutionary and Comparative Genomics 2011
The loosely deﬁned theme of the 2011 Summer School
is the linkage and recombination in genome sequences,
which will be explored from a quantitative and mul-
tidisciplinary perspective, and connections forged with
parts of biology outside of genomics. The format of the
summer school consists of a three-hour presentation in
the morning, with coﬀee breaks, followed by an discus-
sion in the afternoon, as well as group projects led by
tutors. The summer school is aimed primarily at in-
troducing approximately forty students and post-docs
with quantitative backgrounds - not necessarily in biol-
ogy - to the cutting edge of contemporary comparative
and evolutionary genomics research. As such, tutorials
will be oﬀered to get participants with less-developed
quantitative skills or sparse biological background up to
speed insofar as possible; however, we hope that pre-
sentations will be intense and self-contained.
*We are looking for a set of students with a broad range
of backgrounds, experimentalist and theorist: for exam-
ple, biology, chemistry, computer science, ecology, en-
gineering, evolution, genomics, mathematics, medicine,
or physics. The essential prerequisite is an enthusiasm
to overcome traditional boundaries of your own ﬁeld of
specialization.* A small number of researchers at later
stages of their careers may be invited to participate,
particularly if we believe they can contribute to mediat-
ing the interdisciplinary dialog; such applicants should
be certain to address this explicitly in their applica-
tions. *OIST is strongly committed to the advancement
of women in the sciences, and women are especially en-
couraged to apply.*
Okinawa is a subtropical divers’ paradise of diverse ecol-
ogy and distinctive beauty and cultural ﬂavor.
*OIST provides summer school students with accom-
modation at Seaside House and ﬁnancial support for
their travel. Students will be selected competitively
based upon their completed applications, submitted by
March 15, 2011 on our web site <http://www.oist.jp/-
qecg2011/doku.php?id=3DApplication >. We also re-
quest that the applicants submit a recommendation let-
ter from their advisor (see web site for details).*
mikheyev@gmail.comOxfordU CompuationalBiol
Jul11-Aug20
Oxford Summer Projects in Computational Biology
>From July 11th until August 20th 2011, a
project-based summer school in computational biol-
ogy will take place in Oxford in The Department
of Plant Sciences. The ideal student is strong in
maths/stats/compsci/phys/chem, has studied 2-3 years
of an undergraduate degree, and has an interest in mov-
ing into computational biology. However, we have also
successfully had students from a pure biology back-
ground, as well as students in the process of doing their
PhD. The instructors/teachers/project designers are:
James Anderson, Luke Cartey, Tom Cavalier-Smith,
David Gavaghan, Jotun Hein, Joe Herman, Nick Jones,
Steve Kelly, Rune Lyngsø, Thomas Mailund, Istvan
Miklos, Adam Novak, Bela Novak, Joe Pitt-Francis,
Gail Preston, Miltos Tsiantis.
The presently planned projects are:
* Metabolic Random Fields * Correlated Alignment
* Phylogenomic Analysis of Algae * Stochastic Mod-
els Combining Alignment and Annotation * Advanced
Software Design for Statistical Alignment * Evolving
Dynamical Systems: the Cell Cycle as test case * In-
verse RNA Folding Algorithms * Stochastic Models of
Leaf Shape Evolution * Comparison of Parallel Solution
Techniques for the Eikonal equation
More detailed descriptions of these can be found on
this page can be found here and earlier project reports
here. Students will work in groups of three with daily
discussion with the instructors. There will be three
presentations by each group and there should be a ﬁnal
report describing the work. Participation has in gen-
eral been experienced as very demanding by students.
There are no oﬃcial credits for participation, but par-
ticipation has been experienced as very rewarding as a
research experience and in creating relationships with
students/researchers in other countries.
In the work days in the above period, each day will
start with a one hour lecture and we will hope to have
given an overview of computational biology by the end
of the period. But, the course will strongly focus on
learning ’by doing’. There will also be one lecture de-
scribing how to enter an Oxford DPhil program. The
present plan is:March 1, 2011 EvolDir 109
* Week 1: Introduction to summer school, Introduction
to computational biology, Alignment of a pair of se-
quences, Alignment of a set of sequences, Student Pre-
sentations.
* Week 2: Models of substitution I, Models of sub-
stitution II, Models of substitution III, Phylogenies I,
Phylogenies II
* Week 3: Statistical alignment I, Statistical alignment
II, Genetic mapping I, Genetic mapping II, Networks I
* Week 4: Networks II, Networks III, Integrative ge-
nomics I, Integrative genomics II, Student Presenta-
tions.
* Week 5: Genome annotation I: protein genes.
Genome annotation II: RNA genes, Genome annota-
tion III: signals by machine learning, Genome anno-
tation IV: signals by evolutionary models, Patterns in
biology
* Week 6: Modelling molecular reactions I, Modelling
molecular reactions II, Predicting protein structure,
Doing a DPhil in Oxford, Final Student Presentations.
There are a number of scholarships to cover housing
and food, but more might be available dependent on
applications under review. The deadline for appli-
cations is 1st March by email to Madeline Mitchell
(mitchell@stats.ox.ac.uk). A CV with university grades
and two people who can be contacted for references are
needed. If possible, please apply as soon as possible as
there are a series of alternative possibilities of funding
for named students
Madeline Mitchell <mitchell@stats.ox.ac.uk >
OxfordU CompuationalBiol
Jul11-Aug20 2
Oxford Summer Projects in Computational Biology
2011
>From July 11th until August 20th 2011, a
project-based summer school in computational biol-
ogy will take place in Oxford in The Department
of Plant Sciences. The ideal student is strong in
maths/stats/compsci/phys/chem, has studied 2-3 years
of an undergraduate degree, and has an interest in mov-
ing into computational biology. However, we have also
successfully had students from a pure biology back-
ground, as well as students in the process of doing their
PhD.The instructors/teachers/lecturers/project designers
are: James Anderson, Phil Biggin, Phil Blunsom, Luke
Cartey, Tom Cavalier-Smith, Elspeth Garman, David
Gavaghan, Jotun Hein, Joe Herman, Wim Hordijk,
Nick Jones, Steve Kelly, Rune Lyngsø, Thomas
Mailund, Gil McVean, Istvan Miklos, Richard Mott,
Adam Novak, Bela Novak, Joe Pitt-Francis, Gail Pre-
ston, Miltos Tsiantis.
The presently planned projects will be taken from the
list below. People are encouraged to propose their own
projects, which has happened, as long as it is well-
worked through. So the list might grow if somebody
has a good idea.
* Metabolic Random Fields * Correlated Alignment
* Phylogenomic Analysis of Algae * Stochastic Mod-
els Combining Alignment and Annotation * Advanced
Software Design for Statistical Alignment * Evolving
Dynamical Systems: the Cell Cycle as test case * In-
verse RNA Folding Algorithms * Stochastic Models of
Leaf Shape Evolution * Network Combinatorics * Ap-
proximate Genealogies in Population Genomics * Evo-
lutionary Docking * Comparison of Parallel Solution
Techniques for the Eikonal Equation * Ab initio Detec-
tion of Regulatory Nucleotide Elements
More detailed descriptions of these can be found on
this page can be found here and earlier project reports
here. The projects should introduce a topic, meaning-
ful progress should be possible in the 6 weeks and could
also serve as an introduction to a research question that
could be pursued in a DPhil.
Students will work in groups of three with daily dis-
cussion with the instructors. There will be three pre-
sentations by each group and there should be a ﬁnal
report describing the work. Participation has in gen-
eral been experienced as very demanding by students.
There are no oﬃcial credits for participation, but par-
ticipation has been experienced as very rewarding as a
research experience and in creating relationships with
students/researchers in other countries.
In the work days in the above period, each day will
start with a one hour lecture and we will hope to have
given an overview of computational biology by the end
of the period. But, the course will strongly focus on
learning ’by doing’. There will also be one lecture de-
scribing how to enter Oxford DPhil programs. Both
lectures and projects will be updated before summer.
Each week is attempted to have two general teaching
lectures and two research topic lectures, with the week
ending with student presentations, Oxford Introduction
on Fridays.
The present plan is below, but it will be modiﬁed to110 EvolDir March 1, 2011
suit the students and chosen projects and accommo-
date time constraints of the lecturers:
Week 1: Introduction to summer school and compu-
tational biology, Alignment, Phylogenomics of Algae,
Imprinting in Mice, Student Presentations.
Week 2: Models of substitution, Phylogenies I, Molecu-
lar Dynamics and Function, Leaves and their evolution,
The 1000 Genomes Project.
Week 3: Phylogenies II Statistical alignment, Gram-
mars and Biological Sequences, Genetic mapping, Dy-
namics Models of the Cell Cycle,
Week 4: Networks , Integrative genomics, Bacterial
genomes and metabolism, Network Inference, Student
Presentations.
Week 5: Annotating genomes for protein genes. RNA
secondary structure, Finding signals, Computer com-
parison of languages and automatic translation, Doing
a DPhil in Oxford,
Week 6: Comparative biology, Genome Rearrangement,
Origin of Metabolism, Analysing protein structure, Fi-
nal Student Presentations.
There are a number of scholarships to cover housing
and food, but more might be available dependent on
applications under review. The deadline for appli-
cations is 1st March by email to Madeline Mitchell
(mitchell@stats.ox.ac.uk). A CV with university grades
and two people who can be contacted for references are
needed. If possible, please apply as soon as possible as
there are a series of alternative possibilities of funding
for named students.
Madeline Mitchell <mitchell@stats.ox.ac.uk >
Panama TropicalEvolution
Apr11-May25Panama
TropicalEvolution Apr11-May25
Tropical Behavioral Ecology and Evolution Course in
Panama
This course will provide an overview of the patterns
and processes that determine tropical biodiversity and
of the evolutionary biology of key invertebrate model
systems. It is designed for graduate students at all
levels beginning with proposal preparation, research
implementation, and scientiﬁc manuscript preparation.
The course will begin three weeks prior to arriving inPanama (April 11-29th) and then continue with the
ﬁeld component (May 1-25th). Please see the following
links for more details:
http://www1.bio.ku.dk/forskning/oe/cse/kurser/-
STRI Course Flier29Jan11Final.pdf/ http://-
www1.bio.ku.dk/english/research/oe/cse/kurser/
or email Rachelle Adams: RAdams@bio,ku,dk or
rmmadams@gmail.com
–
Rachelle M.M. Adams PhD Marie-Curie International
Incoming Fellow Centre for Social Evolution Depart-
ment of Biology University of Copenhagen Univer-
sitetsparken 15 DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark
Smithsonian Institution Research Collaborator Depart-
ment of Entomology Smithsonian Institution PO Box
37012 NHB, MRC 188, Rm. CE-518 Washington, DC
20013-7012 Tel.: 202-633-1002 (Oﬃce) Website: http:/-
/entomology.si.edu/StaﬀPages/AdamsRMM.html e-
mail: RAdams@bio.dk.edu or rmmadams@gmail.com
Rachelle Adams <RAdams@bio.ku.dk >
Phyloseminar ComparativeDiversity
Feb25
Please come to a free online seminar this coming Friday:
Luke Harmon speaks Friday, February 25th at 10am
PST on “New Frontiers for the Comparative Analysis
of Diversiﬁcation”.
Abstract: We’re building the tree of life, but what can
we do with it? It seems clear that there is a wealth
of information about evolution in the structure of this
tree. There are some methods that can use phyloge-
netic trees to test macroevolutionary models, but the
range of models that we can test is still severely limited.
In some cases, such as the estimation of extinction rates
from phylogenetic trees, current methods have proven
controversial. We are now beginning to develop and im-
plement methods that use tree-of-life scale data to an-
swer key questions in evolution. I will review three new
approaches developed in my lab for analyzing compar-
ative datasets: MECCA, fossil-Medusa, and reversible-
jump MCMC. I argue that these methods represent the
next generation of comparative methods that will open
the door to analyzing a much broader range of models
with large datasets.
Japan 03:00 (03:00 AM) on Saturday, February 26 NewMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 111
Zealand 07:00 (07:00 AM) on Saturday, February 26
West Coast USA 10:00 (10:00 AM) on Friday, February
25 East Coast USA 13:00 (01:00 PM) on Friday, Febru-
ary 25 England 18:00 (06:00 PM) on Friday, February
25 France 19:00 (07:00 PM) on Friday, February 25
For more information on how to attend this and other
seminars, visit phyloseminar.org.
ematsen@gmail.com
Roscoﬀ France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
May15-28
Summer course on marine genomics at the Marine Bi-
ological Station of Roscoﬀ (F)
>From May 15th - May 28th, 2011 the 7th Summer
Course on Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics
will take place at the Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ,
France.
The course consists of lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises in the following subjects. Phylogeny &
tree of life- sequence analyses, phylogenetic techniques
(clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular clock, case
studies Phylogeography - molecular evolution through
networks, phylogeographical techniques, coalescence,
population dynamics, case studies Population genetics
- structure, connectivity and gene ﬂow, assignment, ef-
fective size and population dynamics, case studies Ge-
nomics - next generation sequencing, database search-
ing, basic skills in data handling and bioinformatics
Functional genomics - genome structure, molecular evo-
lution at the functional level Comparative genomics
- whole genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny,
genome organization, annotating genomic information,
co-evolution Environmental genomics - methods for
detecting diversity; detecting adaptive variation; NGS:
why and how; case studies. Applications in aqua-
culture, blue biotech, conservation, ﬁsheries, metage-
nomics, nutrigenomics and the like will be discussed.
Target group PhD students (at least in their second
year) and post docs with a solid knowledge in phy-
logenetics and/or population genetics. Students with
an applied background (e.g. aquaculture, blue biotech,
ﬁsheries, nutrigenomics) are encouraged to apply.
Application and contact To apply please ﬁll in the ap-
plication form and send to Jonas Coll´ en (collen@sb-roscoﬀ.fr) together with a 2-page CV before April 10th
2011.
16 participants will be selected on the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project 2. Background and experience of applicant 3.
We will aim at mixing people with diﬀerent research
backgrounds; probably not more than one person per
institute will be considered. We will also aim at an
equal gender distribution.
The selected persons will be notiﬁed at the end of April
and have to conﬁrm within 7 days. We will have a wait-
ing list in case of non- conﬁrmations and cancellations.
Conﬁrmed teachers Sandie Baldauf, U. Uppsala, SE
Jonas Coll´ en, U Paris 6, FR Simon Creer, U Ban-
gor, UK Yves Desdevises, CNRS Banyuls, FR J Jakob
Hemmer-Hansen, DTU-Aqua, DK Galice Hoarau, U
Bodø, NO Jeanine Olsen, U Groningen, NL Fr´ ed´ eric
Partensky, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Heroen Verbruggen, U
Gent, BE Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE Mathias Weg-
ner, ETH Zurich, SW
Organizing committee Claudie Perron, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Jeanine Olsen, Univ Groningen, NL Jonas Coll´ en, SB-
Roscoﬀ, FR Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE
For information and application forms: Jonas Coll´ en
Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ BP 74, F-29680
ROSCOFF CEDEX France Phone: +(33)2 98 29 23
23 Fax: +(33)2 98 29 23 24 Email: collen@sb-roscoﬀ.fr
[URL: will be launched on 15 March 2011]
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
UCD Dublin MastersEvolBiol Sep
We are reminding you of the approaching ﬁrst dead-
line for the “Masters in Evolutionary Biology” at UCD
Dublin, Ireland. This is a full-time, 12-month course on
the nature, relevance and far-reaching implications of
evolutionary theory. The course features an outstand-
ing diversity of topics and approaches in current evo-
lutionary research (both organism-based and theoreti-
cal), and innovative educational approaches, including
ﬁeld-work, critical discussion, museum and laboratory
training, data analysis and modelling.
Further information can be found at the following link:
http://www.ucd.ie/bioenvsci/graduatestudents/-
postgraduatetaughtdegreesdiplomas/-
mscevolutionbiology/ The ﬁrst deadline is March112 EvolDir March 1, 2011
14th. We intend to oﬀer a maximum of 10 placements,
and approach successful candidates by the end of April
2011. The course will start early September 2011.
Please feel free to circulate this to potentially interested
prospective students.
Masters in Evolutionary Biology UCD School of Bi-
ology & Environmental Science http://www.ucd.ie/-
bioenvsci/research/evolution.htm evolution@ucd.ie
evolution@ucd.ie
UPadova EvoDevo
Summer School on Evolutionary Developmental Biol-
ogy Conceptual and Methodological Foundations
2nd Edition: From Gene Networks to Organismal Sys-
tems Venice, 19 22 September 2011
Organizers: Alessandro Minelli, Gerd B. M¨ uller and
Giuseppe Fusco School director: Johannes Jaeger
School sponsors: Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed
Arti, Venice and Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution
and Cognition Research, Vienna. Location: Istituto
Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Palazzo Franchetti,
Venice
Taching panel: J. Jaeger (School Director, CRG
Barcelona), P. Beldade (Gulbenkian Institute, Lisbon),
C. Braendle (CNRS and Universit´ e de Nice Sophia An-
tipolis), G. E. Budd (University of Uppsala), G. Fusco
(University of Padova), A. Hejnol (Sars International
Center for Marine Molecular Biology, Bergen), R. Jen-
ner (Natural History Museum, London), A. Minelli
(University of Padova), G. B. M¨ uller (Konrad Lorenz
Institute, Vienna), S. A. Newman (New York Medical
College)
Deadline for applications: May 30th 2011.
For details, visit http://www.istitutoveneto.it/-
EDB2011/ Giuseppe Fusco Department of Biology
University of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-35131 Padova
Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax +39.049.827.6230
e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it webpage http://-
dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >UppsalaU QTLmapping Apr5-7
Workshop on quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping
5-7 April 2011 Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala
University
Speakers: Dario Beraldi (University of Edinburgh),
¨Orjan Carlborg (Uppsala University), Hans Ellegren
(Uppsala University), Martien Groenen (Wageningen
University), Bengt Hansson (Lund University), ˚Asa
Johansson, (Uppsala University), Arne Nolte (Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology Pl¨ on), Kees
van Oers (Netherlands Institute of Ecology Heteren),
Josephine Pemberton (University of Edinburgh), Erik
Postma, (University of Z¨ urich), Holger Schielzeth (Up-
psala University), John Willis (Duke University), Do-
minic Wright (Link¨ oping University), Jon ˚Agren (Up-
psala University)
Venue: Ekmansalen, Evolutionary Biology Centre,
Norbyv¨ agen 14, Uppsala
Contact persons and registration: Arild Husby
(arild.husby@ebc.uu.se) and Holger Schielzeth (hol-
ger.schielzeth@ebc.uu.se)
Aim: The workshop will cover diﬀerent approaches
to QTL mapping in natural and domestic populations
of plants and animals. It will also cover part of the
pipeline from marker discovery and genotyping. Pre-
sentations will be given by experts on the respective
ﬁelds. The workshop will focus on applications and
will also include practical sessions.
Audience: Graduate students, postdocs and faculty
members. The workshop is open to external partici-
pants, but priority will be given to members of the Up-
psala Graduate School on Genomes and Phenotypes.
Note: There will be an open slot for a presentation on
QTL mapping. Please contact us, if you are interested
in presenting your own case study.
For more details see: http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
digitalAssets/45/45211 QTLmappingWorkshop.pdf
holger.schielzeth@ebc.uu.seMarch 1, 2011 EvolDir 113
UWashington StatisticalGenetics
Jun13-Jul1
16th Annual Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics
(SISG 2011) will be held at the University of Wash-
ington, Seattle, WA, June 13 through July 1, 2010.
Website: http://sisg.biostat.washington.edu . 3rd An-
nual Summer Institute in Statistics and Modeling in
Infectious Diseases (SISMID 2011) will be held at the
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, June 13-29,
2010. Website: http://depts.washington.edu/sismid/
Thanks!
Sandra
Sandra J. Coke Web, Events and Information Specialist
Department of Biostatistics University of Washington
Phone: 206-685-9496 Mobile: 206-799-0871 Fax: 206-
543-3286 email: sjcoke@uw.edu
Sandra Coke <sjcoke@u.washington.edu >
Valencia Spain MEPPA 2011
May30-Jun3
FIRST ANNOUNCE
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: April 29th, 2011
Dear mailing list member,
Registration is now open for:
MEPPA11 - Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics, Phy-
logenomics, and Adaptation
Please visit the Course website for details:
http://bioinfo.cipf.es/courses/mol evol phylo 6ed/
This course is likely to be very competitive for seats.
Our maximum capacity is 25 seats. Early application
is recommended!
Instructors: Hernan Dopazo, Toni Gabaldon, Fran¸ cois
Serra, Jaime Huerta- Cepas, and Salvador Capella
Invited Instructors: David Posada, University of Vigo
(Spain) and Rafael Zardoya, MNCN-CSIC (Madrid,
Spain)
Duration: 5 days. May 30 to June 03, 2011Course Fee: Eur 380, include meals. A limited number
of grants will be available.
Place: Centro de Investigacion Principe Felipe. Valen-
cia. Spain. http://www.cipf.es/ Course description:
Currently, the simplest Bioinformatics analysis uses
species comparisons in order to hypothesise the func-
tion of a novel biological sequence. Moreover, in
most Molecular Biology labs, evolutionary and phylo-
genetic concepts are constantly being used with more
or less formality: homology, similarity, evolutionary
rates, long branch attraction, rooted and unrooted
trees, monophyletic group, molecular clock, adapta-
tion, lineage eﬀects, neutralism, cladograms, phylo-
grams, etc. The course aims to provide the necessary
background to understand the basic concepts from com-
parative and evolutionary biology that are frequently
used in molecular biology and bioinformatics analyses.
The course consists in ﬁve full-day sessions with an
adequate balance between theory and computer prac-
tice, oriented to solve frequent problems and hypoth-
esis testing. The program covers the basic and ad-
vanced analysis of Phylogenetic reconstruction, Phy-
logenomic analysis of genomes and Maximum likeli-
hood tests for molecular adaptation. The software re-
sources that will be used in the practical sessions in-
clude: Phyml, Phylip, MEGA, TreePuzzle, MrBayes,
PAML, Modeltest-Protest, Jmodeltest and the Phyle-
mon 2.0 web server. (phylemon.bioinfo.cipf.es)
Please feel free to pass this information to colleagues in
your community.
Co-ordinators: Hernan Dopazo and Fran¸ cois Serra
Hern´ an J. Dopazo, PhD Head of the Evolution-
ary Genomics Unit Bioinformatics & Genomics De-
partment Centro de Investigaci´ on Pr´ ıncipe Felipe
c/ ep Avda. Autopista del Saler 16 (Junto al
Oceanogr´ aﬁco) 46012, Valencia, Espa˜ na Tfn: (34)
96 328 96 80 ext: 1008 Fax: (34) 96 328 97 01
hdopazo@cipf.es http://hdopazo.bioinfo.cipf.es/ Her-
nan Dopazo <hdopazo@cipf.es >
Vienna Austria NGSworkshop
May23-27
Next Generation Sequencing Workshop
The Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics
is hosting a next generation sequencing (NGS) work-
shop. The participants are provided hands-on training114 EvolDir March 1, 2011
on NGS data analysis and covers mapping NGS reads
on a reference genome, SNP and indel discovery, se-
quence analysis of pooled data (Pool-Seq), de novo as-
sembly and RNA-Seq. The workshop is designed for
PhD-students and post-docs working on projects that
involve NGS analysis. A basic knowledge of UNIX
would be beneﬁcial.
Date: May 23-27 Location: Vetmeduni Vienna, Austria
Application deadline: March 10 (9:00 a.m. CET)
Being supported by the Thermadapt program of the
European Science Foundation, there is no course feeand all participants are provided with free accom-
modation. Furthermore, up to ﬁve travel fellow-
ships will be awarded. For more information includ-
ing the application procedure, please visit: http:/-
/www.popgen-vienna.at/training/ngs-workshop.html
Daniel K. Fabian
daniel.fabian@vetmeduni.ac.at Vienna Graduate
School of Population Genetics University of Vet-
erinary Medicine Vienna Veterin¨ arplatz 1 1210
Wien Austria/Europe http://www.popgen-vienna.at
el.dansch@gmail.com
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.