E v o l D i r
August 1, 2013
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 692 EvolDir August 1, 2013
Conferences
CNRS France DrosophilaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Cardi Omics Sep9-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Heraklion MediterraneanMarineBiodiversity Oct7-9 2
4
Lisbon EvolutionBehaviour Oct24-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Marseilles 17thEvolutionaryMeeting Sep17-20 3 . . . . .5
NHM London YoungSystematists Nov29 . . . . . . . . . . . .5Rosco France EvolutionCancer Nov2-6 2 . . . . . . . . . . 6
Sitges Spain HumanEvolution Mar16-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Stresa Italy AquaticMicrobialEvolution Sep8-13 . . . . 7
Tahoe California MicrobeInteractions Jan26-30 . . . . . 7
UAberdeen MovementDispersal Nov11-12 . . . . . . . . . . 8
UGroningen IndividualDierences Nov1-3 . . . . . . . . . . 8
Vienna PopGenetics Nov1-2 reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
CNRS France DrosophilaEvolution
*Post Doctoral Position on the Evolutionary Biology of
Social transmission in Drosophila (CNRS, France)*
A 2 year postdoctoral position is available in the group
Evolution and Plasticity of Cognitive Capacities (Dir.
Frederic Mery) of the Lab Evolution Genome and Spe-
ciation (LEGS, CNRS) in Gif sur Yvette (France) to
work on the evolutionary biology of social transmission
in Drosophila.
Social learning has been studied mostly in sh, birds
and mammals including humans. In insects, social
learning has been unambiguously demonstrated in so-
cial Hymenoptera and recent evidence show that even
non-eusocial insects such as /Drosophila/ can copy the
behaviour of others (see Battesti et al 2012). Compared
to individual learning, which requires a trial and error
period in every generation, social learning can poten-
tially result in stable transmission of behavior across
generations, leading in some species to cultural tradi-
tion. Despite the potential importance of social trans-
mission on animal behavior relatively little is known
about the processes which may facilitates or prevent
this transmission and the relationship between social
network structure and eciency of social transmission.
The goal of this project is to study experimentally
the genetic and socio-environmental factors aecting
social transmission. In collaboration with the evolu-
tionary ethology group of the university of Strasbourg(Dr Cedric Sueur),we will also integrate social network
analysis by video tracking experiments. Our ultimate
goal is to understand whether a relationship between
social network structures and dynamic can reect the
eciency of social transmission, i.e. can we use social
network analysis in order to predict social transmission
of information and ultimately the evolutionary trajec-
tory of a group?
The successful candidate should be highly motivated
and will develop his/her own experimental project on
this general topic. Candidates should have a PhD
in evolutionary biology or animal behavior science.
Good experience with invertebrate behavioral experi-
ment will be highly appreciated. Some experience with
Drosophila behavior and genetics would help but are
not required. No preexisting knowledge of French is re-
quired, although some knowledge makes living in the
lab easier. Gif sur Yvette is located 40 min from Paris
downtown.
*Salary/funding**: *The salary will be in accordance
with French national regulations for post-doctoral re-
searchers and depends on age and experience (net in-
come is around 2000 Euros per month)**
**
*Term of Appointment**: *The initial appointment
will be for 2 years and will begin on 1 December 2013.
**
**
*Application Deadline**: *15 September 2013**
**
*Comments**: *To apply, send your CV and a letterAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 3
describing your research interests and some ideas for a
project to Frederic Mery:Frederic.mery@legs.cnrs-gif.fr.
Arrange for two letters of recommendation to be sent
to the same address.
{
Frederic Mery Laboratoire Evolution, Genomes et Spe-
ciation CNRS - Bat 13 Avenue de la Terrasse F-91198
Gif sur Yvette Cedex France
E-mail: Frederic.Mery@legs.cnrs-gif.fr Phone (Oce):
(33) 1 69 82 37 32 Phone (Lab): (33) 1 69 82 38 63
Fax: (33) 1 69 82 37 36
Web: http://epcc-drosophila.blogspot.com/ Frederic
Mery <Frederic.Mery@legs.cnrs-gif.fr >
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
Abstract submission is open for the 2014 INTER-
NATIONAL BIOGEOGRAPHY SOCIETY EARLY
CAREER CONFERENCE, organised jointly by
the International Biogeography Society (IBS)
(http://www.biogeography.org/), the ANU Centre
for Macroevolution and Macroecology (http://-
macroevoeco.com/) and the ANU-CSIRO Centre for
Biodiversity Analysis (http://cba.anu.edu.au/).
The conference will take place in Canberra, Australia,
between the 7th and the 10th of January 2014, and
aims to bring together early career researchers, along
with more experienced scientists, working on many as-
pects of biogeography.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE HAS BEEN
EXTENDED TO 31 AUGUST 2013.
To submit your abstract, please visit: http://-
www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/2014ECC/-
index.html CONFIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS:
Prof Craig Moritz (ANU) Dr Catherine Graham
(Stony Brook) Dr Simon Ferrier (CSIRO) Dr Michael
Kearney (UniMelb)
THE FOLLOWING FOUR WORKSHOPS WILL BE
RUN DURING THE CONFERENCE: 1. Introduc-
tion to species distribution modelling 2. Modelling
compositional turnover using generalised dissimilarity
modelling 3. An Introduction to R for beginners 4.
Free your mind: Model comparison and model test-
ing in historical biogeography with the R package 'Bio-GeoBEARS'
REGISTRATION FOR THE CONFERENCE AND
WORKSHOPS IS NOW OPEN. PLEASE REGISTER
BEFORE 31 OCTOBER 2013.
For more information about the conference, please visit
the conference website.
Student participation will be supported by awards of-
fered by the IBS. To apply for a student award, please
follow the instructions given on the website.
We look forward to welcoming you to Canberra in Jan-
uary 2014!
The ANU Organising Committee
Haris Saslis-Lagoudakis Peter Cowman Dan Warren
Dan Rosauer Renee Catullo Marcel Cardillo
ibsconference2014@gmail.com @ibs2014
IBS Early Career Conference 2014
<ibsconference2014@gmail.com >
Cardi Omics Sep9-11
FIRST INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
'OMICS SYNTHESIS CONFERENCE
Cardi University, UK, 9-11 September 2013
http://www.environmentalomics.org/ieos2013 FINAL
CALL - ABSTRACTS AND REGISTRATION
ABSTRACT DEADLINE: 31 July 2013 REGISTRA-
TION DEADLINE: 1 August 2013
We are pleased to announce the last few days to submit
an abstract or register to attend the rst ever confer-
ence on 'omics applications, tools and resources focused
on the environmental sciences.
The meeting covers genomics, metabolomics and other
high-throughput approaches in biology ('omics). The
meeting is targeted both at current and future users of
'omics, and for developers of bioinformatics and 'omics
technologies.
The conference includes dedicated introductory talks
and training sessions on day one, for those who are new
to the eld, followed by two days of world-class science
presentations delivered by several international leaders
in environmental 'omics. The conference will promote
exchange of ideas between all of these groups.
We encourage submission of abstracts to be considered4 EvolDir August 1, 2013
for oral and poster presentation, and in particular en-
courage submissions from PhD students and postdoc-
toral researchers.
To register - with optional submission of an abstract -
see:
http://environmentalomics.org/ieos registration
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS:
- ESKE WILLERSLEV, Natural History Museum of
Denmark - JACK GILBERT, University of Chicago -
JOHN COLBOURNE, University of Birmingham
INVITED SPEAKERS:
Archeaological 'Omics: Learning from the past to in-
form the future - TERRY BROWN, University of
Manchester - ROBIN ALLABY, University of Warwick
Ecological 'Omics: From biodiversity to molecular
adaptation - ANDREW WHITEHEAD, University of
California, Davis - CAROLE GOBLE, University of
Manchester
Epigenetics: From molecules to phenotypes - KEVIN
CHIPMAN, University of Birmingham - PETER
KILLE, Cardi University - DANIEL BARKER, Uni-
versity of St Andrews
Evolutionary 'Omics: Phylogenetics and the Tree
of Life - SANDRA BALDAUF, Uppsala University
- MARGARET RILEY, University of Massachusetts
Amherst - MIKE BRUFORD, Cardi University
Integrated and Systems 'Omics: Towards environmen-
tal systems biology - JOE SHAW, Indiana University -
FRANCESCO FALCIANI, University of Birmingham
Community Ecology: Community proling (metage-
nomics and metabarcoding) to function - DOUGLAS
YU, University of East Anglia - PHILIP POOLE, John
Innes Centre
PROGRAM: http://environmentalomics.org/-
ieosagenda SPONSORED in part by the Natural
Environment Research Council, UK (NERC); the Sci-
ence and Technology Facilities Council, UK; Thermo
Fisher Scientic; Cambio; and BGI.
This conference is coordinated by the NERC En-
vironmental 'Omics Synthesis Centre: http://-
environmentalomics.org We hope to see you in Cardi
in September.
Daniel Barker Lecturer in Biology, University of St An-
drews db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
On behalf of the organising committee: Peter Kille,
University of Cardi; Mesude Bicak and Tracey
Timms-Wilson, Centre for Ecology & Hydrology;
Daniel Barker, University of St Andrews; Claire Ga-chon, Scottish Association for Marine Science; and
Mark Viant, University of Birmingham.
http://www.environmentalomics.org/ieos2013 Daniel
Barker http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/db60 The
University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scot-
land : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
Heraklion
MediterraneanMarineBiodiversity
Oct7-9 2
*Conference:* \Mediterranean marine biodiversity in
view of climate change and the invasion of alien species"
http://conference2013.marbigen.org/index.html Her-
aklion, Crete, Greece
7^th to 9 ^th of October, 2013
The Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and
Aquaculture (*IMBBC*) of the Hellenic Centre for
Marine Research (*HCMR*) announces the conference
on *\/Mediterranean marine biodiversity in view of
climate change and the invasion of alien species/"*
to be held in the premises of Heraklion Chamber,
Crete, Greece, from 7 ^th to 9 ^th October 2013. The
conference will be organized in the context of the
EU (FP7-REGPOT-2010-1) project \/Supporting Re-
search Potential for Marine Biodiversity and Genomics
in the Eastern Mediterranean/" (MARBIGEN, http:/-
/www.marbigen.org/).
The conference aims to bring together researchers of dif-
ferent elds in order to promote the multidisciplinary
and integrated research regarding the response of bio-
diversity to the climatic change and the impact of the
invasion of alien species in the Mediterranean and ad-
jacent regions.
More information can be found on the conference web-
site http://conference2013.marbigen.org/index.html .
We look forward to welcoming you in Heraklion, Crete
for a scientically stimulating and socially enjoyable
meeting.
With best regards,
On behalf of the Organizing Committee
Dr. Antonios Magoulas
MARBIGEN Co-ordinatorAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 5
Dr. Antoniou Aglaia (Cilia) Institute of Marine Biol-
ogy and Genetics (IMBG) Hellenic Centre for Marine
Research (HCMR) Gournes Pediados, P.O.Box 2214,
71003, Iraklio, Crete, Greece Tel.: +30 2810 337826
Fax: +30 2810 337820
Cilia Antoniou <antoniou@hcmr.gr >
Lisbon EvolutionBehaviour
Oct24-25
Dear Ethologists and Enthusiasts,
The next meeting of the Portuguese Society for Ethol-
ogy will be held at the Champalimaud Center for the
Unknown, during the 24th and 25th of October 2013.
The meeting will bring together scientists from sev-
eral elds, including ecology, evolution, development,
physiology, psychology and neuroscience, spanning a
wide range of model organisms, from invertebrates to
vertebrates. This meeting aims to present an inte-
grated overview of animal behavior, by bringing to-
gether investigators and students working in Portugal
and abroad.
Registration is open. *Abstract submission is open till
July 31st!*
For more information please visit: http://-
www.spe2013congresso.com/ . We hope to see
you at the Champalimaud Center for the Unknown!
The organizing committee,
Marta Moita Susana Lima
anaritaponce@gmail.com
Marseilles 17thEvolutionaryMeeting
Sep17-20 3
The program of the 17th evolutionary biology meeting
at Marseilles will be available the fourth of July late reg-
istration started the rst of july see : http://sites.univ-
provence.fr/evol-cgr/ more info contact: egee@univ-
provence.fr
all the best PierrePierre PONTAROTTI <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
NHM London YoungSystematists
Nov29
15th YOUNG SYSTEMATISTS' FORUM
Friday 29 November 2013, 9 am
Venue: Flett Lecture Theatre, Natural History Mu-
seum, London, UK
The annual Young Systematists' Forum represents an
exciting setting for Masters, PhD and young postdoc-
toral researchers to present their data, often for the rst
time, to a scientic audience interested in taxonomy,
systematics and phylogenetics. This well-established
event provides an important opportunity for budding
systematists to discuss their research in front of their
peers within a supportive environment. Supervisors
and other established systematists are also encouraged
to attend.
Prizes will be awarded for the most promising oral and
poster presentation as judged by a small panel on the
day.
Registration is FREE. Send applications by e-mail
to (YSF.SystematicsAssociation@gmail.com), supply-
ing your name, contact address and stating whether
or not you wish to give an oral or poster presentation.
Space will be allocated subject to availability and for a
balanced programme of animal, plant, algal, microbial,
molecular and other research. Non-participating atten-
dees are also very welcome - please register as above.
Abstracts must be submitted by e-mail in English no
later than Friday 18 October 2013. The body text
should not exceed 150 words in length. If the pre-
sentation is co-authored, the actual speaker (oral) or
presenter (poster) must be clearly indicated in BOLD
text. Institutional addresses should be given for all au-
thors. All registered attendants will receive further in-
formation about the meeting, including abstracts, by
e-mail one week in advance. This information will also
be displayed on the Systematics Association website
(www.systass.org).
Dr Ellinor MICHEL Department of Life Sciences The
Natural History Museum Cromwell Road SW7 5BD
London UK tel: +44-207-942-5653 or - 5516
Homepage: http://www.sorayavillalba.com/ellinor/-6 EvolDir August 1, 2013
index.php The Nyanza Project: Research Training in
Tropical Lakes -
http://www.geo.arizona.edu/nyanza/index.html The
Natural History Museum - Global Reach http:/-
/www.nhm.ac.uk/nature-online/science-of-natural-
history/science-at-the-museum/our-global-reach/
The Gastropods of Lake Tanganyika: Diagnostic key,
classication & notes on the fauna
http://www.limnology.org/pubs/-
index.shtml#occasional NHM Homepage:
http://www.nhm.ac.uk//research-curation/sta-
directory/zoology/cv-7437.html Ellinor Michel
<e.michel@nhm.ac.uk >
Rosco France EvolutionCancer
Nov2-6 2
*Jacques Monod Conference V and Evolutionary Per-
spectives in Cancer - Rosco (Brittany), France,
November 2-6, 2013
**Deadline for registration: August 1st, 2013***
Cancer is a disease of opportunity, associated with
clonal evolution, expansion and competition within the
body. Specically, somatic cellular selection and evo-
lution are the fundamental processes leading to ma-
lignancy, metastasis and resistance to therapies. The
Jacques Monod Conference and Evolutionary Perspec-
tives in Cancer aims to promote this emerging disci-
pline by addressing some of the most important ques-
tions about cancerogenesis. The conference will cover
3 themes: interspecic patterns and processes, progres-
sion, and therapies.
Please note that participation at this conference is not
limited to research on carcinogenesis: we will consider
applications from scientists with anities towards the
themes of the conference, and working on related top-
ics from ecology and the evolutionary sciences, includ-
ing social evolution, evolution of multicellularity, resis-
tance management, evolutionary medicine of diseases,
and species invasions.*
*Jacques Monod Conferences organized by CNRS, are
known for the high scientic quality of the talks and
discussions, in a relaxed atmosphere.
*Registration fee (includes lodging, meals and confer-
ence banquet)
*400$ a for PhD students520$ a for other participants
Application for registration:
The total number of participants is limited to 115 and
all participants are expected to attend for the whole
duration of the conference.
Scientists interested in the meeting should send the pro-
posed title and abstract of their presentation. Postdocs
and PhD students should send in addition: their cur-
riculum vitae, and a list of their main publications for
the 3 last years.
Applications should be sent to the Chairperson of the
conference ( mhochber@univ-montp2.fr) before August
1st. Except in some particular cases approved by the
Chairperson, it is recommended that all selected partic-
ipants present their work during the conference, either
in poster form or by a brief in- session talk. The orga-
nizers choose the form in which the presentations are
made. No payment will be sent with the application.
Information on how and when to pay will be mailed in
due time to those selected.
*Thank you in advance for forwarding this announce-
ment to potentially interested colleagues*
Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-montp2.fr >
Sitges Spain HumanEvolution
Mar16-18
Cell Symposium: Evolution of Modern Humans - From
Bones to Genomes March 16 - 18, 2014 Hotel Meli a,
Sitges, Spain www. cell-symposia-humanevolution.com
Abstract submission deadline: November 8, 2013 Early
registration deadline: January 6, 2013
How did our species, Homo sapiens, become what it is
today? How did our ancestors spread across the globe?
How did their bodies and minds evolve?
The study of these fascinating questions has seen a ver-
itable revolution in recent years: genome sequencing of
ancient and extant humans, and their relatives, has re-
vealed our evolutionary history in unprecedented detail
and sheds light on how humans adapted; new analyses
of fossils and archaeology reveal what makes humans so
unique.
Our Cell Symposium Evolution of Modern Humans
From Bones to Genomes pays homage to this revolution
by bringing together an uniquely broad mix of world-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 7
class researchers who study the evolution of our species
from various angles from palaeoanthropology to genet-
ics, genomics and archaeogenetics, through to the study
of cultural and cognitive processes.
This meeting will synthesize our current picture of the
evolution of modern humans and formulate the most
exciting questions for future research.
Session Topics:
Human genetics and genomics
Adaptation
Archaeogenetics
Palaeoanthropology
Cognition and culture
Conrmed Speakers
Ofer Bar-Yosef, Peabody Museum, Harvard Univer-
sity, USA Anna DiRienzo, University of Chicago,
USA Wolfgang Enard, Ludwig-Maximilans Univer-
sity Munich, Germany Michael Hammer, University
of Arizona, USA Jean-Jacques Hublin (organiser),
Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Leipzig, Germany Mathias Jakobsson, Uppsala Uni-
versity, Sweden Kevin Laland, University of St. An-
drews, UK Carles Lalueza-Fox (organiser), Institut de
Biologia Evolutiva, Barcelona, Spain Svante P a abo,
Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Leipzig, Germany Mark Pagel, Reading University, UK
Chris Stringer, Natural History Museum, London, UK
Sarah Tishko, University of Pennsylvania, USA John
Novembre, University of Chicago, USA Cli Tabin,
Harvard University, USA Tim Weaver, University of
California, USA Eske Willerslev, Copenhagen Univer-
sity, Denmark
Organizing Committee
Florian Maderspacher, Senior Editor, Current Biology
Paul Craze, Editor, Trends in Evolution and Ecol-
ogy Carles-Lalueza Fox, Institut de Biologia Evolutiva,
Barcelona Jean-Jacques Hublin, Max-Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig
Marie Treadwell Marketing Communications Manager
Elsevier/Cell Press Email: marie@treadwell.me.uk
Marie Treadwell <marie@treadwell.me.uk >
Stresa Italy
AquaticMicrobialEvolution Sep8-13The 13th SAME (1st EMBO Conference on Aquatic
Microbial Ecology) will be held in beautiful Stresa
(Italy) from 8 to 13 Sept 2013. This year SAME put
special interest in the relation between ecology and
evolution of aquatic microbial communities, including
host-pathogen interactions, symbiosis, and experimen-
tal ecology. The full program is already available on
the conference website www.same13.eu The number of
convenors already doubled the usual size of a SAME
meeting and is running towards 500 lucky participants
from all over the world. They will join a very special
conference, with a single plenary oral session introduced
by Farooq Azam and Sinead Collins and closed by a
thrilling lecture by Roman Stocker. A very special at-
tention is given to students that in the convivial atmo-
sphere of SAME can present their studies and interact
for a week with the large community of microbail ecol-
gist and evolutionary biologists. If you do not want to
lose the chance to attend SAME13 just register through
the online registration form!
Further questions at: same13@ise.cnr.it
See you in Stresa!
Gianluca Corno chair SAME13
{
Gianluca Corno <g.corno@ise.cnr.it >
Tahoe California
MicrobeInteractions Jan26-30
Keystone Symposia's 2014 Conference on3Mechanisms
and Consequences of Invertebrate-Microbe
Interactions2
Submit an abstract and register for Keystone
Symposia1s meeting on3Mechanisms and Conse-
quences of Invertebrate-Microbe Interactions,2taking
place January 26-30, 2014 at Granlibakken Resort in
Tahoe City, California, USA.
The three-day conference will:
* Host scientists ranging from molecular biologists to
evolutionary ecologists and studying diverse aspects of
invertebrate-microbe interactions in dierent systems
(e.g., squid, leeches, ies, nematodes, bees);
* Build a comprehensive understanding of host-microbe
interactions, which is integral to limiting the ability of
organisms, particularly insects, to spread diseases that8 EvolDir August 1, 2013
impact human health and destroy crops;
* Integrate mechanistic, genomic, ecological, evolution-
ary and applied approaches.
Scholarships are available to students and postdoctoral
fellows. Short talks will be selected from submitted
abstracts. Along with poster presentations, these rep-
resent a great opportunity to gain exposure for one1s
work.
Deadlines:
* Scholarship Application ' September 26, 2013
* Discounted Abstract ' September 26, 2013
* Abstract ' October 30, 2013
* Discounted Registration ' November 25, 2013
To register and for more information, please visit
www.keystonesymposia.org/14A7 Nicole Gerardo As-
sistant Professor Emory University Department of Bi-
ology
ngerard@emory.edu
UAberdeen MovementDispersal
Nov11-12
The rst Movement and Dispersal International Con-
ference will be held on 11-12 November 2013 in Ab-
erdeen. This conference aims to initiate dialogue
and synthesis between the elds of dispersal biol-
ogy and movement biology. We particularly wel-
come participants who work on evolutionary questions
that relate to the evolution of dispersal and/or move-
ment behaviours or who focus on questions related
to the evolutionary consequences of dierent disper-
sal and/or movement behaviours. We also hope that
the meeting will provide an opportunity for people
working on the causes and consequences of disper-
sal and movement in terrestrial, marine and freshwa-
ter environments to meet and share ideas and meth-
ods. For more information please visit: http://-
www.abdn.ac.uk/events/mad-2013/ \Travis, Justin
M. J." <justin.travis@abdn.ac.uk >UGroningen IndividualDierences
Nov1-3
Second announcement
International Conference on Individual Dierences
(20th KNDV Zoology Conference)
1-3 November 2013
Groningen, The Netherlands
DEADLINES
***** Discounted registration fee: 31 August 2013
*****
****** Abstract submission: 1 August 2013 ******
http://www.rug.nl/fwn/indiv This meeting aims to
bring together dierent perspectives on the importance,
mechanisms, function and evolution of consistent indi-
vidual dierences at dierent levels of biological organ-
isation.
Program runs from Friday November 1st (welcome re-
ception and opening lecture) to Sunday November 3rd
Plenary speakers:
Stephen Suomi (National Institute of Child Health &
Human Development)
Renee Duckworth (University of Arizona)
Jonathan Seckl (University of Edinburgh)
Distinguished Zoologist Lecture:
Judy Stamps (University of California at Davis)
In addition to the plenary lectures, we welcome oral and
poster contributions to the following seven symposia,
that will be introduced by the following speakers:
. Individuality in neurobiology - James Goodson,
Bloomington, USA
. Individuality in chronobiology - Martha Merrow,
Muenchen, D
. Individuality in energetics - Neil Metcalfe, Glasgow,
UK
. Individuality in behaviour - Niels Dingemanse,
Muenchen, D
. Individuality in ecology, evolution and biodiversity -
Ilkka Hanski, Helsinki, FiAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 9
. Individuality in aging - Jean Michel Gaillard, Lyon,
Fr
. Individuality: applications and implications (welfare,
biomedicine and conservation) - Mike Mendl, Bristol,
UK
We also invite oral and poster contributions to a general
symposium.
Please submit your abstract before August 1st to in-
div@rug.nl
For more information about abstract preparation and
submission see: www.rug.nl/fwn/indiv Jointly organ-
ised by the Groningen Centres for Behaviour and Neu-
rosciences (www.rug.nl/research/cbn) and Ecological
and Evolutionary Studies (www.rug.nl/research/cees/-
), under the auspices of the Royal Dutch Zoological So-
ciety (www.kndv.nl(http://www.rug.nl/fwn/indiv)).
Organising & scientic committee:
Ton Groothuis (Chair)
Sietse de Boer
Christiaan Both
Gertjan van Dijk
Marlies Hof
Roelof Hut
Martine Maan
Jaap Koolhaas
Peter Korsten
Pleunie Kraak
Simon Verhulst
Franjo Weissing
Eddy van der Zee
Groningen Congress Bureau
m.e.maan@rug.nl
Vienna PopGenetics Nov1-2
reminder
**REMINDER**
MIND THE GAP 4
Bridging the gap between theoretical and empirical
population geneticsVienna, Austria 1st and 2nd of November, 2013
The Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics
and the DFG Priority Programme \Probabilistic Struc-
tures in Evolution", Bielefeld, Germany, are proud to
announce the fourth MIND THE GAP conference to
be held the 1st and 2nd of November 2013 in Vienna,
Austria.
MIND THE GAP aims at bringing together theoretical
and empirical population geneticists. This conference
is the fourth meeting in a series of conferences held in
Freiburg (2009), Pl on (2010), and Cologne (2011).
As in these past meetings, there are dierent main top-
ics for this conference. This year's themes are:
Viral and Predictive Evolution Experimental Evolution
Signatures of Complex Selection Introgression, Hybrid
Zones, and Clines
For more detailed information please refer to our regu-
larly updated programme
The current list of invited speakers includes:
Martina Baar, University of Bonn Nicolas Bierne,
University II of Montpellier Simon Boitard, INRA,
Toulouse Luis-Miguel Chevin, Centre for Functional
and Evolutionary Ecology, CNRS, Montpellier Michael
Desai, Harvard University Philip Gerrish, University
of New Mexico Adrian Gonzalez Casanova, TU Berlin
Toni Gossmann, University of Sussex Sandra Kliem,
University of Duesburg Joachim Krug, University of
Cologne Michael Laessig, University of Cologne Hen-
rique Teot onio, University of Lisbon Jarle Tufto, Nor-
wegian University of Science and Technology Anton
Wakolbinger, Goethe-Universit at Frankfurt
Attendance to the conference will be free of charge.
There are a few remaining speaker positions for the con-
ference for which we invite you to apply. Participants
are welcome to bring a poster.
All registrants are asked to download the regis-
tration form from the conference webpage (http:/-
/www.popgen-vienna.at/news/mindthegap.html)
and submit the completed registration form to
mtg4nov2013(at)gmail.com
The deadline for registration is Sunday, 14th July 2013.
We strongly advise participants to arrive at the latest
on the evening of Thursday, October 30th and to stay
at least until Sunday, November 3rd.
Conference venue: Department of Mathematics, Uni-
versity of Vienna New institute building at Rossauer
L ande 3 in the 9th district of Vienna.
Google Maps location10 EvolDir August 1, 2013
Public transport: Metro lines U2, U4 Tram lines D, 1
and 31
We would like to thank our sponsors: DFG FWF
Programme (please refer to the webpage for updates )
Thursday evening: Arrival
Friday 9.00/10.00-12.00: Viral and predictive evolu-
tion Philip Gerrish, University of New Mexico Sandra
Kliem, University of Duesburg Michael L assig, Univer-
sity of Cologne
Friday 13.00-16.00: Experimental Evolution Michael
Desai, Harvard University Adrian Gonzalez Casanova,
TU Berlin Joachim Krug, University of Cologne Hen-
rique Teotonio, University of Lisbon
Friday 17.00-19.00: Poster Session
Saturday 9.00-12.00: Signatures of Complex Selec-
tion Martina Baar, University of Bonn Simon Boitard,INRA, Toulouse Luis-Miguel Chevin, Centre for Func-
tional and Evolutionary Ecology, CNRS, Montpellier
Toni Gossmann, University of Sussex
Saturday 13.00-15.00: Introgression, Hybrid Zones, and
Clines Nicolas Bierne, University II of Montpellier Jarle
Tufto, Norwegian University of Science and Technology
Saturday 15.00: Closing Session Anton Wakolbinger,
Goethe-Universtit at Frankfurt
Saturday 18.00: Conference Dinner
Sunday: Departure
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics Vi-
enna, Austria
conference webpage: http://www.popgen-
vienna.at/news/mindthegap.html email adress:
mtg4Nov2013(at)gmail.com
ilse.hoellinger@univie.ac.at
GradStudentPositions
F Frankfurt ExperimentalPopulationGenomics . . . . 10
LavalU EvolSystemsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Louvain Belgium ButteryEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
MasseyU GeneExpressionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Merelbeke Belgium 4 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
OhioStateU Phylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
RBG Edinburgh BegoniaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UBasel HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15UBrussels PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
UGlasgow AdaptiveEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
ULausanne SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
ULisbon Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UNeuchatel Switzerland EvolutionEcologyLymeDis-
ease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
VUAmsterdam EvolutionTraitLoss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
F Frankfurt
ExperimentalPopulationGenomics
PhD or part time (66%) Postdoc position on Exper-
imental Population Genomics for 36 months is avail-
able in the Molecular Ecology Lab of Markus Pfen-
ninger, Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre,
Frankfurt/Main, Germany (DFG funded project)I am looking for a highly motivated and independent
researcher to study the genomic basis of local climate
adaptation in the non-biting midge Chironomus ripar-
ius. Local adaptation to varying environmental condi-
tions is a key process for the evolution of biodiversity.
Ambient temperature is a crucially important factor
for ectothermic organisms, because it determines the
rate of metabolic processes and thus all processes from
development to reproduction. This suggests that pop-
ulations of a species should adapt to prevailing local
temperatures. However, little is known about the ge-
nomic basis of local metabolic temperature adaptation,August 1, 2013 EvolDir 11
particularly in non-model organisms. In this project,
we strive to unveil the genomic basis of observed lo-
cal adaptation in an ecologically important species, the
non-biting midge (Chironomus riparius Meigen 1804) to
a temperature gradient across Europe. To this end, we
combine ecological experiments, genome scans and re-
peated experimental evolution in an innovative fashion.
The position thus requires taking eld-trips to collect
wild C. riparius populations, establishing lab popula-
tions, performing common garden experiments in ex-
perimental facilities, preparing and conducting popula-
tion genomic analyses and publication of the data.
Applicants must hold a Diploma/Master degree and
prove advanced education in two or more of the follow-
ing elds: genomics, bioinformatics and/or population
genetics. Prociency in English is required. Experi-
ence with ecological experiments is an asset. The Bio-
diversity and Climate Research Centre supports equal
opportunity of men and women and therefore strongly
invites women to apply. Equally qualied handicapped
applicants will be given preference. The type of hand-
icap should not prevent work needed to conduct the
research. The duty station will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. The employer is the Goethe-University.
Salary and benets are according to a public service po-
sition in Germany (TV-G-U E13, 65%). Applications
(CV, letter of motivation, and contact of two referees)
should be sent to Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de until
the 15th of July 2013. The position is for three years.
Due to the biology of the midges, starting date is as
soon as possible.
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has been founded by the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-University Frankfurt
am Main, and additional partners. It is funded by
the Federal State of Hessen through its Initiative for
the Development of Scientic and Economic Excellence
(LOEWE). The mission of the centre is to carry out in-
ternationally outstanding research on the interactions
of biodiversity and climate change at the organism level.
Prof. Dr. Markus Pfenninger Forschungszentrum Bio-
diversit at & Klima Molekulare Okologie Gruppe Georg-
Voigt Strae 14-16 D 60325 Frankfurt am Main Ger-
many
pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de
LavalU EvolSystemsBiolPhD and postdoctoral positions in evolutionary sys-
tems biology at Laval University
One PhD (4 years) and one postdoctoral position (2-3
years) are available in the Landry Laboratory at Laval
University (http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/landrylab). The
candidate will work on a project funded by the Cana-
dian Institutes of Health Research that aims at under-
standing the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms
of robustness of protein networks and protein com-
plexes using large-scale proteomics approaches. The
Landry laboratory is a very dynamic, international and
interdisciplinary research group with broad interests
in systems biology, molecular evolution, bioinformatics
and ecological genomics. The applicants should have
a strong background in molecular biology, microbiol-
ogy, biochemistry and/or proteomics. The projects are
mainly experimental but candidates with strong com-
putational backgrounds who are willing to learn and
perform experimental research are encouraged to ap-
ply.
Laval University is one of the most important research
universities in Canada and is located in Quebec City, a
lively city with a vibrant culture that oers an excep-
tional quality of life.
Interested applicants should send a CV, a list of pub-
lications, a statement of interest (1 page) and the
name of three referees in a single PDF le to Chris-
tian.landry@bio.ulaval.ca. PhD candidates should also
include a low-resolution copy of ocial academic tran-
scripts. The positions will remain available until lled.
Starting dates could be between September 2013 and
Mai 2014.
Christian Landry, PhD Associate professor CIHR New
Investigator D epartement de Biologie Institut de Biolo-
gie Int egrative et des Syst emes/PROTEO Local 3106,
Pavillon Charles-Eug ene-Marchand 1030, Avenue de la
M edecine Universit e Laval Qu ebec (Qu ebec) G1V 0A6
Canada
http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/landrylab T el ephone: 418-
656-3954 T el ecopieur: 418-656-7176
Christian Landry <Christian.Landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
Louvain Belgium ButteryEvoDevo
*PhD position in Evolutionary Biology*
*at the Biodiversity Research Centre { Earth and Life12 EvolDir August 1, 2013
Institute*
*Universit e catholique de Louvain (UCL)*
*1348, Louvain-la-Neuve, BELGIUM*
**
*Project Title*
Molecular developmental basis of a morphological evo-
lutionary novelty involved in olfactory communication,
the androconia of the model buttery /Bicyclus any-
nana./
*Available position*
A fulltime four-year Ph.D. position is available at the
Biodiversity Research Centre, Earth and Life Institute,
University of Louvain-la-Neuve (UCL) in Belgium.
*Description of the project*
The doctoral project will be undertaken at a leading
Belgium University, in a laboratory interested in the
evolution of olfactory communication and its role in
speciation using the model buttery /Bicyclus anyana/.
Our group has identied the male sex pheromone in-
volved in mate choice in /B. anynana/ and has shown
that this sex perfume is under sexual selection. More-
over, it was shown that wide diversication of the
African /Bicyclus/ genus is associated with selection
and reproductive character displacement on the com-
position of the male sex pheromone between closely
related sympatric /Bicyclus/ species ^1- 4 . Impor-
tantly, androconia, formed of hair-like structures lo-
cated on the wings, are the major morphological struc-
ture responsible for male sex pheromone production
in the /Bicyclus/ genus. Yet, despite the evolution-
ary recently acknowledged importance of androconia,
these morphological structures are an evolutionary nov-
eltyspecic to Lepidoptera and as such, the molecular
mechanisms controlling their development remain un-
known.
In this regard, this project aims at unraveling the
molecular bases of androconia development in /Bicy-
clus/ and identies whether novel genes, or rather re-
cycled developmental pathways, have been used to pro-
duce the Lepidopteran-specic androconial structures.
A high throughput 454 transcriptome data of /B. any-
nana/ developing wings is available in the lab for identi-
fying an unbiased list of candidate genes. Moreover, /B.
anynana/ butteries can be reared in large numbers in
the laboratory, allowing large-scale experiments. The
project will aim at rst to identify a list of candidate
genes in the transcriptome, and second, validate their
patterns of temporal and spatial expression with pheno-
typic data of androconia development, using RT-qPCR
and manipulative gene expression approaches ^5 . Thefunctional characterization of the candidate genes will
be conducted in collaboration with the laboratory of
Dr. P. Beldade (Gulbenkian Institute of Science, Lis-
bon, Portugal) ^6-8 . The research will lead to decipher-
ing the molecular bases of androconia development in
the rst Lepidoptera studied till date.
A second step of this project will aim at investigating
whether the same molecular developmental pathways
have been conserved, or not, through the diversication
of the /Bicyclus/ genus. For this we will test the expres-
sion of our /B. anynana/ list of candidate genes in the
development of the androconia of closely related /Bi-
cyclus/ species, which numbers and positions are the
main character allowing to discriminate among closely
related species in the eld.
*Requirements *
We are looking for a strongly motivated candidate with
a Masters degree in Molecular Biology or Evolution-
ary Ecology, or related elds. Experience in molecu-
lar biology and written and oral communication skills
in English are desirable, as is the ability to work e-
ciently, independently as well as in collaboration. The
grant will be delivered upon successful written applica-
tion prepared in collaboration with the selected appli-
cant (submission deadline: *September 3rd 2013*) and
an oral interview in Brussels (October-November 2013),
which can be done either in English or French. Ade-
quate training will be provided for preparing for the
interview. The selected applicant will be supervised
throughout the process. The degrees obtained abroad
(outside Belgium) or in the Flemish Community will
require an equivalence (necessary to provide documen-
tation of passed examinations for 300 credits includ-
ing a research work of at least six months during mas-
ter with a scientic report; more information: http:/-
/www.uclouvain.be/356107.html) for which the dead-
line is *August 10 ^th , 2013*. The candidate will be
expected to present his/her research results in national
and international conferences.
*Work environment*
The PhD student will work in a highly active and in-
tegrated academic environment, in the research team
of Prof. Caroline Nieberding and in close collaboration
with Dr. Alok Arun, as well as other postdocs and
PhD students, and will interact with members of other
research teams of the Institute. Our University is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action Employer, and
is in a French-speaking
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 13
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MasseyU GeneExpressionEvolution
PhD Project in Polyploid Transcriptomics
We are seeking an outstanding candidate for a ground-
breaking PhD project looking at the gene expression
response to polyploidy using next-generation sequenc-
ing. The project builds on our existing work on fungal
interspecic hybrids that has uncovered universal rules
for polyploid gene expression responses. The successful
applicant will be responsible for managing large tran-
scriptome databases, analyzing expression data to de-
termine the consequences of polyploidy on gene expres-
sion, and undertaking comparative analyses, includ-
ing simulation and statistical modeling to determine
the evolutionary mechanisms underlying the universal
rules.
This computational project (no wet lab component)
is a collaboration between the Institute of Fundamen-
tal Sciences (http://ifs.massey.ac.nz) and the Insti-
tute of Natural and Mathematical Sciences (http://-
inms.massey.ac.nz) at Massey University, and is al-
iated with both the New Zealand BioProtection Cen-
tre (http://bioprotection.org.nz) and the Allan Wilson
Centre for Molecular Ecology and Evolution (http:/-
/www.allanwilsoncentre.ac.nz). The successful candi-
date will be based in the Computational Biology Re-
search Group in Palmerston North, New Zealand, but
will work closely with team members at other institu-
tions.
This position would suit a highly motivated student
with a strong quantitative background in bioinformat-
ics, computer science, statistics or mathematics. Train-
ing in biology is preferred, but not essential. Candi-
dates must already hold a Masters or Bachelors degree
with rst class Honors or equivalent.
Requirements are:
* Familiarity with a UNIX working environment *
Some scripting and/or programming experience * Basic
computer modeling expertise * Ability to handle large
datasets
We are oering a fees-only scholarship for this PhD
project. To support living costs during their PhD study,
the successful candidate will be expected to apply for a
Massey Doctoral Scholarship (see http://tinyurl.com/-MasseyDoctoralScholarship for information).
This position oers a rare opportunity to experience
New Zealands unique natural and cultural environment.
Palmerston North, a university town with a large inter-
national community, oers the full range of social and
cultural amenities. The city is located close to moun-
tains and the sea, and presents regular opportunities
for hiking, skiing, surng and adventure sports.
For more information, please contact the Prin-
cipal Investigators, Assoc Prof Murray Cox
(m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz) or Dr Austen Gan-
ley (a.r.ganley@massey.ac.nz), or visit their
group websites (http://massey.genomicus.com and
http://rdnaome.org respectively).
To apply for this position, send the following docu-
ments (in PDF format) to Assoc Prof Murray Cox
(m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz):
1. A brief statement of research interests, qualications
and experience. 2. A CV 3. University transcripts 4.
The names and contact details of three referees willing
to provide a condential letter of recommendation upon
request.
Applications are due by Sunday 18 August 2013.
Assoc Prof Murray P. Cox Institute of Fundamental
Sciences Massey University Private Bag 11 222 Palmer-
ston North 4442 NEW ZEALAND
http://massey.genomicus.com m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz
Murray Cox <murray.p.cox@gmail.com >
Merelbeke Belgium 4
EvolutionaryBiol
We have 4 PhD scholarships available at the Institute
for Agricultural and Fisheries Research (ILVO) (located
in Merelbeke, Belgium) for a project studying the com-
position of (meta)populations by using next generation
sequencing techniques:
PhD 1 develops computational methods for the func-
tional interpretation and visualization of population
scale NGS data. The data and data analysis meth-
ods are exchanged with the other three PhD students
through the six case studies.
PhD 2 studies the driving forces (environmental or ge-
netic) that form the basis of the adaptive power of
perennial ryegrass cultivars and comb jelly populations.14 EvolDir August 1, 2013
PhD 3 focuses on the inuence of microbial populations
in the rhizosphere on plant health or in the degradation
of microplastics in sea water.
PhD 4 investigates gastro-intestinal microbial commu-
nities and focuses on the eect of feed additives on
methane production in cows and antibiotic resistance
development in pigs.
For more information: http://goo.gl/BLGp7 Thanks,
Annelies
Annelies Haegeman Postdoctoral scientist
Instituut voor Landbouw- en Visserijonder-
zoek/Institute for Agricultural and Fisheries Research
Eenheid Plant / Plant Sciences Unit - Genomics
Caritasstraat 21 9090 Melle Tel +32 9 272 29 60 Tel
+32 9 272 24 73
annelies.haegeman@ilvo.vlaanderen.be
www.ilvo.vlaanderen.be Annelies Haegeman
<annelies.haegeman@ilvo.vlaanderen.be >
OhioStateU Phylogeography
***Grad Student***
The Carstens lab at The Ohio State University
is looking for Ph D students who are interested
in phylogeography in general and developing new
approaches to the analysis of comparative phy-
logeographic data in particular. Please see <
http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ >and<https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ >for general
information about the lab, and contact Bryan directly
if interested at <carstens dot 12 at osu dot edu >. I
anticipate that the positions would start in the Fall of
2014.
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ web:
https://sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >RBG Edinburgh BegoniaEvolution
Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh and the University
of Glasgow. Linking the genome to the niche in the
mega-diverse genus Begonia PhD scholarship
Abstract Begonias are one of the largest groups of ow-
ering plants in the world, with nearly 2000 species.
They are very successful at colonising deeply shaded
habitats in the tropical forest understory, often grow-
ing where few other plants can survive. Why are there
2000 species, and how are they dierent? Answering
this question will give us insights into why the tropics
hold so much of the world's biodiversity. To what ex-
tent do begonias dier in tolerating deep shade, which
is a very important part of their strategy for survival?
To answer this we need to compare the light levels that
a number of dierent species get from dawn to dusk by
measuring it in the forest where they grow. There may
be other important factors in the habitat that may dif-
fer from site to site, such as temperature, humidity and
soil characteristics, so we also need to measure those.
From this data we can see how much the conditions
each species grows in dier. What would make each
species do better under dierent conditions? To answer
this we need to look at their ecophysiology, for exam-
ple examining photosynthetic eciency, how the leaf
surface might vary in order to capture light of dier-
ent intensity or angle, or how the stomata are arranged
and controlled. To complete the picture of how begonia
species dier, we can use our database of begonia genes
to identify genes variable between species, focusing on
those which may be involved in ecophysiological traits.
We can sequence these from the same species we have
habitat and ecophysiology data for to determine if the
sequence variation is linked to adaptation to particular
niches. There is the potential to use interspecic genet-
ics or transgenics to further investigate functional links
between particular genes and niche adaptation.
Applicants should be highly motivated with an excel-
lent academic record, with a rst degree in a relevant
subject of at least upper second or equivalent. The
project will require competence in molecular lab skills
and the ability to withstand several months over the
course of the project in the eld in Indonesia.
The studentship is funded by the M. L. MacIntyre Be-
gonia Trust, and is open to applicants liable for tuition
fees at the Home and EU rate. The stipend is $13590August 1, 2013 EvolDir 15
per annum. The start date will be in September-
October 2013, with a closing date for applications of
August 30th 2013. Applicants should send a cover let-
ter explaining their interest in the project, and highlight
any relevant experience and publications. The success-
ful applicant will be based at the Royal Botanic Garden
Edinburgh, with the degree being awarded by the Uni-
versity of Glasgow. For more information please con-
tact either Dr Mark Hughes or Dr Catherine Kidner.
Supervisors Mark Hughes, Royal Botanic Garden Ed-
inburgh (m.hughes@rbge.ac.uk; 0131 2482893)
Catherine Kidner, Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh
(c.kidner@rbge.ac.uk; 0131 2482838)
Rod Page, Glasgow University (rdmpage@gmail.com;
0141 3304778)
References Brennan, A. C., Bridgett, S., Ali, M. S.,
Harrison, N., Matthews, A., Pellicer, J., Twyford, A.
& Kidner, C. A. (2012). Genomic resources for evo-
lutionary studies in the large, diverse, tropical genus,
Begonia. Trop. Pl. Biol. 5(4): 261-276.
Canham, C.D., Denslow, J.S., Platt, W.J., Runkle,
J.R., Spies, T.A., White, P.S. (1990). Light regimes
beneath closed canopies and tree-fall gaps in temperate
and tropical forests. Can. J. For. Res. 20: 620-631.
Hughes, M. & Pullan, M. (2007). Southeast Asian Be-
gonia Database. Electronic publication accessible via
www.rbge.org.uk . Nevo, R., Charuvi, D., Tsabari, T.,
Reich, Z. (2012) Composition, architecture and dynam-
ics of the photosynthetic apparatus in higher plants.
Plant J. 70: 157-176.
Rich, P.M., Clark, D.B., Clark, D.A., Oberbauer, S.F.
(1993). Long-term study of solar radiation regimes in
a tropical wet forest using quantum sensors and hemi-
spherical photography. Ag. Forest. Meteorol. 65: 107-
127.
The Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh is a Charity reg-
istered in Scotland (No SC007983)
M.Hughes@rbge.ac.uk
UBasel HostParasite
University of Basel, Switzerland
PhD-position in host-parasite interactions and coevolu-
tion
is available in the group of Dieter Ebert at Basel Uni-versity. I am looking for a highly motivated candi-
date with interests in evolutionary genetics/genomics
and host-parasite interactions. The PhD project is con-
cerned with the interactions and coevolution of Daph-
nia magna and its bacterial parasite Pasteuria. The
details of the PhD project will be worked out with
the candidate, to accommodate interests and strength.
The position is supported by the Swiss National Sci-
ence Foundation and the University of Basel. The re-
search group covers the entire range from epidemiologi-
cal and ecological aspects of host-parasite interactions,
to studies on the population genetics and genomics of
hosts and parasites. Work is carried out in the eld
and in the lab. For more information see: http://-
evolution.unibas.ch/ebert/ Starting date for the PhD
is negotiable (any time from October 2013 onwards).
In Basel German is helpful in every day life, but the
working language in the group is English. A Diploma
or Master degree (or equivalent) in biology or related
subject is necessary for admission.
Please send your application by email (all material in
one le please) to Dieter Ebert. Applications should
include a CV, a list of publications and a statement
about research interests. Please give names and email
addresses of two persons who are willing to write a letter
of recommendation. Application deadline is 2. Septem-
ber 2013.
Further information and address for application:
Prof. Dr. Dieter Ebert, University of Basel, In-
stitute of Zoology, Basel, Switzerland, Email: di-
eter.ebert@unibas.ch Tel. +41-(0)61-267 03 60 Web:
http://evolution.unibas.ch/ebert/ Dieter Ebert Uni-
versit at Basel, Zoologisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1, CH-
4051 Basel, Switzerland http://evolution.unibas.ch/-
Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch Tel. +41-(0)61-267 03
60 FAX +41-(0)61-267 03 62
dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
UBrussels PlantAdaptation
PhD position in genetics of plant adaptation available
in the laboratory of Plant Physiology and Molecular
Genetics (N. Verbruggen), Universit e Libre de Brux-
elles, Belgium
We are looking for a PhD student to investigate the
genetic basis of cadmium tolerance and their inter- and
intra-species variation in the model plant Arabidopsis
halleri (Brassicaceae). This species, which is closely re-16 EvolDir August 1, 2013
lated to Arabidopsis thaliana, is hypertolerant to zinc
and cadmium and for some populations hyperaccumu-
lator of zinc and/or cadmium. In the last few years,
these traits were investigated in two metallicolous A.
halleri populations by means of QTL mapping and
transcriptomics and some mechanisms underlying these
traits were identied. Nevertheless, recent phylogeo-
graphic studies and phenotyping data have suggested
that metal tolerance could have evolved secondarily in
metallicolous populations and could involve dierent
genes according to the population origin. The aim of
this project is to investigate the variability of the ge-
netic architecture of cadmium tolerance in A. halleri.
The PhD student will analyse progenies from crosses
using metallicolous and non metallicolous populations
from the dierent A. halleri genetic units. He/she will
contribute to the construction of genetic maps, to cad-
mium tolerance phenotyping and to the analysis of com-
parative transcriptomics analysis.
Motivated student with a MSc degree in life science
(evolution, molecular biology or other related elds)
and a broad interest in genetics of plant adaptation
are encouraged to apply. Experience in molecular tech-
niques, large phenotyping of plants and/or quantitative
genetics is an advantage. Because the holder of this
position will collaborate and interact closely with other
members of the group, we will put emphasis on both
independence and ability to collaborate.
The work is scheduled to start in October 2013.
The rst year of the PhD is funded by the FNRS
(1734^ a:grantpermonthincludingsocialsecurity; retirementetc:: ):Continuationoftheappointmentforanother 36monthswillbebasedonperformanceevaluation (FNRS 
FRIAcall ):
The position is based at the LPGMP lab (http:/-
/www.ulb.ac.be/sciences/lpgmp/) at the University
of Bruxelles (ULB, http://www.ulb.ac.be/), a dy-
namic research University with opportunities for world-
wide collaboration. The candidate will be super-
vised by Pr. Nathalie Verbruggen and Dr Claire-
Lise Meyer. Application including a CV, a letter of
motivation and contact details of two scientic refer-
ences should be addressed and sent to Pr Nathalie Ver-
bruggen (nverbru@ulb.ac.be) and Dr Claire-Lise Meyer
(clmeyer@ulb.ac.be). Deadline of application : July 17
2013
Claire-Lise.Meyer@ulb.ac.be
UGlasgow AdaptiveEvolutionGrad student position
An exciting opportunity is oered for a graduate stu-
dent interested in the processes underlying adaptive di-
versication in nature. We use ecological, genetic, and
experimental approaches to study the repeated evolu-
tion of ecologically-specialized morphs of Arctic charr
(Salvelinus alpinus) where the typical pattern of ecolog-
ical and phenotypic divergence is a broad continuum of
benthic and limnetic phenotypes. This is a powerful
system for determining the earliest stages of adaptive
dierentiation, specialization, and speciation. However,
this species is also under threat from climate change
which will motivate some of the research in this project.
Students will have the opportunity to learn cutting edge
next generation sequencing techniques as well as exper-
imental, and morphometric methods. There are po-
tential opportunities to work with collaborators at the
University of Aberdeen, as well as colleagues in Canada
at the University of Guelph, as well as in Iceland at Ho-
lar University College.
This studentship is open to both UK and EU citizens
and is funded by the Scottish Natural Heritage and the
University of Glasgow. Students will receive a stipend
for the three year programme period.
Applicants should be highly motivated and have an ex-
cellent academic record at Bachelors level in an appro-
priate biological subject, and an interest in evolutionary
and environmental issues. Interested students should
send a cover letter describing why the PhD opportu-
nity interests them, and list any relevant experience and
publications (if any). Informal inquiries can be made
Dr. Kevin Parsons at Kevin.Parsons@glasgow.ac.uk.
The position will begin in the autumn of 2013 with
some opportunity for an early start.
Kevin.Parsons@glasgow.ac.uk
ULausanne SocialEvolution
1 PhD position: Sibling negotiation, communication
network, social rules University of Lausanne, Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution
We are looking for one PhD student to work on sibling
negotiation. Animal communication is often studied
by averaging the performance of each participant of a
social network, while we expect that individuals adjust
their investment in signalling at each moment according
to their counterparts and to their likelihood of winningAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 17
the contest. Using the barn owl as a model species,
we want to tackle this issue and study experimentally
the dynamics of animal communication. How individ-
ual siblings that vocally negotiate prey items invest in
the vocal contest: with which sibling do they interact,
how, and do the ways they interact with siblings aect
their ability to monopolise the food resource? To go
further, as social rules that ultimately determine food
share have been found, what happens if some siblings
do not follow these rules? Is there a social control that
prevents cheaters to emerge?
The student will take part in natural population mon-
itoring, setting up and follow up of experiments in
laboratory, behavioural observations, acoustic analyses,
and elaboration of acoustic tools in collaboration with
acousticians.
Eligibility: Dynamic and motivated student holding a
master in ecology and or related disciplines. The ap-
plicant is expected to have a good knowledge (spoken
and written) of the English language. Driving license
is needed. The duration of the PhD training period is
three full years.
Applications should comprise a CV, a letter explaining
the motivation and one or two letters of reference The
position will be lled as soon as a suitable candidate is
found.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution is a well-
funded institution, one of the largest and most reputed
departments in this eld. We have a dynamic doctoral
school and a doctoral program for the dierent Swiss
universities.
Contact: University of Lausanne, Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution, Building Biophore, 1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland
Supervisors Prof. Alexandre Roulin, Alexan-
dre.Roulin@unil.ch Dr. Am elie Dreiss,
Amelie.Dreiss@unil.ch
Prof. Alexandre Roulin Department of Ecology & Evo-
lution Building Biophore University of Lausanne CH-
1015 Lausanne Switzerland
Desk 3202 Tel: 0041 21 692 41 89 Mobile: 0041
79 686 08 64 Fax: 0041 21 692 41 65 Web-
site: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page7006.html alexan-
dre.roulin@unil.ch
ULisbon GenomicsAdvanced Training / PhD program
\Exceptionally strong PhD program with essentially
no weaknesses" (Overall comment from the Evaluation
Panel) BioFIG/FCUL PhD program
The new PhD program BioSys - Biological Systems,
Functional and Integrative Genomics has been ap-
proved for funding in the national call for PhD Pro-
grammes launched in December 2012 by FCT with top
scores on all evaluation parameters. Hosted by the
Center for Biodiversity, Functional & Integrative Ge-
nomics (BioFIG) and the Faculty of Sciences, cooper-
ating across departmental boundaries and with inten-
sive international collaboration, the new program has
been funded for four editions, with 5 national and 6
mixed Scholarships per edition, totaling 44 (four year)
fellowships for the duration of the program. BioSys is
shaped to train young researchers to make the bridge
from biology to the remarkable potential of mathemati-
cal and computational approaches for solving problems
of a new and interdisciplinary nature by applying in-
tegrative functional genomics and innovative research
approaches. The program oers a coordinated, exible
and customized plan of post-graduate training during
the rst year involving international faculty, with the
following 3 years devoted to research in either national
or international laboratories. As a hallmark of its in-
terdisciplinary nature, the program is open to top level
candidates holding an MSc degree in biology, computer
science, applied mathematics, physics and engineering,
who will be assisted by two supervisors from comple-
mentary scientic areas (life, physical or computational
sciences).
The programme will start in early 2014 (Jan/ Feb).
Recruitment is scheduled to start in September 2013.
More information is being posted regularly. If you are
interested, please check this website:
http://biog.fc.ul.pt/training-phd-programme {
Andreia J. Amaral, PhD BioFIG - Center for
Biodiversity, Functional and Integrative Ge-
nomics Instituto de Medicina Molecular Univer-
sity of Lisbon Tel: +352 217500000 (ext. oce:
28253) email:andreiaamaral@fm.ul.pt ; andreiaama-
ral@fc.ul.pt
Andreia Fonseca <andreia.fonseca@gmail.com >18 EvolDir August 1, 2013
UNeuchatel Switzerland
EvolutionEcologyLymeDisease
Two PhD positions for duration of four years are avail-
able for research on the ecology and evolution of Lyme
borreliosis, a tick-borne infectious disease caused by the
spirochete bacteria, Borrelia burgdorferi. In Europe,
certain Borrelia species have specialized on either bird
or mammalian reservoir hosts. One PhD project will
address conict over host choice between the specialist
Borrelia pathogen and the generalist tick vector. The
other PhD project will examine interactions between
the Borrelia pathogen and the rodent immune system.
Job requirements: The positions require independent,
motivated, and scientically curious individuals with a
background in any of the following: ecology, evolution-
ary biology, immunology, physiology, or animal behav-
ior. Any of the following skills are useful: molecular
biology, immunology, arthropod behavior and physiol-
ogy, handling of rodents and birds. An MSc (or equiv-
alent) in Biology is required. The position requires
some teaching of biology labs. French language skills
are helpful.
Neuchatel is an attractive city with a high quality of life
in the French part of Switzerland. The city is located
on the shore of Lake Neuchatel with the Jura Moun-
tains to the North and the Bernese Alps to the South.
For outdoors enthusiasts, this is an excellent area for
hiking, climbing and skiing.
Start data: One position is available as of September,
2013. The other position is available in January, 2014.
Application requirements: Formal applications should
include: a 1-2 page cover letter (in English) indicating
research interests, your CV, and two letters of reference.
Application deadline is August 31, 2012. Applications
and informal enquiries can be submitted by email to:
maarten.voordouw@unine.ch
mjvoordouw@gmail.com
VUAmsterdam EvolutionTraitLoss
2 PhD positions in Evolutionary Biology/Molecular Bi-ology (f/m) Vacancynumber: 13204
Job / Project Description The section Animal Ecology
of the Department of Ecological Science has two PhD
positions in Evolutionary Biology available in the VICI-
project of prof. Jacintha Ellers, entitled 'Evolutionary
loss of traits in species interactions?'.
This project investigates a new framework to under-
stand the driving forces and underlying mechanisms of
trait loss in the context of ecological interactions. This
novel theory of reductive evolution explains how traits
can be lost without aecting the external phenotype,
provided the lost function is compensated for by species
interactions. However, the evolutionary dynamics driv-
ing such compensated trait loss are poorly understood.
The VICI project comprises a team of six researchers.
The current PhD-positions focus on (i) determining
molecular changes underlying compensated trait loss
(PhD1). The PhD student will use transcriptomics and
functional genetics to study molecular mechanisms of
loss of lipid synthesis in insect parasitoids; (ii) quanti-
fying the rate and succession of evolutionary changes
involved in the initial stages of compensated trait loss
(PhD2). The PhD student will use experimental evolu-
tion to identify phenotypic and molecular changes in an
invertebrate host following experimental infection with
the bacterial endosymbiont Wolbachia.
Tasks * Executing scientic research as detailed in the
project description. * Publication of results of the re-
search in scientic journals as well as in a thesis. *
Assisting in undergraduate courses given within the De-
partment of Ecological Science. * Following the PhD
educational programme as prescribed by the Graduate
School.
Requirements * MSc degree in Biology, preferably with
advanced courses in animal ecology, evolutionary biol-
ogy, molecular biology, or equivalent. * experience with
working with invertebrate species * anity with state-
of-the art molecular biological techniques * excellent
ability to communicate in both written and spoken En-
glish * good social skills, ability to work independently
and strong scientic motivation * experience with writ-
ing scientic papers is an asset
Appointment The initial appointment will be for a pe-
riod of 1 year. After satisfactory evaluation of the ini-
tial appointment, it can be extended for a total dura-
tion of 4 years. Payment will be according to the stan-
dard regulations, from Euro 2,062.- gross per month in
the rst year up to Euro 2,664.- gross per month in
the fourth year based on a full-time appointment. You
can nd information about our excellent fringe benets
of employment at www.workingatvu.nl including remu-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 19
neration of 8,3% end-of-year bonus and 8% holiday al-
lowance, and generous contribution (70%) commuting
allowance based on public transport;
Information For additional information please contact:
prof. dr.J.Ellers (j.ellers@.vu.nl, Phone number +31
20 5987076). Upon request, applicants can obtain a
full description of the VICI project (including the cur-
rent 2 PhD positions) from D. Hoonhout (tel.+31 20
5987004; desiree.hoonhout@vu.nl).
Application Applicants are requested to write a letter
in which they describe their abilities and motivation,
accompanied by a curriculum vitae and two reference
names. Applications -in a single pdf-le only and men-
tioning the Vacancy number 13204- should be sent to:vacature.falw@vu.nl. Selection of applicants starts 12
July 2013 and continues until positions are lled. Please
mention the vacancy number in the e-mail header.
VU University Amsterdam is one of the leading institu-
tions for higher education in Europe and has teaching
facilities for 25.000 students. The Department of Eco-
logical Sciences (DES) answers fundamental ecological
questions at the full array of hierarchical levels: from
molecular ecology to ecosystem research. The depart-
ment comprises a dynamic community of researchers
and provides an excellent research environment with
state-of-the-art facilities and high quality training.
j.ellers@vu.nl
Jobs
Charleston MolecularCoreLabManager . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
ClemsonU NGS Technician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
ColoradoStateU GeneticsComplexTraits . . . . . . . . . . . 21
DukeU FieldTech PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
GettysburgCollege 1yr Teaching EvolutionaryMicrobiol
22
ImperialCollege London EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . 22
JohannesGutenbergU EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . 23
LeibnizInst Berlin Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
MacEwanU EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
MichiganStateU EntomologyChair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
MooreLabZoology CollectionsManager . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
NHM London SnakeVisionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
ProvidenceCollege ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . 26
RBG Edinburgh ResAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
RyersonU GenomicBigData . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27StanfordU EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
StockholmU EcologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
SwarthmoreCollege ConservationBiology . . . . . . . . . . 28
UCalifornia SantaBarabara Tech DrosophilaEvolution
29
ULausanne EvolutionaryEntomology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UNewEngland Australia PlantMolecularEvolution . 29
UUtah LabTech Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UVirginia LabAssist EvolGeneticsBehavior . . . . . . . . 30
UWashington LabTech EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . 31
UWisconsin Milwaukee Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UppsalaU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UppsalaU EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
WashingtonStateU PlantInsectPathogenInteractions 34
Charleston
MolecularCoreLabManager
Molecular Core Facility Lab Manager Grice Marine
Laboratory of the College of CharlestonAPPLICATION DEADLINE: JULY 21, 2013
Molecular Core Facility Lab Manager. The position
is split, with roughly 50% as the lab manager of the
Molecular Core Facility (MCF) at the Grice Marine
Laboratory and 50% as lab technician for the Marine
Biology Graduate Program director.
MCF manager duties include 1) Sanger sequencing and
troubleshooting problems with user-supplied samples20 EvolDir August 1, 2013
for Sanger sequence and the preparation of DNA li-
braries for next-generation sequencing, 2) oversight of
the use and maintenance of MCF facilities and equip-
ment, 3) purchasing, inventory, and maintenance of
tracking and billing system for equipment usage, and 4)
training students, faculty, and sta on complex molec-
ular biology equipment and associated computer soft-
ware. Lab technician duties will be diverse, includ-
ing performing biological experiments, troubleshooting,
purchasing and inventory, training of students, as re-
quired.
Required Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of prin-
ciples and laboratory applications of modern molecu-
lar biology, including DNA sequencing, electrophore-
sis, PCR, and image analysis. Ability to follow com-
plex instructions and use complex laboratory equip-
ment. Ability to communicate eectively and prepare
and present technical training. Training on specialized
equipment from manufacturers' representatives will be
required. Training regarding billing, ordering, safety
compliance, etc. from direct supervisor and other Col-
lege personnel required.
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor of Science in Biol-
ogy, Molecular Biology or related discipline and directly
related experience with DNA sequencing and standard
molecular biology methodologies. Candidates with an
equivalent combination of experience and/or education
are encouraged to apply.
Salary is commensurate with education/experience.
Oers of employment are contingent upon a successful
background check. ?All applications must be submitted
online https://jobs.cofc.edu. For questions about the
position, contact Dr. Craig Plante at plantec@cofc.edu
or 843-953-9187. Review of applications will begin on
July 21 and continue until the position is lled.
\Plante, Craig J" <PlanteC@cofc.edu >
ClemsonU NGS Technician
Full/Part Time: Full-Time Regular/Temporary: Tem-
porary - Time Limited
POSITION DESCRIPTION:
1. JOB PURPOSE
To engage in a vigorous basic and applied genet-
ics/genomics research program focused on NGS (next
generation sequencing), genotyping, and SNPchip datafrom several domestic species (including the genera
Sorghum, Saccharum, and Zea and their wild relatives)
2. JOB FUNCTIONS
EXPERIMENTS Plan and execute experiments, ana-
lyze data, and prepare manuscripts E/40%
ASSAYS Undertake relevant yield, biochemical, and
compositional assays. E/40%
PREPARE MATERIALS Prepare materials for next
generation sequencing and genotyping. E/20% QUAL-
IFICATIONS:
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
MS with signicant experience or a PhD in a biol-
ogy eld with a solid background in population ge-
netic/genomics, evolution, and statistics.
Ability to work independently and with theoretical
and empirical crop improvement and population genet-
ics/genomics researchers is important. PAY & WORK
SCHEDULE:
Standard Hrs: 37.5; Salary commensurate with educa-
tion, training, and experience.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
MS with signicant experience or a PhD in a biol-
ogy eld with a solid background in population ge-
netic/genomics, evolution, and statistics.
Ability to work independently and with theoretical
and empirical crop improvement and population genet-
ics/genomics researchers is important. PAY & WORK
SCHEDULE:
Standard Hrs: 37.5; Salary commensurate with educa-
tion, training, and experience. HOW TO APPLY:
To apply, please submit the following: A letter of appli-
cation, resume, and three (3) letters of reference. In ad-
dition, external applicants must submit a copy of tran-
scripts of all college courses to:
Mr. M.J. Simmons Clemson University 107 Barre Hall
Clemson, SC 29634
Review of materials will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is lled. To ensure full consid-
eration, please submit materials by: August 16, 2013
BENEFITS INFORMATION:
Employees who are in time limited positions will earn
one and one-quarter days of Annual and Sick Leave per
month for a total of thirty (30) days per year. Eligible
part-timers will earn days on a pro rata basis. JOB
LOCATION:
Biosystems Research Complex - CU main campus
JEANNE CLERY ACT:August 1, 2013 EvolDir 21
The Jeanne Clery Disclosure Act requires institutions
of higher education to disclose campus security infor-
mation including crime statistics for the campus and
surrounding areas. As a current or prospective Clemson
University employee, you have a right to obtain a copy
of this information for this institution. For more infor-
mation regarding our Employment, Campus Safety and
Benets, please visit the Human Resources - Prospec-
tive Employees web page shown below:
http://www.clemson.edu/cao/humanresources/-
prospective/ CLOSING STATEMENT:
Clemson University is an Armative Action/Equal Op-
portunity employer and does not discriminate against
any individual or group of individuals on the basis of
age, color, disability, gender, national origin, race, re-
ligion, sexual orientation, veteran status or genetic in-
formation.
Human Resources <mmcder2010@hotmail.com >
ColoradoStateU
GeneticsComplexTraits
Assistant Professor - Genetics of Complex Traits in
Plants
Tenure-track, 9-month academic faculty position (80%
Research, 20% Teaching). Colorado State University,
Fort Collins, Colorado
We invite applicants for a tenure-track position (AS-
SISTANT PROFESSOR) in the genetics of complex
traits in plants, with a focus on resistance to herbicides
in plants. The successful candidate will be expected to
develop an extramurally funded and innovative research
program that will contribute to solving problems rele-
vant to Colorado agriculture. The candidate will also
contribute to undergraduate and graduate teaching.
Applicants must have Ph.D in biology or an allied led;
research experience in the genetics of complex traits
and published peer-reviewed papers. We seek a col-
league with the ability to creatively address important
ecological and evolutionary questions and to integrate
fundamental and applied research. View the full posi-
tion description and directions for how to apply at:
http://bspm.agsci.colostate.edu/genetics/ To receive
full consideration, apply by August 28, 2013.
CSU is an EO/EA/AA employer. Colorado State Uni-
versity conducts background checks on all nal candi-dates.
jkmckay@colostate.edu
DukeU FieldTech PlantAdaptation
The Mitchell-Olds lab at Duke University seeks a tem-
porary planting assistant for 3 weeks of work in the
northern Rocky Mountains. We are studying Boechera,
a perennial herb that oers genetic tractability and eco-
logical context. Due to its perennial nature, experimen-
tal plants must be planted in fall for data collection
the following summer. We seek an assistant for fall
planting from approximately September 27-October 18,
2013. Current eld experiments focus on questions re-
lated to local adaptation, speciation, plant defense, and
mating systems.
Our research sites are located in east-central Idaho and
southwest Montana. Base camp is a set of trailers lo-
cated near the beautiful town of Salmon, Idaho. Trail-
ers include heat, hot water, a landline, and wireless in-
ternet access. Travel distances between sites are long,
which may necessitate overnight camping. Weather
conditions in the Rockies at this time of year are of-
ten cool, but work in both hot weather and snow is
probable.
Applicants must be available throughout the duration
of this time period. Successful applicants are expected
to assist in plant care, dibbling, transplanting, possi-
ble seed collection, carrying large quantities of water
and racks of plants, and possibly sharing in driving of
research vehicles. The work is demanding and tiring,
and applicants must be physically t. A good sense of
humor is a necessity.
Qualications: 1) some undergraduate education in bi-
ology, ecology, or related eld, or equivalent experience;
2) experience camping and working outdoors and/or
previous eld research experience; 3) ability to perform
repetitive tasks with a cheerful attitude and with atten-
tion to detail; 4) willingness to live and work in close
proximity with other researchers in a trailer. Previous
experience working with plants is preferable but not
required. Transportation and salary will be provided.
Interested applicants should submit: 1) a short cover
letter describing their qualications as well as future
academic and professional goals; 2) a r esum e outlining
previous work experience, relevant courses (completed
or in progress), and extracurricular activities; and 3)22 EvolDir August 1, 2013
contact information for two character references.
Email to:
Tom Mitchell-Olds, tmo1@duke.edu Biology Depart-
ment, Duke University
catherine.rushworth@gmail.com
GettysburgCollege 1yr Teaching
EvolutionaryMicrobiol
Gettysburg College invites applications for a one-
semester sabbatical replacement position at the rank
of assistant professor in the Biology Department for
Spring 2014. Ph.D. in a Biological Sciences discipline
(ABD acceptable) and commitment to teaching in the
liberal arts tradition are essential. Must be able to
teach microbiology (one lecture and two lab sections).
Send curriculum vitae and statement of teaching expe-
rience and have three letters of reference (of which at
least one can speak to the candidates teaching eec-
tiveness) to: Dr. Vronique A. Delesalle, Microbiology
search, Biology Department, Box 392, Gettysburg Col-
lege, Gettysburg, PA 17325. Review of applications
will begin August 15th, 2013, and will continue until a
successful candidate is found. Vronique A. Delesalle
Professor of Biology Chair of the Biology Department
Box 392 Gettysburg College Gettysburg, PA 17325
Tel: 717-337-6153 fax: 717-337-6157
Veronique Delesalle <delesall@gettysburg.edu >
ImperialCollege London
EvolutionaryEcol
Imperial College London
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Department of Life Sciences
Academic Position in Ecology and Evolution (Lec-
turer/Senior Lecturer/Reader/Chair)
Lecturer salary in the range $44,150 - $49,200 per an-
num Senior Lecturer/Reader minimum starting salary:
$54,250 per annum Chair minimum starting salary:$68,970 per annum
Imperial College's Department of Life Sciences is
looking to make one academic appointment in the
broad area of Ecology and Evolution. The post
will be based at the Silwood Park Campus (http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/silwoodparkcampus).
The successful candidate will contribute to the Depart-
ment's goal of improving fundamental scientic under-
standing of biological and ecological processes and sys-
tems. The research will focus on solving ecological and
evolutionary challenges and could t into a range of dis-
ciplines, including, but not restricted to, ecology, evo-
lution, genomics, agro-biology, or conservation science.
The Department is seeking to appoint a candidate with
expertise in relevant areas of Ecology and Evolution.
We anticipate that this appointment will be at Lec-
turer level. However, there is potential for the appoint-
ment to be made at more senior academic levels (Senior
Lecturer/Reader/Chair), and we welcome applications
from more senior researchers.
Reporting to the Deputy Head of the Department, you
will be expected to identify opportunities in Ecology
and Evolution and contribute to teaching and adminis-
tration within the Division and Department. You will
be required to raise nancial support, manage your own
innovative research programme of international quality
in the areas of ecology, evolution or conservation sci-
ence that would expand on and complement existing
activities within the Department of Life Sciences.
The successful candidate will be expected to have a
good honours degree and a doctorate (or equivalent)
in a relevant subject area. You will also have an in-
ternational reputation for research and innovation in
ecology and evolution commensurate with the current
stage of your career, underpinned by a record of rst-
class journal publication. You must also be able to
demonstrate the potential to raise signicant research
funding from UK and EU sources to maintain and en-
hance the College's leading research activities. Experi-
ence of teaching at undergraduate and Masters' level,
and postgraduate student supervision, are not essential,
but would be an advantage. You must have excellent
interpersonal, verbal and written communication skill
with an ability to convey ideas and concepts clearly and
eectively to a range of audiences through a variety of
methods and media. You must have the ability to lead
a research team, manage the nance and your sta.
You must also have the ability to communicate and
inspire students as you will be expected to contribute
to our undergraduate and postgraduate teaching pro-
grammes. For appointment to Senior Lecturer/Reader,
in addition to the above, candidates must also have anAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 23
exceptionally strong research record in ecology, evolu-
tion or conservation science or a closely related subject,
and a proven track record of securing research funding.
You will also be expected to have extensive experience
in postgraduate teaching and undergraduate teaching
across a range of subjects within (or close to) the elds
of Ecology, Evolution or Conservation Science, together
with a track record of successful postgraduate student
supervision and postdoctoral mentoring.
For appointment to the position of Chair, in addition to
the above, you will also be expected to have an interna-
tional reputation for your research, and strong leader-
ship qualities in areas which enhance and extend those
of the Group.
The potential for productive research collaboration
with existing sta within Imperial's Department of Life
Sciences and College more broadly will also be carefully
assessed.
For an informal discussion about the post
please contact Professor Vincent Savolainen
(v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk).
Our preferred method of application is online via
our website http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment
(please select \Job Search" then enter the job title or
vacancy reference number including spaces - NS 2013
160 JT into \Keywords"). Please complete and upload
an application form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply on-
line, please contact Mrs Diana Anderson by email
d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk to request an application
form.
Closing date: 26 August 2013
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We
are also an Athena SWAN Silver Award winner, a
Stonewall Diversity Champion and a Two Ticks Em-
ployer.
\Thomas, Jenny" <j.thomas@imperial.ac.uk >
JohannesGutenbergU
EvolutionaryEcol
The Johannes Gutenberg-Universit at Mainz, Germany,
Faculty of Biology, invites applications for a
Full Professorship (Tenure Position W3)
in Evolutionary Ecologyto be lled at the earliest possible date. The success-
ful applicant will have a record of internationally visi-
ble research in Evolutionary Ecology, preferably using
molecular genetic methods. The position will be part
of the Mainz Biology Division \Evolution, Biodiversity
and Anthropology". Cooperation is encouraged with
the research focus \Gene Regulation in Evolution and
Development" (www.imb.de/GeneRED) of the Depart-
ment of Biology and the Institute of Molecular Biol-
ogy (IMB). In addition to their scientic qualications,
candidates must have didactic skills and experience in
teaching Ecology at the Bachelor and Master levels, in-
cluding ecological eld courses and excursions.
State law (x49 of the Hochschulgesetz Rheinland-Pfalz)
requires applicants to have the relevant university and
doctoral degrees, an outstanding research record and
teaching achievements.
The State of Rhineland-Palatinate and JGU put partic-
ular emphasis on intensive student support. We expect
the University's faculty to reect this in their presence
at the University.
JGU aims at increasing the number of female faculty
and therefore explicitly encourages applications by fe-
male scientists. Disabled applicants with adequate
qualication will be given preferential treatment.
Applications including the usual documents (CV; pub-
lications; teaching; funding; research proposal; forms
available at http://www.bio.uni-mainz.de/), both on
paper and in electronic form (PDF), should be sub-
mitted no later than 15 August 2013 to
Dekan des Fachbereichs 10 - Biologie - Johannes
Gutenberg-Universit at Mainz 55099 Mainz Email:
zischler@uni-mainz.de
gehrke@uni-mainz.de
LeibnizInst Berlin Bioinformatician
Leibniz Institute for Zoo & Wildlife Research
Berlin/Bioinformatician (f/m)
The Leibniz Institute for Zoo & Wildlife Research
Berlin is Germany's premier wildlife research institute,
a member of the Leibniz-Gemeinschaft of research insti-
tutes and jointly funded by the federal government and
the state government of Berlin. The IZW focuses on
the life histories and evolutionary adaptations of mam-
mals and birds and their conservation in natural and24 EvolDir August 1, 2013
anthropogenically inuenced environments. The insti-
tute operates within the elds of wildlife health and
diseases, reproductive biology and medicine, and evo-
lutionary ecology and genetics.
For a major new interdisciplinary research initiative,
funded through the Pact for Research and Innovation
via the Leibniz Association, on
\Gradual environmental change versus single catastro-
phe - identifying drivers of mammalian evolution"
the IZW, together with its partner, the Potsdam Insti-
tute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) with expertise
in the areas of climate change, climate policy and cli-
mate economics, and in collaboration with further in-
stitutions, oers the following position:
Bioinformatician (Reference 12/2013)
Project
The research initiative will focus on the evolution of
mammals in the Sunda Shelf in Southeast Asia, a global
biodiversity hotspot. By combining climate reconstruc-
tion, molecular genetic data and species distribution
data from the Late Pleistocene to the present we will
investigate and elucidate on the patterns and processes
generating the complex distribution patterns of genetic
and species diversity (e.g. Pleistocene refugia), and
thereby evaluate the impact of the hypothesised key
drivers shaping biodiversity. Using carnivores, primates
and hoofed mammals as models, this will also con-
tribute to the assessment of the long-term consequences
of the current (man-made) biodiversity crisis.
Prerequisites . A Master of Science/Diploma or PhD
in bioinformatics or related disciplines; . Bioinformatics
background with molecular biology knowledge; . Broad
experiences with working with complex Next Gener-
ation Sequencing data and bioinformatics databases;
. Excellent programming and scripting skills (e.g.
Python, Perl R, Java, C++); . Highly procient with
linux systems and server administration; . Working ex-
perience in a scientic institution is an advantage; .
Prociency in English (oral and written).
We oer state-of-the-art methodology and a stimulat-
ing research environment in an interdisciplinary, col-
laborative project. For all candidates, organisational
skills, high motivation and the willingness to work as
part of a team within a highly interdisciplinary project
are essential. For enquiries or further questions, please
contact Dr Joerns Fickel (IZW), phone: +49 (0)30
5168-314, email: ckel@izw-berlin.de or Dr Andreas
Wilting (IZW), phone: +49 (0)30 5158-333, email:
wilting@izw-berlin.de.
Salary and benets will be competitive (100% scientist'ssalary) and the position is limited to two years and will
be available from 1st September 2013. Interviews will
take place on August 8th and 9th, 2013 (potentially
via Skype). As a member of the Leibniz Association,
the IZW is an equal opportunity employer, and is deter-
mined to increase the proportion of women in successful
scientic careers, and particularly encourages women to
apply.
Please email complete application documents as a sin-
gle pdf-le including the position reference number, a
letter of motivation, CV, copies of relevant degrees,
and names and contact details of two referees as soon
as possible but no later than August 4th, 2013 to
personal@izw-berlin.de or by mail to Leibniz Insti-
tute for Zoo & Wildlife Research, PF 700430, D-10324
Berlin, Germany.
Best regards from Berlin, Witha
\Hildebrand, Roswitha" <hildebrand personal@izw-
berlin.de >
MacEwanU EvolEcol
The Department of Biological Sciences in the Faculty of
Arts and Science at MacEwan University invites appli-
cations for an Assistant Professor position commencing
January 1, 2014. The candidate must have a PhD (or
a solid indication of imminent completion) in the bio-
logical sciences, or a related discipline with a focus on
terrestrial population ecology. Applicants from all ar-
eas of terrestrial population ecology are welcome, but
particular attention will be given to those with expe-
rience in eld studies. The candidate must demon-
strate excellence, or clear promises of excellence, in
teaching. The successful candidate will be expected to
support instruction in general ecology, terrestrial ecol-
ogy, population ecology, and organismal diversity. A
commitment to research and to the supervision of un-
dergraduate research project is expected. Candidates
utilizing a model organism/system amenable to study
in an undergraduate context are of particular interest.
Applicants should have uent written and oral com-
munication skills in English. All qualied candidates
are encouraged to apply; however, in accordance with
Canadian immigration requirements, Canadian citizens
and permanent residents will be given priority. If suit-
able Canadian citizens or permanent residents cannot
be found, other individuals will be considered.
Applicant should submit a covering letter completeAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 25
with curriculum vitae, a statement regarding teaching
philosophy and interests, recent teaching evaluation,
a statement of research interests and graduate tran-
scripts. Candidates should also arrange for three let-
ters of reference to be sent under separate cover. Please
quote the competition number on all documents.
All application materials should be submitted before
the closing date of August 15, 2013.
This position is included under the Faculty Association
Collective Agreement.
All qualied candidates are encouraged to apply; how-
ever, Canadian citizens and permanent residents will
be given priority.
Category Full Time Continuing Salary Commensurate
with education and experience Closing Date August 15,
2013 Competition No. 13.06.059
Apply In Person/By Mail: MacEwan University Hu-
man Resources Department University Services Centre
Rm. 10-600, 10700 - 104 Avenue Edmonton AB T5J
4S2 Fax: (780) 497-5430
Apply Online: http://www.macewan.ca/wcm/-
Administrative/HumanResources/Careers/-
HRJOB LISTING?jobId=2&list=Academic Kevin A
Judge, Assistant Professor Biological Sciences, MacE-
wan University City Centre Campus, 10700 104 Ave,
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T5J 4S2 780 633 3630 j
judgek3@macewan.ca jhttp://academic.macewan.ca/-
judgek3/ judgek3@macewan.ca
MichiganStateU EntomologyChair
Michigan State University seeks a chairperson for the
Department of Entomology, and the Position Descrip-
tion is attached. We are contacting your organization as
part of our eorts to distribute this document broadly.
We hope you will assist by forwarding this announce-
ment, and also highlighting this exciting opportunity to
suitable candidates.
With best wishes,
Rufus Isaacs Search Committee Chair Department of
Entomology Michigan State University 202 CIPS, 578
Wilson Road East Lansing, MI 48824, USA
\Smith, Courtneay" <smit1542@cns.msu.edu >MooreLabZoology
CollectionsManager
The Moore Laboratory of Zoology (MLZ) at Occiden-
tal College seeks a Collections Manager for the bird
and mammal specimen collection. Duties for the collec-
tions manager include: collecting and preparing speci-
mens; organizing eld expeditions; maintaining a spec-
imen and frozen tissue collection; obtaining necessary
permits and ling permit reports; training and super-
vising employees and students in specimen preparation
and curation methods; overseeing data cataloging, digi-
tization, and georeferencing; processing specimen loans
and exchanges; assisting in grant proposal preparation;
contributing to MLZ education and outreach programs
in the college and local community; collaborating in
specimen-based research in evolution and systematics
and supervising undergraduate students in such activ-
ities. Independent research projects are encouraged.
A Ph.D. in a natural science eld is preferred or at
least a Master's degree plus ve years' experience in
managing a bird specimen collection. A background
in rearms training and use required. Applicants
should have strong organizational and interpersonal
skills. Prior experience conducting research or collect-
ing in Mexico, including speaking Spanish, is a plus.
The Moore Laboratory of Zoology is a world-renowned
natural history collection featuring the largest Mexi-
can bird collection in the world and over 62,000 bird
and mammal specimens. The MLZ has connections
with nearby institutions such as the Jet Propulsion
Lab, Cal Tech, Pomona and Harvey Mudd Colleges,
USC, UCLA, Huntington Gardens, and the L.A. Nat-
ural History Museum. Occidental College is a small
liberal arts college located in the culturally-rich Los
Angeles neighborhood of Eagle Rock near Pasadena.
Occidental is well-situated close to many outdoor recre-
ational activities: the ocean, mountains, and desert can
all be reached in 45 minutes or less. The neighborhood
surrounding Occidental College is family friendly, very
walkable, and home to a wealth of urban amenities in-
cluding restaurants, coee shops, and art galleries, with
nearby major cultural attractions such the La Brea Tar
Pits, L.A. County Museum of Art, Walt Disney Concert
Hall, etc.
Please send an e-mail expressing (i) your interest, (ii)
your qualications, and (iii) contact information for two26 EvolDir August 1, 2013
references, and attach a CV. Send to JOHN MCCOR-
MACK, Director of the MLZ, at mccormack@oxy.edu.
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled.
{ John McCormack Director/Curator, Moore Labora-
tory of Zoology Assistant Professor, Biology Depart-
ment Occidental College 1600 Campus Rd Los Ange-
les, CA 90041 Oce: 323-259-1352 web page: http://-
faculty.oxy.edu/mccormack/ Twitter: @LAevolving
mccormack@oxy.edu
NHM London SnakeVisionEvolution
Job: The Natural History Museum, London: Molecular
biology research assistant
The Natural History Museum, London (NHM) 12
month xed-term appointment $20,471 per annum plus
benets Application deadline: Midnight Sunday 14
July, 2013
The NHM is looking to appoint a Research Assistant
(RA) to work on a Leverhulme Trust funded project on
the evolution of snake vision. The project is using pri-
marily molecular evolutionary biology techniques to in-
vestigate aspects of the vision of snakes in order to shed
light on broader questions in vertebrate visual evolu-
tion. The grant is managed by a Principal Investigator
(PI) in London and three Co-investigators (Co-Is) else-
where, and already employs a Postdoctoral Research
assistant (PDRA). The project is about to enter the
second of three years.
The RA will work with the Principal and Co-
Investigators and Postdoctoral Research Assistant.
They will work on wet lab molecular biology. The
ideal candidate will be procient in practical molecular
biology and be able to implement techniques includ-
ing mRNA extraction, cDNA synthesis, PCR, qPCR,
RACE, primer design, sequence editing, cloning, and
tissue culture. The ideal candidate will be familiar with
aspects of phylogenetic analysis of molecular data and
the handling of genomic data.
For a full job description and to apply online, please
visit the NHM website: www.nhm.ac.uk/jobs Dr David
Gower The Natural History Museum London SW7 5BD
UK
d.gower@nhm.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)20 79425080 Fax: +44
(0)20 79425054
David Gower <d.gower@nhm.ac.uk >ProvidenceCollege
ComputationalGenomics
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY - Applica-
tions are invited for a tenure-track position in Compu-
tational and Genomics Biology at Providence College
beginning September 2014. We are interested in can-
didates who specialize in taking a systems biology ap-
proach to studying evolutionary biology and/or micro-
biomes. The candidate is also expected to maintain a
productive research program that actively engages un-
dergraduates. The successful applicant will teach bi-
ology majors in courses such as General Biology, Cell
Biology and Molecular Genetics, advanced courses in
their area of expertise, and courses for non-science ma-
jors. Review of applications will begin by October 18,
2013 and will continue until the position is lled.
Applicants are required to have a Ph.D. (post-doctoral
experience preferred), a strong commitment to under-
graduate education and research, and be able to foster a
collaborative atmosphere among students and faculty.
Applicants should submit on-line a curriculum vitae,
graduate transcripts, statements of teaching philosophy
and research interests, and three letters of reference.
For additional information please contact: Dr. Charles
Toth, Chair, Biology Department, Providence College,
Providence, RI 02918-0001 or ctoth@providence.edu.
Providence College is a Roman Catholic, four-year lib-
eral arts college conducted under the auspices of the
Dominican Friars and seeks candidates who can arm
and contribute to its Mission. An AA/EOE, the Col-
lege especially encourages the applications of women
and persons of color.
\Arevalo, Elisabeth" <EAREVALO@providence.edu >
Elisabeth Ar evalo, Ph.D. Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Providence College 1 Cunninghan
Square Providence, RI 02918-0001 USA
Oce ph. (401)865-2158 Lab ph. (401)865-
1604 and 1603 Fax (401)865-1438 Email
earevalo@providence.edu
\Arevalo, Elisabeth" <EAREVALO@providence.edu >August 1, 2013 EvolDir 27
RBG Edinburgh ResAssist
Research Assistant: Flora of Socotra Centre for Middle
Eastern Plants Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh
This post will generate distribution and environmen-
tal data from the ora of Socotra to support the
generation and analysis of evolutionary information
from the ora of Socotra, and explore how this can
be integrated into practical conservation and pro-
tected areas management. For a job description
please see http://www.rbge.org.uk/about-us/vacancies
Dr Alan Forrest Researcher/Project Manager Cen-
tre for Middle Eastern Plants Royal Botanic Gar-
den Edinburghj20a Inverleith Row jEdinburgh EH3
5LRjScotlandjUK Email: A.Forrest@rbge.org.uk Tele-
phone: +44(0)1312482967 www.cmep.org.uk Alan For-
rest<A.Forrest@rbge.ac.uk >
RyersonU GenomicBigData
Hello folks,
The Dean of the Faculty of Science has just announced
that Ryerson University is conducting an external
search for a Teir II NSERC Canada Research Chair in
the area of Big data (broadly dened). If you are aware
of any young (within 10 years of PhD) research stars in
this area, please alert them to this opportunity. We are
very excited to have an opportunity to recruit another
excellent researcher in the area of Big Data to the Fac-
ulty of Science (if the successful candidate chooses us
as their home).
Our ability to secure one and possibly two new CRCs is
a testament to the tremendous research activities and
eorts of our new and growing Faculty of Science. The
Tier II Canada Research Chairs that will come available
within the Faculty in 2014.
If interested folks email me, I will send them contact
information to express their interest to the appropriate
people at Ryerson. It would be really great to have Eco-
informatics or Genome Informatics folks considered in
this competition. BEST, LChttp://www.ryerson.ca/content/dam/jobs/-
postings/CRCBigDataAnalytics.pdf les-
ley.g.campbell@ryerson.ca
StanfordU EvolEcol
Note that Ecology is construed broadly here. We will
consider both theoretical and empirical ecologists. In
addition, people working on the interface of Ecology
and Evolution are encouraged to apply.
Department of Biology, Stanford University
Faculty Position in Ecology
The Department of Biology at Stanford University in-
vites applications for a tenure-track Assistant Profes-
sorship in Ecology. We seek outstanding applicants en-
gaged in answering broad basic questions in ecology.
We welcome a wide spectrum of applicants and will
consider both theoretical and empirical ecologists. Ap-
plicants working on the interface of Ecology and Evo-
lution are encouraged to apply. The successful candi-
date will hold a Ph.D., and is expected to develop a
vigorous research program and to participate in the
Department's teaching activities at both the under-
graduate and graduate levels. More information about
the Department and the University can be found at
http://biology.stanford.edu/ . All applicants should
submit a cover letter, a curriculum vitae including
publication list, a statement of research accomplish-
ments and future plans, a description of teaching ex-
perience, and three letters of reference. All materials
must be submitted electronically to AcademicJobsOn-
line<http://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/2723 >.
Inquiries may be directed to Faculty Searches, Dept.
of Biology, 371 Serra Mall, Stanford, CA 94305, or to
maychin@stanford.edu.
Applicant materials must be received by November 1,
2013. The appointment would begin September 1,
2014.
Stanford University is an equal opportunity employer
and is committed to increasing the diversity of its fac-
ulty. It welcomes nominations of and applications from
women and members of minority groups, as well as oth-
ers who would bring additional dimensions to the uni-
versity's research, teaching, and clinical mission.
dpetrov@stanford.edu28 EvolDir August 1, 2013
StockholmU EcologicalGenomics
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR POSITION IN ECOLOG-
ICAL GENOMICS
Dear colleague,
Please help us distribute this announcement to anybody
who you think might be interested!
SciLifeLab Stockholm & Stockholm University, Swe-
den, jointly seeks to recruit an outstanding young group
leader in Ecological Genomics. Last day of application
is September 10, 2013. The formal announcement can
be found here:
http://www.su.se/english/about/vacancies/lecturers-
researchers/assistant-professor-in-ecological-genomics-
1.139344 Some important facts:
- This is a tenure-track position as Assistant Profes-
sor, with good opportunities for promotion to (tenured)
Associate Professor and later to full Professor at Stock-
holm University.
- SciLifeLab is the Swedish national centre for large-
scale biosciences, with state-of-the-art equipment and
know-how, whereas Stockholm University is one of the
world's top 100 institutes of higher education. The
beautiful city of Stockholm is routinely ranked as one
of the very best cities in the world to live and work in.
- The position comes with considerable start-up fund-
ing, and strong applicants can negotiate for further sup-
port from Stockholm University. The Assistant Profes-
sorship can be placed either at the Department of Zool-
ogy or at the Department of Ecology, Environment and
Plant Sciences, depending on research focus.
- Informal information: Department of Zoology, Soren
Nylin (soren.nylin@zoologi.su.se); Department of Ecol-
ogy, Environment and Plant Sciences, Peter Hamback
(peter.hamback@su.se). For information about SciL-
ifeLab conditions, candidates can refer to Gunnar von
Heine (gunnar@dbb.su.se).
Soren Nylin Professor i Zoologisk Ekologi/Professor of
Animal Ecology
Prefekt/Head of Department Department of Zoology
Stockholm University S-106 91 Stockholm SWEDEN
Soren.Nylin@zoologi.su.se Tel +46-8-164033 Fax
167715soren.nylin@zoologi.su.se
SwarthmoreCollege
ConservationBiology
*CONSERVATION BIOLOGIST*
*TENURE TRACK ASSISTANT PROFESSOR*
*Department of Biology, Swarthmore College*
The Department of Biology at Swarthmore College
invites applications for a new tenure-track position
at the assistant professor level, beginning September
2014. Applicants should have a Ph.D., teaching ex-
perience, and a strong commitment to undergradu-
ate education. Post-doctoral experience is desirable.
Successful candidates should be committed to com-
bining teaching and research at a small liberal arts
college and will be prepared to contribute to an in-
tegrative Biology curriculum. They will be expected
to establish an independent, active research program
that will provide opportunities for undergraduate par-
ticipation, and the College oers competitive research
start-up packages to support faculty research and teach-
ing. In addition, there are opportunities for partic-
ipating in the interdisciplinary program in Environ-
mental Studies. Please visit our website at http:/-
/www.swarthmore.edu/x52880.xml for more informa-
tion.
We seek a broadly trained conservation biologist whose
research and course oerings complement those of
other faculty in the department. We invite applicants
who use contemporary methodologies, including com-
putational and/or modeling techniques, to study any
taxa. Teaching responsibilities include participation
in a team-taught introductory course, a one-semester
course in conservation biology with a laboratory and/or
eld component, and an advanced seminar with re-
search projects in the area of the applicant-s interest.
All application materials should be submitted online*
by November 4, 2013. Questions regarding this po-
sition should be addressed to the search chair, Nick
Kaplinsky, at <conservation.bio@swarthmore.edu >or
by calling 610-328-8039.
*Swarthmore College is a highly selective liberal arts
college, located in the suburbs of Philadelphia, whose
mission combines academic rigor with social responsi-
bility. **Swarthmore has a strong institutional commit-
ment to inclusive excellence through diversity in its edu-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 29
cational program and employment practices. The Col-
lege actively **seeks and welcomes applications from
candidates with exceptional qualications, particularly
those with demonstrable commitments to a more inclu-
sive society and **world.
https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/2770 Alex
Baugh <abaugh1@swarthmore.edu >
UCalifornia SantaBarabara Tech
DrosophilaEvolution
Job: UCSB technician position in Drosophila evolution-
ary genomics
A technician position is now available in the lab of
Thomas Turner, at the University of California, Santa
Barbara. Successful candidates will be highly moti-
vated, have experience with Drosophila culture, and
have excellent communication skills. Please apply us-
ing the UCSB HR system (http://www.hr.ucsb.edu/)
and the job number below.
Job Title: Lab Assistant Department: MSII-Marine
Science Institute Job Number: 20130305 Job Open
Date: 07-10-2013 Job Close Date: 1 (If the Close Date
shows a '1', it indicates 'Open Until Filled')
Title Code: 9605
Thomas Turner Assistant Professor Department of
Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology University of
California, Santa Barbara
Phone: 805-450-6123 Web:
labs.eemb.ucsb.edu/turner/
Thomas Turner <thomas.turner@lifesci.ucsb.edu >
ULausanne EvolutionaryEntomology
The Faculty of Biology and Medicine of the University
of Lausanne, Switzerland invites applications for the
position of a tenure-track Assistant Professor in Ento-
mology. The position is at the Department of Ecology
and Evolution, but is also associated with the Museum
of Zoology and the Botanical Garden.
With over 20 research groups, the Department of Ecol-ogy and Evolution (http://www.unil.ch/dee) is among
the largest departments in organismal biology in Eu-
rope and has a long track record of excellence in re-
search.
A start-up package, a state-of-the-art research infras-
tructure as well as an annual research allowance for po-
sitions and consumables will be available within an en-
vironment favoring collaborations. The successful can-
didate is expected to develop an internationally recog-
nized research program in insect ecology or evolution-
ary biology and take a leading role in a new initiative
aimed at developing interactions between the Univer-
sity of Lausanne and the Museum of Zoology and the
Botanical Garden.
Pre-existing knowledge of French is not required but the
successful candidate is expected to be able to teach in
French within 2 years. She/he will also supervise Mas-
ters and PhD students and participate to other training
activities.
The job description is available on the Internet site
http://www.unil.ch/fbm/page64812.html . Further in-
formation may be obtained from the Chair of the
Search Committee, Prof. Jan R. van der Meer (Jan-
Roelof.VanDerMeer@unil.ch)
The applications, in English, will include the curricu-
lum vitae, the list of publications with copies of the ve
most signicant ones, a brief statement of the research
program and teaching experience, as well as three ref-
erences (names and contact information). They should
be submitted online by August 16th 2013 as a single
pdf le at www.unil.ch/iafbm/application . Seeking to
promote an equitable representation of men and women
among its sta, the University encourages applications
from women.
Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution University of Lau-
sanne Le Biophore, CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
UNewEngland Australia
PlantMolecularEvolution
See http://www.une.edu.au/recruit/ for information on
* * *Lecturer in Plant Molecular Ecology * * * *Uni-
versity of New England, Australia*30 EvolDir August 1, 2013
*Salary:* $80,513 to $95,421 per annum (Level B)
plus 17% employer superannuation and optional salary
packaging
*Closing Date:* 1 September 2013
All documents are on http://www.une.edu.au/recruit/
Jeremy Bruhl Director, N.C.W. Beadle Herbarium
(NE) CITES Australian Reg. No. AU 015
Mail address: Prof. Jeremy Bruhl Botany (S02), School
of Environmental and Rural Science University of New
England Armidale NSW 2351 Australia
Voice +61 2 6773 2429 jFax +61 2 6773 3283
jjbruhl@une.edu.au jwww.une.edu.au jCRICOS
Provider Number: 00003G
Jeremy Bruhl <jbruhl@gmail.com >
UUtah LabTech Speciation
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN Phadnis Lab Department
of Biology, University of Utah.
A Laboratory Technician position is available in the
laboratory of Nitin Phadnis at the Department of Bi-
ology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City. The Phadnis
Lab takes a multi-disciplinary approach that leverages
the power of genetics, genomics and cell biology to ad-
dress broad questions in evolutionary genetics, with a
particular focus on understanding the molecular basis
of speciation in Drosophila.
We are looking for a highly motivated individual with
excellent communication skills, who is able to work at
the interface of evolutionary genetics, genomics and
molecular biology. She/ he may be solely responsible
for the development and execution of research projects,
and successful projects may lead to authorship on sci-
entic publications. Projects include using a combi-
nation of classical genetics and genomics identifying
genes that cause hybrid sterility and inviability be-
tween Drosophila species and using cell biological tech-
niques to understand the molecular basis of hybrid dys-
function. These projects involve crosses between var-
ious Drosophila species, micro-injections to produce
transgenic strains in non-model Drosophila, various
molecular techniques (e.g., genomic DNA preparation,
PCR, cloning, sanger sequencing, library construction
for next gen-sequencing), and various microscopy tech-
niques. In addition to research, this technician will
also assist in daily laboratory management (e.g., order-ing, maintenance of stocks and cell cultures of various
Drosophila species) and assist in various lab projects.
A Bachelors or Masters degree in Biology or a related
discipline and experience in a lab environment is re-
quired. Experience with techniques such as those de-
scribed above is desirable, but not necessary. In addi-
tion, superior verbal and written communication and
routine computer skills (PC/Mac) are necessary. Par-
ticipation in lab meetings and presentation of data will
be required. The ideal candidate will have superior or-
ganizational skills in recordkeeping, multitasking, prior-
itizing responsibilities, time management, and an abil-
ity to interact with all levels of sta. Please send a cover
letter, CV, and list of three references with contact in-
formation. email: nitin.phadnis@utah.edu For more
information on this position and to apply, please fol-
low this link: http://utah.peopleadmin.com/postings/-
24735 Nitin Phadnis, Ph.D. Assistant Professor/ Mario
Capecchi Endowed Chair in Biology, Department of Bi-
ology, University of Utah, SLC, UT 84112 (801)585-
0493
nitin.phadnis@utah.edu
UVirginia LabAssist
EvolGeneticsBehavior
LABORATORY AND RESEARCH SPECIALIST
The Brodie Laboratory in the Department of Biology
is seeking a Laboratory and Research Specialist I. This
position maintains insects and reptiles before, during
and after experiments, and breeds animals for stud-
ies. Incumbent performs DNA extraction, isolation and
preparation, PCR and sequencing reactions including
microsatellite analysis, BAC library screening. Incum-
bent is also responsible for data collection, entry, analy-
sis, and presentation, including analysis and transcrip-
tion of video records of behavior. Cleans and maintains
experimental equipment and cages and is responsible
for day-to-day administration of the laboratory includ-
ing: training and coordination of student personnel as-
sociated with animal care eorts, and purchasing and
receiving of laboratory supplies. Incumbent interacts
with and assists other laboratories with similar tech-
niques.
A Bachelor's degree in Biology or a related eld is
required. At least one year of work in a laboratory
setting, including experience handling and caring for
animals for behavioral studies and experience manag-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 31
ing DNA analysis equipment and molecular techniques.
Experience as a student will be considered.
To apply, please complete an application on-line and
attach a cover letter, Resume/CV, and the contact in-
formation for three references through Jobs@UVA {
https://jobs.virginia.edu { search on posting number
0612620.
The University of Virginia is an armative ac-
tion/equal opportunity employer committed to diver-
sity, equity, and inclusiveness.
bbrodie@virginia.edu
UWashington LabTech
EvolutionaryGenetics
The Promislow lab, recently relocated to the Univer-
sity of Washington in Seattle, WA, is seeking quali-
ed applicants for a Research Tech I position to work
in a Drosophila genetics lab. The Promislow lab uses
a variety of approaches, including quantitative genet-
ics, molecular genetics, systems biology, behavior, de-
mography, and physiology, all with a view to better
understanding the biology of aging. The ideal appli-
cant will have at least a Bachelor's degree in a related
eld, and experience using genetic techniques, prefer-
ably in a Drosophila lab. Required tasks may vary,
from routine stock maintenance and crosses, to DNA
and RNA extraction and PCR, to behavioral obser-
vations and analysis. The successful candidate will
have outstanding organizational skills, excellent ver-
bal and written communication skills , basic computer
skills (ideally with both PC and Mac), be comfortable
with supervising others, and be willing to learn new
techniques. To learn more about the lab, see http://-
www.promislowlab.org . The position is initially avail-
able for two years, and may be extended, but the Uni-
versity of Washington policy is to oer a one-year ap-
pointment with subsequent renewals. Start date is ex-
ible, but could be as early as Sept. 1st. To apply, go
to http://www.washington.edu/admin/hr/jobs//, click
on $B!H(BSTART your job search$B!I(B, and enter the
number 98003 in the Req# search space. In addition to
the online application, please send a cover letter, a copy
of your CV and the names and contact info of two refer-
ees directly to Daniel Promislow at promislo@uw.edu.
All applications received by Aug. 9th, 2013 will be
given full consideration.The University of Washington is an armative action,
equal opportunity employer. The University is build-
ing a culturally diverse faculty and sta and strongly
encourages applications from women, minorities, indi-
viduals with disabilities and covered veterans.
Daniel Promislow Department of Pathology Univer-
sity of Washington 1959 NE Pacic Street Box 357705,
Room K-078 Seattle, WA 98195 ph: 206 616-6994 e:
promislo@uw.edu
Daniel Promislow <promislo@uw.edu >
UWisconsin Milwaukee
Conservation
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN MILWAUKEE Full-
time Lecturer in Conservation and Environmental Sci-
ences
The interdepartmental undergraduate major in Conser-
vation and Environmental Science at the University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee is seeking applicants for a full-
time lecturer position. The initial contract term will
be for 9 months with the possibility for renewal.
The Conservation and Environmental Science Pro-
gram is an interdepartmental, interdisciplinary pro-
gram within the College of Letters and Science, fo-
cused on serving undergraduates with interest in en-
vironmental sciences and issues of sustainability. CES
currently serves over 280 undergraduates, with the mis-
sion of supplying them wit h the knowledge, skills, and
abilities to excel in environmental elds and meet the
challenges of sustainability.
The primary teaching responsibilities will include an
upper-level course in Principles of Natural Resource
Management and the senior research capstone. Ad-
ditional teaching assignments may include our large-
lecture introductory class. Under the direction of the
CES Director and CES Program Coordinator, the suc-
cessful candidate will also advise CES majors on courses
and career opportunities, develop and manage research
opportunities and internships for CES majors, and as-
sist with program administration, oce support, cur-
riculum development, and other duties as assigned by
Director and/or Program Coordinator.
A master's degree in environmental sciences or related
eld and 2 years teaching experience at the university
level are required. Preference may be given to can-
didates with a PhD degree in environmental sciences32 EvolDir August 1, 2013
or related eld, those who have experience working in
resource management in either governmental agency
or private-sector settings, and those who have expe-
rience applying for extramural grants. Additional in-
formation about the program is available at http:/-
/www4.uwm.edu/letsci/ces . Applicants should sub-
mit a letter of interest, curriculum vitae, statement
of teaching philosophy, and the names and contact
information for three references online at https://-
jobs.uwm.edu/postings/15059 . Deadline for submittal
to ensure full consideration is July 25, 2013. Questions
may be a ddressed to Dr. Glen Fredlund, email: fred-
lund@uwm.edu.
The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee is an Equal Op-
portunity/Armative Action Employer. Women and
minority candidates are encouraged to apply for this
position.
Required:
Masters in Environmental Science or Related Field 2
years teaching experience at University level
Preferred:
PhD in Environmental Science or Related Field Expe-
rience working in Resource Management with Govern-
ment Agencies or Private Sector Experience in applying
for extramural grants.
Emily K. Latch Assistant Professor Dept. of Biological
Sciences University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee 3209 N.
Maryland Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53211
Email: latch@uwm.edu Tel: 414-229-4245 Web: http:/-
/www.people.uwm.edu/latch
latch@uwm.edu
UppsalaU Bioinformatics
Job: Bioinformatician in genome annotation
A position as bioinformatician is available at the De-
partment of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology,
Uppsala University, Sweden. The position is avail-
able as soon as possible and not time-limited, with a
6 months trial period.
Overview
The Swedish BILS initiative (Bioinformatics Infrastruc-
ture for Life Science, http://bils.se) provides bioinfor-
matics infrastructure and support across Swedish uni-
versities. We are seeking a motivated bioinformaticianto join their newly established genome annotation team
at Uppsala University. The main task of the group will
be to support genome projects conducted in Sweden or
with Swedish participation and to provide quality and
detailed annotations to facilitate downstream analyses
of the highest possible standard.
Job description
The majority of the work will be based on the En-
sEMBL code base and involves the setting up and run-
ning of complex pipelines as well as manual inspection
and curation of annotations. A strong focus will also be
placed on the analysis and integration of next genera-
tion sequencing data into the annotation process as well
as comparative genomics analyses. Finally, members of
the group will be involved in consulting research groups
to help them set up their genome projects and may take
part in nation-wide teaching activities, including work-
shops.
Qualications
We seek a candidate with a PhD in bioinformatics,
molecular biology, computer science or any related eld
and strong prociency in Perl programming. The suc-
cessful applicant will have previously worked in genome
analysis and ideally has experience in genome annota-
tion. Prior experience with the EnsEMBL infrastruc-
ture (API, databases) and gene build pipeline is a big
plus. Additional skills that will be given consideration
include the analysis of RNA-seq data as well as the ad-
ministration of relational databases and linux servers.
Excellent communication skills in written and spoken
English are required, since the candidate will collabo-
rate with scientists of very dierent backgrounds. Em-
phasis will be placed on personal suitability for the po-
sition.
Further information
For questions regarding BILS, please check out our
website at http://www.bils.se or contact the director
of BILS, Bengt Persson (bengt.persson@bils.se). For
questions regarding the position, please send an Email
to Marc Hoeppner (marc.hoeppner@imbim.uu.se).
Information about the city of Uppsala can
be found here: http://www.uppsala.se/sv/-
Uppsalase/English-startpage/ Further information
about Uppsala University may be found here:
http://www.uu.se/en/?languageId=1 To sub-
mit your application, please see the university's
job listings at http://www.uu.se/jobb/others/-
annonsvisning?tarContentId=250408&languageId=1
\Marc P. Hoeppner" <marc.hoeppner@imbim.uu.se >August 1, 2013 EvolDir 33
UppsalaU EvolEcol
Assistant Professor in Animal Ecology
2013-07-09
at the Department of Ecology and Genetics Application
no later than 2013-08-29, UFV-PA 2013/2001
The Department of Ecology and Genetics is included
in the Evolutionary Biology Centre, one of the world's
major centers for evolutionary biology research and ed-
ucation. The program in Animal Ecology has about
60 employees and a strong empirical prole of inter-
nationally leading research of natural model system in
the eld and in the laboratory environment (http://-
www.ebc.uu.se/forskning/IEG/zooeko/), but have re-
cently also started purely theoretical research. The De-
partment of Ecology and Genetics have programs in
plant ecology, limnology and evolutionary genetics en-
abling interdisciplinary collaborations.
Description of the subject area: The subject comprises
mainly empirically and theoretically oriented animal
ecology and evolution, for example studies of specia-
tion, conservation biology, life history evolution, sexual
selection and sexual conict in animals, but the position
is not limited to these areas. Teaching involves teach-
ing at the undergraduate and graduate level in biology,
evolution and ecology.
Duties: The position includes teaching, research and
administration. Teaching duties include course re-
sponsibility, course administration and supervision of
second- and third-cycle students. The holder shall also
keep abreast of developments within the subject area
and the developments in wider community that are sig-
nicant for the work at the university. A position as
postdoctoral research fellow is intended to qualify the
holder for a teaching position with higher qualication
requirements.
Appointment Period: The position can be held for a
maximum of four years.
Qualications Required: According to Uppsala Univer-
sity's appointments regulations those qualied for ap-
pointment as postdoctoral research fellow are persons
who have obtained a doctoral degree or achieved the
equivalent competence no more than seven years prior
to the end of the application period.
According to Uppsala Universitys appointments regula-tions, teaching expertise is an eligibility requirement for
appointment as a postdoctoral research fellow/assistant
professor. To obtain teaching expertise, the applicant
should have participated in teacher training for higher
education of relevance to operations at the University,
comprising at least ve weeks, or be considered to have
acquired the equivalent competence. If it has not been
possible to acquire this qualication prior to employ-
ment, qualifying training for teachers in higher educa-
tion shall be completed during the rst two years of
employment.
A general eligibility requirement is that the appli-
cant must possess the personal capabilities necessary
to carry out fully the duties of the appointment.
Documented ability to teach in Swedish or English is a
requirement unless special reasons prevail.
Assessment Criteria/Ranking Research Expertise and
Teaching Expertise: The ranking of eligible applicants
will be based primarily on research expertise. Research
expertise comprises research merits as well as the appli-
cants potential to contribute to the future development
of both research and teaching. In assessing research
expertise special weight will be attached to research
merits in animal ecology or evolutionary ecology.
Teaching expertise will also be aorded consideration.
Teaching expertise comprises educational and teaching
qualications. In assessing teaching expertise teaching
quality must be the prime consideration. The scope
of teaching experience, in terms of both breadth and
depth, must also be aorded consideration.
All merits must be documented in a manner that makes
it possible to assess both quality and scope.
In lling this position the University aims to appoint
the applicant who, following a qualitative holistic as-
sessment of her/his competence and expertise, is judged
to have the best potential to carry out and develop the
relevant duties and to help advance operations.
In an overall assessment of the applicant's qualica-
tions, parental leave, part-time work relating to care
of children, union assignments, military service, or the
like are to be regarded as work experience.
Uppsala University strives for a more even gender bal-
ance in its research and teaching sta. Since most
teachers of the Faculty are men, women are especially
invited to apply for this position.
For further information about the position,
please contact Professor Mats Bj orklund (Head
of Animal Ecology), tel 018-471 26 66, e-mail
Mats.Bjorklund@ebc.uu.se, or Professor Ulf
Lagercrantz (Head of the Department of Ecol-34 EvolDir August 1, 2013
ogy and Genetics), tel. 018-471 2860, e-mail
ulf.lagercrantz@ebc.uu.se. Trade-union represen-
tatives are Anders Grundstr om, SACO (Swedish
Confederation of Professional Associations),
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WashingtonStateU
PlantInsectPathogenInteractions
NOTICE OF VACANCIES Faculty Positions in Areas
of Molecular Plant-Insect and Plant-Pathogen Interac-
tions
Two departments in the College of Agricultural,
Human, and Natural Resource Sciences (CAHNRS)
at Washington State University (WSU) in Pullman,
WA are seeking to ll Assistant Professor positions
in the areas of molecular biology and genomics of the
interactions between plants, insects and pathogens as
part of a cluster hire. The Department of Entomol-ogy (Ento) seeks candidates in research areas that
may include plant-insect communication, plant-insect
co-evolution, the induction and evasion of plant
defenses, and/or adaptation to climate change. The
Department of Plant Pathology (PlP) seeks candidates
in research areas that include molecular and genomic
approaches to studying plant disease resistance and
plant responses to pathogen infection. The successful
candidates in either position are expected to have
experience with modern genomics/proteomics ap-
proaches and will further strengthen collaborative
links with multiple departments and colleges at WSU
and the nearby University of Idaho. Applicants
should review the descriptions of responsibilities and
qualications for each position and should submit
required application materials to the WSU on-line
application system Ento position: www.wsujobs.com/-
applicants/Central?quickFindX747. PlP position:
www.wsujobs.com/applicants/Central?quickFindX744
. Applicants interested in either position will need to
upload their application materials at both links. The
successful candidate for each search will be housed in
the respective department. Screening date: August
31, 2013. For questions contact Jeb Owen (Ento),
509-335-7873, jowen@wsu.edu or Scot Hulbert (PlP)
509-335-3722 scot hulbert@wsu.edu. WSU is an
EO/AA/ADA employer and educator.
\Williams, Adam C" <adam.williams@wsu.edu >
Other
Amplicon assembly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
CanInstEcolEvol WorkingGroups CallProposals 2 . 35
EvolutionaryMorphometrics book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Labs for 301Evolution Course . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Melbourne VolunteerFieldAssist AvianPersonality . 37
Plant species samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
PoolSeq DNA requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38PoolSeq with degraded DNA answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
Roberts and Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
RohlfMedal CallNominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Scoring alleles using GeneMarker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Shipping live crickets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
mtDNA diversity answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Amplicon assemblyAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 35
Dear All,
I've been asked to help in assembling/alignment reads
from Ilumina (paired-ends) to a short reference se-
quence. The reads are amplied fragments of both
cDNA and gDNA thus they contain large indels. There
are several individuals sequenced in that run - the tags
are of course right before the amplication primer. In
the same run there are also sequences from other loci
(other experiments)
I am looking for a software or pipeline that is able to:
a) recognize individual tags, b) trim primers, c) handle
indels during sequence alignment/assemblage, d) create
fasta le/les with individual sequences of the whole
fragment (with gaps lled by reference or by N's)
The rened le is to be used to design new primers. The
best solution for me would be some Windows based
program, or Perl/Python script that could be ran in
Windows, however Linux based programs are also of
interest to me.
Cheers Maciek
{ Instytut Ochrony Przyrody PAN al. Mickiewicza
33 31-120 Krak ow
konopinski@iop.krakow.pl
CanInstEcolEvol WorkingGroups
CallProposals 2
NEW CALL FOR PROPOSALS
The Canadian Institute of Ecology and Evolution
(CIEE1) seeks proposals for Thematic Programs
(Working Groups) to be staged over the 12 month pe-
riod from Sept 2013 to August 2014. Thematic Pro-
gram proposals should outline a plan to address signif-
icant questions in ecology and evolution through syn-
thesis and integration of existing data (e.g., quantita-
tive research synthesis, compilation and meta-analysis
of existing data sets, etc.)
Program applicant(s) will dene the project or course
scope, schedule meeting dates, prepare a budget, and
submit a nal report to the CIEE. The proposals will
also oversee prompt publication of project results.
Working group meetings can be held at any location
in Canada, however preference will be given to meet-
ings hosted at member organizations. In addition, the
CIEE provides facilities and logistic support at the Syn-thesis Centre of the Institute of Environmental Change
and Society (IECS), in the University of Regina. These
6,500 sq-ft new research facilities include dedicated
meeting facilities, break-out rooms, a microcomputer
laboratory, and on-campus housing, and are available
every year during the summer period 01 May to31 Au-
gust.
Application Procedures:
Proposals can be submitted in either ocial language
and should be comprised of the following:
1.A cover page including the project title, name and
complete contact information for the organizer(s), and
project summary (max. 300 words), suitable for public
circulation.
2.A one-page, single-spaced narrative that includes: an
introduction to the project goals; description of the ac-
tivities, and as appropriate, the source of the data to
be synthesized and methods of analysis; IT needs; ex-
pected outcome(s); importance to Canada.
3.A list of participants, with a brief summary of their
expertise. Programs should involve 10 to 15 partici-
pants, including one or more graduate students. Indi-
cate which individuals have committed to the project
and which are potential participants.
4.A budget including logistics and transportation. In
the past, working groups were awarded grants valued
from $10,000 to $17,000.
5.A copy of NSERC's Form 100 or equivalent for the
organizer(s).
Deadline: Submit the full proposal as a single Adobe
pdf le by 16 August 2013 to: ciee-icee@uregina.ca
Suggestions:
Proposals should be clear and concise about project
goals, procedures and anticipated outcomes. The CIEE
is a national organization; therefore organizers should
aim for geographic diversity and gender balance among
the participants. Foreign participants are welcome.
Applicants are encouraged to contact the CIEE direc-
tor, Peter Leavitt, and the Assistant Director, Diego
Steinaker, with any questions, including those on con-
tent, budget and facilities.
Peter R. Leavitt
Director, Canadian Institute of Ecology and Evolution
1 The Canadian Institute of Ecology and Evo-
lution/Institut canadienne d'ecologie et d'evolution
(CIEE/ICEE) is a consortium of Canadian institutions
with the mission of expanding and accelerating scien-
tic discovery on the natural environment and its con-36 EvolDir August 1, 2013
tributions to the well-being. The CIEE extracts signif-
icant added value from Canada's research investment
through programs that bring together top scientists
working on diverse systems to pool data and do the
higher level analyses that can resolve uncertainties, re-
veal novel insights, and identify promising new areas of
inquiry. Its training programs aim to prepare the gen-
eration of scientists who will be called upon to address
our most vexing environmental problems. In short, the
CIEE accelerates scientic progress through programs
that synthesize current knowledge and develop our fu-
ture leaders. For more details on CIEE programs and
activities, please visit our website at www.ciee-icee.ca
Ciee Icee <Ciee-Icee@uregina.ca >
EvolutionaryMorphometrics book
Dear All,
I am glad to announce that the Yellow Book on \Virtual
Morphology and Evolutionary Morphometrics in the
new millenium" is nally out and can be downloaded for
free at: http://www.italian-journal-of-mammalogy.it/-
public/journals/3/issue 241complete 100.pdf The full
list of contents is at the bottom of the message. It's
a broad range of topics (from the latest review on geo-
metric morphometrics to visualization techniques, com-
parative and resampling methods, comparisons of tra-
jectories, semilandmark methods, examples of applica-
tions in R as well as topics such biomechanics, modu-
larity/integration, lines of least evolutionary resistance,
ecometrics, taxonomic identication and bioacoustics,
and more). To my knowledge, these are not only the
most updated and probably complete reviews/example
studies available on these issues but also and most of-
ten cover aspects that you will not nd anywhere else
in the literature. I hope you will enjoy the reading!
I would like to thank again a lot all contribu-
tors, Anna Loy (who coedited the volume), Dami-
ano Preatoni (tech. editor) and the whole editorial
board and sta of Hystrix (http://www.italian-journal-
of-mammalogy.it/), as well as the Associazione Terio-
logica Italiana, who sponsored the publication and cov-
ered all costs.
I take this chance to remind you that we hope very soon
to see the impact of Hystrix increase rapidly and we are
looking forward to receiving high quality contributions
on mammals from morphometricians and other elds of
science. Please, be also aware that there is a 500 EURBest Paper Award for young researchers.
Sincerely
Andrea
PS My apologies if some of you will receive this message
twice!
VOL 24, NO 1 (2013): VIRTUAL MORPHOL-
OGY AND EVOLUTIONARY MORPHOMETRICS
IN THE NEW MILLENIUM
On growth and form in the \computer era": from ge-
ometric to biological morphometrics Andrea Cardini,
Anna Loy A eld comes of age: geometric morpho-
metrics in the 21st century Dean C Adams, F. James
Rohlf, Dennis E. Slice Visualizations in geometric mor-
phometrics: how to read and how to make graphs show-
ing shape changes Christian Peter Klingenberg Mor-
phometrics and the comparative method: studying the
evolution of biological shape Leandro Rabello Monteiro
Phylogenetic Principal Components Analysis and Geo-
metric Morphometrics P. David Polly, A. Michelle Law-
ing, Anne-Claire Fabre, Anjali Goswami Cranial in-
tegration and modularity: insights into evolution and
development from morphometric data Christian Peter
Klingenberg A brief review of shape, form, and allom-
etry in geometric morphometrics, with applications to
human facial morphology Philipp Mitteroecker, Philipp
Gunz, Sonja Windhager, Katrin Schaefer Studying on-
togenetic trajectories using resampling methods and
landmark data H. David Sheets, Miriam L. Zelditch
Phenotypic trajectory analysis: comparison of shape
change patterns in evolution and ecology Michael Lloyd
Collyer, Dean C Adams The direction of main phe-
notypic variance as a channel to evolution: cases in
murine rodents Sabrina Renaud, Jean-Christophe Auf-
fray Log-Shape Ratios, Procrustes Superimposition,
Elliptic Fourier Analysis: Three Worked Examples
in R Julien Claude Semilandmarks: a method for
quantifying curves and surfaces Philipp Gunz, Philipp
Mitteroecker Geometric Morphometric Approaches to
Acoustic Signal Analysis in Mammalian Biology Nor-
man MacLeod, Jonathan Krieger, Kate E. Jones Ap-
plying geometric morphometrics to compare changes
in size and shape arising from nite elements analy-
ses Paul O'Higgins, Nicholas Milne Shape descriptors
as ecometrics in dental ecology Alistair Robert Evans
http://www.italian-journal-of-mammalogy.it/public/-
journals/3/issue 241complete 100.pdf Dr. Andrea
Cardini Researcher in Animal Biology, Dipartimento di
Scienze Chimiche e Geologiche, Universit a di Modena
e Reggio Emilia, l.go S. Eufemia 19, 41121 Modena,
Italy Honorary Fellow, Centre for Anatomical and
Human Sciences, University of Hull, Cottingham Road,August 1, 2013 EvolDir 37
Hull, HU6 7RX, UK & University of York, Heslington,
York YO10 5DD, UK Adjunct Associate Professor,
Centre for Forensic Science , The University of Western
Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley WA 6009,
Australia
E-mail address: alcardini@gmail.com, an-
drea.cardini@unimore.it Webpage: http://-
sites.google.com/site/hymsfme/drandreacardini
Datasets:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Labs for 301Evolution Course
Dear Colleagues,
I am teaching a 301-level Evolution course that has
weekly labs. I would like to hear about labs that have
worked well for other people. All ideas for the class or
resource suggestions are greatly appreciated.
Thank you for your time!
Best regards, Sher Hendrickson
S. Hendrickson-Lambert, PhD Assistant Professor
of Biology Shepherd University Shepherdstown, WV
25443 ph. (304) 876-5448 fax. (304) 876-5028 shen-
dric@shepherd.edu
sher.hendrickson@gmail.com
Melbourne VolunteerFieldAssist
AvianPersonality
Volunteer eld assistant(s): We are looking for eld
assistant(s) to help monitor a colour-banded popula-
tion of superb fairy-wrens near Melbourne, Australia,
for a study on animal personalities. Start: Septem-
ber/October 2013. Duration - 4 to 6 months. Duties
include regular censusing of small colour-banded birds,
searching for and monitoring nests, mist-netting, be-
havioural observations, video analysis, and data proof-ing. Good nest-searching skills are particularly im-
portant as nests need to be found before egg-laying
commences. Working days are long, with early starts
six days a week. Enthusiasm, self-motivation, and a
strong work ethic are a must. The study is based at
Serendip Sanctuary, a small reserve on the outskirts of
Melbourne. Free onsite accommodation is provided in
a house with a shared dorm-style room, but assistants
cover travel to the site and their own food costs. The
project will reimburse up to AUD$500/month towards
receipted food and travel expenses. For more informa-
tion contact: Michelle Hall (hall.mATunimelb.edu.au)
and Raoul Mulder (r.mulderATunimelb.edu.au). To ap-
ply, please email a letter outlining previous relevant
eld research experience, and a resume including names
and contact information for 3 referees.
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow Department of
Zoology, University of Melbourne Melbourne, VIC,
3010, Australia email: hall.m@unimelb.edu.au phone:
+ 61 3 83446232 www: Google Scholar Pro-
le<http://scholar.google.com.au/citations?user=-
3DBcsSi-YAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao >
hall.m@unimelb.edu.au
Plant species samples
Dear Evoldir members,
We are starting a genetic project on French popula-
tions of ve rare plant species in France. The project is
a collaboration between the National Museum of Nat-
ural History of Paris and the Conservatoire Botanique
National du Massif Central in France. In order to eval-
uate the genetic dierentiation of the French popula-
tions, we would be interested in analysing other popu-
lations from Europe. We would greatly appreciate the
contacts of some people who would be able to help us to
get some samples of these species: 1- Astrantia minor
L. 2- Gladiolus imbricatus L. 3- Ranunculus lateriorus
DC. 4- Saxifraga hierciifolia Waldst. & Kit. Ex Willd.
5- Asplenium cuneifolium Viv.
Thank you for your help
Dr Florence No el
f.noelboulain@free.fr38 EvolDir August 1, 2013
PoolSeq DNA requirements
Dear all,
I am hoping to get some good advice on what to ex-
pect from partially degraded DNA for Illumina (HiSeq)
sequencing of pooled samples.
My samples seemed okay before pooling (i.e., showing a
HMW band on a gel, DNA concentration veried with
Qubit, diluted to 15-60 ng/ul). But after pooling (44
individuals for a population) and sending them o to a
sequencing provider, they found no band when running
a gel, and told me the samples are too degraded.
What have been the worst samples from which you still
could get some useful results? Has anyone used de-
graded DNA, or did you always have a nice HMW band
when running a gel (of pooled samples)?
Any advice and information about your experiences
would be very appreciated.
All the Best, Stefan
Stefan Dennenmoser PhD Candidate Department of Bi-
ological Sciences University of Calgary, Canada Email:
sdennenm[at]ucalgary.ca
sdennenm@ucalgary.ca
PoolSeq with degraded DNA
answers
Dear all,
Many thanks for giving me some encouraging answers,
and also for expressing interest in the question whether
degraded DNA can be used for genome sequencing of
pooled samples.
Judging on the few responses it seems possible to get
good results from degraded DNA. One might also ask
the sequencing provider to prepare a library rst, and
only proceed with sequencing if the library preparation
works out. Thank you also for some good literature
suggestions!
All the Best, and best of luck with your DNA, StefanANSWERS:
(1) It really shouldn't be the case that you observe a
HMW band for the samples individually, and then not
when pooled. To me, this suggests some error when
you did the pooling that caused you to lose the sample.
When you say \HMW", did you run it out alongside
a standard, like lambda DNA? Did they see no band
(nothing), or did they see a smear?
I'm not sure how you're purifying your DNA, but HMW
DNA can sometimes take a long time to dissolve fully.
If you run it out and it hasn't dissolved well, it can get
stuck up in the wells and might look like a band. When
it is later diluted substantially (say, for submission to
the facility), it can nally dissolve and may then be
smeary if the quality wasn't good. Sometimes residual
RNA can cause the smear, too.
(2) I recently published a paper where we sequenced
>600 paired-end plant samples on HiSeq and GA II
platforms. We often found that highly degraded sam-
ples yielded a decent number of long scaolds. My take
is that sequencing centers are often too conservative,
but it likely also depends on the intended use of the
data on whether degradation is a major issue.
For more information see my 2012 publication in PLoS
ONE available from my website www.evoeco.org . (3)
check out the following articles:
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2164/14/439
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2164/14/12
Partially degraded samples should work ne. When
pooling you should aim pooling samples of simiilar
quality in addition to same quantity.
(4) 454 rather than illumina, but got some good data
out of highly fragmented DNA showing smear on gel
from 2kb down.
sdennenm@ucalgary.ca
Roberts and Company
David Baum and Stacey Smith's Tree Thinking: An In-
troduction to Phylogenetic Biology was a big hit. Un-
fortunately, we brought only a handful of copies to the
meeting so, for the next two weeks (until July 15), we're
extending our meeting discount of 50% o the list price
of $75. You can purchase the book for $37.50 (plus $5
in shipping to anywhere in the US) from our site using
the coupon code Trees.August 1, 2013 EvolDir 39
Carl Zimmer and Doug Emlen's majors evolution text-
book Evolution: Making Sense of Life has now been
adopted at about 200 schools, including Cornell, Geor-
gia Tech, Harvard, Princeton, University of British
Columbia, University of California (at Berkeley, Los
Angeles, San Diego, and Santa Barbara), University
of Georgia, University of Texas, and a wide variety of
other places. Most instructors and students appreciate
the quality of the writing, the innovative artwork (often
in the form of evo-grams), and the interactive app. In
the app, many students have come to rely on the addi-
tional quiz questions (that appear after every section)
to check their understanding of the key concepts. If
you own an iPad and would like free access to the app,
please let me know.
Carl Zimmer's second edition of his non-majors text-
book The Tangled Bank: An Introduction to Evolu-
tion will publish in mid-August. If you teach a class
and would like to see the new edition, please ll out
our exam copy form. The second edition has been ex-
tensively revised. It includes an entirely new chapter
focused on human evolution, for example, as well as
discussions of additional concepts in evolution, new il-
lustrations (over 285 photos and illustrations in all),
and descriptions of new research.
Science magazine has just reviewed Doug Erwin and
Jim Valentine's The Cambrian Explosion. For the next
two weeks (until July 15), we're oering a discount of
33% o the list price of $60. You can purchase the
book for $40 (plus $5 in shipping to anywhere in the
US) using the coupon code Cambrian. We've had many
requests for access to the critter artwork. You can
see some of these incredible creatures at our book site
(scroll to the bottom of the page). Illustrator Quade
Paul, in close collaboration with Douglas Erwin, ren-
dered the animals as accurately as possible. If you'd
like JPEGs for your classes, please let me know.
Ben Roberts <bwr@roberts-publishers.com >Ben
Roberts <bwr@roberts-publishers.com >
RohlfMedal CallNominations
2013 CALL FOR NOMINATIONS
The Rohlf Medal
The Rohlf Medal was established in 2006 by his fam-
ily and friends to mark the 70th birthday of F. James
Rohlf, Distinguished Professor of Ecology and Evolu-tion and longtime Stony Brook University faculty mem-
ber. Recipients of the Rohlf Medal will be recognized
for excellence in their body of work on the development
of new morphometric methods or for their applications
in the biomedical sciences, including evolutionary bi-
ology, population biology, physical anthropology, and
medicine. The term \morphometrics" is intended to
include high-dimensional pattern analyses of biological
shape, especially those that analyze shape in a compre-
hensive way, or of covariation of shape patterns with
other variables. The award can recognize advances in
the mathematical or statistical theory underlying mor-
phometric methods, new software that implements or
visualizes new methods, or specic new biological nd-
ings that rely crucially on contemporary morphometric
methods and represent major advances.
Candidates for the Rohlf Medal may be self-nominated
or nominated by others. They must have attained the
postdoctoral level or its equivalent. Nomination pack-
ages should include (1) a description of the body of
work (not to exceed two pages) on which the candi-
dacy is based, (2) reprints of no more than three rel-
evant papers and/or software products, (3) a curricu-
lum vitae, and (4) the names and addresses of three
referees. Nominating packages should be uploaded to
the Rohlf Medal website (http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/-
ee/rohlf medal/apply.html) and received by 15 August
2013 to be assured of full consideration.
The successful candidate will receive the Rohlf Medal
and a cash prize at Stony Brook University in mid-Fall
2013 (nal date to be determined). She or he will de-
liver a lecture that is appropriate for an educated gen-
eral audience concerning the morphometric research for
which the Rohlf Medal was awarded.
Dean
Dr. Dean C. Adams Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Department
of Statistics Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011
www.public.iastate.edu/ ~ dcadams/ phone: 515-294-
3834
\Adams, Dean [EEOBS]" <dcadams@iastate.edu >
Scoring alleles using GeneMarker
Hi all,
I was hoping I could get some advice from folks that
have experience using GeneMarker (or similar soft-40 EvolDir August 1, 2013
ware). I am currently working on scoring alleles from
11 microsatellite markers designed specically for Ony-
chomys leucogaster, using GeneMarker. The actual
software is biologist friendly (like they claim) and fairly
easy to use; however, I am nding that some markers
have more alleles than I expected. I've been told that
this is a fairly common problem due to Taq slippage
during amplication that may result in multiple PCR
products and can be resolved by modifying the panel.
I am hesitant to delete alleles without having sound
criteria for doing so and was hoping I could get some
advice on how to develop this criteria. I would also be
interested in any workshops where I can obtain these
skills. My institution does not currently have a popu-
lation biologist on its faculty and reading user manuals
has only gotten me this far.
Also, I wanted to know whether folks got signicantly
better results by purifying PCR products prior to frag-
ment analysis, especially those that multiplex loci post-
PCR.
Thanks, Karla
Karla L. Flores MSc. Candidate Department of Biolog-
ical Science California State University, Fullerton 800
N. State College Blvd Fullerton, CA 92831 (657) 278-
2067 kores2004@csu.fullerton.edu
Karla Flores <kores2004@csu.fullerton.edu >
Shipping live crickets
Dear EvolDir members,
We are planning to collect eld crickets (Gryllus spp) in
the US this fall and we want to bring living specimens
from Florida back to Berlin. Has anyone experience in
taking live crickets (or other harmless insects) from the
US to continental Europe? Is it possible to take them
with you on the plane, either in the cabin or in the sec-
tion where dogs and cats usually are? Does it matter
which airline one travels with? Or is shipping via postal
services the better option anyway? All information will
be highly appreciated.
kind regards,
Thomas BlankersPhD-student at Humboldt University and the Museum
f ur Naturkunde, Berlin, Germany
thomasblankers@gmail.com
Thomas Blankers <thomasblankers@gmail.com >
mtDNA diversity answers
Hi all,
a month ago I posted the question below on Evoldir. I'll
make available all answers. You can download a com-
piled PDF here: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/-
u/40499866/summary.pdf . There is also an extensive
list of article PDFs that were attached or suggested.
You can nd instructions for download all of these pa-
pers in the compiled PDF. Thanks for all your input!
This is amazing!
If you have further questions or comments, let me know.
Right now we have not integrated all comments into our
paper but this will happen over the next months (it is
summer now and everybody gone for holidays...)
Cheers, robert
On 24.06.2013 07:25, evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca
wrote: >Dear colleagues, >In one of my datasets I
found a striking pattern of high mtDNA diversity >
(nice, reticulated haplotype network; not star-like) but
low>microsatellite diversity. In all other cases I'm
aware of, the pattern >is reversed because mtDNA
drifts faster than nucDNA, or is selectively >swept ev-
ery now and then. In the quest to understanding this
I'd be >curious to read about examples with a similarly
biased diversity pattern >(high mtDNA div but low
microsatellite div). I tried literature data >bases but
could not nd anything useful. Adaptive/Selectionist
>hypotheses are an option, too, but as my nucDNA is
microsatellite this >is only sort of the second route I
would follow. Is anyone here aware of >a paper they
could send me? (high mtDNA div vs. low nucDNa div)
> > Cheers, >Robert > > rkraus@senckenberg.de >
>
robert.kraus@senckenberg.deAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 41
PostDocs
Barcelona PhD PDF Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
BiK-F Frankfurt ExperimentalPopulationGenomics 42
Dublin MammalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
GeorgiaTech EvolDevBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Hinxton ParasiteGenomeFunction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ICIPE LeishmaniAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
IGC Portugal CelegansExperimentalEvolution . . . . .44
LavalU PhdPDF EvolSystemsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
London MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig ChimpanzeeEvolution . . . . . 46
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig ChimpanzeeSocialDemography
46
McGill PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
NewYorkU EvolutionaryGenomicist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
NorthDakotaStateU QuantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
OhioStateU ComparativePhylogeographics . . . . . . . . 48
OhioStateU MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
OregonStateU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
Paris StructuralVariationDiscovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
RoyalZooSoc Scotland PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
SaudiArabia CoralReefGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
StanfordU PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UBath EvolutionaryQuantitativeGenetics . . . . . . . . . .52UCalifornia LosAngeles ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . .52
UCalifornia Riverside InsectSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UCollege London EvolutionaryInteractions . . . . . . . . 53
UCopenhagen AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UGreifswald Germany AnimalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UHawaii FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UJyvaskyla AdaptationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UMinnesota PopulationGenomicsMetagenomics . . . 56
UMontpellier CancerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UPenn Human PopGen CompBio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UPennsylvania ExperimentalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UPorto EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
URochester EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . .59
USGS LandscapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
USGS Mendenhall Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
USheeld SharkEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UZurich Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UZurich UGrenoble EcoEvoModelingClimateChange
62
WashingtonStateU TasmanianDevil PopGenetics . . 63
WashingtonU YeastEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 64
Barcelona PhD PDF Bioinformatics
Open Bioinformatitian, PhD candidate, and Postdoc
position in comparative genomics at CRG, Barcelona,
Spain
Dear Fellows,
Bioinformatician, PhD and postdoctoral positions
are available in the group of Dr. Toni Gabald on
in the Bioinformatics and Genomics Department of
the Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG, http://-
gabaldonlab.crg.es).
All positions are for 3 years with possibility of exten-
sion. Start dates range from autumn 2013 to early 2014.
The persons will be fully integrated in an international
and inter-disciplinary team, where they will enjoy the
vibrant scientic environment at CRG and Barcelona,
and will have access to high-level training.Interested individuals should send a cover letter stating
the specic motivation to join the lab and the project,
CV, and the names of 2 references to Toni Gabald on at
tgabaldon@crg.es with the subject [APPLICATION].
Applicants intending to apply for external grants in the
Gabald on lab are also welcome if tting within one of
the group directions.
For more information please nd attached the URL to
the advert.
http://genome.crg.es/ ~ tgabaldon/-
Gabaldonlab positions 2013.pdf Your help forwarding
the advertisement to interested parties is much
appreciated.
Thank you & kind regards, Zsuzsa
Toni Gabaldon <toni.gabaldon@crg.eu >42 EvolDir August 1, 2013
BiK-F Frankfurt
ExperimentalPopulationGenomics
PhD or part time (66%) Postdoc position on Exper-
imental Population Genomics for 36 months is avail-
able in the Molecular Ecology Lab of Markus Pfen-
ninger, Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre,
Frankfurt/Main, Germany (DFG funded project)
I am looking for a highly motivated and independent
researcher to study the genomic basis of local climate
adaptation in the non-biting midge Chironomus ripar-
ius. Local adaptation to varying environmental condi-
tions is a key process for the evolution of biodiversity.
Ambient temperature is a crucially important factor
for ectothermic organisms, because it determines the
rate of metabolic processes and thus all processes from
development to reproduction. This suggests that pop-
ulations of a species should adapt to prevailing local
temperatures. However, little is known about the ge-
nomic basis of local metabolic temperature adaptation,
particularly in non-model organisms. In this project,
we strive to unveil the genomic basis of observed lo-
cal adaptation in an ecologically important species, the
non-biting midge (Chironomus riparius Meigen 1804) to
a temperature gradient across Europe. To this end, we
combine ecological experiments, genome scans and re-
peated experimental evolution in an innovative fashion.
The position thus requires taking eld-trips to collect
wild C. riparius populations, establishing lab popula-
tions, performing common garden experiments in ex-
perimental facilities, preparing and conducting popula-
tion genomic analyses and publication of the data.
Applicants must hold a Diploma/Master degree and
prove advanced education in two or more of the follow-
ing elds: genomics, bioinformatics and/or population
genetics. Prociency in English is required. Experi-
ence with ecological experiments is an asset. The Bio-
diversity and Climate Research Centre supports equal
opportunity of men and women and therefore strongly
invites women to apply. Equally qualied handicapped
applicants will be given preference. The type of hand-
icap should not prevent work needed to conduct the
research. The duty station will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. The employer is the Goethe-University.
Salary and benets are according to a public service po-
sition in Germany (TV-G-U E13, 65%). Applications
(CV, letter of motivation, and contact of two referees)should be sent to Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de until
the 15th of July 2013. The position is for three years.
Due to the biology of the midges, starting date is as
soon as possible.
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has been founded by the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-University Frankfurt
am Main, and additional partners. It is funded by
the Federal State of Hessen through its Initiative for
the Development of Scientic and Economic Excellence
(LOEWE). The mission of the centre is to carry out in-
ternationally outstanding research on the interactions
of biodiversity and climate change at the organism level.
Prof. Dr. Markus Pfenninger Forschungszentrum Bio-
diversit at & Klima Molekulare Okologie Gruppe Georg-
Voigt Strae 14-16 D 60325 Frankfurt am Main Ger-
many
pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de
Dublin MammalEvolution
Postdoc position, Dublin, 12 months.
A 12 month postdoctoral position is available at Dr
Mary O'Connell's Bioinformatics and Molecular Evolu-
tion Group, Dublin City University, Ireland. The group
is focussed on mammal evolution and the evolution of
disease and resistance using comparative genomics and
wet bench validation of predictions from in silico anal-
yses (for further information please visit our website:
www.mol-evol.org). Informal inquiries about the posi-
tion are welcome - please contact Dr O'Connell directly.
We are looking for a highly motivated, and enthusias-
tic postdoctoral scientist with a background in molecu-
lar evolution and ancestral protein reconstruction. The
candidate should be procient in wet bench laboratory
skills associated with this eld including: rational mu-
tagenesis, cloning, protein functional assays and mam-
mal cell culture. A strong track record of publishing
in molecular biology and evolution are essential as are
excellent verbal and written communication skills. The
candidate should have a genuine interest in solving evo-
lutionary problems using a variety of approaches. Pro-
ciency in at least one programming language (such as
R, Python or Perl) is also essential.
The project focusses on dierential selective pressures
in the evolution of proteins in human and mouse and
the functional consequences of adaptive evolution inAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 43
components of the innate immune system. The can-
didate will assess predictions of divergence in protein
function using ancestral protein reconstruction and cell
models for inammatory response.
The closing date for applications is the 5th August. All
applications to be submitted to mary.oconnell@dcu.ie
The preferred starting date for the position is October
1st 2013 (or as close as possible to that date). The po-
sition is initially for 12 months with the possibility of
contract extension.
Mary O'Connell <drmary.oconnell@gmail.com >
GeorgiaTech EvolDevBiol
MULTIPLE POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS in (i) de-
velopmental biology, (ii) behavior and (iii) evolutionary
genomics are available in the laboratory of Prof. Todd
Streelman, at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Suc-
cessful candidates will be expected to carry out inde-
pendent research contributing to an understanding of
how neural, sensory and craniofacial systems evolve di-
versity. Experience in developmental biology, neuro-
science, dental biology, computational and/or experi-
mental genomics is desired.
Representative recent publications from Streelman's
group can be found here:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23612286
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23422830
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23275489
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23106702
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21169229
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20439726
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19215146 The
Georgia Institute of Technology is one of the top 30
research universities in the world, oering exciting
avenues for collaboration with biomedical engineers
and computational scientists, and world-class facilities.
Georgia Tech was recently voted one of the best places
to work in the US, and Atlanta is consistently ranked
among the top ten places to live for young professionals.
Interested individuals should contact Todd Streelman
by e-mail (todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu).
J.T. Streelman G. Norman Bisanar Associate Professor
School of Biology Petit Institute for Bioengineering
and Bioscience Georgia Institute of Technology
310 Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA 30332-0230 404-
385-4435 (oce) 404-385-4436 (lab) 404-385-4440(fax) E-mail: todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu
http://www.biology.gatech.edu/faculty/todd-
streelman/ todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu
todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu
Hinxton ParasiteGenomeFunction
Please note the 26 July deadline is approaching fast!
THREE-YEAR POST-DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP
IN COMPARATIVE GENOMIC INSIGHTS INTO
PARASITE GENOME FUNCTION
Applications are invited for a three-year post-doctoral
fellowship held jointly at the Sanger Institute and
European Bioinformatics Institute under these in-
stitutes' \ESPOD" fellowship programme (http://-
www.ebi.ac.uk/research/postdocs/espods).
The above webpage includes a link to an abstract
of this project (and others in the programme). Full
project details are available at http://www.ebi.ac.uk/-
sites/ebi.ac.uk/les/groups/research oce/Goldman-
Berriman.pdf The successful candidate will work in the
Goldman Group at EMBL-European Bioinformatics
Institute (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/research/goldman)
and Matt Berriman's Parasite Genomics group at the
Sanger Institute (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/research/-
projects/parasitegenomics).
Applications should be sumitted by e-mail to the EBI
Research Oce <roce@ebi.ac.uk >by 26 July 2013.
Nick Goldman tel: +44-(0)1223-492530 EMBL - Euro-
pean Bioinformatics Institute fax: +44-(0)1223-494468
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge
CB10 1SD, UK
ICIPE LeishmaniAdaptation
Postdoctoral Research Fellow position
Leishmaniasis risk determinants: Assessing environ-
mental and ecological factors associated with sandy
vector occurrence
icipe wishes to urgently recruit a suitable person to ll
the position of POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH FEL-
LOW in the project entitled: \Leishmaniasis risk deter-44 EvolDir August 1, 2013
minants: Assessing environmental and ecological fac-
tors associated with sandy vector occurrence" in the
Adaptation to Climate Change and Ecosystem Services
Cluster. A competitive compensation package will be
oered to the right candidate.
He/she would be expected to be among a team provid-
ing scientic support for assessing environmental and
ecological factors associated with sandy vector occur-
rence. The workplan includes a thorough analysis of
previous R&D of icipe on sandies and ongoing studies
on leishmaniasis in the region. The successful candi-
date will have the opportunity to closely interact with
globally renowned scientists in leishmaniasis research,
develop proposals and build capacity in this subject.
Overall purpose of the job: To undertake research per-
taining to leishmaniasis risk determinants
Knowledge required for performing the job - Prociency
in use of statistical tools, especially R and other related
statistical software. - Prior experience in leishmaniasis
research will be preferred.
Disposition - Ability to work in a multi-cultural en-
vironment with minimal supervision. - Eagerness to
learn new techniques and publish research outcomes in
peer-reviewed journals. - Good communication skills.
- Ability to mentor technical sta and students and
demonstrate leadership skills.
Requirements/Qualications - PhD in entomol-
ogy/medical vectors and related elds from a recog-
nised university within the last two years. - Track
record of peer-reviewed publications and proposal
development.
Reporting This position reports to the three Princi-
pal Investigators. Candidates from Africa and females
possessing the above-mentioned qualications are espe-
cially invited to apply.
icipe ^ a African Insect Science for Food and Health is an
intergovernmental organisation funded by governmen-
tal aid agencies, UN organisations and private founda-
tions to carry out research and training in environmen-
tally sound and sustainable management of arthropods
for improving health and agricultural productivity in
the tropics. icipe has approximately 350 sta to sup-
port its research and capacity building programmes lo-
cated at various sites in Kenya and Ethiopia.
Applications will be accepted up to 5th May 2013, or
until the position is lled, whichever is earlier. Please
quote the job reference number IRS/19/042013 on the
envelope and application cover letter reference line, or
email subject line. Only applications of shortlisted can-
didates will be acknowledged.Please send an application (including current salary de-
tails), with a detailed CV, names and addresses of 3
referees (including e-mail addresses and fax numbers),
and a one-page write-up on how you consider yourself
suitable for the above job to:
icipehr@icipe.org
The Human Resources Department icipe^ aAfrican In-
sect Science for Food and Health P.O. Box 30772-00100
Nairobi Kenya
icipe is an Equal Opportunity Employer
\Jandouwe, Villinger" <jandouwe@icipe.org >
IGC Portugal
CelegansExperimentalEvolution
A one-year postdoctoral position is open in the labora-
tory of Henrique Teotonio at the Instituto Gulbenkian
de Ci^ encia, Oeiras Portugal (www.igc.gulbenkian.pt).
Our research is focused on C. elegans experimental evo-
lution to temporally heterogeneous environments. We
are studying the role of natural selection under dier-
ent breeding systems to the evolution of distributions
in life-history, metabolism and gene expression traits.
The project will be dened according to the candidates
interests and previous experience.
The candidate will have a PhD in quantitative genet-
ics or population genetics, with a strong background
in QTL or GWAS mapping, ABC statistical analysis,
analysis of selection gradients, modeling of demography
or experimental evolution with eukaryotes. The candi-
dates will also have the programming skills to conduct
data mining and individual-based simulations. Experi-
ence with high-throughput data is preferred.
The position is funded by the European Research
Council, for a monthly salary between 1600EUR and
2200EUR, depending on experience and track record,
plus health insurance (for comparative price indices
see http://stats.oecd.org/Index.aspx?QueryId=24057).
The successful applicant can start as soon as September
2013.
A CV, a letter of motivation and the contact informa-
tion of two referees should be sent by email to teoto-
nio@igc.gulbenkian.pt. Applications will be reviewed
until the ideal candidate is found. We welcome infor-
mal inquiries.August 1, 2013 EvolDir 45
teotonio@igc.gulbenkian.pt
LavalU PhdPDF EvolSystemsBiol
PhD and postdoctoral positions in evolutionary sys-
tems biology at Laval University
One PhD (4 years) and one postdoctoral position (2-3
years) are available in the Landry Laboratory at Laval
University (http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/landrylab). The
candidate will work on a project funded by the Cana-
dian Institutes of Health Research that aims at under-
standing the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms
of robustness of protein networks and protein com-
plexes using large-scale proteomics approaches. The
Landry laboratory is a very dynamic, international and
interdisciplinary research group with broad interests
in systems biology, molecular evolution, bioinformatics
and ecological genomics. The applicants should have
a strong background in molecular biology, microbiol-
ogy, biochemistry and/or proteomics. The projects are
mainly experimental but candidates with strong com-
putational backgrounds who are willing to learn and
perform experimental research are encouraged to ap-
ply.
Laval University is one of the most important research
universities in Canada and is located in Quebec City, a
lively city with a vibrant culture that oers an excep-
tional quality of life.
Interested applicants should send a CV, a list of pub-
lications, a statement of interest (1 page) and the
name of three referees in a single PDF le to Chris-
tian.landry@bio.ulaval.ca. PhD candidates should also
include a low-resolution copy of ocial academic tran-
scripts. The positions will remain available until lled.
Starting dates could be between September 2013 and
Mai 2014.
Christian Landry, PhD Associate professor CIHR New
Investigator D epartement de Biologie Institut de Biolo-
gie Int egrative et des Syst emes/PROTEO Local 3106,
Pavillon Charles-Eug ene-Marchand 1030, Avenue de la
M edecine Universit e Laval Qu ebec (Qu ebec) G1V 0A6
Canada
http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/landrylab T el ephone: 418-
656-3954 T el ecopieur: 418-656-7176
Christian Landry <Christian.Landry@bio.ulaval.ca >London MolecularEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Fellow (3 Year xed term)
From ^A$31,180 to 35,860 pa inclusive London, UK
A 3 year postdoctoral position is available at the MRC
Clinical Sciences Centre and Imperial College London
to work in the Evolution of Molecular Systems group
headed by Dr Tobias Warnecke. The group focuses on
the evolutionary analysis of genome-scale biological se-
quence data to understand how various aspects of cel-
lular biology aect evolutionary processes (for further
information please visit http://www.csc.mrc.ac.uk/-
Research/Groups/IB/EvolutionMolecularSystems/ or
contact Dr Warnecke for an informal discussion about
the post).
We are looking for an enthusiastic, creative postdoc-
toral scientist, preferably with a background in func-
tional or evolutionary computational genomics and ex-
perience in analyzing genome-wide data, particularly of
the kind generated by next generation sequencing ex-
periments (e.g. ChIP-Seq, RNA-Seq). The candidate
should have a strong publication record in the eld, ex-
cellent verbal and written communication skills, and
a track record of addressing scientic problems in a
innovative, thorough and ecient manner. The can-
didate should be procient in at least one program-
ming/scripting language (perl, python, etc.) and fa-
miliar with applying multivariate statistical analysis to
complex data sets (ideally in the framework of the R
programming language). A keen interest in evolution-
ary problems is highly desirable.
The project focuses on understanding the evolution of
cryptic processing sites (splice sites, polyadenylation
sites, etc.) in a variety of model genomes through in-
tegrating evolutionary and protein-RNA/DNA interac-
tion data. In addition to the main project, the candi-
date will be able to develop and carry out his/her own
line of research within the group's areas of interest and
expertise. Strong candidates will enjoy a large degree of
independence in determining the direction of their own
research. We are not tied to a particular model system
and candidates from both eukaryotic and prokaryotic
backgrounds are equally encouraged to apply.
The Clinical Sciences Centre is an Institute funded by
the MRC and is a Division of the Faculty of Medicine,
Imperial College. Based on the Hammersmith Hospital46 EvolDir August 1, 2013
Campus in West London (W12), the CSC has rst class
facilities and provides investigators from clinical and
basic science backgrounds with the opportunity to pur-
sue innovative, multidisciplinary research within the es-
tablished clinical base of Imperial College. For more in-
formation, visit www.csc.mrc.ac.uk . This post is a Ca-
reer Development Fellowship to support post-doctoral
scientists in early or changed career training and help
establish them as successful research scientists in their
chosen eld. The Clinical Sciences Centre (CSC) is
an institute funded by the Medical Research Council
(MRC) and is a division of the Faculty of Medicine
at Imperial College London, a thriving research envi-
ronment with state-of-the-art facilities and equipment,
including micro MRI and PET imaging.
Applications are handled by the RCUK Shared Services
Centre; to apply please visit our job board at http://-
www.topcareer.jobs and complete an online application
form. Applicants who would like to receive this advert
in an alternative format (e.g. large print, Braille, audio
or hard copy), or who are unable to apply online should
contact us by telephone on 01793 867003, Please quote
reference number IRC100893
Closing date for all completed applications is 8th Au-
gust 2013.
'The Medical Research Council is an Equal Opportu-
nities Employer' Final appointment will be subject to
pre-employment screening.
Tobias Warnecke INTERPOD Fellow Kon-
drashov lab Centre de Regulaci o Gen ~A2mica
Barcelona tobias.warnecke@crg.eu http://-
big.crg.cat/people/twarnecke Tobias Warnecke
<tobias.warnecke@crg.eu > Tobias Warnecke
<tobias.warnecke@crg.eu >
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig
ChimpanzeeEvolution
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
Pan African Program - Chimpanzee Ecology
The Department of Primatology at the Max Planck In-
stitute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Ger-
many is seeking a postdoctoral researcher for its Pan
African program `The Cultured Chimpanzee' (for more
details on this project please see the report in Na-
ture 476, 18 August 2011, pp. 266-269 & http://-
panafrican.eva.mpg.de/).More specically, the research to be conducted will ad-
dress questions related to the extent of the diversity and
variability of ecological conditions across chimpanzee
habitats including fauna, ora and the abiotic environ-
ment and how they aect aspects of chimpanzee biol-
ogy. Within the Pan African Program, we are collect-
ing a unique dataset on habitat structure, food resource
availability, sympatric animal species, climate and hu-
man impact from more than 30 sites to learn more
about the environments inhabited by chimpanzees.
Although we use standardized methods for all data col-
lection, the entire dataset is very heterogeneous. Data
processing and analysis will therefore require advanced
and innovative statistical approaches for data integra-
tion and synthesis.
The successful candidate will therefore need excellent
organizational and quantitative skills, including statis-
tical and programming expertise. Furthermore, since
this work will be directly linked to other projects within
the Pan African Program, we expect the candidate to
communicate well with other researchers for mutual
benet and integrate well into the department.
The position is available for a three year period from
1 January 2014, salary will be up to 36,000 Euros for
German candidates depending on qualications and an
equivalent tax free stipend for foreign candidates.
Please send a Curriculum Vita, publication list, cover
letter (including the contact information for two
references) to Ms. Claudia Nebel (nebel@eva.mpg.de).
Please reference \Postdoc chimpanzee habitat
diversity-The Cultured Chimpanzee" in the sub-
ject line.
arandjel@eva.mpg.de
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig
ChimpanzeeSocialDemography
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
Pan African Program - Chimpanzee Social Demogra-
phy
The Department of Primatology at the Max Planck In-
stitute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Ger-
many is seeking a postdoctoral researcher for its Pan
African program 'The Cultured Chimpanzee' (for more
details on this project please see the report in Na-
ture 476, 18 August 2011, pp. 266-269 and http://-
panafrican.eva.mpg.de/).August 1, 2013 EvolDir 47
More specically, the research to be conducted will ad-
dress questions related to the large-scale, range-wide
variation of chimpanzee social and demographic struc-
ture, as well as investigate the respective contributions
of underlying drivers leading to such variability. Within
the Pan African Program we are using remote video
traps for collecting a unique range-wide dataset on the
social and demographic structure of more than 30 chim-
panzee communities of all subspecies. Additionally,
a wide spectrum of ecological context information on
habitat structure, food resource availability and preda-
tors will be available.
Although standardized, the available dataset on chim-
panzee social and demographic structure considerably
diers from the common type of data that is available
from long-term chimpanzee research sites. Data pro-
cessing and analysis will therefore require new and in-
novative approaches including the application of avail-
able automated species detection software, the use of
citizen science for species and individual classication
and advanced statistical methods.
The successful candidate will therefore need excellent
organizational and quantitative skills, including statis-
tical and programming expertise. Furthermore, since
this work will be directly linked to other projects within
the Pan African Program, we expect the candidate to
communicate well with other researchers for mutual
benet and integrate well into the department.
The position is available for a three year period from 1
January 2014. The annual salary will be up to 36,000
Euros for German candidates depending on qualica-
tions and an equivalent tax free stipend for foreign can-
didates.
Please send a Curriculum Vita, publication list, cover
letter (including the contact information for two ref-
erences) to Ms. Claudia Nebel (nebel@eva.mpg.de).
Please reference \Postdoc chimpanzee social and de-
mographic structure-The Cultured Chimpanzee" in the
subject line.
arandjel@eva.mpg.de
McGill PopulationGenetics
Job title: Postdoctoral position in statistical and pop-
ulation genetics
A new postdoctoral position in statistical and popu-
lation genetics is available in Simon Gravel's group atMcGill University in Montreal, Canada. The group fo-
cuses on population genetics methods to understand
human evolution and demography, and on the analy-
sis of high-throughput genomic data. The postdoctoral
researcher will be involved in conceptual methods devel-
opment, implementation, and applications to cutting-
edge data.
The ideal candidate has experience with high-
throughput biological data or population genetics and
a strong interest in quantitative biology and methods
development. Programming experience in at least one
scripting language (e.g., perl, R, python) and/or one
compiled language is preferred. We welcome appli-
cations from qualied candidates from diverse back-
grounds, including biology, anthropology, mathematics,
physics, computer science, and related elds.
The position oers an exceptional opportunity for inde-
pendent research in a quantitative and theoretical lab
with access to cutting-edge data. The McGill Human
Genetics department and the McGill and Genome Que-
bec Innovation Centre, together with numerous nearby
institutes in Montreal, provide a thriving academic en-
vironment.
Applications and queries should be sent to simon.gravel
at mcgill.ca, and the subject line should include the job
title. Please include a research statement and a CV,
one of which should address programming experience{
code samples or links to published/distributed code are
welcome. Contact information for three references is re-
quired. Review of applications will begin immediately
and will continue until the position is lled.
Simon Gravel,
Assistant Professor
McGill University and G enome Qu ebec Innovation
Center
Dept of Human Genetics, McGill University
Simon Gravel McGill University and G enome Qu ebec
Innovation Center Dept of Human Genetics, McGill
University 740 Dr. Peneld - Room 7206 514-398-4400
#0753
simon.gravel@mcgill.ca
NewYorkU EvolutionaryGenomicist
POSITION FOR A POSTDOCTORAL EVOLUTION-48 EvolDir August 1, 2013
ARY GENOMICIST AT NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
A postdoctoral position is available for a highly mo-
tivated evolutionary genomicist with strong computa-
tional biology skills at the Center for Genomics and
Systems Biology at New York University. The position
is part of an NIH-funded International Center of Excel-
lence in Malaria Research, and a collaborative project
between the laboratory of Program Director Jane Carl-
ton at NYU and the Broad Institute.
The postdoctoral fellow will drive the evolution-
ary/phylogeographic exploration of data from Illumina
sequencing of several hundred malaria parasite genomes
collected from around the globe and sequenced at the
Broad Institute. Strong computational abilities to ma-
nipulate large datasets an asset but not as essential as
expertise in population genomics theory and analytical
approaches to studying genome evolution of microbes.
Applicants should have: (1) A detailed knowlege of next
generation sequence data analysis. (2) Prociency in
evolutionary genomics methods and interpretation. (3)
An ability to work with an interdisciplinary team. (4)
Good spoken and written English.
Interested parties should email a CV and names of
three references to Lab Manager Becca Susko at
rs3357@nyu.edu, with Carlton Lab Evolutionary Ge-
nomics Position in the subject line. Applications re-
ceived before Sept 1 2013 will receive full consideration.
The position is available immediately.
The Carlton lab (http://cgsb.as.nyu.edu/object/-
JaneCarlton.html) is located in historic Greenwich Vil-
lage in downtown Manhattan, New York City. NYU is
one of the worlds leading research universities and the
Center for Genomics and Systems Biology is housed in
a new, state-of-the-art facility. The Centers 14 faculty
members study genomics and systems biology across
all kingdoms of life, supported by a genome sequenc-
ing facility. For more information on the Center, see
http://cgsb.as.nyu.edu/page/home . Thanks,
Jane
Jane Carlton <carltj01@nyu.edu >
NorthDakotaStateU QuantGenetics
The Dochtermann lab at North Dakota State Univer-
sity is looking to recruit a post-doctoral researcher. The
position will primarily be focused on a quantitative ge-netics study of behavioral variation in crickets. More
specically we will be examining how populations of
crickets genetically dier in regards to behavioral syn-
drome structure and test the mechanisms giving rise to
behavioral syndromes and genetic correlations. Prefer-
ence will be given to applicants with a background in
quantitative genetics or arthropod behavior, or, ideally,
both. There will also be ample opportunity to pursue
research questions besides those of this particular study.
The position is for 2 years, contingent on performance,
but may be extended.
Those interested should contact me at:
ned.dochtermann@gmail.com for additional de-
tails regarding the project, position requirements, and
application process. Please include your CV with your
initial correspondence.
I will also be attending the Animal Behavior Society
meeting in Boulder later this month and would be avail-
able to discuss the proposed project further at that
time.
Formal departmental review of applicants will begin
July 30th and continue until the position is lled.
Thanks, Ned Dochtermann
Ned A. Dochtermann Assistant Professor / Department
of Biological Sciences *NORTH DAKOTA STATE
UNIVERSITY* p: 701.231.7353 / f: 701.231.7149
/ www.ndsu.edu https://sites.google.com/site/-
neddochtermann/ ned.dochtermann@ndsu.edu
Ned Dochtermann <ned.dochtermann@gmail.com >
OhioStateU
ComparativePhylogeographics
***Post doc***
The Carstens lab at The Ohio State University is look-
ing for a post doctoral researcher who is interested
in phylogeographic data analysis in general and de-
veloping new approaches to the analysis of compara-
tive phylogeographic data in particular. Please see <
http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ >and<https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ >for general
information about the lab, and contact Bryan directly
if interested at <carstens dot 12 at osu dot edu >. The
position could start as early as 2014.
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,August 1, 2013 EvolDir 49
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ web:
https://sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >
OhioStateU MicrobialGenomics
Postdoctoral Researcher position
Genomics and microbial ecology of detritovorous in-
sects
Qualications: PhD in microbiology, molecular biology,
biochemistry, evolutionary biology, population genetics
or equivalent. Experience with command-line bioinfor-
matics and genomics tools. Knowledge of Perl, Python,
Ruby, C and/or C++.
Project: Two year (w/ a possible third year) position
investigating the role of microbes in detritovorous insect
host physiology and trophic niche choice. Microbial
cultivation, genome sequencing, population dynamics
modeling and uorescence microscopy tools will be used
to address this area of interest.
Salary: $40K+ w/ benets (commiserate with experi-
ence).
Contact: Zakee L. Sabree, PhD (sabree.8@osu.edu) and
include \Postdoc2014" in the Subject Heading.
Please send CV/resume, three professional references
and one (co-)authored, published paper. A link to the
paper is ne.
Informal inquiries are welcome and applications will be
reviewed until the position is lled.
Zakee L. Sabree jAssistant Professor Department
of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology The
Ohio State University https://u.osu.edu/sabreelab/
\Sabree, Zakee L." <sabree.8@osu.edu >
OregonStateU EvolutionaryGenetics
A postdoctoral position is available in Dee Denver's lab
at Oregon State University.Check out our website:
http://denverlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/ We are seek-
ing a recent PhD graduate interested in studying evo-
lutionary questions related to genetic conict and co-
operation. Current research in the lab combines high-
throughput DNA sequencing technologies, surveys of
natural variation, and experimental evolution. Ne-
matodes are the main research systems in the lab
(work funded by NIH and NSF grants); we also study
anemones and Douglas r trees. Our team also studies
the intersections of Eastern philosophy (Madhyamaka
Buddhism) and science.
Candidates of diverse backgrounds and interests will be
considered. The main research project associated with
this position is focused on genetic conict and cooper-
ation between Caenorhabditis nematodes (C. elegans,
C. briggsae) and their mitochondria. The postdoc will
be encouraged and supported in pursuing additional re-
search objectives. There are also diverse opportunities
for postdocs to develop teaching skills at Oregon State
University.
The position is available immediately and the latest
possible start date is Dec 1, 2014 (due to source of
funds supporting the position).
Contact Dee directly by email if you are interested in
the job or would like more information:
denver@cgrb.oregonstate.edu
Paris StructuralVariationDiscovery
The LabEx BASC (Biodiversity, Agroecosystems,
Society, Climate), a network of 13 laboratories of
the Paris-Saclay Scientic Cluster, is seeking a bioin-
formatician to analyze Next Generation Sequencing
(NGS) data analysis. In the context of a agship
project aiming at understanding and improving the
adaptive capacity of agroecosystems it will be crit-
ical to establish a link between sequence variation,
functional variation, gene/protein expression and phe-
notypic adaptation. We will gather NGS data in many
genotypes of various species, the genomes of which
harbor a high level of structural complexity, with copy
number variations, insertions-deletions, whole genome
and segmental duplications. The successful candidate
will be in charge of the detection of polymorphisms
including structural variants, of the comparison of
multiple and diverse genomes of a same species50 EvolDir August 1, 2013
and of the construction of pan- and core-genomes.
These challenging tasks will require bioinformatics
developments and implementation of methods for
accommodating the high level of repetitiveness of
complex genomes. The tools will be integrated into
pipelines and made available to end-users through the
Galaxy platform. The bioinformatician will therefore
also have to provide researchers with advices on their
experimental designs in order to ensure compliance
of produced datasets with pipelines requirements.
He/she will be hosted by a bioinformatics/informatics
team (7 people) (http://moulon.inra.fr/index.php/-
fr/equipestransversales/atelier-de-bioinformatique)
which has computational facilities and expertise in
NGS data analysis, and will benet as well from
national and international collaborative networks
(Aplibio http://www.renabi.fr/platforms/aplibio/-
, Transplant http://transplantdb.eu, AMAIZING
http://www.amaizing.fr/).
The position requires a doctoral degree (PhD) in
bioinformatics with strong expertise in script writing
(Python/Perl) and pipeline development. Experience
with NGS data handling will be greatly appreciated.
The applicant will have to demonstrate excellent ca-
pacity to work in a team and ability to communicate
with researchers.
Funding is available for two year and can be extended
to three. Applicants should send a CV and the names of
2 referees willing to provide a letter of recommendation
to joets@moulon.inra.fr.
joets@moulon.inra.fr
RoyalZooSoc Scotland PopGenetics
The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland. Population
Geneticist, Fixed Term Contract - 12 Months
The role: As a Population Geneticist, you will report
to the Head of Conservation Science, working within
the Society's Wildgenes Laboratory, part of our Con-
servation Programmes department. You will be focus-
ing on the transfer of population genomic research to
SNP datasets, panel selection and assay. The successful
candidate will be required to coordinate the delivery of
activities contributing to research projects in the area of
DNA traceability and authentication. They will be ex-
ible in their approach and carry out a variety of other
tasks as required. As a valued member of the Conserva-
tion Programmes department, the post-holder will con-tribute to the development of the Society in achieving
its Mission and Aims.
About you: You will be educated to Masters-degree
level, or hold equivalent relevant experience in biolog-
ical, biochemical or environmental sciences. Previous
experience of laboratory work is expected whilst ex-
cellent working knowledge of Microsoft Oce is essen-
tial. The successful candidate should have sucient
knowledge-based skills to demonstrate a sound knowl-
edge of population genetic theory and possess the su-
cient skills to analyse genome-wide population genetic
data sets and perform standard statistical analyses. A
full UK valid driving license is desirable and the abil-
ity to work in the UK is essential. With an ability to
communicate eectively across a wide range of inter-
nal sta and researchers, you will be able to pursue
projects eectively with minimum supervision. This
role would suit an eective communicator who demon-
strates a quality approach to work.
This Fixed term contract is a full time position (37.5
hours per week, Monday- Friday) Closing date: 22 July
2013. Interviews will be held week commencing 29 July
2013 Salary: ^A$20,000 - ^A$22,000
To apply for the Population Geneticist role, please
download the Job Prole and Application Form. CV's
are welcomed and should be submitted along with the
Application Form. Once completed you should email it
to recruitment@rzss.org.uk
If you have project specic queries regarding the
role, please email Rob Ogden at rogden@rzss.org.uk
or alternatively, please contact Ross McEwing at rm-
cewing@rzss.org.uk for any general queries you may
have.
Ross McEwing Ph.D Conservation Scientist Royal Zoo-
logical Society of Scotland 134 Corstorphine Road Ed-
inburgh, Scotland EH12 6TS. Tel. +44 (0)131 314 0388
Skype: ross.mcewing
Inspiring and exciting our visitors for 100 years - Ed-
inburgh Zoo is celebrating its 100th anniversary in
2013. Find out more about the centenary celebra-
tions here: www.edinburghzoo.org.uk/centenary Book
your tickets now to see the Giant Pandas. Go to
www.edinburghzoo.org.uk for further details.
Join us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/-
EdinburghZooScotland Follow us on Twitter http:/-
/twitter.com/edinburghzoo Catch up with the lat-
est news on YouTube http://www.youtube.com/-
TheEdinburghZoo Take out membership with us and
enjoy unlimited access to both Edinburgh Zoo and The
Highland Wildlife Park.August 1, 2013 EvolDir 51
Ross McEwing <rmcewing@rzss.org.uk >
SaudiArabia CoralReefGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Coral Reef Genomics
The laboratory of Christian R Voolstra (reefge-
nomics.kaust.edu.sa) is seeking a postdoctoral associate
in the areas of functional and evolutionary genomics
and bioinformatics analysis.
The successful candidate will collaborate as part of
a funded framework on establishing gene knockdowns
in the photosynthetic dinoagellate Symbiodinium sp.
A1 and subsequent transcriptome- and proteome-wide
analysis in regard to functional validation and path-
way interactions. Duties will require knowledge of
the principles of molecular biology lab techniques (e.g.
DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, cloning, sequencing, mi-
croscopy) and genome analysis (454 and Illumina data,
genome/transcriptome assembly and annotation, con-
dent command of Unix Shell, Perl, R, sequence
databases). Applicants must exhibit curiosity and an
interest in basic evolutionary questions. They should
also be enthusiastic and able to work independently
within a dynamic and collaborative working environ-
ment. Training on certain aspects will be provided but
preference will be given to those with prior experience.
Duties will include bench-based work (nucleic acid ex-
traction, PCR, microscopy) as well as the creation of
custom scripts to query and analyze large sequence
databases and transcriptome datasets. The candidate
will also interact with graduate students. The success-
ful candidate is expected to produce rst-authored pa-
pers as well as collaborate on others. The position is for
two years but renewal each year is contingent on per-
formance.The position package includes a competitive
salary as well as benets (housing, health insurance,
etc.).
Position Location: Red Sea Research Center, KAUST,
Saudi Arabia University Prole: KAUST is a dynamic
new university campus and community in Saudi Arabia
that opened in September 2009. The campus is located
directly at the Red Sea, near Jeddah. More informa-
tion is available at http://www.kaust.edu.sa and http:/-
/reefgenomics.kaust.edu.sa/Pages/Home.aspx Mini-
mum Qualications: Ph.D. degree with major course
work in curriculum appropriate for the eld of assign-
ment - bioinformatics, genomics, molecular biology, etc.
Preferred Qualications: Experience with molecular bi-ology lab protocols, transcriptome assembly and anno-
tation, custom scripting in unix, perl, R.
Instructions for Applying: Screening will begin August
15, 2013 and will continue until the position is lled.
The position is open from December 1, 2013. Please
submit a letter of application indicating experience and
research interests, curriculum vitae, and contact infor-
mation for three references to:
Dr. Christian R Voolstra chris-
tian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa PI Reef Genomics Red
Sea Research Center KAUST
Christian R Voolstra <christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa >
Christian R Voolstra <christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa >
StanfordU PopGenetics
Postdoc in population genetics, Stanford University
Postdoctoral positions are available in Jonathan
Pritchard's lab, which will be moving to Stanford Uni-
versity in August 2013.
Current work in the group uses computational and sta-
tistical methods to study a variety of problems in pop-
ulation genetics and molecular evolution. One focus
is on the evolution of gene regulation, in collaboration
with Yoav Gilad's lab. We are also interested in a vari-
ety of other problems including the genetics of complex
traits; models of genetic architecture and genetic load;
natural selection; and methods for studying population
structure and demographic history. At Stanford we will
be joining an outstanding community in population ge-
netics, evolutionary biology and genomics. Much of
our current work is in humans, but we are potentially
interested in a broad range of organisms. Successful ap-
plicants will have considerable latitude and resources to
design their own projects.
Applicants for the position must have a background in
population genetics or come from a quantitative eld
(such as statistics or computer science) and have a
demonstrated interest in genetics and evolution. Strong
programming and bioinformatics skills are essential.
Applicants must be highly motivated and able to work
independently when needed.
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including a
CV and description of research interests) should be
emailed to Jonathan Pritchard (pritch@uchicago.edu).
Applications will be considered as they are received;52 EvolDir August 1, 2013
positions will be available any time starting in August.
Jonathan Pritchard Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Departments of Genetics and Biology Stanford Univer-
sity
pritch@uchicago.edu
UBath
EvolutionaryQuantitativeGenetics
A three year postdoctoral position will soon be available
at the University of Bath working with Jason Wolf, in
collaboration with John Hunt (University of Exeter),
Gabriel Marroig (University of Sao Paulo), and Jim
Cheverud (Loyola University Chicago).
The project is focused on understanding how selection
alters the relationship between traits, with a particular
emphasis on the evolution of pleiotropy.
Work will focus on evolutionary changes to patterns of
growth and development using an experimental popu-
lation of mice. The postdoc will contribute to empir-
ical, theoretical and computational components of the
project. Empirical work will involve implementation
of a complex multigenerational breeding scheme and
large scale phenotyping (including longitudinal mea-
surements of body composition and measurement of
complex morphological traits). Computational work
will involve genome scale analysis of associations us-
ing marker and sequence data. Theoretical work will
involve the development of numerical and analytical
quantitative genetic models.
A formal advertisement will appear at a later date - at
this early stage we are looking for informal discussions
from people interested in the project. The projected
start date is January 1st 2014, but it may be possible
to alter the start date by mutual agreement.
A two-year technician position on this project will also
be advertised at a later date.
Please contact me for more information or to express
interest.
Jason B Wolf Department of Biology & Biochemistry
University of Bath Bath, BA2 7AY, UK
ph: +44 (0) 1225.385.012 Skype: jason.wolf
www.evolutionarygenetics.org ja-
son@evolutionarygenetics.orgUCalifornia LosAngeles
ConservationBiol
UCLA/La Kretz Center Postdoctoral Fellow
The UCLA La Kretz Center for California Conser-
vation Science invites applications for its rst annual
Postdoctoral Fellowship in California Conservation Sci-
ence. Consistent with our mission, we seek a post-
doctoral scholar who simultaneously conducts innova-
tive research and interfaces with the conservation and
management agencies that direct and lead California
conservation. Our emphasis is on biological conserva-
tion, and the successful candidate could work in any
discipline that provides the scientic underpinnings for
the preservation, protection, management, or restora-
tion of at-risk species, environments, or ecological com-
munities. We will consider candidates who have re-
cently completed their PhD, or will have completed it
by the start date for this position. We envision hir-
ing one Fellow each year, building a team of conser-
vation scientists with a passion for California and its
biodiversity. The La Kretz Fellowship is for two years,
subject to review after the rst year. Our start date
is as early as October 1, 2013. The successful appli-
cant will be expected to conduct research that bridges
the interests of at least one UCLA La Kretz faculty
aliate with priority science concerns of resource man-
agement agencies in the Santa Monica Mountains or
Greater Los Angeles area (e.g. National Park Ser-
vice, CA State Parks, Mountains Recreation and Con-
servation Agency); we strongly encourage applicants
to contact their faculty mentor to develop a research
plan. We also anticipate that the Fellow will also work
with Brad Shaer, Director of the La Kretz Center, to
help develop collaborative research projects that fur-
ther the mission of the Center. The position has an
annual salary of approximately $40,000 plus full ben-
ets, and the Fellow will have the option to reside at
the newly renovated La Kretz Field Station, located in
the Santa Monica Mountains about 25 miles from cam-
pus. Interested candidates should submit a cover letter,
CV, short (1-2 page) description of research and man-
agement accomplishments, short (1-2 page) description
of proposed research including potential faculty men-
tor(s), and copies of two publications, all as a single
PDF format, to Mario Colon, administrative assistant,
at mario.colon@ucla.edu You should also have three let-
ters of recommendation, including one from your Ph.D.August 1, 2013 EvolDir 53
advisor, sent under separate emails. The deadline for
completed applications is 20 August, 2013. E-mail
questions to Brad Shaer (Director of the La Kretz
Center) at brad.shaer@ucla.edu. The University of
California is an armative action/equal opportunity
employer with a strong institutional commitment to the
development of a climate that supports equality of op-
portunity and respect for dierences.
Phillip Spinks <pqspinks@ucla.edu >
UCalifornia Riverside
InsectSystematics
Postdoctoral Researcher V Systematics of Heteroptera
Heteropteran Systematics Lab @ UCR, University of
California, Riverside
A postdoctoral position in systematics of Heteroptera,
with emphasis on Reduviidae, is available in the
Weirauch Lab (http://heteroptera.ucr.edu/), Depart-
ment of Entomology, University of California, River-
side. The postdoc will engage in research on the
phylogenetic systematics of selected assassin bug sub-
families and on phylogenomic studies across Redu-
viidae. Subfamily-level analyses will build on ex-
isting datasets and aim on constructing and analyz-
ing comprehensive, multi-gene molecular phylogenies
of the charismatic Emesinae, or thread-legged bugs,
the Peiratinae, the corsairs, and the Harpactorinae.
The selected candidate will be involved in ancestral
state reconstruction of predation techniques (Emesinae,
Harpactorinae) and genitalic asymmetry (Peiratinae),
and investigate biogeographic patterns and diver-
gence times. Phylogenomic eorts will focus on es-
tablishing workows and generating a transcriptome
dataset that will contribute to revealing relationships
among the poorly resolved Higher Reduviidae (Hwang
&Weirauch, 2012: http://www.plosone.org/article/-
info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0045523).
Candidates must have a PhD in insect systematics and
a strong record of accomplishment in DNA sequencing,
molecular phylogenetic analyses, ancestral state recon-
struction, divergence dating, biogeographic analyses,
and/or phylogenomic techniques. Background in sys-
tematics of Heteroptera or Hemiptera is preferred, but
not required. Excellent communication, team-building
and student mentoring skills are important for this po-
sition. The preferred starting date is September 15,2013 or shortly thereafter. Initial appointment is for
one year, but funds are available for up to three years
pending appropriate progress. The position comes with
standard University of California, Riverside benets for
postdoctoral researchers.
The application should include a cover letter describ-
ing relevant experience and t to the position, a
curriculum vitae, and contact information for three
references. Please send applications to: Christiane
Weirauch, Department of Entomology, University of
California, Riverside, 900 University Avenue, Riverside,
92521 CA, USA; christiane.weirauch@ucr.edu. The ini-
tial application deadline is August 1, 2013, but appli-
cation review will continue until the position is lled.
Christiane Weirauch Associate Professor of
Entomology Department of Entomology Uni-
versity of California, Riverside Ph: 951-827-
5707 Email: Christiane.weirauch@ucr.edu Web:
http://heteroptera.ucr.edu/ Guanyang Zhang
<gyz151@gmail.com >
UCollege London
EvolutionaryInteractions
Postdoctoral position on \Characterizing Ecological In-
teractions Across Large-Scale Point Processes", led by
Professor Soa Olhede, at the University College Lon-
don, UK
This project will study sets of ecological interactions
across multiple species, developing novel statistical es-
timation methods for the interactions between the
species, and will focus on applications in plant com-
munities. The post is available from 1 September 2013
and is funded until 30 June 2015 in the rst instance.
Key Requirements: Candidates should hold or be close
to submitting a PhD (or equivalent qualication) in
Statistics. It is essential that the successful candidate
has previous experience of the use and development of
sophisticated methods for random processes and time
series and strong programming skills in Matlab or R.
More details can be found here: https://-
atsv7.wcn.co.uk/search engine/jobs.cgi?owner=-
5041178&ownertype=fair&jcode=1347622 Informal
enquiries regarding the vacancy may be addressed to
Professor Soa Olhede, email: s.olhede@ucl.ac.uk, tel:
+44(0)20 7679 8321. For any queries regarding the
application process please contact Dr Russell Evans,54 EvolDir August 1, 2013
email: russell.evans@ucl.ac.uk, tel: +44 (0)20 7679
8311
\Murrell, David" <d.murrell@ucl.ac.uk >
UCopenhagen AncientDNA
Postdoc position at the Centre for Ice and Climate
and Centre for GeoGenetics, University of Copenhagen,
Denmark within the topic Ancient DNA from ice cores
We are looking for a colleague on postdoctoral level to
carry out research at the intersection of the elds of
ancient DNA analysis and analysis of ice cores from
Greenland and Antarctica. The position is strongly
interdisciplinary and our new colleague will be work-
ing with internationally recognized researchers from
both the Centre for GeoGenetics and the Centre for
Ice and Climate, both Danish National Research Foun-
dation Centres of Excellence located at the University
of Copenhagen. The Centre for GeoGenetics (http:/-
/geogenetics.ku.dk/) conducts experimental research
in genomics, evolution, megafauna and palaeoenviron-
ments while the Centre for Ice and Climate (http:/-
/iceandclimate.nbi.ku.dk) conducts experimental and
theoretical research on palaeoclimate based on mea-
surements from deep ice cores from Greenland and
Antarctica.
The job The position is oered on postdoctoral or as-
sistant professor level on a 2 year time limited contract
with possibility for extension. There are no xed teach-
ing obligations, but applicants may be asked to teach
within their own eld of research or supervise students
on a very limited basis.
The candidate Applicants must have a PhD degree
within a relevant research area, and applicants with a
background in experimental DNA research will be pre-
ferred.
Terms Terms of appointment and payment will depend
on previous research experience and will be according
to the agreement between the Ministry of Finance and
AC (The Danish Confederation of Professional). Typi-
cal monthly salary corresponds to approx. 33,000 Dan-
ish kroner plus full benets. An attractive tax scheme
is under certain conditions available for researchers that
have not worked in Denmark within the last 10 years.
Application Procedure The application should contain
a short description (no more than one page) of the ap-
plicant?s research interests and experience. Please en-close CV, publication list, and names and contact in-
formation on preferably three scientic referees. Ap-
plicants are required to submit their applications elec-
tronically (see http://www.iceandclimate.nbi.ku.dk/-
vacancies/). Applicants will not be informed of the
identity of the other applicants. The application dead-
line is July 29th, 2013.
Questions Questions about the positions can be di-
rected to leader of Centre for Ice and Climate, Profes-
sor Dorthe Dahl-Jensen (ddj@gfy.ku.dk), leader of Cen-
tre for GeoGenetics, Professor Eske Willerslev (ewiller-
slev@snm.ku.dk), or Centre for Ice and Climate coor-
dinator Sune Olander Rasmussen (olander@gfy.ku.dk).
The University of Copenhagen wishes to reect the sur-
rounding society and encourage all qualied applicants
regardless of personal background to apply for the po-
sition.
*Morten E. Allentoft* Postdoc, PhD Centre for Geo-
Genetics* Natural History Museum ster Voldgade 5-7
DK-1350 Copenhagen
+45 35 32 12 91 (oce) +45 29 82 46 34 (mobile) http:/-
/geogenetics.ku.dk Sign up for our newsletter! <http:/-
/geogenetics.ku.dk/newsletters/?newsletter=3D728 >
Morten Allentoft <morten.allentoft@gmail.com >
UGreifswald Germany
AnimalEvolution
University of Greifswald, Zoological Institute and Mu-
seum Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Animal Ecol-
ogy Application deadline: 15.08.2013
The Department of Animal Ecology, Zoological Insti-
tute and Museum at the University of Greifswald in-
vites applications for a
Postdoctoral Research Assistant.
Starting date: October 1st 2013. Duration: 3 years
with the possibility of extension (for up to 6 years in
total). Salary: German salary scale (TV-L 13, 100%).
Teaching obligation (in German or English): 4 hours
per week.
We are seeking a highly motivated and productive can-
didate who is interested in and capable of developing
his/her own independent research prole. We will con-
sider a wide spectrum of candidates working in the
elds of animal ecology and / or animal evolution. Ap-
plicants working on the interface of ecology and evolu-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 55
tion are particularly encouraged to apply. The success-
ful candidate should ideally complement the techniques
and approaches used in our group. Areas of interest to
us include for example population genetics / molecular
ecology, gene / protein expression, ecological genomics
/ transcriptomics, ecological immunology, and chemical
ecology.
The successful candidate will hold a Ph.D. and will have
a strong background in ecology and evolutionary biol-
ogy. Prior postdoc experience and working with insects
will be advantageous. English communication skills are
essential.
The department of Animal Ecology works in the
eld of evolutionary ecology, focusing on life-history
evolution, stress adaptation and reproductive biology.
Research is mainly conducted at the ecological, behav-
ioral, and quantitative genetic level. Current projects
focus on temperature stress resistance, temperature-
mediated plasticity, altitudinal life-history variation,
reproductive resource allocation, sexual selection and
sexual conict, with tropical as well as temperate-
zone butteries serving as model organisms. For
further information please visit http://www.mnf.uni-
greifswald.de/institute/fr-biologie/institute-und-
forschung/zool-institut-museum/tieroekologie.html.
The University of Greifswald is an equal opportunity
employer.
Applications should include (1) a cover letter with a
short statement of motivation, (2) CV, (3) list of pub-
lications, (4) list of externally acquired funds (if any),
(5) a short statement of research accomplishments and
future plans (max. 1 page), (6) contact details of two
academic referees, and (7) degree certicates. Appli-
cations should be submitted electronically as a single
PDF le to:
Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer e-mail: klaus.scher@uni-
greifswald.de
For any enquiries please contact Klaus Fischer via e-
mail.
Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer Zoological Institute & Museum
Greifswald University J.-S.-Bach-Str. 11/12 D-17489
Greifswald
Phone: +49-3834-864266 Fax: +49-3834-864252
\Dr. Klaus Fischer" <klaus.scher@uni-greifswald.de >UHawaii FungalEvolution
title:Postdoc in microbial/fungal ecology in Hawaii
A postdoc position is available in the Amend Lab at the
Department of Botany at the University of Hawaii. The
successful applicant will join a growing and dynamic
group of researchers interested in microbial ecology and
evolution within the unique Hawaiian archipelago.
The postdoctoral associate will be responsible for car-
rying out a study whose goal is to determine how
the mycophagous diet of a Federally endangered tree
snail,Achatinella mustelina, covaries among popula-
tions and host plant species. The snail is one of
several species within Achatinella comprising a spec-
tacular adaptive radiation endemic to the island of
Oahu. Additional background information is available
on the Tree Snail Conservation Lab website: http:/-
/www2.hawaii.edu/ ~ trsnlab/index.html Primary re-
search objectives will be to analyze and synthesize for
publication, a large Illumina amplicon dataset of fungi
and bacteria from 150 host plant biolm/snail feces
pairs to infer diet dynamics from throughout the snail's
natural and captive range. A secondary objective will
be to isolate and identify fungal species from host trees
to augment captive snail breeding programs.
The incumbent will work closely with fungal biologists,
malocologist and with civilian US Army biologists who
maintain snail conservation exclosures at eld sites in
the Waianae mountain range. Although both data and
samples are in hand, the incumbent will have the op-
portunity to conduct additional eldwork as needed.
The postdoctoral researcher will be responsible for par-
ticipating in the training and oversight of graduate
and undergraduate students, publish manuscripts in a
timely manner in peer-reviewed academic journals and
work to disseminate data to conservation managers.
Please see the full job announcement for additional in-
formation and application instructions:
http://workatuh.hawaii.edu/Jobs/NAdvert/17896/-
2164686/1/postdate/desc Anthony Amend Assistant
Professor of Botany www2.hawaii.edu/ ~amend
University of Hawaii Department of Botany, 101 St.
John 3190 Maile Way Honolulu, HI 96822
amend@hawaii.edu
Anthony Amend <anthonyamend@gmail.com >56 EvolDir August 1, 2013
UJyvaskyla AdaptationGenetics
A post-doctoral position for 3 years in Evolutionary Ge-
netics in the Department of Environmental and Biolog-
ical Science (http://www.jyu./bioenv/en), University
of Jyvaskyla, Finland. The position is available from
September 1, 2013 or as soon as possible thereafter.
The selected candidate will work in a project inves-
tigating the eects of alternative splicing in candi-
date genes in adaptation (focusing on diapause and
cold tolerance) using latest genetic and genomic tools
(amplicon sequencing, qPCR and RNAi) and north-
ern Drosophila virilis group as a study species. The
project will include two months visit for the selected
candidate to Czech Republic (University of South Bo-
hemia) and to UK (University of St Andrews) and
is funded by the Academy of Finland. The success-
ful candidate will also take part in supervising PhD
and MSc students in relevant projects and can partic-
ipate in teaching evolutionary genetics. The project
is lead by Dr. Maaria Kankare (Docent in Evolution-
ary Genetics) whose group is working in close con-
tact with Professor Anneli Hoikkala (University of Jy-
vaskyla; https://www.jyu./bioenv/en/divisions/eko/-
research/genetics-of-evolutionary-change) and several
universal collaborators.
The candidate is required to have Ph.D. degree in
molecular biology, genetics, bioinformatics or a related
eld, as well as good written and oral communication
skills in English and a strong interest in evolutionary
questions. Candidates should also have experience in
genetics and/or genomics methods and/or bioinformat-
ics.
More information about the project: https:/-
/www.jyu./bioenv/en/divisions/eko/research/-
genetics-of-evolutionary-change/alternative-splicing-
in-adaptation The ocial advertisement (including
instructions how to apply and dead line) is available
at www.jyu./science/en/faculty/openpositions/-
postdocbio Maaria Kankare, PhD Evolutionary
Genetics Department of Environmental and Biolog-
ical Science University of Jyvaskyla Finland email:
maaria.kankare@jyu.
Kankare Maaria <s.maaria.kankare@jyu. >UMinnesota
PopulationGenomicsMetagenomics
Two postdoctoral positions are available at the Univer-
sity of Minnesota - Twin Cities with Ran Blekhman
(http://blekhmanlab.org)
The Blekhman Lab's broad focus is on evolutionary,
population, and medical genomics. The lab is based
jointly in the Departments of Genetics, Cell Biol-
ogy, and Development (http://gcd.umn.edu), and Ecol-
ogy, Evolution, and Behavior (http://cbs.umn.edu/-
eeb), with computational and wet lab space in the new
state-of-the-art Cargill Building on the St. Paul cam-
pus.
The successful candidates will work on a major research
project is the lab, focused on understanding the mecha-
nism and evolution of host-microbiome interaction and
its implications on human health. The Blekhman Lab
will collect and analyze host genetic and metagenomic
data from humans and other primates, and utilize com-
putational and statistical techniques, to: 1. Under-
stand the role of genetic and environmental factors in
determining the composition of the microbiome; 2. Elu-
cidate the combined role of host genetics and the mi-
crobiota in susceptibility to complex diseases; and 3.
Understand how host-microbiome interactions evolved
during human history, and their impact on patterns of
genetic variation in modern human populations. The
details of the specic project are exible, and will de-
pend on the expertise and interests of the successful
candidate.
Founded in 1851, the University of Minnesota (http:/-
/umn.edu) is one of the largest, most comprehensive
universities in the United States, and ranks among
the most prestigious research universities in the world.
The University provides a highly collaborative environ-
ment with cutting edge research institutes and facilities,
including the Microbial and Plant Genomic Institute
(http://www.mpgi.umn.edu), the Biotechnology Insti-
tute ( http://bti.umn.edu), and the University of Min-
nesota Genomics Center ( http://www.bmgc.umn.edu).
Additionally, we are working with the Minnesota Super-
computer Institute (http://msi.umn.edu), which pro-
vides excellent infrastructure and support for high-
performance computation.
The Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area is one ofAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 57
the most desirable places to live in North America. The
Twin Cities are consistently ranked at the top in quality
of life, personal safety, green spaces and parks, arts and
culture, public schools, personal health, and are among
the best cities to raise a family in the United States.
For more information on living in the Twin Cities, see
http://umn.edu/wishyouwerehere/welcome .
The ideal candidate would be highly motivated to con-
duct independent research, and hold a PhD in genetics,
bioinformatics, evolutionary biology, computer science,
statistics, microbiology, anthropology, or a related eld,
with a solid publication record. Candidates should have
a strong analytical background, have experience with
analysis of next-generation sequence data, and pro-
ciency with computer and statistical programing lan-
guages. The successful candidates will enjoy a highly
competitive salary and benets package.
Interested candidates are encouraged to contact Ran
Blekhman by email (blekhman ~umn.edu), and pro-
vide a brief cover letter detailing research experience
and interests, a CV, and contact information for three
references. Informal enquires are welcome. Applica-
tions will be accepted starting immediately and until
the positions are lled.
P.S - I will be at the SMBE meeting in Chicago next
week, and would be happy to talk to anyone who has
interest in joining the lab.
The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity
educator and employer.
Ran Blekhman, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department
of Genetics, Cell Biology, and Development Depart-
ment of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior Univer-
sity of Minnesota 222 Cargill Building 1500 Gortner
Ave., St. Paul, MN 55108 http://BlekhmanLab.org
blekhman@umn.edu
UMontpellier CancerEvolution
Postdoctoral research opportunity - Evolutionary mod-
els of cancer progression and therapies - University of
Montpellier, France
We are looking for a motivated Postdoctoral researcher
to employ mathematical and/or computer models to
better understand the evolutionary dynamics of cancer
progression and chemotherapeutic treatments. We are
especially interested in applications of ecology, evolu-
tion, and population genetics towards general descrip-tions and ultimately predictive theories. Candidates
having a rm background in quantitative modelling,
but also having experience working with either cancer
or bacterial cell cultures are particularly welcome.
The Postdoc is for two years, with a starting date on
or before January 1, 2014. The contract is funded by
INSERM Plan Cancer and is in collaboration with two
cell biology research laboratories (Pr. Urszula Hibner
and Pr. Daniel Fisher, IGMM).
Selection criteria: (1) PhD; (2) Considerable experience
in mathematical or computer modeling in the context
of cell biology, population ecology and/or evolutionary
biology; (3) Command of written scientic English; (4)
Demonstrated track record of refereed publications in
leading journals; (5) Capacity to work under limited
supervision.
Interested candidates should send (1) a letter of moti-
vation, (2) a CV, and (3) the names, institutional ad-
dresses, and emails of 3 persons who can be contacted
for references, on or before July 30, 2013 to Michael
Hochberg ( mhochber@univ-montp2.fr). Information
about our interdisciplinary research group can be
found at http://www.eec.univ-montp2.fr/people/mike-
hochberg/ <http://www.darevcan.univ-montp2.fr/-
?page id=221 >
Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-montp2.fr >
UPenn Human PopGen CompBio
Post-Doctoral Position University of Pennsylvania -
Perelman School of Medicine
The Voight lab invites applications for computational
Post-Doctoral positions at the University of Pennsyl-
vania School of Medicine, within the Departments of
Pharmacology and Genetics. A central focus of the
Voight lab is aimed toward developing computational
approaches that translate discoveries from human ge-
netics data into insights about the biological basis and
genetic architecture of human disease and the history
of human evolution.
Objectives: The candidate will have the opportunity to
work with large collections of human genetic data sets,
many of which are paired with a range of metabolic,
cardiovascular, and autoimmune related traits. The ap-
plicant will focus their eorts on the analysis of these
data, by contributing to gene-mapping activities, popu-
lation genetics analyses, and developing new statistical58 EvolDir August 1, 2013
and population genetic methods to extract biological
insights from these data.
Further, the applicant will also contribute to informat-
ics and computational approaches that integrate biolog-
ical information sources (e.g., CHIP-Seq, RNA-seq and
gene-expression data, protein-protein networks, etc.)
with genetic data. The applicant will also have the
opportunity to engage in collaborative eorts at the
national and international stage.
The position is immediately available with exible
starting dates (Fall 2013 and beyond). Applications
will be accepted until the positions are lled. Compet-
itive salaries commensurate with experience and skills,
complete with benets.
Qualications: 1. The candidate will have a MD,
PhD, or equivalent doctorate, a strong background
in statistics, biostatistics, population genetics, human
genetics, genetic epidemiology, computational biology
and/or genomics, bioinformatics, or a related discipline.
2. The ideal candidate will have a track record of sci-
entic productivity and leadership. 3. The ideal can-
didate will demonstrate a working prociency in pro-
gramming, scripting, and statistical computing (i.e.,
C/C++, Python, PERL, R, etc.), will have experience
handling large data sets in the UNIX/LINUX operat-
ing environment, experience in high-performance clus-
ter computing, and a working knowledge of compu-
tational tools routinely utilized in contemporary hu-
man genetics applications (e.g., PLINK, PLINK/SEQ,
MACH, SNPTEST, BEAGLE, DAPPLE etc.). 4. Ap-
plicants with prior experience in projects and data re-
lated to next-generation sequencing, or with prior expe-
rience studying metabolic disorder, cardiovascular dis-
ease, and/or autoimmune disease will have a strong ad-
vantage.
Application Instructions: To apply, please send (1)
cover letter that includes the names and contacts for
three references and a short statement of research in-
terests, and (2) a current CV to: Benjamin Voight, PhD
(bvoight@upenn.edu).
Further information about the lab can be
found at: http://coruscant.itmat.upenn.edu
Benjamin F. Voight, Ph.D. Assistant Profes-
sor, Departments of Pharmacology and Genet-
ics The University of Pennsylvania - Perelman
School of Medicine Tel: (215) 746-8083; Email:
bvoight@upenn.edu http://coruscant.itmat.upenn.edu
bvoight@broadinstitute.orgUPennsylvania
ExperimentalGenomics
Postdoctoral fellowship in human experimental ge-
nomics University of Pennsylvania, Perelman School of
Medicine
Postdoctoral positions are available in Christopher
Brown's lab in the Genetics Department at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania. Current research in the Brown
lab is focused on understanding the functional conse-
quences of human non-coding sequence variation and
understanding the mechanisms through which such
variants aect complex phenotypes. We leverage both
high-throughput experimental and computational tech-
niques to address these questions. Successful applicants
will have the opportunity to design their own projects
relating to human functional genomics, gene expression
regulation, eQTLs, or post-GWAS ne mapping and
functional interpretation. The fellow will also have the
opportunity to work as a part of the GTEx consortium
and related projects.
Candidates with expertise in experimental or computa-
tional biology will be considered, but the ideal candi-
date will have signicant experience in both.
Applicants must have an MD, PhD, or equivalent de-
gree in genetics/genomics, evolutionary biology, bioin-
formatics, computational biology, or a related disci-
pline. Candidates with backgrounds in statistics, com-
puter science, physics, or other quantitative elds will
be considered if they have experience with biologi-
cal data. Experience with next-generation sequencing
techniques and data, ChIP and related functional ge-
nomics techniques, and/or scientic programming are
desired.
Applications (including CV, statement of research in-
terests, and references) and informal inquiries should
be emailed to Christopher Brown (chrbro@upenn.edu).
Applications will be considered as they are received;
positions are available as early as this summer.
Christopher Brown Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Genetics University of Pennsylvania
chrbro@upenn.edu www.med.upenn.edu/brownlab
chrbro@mail.med.upenn.eduAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 59
UPorto EvolutionaryGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL PROPOSALS
Selection of candidates for a grant proposal to submit
to the Marie Curie individual fellowships
(European citizens: http://ec.europa.eu/research/-
participants/portal/page/people;efp7 SESSION ID=-
pTL1Rv0HpGthgkmzTrGhKJFgp1b5Yc69vTQrjdMM23H8rj6mbZvd!1563113187?callIdentier=
FP7-PEOPLE-2013-IEF#wlp callFP7) (Non-
European citizens: http://ec.europa.eu/research/-
participants/portal/page/people?callIdentier=FP7-
PEOPLE-2013-IIF#wlp callFP7)
I am accepting applicants for a Postdoctoral grant
proposal to be submitted to the the Marie Curie in-
dividual fellowships under the topics of Evolutionary
Genomics, Bioinformatics and Biodiversity. Candi-
dates from Europe and non-European countries in-
terested in Marine and Environmental Genomics are
welcome. The research will be developed primar-
ily at the CIIMAR-University of Porto, Portugal
(http://www.ciimar.up.pt) but may consider biologi-
cal questions at a worldwide biological scale, thus non-
European applicants are also very welcome.
The candidates should have a PhD (or more than 4
years of experience) in Molecular Evolution, Genomics,
Population Genetics, Bioinformatics or other related
elds of research.
The candidates should include: - Cover letter describ-
ing their interests, skills, prior scientic experience -
Detailed curriculum vitae with list of publications in
indexed scientic journals; - Scanned copy of the PhD
degree and qualication marks.
The applications should be submitted till 29 July
2013 by email to Dr Agostinho Antunes (aan-
tunes@ciimar.up.pt or aantunes777@gmail.com)
Reference papers from our group can be seen:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=-
Agostinho+Antunes Dr. Agostinho Antunes Geneti-
cist CIIMAR, University of Porto Rua dos Bragas,
177; 4050-123 Porto, Portugal; Tel: (351) 22 3401 813
Fax: (351) 22 3390 608
Agostinho Antunes <aantunes777@gmail.com >URochester
EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics
Two postdoctoral positions are available in Daven Pres-
graves's lab in the Department of Biology at the Uni-
versity of Rochester.
Current research in the lab combines genetic, molecu-
lar, and genomics approaches in Drosophila to investi-
gate speciation, meiotic drive, and the evolution of re-
combination rates. Successful applicants will have con-
siderable resources and intellectual freedom to pursue
projects in any of these areas. The ideal candidates
will have experience in bioinformatics, molecular biol-
ogy, and/or evolutionary genetics. The EEB group in
the University of Rochester's Department of Biology
provides a stimulating intellectual environment, with
particular strength in evolutionary genetics (https://-
blogs.rochester.edu/EEB/).
Applicants should email a brief cover letter de-
scribing research interests, a CV, and the names
and contact information for 2-3 references to
daven.presgraves@rochester.edu. Review of applica-
tions will begin immediately and continue until the po-
sitions are lled. Informal inquiries regarding the posi-
tions are welcome.
For more information, visit the Presgraves Lab website
(http://blogs.rochester.edu/PresgravesLab/) or con-
tact by email.
The University of Rochester is an Equal Opportunity
Employer.
Daven Presgraves Department of Biology University of
Rochester
dvnp@mail.rochester.edu http://www.rochester.edu/-
College/BIO/labs/Presgraves/index.htm
daven.presgraves@rochester.edu
USGS LandscapeGenetics
U.S. Geological Survey Mendenhall Postdoctoral Re-
search Fellowship
We are currently accepting applications for USGS60 EvolDir August 1, 2013
Mendenhall Postdoctoral Program Opportunity 14-22:
*Integrating habitat modeling and landscape genetics
to understand impacts of climate change and energy
development on species persistence and diversity in
the desert southwest*. The USGS Mendenhall Pro-
gram provides an opportunity for recent PhD gradu-
ates (within ve years since completion of the doctoral
degree) to conduct concentrated research in association
with selected members of the USGS professional sta.
The overarching goal of our research program is to as-
sess climate and land use impacts to intraspecic ge-
netic diversity and biodiversity, and to develop science-
based tools to inform decision-making in the desert
southwest. We encourage applicants with strong skills
in landscape genetics, landscape ecology, geospatial
statistics, or species distribution modeling to develop
proposals to apply innovative approaches to address
potential impacts of climate and land use change on
habitat suitability and genetic structure across species
ranges in the desert Southwest. Applicants may pro-
pose research centered on a number of themes includ-
ing: 1) spatially explicit modeling of population pro-
cesses to predict changes to patterns of presence and
genetic diversity in target species under dierent land
use and climate scenarios; 2) developing novel meth-
ods to model species distributions under climate change
and assess the signicance of changes, and 3) empirical
hypothesis testing to understand environmental corre-
lates and other landscape factors associated with high
neutral and/or adaptive variation within select species.
Signicant data have been amassed to support these
research themes including species occurrence data, and
genetic data for several herpetofauna, small mammals
and invertebrate species throughout the study region,
derivatives of downscaled global climate models (e.g.
climate water decit and others), and over 70 envi-
ronmental data layers rasterized at the relevant spa-
tial scales. Other resources include laboratory facilities
and next generation sequencing capabilities, GIS and
computing resources.
Mendenhall Fellowships are 2-year appointments with
competitive salary and benets. Fellows are typically
granted project expense funds appropriate to the scope
of research to be conducted.
Opportunities will be open for application through
September 20, 2013. Applicants are strongly en-
couraged to contact the research advisors before de-
veloping a research proposal. More information
about the Mendenhall Program and this opportu-
nity can be found at http://geology.usgs.gov/postdoc/-
and http://geology.usgs.gov/postdoc/opps/2014/14-
22%20Vandergast.htm Research Advisors: Amy Van-
dergast, (619) 225-6445, avandergast@usgs.gov; Ken-neth Nussear, (702) 564-4515, knussear@usgs.gov;
Todd Esque (702) 564-4506, tesque@usgs.gov
Proposed Duty Stations: San Diego, CA; Las Vegas,
NV
\Vandergast, Amy" <avandergast@usgs.gov >
USGS Mendenhall Genomics
*USGS Mendenhall Postdoctoral Research Fellowship
in Genomics*
*Title of Research Opportunity: *Climate change,
land-use change, and species of conservation concern:
application of novel genomic tools to understand species
vulnerability and biological responses
*Description of Research Opportunity:*
Knowledge about habitat needs and connectivity
among groups or populations of threatened or endan-
gered species and how they will respond to changing en-
vironments is essential to assess their long-term viabil-
ity. Extraordinary new advances in genomic techniques
now allow for increased understanding about move-
ments, landscape ecology, genetic structure of popu-
lations, and responses to environmental changes re-
lated to population declines, yet such techniques have
only recently begun to be used to aid the conserva-
tion and management of threatened and endangered
species. Comprehensive datasets exist for three re-
lated, yet distinctive species of considerable conser-
vation concern, Greater Sage-grouse (*Centrocercus
urophasianus*), Gunnison Sage-grouse (*C. minimus*),
and White-tailed Ptarmigan (*Lagopus leucura*). The
challenges facing each of these species are unique, yet
similarities in life history and habitat needs provide the
opportunity to explore multi-species analyses.
We seek a postdoctoral fellow to apply cutting edge
genomic techniques to management questions for
landscape-level ecological systems that are facing dras-
tic changes due to increasing anthropogenic develop-
ments, changing climate, or both. Genomic techniques
facilitate the examination of hundreds of thousands of
regions of DNA in thousands of individuals spanning
vast geographic areas, providing a better understanding
of the evolutionary forces at play within a species and
across a landscape. This methodology oers a novel ap-
proach to disentangle the inuences of gene ow and ge-
netic drift from natural selection, which will help man-
agers better dene distinct populations and better pre-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 61
dict how climate change and anthropogenic stressors
(e.g., habitat loss and fragmentation due to energy de-
velopment) will inuence populations subjected to var-
ious selection agents. Additionally, such methods may
allow for the identication of key traits (e.g., those as-
sociated with shifts in phenology or drought tolerance)
so that management may focus specically on main-
taining adaptive genetic potential, in light of current
anthropogenic stressors (Stapley et al. 2010).
Genomic techniques are extremely powerful, yet have
not been applied generally in non-model species, al-
though this obstacle is quickly being overcome (Bi et
al. 2012, Grover et al. 2012). As such, the focus of re-
search under this Opportunity can be exible, allowing
for either a single species or multiple species approach
to developing, applying, and evaluating these methods.
Next generation sequencing and genomic marker devel-
opment (single nucleotide polymorphisms, or SNPs) are
in progress for all three species and other genomic meth-
ods could be investigated and developed as well (e.g.,
transcriptomics). An extensive set of DNA samples for
all species are available for use, ranging from intense
sampling within populations, to broader sampling from
across populations or the range of a species. Addition-
ally, exceptional demographic and landscape data exist
for all systems. This provides us with a unique oppor-
tunity to capture and interpret results in a manner that
will allow a depth of understanding into a system never
before attainable. Likewise, the pioneering eorts of
this research will serve as a model for further studies
into this eld.
This Mendenhall project is highly relevant and the Fel-
low will contribute directly to the assessment of the
impacts of climate and land-use (here in the form of en-
ergy and/or urban development) change. Both species
of Sage-grouse are at risk from signicant energy de-
velopment and other anthropogenic stresses, as well
as more long-term impacts from a changing climate.
White-tailed ptarmigan are a species that suers much
less from land-use change but has already shown signi-
cant negative impacts due to climate change. Applying
the cutting edge genomic methods to analysis of any
of these species alone, or in concert, will provide vital
clues into the impacts of climate and land-use change
on wildlife species. The Mendenhall Fellow's research
will be a component of larger research projects that
are examining the response of three grouse species to
increased anthropogenic development and/or changes
in climate through changes in behavior, demography,
and/or adaptation using unique datasets that have been
compiled for each species. The Fellow's research is ex-
pected to be incorporated into biological response mod-
els for the species involved, which will help provide in-formation specic to managing these important species
in ecosystems particularly vulnerable to development
and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
USheeld SharkEvoDevo
Post-doctoral Research Associate available in evolu-
tionary developmental biology of shark and ray denti-
tions, Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, Uni-
versity of Sheeld, UK.
This is an ideal opportunity for an ambitious Post-
doctoral Research Associate to work in the Laboratory
of Gareth Fraser at the interface of evolutionary and
developmental biology. This project aims to explore
novel morphological and genetic methods to understand
the evolution and development of tooth patterning and
functional mechanisms responsible for tooth regenera-
tion in a comparative framework in sharks and rays.
The work will be performed in a large, high prole
5* research department with a strong commitment to
research-led teaching.
The position is funded by the Natural Environment Re-
search Council (NERC) in collaboration with the Natu-
ral History Museum (Dr. Zerina Johanson), King's Col-
lage London (Prof. Moya Smith) and Birkbeck, Uni-
versity of London (Dr. Charlie Underwood) to study
the evolution of chondrichthyan dentitions. The over-
all aim of the project is to use an integrative evo-devo
approach to the study the dentition in a major group
of jawed vertebrates, the chondrichthyans.
Potential candidates will have a PhD or equivalent
experience in evolutionary or developmental biology,
preferably in vertebrates, and a track record of publish-
ing in leading specialist or multidisciplinary journals.
A strong interest and/or background in evolutionary
biology, palaeobiology, developmental biology or regen-
erative biology would be desirable.
The post is xed-term for 2 years with the potential for
extension.
To apply please follow the current vacancies page at:
http://www.sheeld.ac.uk/jobs For informal enquiries
about this position and the Department of Animal and62 EvolDir August 1, 2013
Plant Sciences at the University of Sheeld, please con-
tact Dr. Gareth Fraser at: g.fraser@sheeld.ac.uk or
0114 222 4317.
Gareth J. Fraser, Ph.D Lecturer in Zoology Depart-
ment of Animal and Plant Sciences Alfred Denny
Building University of Sheeld Western Bank Sheeld
S10 2TN UK Phone: +44(0)1142224317 Email:
g.fraser@sheeld.ac.uk Website: Fraser Lab <https://-
sites.google.com/a/sheeld.ac.uk/fraser-lab/home-1 >
Gareth Fraser <g.fraser@sheeld.ac.uk >
UZurich Bioinformatics
URPP Evolution in Action
Job Advertisement Embedded Bioinformatician
Postdoctoral Fellow om Evolutionary Bioinformatics
A postdoctoral fellowship in evolutionary bioinformat-
ics is available in the laboratory of Andreas Wagner
at the University of Zurich. The lab is collaborating
with multiple research groups as part of a university-
funded research program in evolutionary biology. The
candidate will be able to choose among several collabo-
rative projects on the evolutionary genomics of animals,
plants, and microbes, whose common thread is the anal-
ysis of high-throughput genome sequence or functional
genomic data (See also http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/-
research/researchprojects.html). The fellow would be
jointly aliated with the Wagner lab and with one or
more of the research group(s) whose data he or she
would help analyze.
We are looking for an individual who has received his
or her PhD within the last ve years, who is highly
self-motivated and independent, yet willing to support
the computational research of his collaborators in a
team-eort. Fluency in a major scripting language
such as perl, and experience in software development
is a must. The successful candidate will have experi-
ence with computational analyses of high-throughput
data in genomics or population genomics. Applications
without a demonstrated interest and research history
in evolutionary biology will not be considered further.
The position oers a highly competitive salary of up to
three years on annually renewable contracts.
The working language in the laboratory is English.
German skills, although helpful, are not essential.
Zurich is a highly attractive city in beautiful surround-ings, with a multinational population, and many edu-
cational and recreational opportunities.
To be considered, please send a single (!) PDF
le merged from the following parts to an-
nette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch: CV including publication
list, a statement of research interests not exceeding
three pages, and three academic references. Please
include the word EVOBIO2013 in the subject line.
The application deadline is Sep 6, 2013. The position
is available in January of 2014.
Annette Schmid Administrative Assistant of Prof. A.
Wagner University of Zurich Institute of Evolutionary
Biology and Environmental Studies Wagner lab, Y27-
J52 Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Z1rich Switzer-
land Mail to: annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch Phone +41
(0)44 635 61 42 Fax +41 (0)44 635 61 44 at the oce
on Tuesday and Friday
annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch
UZurich UGrenoble
EcoEvoModelingClimateChange
ZURICH-GRENOBLE POSTDOCTORAL POSI-
TION IN ECO-EVOLUTIONARY MODELING
A post-doctoral position is available at the Institute
of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies
(IEBES), University of Zurich, Switzerland to work
in collaboration with Frederic Guillaume (IEBES)
and Wilfried Thuiller (Laboratoire d'ECologie Alpine
(LECA), Uni Grenoble, France) on a eco-evolutionary
modeling project funded by Swiss SNF and ERC grants.
We seek a candidate with strong interests in evolution-
ary biology and community ecology, and a solid back-
ground in the modeling of ecological and/or evolution-
ary dynamics.
The aim of the project is to model the eco-evolutionary
dynamics of species' range evolution caused by environ-
mental changes and to predict shifts in species distri-
butions at continental scales under climate change tak-
ing account of both adaptive and ecological processes.
The project will blend existing modeling approaches in
quantitative genetics, metapopulation dynamics, and
metacommunity ecology and be applied to datasets on
large-scale species distributions for a large number of
species.
The candidates will have a PhD in a relevant area,
be highly self-motivated, and able to work indepen-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 63
dently. We expect the candidates to have a strong
theoretical background in one of evolutionary quanti-
tative genetics, metapopulation genetics/dynamics, or
(meta)community ecology, and be able to show exper-
tise in deploying complex computational approaches
and in the statistical analysis of high-dimensional
datasets. Programming skills are highly recommended
with at least one scripting language (R, Matlab, Math-
ematica, Python, etc.) Knowledge of C/C++ will be
preferred.
The position is for 18 months with possibility of ex-
tension. Possible starting dates are between November
2013 and January 2014. The candidate will be hosted
at IEBES in Zurich with possibilities for frequent stays
at LECA, Grenoble. The candidate should be able to
travel between Zurich and Grenoble (or midway, ex-
penses covered) for report meetings. Flexibility and
willingness to accommodate with dierent geographi-
cal locations will be guarantied from all parties.
LECA (www-leca.ujf-grenoble.fr) is part of the Univer-
sity Joseph Fournier in Grenoble, France. Grenoble is
set close to some of the most beautiful mountains of the
Alps with excellent connections to Lyon and Geneva.
IEBES (www.ieu.uzh.ch) is at the University of Zurich,
Switzerland. Zurich is renown for its quality of liv-
ing and has a multinational population with many ed-
ucational and recreational opportunities. LECA and
IEBES host a large and vibrant community of excellent
scientists to interact with. Working language is english
at both locations.
Deadline for application: September 6, 2013, (position
open until lled)
Application package in a *single* PDF le should in-
clude (1) CV with list if publications in peer-reviewed
journals, (2) cover letter explaining research inter-
ests and t to the position requirements (max three
pages), and (3) three academic references. Appli-
cations should be sent to Frederic Guillaume (fred-
eric.guillaume@env.ethz.ch).
For informal inquires, please contact us:
Frederic Guillaume frederic.guillaume@env.ethz.ch +41
(0)44 632 52 78
Wilfried Thuiller wilfried.thuiller@ujf-grenoble.fr +33
(0)4 76 51 44 97
frederic.guillaume@env.ethz.chWashingtonStateU TasmanianDevil
PopGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER
Washington State University
School of Biological Sciences
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher to work on
population and landscape genomics of Tasmanian dev-
ils and Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease. This NSF
-funded international collaboration builds on over 15
years of research tracking the spread of this unique
infectious tumor across Tasmania and consequent en-
dangerment of the iconic Tasmanian devil. Reference
genomes are available for both tumor and devil. The
successful applicant will have an unprecedented oppor-
tunity to analyze thousands of devil genotypes and hun-
dreds of tumor samples taken both before and after epi-
zootics to test for selection throughout both genomes,
coevolution, patterns of resistance, etc, across Tasma-
nia. We will then use these data to predict the course of
disease in uninfected populations. The position is cen-
tered in the lab of Dr. Andrew Storfer (www.wsu.edu/-
~ storfer) at Washington State University, in close col-
laboration with Dr. Paul Hohenlohe at the nearby Uni-
versity of Idaho (8 miles away). Both universities have
genomics core facilities, including the Institute of Bioin-
formatics and Evolutionary Studies (IBEST;http:/-
/www.uidaho.edu/research/ibest) with state-of-of-the
art equipment, computational facilities and sta sup-
port.
Review of applications will begin on August 15, 2013
and continue until the position is lled. A Ph.D. in
Biology or a related discipline is required, and we par-
ticularly welcome applicants with experience in popu-
lation genomics, infectious disease evolution, bioinfor-
matics, and/or cancer genomics. Start date is nego-
tiable. Salary and benets are competitive. Position
is for 1-4 years, pending satisfactory progress. To ap-
ply, please send in pdf format a CV, and names, ad-
dresses and email addresses of 3 references, a research
statement and up to 3 representative reprints via email
to: Andrew Storfer (astorfer@wsu.edu). *WSU is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action/ADA educator
and employer.*
Andrew Storfer, PhD Eastlick Distinguished Professor
Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Bio-64 EvolDir August 1, 2013
logical Sciences Washington State University Pullman,
WA 99164 USA Phone: (509) 335-7922 Fax: (509) 335-
3184 astorfer@wsu.edu www.wsu.edu/~storfer
andrew.storfer@gmail.com
WashingtonU
YeastEvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoc in yeast evolutionary genetics, Washington
University in St. Louis
A postdoctoral position is open in Justin Fay's lab in
the genetics department (www.genetics.wustl.edu) at
Washington University in St. Louis. The laboratory
is located in the Center for Genome Sciences and Sys-
tems Biology (http://genomesciences.wustl.edu/) onthe Medical School campus.
Current projects in the lab aim to understand the ecol-
ogy and evolution of Saccharomyces species, and par-
ticularly strains of S. cerevisiae domesticated for the
production of wine. With the establishment of yeast as
an evolutionary model system, we aim to apply genetic
and genomic technologies to understand how changes
in gene regulation are relevant to phenotypic variation
and tness. Applicants are encourage to contact Justin
Fay to discuss those projects relevant to the their in-
terests and background.
Applications should include both a CV and a descrip-
tion of research interests and postdoctoral goals and
should be sent to Justin Fay (jfay@wustl.edu). Further
inquiries regarding the position are also welcome.
Justin Fay Associate Professor Department of Genetics
Center for Genome Sciences & Systems Biology Wash-
ington University St. Louis, MO, USA
fayjustin@gmail.com
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona IntroductionGenomicDataAnalysis Jan20-24
64
Barcelona ModellingDynamics Feb4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Barcelona QuantGenetics Feb3-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
BuenosAires GeometricMorphometrics Mar10-14 . . 66
BuenosAiresU Evolution Nov11-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66ColdSpringHarbor ComputGenomics Nov6-12 . . . . . 67
Crete ComputationalMolEvol May5-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
NESCent Ontologies QuantitativeGenetics . . . . . . . . .68
UAuckland BEAST Jul4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Barcelona
IntroductionGenomicDataAnalysis
Jan20-24
Dear colleagues:
Registration is open for the course: \Introduction
to Genomic data analysis using HapMap and 1000
genomes projects - Second edition"; January 20-24,2014.
Instructors: Dr. Marc Via (Universitat de Barcelona,
Spain) and Robert Carreras-Torres (Universitat de
Barcelona, Spain).
Place: Premises of Sabadell of the Institut Catal a de
Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont, Sabadell, Barcelona
(Spain).
Organized by: Transmitting Science and the Institut
Catal a de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont.
The course is entitled to teach the main concepts of ge-
nomic data analysis using real data from the two mostAugust 1, 2013 EvolDir 65
important international projects: The HapMap and the
1000 Genomes Projects. In this course you will get fa-
miliar with the data arising from these two projects
and learn how to use it alone or in combination with
other datasets to answer genetic, demographic and evo-
lutionary questions. The course will alternate theory
with practical computer exercises but it will focus on
hands-on training. Although examples will be based on
single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data in human
individuals, most topics covered in this course can be
extended to other types of markers and organisms. Ba-
sic use of the R statistical package and command-line
based environments will be introduced in the course
and previous knowledge is not required.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/gen/hapmap/
This course will be held in the Sabadell facilities of the
Institut Catal a de Paleontologia (Barcelona, Spain)
and is co-organized by Transmitting Science and the
Institut Catal a de Paleontologia M. Crusafont. Place
are limited and will be covered by strict registration
order.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, Ph.D. Course Director
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Barcelona ModellingDynamics
Feb4-7
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is open for the course \MODELLING DI-
NAMICS IN BIOLOGY. FROM HISTORY TO PRAC-
TICAL EXAMPLES", February 4-7, 2014. 28 hours
on-site.
Instructors: Dr. Andreea Munteanu (CGR, Spain)
and Dr. Carlos Rodr guez-Caso (Universidad Pompeu
Fabra, Spain).
Place: Premises of Sabadell of the Institut Catal a de
Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont, Barcelona (Spain).
The current course will present an overview of systems
biology with emphasis on the necessity, uses and pit-
falls of dynamical modelling in biology. It introduces
the required language and philosophy for a smooth andfruitful collaboration between life scientists and the-
oreticians (i.e. mathematicians, physicists, computer
scientists, evolutionary biologists). The main goal of
the course is not a detailed description of the modelling
tools in systems biology, but a thorough overview of the
terminology and applicability range of these methodolo-
gies. The time dedication throughout the course will be
one third for theoretical introduction, and two thirds for
modelling applications for very diverse biological sys-
tems. The participants will acquire the necessary skills
to understand and interpret models and modelling re-
sults from scientic articles, and will take the rst steps
into building their own mathematical models.
Organized by: Transmitting Science and the Institut
Catal a de Paleontologia
More info: http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/syst-bio/intro-system-bio/ or writing to
courses@transmittingscience.org
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno, PhD.
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Barcelona QuantGenetics Feb3-6
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is open for the following course:
\Quantitative Genetics of shape - Second edition";
February 3-6, 2014. Instructors: Dr. Neus Mart nez
Abad as (Centre for Genomic Regulation, Spain) and
Dr. Nicolas Navarro ( Ecole Pratique des Hautes
Etudes, France).
Place: Els Hostalets de Pierola, Barcelona, Spain.
Organized by: Transmitting Science and the Council of
Els Hostalets de Pierola.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/gen/quant-gen-
shape/ or writing to courses@transmittingscience.org
Participants in any editions of the previous course In-
tegration and Modularity with Geometric Morphomet-
rics<http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/-
gm/modularity-and-gm/ >are entitled to a 20 % dis-
count on the course fee.
The aim of this course is to provide participants with
an overview of quantitative genetics, with specic ap-66 EvolDir August 1, 2013
plication to shape analysis and decomposition of phe-
notypic variation into components of genetic and en-
vironmental variation. The basic theoretical concepts
of resemblance between relatives, heritability, estimates
of selection, and geometric morphometrics will be in-
troduced. Practical lessons will enable participants to
learn to use user-friendly (and not so user-friendly) soft-
ware packages to estimate heritability, phenotypic and
genetic variance covariance matrices, response to hypo-
thetical selection, actual selection and QTL mapping.
Participants are encouraged to bring their own data
for analysis and discussion in the course. Morphome-
tric data involves any kind of quantitative shape data
collected on individuals, such as linear measurements
and/or 2D or 3D landmark coordinates. Pedigree les
usually consist of text les with a list of three columns
(individual ID, father ID, mother ID). Specic details
about formatting these les will be provided during the
practical lessons.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno Course Director
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
BuenosAires
GeometricMorphometrics Mar10-14
BuenosAires.EvolutionAndGeometricMorphometrics.Mar10-
14 Reply-To: soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Dear Colleagues:
Registration is open for the course \Studying Evolution
with Geometric Morphometrics"
Instructor: Dr. Chris Klingenberg (University of
Manchester, UK).
Date: March 10-14, 2014, 50 hours.
Place: Premises of the CONICET in La Plata , Buenos
Aires (Argentina).
Language: English.
Organized by: Transmitting Science and IGEVET
(CONICET).
PhD students of any Argentinian University are enti-
tled to a 20 % discount on the course fee.
Morphometric approaches are used increasingly to
study a wide range of questions concerning the evo-
lution of organismal shape and its developmental andgenetic basis. The standard techniques of the 'morpho-
metric synthesis' of the mid-1990s have been supple-
mented by a set of new methods that address specic
biological questions in specic contexts such as morpho-
logical integration, modularity, phylogenetic compara-
tive analyses, and studies of symmetry and asymmetry.
This course will introduce these recent approaches to an
audience of researchers who are familiar with the fun-
damentals of geometric morphometrics. Lectures will
present the theoretical basis of the methods, and soft-
ware demonstrations and practical exercises will pro-
vide participants with the opportunity to try out the
methods themselves. Practical work, as far as possi-
ble with the participants' own data or with data pro-
vided as examples, and discussions of the participants'
research questions are intended to help them to apply
the new methods to their own projects.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/gm/evolution-
and-gm/ or writing to courses@transmittingscience.org
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno, PhD. Course
Director Transmitting Science < http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/ >
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
BuenosAiresU Evolution Nov11-20
Dear EvolDir members,
The III Latin American School of Evolution (III LASE)
will take place from November 11 to 20 in the Fac-
ulty of Exact and Natural Sciences of Buenos Aires
University, Argentina. The local academic committee
has decided to organize the third version of LASE as
both a School and workshop, focusing in Genomics, en-
compassing evolutionary, comparative, functional and
structural and applied aspects. This present edition
of the School is mainly directed to postgraduate stu-
dents and will consist in the presentation of theoretical
and practical approaches to evolutionary and applied
genomic analyses. Classes will be dictated by national
and international experts. Invited speakers are:
Trudy Mackay, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh, NC, EE.UU. Robert Anholt, North Carolina
State University, Raleigh, NC, EE.UU. Enrique Lessa,
Universidad de la Rep ublica, Montevideo, Uruguay.
Arcadi Navarro, Instituci o Catalana de Recerca i Es-August 1, 2013 EvolDir 67
tudis Avan cats - Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona,
Espa~ na. David Posada. University of Vigo Spain.
John Novembre, University of California, Los Angeles,
CA, EE.UU. Hern an Dopazo, Universidad de Buenos
Aires y Human Genomics Institute, Buenos Aires, Ar-
gentina. Mario Poli, Instituto Nacional de Tecnolog a
Agropecuaria (INTA), Buenos Aires, Argentina. Lu-
ciano Matzkin, The University of Alabama Huntsville,
Huntsville, AL, EE.UU. Fernando Carrari, Instituto
Nacional de Tecnolog a Agropecuaria (INTA), Buenos
Aires, Argentina. Mart n Vazquez, Gerente de In-
vestigaci on del Instituto de Agrobiotecnologia Rosario,
Rosario, Santa Fe, Argentina.
Registration is open until July 31th
Email: 3elaevo@gmail.com
Language: Spanish & English
More information: http://-
3escuelalatinadevo.blogspot.com.ar/ .
See you soon in Buenos Aires
Academic Committee, III Latin American School of
Evolution (III LASE)
Ignacio Soto <ignaciomsoto@yahoo.com.ar >
ColdSpringHarbor
ComputGenomics Nov6-12
Course announcement - Application deadline, July 15,
2013
Cold Spring Harbor COMPUTATIONAL & COMPAR-
ATIVE GENOMICS
Nov 6 - 12, 2013 Application Deadline: July 15, 2013
INSTRUCTORS:
William Pearson, University of Virginia, Char-
lottesville, VA Lisa Stubbs, University of Illinois, Ur-
bana, IL This course presents a comprehensive overview
of the theory and practice of computational methods for
the identication and characterization of functional el-
ements from DNA sequence data. The course focuses
on approaches for extracting the maximum amount of
information from protein and DNA sequence similarity
through sequence database searches, statistical analy-
sis, and multiple sequence alignment. Additional topics
include:
Alignment and analysis of \Next-Gen" sequencing dataThe Galaxy environment for high-throughput analysis
Identication of conserved signals in aligned and un-
aligned sequences Regulatory element and motif recog-
nition Integration of genetic and sequence informa-
tion in biological databases The ENSEMBL genome
browser and BioMart Function/phenotype prediction
for sequence variants The course combines lectures with
hands-on exercises; students are encouraged to pose
challenging sequence analysis problems using their own
data. The course is designed for biologists seeking ad-
vanced training in biological sequence and genome anal-
ysis, computational biology core resource directors and
sta, and for scientists in other disciplines, such as com-
puter science, who wish to survey current research prob-
lems in biological sequence analysis. Advanced pro-
gramming skills are not required.
The lecture/lab schedule for the 2012 course can be
found at fasta.bioch.virginia.edu/cshl
Speakers in the 2012 course included: Aaron Mackey,
U. of Virginia, Next-Gen analysis pipelines Fran-
cis Ouellette, Ontario Institute for Cancer Research,
Databases for Biological Function William Pearson, U.
of Virginia, Similarity Searching, Multiple Alignment
Lisa Stubbs, U. of Illinois, Urbana, ChIP, Transcrip-
tion Factors, and Comparative Genomics James Taylor,
Emory, Galaxy and genome analysis pipelines The pri-
mary focus of the computational and comparative ge-
nomics course is the theory and practice of algorithms
used in computational biology, with the goal of using
current methods more eectively and evaluating new
approaches. Students who wish to learn Perl program-
ming for Bioinformatics are encouraged to apply to the
Programming for Biology course. Students who would
like in-depth training in the analysis of next-generation
sequencing data (e.g., SNP calling and the detection of
structural variants) should apply to the course on Ad-
vanced Sequencing Technologies & Applications. This
Computational and Comparative Genomics course will
discuss methods for phenotype prediction from varia-
tion data.
To apply to the course, follow the instructions at:
http://meetings.cshl.edu/course/-
courseapp instr.shtml wrp@virginia.edu
Crete ComputationalMolEvol
May5-1468 EvolDir August 1, 2013
Dear Community,
The 6th summer school on computational molecular
evolution that I am organizing with Ziheng Yang, Nick
Goldman and Aidan Budd will take place from May 5
- 14 2014 in Crete, Greece again.
Please visit the course web-site for further details, ap-
plications are now open.
http://events.embo.org/14-computational-evolution/-
index.html Alexis
Alexandros (Alexis) Stamatakis
Research Group Leader, Heidelberg Institute for The-
oretical Studies Full Professor, Dept. of Informatics,
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology Adjunct Professor,
Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University
of Arizona at Tucson
www.exelixis-lab.org alexan-
dros.stamatakis@gmail.com
NESCent Ontologies
QuantitativeGenetics
There are still spaces available in two upcoming courses
at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) in Durhan, NC.
I. Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics (primary
instructors Stevan Arnold and Joe Felsenstein),
August 5-10 https://academy.nescent.org/wiki/-
Evolutionary quantitative genetics II. Ontolo-
gies for Evolutionary Biology (primary in-
structors: Melissa Haendel and Matt Yoder),
July 29-August 3 https://academy.nescent.org/-
wiki/Ontologies forevolutionary biology
karen.cranston@gmail.com @kcranstn
karen.cranston@gmail.com
UAuckland BEAST Jul4NEFREX workshop on BEAST suite of Phylogenetic
software.
Due to some late cancellations, there are a limited num-
ber of places available for the BEAST workshop tomor-
row at the Museum (see below), conducted by Remco
Bourkaert from the University of Auckland. The pro-
gram is designed for both the novice and experienced
user of the software alike.
Please contact Phillip Endicott to register. endi-
cott@mnhn.fr
You will need to be registered to attend.
Dear colleagues
As part of the academic exchange scheme involving the
University of Auckland and the Mus ee de l'Homme
funded by the EU FP7 program under the IRSES
scheme
there will be a one day workshop on the BEAST 2 soft-
ware package.
It will be given by Remco Bouckaert from the Dept of
Computer Science, University of Auckland,
on Thursday July 4th
in the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle (Paris,
France)
The day will consist of a seminar in the morning, fol-
lowed by an afternoon of hands-on use of the software
using example les
based on the Divergence Dating and STAR
BEAST tutorial. Both available from http://-
beast2.cs.auckland.ac.nz/ The seminar will act as
an introduction to several new models available in
BEAST2; these include:
* the birth-death-skyline model, which allows estima-
tion of parameters for epidemics,
* SNAPP, a multi-species coalescent model for SNP
data that allows estimation of species trees,
* substBMA, a substitution model for nucleotide data
that estimates per site rate and model parameters,
which tends to have a much better t to the data than
other models.
Frederic Austerlitz <austerlitz@mnhn.fr >August 1, 2013 EvolDir 69
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.