E v o l D i r
September 1, 2011
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Conferences
Arizona VolvoxEvolution Dec1-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Belgrade PopulationEvolutionaryGenetics May9-12 . 2
Berlin EvolMolTechniques Oct5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Bialowieza Poland MoosePopGenetics Aug6-10 . . . . . 4
Galway RECOMB CompGenomics Oct8-10 . . . . . . . . . 5
Jyvaskyla Coevolution Oct4-7 DeadlineExtended . . . 6
LaJolla DrosophilaSpecies Oct27-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
NewOrleans Biodiversity Oct17-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7NHM London YoungSystematists Dec1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Ottawa SystematicBiol Jul6-10 CallProposals . . . . . . . 8
Townsville QLD AustralasianEvolutionSociety Sep24-
27 extended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
UCollege Dublin ComputBiology Dec6-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
UOxford Biogeography Sep23-25 DeadlineExtended . 9
WoodsHoleMA NortheastMobileDNA Sep1-3 . . . . . . . 9
Arizona VolvoxEvolution Dec1-4
Please join us for the 1st International *Volvox* Confer-
ence (focused on the green alga *Volvox* and its close
relatives) to be held December 1-4, 2011 at the Bio-
sphere 2, in Arizona, USA ( http://www.b2science.org/-
). This is the ﬁrst of what we hope to be a long series
of *Volvox* meetings to be held every other year, al-
ternating with the *Chlamydomonas* meetings. For
additional information and updates (including prelim-
inary program, registration and abstract submission
deadlines) please visit the Conference page at http:/-
/www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/index.htm . The idea of a
meeting on everything about *Volvox* and its rela-
tives (aka Volvocales or volvocine algae; see http://-
www.unbf.ca/vip/index.htm ) reﬂects both an increase
in the size of the *Volvox* community and the real-
ization that many researchers from ﬁelds traditionally
not associated with *Volvox* research (e.g., physics,
theoretical biology) are interested in various aspects of
the system. Volvocine algae have become an impor-
tant model system for the evolution of multicellular-
ity, development and cellular diﬀerentiation, and lately
have yielded important results in ﬁelds as diverse as ge-
nomics, hydrodynamics, and social evolution. We hope
that such a meeting will foster exchange of ideas and
expertise, and will initiate new collaborations. With
these meetings we also wish to attract new people and
to build a stronger *Volvox* community.
In addition to sessions (contributed papers and posters)on various aspects of the biology, taxonomy, ecology,
development and evolution of *Volvox* and its rela-
tives, we are organizing a workshop on *Volvox* ge-
netics and genomics that will provide a forum to dis-
cuss emerging tools and methods (or ways of adapt-
ing those that have been developed in other systems)
to enhance our understanding of genetically-controlled
processes in this group of algae. Thanks to the Ameri-
can Genetics Association and the Phycological Society
of America, support and awards will be available for
student/postdoc participants.
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-
partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, New
Brunswick Canada E3B 5A3
Matthew D. Herron Department of Zoology Uni-
versity of British Columbia X.princeps@gmail.com
http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/grads/mherron/
xprinceps@gmail.com
Belgrade
PopulationEvolutionaryGenetics
May9-12
Dear colleagues,
We would like to invite you to attend II Symposium
of Population and Evolutionary Genetics, 9 V 12 May
2012 in Belgrade, Serbia, organized by Serbian Genetic
Society.September 1, 2011 EvolDir 3
Modern population genetics has undergone signiﬁcant
expansion, particularly resulting from genomics and in-
creased computational power. Most of all, the applica-
bility of population and evolutionary genetics approach
in conservation of species and medicine highlights the
contemporary population genetic research.
All species, from prokaryotes to humans, are inevitably
related through evolution of their genomes at molecular
and population levels. They all share diﬀerent environ-
ments with a complex network-like interaction. This
symposium will explore how theory, empirical data, and
methodological approaches from diverse ﬁelds, includ-
ing ecology and evolutionary genetics, reveal the pro-
cesses of macroevolutionary patterns. The aim is to
present and discuss state-of-the-art results, theoretical
developments, understanding and methodology across
the whole range of population and evolutionary genet-
ics. The meeting welcomes the results from micro-
organisms to humans, livestock, crops, and natural and
experimental populations of all species.
>From eminent speakers coming from all over Europe
(Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, Denmark, England,
etc.) we expect to hear about the new frontiers and lat-
est breaking results in population and evolutionary re-
search approach in conservation genetics and medicine.
You can ﬁnd more information at WEB Program page:
www.peg2012.rs Information on the Web will be up-
dated timely. Meanwhile, please contact the Sympo-
sium Organizers for further information.
We would also appreciate if you could forward this e-
mail to your colleagues and within your research groups
and institutions.
Best regards, Zorana Kurbalija Novicic, PhD Depart-
ment for Genetics of Population and Ecogenotoxicol-
ogy Institute for Biological Research, University of Bel-
grade, Serbia kurbalija@ibiss.bg.ac.rs
Zorana Kurbalija Novicic <kurbalija@ibiss.bg.ac.rs >
Berlin EvolMolTechniques Oct5-7
we are organizing a workshop “Molecular Interations”
in Berlin at the beginning of October.
It does not have a direct “Evolutionary” basis, but deals
with new biotechnolgy methods which are also relevant
for evolutionary genetics/genomics and modelling. The
workshop is mainly dedicated young researchers andtherefore aﬀordable.
best regards Ina
Here the message
Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention
to our workshop “Molecular Interactions - in vivo - in
vitro - in silico”.
The workshop will take place from October, 5th to 7th
2011 at the ZUSE Institute Berlin (ZIB), in Berlin,
Germany. The aim of the annual “Molecular In-
teractions” workshop is to give an overview about
state-of-the-art methods and techniques in the life sci-
ences. We are inviting internationally renowned sci-
entists to report on the most current and up-to-date
developments within their speciﬁc areas of research.
In particular within “omics” research, the develop-
ment and use of modern technologies that require a
high degree of specialist knowledge is of high promi-
nence. For this years “Molecular Interactions” pri-
ority is given to the following topics: BIOTECH-
NOLOGY CELLULAR SYSTEMS DATA MINING /
MATHEMATICAL SYSTEMS FUNCTIONAL PRO-
TEOMICS AND GENOMICS RNA TECHNOLOGIES
SINGLE MOLECULE ANALYSIS SYSTEMS BIOL-
OGY OF T-HELPER CELLS (novel tools and impor-
tant results) SYNTHETIC BIOLOGY SYSTEMS BI-
OLOGY TRANSLATIONAL CONTROL
In addition participants can present their own
work during a POSTER SESSION. If you’re pre-
senting a poster please send an abstract (max.
2.000 characters) until 09.09.2011 to molecularinterac-
tions@googlemail.com.
Furthermore, ?Molecular Interactions? provides a plat-
form for junior researchers to network and get in con-
tact with experts from academic research institutions
and industry.
Before starting the scientiﬁc presentations we invite
you to participate in our PROFESSIONAL INFOR-
MATION EVENT on Wednesday: Scientists from dif-
ferent ﬁelds give an insight view on their work as a
junior professor, a project manager, an administrative
manager, a sales-/product-manager, a scientiﬁc coordi-
nator or a public relations oﬃcer.
Terms of payment: Registration: Euro 70, Reduc-
tion for students: Euro 40 Refreshments during coﬀee
breaks and lunch will be provided.
Please note that we award ﬁnancial support for partic-
ipation and journey.
More information and registration is available on our
website www.molecularinteractions.de We are very
much looking forward to meeting you at the workshop4 EvolDir September 1, 2011
“Molecular Interactions”!
With best regards
Dr. Ina Pokorny for the organizing team
– Dr. Ina Pokorny
Proﬁlbereich Pﬂanzengenomforschung und System-
biologie http://www.uni-potsdam.de/pﬂanzengenom
Karl-Liebknecht-Str. 24-25, Haus 20 14476 Potsdam
Germany
phone: +49 331 977-2811 e-mail: pokorny@uni-
potsdam.de
“Dr. Ina Pokorny” <pokorny@uni-potsdam.de >
Bialowieza Poland
MoosePopGenetics Aug6-10
The moose congress will take place next year in
Bialowieza, Poland. Below you can see the text of the
announcement. One of the main topics of the congress
will be population genetics, gene ﬂow and biogeography
of moose.
Best regards, Magda Niedzialkowska
Announcement: 7th International Moose Symposium
Bialowieza, Poland, 6-10 August 2012
The 7th International Moose Symposium will take place
in 2012 in Bialowieza, Eastern Poland. This small vil-
lage, located in the centre of the most primeval lowland
forest of Europe, will give the convened moose spe-
cialist a unique setting to discuss regional and global
changes that inﬂuence moose population around the
World. Habitat fragmentation, loss of biodiversity, cli-
mate change, can all have serious consequences for Al-
ces alces which should be anticipated and monitored.
Therefore, a theme of the symposium is: Moose in the
changing environment
Organisers: Mammal Research Institute of the Polish
Academy of Sciences in Biaowie ˚A1
4a, Biebrza National
Park, Regional Directorate of State Forests in Biaystok,
Biaowie ˚A1
4a National Park, Biebrza National Park
Preliminary programme: The symposium will take 4
days and will be followed by an optional ﬁeld trip. The
scientiﬁc session will include oral and poster presenta-
tions focusing on the following themes:
Moose management and conservation around the
World; Social and socioeconomic aspects of moose man-agement; Spatial planning and habitat changes that
threaten moose populations; Moose biogeography and
population genetics; Migrations and gene ﬂow; Popula-
tion dynamics and its driving factors (food resources,
predation, disease, hunting); Moose vegetation relation-
ships, moose and forestry; Physiology, disease, para-
sites.
Selected papers from the 7th International Moose Sym-
posium will be peer-reviewed and published in a scien-
tiﬁc journal Acta Theriologica.
Apart from scientiﬁc sessions the programme will in-
clude: a trip to the strict reserve of the Bialowieza Na-
tional Park a visit to the museum of the Bialowieza
National Park a visit to enclosures with European bi-
son a visit to the Mammal Research Institute PAS
in Biaowie ˚A1
4a a trip to the managed part of the
Bialowieza Forest - moose habitats at Lesna River a
post-conference trip to the Biebrza National Park (open
marshland with numerous moose, birds, old fortiﬁca-
tions) (1 day)
Location: Bialowieza village is located in the centre of
the Bialowieza Forest - one of the largest surviving ar-
eas of primeval mixed forest (pine, beech, oak, alder,
and spruce) in Europe which occupies more than 1,400
square km in Poland and Belarus. The most untouched
part of the forest has been designated as a Bialowieza
National Park. The forest attained a status of UN-
ESCO Man & Biosphere Reserve, UNESCO World Her-
itage Site and was granted with a Diploma of the Coun-
cil of Europe. It is one of the Europeˆ abiodiversity
hotspots with unique community of ungulates including
the Worlds largest population of free ranging European
bison, as well as moose, red deer, roe deer, and wild
boar. Bialowieza village, a historic hunting ground of
Lithuanian dukes, Polish kings, and Russian tsars, is
a popular tourist attraction with traditional wooden
houses, historic buildings, bison show reserve, good
restaurants and hotels. In close vicinity to Bialowieza
there is a number of other natural and cultural attrac-
tions. You can see the magniﬁcent marshlands of the
Biebrza River with the highest moose density in Poland,
visit the holy hill of the Orthodox Church or the old-
est mosque in Poland, try local delicacies or go on a
shopping spree in one of the new shopping malls of the
regions capital - Biaystok.
The venue: The symposium will take place in the con-
venient conference hall of the Biaowieza National Park.
Lunches and dinners will be served in a restaurant lo-
cated in the Parks premises.
Transport: Bialowieza is located in the eastern Poland,
250 km from the capital city of Warsaw. You can access
Warsaw easily by a plane or a train. The participantsSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 5
of the symposium will be collected from the Warsaw
Okcie Airport and from the Central Railway Station
by hired coaches. The travel to Bialowieza takes about
4.5 hours.
Accommodation: As Bialowieza is a frequent tourism
destination, there is a wide range of accommodation
possibilities ranging from a hostel to a four star hotel.
Hotels have a very competitive oﬀer. We booked three
hotels for the participants of the conference.
Costs: The costs of the participation in the sympo-
sium will include transport from and to Warsaw, con-
ference materials, coﬀee brakes, simultaneous transla-
tions, excursions during the conference, bone ﬁre, gala
dinner, and venue. We estimate the cost at around 200-
250 euro. Accommodation costs should not exceed 50
euro/person/night. A post-conference ﬁeld trip will be
paid separately. We actively seek for external sources
of funding
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Galway RECOMB CompGenomics
Oct8-10
Please ﬁnd below a call for posters for the RE-
COMB Comparative Genomics workshop in Galway,
October 8 - 10, 2011. Poster abstracts, up to a
maximum of 500 words, should be sent by e-mail
to Cathal.Seoighe@nuigalway.ie. Please include the
words RECOMB CG Poster Submission in the subject
line. For registration information, please visit http:/-
/www.recombcg.org/registration/ . This year, for the
ﬁrst time, RECOMB CG will accept a small number
of contributions for oral presentation only. These con-
tributions will not be included in the meeting proceed-
ings, and will be either on late-breaking research or
highlight a current topic of particular importance to
the RECOMB CG community. Please indicate on your
submission whether you would like the abstract to be
considered for this session (please include ’Oral presen-
tation only’ or ’Oral presentation or poster’ as appro-
priate in the message if you would like your submission
to be considered for this session of the workshop).
More information on the meeting and the scope of con-
tributions accepted is available below. I would be grate-ful if you could forward this message to anyone to whom
it may be of interest.
Apologies for any cross-posting.
Cathal Seoighe
RECOMB-CG, 2011, Call for Posters October 8-
10, 2011 Galway, Ireland http://recombcg.org CON-
FIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
* Ed Green (UC Santa Cruz, USA) * Kateryna Makova
(Penn State University, USA) * Julian Parkhill (Sanger
Institute, UK) * Nikolaus Rajewsky (Max-Delbr¨ uck
Center for Molecular Medicine, Germany) * Christo-
pher Greenman (TGAC, UK) * Jerome Salse (INRA,
France)
KEY DATES Paper submission deadline June 03, 2011
Notiﬁcation of paper acceptance June 24, 2011 Poster
submission deadline September 20, 2011 Workshop Oc-
tober 8-10, 2011 More details available at http://-
recombcg.org CALL FOR Posters and Special Session
Contributions
Poster abstracts, up to a maximum of 500 words, should
be sent by e-mail to Cathal.Seoighe@nuigalway.ie.
Please include the words RECOMB CG Poster Submis-
sion in the subject line. For the ﬁrst time, this year RE-
COMB CG will accept a small number of contributions
for oral presentation only. These contributions will not
be included in the meeting proceedings, and will be
either on late-breaking research or highlight a current
topic of particular importance to the RECOMB CG
community. Please indicate on the abstract submission
whether you would like the abstract to be considered
for this session (please include ’Oral presentation only’
or ’Oral presentation or poster’ as appropriate in the
body of the message if you would like your submission
to be considered for this session of the workshop).
THEME AND SCOPE
The continuing advance of DNA sequencing technol-
ogy has produced an avalanche of genome sequence
and genome structural information across the evolu-
tionary spectrum. Transforming that information into
biological knowledge requires creative and innovative
new computational and statistical methods for compar-
ative genomics.
The RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Comparative Ge-
nomics aims to provide the premier forum for new com-
putational developments applied to all aspects of com-
parative genomics. We solicit contributions on topics
including comparison of genome structure and organi-
zation, genome function, and evolution. We particu-
larly encourage contributions that use new computa-
tional methods to acquire new insight into biological6 EvolDir September 1, 2011
processes. Advances in computational theory are wel-
come, though all submissions should include genome-
scale analyses informed by comparative data.
Speciﬁc topics of interest include but are not limited
to:
Gene and genome duplication Gene family evolu-
tion Genome structural variation Algorithms for com-
parative genomics Genome rearrangement Ancestral
genome reconstruction Multiple genome alignment
Genome sequence comparison Modeling genome evo-
lution Comparative genomics for genome annotation
Gene tree reconciliation Species and gene tree in-
ference Comparative metagenomics Comparative ge-
nomics linked to proteomics, metabolomics, and other
’omic data Comparative genomics and gene expression
and regulation Applications of comparative genomic
methods
At least one author per each successful submission
is required to register and present the poster at the
workshop. Please address any questions to the pro-
gram committee chairs: Aaron E. Darling (aarondar-
ling at ucdavis.edu) and Cathal Seoighe (cathal.seoighe
at nuigalway.ie)
CONFERENCE CHAIR
Cathal Seoighe (National University of Ireland, Galway,
Ireland)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIRS
Aaron E. Darling (University of California, Davis,
USA) Cathal Seoighe (National University of Ireland,
Galway, Ireland)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Aida Ouangraoua, INRIA Lille, France
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Jyvaskyla Coevolution Oct4-7
DeadlineExtended
The deadline for abstract submission for the upcoming
“Symposium on Coevolution”, 4- 7 October 2011, has
been extended till the 15th of August, 2011. There is
still room for oral and poster presentations!PhD students are also welcome to register even though
post-docs are prioritised for talks.
For more information about the symposium and to reg-
ister, please visit:
https://www.jyu.ﬁ/bioenv/en/divisions/eko/-
coeevolution/coevolution-symposium Please contact
the organizing committee at coevo.symposium@jyu.ﬁ
for any questions.
Dr. Sandra Varga Postdoctoral Researcher Department
of Biological and Environmental Science PO Box 35,
FI-40014 University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a Finland
http://users.jyu.ﬁ/ ˜ savarga/ http://-
jyu.academia.edu/SandraVarga Sandra Varga
<sandra.varga@jyu.ﬁ >
LaJolla DrosophilaSpecies Oct27-30
Drosophila Species Workshop X
The Tenth Drosophila Species Workshop will take place
from Thursday October 27 through Sunday October 30,
2011 at the UCSD campus in La Jolla, California. The
workshop employs hands-on approaches and will focus
on the chracteristics of the melanogaster, repleta, vir-
ilis, and obscura species groups, including how to iden-
tify species, aspects of their biology and reproduction,
and husbandry. Workshop instructors include Patrick
OGrady, Stephen Schaeﬀer, Sergio Castrezana, Masa
Watada, Therese Markow, and Maxi Richmond. Reg-
istration is $400 and includes all instruction and materi-
als, a dinner with keynote talk, morning and afternoon
refreshments and one lunch. Space is limited. To apply,
please send a one page statement of your research in-
terests and why the workshop will be valuable to you to
Dr. Maxi Richmond, UCSD Drosophila Species Stock
Center: mrichmond@ucsd.edu
Therese Ann Markow, Professor Amylin Chair in Life
Sciences Section of Cell and Developmental Biology
Division of Biological Sciences Muir Biology Building
2215 9500 Gilman Drive University of California at San
Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0116
Email: tmarkow at ucsd.edu Phone: (858) 246 0095
Laboratory: (858) 246 0402 FAX:(858) 534-7108
http://biology.ucsd.edu/labs/markow/ http:/-
/stockcenter.ucsd.edu Therese Markow
<tmarkow@ucsd.edu >September 1, 2011 EvolDir 7
NewOrleans Biodiversity Oct17-21
TDWG 2011 Meeting
The annual meeting of the Biodiversity Information
Standards (TDWG) will be held in New Orleans, Oc-
tober 17-21, 2011. This year the conference theme
is “Digitization Methods, Technologies, and Standards
for Biodiversity Collections”. The Call for Abstracts
is now available for contributed papers, symposia,
posters, computer demos and lightning talks: http://-
www.tdwg.org/conference2011/ . The deadline for sub-
mission is September 9, 2011.
Registration for the conference is also open ( http:/-
/www.regonline.com/tdwg2011 ). Early registration,
which entails a $50 discount, closes August 15th.
Program Committee: Rusty Russell, Smithsonian
(Chair) Nico Cellinese, University of Florida Gail
Kampmeier, University of Illinois Patricia Mergen,
Royal Museum for Central Africa, Belgium Cynthia
Parr, Smithsonian Richard Pyle, Bishop Museum,
Hawaii Greg Riccardi, Florida State University Kevin
Richards, Landcare Research, New Zealand Joel Sachs,
University of Maryland
Stan Blum, California Academy of Sciences (ex oﬃ-
cio) Chuck Miller, Missouri Botanic Garden (ex oﬃcio)
Hank Bart, Tulane University (local organizing com-
mittee) Nelson Rio, Tulane University (local organizing
committee)
Proceeding of TDWG http://-
www.tdwg.org/proceedings Nico Cellinese
<ncellinese@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu >
NHM London YoungSystematists
Dec1
13th YOUNG SYSTEMATISTS ˆA1FORUM
Thursday, 1st December 2011, 9 am
Venue: Flett Lecture Theatre, Natural History Mu-
seum, London, UK
The annual Young Systematists ˆA1Forum represents anexciting setting for Masters, PhD and young postdoc-
toral researchers to present their data, often for the ﬁrst
time, to a scientiﬁc audience interested in taxonomy,
systematics and phylogenetics. This well-established
event provides an important opportunity for budding
systematists to discuss their research in front of their
peers within a supportive environment. Supervisors
and other established systematists are also encouraged
to attend.
Prizes will be awarded for the most promising oral and
poster presentation as judged by a small panel on the
day.
Registration is FREE. Send applications by e-mail
to (YSF.SystematicsAssociation@gmail.com), supply-
ing your name, contact address and stating whether
or not you wish to give an oral or poster presentation.
Space will be allocated subject to availability and for a
balanced programme of animal, plant, algal, microbial,
molecular and other research. Non-participating atten-
dees are also very welcome - please register as above.
Abstracts must be submitted by e-mail in English no
later than 18th November 2011. The body text should
not exceed 150 words in length. If the presentation
is co-authored, the actual speaker (oral) or presenter
(poster) must be clearly indicated in BOLD text.
All registered attendants will receive by e-mail fur-
ther information about the meeting, including ab-
stracts, one week in advance. This information will
also be displayed on the Systematics Association web-
site ( www.systass.org <http://www.systass.org/ >).
Dr Ellinor MICHEL Department of Zoology The Natu-
ral History Museum Cromwell Road SW7 5BD London
UK tel: +44-207-942-5653 or - 5516
Homepage: http://www.sorayavillalba.com/ellinor/-
index.php The Nyanza Project: Research Training in
Tropical Lakes - http://www.geo.arizona.edu/nyanza/-
index.html The Natural History Museum - Global
Reach http://www.nhm.ac.uk/nature-online/science-
of-natural-history/science-at-the -museum/our-global-
reach/
The Gastropods of Lake Tanganyika: Diagnostic
key, classiﬁcation & notes on the fauna http://-
www.limnology.org/pubs/index.shtml#occasional
NHM Homepage: http://www.nhm.ac.uk//research-
curation/staﬀ-directory/zoology/cv-7437.html Ellinor
Michel <e.michel@nhm.ac.uk >8 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Ottawa SystematicBiol Jul6-10
CallProposals
Society of Systematic Biologists Call for Symposia for
the 2012 Annual Meeting
The Society of Systematic Biologists invites proposals
for symposia at the 2012 Evolution meetings to be held
in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada from 6-10 July 2012. The
meeting will be held jointly with the American Society
of Naturalists and the Society for the Study of Evolu-
tion.
Proposals should include (1) a descriptive title, (2) one
or two paragraphs explaining the purpose of the sym-
posium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a list of
presentations including proposed speakers, their insti-
tutions or aﬃliations, and their presentation titles, and
(4) an indication of whether the speakers have been
invited and whether they have agreed to participate.
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (typically
six half hour talks). The society is particularly inter-
ested in symposia whose topics do not overlap with
those from previous meetings (see SSB website for past
symposia), that introduce new ideas or synthesize im-
portant concepts, or those that are particularly good
examples of the analysis of empirical data. Proposals
that unite systematics with other ﬁelds are also desir-
able. We encourage participation from young investi-
gators and others typically under-represented in sym-
posia.
Deadline: for full consideration, please submit propos-
als by Sept 20, 2011.
Proposals will be evaluated by the SSB Council in late
September. Soon after, organizers will be notiﬁed of
the status of their proposals. Selected symposia will
receive $4000 to partially defer participant costs.
Please E-mail proposals (Word or PDF format) to the
Program Chairperson, and use the subject heading:
SSB Symposium Proposal 2012.
SSB Program Chair Kelly R. Zamudio Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853 Email: kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu
Phone: 607 254 4212
The program chair will conﬁrm receipt of submitted
proposals, please inquire if you do not receive e-mail
conﬁrmation.kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu
Townsville QLD
AustralasianEvolutionSociety
Sep24-27 extended
Dear Evolutionary Biologists,
AES REGISTRATION HAS BEEN EXTENDED TO
FRIDAY 2 SEPTEMBER
I invite you to join us for the 7th Biennial meeting
of the Australasian Evolution Society ( http://-
aes.eriophora.com.au/events/evolution11/index.html )
to be held in Townsville, Queensland from 24-27
September 2011.
For more information, and to register, please go
to http://aes.eriophora.com.au/events/evolution11/-
index.html . Registration includes entry to all sessions,
the conference ice-breaker/welcome function, the
conference dinner, all lunches, morning and afternoon
teas, a conference pack, and membership to the
Australasian Evolution Society.
The conference will be held at the Rydges Conven-
tion Centre in Townsville, situated within the heart of
the restaurant and hotel region of the town and only
a short walk to the beach and ferry to Magnetic Is-
land. Pre-conference drinks and registration start on
the evening of Saturday 24 September at the Townsville
Yacht Club. Presentation sessions will run each day
from Sunday 25 September to Tuesday 27 September.
The Conference dinner will be held on the evening
of Monday 26 September at the Museum of Tropical
Queensland.
We hope you will join us and look forward to seeing you
in sunny Townsville in September!
On behalf of the organising committee,
Megan Higgie
Vice-President Australasian Evolution Society
Find us on Facebook: Australasian Evolution Soci-
ety http://www.facebook.com/groups/95240533874/-
AES Conference 2011 http://www.facebook.com/-
event.php?eid=141305975949793 Dr Megan Higgie
Lecturer / ARC Australian Postdoctoral Fellow School
of Marine and Tropical Biology James Cook University
Townsville QLD 4811 Australia
T: + 61 7 4781 5734 E: megan.higgie@jcu.edu.auSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 9
“Higgie, Megan” <megan.higgie@jcu.edu.au >
UCollege Dublin ComputBiology
Dec6-7
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce that registration is now
open for the second annual
Computational Biology and Innovation PhD Sympo-
sium, 6 - 7 December 2011
Please visit the conference website: www.ucd.ie/-
phdsymposium . The symposium willtake place in Uni-
versity College Dublin (UCD) at the Conway Insti-
tute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research. The-
organisingcommittee of this symposium is composed
of PhD students of the UCD Bioinformatics and Sys-
tems Biology PhD Programme. Registrationdead-
line:14thOctober 2011
Abstract submission deadline (oral or poster):28th Oc-
tober 2011
Our aim is to bring together young researchers (Masters
and PhD students, junior post-docs) in various research
areas of computational biology (e.g. genomics, pro-
teomics, systems biology and mathematical modelling)
and provide an opportunity for participants to show-
case their research in an encouraging interdisciplinary
environment. The symposium oﬀers young researchers
the opportunity to interact with eminent computational
biologists and is the perfect occasion for exchange of
innovative ideas and inspiring discussions between stu-
dents, experienced researchers and industry profession-
als alike.
Conﬁrmed Speakers: Frank Holstege,University
Medical Center Utrecht, the Netherlands Ken
Haynes,University of Exeter, UK Robert Insall,Beatson
Institute for Cancer Research, UK Additional speakers
TBC
Please circulate this announcement to those in your
group or your institute who may be interested in at-
tending.
We look forward to welcoming you to University College
Dublin this December.If you have any questions,please
do not hesitate to contact us.
Kind regards,
UCD Computational Biology and Innovation PhDSymposium Committee
Sponsors: IRCSET Clique Systems Biology Ireland En-
terprise IrelandRoche
UCD Computational Biology and Innovation PhD
Symposium Email: phdsymp2011@ucd.ie Website:
www.ucd.ie/phdsymposium Computational Biology
and Innovation Symposium <phdsymp2011@ucd.ie >
UOxford Biogeography Sep23-25
DeadlineExtended
Registration for the upcoming IBS Early Career Con-
ference “Advances in Biogeography”, 23-25 September
2011, has been extended to August 31st, 2011.
For more information about the conference &
symposium, and to register, please visit http://-
www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/2011Oxford/-
index.html If you have any questions, the organizing
committee at ibsearlycareerconference@gmail.com
would be happy to answer your queries.
Michael Dawson ibsearlycareerconference@gmail.com
Michael Dawson <dawson.mn@gmail.com >
WoodsHoleMA
NortheastMobileDNA Sep1-3
FINAL NOTICE “ Registration deadline extended to
08/15 North East Mobile Genetic Element Meeting -
2011 Swope Center MBL - Woods Hole, MA Septem-
ber 1-3, 2011
We are pleased to inform you that the meeting regis-
tration website will remain open until Monday August
15 (http://ws2.mbl.edu/conference/register.asp?conf=
MOBILE11 ). Participants who wish to present should
register and then submit the abstracts by e-mail to the
organizers, Irina Arkhipova <iarkhipova@mbl.edu >
or Bill Reznikoﬀ <breznikoﬀ@mbl.edu >. We will
be ﬁnalizing the talk schedule after August 15, and
need to know the participants preference for a talk or
a poster. The major focus areas currently include but
are not limited to: Mechanisms of transposition in bac-
teria; Fungal transposable elements; Epigenetics and10 EvolDir September 1, 2011
evolution of eukaryotic TEs; Transposons as research
tools. Previous meeting notices can be found at http:/-
/jbpc.mbl.edu/TGEcluster.html#meeting schedule .
We look forward to seeing you in Woods Hole this fall!Bill Reznikoﬀ Irina Arkhipova Co-organizers Marine
Biological Laboratory Woods Hole, MA 02543 USA
iarkhipova@mbl.edu
GradStudentPositions
Auckland ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
DukeU EvolutionBacterialSymbionts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
ETH Zurich HostParasiteEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
HeinrichHeineU PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . 11
TrinityCollege GrassEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UBasel AlpinePlant EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UDuesseldorf PlantEvolGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UGeneva ComputationalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UGoettingen MolluscGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIdaho Coevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UMainz PlantSystematicsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15UmeaU PlantEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UMunster 7 Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UNewBrunswick AlgalEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 16
UNewSouthWales EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UOklahoma EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
UPuertoRico BiogeogCaribbeanArachnids . . . . . . . . . 19
USherbrooke BlueTitEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
USherbrooke UngulatePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . 20
WashingtonStateU FloralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Auckland ExperimentalEvolution
“A Marsden-funded PhD studentship is available in
Paul Rainey’s Experimental Evolution lab at the New
Zealand Institute for Advanced Study (Auckland, NZ).
This position provides an opportunity for an outstand-
ing individual to contribute toward a long-term research
program aimed at elucidating the principles of genetic
evolution.
Working as part of a multidisciplinary team, the stu-
dent will be responsible for the development of models
that describe genetic evolution– particularly the factors
that aﬀect the translation of mutation into phenotypic
variation. These models will take advantage of a well-
established and uniquely powerful experimental system
to explore the hypothesis that evolution proceeds via
’pathways of least resistance’, that is, via those path-
ways that have the greatest capacity to translate mu-
tation into phenotypic variation (see McDonald et al
2009 Genetics). Informed by experimental insight, thestudent will use bioinformatic and Bayesian approaches
in conjunction with dynamic equations to create gen-
eral predictive models. The successful candidate should
have a strong background in bioinformatics or mathe-
matical biology and have an interest in evolution and/or
development.
This post is of three years duration and available im-
mediately. Any inquiries should be addressed to Eric
Libby (e.libby@massey.ac.nz). To apply for the post
please send a letter of interest/statement of purpose,
CV, and the names of three referees to Vesna Davidovic-
Alexander ( v.davidovic-alexander@massey.ac.nz).”
Eric Libby <e.libby@massey.ac.nz >
DukeU EvolutionBacterialSymbionts
PH.D STUDENT OPENNING
We are seeking a highly motivated student to join theSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 11
lab in the fall of 2012, to explore the evolutionary
ecology of bacterial symbionts associated with insects.
This Ph.D. student opportunity is available through
Dukes Graduate program in the Environment ( http:/-
/www.nicholas.duke.edu/programs/doctoral/esp ). Ap-
plicants must have strong quantitative skills and prior
coursework or research experience in evolutionary bi-
ology, ecology, molecular biology, and microbiology.
Interested students should contact Jen Wernegreen
(j.wernegreen[at]duke.edu). Please include a CV and
statement of research interests with your inquiry.
For more about the lab’s research and op-
portunities to join us, please see: http://-
sites.duke.edu/wernegreenlab Jennifer Wernegreen
<j.wernegreen@duke.edu >
ETH Zurich HostParasiteEvol
The Institute of Integrative Biology at ETH Zurich -
Experimental Ecology Group - is oﬀering the position
of a
PhD student Host-parasite evolutionary ecology: Ex-
pression studies, population structure
The anticipated work is part of an ERC Advanced
Grant project on alternative host resistance systems
and the population structure of parasites (RESIST). It
will use, for example, the recently developed genomic
resources for a large pollinator, the bumblebee, Bom-
bus terrestris, as a technical framework as well as corre-
sponding resources for a common parasite. One of the
aims is to identify genes involved in the host-parasite
interaction and to study them in populations. Particu-
lar emphasis is given to the expression of anti-microbial
peptides on the host side, and to the genetic population
structure of the parasite on the other side. The work
is based on ﬁeld data and laboratory experiments. We
look for candidates that can ﬁll at least one of the key
directions of the work (expression / population struc-
ture). Depending on the proﬁle, the candidate may
have some experience in molecular genetics, genomics,
the use of data banks and bioinformatics; or else be
acquainted with analyzing parasite populations and in-
ferring genetic structures from ﬁeld data. Whatever
the background, a demonstrated interest in evolution-
ary biology, population genetics, or ecology is a strong
argument.
The project will be embedded in a research group with
long-term experience of the system. Starting date isnegotiable, but ideally no later than Jan 2012. Please
send applications (CV, Publication list, Names and
emails of referees) by email to Prof. P.Schmid-Hempel
(psh@env.ethz.ch), ETH Zurich, Institute of Integrative
Biology, ETH-Zentrum CHN, CH-8092 Zurich (review
of application starts 1 Sep 2011 until ﬁlled). Further in-
formation on ETH, the group, or life in Zurich can be
obtained from www.eco.ethz.ch; for more details email
to psh@env.ethz.ch
HeinrichHeineU
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
PhD position in Germany: Plant evolutionary genetics
I am looking for a PhD candidate interested in plant
evolutionary genetics. In my lab, we are investigating
the genetic basis for symbiont recognition and discrimi-
nation in Lotus species. A PhD position, funded by the
German Science Foundation (DFG), is available imme-
diately to work on this project. This project has both
experimental and computational components and will
involve functional studies on plants (inoculations with
bacteria and trans-gene expression) and classical popu-
lation genetics. Applicants should have a Master’s de-
gree or equivalent in biology or a related ﬁeld. Previous
laboratory experience and coursework in evolutionary
biology and genetics are desirable.
My lab has recently moved to D¨ usseldorf at Hein-
rich Heine University ( www.evol.bio.lmu.de/ rose/ ).
Here you will have access to brand new state-of-
the-art research facilities and the added beneﬁt of
joining the newly established plant biology graduate
program ( http:// www.igrad-plant.uni-duesseldorf.de/-
Home ). The working language of the research group is
English.
The closing date for applications is October 2, 2011,
or when the position is ﬁlled. Applicants should send
a single PDF ﬁle containing a statement of interest
and previous research experience, curriculum vitae, and
contact information for at least two referees to: Dr.
Laura Rose (Laura.Rose@hhu.de)
Prof. Dr. Laura Rose
email: Laura.Rose@hhu.de web:
www.evol.bio.lmu.de/ rose/ oﬃce phone: 0211 81
13406 campus location: 26.03.00.25
Institute of Population Genetics Heinrich-Heine-
Universit¨ at Universit¨ atsstraße 1 40225 D¨ usseldorf Ger-12 EvolDir September 1, 2011
many
Laura.Rose@uni-duesseldorf.de
TrinityCollege GrassEvolution
4-Year PhD studentship:Geographical, ecological and
genetic characterisation of perennial biomass grasses
Perennial grasses have a number of characteristics that
make them suitable as biomass crops. Environmental
beneﬁts include high rates of soil carbon sequestration,
soil stabilisation and enhanced biodiversity. They nat-
urally colonise marginal areas of land that often impose
severe restrictions on the growth of vegetation and as
such are considered poor quality for agriculture. The
aim of this PhD project is to collect, identify and char-
acterise novel varieties of C3 grasses (Dactylis glom-
erata, Festuca arundinacea and Phalaris arundinacea)
and the C4 genus Miscanthus. These show high and sta-
ble productivity and require the minimum of additional
inputs when grown on diﬀerent forms of marginal land.
In particular it will study the geographical distribution
of perennial grasses of potential use for biomass produc-
tion and undertake pre-breeding of novel varieties. The
PhD project is part of a larger EU-funded collaborative
research project called GrassMargins with twelve part-
ners from eight countries representing Northern, Cen-
tral and Western Europe and partners from Russia and
China. Speciﬁc objectives of the PhD project are to: 1)
collect accessions of Phalaris, Miscanthus and Dactylis
in Europe, China and Russia (in all partner countries in
the proposal); 2) use geographical mapping and ecolog-
ical niche modelling to identify areas most suitable for
the production of the target species especially marginal
land; and 3) investigate genetic diversity of the novel
accessions collected or assembled during the project for
pre-breeding applications.
The four-year studentship will be supervised by Dr
Trevor Hodkinson, Trinity College Dublin (TCD), Prof
Mike Jones (TCD) and Dr Susanne Barth (Teagasc,
Oak Park, Carlow). The studentship includes a stipend
of approximately 16,000 per annum and University fees
of approximately 6,000 per annum. Non-EU applicants
are charged additional fees. It is anticipated that the
project will start in October 2011, subject to conﬁrma-
tion of project funding.
Applications are sought from suitably qualiﬁed can-
didates (ﬁrst class or upper second class honours de-
gree or equivalent) to undertake doctoral research atthe University of Dublin, Trinity College ( www.tcd.ie/-
naturalscience ). All applications must include the fol-
lowing documents in one email: 1) A covering letter of
motivation; 2) a complete curriculum vitae; 3) certi-
ﬁed copies of academic transcripts if not a graduate of
TCD; and 4) Evidence of proﬁciency in English. The
application deadline is August 21 2011, but the position
will remain open until ﬁlled. All applications for this
studentship must be made to Trevor.Hodkinson@tcd.ie
and Mike.Jones@tcd.ie.
Dr Trevor Hodkinson Senior Lecturer in Botany Botany
Building School of Natural Sciences Trinity College
Dublin Ireland
Phone 00353 1 8961128 Fax 00353 1 8961147 email
Trevor.Hodkinson@tcd.ie http://people.tcd.ie/-
hodkinst https://www.tcd.ie/Botany/tercentenary/
http://www.cambridge.org/gb/knowledge/isbn/-
item5736973/?site locale=en GB Plant Ecology &
Diversity http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/tped 2010
Impact factor: 2.05
Trevor Hodkinson <HODKINST@tcd.ie >
UBasel AlpinePlant
EvolutionaryBiol
Open PhD position in Evolutionary Biology of Alpine
Plants
A PhD postion is available in the Group of Plant Pop-
ulation Ecology at the Botanical Institute, University
of Basel in a research project with the title: “How lo-
cal adaptation and phenotypic plasticity allow plants
to survive in a changing Alpine landscape: Eﬀects of
ﬁne-grained vs. coarse-grained environmental variabil-
ity”.
The project is a continuation of earlier research in
my lab and includes reciprocal transplantation among
ﬁeld sites, controlled experiments in the greenhouse and
molecular work. I will contribute to a still poorly un-
derstood question of evolutionary biology: To what ex-
tend is local adaptation of alpine plants shaped by phe-
notypic plasticity and to what extend is it a result of
ﬁxed genotypic diﬀerences?
Genotypic variability and phenotypic plasticity are
complementary mechanisms adjusting plants to envi-
ronmental heterogenity. Phenotypic plasticity received
increased attention because of its possible role for the
colonization of new habitats or to mitigate climateSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 13
change. There is a shortage of studies testing the role of
phenotypic plasticity in the ﬁeld. The main hypothe-
ses to be tested in this project is, that natural selec-
tion by ﬁne-grained environmental variability should
have favored high phenotypic plasticity, while coarse-
grained environmental variability should have favored
ﬁxed genotypic variability.
The successful candidate should be motivated to work
on alpine evolutionary ecology. Applicants with expe-
riences in experimental population biology and a sound
background in statistics will be preferred, and skills or
interest in molecular work would be appreciated. Ap-
plicants should enjoy working in the ﬁeld as well as in
the lab. The position is funded for three years. Prefer-
ably, work starts this fall, or by arrangement. Starting
salary will be CHF 40’200.- per year.
Applications including a statement of interest, CV,
and the names and addresses of 2 academic references
should be send to Prof. Dr. J¨ urg St¨ ocklin, Botanical
Institute, Sch¨ onbeinstrasse 5, CH-4056 Basel, Switzer-
land. (e-mail: juerg.stoecklin@unibas.ch) http://-
pages.unibas.ch/botschoen/stoecklin/index.shtml .
Prof. Dr. J¨ urg St¨ ocklin Botanical Institute, Dep.
of Ecology, University of Basel Sch¨ onbeinstr. 6,
CH-4056 BASEL Switzerland +41 61 267 35 01,
juerg.stoecklin@unibas.ch http://pages.unibas.ch/-
botschoen/stoecklin/index.shtml Juerg Stoecklin
<juerg.stoecklin@unibas.ch >
UDuesseldorf PlantEvolGenet
PhD position in Duesseldorf, Germany: Plant evolu-
tionary genetics
I am looking for a PhD candidate interested in plant
evolutionary genetics. In my lab, we are investigating
the genetic basis for symbiont recognition and discrimi-
nation in Lotus species. A PhD position, funded by the
German Science Foundation (DFG), is available imme-
diately to work on this project. This project has both
experimental and computational components and will
involve functional studies on plants (inoculations with
bacteria and trans-gene expression) and classical popu-
lation genetics. Applicants should have a Master’s de-
gree or equivalent in biology or a related ﬁeld. Previous
laboratory experience and coursework in evolutionary
biology and genetics are desirable.
My lab has recently moved to D¨ usseldorf at Heinrich
Heine University ( www.evol.bio.lmu.de/ rose/ ). Hereyou will have access to state-of- the-art research fa-
cilities and the added beneﬁt of joining the newly
established plant biology graduate program ( http:/-
/www.igrad- plant.uni-duesseldorf.de/Home). The
working language of the research group is English.
The closing date for applications is October 2, 2011,
or when the position is ﬁlled. Applicants should send
a single PDF ﬁle containing a statement of interest
and previous research experience, curriculum vitae,
and contact information for at least two referees to
Laura.Rose@hhu.de
Prof. Dr. Laura Rose
Institute of Population Genetics Heinrich-Heine-
Universit¨ at Universit¨ atsstraße 1 40225 D¨ usseldorf Ger-
many
Laura.Rose@uni-duesseldorf.de
UGeneva ComputationalEvolution
PhD position opened in Switzerland for a Computer
scientist. Development of stochastic heuristics for infer-
ring the evolution of DNA & protein sequences http://-
www.lanevol.org/LANE/positions opened.html In the
context of developing heuristics for molecular phy-
logeny inference, we are seeking a creative and highly
motivated computer-scientist with a strong interest in
biological molecular evolution and clear skills in opti-
misation and parallelisation techniques. The position is
for 3 years or more and can start anytime (preferably
in January 2012).
The successful candidates will extensively compare
the performances of existing stochastic heuristics (in-
cluding the ‘Meta-population Genetic Algorithm’, see
www.metapiga.org ), and develop new ones, for large
phylogeny inference. The code will also have to be de-
veloped for Cloud/Grid as well as GPU computing.
Applications: Please send (combined into one SINGLE
pdf ﬁle) a brief letter of interest, your CV, as well
as contact information of two references to: Michel
Milinkovitch (Michel.Milinkovitch [at] unige [dot] ch),
Laboratory of Artiﬁcial & Natural Evolution, Univer-
sity of Geneva, Switzerland.
Literature: - The metapopulation genetic algorithm:
an eﬃcient solution for the problem of large phylogeny
estimation. Alan R. Lemmon & Michel C. Milinkovitch
PNAS 2002, 99: 10516-10521 - MetaPIGA v2.0: max-14 EvolDir September 1, 2011
imum likelihood large phylogeny estimation using the
metapopulation genetic algorithm and other stochastic
heuristics. Rapha¨ el Helaers & Michel C. Milinkovitch
BMC Bioinformatics 2010, 11:379
UNIGE (the University of Geneva) is one of Europe’s
leading universities and it shares the international call-
ing of its host city, Geneva, a centre of international
and multicultural activities with cosmopolitan tradi-
tion. Geneva also provides an outstanding natural en-
vironment for outdoor activities.
Prof. Michel C. Milinkovitch Laboratory of Artiﬁcial
& Natural Evolution Dept of Genetics & Evolution
University of Geneva Sciences III, 30, Quai Ernest-
Ansermet 1211 Gen` eve 4, Switzerland
Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch
Tel +41(0)22 379 67 85 Fax +41(0)22 379 67 95
www.lanevol.org Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch
Michel.Milinkovitch@unige.ch
UGoettingen MolluscGenomics
PhD position in molluscan biomineralisation at the
University of Goettingen, Germany:
A 3 year PhD position is available within the Courant
Research Centre Geobiology to work on the molecular
mechanisms of shell formation in the freshwater gastro-
pod Lymnaea stagnalis. The successful candidate will
join a small but growing group that applies molecular
techniques to study the processes of biomineralisation
in various organisms. The project will involve the high-
throughput identiﬁcation and characterisation of shell
forming genes and proteins in L. stagnalis.
Resources available for this project include a shallow
draft genome of L. stagnalis, next generation EST
datasets derived from various tissues (including the
mantle) and a proteome dataset derived from the shell
of L. stagnalis. Infrastructure includes an automated
high throughput in situ detection system, real time
qPCR machine, chemiluminescent detector and all the
standard equipment for routine molecular techniques.
The applicant should have a degree within a ﬁeld of
molecular evolution or molecular biology, and be able to
display relevant experience with molecular techniques
(essential), and be familiar with various bioinformatic
analyses (desirable).
All applications should include the following:- a statement of research interests (or letter of motiva-
tion) - copies of any relevant publications - at least 1
letter of reference (preferably 2) and the corresponding
contact details of these referees.
Applications must be submitted before September
30, 2011 and should be emailed to Daniel Jackson
(djackso(at)uni-goettingen.de). Informal enquiries are
also welcome.
Goettingen is a student friendly town, and is located
in central Germany with easy access to the rest of Eu-
rope. The University has an excellent academic rep-
utation and is one of the nine German Universities of
Excellence.
The University of Goettingen actively seeks to foster
opportunities for female scholars and therefore strongly
encourages qualiﬁed women to apply. Candidates with
disabilities who are equally qualiﬁed for the position
will receive special consideration.
Junior Professor Daniel J. Jackson Courant Re-
search Centre Geobiology Georg-August University of
G¨ ottingen Goldschmidtstr.3 37077 G¨ ottingen Germany
Tel: +49 (0) 551 39 14177 Fax: +49 (0) 551 39 7918
djackso@uni-goettingen.de http://www.uni-
goettingen.de/en/102705.html “Jackson, Daniel”
<djackso@gwdg.de >
UIdaho Coevolution
Graduate Position in Coevolutionary Biology
The Nuismer lab at the University of Idaho is recruit-
ing a Ph.D. student with an interest in modeling coe-
volving species interactions. This position is available
starting in fall 2012 and will provide support in the
form of a research assistantship for three years as part
of a project funded by the National Science Founda-
tion (NSF). The general goal of this project is to better
understand how the number of traits involved in in-
teractions between species inﬂuences the coevolution-
ary process. Although it is expected that a portion of
the student’s dissertation will be directly related to the
objectives of the funded project, much ﬂexibility exists
with regard to additional dissertation projects that may
be pursued. Although some background in mathemat-
ics and/or computation is desirable, any prospective
student with an enthusiasm for learning new mathe-
matical approaches to studying evolutionary biology isSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 15
encouraged to apply.
Interested students should visit the Nuismer labo-
ratory homepage ( http://www.webpages.uidaho.edu/-
˜ snuismer/Nuismer Lab/ ) for more information about
ongoing research projects in the lab, and the Depart-
ment of Biology and Graduate Program in Bioinfor-
matics and Computational Biology at the University of
Idaho.
If you are interested in this opportunity please send a
CV and a statement outlining your motivation for pur-
suing graduate studies in coevolutionary biology.
Cheers,
Scott Nuismer
Scott Nuismer Associate Professor Department of
Biological Sciences University of Idaho Moscow,
Idaho 83844 Phone: 208 885 4096 http://-
www.webpages.uidaho.edu/ ˜ snuismer/Nuismer Lab/
Scott Nuismer <snuismer@gmail.com >
UMainz PlantSystematicsEvolution
PhD position in plant systematics and evolution in
Mainz, Germany
A 3 year PhD position funded by the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) is available at the Insti-
tut f¨ ur Spezielle Botanik und Botanischer Garten, Jo-
hannes Gutenberg-Universit¨ at Mainz, Germany. The
main focus of the project will be to investigate the
evolutionary history of Senecio s.str. (Asteraceae) in
Tropical Africa within the framework of a project on
the inﬂuence of climate variation on a geological time
scale on the African high mountain ﬂora, carried out
by Dr. Berit Gehrke. The thesis will be supervised by
Dr. Gehrke and Prof. Kadereit.
You should have a master degree (or equivalent) in the
ﬁeld of biology and a strong interest in evolution and
plant systematics. Enthusiasm for pursuing ﬁeldwork
in Africa is welcome. Good working knowledge of En-
glish, written and oral, is essential. Gaining experience
in teaching is possible.
The Institut f¨ ur Spezielle Botanik und Botanischer
Garten at the University of Mainz consists of two pro-
fessors and their academic staﬀ, as well as several Post-
Docs, PhDs, and MSc students. The main overall re-
search topic of our institute is patterns and processes
of evolution in plants. The institute is located at theUniversity Campus adjacent to the botanical garden
and oﬀers good research facilities, a stimulating work-
ing environment and friendly atmosphere for graduate
students in systematic botany.
The University of Mainz has an active biological re-
search community, dealing with various aspects of or-
ganismal and molecular biology and anthropology. The
city also oﬀers great quality of life through active cul-
tural programs and infrastructure of the Rhein-Main
area with Wiesbaden and Frankfurt being in close prox-
imity.
Salary is according to the Deutsche Forschungsgemein-
schaft (DFG) guidelines. Funding, including for labo-
ratory and ﬁeld costs, is available for 3 years.
If you are interested, please send (preferentially by e-
mail) a letter describing your motivation and research
interests, C.V., publications if any, and contact de-
tails of two academic referees. Applications will be
screened beginning 15 September until the position is
ﬁlled. Starting date of the PhD.: in 2011 or later. If
you have further question, do not hesitate to contact
me.
Berit Gehrke
Institut f¨ ur Spezielle Botanik und Botanischer Garten
Johannes Gutenberg-Universit¨ at Anselm-Franz-von-
Bentzelweg 9a 55099 Mainz Germany
Telefon: ++49(0)6131/39-22928 E-mail: gehrke@uni-
mainz.de Website: http://www.spezbot.fb10.uni-
mainz.de/home d/index.htm “Gehrke, Berit”
<gehrke@uni-mainz.de >
UmeaU PlantEvolGenomics
PhD student position in Plant Evolutionary Genomics
A PhD student position is available with a continuing
project to study natural hybridization and introgres-
sion between Populus trichocarpa and Populus fremon-
tii in California and Nevada. Next-generation sequenc-
ing and genotyping approaches will be used to investi-
gate the causes and consequences of gene ﬂow between
the two species. Collaborative opportunities exist with
the Canadian Forest Service for comparative analyses
with the P. balsamifera and P. deltoides hybrid system,
as well as other established research groups that work
on Populus here in Ume˚ a.
Knowledge of population genetics, evolutionary analy-16 EvolDir September 1, 2011
ses, molecular methods and bioinformatics is highly de-
sirable. Experience with ﬁeldwork is an asset, but not
a requirement. The successful applicant should pos-
sess creativity, autonomy and a dedicated team spirit.
Excellent proﬁciency in English is required, as English
is the working language in the research group and at
the department. The anticipated start date is January
2012, although alternative dates can be negotiated.
A complete version of this announcement is avail-
able at http://www8.umu.se/umu/aktuellt/arkiv/-
lediga tjanster/313-767-11.html#eng . Your appli-
cation should include a short description of your
research interests and why you are interested in the
position, CV, certiﬁcates from higher education, copies
of Bachelors/Masters thesis, and contact information
for 3 references.
For more information, contact Stacey Lee Thompson,
stacey.thompson@emg.umu.se.
Your complete application, marked with reference num-
ber 313-767-11, should be sent to jobb@umu.se (state
the reference number as subject) or to the Registrar,
Ume˚ a University, SE-901 87 Ume˚ a, Sweden to arrive
September 30, 2011 at the latest.
stacey.thompson@emg.umu.se
UMunster 7 Evolution
*Westf¨ alische Wilhelms-Universit¨ at M¨ unster*
* *
The University of M¨ unster invites applications from
outstanding candidates for PhD positions within its
“M¨ unster Graduate School of Evolution” (MGSE) Ini-
tiative.
The MGSE Initiative brings together researchers from
the biosciences, the geosciences, medicine, bioinformat-
ics, mathematics, philosophy, education research, as
well as theology, in order to develop a unifying frame-
work for interdisciplinary research and education in
evolution.
*7 PhD positions*
*(50% TV-L E13, 3 years)*
for
*Interdisciplinary Evolution Research*
*in Biology, Medicine, Mathematics, or Philosophy*within the “M¨ unster Graduate School of Evolution”
Initiative
We invite applications for PhD projects from all re-
search areas of MGSE. In addition to their disciplinary
focus, the proposed projects will have an interdisci-
plinary aspect. The PhD candidates will be members
of a speciﬁc lab/group and will be co-supervised by one
or two MGSE researchers from diﬀerent disciplines.
Project supervisors will also be open for proposals of
new project ideas. The positions are to be ﬁlled as
soon as possible.
Applicants must hold a Diploma/Master degree or an
equivalent in a discipline related to the project. Inter-
ested candidates should submit their Curriculum Vitae,
diploma/master thesis abstract, and references. In ad-
dition candidates should also provide a designation of
the favoured project, as well as a description of their
expectations and motivations to apply for an interdis-
ciplinary programme.
This should be sent as a single PDF
ﬁle to andreas.wessel@uni-muenster.de
<mailto:andreas.wessel@uni-muenster.de >, to ar-
rive by *3 ^rd October 2011*.
The University of M¨ unster is an Aﬃrmative Action,
Equal Opportunity employer committed to excellence
through diversity.
For more information refer to the MGSE website
(http://ieb.uni-muenster.de/mgsei/ ) or contact
Prof Joachim Kurtz
Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity, WWU
M¨ unster, H¨ uﬀerstraße 1, D-48149, Germany
joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de
Andreas Wessel <awess 02@uni-muenster.de >
UNewBrunswick
AlgalEvolutionaryGenomics
*Graduate Student Position in Algal Evolutionary Ge-
nomics*
*Biology Department*
*University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, Canada*
One graduate student (Ph.D.) position is available in
the laboratory of Dr. Adrian Reyes-Prieto in the Biol-
ogy Department of the University of New Brunswick atSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 17
Fredericton.
I seek an enthusiastic graduate student with strong in-
terests in genomic sciences, evolutionary biology and
microbial diversity. The candidate should have strong
research skills, and some experience with molecular bi-
ology techniques and bionformatics.The selected candi-
date is expected to join the lab as soon as January
2012.MSc candidates with equivalent experience will
also be considered.
Selected student will participate on genome-scale
projects investigating diverse aspects of the origin
and evolution of photosynthetic eukaryotes. The
selected candidate will generate genomic and tran-
scriptomic data from diverse algae, such as Glauco-
phytes and Prasinophytes, for evolutionary and com-
parative studies. Research projects comprise “next-
generation” sequencing, bioinformatics analyses, phy-
logenomics and experimental approaches (biochemistry
and proteomics). This position will provide the oppor-
tunity to conduct novel research in microbial compara-
tive genomics, organelle evolution and evolutionary bi-
ology. NSERC funds for stipends/salaries up to 4 years
are available.
My research program is aﬃliated to the CIFAR-
Integrated Microbiology Program and the selected
graduate student will have the opportunity to close
interactions with prestigious research groups across
Canada, Europe and USA ( http://www.cifar.ca/-
integrated-microbial-biodiversity-program-members )
via our ongoing collaborations and regular meetings.
Please apply by sending your Curriculum Vitae, contact
information of at least two references, and a cover letter
with statement of research interests to areyes[at]unb.ca.
It is critical you contact me directly prior to applying
to the graduate studies program.
Information on graduate studies and application
procedures for the Department of Biology at
University of New Brunswick can be found on-
line at www.unb.ca/fredericton/science/biology/-
Degree Info/Graduate.html Adrian Reyes-Prieto
Ph.D. University of New Brunswick, Biology Depart-
ment 269 Bailey Hall, Fredericton New Brunswick,
E3B 5A3 Canada
Adrian Reyes <areyes@unb.ca >
UNewSouthWales EvolutionaryBiolPhD or M Phil Positions in Genetics and Invasive
Species
Project 1: The molecular genetics of behavioural
mating-isolation in two Australian fruit-ﬂy pests. Dr
K Raphael, A/Prof W Sherwin et al. We work on
true fruit ﬂies (Tephritidae), native to Australia. Un-
like Drosophila which feeds on fermenting fruit, these
species lay their eggs in ripening fruit on the tree and
are therefore serious pests of horticulture. This project
targets two species of native fruit-ﬂy pests (Queensland
fruit ﬂies), which are extremely closely-related but mate
at diﬀerent times of day. We have received funding to
produce transcriptomes of the two species, using next-
generation sequencing. This new technology, which se-
quences to a much greater depth than possible previ-
ously, will form part of a larger program to discover
diﬀerences in gene sequence and expression that distin-
guish the species pair. The ﬁndings will be important
for studies of ﬂy behaviour and pest status, leading to
more eﬀective control strategies in the future.
Project 2: Sex and the dominant male determiner in
Australia’s true fruit ﬂies. Dr M Frommer, Dr D Shear-
man. Funds from ARC. A novel method to separate
male and female embryos of the Queensland fruit ﬂy
will enable us to discover the molecular switch that
causes embryos to change from the female to the male
developmental pathway when they carry a Y chromo-
some. The results will lead to major improvements in
the control of horticultural pest insects.
Project 3: Weeds adapting to Australia: rate and di-
rection of evolution. A/Prof A Moles, A/Prof W Sher-
win, Prof R Frankham. As well as threatening biodi-
versity, introduced species also allow us to study pro-
cesses of adaptation and invasion. We are measuring
changes in form, function and genetic make-up of in-
troduced species since their arrival in Australia. We
have used molecular genetic approaches to identify the
source populations, and collected seed from source and
invasion populations. This position would focus on
common-garden experiments to identify adaptive dif-
ferences that have occurred during the invasion pro-
cess. You should be qualiﬁed in population genetics,
or molecular sciences. There may be some ﬁeldwork.
Ecology qualiﬁcations are desirable..
PROCEDURE: (1) DISCUSS: Email letter with CV,
academic record, and details of two academic referees,
to A/Prof Bill Sherwin (W.Sherwin@unsw.edu.au). For
further information phone: +61-2-9385-2119. Your let-
ter should include explicit explanation of how your re-
sults are suﬃcient to allow application for a SCHOL-
ARSHIP at UNSW (see below for grades required). We
cannot consider other applications.18 EvolDir September 1, 2011
(2) PhD M/Phil CANDIDACY APPLICATION:
Requirements for PhD are BSc (Hons 1), MSc, or
equivalent. For MPhil, requirement is BSc. Speciﬁc
areas essential and desirable are shown for each project
above. Solid research and communication skills. Full
NSW driver license desirable. For exact timing and
details www.grs.unsw.edu.au/homepage.html (3a)
PhD SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION - LOCAL: Cit-
izens or permanent residents of Australia/NZ, apply
for APA and UPA at UNSW. You will need to have
completed a research degree (eg MSc or BSc Honours
research year), with results which are equivalent to
85% or higher, in order to be competitive for these
scholarships. Publications in ISI-listed international
journals will help also. Applications can be lodged
from 5 September, 2011, for study commencing in
First Session in 2012. For exact application timing and
details see http://research.unsw.edu.au/postgraduate-
research-scholarships (3b) PhD SCHOLARSHIP
APPLICATION - INTERNATIONAL: Applicants
who are NOT-citizens or permanent residents of
Australia/NZ, can apply for IPRS and UIPA at
UNSW. In order to be competitive for these schol-
arships, you will need to have completed a research
degree (eg MSc or BSc Honours research year),
with results which are equivalent to 95% or higher.
Note that a coursework MSc is NOT acceptable.
Publications in ISI-listed international journals will
help also. Applications are due 31st August, 2011,
for study commencing in First Session in 2012. For
exact timing and details see www.grs.unsw.edu.au/-
scholarships/internationalschols.html (3c) M Phil
SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION. Local and interna-
tional students can apply for a $4000 stipend form
the EERC, UNSW. International students can apply
for a tuition fee waiver scholarship, provided that
they can formally guarantee the remainder of their
own stipend www.grs.unsw.edu.au/scholarships/-
internationalschols.html www.eerc.unsw.edu.au/-
GradProgram.html
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UOklahoma EvolutionaryBiol
Ph.D. Graduate Studentship V Graduate Research As-sistantship (GRA)
I am looking for a highly-motivated, bright and ener-
getic student to join my laboratory in July 2012 as a
Ph.D. graduate student. The ﬁrst two years (i.e. 24
months) are funded oﬀ of a Graduate Research As-
sistantship (GRA). When a student is accepted into
the graduate program in Zoology, continued support
in the form of either teaching assistantships or GRA’s
(depending on grant funding) is virtually assured to
students in good standing. The successful candidate
must apply and be accepted into the Graduate Program
in the Dept of Zoology <http://www.ou.edu/cas/-
zoology/ >(i.e. either as Zoology or Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology (EEB) <http://www.ou.edu/eeb/-
>). Information on how to apply can be found here <
http://zoology.ou.edu/how toapply.htm >. Currently,
graduate research or teaching assistants receive tuition
waivers, and health care coverage.
The GRA is expected to work 20 hours per week in
my lab (0.50 FTE), while also conducting their own
dissertation research. I have a modern, well-equipped
laboratory located at the Biological Station (OU Bio-
logical Station <http://www.ou.edu/uobs >), an ap-
proximately 2-hr drive south of the OU main cam-
pus on the north shore of Lake Texoma, as well as
lab space on the main OU campus. Shared space
is also available in the Zoology Core Molecular Lab
(ZCML) <http://zoology.ou.edu/zcml.htm >on main
campus The ZCML houses a variety of equipment for
molecular ecology/evolution studies, including an ABI
16-capillary DNA analyzer. I am also a member of
the core EEB faculty, an inter-departmental Ph.D. pro-
gram. The ideal situation is to ﬁnd a student whose
interests mesh very closely with my own.
My group and I study the mechanisms (e.g. selection,
migration) that inﬂuence the maintenance of genetic
diversity in asexual-sexual species complexes, using the
freshwater cladoceran genus, Daphnia, as our primary
model organism. My research bridges the ﬁelds of pop-
ulation genetics, environmental genomics, and evolu-
tionary ecology. In my lab, a variety of molecular tech-
niques (e.g. microsatellites, DNA sequencing, microar-
rays) are used to examine the population genetic struc-
ture of aquatic organisms, with most of my work focus-
ing on zooplankton.
We currently have several major projects. The ﬁrst
project with Canadian and German colleagues has been
examining long-term (i.e. decadal) changes in arctic
rockpool and tundra pond population genetic structure,
as well as community structure among zooplankton re-
lated to climate change. A second major project funded
by the National Science Foundation (NSF) with col-September 1, 2011 EvolDir 19
leagues at Oklahoma State Univ. and Indiana Univ.
is focusing on the ecological and genetic information
held in lake/pond sediment egg banks of freshwater in-
vertebrates, primarily Daphnia. We employ a variety
of techniques spanning the ﬁelds of molecular genetics,
ecology (i.e. direct hatching of eggs, selection experi-
ments), and environmental genomics (i.e. microarray
experiments) to examine long-term (i.e. decades, cen-
turies) shifts in population genetic structure that may
be associated with concomitant shifts in environmen-
tal factors (e.g. nutrient/eutrophication history). We
aim to look at how shifts in environmental factors may
inﬂuence long-term temporal genetic heterogeneity in
natural populations. A third project with colleagues
in Norway, U.S., and U.K. is examining the relation-
ship between genome size, growth rate, and elemen-
tal composition (biological stoichiometry - C:N:P) us-
ing the freshwater microcrustacean, Daphnia, as one of
our model organisms.
If you would like to get a better view of the facilities
here at the U. of Oklahoma, please visit the OU Bi-
ological Station <http://www.ou.edu/uobs >website.
Additional info is available on my lab’s website <http:/-
/faculty-staﬀ.ou.edu/W/Lawrence.J.Weider-1/ >.
For further information, please contact:
Lawrence J. Weider, Director of Research The Univer-
sity of Oklahoma Biological Station ljweider@ou.edu;
phone: 1-405-325-4766 or 325-7438; FAX: 1-405-325-
0835
“Weider, Lawrence J.” <ljweider@ou.edu >
UPuertoRico
BiogeogCaribbeanArachnids
UPuertoRico.BiogeogCaribbeanArachnids
*Ph. D student to study biogeography of Caribbean
arachnids***
We are a seeking a highly motivated PhD student
to join our NSF-funded research team that is ad-
dressing fundamental evolutionary and biogeographic
questions using Caribbean arachnids. The team in-
cludes researchers from the University of Puerto Rico,
Lewis and Clark College, University of Kansas, and
collaborators from multiple other institutions. The
research will largely consist of comparative biogeo-
graphic analyses of Caribbean arachnids that represent
a range of dispersal abilities and have fossil represen-tation. The project involves ﬁeld work every year for
the next three years and includes a large number of
Caribbean islands, as well as nearby continental land-
masses. To learn more about the project please see:
http://www.islandbiogeography.org/ The selected can-
didate will obtain his/her PhD from the University of
Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras at the Agnarsson lab ( http:/-
/www.theridiidae.com/ ), and have the opportunity to
spend time at the Binford lab at Lewis and Clark
College ( http://legacy.lclark.edu/ ˜ binford/ ) and/or
the Selden lab at the University of Kansas ( http:/-
/homepage.mac.com/paulselden/Home/ ). The candi-
date will also have an opportunity to collaborate with
a range of world taxonomic experts on various arach-
nids, and work at the Smithsonian Institution, Wash-
ington DC to gather molecular data and secure tissue
samples for long term storage at the Global Genome
Initiative facility. We seek a candidate with strong
previous research and ﬁeldwork experience. Knowledge
of phylogenetic methods and molecular work is essen-
tial, and research experience in the ﬁeld of biogeog-
raphy/phylogeography is highly desirable. Experience
with spiders and other arachnids is an asset, but not
necessary. The position is funded as a research assis-
tant for a minimum of 3 years, starting as soon as possi-
ble. Additional years will be funded through a graduate
teaching assistantship at the University of Puerto Rico
(one year minimal teaching requirement). Please ap-
ply by sending your CV, including the email addresses
of two referees, and a letter of motivation to Ingi Ag-
narsson (iagnarsson@gmail.com) by October 15, 2011.
The selected candidate will then need to apply to the
doctoral program of the Department of Biology, Uni-
versity of Puerto Rico ( http://biology.uprrp.edu/ ), by
December 15, 2011. Please direct questions to Ingi Ag-
narsson (iagnarsson@gmail.com) or Greta Binford (bin-
ford@lclark.edu).
– Ingi Agnarsson Assistant Professor and director of
Museum of Zoology University of Puerto Rico Depart-
ment of Biology PO Box 23360 San Juan, P.R. 00931-
3360
ph: 787-764-0000 ext. 2908 web: http://-
theridiidae.com/Agnarsson%20lab.html Ingi Agnars-
son<iagnarsson@gmail.com >
USherbrooke BlueTitEvolution
We are a seeking a motivated PhD student to join
our research team involving researchers from the De-20 EvolDir September 1, 2011
partment of Biology at the Universit´ e de Sherbrooke,
Qu´ ebec, Canada and from the Centre d’´ ecologie fonc-
tionnelle et ´ evolutive, Montpellier, France.
The proposed project will investigate natural selection
acting on reproductive traits using long-term datasets
with phenotypic and pedigree data collected in pop-
ulations of blue tits (Cyanistes caeruleus) in Corsica,
France. The project will beneﬁt from data gathered
over 10 to 35 years in natural populations to estab-
lish the strength and variability of selection across
contrasted environments and at diﬀerent geographical
scales. A quantitative genetic approach will allow to
link these selection patterns with genetic co(variances)
displayed by reproductive traits, providing insights into
evolutionary potentials of these characters.
The selected candidate will share his time between the
Universit´ e de Sherbrooke and Universit´ e de Montpel-
lier II. The ﬁeldwork in Corsica will take place every
year from April to June. Ideally, the candidate will
have previous research and ﬁeldwork experiences; skills
in handling birds would also be an advantage. A good
background in evolutionary ecology and biostatistics is
also desirable.
The position is funded for three years, starting as
soon as January 2012. Please apply by sending your
CV, including the email addresses of two referees,
and a letter of motivation by 7 October 2011 to
Dany.Garant@Usherbrooke.ca
—–
Nous cherchons un ´ etudiant au PhD pour joindre
notre ´ equipe de recherche constitu´ ee de chercheurs du
d´ epartement de biologie l’Universit´ e de Sherbrooke,
Qu´ ebec Canada et du Centre d’´ ecologie fonctionnelle
et ´ evolutive ` a Montpellier, France.
Le projet propos´ e portera sur l’analyse de pressions de
s´ election agissant sur les traits reproducteurs dans des
populations suivies ` a long terme de m´ esanges bleues
(Cyanistes caeruleus) en Corse, France. Le projet
b´ en´ eﬁciera de donn´ ees ph´ enotypiques et de pedigree
r´ ecolt´ es sur des p´ eriodes de 10 ` a 35 ans pour ´ etablir
la force et la variabilit´ e de la s´ election dans habitats
contrast´ es et ` a diﬀ´ erentes ´ echelles du paysage. Une
approche de g´ en´ etique quantitative pourra permettre
de relier les patrons de s´ election aux (co)variances
g´ en´ etiques des traits reproducteur, de mani` ere ` a ex-
plorer le potentiel ´ evolutif de ces caract` eres.
Le candidat retenu sera inscrit en cotutelle ` a
l’Universit´ e de Sherbrooke et ` a l’Universit´ e de Mont-
pellier II. Les travaux de terrain se d´ erouleront chaque
ann´ ee d’avril ` a juin en Corse. Id´ ealement, le candidat
aura de l’exp´ erience avec les travaux de terrain, avec lamanipulation d’oiseaux et de bonnes connaissances en
´ ecologie ´ evolutive et en biostatistiques.
Le poste est ﬁnanc´ e pour 3 ans ` a compter de janvier
2012 au plus tˆ ot. Veuillez envoyer un CV, une lettre de
motivation et les coordonn´ ees de deux r´ ef´ erences avant
le 7 octobre 2011 ` a Dany.Garant@Usherbrooke.ca
—–
Dany Garant Associate Professor Department of Biol-
ogy University of Sherbrooke Sherbrooke QC J1K 2R1
Canada
Tel: (819) 821-8000 ext.63198 Fax: (819) 821-8049
http://pages.usherbrooke.ca/dgarant/-
Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca
Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca
USherbrooke
UngulatePopulationGenetics
Ph.D. Linking traits, ﬁtness and population dynamics.
I am looking for a Ph.D. student to explore the links
between genetically based traits, ﬁtness and population
dynamics. This research is part of a long-term program
in collaboration with Prof. Marco Festa-Bianchet at the
Universit? de Sherbrooke.? Since 1971, individually
marked bighorn sheep have been monitored from birth
to death at Ram Mountain. The student will collect
behavioural observations during two or three seasons
(May to September) and assist with capture, marking
and measuring of the sheep, collecting samples for hor-
mone and DNA analyses.
Assets for this position include a M.Sc. degree, publica-
tions, a knowledge of ’basic’ French (or a strong willing-
ness to learn it), ﬁeldwork experience, strong quantita-
tive skills.? Canadian candidates will be preferred, but
strong foreign candidates will be seriously considered.
A tax-free scholarship is available, and ﬁnancing for
travel, ﬁeldwork and lab expenses has been secured.?
The program can begin in either January, May or
September 2012.
For information on my research, see http://-
pages.usherbrooke.ca/fpelletier/ Interested candidates
should e-mail a CV, a statement of research interests
and the e-mails of two referees before the 1st of October
to Fanie Pelletier: fanie.pelletier@usherbrooke.ca
Fanie Pelletier, Ph.D. Professeure Agr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtg˜Ac/circlecopyrte Uni-September 1, 2011 EvolDir 21
versit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtde Sherbrooke D ˜Ac/circlecopyrtpartement de biolo-
gie Facult ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdes Sciences Sherbrooke (Qu ˜Ac/circlecopyrtbec)
CANADA J1K2R1
tel.: 819-821-8000 poste 61092 fax: 819 821-8049
fanie.pelletier@usherbrooke.ca
Fanie Pelletier <fanie.pelletier@usherbrooke.ca >
WashingtonStateU FloralEvolution
Washington State University, Plant Evolutionary Ge-
netics
The Busch lab at Washington State University is re-
cruiting a Ph.D. student with broad interests in ecol-
ogy and evolution. This student would begin in the
fall of 2012 and be partially supported by a research
assistantship that is part of a 5 year collaborative
proposal funded by the National Science Foundation
(NSF). The research program will examine the break-
down of self-incompatibility, to determine the mode and
tempo whereby this complex adaptation is lost in na-
ture. This proposal is conducted in collaboration with
the lab of Dr. Christopher Herlihy at Middle Tennessee
State University, and focuses on the mustard species
Leavenworthia alabamica as a model. The Ph.D. stu-
dent will be supported for 2 years on a 12 month basis.
During this time, the student will lead manipulative
ﬁeld experiments, oversee undergraduate researchers in
the ﬁeld, and use population-genetic techniques to esti-
mate parentage and gene ﬂow. Work conducted duringthe RA appointment would be expected to be part of a
larger body of dissertation work that is open to the stu-
dent. I expect that the incoming Ph.D. student would
have broad interests in the maintenance of genetic vari-
ation and be fascinated by ecological and evolutionary
processes.
Interested students should see the Busch labora-
tory homepage ( http://sbs.wsu.edu/faculty/?faculty/-
148) to read about the diversity of research topics that
are being investigated by lab members.
Washington State University has a long history of
supporting outstanding research in ecology and evo-
lutionary biology. Current areas of faculty expertise
range from physiology, ecology, systematics, evolution-
ary ecology, and population genetics. Research in plant
biology at WSU beneﬁts from excellent greenhouse and
research facilities and the Betty Higinbotham fund,
which provides substantial monetary support for stu-
dents conducting ﬁeld or oﬀ-campus research. The
Ph.D. student would also be guaranteed monetary sup-
port during the remainder of their dissertation by serv-
ing as a teaching assistant. To learn more about
graduate studies in the School of Biological Sciences
at WSU, please read further on our website ( http://-
sbs.wsu.edu/grad-studies ).
If you are interested in this opportunity for RA sup-
port and studying ﬂoral evolution for your Ph.D., please
send me a CV and a statement outlining your motiva-
tion to pursue graduate studies in ecology and evolu-
tion.
Sincerely,
Jeremiah W. Busch jwbusch[at]wsu.edu
Jobs
BrighamYoungU PlantBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
BrownU ProgrammerBioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
CornellU BioinformaticsProgrammer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Darmouth EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
DukeU LemurCenterManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
IMBG Crete 2 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24LBBE Lyon PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
LMU Munchen MolecularSystematics LowerPlants 25
MaxPlanckInst ResAssist LuikotaleBonobo . . . . . . . . 26
Mexico Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MiddleburyCollege OneSemester TeachingEvol . . . . 27
NewZealand TwoYear Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2822 EvolDir September 1, 2011
OhioStateU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
PrincetonU EvolutionaryBiolPrincetonU Evolutionary-
Biol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
SangerInst BacterialBioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Taipei FishBehaviourEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
TunghaiU Taiwan EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UAlabama ResTech DrosophilaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 31
UBergen SystematicBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UBristol Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UMalaya Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UMichigan EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UMunster IntegrativeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34UNeuchatel EvolutionParasites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UNewMexico TwoEvolEcologyFaculty . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
USouthCarolina ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UToronto Scarborough ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . 36
UVermont Systematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UWesternOntario MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UWisconsinMadison DigitizingCollections . . . . . . . . . 38
UWisconsinMadison InformationSpecialist . . . . . . . . . 39
WageningenU LabAssist PlantMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
ZFMK Bonn DipteraCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
BrighamYoungU PlantBiology
Plant Biology - Brigham Young University
The Department of Biology seeks to ﬁll a full time,
continuing status position in plant biology. Qualiﬁed
applicants with a PhD, postdoctoral experience, and
expertise in evolutionary or organismal biology (includ-
ing, but not limited to, modern applications such as
molecular ecology, systematics, genomics, evolutionary
development, and so forth) are encouraged to apply.
The successful candidate is expected to maintain an ex-
ternally funded research program involving both under-
graduate and graduate students. Excellence in teaching
is required; teaching responsibilities will include gen-
eral biology, plant diversity, and a graduate course in
the candidate’s area of expertise. The department of-
fers competitive start-up packages and reduced teach-
ing loads for new faculty. Interested persons should
complete a BYU faculty application form at https://-
yjobs.byu.edu and attach a current CV and statements
of teaching and research interests. Questions can be
directed to: Dr. Clint Whipple, Plant Biology Search
Committee Chair, 401 WIDB, Department of Biology,
BYU, Provo, UT 84602.
The review process will begin September 15th, 2011
for this position and continue until the position is
ﬁlled. Additional department and college information
is available at website: http://biology.byu.edu/home
.Brigham Young University, an equal opportunity em-
ployer, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
gender, age, national origin, veteran status, or against
qualiﬁed individuals with disabilities. All faculty are
required to abide by the university’s honor code and
dress and grooming standards. Preference is given to
qualiﬁed candidates who are members in good standingof the aﬃliated church, The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Successful candidates are expected
to support and contribute to the academic and reli-
gious missions of the university within the context of
the principles and doctrine of the aﬃliated church
leigh johnson@BYU.EDU
BrownU
ProgrammerBioinformatician
The Ramachandran lab at Brown University is look-
ing for a full-time programmer/bioinformatician to par-
ticipate in ongoing research projects in the lab focus-
ing on human population genetics and genetic vari-
ation in domesticated animals. For more informa-
tion on research projects see: http://www.brown.edu/-
Research/Ramachandran Lab/ The position’s primary
duties will be curating genetic databases, implementing
bioinformatics pipelines for the analysis of genome-wide
and next-generation sequencing datasets, and adminis-
tering the lab’s cluster and data storage. The successful
applicant will also have opportunities to contribute to
collaborations with other labs in the Division of Biology
and Medicine and the Division of Applied Mathematics
at Brown.
Qualiﬁcations sought: - Four-year college degree in
Computer Science or related ﬁeld and at least 2 years
professional programming experience. - Proﬁciency in
programming using R, UNIX platforms, and at least
two of the following: C, Java, Perl, Python - Excel-
lent oral and written communication skills in English -
Strong motivation to conduct collaborative research -
Further desired: background in biology, anthropology,
and/or statistics; knowledge of bioinformatics softwareSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 23
(e.g., PLINK, FRAPPE, GATK); experience analyzing
large-scale genome data; familiarity with Mac OS X
Interested applicants can learn more about the position
from http://careers.brown.edu, job number M02555
Please direct any inquiries to Dr. Sohini Ramachan-
dran: sramachandran at brown dot edu.
Sohini Ramachandran Assistant Professor Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Center for Computational Molec-
ular Biology
sohinir@gmail.com
CornellU
BioinformaticsProgrammer
Seeking a bioinformatics programmer for a new,
cutting-edge canine genomics laboratory in the De-
partment of Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary
Medicine. The lab is focused on developing novel com-
putational approaches for understanding canine evolu-
tion and the genetic basis of complex phenotypes from
high-throughput genotyping and sequencing. The pri-
mary duties of the position will be to maintain scien-
tiﬁc databases, design, implement and manage bioin-
formatic resources to handle high-throughput genomic
data, install and debug software applications, and
maintain storage/backup hardware. Necessary skills
include experience with scientiﬁc and/or database pro-
gramming, documentation (e.g., developing wikis) and
software development.
The programmer will also be involved in building re-
sources for research outreach. The position requires an
individual capable of communicating with scientiﬁc re-
searchers, handling and prioritizing duties across mul-
tiple projects, and working independently on critical
tasks. Experience with basic web development a plus.
Required qualiﬁcations: Bachelor’s degree in computer
science or related ﬁeld and at least 2- 3 years of pro-
gramming experience, ideally in bioinformatics or re-
lated area. Proven ability to handle large databases and
complete complex programming projects a must. Must
have proﬁciency in UNIX, cluster computing, Perl and
C/C++ or Python.
Preferred qualiﬁcations: Experience in computational
biology and biological statistics, particularly in the
analysis of next-generation sequencing and dense geno-
typing data. GUI and web design experience also aplus, especially experience developing database-driven
web applications. Proﬁciency in R or other statistical
packages. and experience with SQL desirable. Experi-
ence with cloud computing also desirable.
To apply, send a CV or resume, cover letter and con-
tact information for 3 references to Dr. Adam Boyko:
boyko at cornell dot edu. Review of applications will
begin August 31. Informal inquiries are welcome, and
start date is negotiable.
arboyko@gmail.com
Darmouth EvolutionaryGenomics
Faculty Position in Comparative and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics
The Department of Biological Sciences at *Dartmouth
*seeks applicants for a tenure track Assistant Profes-
sorship in the areas of comparative and evolutionary
genomics, bioinformatics, molecular evolution, popula-
tion genetics, or quantitative genetics.We seek candi-
dates who are taking empirical, theoretical and/or sta-
tistical approaches to major questions in these areas
in any biological system.The successful candidate will
be expected to supervise an independent research pro-
gram that will attract extramural funding, to provide
research training for graduate and undergraduate stu-
dents, and to teach at the undergraduate and graduate
levels.Application materials should include a curricu-
lum vitae, representative publications, statements of re-
search and teaching interests, and at least three letters
of reference.Please send materials either electronically
(preferred) to “evolgenomics@mac.dartmouth.edu” or
as hard copies to:
Evolutionary Genomics Search
Department of Biological Sciences
Dartmouth College
Hanover, NH 03755
Application review will begin on October 19, 2011 and
continue until the position is ﬁlled.For further informa-
tion about the department and graduate programs, see
http://www.dartmouth.edu/˜biology/ . This position
is one of six tenure-track faculty positions that will be
ﬁlled at Dartmouth this year: two in developmental bi-
ology, two in genomics/bioinformatics, one in molecular
therapeutics, and one in cancer biology.24 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Dartmouth College combines a commitment to innova-
tive scholarship with dedication to excellent teaching.
One of the most diverse institutions of higher educa-
tion in New England, Dartmouth College is an equal
opportunity/aﬃrmative action employer, has a strong
commitment to diversity, and in that spirit encourages
applications from women and minorities“.
Mark McPeek <mark.mcpeek@dartmouth.edu >
DukeU LemurCenterManager
The Duke Lemur Center is seeking to ﬁll the position of
Research Project Coordinator, with an expected start
date of October 1, 2011. The successful candidate will
have a bachelor’s degree in one of the biological sciences,
with a Master’s degree or Ph.D. preferred. Strong or-
ganizational and communication skills are a must. To
learn more about the position and/or to apply, please
visit the Duke HR web site http://www.hr.duke.edu/-
jobs/apply/external.php where you will need to register
as an external applicant (unless already employed by
Duke University). After registering, enter 400510683
in the Requisition Number or use “Lemur Center” as
the Keyword.
The Duke Lemur Center is a unique organization ded-
icated to the study and conservation of endangered
prosimian primates, especially the lemurs of Madagas-
car. To learn more about the Center, please visit our
web site: http://lemur.duke.edu/ For additional in-
formation, please contact the Director, Anne Yoder
<anne.yoder@duke.edu >
Anne Yoder <anne.yoder@duke.edu >
IMBG Crete 2 Bioinformatics
Two positions in Bioinformatics/Computational Biol-
ogy
The Institute of Marine Biology and Genetics (IMBG)
of the Hellenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR),
invites applications for two (2) experienced researchers
in the ﬁeld of Bioinformatics - Computational Bi-
ology. These positions are funded by the EU-FP7
“MARBIGEN” project “Supporting research potentialfor MARine BIodiversity and GENomics in the East-
ern Mediterranean”( www.marbigen.org ). This project
aims at supporting IMBG excellence in the ﬁelds of bio-
diversity and genomics, by integration of phenotypic,
community ecology and genomic approaches within an
evolutionary context. It includes upgrading existing
and acquiring new equipment for automated 3D phe-
notyping, genomic data production and bioinformatics,
taking advantage of the knowledge and experience ex-
isting in excellent research entities of the EU though
exchanges of researchers, the organization of workshops
and seminars, and hiring incoming experienced scien-
tiﬁc personnel.
IMBG is located in Crete, Greece ( www.hcmr.gr/-
listview2.php?id2 ), 15 km east of the city of Herak-
lion by the seashore. Its focus is on studying biodiver-
sity at all levels of biological organization, from genes
to ecosystems. It leads the Greek national network
for biodiversity research (related to ESFRI infrastruc-
ture “LIFEWATCH”), is a member of the national net-
work for genomic research, and participates in the pan-
European ESFRI infrastructure “EMBRC” (European
Marine Biological Resource Centre).
Speciﬁcally, experienced researchers are to be recruited
for the following positions:
1. Bioinformatician / Computational Biologist with in-
terest / experience in applying genomic approaches in
organismic and population biology. Ability in analy-
sis of next generation sequencing data, gene annotation
and genome assembly will be considered.
2. Bioinformatician with experience in genomics and
metagenomics of microbial organisms. Experience in
analysis of data, produced by next generation sequenc-
ing will be considered.
Candidates must have a PhD in a related ﬁeld and at
least three years of postdoctoral experience, a demon-
strated record of signiﬁcant research and the potential
to make substantial contributions as independent in-
vestigators. The fellows are expected to be involved in
running projects of the Institute but also to develop
new research projects and to interact with the multi-
disciplinary research environment of the host Institute.
Applications should consist of a)a cover letter detail-
ing previous experience, research interests and moti-
vation for applying, b)an academic CV and c) con-
tact information for three referees (including e-mail
address), which should be submitted electronically to
magoulas@her.hcmr.gr until September 10, 2011.
The expected starting date for the positions is in Oc-
tober 2011. Gross salaries will be 4500 euro per month
and duration of contracts will be initially for one year,September 1, 2011 EvolDir 25
extendable for one further year.
For more info please contact Dr. Giorgos Kotoulas
<kotoulas@her.hcmr.gr >
We are committed to increasing the proportion of fe-
male researchers at IMBG/ HCMR and strongly en-
courage applications from female candidates.
Dr. Antonios Magoulas
Director, Institute of Marine Biology and Genetics Hel-
lenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR) P.O. Box
2214, 710 03 Heraklion, Greece Tel. +30 2810 337801
Fax +30 2810 337870
LBBE Lyon PopulationGenetics
*Statistics and probability in population Genetics-
Genomics*
The Laboratoire Biometrie et Biologie Evolutive
(LBBE) in Lyon, France, is seeking candidates for
an upcoming hire at the Assistant Professor level
(Charge de Recherche) in the area of Statistics and
Probability for population Genetics and Genomics.
The expected application deadline is early January
2012. Interested candidates can contact Franck Picard
(franck.picard@univ-lyon1.fr) for more information, or
visit the LBBE webpage (lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr) for more
information about the department.
Since the beginning geneticists and mathematicians
have worked together to develop methodologies in
Statistics and stochastic modeling that could help to
understand the observed genetic diversity. Areas of
successes and challenges concern the inference of pop-
ulation parameters for instance (growth, decline and
eﬀective sizes of populations, migratory ﬂuxes, mating
types, etc.), the mapping of quantitative trait loci, the
reconstruction of evolutionary scenarii, and also the
analysis of genomic data. Such interplays are at the
core of the identiﬁcation of loci under selection pressure,
ﬁrst step towards the identiﬁcation of polymorphisms
responsible for particular adaptations of organisms to
their environment.
Such approaches have recently gained enormous power
thanks to the emergence of Next Sequencing Technolo-
gies that give a unique access to the genetic diversity
at the scale of complete genomes, even for non-model
organisms. Combining ecological and such genomic
data is the new challenge to draw a real comprehen-sive picture of spatio-temporal processes that govern
the genetic organization and evolution of populations.
The ﬂood of data arising from the Next Generation
Sequencing technologies oﬀers new exciting perspec-
tives to study the functioning of biological communi-
ties, within space and time, but also raises important
methodological challenges. These challenges concern
the analysis of the raw data as well as the inference of
the evolutionary processes.
In Lyon, diﬀerent research groups work on Ecol-
ogy, Evolutionary Genomics and Mathematics. Sev-
eral groups have started to tackle these challenges,
with both mathematical and biological perspectives, by
working out statistical models and by collecting genetic
and genomic data (with or without spatial information)
on diﬀerent organisms (vertebrates, invertebrates, mi-
croorganisms, vectors). Lyon constitutes an ideal envi-
ronment to develop an ambitious research project in
Mathematics applied to population Genomics. This
proﬁle is broad since methodological needs are impor-
tant to model more and more complex biological pro-
cesses and also to analyze and integrate heterogeneous
biological data in high dimension.
Key words :
* modeling in population genetics * Genomic data anal-
ysis * Statistical genetics * landscape genetics
ane@stat.wisc.edu
LMU Munchen
MolecularSystematics LowerPlants
The*Faculty of Biology* of the Ludwig-Maximilians-
Universit¨ at M¨ unchen (LMU) invites applications for a
Professorship (W2) for Molecular Systematics of Lower
Plants or Fungi (6 years/tenure track)
commencing as soon as possible.
The successful candidate is expected to establish
a strong, competitively funded research program in
molecular systematics of mosses, ferns or fungi. Pref-
erence will be given to applicants whose research pro-
grams include evolutionary questions and will facilitate
cooperation within the faculty and with other research
institutions. A strong commitment to teaching in the
Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics program as well
as the bachelor and master programs in biology is ex-
pected.26 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Prerequisites for this position are a university degree, a
doctoral degree, teaching skills at university level and a
post-doctoral degree (Habilitation) or equivalent quali-
ﬁcation that may have been gained outside the univer-
sity or may consist in a junior professorship.
The initial appointment will be for six years. After a
minimum of three years it may be converted to tenure
pending a positive evaluation of the candidate’s apti-
tude for teaching and research as well as the candidate’s
pedagogical and personal aptitude if all legal conditions
are met. In exceptional cases involving candidates with
outstanding qualiﬁcations, a tenured position may be
oﬀered from the outset.
Candidates for this position should be aged 52 or under
at the time of appointment. Exceptions thereto may be
considered in the case of outstanding candidates.
The LMU is an equal opportunity employer and aims to
increase the number of female faculty members. There-
fore, applications from female candidates are explicitly
encouraged.
Disabled candidates with essentially equal qualiﬁca-
tions will be given preference.
The LMU supports dual career couples.
Further information concerning the LMU’s equal op-
portunity policy can be obtained from Prof. U.
Vothknecht (vothknecht@lmu.de), concerning teach-
ing from Prof. H. Jung (hjung@lmu.de), concern-
ing the structure of the Faculty from Prof. Dr.
Grothe (dekanat19@lmu.de), and concerning the sci-
entiﬁc scope of the position from Prof. S. Renner
(renner@lrz.uni-muenchen.de).
Please submit your application comprising a cur-
riculum vitae, list of publications, a brief summary
of present and future research interests, proof of
teaching experience, ﬁve selected reprints and copies
of relevant documents as electronic ﬁle (together
with the completed submission form on the web-
side http://www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/fakultaet/-
organisation/dekanat/index.html before 30th Septem-
ber 2011 to the email-address dekanat19@lmu.de and in
printed form to the Dean of the Faculty of Biology, Prof.
Dr. Benedikt Grothe, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at
M¨ unchen, Gro&#914;haderner Stra&#914;e 2, 82152
Planegg-Martinsried, Germany.
Susanne Renner <renner@lrz.uni-muenchen.de >MaxPlanckInst ResAssist
LuikotaleBonobo
Research Assistant LuiKotale Bonobo Project
Hiring Organisation: Max Planck Institute for Evolu-
tionary Anthropology
Position Description: I am looking for a ﬁeld assis-
tant to assist with data collection for my Ph.D. project
on female mate choice and mating strategies in bono-
bos (Pan paniscus) at LuiKotale - a long-term ﬁeld
site near Salonga National Park in the Democratic Re-
public of Congo. This study is part of an ongoing
project and all collected data will be handed over at
the end of the appointment; therefore, this position is
not suitable for candidates looking to pursue individ-
ual projects. The research assistant will be trained on
site, and will learn to identify individual bonobos in a
habituated community of bonobos. The assistant will
work alongside an existing team of personnel, recording
detailed behavioural observations and collecting faecal
and urine samples. Fieldwork includes long-distance
walking through very diﬃcult terrain, and the assis-
tant should be prepared to work long days, sometimes
from dawn to dusk, in all weather conditions. In-
formation about the ﬁeld site and research activities
at LuiKotale is available at http://www.eva.mpg.de/-
primat/ﬁles/bonobo.htm . This position will provide
the successful applicant with an excellent opportunity
to gain extended ﬁeldwork experience with detailed be-
havioural research.
Qualiﬁcations/Experience: Essential requirements are:
(1) ﬁeld experience, preferably in a tropical climate; (2)
above average physical ﬁtness and tolerance of demand-
ing physical conditions; (3) above average resistance to
social/psychological stress; and (4) the ability to live in
a very remote and basic camp, and work with an inter-
national team of students, volunteers and local staﬀ. ˆA
Candidates should have: (1) practical and technical
skills required for orientation and navigation in the for-
est (e.g., experience with GPS units and compass read-
ing); (2) strong social skills and patience; (3) high de-
gree of self-motivation and responsibility; (4) respect
for and willingness to adapt to local customs; (5) up-
to-date awareness of the current situation in DRC, in-
cluding potential health and safety risks associated with
working in DRC. Candidates with ﬁeld research experi-
ence in Africa, animal behavioural research experience,September 1, 2011 EvolDir 27
and knowledge of French will be preferred.
Salary/funding: 300 Euros/month
Support provided for ﬁeld assistant (travel, meals, lodg-
ing): - Food (a variety of local foods with limited west-
ern food items) - Lodging (in tents under thatched
roofs) at the ﬁeld site - Airfare and airport tax for one
domestic return ﬂight from Kinshasa to the ﬁeld site
- Contribution of up to 800 Euros for an international
return ﬂight (reimbursement ONLY AFTER successful
completion of a 9-MONTH term of appointment) - Ex-
penses for visa (reimbursement ONLY AFTER success-
ful completion of a 9-MONTH term of appointment) *
Please note that expenses during the stay in Kinshasa
on the way in/out of D.R. Congo cannot be covered by
the project.
Term of Appointment: 9 months starting in March 2012
Application Deadline: October 1, 2011
Comments: To apply, please send: (1) a letter of in-
terest/motivation; (2) your CV or resume detailing rel-
evant experience; and (3) names and e-mail addresses
of two people who would be willing to provide refer-
ences to heidi douglas@eva.mpg.de by the October 1st
deadline.
Contact Information: Pamela Heidi Douglas Depart-
ment of Primatology Max Planck Institute for Evolu-
tionary Anthropology Deutscher Platz 6 04103 Leipzig
Germany
Telephone Number: ++49 (0) 341 3550 264
E-mail Address: heidi douglas@eva.mpg.de
highland chimp@yahoo.ca
Mexico Biodiversity
Tenure-track Faculty Position at Langebio-
CINVESTAV ( http://www.langebio.cinvestav.mx )
The National Laboratory of Genomics for Biodiver-
sity of Mexico (Langebio) is a Unit of the “Centro
de Investigaci´ on y de Estudios Avanzados” (CINVES-
TAV), a Federal Government Institution devoted to ba-
sic and applied research. Langebio’s mandate is to
conduct top-ranked research and graduate education,
while promoting genomic knowledge for the protection
and sustainable use of Mexican biodiversity ( http://-
www.langebio.cinvestav.mx ).
Research at Langebio is conducted by an internationalteam of scientists, with an emphasis on collaboration
and multidisciplinary studies. We are recruiting group
leaders at all career stages, working in experimental and
theoretical biology. Scientists at Langebio have access
to state of the art computational and wet lab facilities,
and are expected to build or bring a world-class research
group. Applications from women are encouraged.
Applicants should send a CV, PDFs of their 3 most
important publications, and a three page description of
their scientiﬁc accomplishments and proposed research
program. Junior applicants should arrange for three
reference letters to be sent separately.
Review of applications will begin November 15th,
2011. Send applications to the attention of
Dr. Luis Herrera-Estrella, Langebio-CINVESTAV,
Irapuato, Guanajuato, MEXICO, E-mail: mber-
nal@langebio.cinvestav.mx
acibrian@langebio.cinvestav.mx
MiddleburyCollege OneSemester
TeachingEvol
MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE ASSOCIATE IN SCI-
ENCE INSTRUCTION
The Department of Biology invites applications for
a one-semester leave replacement, for spring semester
2012, as an Associate in Science Instruction (ASI). The
primary responsibility is an introductory core course
in ecology and evolution (BIOL 0140). The ASI will
be responsible for all aspects of the laboratory por-
tion of the course, including designing labs, ordering
and preparing materials, instruction, grading, and over-
sight of undergraduate teaching assistants. The ASI
will teach four laboratory sections per week during the
spring semester. Applicants should have a Ph.D. in
ecology, evolutionary biology, or a related ﬁeld, and a
demonstrated commitment to excellence in teaching.
Candidates who are ABD but have excellent teach-
ing experience are encouraged to apply. Applications
for this position will be accepted starting on Septem-
ber 1, 2011. Review of applications will begin on
September 30, 2011. Submit letter of application, cur-
riculum vitae, graduate transcript , three current let-
ters of recommendation, and a statement describing
laboratory teaching and practical experience to Andi
Lloyd, Biology Department Chair, Department of Bi-
ology, Middlebury, Vermont 05753. More information28 EvolDir September 1, 2011
on the Biology Department and its curriculum can be
found at <http://www.middlebury.edu/academics/bio
>http://www.middlebury.edu/academics/bio . Please
direct any questions about this position to Andi Lloyd
(lloyd@middlebury.edu; 802-443-3165).
Middlebury College is an Equal Opportunity Employer
committed to recruiting a diverse faculty to comple-
ment the increasing diversity of our student body.
hjyoung@middlebury.edu
NewZealand TwoYear
Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Position: Two year Contract
Landcare Research (a Crown Research Institute) is New
Zealand’s foremost environmental research organisa-
tion. Our research and technology developments are fo-
cused on New Zealand’s most important environmental
issues: biosecurity, pest management, biodiversity, re-
ducing greenhouse gas emissions, impacts of rural land
use, urban environmental management, and sustainable
business.
A bioinformatics position to help with the day to day
management and processing of DNA sequence data is
available at our Auckland site. This position is based
in our Informatics team, but will primarily serve the
molecular research community at Landcare Research,
with interest in genomics, population genetics, biosys-
tematics and metagenomics.
The successful candidate will be involved in establish-
ing data processing pipelines and data management
systems for a range of projects generating by Sanger
sequencing, genotyping, and next generation sequenc-
ing (454) data. Speciﬁc forms of data processing and
management required include genome/transcriptome
assembly and annotation, T-RFLP, RNA-Seq analysis,
SNP detection and analysis, analysis of genome scale
data sets, and the management and storage of Next
Generation DNA data.
A suitable candidate should have a post-graduate de-
gree in computer science and/or a quantitative ﬁeld,
such as statistics, computational biology, with strong
interest in genetics/genomics and research. Candidates
with post-graduate degrees in genetics with a good
grounding in biology and/or ecology or related ﬁelds
with strong computer science and statistical expertise
are also encouraged to apply. A successful candidatewill have:
* Strong knowledge of high-throughput DNA sequence
data; * Knowledge or experience in the use of existing
bioinformatics tools and biological databases; * Strong
expertise with scripting languages such as Perl/Python;
highly desirable: experience using R; helpful: knowl-
edge of other scientiﬁc programming languages such as
JAVA, C/C++; * Database programming and adminis-
tration skills with platforms such as MS SQL, MySQL,
and/or PostgesSQL; * Familiarity with UNIX/Linux
operating systems is essential; knowledge or experience
with Windows operating system and cluster and high-
performance computing is desirable.
The successful candidate will have excellent communi-
cation and time management skills and have the ability
to work both independently and collaboratively in a dy-
namic research environment within multi-disciplinary
teams on various projects. Salary is commensurate with
education and qualiﬁcations. Initially this will be a two
year contract.
Applications close on Monday 5th September 2011.
For further information and to apply
please go to the Landcare Research website
www.landcareresearch.co.nz/jobs Dianne Gleeson
Director EcoGeneTM Post: c/o Landcare Research
Private Bag 92170, Auckland 1142, New Zealand
Delivery: 231 Morrin Road, St John’s, Auck-
land 1072, New Zealand Phone: +64 9 5744121
Fax: +64 9 574 4101 Web: www.ecogene.co.nz
GleesonD@landcareresearch.co.nz
OhioStateU EvolutionaryGenomics
Assistant Professor of Evolutionary or Ecological Ge-
nomics The Ohio State University
The Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Or-
ganismal Biology (EEOB) invites applications for a
TENURE-TRACK POSITION at the Assistant Profes-
sor Rank in Evolutionary or Ecological Genomics. We
seek outstanding individuals who address fundamental
questions in evolution and/or ecology either through
the generation of large-scale sequence or gene expres-
sion data or by using either computational/statistical
approaches for the analysis of genomic data. Re-
searchers studying non-model systems are strongly en-
couraged to apply. This position builds on our es-
tablished strengths in population genetics, systemat-September 1, 2011 EvolDir 29
ics, and model-based studies of evolution, and will ex-
pand the scale and scope of research on evolutionary
processes in EEOB. The successful applicant will have
a Ph.D., preferably with postdoctoral experience, and
will be expected to develop a strong, externally funded
research program, train graduate students, and con-
tribute to undergraduate and graduate teaching. Find
additional information about OSU at www.osu.edu or
about EEOB at eeob.osu.edu. For questions about the
position, contact Dr. Lisle Gibbs (gibbs.128@osu.edu,
(614) 688-3861), Chair of the search committee. The
position will begin 1 October 2012.
Applicants should submit a cover letter, current CV,
and statements of research and teaching interests,
preferably as a single pdf ﬁle, and have three letters of
reference sent to Ms. Corey Ross at ross.629@osu.edu.
Review of applications will begin on 12 October 2011
and continue until a suitable candidate is identiﬁed.
Women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with dis-
abilities are encouraged to apply. EEO/AA employer.
H. Lisle Gibbs, Ph.D. Professor , Department of Evolu-
tion, Ecology, and Organismal Biology, Director, Ohio
Biodiversity Conservation Partnership Ohio State Uni-
versity 318 W. 12th Ave. Columbus, Ohio 43210-1293
USA Tel: 614 688 3861
gibbs.128@osu.edu
PrincetonU
EvolutionaryBiolPrincetonU
EvolutionaryBiol
ASSISTANT PROFESSORSHIP ECOLOGY, EVO-
LUTION AND/OR BEHAVIOR
Princeton University’s Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology plans to hire individuals at the level
of tenure-track Assistant Professor. We have broad in-
terests in ecology, evolution, behavior, functional biol-
ogy, conservation biology, disease and biogeochemistry;
a common appreciation of theory, natural history and
evolutionary thinking unites the Department. We seek
applicants who pursue research that aims for signiﬁcant
conceptual and/or empirical integration across tradi-
tional disciplinary boundaries and who have a strong
commitment to teaching. It is possible that an appoint-
ment may be joint with the Princeton Environmental
Institute, especially if the applicant’s research focuses
on problems of global or environmental change.Applicants should write a vision statement, no longer
than two pages, that outlines the conceptual dimensions
of one or more major unsolved problems in their ﬁeld
and how their approach will contribute to solving them.
The vision statement should be more than a summary
of the applicant’s prior and current research.
Applications, including the vision statement, curricu-
lum vitae, three reprints and contact information for
three references should be addressed to Simon Levin,
Search Committee Chair, and submitted online via
http://jobs.princeton.edu . Screening of applications
will begin 12 September 2011.
Princeton University is an equal opportunity employer
and complies with applicable EEO and aﬃrmative ac-
tion regulations.
(Direct link to the online posting of Job Req #0110466:
https://jobs.princeton.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-
position/JobDetails css.jsp?postingId=182122 )
Diane Carlino Department Manager Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology Princeton University 104A Guyot
Hall 609-258-5810 dcarlino@princeton.edu
Diane Carlino <dcarlino@Princeton.EDU >
SangerInst
BacterialBioinformatician
Senior Bioinformatician in Pathogen Genomics
Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
Salary range: £28,280 - £35,441
The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute is a world leader
in genomic research, with an expanding scientiﬁc pro-
gramme dedicated to understanding gene function in
health & disease.
We have an exciting new role available for a talented
bioinformatician/ programmer engaged in an important
genomic study of a major human pathogen in the con-
text of high disease burden across Africa. The success-
ful candidate will be part of a dynamic team at the
Sanger Institute and will interact with collaborators in
several African countries. Responsibilities will include
software development for intuitive analysis and visual-
isation of genome sequences and associated metadata.
The post is funded through a Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation consortium project focused on genomics of
serotype 1 Streptococcus pneumoniae, a major cause30 EvolDir September 1, 2011
of morbidity and mortality throughout sub- Saharan
Africa which exhibits a strong association with invasive
disease and may occur in outbreaks or epidemics. The
scientiﬁc aim of the project is to create a better under-
standing of the evolution of this distinct, region-speciﬁc
clone in order to inform the development of clinical in-
terventions, particularly vaccines. The project also tar-
gets capacity building for bioinformatic expertise across
the consortium.
Essential Skills The successful candidate will have the
following knowledge, experience and skills: PhD in
bioinformatics or computer science (or equivalent in-
dustry experience) Several years experience in bioinfor-
matics Evidence of proﬁciency in computer program de-
sign and implementation in a modern programming lan-
guage (e.g. Perl, Java, Python etc.) Proven experience
of designing and developing web based applications for
support of scientiﬁc projects Experience of dealing with
large data sets and running software on a compute farm
Knowledge and experience of UNIX / LINUX on an
advanced level Strong interpersonal and communica-
tion skills Excellent problem-solving skills Experience
of training and supervising other team members
Ideal Skills Expertise in design, creation and validation
of intuitive software for visualisation and analysis of
biological datasets. Experience with processing next-
generation sequencing data would be an asset but is
not essential.
Other information This position is initially for a ﬁxed
term of 2 years. For further information please contact
Sophie Palmer (sophie@sanger.ac.uk)
Beneﬁts The Institute has excellent purpose built fa-
cilities on the Genome Campus, Hinxton on the out-
skirts of Cambridge. We oﬀer a comprehensive range
of beneﬁts including a ﬁnal salary pension scheme and
excellent on-site facilities. Further details can be found
on our website https://jobs.sanger.ac.uk, To submit
your CV and apply for this job please go to https:/-
/jobs.sanger.ac.uk , to register and apply on line. Click
here for Employer Proﬁle
Stephen Bentley Principal Scientist Pathogen Ge-
nomics Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
Associate Editor Microbiology Journal
Honorary Lecturer University of Liverpool
sdb@sanger.ac.ukTaipei FishBehaviourEvolution
Post-doctoral Position in Fish Contest Behavior
(Taipei, Taiwan)
A post-doctoral research associate is available to study
the contest behavior of Kryptolebias marmoratus, a
mangrove killiﬁsh, in the lab of Dr. Yuying Hsu ( http:/-
/140.122.143.143/yuyinghs/yuyinghsu/index.html ) at
the National Taiwan Normal University in Taipei, Tai-
wan. The position is funded for 3 years. The post-
doctoral research associate will participate in projects
investigating whether and how diﬀerent types of cost re-
lated information might be integrated to inﬂuence the
ﬁshs contest decision. Candidates should have a strong
research background in behavioral ecology, preferably
in animal contest behavior. Because I would also like to
explore the physiological mechanisms of the ﬁshs con-
test behavior, a background in ﬁsh physiology would
be a plus. The oﬃcial language in Taiwan is Man-
darin Chinese. Research papers, however, are all writ-
ten in English and English is widely spoken here. Good
English is therefore essential and an English speaker
should be able to get by. Candidate screening will begin
immediately, and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
The successful candidate will be able to start as soon
as practical after the position is ﬁlled. Send a cover
letter, CV, names of three references and a one-page
statement of research interests/experience, incl. how
previous experience relates to the position to Yuying
Hsu (yuyinghs@ntnu.edu.tw).
Yuying Hsu Professor Department of Life Science Na-
tional Taiwan Normal University No. 88, Section 4,
Tingchou Rd Taipei 116, Taiwan
Tel: Oﬃce: 886-2-7734-6292 Lab: 886-2-7734-6462
Fax: 886-2-2931-2904
Email: yuyinghs@ntnu.edu.tw
http://140.122.143.143/yuyinghs/yuyinghsu/-
index.htmlSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 31
TunghaiU Taiwan EvolutionaryBiol
Faculty Position at Department of Life Science, Tung-
hai University
1. Position Summary: ASSISTANT PROFESSOR-
SHIP or higher
2. Position available from 01/Feb/2012
3. Qualiﬁcation: (Required): Ph.D. and postdoctoral
experience in ecology or evolutionary biology.
4. Applicants should submit:
a. a cover letter including statements of research inter-
est and teaching philosophy
b. curriculum vita, graduate and undergraduate tran-
scripts and a photocopy of highest diploma
c. copies (or PDFs) of the publications within the last
ﬁve years
d. a list of research projects involved in the past ﬁve
years
e. teaching plans (including course names and course
description) and research plans
f. three letters of reference
5. Application deadline: 01/Nov/2011
6. Please send hard copies of all materials to: Oﬃce
of Human Resources, Tunghai University, Taichung,
40704, Taiwan (please label for faculty position in De-
partment of Life Science on the envelope)or electronic
copies to: sw2842@thu.edu.tw , with “Biology Faculty
Application” in the subject line.
7. For more information, please contact Mrs. Su-
Wen Shiao at +886-4-23590121 ext. 32402 or E-
mail: e-mail: sw2842@thu.edu.tw. Related website:
http://biology.thu.edu.tw/main.php Chung-Ping Lin
Department of Life Science Tunghai University http:/-
/sysnevo.thu.edu.tw treehops <treehops@thu.edu.tw >
UAlabama ResTech
DrosophilaEvolutionResearch Technician
The University of Alabama seeks a creative and re-
sponsible researcher to work in a Drosophila evolu-
tionary genomics lab. The successful candidate will
assist the Principal Investigator (PI) in a 5-year NIH
funded project to map the genetic basis of dietary vari-
ation in endophenotypes (e.g. gene expression, metabo-
lites) relating to diabetes and obesity in Drosophila
melanogaster. Responsibilities will include: ordering
supplies, chemical and sample inventory, Drosophila
husbandry and breeding, standard nucleic acid meth-
ods (such as RNA extraction and PCR), phenotypic as-
say development, mentoring undergraduate researchers,
and genomic data analysis. The associate will also aid
the PI and student researchers in all aspects of the
project as deemed appropriate by the PI. The position
may require occasional time on nights or weekends de-
pending on the demands of the experimental protocols.
Additional information about the research lab can be
found at: http://bama.ua.edu/ ˜ lreed1/ . Minimum
Qualiﬁcations: Bachelor of Science degree or higher in
a disciple related to the position. One (1) year of rele-
vant experience. Basic computing skills. Strong inter-
personal skills. Willingness to learn. Some experience
working with molecular genetic techniques is required.
Must be willing to make at least a two-year commit-
ment to the position. MSc preferred. Two (2) or more
years of biological research experience preferred. Some
experience with insect husbandry and statistical data
analysis preferred.
Be prepared to submit a cover letter, resume, and
reference contact information when applying online
at: jobs.ua.edu. Direct inquires to Dr. Laura Reed,
lreed1@as.ua.edu
Visit UA’s employment website at jobs.ua.edu for more
information and to apply. Requisition number 006154.
Closing date 9/6/2011. EOE/AA The University of
Alabama is an equal-opportunity educational institu-
tion/employer.
Laura K. Reed Assistant Professor Dept. of Biolog-
ical Sciences University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa Of-
ﬁce: 2330 SEC, Lab: 2322 SEC Mailing address: Box
870344, Tuscaloosa AL 35487
oﬃce: 205-348-1345 lab: 205-348-1368
lreed1@bama.ua.edu http://bama.ua.edu/ ˜ lreed1/
“Reed, Laura” <lreed1@ua.edu >32 EvolDir September 1, 2011
UBergen SystematicBotany
Position as associate professor in systematic botany
open at University of Bergen - the Natural History Mu-
seum:
http://www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=76902 As-
sociate Professor in Systematic Botany
A permanent position as associate professor in system-
atic botany ? vascular plants, is open at the Natural
History Collections (DNS), Bergen Museum, University
of Bergen.
As part of a strategic investment in research in biosys-
tematics at DNS emphasizing the importance of sci-
entiﬁc collections, a position is oﬀered to an associate
professor with research within vascular plant taxonomy.
The applicant must be skilled in classic (morphology
based) as well as in molecular methods. The success-
ful applicant?s research must be in vascular plant sys-
tematics and taxonomy and she or he will have the
scientiﬁc responsibility for the vascular plant collec-
tions. Additional duties are dissemination and teach-
ing/supervision.
We are seeking a colleague who holds a Norwegian doc-
torate degree or a comparable level in vascular plant
systematics, and has achieved the associate professor
level of academic proﬁciency in this discipline. Basic
teaching training is a requirement. The successful can-
didate will be oﬀered appropriate training if this re-
quirement has not been met before the employment.
A more detailed description of the position and in-
formation about necessary documentation which must
enclose the application is obtainable below or from
the Bergen Museum Administration, phone no. +47
55 58 93 60, e-mail: POST@bm.uib.no?, and/or the
head of the Natural History Collections, associate
professor Kari Hjelle, kari.hjelle@bm.uib.no, and/or
curator of the herbarium, professor Tor Tønsberg,
tor.tonsberg@bm.uib.no, phone no. +47 55 58 33 33.
Starting salaries at salary level 57 (code 1011) on
the government salary scale (corresponding to NOK
448.400 per year, following ordinary meriting regula-
tions (wage levels 57-64). The successful applicant must
comply with the guidelines that apply to the position
at any time.
Applicants must state the works or parts of works theywish to be given particular attention in the evaluation
of their applications. These should not exceed 10 in
number. The application must contain an overview of
the attachments providing the pedagogic qualiﬁcations.
The application must contain a complete overview (in-
cluding a list of all attachments) of the applicant?s ed-
ucation, earlier positions and teaching qualiﬁcations.
Copies of certiﬁcates and diplomas, testimonials and
scholarly works with a list of these (in four copies,
sorted in four identical bundles), are to be sent to the
University of Bergen, Bergen Museum, Administration,
PO Box 7800, N-5020 Bergen, Norway.
In addition the application and CV should be sent via
the link ?Apply for this job? at this website.
Closing date for applications: 15 September 2011
The application must be marked with the annotation:
11/6498
Bjarte.Jordal@zmb.uib.no
UBristol Phylogenomics
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader in Phylogenomics
School of Biological Sciences University of Bristol, UK.
The Schools of Earth and Biological Sciences wish
to recruit an exceptional individual with internation-
ally recognised expertise in the broad ﬁeld of phyloge-
nomics: the nexus of phylogenetics and bioinformat-
ics, focused on exploiting large-scale gene ? or entire
genome ? datasets in the study of evolutionary rela-
tionships, genome evolution, and the evolution of gene
function.
We have recently invested in high throughput gene
sequencing technology, and research groups in both
Schools are seeking to exploit this resource to bet-
ter understand gene, genome and organismal evolution
across the breadth of the Tree of Life and extent of
Earth History. You should have an interest in either
laboratory-based sequencing or tree-based bioinformat-
ics approaches that consider large-scale questions in
evolution. We are also interested in applications from
exceptional candidates who have world-class research
programmes in macroevolution.
You will have an international reputation for research
and a track record in research income and publication to
support this. It is expected that you will be or become a
research leader, bringing or building your own research
group and developing new research avenues with col-September 1, 2011 EvolDir 33
leagues in both schools and the university at large.
The position forms part of a wider investment in the
ﬁelds of evolution and phylogenomics, and beneﬁts from
location in the new Life Sciences Building, a £50M de-
velopment to be completed in 2013. Further informa-
tion
Contract: Permanent
Salary: £33,734 - £52,556
Grade: Level b - Level d in Pathway 1
Closing date for applications: 9:00am 20 Sep 2011
Anticipated start date: 01 Jan 2012
For further details see: http://www.bris.ac.uk/boris/-
jobs/feeds/ads?ID=99631 Contact for informal in-
quiries:
Professor IC Cuthill (i.cuthill@bristol.ac.uk |0117 928
7475) Professor M Kendall (gljmk@bristol.ac.uk |0117
954 5400)
Dr Martin Genner School of Biological Sciences Univer-
sity of Bristol Bristol BS8 1UG United Kingdom
Email: m.genner@bristol.ac.uk Web-
page: http://www.bristol.ac.uk/-
biology/person/index.html?personKey=-
NvIlrBu5MzRsVo2XHKQ0OAu1QQ560Q Martin
Genner <M.Genner@bristol.ac.uk >
UMalaya Bioinformatics
SENIOR LECTURER POSITION
We would like to invite fresh PhD graduates who are
passionate about bioinformatics education (in addition
to research) to join us at the Bioinformatics Unit. Ap-
plicants should have strong background in at least one
of the following areas: mathematics, statistics, com-
puting, molecular biology. The university also requires
the applicant to have published at least three papers in
ISI-cited journals. The successful applicant is expected
to assist the unit in running its Master of Bioinformat-
ics programme, and may also be asked to contribute to
undergraduate training.
Some information about University of Malaya (UM)
and Malaysia:
UM is the oldest and most established public univer-
sity in Malaysia. Competitive salary and cash incen-
tives for publication in ISI journals. English is taughtas a second language, and widely spoken in the country.
Multicultural society. Kuala Lumpur is a major transit
hub to neighbouring countries in South-East Asia. No
chilly winters
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae to Dr
T.F.Khang (tfkhang@um.edu.my) before 1 September,
2011. We apologise that only short-listed candidates
will be notiﬁed. Date: 12 July 2011
Gianluca Polgar Ph.D. Senior lecturer Institute
of Biological Sciences Institute of Ocean and
Earth Sciences Faculty of Science, University
of Malaya 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tel.:
017-6223549 Fax (ISB): 03-79674178 e-mail: gi-
anluca.polgar@gmail.com www.themudskipper.org
Gianluca Polgar <gianluca.polgar@gmail.com >
UMichigan EvolutionaryBiol
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY and EVOLUTIONARY
ECOLOGY
University of Michigan
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites applications for
a TENURE-TRACK POSITION (open rank) in evo-
lution. We seek outstanding individuals with research
and teaching interests in any area of evolutionary bi-
ology or evolutionary ecology. Particular foci of in-
terest include evolutionary or ecological genetics and
genomics, evolutionary theory, phylogenetics, and evo-
lution of morphology, function, and behavior. Also
strongly encouraged are research programs that take
advantage of the outstanding collections of the Mu-
seum of Zoology, Herbarium, and Museum of Pale-
ontology. For further information, see website: http:/-
/eeb.lsa.umich.edu . To apply, please see web-
site:http://www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/applications/, and
arrange to have three letters of recommendation sub-
mitted through the same website. Review of appli-
cations will begin on 10 September 2011. Women
and minorities are encouraged to apply and the Uni-
versity is supportive of the needs of dual career cou-
ples. The University of Michigan is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Patricia J. Wittkopp, Ph.D. Associate Professor Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Molecular, Cellular and
Developmental Biology 1061 Natural Science Build-
ing University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109-34 EvolDir September 1, 2011
1048 tel: 734.763.1548 (oﬃce); 734.647.5483 (lab)
fax: 734.763.0544 www.umich.edu/ ˜ pwlab wit-
tkopp@umich.edu
UMunster IntegrativeEvolution
*Westf¨ alische Wilhelms-Universit¨ at M¨ unster*
* *
The University of M¨ unster invites applications from
outstanding candidates for the position of a Junior
Research Group Leader within its “M¨ unster Graduate
School of Evolution” (MGSE) Initiative.
The MGSE Initiative brings together researchers from
the biosciences, the geosciences, medicine, bioinformat-
ics, mathematics, philosophy, education research, as
well as theology, in order to develop a unifying frame-
work for interdisciplinary research and education in
evolution.
*Leiter einer Nachwuchsgruppe / Junior Research
Group Leader*
*(TV-L E14/15)*
for
*Integrative Evolution Research*
within the “M¨ unster Graduate School of Evolution”
Initiative
The Group Leader appointment will be for a period
of *ﬁve years*. The position will provide start-up re-
sources, two PhD positions and a technician. The in-
stitutional aﬃliation depends on the departments that
the project interfaces. The position is to be ﬁlled as
soon as possible, and is eligible for tenure.
We expect the group leader to establish joint projects
with researchers from at least two departments in the
MGSE research areas, with the aim of developing new
ways to bridge the diﬀerent ﬁelds. Projects may focus
on:
Early Evolution of Life, Levels of Biodiversity, Philoso-
phy of Biology/Philosophy of Evolution, Evolutionary
Theory, Growth of Evolutionary Thought.
However, new project ideas are also welcome.
The Junior Research Group shall play an important role
in the development of the MGSE, and the group leader
is expected to participate actively in the implementa-
tion of the Graduate School, especially in the interdis-ciplinary teaching programme (Studium Integrale).
Applicants must have a doctorate in a discipline re-
lated to the proposed project. Postdoctoral experi-
ence and a strong publication record are expected.
The application should demonstrate a wide intellec-
tual scope and broad experience in interdisciplinary
work. Interested candidates should submit their Cur-
riculum Vitae, including a publication list, a synop-
sis of their current and proposed research, teaching
experiences, references, and a statement about their
strategies concerning interdisciplinary work, to arrive
by *3 ^rd October 2011*. This should be sent as
a single PDF ﬁle to joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de
<mailto:joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de >.
The University of M¨ unster is an Aﬃrmative Action,
Equal Opportunity employer committed to excellence
through diversity.
For more information refer to the MGSE website
(http://ieb.uni-muenster.de/mgsei/ ) or contact
Prof Joachim Kurtz
Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity, WWU
M¨ unster, H¨ uﬀerstraße 1, D-48149, Germany
joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de
Andreas Wessel <awess 02@uni-muenster.de >
UNeuchatel EvolutionParasites
The University of Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland, invites ap-
plications for a position of Full professor in Biology of
Parasites
Job description: The successful candidate is expected
to establish an internationally recognized research pro-
gramme in parasitology. We are particularly interested
in researchers using original and innovative approaches
to work on host-parasite interactions in animal systems.
The appointee will teach at all levels of the biology
curriculum (bachelor, master and doctoral school) and
should be ready to teach in other curricula. A non-
French speaking appointee would be asked to achieve
ﬂuency in French following a period of adaptation to
teach undergraduate courses in French.
Starting date: 1st August 2012 or upon agreement.
Requirement: PhD degree in biology or in another life
science discipline, as well as an internationally recog-
nized research record.September 1, 2011 EvolDir 35
Applications should be sent by regular mail to the Dean
of the Faculty of Science, Prof. Peter Kropf, Rue Emile
Argand 11, 2000 Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland, as well as
by email to (doyen.sciences@unine.ch). Deadline: 15
November 2011.
Applications should include a letter of motivation and a
r´ esum´ e (CV) containing lists of obtained research fund-
ing, publications and teaching experience. The appli-
cation should also include copies of academic degrees, a
brief teaching statement (max. 1 page) and a research
statement that details the candidate’s research interests
and the projects he/she plans to develop at the Univer-
sity of Neuchˆ atel (max. 2 pages). The candidate will
ask 3 experts to send a reference letter by email directly
to the head of the Hiring Committee, Prof. F. Kessler
(felix.kessler@unine.ch).
The University of Neuchˆ atel encourages women to ap-
ply.
Additional information can be requested from
the head of the Hiring Committee, Prof. F.
Kessler (felix.kessler@unine.ch) or to the Dean
(doyen.sciences@unine.ch). Further details can
be found at www.unine.ch/sciences . mjvoor-
douw@gmail.com
UNewMexico
TwoEvolEcologyFaculty
Preamble:
The following job announcement is for two ecology fac-
ulty positions, but “ecology” is intended to be broadly
deﬁned, therefore encompassing many potential candi-
dates in the evolutionary biology and systematics com-
munity.
UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO Department of Bi-
ology FACULTY POSITIONS IN ECOLOGY
UNM Biology is seeking applications for two faculty
positions in ecology. We anticipate one Open Rank po-
sition will be appointed at the level of Associate or Full
Professor (tenure position or probationary appointment
leading to tenure), and the second Open Rank position
will either be at the Assistant (probationary leading to
tenure- track) or Associate (leading to tenured decision)
level. We are particularly interested in applicants with
research and teaching interests that complement those
of the current faculty in a broadly based and highly
collaborative Department ( http://biology.unm.edu/ ).Programs within Biology include the Program in
Interdisciplinary Biological and Biomedical Sciences
(PIBBS), the Sevilleta LTER, the Sustainability Stud-
ies Program, the Museum of Southwestern Biology, and
the Center for Evolutionary and Theoretical Immunol-
ogy (CETI).
Open Rank (Associate to Full) Minimum: Applicants
must have a Ph.D. in Biology or a related discipline.
Applicants must have a minimum of seven years ex-
perience beyond the terminal degree appropriate for
the faculty rank of Associate to Full Professor, demon-
strated teaching competence, and an established repu-
tation within and outside the University in a specialized
ﬁeld of scholarly work. Preferred: We seek a colleague
with demonstrated publication record in peer- reviewed
journals; commitment to establishing a vigorous and in-
dependent funded research program; research area that
compliments existing research in the department; ev-
idence of a commitment to excellence in teaching at
the undergraduate through graduate levels; enthusiasm
for being a collegial member of vigorous biology depart-
ment with diverse research interests. Posting #0811671
Open Rank (Assistant to Associate) Minimum: Appli-
cants must have a Ph.D. in Biology or a related disci-
pline. Applicants must have at least two years of rel-
evant postdoctoral experience by September 15, 2012.
Preferred: We seek a colleague with demonstrated ex-
cellence in research, demonstrated publication record
in peer-reviewed journals; commitment to establishing
a vigorous and independent funded research program;
research area that complements existing research in the
Department; promise of a commitment to excellence in
teaching at the undergraduate through graduate levels;
and enthusiasm for being a collegial member of a vigor-
ous biology department with diverse research interests.
Posting #0811670
All application materials must be received by Septem-
ber 15, 2011, for best consideration. The position will
remain open until ﬁlled. For complete details or to
apply, please visit: https://unmjobs.unm.edu/ and ref-
erence posting numbers listed above.
Questions on the Open Rank (Associate/Full Profes-
sor) posting may be directed to Dr. Scott L. Collins,
scollins@sevilleta.unm.edu, and on the Open Rank (As-
sistant to Associate Professor) posting to Dr. Donald
O. Natvig dnatvig@gmail.com.
The University of New Mexico is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and Educator.
Women and underrepresented minorities are encour-
aged to apply.
Christopher C. Witt Dept. of Biology and Museum36 EvolDir September 1, 2011
of Southwestern Biology University of New Mexico
505-277-8169 Lab webpage: http://biology.unm.edu/-
witt Sign up to receive MSB Birds Annual Newsletter:
http://www.msb.unm.edu/birds/signup.html Christo-
pher Witt <cwitt@unm.edu >
USouthCarolina ConservationBiol
Assistant Professor in Conservation Biology
The University of South Carolina at Columbia invites
applications for a tenure-track position at the rank of
Assistant Professor in the area of Conservation Biology.
The position is a 9-month academic year appointment,
and will be a joint appointment between the Environ-
ment and Sustainability (ES) Program and the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences. A Ph.D. is required at the
time of appointment. Post-Doctoral experience is desir-
able. We seek a candidate who uses empirical and the-
oretical approaches to study issues related to protected
area design, biodiversity, and/or ecological responses
to global climate change. To address the damaging
impacts of habitat loss and environmental change on
species conservation, we seek a colleague with a strong
research record in ecological processes over large spatial
scales, including the impacts of such processes as habi-
tat fragmentation, changes in anthropogenic land use,
and/or climate change at all levels of biodiversity. Can-
didates with experience in policy/management are par-
ticularly encouraged to apply. Candidates must have a
strong record of publication and extramural funding.
The University of South Carolina has been designated
as one of only 73 public and 35 private academic in-
stitutions with3very high research activity2by the
Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teach-
ing. The Carnegie Foundation also lists USC as hav-
ing strong community engagement. The University has
over 28,000 students on the main campus (and over
43,000 students system-wide), 350 degree programs,
and a nationally-ranked library system. Columbia, the
capital of South Carolina, has a population of over
650,000 in the greater metropolitan area. The Envi-
ronment and Sustainability Program at USC is a mul-
tidisciplinary unit administered by the College of Arts
and Sciences comprising more than 140 aﬃliated faculty
from units throughout the USC System. The Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences includes over 40 Faculty and
is ranked among the top 30 Biology Departments in the
US.Applicants should include with their application their
vita, a statement of research and teaching interests and
goals, and the names, addresses, emails, and phone
numbers of at least three references. A pdf ﬁle contain-
ing this information should be sent electronically to:
ConsBio2011@environ.sc.edu. Address applications to:
Prof. Joseph M. Quattro, Chair, Conservation Biology
Search Committee, University of South Carolina, Envi-
ronment and Sustainability Program, EWS Room 603,
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208. For
more information about the position, contact Dr. Quat-
tro directly via e-mail (josephq@mailbox.sc.edu), phone
(803-777-3240) or visit http://www.environ.sc.edu and
http://www.biol.sc.edu. To receive full consideration
applications should be received by Oct 15, 2011.
The University of South Carolina is an aﬃrmative ac-
tion, equal opportunity employer. Women and minori-
ties are encouraged to apply. The University of South
Carolina does not discriminate in educational or em-
ployment opportunities or decisions for qualiﬁed per-
sons on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age, disability, sexual orientation or veteran sta-
tus.
JosephQ@mailbox.sc.edu
UToronto Scarborough
ConservationBiol
Associate or Full Professor in Ecology and Conservation
Biology
University of Toronto Scarborough
The Department of Biological Sciences, University of
Toronto Scarborough ( http://www.utsc.utoronto.ca/-
˜ biosci <http://www.utsc.utoronto.ca/ ~biosci/ >/)
invites applications for a tenure stream position at the
rank of Associate or Full Professor in the area of Ecol-
ogy and Conservation Biology, to begin July 1, 2012.
The successful applicant must have a strong publication
record, evidence of a sustained and externally funded
research program, and a proven commitment to gradu-
ate student supervision and training. Candidates with
an active ﬁeld program are especially encouraged to
apply. The incumbent will be expected to take a lead-
ership role in a planned Professional Master’s gradu-
ate program in Conservation and Biodiversity. The
successful candidate will demonstrate excellence in re-
search and have a strong commitment to excellence in
teaching at both the undergraduate and graduate level.September 1, 2011 EvolDir 37
The University of Toronto is an international leader in
biological research and education and the Department
of Biological Sciences enjoys strong ties to other units
within the University. The successful candidate will be
expected to participate actively in the Graduate De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the
University of Toronto ( http://www.eeb.utoronto.ca/-
), and to undertake an active research program cen-
tered at the University of Toronto Scarborough. Ad-
ditional information about the University of Toronto’s
Koﬄer Scientiﬁc Reserve (an internationally recognized
site for research and education in biodiversity, ecol-
ogy and conservation biology) can be found at http://-
ksr.utoronto.ca/ .Also, neighbouring lands in the Rouge
Valley of eastern Toronto are now designated to become
an urban national park ( http://bit.ly/mZU2e6 ), pro-
viding exciting opportunities regarding conservation.
Salary will be commensurate with qualiﬁcations and
experience.
Applications must include a CV, statements of re-
search and teaching interests and three representa-
tive publications. Applications must be submitted on-
line at http://www.jobs.utoronto.ca/faculty.htm (Job
Number 1100763). We encourage applicants to com-
bine PDF or MS WORD documents into one or two
ﬁles. Applicants should also arrange that letters of ref-
erence from at least three referees familiar with the can-
didate’s research and teaching be sent directly to:
Professor Greg Vanlerberghe, Chair Department of Bio-
logical Sciences University of Toronto Scarborough 1265
Military Trail Toronto, ON M1C 1A4 Canada
or e-mailed to biologygeneral@utsc.utoronto.ca (pre-
ferred).
Applications lacking the reference letters will not be
considered. All materials must be received by Novem-
ber 15, 2011.
Further information on the research and teaching ac-
tivities of the department can be found at http://-
www.utsc.utoronto.ca/˜biosci/ .
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to
diversity within its community and especially wel-
comes applications from visible minority group mem-
bers, women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabil-
ities, members of sexual minority groups, and others
who may contribute to the further diversiﬁcation of
ideas. The University is responsive to the needs of dual
career couples. The University of Toronto oﬀers the op-
portunity to conduct research, teach, and live in one of
the most diverse cities in the world. All qualiﬁed can-
didates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians
and permanent residents will be given priority.Jessica Barnett, Assistant to the Chair Dept. of Biolog-
ical Sciences, SW421B University of Toronto Scarbor-
ough 1265 Military Trail Scarborough, Ontario M1C
1A4 416-287-7399; FAX 416-287-7676
Jessica Barnett <jbarnett@utsc.utoronto.ca >
UVermont Systematics
Assistant Professor in Systematics, Department of Bi-
ology, University of Vermont
The Department of Biology of the University of Ver-
mont seeks applications for a tenure- track Assistant
Professor position in Systematics and Evolutionary Bi-
ology of arthropods, especially insects. The position
will be open in the fall of 2012. The successful candi-
date will have expertise in classical and molecular sys-
tematics, including analysis of complex data sets. Can-
didates pursuing phylogenomics and innovative meth-
ods in bioinformatics in combination with taxonomy
are especially encouraged to apply. Department infor-
mation at: www.uvm.edu/ ˜ biology . All applicants
are expected to: 1) hold a Ph.D. degree in relevant
disciplines and have two or more years of postdoctoral
experience; 2) develop a competitively funded research
program; 3) teach undergraduate courses (chosen from
among general biology, evolution, systematic entomol-
ogy, and others in the candidate?s expertise); 4) teach,
mentor and advise undergraduate and graduate stu-
dents; and 5) oversee a natural history collection of
historic signiﬁcance. Candidates must apply online at
www.uvmjobs.com . Search for the position using de-
partment name (Biology) only. Attach a cover letter
with a statement of research focus and teaching inter-
ests (one document), a curriculum vitae, representative
publications, and the contact information of three refer-
ences. Review of applications will begin on September
15, 2011, and will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Questions and up to three additional publications may
be directed to: jschall@uvm.edu.
The University of Vermont recently identiﬁed several
?Spires of Excellence? in which it will strategically fo-
cus institutional investments and growth over the next
several years. One spire associated with the position is
Complex Systems. Candidates whose research interests
align with this spire are especially encouraged to apply
(see: http://www.uvm.edu/˜tri/ ).
The University seeks faculty who can contribute to the
diversity and excellence of the academic community38 EvolDir September 1, 2011
through their research, teaching, and/or service. Ap-
plicants are requested to include in their cover letter
information about how they will further this goal. The
University of Vermont is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal
Opportunity employer. The Department is committed
to increasing faculty diversity and welcomes applica-
tions from women, underrepresented ethnic, racial and
cultural groups, and from people with disabilities.
Dr. Jos. J. Schall Professor of Biology Depart-
ment of Biology Marsh Life Science 203 University
of Vermont Burlington, Vermont 05405 Oﬃce phone:
(802) 656-0448 Laboratory phone: (802) 656-0702
jschall@uvm.edu
Lab website: http://www.uvm.edu/ ˜ jschall/-
malaria.html The economy explained in 2 minutes!
http://front.moveon.org/-
scribbling%2Dsharpie%2Dillustrates%2Dthe%2Dtruth%2Dabout%2Dour%2Deconomy/-
?id=28084-3073815-NB5j2Fx Videos:
Life cycle of a lizard malaria parasite http://-
www.youtube.com/watch?v=wXbGnfEoDBc Barred
owl eating a rodent http://www.youtube.com/-
watch?v=7XaLhMgwUZg Rose Breasted Gros-
beak eating seeds http://www.youtube.com/-
watch?v=OsJgIeBIksg Woodpecker eating an
orange http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-
5QTJHUEKOoU&feature Joseph Julian Schall
<jschall@uvm.edu >
UWesternOntario
MolecularEvolution
Assistant Professor in Molecular Evolution
Applications are invited for a probationary (tenure
track) faculty position at the rank of Assistant Profes-
sor in the area of Molecular Evolution in the Depart-
ment of Biology, Faculty of Science, at The Univer-
sity of Western Ontario ( www.uwo.ca/biology ) starting
July 1, 2012. Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Biol-
ogy or a related ﬁeld and postdoctoral experience (or
equivalent). The successful candidate will be expected
to develop an independent, externally funded research
program in the area of Molecular Evolution, motivated
by questions in Biology, and contribute to the graduate
and undergraduate degree programs in Biology. The
area of Molecular Evolution represents an integral link
between the Departments research strengths in molecu-
lar and evolutionary biology, genetics and developmen-tal biology, and the successful candidate will comple-
ment these. Preference will be given to applicants with
a strong background in Bioinformatics, although all
qualiﬁed applicants within the ﬁeld of molecular evo-
lution will be considered. The Department of Biol-
ogy and Faculty of Science provide a research-intensive
environment, including state-of-the-art computational
(www.sharcnet.ca ), laboratory and ﬁeld facilities. Con-
sideration of applications will begin November 01, 2011
and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Applications
must include a curriculum vita, a statement of research
interests, a statement on teaching philosophy, and the
names of three references.
Applications, submitted electronically as a single pdf
ﬁle to molevobi@uwo.ca should be addressed to the at-
tention of:
Dr. Mark Bernards, Chair Department of Biology The
University of Western Ontario
This position is subject to budgetary approval. Ap-
plicants should have ﬂuent written and oral commu-
nication skills in English. All qualiﬁed candidates are
encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and perma-
nent residents will be given priority. The University of
Western Ontario is committed to employment equity
and welcomes applications from all qualiﬁed women and
men including visible minorities, aboriginal people and
persons with disabilities.
Amanda Moehring <ajmoehring@gmail.com >
UWisconsinMadison
DigitizingCollections
Employer: University of Wisconsin-Madison
Working Title: Work Flow Coordinator
Oﬃcial title: ASSOC RESEARCH SPEC (T16FN)
Degree and area of specialization:
B.S. Degree in Botany or Biology required; M.S. De-
gree in Botany or Biology preferred; familiarity with
handling computerized information
Minimum number of years and type of relevant work
experience:
Experienced with digital photography
Principal duties:
Position Description: This position will coordinate aSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 39
team of undergraduate student hourlies responsible
for digitizing a diverse array of specimen labels from
bryophyte and lichen specimens at roughly 100,000 per
year. The position will be responsible for developing an
eﬃcient workﬂow for selecting specimens, photograph-
ing labels, and returning specimens to their herbarium
cases. As necessary, coordinate with several other insti-
tutions that will be sending their specimens to the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin for photographing of their respec-
tive labels. Further responsibilities will include man-
aging the images and metadata on a local computer,
uploading them to a server, and applying regular qual-
ity control checks.
Goal A:50% Photograph ca. 100,000 (or more) labels
of North American bryophyte and lichen specimens per
year.
Duties:
1. Supervise and participate in work-ﬂow of label
photographing, developing protocols to maximize eﬃ-
ciency.
2. Document successful workﬂows
Goal B:30% Manage images and metadata on local
computer and server, assure completeness and quality
Duties:
1. Organize images and metadata on local computer in
appropriate folders, initiate regular uploads to server.
2. Implement regular checks of data and metadata
against actual specimens to assure completeness of dig-
itization process.
3. Collaborate with the information manager and lead
programmer in applying quality control routines.
Goal C:20% Organize specimen selection from the
herbarium and their return after photographing the la-
bels
Duties:
1. Select on a daily basis specimens for photographing
2. After photographing return specimens to their stor-
age location in the herbarium.
3. Collaborate with herbarium personnel to store re-
ceived specimens and to help return them when owned
by a diﬀerent institution.
A period of evaluation will be required
To see oﬃcial job announcement, please go to: http://-
www.ohr.wisc.edu/pvl/pv 071243.html Note: This job
is a for a four-year project.
University of Wisconsin-MadisonPVL# 71238
A criminal background check will be conducted prior
to hiring.
Employee class: Academic Staﬀ
Department(s): L&S/RSCH-NATURAL SCI
Term:This is a renewable appointment.
Appointment percent: 90% - 100%
Anticipated begin date: September 4, 2011
Number of positions: 1
To ensure consideration, application must be received
by: August 30, 2011
HOW TO APPLY:
This is a four-year project.
Unless another application procedure has been speciﬁed
above, please send resume and cover letter referring to
Position Vacancy Listing # 71238 to the following con-
tact:
Department Contact:
Valerie Seidel
680 N Park St
Madison, WI 53706
Phone:608-262-3304
Email:vseidel@wisc.edu
NOTE: Unless conﬁdentiality is requested in writing,
information regarding the names of applicants must be
released upon request. Finalists cannot be guaranteed
conﬁdentiality.
UW-Madison is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative ac-
tion employer. We promote excellence through diver-
sity and encourage all qualiﬁed individuals to apply.
vseidel@wisc.edu
UWisconsinMadison
InformationSpecialist
Employer: University of Wisconsin-Madison
Working Title: OCR and NLP Specialist
Oﬃcial title: ASSOC INF PROC CONSLT (S44FN)
Degree and area of specialization:40 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Bachelor’s degree in information management or com-
puter science with demonstrated experience in nat-
ural science applications; or in natural science with
demonstrated experience in database management and
a scripting language
Minimum number of years and type of relevant work
experience:
This is an entry level position. Preferred experience
in MySQL, PHP, and some understanding of natural
history collections management, advanced knowledge
of SQL and stored procedures; basic understanding
of web application development (html, css, Javascript,
and AJAX).
Principal duties:
Position Description: This position will work with the
information management team responsible for manag-
ing a diverse array of imaged labels from bryophyte and
lichen specimens, which will exceed 2 million by the end
of the grant period. The position will be responsible for
running OCR (optical character recognition) and NLP
(Natural Language Processing) programs to parse the
information into database and assist the project’s lead
programmer in optimizing the OCR and NLP outputs
and minimize subsequent editing by a nation-wide team
of volunteers. Other responsibilities include developing
online documentation of procedures and protocols for
volunteers to follow and responding to technical ques-
tions from volunteers regarding the transcription pro-
cess. The person will develop and implement database
quality control routines. As necessary the person will
coordinate with the imaging teams at 16 diﬀerent insti-
tutions nationwide and the project’s lead programmer.
Goal A:40% Database Management
Duties:
1. Develop and regularly implement quality control
routines for the database.
2. Bulk updates and edits
3. Upload previously digitized collections records (pre-
dating this project)
4. Support local node managers in updating and main-
taining their collections data
Goal B:40% Optimizing OCR and NLP processes
Duties:
1. Develop proﬁles and scripts to optimize Optical
Character Recognition.
2. Populate lookup tables to optimize Natural Lan-
guage processing.
Goal C:20% Documentation and tutorial development,interaction with imaging teams and volunteers
Duties:
1. Write documentation and tutorials for online tran-
scription process to be used by volunteers and staﬀ.
2. Answer technical questions from volunteers and staﬀ
regarding image management and transcriptions.
3. Present training material and procedures at work-
shops
To see oﬃcial job announcement, please go to: http:/-
/www.ohr.wisc.edu/pvl/pv 071243.html A period of
evaluation will be required
University of Wisconsin-Madison
PVL# 71243
A criminal background check will be conducted prior
to hiring.
Additional Information:
This is a four-year project.
Appointment percent: 90 – 100%
To ensure consideration, application must be received
by: August 31, 2011
Anticipated start date: September 5, 2011
Number of positions: 1
HOW TO APPLY:
Unless another application procedure has been speciﬁed
above, please send resume and cover letter referring to
Position Vacancy Listing # 71243 to the following con-
tact:
Department Contact:Valerie Seidel
Address:680 N Park St Madison, WI 53706
Email:vseidel@wisc.edu
Phone:608-262-3304
For more information, please see the oﬃcial job adver-
tisement here.
NOTE: Unless conﬁdentiality is requested in writing,
information regarding the names of applicants must be
released upon request. Finalists cannot be guaranteed
conﬁdentiality.
UW-Madison is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative ac-
tion employer. We promote excellence through diver-
sity and encourage all qualiﬁed individuals to apply.
//
vseidel@wisc.eduSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 41
WageningenU LabAssist
PlantMolEvol
Research technician (vacancy number TE-011614)
The Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO) is a top
research institute of de Royal Netherlands Academy of
Arts and Sciences dedicated to performing excellent and
fundamental ecological research. Since January 2011
NIOO is housed in a new building at the Wageningen
University campus and has state-of-the-art labs and re-
search facilities.
Job decription: We are looking for an enthusiastic re-
search technician to carry out molecular lab research in
plants. As a technician you are an active and important
player in a team of researchers and students that collab-
orate within a research project on epigenetic variation
in dandelion plants in context of evolution and ecology.
In addition to molecular lab work you will contribute
also to other tasks and experiments within this team,
including greenhouse and growth chamber experiments.
Lab work includes DNA and RNA extractions, qPCR,
DNA sequencing and genetic marker analysis (AFLPs,
microsatellites).
Job requirements: You are a well-trained biological re-
search technician with a relevant education at HBO or
academic level. You have several years of work experi-
ence in relevant molecular techniques and experimental
plant research. You are independent and ﬂexible, you
take initiatives and you work accurately and precisely.
You feel a strong aﬃnity with scientiﬁc research and
you are motivated to take on many diﬀerent tasks as
they present themselves. It is important that you can
speak English. You need to have good organizational
skills and a professional work attitude.
We oﬀer: This is a 4-year project, we start with a con-
tract for 1 year. A part-time contract is possible (0.8
fte). Location of the position is in Wageningen. De-
pending on the candidate’s education and work experi-
ence the maximum fulltime gross salary is 2.682,– per
month (schaal 7 CAO-Dutch Universities), Collective
Agreement for Dutch Universities, excluding 8% holi-
day pay and a year-end bonus. We oﬀer an extensive
package of fringe beneﬁts.
Information: Please contact Dr. Koen Verhoeven,
tel. 0317-473624, email: k.verhoeven@nioo.knaw.nl, for
further information about this position. Informationabout NIOO can be found at www.nioo.knaw.nl . To
apply: You can send your application letter, including
your CV and the contact information of two references,
by email to vacature@nioo.knaw.nl. Please mention the
vacancy number. Deadline for applications is 4 Septem-
ber.
“Preite, Veronica” <V.Preite@nioo.knaw.nl >
ZFMK Bonn DipteraCurator
The Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum Alexan-
der Koenig (ZFMK), Bonn, Germany ( http://-
www.zfmk.de ) seeks to ﬁll a research position (curator
of Diptera) in the Department of Arthropods. The
position is available from October 2011. Potential
candidates will hold a PhD in zoology or related
areas, have their research focus on taxonomy and
systematics of Diptera, and present a substantial
publication record in taxonomy, phylogenetics and/or
other aspects of biodiversity research. The candidate
is expected to work in these ﬁelds from a sound
theoretical basis and be able to apply an array of
appropriate modern methods. He/she should be able
to combine collection-based work with modern phylo-
genetic and/or ecological approaches. The candidate
is also expected to integrate into ongoing research
projects at the ZFMK and teaching programs at the
University of Bonn, and to obtain competitive grant
funds.
As a curator, the successful candidate will be responsi-
ble for caring, managing and further increasing and de-
veloping the Diptera collections at the ZFMK. He/she
will also be involved in the self-administration of the
institute and is expected to demonstrate commitment
to community engagement in his/her ﬁeld of research.
Non-German candidates are expected to acquire basic
knowledge of German.
The successful candidate will be employed for an initial
probation period of up to ﬁve years - determined on
his/ her experience - according to the German legisla-
tion, after which he/she will obtain tenure depending
on his/her performance. Salary is according provision-
ally to grade TV-L/13 in the German Public Service
scheme).
The ZFMK is a fellow institute of the “Wissenschaftsge-
meinschaft Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz” (WGL Science
Community) and works in close cooperation with the
University of Bonn. It comprises internationally impor-42 EvolDir September 1, 2011
tant scientiﬁc collections, libraries, electron microscopy
unit, and bioacoustics, histological and molecular lab-
oratories.
The ZFMK is an equal opportunity employer. Women
are therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally
qualiﬁed handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence.
Interested applicants should submit a CV, complete
publication record, a statement of teaching experience
and research funding, certiﬁcates of university degrees,and selected publications in hard copies to the following
address:
Heike Lenz, Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum Alexan-
der Koenig, Adenauerallee 160, D-53113 Bonn, Ger-
many, by August 31 2011. E-mail inquiries:
h.lenz.zfmk@uni-bonn.de.
Please note that application documents will not be re-
turned.
Netta Dorchin <n.dorchin.zfmk@uni-bonn.de >
Other
2012 EncycloLife Fellows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
ABI 3130xl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Applied Evolution videos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
BacterialEvol TeachingLab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Biomath support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
CambridgeU VolunteerFieldAssist Meerkats . . . . . . . 44
Canadian Insect Suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Commercial DNA cloning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Compilation r8s on Lion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
DNA extraction beads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
ElectroFastGel system form ABgene . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Evolution competence tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Evolution Documentary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Evolution Videos 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
IJEB EvolSex CallPapers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46Insect suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
IntJournalEvolBiol Call Cichlid Papers . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Micro library services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
microsat NGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
MS VAR software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
NESCent K12EvolutionEducation Proposals reminder
48
Problem with ABI3130xl ﬁllingpump . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Sibship groups advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Software PhyloSim . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Taxonomy mining question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Volunteers SouthAfrican smallMammals . . . . . . . . . . . 51
WaterHyacinth GeneticMap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
2012 EncycloLife Fellows
The Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) is now accepting ap-
plications for its 2012 EOL Rubenstein Fellows compe-
tition.
This international program seeks to support and extend
the impact of original biodiversity research by postgrad-
uates, graduate students, and other scientists, and to
tap into the knowledge and expertise of late career andretired scientists. EOL Rubenstein Fellows funds pro-
vide partial support for up to one year so that biodiver-
sity research, databases, and media can be eﬀectively
translated into rich, online resources available through
the Encyclopedia of Life. Fellows are encouraged to en-
gage in collaborative and synthetic work with a commu-
nity of colleagues. EOL Rubenstein Fellows also help
EOL develop eﬀective strategies for engaging and sup-
porting the scientiﬁc community.
Please note that in the 2012 program, research men-
tors are not required, and the program is not limited
to early-career applicants. For more information on
the program, and to apply online, please visit http://-September 1, 2011 EvolDir 43
www.eol.org/content/page/fellows .
Applications must be submitted via the online submis-
sion form no later than 16 September 2011, please see
call details and the online form for details.
Questions regarding the EOL Rubenstein Fellows com-
petition should be directed to the EOL Fellows Coor-
dinator at eol.fellows@gmail.com.
Leo Shapiro <lshapiro@eol.org >
ABI 3130xl
Dear EvolDir
I am experiencing some problems with an ABI 3130xl
sequencer. When running a spectral calibration I get an
error code: failed spectral calibration, “no” candidate
spectral ﬁles found. I looked at the possible causes and
made changes but still I get the same error code. I am
suspecting this has something to do that the spatial cal-
ibration does not get saved. When I go into run history:
Spatial Calibration Viewer, none of my recent spatials
are saved there (although they passed). Anyone had a
similar experience?
Thankful for any help or suggestions!
Cheers
Jeanette
wodans12@yahoo.se
Applied Evolution videos
Twenty-four lectures from the conference “Interdisci-
plinary Solutions to Evolutionary Challenges in Food,
Health, and the Environment” are online at the In-
stitute for Contemporary Evolution web site ( http:/-
/www.icevolution.org ).
The meeting was a joint NSF and CSIRO-sponsored
summit of leading international researchers interested
in unifying the ﬁeld of applied evolutionary biology.
Keynotes are by Tom Smith (UCLA), “Evolution-
ary Management of Ecosystems & Biodiversity”, Ford
Denison (U Minnesota), “Darwinian Agriculture: PastTradeoﬀs Present Opportunities”, and Sir Peter Gluck-
man (U Auckland), “Applying Evolutionary Principals
to Improving Human Health”.
Other topics include invasion biology, evolution of re-
sistance and virulence, adaptation to stress and cli-
mate change, and evolutionary management of natural
resources and agroecosystems. The lectures are pro-
fessionally edited and will interest research colleagues,
students and educators.
The talks are organized by speaker. You can choose
among the videos with this direct link: http://-
icevolution.org/01 cms/details.asp?ID=61 . Also at
the web site is ’Evolution Island’, a 12-minute ﬁlm
about the meeting, which was held at Heron Island on
the Great Barrier Reef, Australia, in 2010.
The ﬁlm is at the top of the web page; if you have a
small monitor, don’t overlook the talks below it.
Scott P. Carroll, PhD Department of Entomol-
ogy Center for Population Biology University of
California-Davis http://www.scottcarroll.org http://-
soapberrybug.org http://www.icEvolution.org spcar-
roll@ucdavis.edu
BacterialEvol TeachingLab
Dear all:
I would like to institute a bacterial evolution compo-
nent for the laboratory component of the Evolutionary
Biology course that I teach. Ideally, this activity would
be able to track changes in an appropriate gene or two
and exhibit demonstrable change within the course of
a 15-week semester. I have no experience maintaining
bacterial cultures so what I’d like may not be possible
- nevertheless, what I’m interested in would take one
full lab session and parts of several others. That is, I
envision an initial lab to set up cultures and obtain ma-
terial for sequencing followed by 3 or 4 subsequent sam-
plings spaced ~3 weeks apart throughout the semester
for DNA extraction and sequencing to determine and
track changes. Students would not have a lot of time for
maintaining cultures so ’husbandry’ would need to be
minimal (I do not have lab personnel to maintain cul-
tures for students). I should mention also that students
in the course vary considerably in ability but do have
suﬃcient bench skills to do simple DNA extractions.
I’m hoping someone out in the community has already
worked out an activity that might ﬁt my constraints44 EvolDir September 1, 2011
with suitable species and gene(s) for such an activity. I
would be most grateful for any input towards develop-
ing this type of lab.
Thanks in advance.
Paul Mack, Ph.D Assistant Professor of Biology De-
partment of Sciences and Mathematics Mississippi Uni-
versity for Women 1100 College Street, MUW-100
Columbus, MS 39701 662-329-4987
pmack@as.muw.edu
Biomath support
*Support Available for Activities at the National Insti-
tute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis*
*September 1, 2011 *is the deadline for requests for
NIMBioS support for Working Groups, Investigative
Workshops, Sabbaticals, and Short-term Visitors for
activities beginning spring 2012. All areas of research
at the interface of biology and mathematics will be
considered, but we are especially interested in activities
expanding beyond the areas of research supported
to date. Potential organizers of activities in areas
of molecular biology, cell biology, network biology,
immunology and systems biology are particularly
encouraged to submit requests for support of Work-
ing Groups or Investigative Workshops. NIMBioS,
located at the University of Tennessee-Knoxville, is
an NSF-sponsored initiative to foster interdisciplinary
research at the interface between mathematical and
biological sciences. The institute’s mission is to cul-
tivate cross-disciplinary approaches in mathematical
biology and to develop a cadre of researchers who
address fundamental and applied biological problems
in creative ways. Other NIMBIoS sponsors include
DHS and USDA, with additional support from the
University of Tennessee-Knoxville. More details are
posted at http://www.nimbios.org *Related Links:*
NIMBioS Working Groups http://www.nimbios.org/-
workinggroups/ NIMBioS Investigative Workshops
http://www.nimbios.org/workshops/ Postdoctoral
Fellowships http://www.nimbios.org/postdocs/ Sab-
baticals http://www.nimbios.org/visitors/sabbatical
Short-term Visits http://www.nimbios.org/visitors/
Sergey Gavrilets Distinguished Professor Arts and
Sciences Excellence Professor Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology Department of Mathematics
Associate Director for Scientiﬁc Activities NationalInstitute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis
(NIMBioS) University of Tennessee Knoxville, TN
37996
phone: (865) 974-8136 fax: (865) 974-3067 e-
mail: gavrila@tiem.utk.edu web: www.tiem.utk.edu/-
˜gavrila NIMBioS: www.nimbios.org Sergey Gavrilets
<sergey@nimbios.org >
CambridgeU VolunteerFieldAssist
Meerkats
Volunteer ﬁeld assistant needed to assist 2nd year PhD
student from Cambridge University with a study on the
relation between hormones and cooperative behaviour
in meerkats, between early October 2011 and March
2012.
Field work will take place at the Kuruman River Re-
serve, a remote study site in the southern Kalahari
Desert in South Africa. Work days under desert condi-
tions may be long and repetitive and will involve assist-
ing with experiments and following habituated groups
of wild meerkats to record their behaviour. Living at
the ﬁeld site will be under basic conditions together
with a dynamic team of 15 - 25 early career researchers
and ﬁeld assistants. The study site is very isolated and
possibilities to leave the study site are rare, but limited
internet is available.
Food and accommodation will be provided. Unfortu-
nately my funding does not cover travel expenses and
visa costs (together some £1000,-).
Previous experience with ﬁeld work in isolated condi-
tions is an advantage, but motivation and an easy going
personality will be most important. Applicants should
hold a valid drivers license and be available for interview
via Skype. Applicants should be able to start applying
for visa asap.
If interested, please send a cover letter, CV and contact
info of 2 references to ps511@cam.ac.uk.
Peter Santema
For further information visit: http://-
www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/zoostaﬀ/larg/pages/index.html
http://www.kalahari-meerkats.com/ – Peter San-
tema PhD student Large Animal Research Group
Department of Zoology University of Cambridge
http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/zoostaﬀ/larg/Pages/-
index.html “P. Santema” <ps511@cam.ac.uk >September 1, 2011 EvolDir 45
Canadian Insect Suppliers
Currently I am looking for insect suppliers from any-
where within Canada.
Particularly, I will be needing the the eggs of: Cabbage
Looper (Trichoplusia ni) Beet Armyworm (Spodoptera
exigua) Tobacco Budworm (Heliothis virescens)
If anyone has any contacts for suppliers, I would greatly
appreciate the help.
Thanks,
Christina Thomsen University of Toronto
c.thomsen@utoronto.ca
Commercial DNA cloning
Can someone please recommend a Biotech company
which does both cloning and sequencing of PCR prod-
ucts? We would have large number of PCR products
(size ~200 bp) that we would like to have sequenced.
The PCR products however, are ampliﬁed cell popula-
tions where individual cells might have diﬀerent alleles
of STRs (microsatellites) and therefore cloning is essen-
tial prior to sequencing.
thank you,
Monika
Monika Zavodna Department of Anatomy and Struc-
tural Biology University of Otago PO Box 913 Dunedin
9054 New Zealand
Phone: +64 3 479 7376 Fax: +64 3 479 7254
monika.zavodna@anatomy.otago.ac.nz
Compilation r8s on Lion
Hi all,Has anyone been able to compile r8s for the new Mac
OS Lion? There are some changes to fortran libraries
in the new OS, and I can’t seem to get r8s to compile.
Thanks, Todd Oakley
todd.oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
DNA extraction beads
There is a grad student in my lab who is having the
following issue. Any advice would be helpful.
I am extracting DNA from bacteria attached to plas-
tic and chitin magnetic beads and using real time PCR
to quantify the amount of bacteria present. After phe-
nol:chloroform DNA extraction my DNA pellet is white
and chalky, it almost looks like small ﬂecks of paper,
and does not go into solution. Could the beads be con-
tributing to the consistency of my DNA and will this
aﬀect my PCR ampliﬁcations? We do not think that
it is salts since it is not soluble and we are doing two
wash steps.
Also, if anyone can recommend a better DNA extrac-
tion technique from magnetic beads for DNA quantiﬁ-
cation that would be great too.
Cheers,
Rachel Wallace Clostio, Ph.D. Postdoctoral Researcher
Louisiana State University Department of Environmen-
tal Sciences Oﬃce: (225) 578-7173 Lab: (225) 578-5830
Rachel W Clostio <rclostio@lsu.edu >
ElectroFastGel system form ABgene
Dear evoldir users,
a colleague tried to ﬁnd and buy a gel system
that he knew from his previous lab, and which
he really misses now. It is the ABgene Eletcro-
Fast Gel System (see http://www.abgene.com/-
productDetails.asp?prodID=3D184 ). Unfortunately
this system seems to be discontinued.
I would be curious if anybody would have such a sys-
tem but does not use it anymore, so that we could buy
it 2nd hand.46 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Thanks in advance, Robert
robert.kraus@senckenberg.de
Evolution competence tests
Hello,
Is there anyone out there who is administering a general
evolution competence test appropriate for undergradu-
ate students? I would be interested in quantitatively
assessing the ability of our program to prepare our stu-
dents.
Thanks,
Rodney
Rodney J. Dyer, PhD Department of Biology Virginia
Commonwealth University dyerlab.bio.vcu.edu
Rodney Dyer <rjdyer@vcu.edu >
Evolution Documentary
We’re launching a campaign in late August with the
support of the National Center for Science Education
and Americans United for Separation of Church & State
to promote the importance of teaching evolution, not
creationism, in our schools.
Emmy-winning ﬁlmmaker Greta Schiller has created a
ﬁlm called NO DINOSAURS IN HEAVEN, featuring
anthropologist Dr. Eugenie Scott, which will screen at
a number of universities in the South and nationwide as
well as at the New York Academy of Sciences and the
Center for Inquiry in Los Angeles. Along with speakers
from each school and discussion among the community,
this ﬁlm series will help to provoke an important dia-
logue on the need for quality science education, the joy
of genuine scientiﬁc discovery and freedom from reli-
gious inﬂuence in the classroom.
We are booking NO DINOSAURS IN HEAVEN for uni-
versity and community engagements now. If this would
be of interest to your community, please contact me
now. If there is someone else in your department who
is responsible for arranging events, please pass this in-
formation along to them.You can ﬁnd a trailer and more information at http:/-
/nodinos.com . If this would be of interest to your
listmembers, please pass it along. If you have any ques-
tions about the ﬁlm or campaign, please let me know.
Thanks, Laure
–
Laure Parsons laure@nodinos.com No Dinosaurs in
Heaven A Documentary about Creationism in Science
Education http://nodinos.com 917.725.0727
Laure Parsons <laure@nodinos.com >
Evolution Videos 2
EVOLUTION ACADEMY VIDEOS (Darwin,
Matthew, Fleeming Jenkin, Butler)
NEW SERIES. Following the Introductory set of twelve
15 minute videos on Evolutionary Principles, and a sec-
ond set on Natural Selection, I happily present a third
set on Blending Inheritance. These deal with histori-
cal aspects of Evolution with special reference to the
complex interactions between Charles Darwin, Patrick
Matthew, Fleeming Jenkin and Samuel Butler.
HOW TO VIEW THE VIDEO LIST. Go to web-page
(http://post.queensu.ca/ ˜ forsdyke/videolectures.htm
).
The videos supplement my books on bioinformatics and
biohistory, and my evolution web-pages.
Donald R. Forsdyke, Department of Biomedical and
Molecular Sciences, Queen’s University, Kingston, On-
tario, Canada K7L3N6
forsdyke@queensu.ca
IJEB EvolSex CallPapers
The Evolution of Sex-Related Traits and Genes Call for
Papers (International Journal of Evolutionary Biology)
Dear Colleagues: Following the successful publica-
tion of our ﬁrst issue on the evolution of sex-related
traits and genes http://www.hindawi.com/journals/-
ijeb/2011/si.estg/, we are pleased to announce theSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 47
launching of an annual special Issue on the topic. This
will become the second in a series of special Issues or
focus Issues to be published each year. We are now
inviting authors to submit original research articles as
well as review articles that will stimulate, contribute,
and challenge our continuous eﬀort to understand what
drives the evolution of sex-related traits and genes.
For more information please visit http://-
www.hindawi.com/journals/ijeb/si/estg12/ Sincerely,
Alberto Civetta Jose M. Eirin-Lopez Rob Kulathinal
Jeremy L. Marshall
a.civetta@uwinnipeg.ca a.civetta@uwinnipeg.ca
Insect suppliers
Dear Canadian Biologists:
We are writing this letter to inquire whether there is
suﬃcient demand among Canadian biologists to jus-
tify starting new commercial colonies of three generalist
feeding moths (Spodoptera exigua, Heliothis virescens,
and Helicoverpa zea). Recent changes to the inspec-
tion of live insects by the United States Department of
Agriculture and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service have
made importing insect eggs, larvae and adults from
the U.S.A. untenable for research purposes. In fact,
many companies are unwilling to even attempt ship-
ping across borders at this time. Although there are
some excellent sources of commercial insect colonies in
Canada, unfortunately there are no large-scale Cana-
dian suppliers for the species listed above.
In collaboration with several labs and one Federal
agency in Canada, we are investigating the feasibil-
ity of starting commercial insect colonies for the three
species listed above within Canada. The colony would
be reared with the highest standards of quality and
cleanliness to reduce the incidence of parasites and with
all proper certiﬁcations.
To gauge the potential demand and thus feasibility of
starting these colonies, we ask that Canadian biologists
that might make use of these colonies to respond to:
c.thomsen@utoronto.ca. In this email please indicate:
a) Which species you would require b) The frequency
at which you would order c) The number of insects
you would typically order d) Your professional aﬃlia-
tion (e.g. Ag Canada, CFS, McGill University, etc.)
Best regards,Marc Johnson Assistant Professor Dept. of Biology
University of Toronto - Mississauga
c.thomsen@utoronto.ca c.thomsen@utoronto.ca
IntJournalEvolBiol Call Cichlid
Papers
Cichlid Evolution: Lessons in Diversiﬁcation 2012
Call for Papers
Given the great success of the ﬁrst special issue
on “Cichlid Evolution: Lessons in Diversiﬁcation”
(available from http://www.hindawi.com/journals/-
ijeb/2011/si.celd/ ), which includes several high-quality
research and review papers on cichlid evolution, a de-
cision has been made to publish special issues on ci-
chlid evolution on an annual basis. Cichlid ﬁshes have
long been a well-established evolutionary model system,
and with the development of an increasing number of
genetic and genomic resources, including the recent se-
quencing of four cichlid genomes, cichlids are likely to
receive even greater attention in future evolutionary re-
search. For the 2012 special issue, we invite investiga-
tors to contribute original research as well as review
articles that seek to advance our knowledge of mecha-
nisms underlying processes involved in generating and
maintaining the tremendous diversity of cichlid ﬁshes.
Potential topics include, but are not limited to:
>Advances in phylogenetics, phylogeography, and pop-
ulation genetics >Genomic and transcriptomic re-
search >Role of behavioral and ecological special-
izations in cichlid diversiﬁcation >Ecological interac-
tions between cichlid species or between cichlids and
other organisms >Physiological/morphological adapta-
tions to particular environments >Importance of hy-
bridization for generating diversity >Sexual versus nat-
ural selection >Evolution of developmental mechanisms
>Conservation biology/genetics and the anthropogenic
eﬀects on cichlid diversity
Authors interested in preparing a review article should
contact the Lead Guest Editor.
Before submission authors should carefully read over
the journal’s Author Guidelines, which are located
athttp://www.hindawi.com/journals/ijeb/guidelines/-
. Prospective authors should submit an elec-
tronic copy of their complete manuscript through
the journal Manuscript Tracking System at http://-
mts.hindawi.com/ according to the following timetable:48 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Manuscript Due Friday, 6 January 2012 First Round of
Reviews Friday, 6 April 2012 Publication Date Friday,
6 July 2012
Lead Guest Editor Stephan Koblm¨ uller, Department
of Zoology, Karl-Franzens-University Graz, Univer-
sit¨ atsplatz 2, 8010 Graz, Austria
Guest Editors R. Craig Albertson, Department of
Biology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA
01002, USA Martin J. Genner, School of Biological Sci-
ences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 1UG, UK Kristina M. Sefc, Department of Zool-
ogy, Karl-Franzens-University Graz, Universit¨ atsplatz
2, 8010 Graz, Austria Tetsumi Takahashi, Graduate
School of Science, Kyoto University, Kitashirakawa-
Oiwake Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan
Stephan Koblm¨ uller Department of Zool-
ogy; Karl-Franzens-University Graz Univer-
sit¨ atsplatz 2; 8010 Graz Austria phone: +43
(0)316 3803978 fax: +43 (0)316 3809875
homepage: http://www.kfunigraz.ac.at/-
zoowww/staﬀ/Koblmueller/kobl.htm
“Koblmueller, Stephan (stephan.koblmueller@uni-
graz.at)” <stephan.koblmueller@uni-graz.at >
<stephan.koblmueller@uni-graz.at >
Micro library services
Dear All,
I am looking for a company that constructs microsatel-
lite libraries. If you have any recommendations, they
would be very welcome.
Please email me at svdh@sun.ac.za
Many thanks, Sophie
svdh@sun.ac.za
microsat NGS
Dear all,
I was wondering if any of you have information on se-
quencing microsatellite repeats (amplicons) on a 454
platform.Essentially, I would like to get some information on the
accuracy when sequencing microsatellite amplicons. Do
you get the two alleles (e.g. heterozygotes) in equal pro-
portions or do you get a distribution of several repeat
lengths due to pcr-errors? If so, what kind of coverage
(50x, 100x) do you need to estimate the “correct” alle-
les? And is there any diﬀerence between di-, tri, tetra
or penta-repeats as you would expect?
I would be gratefull if any of you could point me to some
papers on this topic or share your experience. Thanks!
Note: I do not ask for info on how to use 454 seq to
develop new microsats as there are plenty of papers on
that.
Koen
kdegelas@gmail.com
MS VAR software
Dear EvolDir users,
I am currently using the Software MS VAR 1.3 (Beau-
mont 2004) For now, I have diﬃculties to set the
initvﬁle to a good starting point. No output is gener-
ated and I get an error message :
“error:: getevent: problem setting newtime”
If anyone has already encountered this problem I would
be very grateful for advice on how to solve this problem.
Best regards
Ludovic Dutoit Laboratory of Molecular Evolution and
Mammalian Phylogenetics |BatLab University College
Dublin
Dutoit Ludovic <dutoit.ludovic@gmail.com >
NESCent K12EvolutionEducation
Proposals reminder
Request for proposals in K-12 evolution education for
underrepresented minorities
Deadline: September 1, 2011 or January 1, 2012
As part of ongoing eﬀorts to increase diversity in evo-
lutionary science, the National Evolutionary SynthesisSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 49
Center is sponsoring a range of targeted activities in the
general area of K-12 Evolution Education for Underrep-
resented Minorities.“ We seek to support one or more
Catalysis Meetings, Working Groups or other synergis-
tic activities that lead to the creation of new programs,
activities or initiatives designed to increase exposure
and participation in evolutionary science by K-12 mi-
nority students who are historically underrepresented
in the discipline.
In particular, proposals that are signiﬁcantly interdis-
ciplinary, and that demonstrate a mix of senior and
emerging researchers, including graduate students, are
encouraged. Competitive proposals will not only de-
ﬁne the target audience(s) and outline strategies for
developing innovative activities, but will also include
detailed plans for implementation and assessment. Pro-
posals should also indicate how activities and programs
align with state and/or federal education standards.
NESCent invites researchers to submit proposals for
two kinds of meetings:
Catalysis Meetings: These one-time meetings bring to-
gether ~30 scientists from diverse disciplines to focus
on a major question or research area in evolutionary
science. Catalysis Meetings typically last for 3-5 days.
Working Groups: Working Groups involve small groups
of scientists (10-12 participants) collaborating inten-
sively on the analysis or synthesis of data, models or
both, to address a major question in evolutionary sci-
ence. Working groups will typically meet 3-4 times over
two years, with each meeting lasting 3-5 days.
Synergistic Activities: We also strongly encourage link-
ages among our science programs (see url below). We
invite proposals that plan synergistic activities between
two or more of the following: working groups, cataly-
sis meetings, postdoctoral fellows, sabbatical scholars,
short-term fellows, and graduate students. Proposals
for each of these must be submitted separately; they
should include a clear statement of linkage between pro-
posals (including clear identiﬁcations in each of the sep-
arate proposals of which proposals are linked).
NESCent will not support collection of new data or ﬁeld
research, but encourages the synthesis of existing data
and information resources. NESCent is committed to
making data, databases, software and other products
that are developed as part of NESCent activities avail-
able to the broader scientiﬁc community.
To learn more about the various types of propos-
als, and the proposal process, please visit https://-
www.nescent.org/science/proposals.php, or contact Dr.
Allen Rodrigo (a.rodrigo@nescent.org) or Dr. Jory
Weintraub (jory@nescent.org).Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >
Problem with ABI3130xl
ﬁllingpump
Dear community,
I have a problem with an 16 capillary 3130xl ABI. This
machine has not been used for 3 years. A new array is
installed but problem is the pump. Well nothing seem
to be wrong with the pump as the piston moves up and
down as it should but no liquids are drawn into the up-
per polymer block. So when trying to do a water wash
for example, the liquid is not even able to go more than
2-3 cm from the bottle and then it goes down again. I
should mention that all the tubes and even the lower
polymer block have been cleaned so there is no dry
polymer blocking those areas. Could there be a block
just under the pump, in the valve? Does anyone have
any experience with this? Any help would be mostly
appreciated.
Many thanks!
Jens Carlsson
wodans12@yahoo.se
Sibship groups advice
Dear Colleagues,
I am trying to determine sibship groups of frog egg
masses that I collected from the wild to ultimately cal-
culate heritability values. Since I know each egg mass is
from one mother, I am trying to determine whether the
tadpoles are full or half siblings within each egg mass.
I genotyped all tadpoles for 4 microsatellite loci and
have tried using various programs to reconstruct sibship
groups. I am getting diﬀerent results from diﬀerent pro-
grams and was wondering if anyone has done something
similar and can oﬀer any advice about the best method
and speciﬁc parameters to use. Particularly, if anyone
has a similar system in which both parents (genotypes)
are unknown but the number of mothers is known and
you are trying to determine number of fathers. I have
tried using Kingroup, Colony, and Parentage. Thanks50 EvolDir September 1, 2011
in advance for any advice.
Best, Katherine
kpease@ucla.edu
Katherine Pease, PhD Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology University of California, Los Angeles
621 Charles E. Young Dr. S. Los Angeles, CA 90095
kpease@ucla.edu
Software DAMBE update
Dear All,
I have just uploaded a new version of DAMBE. The pre-
vious version of DAMBE has a few problems running on
Windows Vista/7 machines. The cause is partly due to
Windows Vista/7 not allowing the user to create tem-
porary ﬁles in most directories. DAMBE now writes
temporary ﬁles to Windows’ temporary directory.
DAMBE is a comprehensive software package for
data analysis (especially sequence analysis) in molec-
ular biology and evolution. It is free at http://-
dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp Best Xuhua
Xuhua Xia, Professor of Biology Biology Department
University of Ottawa Rm 278 Gendron 30 Marie Curie,
Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N 6N5 Tel: (613) 562-5800
ext 6886 URL: http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca
Software PhyloSim
Dear EvolDir readers,
I would like to announce PhyloSim ( http://bit.ly/-
o09JXW ), an extensible and feature-rich framework for
the Monte Carlo simulation of sequence evolution that
might be in the interest to readers of the list.
PhyloSim is implemented as an R package and it is
available from CRAN ( http://bit.ly/n54VGg ) and the
GitHub repository (http://bit.ly/nFo9rf) which also
contains many example scripts implementing simula-
tions of varying complexity. The list of the most im-
portant features oﬀered by PhyloSim are summarized
below.Regards,
Botond Sipos EMBL-European Bioinformatics Insti-
tute
The key features oﬀered by PhyloSim are the following:
1. Simulation of the evolution of a set of discrete char-
acters with arbitrary states evolving by a continuous-
time Markov process with an arbitrary rate matrix.
2. Explicit implementations of the most popular nu-
cleotide, amino acid and codon substitution models.
3. Simulation under the popular models of among-sites
rate variation, such as the gamma (+Gamma) and in-
variant sites plus gamma (+I+Gamma) models.
4. The possibility to simulate with arbitrarily complex
patterns of among-sites rate variation by setting the
site-speciﬁc rates according to any R expression.
5. Simulation with one or more separate insertion and
deletion processes acting on the sequences, each sam-
pling indel lengths from an arbitrary discrete distribu-
tion or an R expression (so all probability distributions
implemented in R are readily available for this pur-
pose).
6. All the rate variation features listed above (3, 4)
can be readily applied to modify the rates whereby in-
sertion and deletion processes initiate events at given
sites.
7. Simulation of the eﬀects of spatially variable func-
tional constraints by site- and process-speciﬁc insertion
and deletion tolerance parameters, which determine the
rejection probability of a proposed insertion or dele-
tion (“ﬁeld deletion and insertion” models). Field in-
del models allow for the ﬁne-grained control of selective
constraints on indels.
8. The possibility of having diﬀerent processes and site-
and process-speciﬁc parameters for every site, which al-
lows for an arbitrary number of partitions in the simu-
lated data.
9. Simulation of heterotachy and other cases of time-
non-homogeneous evolution by allowing the user to set
“node hook” functions altering sites’ properties at in-
ternal nodes of the phylogeny.
10. Full control over the properties of the inserted se-
quences, which makes it possible to easily extend Phy-
loSim with new kinds of insertion processes (e.g. dupli-
cations).
sbotond@gmail.comSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 51
Taxonomy mining question
Dear colleagues,
I have a long list of bacteria which has genus and species
name, and want to know which family, order, class, phy-
lum those bacteria belong to. Is there any idea for doing
that?
Thanks!
Haiwei Luo University of Georgia
hluo2006@gmail.com
Volunteers SouthAfrican
smallMammals
2 volunteers needed from November / December 2011
onwards
2 volunteers needed from January 2012 onwards
as ﬁeld assistants for the project:
Evolution and Socio-Ecology of small Mammals in the
Succulent Karoo of South Africa
Opportunity: This is a great opportunity for anybody
who wants to get more experience in ﬁeld work relating
to evolution, ecology and behavior before starting an
MsC or PhD project.
Project: We study the evolutionary and ecological rea-
sons as well as physiological mechanisms of group living,
paternal care, communal nesting and social ﬂexibility
in the striped mouse. As this species is diurnal and the
habitat is open, direct behavioral observations in the
ﬁeld are possible.
What kind of people are needed? Biol-
ogy/zoology/veterinary students are preferred as
candidates. Applicants must have an interest in
working in the ﬁeld and with animals. Hard working
conditions will await applicants, as the study species
gets up with sunrise (between 5 and 6 o‘ clock), and
stops its activity with dusk (19 o‘ clock). Work during
nights might also be necessary. Work in the ﬁeld will
be done for 5 days a week. Applicants must be ableto manage extreme temperatures (below 0 at night
in winter, sometimes over 40C during summer days).
Applicants must both be prepared to live for long
periods in the loneliness of the ﬁeld and to be part of
a small social group.
Work of ﬁeld assistants: Trapping, marking and radio-
tracking of striped mice; direct behavioral observations
in the ﬁeld. Volunteers are also expected to help with
maintenance of the research station (water pump, solar
power, etc.)
Conﬁrmation letter: Students get a letter of conﬁrma-
tion about their work and can prepare a report of their
own small project to get credit points from their uni-
versity for their bachelor or masters studies.
Costs: Students have to arrange their transport to the
ﬁeld site themselves. Per month, an amount of Rand
1250 (around 180 US$, 125 Euro) must be paid for ac-
commodation at the research station. Students must
buy their own food etc in Springbok (costs of about R
2500, approx. 360 US$ or 250 Euro/month). Includ-
ing extras (going out for dinner; shopping), you should
expect costs of about 600 US$, 450 Euros per month.
Students get an invitation letter which they can use to
apply for funding in their home country (eg. DAAD in
Germany, SSJARP in Switzerland).
Place: The ﬁeld site is in the Goegap Nature Reserve
near Springbok in the North-West of South Africa. The
vegetation consists of Succulent Karoo, which has been
recognized as one of 25 hotspots of biodiversity. It is a
desert to semi-desert with rain mainly in winter (June
to September).
When and how long: At the moment we are looking for
2-3 volunteers starting in November / December 2011
and two additional volunteers starting in January 2012.
Volunteers are expected to stay at least 4 months, but
longer periods of up to 6months are possible.
How to apply? Send a short motivation letter stating
why and for which period you are interested and your
CV via email to carsten.schradin@ieu.uzh.ch.
More information under http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/-
research/behaviour/endocrinology.html Contact via
e-mail: carsten.schradin@ieu.uzh.ch
Dr. Carsten Schradin Research Assistant, Department
of Animal Behavior, University of Zurich, Winterthur-
erstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Tel: +41 -
(0)44 635 5486
Honorary Researcher at the School of Animal, Plant
and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwa-
tersrand, South Africa.
Working as a ﬁeld assistant in Goegap Nature Reserve52 EvolDir September 1, 2011
A report by Romy H¨ oppli, student at the University of
Zurich, who staid in Goegap June to August 2008
Blue skies without a single cloud for six weeks rocky
mountains with little vegetation yellow, orange and
pink ﬁelds of ﬂowers in whatever direction you look
small mammals, lizards and birds in our front yard
and Mountain Zebras, Springbok and Ostrich right next
door...
This was my time at the Succulent Karoo Research Sta-
tion in Goegap Nature Reserve in South Africa! During
six weeks from the beginning of July until the middle of
August I’ve been living here, studying mice, experienc-
ing nature like never before and being part of a small
community where there was always something to laugh
and joke about!
After arriving in Goegap, right the next morning my
scientiﬁc adventure in South Africa began: Setting and
checking traps, nest observations and radio-tracking
were our daily routine. While I got bitten by the mice
quite often in the beginning and my right middle ﬁn-
ger was scarred all over, I improved quickly shaking the
mice out of the traps, weighing them and checking the
number of the ear tag. Other duties like cleaning the
cages of the mice in the captive colony, washing the dirt
from probably several/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
WaterHyacinth GeneticMap
Hello. I currently an undergraduate at USC looking to
do work on the water hyacinth for a fellowship. One
thing that I am considering to do is microsatellite work
on them. My questions are “Is there a genetic map al-
ready out for E. crassipes outlining speciﬁc loci to look
at and if not, is anyone looking to sequence E. cras-
sipes?”
Thanks for your time and consideration.
Cheers,
Mat < http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
Eichhornia crassipes >
“SEBASTIAN, MATHEW” <sebastim@email.sc.edu >
PostDocs
Bialowieza Poland Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
BielefeldU MathPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
DukeU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
DukeU FungalDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
ETH Zurich ModellingAnimalScoiety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
HarvardU ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Heidelberg PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
ManchesterU PhylogeneticModelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
McGillU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Paris Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
ReedCollege EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Roscoﬀ France LifeCycleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
RoslinInst Edinburgh StatisticalQuantGenetics . . . . 60
SangerInst BacterialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60SantaFeInst EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
StJohnsU PlantEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UAlgarve EvolutionFishOlfaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UArizona EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UArizona PlantMolecularEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UCalifornia Davis PlantEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UChicago PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UCincinnati EvolBiol SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UExeter CamplyobacterEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
ULeuven 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UNebraska PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UNeuchatel PlantInsectInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UOsnabruck ResAssoc MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UOxford AvianBehaviourEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68September 1, 2011 EvolDir 53
UOxford EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UPittsburgh PlantPathogenInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UTexas Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UToronto GeneticsPlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UTurku Finland 2 MammalPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . 71UWashington Flower EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UWisconsin Milwaukee FrogEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UWisconsin Milwaukee KelpPopGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UZurich PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Bialowieza Poland Biodiversity
Research Fellowship at the Mammal Research Institute,
Polish Academy of Sciences in Bia3owie¿a, Poland
*VACANCY* Mammal Research Institute is seeking a
Post-Doc or Professor to join its research team between
2010-2012 under the 7th Framework Programme Sup-
port Actions project BIOCONSUS (Research Potential
in Conservation and Sustainable Management of Bio-
diversity), in one of the following scientiﬁc proﬁles: *
conservation genetics; * conservation ecology; * math-
ematical modelling and advanced statistics in ecology
and biogeography; * GIS applications in ecology, genet-
ics, biogeography, and biodiversity studies.
*SCOPE* Full time work (100%) for a minimum of 3
months and a maximum of 24 months.
*START DATE* According to agreement – position is
open from 1 April, 2011.
*REQUIREMENTS * Candidates have to: (1) possess
a PhD; (2) have ?4 years of research experience since
gaining a university diploma giving access to doctoral
studies; (3) possess an excellent writing and speaking
skills in English.
*EVALUATION CRITERIA* (1) scientiﬁc skills, espe-
cially the interdisciplinary approach; (2) number and
quality of published scientiﬁc papers; (3) experience in
work with high-quality research teams; (4) reference
letters.
*TASKS* The recruited fellow will: (1) Join the on-
going research projects at MRI PAS in the respective
ﬁeld and widen its scopes and methods with the new
knowledge. This will yield joint publications, and initi-
ate further collaboration reaching beyond the time span
of the BIOCONSUS project; (2) Deliver a series of lec-
tures and seminars for the staﬀ, students, invited re-
searchers, and other guests of MRI PAS; (3) Participate
in long-term training of students at MRI PAS by super-
vising and co-supervising their MSc theses and diploma
papers.
*CONDITIONS * Salary (subject to social and healthinsurance deductions, not subject to taxation) amounts
to 3474 Euro/month for the Postdoc and 5211
Euro/month for Professor.
*DOCUMENTATION TO BE SUBMITTED* The ap-
plication should be written in English and should in-
clude: CV, list of publications, copy of PhD diploma,
copies of no more than ﬁve recent scientiﬁc publications,
maximum one-page description of former research and
other activities of relevance to the position, and names
of at least two reference persons.
An electronic version of the application should
be sent to: *Professor Bogumi3a Jˆ edrzejewska,*
bjedrzej@zbs.bialowieza.pl Secretariat, mri-
pas@zbs.bialowieza.pl
Additionally, applications should be sent via regular
post to: *Professor Dr. habil. Bogumi3a Jˆ edrzejewska
Mammal Research Institute Polish Academy of Sciences
ul. Waszkiewicza 1 17-230 Bia3owie¿a, Poland with a
note: “BIOCONSUS Application”.*
Screening of applications will continue until a suitable
candidate is appointed.
Mammal Research Institute PAS encourages female re-
searchers to take part in the application process.
For more information concerning MRI PAS and
the BIOCONSUS project please visit our website:
www.zbs.bialowieza.pl Katarzyna Kubicka, MSc Ad-
ministrative Coordinator of BIOCONSUS project
Mammal Research Institute Polish Academy of Sci-
ences 17-230 Bialowieza Waszkiewicza 1c, Poland
www.zbs.bialowieza.pl tel. +48 (85) 682 77 81, fax +48
(85) 682 77 50 mobile: +48 508 527 698
K Kubicka <kkubicka@zbs.bialowieza.pl >
BielefeldU MathPopGenetics
The Biomathematics group at the Faculty of Technol-
ogy, Bielefeld University, has a vacancy for a
Research Associate (postdoc, TVL-E13)54 EvolDir September 1, 2011
for a period of (initially) 12 months, starting in Novem-
ber 2011or later; extension is intended.
We are looking for an individual with a PhD in Mathe-
matics or Mathematical Biology with a research interest
in stochastic processes in biology (preferrably either in
population genetics or immunobiology). Apart from re-
search, the individual is obliged to teach (4 hours per
week during term).
Informal inquiries and applications should be sent to
the address below before Sept. 15, 2011. Applications
via email are welcome.
Bielefeld University oﬀers an excellent research environ-
ment, its particular strength being due to close interac-
tion between biomathematics, mathematics, bioinfor-
matics, and biology (all in one huge building!).
Bielefeld University is an equal opportunity employer.
Women and members of minority groups including dis-
abled persons are strongly encouraged to apply.
Prof. Ellen Baake, Technische Fakultaet, Uni-
versitaet Bielefeld, Postfach 100131, 33501
Bielefeld, Germany phone (+49) 521 106 4896
email: ebaake@techfak.uni-bielefeld.de URL:
http://www.TechFak.Uni-Bielefeld.DE/ags/bm/
ebaake@techfak.uni-bielefeld.de
DukeU EvolutionaryBiol
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Biology at Duke
University
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral (Associate
in Research) position to study mechanisms of female
dominance and reproductive skew in meerkats.
Occupational Summary:
A full-time research position, funded by the Na-
tional Science Foundation, is immediately available
to assist with an integrative project that com-
bines behavioral, endocrine, and chemical approaches
to study female development. The work is to
be conducted partly at Duke University ( http:/-
/evolutionaryanthropology.duke.edu/ ) in North Car-
olina and partly at the Kalahari Meerkat Project
(http://www.kalahari-meerkats.com/ ) in South Africa.
Applicants should be ready to spend up to six-month
stretches in the ﬁeld; ﬁeld experience in behavioral
endocrinology is preferred. Experience in analytical
chemistry and other laboratory techniques is desired,but on-the-job training is available. The opportunity
to develop independent research is also available. The
initial appointment is for one year, with subsequent
funding (up to 4 years) conditional on satisfactory per-
formance. Salary will be partly based on previous ex-
perience and includes beneﬁts.
Qualiﬁcations:
The successful candidate will have earned a PhD in a
relevant discipline.
Applicants should have a strong background in
one or more of the following areas: animal behav-
ior/behavioral ecology, endocrinology, chemical ecol-
ogy, evolutionary or ﬁeld biology, population dynam-
ics/genetics.
Experience working with wild animals and in a labo-
ratory is required
The applicant should work well independently and as
part of a team, and should be enthusiastic and highly
motivated.
Responsibilities:
Animal handling and administration of hormonal
preparations
Behavioral data collection on free-ranging meerkats,
using hand- held computers
Collection of biological material (blood, fecal, glandu-
lar) from animals
Oversight of ﬁeld assistants on all aspects of data col-
lection
Transportation or shipment of biological samples to
the US
Performance of various assays (e.g. RIA, EIA, GCMS,
LCMS, HPLC)
(Assistance in DNA extraction and various genetic
analyses, as necessary)
Data maintenance and analysis
Coordination with ﬁeld and laboratory managers
Assistance in the training and review of new personnel
or procedural developments
Performance of other related duties incidental to the
work described herein
Please email an application, consisting of a cover letter
summarizing your qualiﬁcations and interests, curricu-
lum vitae, representative reprints or preprints, and the
names and contact information for two references, to
Christine Drea (cdrea@duke.edu). Evaluation of appli-
cants will begin immediately and will continue until theSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 55
position is ﬁlled.
Duke University is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Op-
portunity Employer.
Christine Drea <cdrea@duke.edu >
DukeU FungalDiversity
Postdoctoral Position V Transcriptomics and Commu-
nity Genomics of Ectomycorrhizal Fungi
Postdoctoral position in the Vilgalys Mycology Labo-
ratory at Duke University to study functional, genetic,
and community diversity of ectomycorrhizal fungi. We
are currently seeking qualiﬁed applicants for a post-
doctoral position to study functional and genetic di-
versity in a keystone plant-microbe symbiosis (pines
and ectomycorrhizal fungi). In particular, we are inter-
ested in linkages between phylogenetic diversity, popu-
lation structure, and functional diversity in mycorrhizal
communities and also how these factors aﬀect larger
ecosystem processes. Ideal applicants should have a
Ph.D. degree in any area of fungal and/or plant ge-
netics, ecology, or bioinformatics along with relevant
publications and laboratory experience. Previous ex-
perience with metagenomics and next-generation se-
quencing is desirable but not necessary for the posi-
tion. This position is part of a collaborative research
grant (NSF Dimensions of Biodiversity program) with
faculty at University of Minnesota (Kabir Peay) and
University of California at Berkeley (Tom Bruns &
John Taylor). The postdoc chosen for this position
will have opportunities to interact with investigators
at all three institutions during project meetings and
ﬁeld work. Interested candidates should email (1) a
cover letter explaining interest and relevant qualiﬁca-
tions (e.g. technical or analytical skills), and (2) a CV
listing education, relevant publications, and (3) names
of 3 references to Dr. Rytas Vilgalys, Biology Depart-
ment, Duke University (please collate and send as a
single pdf to fungi@duke.edu). The position is avail-
able immediately and will remain open until a suitable
candidate has been hired. For more information on
the Vilgalys Lab see: http://www.biology.duke.edu/-
fungi/mycolab/ Rytas Vilgalys, Ph.D. Biology Depart-
ment Duke University Box 90338 Durham, NC 27708-
0338 USA
email: fungi@duke.edu ph: 919-660-7361 fax: 919-660-
7293Rytas Vilgalys <fungi@duke.edu >
ETH Zurich
ModellingAnimalScoiety
Postdoc position: Data analysis on and modelling of
Animal Societies
Full description: www.sg.ethz.ch/openpositions/-
postdoc animalsocieties See the announce-
ment poster at www.sg.ethz.ch/openpositions/-
poster postdocanimalsocieties At the Chair of
Systems Design of ETH Zurich (Switzerland), we use
methods from complex systems theory to understand
the structure and dynamics of social systems, ranging
from animal groups to human social networks.
One of our areas of interest is the interplay between the
social and spatial dimensions of collective behaviour in
animal groups. By using locational and behavioural
data coming from long-term projects on the study on
social mammals, we are able to study the structure
and dynamics of both the social network and collec-
tive movement of animal groups. The species of social
mammals we study include meerkats as well as social
bats and mice. We work in close collaboration with
research groups in evolutionary biology from diﬀerent
universities in Europe to lead truly interdisciplinary re-
search in the ﬁeld.
We are looking for skilled, transdisciplinary, quantita-
tive researchers, with a will to extend the application
of their theoretical knowledge beyond the usual bound-
aries. They should be able to study large experimental
datasets to identify universal patterns and statistical
regularities. The candidate will be asked to work with
biologists to frame these ﬁndings in a general, evolu-
tionary context, and to develop formal models of animal
behaviour.
The candidate will have the opportunity to integrate
in a lively team of scientists with various backgrounds
(from economics to computer science), and maintain
close collaboration with behavioural biologists. De-
pending on the development of the project, opportu-
nities to work in the ﬁeld may be considered. The po-
sition requires strong communication skills and ﬂuent
English, written and spoken.
We oﬀer excellent working conditions in a motivated
team, a competitive salary (according to the ETH
Zurich salary scale), and innovative research in close56 EvolDir September 1, 2011
collaboration with leading institutions all over the
world. Applicants are asked to send their curriculum
vitae, list of and links to their publications, names of at
least three references, and an overview of their research
interests (all in PDF ﬁles and in English) to Ms. Ra-
hel Dulik, rdulik@ethz.ch. For speciﬁc inquiries, Prof.
Frank Schweitzer (fschweitzer@ethz.ch) should be con-
tacted.
Nicolas Perony. ETH Zurich, Nicolas Perony, Chair
of Systems Design, KPL F 32, Kreuzplatz 5, CH-8032
Zurich, Switzerland Tel +41 44 632 81 98, Fax +41
44 632 18 80 http://www.sg.ethz.ch/people/peronyn
Nicolas Perony <nperony@ethz.ch >
HarvardU ComparativeGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP Comparative Ge-
nomics and Conservation of the World’s Largest Flow-
ers, Raﬄesiaceae DAVIS LABORATORY, HARVARD
UNIVERSITY, CAMBRIDGE, MA, USA
The Davis laboratory at Harvard University is search-
ing for a full-time postdoctoral fellow to direct research
on the comparative genomics and conservation status of
the holoparasitic plant clade, Raﬄesiaceae, including
their closest relatives and obligate hosts. The fellow-
ship is funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation
for a period of two years. The Davis laboratory focuses
on a variety of topics that integrate the ﬁelds of evolu-
tion, ecology, systematics, paleobiology, and molecular
biology.
Applicants must be genuinely fascinated by basic re-
search. The laboratory is housed at the Harvard Uni-
versity Herbaria in Cambridge, MA, a vibrant intellec-
tual community in close proximity to numerous scien-
tiﬁc and cultural resources. The fellow will work col-
laboratively with Professor Charles Davis and graduate
student Zhenxiang Xi to extract RNA/DNA and cre-
ate EST libraries, and to use a wide range of bioin-
formatics techniques to analyze data. Research will
coordinate with ongoing sequencing of various Raﬄesi-
aceae genomes, their closest relatives, and their obligate
hosts.
This postdoctral fellowship requires an independent, or-
ganized, and motivated individual with demonstrated
skills and experience in molecular techniques and bioin-
formatics. Prior experience with next generation se-
quencing and bioinformatics skills (e.g., Perl and Shell
scripting) is a requirement. Importantly, we are lookingfor someone who is personable, motivated and enthusi-
astic about working in a collaborative environment.
Information about the Davis laboratory can be found
athttp://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/ ˜ ccdavis/ In-
formal inquiries can be directed to Charles Davis at
cdavis@oeb.harvard.edu. Formal applications should
be made to the administration, by emailing Peg
Richards at prichards@oeb.harvard.edu. Please send a
letter describing your research interests and experience,
a C.V., and contact information for three references.
Applications will be reviewed beginning September 15,
2011 and will be accepted until a suitable candidate is
found.
Harvard University is an equal opportunity, aﬃrmative
action, non-smoking workplace.
Christopher Preheim
Academic Programs Coordinator Harvard University
Dept. of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology 617-
384-9271
“Preheim, Christopher” <cpreheim@oeb.harvard.edu >
Heidelberg PlantAdaptation
Introgression Genomics and adaptation in wild relatives
of Arabidopsis
We invite applications for two positions as
POSTDOCTORAL SCIENTIST
to work on a joint (bi-national) project within the DFG-
funded German Priority Program “Adaptomics - Evo-
lutionary Plant Solutions to Ecological Challenges”.
Based on a population genomics/transcriptomics ap-
proach we aim to analyze the genetic basis of edaphic
adaptation in outcrossing Arabidopsis species and to
study a natural hybridization and introgression zone
of these species in the north-eastern Limestone Fore-
alps. Massive parallel DNA sequencing will be used to
identify genomic regions associated with edaphic adap-
tation in diploid populations of both species. Recipro-
cal cultivation experiments with material from diﬀerent
edaphically adapted populations will be conducted to
assess the extend of soil type adaptation and to study,
at the transcriptome level, genetic diﬀerences that have
evolved on diﬀerent substrate types.
The project will be carried out in Z¨ urich and Hei-
delberg and will be conducted in close collaborationSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 57
with other research teams within the program ( http:/-
/www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/dfg-spp1529/ ). For details
of the study system: refer to our most recent contribu-
tion in PNAS (August 2011): www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/-
10.1073/pnas.1104212108 Highly motivated candidates
with a Ph. D. degree, a strong background in popu-
lation genetics and genomics, evolutionary biology or
bioinformatics, and a record of scientiﬁc publications
are welcome to apply. The ideal candidate has ex-
perience with high-throughput sequencing technologies
and data analyses and a solid background in population
genetics and statistical analysis. The project requires
team working skills and the willingness to develop the
project further in a collaborative way.
The successful applicants will be appointed for up to
three years. For the German partner in Heidelberg
the salary will be according to the German government
salary scale (TV-L E13) and depends on previous expe-
rience, age and marital status. For the Swiss partner,
salary will be determined accordingly, but following
ETH Zurich salary scales. The ETH Z¨ urich and Uni-
versity of Heidelberg are equal opportunity employers.
Women and members of minority groups are strongly
encouraged to apply.
Heidelberg and Z¨ urich are wounderful places to con-
duct research and to live. We are oﬀering a scientif-
ically stimulating atmosphere, the possibility to con-
duct cutting-edge plant evolutionary research and to
develop the project into an anticipated second fund-
ing period of another three years. Further informa-
tion about the groups in Z¨ urich and Heidelberg can
be obtained from http://www.peg.ethz.ch/ andhttp:/-
/www.bot.uni-heidelberg.de/ or the addresses given be-
low.
Please send your application (Cover letter, CV, list of
publications, letter of research interests, addresses of at
least two references) until 15 September 2011 as a sin-
gle PDF document with the subject line “Arabidopsis
Adaptomics” by email to both, marcus.koch@cos.uni-
heidelberg.de and alex.widmer@env.ethz.ch
Prof. Dr. Marcus Koch Centre for Organismal Stud-
ies (COS) Heidelberg Biodiversity and Plant System-
atics Im Neuenheimer Feld 345 D-69120 Heidelberg
Phone: +49 6221 54 4655 Email: marcus.koch@cos.uni-
heidelberg.de
Prof. Alex Widmer ETH Zurich Institute of Integrative
Biology (IBZ) Universit¨ atstrasse 16 CH-8092 Z¨ urich
Email: alex.widmer@env.ethz.ch
alex.widmer@env.ethz.chManchesterU
PhylogeneticModelling
A BBSRC funded position is available in my lab work-
ing on the computational identiﬁcation of protein-
protein interactions.
Project description
To fully understand biological systems we need to know
how the individual components interact. There is
an on-going international research eﬀort to catalogue
protein-protein interactions (PPIs), and to extend this
knowledge into complex mathematical models of cel-
lular function, via systems biology. What we lack,
however, is reliable computational tools for identifying
which proteins from a system interact and the residues
responsible for that interaction. The aim of this project
is to exploit our knowledge of how proteins change and
adapt during evolution to produce more eﬀective infer-
ential tools. These tools will be applied to the yeast
model system to generate experimentally testable hy-
potheses, which in turn will be tested through collabo-
ration with wet-lab scientists.
We are looking for an experienced and talented indi-
vidual capable of developing numerical tools usable by
computational biologists. The methods you will de-
velop will be based on using phylogenetic methods for
investigating how sequences change over time. Specif-
ically, work will require developing and implementing
models for detecting co-evolving residues in pairs of
proteins and using these models to infer PPIs. You
will need to be able to communicate your results to a
range of audiences, ranging from statisticians to wet-lab
scientists.
The position is available immediately for up to 24
months in the ﬁrst instance.
Salary will be within the range £29,099 - £35,788 per
annum.
Informal enquiries may be made to Dr Simon Whelan.
Email: Simon.Whelan@manchester.ac.uk
Applications should be returned by 15 August 2011
to: Directorate of Human Resources, The University of
Manchester, Faculty of Life Sciences, 1.52 Simon Build-
ing, Brunswick Street, Manchester, M13 9PL. Email:
lifesciences-hr@manchester.ac.uk. //
f- Simon Whelan |T: +44-(0)161-3068901 |F:58 EvolDir September 1, 2011
+44-(0)161-2755586 Computational and Evolution-
ary Biology, University of Manchester Michael
Smith Building, Oxford Road, Manchester,
M13 9PT, UK http://www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/-
people/proﬁle/index.aspx?PersonID=3D1716 si-
mon.whelan@manchester.ac.uk
McGillU Biodiversity
Long-term postdoctoral position in theoretical ecology
I am recruiting a postdoctoral fellow on a long-term
contract as part of the creation of a Centre for Biodiver-
sity Theory and Modelling at the Experimental Ecol-
ogy Station in Moulis, France. The mission of the new
Centre will be to foster and perform innovative theoret-
ical research into the ecological and societal causes and
consequences of biodiversity changes. Two additional
postdoctoral fellowships will be available in 2012.
The recruited postdoc will help to develop ecological
theory in one or several of the following areas: (1)
maintenance and functional consequences of biodiver-
sity; (2) eﬀects of biodiversity changes on ecosystem
functioning, stability, and services; (3) dynamics and
functioning of metacommunities and metaecosystems;
(4) environmental changes and evolution of ecosystems;
and (5) humans in the biosphere. Theory is understood
here broadly as including the following components: (1)
development of new concepts; (2) building and analysis
of mathematical models; and (3) application of these
concepts and models to empirical data.
The position is available for a period of 3-5 years start-
ing before the end of 2011, with a contract as IR2 (net
monthly salary of about 2,200) renewed on a yearly ba-
sis. Applicants should meet the following requirements:
(1) have a PhD in ecology or related disciplines; (2)
have strong quantitative or mathematical skills; and
(3) develop an independent research project in one or
several of the above areas.
Review of applications will begin immediately and will-
continue until the position is ﬁlled. To apply, e-mail
a letter of application, a CV, a statement of research
interests, and arrange to have two letters of recommen-
dation (in either French or English) e-mailed to me.
Michel Loreau Email: michel.loreau@mcgill.ca Web
page: http://www.biology.mcgill.ca/faculty/loreau/
Current address: Department of Biology, McGill Uni-
versity, Montreal, Canada Forthcoming address: Sta-tion d’Ecologie exp ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrimentale, Centre National de
la Recherche Scientiﬁque, Moulis, France
Michel Loreau Professor Canada Research Chair in
Theoretical Ecology
Department of Biology McGill University 1205, avenue
Docteur Penﬁeld Montreal, Quebec H3A 1B1, Canada
Telephone: +1 514 398 3778 Fax: +1 514 398 5069 E-
mail: michel.loreau@mcgill.ca Publications available at
http://www.biology.mcgill.ca/faculty/loreau/ Michel
Loreau <michel.loreau@mcgill.ca >
Paris Phylogenetics
A highly motivated postdoctoral researcher is sought
to work on a collaborative project lead by Hlne Morlon
(http://www.cmap.polytechnique.fr/˜morlon/ ) at the
Center for Applied Mathematics at the Ecole Polytech-
nique in Paris.
The successful candidate will be supported by a three
year grant from the French National Research Agency
(ANR) whose goal is to integrate phylogenetics, bio-
geography and functional ecology to analyze the eco-
logical determinants of diversiﬁcation in various clades
and at various scales. This project includes: 1) a the-
oretical component aiming to develop individual- and
lineage-based models of the dynamics of diversiﬁcation
in a non-spatial and then in a spatial context, and 2)
an empirical component aiming to identify ecological
factors inﬂuencing the tempo and mode of diversiﬁca-
tion using large datasets for ﬂowering plants, mammals
and birds (encompassing species phylogeny, geographic
location, a set of particular traits and potential fossil
record). The candidate will work on either one or both
of these research axes. He/she should have a Ph.D. in
ecology, phylogenetics, mathematics, or bioinformatics
with a solid background in at least one of the other ar-
eas, and a good publication record. Speaking French
is not mandatory; ﬂuency in English will be highly ap-
preciated.
The researcher will have opportunities to work closely
with collaborators on this project with expertise in ap-
plied mathematics, phylogenetics, and ecology (in par-
ticular Vincent Bansaye, Franck Jabot, Herv Sauquet,
Cyrille Violle, and Amandine Vber).
Review of applications begins immediately and will con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled. The start date is
ﬂexible. Three years of funding are available; the ap-September 1, 2011 EvolDir 59
pointment will be made on an annual basis. To ap-
ply, please submit curriculum vitae (including pub-
lications), brief statement of research interests, and
names and contact information for 3 references to he-
lene.morlon@polytechnique.edu. Please dont hesitate
to email questions regarding the position.
Helene Morlon <helene.morlon@cmap.polytechnique.fr >
ReedCollege EvolutionaryGenetics
***Post-doctoral Researcher Position in Evolutionary
Genetics and Genomics***
Candidates sought for a 2 year post-doctoral position
in the laboratory of Dr. Sarah Schaack in the Dept. of
Biology at Reed College in Portland, OR.
Individual and collaborative projects will focus on top-
ics such as spontaneous mutation rates, ﬁtness eﬀects
of mutation, transposable element evolution, horizon-
tal transfer of transposable elements, recombination,
and/or related questions in evolutionary and ecologi-
cal genetics and genomics. Live animal research con-
ducted in the lab takes advantage of the background
information and tools available for Daphnia spp. (fresh-
water microcrustacea), but other eukaryotic systems for
which genomic data are or soon will be available could
also be explored.
Required: Ability to perform standard molecular and
computational genetic techniques, design experiments,
organize and analyze data, and communicate results
(orally and in writing). Strongly desired: Experi-
ence with next gen sequencing or sequence data and
related bioinformatic/ computational/ programming
skills. Experience working with Daphnia or other lab-
reared invertebrates is not required, but would be con-
sidered a big plus.
Reed is a highly rigorous undergraduate institution
with a strong research emphasis oﬀering a unique train-
ing environment (including close collaboration with the
PI, talented undergraduates, and the opportunity to
network citywide).
Start date is ﬂexible, with earliest date being Jan-
uary 2012. To apply, send a cover letter detail-
ing your research interests and training goals. Also
include a CV with contact information for 3 refer-
ences to Sarah Schaack at the following e-mail address:
schaack@reed.edu with EVOGEN POST-DOC in the
subject line. Reed College is an Equal OpportunityEmployer. To receive full consideration, send materials
on or before Nov. 1, 2011, however applicants will be
considered until the position is ﬁlled.
Sarah Schaack, PhD Reed College Assistant Professor
Department of Biology, B106 3203 Southeast Wood-
stock Boulevard Portland, OR 97202 oﬃce: 503-
517-7948 lab: 503-517-7976 Email: schaack@reed.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/site/schaackwork/
schaackmobile@gmail.com
Roscoﬀ France LifeCycleEvolution
Postdoc position : New insights into the evolution of
haploid-diploid life cycles through population genetics
and ecology of the brown alga Ectocarpus.
We are oﬀering a 24-months position for a postdoc in
evolutionary biology. The successful applicant will be
integrated in a research program ﬁnanced by a grant
from the French Agence Nationale de la Recherche
(ANR) to explore the genetics, molecular basis and evo-
lution of the biphasic haploid-diploid life cycle in Ec-
tocarpus, the genetic and genomic model organism for
brown algae (ANR Bi-cycle, available on request).
Despite considerable theoretical work, there is still no
unequivocal explanation for the existence and stabil-
ity of a broad diversity of life cycles in nature, ranging
from diploid through haploid-diploid to haploid life cy-
cles. The aim of the post doc position is to improve our
understanding of the life cycle of the ﬁlamentous brown
alga Ectocarpus through a combination of ﬁeld studies,
laboratory-based experiments and population genetics
analyses. The ﬁeld studies will concentrate on under-
standing how the life cycle functions under ﬁeld con-
ditions. The questions that will be asked include: Are
the sporophyte and gametophyte generations of equal
importance in terms of time of persistence and preva-
lence in the ﬁeld? Do sporophytes and gametophytes
exploit diﬀerent ecological niches? The project will also
investigate this last question through controlled labo-
ratory experiments. Ectocarpus exhibits a complex life
cycle with a combination of sexual and asexual repro-
duction in the laboratory; the aim will be to determine
how (and if) the various possibilities presented by this
complex life cycle are exploited by this organism under
ﬁeld conditions using population genetics tools. The
data from these diﬀerent analyses will be used to ad-
dress fundamental questions such as the problem of the
stability of haploid-diploid life cycles and the inﬂuence60 EvolDir September 1, 2011
of the beneﬁts and costs of sex on the evolution of an
organism’s life cycle.
The selected candidate will work in the Station Bi-
ologique de Roscoﬀ located in Brittany (France) within
the team “Evolutionary Biology and Marine Diversity”
(BEDIM, UMR 7144). This team combines comple-
mentary skills (theoretical and experimental population
genetics, molecular ecology and reproductive ecology)
in an integrative approach. Besides the common re-
search facilities provided by the Station Biologique de
Roscoﬀ, the group has the equipment required for ﬁeld
sampling and surveys, genotyping and sequencing, con-
trol experiments in the lab (easy access to the ﬁeld,
PCR thermocyclers, computers, three automated DNA
sequencers, algae culture facilities). The project will be
conducted in close relationship with the SME Bezhin
Rosko, a small enterprise run by an experienced sea-
weed scientist providing knowledge on algal ﬁeld pop-
ulations, as well as experience with the isolation and
puriﬁcations of strains.
Required qualiﬁcations: We are looking for a candidate
with a strong background in evolutionary biology, pop-
ulation genetics and molecular ecology. A solid back-
ground in spatial analysis methodology is required. Ex-
perience with one or more of the following skills is a
plus: matrix population modelling in order to analyse
demographic parameters and to integrate population
dynamics with population structure; experience with
ecological controlled experimental design; programming
skills (R).
Interested candidates should send their CV, along with
a letter stating their interest and contact details of two
references to akirapeters@gmail.com and valero@sb-
roscoﬀ.fr
This position will be available in January 2012, Salary
according to the experience and the CNRS grid Appli-
cation deadline November 30, 2011
Myriam Valero UMR CNRS/UPMC 7144, ´ equipe
BEDIM Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ BP74, Place
Georges Teissier 29682 Roscoﬀ cedex
tel: 0298292328
http://www.sb-roscoﬀ.fr/bedim.html Myriam Valero
<valero@sb-roscoﬀ.fr >
RoslinInst Edinburgh
StatisticalQuantGeneticsThe Roslin Institute: Research Fellow in Statistical Ge-
netics The postdoctoral fellow will join a project funded
by Cancer Research UK in Dr Albert Tenesa’s dry-lab.
The project aims to develop methodology for the pre-
diction of cancer risk using large numbers of genetic
and environmental factors. The project will involve
development of methodology, testing the methodology
using simulated data and applying novel and existing
methodology of genomic prediction to large colorec-
tal cancer genome-wide association studies. A PhD in
statistics, statistical or quantitative genetics is essen-
tial. A strong track record in quantitative and statis-
tical genetics, with experience in Bayesian statistics,
regularisation methods and mixed-models will be an
advantage. The postdoctoral scientist will take advan-
tage of the unique skills and resources available within
The Roslin Institute Building and will have close col-
laborative links with the Edinburgh Parallel Comput-
ing Centre and the Institute of Genetics and Molecular
Medicine in Edinburgh. The postdoctoral fellow will
work particularly close to the labs of Professor Chris
Haley (IGMM/ Roslin Institute) and Professor John
Woolliams (Roslin Institute).
http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=vacancies.detail&vacancy ref=-
3014706 Albert Tenesa <albert.tenesa@ed.ac.uk >
SangerInst BacterialGenomics
Postdoctoral position in Pathogen Genomics
Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
£28,280 - 35,441
The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute is a world leader
in genomic research, with an expanding scientiﬁc pro-
gramme dedicated to understanding gene function in
health & disease.
We have an exciting new role available for a dynamic
postdoctoral scientist using genomics to study a major
human pathogen in the context of high disease burden
across Africa. The successful candidate will be primar-
ily based at the Sanger Institute with regular visits to
collaborative sites in several African countries and will
be active in data analysis/interpretation and building
bioinformatic analysis capacity at the African sites.
The post is funded through a Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation consortium project focused on genomics of
serotype 1 Streptococcus pneumoniae, a major causeSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 61
of morbidity and mortality throughout sub- Saharan
Africa which exhibits a strong association with invasive
disease and may occur in outbreaks or epidemics. The
scientiﬁc aim of the project is to create a better under-
standing of the evolution of this distinct, region-speciﬁc
clone in order to inform the development of clinical in-
terventions, particularly vaccines. The project also tar-
gets capacity building for bioinformatic expertise across
the consortium.
Essential Skills The successful candidate will have the
following knowledge, experience and skills: PhD in
Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Bioinformatics or re-
lated ﬁeld Proven knowledge of current phylogenetic
and evolutionary concepts Processing and analysis of
large, genomic and epidemiologic datasets Experience
of relevant programming languages such as PERL,
PYTHON, Java Very strong interpersonal and commu-
nication skills Experience of training and supervising
students and other team members Strong publication
record
Ideal Skills Expertise in coordination of multi-partner
projects concerning genetic and epidemiologic analysis
of bacterial pathogens. Other information Postdoctoral
Fellows are typically in their ﬁrst or second postdoctoral
position as part of a period of early career research
training. This position is initially for a ﬁxed term of
2.5 years. For further information please contact So-
phie Palmer (sophie@sanger.ac.uk) Beneﬁts The Insti-
tute has excellent purpose built facilities on the Genome
Campus, Hinxton on the outskirts of Cambridge. We
oﬀer a comprehensive range of beneﬁts including a ﬁnal
salary pension scheme and excellent on-site facilities.
Further details can be found on our website https:/-
/jobs.sanger.ac.uk, To submit your CV and apply for
this job please go to https://jobs.sanger.ac.uk , to reg-
ister and apply on line. Click here for Employer Proﬁle
Stephen Bentley Principal Scientist Pathogen Ge-
nomics Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
Associate Editor Microbiology Journal
Honorary Lecturer University of Liverpool
Stephen Bentley <sdb@sanger.ac.uk >
SantaFeInst EvolBiology
The Omidyar Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Santa Fe
Institute oﬀers you: >unparalleled intellectual free-
dom>transdisciplinary collaboration with leading re-searchers worldwide >up to three years in residence in
Santa Fe, NM >discretionary research and collabora-
tion funds >individualized mentorship and preparation
for your next leadership role >an intimate, creative
work environment with an expansive sky
The Omidyar Fellowship at the Santa Fe Institute is
unique among postdoctoral appointments. The Insti-
tute has no formal programs or departments. Research
is collaborative and spans the physical, natural, and so-
cial sciences. Most research is theoretical and/or com-
putational in nature, although it may include an empir-
ical component. SFI typically has 15 Omidyar Fellows
and postdoctoral researchers, 15 resident faculty, 95 ex-
ternal faculty, and 250 visitors per year. Descriptions of
the research themes and interests of the faculty and cur-
rent Fellows can be found at http://www.santafe.edu/-
research . Requirements: >a Ph.D. in any discipline
(or expect to receive one by September 2012) >com-
putational and quantitative skills >an exemplary aca-
demic record >a proven ability to work independently
and collaboratively >a demonstrated interest in multi-
disciplinary research >evidence of the ability to think
outside traditional paradigms
Applications are welcome from: >candidates from any
country >candidates from any discipline >women and
minorities, as they are especially encouraged to apply.
The Santa Fe Institute is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer.
Deadline: 1 November 2011 To apply: www.santafe.edu
We accept online applications ONLY. Inquiries: email
to ofellowshipinfo at santafe dot edu
The Santa Fe Institute is a private, independent, mul-
tidisciplinary research and education center founded in
1984. Since its founding, SFI has devoted itself to cre-
ating a new kind of scientiﬁc research community, pur-
suing emerging synthesis in science. Operating as a
visiting institution, SFI seeks to catalyze new collab-
orative, multidisciplinary research; to break down the
barriers between the traditional disciplines; to spread
its ideas and methodologies to other institutions; and
to encourage the practical application of its results.
The Omidyar Fellowship at the Santa Fe Institute is
made possible by a generous gift from Pierre and Pam
Omidyar.
bkimbellsﬁ@gmail.com62 EvolDir September 1, 2011
StJohnsU PlantEvoDevo
StJohnsU.PlantEvoDevo
Postdoctoral Research Position, St. John1s University
An NSF funded postdoctoral position is available in
the Howarth laboratory at St. John’s University in the
plant evo-devo project:3The role of gene duplication in
the ﬂoral symmetry pathway in Dipsacales.2The lab1s
primary focus is in ﬂower morphology and ﬂower sym-
metry evolution. The project entails the examination of
the correlation between evolutionary transitions among
diﬀerent types of ﬂower symmetry and molecular shifts
in gene duplication, expression, and function of genes
such as CYCLOIDEA, DIVARICATA, and RADIALIS.
We use a model clade approach to examine these shifts
across the Dipsacales focusing on groups such as Vibur-
num, Lonicera, and Fedia, among others.
Strong candidates will have a Ph.D. in developmen-
tal biology, molecular biology, evolution, or related
ﬁelds, and have demonstrated experience with standard
molecular biology techniques. Candidates must have
experience with or an enthusiastic willingness to learn
developmental techniques such as gene silencing assays
(VIGS) and in situ hybridization.
Funding is available for up to 3 years. Review of appli-
cations will begin Sept. 1st and continue until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled. The target start date is approximately De-
cember 1st 2011. Please e-mail CV, research statement
and 3 reference contacts to howarthd@stjohns.edu.
St. John1s University is an equal opportunity em-
ployer located in Queens, NY. Women and minori-
ties are encouraged to apply. For further informa-
tion, please contact Dr. Dianella Howarth via email
at howarthd@stjohns.edu, via mail at St. Alberts
Hall, Room 257, St. John1s University, 8000 Utopia
Parkway, Queens, NY 11439, or view our website at
http://www.phylodiversity.net/dhowarth/ . Dianella
G. Howarth, Ph.D.
St. John’s University Department of Biological Sciences
St. Alberts Hall, RM 257 8000 Utopia Pkwy Jamaica,
NY 11439
718 990-6790 (Lab) 718 990-6269 (Oﬃce)
Dianella Howarth <howarthd@stjohns.edu >UAlgarve EvolutionFishOlfaction
Our project aims to address the question of “How
did vertebrates ﬁrst adapt and evolve from seawater
to freshwater”. This striking question has provoked
many physiological and molecular studies, looking at
the characteristics in several species that may mir-
ror those of the primitive ancestor that originally con-
quered freshwater. We propose to study adaptation
of olfactory function in the amphihaline (separate life
stages in fresh and seawater) eel. Our hypothesis is that
eel have evolved - of necessity - a high plasticity in olfac-
tory receptor (OR) expression that allows physiological
adjustments to face changes in aquatic media during
major life events such as reproduction and migration.
The advertisement is as follows:
A postdoctoral position is available at the Centro do
Ci˜Ancias do Mar (CCMAR) at Universidade do Al-
garve in Faro, Portugal. Our group work focuses on
olfactory physiology of ﬁsh olfaction and pheromonal
communication and we are looking for a specialist who
will characterize olfactory receptors in the European
eel. The ideal candidate would have a Ph.D. plus ex-
perience in molecular biology, including statistical and
computational analyses, and an understanding of ex-
perimental techniques related to next-generation se-
quencing, genotyping, and functional genomics. Appli-
cants must be self-motivated, creative, and interested
in working closely with researchers with a strong physi-
ology and endocrinology background in a collaborative
environment. Applications are open from 26th July to
19th August with position starting on 15th September
for 22 months in the ﬁrst instance (with the possibil-
ity for prolongation). Salary is 17,940 per annum (in-
come tax exempt). Please address informal inquiries to
mhuertas@ualg.pt. For more information and applica-
tion details see on http://www.ccmar.ualg.pt/home/-
index.php?id=996 Thank you very much
Mar Huertas (PhD) Molecular and Comparative En-
docrinology Centre of Marine Sciences University of Al-
garve Campus de Gambelas 8005-139 Faro, Portugal
Phone: +351 289 800 051 Fax: +351 289 800 051
Mar<mhuertas@ualg.pt >September 1, 2011 EvolDir 63
UArizona EvolutionaryBiol
Postdoctoral Positions Available: Research Associate
Arizona Research Laboratories, University of Arizona,
Tucson, AZ NIH-Training Program: Postdoctoral Ex-
cellence in Research and Teaching (PERT)
The Postdoctoral Excellence in Research and Teaching
(PERT) Program is a comprehensive program which
oﬀers up to three years of support to outstanding can-
didates seeking advanced postdoctoral research train-
ing, teacher training and student mentorship opportu-
nities in preparation for an academic career in biomed-
ical and life sciences. Funded by NIGMS through an
IRACDA (Institutional Research and Career Develop-
ment Award) training grant, the PERT program also
fosters ties between research-intensive institutions and
minority-serving institutions.
PERT trainees may select from over thirty-six faculty
research mentors at the University of Arizona, repre-
senting a broad range of disciplines in biomedicine, bio-
engineering, genetics, biochemistry, neurobiology, evo-
lutionary biology, molecular/cellular biology, physiol-
ogy and behavior. The program stresses the use of
model organisms for biomedical and life sciences re-
search. The program is administered through the Ari-
zona Research Laboratories Center for Insect Science
and is partnered with a Minority Serving Institution,
Pima Community College, ( http://www.pima.edu/-
program/biology/ . Starting salary, based on the NIH
NRSA scale, will be $37,740 for program participants
with less than one year of postdoctoral experience. An
annual allowance for research supplies and travel is
also included. Positions are dependent upon continued
funding. Additional information about the Center for
Insect Science and the PERT program is available at
http://cis.arl.arizona.edu/PERT . Qualiﬁcations: Ap-
plicants must have, as of the beginning date of the ap-
pointment, a Ph.D. in a related ﬁeld from an accredited
institution and must be U.S. citizens, permanent resi-
dents, or non-citizen nationals. Applicants should have
no more than two previous years of postdoctoral expe-
rience at the time of application.
Application: All applicants must apply electronically
through the University of Arizona’s Career Track web-
site at: https://www.uacareertrack.com, citing Job
#47383. Applications can be submitted at any time
with the possibility that applicants will be interviewedas positions become open. However, the next batch re-
view of applications will begin Monday, Oct. 17, 2011,
for positions in 2012.
All applications are to include: – a letter of interest
with a statement explaining how the PERT program
will assist the applicant in his/her research and career
goals. – a CV – a three to six page research proposal de-
veloped with the intended PERT faculty research men-
tor describing the project to be undertaken during the
training period – three letters of reference – a letter of
support from the intended faculty research mentor
Potential applicants are encouraged to contact relevant
Program Faculty as soon as possible to discuss research
projects and the application process. Original letters of
reference and the letter from the proposed faculty re-
search mentor should be mailed to: PERT, Center for
Insect Science, 1007 E. Lowell Street, University of Ari-
zona, Tucson, AZ 85721-0106. Emailed letters will be
accepted only if accompanied by an electronic signa-
ture. The letter of interest, CV and research proposal
must be submitted online through the UA Career Track
website listed above. As an equal opportunity and af-
ﬁrmative action employer, the University of Arizona
recognizes the power of a diverse community and en-
courages applications from individuals with varied ex-
periences and backgrounds. Please contact Teresa Ku-
drna for more information, tkudrna@email.arizona.edu,
520-621-9310.
Thank you!
Teresa A. Kudrna Program Coordinator, Sr. Cen-
ter for Insect Science & PERT Program University
of Arizona 1007 E. Lowell Street, Room 227 Tucson,
AZ 85721 520-621-9310 Fax: 520-621-2590 http://-
cis.arl.arizona.edu “Kudrna, Teresa A - (tkudrna)”
<tkudrna@email.arizona.edu >
UArizona PlantMolecularEvol
A postdoctoral research associate position is available
in the School of Plant Sciences at the University of Ari-
zona to participate in a research project that focuses on
understanding the molecular evolution and function of
genes and associated networks that control plant adap-
tation to soil salinity. The build-up of salt in agri-
cultural soils is a widespread problem that limits the
growth and yield of important crop species worldwide.
Genetic variation for plant growth in salinity (salt tol-
erance) exists; however, little is known about the genes64 EvolDir September 1, 2011
and pathways underlying this variation. Our studies
involve phylogenetic surveys and comparative genomics
within the Brassicaceae to assess the evolutionary forces
acting on plant adaptation to salinity, mapping and iso-
lation of genes that underlie natural variation for salt
tolerance with screens of Arabidopsis accessions, and
molecular genetic analyses of the functions of altered
or novel alleles identiﬁed.
Preference will be given to a highly motivated, enthu-
siastic, and independent candidate with a Ph.D. and
proven experience in molecular genetics and molecu-
lar biology and a strong background in evolutionary
biology and/or genomics. Demonstrated written and
oral communication skills and an ability to interact and
work collaboratively with others are essential qualiﬁca-
tions. The position is available September 1, 2011.
To apply, applicants should send a CV, a letter stating
speciﬁc research interests, a summary of research ac-
complishments and future research objectives, and the
names and contact information (address, phone, and
e-mail) for three references to Dr. Karen Schumaker
(schumake@ag.arizona.edu), School of Plant Sciences,
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721-0036.
The University of Arizona is an EEO/AA Employer-
M/W/D.V.
Karen Schumaker, Ph.D. Professor School of Plant Sci-
ences, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
and the BIO5 Institute University of Arizona
Contact information: School of Plant Sciences 303
Forbes Hall 1140 E. South Campus Drive University
of Arizona Tucson, AZ 85721-0036
Phone: (520) 621-9635 Fax: (520) 621-7186 http:/-
/ag.arizona.edu/research/schumaker/ Karen Schu-
maker <schumake@ag.arizona.edu >
UCalifornia Davis
PlantEvolGenetics
Postdoc in Plant Population Genomics at University of
California, Davis
A postdoctoral position in plant evolutionary genomics
is available in the Ross-Ibarra lab at the University of
California, Davis. The position is available to start im-
mediately, with the possibility of continued funding for
a total of 3 years.
The funded project will investigate parallel adapta-tion to high elevation environments in traditional open-
pollinated maize varieties in Mexico and South Amer-
ica. To do this, we will be re-sequencing the complete
genomes of multiple samples from both low and high
elevation populations in both regions.
Applicants should have a PhD in evolution, genetics,
genomics, computational biology, or a similar disci-
pline. Demonstrated experience with high-density SNP
data or next-generation sequence data and familiarity
with a unix environment and at least one program-
ming/scripting language is highly desired. Salary will
be competitive and dependent on background and ex-
perience.
Applicants should send a cover letter, a CV with publi-
cations, and contact information for three references.
Applications or queries should be directed to rossi-
barra@ucdavis.edu.
More information on the lab can be found at
www.rilab.org and on UC Davis at www.ucdavis.edu
. —
Jeﬀrey Ross-Ibarra
Dept. of Plant Sciences and Genome Center 262 Rob-
bins Hall, Mail Stop 4 University of California One
Shields Ave Davis, CA 95616
Tel: 530-752-1152 Fax: 530-752-4604 www.rilab.org
rossibarra@ucdavis.edu
UChicago PopulationGenetics
Postdoc position, University of Chicago
A postdoctoral position is available in Molly Prze-
worski’s lab at the University of Chicago. Current work
in the group focuses on the causes and consequences of
variation in recombination, as well as on a wide range
of topics in evolution and population genetics; for more
information, see http://przeworski.uchicago.edu/ . The
successful candidate will have considerable latitude to
design his/her project.
Applicants for the position must have a background in
theoretical population genetics or come from a quan-
titative ﬁeld (such as statistics or computer science)
and have a demonstrated interest in genetics and evo-
lution. Strong programming and bioinformatics skills
are essential. Informal inquiries as well as applications
(including a CV, copies of relevant publications and two
letters of recommendation) should be emailed to MollySeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 65
Przeworski at mfp@uchicago.edu. The starting date is
negotiable but could be as early as fall 2011.
The group shares space and weekly lab meetings with
those of Jonathan Pritchard and Matthew Stephens
and enjoys close ties with other members of the Human
Genetics and Ecology & Evolution departments, no-
tably Anna Di Rienzo, Dick Hudson and Carole Ober.
Moreover, it beneﬁts from the large and outstanding
community of researchers in population genetics, statis-
tics and genomics at the University of Chicago.
Molly Przeworski Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Dept. of Ecology & Evolution and Dept. of Human
Genetics University of Chicago
molly.przew@gmail.com
UCincinnati EvolBiol
SexualSelection
Post-Doctoral Researcher in Evolutionary Biology:
University of Cincinnati
With Dr. Michal Polak Department of Biological Sci-
ences, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH USA
Position Description: An NSF-funded postdoctoral po-
sition (up to three years) is available in the labora-
tory of Dr. Michal Polak to collaborate on the study
of the evolution of the remarkable male sex comb in
Drosophila. The postdoctoral scientist will work closely
with members of the principal investigator’s lab, and in-
teract with other faculty and members of the Sensory
Biology, Behavior and Evolution (SSBE) group in the
department ( http://www.artsci.uc.edu/biology/ ).
The overall goal of the research is to test key predic-
tions of the hypothesis that costly male secondary sex-
ual traits evolve via post-copulatory sexual selection.
The postdoctoral scientist will lead and conduct re-
search focused on developing experimental lines via ar-
tiﬁcial selection for divergent comb phenotypes, and on
a comprehensive examination of correlated responses to
this experimental evolution. The research will involve
laser microsurgical manipulation of the male sex comb
to discriminate competing models of sexual selection.
Qualiﬁcations: Ideal qualiﬁcations include experience
conducting behavioral, physiological and breeding ex-
periments with insects, training in evolutionary ecology,
quantitative genetics, and statistical analysis. However,
applicants with some combination of the above qualiﬁ-cations will be given full consideration. The start-date
for this position will be fall 2011 (exact date ﬂexible),
and salary will be competitive.
Candidates should have a PhD in evolutionary biology
or related ﬁelds, and publications in peer-reviewed jour-
nals.
How to Apply: Go to https://www.jobsatuc.com and
click on “Search Postings”; the Position Number is
211UC1310. Informal inquiries about the position can
be made to Michal Polak at polakm@uc.edu.
Michal Polak Associate Professor and Director
of Graduate Studies, Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences University of Cincinnati Cincinnati,
OH 45221-0006 USA Tel: +1 (513) 556-9736
http://www.artsci.uc.edu/collegedepts/biology/-
facstaﬀ/proﬁle details.aspx?ePID=Mjc5ODg%3D
polakm@ucmail.uc.edu
UExeter CamplyobacterEvolution
Postdoctoral Researcher Positions on the Molecular Ba-
sis of Persister Cell Formation in Camplyobacter
This post will be part of a multidisciplinary project that
aims to decipher the molecular mechanisms underpin-
ning the obsrvation of persister cells in Camplyobacter
jejuni (Cj). The hired candidate will focus on the sys-
tem dynamics analysis and in silico evolution of molec-
ular systems that can underlie persister cell formation
and will also analyse the interaction between signalling
and metabolism in the persister phenotype. These the-
oretical analyses will be performed in conjunction with
experimental and bioinformatics work, which will focus
on the characterisation of the persister phenotype.
Further information and application details are avail-
able here; http://job-lin-mul-l02.eduserv.org.uk/job/-
ADC502/associate-research-fellow best regards,
Orkun S. Soyer, PhD Lecturer in Systems Biology
Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences Uni-
versity of Exeter Tel: +44 (0)1392 723615 URL:
http://people.exeter.ac.uk/oss203/ “Soyer, Orkun”
<O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk >66 EvolDir September 1, 2011
ULeuven 2 EvolutionaryBiol
1. A postdoc position is available in the research
group of Prof. Tom Wenseleers (University of Leu-
ven, Belgium) to work on an interdisciplinary research
project entitled “Socio-evolutionary dynamics of mi-
crobes”. The project will make use of individual-based
models, as well as diﬀerential equation and inclusive
ﬁtness-type models, to look at the evolution of ﬂoccu-
lation and green-beard recognition in yeast, as well as
the evolution of persistence and antibiotic tolerance in
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The developed models will
be validated using empirical data provided by the col-
laborating groups of Profs. Kevin Verstrepen and Jan
Michiels.
Key words: sociomicrobiology, social evolution theory,
Darwinian medicine, inclusive ﬁtness theory
Key references: Smukalla, S., Caldara, M., Pochet, N.,
Beauvais, A., Guadagnini, S., Yan, C., Vinces, M. D.,
Jansen, A., Prevost, M. C., Latge, J. P., Fink, G. R.,
Foster, K. R. & Verstrepen, K. J. 2008. FLO1 Is a Vari-
able Green Beard Gene that Drives Bioﬁlm-like Coop-
eration in Budding Yeast. Cell, 135, 726-737. Gardner,
A., West, S. & Griﬃn, A. 2007. Is bacterial persistence
a social trait? PLoS ONE, 8, e752.
Start: autumn 2011, funding guaranteed for one year,
but extension possible, salary on postdoc scale
Required: - Master in Biology, Bioengineering, Physics
or Mathematics - Strong interest in theoretical mod-
elling and good ability to work in a team. - Ready to
present for a Skype interview.
Application: send your CV to Prof. Tom Wenseleers
(tom.wenseleers @bio.kuleuven.be) before September 1,
2011.
General information on the research groups in-
volved: http://www.biw.kuleuven.be/dtp/cmpg/-
G%26G1/ http://www.biw.kuleuven.be/dtp/-
cmpg/research.aspx http://bio.kuleuven.be/ento/-
wenseleers/twenseleers.htm http://bio.kuleuven.be/-
de/dea/people detail.php?pass id=u0008482 2. A
postdoc position is available in the research group
of Prof. Tom Wenseleers (University of Leuven,
Belgium) to work on an interdisciplinary research
project on Evolutionary Robotics. The ESF-funded
project will be carried out in close collaboration with
Prof. Marco Dorigo (ULB), Stefano Nolﬁ (Rome) andFrancesco Mondada (Lausanne) and will use social
evolution theory and evolutionary multiagent systems
to promote cooperation among swarms of robots to
carry out collective tasks. The candidate will be based
partly in the lab of Prof. Marco Dorigo and partly in
the lab of Prof. Wenseleers.
Key words: evolutionary robotics, social evolution
Key references: Floreano, D. & Keller, L. 2010. Evolu-
tion of Adaptive Behaviour in Robots by Means of Dar-
winian Selection. Plos Biology, 8, e1000292. Waibel,
M., Floreano, D. & Keller, L. 2011. A Quantitative
Test of Hamilton’s Rule for the Evolution of Altruism.
Plos Biology, 9, e1000615.
Start date: autumn 2011, funding guaranteed for three
years, salary on postdoc scale
Required: - Master in Computer Science, Engineering
or Artiﬁcial Intelligence - Strong interest in evolution-
ary robotics and artiﬁcial intelligence, good program-
ming skills, good ability to work in a team. - Ready to
present for a Skype interview.
Application: send your CV to Prof. Tom Wenseleers
(tom.wenseleers @bio.kuleuven.be) before September 1,
2011.
General information on two of the research groups
involved: http://bio.kuleuven.be/ento/wenseleers/-
twenseleers.htm http://iridia.ulb.ac.be/ ˜ mdorigo/-
HomePageDorigo/ 3. A PhD scholarship is available
in the research group of Prof. Tom Wenseleers (Uni-
versity of Leuven, Belgium) to work on the evolution
of conﬂict and cooperation in the mutualism between
ants and aphids.
Key words: evolution of mutualisms, social evolution,
ant-aphid mutualism
Key reference: A. Vantaux, J. Billen & T. Wenseleers
(2011) Levels of clonal mixing in the black bean aphid
Aphis fabae, a facultative ant mutualist. Molecular
Ecology, doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05204.x.
Start date: autumn 2011, funding guaranteed for three
years
Required: - Master in Biology or BioEngineering -
Strong interest in social evolution theory, good abil-
ity to work in a team. - Ready to present for a Skype
interview.
Application: send your CV to Prof. Tom Wenseleers
(tom.wenseleers @bio.kuleuven.be) before September 1,
2011.
General information on the research group: http:/-
/bio.kuleuven.be/ento/wenseleers/twenseleers.htm
Prof. Tom Wenseleers * Lab. of Entomology Dept. ofSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 67
Biology Zoological Institute
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UNebraska
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position in evolutionary
comparative genomics is available in the Mower lab
at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. The position
is available starting in November 2011 (or later), with
the possibility of continuing support for up to 3 years.
The major goals of the project are to understand var-
ious processes of genome evolution including muta-
tion rate change, intron gain and loss, and horizon-
tal gene transfer. For this work, complete organellar
genomes will be sequenced and analyzed from numer-
ous closely-related species within a single plant fam-
ily. A PhD in evolution, genetics, genomics, bioin-
formatics, computational biology or similar ﬁeld is re-
quired. The ideal applicant should have an interest
and demonstrable experience 1) assembling and anno-
tating genomes/transcriptomes using next-gen data, 2)
evaluating genomic/transcriptomic data using tools of
molecular evolution, comparative genomics, and phylo-
genetics, 3) programming in a Linux environment using
Perl or Python (or similar language), and 4) using rele-
vant software packages for genome assembly, molecular
evolution, and phylogenetic hypothesis testing. Salary
will be highly competitive and dependent upon candi-
date’s background and experience. Applicants should
submit a cover letter describing previous experience
and ﬁt to the position, full CV with a list of publica-
tions, and three letters of reference. Applications and
all queries may be sent to jmower2@unl.edu. Applica-
tions will begin to be reviewed October 1, 2011 but will
continue to be accepted until the position is ﬁlled.
Jeﬀ Mower
Center for Plant Science Innovation and
Department of Agronomy and Horticulture
University of Nebraska Lincoln
Lincoln, NE 68588
jmower2@unl.eduhttp://psiweb.unl.edu/mower/index.html
jpmower@hotmail.com
UNeuchatel PlantInsectInteractions
We are what we eat - This old Chinese saying is es-
pecially true for insect herbivores that feed on a sin-
gle plant during their whole development. As part of
an international collaboration, we recently started to
investigate the role of benzoxazinoids (BXDs) in plant
insect interactions. BXDs are key defensive metabolites
in grasses, and our project aims at unraveling their role
in maize resistance by investigating both the plant and
the insect simultaneously. By bringing together plant
biochemistry, molecular biology, ecology, behavior and
insect physiology, this initiative will contribute signiﬁ-
cantly to the study of BXDs as a model for plant-insect
coevolution and as natural pest control agents.
In this context, we are inviting applications for a
Post Doctoral Fellowship in Plant-Insect Ecology
Based at the University of Neuchatel, the fellow will
investigate the role of BXDs in the interaction of maize
with diﬀerent insect herbivores. This includes devel-
oping and conducting in vivo and in vitro behavioral
experiments with several herbivore species in the labo-
ratory and the ﬁeld. Furthermore, the successful candi-
date will establish a close collaboration with the other
partners of the initiative working on molecular, bio-
chemical, phytochemical and applied aspects of the sys-
tem. In this context, a highly integrated workﬂow will
ensure that results are quickly exchanged and hypothe-
ses generated by one discipline will be taken up and
tested by the others. The Post Doc will also supervise
a technician, which in turn will assist in the practical
aspects of the project.
We expect: A PhD in plant-insect interactions, behav-
ioral ecology, chemical ecology or a related ﬁeld. High
proﬁciency in all aspects of hypothesis-driven scientiﬁc
work, from the initial idea to the submission of the ﬁnal
manuscript. A strong interdisciplinary interest coupled
with good communication and supervision skills. Will-
ingness to visit partner laboratories and international
conferences on a regular basis.
We oﬀer: An excellent research environment with en-
thusiastic scientists from diﬀerent nationalities and sci-
entiﬁc backgrounds. The possibility to learn state-of-
the art techniques from3genes to agroecosystems2. A68 EvolDir September 1, 2011
pleasant surrounding with a high quality of live and
outstanding public services.
The deadline for applications is August 31, 2011. In-
terviews will start early in September. The positions
will be available from October 2011. Please send
your application (Word or pdf document) including
a CV, letter of motivation and research interests as
well as contact details of two references via e-mail to:
matthias.held@unine.ch
For more information, contact the project leader,
Matthias Erb (merb@ice.mpg.de), or the supervisors
in Neuchˆ atel, Ted Turlings (ted.turlings@unine.ch) and
Gaetan Glauser (gaetan.glauser@unine.ch).
HELD Matthias <matthias.held@unine.ch >
UOsnabruck ResAssoc MolEvol
The Department of Biology at the University of Os-
nabr¨ uck (Germany) invites applications for a
Research Associate (Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter/in)
(E 13 TV-L) in the ﬁeld of Molecular Evolutionary Bi-
ology
The department is seeking highly motivated candidates
with experience and research interests in the area of
evolutionary biology. The candidate should have a
strong background in evolutionary biology (preferen-
tially working with social organisms: vertebrates, in-
vertebrates or ’social microbes’) and/or molecular ge-
netics/genomics. The applicant should be familiar
with molecular genetic techniques (ideally with Quan-
titative Realtime PCR and RNAi) and molecular ge-
netic/genomic analyses. He/she should establish exter-
nally funded projects, supervise students, contribute to
the teaching mission of the department (German lan-
guage skills are required), and will have the opportu-
nity to obtain the ’Habilitation’ (a German qualiﬁca-
tion supportive in applications for professorships).
The position is available starting January 2012 for a
maximum of up to six years. Initial appointment is for
three years.
The University of Osnabr¨ uck is committed to equal
opportunity in employment and gender equality in its
working environment. We strongly encourage applica-
tions from qualiﬁed women. Applications from appro-
priately qualiﬁed handicapped persons are also encour-
aged.Applicants should electronically submit a complete CV,
reprints (pdf-ﬁles) of three representative papers and a
concise description of current and future research con-
cepts. Applicants should also arrange for three letters
of reference to be submitted on their behalf to the ad-
dress below.
Applications for this position are required by Septem-
ber 30th 2011 and should be sent electronically to: Prof.
Dr. Judith Korb, Behavioral Biology, University of
Osnabr¨ uck, Barbarastraße 11, 49069 Germany; e-mail:
Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de
For further information see: http://www.biologie.uni-
osnabrueck.de/Fachbereich/?x=ae,equ;en; contact:
Prof. Dr. Judith Korb, Behavioral Biology, e-
mail: Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de or:
Nathalie.Crombee@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de
Prof. Dr. Judith Korb Behavioural Biology Univer-
sity of Osnabrueck Barbarastr.11 D-49076 Osnabrueck
Germany
Phone: ++(49) (0)541 9693496 Fax: ++(49) (0)541
9692862 email: judith.korb@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de
http://www.biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de/-
Verhaltensbiologie/Korb/index en.html “Korb,
Judith” <Judith.Korb@Biologie.Uni-Osnabrueck.DE >
UOxford AvianBehaviourEvol
Postdoctoral Research Assistant - Genetics of Social
Behaviour in Birds Department of Zoology, South Parks
Road, Oxford Grade 7: £29,099 - £35,788 p.a. A post-
doctoral position is available, for three years, from 1
November 2011, to study the quantitative and molecu-
lar genetic basis and consequences of variation in social
behaviour in wild birds. The post is funded as part of
an ERC Advanced Investigator grant from 2010-2015
of euro 2.5M over ﬁve years to Professor Ben Sheldon.
The post will be based in the Edward Grey Institute,
Department of Zoology, University of Oxford. The
postholder will use extensive data sets involving de-
tailed pedigree and phenotypic information, supple-
mented by high-density SNP-typing of a large sample
of individuals, to study the genetic causes of social be-
haviour, the genetic eﬀects of social behaviour, and
links between genetic and social structure. A partic-
ular focus of the work will be on testing for indirect
genetic eﬀects due to social behaviour, and QTLs for
social behaviour. This is an exceptional opportunitySeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 69
to participate in the development of a major research
project, for which extensive pilot data are already avail-
able, and funding is guaranteed at a very high level.
The post is based in a dynamic research-active insti-
tute, of circa 55 people, fully integrated within the De-
partment of Zoology. Further details about the insti-
tute are available from the Department of Zoology web-
site.
Informal enquiries (with CV) to Professor Ben Shel-
don ben.sheldon@zoo.ox.ac.uk or Dr Camilla Hinde
camilla.hinde@zoo.ox.ac.uk. Further particulars of the
post can be found at https://www.recruit.ox.ac.uk/ un-
der -zoology’
Only applications received before midday on 5 Septem-
ber 2011 can be considered. Interviews will be held on
12 September. You will be required to upload a sup-
porting statement and CV.
camillaoxford@gmail.com
UOxford EvolutionaryBiology
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Biology available
at the University of Oxford
A 3-year postdoctoral position in theoretical evolution-
ary biology is available at the Department of Zoology,
University of Oxford.
The position is part of a FP7-funded Large Scale Col-
laborative Project on developmental plasticity and age-
ing, with a particular focus on the role of epigenetic
mechanisms. The researcher will develop new theory
targeting the relationships between developmental plas-
ticity and evolution.
Three areas are of particular interest: (i) the evolu-
tion of developmental switches’ and its implications for
early environmental eﬀects on long-term performance,
including ageing; (ii) evolutionary ecology of trans-
generational plasticity (maternal eﬀects); and (iii) the
role of epigenetic mechanisms in mediating within-and
trans-generational plasticity. The research programme
allows substantial ﬂexibility and both theory aiming to-
wards general frameworks and more mechanistic models
targeting speciﬁc empirical systems are encouraged.
A PhD in evolutionary biology, ecology, or mathemati-
cal biology is required. Applicants should have a back-
ground in evolutionary theory and show strong mathe-
matical and computing skills and an enthusiasm for ba-sic research. Individuals with experience of research on
life history theory, developmental/phenotypic plasticity
or evolution & development are especially encouraged
to apply.
The successful candidate will work independently and
in collaboration with Dr Tobias Uller at the Univer-
sity of Oxford ( http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/people/-
faculty/tobias uller.htm ), and will be part of an inter-
disciplinary consortium (Integrated Research on Devel-
opmental Determinants of Aging and Longevity) in-
volving 16 leading research groups around Europe with
expertise in a broad range of topics, including evolu-
tionary, developmental and molecular biology, epige-
netics, bioinformatics, and medicine.
The post is based in a dynamic and expanding research-
active research environment. The Edward Grey Insti-
tute (EGI), of c. 50 people, is fully integrated within
the Department of Zoology, University of Oxford. The
EGI is world leading in the study of causes and conse-
quences of phenotypic variation in natural populations,
with many active ongoing research programs (further
details at http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/ ).
The application deadline is September 12. The antici-
pated start date is January 1 2012 or as soon as possi-
ble.
Applications should include CV, full list of publications,
cover letter and email addresses of two referees. In the
cover letter, applicants should describe their theoretical
background and experience with mathematical model-
ing and evolutionary theory explicitly.
Further details on the terms and condi-
tions and how to apply can be found here:
https://www.recruit.ox.ac.uk/pls/hrisliverecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.display form Please contact
Tobias Uller (tobias.uller@zoo.ox.ac.uk) for further
information or informal discussions about the post.
Dr Tobias Uller Edward Grey Institute, Department
of Zoology University of Oxford, OX1 3PS Tel: (+44)
01865 281194
tobias.uller@zoo.ox.ac.uk
UPittsburgh
PlantPathogenInteractions
Two-Year Postdoctoral Position in Plant-Pathogen In-
teractions, University of Pittsburgh70 EvolDir September 1, 2011
The Traw Lab seeks a Postdoctoral Fellow in Plant Bi-
ology to join our ongoing eﬀort to use genome-wide as-
sociation mapping to identify novel resistance genes in
Arabidopsis, beginning this fall, 2011. Our laboratory
is pursuing candidate genes that contribute to plant
defense against pathogenic bacteria and herbivores, us-
ing molecular and bioinformatic approaches. We have
excellent plant growth facilities, a well-equipped labo-
ratory for molecular biology, and a strong local com-
munity of plant and microbial biologists. Applicants
for this position must have a Ph.D. in plant biology
or a related ﬁeld. Preference for this position will be
given to individuals with a strong understanding of
plant - pathogen interactions and demonstrated suc-
cess in preparation of scientiﬁc research papers in plant
biology, microbial ecology or related ﬁelds. In addition,
the applicant should be highly self-motivated and pas-
sionate about plant biology. This position provides a
competitive salary and beneﬁts package dependent on
the candidate’s background and experience. The ini-
tial appointment will be for one year and is renewable
for an additional year and a half, contingent on per-
formance. Start date is ASAP. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until the position
is ﬁlled. Additional information about the Traw Lab is
available at our website www.pitt.edu/˜mbtraw . Ap-
plications should include a cover letter, curriculum vi-
tae, and a letter of recommendation from your current
advisor. Inquiries, applications and letters should be
sent to Dr. Brian Traw mbtraw@pitt.edu. The Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh is an Aﬃrmative Action, Equal
Opportunity Employer. Women and members of mi-
nority groups under-represented in academia are espe-
cially encouraged to apply.
Brian Traw University of Pittsburgh Department of
Biological Sciences 4249 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA
USA
Phone: (412) 383-6909 Fax: (412) 624-4759 E-mail:
mbtraw@pitt.edu
Brian Traw <mbtraw@pitt.edu >
UTexas Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Fellow Position in Bioinformatics and
Computational Genomics
The Department of Bioinformatics & Computational
Biology (DBCB) at the University of Texas MD Ander-
son Cancer Center has one postdoctoral position avail-able for bioinformatics and cancer genomics research.
MD Anderson Cancer Center is one of the world’s fore-
most institutions for cancer research. For eight of the
past ten years including 2011, it has ranked as No. 1
“America’s Best Hospitals” for cancer by U.S. News
& World Report. The institution also enjoys a great
reputation for promoting career development for post-
doctoral fellows. For example, in 2007 MD Anderson
ranked No. 1 as the “Best Places to Work” for postdocs
by the Scientist.
DBCB currently includes 14 faculty members. MD
Anderson is strongly committed to growth of DBCB
in view of the increasingly important roles of com-
putational and analytic approaches in biomedical sci-
ence. Recently our department has experienced a
rapid expansion and built a world-class interdisci-
plinary team. Areas of active research focus currently
include bioinformatics, biostatistics, systems biology,
high-performance computing, next-generation sequenc-
ing, knowledge engineering, and mathematical model-
ing. Moreover, we have been designated as a Genome
Data Analysis Center for the Cancer Genome Atlas
(http:///cancergenome.nih.gov ), a ﬂagship project of
NIH. We also have direct links with Rice University and
the Baylor Human Genome Sequencing Center, one of
the largest sequencing facilitates in the United States.
Together, we provide an extremely stimulating environ-
ment for high-impact, creative bioinformatic research.
The postdoctoral position is available in Dr. Han
Liang’s group:
We are interested in analysis and biological interpre-
tation of large-scale genomic data, including next-
generation sequencing data. We are also interested
in modeling the evolutionary process of tumor de-
velopment. An ideal candidate should have a solid
biological background (cancer-related research expe-
rience is a plus but not necessary); have a strong
quantitative background with experience in computa-
tional/comparative genomics; have good programming
skills (e.g., C++ and Perl); and have at least two ﬁrst-
author (including co-ﬁrst) papers in decent bioinfor-
matics or biological journals.
For qualiﬁed candidates, we oﬀer highly competitive
salary ($65,000 USD) and generous beneﬁts, especially
given the relatively low cost of living in Houston. Hous-
ton is one of the world’s most interesting and diverse
cities, featuring great neighborhoods, excellent private
and public schools, superb museums, highly acclaimed
opera, symphony, ballet, and theater, ﬁrst-rate inter-
national cuisine, and year-round recreational and en-
tertainment opportunities.September 1, 2011 EvolDir 71
Review of applicants will begin immediately, and con-
sideration of applications will continue until the posi-
tions are ﬁlled. Please send an introductory email with
CV to hliang1@mdanderson.org
Han Liang, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Bioinformatics and Computational Bi-
ology Division of Quantitative Sciences The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center E-mail: hliang1@mdanderson.org Tele-
phone: 1-713-745-9815 Fax: 1-713-563-4242
Website: http://odin.mdacc.tmc.edu/ ˜ hliang1/
HLiang1@mdanderson.org
UToronto GeneticsPlantAdaptation
Post-Doctoral Positions in Ecological and Evolutionary
Genomics
Post-doctoral positions are available in the Stinch-
combe Laboratory, in the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology at the University of Toronto.
Work in my lab is focused on both the ecological
causes and the genetic underpinnings of adaptation in
plants. We study both model systems (Arabidopsis
thaliana, Medicago truncatula) and non-model species
(M. lupulina and Ipomoea hederacea).
I am interested in recruiting individuals to work on the
genetics of adaptation. Projects will involve greenhouse
and molecular work, ﬁeld experiments, and analysis of
next-gen sequence and transcriptome data. A strong
background in evolutionary or population genetics, ex-
perience with basic molecular techniques, and facility
with data analysis and/or programming would be valu-
able. The ideal candidate will have a clear intellectual
vision of promising directions and unresolved funda-
mental questions in ecological and evolutionary genet-
ics.
I will be at this year’s ESEB meetings for the next few
days if anyone wants to talk about the position.
Interested candidates should contact me by email.
Please include a single PDF attachment containing your
c.v., a brief description of past research accomplish-
ments and future goals, and the name and e-mail ad-
dress of 2 potential references. Funding is guaranteed
for 1 year, with a second year renewable depending on
progress.
Toronto is a vibrant, multicultural city on the shore
of Lake Ontario, with rich cultural options in the arts,music and ﬁlm, ethnic cuisine, and a high quality of
life. The EEB department is home to an interactive,
collegial group of ecologists, geneticists, and evolution-
ary biologists, and currently supports a strong group of
Post-Doctoral Fellows with diverse research interests.
–
Sent from an old-fashioned desktop computer.
John Stinchcombe Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of
Toronto, 25 Willcocks St. Toronto, ON Canada M5S
3B2
416-946-5986
http://labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/stinchcombe/
john.stinchcombe@utoronto.ca
UTurku Finland 2
MammalPopulations
Two postdoctoral research posts
Project ﬁnanced by the Academy of Finland during
2011-15: The struggle of herbivores and predators be-
tween ﬁnding food and eluding enemies
For two years with possible extension up to four years
(starting in Oct to Nov 2011) at Dept. Biol., Univ. of
Turku, Finland.
Objectives: While animals in the wild cope with the
conﬂict between ﬁnding food and eluding predators,
interactive impacts of food supply and predators on
demography of vertebrate populations have remained
largely unstudied. Two two-factor experiments with
mammals in North America showed that sole food sup-
plementation (FS) and predator reduction (PR) result
in a 2-to-3-fold increase, and both FS and PR resulted
in a>10-fold increase in population densities. These
studies suggest that food and predation may have in-
teractive eﬀects on reproductive success and population
densities of vertebrate animals. This project will thus
aim to solve the long-lasting controversy over whether
animal populations are mainly limited by bottom-up
(food) and/or top-down forces (predation).
Details on the research environment, research projects
and their productivity can be found in http://-
www.sci.utu.ﬁ/biologia/en/ecology.html, http://-
users.utu.ﬁ/ekorpi/, http://www.ncoetundra.utu.ﬁ/
The postdoctoral researcher will take part in the plan-72 EvolDir September 1, 2011
ning and execution of the project, in analysing the ex-
isting long-term observational and experimental data
sets on herbivores and predators, in writing papers, and
in supervision of the Ph.D. and M.Sci. students, etc.
The salary will be in accordance with the Finnish uni-
versity norms, approx. 2950-3400 /mo, the exact level
depending on competence.
Queries and applications (CV, list of publications, a
summary of research interests and motivation for this
project) to Erkki Korpim¨ aki, e-mail ekorpi@utu.ﬁ, fax
+358-2-3336598.
Deadline for applications is 31 Aug 2011. Address: Sec-
tion of Ecology, Department of Biology, University of
Turku, FIN-20014 Turku, Finland.
elina.koivisto@utu.ﬁ
UWashington Flower EvoDevo
Postdoctoral Position in Evolution of Flower Develop-
ment
A Postdoctoral Position is available for a project
on Functional Evolution of Flower Organ Identity
Genes in the basal Eudicot Thalictrum: Implications
for transitions in breeding and pollination systems ±,
to study the genetic and developmental basis of
ﬂower diversity in the laboratory of Vernica Di Stilio
at the University of Washington in Seattle http://-
faculty.washington.edu/distilio/ . Research is on the ra-
nunculid Thalictrum (Ranunculaceae), using an evolu-
tion of development approach towards understanding
morphological diversiﬁcation of ﬂowers. Current focus
is on transcription factors as key regulators of develop-
ment, in particular the ABC model genes belonging to
the MADS box family that regulate ﬂower organ iden-
tity.
Requirements for Post-doc: PhD in Plant Biology,
Molecular, cellular, developmental biology or related
ﬁeld.
Skills: excellent molecular biology and microscopy
skills. Ability to perform one or more of the following
techniques: in situ hybridizations, gene silencing assays
(VIGS), transgenic techniques, protein-protein interac-
tion and DNA binding assays and molecular evolution
analyses. High motivation to pursue an academic ca-
reer and willingness to supervise undergraduates.
Funding is available for 2 years. Review of applicationswill begin Sept 1st, start date is ﬂexible, as early as Oc-
tober 1st 2011. Please e-mail CV, research statement
and 3 reference contacts to distilio@u.washington.edu.
Vernica S. Di Stilio, PhD Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology University of Washington Hitchcock
Hall 506 Box 351800 Seattle WA 98195-1800 (206) 616-
5567 oﬀ (206) 685-4755 lab FAX (206) 616-2011 http:/-
/faculty.washington.edu/distilio/ Veronica S Di Stilio
<distilio@u.washington.edu >
UWisconsin Milwaukee
FrogEvolution
Post-doctoral position - University of Wisconsin-
Milwaukee (UWM).
A position as Post-doctoral Research Associate is avail-
able in the lab of Gerlinde Hoebel to study the evolution
of multi-modal communication in frogs, with special fo-
cus on acoustic, visual, and water surface wave signals.
The postdoctoral scientist will collaborate on establish-
ing methods/equipment for studying visual and surfave
wave modalities, and lead a team of undergraduate stu-
dents to perform behavioral experiments at UWM and
the UWM Field Station. The ideal candidate will have
ﬁeld experience with frogs, and experience conducting
behavioral experiments, in particular with acoustic, vi-
sual or surface wave recording and playback techniques.
This is a full-time position with support for one year,
and possibility for extension pending proposal success.
UWM is an Equal Opportunity /Aﬁrmative Action
Employer.
Screening of candidates will begin September 1, 2011,
and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Appointment
can begin as soon as the position is ﬁlled.
To apply, please send the following documents by email
to Gerlinde Hoebel (hoebel@uwm.edu): (1) CV (2)
statement of research interests/experience, incl. how
previous experience relates to the position description
(3) name and contact information of three references.
For further information about UWM, the Dept. of Bi-
ological Sciences, and the Anuran Behavioral Ecology
Lab, please visit: https://pantherﬁle.uwm.edu/-
hoebel/www/ http://www4.uwm.edu/letsci/-
biologicalsciences/ http://www4.uwm.edu/ Gerlinde
Hoebel <hoebel@uwm.edu >September 1, 2011 EvolDir 73
UWisconsin Milwaukee KelpPopGen
Post-Doctorial Research Associate
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM) is currently ac-
cepting application submissions for a postdoctoral ap-
pointment in Dr. Filipe Alberto’s laboratory, studying
kelp population genetics. For more information about
the lab see: http://alberto-lab.blogspot.com/ . UWM
has an active group of researchers studying evolution-
ary genetics and behavior:
https://pantherﬁle.uwm.edu/rafa/www/-
BME%20site/BME%20home.htm . There is the
possibility to work with UWM graduate students and
undergraduates from the UBM Aquatic Biology and
Mathematics program ( https://pantherﬁle.uwm.edu/-
iglauko/www/UBM/why.html ).
Qualiﬁed candidates will have a knowledge and research
experience in the analysis of microsatellite data sets.
The position is intended to work with diﬀerent kelp
species, including the Californian giant kelp /Macrocys-
tis pyrifera, Pterygophora californica /and/Laminaria
ochroleuca. /There is a wide range of questions that
pertain to kelp Evolutionary Ecology, from unraveling
the details of kelp life history from its pattern of ﬁne-
scale spatial genetic structure, to the biogeography of
kelp across distribution ranges. New collections of spec-
imens in Southern California (collaboration with the
Santa Barbara coastal LTER http://sbc.lternet.edu/-
andCenter for Marine Sciences in Portugal http:/-
/www.ccmar.ualg.pt/maree/ may be designed, in col-
laboration with the successful candidate, but the focus
will be in the analysis of existing data-sets.
The successful candidate should have a Ph.D. in popu-
lation genetics, evolution, bioinformatics, computation
biology or related ﬁeld. Familiarity with population ge-
netics software is essential, as well as high level of mo-
tivation to produce and write her or his results. Com-
puter programming skills are important merits.
Informal inquiries about the project are encouraged.
Please apply by sending a pdf document including 1)
CV, 2) a declaration of research interests, 3) previous
experience and ﬁt for the position and 4) the email ad-
dress and telephone number of potential contacts for
reference letters.
Applications should be emailed to Dr. Filipe Al-berto, albertof@uwm.edu . Annual salary starts at
37,000/year. Beneﬁts information can be found at:
http://www.wisconsin.edu/hr/beneﬁts/gradben.pdf .
Review of applications starts in September 2011, and
will continue until position is ﬁlled.
UWM is an AA/EEO employer.
Filipe Alberto Assistant Professor Dept. of Biological
Sciences University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee Lapham
Hall
P.O. Box 413
Milwaukee, WI 53201-0413 Email: albertof@uwm.edu
Phone: 414-229-6343 / Outside US: (+351 962314856)
Thanks a lot, Cheers, Filipe
Filipe Alberto Assistant Professor
Dept. of Biological Sciences University of Wisconsin
- Milwaukee 3209 N. Maryland Ave. Milwaukee, WI
53211
Email: albertof@uwm.edu Tel: 414-229-6343
Filipe Alberto <albertof@uwm.edu >
UZurich PlantEvolution
University of Zurich plant ecology and evolution
A three year PostDoc position funded by the Euro-
pean Research Council (ERC) is available from Jan-
uary 2012 at the Institute of Systematic Botany, Uni-
versity of Z¨ urich, to study the ecological and genetic
bases of ﬂoral adaptation in plants. A special focus of
the project will be on ﬂoral signals, i.e. ﬂoral scent and
color. One the one hand, traits underlying speciﬁc polli-
nator attraction will be studied in natural populations,
on the other hand, the evolution of ﬂoral adaptations
in generalised pollination system will be investigated by
conducting selection experiments using pollinators and
herbivores. You should have a PhD degree in any ﬁeld
of (molecular) biology/ecology and a thorough interest
in evolutionary biology. A good knowledge of molecular
techniques as well as enthusiasm for experimental work
with plants and insects is required. Willingness to co-
supervise a PhD student working in the same topical
framework is also expected. The successful candidate
will work in a very well equipped institute and an excit-
ing research environment. The Institute of Systematic
Botany at the University of Z¨ urich consists of 3 profes-
sors and 6 academic staﬀ, as well as a large group of74 EvolDir September 1, 2011
PostDocs, PhDs, and Master students. The institute
is located in the pretty botanical gardens and houses
modern molecular and chemical ecology labs, including
greenhouses and climate chambers for plant cultivation.
The University of Z¨ urich has a very broad coverage of
organismal and molecular biology, and several research
groups work on evolutionary topics ( www.lifescience-
zurich.ch ). The city also oﬀers excellent quality of life
through cultural programs and infrastructure, as well
as an attractive surrounding (lake, alps).If you are interested in the job, please send (preferen-
tially by e-mail) a letter describing your motivation,
C.V., copy of degrees, publications (manuscripts), and
e-mail addresses of two academic referees, by 31st of
September 2011. If you have further questions, don‘t
hesitate to contact me.
Prof. Florian Schiestl Institute of Systematic Botany
Zollikerstrasse 107 CH-8008 Z¨ urich
ﬂorian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch
Florian Schiestl <ﬂorian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch >
WorkshopsCourses
Berne Switzerland Coalescent Sep5-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Chile ConservationGenetics Jan15-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Knoxville ModelingSocialComplexity Feb6-8 . . . . . . . 75
Leige StatGenetics Sep5-9 ScheduleChange . . . . . . . . 76
MountDesertIsland EnvGenomics Aug20-27 2 . . . . . 76
NewOrleans PhylogeneticInformation Oct17-21 . . . . 77Smithsonian WildlifeConservation May19-25 . . . . . . . 78
UCalifornia Berkeley BayesianPhylo Aug15-19 2 . . . 79
UmeaU EvolutionaryModeling Oct17-22 . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UmeaU EvolutionaryModeling Oct17-22 2 . . . . . . . . . 80
Berne Switzerland Coalescent
Sep5-8
*COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT*
We are pleased to announce the following population
genetics course:
INTRODUCTION TO COALESCENT THEORY
to be held in Berne, Switzerland, on September 5-8 2011
COURSE ORGANIZER AND INSTRUCTORS Prof.
Laurent Excoﬃer (University of Berne, Switzerland)
Dr. Matthieu Foll (University of Bern, Switzerland)
Prof. John Novembre (University of California) Dr.
Michael Blum (University of Grenoble, France)
COURSE CONTENT The course will introduce stu-
dents to basic concepts in Coalescent Theory and its
application to parameter inferences (ABC and likeli-hood based methods), with a mixture of theoretical
presentations, computational exercises and demonstra-
tions. More detailed course content can be seen on
http://www.unil.ch/pg/page81758 en.html Course will
be taught in English.
PREREQUISITES Basic knowledge in statistics and
programming (R) is a bonus but not absolutely compul-
sory. Students are requested to bring their own laptop
to perform computations and exercises.
COURSE LOCATION Course will be given at the In-
stitute of Ecology and Evolution, Baltzerstrasse 6, 3012
Berne, Switzerland. First lecture will begin on Monday
September 5 at 9 am.
REGISTRATION Registration is open on a ﬁrst-come,
ﬁrst served basis, and the course is limited to 28 people.
Deadline for applications is August 15, 2011, and con-
ﬁrmations will be sent shortly after. Note that travel,
lodging and meals have to be organized by the partici-
pants themselves, who also need to bring their own lap-
top. Members of the Swiss NSF Population Genomics
ProDoc program and members of the CUSO DoctoralSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 75
program in Ecology and Evolution can ask for reim-
bursement of their expenses for travel, accommodation,
and meals.
For more information and online registration: http://-
www.unil.ch/pg/page81758 en.html For further ques-
tions send an email to Ute.Friedrich@unil.ch
This is a joint course of the Population Genomics
Program ( www.unil.ch/pg ) and the Doctoral Program
in Ecology and Evolution (biologie.cuso.ch/ecologie-
evolution/welcome/).
Ute Friedrich Coordinator Population Genomics Pro-
gram Le Biophore, UNIL-Sorge University of Lau-
sanne CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland Phone: +41
(0)21 692 42 07 Fax : +41 21 692 41 65
Email:Ute.Friedrich@unil.ch
Doctoral Program Population Genomics www.unil.ch/-
pgUte.Friedrich@unil.ch
Chile ConservationGenetics
Jan15-29
The Conservation Genetics Network (ReGeneC) an-
nounces the VIII Latin American Conservation Genet-
ics Course.
The Conservation Genetics Network (ReGeneC) gath-
ers together scientists with experience in diﬀerent areas
of conservation genetics who work in the region. The
VIII Latin American Conservation Genetics Workshop
will be held between January 15-29 2012 in Chillan,
Chile. This postgraduate course is given in Spanish
and seeks to train and integrate human resources, facil-
itating the conservation and the appropriate use of the
regional biological richness. Information regarding the
programme, participating lecturers and pre-registration
can be found at the web site: http://regenec.ula.ve/-
taller/ene2012/ La Red de Gen´ etica para la Conser-
vaci´ on (ReGeneC) anuncia el VIII Taller Latinoameri-
cano de Gen´ etica para la Conservaci´ on.
La Red de Gen´ etica para la Conservaci´ on (ReGeneC)
re´ une a cient´ ıﬁcos con experticias en distintas ´ areas
de esta tem´ atica que trabajan en la regi´ on. El VIII
Taller Latinoamericano de Gen´ etica para la Conser-
vaci´ on se desarrollar´ a entre el 15 y el 29 de enero
de 2012, en Chillan, Chile. El curso es dictado en
espa˜ nol, tiene nivel de postgrado y busca, entre otros
aspectos, formar y favorecer la integraci´ on de recursos
humanos para facilitar la conservaci´ on y el uso ade-cuado de la riqueza biol´ ogica de esta regi´ on. Informa-
ciones acerca del programa, profesores participantes y
modalidades de pre-inscripci´ on se encuentran en el sitio
web del Taller: http://regenec.ula.ve/taller/ene2012/-
Dr. Elie POULIN Laboratorio de Ecolog´ ıa Molecu-
lar (LEM) Instituto de Ecolog´ ıa y Biodiversidad (IEB)
Departamento de Ciencias Ecol´ ogicas Facultad de Cien-
cias, Universidad de Chile Las Palmeras 3425, Casilla
653 CP 780-0024, ˜Nu˜ noa, Santiago, Chile
http://lem.dm.cl/ http://www.ieb-chile.cl/ Phone:
(56)-2-9787298 Fax: (56)-2-2727363 E-mail:
epoulin@uchile.cl
Elie Poulin <epoulin@uchile.cl >
Knoxville
ModelingSocialComplexity Feb6-8
NIMBioS-NESCent Investigative Workshop
Topic: Towards a formal theory for the evolution of
human social complexity
Web: http://www.nimbios.org/workshops/-
WSsocial complexity Meeting dates: February
6-8, 2012, Knoxville
Objectives. The aim of this workshop, jointly
sponsored by NIMBioS and NESCent <http://-
www.nescent.org >, is to bring together a diverse group
of modelers with anthropologists, archaeologists, and
other social scientists to (i) synthesize the state of
knowledge in formal models of the evolution of social
complexity, (ii) identify unresolved issues, and (iii) set
an agenda for future collaborative work. The workshop
will be organized around the following general themes:
What theories and data are available? What are the
empirical patterns that cannot be explained by the ex-
isting theories and data? How can we adapt existing
models to make full use of the available data? What
kinds of data are needed to better inform the models?
What new modeling techniques and methods need to
be developed?*
*Application deadline: September 30, 2011
Participation is limited; those selected to attend will be
notiﬁed within two weeks of the application deadline.
Sergey Gavrilets <sergey@nimbios.org >76 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Leige StatGenetics Sep5-9
ScheduleChange
There have been some schedule changes to the Liege
version of the Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics
next month:
8:30 am Monday September 5 until noon September
7: Population Genetic Data Analysis (Jerome Goudet
and Bruce Weir) Quantitative Genetics (Bill Muir and
Bruce Walsh) Gene Expression Data (Greg Gibson and
Alison Motsinger-Reif)
1:30 pm Wednesday September 7 until 5 pm Fri-
day September 9: QTL Mapping (Rebecca Doerge
and Zhao-Bang Zeng) Plant and Animal Associa-
tion Mapping (Peter Bradbury and Michel Georges)
DNA Evidence (Roberto Puch-Solis and Bruce Weir)
R/Bioconductor Workshop (Thomas Lumley and Ken
Rice)
Canceled: Human Association Mapping, Graphical
Models, Coalescent Theory.
Details are available at http://-
eisg.biostat.washington.edu or from eisgg@uw.edu
Bruce Weir bsweir@uw.edu
Bruce S. Weir Professor and Chair, Department of Bio-
statistics University of Washington Seattle, WA 98195-
7232 Phone (206) 221-7947. Fax (206) 543-3286.
Bruce Weir <bsweir@u.washington.edu >
MountDesertIsland EnvGenomics
Aug20-27 2
Dear colleagues,
There may be a couple of remaining open positions for
participants at this year’s Annual Summer Course in
Environmental Genomics at the Mount Desert Island
Biological Lab. If you or people in your group are in-
terested, please visit the URL below to register, or send
email to jcolbour@indiana.edu.
Date: August 20 to August 27, 2011. Number of par-
ticipants: Restricted to 25.http://www.mdibl.org/courses/-
Environmental Genomics/199/ This is a hands-on
technical course to guide research into population-level
(high-throughput sampling) functional genomics, using
our community supported Daphnia genomics tools for
training. This year’s guest lecturers and discussion
leaders include Prof. Loretta Johnson (Kansas State
Univ.), Prof. W. Kelley Thomas (Univ. of New Hamp-
shire), Prof. Gary Churchill (Jackson Laboratory), Dr.
Andrew Whitehead (Louisiana State Univ.), Dr. Keith
Shockley (NIEHS), and Dr. John Novembre (UCLA).
The faculty at MDIBL is pleased to again oﬀer a train-
ing course in Environmental Genomics, aiming to bet-
ter understand technologies and approaches used to dis-
cover how gene function is inﬂuenced by environmen-
tal conditions while accounting for variation that exists
within and among natural populations. This course
is built on the paradigm that the research ﬁeld will
most eﬀectively grow by properly designing large-scale
experiments enabled by drastically increased sample-
throughput and lower costs. Most importantly, the chal
lenges of manipulating and analyzing population-level
genomics data must be addressed.
This course is designed to train the next-generation of
environmental scientists, which last year included ﬁve
university professors, seven postdoctoral researchers,
eight doctoral students and a government scientist, rep-
resenting institutions from ﬁve countries an d eight US
states. All but two responded in the departure sur-
vey that the course curriculum, choice of technologies,
and eﬀectiveness provided suﬃcient training to either
begin or enlarge an environmental genomics project in
their own laboratories. All reported th at they would
recommend this course to a colleague.
This course trains researchers to design studies, and
to collect and analyze state-of-the-art gene expression
data. Daphnia is used for training because of its grow-
ing use as a model system for environmental genomics
and for improving environmental health protection (see
URL below), yet the skills learned during the course
will be applicable to all study systems with mature ge-
nomics resources.
Nature News http://www.nature.com/news/2011/-
110203/full/news.2011.71.html Participants will
also obtain hands-on training on the latest automa-
tion protocols for higher-throughput processing of
next-generation sequencing samples, and will learn
computational methods to manage and analyze
genomics-scale data sets.
Ultimately, participants will be better positioned to
incorporate these technologies into their own research
laboratories, while better understanding how functionalSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 77
genomics and automation can be applied to ecology,
evolution and toxicology.
Support for this training course is provided by The In-
diana University Center for Genomics and Bioinformat-
ics, Beckman Coulter Inc., Roche NimbleGen Inc., and
Life Technologies Inc.
Please download the poster announcement at:
https://wiki.cgb.indiana.edu/download/attachments/-
22446089/MDIBL Envgen ﬂyer y2.pdf John Col-
bourne <jcolbour@cgb.indiana.edu >
NewOrleans
PhylogeneticInformation Oct17-21
TDWG MIAPA Workshop Call For Participation:
Steps towards a Minimum Information About a Phylo-
genetic Analysis (MIAPA) Standard
Synopsis
Many phylogenetic analysis results are published in
ways that present serious barriers to their reuse in nu-
merous research applications that would stand to ben-
eﬁt from them. While some of these barriers are well
understood, such as issues with adherence to standard
exchange formats, those centering on the associated
metadata necessary for researchers to evaluate or reuse
a published phylogeny have only recently begun to be
articulated. One of the critical next steps towards for-
malizing these metadata requirements as a minimum
reporting standard is to convene meetings of key stake-
holder communities with the goal to identify informa-
tion attributes necessary and desirable for facilitating
reuse, and to build consensus on their priority. To this
end, we are holding a workshop at the 2011 Biodiver-
sity Information Standards (TDWG) Conference to de-
termine how a future reporting standard for phyloge-
netic analyses can best serve biodiversity science and
related research applications. We invite all interested
colleagues to participate.
Background
The workshop of the Biodiversity Information Stan-
dards (TDWG) Phylogenetics Standards Interest
Group held at the 2010 TDWG conference included a
project focused on how to publish re-usable trees that
can be linked into an emerging global web of data.
Through follow-up work, this led to the following tan-
gible results:An online draft report of the 2010 TDWG workshop [1],
and a corresponding manuscript on best practices for
publishing phylogenetic trees (Stoltzfus et al. in prepa-
ration); An 2011 iEvoBio presentation on “Publishing
re-usable phylogenetic trees, in theory and in practice”
[2]; A lighting talk presentation and Birds-of-a-Feather
gathering at 2011 iEvoBio, and A survey group that
explored barriers to re-use and developed plans for a
survey
These activities have considerably clariﬁed our under-
standing of the theory and practice of publishing re-
usable phylogenetic trees: how many phylogenies are
published each year, the (low) frequency of archiving,
what archives and tools are available, what policies are
in force, etc. We have identiﬁed a number of barriers to
re-use involving such aspects as technology, standards,
culture, and access. Many of these barriers can be in-
terpreted as a consequence of the lack of a community-
agreed standard for what constitutes a well documented
phylogenetic record. In the absence of such a standard,
trees are often archived as image ﬁles rather than in ap-
propriate data exchange formats, and lack important
accompanying information (metadata), such as exter-
nally meaningful identiﬁers, that would be needed to
make them useful to others. The idea of a Minimum
Information About a Phylogenetic Analysis (MIAPA)
standard has been suggested [3], but so far there has
not been a deliberate process to develop and dissem-
inate a community standard. Meanwhile, a number
of systematics and evolution journals have begun to
require archiving of the data underlying published re-
search ﬁndings [4]. The emerging cultural shift in data
archiving and sharing promoted by this policy change
oﬀers a unique window of opportunity to move ahead
with the development and actual speciﬁcation of a MI-
APA standard. Similar to other minimum reporting
standards [5], the primary focus of a future MIAPA
standard would be on deﬁning a ‘checklist’ of metadata
information attributes that, at a minimum, needs to
accompany an archived phylogenetic analysis, and to
which standards values for these attributes would need
to adhere. The key step in developing community con-
sensus on these elements of the standard is to convene a
series of meetings that collectively involve participants
from all major groups of stakeholders who would be
aﬀected by such a standard, such as users, producers,
publishers, or archivists of phylogenetic analyses. To
aid this process, the Phylogenetics Standards Interest
Group is holding a workshop at the 2011 TDWG con-
ference, with the goal to obtain consensus requirements
and priorities for a MIAPA checklist for the purposes
of biodiversity science, taxonomy, museum collections,
and related research applications.78 EvolDir September 1, 2011
Goals and deliverables
The main goal of the workshop is to develop a shared
understanding of the role that a MIAPA standard could
play in facilitating re-use of phylogenetic analyses for
the biodiversity science and related communities, and
what the standard would need to specify in order to
best ﬁll that role. Possible deliverables include A draft
set of information attributes that should or could be
included in a provisional MIAPA checklist, with a level
of consensus for each of them. A database with use-
cases based on exemplifying publications, that report
phylogenies to elucidate a broad spectrum of questions
relating to biodiversity science.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Smithsonian WildlifeConservation
May19-25
Graduate and Professional Course Non-Invasive Ge-
netic Techniques in Wildlife Conservation May 19-
25, 2012 Smithsonian-Mason Global Conservation
Studies Program At the Smithsonian Conservation
Biology Institute, Front Royal, VA, USA Visit
http://conservationtraining.si.edu or contact SCBI-
training@si.edu for more information.
This course is an introduction for graduate students and
professionals to the applications, beneﬁts, and draw-
backs of non-invasive genetic techniques to wildlife con-
servation. The course will concentrate on the use of
non-invasive techniques to answer questions in animal
behavior, population biology, and population manage-
ment, with a particular focus on the conservation of
mammalian populations. Participants gain hands-on
experience relating to all stages of a research project
utilizing modern non-invasive methods by working with
expert researchers through a combination of ﬁeld, lab-
oratory and computer-based modules.
Throughout the course participants work through di-
rected research projects, progressing from study design
through ﬁeld data collection, sampling protocols, and
DNA extraction and ampliﬁcation, to analysis of mi-
crosatellite and sequence data using the most eﬀective
and accessible software packages. The course focuseson relatedness, population size estimation and popu-
lation dynamics; additional lectures address genotype
reliability, research applications for ancient DNA, and
applications of next-generation pyrosequencing.
Many of these groundbreaking non-invasive genetic
techniques were initially developed at the Smithsonian’s
National Zoo and its Center for Conservation and Evo-
lutionary Genetics (CCEG). Course instructors include
scientists from CCEG (Drs. Jesus Maldonado and Rob
Fleischer) and George Mason University (Dr. Christine
Bozarth) and several expert visiting instructors includ-
ing Drs. Mike Schwartz, Elizabeth Archie, and Lori Eg-
gert. While most instruction takes place in Front Royal,
the course also includes laboratory work at the National
Zoo’s new state-of-the-art genetics lab in Washington,
DC.
The course fee is $1,500, which includes instruction and
course materials as well as all meals, lodging, and trans-
port to/from Washington-Dulles International Airport
(IAD). All other travel costs and incidental expenses are
the participant’s responsibility. Participants earn Con-
tinuing Education Units; graduate course credit (1) is
available for qualiﬁed applicants through George Mason
University (total fee: $1600 in-state (VA), $1850 out-of-
state). Participants should have previously completed
a college-level genetics and basic ecology/evolution
course. Applications due by March 5th, 2012.
Additional Upcoming Courses:
For more information on each of these, see: http:/-
/conservationtraining.si.edu * Conservation Conﬂict
Resolution (January 16-20, 2012)
* Spatial Ecology, Geospatial Analysis, & Remote Sens-
ing for Conservation (February 6-17, 2012)
* Statistics for Ecology and Conservation Biology
(March 5-16, 2012)
* Species Monitoring & Conservation: Amphibians
(March 26- April 6, 2012)
* Species Monitoring & Conservation: Terrestrial
Mammals (April 16-27, 2012)
* Adaptive Management for Conservation Success
(June 11-22, 2012) * Eﬀective Conservation Leadership
(2012 dates to be determined)
For information on the Applied Conservation Science
Graduate Certiﬁcate see: http://mccs.gmu.edu/-
graduate/certiﬁcate For information on the Ap-
plied Conservation Science Professional Certiﬁ-
cate see: www.ocpe.gmu.edu/programs/green/-
applied conservation.html Joe Kolowski, Ph.D. |
Graduate and Professional Training Manager Smith-
sonian Conservation Biology Institute Center forSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 79
Conservation Education and Sustainability National
Zoological Park Mail: P.O. Box 37012, MRC 0705,
Washington, DC 20013-7012 Location: 1100 Jeﬀerson
Drive., SW, Washington, DC 20013 T 202-633-4787 |F
202-786-2557 |Email kolowskij@si.edu
“Kolowski, Joseph” <kolowskij@si.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley BayesianPhylo
Aug15-19 2
SYMPOSIUM / WORKSHOP on Bayesian inference of
phylogeny
There will be a mini-symposium on Bayesian inference
of phylogeny to be held on the UC Berkeley campus
from August 15th to 19th. There will be two days
of talks (August 15th and 16th) on various aspects of
Bayesian inference as it applies to the phylogeny prob-
lem. The following three days will be a workshop for
people interested in developing for the RevBayes pro-
gram. RevBayes implements an R-like language for
specifying complex evolutionary models and (attempts)
to perform solid statistical estimation of a model’s pa-
rameters.
Where: UC Berkeley When: August 15 - 16 (talks),
August 17 - 19 (workshop on RevBayes for interested
developers) Details: http://cteg.berkeley.edu/events/-
201108Symposium.html Speakers include: Michael
Jordan (UC Berkeley), Ian Holmes (UC Berkeley), Jeﬀ
Thorne (NCSU), Fredrik Ronquist (Swedish Natural
History Museum), Jeet Sukumaran (KU), Brian Moore
(UC Davis), Bastien Boussau (UC Berkeley), Sebas-
tian Hoehna (Stockholm University), Tracy Heath (UC
Berkeley), and John Huelsenbeck (UC Berkeley).
John Huelsenbeck University of California, Berkeley
Department of Integrative Biology 3060 VLSB # 3140
Berkeley, CA 94720-3140
Phone: (510) 502-5887
johnh@berkeley.edu
UmeaU EvolutionaryModeling
Oct17-22Hi all,
There will be a short course on eco-evolutionary model-
ing (Adaptive Dynamics) at Ume ˜A University this fall.
This course is open to anyone who is interested in eco-
logical/evolutionary modeling, in particular Adaptive
Dynamics. There is no course fee, but participants
will need to cover the travel and accommodation costs.
Limited ﬁnancial support may be available.
The application deadline is September 30, 2011.
Regards,
Etsuko Nonaka
Etsuko Nonaka IceLab & Department of Ecol-
ogy and Environmental Science, Ume ˜A Uni-
versity, Ume ˜A, Sweden Naturvetarhuset, 3rd
ﬂoor, Ume ˜A University, 901 87 Ume ˜A Phone:
+46907865540, email:etsuko.nonaka@gmail.com,
etsuko.nonaka@emg.umu.se
A SHORT COURSE on Adaptive Dynamics by Prof.
Stefan Geritz
October 17-22, 2011
Ume ˜A University, Ume ˜A, Sweden
Integrated Science Lab (IceLab) is organizing a short-
course on Adaptive Dynamics (AD) to be held at
Ume ˜A University from October 17th to 22th, 2011. We
will have Prof. Stefan Geritz from the University of
Helsinki, one of the leading researchers on the subject.
The aim of the course is to introduce participants to
the theory and method of Adaptive Dynamics and pro-
vide training for understanding (and being able to re-
produce) results of published AD applications and for
actually applying AD to concrete models. The course
will consist of morning lectures and computer lab exer-
cises in the afternoons using Mathematica.
The one week of lectures (2 ECTS) will be followed
by (optional) individual projects (1 ECTS). Details to
be announced, but projects from his past course can
be viewed here ( http://mathstat.helsinki.ﬁ/˜kisdi/AD-
Vienna/ ). Dr. ˜Ake Br¨ annstrom will supervise the
projects and we will invite Prof. Geritz back to Ume ˜A
for a day to discuss the projects (the date will be deter-
mined soon). Also on this website you can ﬁnd a link to
the list of AD literature complied by Prof. Geritz and
his collaborators ( http://mathstat.helsinki.ﬁ/˜kisdi/-
addyn.htm ).
The course is open to graduate students (PhD, Mas-
terˆ as) and exceptional undergraduates who are inter-
ested in modeling in ecology and evolution. Postdocs
and other scientists interested in the subject are also
welcome to apply. There is no registration fee, and par-80 EvolDir September 1, 2011
ticipants will need to cover travel expenses to Ume ˜A
(transportation and accommodation). Limited ﬁnan-
cial support for accommodations may be available, and
if it is needed, please indicate it on the application.
Application form can be found here: http:/-
/www.kbc.umu.se/researchschool/courses/310-
adaptive-dynamics.html *What is Adaptive Dy-
namics?** *Adaptive dynamics is a mathematical
theory that explicitly links population dynamics to
long-term evolution driven by mutation and natural
selection. It provides methods of model formulation,
methods of model analysis and mathematical theorems
that relate phenomena on an evolutionary time scale
to processes and structures deﬁned in ecological and
population dynamical terms.
Adaptive dynamics is a new but rapidly developing the-
ory that poses various interesting and mathematically
challenging problems. From an applications point of
view, a great strength of adaptive dynamics is its capa-
bility to model evolution driven by complex ecological
interactions. Adaptive dynamics is being applied by
a growing number of researchers to a wide variety of
concrete ecological-evolutionary problems.
*More about AD:* http://mathstat.helsinki.ﬁ/-
research/biomath/projects/ad.html http:/-
/wiki.helsinki.ﬁ/display/mathstatKurssit/-
Adaptive+dynamics%2C+fall+2010 Etsuko Nonaka
<etsuko.nonaka@gmail.com >
UmeaU EvolutionaryModeling
Oct17-22 2
Hi all,
There will be a short course on eco-evolutionary mod-
eling (Adaptive Dynamics) at Ume ˜A University this
fall. This course is open to graduate students, post-
docs and other researchers who are interested in eco-
logical/evolutionary modeling, in particular Adaptive
Dynamics. There is no course fee, but participants
will need to cover the travel and accommodation costs.
Limited ﬁnancial support may be available.
The application deadline is September 30, 2011. If you
have any questions, please feel free to email me (et-
suko.nonaka@gmail.com, etsuko.nonaka@emg.umu.se)
Regards,
Etsuko NonakaEtsuko Nonaka IceLab & Department of Ecol-
ogy and Environmental Science, Ume ˜A Uni-
versity, Ume ˜A, Sweden Naturvetarhuset, 3rd
ﬂoor, Ume ˜A University, 901 87 Ume ˜A Phone:
+46907865540, email:etsuko.nonaka@gmail.com,
etsuko.nonaka@emg.umu.se
A SHORT COURSE on Adaptive Dynamics by Prof.
Stefan Geritz
*October 17-22 and (optional) November 4, 2011*
Ume ˜A University, Ume ˜A, Sweden
Integrated Science Lab (IceLab) is organizing a short-
course on Adaptive Dynamics (AD) to be held at Ume ˜A
University from *October 17th to 22th, 2011 *. We
will have Prof. Stefan Geritz from the University of
Helsinki, one of the leading researchers on the subject,
as the lecturer. The aim of the course is to introduce
participants to the theory and method of Adaptive Dy-
namics and provide training for understanding (and be-
ing able to reproduce) results of published AD applica-
tions and for actually applying AD to concrete models.
The course will consist of morning lectures and com-
puter lab exercises in the afternoons using Mathemat-
ica.
The one week of lectures (2 ECTS) will be followed
by (optional) individual projects (1 ECTS). Details to
be announced, but projects from his past course can
be viewed here ( http://mathstat.helsinki.ﬁ/ ˜ kisdi/-
AD-Vienna/ ). Dr. ˜Ake Br¨ annstrom will supervise
the projects and we will invite Prof. Geritz back to
Ume ˜A on *November 4th* to discuss the results of the
projects. Also on this website you can ﬁnd a link to
the list of AD literature complied by Prof. Geritz and
his collaborators ( http://mathstat.helsinki.ﬁ/˜kisdi/-
addyn.htm ).
The course is open to graduate students (PhD, Mas-
terˆ as) and exceptional undergraduates who are inter-
ested in modeling in ecology and evolution. Postdocs
and other scientists interested in the subject are also
welcome to apply. There is no registration fee, and par-
ticipants will need to cover travel expenses to Ume ˜A
(transportation and accommodation). Limited ﬁnan-
cial support for accommodations may be available, and
if it is needed, please indicate it on the application.
Application form can be found here: http:/-
/www.kbc.umu.se/researchschool/courses/310-
adaptive-dynamics.html *What is Adaptive Dy-
namics?** *Adaptive dynamics is a mathematical
theory that explicitly links population dynamics to
long-term evolution driven by mutation and natural
selection. It provides methods of model formulation,
methods of model analysis and mathematical theoremsSeptember 1, 2011 EvolDir 81
that relate phenomena on an evolutionary time scale
to processes and structures deﬁned in ecological and
population dynamical terms.
Adaptive dynamics is a new but rapidly developing the-
ory that poses various interesting and mathematically
challenging problems. From an applications point of
view, a great strength of adaptive dynamics is its capa-
bility to model evolution driven by complex ecologicalinteractions. Adaptive dynamics is being applied by
a growing number of researchers to a wide variety of
concrete ecological-evolutionary problems.
*More about AD:* http://mathstat.helsinki.ﬁ/-
research/biomath/projects/ad.html http:/-
/wiki.helsinki.ﬁ/display/mathstatKurssit/-
Adaptive+dynamics%2C+fall+2010 Etsuko Nonaka
<etsuko.nonaka@gmail.com >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.