E v o l D i r
February 1, 2006
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782 EvolDir February 1, 2006
Conferences
Bangkok MEEGID Nov30-Dec4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
BrockU OntEcolEthologyEvol May5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Edmonton CanSocZool May2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
GordonResConference MolEvol Feb5-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
HarvardU Conﬂict May11-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
London EvolEntomology Feb1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Marseilles 10EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Marseilles 10EvolBiol 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
McGillU CSEE Apr3-4 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
MichiganStateU FuncGenomics May16-19 . . . . . . . . . . 8
Montreal Phylogenomics Mar16-19 Deadline extension
9
OriginOfLife Stockholm May8-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
SaintLouisU MEEC2006 Mar17-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
SaltLakeCity MedicalBioinformatics Jun22-23 . . . . . 11
UAlabama SEEC2006 Mar3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UAlabama SEEC2006 Mar3-5 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UAlaskaAnchorage Sticklebacks Jul30-Aug4 . . . . . . . 13
UWarwick GeneticsSoc Mar28-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Vancouver GeneticsofSpeciation Jul21-24 . . . . . . . . . . 14
VenturaCA MolEvol Feb5-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Wernigerode Germany Apomixis Jun27-Jul2 . . . . . . . 16
Bangkok MEEGID Nov30-Dec4
30/12/05
MEEGID VIII Bangkok, Thailand. 30th November-4th
December 2006. Preliminary announcement.
The 8th International Meeting “Molecular Epidemiol-
ogy and Evolutionary Genetics of Infectious Diseases”
(MEEGID VIII) will be held in Bangkok, Thailand,
30th November-4th December 2006. As for the 7 ﬁrst
MEEGID meetings, it will be co-organized by the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC; http:/-
/www.cdc.gov/ ) in Atlanta, the Centre National de
la Recherche Scientiﬁque (CNRS; http://www.cnrs.fr/ )
and the Institut de Recheche pour le D´ eveloppement
(IRD; http://www.ird.fr/ ) in France. Mahidol Uni-
versity ( http://www.mahidol.ac.th/ ) will be an oﬀﬁcial
co-organizer of the meeting, which will be supported
also by the French Embassy ( http://www.ambafrance-
th.org/ ).
The MEEGID meetings are organized in synergy with
the new journal Infection, Genetics and Evolution (El-
sevier; http://www.elsevier.nl/locate/meegid ), which
scientiﬁc topic is identical to that of the MEEGID.
Launched only 4 years ago, Infection, Genetics and Evo-lution is now published with 6 issues per year, and is
covered by Medline and Index Medicus, starting from
the 1st issue. It has been quoted 3.5/5.0 (“very good”)
by the US National Library of Medicine. It is now cov-
ered by ISI and an oﬃcial impact index will be available
soon.
Communications on genetics, genomics, proteomics,
population biology, mathematical modelling, bioinfor-
matics are welcome. They can deal with the host,
the pathogen or the vector. Papers considering host
+ pathogen or pathogen + vector (co-evolution) are
particularly encouraged. All pathogens are within
the scope of MEEGID: viruses, parasitic protozoa,
helminths, fungal organisms, prion. All infectious mod-
els can be considered, including those of veterinary or
agronomical relevance.
The papers communicated for MEEGID VIII will be
published in a special issue of Infection, Genetics and
Evolution, as already done for MEEGID VI (Paris, July
2002). MEEGID VIII will include 10-15 plenary lec-
tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “express-
debates” (20 mn presentation by only one speaker fol-
lowed by 40 mn free discussion) and several poster ses-
sions.
Special emphasis will be given to health problems of
special interest to Thailand ande South-East Asia:
avian ﬂu, SARS, malaria, dengue.February 1, 2006 EvolDir 3
Awards will be attributed to the best communication,
the best communication by a student and the best com-
munication by a scientist from the Southern World on
a problem speciﬁcally relevant to these areas.
For the ﬁrst time, a satellite meeting will be organized
in the framework of MEEGID VIII by the think tank
“Biology, Medicine and Society”. Societal problems
linked to genetics, evolution and transmissible diseases
will be discussed in several roundtables.
Wishing you a happy new year
Contact:
Michel Tibayrenc, MD, PhD Editor -in-chief In-
fection, Genetics and Evolution (Elsevier) http://-
www.elsevier.com/locate/meegid IRD representative in
Thailand IRD Representative Oﬃce French Embassy
29, Thanon Sathorn Tai, Bangkok 10120, Thailand Tel
: + (66 2) 627 2190 Fax : + (66 2) 627 2194 Cel: + (66
1) 82 64 056 E-mail : (direct): Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr
(secretary) ird th@ksc.th.com Website : http://-
www.th.ird.fr Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr
BrockU OntEcolEthologyEvol
May5-7
The Brock University Department of Biological Sci-
ences is proud to be hosting the 2006 Ontario Ecology
and Ethology (and sometimes Evolution) Colloquium.
This is a conference organized by graduate students
to provide graduate and advanced undergraduate stu-
dents, at any stage in their thesis research, the opportu-
nity to present in a supportive atmosphere dominated
by student peers and friendly faculty. The conference
location rotates around Ontario. In May 2005 it was
hosted by Carlton University; in May 2004 it was hosted
by University of Toronto at Mississauga. This confer-
ence encompasses all aspects of ecology, behaviour, and
evolution. This is also one of the largest regional gradu-
ate student run conferences in North America on these
topics.
This year we are honoured to have 4 plenary speakers:
Barbara Rosemary Grant, Princeton University; Ellie
Prepas, Lakehead University; Linda Corkum, Univer-
sity of Windsor; and Marie-Jos´ ee Fortin, University of
Toronto.
This is the ﬁrst announcement of this conference to
be held May 5 to May 7 2006. More information willfollow and will be available at the conference website:
www.oeec.ca . Please pass on this announcement and
attached poster to relevant students and faculty in your
department.
If any questions arise, please do not hesitate to contact
us at oeec@brocku.ca.
We look forward to receiving abstracts from interested
students.
Thanks very much,
2006 OEEC Organizing Committee
oeec@brocku.ca
Edmonton CanSocZool May2-6
The inaugural symposium of the newly created “Com-
parative Morphology & Development” section (CMD)
of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ) will take
place at the 45th annual CSZ meeting in Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada (May 2 - 6, 2006).
INAUGURAL SYMPOSIUM: Development, Morphol-
ogy, Evolution: The Triple Helix
Conﬁrmed speakers for the May 4 symposium include:
Dr. Brian K. Hall, Dalhousie University “Penguins,
Platypus, Peripatus and Polypterus: Embryos in Evo-
lution”
Dr. Nick Butterﬁeld, University of Cambridge “From
Microbes to Morphology: The Cambrian Explosion and
Origins of the Modern Biosphere”
Dr. Mark Q. Martindale, University of Hawaii “The
Evolution of Morphological Complexity: Developmen-
tal Tails (sic) from an Anemone Embryo”
Dr. Phil Currie, University of Alberta “On the Shoul-
ders of Giants: Development, Size and the Evolution of
Tyrannosaurid Dinosaur Crania”
Dr. Mimi A. R. Koehl, University of California- Berke-
ley “Sniﬃng with Hairy Noses: Fluid Mechanics and
Convergent Evolution of Odor Capture by Antennae”
REGISTRATION & CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
To register to attend this exciting symposium, or to
submit an abstract for a talk to be given in one of the
many related contributed paper sessions on Larval Bi-
ology, Biomechanics & Functional Morphology, Paleo-
biology, or Evolution of Development, visit the the CSZ
2006 Meeting web site:4 EvolDir February 1, 2006
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/csz2006/index.htm
*** DEADLINE FOR EARLY REGISTRATION
AND ABSTRACT SUBMISSION ***: Feb. 15, 2006
Don’t miss this opportunity to attend the memorable,
and historically signiﬁcant launch of the Comparative
Morphology & Development section of the CSZ.
RELATED EVENTS
A companion symposium sponsored by the Canadian
Secretariat ( http://www.ualberta.ca/˜ipy/index.html )
of the International Polar Year consortium will occur
at the CSZ meeting on May 3:
Biology of the Canadian Artic II. Integrating across
scales: From site-speciﬁc to regional and global pro-
cesses
And don’t forget that Edmonton is just a short
drive from one of the most spectacular driving tours
in North America, the Iceﬁelds Parkway ( http://-
www.canadianrockies.net/icepwy.html ) that runs from
Jasper ( http://www.pc.gc.ca/pn-np/ab/jasper/ ), past
the Columbia Iceﬁelds and Lake Louise, to Banﬀ
(http://www.pc.gc.ca/pn-np/ab/banﬀ/ ) through the
heart of the world-famous Canadian Rockies.
So there are many reasons to attend the annual CSZ
meeting this year!
THE COMPARATIVE MORPHOLOGY & DEVEL-
OPMENT SECTION
The CMD section of the CSZ aims to promote and
enhance interactions, dialogue and intellectual cross-
fertilization among the many Canadian zoologists and
paleontologists who work on morphology (functional or
comparative), larval biology, development, and devel-
opmental evolution, and particularly those who work
at the interfaces between development, morphology and
evolution. An exciting aspect of this new section will be
the involvement of paleontologists, which we hope will
make the annual meetings attractive to a wide range of
participants from inside and outside of Canada. We
are actively working to make the new CMD section
a welcome home for both zoologists and paleontolo-
gists interested in development, morphology or evolu-
tion, and we welcome participation by Canadians and
non-Canadians alike.
To learn more about the goals, history, inaugural sym-
posium, student awards and other activities of the
CMD section, visit the section’s web site:
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm
STUDENT AWARD
Starting with the 2006 CSZ meeting, the CMD section
will oﬀer an attractive award (the Brian K. Hall Awardin Comparative Morphology and Development of $300)
for the best student presentation by a member of the
CMD section. See http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/-
CMD/home.htm#awards for details. So students are
encouraged to participate.
–
A. Richard Palmer Systematics and Evolution Group
Department of Biological Sciences University of Alberta
Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 CANADA phone: (780)
492-3633 message: (780) 492-3308 FAX: (780) 492-9234
http://www2.biology.ualberta.ca/palmer/palmer.html
(biological asymmetries, software, course notes)
Chair, Comparative Morphology & Development sec-
tion, Canadian Society of Zoologists. For info.
see:http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm
rich.palmer@ualberta.ca
GordonResConference MolEvol
Feb5-10
MOLECULAR EVOLUTION 2006 GORDON RE-
SEARCH CONFERENCE
February 5 - 10, 2006 (Sunday evening - Thursday
evening). Full program below.
Join us! Go to http://www.grc.org/application/-
apply1.cfm to apply. We are still accepting applica-
tions. We have an outstanding program (see below),
and invite you to join us. Chip Aquadro and Billie
Swalla
location: Crowne Plaza Hotel (formerly the Holiday
Inn), Ventura, California Site information: http:/-
/www.grc.uri.edu/sites/ca/cp/cp.htm The Molecular
Evolution Gordon Research Conference brings together
leading junior and senior scientists from around the
globe to discuss current research as well as emerging op-
portunities and challenges in molecular evolution. This
years meeting has sessions on ancestral protein recon-
struction, computational evolutionary genomics, micro-
bial/viral diversity and evolution, evolution of body
plans, sex chromosome evolution, adaptive evolution,
evolution of novelty and gene regulation, molecular evo-
lution of interspeciﬁc hybrids, and the evolution of the
germ line. The meeting will be held at the Holiday Inn,
Ventura California. This ocean-side location is located
in the town of Ventura, and provides a wealth of op-
portunities to engage in scientiﬁc interaction and at the
same time explore on foot the beaches, town, and ad-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 5
jacent hills. Whale-watching, winery tours, the Getty
Museum and other attractions are nearby. We particu-
larly encourage participants to present posters on their
research, and there will be ample opportunities for dis-
cussion.
Join us! Go to http://www.grc.org/application/-
apply1.cfm to apply. We are still accepting applica-
tions.
SUNDAY FEBRUARY 5 (evening)
ANCESTRAL PROTEIN RECONSTRUCTION Eric
Gaucher (Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution)
“Ancestral sequence reconstruction as a tool to under-
stand natural history: past, present and future direc-
tions”
Belinda Chang (University of Toronto) “Reconstructing
ancestral visual pigments: the origins of rods”
Joe Thornton (University of Oregon) “The evolution
of molecular complexity: evolution of steroid hor-
mone/receptor interactions”
MONDAY FEBRUARY 6
COMPUTATIONAL EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
Bret Larget (University of Wisconsin) Synopsis
Lior Pachter (University of California at Berkeley)
“Parametric alignment and evolution of cis-regulatory
elements”
Pavel Pevzner (University of California at San Diego)
“Fragile versus Random Breakage Models of Chromo-
some Evolution”
Lindell Bromham (University of Sussex) “Tempo and
Mode of Molecular Evolution”
MICROBIAL & VIRAL DIVERSITY AND EVOLU-
TION Peg Riley (University of Massachusetts) Synop-
sis
Lin Chao (University of California at San Diego) “Sur-
viving Deleterious Mutations”
John Logsdon (University of Iowa) “Molecular
voyeurism: using a meiosis detection kit to reveal hid-
den sex lives of eukaryotes”
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 7
EVOLUTION OF BODY PLANS Billie Swalla (Uni-
versity of Washington) “Developmental Genes Drive
the Evolution of Body Plans”
Antonia Monteiro (University of Buﬀalo) “Diﬀerent
ways of spotting butterﬂy and moth wings”
Ken Halanych (Auburn University) “Phylogeny and
evolution of Lophotrochozoa”Elena Kramer (Harvard University) “Genetic mecha-
nisms underlying innovation in ﬂoral organ identity”
SEX CHROMOSOME EVOLUTION Bernardo Car-
valho (University of Rio de Janeiro) “Origin and Evo-
lution of the Drosophila Y”
Jenny Graves (Australian National University) “Mam-
malian sex chromosome evolution”
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 8
ADAPTIVE EVOLUTION David Rand (Brown Uni-
versity) “The evolution of adaptive evolution”
Brian Lazzaro (Cornell University) “Evolutionary Ge-
netics of Insect Immunity”
Stephen Wright (York University) “Testing for selection
in domestic and natural plant populations”
Michael Nachman (University of Arizona) “Adaptive
evolution in reproductive genes and the origin of repro-
ductive isolation in mice”
EVOLUTION OF NOVELTY AND GENE REGULA-
TION Doug Crawford (University of Miami) “Evolu-
tion of Gene Expression and Physiology”
Kevin White (Yale University) “Selection, drift and
constraint: Gene expression evolution in Drosophila
and primates”
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 9
MOLECULAR EVOLUTION OF INTERSPECIFIC
HYBRIDS Chau-Ti Ting (National Tsing Hua Univer-
sity,Taiwan) “Speciation study in the era of genomics”
Dan Barbash (Cornell University) “Positive selection
and hybrid lethality in Drosophila”
Rudy Raﬀ (Indiana University) “Seeking a genic basis
for radical evolutionary changes in morphology”
Toby Bradshaw (University of Washington) “Molecular
genetics of species diﬀerences in monkeyﬂowers”
EVOLUTION OF THE GERM LINE Eric Haag (Uni-
versity of Maryland) “Peculiarities of the Germ Line
and Their Impact on Molecular and Developmental
Evolution”
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html6 EvolDir February 1, 2006
HarvardU Conﬂict May11-12
CALL FOR SUBMISSIONS
2nd Annual Harvard Mind, Brain and Behavior Gradu-
ate Student Conference War, The Cognitive Science of
Conﬂict: Organismic and Social Perspectives Thursday
May 11th and Friday May 12th Submission Deadline is
March 1, 2006
Faculty Speakers include: Professor Sara M. Lewis (Bi-
ology, Tufts University) Professor Jeﬀ W. Lichtman
(Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University)
Professor Everett I. Mendelsohn (History of Science,
Harvard University) Professor James H. Sidanius (Psy-
chology, Harvard University)
Graduate students from the Mind, Brain and Behavior
Initiative at Harvard are pleased to announce an inter-
disciplinary conference on War: The Cognitive Science
of Conﬂict. The conference is for graduate students,
and is intended to increase dialogue among students
from a variety of disciplines, including (but not limited
to) neuroscience, psychology, computer science, neuro-
biology, linguistics, organismic and evolutionary biol-
ogy, biological anthropology, history of science, educa-
tion, and philosophy.
We are soliciting graduate student contributions to this
conference. We welcome presentations on research that
aims to understand conﬂict from an Organismic Per-
spective (within organisms) or from a Social Perspec-
tive (between organisms). Graduate student presenta-
tions should be no more than 30 minutes (followed by
approximately 20 minutes of discussion) and aimed at
a non-specialist audience.
Please email an abstract of no more than 1000 words
to mind brain behavior@yahoo.com. Please include a
cover sheet with your name, institutional aﬃliation,
email address, telephone number, the title of your pre-
sentation, the perspective of interest (organismic or so-
cial), and the discipline(s) you will represent. You may
send the abstract and cover sheet as a Word document,
plain text, or pdf ﬁle.
The deadline for submissions is March 1, 2006. Authors
will be notiﬁed by March 21, 2006 of the status of their
submissions.
A website with additional conference information will
be available soon and linked to the main Harvard
MBB website at http://mbb.harvard.edu/ . Inquiries
should be directed to mind brain behavior@yahoo.com.
Please forward this call along to other graduate stu-dents. We look forward to your submission!
mpatten@oeb.harvard.edu mpatten@oeb.harvard.edu
London EvolEntomology Feb1
Royal Entomological Society Postgraduate Forum 2006
Call for oral and poster presentations from postgradu-
ate research students
The forum is a friendly venue where young scientists
can gain experience giving presentations in a conference
setting, as well as networking with other researchers.
We invite students working on any aspect of entomol-
ogy to join. [For university students: this is an ex-
cellent opportunity to get credit points towards your
degree]. Prizes for best poster and oral presentation
will be awarded.
Conﬁrmed invited postgraduate speakers are:
Alessandra Curtotti (Queen Mary) “Host biting prefer-
ences of British Culex p. pipiens vs Culex p. molestus
and the risk of West Nile Virus in Britain ” and
Nehal Saleh (Queen Mary) “Scent marking and forag-
ing behaviour in bumblebees”
The conference will take place February 1, 2006
at 41 Queen’s Gate, London. Deadline for reg-
istration and abstract submission is January 15,
2006. For more information visit: http://-
www.royensoc.co.uk/ or contact Mr Eligiusz Baumgart
Email:eligiusz.baumgart@imperial.ac.uk or Ms Nehal
Saleh Email: n.saleh@qmul.ac.uk.
Nehal Saleh PhD Candidate School of Biological and
Chemical Sciences Queen Mary London E1 4NS UK
http://www.biology.qmul.ac.uk/research/staﬀ/-
chittka/chittkalab/Team/Nehal.html Tel: 44 (0) 207
882 5555 Ext. 4169
Interested in giving a presentation for our dis-
cussion group? Everyone welcome! For more
information please visit: http://alpha.qmul.ac.uk/-
˜ btw092/biolunch/index.htm n.saleh@qmul.ac.uk
n.saleh@qmul.ac.uk
Marseilles 10EvolBiolFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 7
The registrations and abstract submissions for the
10th Evolutionary Biology Meeting at Marseilles are
open. For more information see the web site http://-
www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol-cgr/ best regards
– Pierre Pontarotti EA 3781 Evolution Biologique
Universit´ e d’Aix Marseille I Centre St Charles
3 Place Victor Hugo 13331 Marseille Cedex 3
33491106489 http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol We are
organizing the 10th Evolutionary Biology Meet-
ing at Marseille http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol-cgr/
Pierre.Pontarotti@up.univ-mrs.fr
Marseilles 10EvolBiol 2
Information about the 10th Evolutionary Biology Meet-
ing at Marseilles:
A new session has been added: Probalistic models and
statistic tools for concepts in evolution.
We remember you that registrations and abstract sub-
missions for the 10th Evolutionary Biology Meeting at
Marseilles are on line.
The general scheme of the conference will be similar to
the one proposed the former years. The following top-
ics will be discussed: Systematic, Biodiversity, Com-
parative genomic and post-genomic (at all taxonomic
levels), Functional phylogeny, Environment and evolu-
tion. This year, we would also like to touch on: - Evo-
lutionary biology concepts for biological annotation. -
Probalistic models and statistic tools for concepts in
evolution.
For more information, please see the web site
http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol-cgr/ Or, contact us at
egee@up.univ-mrs.fr
Nad` ege Bardiot
EA 3781 Evolution Biologique Universit´ e d’Aix Mar-
seille I Centre St Charles 3 Place Victor Hugo 13331
Marseille Cedex 3 33491106489 http://www.up.univ-
mrs.fr/evol We are organizing the 10th Evolution-
ary Biology Meeting at Marseilles http://www.up.univ-
mrs.fr/evol-cgr/ egee@up.univ-mrs.fr
McGillU CSEE Apr3-4 2SOCI ´ET´E CANADIENNE D’ ´ECOLOGIE ET
D’´EVOLUTION
CONGR `ES INAUGURAL
Premi` ere annonce et appel de conf´ erences aﬃch´ ees
Le Congr` es inaugural de la Soci´ et´ e Canadienne
d’´Ecologie et d’ ´Evolution aura lieu les 3 et 4 avril 2006,
` a Montr´ eal, co-organis´ e par l’UQ `AM et l’Universit´ e
McGill. Le programme comprend une assembl´ ee
g´ en´ erale pour ratiﬁer la constitution et ´ elire les mem-
bres du comit´ e ex´ ecutif et du conseil, un symposium
regroupant des conf´ erences invit´ ees sur le th` eme de
“l’importance de l’´ ecologie et de l’´ evolution pour le
Canada”, ainsi qu’une r´ eunion d’information sur les
programmes de ﬁnancement CRSNG D´ ecouverte et
autres. Nous aurons ´ egalement une session permettant
aux participants de pr´ esenter des aﬃches.
Nous invitons toutes les personnes int´ eress´ ees ` a par-
ticiper ` a ce congr` es. Merci de nous envoyer un message
courriel ` a ecoevo@gmail.ca, incluant votre nom et aﬃli-
ation. Le titre du courriel doit comprendre les informa-
tions suivantes: nom de famille-initiales-inscription. La
date limite pour les inscriptions est le 1er f´ evrier 2006.
Les frais d’inscription seront de $20 (membres-
´ etudiant(e)s) ou de $40 (membres) ou de $80 (non-
membres). Merci de faire parvenir votre ch` eque au
nom d’“Aquasalmo R&D Inc” ` a Louis Bernatchez
(Congr` es), D´ epartement de biologie, Pavillon Charles-
Eug` ene Marchand, Universit´ e Laval, Qu´ ebec QC, G1K
7P4, Canada. Ces ch` eques sont d´ epos´ es dans un compte
que nous utilisons temporairement, en attendant que la
Soci´ et´ e soit oﬃciellement constitu´ ee.
Nous encourageons tous les participants ` a pr´ esenter une
aﬃche et esp´ erons que ce premier congr` es constituera
une vitrine pour la recherche canadienne en ´ ecologie
et ´ evolution. Si vous souhaitez pr´ esenter une aﬃche,
merci de suivre la proc´ edure ci-dessous. La soci´ et´ e est
bilingue et toutes les pr´ esentations peuvent ˆ etre faites
en franais ou en anglais.
Des informations sur la Soci´ et´ e et les modalit´ es
d’inscription sont disponibles sur notre site web
www.ecoevo.ca . Nous vous enverrons en janvier un pro-
gramme d´ etaill´ e du congr` es incluant le projet de con-
stitution et la liste de candidats pour le comit´ e et le
conseil.
Instructions pour les aﬃches
Les aﬃches doivent pr´ esenter des travaux dans les do-
maines de l’´ ecologie et de l’´ evolution. Nous encour-
ageons ´ egalement les projets interdisciplinaires, des-
tin´ es ` a une plus large audience, ou qui explorent
l’enseignement de l’´ ecologie et de l’´ evolution en g´ en´ eral.8 EvolDir February 1, 2006
Merci de suivre les instructions suivantes pour la
soumission de votre r´ esum´ e :
* Les aﬃche doivent ˆ etre d’un maximum de 2.35 m de
large x 1.15 m de haut (7.7 x 3.77 pieds). Des punaises
seront disponibles pour installer votre aﬃche et seront
le seul moyen de l’attacher.
Evaluation et acceptation des r´ esum´ es * Les auteurs
sont responsables de l’exactitude et de l’apparence de
leur r´ esum´ e. * Le r´ esum´ e doit ˆ etre bas´ e sur des
r´ esultats nouveaux et non publi´ es. * Le r´ esum´ e peut
ˆ etre soumis avant que toutes les analyses et conclusions
de l’´ etude soient ﬁnalis´ ees. Dans ce cas, il est important
d’indiquer au moins les r´ esultats pr´ eliminaires.
Soumission du r´ esum´ e * Merci d’envoyer votre r´ esum´ e
par courriel ` a ecoevo@gmail.com, avant le 1er f´ evrier
2006. Le titre du courriel doit comprendre les
informations suivantes: nom de famille-initiales-
inscription&r´ esum´ e. * Un accus´ e de r´ eception vous sera
envoy´ e ` a l’adresse courriel indiqu´ ee dans votre mes-
sage d’inscription. Si cette adresse est erron´ ee vous
ne recevrez pas d’accus´ e de r´ eception. Un num´ ero
de r´ ef´ erence sera attribu´ e ` a votre r´ esum´ e. MERCI
DE NE PAS PERDRE CE NUM ´ERO QUI VOUS
SERA DEMAND ´E LORS DE COMMUNICATIONS
ULT´ERIEURES. * Vous serez informez par courriel
si votre aﬃche a ´ et´ e s´ electionn´ ee pour pr´ esentation,
avant le 1er mars 2006. NOTE: les personnes qui
soumettent leur r´ esum´ e le plus tˆ ot possible, seront in-
form´ ees les premi` eres. * Si vous rencontrez des diﬃ-
cult´ es durant la soumission de votre r´ esum´ e, merci de
nous contacter ` a ecoevo@gmail.com. Le titre du cour-
riel devra faire mention de: nom de famille-initiales-
probl` emesoumission.
Pr´ eparation des r´ esum´ es Les r´ esum´ es doivent ˆ etre
soumis en document attach´ e (.txt) ou rich text (.rtf).
Utilisez le format suivant pour pr´ eparer votre r´ esum´ e:
1. Auteurs et Aﬃliations. 2. Adresse compl` ete, in-
cluant courriel valide, du premier auteur. 3. Titre et
r´ esum´ e: le titre ne doit pas d´ epasser 255 caract` eres (en-
viron 15 mots). Ne pas taper le titre en lettres capitales
ou en gras. 4. Texte du r´ esum´ e: le texte ne doit pas
d´ epasser
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlMichiganStateU FuncGenomics
May16-19
*** FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT ***
2nd INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON ANIMAL
FUNCTIONAL GENOMICS May 16-19, 2006
Dear Colleagues:
We are pleased to announce that the Center for Animal
Functional Genomics of Michigan State University will
host the 2nd International Symposium on Animal Func-
tional Genomics (ISAFG) on May 16-19, 2006. The
Symposium will be held at the Henry Center on the
campus of Michigan State University in beautiful East
Lansing, Michigan.
The purpose of the 2nd ISAFG is to bring together
international researchers, industry representatives, and
administrators who seek updated information on the
design, analysis, interpretation, integration, and ap-
plication of high throughput gene expression proﬁling
for the study of cells and organ systems that underlie
economically relevant phenotypes in agricultural ani-
mals and animal models of disease. Featured areas of
foci of the Symposium guest speakers and international
delegates include Statistical Genomics, Bioinformatics
and Data Mining, Animal Health, Reproduction, and
Growth and Metabolism.
The 2nd ISAFG has been designed around 11 keynote
lectures to be delivered by internationally renowned
functional genomics scientists. In addition, selected ab-
stracts will be presented orally by Symposium partic-
ipants. All participants are welcome to bring posters
highlighting preliminary or completed studies on gene
expression proﬁling in animal model systems. A for-
mal call for abstracts and details for Symposium pre-
sentations, registration, and hotel booking are now
available on the Symposium’s web site at http://-
www.isafg.msu.edu .
Please reserve May 16-19, 2006 on your schedules! We
look forward to greeting you at Michigan State Uni-
versity. For more information please contact the 2nd
ISAFG co-chairs,
Jeanne Burton (burtonj@msu.edu) Guilherme Rosa
(rosag@msu.edu)
–
Guilherme J. M. Rosa Assistant Professor Department
of Animal Science Department of Fisheries and WildlifeFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 9
Michigan State University 1205-I Anthony Hall East
Lansing, MI 48824-1225 USA
Phone: + 1 517 353-5102 Fax: + 1 517 353-1699 E-
mail: rosag@msu.edu http://www.msu.edu/˜rosag/
Montreal Phylogenomics Mar16-19
Deadline extension
Subject: Deadline extension for phylogenomics confer-
ence Content: DEADLINE EXTENSION for the First
International Conference on Phylogenomics conference
New deadline for early registration: February 1st 2006.
New deadline for abstract submission for presentation:
February 1st 2006
********* Conference announcement
******************
First International Conference on Phylogenomics
Dates: March 16-19 2006 Location: Sainte-Ad` ele
(near Montreal), Qu´ ebec, Canada Web site:
https://phylogenomics.bioinfo.umontreal.ca/meeting/
Organizers: Herv´ e Philippe and Mathieu Blanchette
Scope: This conference aims to reunite experts focus-
ing on two distinct aspects of phylogenomics: the use
of genome data inferring species phylogeny and the use
of phylogenetic approaches to gain insights into gene
functions. The methods developed for phylogenetic in-
ference (especially the models of sequence evolution)
are quite advanced and could beneﬁt to function pre-
diction. Similarly, the knowledge of the accurate species
phylogeny increases the quantity of functional informa-
tion that can be extracted. Conversely, knowledge of
gene function and the other selective constraints is pri-
mordial to improve tree reconstruction methods. This
conference will create synergy between these two phy-
logenomic communities, bridging the gap between there
respective scientiﬁc endeavors. A special issue of BMC
Evolutionary Biology will be dedicated to the confer-
ence, allowing contributors of the conference to submit
their manuscripts.
Invited speakers: * Ford Doolittle Dalhousie University,
Canada * Jonathan Eisen, The Institute for Genomic
Research, USA * Brian Golding, McMaster University,
Canada * Nick Goldman, EMBL-EBI Cambridge, UK
* Richard Goldstein, National Institute for Medical Re-
search, USA * Jotun Hein, University of Oxford, UK
* Mark Pagel, University of Reading, UK * Eduardo
Rocha, Universit´ e Paris 6, France * Andrew Roger, Dal-housie University, Canada * Michael Sanderson, Uni-
versity of California, USA * Adam Siepel, Cornell Uni-
versity, USA * Yves van de Peer, Ghent University,
Belgium
Important dates: Deadline for early registration:
February 1st 2006. Deadline for abstract submis-
sion for presentation: February 1st 2006 Deadline
for manuscript submission (accepted abstracts only):
March 1st 2006
Mathieu Blanchette <blanchem@mcb.mcgill.ca >
OriginOfLife Stockholm May8-11
CONFERENCE: ORIGIN & DISTRIBUTION OF
LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE - A Nordic Perspective
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences Stockholm, Sweden
May 8-11, 2006
http://astrobiology.molbio.su.se The Swedish Astrobi-
ology Network is pleased to announce the 2006 Nordic
Astrobiology Conference, to be held at the Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm May 8-11,
2006.
The conference is sponsored by the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences, the Swedish National Space
Board, the Nordic Institute for Theoretical Physics
(Nordita) and the Wenner-Gren Foundations. The con-
ference will begin with an open public lecture by Dr.
Chris McKay, and sessions based around the major con-
ference themes will begin with Keynote presentations.
Geosciences: Chris McKay, NASA Ames Research Cen-
ter, USA Aivo Lepland, Geological Survey of Norway
Space Sciences: Pascale Ehrenfreund, Leiden Univ,
Netherlands Hans Rickman, Uppsala Astronomical Ob-
servatory, Sweden
Biological Sciences: Eors Szathmary, Collegium Bu-
dapest, Hungary Karsten Pedersen, Gothenburg Uni-
versity, Sweden
In conjunction with the conference, the journal Astro-
biology will produce a special issue comprising peer-
reviewed contributions from participants.
If you are interested in joining us in Stockholm, please
register your interest at our website:
http://astrobiology.molbio.su.se There is no conference
fee, and we are currently accepting abstracts for both
oral and poster presentations. We welcome contribu-10 EvolDir February 1, 2006
tions in any of the three broad areas above and look
forward to seeing you in Stockholm.
Please note: The deadline for registration & abstract
submission is 31 March 2006. Also, we recommend that
you book accommodation in good time. We have made
a limited number of block bookings at hotels that are
near the Royal Academy, but these will be ﬁlled on a
ﬁrst-come ﬁrst-served basis.
Anthony Poole <ant@molbio.su.se >
SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia
Call for Symposia Annual Meeting 2007
The 2007 annual meeting of the Society for the Study
of Evolution will be held from June 18-23, 2007. The
meeting will be hosted by Allan Wilson Centre for
Molecular Ecology and Evolution Institute of Molecu-
lar BioSciences of Massey University in Aukland, New
Zealand. The Council of the Society invites proposals
for the two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in
conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals
should include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme
(about one page); (2) a tentative list of speakers, in-
cluding institutional aﬃliations, and topics; and (3) a
rationale for the symposium explaining why this topic
and this group of speakers are particularly appropriate
for a Society-sponsored symposium.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will fa-
vor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerg-
ing ﬁelds, ﬁelds ripe for syntheses, and ﬁelds diﬀerent
from those that have been included in recent Society
symposia. The Council particularly encourages propos-
als that include young investigators and others tradi-
tionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
The Council will select only two proposals for half-day
symposia at its meeting in June 2006. All proposers will
be notiﬁed of the Council’s decision in July. The So-
ciety provides partial travel support for organizers and
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are avail-
able on request. To be assured of full consideration,
proposals must be received at the following address by
May 15, 2006:
Dr. Jessica Gurevitch, Executive Vice President
The Society for the Study of Evolution De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Stony Brook University Stony Brook, NY 11794-
5245 USA e-mail: Jessica.Gurevitch@sunysb.edu<mailto:Jessica.Gurevitch@sunysb.edu > Proposals
can be sent as paper copies by mail or as e-mail
attachments in Word or RTF format.
Carey Madsen <careymadsen@bioscience.utah.edu >
SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia
2
Information for SSE members regarding: -2006
Dobzhansky Prize Applications -Call for Symposia for
2007 SSE meeting in New Zealand
APPLICATIONS FOR THE 2006 THEODOSIUS
DOBZHANSKY PRIZE
The Theodosius Dobzhansky Prize is awarded annu-
ally by the Society for the Study of Evolution to rec-
ognize the accomplishments and future promise of an
outstanding young evolutionary biologist. The prize
was established in memory of Professor Dobzhansky
by his friends and colleagues, and reﬂects his lifelong
commitment to fostering the research careers of young
scientists.
Eligibility The candidate must have a Ph.D. (or equiv-
alent) awarded no earlier than June 2003 and no later
than 1st February 2006, and must be actively involved
in research in the ﬁeld of evolutionary biology. There
are no other restrictions. Applicants do not have to be
members of the Society for the Study of Evolution, but
such membership is encouraged.
Nomination/Application.- Candidates may apply di-
rectly or may be nominated. Established researchers
are encouraged to nominate outstanding young scien-
tists who may be unaware of the existence and prestige
of this prize. Each candidacy must be supported by the
following materials detailing the candidates career to
date: (1) a curriculum vitae, (2) a summary of research
accomplishments, (3) a statement of research plans for
the next 5 years, (4) pdf copies of three recent publica-
tions, (5) names and addresses of the three referees (in-
cluding the nominating scientist where applicable) who
have sent supporting letters. N.B.: THE THREE LET-
TERS OF REFERENCE ARE SENT SEPARATELY,
BUT NO APPLICATION WILL BE CONSIDERED
WITHOUT THESE LETTERS.
All application/nomination materials and letters of ref-
erence must be sent as PDF e-mail attachments. No ﬁle
type other than PDF will be accepted. The deadline for
receipt of all materials, including letters of reference, isFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 11
1 March 2006. All materials should be sent to the sec-
retary of SSE (Dale H. Clayton) at the following email
address:
careymadsen@bioscience.utah.edu
Award.- The Dobzhansky Prize is accompanied by a
check for U.S. $5000, and will be awarded at the annual
meeting of the Society for the Study of Evolution, 23-27
June 2006, in Stony Brook, New York. The recipient is
expected to be present to receive the award and to give
an oral presentation about his/her research. To facil-
itate attendance, the SSE provides funds to cover the
costs of conference registration, accommodation during
the conference, and expenses for travel to and from the
conference. The recipient will be notiﬁed of the award
by early May 2006.
Call for Symposia for Annual Meeting in 2007
The 2007 annual meeting of the Society for the Study
of Evolution will be held from June 18-23, 2007. The
meeting will be hosted by Allan Wilson Centre for
Molecular Ecology and Evolution Institute of Molecu-
lar BioSciences of Massey University in Aukland, New
Zealand. The Council of the Society invites proposals
for the two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in
conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals
should include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme
(about one page); (2) a tentative list of speakers, in-
cluding institutional aﬃliations, and topics; and (3) a
rationale for the symposium explaining why this topic
and this group of speakers are particularly appropriate
for a Society-sponsored symposium.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will fa-
vor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerg-
ing ﬁelds, ﬁelds ripe for syntheses, and ﬁelds diﬀerent
from those that have been included in recent Society
symposia. The Council particularly encourages propos-
als that include young investigators and others tradi-
tionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
The Council will select only two proposals for half-day
symposia at its meeting in June 2006. All proposers will
be notiﬁed of the Council’s decision in July. The So-
ciety provides partial travel support for organizers and
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are avail-
able on request. To be assured of full consideration,
proposals must be received at the following address by
May 15, 2006:
Dr. Jessica Gurevitch, Executive Vice President The
Society for the Study of Evolution Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Stony Brook Univer-
sity Stony Brook, NY 11794-5245 USA e-mail: Jes-
sica.Gurevitch@sunysb.edu Proposals can be sent as
paper copies by mail or as e-mail attachments in Wordor RTF format.
Scott Starr <sstarr@allenpress.com >
SaintLouisU MEEC2006 Mar17-19
The 26th annual Midwest Ecology and Evolution Con-
ference (MEEC) 2006 to be held March 17-19th at Saint
Louis University, St. Louis, MO.
MEEC is an annual, migratory conference organized by
and for graduate students and post-docs. The confer-
ence is an excellent opportunity for students to network
with others, learn about research being done in the
Midwest, and present their own research in a relaxed
and low-key environment. This year featuring keynote
speaker Daniel Simberloﬀ.
Registration is open! Please visit:
www.wallace.slu.edu/meec2006 schutzmr@slu.edu
schutzmr@slu.edu
SaltLakeCity MedicalBioinformatics
Jun22-23
19th IEEE International Symposium on Computer-
Based Medical Systems, CBMS 2006 Salt Lake City
Utah, USA June 22-23, 2006
Special Track: BIOINFORMATICS and its MED-
ICAL APPLICATIONS https:// www.cs.tcd.ie/-
Nadia.Bolshakova/CBMS Bioinformatics06.html
CALL FOR PAPERS
Major computational challenges have been raised in
the post-genomic era. Novel computational methods
and approaches are required to acquire, store, orga-
nize, archive, analyse and visualize the large amount
of biological and biomedical data. The goal of the
track is to share ideas related to bioinformatics chal-
lenge among biological, biomedical and computer sci-
entists. Authors are invited to submit original pa-
pers addressing any computational biology issue. Pa-
pers are invited (but not limited) to the following key
themes: Biomedical Research Evolution and Phyloge-
netics Data Mining in Bioinformatics Microarray Anal-
ysis RNAi Analysis Sequence Alignment Pathways,
Networks, Systems Biology Functional Genomics Vi-12 EvolDir February 1, 2006
sualization Protein Structure and Analysis Compara-
tive Genomics Pattern Recognition Ontologies Software
Systems Unlike workshops, where position papers and
reports on initial and intended work are appropriate,
papers selected for a special track should report on sig-
niﬁcant unpublished work suitable for publication as a
conference paper. More information about the sympo-
sium, registration fees, venue can be found here: http:/-
/cbms2006.ece.byu.edu .
IMPORTANT DATES January 31, 2006 Submission of
(6-page, maximum) paper March 1, 2006 Notiﬁcation of
acceptance April, 5, 2006 Final camera-ready paper due
April, 8, 2006 Pre-registration deadline May 22, 2006
Hotel room reservations due You must pre-register to
have your paper published in the proceedings. If you
only plan to attend and are not submitting a paper,
pre-registration is still strongly encouraged. This con-
ference is space-limited, and registration may not be
available on-site.
SUBMISSION PROCEDURES FOR PAPER No hard-
copy submissions are being accepted. Electronic sub-
missions of original technical research papers will only
be accepted in PDF format. File size is limited to 2
MB. Use a maximum of six A4 pages, including ﬁg-
ures and references. Include one cover sheet, stating
the track title (Special Track on Bioinformatics and
its Medical Applications), paper title, authors, tech-
nical area(s) covered in the article, corresponding au-
thor’s information (telephone, fax, mailing address, e-
mail address), and your preference for oral or poster
presentation. Author names should appear only on the
cover sheet, not on the paper. Submit your manuscript
no later than January 31, 2006. Authors will be no-
tiﬁed of acceptance by March 1, 2006 after a review
process by three independent experts. Each accepted
paper to the Special Track on Bioinformatics and its
Medical Applications will be published in the confer-
ence proceedings by IEEE CS Press, conditional upon
the author’s advance registration. Papers that were
not accepted by the Program Committee of the track
can be considered for publication as regular submissions
by the General Program Committee of IEEE CBMS
2006. Please note that the format of IEEE CBMS
2006 proceedings will be the IEEE Computer Science
Press 8.5x11-inch format. Submission is encouraged in
this format. For more details please see the website
of IEEE CBMS 2006: ( http://cbms2006.ece.byu.edu/-
how.html#submission ). All submissions will be done
electronically via the CBMS web submission system.
TRACK CHAIR Nadia Bolshakova -Trinity College
Dublin, Ireland
TRACK PROGRAM COMMITTEE Francisco AzuajeUniversity of Ulster, Northern Ireland Nadia Bol-
shakova Trinity College Dublin, Ireland Fernando
Martin-Sanchez Institute of Health “Carlos III”,
Spain James McInerney National University of Ire-
land Heather Ruskin Dublin City University, Ire-
land For further questions, please contact Na-
dia.Bolshakova@cs.tcd.ie
– Dr. James O. McInerney, Bioinformatics Laboratory,
Department of Biology, National University of Ireland,
Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland. P: +353 1 708 3860
F: +353 1 708 3845 E: james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie
– Take a look at our website — http://-
bioinf.nuim.ie/ james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie
james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie
UAlabama SEEC2006 Mar3-5
The 3rd annual 2006 Southeastern Ecology and Evo-
lution Conference will be held at the University of Al-
abama from 3-5 March.
http://seec.ua.edu SEEC is a fun and stress-free meet-
ing for undergraduate, graduate, and post-doctoral re-
searchers in the environmental and life sciences to dis-
cuss their current research and meet new colleagues
from across the Southeast. You do not have to present a
talk or poster to attend the conference and we welcome
all interested students to join us and learn. Similar
meetings are held for the Northeast (NEEC), and the
Midwest (MEEC).
SEEC will feature talks by Drs. Leslie Rissler (Univer-
sity of Alabama), Lorne Wolfe (Georgia Southern Uni-
versity), and Anne Yoder (Duke University). Other no-
table occurrences include a Friday and Saturday night
social, and the return of the ever-popular SEEC raﬄe.
Early registration is due by January 31, 2006 and costs
$20. Late registrants will be charged an additional $5
fee. Abstracts for posters and oral presentations are
due by January 31, 2006 with late abstracts being ac-
cepted on a ﬁrst-come ﬁrst-serve basis until all available
slots are ﬁlled.
Check out the website for more information.
rissler@bama.ua.edu rissler@bama.ua.eduFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 13
UAlabama SEEC2006 Mar3-5 2
Hi Everyone! This is a reminder that SEEC 2006 regis-
tration is due in two weeks, Jan 31, 2006. You can
ﬁnd more details at www.seec.ua.edu . Please email
seec2006@gmail.com for any questions!
Thanks,
SEEC 2006 committee
seec2006@gmail.com
UAlaskaAnchorage Sticklebacks
Jul30-Aug4
CONFERENCE: The Fifth International Conference
on Stickleback Behavior & Evolution University of
Alaska Anchorage July 30th - August 4th, 2006 http:/-
/ﬁsh.uoregon.edu/sb/stickleback2006 We are pleased
to announce that the Fifth International Conference
on Stickleback Behavior & Evolution will be held on
the campus of the University of Alaska Anchorage from
Sunday July 30 (evening reception) through Friday Au-
gust 4 (breakfast). We have worked to keep costs at a
minimum while providing for an engaging conference.
Regular early registration (due by May 1) costs US
$300, while the student rate (undergraduate or grad-
uate) is $200. The optional banquet is $40 and the
optional ﬁeld trip is $40 regular/ $20 student. Various
housing options are available and detailed on the web-
site. If you are coming from a developing country and
need a reduced rate below the regular registration fee,
please contact one of the organizers. Keep in mind that
rates go up after May 1.
Information on the meeting, as well as registration and
abstract submission, can be found at:
http://ﬁsh.uoregon.edu/sb/stickleback2006 The web-
site also includes links to help plan a vacation around
the conference. Alaska is a wonderful place to visit, and
we anticipate that many attendees will be able to have
an exciting adventure to go along with a stimulating
meeting. Any questions about the conference can be
directed to one of the meeting organizers:Frank A. von Hippel, aﬀvh@uaa.alaska.edu Michael
A. Bell, mabell@life.bio.sunysb.edu William A.
Cresko, wcresko@uoregon.edu Susan A. Foster,
sfoster@clarku.edu
We look forward to seeing you in beautiful Alaska at
the end of July.
Sincerely,
The 2006 Stickleback Conference Organizers
wcresko@uoregon.edu wcresko@uoregon.edu
UWarwick GeneticsSoc Mar28-31
’Meiosis and the causes and consequences of recombi-
nation’
A Joint Meeting Of The Biochemical Society And The
Genetics Society
28th- 31st March 2006, University of Warwick
Abstract deadline January 25th 2006
Early-bird registration deadline February 28th
Sessions
Hotspots: distribution and characterisation
Gene conversion and crossing over
Chromosome dynamics in meiosis
Meiotic drive
When mammalian meiosis goes wrong
Conﬁrmed speakers
Sally Otto (University of British Columbia), Tom Petes
(University of North Carolina), Scott Keeney (Memo-
rial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center), Gil McVean (Uni-
versity of Oxford), Christine Mezard, (Institut Na-
tional de la Recherche Agronomique, Versailles), Nico-
las Galtier (CNRS, Montpellier), Matt Whitby (univer-
sity of Oxford), Rhona Borts (University of Leicester),
Michael Lichten ( National Cancer Institute, Bethesda),
Zac Cande (Berkley), Harry Scherthan (Max-Planck-
Institut fur Molekulare Genetik), Kim Nasmyth (IMP,
Vienna), Alec Jeﬀreys (University of Leicester), Cather-
ine Montchamp-Moreau (CNRS, Gif-sur-Yvette), Kelly
Dawe (University of Georgia), Harmit Malik (Seattle),
Pat Hunt (Washington State University), James Lupski
(Baylor College of Medicine), Jan van Deursen (Mayo
Clinic).14 EvolDir February 1, 2006
Meiosis and meiotic recombination are fundamental
processes, the understanding of which has wide ranging
implications across many disciplines not least of which
is human fertility, mapping of human genetic traits and
the origin genetic disorders such as Downs Syndrome.
Meiosis and meiotic recombination has been the foun-
dation of all genetic analysis since the discovery of link-
age and its break down early in the last century. Un-
ravelling its molecular mechanism has since challenged
geneticists, biochemists and cytologists. Understanding
the control of the initiation and distribution of recombi-
nation is of fundamental import to the design of studies
aimed at mapping single and complex trait disorders in
all organisms. Understanding the biochemistry of the
DNA and DNA protein interactions is essential to un-
derstanding this complex process. The origin of sex,
meiosis and recombination still puzzles evolutionary bi-
ologists. Great strides are occurring in each of these dis-
ciplines and this joint meeting between the Biochemical
and Genetic Societies will bring together elements from
all of these disciplines.
Further details and Registration is available online:
<http://www.biochemistry.org/meetings/-
programme.cfm?Meeting No=SA049 >http:/-
/www.biochemistry.org/meetings/-
programme.cfm?Meeting No=SA049 Brian
Charlesworth <brian.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk >
Vancouver GeneticsofSpeciation
Jul21-24
** FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT**
SYMPOSIUM ON GENETICS OF SPECIATION
Sponsors: The American Genetics Association and
Molecular Ecology Date: July 21-24, 2006 Lo-
cation: Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Web site: http://www.theaga.org/agasymposium/-
index.html Organizer: Loren Rieseberg
The last decade has witnessed a transformation in our
understanding of speciation genetics. This conference
will attempt to synthesize what we know and to sug-
gest promising avenues for further research. The meet-
ing will include invited and contributed talks, as well as
poster and discussion sessions to encourage greater in-
volvement of symposium participants. Funds are avail-
able for student/postdoc travel and registration to pro-
mote broad participation.The symposium will be held at the University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, which is next to the Paciﬁc
Ocean and the coastal mountains. Time will be set
aside Sunday afternoon (July 22) so that symposium
participants can enjoy the Vancouver area.
We hope you will attend.
Invited Speakers:
Allen Orr (Key Lecture) Rochester, USA
Richard Abbott St. Andrews, UK Keith Adams Van-
couver, Canada Nick Barton Edinburgh, UK Louis
Bernatchez Quebec City, Canada Salvatore Cozzolino
Naples, Italy Michael Doebeli Vancouver, Canada
Sergey Gavrilets Knoxville, USA Scott Hodges Santa
Barbara, USA Darren Irwin Vancouver, Canada Chris
Jiggins Edinburgh, UK Mark Kirkpatrick Austin, USA
Leonie Moyle Bloomington, USA Mohammed Noor
Durham, USA Bret Payseur Madison, USA Katie Pe-
ichel Seattle, USA Naomi Pierce Boston, USA Daven
Presgraves Rochester, USA Dolph Schluter Vancouver,
Canada Kerry Shaw College Park, USA Willie Swanson
Seattle, USA John Willis Durham, USA Chung-I Wu
Chicago, USA Sara Via College Park, USA
Loren Rieseberg <lriesebe@indiana.edu >
VenturaCA MolEvol Feb5-10
MOLECULAR EVOLUTION 2006 GORDON RE-
SEARCH CONFERENCE
February 5 - 10, 2006 (Sunday evening - Thursday
evening)
Crowne Plaza Hotel (formerly the Holiday Inn),
Ventura, California Site information: http://-
www.grc.uri.edu/sites/ca/cp/cp.htm Chair: Chip
Aquadro, Co-Chair: Billie Swalla
The Molecular Evolution Gordon Research Conference
brings together leading junior and senior scientists from
around the globe to discuss current research as well
as emerging opportunities and challenges in molecular
evolution. This years meeting has sessions on ancestral
protein reconstruction, computational evolutionary ge-
nomics, microbial/viral diversity and evolution, evolu-
tion of body plans, sex chromosome evolution, adap-
tive evolution, evolution of novelty and gene regula-
tion, molecular evolution of interspeciﬁc hybrids, and
the evolution of the germ line. Speakers and discus-
sion leaders represent some of the leaders in experimen-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 15
tal and computational/statistical approaches to under-
standing both the pattern and process of molecular evo-
lution and the molecular basis of diversity. The meet-
ing will be held at the Holiday Inn, Ventura California.
This ocean-side location is located in the town of Ven-
tura, and provides a wealth of opportunities to engage
in scientiﬁc interaction and at the same time explore
on foot the beaches, town, and adjacent hills. Whale-
watching, winery tours, the Getty Museum and other
attractions are nearby. All scientists with an interest
in molecular evolution and comparative genomics are
encouraged to apply to attend the conference. We par-
ticularly encourage participants to present posters on
their research, and there will be ample opportunities
for discussion.
Join us! Go to http://www.grc.org/application/-
apply1.cfm to apply. We are still accepting applica-
tions. We have an outstanding program (see below),
and invite you to join us. Chip and Billie
SUNDAY FEBRUARY 5
4:00 pm - 9:00 pm Arrival and check-in
6:00 pm Dinner
7:30 pm - 9:30 pm ANCESTRAL PROTEIN RECON-
STRUCTION
Discussion Leader: Eric Gaucher (Foundation for Ap-
plied Molecular Evolution) “Ancestral sequence recon-
struction as a tool to understand natural history: past,
present and future directions”
7:40 pm - 8:25 pm Belinda Chang (University of
Toronto) “Reconstructing ancestral visual pigments:
the origins of rods”
8:25 pm - 8:35 pm Discussion
8:35 pm - 9:20 pm Joe Thornton (University of Oregon)
“The evolution of molecular complexity: evolution of
steroid hormone/receptor interactions”
9:20 pm - 9:30 pm Discussion
9:30 pm - 11:00 pm Welcome Reception
MONDAY FEBRUARY 6
7:30 am - 8:30 am Breakfast
9:00 am - 12:30 pm COMPUTATIONAL EVOLU-
TONARY GENOMICS
9:00 am - 9:10 am Discussion Leader: Bret Larget (Uni-
versity of Wisconsin) Synopsis
9:10 am - 9:55 am Lior Pachter (University of Califor-
nia at Berkeley) “Parametric alignment and evolution
of cis-regulatory elements”
9:55 am - 10:05 am Discussion10:05 am Coﬀee Break 10:15 am Group Photo
10:35 am - 11:20 am Pavel Pevzner (University of Cali-
fornia at San Diego) “Fragile versus Random Breakage
Models of Chromosome Evolution”
11:20 am - 11:30 am Discussion
11:30 am - 12:15 pm Lindell Bromham (University of
Sussex) “Tempo and Mode of Molecular Evolution”
12:15 pm - 12:25 pm Discussion
12:30 pm Lunch
1:30 pm - 4:00 pm Free Time
4:00 pm - 6:00 pm Poster Session I
6:00 pm Dinner
7:30 pm - 9:30 pm MICROBIAL & VIRAL DIVER-
SITY AND EVOLUTION
7:30 pm - 7:40 pm Discussion Leader: Peg Riley (Uni-
versity of Massachusetts) Synopsis
7:40 pm - 8:25 pm Lin Chao (University of California
at San Diego) “Surviving Deleterious Mutations”
8:25 pm - 8:35 pm Discussion
8:35 pm - 9:20 pm John Logsdon (University of Iowa)
“Molecular voyeurism: using a meiosis detection kit to
reveal hidden sex lives of eukaryotes”
9:20 pm - 9:30 pm Discussion
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 7
7:30 am - 8:30 am Breakfast
9:00 am - 12:30 pm EVOLUTION OF BODY PLANS
9:00 am - 9:10 am Discussion Leader: Billie Swalla
(University of Washington) “Developmental Genes
Drive the Evolution of Body Plans”
9:10 am - 9:55 am Antonia Monteiro (University of Buf-
falo) “Diﬀerent ways of spotting butterﬂy and moth
wings”
9:55 am - 10:05 am Discussion
10:05 am Coﬀee Break
10:35 am - 11:20 am Ken Halanych (Auburn University)
“Phylogeny and evolution of Lophotrochozoa”
11:20 am - 11:30 am Discussion
11:30 am - 12:15 pm Elena Kramer (Harvard Univer-
sity) “Genetic mechanisms underlying innovation in ﬂo-
ral organ identity”
12:15 pm - 12:25 pm Discussion
12:30 pm Lunch
1:30 pm - 4:00 pm Free Time16 EvolDir February 1, 2006
4:00 pm - 6:00 pm Poster Session II
6:00 pm Dinner
7:30 pm - 9:30 pm SEX CHROMOSOME EVOLU-
TION
7:30 pm - 7:40 pm Discussion Leader: TBA Synopsis
7:40 pm - 8:25 pm Bernardo Carvalho (University of
Rio de Janeiro)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Wernigerode Germany Apomixis
Jun27-Jul2
First Announcement: 3rd International Apomixis
Congress
The third international conference on Apomixis willbe held from June 27 to July 2, 2007. The meet-
ing will be organized by the Leibniz Institute of Plant
Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK; www.ipk-
gatersleben.de ) within the context of its yearly “Gater-
sleben Research Conference” series, and will be held in
the city of Wernigerode, which is located in the beau-
tiful Harz Mountains in central Germany.
We plan to have a series of plenary lectures and sessions
covering the following topics:
Meiosis and Apomeiosis Embryogenesis and Partheno-
genesis Endosperm Development Polyploidy and Ane-
uploidy Population Genetics Expression Proﬁling Ge-
netic Engineering Epigenetics
If you are interested in attending, please send me an
email and I will send you a brochure and more detailed
information in the next few months.
Best wishes, Tim (sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.de)
Dr. Tim Sharbel Apomixis Research Group Dept.
of Cytogenetics and Genome Analysis Leibniz In-
stitute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research
(IPK) Corrensstraße 3, D-06466 Gatersleben Ger-
many Apomixis Group Webpage http://www.ipk-
gatersleben.de/en/02/04/05/index.html IPKWebpage
www.ipk-gatersleben.de tel: +049 (0)39482 5608 fax:
+049 (0)39482 5137
GradStudentPositions
Dublin MolEvolBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
InstZoologyLondon Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
InstZoologyLondon SparrowPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
KelloggBiologicalStation GK12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
KentStateU CircadianClockEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
NorthwesternChicagoBotanicGarden PlantConserva-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
QueensUBelfast HoneyBeeViruses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
RothamstedRes AdaptiveDivergence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
StAndrewsU PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
UCincinnati Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
ULaval SalmonidEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
ULaval SalmonidEvolGenomics2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
ULouisianaLafayette OctocoralGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 23ULund EvolMolSyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UMelbourne popgenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
USouthDakota EvolStalkEyedFlies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
USussex EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UWindsor EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UWindsor FishSensoryEcolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UWindsor FishSensoryEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UmeaU SpatialPopEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UppsalaU EvolFuncGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UppsalaU PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UtahStateU Evol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
VrijeU MolEcoEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28February 1, 2006 EvolDir 17
Dublin MolEvolBioinformatics
Location: Dublin, Ireland
Application deadline: 28 Feb 2006
Project Title: Gene gains, losses and relocations during
vertebrate evolution
Description: A Ph.D. position starting in October 2006
is available in the lab of Dr. Aoife McLysaght in
the Genetics Dept. of Trinity College Dublin. This
project is sponsored by Science Foundation Ireland as
part of their prestigious President of Ireland Young
Researcher’s Award (awarded to Aoife McLysaght in
2005). The project will eventually employ three Ph.D.
students and one postdoctoral fellow working together.
The project will involve examination and statistical
analysis of vertebrate genome data using bioinformat-
ics methods. Candidates for the Ph.D. position are
expected to have a good honours Bachelor’s degree
(at least grade 2.1 or equivalent) in molecular biol-
ogy, bioinformatics or related discipline. Experience in
molecular evolution and bioinformatics/computer pro-
gramming are desirable.
For more details of the project, look under “Research”
on the lab website http://www.gen.tcd.ie/molevol To
apply: Send a complete CV (including grades), a de-
scription of your research achievements and interests,
and the names of at least two referees.
Aoife McLysaght Smurﬁt Institute of Genetics Trinity
College Dublin 2 Ireland
[e] aoife.mclysaght@tcd.ie [t] +353-1-6083161
[f] +353-1-6798558 [w] www.gen.tcd.ie/molevol
mclysaga@tcd.ie mclysaga@tcd.ie
InstZoologyLondon Biodiversity
NERC PhD Studentship in measuring global trends in
Biodiversity
Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London
Title of Project: Assessing the eﬀectiveness of parks in
maintaining biodiversity
Supervisors: Professor Georgina Mace (Institute of Zo-
ology, principal supervisor), Dr Jonathan Baillie (Insti-tute of Zoology, second supervisor), Dr Andrew Balm-
ford (Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge,
University supervisor).
Project outline: Which species are parks protecting?
Are parks eﬀectively maintaining populations of wild
species? Are the population trends of species inside and
outside of parks signiﬁcantly diﬀerent? Does the legal
status or management type of parks have any bear-
ing on population trends? What kinds of species bene-
ﬁt from which management structures? How do these
trends vary across biomes? Addressing these questions
will help to deﬁne the value of parks in conserving bio-
diversity and will aid in identifying the most eﬀective
strategies for the future. This information will also
form the basis for a suite of important indicators that
will inform conservationists and policy makers on the
eﬀectiveness of protected areas. Such indicators have
been requested by the Convention on Biological Diver-
sity (CBD) to aid in measuring progress towards the
CBD target of reducing the rate of biodiversity loss by
2010 [1].
The studentship will focus on all African parks classi-
ﬁed by IUCN into one of seven categories (IUCN classes
Ia-VI) [2-3], representing diﬀerent levels of protection.
Distribution maps of all African mammals, birds, and
amphibians will be used to explore which taxonomic
groups are best represented in the African park sys-
tems. The data will also be explored by biome. This
will follow a similar method to the Global GAP anal-
yses [4], but with recently reviewed maps and a clear
regional focus on Africa. This initial exercise will help
to form a baseline from which protected area cover-
age for these three groups can be measured over time.
All available population trend information will be col-
lected for African species, both inside and outside of
parks. This will be gathered from the Living Planet In-
dex, IUCN SSC specialist groups, published literature,
Government ministries/parks agencies, and from sur-
veys carried out by conservation organizations. Meth-
ods similar to that of the Living Planet Index [5] will
then be used to assess trends of species in protected
areas from 1970 to the present. Multilevel generalized
linear modeling will then be used to explore whether
there is a relationship between population trends, over
a given time period, and the type of park manage-
ment/level of protection, whether species are inside or
outside protected areas, as well as examining how these
patterns vary across biomes. This will form the basis
for a series of indices that can continue to be used to
asses the eﬀectiveness of African parks in conserving
biodiversity.
CASE partner: the UNEP/WCMC18 EvolDir February 1, 2006
1] Balmford, A. et al. 2005. The convention on biologi-
cal diversity’s 2010 target. Science 307(5707), 212-213.
2] WCMC, 2003: World database on Protected Areas.,
IUCN-WCPA/UNEP-WCMC.
3] WDPA, 2003: World Database on Protected Areas.
I.-W. UNEP-WCMC
(ed.)Washington DC, USA.
4] Rodrigues, A.S.L., S.J. Andelman, M.I. Bakarr, L.
Boitani, T.M. Brooks, R.M. Cowling, L.D.C. Fishpool,
G.A.B. da Fonseca, K.J. Gaston, M. Hoﬀmann, J.S.
Long, P.A. Marquet, J.D. Pilgrim, R.L. Pressey, J.
Schipper, W. Sechrest, S.N. Stuart, L.G. Underhill,
R.W. Waller, M.E.J. Watts, and X. Yan, 2004: Eﬀec-
tiveness of the global protected area network in repre-
senting species diversity. Nature, 428(6983), 640-643.
5] Loh, J., Green, R.E., Ricketts, T., Lamoreux, J.,
Jenkins, M., Kapos, V., Randers, J. 2005. The Living
Planet Index: using species population time series to
track trends in biodiversity. Philosophical Transactions
of the Royal Society B 360, 289-295.
For further details, contact Jonathan Baillie (Tel: 020
7449 6632; E-mail: Jonathan.baillie@ioz.ac.uk).
jo.Keogh@ioz.ac.uk jo.Keogh@ioz.ac.uk
InstZoologyLondon
SparrowPopGenet
NERC PhD Studentship in Wildlife Epidemiology
Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London
Title of Project: Is disease a signiﬁcant factor impli-
cated in the UK House Sparrow (Passer domesticus)
population decline?
Supervisors: Dr Andrew Cunningham, (Institute of Zo-
ology, principal supervisor), Professor Malcolm Ben-
nett, (University of Liverpool, University supervisor).
Senior IoZ Supervisor:
CASE partner: Royal Society for the Protection of
Birds
Signiﬁcant reductions in house sparrow populations
have occurred across England over recent decades, par-
ticularly aﬀecting the south east of the country. The
BTO/JNCC/RSPB Breeding Bird Survey highlights
the severity of population decline within London of
71% between 1994 and 20021. A number of possi-ble explanations for the population decline have been
proposed. These include reduction in food availabil-
ity (insect prey for nestlings, seed/grain for ﬂedglings
and adults), increased predator density (domestic cat
(Felis catus), sparrowhawk (Accipiter nisus)), reduced
nest site numbers, the eﬀects of pollution and infec-
tious disease2. The importance of disease (infectious
or non-infectious) as a potential factor contributing to
avian population declines is increasingly recognised. In
North America, research on the house sparrow in recent
years has focussed on the viral encephalitides, particu-
larly West Nile virus3. However, there is a paucity of
knowledge of the disease status and population health
of this species in the UK. A recent BTO report2 on the
topic concludes that disease is a largely unexplored fac-
tor in terms of the species population dynamics in the
UK and emphasises the need for further research.
The studentship will take advantage of an existing
RSPB project researching factors aﬀecting the distri-
bution, abundance and demography of house sparrows
in Greater London. This includes the ringing of spar-
rows and their repeated capture throughout the project
duration, allowing serial monitoring of individuals. De-
tailed information, including body weight, biometrics,
reproductive status and evidence of moult will be col-
lected from these individuals. Monitoring of breeding
success, diet and individual survival rates will be per-
formed. In addition, the proposed research will:
1. investigate causes of mortality and population health
of the house sparrow
2. compare the health status between populations of
stable and declining house sparrows
3. contrast population health between the feeding trial
and control groups
4. evaluate the relationship between disease status and
the probability of individual survival.
This research combines the beneﬁts of clinical exam-
ination and sampling of live birds with post mortem
examinations from well-characterised study groups. In
addition to the controlled London-based study, use will
be made of the Garden Bird Health initiative (a na-
tional garden bird disease research project co-ordinated
by the IoZ) for investigation of causes of mortality of
house sparrows elsewhere. This work will help identify
priority pathological conditions for investigation during
the controlled study and will indicate if disease ﬁndings
from the controlled study can be extrapolated nation-
ally.
ildlife Epidemiologythe format.
not for yours of course. I will need your formal projectFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 19
outline soon (tomorrow?), see the webReferences:
1. Raven, M.J., Noble, D.G., & Baille, S.R. (2002) The
Breeding Bird Survey 2002. BTO Research Report 334.
British Trust for Ornithology, Thetford.
2. Crick, H.Q.P., Robinson, R.A., Appleton, G.F.,
Clark, N.A., Rickard, A.D. (2002) Investigation into
the causes of decline of Starlings and House Sparrows
in Great Britain. BTO Research Report No 290.
3. Rappole, J.H., Hubalek, Z. (2003) Migratory birds
and West Nile virus. Journal of Applied Microbiology
94 Suppl:47S-58S.
CASE partner: Royal Society for the Protection of
Birds
For further details, contact Andrew Cun-
ningham (Tel: 020 7449 6674; E-mail: an-
drew.cunningham@ioz.ac.uk).
jo.Keogh@ioz.ac.uk jo.Keogh@ioz.ac.uk
KelloggBiologicalStation GK12
Graduate Fellowships Available The KBS GK-12 Pro-
gram
The Kellogg Biological Station (KBS) of Michigan State
University is pleased to announce the new establish-
ment of a GK-12 graduate fellowship program sup-
ported by a 3-yr grant from the National Science Foun-
dation. This program will team students pursuing
PhD???s in ecology at KBS with K-12 science teach-
ers in rural districts of southwest Michigan. Our goals
include enriching K-12 science instruction by promot-
ing and nurturing inquiry-based science teaching while
providing our graduate students the opportunity to im-
prove their teaching skills and help address the critical
national need to improve K-12 science education. GK-
12 Fellows may use this experience to supplement or
substitute for traditional graduate teaching experience
while they pursue their research training towards a PhD
in ecology, evolutionary biology, or related ﬁeld.
Major elements of the KBS program are: (1) Class-
room partnerships in which a GK-12 fellow works with
a teacher at a district’s high school or middle school
approximately 15 hrs/wk. Fellows will co-teach and
additionally help teachers introduce inquiry activities
related to Ecological Literacy into their classrooms and
districts. (2) A one week summer teaching institute
for fellows, teachers, and mentors, led by MSU Col-lege of Education faculty, that will focus on providing
inquiry-based approaches to learning for understanding
and educational leadership. (3) School-year workshops
comprised of science inquiry and teaching components
designed to support classroom eﬀorts to incorporate
inquiry-based learning in secondary science teaching.
GK-12 Fellows may be supported for up to two years
while they work on their dissertation research at KBS,
under the supervision of KBS faculty. Stipend sup-
port is $30,000/year, plus beneﬁts, including tuition.
Support for other years is available through KBS fac-
ulty sponsors and departmental, college and university
sources. Students interested in the GK-12 program
should contact potential KBS faculty sponsors, listed at
www.kbs.msu.edu/faculty .Further information about
KBS is available at www.kbs.msu.edu, and for fur-
ther information about the GK-12 program please
seewww.kbs.msu.edu/gk-12 . MSU is an aﬃrmative-
action, equal-opportunity institution.
– Jeﬀ Conner Professor Kellogg Biological Station and
Department of Plant Biology Michigan State University
3700 East Gull Lake Drive, Hickory Corners, MI 49060
e-mail: connerj@msu.edu http://www.kbs.msu.edu/-
Faculty/Conner/Index.htm Phone: 269-671-2269 FAX:
269-671-2104
A Primer of Ecological Genetics by Conner and Hartl
(www.sinauer.com/detail.php?id 20)
Jeﬀ Conner <connerj@msu.edu >
KentStateU CircadianClockEvol
One graduate student position (preferably Ph.D.) is
available immediately in my laboratory to study mi-
croevolution of the circadian clock system in Drosophila
melanogaster under long-term acute environmental
stress. Applicants should have a background in evo-
lution (theory and molecular genetic laboratory expe-
rience) and respective analyses of DNA sequence data.
The position will be fully funded for 4 years (including
fees and stipend) with possible extension up to 5 years
and should commence in spring or summer 2006.
You may ﬁnd additional information about my research
on my web page (see in the signature).
If interested, please send ASAP (i) a CV with the names
and contact details of two referees and (ii) a cover letter
explaining your interests and motivation for the posi-20 EvolDir February 1, 2006
tion to Dr. Dvornyk from whom further details can be
obtained.
Volodymyr Dvornyk
Dr. Volodymyr Dvornyk, Assistant Professor Cunning-
ham Hall, Room 245 Department of Biological Sciences
Kent State University P.O. Box 5190 Kent, OH 44242-
0001
Tel.: (330) 672-3625 Fax: (330) 672-3713 E-mail: vd-
vornyk@kent.edu Web: http://dept.kent.edu/biology/-
Dvornyk/ “It can’t be ever, because it can be never!”
(A.P. Chekhov)
Volodymyr Dvornyk <vdvornyk@kent.edu >
NorthwesternChicagoBotanicGarden
PlantConservation
Northwestern University and the Chicago Botanic Gar-
den team up to oﬀer a Master1s degree in Plant Biology
and Conservation
The Program in Plant Biology and Conservation fo-
cuses on preparing students for future leadership po-
sitions in plant conservation and the botanical sci-
ences. The program oﬀers a Master of Science de-
gree through The Graduate School at Northwestern
University and research experience with scientists at
the Chicago Botanic Garden. Advanced courses are
taught by professors and scientists aﬃliated with both
institutions. Application deadline for Fall admission
is April 15, 2006. Please call the program director
at 847-467-1266 or visit our webpage for more infor-
mation. http://www.wcas.northwestern.edu/biosci/-
graduate/masters.html nzerega@chicagobotanic.org
QueensUBelfast HoneyBeeViruses
PhD position in molecular evolution (host-parasite co-
evolution using viral pathogens of honey bees).
A full-time PhD position will become available in
spring 2006 to work on the molecular evolution of vi-
ral pathogens of honey bees (Apis mellifera) in the
labs of Dr. Robert Paxton/Dr Joachim de Miranda
(www.qub.ac.uk/bb/people/paxton/paxton.html ) andProf. Ingemar Fries ( www.entom.slu.se/eng/staﬀ/-
Ingemar Fries.htm ). Arguably the major threat to hon-
eybees and beekeeping worldwide is their debilitating
viruses, transmitted by parasitic Varroa mites. The
doctoral research will form is part of a larger Euro-
pean project on the genetics and evolution of disease
resistance in honey bees (acronym Bee Shop, currently
under negotiation). Laboratory work for the advertised
PhD position will be based with Dr. Paxton in Belfast
(UK), where the student will be registered, and ﬁeld-
work will be with Prof. Fries in Uppsala (Sweden). Ap-
plicants should have a background in virology and/or
evolution (theory and molecular genetic laboratory ex-
perience) and be willing to work with honey bees, in
addition to a good BSc and/or MSc in a relevant ﬁeld
of biology. The position will be fully funded for 3 years
(including fees and stipend) and should commence in
spring or summer 2006. We particularly encourage ap-
plications from citizens of the new accession states to
the European Union and from females. If interested,
please send by 28 February 2006 (i) a cv with the names
and contact details of two referees and (ii) a cover letter
explaining your interests and motivation for the posi-
tion to Dr Paxton (r.paxton@qub.ac.uk) from whom
further details can be obtained.
Robert Paxton <r.paxton@qub.ac.uk >
RothamstedRes AdaptiveDivergence
Development of new computational strategies for iden-
tifying genomic regions which have undergone adaptive
divergence between populations.
As partially isolated populations each adapt, under nat-
ural selection, to their local environmental conditions,
so the genotype composition of these populations will
diverge at regions of the genome which contribute to
these local adaptations. Thus the process of adaptive
divergence leaves a genetic signature which it is some-
times possible to detect (in outcrossing species at least)
against the noisy background of divergence generated
by mutation and random drift. There is a need for im-
proved Bayesian methods to make the best use of the
information provided by genotype data from multiple
populations in order to identify these genomic regions.
This is a BBSRC CASE Studentship, which attracts a
minimum annual stipend of 14,800 British Pounds.
The student will be based at Rothamsted Research. For
further information, visitFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 21
http://www.rothamsted.bbsrc.ac.uk (click on Ca-
reers/PhD Studentships)
BBSRC studentships are only available to UK nation-
als. For full details of BBSRC eligibility criteria please
visit the above link.
For enquiries about the project, please contact Dr
Kevin Dawson.
E-mail: kevin.dawson@bbsrc.ac.uk
“kevin dawson (RRes-Roth)”
<kevin.dawson@bbsrc.ac.uk >
StAndrewsU PlantSystematics
I would be grateful if you could bring the following PhD
studentship to the attention of any suitable student who
is interested in conducting research for a PhD in the
area of plant systematics and evolution. Best regards.
Richard.
PHD STUDENTSHIP AT ST ANDREWS UNIVER-
SITY AND THE SCOTTISH CROP RESEARCH IN-
STITUTE
Application of a novel snoRNA marker system in plant
systematics and evolution
Applications are invited for a PhD studentship jointly
funded by St Andrews University and the Scottish
Crop Research Institute (SCRI) that will be available
from 1 October 2006. The project will focus on the
utility of small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) markers in
plant systematics and evolution with particular em-
phasis on their use in studies of species identiﬁcation,
relationships, hybridization and polyploidization. The
project will be supervised by Professor Richard Abbott
(St Andrews), Dr Joanne Russell and Professor John
Brown (SCRI), with inputs and involvement from Dr
Pete Hollingsworth of the Royal Botanic Garden Edin-
burgh (RBGE). Research will be conducted mainly at
SCRI and St Andrews with occasional periods spent at
RBGE. Appropriate training will be provided in molec-
ular, taxonomic and evolutionary components of the re-
search. Applicants should have graduated or expect to
graduate in 2006 with a ﬁrst or upper second class hon-
ours degree (or equivalent) in a relevant biological sub-
ject. Applications including a CV should be submitted
to one of the following from whom further particulars
may be obtained.
Professor Richard Abbott, Mitchell Building, Schoolof Biology, St Andrews University, St Andrews, Fife,
KY16 9TH (rja@st-and.ac.uk)
Dr Joanne Russell, SCRI, Invergowrie, Dundee, DD2
5DA (Joanne.Russell@scri.ac.uk)
– Professor Richard Abbott Mitchell Building, School
of Biology University of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife
KY16 9TH UK Tel. 01334 463350 Fax. 01334 463366
Email. rja@st-and.ac.uk
Richard Abbott <rja@st-andrews.ac.uk >
UCincinnati Evolution
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Cincinnati is welcoming M.S and Ph.D. student
applicants to join an active group conducting research
in ecology, evolution and behavior. Of particular note
is a growing group of faculty studying integrative be-
havior:
http://bioweb.ad.uc.edu/faculty/buschbeck/-
behaviorposter/behaviorposter3.htm The Department
oﬀers competitive stipends for graduate students and
provides several mechanisms to help students fund and
complete research projects. Applications are accepted
on a continuing basis. For fall admission applications
should be submitted before Feb. 1. Please share this
information with prospective graduate students in your
department. More information is available at:
http://bioweb.ad.uc.edu/general.asp?subject=grad
Ken Petren ken.petren@uc.edu University of Cincinnati
ken.petren@uc.edu
ULaval SalmonidEvolGenomics
We are currently looking for a Ph.D. candidate that
would be involved in our ongoing research program
aiming at elucidating the physiological and genomic
bases of hybrid heterosis (hybrid vigour) in the brook
charr (Salvelinus fontinalis). The research program is
based on a mutidisciplinary approach that integrates
i) the quantiﬁcation of hybrid vigour for several adap-
tive traits that can also be important for aquaculture,
ii) the comparative analysis of gene expression pro-22 EvolDir February 1, 2006
ﬁles by means of a 16000 cDNA microarray and RT-
PCR, and iii) the endocrine basis for this regulation.
More speciﬁcally, the Ph.D. candidate will be respon-
sible for testing at the gene expression level two al-
ternative hypotheses generally invoked for explaining
heterosis. First, the dominance hypothesis implies that
the expression of partially deleterious recessive alleles
observed in parental forms will be masked in the hy-
brid progeny. In contrast, the overdominance hypoth-
esis predicts that the combination of divergent alleles
at a given locus will result in increased performance in
the hybrid progeny.
We are primarily looking for a candidate with strong
laboratory expertise in functional genomics, a solid the-
oretical background in evolutionary biology, as well as
expertise in management and analysis of large data
bases. The chosen candidate is expected to be enrolled
in our P.D. program by May 2006.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing your re-
search interests, a complete CV and names of three
references by e-mail to Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
To learn more about
Quebec : <http://www.quebecregion.com/f/ >http:/-
/www.quebecregion.com/f/ Universite Laval :
<http://www.ulaval.ca/ >http://www.ulaval.ca/ The
Biology department : <http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
accueil.aspx?tabindex=0&tabidY >http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/accueil.aspx?tabindex=0&tabidY
The Canadian Research Chair in Conservation Genetics
of Aquatic Resources <http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/ >http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/ Louis Bernatchez
Titulaire de la Chaire de recherche du Canada en con-
servation g´ en´ etique des ressources aquatiques
D´ epartement de biologie Pavillon Charles-Eug` ene
Marchand Universit´ e Laval, Quebec QC G1K 7P4
Canada
T´ el: 418 656-3402 Fax: 418 656-2043 Couriel:
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca Web: http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
ULaval SalmonidEvolGenomics2
We are currently looking for a Ph.D. candidate that
would be involved in our ongoing research programaiming at elucidating the physiological and genomic
bases of hybrid heterosis (hybrid vigour) in the brook
charr (Salvelinus fontinalis). The research program is
based on a mutidisciplinary approach that integrates
i) the quantiﬁcation of hybrid vigour for several adap-
tive traits that can also be important for aquaculture,
ii) the comparative analysis of gene expression pro-
ﬁles by means of a 16000 cDNA microarray and RT-
PCR, and iii) the endocrine basis for this regulation.
More speciﬁcally, the Ph.D. candidate will be respon-
sible for testing at the gene expression level two al-
ternative hypotheses generally invoked for explaining
heterosis. First, the dominance hypothesis implies that
the expression of partially deleterious recessive alleles
observed in parental forms will be masked in the hy-
brid progeny. In contrast, the overdominance hypoth-
esis predicts that the combination of divergent alleles
at a given locus will result in increased performance in
the hybrid progeny.
We are primarily looking for a candidate with strong
laboratory expertise in functional genomics, a solid the-
oretical background in evolutionary biology, as well as
expertise in management and analysis of large data
bases. The chosen candidate is expected to be enrolled
in our P.D. program by May 2006.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing your re-
search interests, a complete CV and names of three
references by e-mail to Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
To learn more about
Quebec : <http://www.quebecregion.com/f/ >http:/-
/www.quebecregion.com/f/ Universite Laval :
<http://www.ulaval.ca/ >http://www.ulaval.ca/ The
Biology department : <http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
accueil.aspx?tabindex=0&tabidY >http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/accueil.aspx?tabindex=0&tabidY
The Canadian Research Chair in Conservation Genetics
of Aquatic Resources <http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/ >http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/ Louis Bernatchez
Titulaire de la Chaire de recherche du Canada en con-
servation g´ en´ etique des ressources aquatiques
D´ epartement de biologie Pavillon Charles-Eug` ene
Marchand Universit´ e Laval, Quebec QC G1K 7P4
Canada
T´ el: 418 656-3402 Fax: 418 656-2043 Couriel:
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca Web: http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/
Louis Bernatchez <Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca >February 1, 2006 EvolDir 23
ULouisianaLafayette
OctocoralGenetics
I have a position available for a student interested in
studying genetic variation in deep-sea octocorals. Many
deep-sea coral species have broad distributions span-
ning Atlantic and Paciﬁc Oceans, but little is known
about their dispersal and gene ﬂow, or intraspeciﬁc
variation. Over the past several years we have accu-
mulated a number of samples from hard substrates be-
tween 1000 - 2400 meters depth. These will form the
core of a project to study genetic variability, biogeog-
raphy and systematics. Octocorals have been shown to
have very low rates of mutation in the mitochondrial
genome, and this project will involve developing novel
nuclear markers for use at diﬀerent systematic levels,
including intraspeciﬁc analyses.
In addition to an available research assistantship in my
lab, the University of Louisiana at Lafayette will be
awarding up to ﬁve University Fellowships and Board of
Regents Doctoral Fellowships to students entering the
doctoral program in Environmental and Evolutionary
Biology in fall 2006. Fellowships are funded for three
to four years and carry stipends of $13,900/9 months-
$22,000/per year with waivers of tuition and most fees.
University Fellows are assigned limited teaching respon-
sibilities; there is no teaching requirement for Board of
Regents fellows. To be eligible for these fellowships, ap-
plicants must be a US citizen or have a degree from a
US institution.
For more information about the biology graduate pro-
gram visit http://www.ucs.louisiana.edu/ ˜ pll6743/-
biogradstudies.htm . The Department of Biology has
approximately 25 faculty members and 70 gradu-
ate students ( http://biology.louisiana.edu/ ). Areas of
strength include ecology, conservation biology, evolu-
tion, and marine/coastal biology.
If you are interested in this opportunity, please contact
me for additional information.
Scott France –
Scott C. France france@louisiana.edu Department of
Biology University of Louisiana at Lafayette P.O. Box
42451 Lafayette, LA 70504
Oﬃce: (337) 482-6320 Lab: (337) 482-6494 FAX: (337)
482-5834 http://www.ucs.louisiana.edu/ ˜ scf4101/
france@louisiana.edu france@louisiana.eduULund EvolMolSyst
The University of Lund announces the following va-
cancy:
POSTGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP in Biology, within
the discipline of Genetics (Evolutionary Molecular Sys-
tematics), with placement at the Department of Cell
and Organism Biology, Faculty of Science.
Reference Number: 29
Starting Date: As soon as possible
Project Description:
Production and analysis of EST (expressed sequence
tags) and cDNA sequences for studying the evolution
of vertebrates.
Our group works on various aspects of molecular phy-
logeny and systematics of vertebrates. Over the last
years we have successfully resolved several branches in
the vertebrate tree using the data from more than 120
completely sequenced mitochondrial genomes. How-
ever, there are still many unresolved issues in the ver-
tebrate tree that could not be resolved with signiﬁcant
support yet. Therefore, we plan to produce, collect
and analyze data from nuclear sequences. Data from
databases will be complemented by own EST or cDNA
data in order to include sequences from species that are
not available from databases but which are important
to the phylogenetic question. The project is well-funded
and all necessary equipment, generous lab space as well
a large tissue and cell culture collections are available.
Qualiﬁcations:
The applicant should have interest and some knowl-
edge in database search, sequence collection, alignment
and/or phylogenetic reconstruction algorithms and may
be able to program own scripts and tools to facili-
tate the data collection and analysis. A genuine inter-
est in vertebrate evolution, phylogenetic analysis and
bio-molecular methods, preferentially cDNA libraries
and/or EST sequencing will be helpful to manage own
projects. It is therefore advantageous to have worked
on one or several of these ﬁelds during exam work, sum-
mer jobs and/or courses. In addition to the analytical
work there will be the opportunity to produce own data.
The lab-work will include cell culture, RNA isolation,
cDNA library construction, and EST sequencing.
If you are interested in this project please send us a24 EvolDir February 1, 2006
short description of your research interest and your
computer skills, a CV, the names of two references, a
copy of your exams work.
The complete advertisement and all application formal-
ities can be found on:
http://www.biol.lu.se/cellorgbiol/postgrad/-
vacant.html Feel free to contact me for further
information.
Cheers
Axel Janke
–
Dr. Axel Janke Lund University Department of Cell
and Organism Biology Genetics Division of Evolution-
ary Molecular Systematics S¨ olvegatan 29 S-223 62 Lund
Sweden
http://phylo.gen.lu.se/ Email: axel.janke@cob.lu.se
Tel.: +46/46/222 7849 FAX: +46/46/147874
axel.janke@cob.lu.se
UMelbourne popgenetics
PHD POSITION PEST SNAIL POPULATION GE-
NETICS AND REPRODUCTION
Mediterranean white and conical snails (Cernuella vir-
gata, Theba pisana and Cochlicella spp.) are signiﬁ-
cant pests of grain crops in coastal regions of southern
Australia. Existing control methods, including burn-
ing of stubble prior to sowing crops, cabling to dislodge
snails from aestivation sites, biological control (para-
sitoid of conical snails only) and chemical control have
been only partially successful. A method of snail con-
trol that reduces our reliance on chemical pesticides
and is species-speciﬁc would be highly desirable. The
current project will investigate the genetic structure of
the pest snail populations and reproductive strategy,
in order to determine the suitability for future genetic
control methods. The project is a joint venture between
CSIRO, The University of Melbourne and the Grains
Research and Development Corporation. The PhD stu-
dent will be based at the University of Melbourne De-
partment of Genetics and will receive training in ﬁeld
work, molecular techniques and population genetics.
The student will be required to undertake ﬁeld work
in South Australia and this necessitates a valid Drivers
Licence. The PhD student will have a bachelors degreewith honours in biological science (speciﬁcally genet-
ics). This is a full-time scholarship with a maximum
of 3 years funding available, contingent on satisfactory
progress. The stipend is valued at $25,000 per an-
num. To obtain further information contact Dr Belinda
Appleton (b.appleton@unimelb.edu.au) or Dr Rod Ma-
hon (Rod.Mahon@csiro.au) Applications including a
curriculum vitae citing relevant studies and/or expe-
rience, a short statement of research interests, the
names and addresses of three professional referees,
and a copy of an oﬃcial academic record/transcript
should be forwarded as soon as possible to Dr Be-
linda Appleton, Department of Genetics, The Univer-
sity of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 3010, or via
email b.appleton@unimelb.edu.au.
b.appleton@unimelb.edu.au
USouthDakota EvolStalkEyedFlies
Graduate Research in Evolutionary Physiology of
Stalk-Eyed Flies
I have an opening for a Ph. D. graduate student inter-
ested in research on the performance and ﬁtness conse-
quences of elaborate secondary sexual characters in in-
sects using stalk-eyed ﬂies as a model. Stalk-eyed ﬂies
provide the ideal model system to test for costs and
tradeoﬀs related to male ornamentation. All species
in this extraordinary family display exaggerated head
morphology, with eyes and antennae displaced at the
end of long stalks, and interspeciﬁc variation in eye span
can be more than ten-fold. Furthermore, all available
evidence indicates that eye stalks are critical sexual sig-
nals used in both male-male competition and female
choice. This study will examine the eﬀects of elon-
gated eye stalks on ﬂight performance and survivor-
ship of stalk-eyed ﬂies to assess whether these eﬀects
run counter to the eﬀects of sexual selection. The po-
sition is part of an NSF-funded CAREER project in
the laboratory of John Swallow ( http://www.usd.edu/-
˜jswallow/index.html ), Biology Department, University
of South Dakota. Opportunities exist to develop a PhD
research program that cover a variety of related issues
(ﬂight performance, ﬂight energetics, predation avoid-
ance) but I am particularly interested in ﬁnding some-
one to be involved in a series of mesocosm predation
studies. Support will be a combination of Teaching and
Research Assistantships. If interested please contact
John Swallow (jswallow@usd.edu) Assistant Professor,February 1, 2006 EvolDir 25
Department of Biology, University of South Dakota,
Vermillion, SD 57069, USA. Information regarding our
graduate program and the application process can be
found at the following web site: http://usd.edu/biol/-
graduateprogram.cfm
John G. Swallow
Assistant Professor Department of Biology University
of South Dakota 414 E. Clark Street Vermillion, SD
57069 USA
Phone (605) 677-6176 Fax (605) 677-6557 http://-
www.usd.edu/˜jswallow/
“Swallow, John G.” <John.Swallow@usd.edu >
USussex EvolBiol
The University of Sussex has a number of a PhD op-
portunities in Evolutionary Biology to work with either
Adam Eyre- Walker (a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk) on
the process of mutation, the rates and ﬁtness eﬀects of
new mutations or the rate of adaptive evolution.
Joel Peck (j.r.peck@sussex.ac.uk) on theoretical studies
of the evolution of altruism, and related issues. Among
these related issues are the conditions for eﬀective group
selection, the possibility of selection at the level of eco-
logical communities, the major transitions in evolution,
and the meaning of “information” in biological sys-
tems.“
or
David Waxman (d.waxman@sussex.ac.uk) on the theo-
retical population genetics of quantitative traits, evolu-
tionary adaptation, the behaviour and evolution of so-
cial insects, and the evolution of transposable elements.
Funding is potentially available for either UK or
EU students and may last up to 4-years. Ad-
ditional information can be found at http://-
www.lifesci.sussex.ac.uk/CSE/ . Informal applications
need to be received by friday feb 10th by any one of the
above.
UWindsor EvolEcolGraduate positions are available in ﬁsh sensory ecol-
ogy/evolution ? Two graduate assistant positions
are available in the laboratory of Dr. Dennis Higgs
(http://www.uwindsor.ca/HiggsLab.htm ) at the Uni-
versity of Windsor beginning September, 2006. One
of the two positions will be in collaboration with Dr.
Daniel Heath ( http://cronus.uwindsor.ca/units/glier/-
genetics/lab.nsf ) on the evolution of hearing, using ad-
vanced techniques in electrophysiology and DNA se-
quencing. The second assistantship is in the area of au-
ditory behaviour and ecology. Assistantships will be at
the Master?s or Ph.D. level, dependent upon interests
and abilities of applicants. Some knowledge and ap-
preciation of sensory ecology and evolution is required
but training in electrophysiology, sequencing, and/or
behavioural analysis will be provided. Interested par-
ties should contact Dr. Higgs at dhiggs@uwindsor.ca
with a statement of interest and a curriculum vitae.
dheath@uwindsor.ca
UWindsor FishSensoryEcolEvol
Graduate student positions are available in ﬁsh sen-
sory ecology/evolution ? Two graduate student po-
sitions are available in the laboratory of Dr. Den-
nis Higgs ( http://www.uwindsor.ca/HiggsLab.htm ) at
the University of Windsor beginning September, 2006.
One of the two assistantships will be in collaboration
with Dr. Daniel Heath ( http://cronus.uwindsor.ca/-
units/glier/genetics/lab.nsf ) on the evolution of hear-
ing, using advanced techniques in electrophysiology and
DNA analysis. This position will require travel for
onsite electrophysiology. The second assistantship is
in the area of auditory behaviour and ecology. As-
sistantships will be at the Master?s or Ph.D. level,
dependent upon interests and abilities of applicants.
Some knowledge and appreciation of sensory ecology
and evolution is required but training in electrophysi-
ology, sequencing, and/or behavioural analysis will be
provided. Interested parties should contact Dr. Higgs
at dhiggs@uwindsor.ca with a statement of interest and
a curriculum vitae.
Daniel Heath Great Lakes Institute for Environmental
Research University of Windsor 401 Sunset Ave Wind-
sor, Ont, Canada N9B 3P4
E-mail: dheath@uwindsor.ca Phone: (519) 253-3000,
Ext 3762 Fax: 971-3616
dheath@uwindsor.ca26 EvolDir February 1, 2006
UWindsor FishSensoryEvol
Graduate student positions are available in ﬁsh sen-
sory ecology/evolution ? Two graduate student po-
sitions are available in the laboratory of Dr. Den-
nis Higgs ( http://www.uwindsor.ca/HiggsLab.htm ) at
the University of Windsor beginning September, 2006.
One of the two assistantships will be in collaboration
with Dr. Daniel Heath ( http://cronus.uwindsor.ca/-
units/glier/genetics/lab.nsf ) on the evolution of hear-
ing, using advanced techniques in electrophysiology and
DNA analysis. This position will require travel for
onsite electrophysiology. The second assistantship is
in the area of auditory behaviour and ecology. As-
sistantships will be at the Master?s or Ph.D. level,
dependent upon interests and abilities of applicants.
Some knowledge and appreciation of sensory ecology
and evolution is required but training in electrophysi-
ology, sequencing, and/or behavioural analysis will be
provided. Interested parties should contact Dr. Higgs
at dhiggs@uwindsor.ca with a statement of interest and
a curriculum vitae.
dheath@uwindsor.ca
UmeaU SpatialPopEvol
PhD position in spatial population ecology I am look-
ing for a PhD-student to participate in the “Spatial
heterogeneity, functional responses and predator-prey
dynamics”, ﬁnancially supported by the Swedish Re-
search Council.
Why are there so many species? This question is moti-
vated by the ﬁnding that simple models and model sys-
tems are fragile - species extinctions are ubiquitous- and
increasing the realism by including more species tend
to make systems even more unstable. Many ecologists
believe that the answer is that spatial heterogeneity sta-
bilizes ecological systems. The objective of the project
is therefore to increase our understanding of how spa-
tial heterogeneity aﬀects predator-prey dynamics. This
is done by applying and developing a new theoretical
tool, moment approximation, which can be used to in-
vestigate how population dynamics are inﬂuenced byspatial heterogeneity. The project includes testing a
predator-prey model based on moment approximation,
developing empirical models of the relationship between
predator-prey covariance and population densities, and
studying the relationship between covariance and den-
sity dynamics in published models and empirical data
sets. The project has an emphasis on mathematical
and statistical models but will also include predator-
prey experiments in the lab. The project is intellec-
tually challenging but will likely yield publications in
top-ranked journals.
More information at my webpage: www.emg.umu.se/-
personal/goran englund.htm The application should
include a short description of your research interests
and why you are interested in the position, CV, copies
of certiﬁcates from higher education, copies of pub-
lications including Bachelors/Masters thesis, and up-
dated contact information for reference persons. Fur-
ther information can be obtained from Dr. G¨ oran En-
glund email: <mailto: goran.englund@emg.umu.se >
goran.englund@emg.umu.se. Send your application,
quoting appropriate reg.no 313 4666-05, to Ume˚ a Uni-
versity, The Registrar, SE-901 87, Ume˚ a, Sweden, no
later than February 20, 2006.
* G¨ oran Englund * Department of Ecology and En-
vironmental Science * Ume˚ a Marine Sciences Centre
* Ume˚ a University, 901 87 Ume˚ a, Sweden * Phone:
+46 90 786 9728, FAX: +46 90 786 6705 * E-mail:
Goran.Englund@emg.umu.se * Homepage: http://-
www.emg.umu.se/sve/personal/goran englund.htm *
UppsalaU EvolFuncGenomics
Graduate position: at the Department of Evolutionary
Functional Genomics
One PhD student position is available at the Depart-
ment of Evolutionary Functional Genomics at Uppsala
University. A major focus of the department is the ge-
netic basis of plant adaptation, combining information
on gene function from model organisms with studies of
variation in adaptive traits in diﬀerent species. The aim
is to identify genes that aﬀect variation in traits such
as ﬂowering time and growth rhythm. Our strategy is
to integrate traditional ecological and phylogeographic
studies with genomics and population genetics, at both
theoretical and experimental levels.
The successful applicant will take part in a projectFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 27
on evolutionary functional genomics in Capsella. We
are currently working on the common weed, Capsella
bursa-pastoris, and also on its rarer relatives Capsella
rubella and Capsella grandiﬂora. Several evolutionary
interesting questions are / will be addressed within this
project, for example: What is the genetic background
of ﬂowering time variation in Capsella and is it diﬀer-
ent among species? Which evolutionary forces shape
DNA sequence variation at adaptive loci? What is the
origin of the tetraploid Capsella bursa-pastoris? What
is the population history of the three species? Why is
the tetraploid Capsella bursa-pastoris more successful
and widespread than the other species?
We are looking for an applicant with a strong inter-
est in evolutionary genetics. A master or equivalent in
genomics, genetics or a related subject is required and
experience in molecular genetics (for example DNA se-
quencing, QTL mapping or RNA work), bioinformatics
or theoretical genetics is an advantage.
The position is for four years. There is also the possi-
bility to teach 10% and thus increasing the time to four
and a half years.
The application should include curriculum vitae, degree
certiﬁcate, a short description of the applicant and his
/ her experience, references and if requested the appli-
cant should send his/her master thesis.
For further information contact: Anna Palm´ e,
+46 (0)18-471 64 10, anna.palme@ebc.uu.se
or Ulf Lagercrantz, +46 (0)18-471 64 18,
<mailto:Ulf.Lagercrantz@ebc.uu.se >Ulf.Lagercrantz@ebc.uu.se
Departmental home page: <http://-
www.genetik.uu.se/ >http://www.genetik.uu.se/
Union representatives: Anders Grundstr¨ om, SACO-
r˚ adet, tel 018-481 53 80, Carin S¨ oderh¨ all, TCO/ST,
tel 018-471 19 96 and Stefan Djurstr¨ om, SEKO, tel
018-471 33 15.
Send your application to: Registrator, UFV-PA
2006/93, Uppsala Universitet, Box 256, 751 05 Uppsala
or fax 018-471 2000 no later than February 21 2006. If
the application is sent by fax the original papers should
be sent to the Registrator within a week of the deadline.
anna.palme@ebc.uu.se anna.palme@ebc.uu.se
UppsalaU PlantEvol
PhD student position in Plant Ecology at the Evolu-
tionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University, SwedenWe seek a PhD candidate with a keen interest in pop-
ulation biology and the ecology and evolution of local
adaptation in plants. The PhD student will join the
research group of prof. Jon Agren and will work in
a project exploring the functional and genetic basis of
local adaptation in the outcrossing model plant Ara-
bidopsis lyrata. The project is based on a combination
of ﬁeld experiments designed to identify the targets and
agents of selection on morphology and phenology, and
quantitative and molecular genetic approaches to iden-
tify the genetic basis of adaptive diﬀerentiation. It fo-
cuses on potentially adaptive characters such as resis-
tance to herbivory, ﬂowering time, and ﬂower morphol-
ogy. Problems addressed include (a) to what extent
is population diﬀerentiation maintained by selection?
(b) to what extent can selection on morphological and
phenological characters be attributed to variation in the
abiotic and biotic environment, respectively? (c) What
is the genetic basis of plant adaptation? The exact pro-
ﬁle of the PhD project will be settled together with the
supervisor.
The successful candidate should have a masters or hon-
ors thesis in ecology or a related ﬁeld. Experience from
work in population ecology or population genetics is an
advantage. Proﬁciency in English is a requirement.
Applications should include a brief description of un-
dergraduate training, research interests and research
experience, and a motivation of why the position is
of interest. It should further include Curriculum vi-
tae, an authorized copy of the undergraduate degree,
and the names and contact information (address, email
address, and phone number) of two-three referees. Rel-
evant publications (including BSc/MSc thesis) should
be enclosed.
The candidate will receive her/his postgraduate train-
ing within the postgraduate school at the Evolu-
tionary Biology Centre (see http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
index eng.htm ). The postgraduate training comprises
four years of full time studies. The successful candi-
date will receive a postgraduate fellowship the ﬁrst year
(14400 SEK/month) and a postgraduate position year
2-4 (18700-20900 SEK/month). The position can be
combined with up to 20% of teaching asssistantship,
which will then prolong the position accordingly. Ten-
tative starting date: 1 April 2006.
Please, feel free to contact Prof. Jon Agren (phone
+46 18 471 2860, jon.agren@ebc.uu.se) for more infor-
mation.
Applications, quoting the reference number UFV-PA
2006/197 should arrive no later than February 15, 2006
at the Registrars oﬃce, Uppsala University, Box 256,
SE-751 05 Uppsala, Sweden.28 EvolDir February 1, 2006
Jon Agren Dept. of Plant Ecology Evolutionary Bi-
ology Centre Uppsala University Villavagen 14, SE-
752 36 Uppsala, Sweden Phone: +46-18-471 2860 Fax:
+46-18-55 34 19
UtahStateU Evol
The College of Natural Resources at Utah State Uni-
versity is pleased to oﬀer PhD Quinney Fellowships in
all areas of Natural Resources Management, Ecology
and Evolution. Fellowships pay $20,000 per annum
for up to ﬁve years. For application details, please go
towww.cnr.usu.edu <http://www.cnr.usu.edu/ >and
click on the Quinney Phd link on the right side of the
page.
Professor Todd A. Crowl Director of Research & Grad-
uate Education College of Natural Resources
“Todd A. Crowl” <tacrowl@cc.usu.edu >
VrijeU MolEcoEvol
Graduate position Molecular Ecotoxicology (f/m) Full
working hours
Vacancy number: 1.2005.00247
The department of Animal Ecology, which is part of
the Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, Vrije Univer-
siteit Amsterdam (The Netherlands), has a vacancy for
a PhD student.
Job description
The student will conduct a research project enti-
tled: Stress-based expression proﬁles in soil arthro-
pods, which is part of the program Assessing the liv-
ing soil. An ecogenomics approach to explore and un-
lock sustainable life support functions of soils. Ge-
nomic tools will be used to characterize and evaluate
biological functions of the living soil. The aim is to
link expression proﬁles with characteristics of the soil,
in particular with the degree and type of pollution.
Eventually this will lead to the development of a rapid
microarray-based method of soil diagnosis. The aim of
this Ph.D. project is to provide an understanding at
the gene expression level of inhibition of Folsomia can-dida reproduction, growth and survival by soil contam-
inants. Firstly, the invertebrate soil quality chip will
be used to study transcription proﬁles of springtails ex-
posed to clean soils from diﬀerent environments to cre-
ate a normal operating range (NOR) of the F. candida
transcriptome. Subsequently, eﬀects of soil contami-
nants (metals, PAHs, oil) on the F. candida NOR will
be investigated. The data will give more insight in the
molecular consequences of sub lethal eﬀects and will
contribute to the development of a new framework for
the diagnosis of ecological quality of soils.
Requirements
Molecular biologist with an interest in ecotoxicology;
Experience in statistical analysis of gene expression
data is an advantage;
Good social skills necessary for working in the labora-
tory with colleagues.
Particularities
The appointment will be fulltime for an initial du-
ration of 12 months. After satisfactory completion
the appointment will be extended to a total duration
of 4 years. Visit our website <http://www.vu.nl/-
vacatures >www.vu.nl/vacatures for a review of work-
ing conditions at the VU.
Salary
The gross salary will be 1.877 Euro a month (ﬁrst year)
gradually increasing to ¬2.407,−amonth (fourthyear ).
Additional information
About 75% of the time is devoted to research,
the remaining 25% to education and assistance in
courses. The education program is organized by
the national research school on Environmental Sci-
ence (SENSE). Applicants may request the com-
plete project description from D´ esir´ ee Hoonhout, tel
+31-20 59 87004. Further information can be ob-
tained from Dr. D. Roelofs, tel +31-20 59 87078,
e-mail: <mailto: dick.roelofs@ecology.falw.vu.nl >
dick.roelofs@ecology.falw.vu.nl, or Prof.dr. N.M. van
Straalen, tel: +31-20 59 87070.The project will start
by March 1st 2006.
Applications
Written applications should be addressed before Febru-
ary 1st to the Vrije Universiteit, Dr. J.M.R.M.
Neutelings, Managing Director, Faculty of Earth and
Life Sciences, De Boelelaan 1085, 1081 HV Amster-
dam, The Netherlands (the vacancy number should
be mentioned on the letter and on the envelop) or e-
mail to: <mailto: %20falw-vacature@falw.vu.nl >falw-
vacature@falw.vu.nl.February 1, 2006 EvolDir 29
Dick Roelofs
Vrije Universiteit, Animal Ecology Room H-147 Phone:+31-20-5987078
dick.roelofs@ecology.falw.vu.nl
Jobs
Albany CuratorOrnithology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
DalhousieU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
France PermanentResearcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
IPK Germany PlantGeneFlow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
IowaStateU Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Kastanienbaum ResTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
MaxPlanck Inst Ornithology EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . 32
RiceU LabFieldTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
SanJuanPR GenomicsFacilitiesManager . . . . . . . . . . . 33
TennesseeStateU EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
TexasStateU PlantBiologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBerne MolGeneticsTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35UCaliforniaRiverside EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UCollegeDublin SummerRes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ULausanne Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UMichigan EvolGeneticsTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UOxford OrganismalPlantBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
USouthernCalifornia MolComputationalBiol . . . . . . . 38
UTasmania AntarcticPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UTulsa EvolPlantViruses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
VirginiaCommonwealthU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . 39
WashingtonDFWOlympia SciTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Albany CuratorOrnithology
New York State Museum/NY State Education Depart-
ment
SENIOR SCIENTIST (ZOOLOGY), SG-22 Curator of
Ornithology
Location: Albany, NY Salary: $53,080*
The New York State Museum seeks applicants for a
permanent curatorial and research position of Senior
Scientist (Zoology), Grade 22, Ornithology. Duties in-
clude, but are not limited to, the following:
Conduct independent and interdisciplinary collections-
based research on the birds in and beyond New York
State; curate and augment the Museum’s ornithology
collection; seek funding for ﬁeld and laboratory re-
search and collections programs through competitive
grants and other outside sources; prepare research re-
sults for presentation at professional conferences, pub-
lic programming events, peer-reviewed publication, andexhibitions; communicate research to the Museum’s di-
verse audiences, including outreach to groups not tra-
ditionally represented in other museum audiences; and
develop public programs. The applicants’ research pro-
gram should be in evolution, molecular systematics,
ecology, zoogeography, or natural history.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. in one of the
biological sciences and two years of research experience
in ornithology.
Preferred candidates will have experience in care and
management of ornithology collections, a record of re-
search and peer-reviewed publications, and a record
of participating in regional and national scientiﬁc con-
ferences. Candidates should demonstrate the ability
to obtain outside funding through grants and/or other
sources.
*Leads to a maximum salary of $65,502 based on an-
nual performance advances.
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT: This will be a
provisional appointment pending a new Civil Service
examination.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Qualiﬁed candidates
should send a resume, a list of three references, a state-30 EvolDir February 1, 2006
ment of research interests, and letter of interest by
February 17, 2006 to:
Ms. Gayle Bowden Director, Human Resources Man-
agement Box NC-124 NYS Education Department 89
Washington Avenue, Room 528 EB Albany, NY 12234
Fax (518) 486-5631 E-mail: ncrowley@mail.nysed.gov
Jason R. Cryan, Ph.D. Director, Laboratory for
Conservation and Evolutionary Genetics New York
State Museum 3140 Cultural Education Center Al-
bany, NY 12230 Phone: (518) 486-2008 E-Mail:
jcryan@mail.nysed.gov FAX: 518-486-2034
Lab Website: www.nysm.nysed.gov/lceg/ NOTE ON
SENDING ATTACHMENTS: The NY State Education
Department’s e-mail system blocks delivery of messages
with some types of attachments (e.g., .zip and .exe
ﬁles). If you are sending me such an attachment, please
change the ﬁle extension to “.sed” and tell me about the
change in the text of your message.
Jason Cryan <JCRYAN@MAIL.NYSED.GOV >
DalhousieU EvoDevo
As advertised in “Science”
Position in Biology: Developmental Biology Depart-
ment of Biology Dalhousie University
The Department of Biology at Dalhousie University in-
vites applications for a full-time probationary tenure-
track position at the rank of Assistant Professor in De-
velopmental Biology. The appointment will be eﬀective
1 July 2006. Candidates must have a Ph.D. degree and
demonstrated excellence in research potential. Prefer-
ence will be given to applicants who use molecular tech-
niques, have postdoctoral experience and demonstrate
high teaching ability. The successful candidate will be
expected to develop an internationally recognized, ex-
ternally funded research program, teach undergradu-
ate and graduate courses and supervise honors students
and graduate students at the M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels.
Applications, including curriculum vitae, statements of
research and teaching interests, and letters from three
referees, may be submitted in conﬁdence to:
Dr. M.O. Johnston Chair of Developmental Biology
Search Committee Department of Biology Dalhousie
University Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 4J1 Canada
All correspondence will be acknowledged. Applications
will be accepted until 28 February 2006.All qualiﬁed candidates are encouraged to apply; how-
ever, Canadians and permanent residents will be given
priority. Dalhousie University is an Employment Eq-
uity/Aﬃrmative Action employer. The University en-
courages applications from qualiﬁed Aboriginal people,
persons with disabilities, racially visible persons, and
women.
– M.O. Johnston Professor Dept. of Biology Dal-
housie University 1355 Oxford St. Halifax, Nova Scotia,
CANADA B3H 4J1 Tel. (902) 494-8005 or 3515, Fax
(902) 494-3736
Lab Website http://biotype.biology.dal.ca/-
˜ mjohnst/index.html Mark.Johnston@Dal.Ca
Mark.Johnston@Dal.Ca
France PermanentResearcher
Dear all
This is to inform you about an attractive job oﬀer
in France the yearly announcement of researcher po-
sitions ﬁnanced by the French Funding Organization
Centre National de la Recherche Scientiﬁque (CNRS).
These are *life-time 100 % research* positions of-
fered in an international competition to excellent can-
didates. The web page is http://www.sg.cnrs.fr/-
drhchercheurs/concoursch/default-en.htm . Posts are
available, for instance in Biodiversity, evolution and
biological adaptations: from macromolecules to com-
munities, and Biological systems modelization, bioin-
formatics. The deadline, regrettably, is January, 16.
THE TYPES OF POSTS (see also http://-
www.sg.cnrs.fr/drhchercheurs/concoursch/chercheur/-
default-en.htm, http://www.sg.cnrs.fr/drhchercheurs/-
concoursch/informer/default-en.htm, http://-
www.sg.cnrs.fr/drhchercheurs/concoursch/pdf/-
guide-en.pdf ): There are charg´ es de recherche, 2nd and
1st degree, and directeurs de recherche, 2nd and 1st
degree, i.e. Associate Scientists after dissertation and
after 4 years of experience, and Senior Scientists after 8
years or 12 years of experience, respectively. According
to my experience already the Charg´ es de Recherche are
actually free to do what they want within an overall,
very large disciplinary category (there are some 40
categories deﬁned for all sciences together). Directeurs
are of course expected to, ﬁnally, develop leading roles.
This may mean becoming leader of a team as proposed
and agreed upon by the Research Unit (Unit´ e Mixte de
Recherche, UMR) and to search for extramural funds,February 1, 2006 EvolDir 31
which are scarce in France. Experience in such leading
functions is thus an important plus for an application
to a directeur post. And of course publications. Even
though strange things are happening, multiple ﬁrst or
senior authored publications per year with an overall
impact of 4 or more seem to be useful, but its open
end. For Charg´ e, 2nd degree, several good publications
from the PhD are probably needed.
THE PROFILES If you go to http://-
gestionoﬀres.dsi.cnrs.fr/fo/oﬀres/default-en.php you
will ﬁnd a number of posts oﬀered in the sections 29
(Biodiversity, evolution and biological adaptations:
from macromolecules to communities), 44 (Biological
systems modelization, bioinformatics), and also 20
(Continental Surfaces and Interfaces, which includes
vegetation). But note that by further clicking on the
numbers given to the jobs (e.g. N29/02) you will ﬁnd
that the Charg´ e positions (Associate Scientists) in
sections 29 and 20 are focused to quite restricted ﬁelds
of research. This is where science politics comes into
play.
THE RECRUITMENT Directeur (Senior scientists)
posts are told be more diﬃcult to obtain for someone
that comes from outside the French system. A so-called
poste rouge is often recommended in advance, a fund-
ing for half a year within the host institution. Even
for demanding a Charg´ e position, advance visits in the
host lab may be appreciated. Obviously, this is hardly
possible anymore for the deadline 16 January 06. A
visit to the lab after having submitted the application
seems to be very much expected in all cases. Generally,
French institutions *do not* reimburse candidates the
travel costs to visit labs or to come to interviews etc..
Yes, this is a shame. I hope we have some funds here
at Rennes, but this is not sure.
After having applied *all* candidates will be invited
to a presentation and an interview in Paris in spring
2006 (see http://www.cnrs.fr/comitenational/calend/-
printe06/cprint06.pdf ). Travel costs will *not* be re-
imbursed by the CNRS, and on the level of host Units
funds may be scarce, too. Presentations and interviews
can be in English, French is possibly a plus.
I personally could oﬀer help in putting together an ap-
plication for qualiﬁed candidates with a project willing
to choose University of Rennes 1 and to work here on
the interface between ecology and phylogeny preferably
of plants or, alternatively, on the diversity and diversi-
ﬁcation of arthropods in the canopy. The host lab here
is the UNITE MIXTE DE RECHERCHE ECOSYS-
TEMES , BIODIVERSITE , EVOLUTION with par-
ticular expertise in mechanisms of speciation, life his-
tory evolution, and adaptation, expertise at the inter-face between macroevolution and macroecology, exper-
tise in ecophysiology, landscape ecology and soon also
behavioral ecology. It is a large institution with
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
IPK Germany PlantGeneFlow
Hi,
I have a six month internship position from the “The
International Association for the Exchange of Students
for Technical Experience”
http://www.iaeste.org/network/index.html The posi-
tion will begin in April/May 2006, and will involve both
ﬂow cytometric analyses of apomictic (asexual repro-
duction through seed) seed production, and molecular
genetic analyses (microsatellite) of plants in the North
American genus Boechera (wild relative of Arabidop-
sis). I am looking for someone who has basic molecular
biology skills who also likes to work with computers,
since many of our analyses are automated. Knowledge
of German would be helpful, but is not required.
The candidate must be registered at a university, but
you should also contact your local IAESTE oﬃce for
more details on any restrictions (see above link).
The IPK is a large and well-endowed research center lo-
cated about 2 hours southwest of Berlin, in the foothills
of the beautiful Harz Mountains.
Please don’t hesitate to contact me if you have any
questions, or would like to apply.
Best wishes, Tim
Dr. Tim Sharbel Apomixis Research Group Dept.
of Cytogenetics Leibniz Institute of Plant Genet-
ics and Crop Plant Research (IPK) Corrensstraße 3,
D-06466 Gatersleben Germany Email: sharbel@ipk-
gatersleben.de
Apomixis Group Webpage http://www.ipk-
gatersleben.de/en/02/04/05/index.html IPKWebpage
www.ipk-gatersleben.de tel: +049 (0)39482 5608 fax:
+049 (0)39482 513732 EvolDir February 1, 2006
IowaStateU Genetics
Lush Endowed Chair in Animal Breeding and Genetics
- IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY
The Department of Animal Science at Iowa State
University invites applications for the Lush Endowed
Chair in Animal Breeding and Genetics, which will
be ﬁlled at the level of Associate or Full Profes-
sor level. This newly established Lush Endowed
Chair will be an integral part of the Animal Breed-
ing and Genetics group of 15 faculty at Iowa State
University ( http://www.ans.iastate.edu/section/abg/
), which builds on the legacy of Jay Lush and is fur-
ther enhanced by multiple collaborating faculty in re-
lated disciplines through the Center for Integrated Ani-
mal Genomics ( http://www.ciag.iastate.edu/ ) and in-
terdisciplinary graduate programs in genetics ( http:/-
/www.genetics.iastate.edu ), bioinformatics and com-
putational biology ( http://www.bcb.iastate.edu ), and
statistics ( http://www.stat.iastate.edu ).
Candidates should be recognized international scien-
tists in Animal Breeding and Genetics or related ﬁelds
and are expected to lead a competitive research and ed-
ucation program of international stature at Iowa State
University. Applicants should submit a complete re-
sume and names and contact information of three ref-
erences to Dr. Maynard Hogberg, Chair, Department
of Animal Science, 1221 Kildee Hall, Iowa State Uni-
versity, Ames, IA 50011- 3150, (tel: 515-294-2160; fax:
515-294-6994; e-mail: hogberg@iastate.edu). Applica-
tions will be accepted until March 1, 2006, or until a
suitable candidate has been found. Iowa State Univer-
sity is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Em-
ployer. Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.
fjanzen@iastate.edu
Kastanienbaum ResTech
We are looking for an active, well-organized person to
work 50% for the molecular lab in the Aquatic Ecology
& Evolution Department located at EAWAG Limno-
logical research centre in Kastanienbaum.General responsibilities will include managing the pur-
chasing, accounting and invoicing of supplies, maintain-
ing databases and tissue collections, overseeing lab du-
ties, assisting in student training. Speciﬁc responsibili-
ties will be standard molecular lab work (e.g. DNA iso-
lation, PCR, sample preparation for sequencing, editing
sequence data and scoring fragment markers).
The ideal applicant will have had experience in man-
aging a genetics laboratory (i.e., maintenance of lab-
oratory equipment, facilities and frozen tissue collec-
tions, and purchasing of supplies and equipment) and
in the application of molecular genetic methods (includ-
ing PCR, microsatellites, AFLP and DNA sequencing
using capillary sequencers).
Tidiness, attention to detail, good organizational skills
and ability to manage people are a must.
Pre-requisite is an M.Sc. in a molecular biology ﬁeld or
a minimum of a B.Sc. in a related ﬁeld with at least one
year of experience in a molecular biology or molecular
systematics environment, with working knowledge of
standard molecular lab protocols. Our lab uses molec-
ular markers for population genetics and phylogenetics
of speciation and ecological diﬀerentiation of aquatic or-
ganisms, predominantly ﬁshes. Current research group
size is 2 or 3 senior researchers and/or postdocs, 4
PhD students and a ﬂuctuating number of MSc stu-
dents that use the molecular lab. For further details,
see our website at http://www.ﬁshecology.ch/ . This is
a 12 months position, potentially renewable for several
years.
Please apply by email with a letter expressing in-
terest, your CV and names of three references sent
to Michelle.Sidler@eawag.ch. Applications must be
received by January 31, 2006, but applications will
be considered until the post is ﬁlled. Start date
is expected to be no later than March 1, 2006.
Inquiries should be made to Dr Vicky Schneider
(vicky.schneider@eawag.ch) or Prof. Ole Seehausen
(ole.seehausen@aqua.unibe.ch).
ole.seehausen@eawag.ch ole.seehausen@eawag.ch
MaxPlanck Inst Ornithology
EvolGenetics
Job Announcement
Evolutionary GeneticistFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 33
A full-time position is available at the Max Planck In-
stitute for Ornithology to work in the research group
Behavioural Ecology and Evolutionary Genetics. We
are looking for a highly motivated scientist who is in-
terested to participate in an ongoing research program
aimed at identifying the genetic basis of variation in
behaviour and sexually selected ornaments. We ex-
pect a profound knowledge of the analytical and labo-
ratory skills required to use a candidate gene approach
on a variety of questions related to avian behavioural
ecology. Our current research focuses on reproductive
behaviour, including timing of reproduction, eﬀects of
inbreeding, mate choice, the evolution of promiscuity,
avian personalities and avian olfaction.
We oﬀer a highly stimulating, international environ-
ment, outstanding research facilities including a fully
equipped molecular laboratory, technical assistance,
and superb logistic support. The working language is
English. The position does not require teaching, but
teaching is encouraged via existing contacts and col-
laboration with the University of Munich (LMU).
Applicants should have ﬁnished their PhD. Selection
will be based on experience, motivation and the poten-
tial to integrate in the ongoing research program. The
position will be ﬁlled as soon as a suitable candidate
has been found. The position is initially for two years,
with an option to become permanent.
The salary will be according to German public service
rules and includes social security beneﬁts. The Max
Planck Society is an equal opportunity employer and
encourages disabled persons to apply. It also aims at
increasing the number of female staﬀ members in ﬁelds
where they are underrepresented, and therefore encour-
ages women to apply.
Candidates should send a curriculum vitae and a state-
ment of past research and relevant experience to the
(email) address below. To ensure full consideration,
applications should arrive before February 15, 2006.
Informal enquiries can be made to Bart Kempenaers
(b.kempenaers@orn.mpg.de).
Heike Gorny Max Planck Institute for Ornithology
Postfach 15 64 D-82305 Starnberg (Seewiesen) Ger-
many E-mail: gorny@orn.mpg.de Phone: +49-(0)8157-
932-232 Fax: +49-(0)8157-932-400
Bart kempenaers <b.kempenaers@orn.mpg.de >
RiceU LabFieldTechJob, Lab/Field Technician
Two newly established labs at Rice University are look-
ing for a shared technician, to start immediately or by
March 1, 2006. Duties will include both labwork and
ﬁeldwork examining the ecology and evolution of plant-
animal and plant-microbe interactions. Candidates
should have B.A./B.S. in biology and some hands-on
experience in ﬁeld and/or lab biology. Training will be
provided, but experience with DNA techniques (PCR,
sequencing) and/or microbial methods (endophytic or
mycorrhizal fungi) is a bonus. The position is classi-
ﬁed as full-time, temporary (6-24 months). Salary is in
the range $1600-$2080 per month depending on experi-
ence. This position would be an excellent ﬁt for some-
one planning on graduate study in ecology & evolution-
ary biology, as there will be the opportunity to gain ex-
perience in a number of research areas and to coauthor
papers. Please send a resume and contact information
for three references by email (kwhitney@rice.edu) or by
post (K. Whitney/J. Rudgers, Dept. of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, MS 170, Rice University, Hous-
ton TX 77251-1892).
kwhitney@rice.edu kwhitney@rice.edu
SanJuanPR
GenomicsFacilitiesManager
We are looking for a person with established man-
agerial and technical skills to help integrate and ex-
pand the Sequence and Genotyping Facility ( http:/-
/dnaseq.hpcf.upr.edu/ﬁles/sequencing.html ) located at
the University of Puerto Rico-Rio Piedras, in the city of
San Juan. The person will be hired under the Alliance
for the Advancement of Biomedical Research Program
(AABRE) ( http:// aabre.hpcf.upr.edu/). Key duties
and responsibilities include: (1) Maintaining molecular
and computer equipment associated with core Sequenc-
ing and Genotyping. Equipment includes MegaBASE
1000 DNA sequencer, Li-Cor NEN Global DNA Ana-
lyzer System, and Odyssey Infrared Imaging System,
and various key support equipment.
(2) Running centralized Laboratory Information Man-
agement System (LIMS) that includes a web-based in-
terface for data archiving, dissemination, manipulation,
and analysis for genomics core facilities.
(3) Running yearly workshops designed to train post-
doctoral researchers, students, and technicians on ma-34 EvolDir February 1, 2006
jor equipment and emerging research techniques.
(4) Coordinating with the manager of the Bioinformat-
ics Satellite laboratory and researchers at the High Per-
formance Computing Facilities (HPCf) on the devel-
opment of critical database resources for genomic re-
search.
(5) Coordinating with biological and biomolecular sci-
ence researchers to identify and secure funding avenues
for infrastructure improvements in genomics and bioin-
formatics in Puerto Rico.
(6) Facilitating grant writing and project development.
Salary Range: $22,000-$35,000 (including beneﬁts) de-
pending on qualiﬁcations. Position has an initial ap-
pointment of four years, with opportunities for contin-
ued support. Senior personnel are encouraged to ap-
ply. The University of Puerto Rico is an equal oppor-
tunity/aﬃrmative action employer. Applications from
minorities and women are encouraged.
The University of Puerto Rico-Rio Piedras: UPR-RP
is the oldest and largest campus of the UPR system.
It has an active and growing research community in
molecular genetics with a developing emphasis on ge-
nomic/functional genomic research. Key areas of re-
search include neurobiology, development, evolutionary
genomics, phylogenetics, and behavior.
Contact: Send CV and covering letter to W. Owen
McMillan, Department of Biology, University of Puerto
Rico-Rio Piedras, P.O. Box 23360, San Juan, PR,
00931. E-mail: wmcmill@rrpac.upr.clu.edu.
Questions may also be addressed to:
Jason T. Rauscher, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras
P.O. Box 23360 San Juan, PR 00931-3360 tel: 787 764
0000 (ext. 7764) e-mail: rauscher@evoandes.net
rauscher@evoandes.net
TennesseeStateU EvolEcol
Job Title Assistant/Associate Professor Tenure Track -
Biological Sciences
Job application online at: http://www.tnstate.edu/-
Use pull-down menu (I want to ... ) Position Number
007271
Teach undergraduate major and graduate courses in
ecology, biostatistics and area of expertise. Estab-lish an externally funded ongoing research program
and direct undergraduate and graduate students’ re-
search projects. Minimum Qualiﬁcations/Experience
Required is a Ph.D. degree in biology or related ﬁeld
with two or more years of postdoctoral experience. Also
required is evidence of commitment to teaching with
demonstrated research capability in ecology or environ-
mental science and experience with advanced statisti-
cal methodology and modeling. Special Instructions
to Applicants Please scan a copy of your doctorate
transcript into the system. If you have problems at-
taching any of your documents, please call the Human
Resources Oﬃce at 615-963-5285. Job Close Date
02-28-2006 Job Category Faculty Requisition Number
0195 Beneﬁts Tennessee State University oﬀers an ex-
cellent beneﬁts package. Regular full-time employees
are eligible to participate in a major medical/health
plan, dental plan and disability plan; and accrue sick
and/or vacation leave. In addition, several educational
programs are available for employees of the University.
Thanks once again.
Phil Ganter
Phil Ganter <pganter@tnstate.edu >
TexasStateU PlantBiologist
Plant Biologist
The Texas State University Department of Biology
invites applications for a tenure-track plant biologist
position at the assistant professor level. An earned
Ph.D. is required and a research program involving
the application of ﬁeld and molecular techniques to
the conservation and management of plant populations,
a record of extramural funding, and postdoctoral re-
search and teaching experience are preferred. Salary
and start-up packages are competitive. To apply, sub-
mit by mail a statement of teaching and research in-
terests, curriculum vitae, unoﬃcial transcripts, copies
of up to four published papers, and contact informa-
tion for four references to: Dr. David E. Lemke,
Chair, Plant Biologist Search Committee, Department
of Biology, Texas State University-San Marcos, San
Marcos, TX 78666. Review of applications begins
on March 1, 2006 and will continue until a suitable
candidate is identiﬁed. Please visit http:// <http:/-
/www.bio.txstate.edu >www.bio.txstate.edu for a full
description of the position and the Department’s pro-
grams and faculty. Texas State is an Equal Opportu-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 35
nity Employer and is committed to increasing diversity
in faculty and administrative positions. –
Caitlin R. Gabor, Ph. D. Associate Professor Texas
State University (Formerly SWT) Department of Biol-
ogy, Supple Building Room 384 San Marcos, TX 78666-
4615 Work: (512) 245-3387; Fax: (512) 245-8713 E-
mail: gabor@txstate.edu
http://www.bio.txstate.edu/ ˜ gabor/gabor.htm
Caitlin Gabor <gabor@txstate.edu >
UBerne MolGeneticsTech
We are looking for an active, well-organized person to
work 50% as a molecular genetics technician in the
EAWAG and University of Berne Aquatic Ecology &
Evolution Department located at EAWAG Limnologi-
cal research centre in Kastanienbaum.
General responsibilities will include managing the pur-
chasing, accounting and invoicing of supplies, maintain-
ing databases and tissue collections, overseeing lab du-
ties, assisting in student training. Speciﬁc responsibili-
ties will be standard molecular lab work (e.g. DNA iso-
lation, PCR, sample preparation for sequencing, editing
sequence data and scoring fragment markers).
The ideal applicant will have had experience in man-
aging a genetics laboratory (i.e., maintenance of lab-
oratory equipment, facilities and frozen tissue collec-
tions, and purchasing of supplies and equipment) and
in the application of molecular genetic methods (includ-
ing PCR, microsatellites, AFLP and DNA sequencing
using capillary sequencers).
Tidiness, attention to detail, good organizational skills
and ability to manage people are a must.
Pre-requisite is an M.Sc. in a molecular biology ﬁeld or
a minimum of a B.Sc. in a related ﬁeld with at least one
year of experience in a molecular biology or molecular
systematics environment, with working knowledge of
standard molecular lab protocols. Our lab uses molec-
ular markers for population genetics and phylogenetics
of speciation and ecological diﬀerentiation of aquatic or-
ganisms, predominantly ﬁshes. Current research group
size is 2 or 3 senior researchers and/or postdocs, 4
PhD students and a ﬂuctuating number of MSc stu-
dents that use the molecular lab. For further details,
see our website at http://www.ﬁshecology.ch/ . This is
a 12 months position, potentially renewable for several
years.Please apply by email with a letter expressing in-
terest, your CV and names of three references sent
to Michelle.Sidler@eawag.ch. Applications must be
received by January 31, 2006, but applications will
be considered until the post is ﬁlled. Start date
is expected to be no later than March 1, 2006.
Inquiries should be made to Dr Vicky Schneider
(vicky.schneider@eawag.ch) or Prof. Ole Seehausen
(ole.seehausen@aqua.unibe.ch).
ole.seehausen@eawag.ch ole.seehausen@eawag.ch
UCaliforniaRiverside EvolEcol
Faculty Position ? Assistant Professor Evolutionary
Ecology University of California, Riverside
The Department of Biology seeks applications for a po-
sition at the level of Assistant Professor in the gen-
eral area of evolutionary ecology. We are interested in
individuals who are strongly quantitative, working to
link data with theory. Taxonomic focus and system are
open, but preference will be given to candidates who
work in the areas of coevolution, metapopulation dy-
namics or interspecies interactions, and whose research
complements some aspect of existing college strengths
in ecology, evolution, physiology, behavior, paleobiol-
ogy and genetics. The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to establish and maintain a vigorous research
program, have a strong commitment to excellence in
teaching in the graduate program in Evolution, Ecol-
ogy and Organismal Biology, and in the undergraduate
programs in Biology and Biological Sciences. There will
also be an opportunity to participate in other programs,
such as the Graduate Program in Genetics, Genomics,
and Bioinformatics or to be aﬃliated with the Center
for Conservation Biology.
Interested individuals should submit the following: (1)
a curriculum vitae, (2) a statement of research and
teaching interests, (3) samples of relevant publications,
and (4) have three letters of recommendation sent to:
Chair, Evolutionary Ecology Search Committee De-
partment of Biology 1208 Spieth Hall University of Cal-
ifornia, Riverside Riverside, CA 92521
For additional information about the UCR campus,
the College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, and
the Department of Biology, visit our web sites (
http://www.ucr.edu/ ;http://www.ucr.edu/ ;http://-
www.biology.ucr.edu/ ). The University of California36 EvolDir February 1, 2006
is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer.
David Reznick (david.reznick@ucr.edu)
UCollegeDublin SummerRes
Dear all,
Applications for the 2006 summer undergraduate re-
search programme are now open.
Full funding is available for 12 international students
to attend a new summer research programme in Dublin
(10 week course). Apologies for cross-postings; please
circulate widely! If you know of any students who are
qualiﬁed to apply for this summer’s programme, please
pass on the information below.
Cheers,
Julia
Collections-based Biology in Dublin Undergraduate Re-
search Experience and Knowledge Award (UREKA)
CoBiD is the joint programme for teaching and re-
search linking University College Dublin and the Na-
tional Museum of Ireland (Natural History Division).
The UREKA award provides funding for students cur-
rently completing their ﬁrst degree to join CoBiD re-
searchers in a ten-week summer programme in Dublin.
Collections-based Biology in Dubin (CoBiD) provides
an exciting research environment, with experience both
in high quality laboratories in the science departments
in University College Dublin, and important interna-
tional research centre in the National Musuem of Ire-
land (Natural History) collections in Dublin city centre.
The CoBiD- UREKA summer programme is a ten-week
intensive research course for undergraduate students.
Diverse research projects are oﬀered, with topics rang-
ing from systematic biology including traditional and
molecular techniques to ecology and population genet-
ics. Students will work side-by-side with curators and
senior scientists and will be involved in all aspects of
collections-based research including collection and cu-
ration of specimens, experiments and analysis, partici-
pation in ﬁeld expeditions, and dissemination of scien-
tiﬁc results through oral presentation and publication.
The CoBiD summer school programme is funded by
Science Foundation Ireland, and is open to students of
any nationality.
Term dates: 12 June - 18 August 2006Requirements * registered as an undergraduate student;
expecting to complete a ﬁrst degree no sooner than De-
cember 2006. * proﬁciency in English (written and spo-
ken) * willingness to work hard, and ability to work
independently * strong interest in the project of choice
* career goals in organismal biology
To apply, you must complete the application form
(available from the UREKA website) and submit it
as an email attachment. You must also arrange for a
seperate letter of recommendation to be sent by e-mail
recieved directly from your reference.
All materials must be recieved by: Sunday 12 March
Research Projects |avian phylogeny |evolution of fossil
crocodiles |mayﬂies and climate change |evolution of
genomic imprinting |carboniferous coral “reefs” |evo-
lution in mammalian sensory perception |resource par-
titioning in inshore ﬁsh |marine host-parasite evolution
|plant evolution and extinction |
For more information, including project descriptions
seewww.ucd.ie/ureka/ or e-mail ureka@ucd.ie
– Julia Sigwart Collections-based Biology in Dublin
http://www.ucd.ie/zoology/museum/ ureka@ucd.ie
ULausanne Evolution
Junior Group leader in Ecology and/or Evolution at
the Department of Ecology and Evolution, University
of Lausanne, Switzerland
The Department of Ecology and Evolution at Lausanne
University, Switzerland, ( http://www.unil.ch/dee ) in-
vites applications for a junior group leader position
(Maitre assistant) in the ﬁeld of Ecology and/or Evolu-
tion. We are seeking a highly motivated young scientist
with a post doctoral experience, a strong publication
record, and the will to develop an independent research
group within the department. Scientists from any area
of Ecology and/or Evolution are encouraged to apply,
be they ﬁeld biologists, experimentalists, theoreticians,
bioinformaticians, molecular biologists or genomicists.
The position is for a maximum of four years and an-
nual salary ranges from 85’000 to 146’000 CHF (54’800
to 94’000 Euros).
Applicants will be expected to develop an externally
funded and internationally recognized research pro-
gram. Teaching duties include a 14 to 28 hours ad-
vanced graduate course in the applicant’s research area,February 1, 2006 EvolDir 37
as well as taking part in the organisation of undergrad-
uate practicals.
The department of Ecology and Evolution has a long
track record of excellence in research. It is made of over
20 research groups in the ﬁeld of ecology, evolutionary
biology, behaviour, population genetics and genomics.
The Department is currently home to 20+ post-docs
and 40+ PhD students from many diﬀerent countries
and more than half of these are externally funded by
Swiss and European research grants.
The University of Lausanne ( http://www.unil.ch ) pro-
vides excellent facilities, a lively intellectual and social
environment and is beautifully located in Switzerland
at the shore of Lake Geneva.
To apply for the position or for more information, please
send a CV with a list of publications as well as the
name of two referees (no later than the 17th of Febru-
ary, 2006) by email to:
Francoise Pham francoise.pham@unil.ch
DEE, Biophore UNIL-Sorge CH-1015 Lausanne
Switzerland
For informal inquiries, please contact J´ erˆ ome Goudet
(jerome.goudet@unil.ch) or Laurent Keller (lau-
rent.keller@unil.ch).
jerome.goudet@unil.ch jerome.goudet@unil.ch
UMichigan EvolGeneticsTech
Research technician job
We are looking for an active and well-organized person
with relevant research experience to work as a labora-
tory manager and research technician in the laborato-
ries of Chris Dick and Paul Berry in the Department
of Ecology & Evolution Biology at the University of
Michigan. Our research involves use of DNA mark-
ers for phylogeny reconstruction and population genetic
analyses of tropical plants.
The applicant should ideally have experience with DNA
sequencing, PCR, DNA cloning and DNA fragment
(microsatellite and AFLP) analyses. Managerial re-
sponsibilities include purchasing, accounting and in-
voicing of supplies, maintaining databases and tissue
collections, and assisting in student training.
The candidate should minimally have a B.Sc. in a bi-
ology ﬁeld with research experience in molecular biol-ogy. Post-doctoral applicants are encouraged to apply.
Salary range is $24,000 to $38,000 depending on level
of experience. This is a 12-month position, potentially
renewable for several years.
Please apply by email with a letter expressing interest,
your CV and names of three references to Chris Dick
(cwdick@umich.edu). Applications should be received
by January 31, 2006. Start date is expected to be no
later than March 1, 2006.
For more information on the Berry and Dick
labs, please visit the following web site: ( http:/-
/www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/research/researchareas/-
systematics/ )
Christopher W. Dick Assistant Professor, Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Assistant Curator, University
Herbarium University of Michigan 830 North Univer-
sity Ave 2009 Natural Science Building Ann Arbor, MI
48109-1048
Oﬃce phone 734-764-9408
Christopher Dick <cwdick@umich.edu >
UOxford OrganismalPlantBiol
Department of Plant Sciences : University of Oxford
Sherardian Professorship of Botany (in ORGANISMAL
PLANT BIOLOGY) Closing Date: Monday, March 06,
2006
Applications are invited for the above post, tenable
from 1 October 2006, or such later date as may be ar-
ranged. Following a recent review of the biosciences the
University is now investing in the future of the Plant
Sciences in the form of this proleptic appointment (and
a second Chair in cellular/molecular plant biology).
The chair is one the most prestigious in their subjects in
the UK, and it is the intent of the University to appoint
an individual of the highest calibre.
Further Details
The Sherardian Professorship was established in 1734,
and the post is now to be ﬁlled in anticipation of
the retirement of Professor H.G. Dickinson in Septem-
ber 2009. The successful candidate will have an in-
ternational research reputation in ORGANISMAL AS-
PECTS OF PLANT BIOLOGY.
Selection Criteria
The successful candidate will also have evidence of dy-38 EvolDir February 1, 2006
namic, forward-thinking and feasible future research
plans; the ability to produce, and communicate eﬀec-
tively, lectures for undergraduate and graduate stu-
dents; experience of raising funds from outside bodies
to run a major research group; managerial and organ-
isational expertise, including experience of developing
academic strategy and of ﬁnancial management; and
the ability to contribute eﬀectively to ensuring the long-
term development of the subject, and to maintaining
interest in the subject in Oxford and its wide recogni-
tion outside.
The Department of Plant Sciences
The Department of Plant Sciences at the University of
Oxford is devoted to teaching and research in plant sci-
ence. The research interests range from systematics,
forestry and ecology to cell, molecular biology and bio-
chemistry (see www.plants.ox.ac.uk ). It has 26 Univer-
sity lecturers and senior fellows, c.45 postdoctoral re-
search workers and c.35 graduate research students, and
is responsible jointly with the Department of Zoology
for teaching some 300 undergraduate students reading
the Honour School of Biological Sciences.
General Conditions
A non-stipendiary fellowships is attached to the post at
Magdalen College, Oxford.
How to Apply
Separate further particulars, including details
of how to apply, are available from: http://-
www.admin.ox.ac.uk/fp/wd7-016.shtml (Sherardian
Professorship of Botany) or from the Registrar, Uni-
versity Oﬃces, Wellington Square, Oxford OX1 2JD
(Tel: 01865 270200). The closing date for applications
for each post is Monday 6 March 2006.
Informal enquiries may be directed, in the ﬁrst
instance, to Chris.Leaver@plants.ox.ac.uk or
John.Pannell@plants.ox.ac.uk
John R. Pannell Department of Plant Sciences Univer-
sity of Oxford Oxford OX1 3RB United Kingdom
http://dps.plants.ox.ac.uk/external/staﬀ/-
staﬀ detail.asp?key=JP&frompg=people&bctext=-
Academic
tel. +44-(0)1865-275145 fax. +44-(0)1865-275074
John Pannell <john.pannell@plant-
sciences.oxford.ac.uk >USouthernCalifornia
MolComputationalBiol
As seen in the 27 January issue of Science:
FACULTY POSITIONS IN MOLECULAR AND
COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY University of South-
ern California
The Molecular and Computational Biology Section of
the Department of Biological Sciences in the College of
Letters, Arts and Sciences at the University of South-
ern California (USC) invites applications for multiple
open-rank tenure-track Faculty Positions. We are seek-
ing outstanding colleagues who use modern molecu-
lar, genetic and/or computational approaches to ad-
dress fundamental biological questions in diverse model
systems that enhance and complement our current re-
search strengths. Our program is undergoing signiﬁcant
expansion, including recent occupancy of a new molec-
ular and computational biology research building.
Disciplines of major interest include, but are not limited
to, cell and developmental biology; computational biol-
ogy and bioinformatics; plant molecular biology; neu-
robiology; evolutionary biology; systems biology.
Review of applications will begin immediately. Please
send curriculum vitae, statement of research objec-
tives, and three letters of recommendation to e-mail:
msearch@usc.edu For additional information about
our program, visit our website: http://www.usc.edu/-
dept/LAS/ biosci/mcb/
USC is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer
magnus@usc.edu magnus@usc.edu
UTasmania AntarcticPopGenet
The Institute of Antarctic and Southern Ocean Stud-
ies (University of Tasmania, Australia) is looking for a
population geneticist to work in some area of Antarc-
tic biology. Applications are invited for appointment
to this position, which will be oﬀered as a full-time, 5
year contract with the successful appointee being re-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 39
quired to take up duty early in 2006. The appointee
will be required to undertake original research in an
area of Antarctic molecular biology. While all areas
of molecular biology will be considered, preference will
be given to candidates prepared to work in the area of
population genetics. Applicants must have had prac-
tical experience working in a molecular laboratory but
it is not necessary that they have previously worked in
Antarctica.. The position also requires the appointee
to contribute to the undergraduate and postgraduate
teaching and supervision programs of the institute.
The appointment will be at Academic Level B and
will have a total remuneration package of up to
A$83,520 per annum (comprising salary within the
range A$60,542 - A$71,385 plus 17% superannuation).
The University oﬀers excellent employment beneﬁts
and a pleasant working environment. The position
is funded jointly with the Australian Antarctic Divi-
sion. The Institute of Antarctic and Southern Ocean
Studies is a multidisciplinary research and teaching in-
stitute with an international reputation in polar sci-
ence. Research strengths cover many areas of Antarc-
tic life sciences, physical sciences and social sciences.
The institute has a large postgraduate program com-
prised of approximately 60 PhD students and coordi-
nates undergraduate and honours programs. For fur-
ther information about the position please contact the
Director of IASOS, Professor Andrew McMinn, on tele-
phone (03) 6226 2980, fax (03) 6226 2973 or email an-
drew.mcminn@utas.edu.au. A Job Application Pack-
age for this position can be accessed and downloaded
from the Human Resources website at the following ad-
dress: www.admin.utas.edu.au/hr/jobs Prof Andrew
McMinn Director, Institute of Antarctic and Southern
Ocean Studies University of Tasmania
Ph (03) 6226 2980 FX (03) 6226 2973
Andrew McMinn <andrew.mcminn@utas.edu.au >
UTulsa EvolPlantViruses
Assistant Professor: Plant Virologist
The Department of Biological Science at the Univer-
sity of Tulsa seeks to appoint a tenure-track Assistant
Professor with expertise in the ecology and evolution
of plant viruses, a position funded by a state NSF EP-
SCoR initiative. The successful candidate will develop
an independent, extramurally-funded research program
in plant viral ecology and evolution and train under-graduate and graduate students. A Ph.D. degree and
postdoctoral experience are required. The position be-
gins 15 August 2005. Start-up funds and support for
lab personnel (two years for Postdoc or Technician) will
be provided.
The University of Tulsa is a private, comprehensive
university with a strong commitment to research and
teaching. The Department of Biological Science has a
faculty of fourteen and oﬀers BS, MS, and Ph.D. de-
grees. To apply, send curriculum vita, statement of
research and teaching interests, reprints, and three let-
ters of reference to Mark Buchheim, Search Committee
Chair, Department of Biological Science, The Univer-
sity of Tulsa, 600 S. College Ave., Tulsa, Oklahoma
74104. Review of applications has been re-opened will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
The University of Tulsa is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
– Mark Buchheim, Ph.D. Department of Biological Sci-
ence The University of Tulsa Tulsa, OK 74104-3189
918-631-3833 (O) 918-631-3797 (L) 918-631-2762 (FAX)
Mark Buchheim <mark-buchheim@utulsa.edu >
VirginiaCommonwealthU
Bioinformatics
The Center for the Study of Biological Complexity and
the School of Engineering at VCU invite applications
for a tenure eligible Assistant Professor to Professor
level position in computational bioinformatics. The
successful candidate will hold a Ph.D. in Computer Sci-
ence or related ﬁeld and is expected to develop a pro-
gram of externally funded research. Interests should in-
clude algorithm development, interpretation, and scien-
tiﬁc visualization of multi-scale/multi-dimensional bio-
logical datasets, database architecture and algorithm
design, simulation of complex biological systems, or
other relevant areas of computational biology and bioin-
formatics. The successful candidate will participate in
teaching within the VCU’s comprehensive new Bioin-
formatics Program.
The successful applicant will join the Center for the
Study of Biological Complexity ( www.vcu.edu/csbc/ )
in VCU Life Sciences, and the School of Engineering as
part of our eﬀort to integrate Life Sciences and Engi-
neering. The School of Engineering, launched in 1996
and now enrolling over 1000 students, is home to the40 EvolDir February 1, 2006
new department of Chemical and Life Science Engi-
neering, Computer Science and Biomedical Engineer-
ing. The Center is an academic think tank that pro-
motes integrative and interdisciplinary approaches to
biological and biomedical research. The Center houses
VCU’s high performance computing facilities, including
hardware, software, databases and support for bioin-
formatics, modeling and scientiﬁc visualization. The
Center also maintains state of the art resources for ge-
nomic, proteomic and pharmacogenomic research, and
houses students in VCU’s programs in bioinformatics
and systems biology.
Send a statement of research and teaching interests,
curriculum vitae, three references and supporting docu-
ments by March 1, 2006, to Gregory A. Buck, Center for
the Study of Biological Complexity, Virginia Common-
wealth University, P.O. Box 842030, Richmond, Vir-
ginia 23284-2030, by e-mail at buck@mail2.vcu.edu.
VCU is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative action em-
ployer. Women, minorities and persons with disabilities
are encouraged to apply
Zhongming Zhao, on behalf of Gregory Buck
Zhongming Zhao, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Dept. Psy-
chiatry and Center for the Study of Biological Complex-
ity Virginia Commonwealth University PO Box 980126
Richmond VA 23298-0126 Phone: (804) 828-8129 Fax:
(804) 828-1471 Email: zzhao@vcu.edu
WashingtonDFWOlympia SciTech
We have an immediate opening for a Scientiﬁc Tech-
nician 3 with the Washington Department of Fish and
Wildlife Genetics Lab in Olympia, WA.Duties: This position is responsible for processing sam-
ples and collecting microsatellite and other DNA data
and to perform other lab functions/activities for the
Genetics Lab. Works closely with Biologists, Scientiﬁc
Technicians, and Research Scientists.
- Set up, conduct, and evaluate polymerase chain re-
action (PCR) ampliﬁcations reactions; Monitor qual-
ity control of PCR products and sequencer data. -
Use spreadsheet, database, and specialized computer
software to perform laboratory functions and collect,
process and archive data. - Operate DNA sequencers
and other instruments to process samples and collect
genetic data - Perform initial genotyping from electro-
pherograms. - Extract DNA from a variety of source
material. - Carry out some ﬁeld collecting, sample pro-
cessing and data collection, and lab maintenance.
Salary: $2607- $3318
To apply: Applicants need to obtain a copy of the
knowledge, skills, and experience (KSE) exam and use
it to complete the “exam” answer portion (part 9) of
the State Job Application Form. If you are interested
in this opportunity, please submit a state application
including the KSE, resume, and cover letter describing
how you meet the desirable qualiﬁcations and compe-
tencies to:
Joe Vidales (vidaljv@dfw.wa.gov) WDFW Personnel
Oﬃce 600 Capitol Way North, Olympia, WA 98501-
1091
Bulletin #459 closes January 26, 2006
Thank you for your interest, Denise
Denise K. Hawkins Fish Biologist/Geneticist
hawkidkh@dfw.wa.gov Washington Department of
Fish and Wildlife 600 Capitol Way N. Olympia,
WA 98501 phone 360-902-2749 fax 360-902-2943 fax
360-902-2943
OtherFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 41
ABI3100 standard problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Allelic richness testing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
AnalysisContChar answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Control region ampliﬁcation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Correlated Evol methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Creationism texts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Denatured EtOH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
DobzhanskyAward Call for appl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Drosophila stocks needed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
EtBr camera setups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Evol for the blind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Gene names Greek mythology answers . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Happy Birthday Jim Crow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Human migrations in Patagonia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Hybridization GeneticDistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Insect inspiration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Madrid Volunteer FieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
MarineEcology Call for Evol papers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47Micros capturing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
NED dye substitution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
NSF plans and NIH funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Negative fst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Negative fst answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Pedigree reconstruction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
PopGen analyses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
SNP study questions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Salmonid samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Scientiﬁc Artwork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Software Arlequin ver3 01 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Software CoMET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Software Hickory v1 0 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
TaqMan multiplex PCR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Wild Tribolium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
fastatoNETWORK ﬁleconverter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
ABI3100 standard problems
Dear All: im having some problems with the use of
ABI3100. A week ago we started having problems to
detect the last standard peaks. From 50 to 200 we
detected, but not the bigest ones, and that makes im-
possible to name the alleles. We have changed abso-
lutely every reactive and capillaries (we changed POP,
formamide, standard and capillaries). Does anybody
knows what is happening?
Thanks.
Andrea A. Mer´ as ameras@iib.unsam.edu.ar
“Andrea A. Mer´ as” <ameras@iib.unsam.edu.ar >
Allelic richness testing
Does anyone know of siftware for testing diﬀerence in
allelic richness between two samples, preferably with a
permutation test that resamples individuals as opposed
to populations within sample (ie FSTAT)?
Cheers, Tim Jones
Dr. Tim Jones Cooperative Research Centre for Sus-
tainable Production Forestry School of Plant ScienceUniversity of Tasmania Private Bag 55 HOBART 7001
TASMANIA AUSTRALIA Ph (03) 62261827 Fax (03)
62262698 Ph (int) + 61 3 62261827
Tim Jones <tjones@utas.edu.au >
AnalysisContChar answers
Dear Colleagues,
below is a compilation of all replies received to my re-
cent query re: comparative analysis of a categorical and
a continuous character. I am currently exploring the
“OUCH” option (though I’m not yet ready to endorse
any one of the suggestions below over all others).
Thank you to all who replied!
Best wishes,
Rutger Vos
Steve Kembel
One thing that just struck me is that you might be
able to use Hansen’s method (Ornstein-Uhlenbeck pro-
cess) which could estimate adaptive optima and drift
of your continous variable for each of several multistate
categorical variables, as well as allowing you to com-
pare the relative strength of diﬀerent models to explain
variation in your continuous variables. I am not sure
if this is totally appropriate for your particular ques-
tion but I have seen these methods used to look at e.g.42 EvolDir February 1, 2006
relationships between habitat aﬃnity ( ˆEtegorical mul-
tistate) and various continuous variables for the classic
Anolis data set. King and Butler describe and apply
the method in a recent publication (Butler, M.A. and
A.A. King, 2004. Phylogenetic comparative analysis:
a modeling approach for adaptive evolution. American
Naturalist 164:683-695.) and provide R code to esti-
mate the relevant parameters in a package called OUCH
(http:// quercus.biology.lsa.umich.edu/king/ouch/).
+Terry Ord++
If your dependent variable is continuous, you can still
use independent contrasts by scoring each categorical
trait as a dummy variable. You can also do this for
likelihood methods, too. I use Emilia Martins’ COM-
PARE, because it automatically calculates both inde-
pendent contrast regression and phylogenetic general
least square regression. However, if your multistate
character is a scale measure, the only thing I know of is
Pagel’s MULTI-STATE approach, but I think that will
mean you’ll be forced to convert your continuous de-
pendent into a categorical trait (which is never good).
However, I’m not 100% certain on that, so check it out.
Richard Bailey
Alan Grafen’s phylogenetic regression (see his website
at Oxford Uni) is a sound method for comparing a con-
tinuous Y variable with categorical and other types of
X variable in a multiple regression framework. You can
also use any other type of Y variable (such as binary,
but not categorical I don’t think) that can be trans-
formed to ﬁt typical linear regression assumptions.
Rocio Perez-Barrales+
you may take a look to these software (probably you
know them already!), I think you can study correlated
evolution of continuos and discrete characters.
CAIC: PURVIS, A., AND A. RAMBAUT. 1995. Com-
parative analysis by independent contrasts (CAIC): an
Apple Macintosh application for analysing comparative
data. Computer Applications in Biological Sciences 11:
247251.
Martins, E. P. 2001. COMPARE. Computer pro-
grams for the statistical analysis of comparative data.
Ver. 4.4. Available from the author at http://-
compare.bio.indiana.edu/ . Dept. of Biology, Indiana
University, Bloomington IN.
I think you can take a look to Mark Pagels web site
as well. I am not sure but I do think he developed a
program for continuous and discrete characters.
+Rachel Simmons
Would SIMMAP be useful for this?http://brahms.ucsd.edu/simmap/simmap.html Dirk
Albach+
I used the program Continuous by Mark Pagel http:/-
/www.rubic.rdg.ac.uk/meade/Mark/ to study the pos-
sible correlation of genome size (continuous character)
with life history (Annual-perennial) and breeding sys-
tem (selﬁng-outcrossing). It worked great for me.
++Thomas Broquet
I just used the GEE (generalized estimating equations)
methodology developped by Paradis and Claude. I’ve
been using it for a diﬀerent purpose, but I think it may
be a good approach for comparative analyses involving
categorical characters. Have a look at their paper (ref-
erence below) and at the “Gee” and “Ape” packages to
be used in the R statistical software. Within the “Ape”
packages, try the function “compar.gee”. I hope it will
help. Paradis E. and Claude J. 2002. Analysis of com-
parative data using generalized estimating equations.
Journal of Theoretical Biology 218: 175-185.
+Marguerite A. Butler+
Have you had a look at our OU method for Compara-
tive Hypotheses (OUCH)? It is developed exactly with
the situation in mind of a categorical and continuous
character. Here is the citation:
Butler M.A. and King, A.A. (2004) Phylogenetic com-
parative analysis: a modeling approach for adaptive
evolution. The American Naturalist 164(6):683-695.
I have a webpage explaining the motivation:
http://web.utk.edu/%7emhiga/ButlerLab.data/-
OUwork.html
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Control region ampliﬁcation
Dear Colleagues,
I am working on a population study in the beetle genus
Pimelia and I would like to amplify the highly vari-
able control region. Despite the many polymerases and
primers, some of them matching 100%, I tried I couldnt
get any ampliﬁcation. For other markers such as COI
and cytB I had no problems.February 1, 2006 EvolDir 43
Could you please give some advice?
Thanks in advance,
Joan Pons
Dr. Joan Pons Unitat de Biologia Evolutiva, Facultat
de Ciencies de la Salut i de la Vida, Universitat Pompeu
Fabra C/ Dr. Aiguader 80, 08003 Barcelona, Catalo-
nia, SPAIN Telephone: +34 93 5422947 Fax: +34 93
5422802 Email: joan.pons@upf.edu
Correlated Evol methods
Dear colleagues,
I am looking for a methodologically sound way of test-
ing for correlated evolution between a categorical (mul-
tistate) character and a continuous character on a phy-
logeny. I am not sure what approach is appropriate,
and whether there is a software package I can use for
this purpose. I am soliciting your suggestions.
Thank you for any and all pointers,
Rutger Vos
–
Rutger Vos, PhD. candidate Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences Simon Fraser University 8888 University
Drive Burnaby, BC, V5A1S6 Phone: 604-291-5625 Fax:
604-291-3496 Personal site: http://www.sfu.ca/˜rvosa
FAB* lab: http://www.sfu.ca/ ˜ fabstar Bio::Phylo:
http://search.cpan.org/˜rvosa/Bio-Phylo/
Creationism texts
Hello,
In the UK, Channel 4 has just screened a two part doc-
umentary presented by Richard Dawkins entitled ’the
root of all evil?’ which was about the perils of religious
belief.
Having spent a brilliantly fun night out with colleagues
last night discussing (among other things) creationism/
evolution at length, I realise I have read no creationist
texts and don’t have a good enough handle on their
arguments to be able to hold my own were I ever in
Dawkins’ position. Very naughty of me, really.I had a quick look on Amazon but any reviews on anti-
evolution texts seem to written by people who are some-
what biased and from Kansas or Texas.
I would therefore like to know the books on creation-
ism/ID etc that evolutionists would recommend, so that
I can arm myself in anticipation of getting into an ar-
gument with a creationist.
It hasn’t happened yet, but always good to be pre-
pared...
Thanks for your recommendations. Domino.
d.joyce@hull.ac.uk
Domino Joyce Evolutionary Ecology and Biodiversity
Group School of Biological Sciences, University of Hull,
Cottingham Rd, Hull HU6 7RX
Tel: 00 44 (0)1482 465542 Fax: 00 44 (0)1482 465458
E-mail: D.Joyce@hull.ac.uk
and sometimes: EAWAG, Limnological Research Cen-
ter Seestrasse 79 6047 Kastanienbaum, Switzerland
Tel: 00 41 (0)41 3492200
Denatured EtOH
Recently our lab received a number of salmonid ﬁn clips
stored in denatured EtOH. We are hoping to be able to
use these samples for microsatellite analysis, however
we have had very poor results with samples stored this
way in the past. We have tried both Chelex and Quia-
gen extraction methods on these samples but have thus
far we’ve had no luck. I am wondering if anyone has
had any luck with samples stored in denatured EtOH
in the past and would appreciate any suggestions folks
have.
Pat DeHaan patrick dehaan@fws.gov
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Abernathy Fish Technol-
ogy Center Conservation Genetics Lab 1440 Abernathy
Creek Road Longview, WA 98632 TEL: 360-425-6072
x331 FAX: 360-636-1855
DobzhanskyAward Call for appl
Call for applications for the 2006 Theodosius Dobzhan-44 EvolDir February 1, 2006
sky Prize
The Theodosius Dobzhansky Prize is awarded annu-
ally by the Society for the Study of Evolution to rec-
ognize the accomplishments and future promise of an
outstanding young evolutionary biologist. The prize
was established in memory of Professor Dobzhansky
by his friends and colleagues, and reﬂects his lifelong
commitment to fostering the research careers of young
scientists.
Eligibility The candidate must have a Ph.D. (or
equivalent) awarded no earlier than June 2003 and no
later than 1st February 2006, and must be actively
involved in research in the ﬁeld of evolutionary bi-
ology. There are no other restrictions. Applicants
do not have to be members of the Society for the
Study of Evolution, but such membership is encour-
aged. Nomination/Application.- Candidates may apply
directly or may be nominated. Established researchers
are encouraged to nominate outstanding young scien-
tists who may be unaware of the existence and prestige
of this prize. Each candidacy must be supported by the
following materials detailing the candidates career to
date: (1) a curriculum vitae, (2) a summary of research
accomplishments, (3) a statement of research plans for
the next 5 years, (4) pdf copies of three recent publica-
tions, (5) names and addresses of the three referees (in-
cluding the nominating scientist where applicable) who
have sent supporting letters. N.B.: THE THREE LET-
TERS OF REFERENCE ARE SENT SEPARATELY,
but no application will be considered without these let-
ters. All application/nomination materials and letters
of reference must be sent as PDF e-mail attachments.
No ﬁle type other than PDF will be accepted. The
deadline for receipt of all materials, including letters
of reference, is 1 March 2006. All materials should be
sent to the secretary of SSE (Dale H. Clayton) at the
following email address:
careymadsen@bioscience.utah.edu
Award.- The Dobzhansky Prize is accompanied by a
check for U.S. $5000, and will be awarded at the annual
meeting of the Society for the Study of Evolution, 23-27
June 2006, in Stony Brook, New York. The recipient is
expected to be present to receive the award and to give
an oral presentation about his/her research. To facil-
itate attendance, the SSE provides funds to cover the
costs of conference registration, accommodation during
the conference, and expenses for travel to and from the
conference. The recipient will be notiﬁed of the award
by early May 2006.
Carey Madsen <careymadsen@bioscience.utah.edu >Drosophila stocks needed
Does anyone have a Drosophila melanogaster stock of v
ras or v alone or ras alone. Thanks for your help. Ron
Woodruﬀ –
R. C. Woodruﬀ Distinguished Research Professor
CoEditor-in-Chief , GENETICA Department of Bio-
logical Sciences Corner Merry and N. College Life Sci-
ences Building Bowling Green State University Bowling
Green, Ohio 43403 Telephone: 419-372-0376 Fax: 419-
372-2024 email: rwoodru@bgnet.bgsu.edu
Ron Woodruﬀ <rwoodru@bgnet.bgsu.edu >
EtBr camera setups
Hi,
I would like to get some feedback from anyone who
knows about a good setup for using a regular digital
camera for taking pictures of EtBr stained gels. I want
to set up a regular digital camera with some sort of
attachment that could ﬁx it to the UV machine, and
nothing more. Im trying to ﬁnd n option to the expen-
sive setting that this task usually requires.
If you know of any such settings please let me know
@ grub0121@tc.umn.edu. I’ll post the answers received
later on.
Thanks
Karl Gruber <grub0121@tc.umn.edu >
Evol for the blind
Other:
I am a University lecturer in Evolutionary Biology and
I currently have a registered blind student enroled on
my Unit. Finding an evolutionary biology textbook for
her is proving almost impossible. She does have someFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 45
peripheral vision so she can read very large print (but
not onscreen because it is very tiring). Has anyone
come across this sort of problem before or has come up
with a solution. An audio, CD ROM or DVD version
of an evolutionary biology textbook would be the best
solution but ﬁnding one is very very diﬃcult.
Many thanks
Mark
Dr Mark A Culling School of Biological Sciences Cen-
tre for Ecology, Evolution and Conservation University
of East Anglia Norwich Norfolk NR4 7TJ UK ++44
(0)1603 592947 m.culling@uea.ac.uk
Gene names Greek mythology
answers
Many thanks to all who responded, and/or expressed
an interest in, the naming of genes after characters
from Greek mythology. I cannot claim that the list
is exhaustive but as I am now ﬁnding it very diﬃcult,
through trawling, to come up with new examples, I
guess there are probably not so many more. I should
like to start by thanking all those who responded (in no
particular order): Sarah Cohen, Dmitri Petrov, Jeﬀrey
Marcus, Diana Wolf, Jennifer Gleason, Andy Gardner,
Tom Gilbert, Joe Williams, Karl Schmid, Louise John-
son, Diane Ramos, Kristie Mather, David de Lorenzo,
Irene Till, Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis, Roman Ar-
guello, Etienne Patin, Nicole Riddle, Colin Meiklejohn,
Jacek Szymura, Chung-I Wu, Hope Hollocher, Jean-
Marc Reichart and (my brother) Greg.
Let me commence the run down with the gene that
stimulated the original question, Medea, named after
the woman who slayed her own children. A ?gene?
called Medea exists in the beetle Tribolium (3). In this
instance this is a selﬁsh element that causes death of
embryos not containing Medea via a maternal eﬀect.
So if a mother is heterozygous (+/-) and mates with
a -/- father, the +/- progeny survive but the -/- ones
die. The oﬀspring killing activity is necessary for the
spread of the + allele. In the case of the condition in
Tribolium I called it a ?gene? as many selﬁsh elements
of this type are two loci in very tight linkage hence be-
having eﬀectively as one segregating type (allele). The
Tribolium case I suspect was named in part by mytho-
logical reference but it is also a convenient acronym:
Maternal-Eﬀect Dominant Embryonic Arrest. There isalso a Medea gene in Arabidopsis around which a mini-
industry of naming after Greek myth has developed. It
was rather embarrassing that I forgot about this as one
of the workers in this ﬁeld is all but 50 metres down my
corridor (Rod Scott here in Bath).
Arabidopsis In the case of the gene in weed, a mutant
version of the Medea genes acts possibly via imprinting
or as a maternal eﬀect to cause embryo mortality (1,
2). As a mutant copy from the father has no eﬀect,
the eﬀect is speciﬁcally maternal killing of oﬀspring,
hence the Medea reference. Moving upstream, the gene
Demeter in Arabidopsis is a regulator of Medea (4).
Demeter in Greek myth brings forth the fruits of the
earth, in particular she was the goddess of fertility and
the growth of vegetation, protector of the earth and its
resources, mother of cereals (where she gains her name
from the Greek word “dimitriaka”) and primarily of
grains. As the gene is necessary for seed develoment it
seems very appropriate. Medea and Demeter are con-
nected in myth as Medea?s arrival in Corinth had saved
citizens from starvation, by sacriﬁcing to Demeter and
repeatedly appeasing the goddess. The gene Medea in
turn regulates Pheres1(5, 6), Pheres being one of the
two children killed by Medea. Like Medea in Tribolium,
Artemis (7) in weed seems to derive its name also, at
least in part, as an acronym: Arabidopsis Thaliana En-
velope Membrane Integrase. If the myth was in the
minds of the authors I couldn?t ﬁnd any reference to
the logic. From weed I have found one further putative
connection, the gene Argonaute. The gene was named
by reference to the squid-like appearance of the leaves
of Arabidopsis mutants lacking AGO1 gene function(8).
In this case the Greek connection seems to be one step
removed. The scientiﬁc name of the paper nautilus, es-
pecially the largest species, Argonauta argo, is of myth-
ical Greek origin. The argonauts were a group of Greek
heroes that, led by Jason, travelled to Kolchis to gain
the golden ﬂeece. They were called that way, because
their ship was the Argo. In Greek argonaut means “who
travels on the Argo”. The squid?s discoverers probably
mistook it’s sail-like ﬂaps as a locomotive organ and
thus drew the similarity to the mythical Argo. So the
Argonaute gene looks to have no direct connection to
myth, just to squid-like appearance.
Flies Despite this ﬂurry in Arabidopsis, it seems, how-
ever, that the Drosophilists are most well acquainted
with Greek myth. So far I have found 15 namings
from Greek mythology. First there is the speciation
gene Odysseus (9). Odysseus ordered the making of
the Trojan Horse and rode inside along with other war-
riors. Chung-I Wu kindly explained that : ?The reason
[for the naming] was somewhat silly. We were looking
for something that could wreak havoc in a foreign ter-46 EvolDir February 1, 2006
ritory. Odysseus hiding in a wooden horse is like the
gene embedded in the introgression; the result was dev-
astating.? Carrying on with the Odysseus connection,
many of the Greek inspired names in ﬂies are transpos-
able elements. Some have expressed the opinion that
this all started with D. virilis transposable elements be-
ing named after characters from the Odysseus (Ulysses,
Penelope,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Happy Birthday Jim Crow
Folks –
Wednesday, January 18 was the 90th birthday of James
F. Crow of the University of Wisconsin. Apparently the
birthday was celebrated in his department.
I have emailed him birthday wishes, as he was
one of my early mentors (I did an undergrad-
uate thesis with him in 1964). Here is a
web page: http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/faculty/-
proﬁle.php?id=102 which describes his career very well,
and has his email address in case any of you are tempted
to send birthday wishes yourself.
I would just add that some of his population-genetic
contributions include 1. Being a pioneering early re-
searcher on genetic loads, particularly in the 1956 Mor-
ton, Crow, and Muller paper, 2. His writings, particu-
larly the 1970 Crow and Kimura textbook in theoretical
population genetics 3. His role in the Crow and Kimura
1964 paper deriving the expected heterozygosity un-
der the neutral theory 4. His role in encouraging the
Japanese school of theoretical population genetics, in-
cluding his long association with his Ph.D. student Mo-
too Kimura, his student Takeo Maruyama, and many
others 5. His work with Kimura on a theoretical deriva-
tion of the advantage of sexual recombination under the
theory of Fisher and Muller. 6. Facilitating the pres-
ence and work of Sewall Wright during Wright’s last 33
years, when Wright was in active retirement in Crow’s
department.
This leaves out his work in many areas of genetics and
his very widely used “Genetics Notes”. On his web site
is an impressive list of the many people who trained inhis lab; it reads like a Who’s Who of population genet-
ics.
Jim continues to be active and, as always, interested in
nearly everything genetic.
(Please feel free to copy this to other mailing lists)
—- Joe Felsenstein joe@removethispart.gs.washington.edu
Department of Genome Sciences and Department of
Biology, University of Washington, Box 357730,
Seattle, WA 98195-7730 USA
Human migrations in Patagonia
Dear Evoldir members,
I will be grateful for information about recent DNA-
based and other (linguistic, cultural) studies on the ori-
gins of Indians in the southern South America. There
are two diﬀerent groups of Indians in Patagonia - ones
that are living along the western coast (canoe-Indians)
and those that are inland (e.g. Mapuche Indians). Does
anybody know about any DNA studies on possible dif-
ferent origins and diﬀerent arrival times to South Amer-
ica in these two groups?
Thanks in advance.
Asta
*** Asta Audzijonyte Finnish Museum of Nat-
ural History & Department of Biological and
Environmental Sciences University of Helsinki
asta.audzijonyte@helsinki.ﬁ
Asta Audzijonyte <asta.audzijonyte@helsinki.ﬁ >
Hybridization GeneticDistance
Dear EvolDir,
I’m looking for case studies in which a number of re-
lated species (i.e. several members of a genus) have
been hybridized and the occurrence of polyploidy vs ho-
moploidy in the F1s been scored. Any species from any
kingdom will be considered! Can anyone help? Best
wishes, –mark
Mark A. Chapman <http://www.theburkelab.org/ >February 1, 2006 EvolDir 47
http://www.theburkelab.org/ >Vanderbilt University
Department of Biological Sciences VU Station B 351634
Nashville, TN 37235
mark chapman <mark.a.chapman@vanderbilt.edu >
Insect inspiration
In the Netherlands,Wageningen UR, Entomologie, will
start next week a exibition : Insect - Inspiration. Infor-
mation: www.wur.nl www.josevloon.cjb.net (look un-
der “exposities” and “textielobjecten”, i’m sorry it’s
only in Dutch, but the picutes will be nice)
Greeting , Jos ˜Ac/circlecopyrtvan Loon
josevloon@hetnet.nl
Madrid Volunteer FieldAssist
BIRD RESEARCH IN SPAIN: VOLUNTEER FIELD
ASSISTANTS NEEDED
Our group (4 people) is studying several questions
about the evolutionary biology of a population of spot-
less starlings (Sturnus unicolor) nesting in boxes in an
oak wood 50 km. from Madrid. We are looking for ﬁeld
assistants with some ﬁeld experience in bird ringing and
observation. Work will involve capturing, measuring
an ringing adult birds and nestlings, setting video cam-
eras in nest-boxes and scoring behaviour from tapes
and direct observation. Our ﬁeldwork extends from
late March to early July. We are willing to accept peo-
ple that could stay for periods of at least two months
within that time. We can oﬀer free accommodation in
our nearby ﬁeld station as well as a weekly contribution
towards food expenses.
If interested please contact Diego Gil
(<mailto:dgil@mncn.csic.es >dgil@mncn.csic.es)
Diego Gil Departamento de Ecolog´ ıa Evolutiva Museo
Nacional de Ciencias Naturales (CSIC) Jos´ e Guti´ errez
Abascal, 2 28006 Madrid Spain
Tel: 00 34 91 411 13 28, ext. 1285 Fax: 00 34 91 564
50 78 email: dgil@mncn.csic.es
Diego Gil <dgil@mncn.csic.es >MarineEcology Call for Evol papers
CALL FOR PAPERS : SPECIAL TOPICS VOLUME
ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION OF OF VENT, SEEP
AND WHALE-FALL ORGANISMS
In the journal Marine Ecology an evolutionary perspec-
tive
Volume Guest Editors: Lisa Levin, Jim Barry, Horst
Felbeck, Craig Smith, Craig Young Print ISSN: 0173-
9565 Online ISSN: 1439-0485
Deadlines: Indication of Interest: No later than Jan
30, 2006 Please send a title and 1 paragraph abstract
or description of the topic. Send to llevin@ucsd.edu;
subject: MAE Special Topics Manuscript Submission
Deadline: April 30, 2006 Please do not submit without
prior notiﬁcation and approval. Publication: Planned
for Early 2007
Focus: We welcome any papers addressing ecology and
evolutionary ecology of vent, seep, and WHALE-FALL
organisms, from microbes to megafauna. Particularly
welcome are studies that address hypotheses about
adaptation, life-history tactics, species interactions, en-
vironmental regulation, and phylogenetic relationships.
comparative studies that address multiple taxa, ecosys-
tems or regions are also welcome..
Information about the journal: Marine Ecology (for-
merly Pubblicazioni della Stazione Zoologica di Napoli)
publishes original contributions on the structure and
dynamics of marine benthic and pelagic ecosystems and
on the critical links between ecology and evolution of
marine organisms.
The journal prioritises contributions elucidating funda-
mental aspects of species’ interaction and adaptation
to the environment through integration of information
from various organizational levels (molecules to ecosys-
tems) and diﬀerent disciplines (molecular biology, ge-
netics, biochemistry, physiology, marine biology, nat-
ural history, geography, oceanography, palaeontology
and modelling) as viewed with an ecological and an
evolutionary perspective. It encourages theoretical and
speculative studies addressing the same issues in a sec-
tion called Views, Comments and Ideas.
The journal particularly invites original research arti-
cles on “in situ” or laboratory-based research aimed
at testing challenging hypotheses explaining adaptation48 EvolDir February 1, 2006
of marine organisms to environmental constraints in-
cluding biotic interactions. Papers are encouraged that
present cutting-edge techniques or novel applications of
methods addressing questions related to the journal’s
themes. Theme issues will appear annually.
For full guidelines for authors please visit:
www.blackwellpublishing.com/mae ONLINE
SUBMISSION: Please submit your paper at
http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/mae http://-
mc.manuscriptcentral.com/mae
Micros capturing
Dear Evoldir,
I am in the process of developing microsatellites for a
tropical tree species. For the microsatellite enrichment
process I am going to use streptavidin-coated beads
from Promega (Z5481). This is the ﬁrst time I am us-
ing Promega beads. If you have used this bead for the
same purpose, I would appreciate for sharing your ex-
periences on follwing points:
1. Eﬃciency 2. Detail procedure of hybridization, mi-
crosatellite capturing and elution (because their tech-
nical note on that product mainly deals with mRNA
isolation) 3. Diﬀerence in eﬃciecy level, if you have
also used Dynabeads (Dynal).
Best regards,
Madhav Pandey mpandey71np@yahoo.com
Dr. Madhav PANDEY Visiting Research Scientist
Forest Genetic Conservation and Biotechnology Re-
search Division Department of National Parks, Wildlife
and Plant Conservation 61 Phaholyothin, Chatuchak
Bangkok, Thailand 10900 Tel: +6670761218 Fax:
+6625799576 Email: mpandey71np@yahoo.com
mpandey71np@yahoo.com
NED dye substitution
Hi, does anyone know whether it is possible to sub-
stitute NED with some other dye when doing frag-
ments analysis on ABI? I’ve read that it may work withTAMRA. Did anyone try such substitution? Any com-
ments will be very helpfull...
thank you in advance tomasz
– Tomasz Wilk Institute of Environmental Sciences
Jagiellonian University Gronostajowa 7 30-387 Krakow,
Poland wilk@eko.uj.edu.pl
NSF plans and NIH funding
NSF REQUESTS COMMENTS ON STRATEGIC
PLAN FOR BIOLOGY
The National Science Foundation has announced that it
is beginning a process to develop the next NSF Strate-
gic Plan. NSF is seeking input from the scientiﬁc com-
munity to help the Foundation develop the ﬁrst draft
of the new plan.
According to an NSF document, the Foundation
uses its current plan ( www.nsf.gov/publications/-
pubsumm.jsp?ods key=nsf04201 <http://-
www.nsf.gov/publications/pub summ.jsp?ods key=-
nsf04201 >) “to guide NSF and stakeholders in a
way that is responsive to the science and engineering
community that we serve.” NSF’s intent is for the next
plan covering the period of 2006-2011 to continue to
serve this purpose by communicating NSF’s strategic
goals, objectives, priorities and strategies over this
time period. Furthermore, federal performance and
budget procedures require that the new plan comply
with the priorities and strategies being drafted in the
“National Science Board 2020 Vision for the National
Science Foundation.”
Comments from the science community should be sub-
mitted by 20 January 2006 through the website at
www.nsf.gov/about/performance/input.cfm <http://-
www.nsf.gov/about/performance/input.cfm >. NSF
is particularly interested in feedback on the following
questions:
1. Does NSF’s current Strategic Plan eﬀectively com-
municate NSF’s roles and responsibilities as part of
the science and engineering (S&E) community? If not,
what is lacking and how can the next plan be improved?
2. What broad characteristics of the near- and long-
term environment for S&E research and education
should NSF consider and address in its next Strategic
Plan?
——————————–February 1, 2006 EvolDir 49
HOUSE ADJOURNS WHILE SENATE FACES
TOUGH BATTLE OVER ANWR
In a late night vote-a-thon, the House completed work
Monday morning on the Defense Department appropri-
ations and budget reconciliation bills, the two pieces
of legislation they had to clear before adjournment.
At 5:00 a.m. on 19 December the House successfully
passed H.R. 2863, the $453 billion Department of De-
fense spending package. In addition to funding military
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the bill clears the
way for opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
(ANWR) to oil and gas drilling and includes language
calling for a 1 percent across-the-board cut to discre-
tionary spending, excluding Veteran’s Aﬀairs. After an
additional hour of debate, the House passed S. 1932, the
budget reconciliation bill, which cuts nearly $40 billion
from the federal government in the next ﬁve years.
Fiscal conservatives and drilling proponents hailed the
passage of the two bills; Representative Mike Pence (R-
IN) called the combination a renewal of their “commit-
ment to the principles of ﬁscal discipline and limited
government.” But many Democrats resented that they
were forced to vote on ANWR in the must-pass Defense
appropriations bill. “There is something especially out-
rageous about the willingness of majority party leader-
ship to allow the Department of Defense bill, in a time
of war, to be held hostage to totally unrelated special
interest items,” said Rep. David Obey (D-WI), the se-
nior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee.
The Senate must now pass the spending bills before
they can be signed into law. Media reports suggest this
could be a tough battle, with Democrats threatening to
ﬁlibuster the Defense appropriations bill starting Mon-
day.
Last week Senators and Representatives reached a new
deal on the Labor-Health and Human Services (HHS)-
Education appropriations conference report, which was
originally rejected in the House on 17 November. The
House passed the deal last week after both chambers
agreed to add $120 million for rural healthcare.
Under the new conference report, the Math and Sci-
ence Partnerships (MSP) program in the Department
of Education receives $184 million, $6 million less than
the House-approved number, but $5.4 million and $5.5
million more than the Senate version and the FY 2005
level, respectively. Conferees from the House and Sen-
ate encouraged the MSP grantees “to incorporate ad-
vanced placement.staﬀ development training into their
math and science partnership projects to help teachers
meet the highly qualiﬁed criteria under the No Child
Left Behind Act.”For more information on NIH funding under the
Labor-HHS-Education conference report, please refer
to the 5 December 2005 AIBS Public Policy Re-
port available at http://www.aibs.org/public-policy-
reports/public-policy-reports-2005 1206.h tml
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Negative fst
Hello, maybe someone can help me with a special prob-
lem concerning Fst- values.
I am working with the program Fdist2 in order to anal-
yse the selection acting on two populations in diﬀerent
environments. My problem is now: I have found loci
that have lower Fst- values than the 0.025-Quantile of
the simulated distribution (neutral model simulated by
Fdist), which has negative Fst- values in parts of het-
erozygosities up to 0.7 (because there is little diﬀerenti-
ation between the populations). These loci have NEG-
ATIVE Fst- values as well, which confuses me in inter-
preting them. Can I state that the loci are deﬁnitely
below the 95%- envelope of the simulated distribution
(and can be regarded as outliers), although negative
Fst- values do not exist formally (for a diﬀerentiation
cannot be negative), and only exist because of the way
Fst is calculated? I would be very grateful for any help.
Thanks! Cheers, Katharina Oetjen
oetjen@mpil-ploen.mpg.de oetjen@mpil-ploen.mpg.de
Negative fst answers
Hi everybody, as several people asked me to post the
replies to my question about the negative fst- values,
here they are... thanks to everybody who answered!
This was my question:
I am working with the program Fdist2 in order to anal-
yse the selection acting on two populations in diﬀerent
environments. My problem is now: I have found loci50 EvolDir February 1, 2006
that have lower Fst- values than the 0.025-Quantile of
the simulated distribution (neutral model simulated by
Fdist), which has negative Fst- values in parts of het-
erozygosities up to 0.7 (because there is little diﬀerenti-
ation between the populations). These loci have NEG-
ATIVE Fst- values as well, which confuses me in inter-
preting them. Can I state that the loci are deﬁnitely
below the 95%- envelope of the simulated distribution
(and can be regarded as outliers), although negative
Fst- values do not exist formally (for a diﬀerentiation
cannot be negative), and only exist because of the way
Fst is calculated?
********** the answers:
Paul Sunnucks wrote:
I may not be following you, but in procedures that es-
timate (rather than calculate) FST, it is possible to get
slightly negative values if the real value is small and the
estimate happens to have a little error in the negative
direction.
my reply:
as for the negative fsts, i know how they can appear.
but i wondered if an estimated value of a locus can be
regarded as being lower than an expected one if both
are negative. or would one rather say, as they are both
negative, the “real” fsts are both zero, which means
they are equal?
Paul:
if the ’real’ value is negative but less so than the sim-
ulations, this would seem to imply one or more of: (1)
the actual values are slightly positive but the real value
is genuinely lower than the simulations (2) the simu-
lations are downwardly biased (3) both are inaccurate
representations of zero.
in other words, just because they are negative does not
mean that the real values are zero - they could be a lit-
tle positive. Not sure how you would distinguish, but
nonetheless you would have to conclude that any eﬀect
was tiny and potentially of little biological signiﬁcance.
Dr Paul Sunnucks Senior Lecturer in Zoology School
of Biological Sciences Monash University, Melbourne
Clayton Campus 3800 Victoria Australia ph + 61 3
9905 9593 fax + 61 3 9905 5613
email paul.sunnucks@sci.monash.edu.au
webpage: http://www.biolsci.monash.edu.au/staﬀ/-
sunnucks.html ************
I have no experience with the software you have used
(Fdist?) but negative ESTIMATES of Fst values do
not have to be a concern.Formally Fst can not be negative but when estimated
from data, i.e. using the procedure by Reynolds,
Weir and Cockerham (see Genetics 1983 and Evolution
1984), you can get negative estimates due to sampling
error.
The common interpretation of such values is that if the
TRUE Fst value would be 0, due to sampling error the
ESTIMATE will be negative in 50% of the times (if the
error has a symmetrical (i.e. normal) distribution...).
I hope this helps,
Best, Zolt´ an Bochdanovits
—–Original Message—– From:
evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca
[mailto:evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca] Sent:
Thursday, January 05, 2006 7:03 AM To:
z.bochdanovits@vumc.nl Subject: Other: negative fst-
values
I see your point about the two negative estimates being
equal or not. I think you are right to conclude that the
“real” Fst’s are both 0, hence equal...
Best, Zolt´ an
***********
There is a correspondance between Fst and the kin se-
lection coeﬃcient of relatedness r, which can take neg-
ative values. For more on negative r see: Grafen (1985,
Oxf Surv Evol Biol); Foster et al. (2001, Ann Zool Fen-
nici); Gardner & West (2004, J Evol Biol). The latter is
on my website <www.mast.queensu.ca/˜andyg >,and
contains full references for the other two papers. For
the link between r and Fst, see perhaps Francois Rous-
set’s 2004 book.
Hope that’s of some help.
Andy
*************
I’m afraid, I haven’t worked with fdist2 program, so
I’m not very familiar with output and its interpreta-
tion. I have only worked with Fstat program to calcu-
late Fst, which also sometime gives negative values for
pairwise Fst between populations. This means that dif-
ferentiation within population is higher than between
populations, however values were never signiﬁcant with
Fisher’s exact test.
Regards, Monika
email: mzavodna@purdue.edu
—–Original Message—– From:
evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca
[mailto:evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca] Sent:
Thursday, January 05, 2006 1:12 AM To: mza-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 51
vodna@purdue.edu
*************** It is possible to get negative values
for F-statistics but it is mostly due to the way we es-
timate them. You are correct in saying they do not
exist formally as there is no such thing as a negative
variance. Usually
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Pedigree reconstruction
Hi:
I am looking a software for pedigree reconstruction for
use with wild and farmed populations from a brood-
stock management program. Probably the relationship
among these population are very far and softwares for
relationship from ﬁrst order can‘t help me.
thanks in advance
Rodrigo Badilla Marine Biologist Chile
rodrigo.badilla@gmail.com
PopGen analyses
Dear All, I am looking to purchase a laptop (most prob-
ably a Mac machine that runs on Mac OS X Tiger)
that will be used primarily for analyses of pop gen data
(ARLEQUIN, DNASp, Migrate, IM, Mesquite, etc.).
To date I have been a PC user, and I am concerned
that I may pick up problems trying to use many of
these programs on a Mac. Any advice on this matter
would be much appreciated, Cheers, Mark de Bruyn
Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Aus-
tralia <markus.debruyn@gmail.com >
markus.debruyn@gmail.comSNP study questions
Hi EvolDir Readers
I am doing a genomewide SNP analysis to determine
population structure and phylogenetic trees. Some of
my SNPs are linked, some on the same chr but very dis-
tant and then of course their are ones on seperate chro-
mosomes. I’ve done a few analyses but want to try more
programs. The analyses I did was on STRUCTURE,
that was very nice because you can specify which mark-
ers are linked and how far they are from one another
and specify that the phase is unknown. Furthermore I
did neighbour joining trees based on fst values and also
PC plots. All of this works very nice and results corre-
sponds. Is there any other nice programs that anyone
can suggest. Especially programs that can work with
diploid data where you can specify if the markers are
linked but unphased.
Another question: If I work with unphased haplotypes;
are there a way that I can analyse them in PAUP,
MEGA or PHYLIP without inferring the haplotypes
ﬁrst with a program like PHASE. Is there a way I
can code the SNPs in the nexus ﬁle so that the PAUP
will see the three genotypes say “AA; Aa; aa” as 1A ;
0.5A0.5a ; and 1aa. I ﬁnd it a bit diﬃcult to explain
but what I basically want to say is their a way I can
code it that the program will see the heterozygote as
half of the one homozygote and half of the othe one?
Last question: Say I use the PHASE program to infer
my haplotypes and do further analysis on these hap-
lotypes, how does it inﬂuence the conﬁdense of my re-
sults. Can I for instance use these haplotypes to infer
coalessence times with a program like BATWING, or
is that taking it a bit too far?
Thanks Carina Graduate student email:
cschlebu@yahoo.com
Carina Maria Schlebusch
<carina.schlebusch@nhls.ac.za >
Salmonid samples
Hi,52 EvolDir February 1, 2006
My research group is looking for DNA or tissue samples
from as many diﬀerent salmonid (including close out-
group) species as possible (beyond Atlantic salmon). If
you can help us, please email me at liberles@uwyo.edu.
Thanks for any assistance.
David Liberles
“David A. Liberles” <Liberles@uwyo.edu >
Scientiﬁc Artwork
Dear All,
Just got this. Sounds like an exciting new avenue for
making research exciting to the public. Contact is Sim
Bamford, sim@sim.me.uk
=========
Calling all researchers...
A new fringe to Edinburgh’s International Science Fes-
tival will be happening this April. One of the events
will be a gallery of artwork inspired by science research.
Biological, Mathematical, Engineering - all ﬁelds are
welcome!
If you’d like to you can put up an image or some data
from your research and it may then act as inspiration
and become part of that exhibition.
For more details:
www.ensight.org.uk Please do pass this message on to
anyone whom you think would be interested.
Sim Bamford
=======
– Philipp Wesche Institute of Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Edinburgh Tel.: 0131 650 8659 (oﬃce) http:/-
/www.philippwesche.org/
Software Arlequin ver3 01
A new version (3.01) of Arlequin is now available on
http://cmpg.unibe.ch/software/arlequin3 Compared
to version 3.0, Arlequin 3.01 include some bug correc-
tions and some additional features:Bug corrections and modiﬁcations:
1. Minimum Spanning Tree Checkbox is now avail-
able for Genotypic data with known Gametic Phase.
2. Choice of how FST is computed is now available
when computing pairwise distances, and it is synchro-
nized with the choice of distance in the AMOVA panel.
3. “Search for shared haplotypes” is now available for
Genotypic Data with known Gametic Phase. Arlequin
also ouputs the list of haplotypes before the table of
frequencies. 4. [[Mantel]] section was not recognized
if located after a [[Structure]] section. 5. Improved
conversion between GenePop and Arlequin formats. 6.
“Diploid Data” option is now present when converting
from Genepop to Arlequin. 7. Output of s.d. of the
number of alleles was sometimes wrongly reported as
zero in output of Fu’s FS test. This is now corrected
and annoying warning messages about “ ”No molecular
diversity within a sample while performing Fu’s test“
have been suppressed in output ﬁle.
New features:
1. New editor of genetic structure allowing one to mod-
ify the current Genetic Structure directly in the graph-
ical interface. 2. Computation of population-speciﬁc
FST indices, when a single group is deﬁned in the
Genetic Structure. This may be useful to recognize
population contributing particularly to the global FST
measure. This is also available in the locus-by-locus
AMOVA section.
– Laurent Excoﬃer Computational and Molecular Pop-
ulation Genetics (CMPG) Zoological Institute, Univer-
sity of Bern 6, Baltzerstrasse, CH-3012 Bern, Switzer-
land Tel: +41 31 631 30 31 Fax: +41 31 631 48 88
Email: laurent.excoﬃer@zoo.unibe.ch URL: http://-
cmpg.unibe.ch/people/excoﬃer.htm Laurent Excoﬃer
<laurent.excoﬃer@zoo.unibe.ch >
Software CoMET
Evoldir,
This is an announcement that we’ve made new software
available, called CoMET. CoMET is a Mesquite mod-
ule for calculating the likelihood of diﬀerent Brownian
motion-based models of continuous character change
on phylogenies. Thus the name CoMET (Continuous-
character Model Evaluation and Testing).
The software require input of a phylogeny and continu-
ous trait data. The models diﬀer in assumptions aboutFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 53
evolutionary “time”. Diﬀerent models may suggest dif-
ferent modes of evolution (non-phylogenetic, punctu-
ated, etc) for a continuous trait or traits. These models
have been used to study the evolution of body sizes, vo-
calizations, and gene expression level in the references
below.
CoMET is available for download at:
http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/labs/oakley/-
software/comet.htm Best wishes,
Todd Oakley
REFERENCES
1. Oakley TH, Gu Z-L, Abouheif E, Patel NH Li W-H.
(2005) Comparative methods for the analysis of gene
expression evolution: An example using yeast func-
tional genomic data. Molecular Biology and Evolution.
22(1): 40-50.
2. Mooers, A.O., Vamosi. S., and D. Schluter. 1999.
Using phylogenies to test macroevolutionary models
of trait evolution: sexual selection and speciation in
Cranes (Gruinae). American Naturalist 154: 249-259.
3. Mooers, A.O., and D. Schluter. 1998. Fitting
macroevolutionary models to phylogenies: an example
with vertebrate body sizes. Contributions to Zoology
68: 3-18.
Todd Oakley, Assistant Professor Ecology Evolution
and Marine Biology University of California-Santa Bar-
bara Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA (805) 893-4715
lab: http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/labs/oakley/
pubs: http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/labs/-
oakley/pubs/publist.html oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
Software Hickory v1 0 4
Hickory is free software providing Bayesian estimates of
the within-population inbreeding coeﬃcient (f), of dif-
ferentiation among populations (Gst and theta), and of
diversity within populations (Hs).
An attentive user of Hickory recently brought a serious
bug to my attention. Calculations of Hs were being
done incorrectly for co-dominant marker data. As a
result, estimates of Gst were also incorrect.
Please note that the error aﬀects *only* estimates of
Hs from *co-dominant* marker data. It does not aﬀect
estimates of theta or f from co-dominant markers, nordoes it aﬀect estimates of any parameters from domi-
nant markers.
I’ve compiled and uploaded a new version of Hickory
(v1.0.4) for Windows and Linux. (We’re working on a
version for OS X and hope to be able to announce it
later this spring.) In addition to correcting the calcula-
tion of Hs for co-dominant markers, v1.0.4 has several
small enhancements over earlier releases. See the doc-
umentation for details.
We encourage all users of Hickory to upgrade to this
version. If you are a new user, please take the time to
register on the registration page. By registering you en-
sure that you’ll receive an e-mail announcement when
a new version is released.
Hickory is available from
http://darwin.eeb.uconn.edu/hickory/hickory.html
Kent
– Kent E. Holsinger kent@darwin.eeb.uconn.edu http:/-
/darwin.eeb.uconn.edu – Department of Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology – University of Connecticut, U-
3043 – Storrs, CT 06269-3043
TaqMan multiplex PCR
Dear EvolDir Members,
I have a colleague who is designing an experiment to
compare abundance of fungi associated with pine roots.
To compare biomass, his goal is to use quantitative
PCR on extracted root tips to compare relative abun-
dance with TaqMan (dual labeled probes with 5 ﬂuor-
phore and 3 BHQ) probes on an ABI 7300. He is plan-
ning to compare using absolute quantiﬁcation by com-
paring standards of known concentration along with his
environmental root samples. Because I am not familiar
with the ABI system, I was hoping that anyone with ex-
perience with optimization and TaqMan reactions could
answer questions re: multiplexing, standard cycling pa-
rameters and optimization.
1. ABI recommends cycling parameters: 1 cycle at 50C,
2min, 1 cycle of 95C 10 min, 35-45 cycles of 92C 15 s,
60C 1 min. Is there any indication that adjusting the
annealing temperature will increase sensitivity of de-
tection (ie: lower threshold cycles?) We used Primer3
rather than the recommended ABI software to design
TaqMan probes, therefore, we were not sure if the re-
actions are optimized at these annealing temps.54 EvolDir February 1, 2006
2. Standard reactions by ABI are 250 nmol of dual-
labeled probe Is this standard concentration work for
most reactions? With multiplexing?
3. Recommended volume is 25 ul reactions can this be
reduced to 15 ul volumes?
4. Second, the ABI machine was calibrated to detect:
[6FAM], either [VIC, JOE] and [NED]
Other choices include: [ROX, HET, TET]
The experiment requires several reps and therefore,
multiplexing would seriously cut down on the number
of runs required. Has anyone multiplexed with any of
the three combinations (listed above) or found better
combinations? – Has anyone had success with multi-
plexing three probes and if so, which combinations were
used? The ABI manual states that quantiﬁcation is not
’reliable’ with multiplex reactions.
5. Of course ABI recommends their Master Mix which
is outrageously expensive. Bio-Rad has an equivalent
master mix (IQ-Supermix) which is much cheaper as
does Qiagen. Does anyone have any experience with
these other master mixes?
Any help would be much appreciated.
Please respond to:
Sarah Bergemann UC Berkeley, ESPM sberge-
mann@nature.berkeley.edu
Sarah Bergemann <sbergemann@nature.berkeley.edu >Wild Tribolium
Dear EvolDir,
Does anyone have a Tribolium castaneum stock recently
set up from a wild sample (max 1 year, not bottle-
necked)? Or where it is easiest to get them from?
Thanks for your help,
Losia Lagisz
Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, University
of Sheﬃeld, Western Bank, Sheﬃeld S10 2TN, UK
M.Lagisz@shef.ac.uk
fastatoNETWORK ﬁleconverter
Hi there
Does anybody know of a freely available program that
converts fasta / nexus / mega / phylip etc. ﬁles to the
*.rdf ﬁles used by the NETWORK program
Thanks Carina cschlebu@yahoo.com
<mailto:cschlebu@yahoo.com >
PostDocs
BrownU EvolGeneExpression . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
CNRS France EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
ChicagoFieldMuseum TibetanPlants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Dublin MolEvolBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
DukeU EvolPhilosophyBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
DukeU SocietalEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
DukeU VertebrateBiogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
EmoryU EvolColorVision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58INRA UParisXI MetabolicEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
ImperialCollegeLondon BiodiversityHotspots . . . . . . 58
KelloggBiologicalStation EducationCoordinator . . . 59
LeidenU EvolAllometry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
McMasterU Astrobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
NCStateU MolEvolGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
TurkuFinland EvolFuncGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UAlaska InternationalPolarYear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62February 1, 2006 EvolDir 55
UBourgogne AvianLifeHistory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UCDavis EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UCaliforniaIrvine EvolInfectiousDisease . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UCologne BiolInformation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UCork FunctEvoGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UDurham AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UMaryland HumanEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67UMassachusettsAmherst DarwinFellow . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UMontpellier SturgeonConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UMontpellier SturgeonConservation 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UNebraska PopBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UOxford CompEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
VirginiaTech AngiospermMolSyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
BrownU EvolGeneExpression
Postdoctoral Position: Computational Approaches to
the Evolution Of Gene Expression Signals
I am seeking a postdoctoral researcher interested in:
1)the evolution of non-coding signals 2)incorporation
of large scale cross-species comparisons into sequence
analysis 3)identiﬁcation of functional SNPs
Some background in programming or quantitative anal-
ysis would be preferred To apply email CV and cover
letter to: bioinformatics@brown.edu
MOLECULAR EVOLUTION: PRE-MRNA SPLIC-
ING The splice junctions in a pre-mRNA substrate
are deﬁned by some combination of several diﬀerent
types of sequence elements: splice sites, branch points,
3’ splice site (3’ss), polypyrimidine tract, 5’ splice site
(5’ss), exonic and intronic splicing enhancers. The ex-
tent to which a particular type of splicing signal is used
to deﬁne splice junctions varies across the tree of life.
The minority of yeast genes that contain introns rely
upon rigidly deﬁned 5’ss, branch point and 3’ss to cor-
rectly specify intron/exon boundaries. In higher eu-
karyotes, the 5’ss and 3’ss of vertebrate introns con-
tribute relatively little to the deﬁnition of the splice
sites but additional types of sequence elements such
as exonic splicing enahancers (ESE) or intronic splic-
ing enhancers compensate for the low stringency of the
splice site motifs. Although many of these auxiliary
elements are poorly characterized, there appear to be
species-speciﬁc diﬀerences in their use. One diﬀerence
can be found in a cross species comparison of intronic
splicing enhancers. Plants depend on U-rich intronic
splicing enhancer elements, whereas the predominant
mammalian intronic splicing enhancer is a G-triplet
motif. This diﬀerence in sequence elements may rep-
resent a functional divergence as plant introns are pro-
cessed with suboptimal eﬃciency in vertebrates. As
ESEs overlap with the genetic code, they presumably
evolve more slowly than intronic splicing enhancers. I
would like to test this explicitly by ﬁrst characterizingpre-mRNA processing signals in other species and then
measuring their rate of evolution. If the protein coding
function of exons restrains the evolution of ESEs then,
conversely, the requirement to preserve ESEs function
should places some restrictions on the ability of cod-
ing regions to evolve. The consequences of this restric-
tion would be most severe in cases where a gene’s func-
tion requires the coding sequence to have the poten-
tial to adopt a variety of sequences, as is the case for
highly polymorphic or rapidly evolving genes. One line
of research may include a search for mechanisms (e.g.
stronger splice sites or a shift to intronic splicing en-
hancers) that reduce or eliminate the reliance on ESEs
for correct pre- mRNA processing.
William Fairbrother@brown.edu
William Fairbrother@brown.edu
CNRS France EvolBiol
A few post-doc positions are available at CNRS for 2
years, starting in September or October 2006. Deadline
for applications is June 2006. Two of them are in the
ﬁeld of evolutionary biology.
http://www.sg.cnrs.fr/drhchercheurs/Post doc2006/-
default.htm One position is available in my own lab,
on experimental evolution with mites :
http://www.k-projects.com/cnrs postdocs/-
public/departement details.php?IdDpt=10&Dep=-
SDV&NumOﬀre=8&Langue=en
Sincerely
Isabelle
Isabelle Olivieri Universit´ e Montpellier 2, cc 065 Insti-
tut des Sciences de l’Evolution Place Eug` ene Batail-
lon 34095 Montpellier cedex 05 France Fax : 33
(0) 4 67 14 36 22 Tel : 33 (0) 4 67 14 37
50 (/ 36 31) LAB http://www.isem.univ-montp2.fr/-
GE/Metapopulations/MetaAccueil.php Master BGAE,
sp´ ecialit´ e EBE, parcours RPI : http://mon.univ-56 EvolDir February 1, 2006
montp2.fr/MBGAEEBERPI/ Ecole Doctorale : http:/-
/www.univ-montp2.fr/ ˜ edbi/ olivieri@isem.univ-
montp2.fr
ChicagoFieldMuseum TibetanPlants
Postdoctoral position in evolution, biogeography, and
conservation of Tibetan ﬂowering plants
The Botany Department at the Field Museum
(Chicago, Illinois, USA) seeks applicants for a two-
year postdoctoral position in a project funded by the
MacArthur Foundation to conduct research and build
capacity for biodiversity conservation in the eastern Hi-
malaya. This collaboration with the Smithsonian In-
stitution and the Kunming Insitute of Botany focuses
on three nature reserves in southern Xizang (Tibet)
where ﬁeld trips will take place in the summers of 2006
ˆ a 2008. In the ﬁeld, the position entails general col-
lecting of vascular plant specimens and assisting in the
training of local land managers, students, and others in
ﬁeld techniques. In Chicago, the successful applicant
will conduct research on the evolution and biogeogra-
phy of Tibetan plants at the Field Museum under the
supervision of co-PI Dr. Richard Ree. Considerable
ﬂexibility in choosing a taxon or study question will
be granted ˆ a the person could pursue an independent
project, or take part in ongoing projects of the co-PI
focusing on taxa such as Pedicularis and Corydalis in
the greater Hengduan region. It is expected that the re-
search will incorporate molecular data, to be generated
in the Field Museum’s Pritzker Laboratory, a modern
and fully-equipped facility for molecular systematics.
In addition to research, the position entails various lo-
gistical and informatics-related duties, such as assisting
the co-PI in managing a specimen database and devel-
oping a project web site, facilitating short-term visits
by Chinese collaborators and trainees to Chicago, and
helping arrange ﬁeld trips. These responsibilities will
take up about 30% of the time.
Botanists with an interest in temperate Asia, alpine
plants, Northern Hemisphere biogeography, and/or bio-
diversity informatics are encouraged to apply. Previous
ﬁeld and laboratory experience is strongly preferred;
GIS expertise is a plus. Starting date is ﬂexible: as
early as August 2006 (in time for the ﬁrst ﬁeld trip) is
possible. Salary is $33,000 to $35,000 USD/year + full
beneﬁts for two years.
To apply, please email a cover letter, CV, and contactinformation for two references to the following address.
For more information, contact:
Dr. Richard Ree Botany Dept., The Field Museum
1400 S Lake Shore Drive Chicago, IL 60605 USA
phone: 1-312-665-7857 e-mail: rree@ﬁeldmuseum.org
rree@ﬁeldmuseum.org
Dublin MolEvolBioinformatics
Location: Dublin, Ireland
Application deadline: 14 Feb 2006
Project Title: Gene gains, losses and relocations during
vertebrate evolution
Description: A postdoctoral position starting in Octo-
ber 2006 is available in the lab of Dr. Aoife McLysaght
in the Genetics Dept. of Trinity College Dublin. This
project is sponsored by Science Foundation Ireland as
part of their prestigious President of Ireland Young
Researcher’s Award (awarded to Aoife McLysaght in
2005). The project will eventually employ three Ph.D.
students and one postdoctoral fellow working together.
The project will involve examination and statistical
analysis of vertebrate genome data using bioinformatics
methods. Candidates for the Postdoctoral Fellowship
are expected to have completed a Ph.D. on or before
October 2006 in the ﬁeld of molecular evolution, com-
parative genomics, or related discipline. Experience in
molecular evolution, statistical analysis and bioinfor-
matics/computer programming are desirable.
For more details of the project, look under “Research”
on the lab website http://www.gen.tcd.ie/molevol To
apply: Send a complete CV (including grades), a de-
scription of your research achievements and interests,
and the names of at least two referees.
Aoife McLysaght Smurﬁt Institute of Genetics Trinity
College Dublin 2 Ireland
[e] aoife.mclysaght@tcd.ie [t] +353-1-6083161
[f] +353-1-6798558 [w] www.gen.tcd.ie/molevol
mclysaga@tcd.ie mclysaga@tcd.ie
DukeU EvolPhilosophyBiolFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 57
Post-doctoral fellowship for Academic Year 2006-2007.
The Duke Center for the Philosophy of Biology invites
applications from philosophers and biologists for its
NSF sponsored post-doctoral fellowship in the philos-
ophy of biology. This fellowship is intended for junior
faculty who can secure research leaves from their uni-
versities and/or who will have completed their Ph.D.s
immediately before taking up the fellowship. In ad-
dition to their research, fellows will participate in the
Center’s faculty research seminar, help organize the an-
nual philosophy of biology conference, and teach one
graduate seminar on their area of special interest. Ap-
plicants should submit vita, list of references, one or
more sample papers, and a statement describing the
area of research to which the candidate proposes to
devote their fellowship period. Electronic submission
of documents is encouraged. Consideration of candi-
dates will commence on 15 February. Send material to
Robert Brandon, rbrandon@duke.edu, Department of
Philosophy, Box 90743, Duke University Durham, NC,
27708
Thanks, Robert
Robert Brandon <rbrandon@duke.edu >
DukeU SocietalEvol
Post-doctoral Fellowship. Applications are invited from
biologists (with a strong interest in philosophy) or
philosophers (with training in biology) for a two-year
post-doctoral position leading a study of possible uni-
versal principles of coloniality/sociality. The empiri-
cal component of the study is a search for the mor-
phological, physiological, and behavioral correlates of
the emergence of colonial associations generally (from
bryozoans to bees to buﬀalo). The philosophical com-
ponent is an analytical study of the possible corre-
lates, leading to methods for operationalizing them.
For a more detailed description of the project, see:
www.biology.duke.edu/mcshealab . Funding for the po-
sition is expected but pending. Opportunity to join
Duke Biology Dept, which has exceptional strength in
evolutionary studies. Applicants should submit a CV,
short statement of research interests, one or two sam-
ple papers, and names and e-mail addresses of three
references. Electronic submission of documents is en-
couraged. Consideration of candidates will begin on 15
February. Start date is 1 July. Send materials to: Dan
McShea, dmcshea@duke.edu, Dept. of Biology, Duke
University, Box 90338, Durham, NC 27708.Dan McShea
Dan McShea <dmcshea@duke.edu >
DukeU VertebrateBiogeography
NSF-Funded Postdoctoral Position available for the
study of Malagasy Vertebrate Biogeography
Background:
The project will test the hypothesis that the geological
complexity of western Madagascar, particularly its river
drainage systems, has yielded a more complex pattern
of species distributions and areas of micro-endemism
than are found in the eastern regions of the island. The
project aims to yield novel insights that will connect ge-
ological and geographic forces to patterns of vertebrate
distribution and endemism. Madagascar has been des-
ignated as one of the most critical geographic priori-
ties for conservation action, retaining less than 10% of
the natural habitats that existed before human colo-
nization. Field inventory activities, conducted by col-
leagues at the Field Museum of Natural History and
the University of Antananarivo, will focus on the her-
petofauna and mammals occuring at the survey sites.
Phylogenetic and biogeographic analysis of these ani-
mals, each with unique life-history and dispersal char-
acteristics, will be conducted to identify areas of high
endemism potentially associated with underlying geo-
logical features, and also to test for the role that rivers
have played in generating patterns of vertebrate diver-
sity and distribution. The project will be a case study
for the integration of ﬁeld, lab, and geospatial analysis
for understanding biogeographic patterns. The project
also has a signiﬁcant focus on capacity-building through
the education and training of both American and Mala-
gasy students.
Qualiﬁcations:
The successful applicant will be expected to have the
necessary molecular skills to generate DNA sequence
data for a number of vertebrate groups, as well as the
appropriate phylogenetic and/or population genetic an-
alytical skills to interpret the data. In particular, given
that we will be focusing on many taxonomic groups
at or below the species level, expertise in coalescent
methods is highly desirable. The applicant should also
have an enthusiasm for biodiversity studies and conser-
vation, as well as a willingness to interact with and, on
occasion, train Malagasy scholars. Field work is not an58 EvolDir February 1, 2006
integral part of the position, though ﬁeld possibilities
may exist depending upon the skills and interests of
the successful candidate. Finally, expertise or interest
in bats is a plus. Conditions:
This position is funded for two years, with the possi-
bility of a third year extension. Salary is competitive,
and the position will carry full beneﬁts. The position
is open until ﬁlled, though ideally, the candidate will
begin his/her duties by June, 2006.
To Apply:
Send current CV, publications, and list of references to:
Anne D. Yoder, Professor Departments of Biol-
ogy & BAA Duke University, Box 90338 Durham,
NC 27708 ph: 919-660-7275 anne.yoder@duke.edu
http://www.biology.duke.edu/yoderlab/ Anne Yoder
<anne.yoder@duke.edu >
EmoryU EvolColorVision
Dear Colleagues,
I am looking for Postdoctoral fellows who are inter-
ested in working on “Adaptive evolution of color vision
in vertebrates.” Candidates should have a strong back-
ground in molecular biology (construction and screen-
ing of genomic DNA or cDNA libraries, and molecular
characterization of positive clones, including DNA se-
quencing) and strong interests in evolutionary biology.
Please send CV to:
Shozo Yokoyama, Ph. D. Asa G. Candler Profes-
sor of Biology Department of Biology Emory Univer-
sity 1510 Clifton Road Rollins Research Center At-
lanta, GA 30322 Tel:404-727-5379 FAX:404-727-2880
Email:syokoya@emory.edu
syokoya@emory.edu
INRA UParisXI MetabolicEvol
Post-doc in metabolic evolution
A postdoctoral position in metabolic evolution is im-
mediately available in the group Fundamental Quanti-
tative Genetics (INRA-University Paris XI-CNRS-INAPG) in Gif-sur-Yvette, France, in tight collaboration
with the Laboratory of General Oenology, University
Bordeaux 2, France. The position is for two years.
The project is part of a research program on the ge-
netic and evolution of metabolic systems. The goal of
this project is to search for new criteria of adaptive
ability, using glycolysis and fermentation in yeast as
a model system, and focusing on three levels of cellu-
lar integration: enzymatic, metabolic and cell growth.
A collection of Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains from
oenology, brewing and baker origins, will be analysed
to evaluate if, and in which extent, human selection
has aﬀected concentrations of glycolytic and fermenta-
tive enzymes (and their possible correlations), the gly-
colytic ﬂux value and cell growth. The analysis of the
relationships between these diﬀerent levels will allow
the identiﬁcation of enzymes which have possibly been
targets of human selection, and which could be valu-
able indicators of adaptive ability in this species. Be-
yond the yeast model, this type of approach will shed
light on evolutionary adjustment of a major physiolog-
ical function, and evolution of regulation.
Applicants should have skills in evolutionary biology.
Experience in microbiology, biochemistry and/or quan-
titative genetics is a plus. This position will be funded
by the French Agence Nationale de la Recherche (ANR)
for two years.
If interested, please contact Delphine Sicard and
send your CV, list of publications, and the names
of at least two references, by mid-February to :
sicard@moulon.inra.fr.
Delphine Sicard, Universit´ e Paris-Sud. UMR de
G´ en´ etique V´ eg´ etale, INRA-UPS-CNRS-INA PG 91190
Gif-sur-Yvette, France http://www.moulon.inra.fr
Delphine Sicard <sicard@moulon.inra.fr >
ImperialCollegeLondon
BiodiversityHotspots
9 Month Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Biodiver-
sity Hotspot Analysis
Applications are invited for a 9 Month Postdoctoral
Research Assistantship as part of the Avian Diversity
Hotspots Consortium. This NERC-funded consortium
is a collaboration between Imperial College, Sheﬃeld
University and the Institute of Zoology (London). The
overall aim of the consortium is to investigate the eco-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 59
logical and evolutionary basis of biodiversity hotspots,
using birds as a model system. The successful candidate
will collate a global database on the geographic distri-
bution of bird species; identify biodiversity hotspots;
and perform statistical analyses on the diversity and
distribution of hotspots. Candidates should be inter-
ested in large- scale problems in ecology and evolution,
have extensive experience of statistical modelling and
management of large databases, and be willing to work
collaboratively within a large team of researchers. Ex-
perience in GIS-based modelling, construction of inter-
active web pages, and avian biology may also be advan-
tageous. This postdoctoral appointment is for 9 months
and salary will be based on the RA1 scale, depending on
age and experience. This position will be based in Ian
Owens? Research Group at Imperial College?s Silwood
Park ﬁeld station, approximately 30 miles outside Lon-
don. Regular travel to other consortium members and
specialised libraries and museums will also be required.
The closing date for applications is 16 January 2006, or
until post is ﬁlled.
Applications should be made by email to Mrs Diana
Anderson (d.anderson@ic.ac.uk; Phone + 44 (0)207 59
42207; Fax: + 44 (0)207 5942339; Department of Bio-
logical Sciences, Imperial College at Silwood Park, As-
cot, Berkshire SL5 7PY, UK) and should include a let-
ter of application addressing the relevant criteria, a de-
tailed CV and the names and addresses of at least three
referees. Please state ?postdoctoral position? in the
header of the email message.
– Prof. Ian P. F. Owens Division of Biology & NERC
Centre for Population Biology Imperial College London
Silwood Park Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7PY UK
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/i.owens Ian Owens
<i.owens@imperial.ac.uk >
KelloggBiologicalStation
EducationCoordinator
Postdoctoral Position W.K. Kellogg Biological Station
Michigan State University GK-12 Fellowship Program
Coordinator
A full time postdoctoral position to coordinate the
new KBS GK-12 Graduate Fellowship Program, re-
cently funded by NSF, is now available. The pro-
gram will place eight graduate fellows in K-12 class-
rooms of southwest Michigan to build teaching skillsand to promote the adoption of inquiry-based K-12
science teaching. The focus of the GK-12 program
is inquiry-based teaching for ecological literacy. Ele-
ments of the program include Fellow-teacher classroom
partnerships, a 1-week summer teaching institute, and
school-year workshops. A more complete description of
the program can be found at www.kbs.msu.edu/gk-12
. The successful applicant will coordinate project par-
ticipants, help to organize science content and teach-
ing workshops, and contribute to project leadership.
Candidates should have a Ph.D. in ecology, science ed-
ucation, or a related discipline. Current funding from
NSF’s Directorate for Education and Human Resources
covers a 3-year period. The position will also aﬀord can-
didates the opportunity to pursue scholarly interests in
their own primary discipline.
Further information about KBS, located in a mostly
rural area 10 minutes north of Kalamazoo, mid-
way between Chicago and Detroit, can be found at
www.kbs.msu.edu . Interested candidates should sub-
mit to the address below a curriculum vita and state-
ments of research and teaching interests (either sep-
arately or as part of a cover letter). Please also ar-
range to have 3 letters of reference sent to: Dr. G.P.
Robertson, W.K. Kellogg Biological Station, Michigan
State University, Hickory Corners, MI 49060. Elec-
tronic submission of all materials is encouraged to GK-
12@kbs.msu.edu. MSU is an aﬃrmative-action, equal-
opportunity institution.
Jeﬀ Conner <connerj@msu.edu >
LeidenU EvolAllometry
Three Year PostDoc Opportunity in Section of Evolu-
tionary Biology, Institute of Biology, Leiden University,
Leiden, The Netherlands
We have been awarded by the dutch N.W.O. a three-
year PostDoc grant on ’The control and evolution of
animal form’ to follow-up our analysis of the evo-
lution of allometry using our Bicyclus butterﬂy sys-
tem. Please see the original paper last year in Science
307: 718-720, together with the summary-objectives
from the grant itself that is reproduced below. In-
terested people should make contact with Paul Brake-
ﬁeld or Bas Zwaan (brakeﬁeld@rulsfb.leidenuniv.nl;
zwaan@rulsfb.leidenuniv.nl) attaching a CV where ap-
propriate.
Our team in Leiden includes Patricia Beldade. This60 EvolDir February 1, 2006
project is part of a network of interacting projects all
using tropical Bicyclus butterﬂies in a multidisciplinary
research program in evolutionary genetics and evo devo.
This network includes Tony Frankino whom established
our interests in allometry and set up the original se-
lected lines which will form part of the new project.
The successful candidate would be expected to be able
to start by June 2006. The group also works with
Drosophila and two-spot ladybird beetles.
Summary with main objectives: Animal groups ex-
hibit a spectacular diversity in the scaling relation-
ships among diﬀerent body parts or traits, and between
these and overall body size; changes in such allome-
tries among traits is clearly a major pathway by which
morphology evolves. However, even with over a cen-
tury of interest in the evolution of allometry, little is
known about the mechanisms of change in scaling rela-
tionships. Developmental processes must play a central
role in maintaining the functional scaling relationships
among traits as well as in their evolution. To study
both process and pattern in evolution we have initi-
ated an integrated, broadly ’evo-devo’ research program
on allometry. In this project we will quantify allome-
try across species of Lepidoptera as previously exam-
ined experimentally in artiﬁcial selection experiments
using the tropical butterﬂy Bicyclus anynana (e.g. for
forewing size relative to hindwing size, or forewing size
relative to body size). We will also perform a range of
genetic, developmental and physiological experiments
using individuals from our selected lines to unravel the
underlying mechanisms of evolutionary change, and to
explore the bases of observed patterns of bias in the evo-
lution of the allometries in terms of how the individual
traits contributed to changes their scaling relationships.
A deeper understanding of the roles of proximate mech-
anisms in the evolution of such complex phenotypes is
needed to build a predictive ’evo-devo’ theory of trait
evolution that can then be generalized to other organ-
isms. This is the overall goal of our multidisciplinary
project.
Our program is powerful because it will integrate work
on both process and pattern to study morphological
evolution by taking advantage of existing lineages of the
model butterﬂy Bicyclus anynana that have novel al-
lometries for ecologically relevant morphological traits.
This research will provide crucial insights about the
mechanisms that underlie evolution in the relative size
of diﬀerent body features. Our primary objectives are
to:
1) use a broad ’evo-devo’ approach to analyze the prox-
imate (genetic, physiological and developmental) bases
of the regulation of scaling relationships for a set of
morphological traits in B. anynana;2) determine if the observed biases in the contributions
made by the individual traits to evolution in their scal-
ing relationships share a common proximate basis;
3) determine whether understanding the proximate ba-
sis of trait integration and co-ordination during devel-
opment resolves the striking diﬀerence between theoret-
ical predictions of scaling relationship evolution and the
results observed in our artiﬁcial selection experiments;
4) relate the male ﬁtness consequences of changes in al-
lometry to diﬀerences in male secondary sexual traits;
5) and with colleagues at Naturalis (RMNH), place
the experimental work with B. anynana into a wider,
comparative analysis of the evolution of the allometry
within the butterﬂies.
http://biology.leidenuniv.nl/ibl/S6a/ and weblog of
Patricia is http://biology.leidenuniv.nl/ibl/S6a/news/
“P.M.Brakeﬁeld” <brakeﬁeld@rulsfb.leidenuniv.nl >
McMasterU Astrobiology
The Origins Institute at McMaster University invites
applications for postdoctoral fellowships in the general
ﬁeld of Astrobiology, to begin in September 2006. The
OI has proposed up to a total of six post-docs as part
of its new, interdisciplinary, astrobiology programme.
These positions are subject to the availability of funds
- to be announced in early April, 2006.
We seek to hire post-docs who have expertise in ﬁelds
ranging from planetary science to evolutionary biology,
as listed below. Astrobiology research programmes at
the OI comprise three basic and related directions:
(1) The Conditions for Life; including the nature and
formation of planetary systems; the timing and ori-
gin of habitable conditions (water, biomolecules, en-
ergy sources) on planets and moons, the origin of
biomolecules that characterize pre-biotic conditions;
(2) The Origins of Life; including pre-biotic conditions,
complexity and autocatalytic sets, habitats and ener-
getics of early life, the nature of ﬁrst cells; and
(3) Extremophiles; including terrestrial microbial life in
extreme conditions, Mars analogue studies, as well as
microbial life in the Arctic and Antarctic.
These programmes are collaborative eﬀorts between OI
members, as well as co-investigators across Canada andFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 61
researchers at the NASA Ames Research Center in the
US. The OI post-docs will beneﬁt from a wide range
of expertise in observational, experimental, theoreti-
cal and computational aspects of these problems - as
well as the facilities with which to pursue them. These
include the SHARCNET, state-of-the-art High Perfor-
mance Computing facility (McMaster is a leading mem-
ber of SHARCNET).
For more information about the OI and the as-
trobiology research programme, please see: http://-
origins.mcmaster.ca/jobs.html The positions will be
oﬀered for two years, and can be renewed for an ad-
ditional year. Applicants should send a full Curricu-
lum Vitae (including list of publications), a two page
statement of research background and interests, and ar-
range to have three reference letters to arrive at the OI
by March 31, 2006.
Applications and letters should be addressed to:
Prof. Ralph Pudritz, Director, Origins Institute, ABB
241, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West,
Hamilton, ON L8S 4M1, Canada. Re: OI Postdoctoral
Fellowships
Inquiries about the competition should be sent to
the OI secretary, Ms. Rosemary McNeice, at ori-
gins@mcmaster.ca. McMaster is committed to Em-
ployment Equity and encourages applications from all
qualiﬁed candidates including women, aboriginal peo-
ples, persons with disabilities, and members of visible
minorities.
Origins@mcmaster.ca
NCStateU MolEvolGenet
North Carolina State University Molecular Evolution-
ary Genetics
We are looking for a postdoctoral candidate with train-
ing in evolutionary genetics and molecular biology who
wants to investigate the evolution of sexual communi-
cation systems.
Background Information: Most night-ﬂying moth
species locate mates through production of, and re-
sponse to, a very precise blend of two or more volatile
chemical compounds. Within a population, females
with atypical blends have been shown to be less at-
tractive to males than females with the population’s
common blend. Similarly, rare males that respond toatypical blends have been found to be at a disadvantage
in ﬁnding mates. The genes that control pheromone
blend ratios have never been found to be linked to, or
aﬀect male response, so mutations that cause changes
in each of the two components of communication are
expected to arise independently. On a simple theoret-
ical level, this type of sexual communication system is
expected to be evolutionarily constrained because an
individual with a mutation leading to an altered blend
or response will be selected against, when rare. Even
if the selective disadvantage to rare individuals with
alleles for novel signals or responses is minimal, mass
selection is not expected to increase their frequency in
the population. Based on these assumptions it is diﬃ-
cult to account for the great diversiﬁcation of chemical
mixtures used in mate communication by over 10,000
moth species. We are investigating a number of poten-
tial evolutionary mechanisms that could have resulted
in this diversiﬁcation by dissecting the genetic under-
pinnings of selective mating in moths.
We are working with two sympatric moth species (He-
liothis virescens and Heliothis subﬂexa) that have very
distinct sex pheromone blends, do not mate in the wild,
but can be induced to mate in the lab. We have mapped
a number of Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) that control
production of speciﬁc female sex pheromone compo-
nents and male response to these components. We have
moved two speciﬁc QTL between species and tested
their impacts on mating in the ﬁeld. We have also iden-
tiﬁed a number of candidate genes that appear to be
involved in male response to speciﬁc pheromone com-
ponents.
We are now in a good position to test candidate genes
and to determine the genetic and molecular basis for
diﬀerences between the sexual communication systems
of these two moth species. We are looking for a post-
doc who has good training in molecular biology and
wants to use this knowledge to answer questions about
evolution of sexual communication systems.
North Carolina State University is a leading research
institution with a strong commitment to the study of
quantitative, molecular, and population genetics. The
University is situated in Raleigh, NC and is within 30
miles of Duke University, UNC-Chapel Hill, NIEHS, an
EPA research unit, and the Research Triangle Park.
For more details about our lab see: http://-
www4.ncsu.edu:8030/%7Efgould/
The successful applicant will participate in the in-
terdepartmental Keck Program in Behavior Biology—
http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/beh bio/index.html
Send letters of inquiry to: Fred Gould@NCSU.edu62 EvolDir February 1, 2006
TurkuFinland EvolFuncGenomics
Post-doctoral position in Evolutionary and Population
Genetics, Turku, Finland.
A post-doctoral position is available in Craig Primmer’s
research group (see http://users.utu.ﬁ/primmer for
more details) at the University of Turku, Finland, as a
part of the recently funded Finnish Centre of Excellence
in Evolutionary Genetics and Physiology which also in-
cludes the research groups of Professor Juha Meril¨ a
(see http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/biosci/egru/ ) and Profes-
sor Mikko Nikinmaa ( http://www.sci.utu.ﬁ/biologia/-
fysiologia/nikinmaa eng.htm ).
The successful applicant will be expected to have the
necessary molecular skills and scientiﬁc enthusiasm to
contribute signiﬁcantly to functional genomics aspects
of two multi-disciplinary collaborative projects: - iden-
tiﬁcation of genes involved in local adaptation in a wild
grayling, Thymallus thymallus, study system (see Hau-
gen & V2000; Koskinen et al. 2002 for background) -
identiﬁcation of genes involved in maintaining species
barriers in Ficedula ﬂycatchers (see Primmer et. al
2002; Sætre et al. 2003 for background).
In addition to playing a major role in these projects,
the successful applicant will be encouraged to develop
their own research program within the scope of the Cen-
tre of Excellence (including supervision of graduate stu-
dents), and research funding will be provided to support
this. A very limited amount of undergraduate teaching
on research related topics will also be encouraged.
Researchers with previous post-doctoral experience in
functional genomics (in any organism) and with the
imagination and interest necessary to use their expe-
rience to address questions in evolutionary biology are
especially encouraged to apply.
Informal inquires and applications should be addressed
to Prof. Craig Primmer (craig.primmer@utu.ﬁ). Ap-
plications should include a full CV, a statement of pre-
vious research and supervision experience as well as an
outline current research interests and names and con-
tact details of at least two referees. Review of applica-
tions will commence at the end of January 2006 with the
preferred starting date being prior to April 2006. The
position is initially available until the end of 2008. The
salary range is 2200-2900 EUR per month, depending
on the previous post-doctoral experience of the candi-date.
Haugen, T. O. & V, L. A. (2000) Population diﬀerences
in early life- history traits in grayling. Journal of Evo-
lutionary Biology 13: 897-905
Koskinen MT, Haugen TO and Primmer CR. (2002)
Contemporary ﬁsherian life-history evolution in small
salmonid populations. Nature 419: 826-830.
Primmer CR, Borge T, Haavie J, and Sætre G-P.
(2002) Single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) charac-
terization in species with limited available sequence
information: high nucleotide diversity revealed in the
avian genome. Molecular Ecology 11: 603-612.
Sætre G-P, Borge T, Lindroos K, Haavie J, Sheldon
BC, Primmer CR, and Syv¨ anen A-C. (2003) Sex chro-
mosome evolution and speciation in Ficedula ﬂycatch-
ers. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series
B. 270: 53-59.
Craig Primmer
Professor of Genetics Division of Genetics and Phys-
iology Department of Biology (Vesilinnantie 5) 20014
University of Turku FINLAND
tel. +358 2 333 5571 fax. +358 2 333
6680 craig.primmer@utu.ﬁ http://users.utu.ﬁ/primmer
craig.primmer@utu.ﬁ
UAlaska InternationalPolarYear
University of Alaska Presidential International Polar
Year Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
The University of Alaska is pleased to oﬀer 10 post-
doctoral fellowships, starting during academic year 06-
07, for a period of up to three years to cover the time
frame of the fourth International Polar Year plus anal-
ysis and publication of results (see www.alaska.edu/-
swacad/postdoc/ ). Starting salary will be US $50,000
plus full faculty beneﬁts, plus $5000 per year travel and
research allowance. Applications are due by 1 April
2006, and decisions will be announced by 1 May 2006.
Awardees will be expected to conduct research con-
tributing to at least one of the six IPY themes (see
www.ipy.org ) with a focus on the Northern High Lat-
itudes. In addition, applicants should clearly indicate
how their research would beneﬁt from the cultural, eco-
logical, and geological diversity of Alaska. Awardees
may choose to be stationed at any of the University
main campuses (Fairbanks, Anchorage or Juneau; seeFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 63
www.alaska.edu ) and will be hosted by a Department
or Research Institute. Interested senior-level graduate
students and recent PhDs are encouraged to contact
UA faculty members regarding prospective research
projects.
Information about Institute of Arctic Biology faculty
and their research interests is available at http://-
www.iab.uaf.edu/ . HOW TO APPLY:
A complete Postdoctoral Fellowship application con-
sists of the following items:
*A University of Alaska Job Application for this fellow-
ship position (accessed by following the “visit the job
posting” link below)
*A current CV or resume that shows educational back-
ground and work experience
*An oﬃcial transcript and/or other oﬃcial documents
of your complete undergraduate and graduate school
record (original or certiﬁed copies of transcripts must
be sent via postal mail, electronic or non-certiﬁed copies
will not be considered acceptable)
*At least three written recommendations from non-
University of Alaska personnel. Recommendation
forms are available for download from the link below.
Separate letters of reference can be used if more con-
venient, but please provide a copy of the sheet entitled
“Information for Letters of Recommendation,” to each
person writing a recommendation.
*Additional letters of recommendation, including from
University of Alaska faculty, if you desire
*A synopsis of your doctoral dissertation (one page ab-
stract)
*A statement (no longer than three pages double-
spaced) that outlines your long-range career plans, how
your postdoctoral research relates to IPY, and how an
IPY postdoctoral tenure at UA would complement your
existing experience and preparation.
To apply, visit the job posting (see www.alaska.edu/-
swacad/postdoc/ ) and follow the application instruc-
tions.
NOTE: Application Deadline is April 1, 2006
Address for all supplementary documents: Vice Presi-
dent for Academic Aﬀairs and Research IPY Postdoc-
toral Fellowship Committee 202 Butrovich Building PO
Box 755000 Fairbanks, Alaska 99775-5000
For questions or further information, please contact
Craig Dorman, VPAA/R at the above address or
by phone: 907.450.8018, Fax 907.450.8002, or e-mail:
craig.dorman@alaska.eduKevin G. McCracken Institute of Arctic Biology
& Department of Biology and Wildlife University
of Alaska Fairbanks Fairbanks, Alaska 99775 oﬃce
(907) 474-6419 Rm. 228 WRRB fax (907) 474-6967
email: fnkgm@uaf.edu http://mercury.bio.uaf.edu/-
˜kevin mccracken/
UBourgogne AvianLifeHistory
CNRS and UNIVERSITE de BOURGOGNE* *
Post-doctoral RESEARCHER IN
Oxidative stress and life-histories in birds
*26,000 **euros per annum*
A postdoctoral research assistant is required for a
project entitled Oxidative stress, aging and longevity
in birds, funded by a ANR grant to Bruno Faivre
and Daniel Ricquier. The project aims to explore
the molecular links between energetics and life-history
traits in zebra ﬁnches. In particular, we wish to inves-
tigate the role of a class of mitochondrial transporters
(avianUCP) as a regulatory mechanism of ROS produc-
tion. The candidate should have a good background
in evolutionary biology and a good skill for laboratory
work (molecular and biochemical analyses). Although
we wish to recruit a candidate with an aptitude for a
lab-based work, she/he could also be involved in the ex-
periments carried out on living birds. The post is avail-
able for up to 2 years, starting April 1 ^st 2006, and will
be based in the Facult´ e Necker Enfants Malades (Ric-
quiers lab, Paris).
Further information can be asked to :
Bruno Faivre (bruno.faivre@u-bourgogne.fr
<mailto:bruno.faivre@u-bourgogne.fr >)
Daniel Ricquier (ricquier@necker.fr
<mailto:ricquier@necker.fr >)
Fr´ ed´ eric Bouillaud (bouillaud@necker.fr
<mailto:bouillaud@necker.fr >)
Letters of application, including a CV, the names,
postal and e-mail addresses and fax numbers of three
academic referees, should be sent to: Bruno Faivre
(bruno.faivre@u-bourgogne.fr <mailto:bruno.faivre@u-
bourgogne.fr >).
Closing Date: *15 February 2006*.
Summary of the project64 EvolDir February 1, 2006
The study of patterns and processes underlying aging
depends on two crucial questions addressed at two dif-
ferent levels. The ﬁrst one investigates how natural se-
lection shapes the pattern of aging currently observed.
The second one focuses on the proximal physiologi-
cal and molecular mechanisms that determine the ﬁt-
ness reduction with age. Among the proximal factors,
the deleterious eﬀects of internal damages caused by
free radicals have received much attention. This idea
is based on the observation that mitochondrial respi-
ration produces harmful molecules called oxygen free
radicals, or reactive oxygen species. Free radicals are
very unstable molecules that are prone to react with
other molecules, resulting in an oxidative chain reac-
tion. They can cause deleterious eﬀects on cellular
integrity by damaging cellular membranes, peroxidiz-
ing lipids, oxidizing proteins or damaging DNA. Be-
cause free radical-induced damages accumulate during
the lifespan, they have been suggested to be one of the
major proximate causes of the age-associated decline
in ﬁtness. Birds are particularly interesting species for
the study of aging. Indeed, they show particularly low
aging rates and extended lifespan compared to mam-
mals of similar size. This is puzzling, because birds
have higher metabolic rates, internal temperatures, en-
ergy expenditure and circulating plasmatic glucose lev-
els than mammals of similar size. To temper the neg-
ative eﬀects of ROS, aerobic organisms have evolved a
sophisticated antioxidant system relying on an arsenal
of compounds which scavenge and quench free radicals.
Therefore, the particularly high longevity of birds may
be due to a low production of free radicals or to a high
level of antioxydant defences, or both. This proposal
attempts to merge the expertise of two disciplines: evo-
lutionary biology and energetics.
Recent publications of the group on the topic
Alonso-Alvarez C., S. Bertrand, G. Devevey, J. Prost,
B. Faivre & G. Sorci (2004). Increased susceptibility
to oxidative stress as a proximate cost of reproduction.
/Ecology Letters /7 :363-368.
Alonso-Alvarez C., S. Bertrand, G. Devevey, M. Gail-
lard, J. Prost, B. Faivre & G. Sorci (2004). Are
carotenoids limiting resources? An experimental test
of dose-dependent eﬀect of carotenoids and immune
activation on sexual signals and antioxidant activity.
/American Naturalist/ 164 :651-659.
Arsenijevic D, Onuma H, Pecqueur C, Raimbault S,
Manning BS, Miroux B, Couplan E, Alves-Guerra MC,
Goubern M, Surwit R, Bouillaud F, Richard D, Collins
S, Ricquier D. 2000. Disruption of the uncoupling
protein-2 gene in mice reveals a role in immunity and
reactive oxygen species production. /Nature Genetics/4:435-439.
Criscuolo F., Gonzalez-Barroso M., Bouillaud F., Ric-
quier D., Miroux B. et Sorci G. (2005) Mitochondrial
uncoupling proteins : new perspectives for evolutionary
ecologists. /American Naturalist /166 :686-699/./
Criscuolo F., Gonzalez-Barroso M., Le Maho Y., Ric-
quier D. and Bouillaud F. (2005). Avian uncoupling
protein expressed in yeast mitochondria prevents en-
dogenous free radical damage. /Proceedings of the
Royal Society London B/ 272 : 803-810.
–
St´ ephane Garnier
Equipe Ecologie Evolutive UMR CNRS 5561
Biog´ eosciences Universit´ e de Bourgogne 6 Bd Gabriel
21000 Dijon - France
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UCDavis EvoDevo
Postdoctoral position
Intraspeciﬁc variation in developmental pathways.
Dear colleagues,
We are looking for an exceptionally capable and moti-
vated postdoctoral fellow prepared to take the leading
role in a study aimed at connecting variation in DNA
sequences, developmental pathways, and adult pheno-
types. The three-year, NSF-funded position can start
as early as March 1, 2006. Experience in population
genetics, bioinformatics, and analysis and management
of large sequence data sets is a big plus.
The goal of this project is to understand how DNA se-
quence variation aﬀects gene expression, and how dif-
ferences in gene expression translate into phenotypic
variation, using the Drosophila bric a brac (bab) lo-
cus as a model. The bab locus, which consists of two
closely related transcription factors, is responsible for
~60% of genetic variation in female cuticular pigmen-
tation in a natural population of D. melanogaster. bab
also aﬀects the development of other sexually dimor-
phic traits, including the sex comb, abdominal sternite
bristles, and terminal ﬁlaments in the ovary. We willFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 65
sequence the entire 200-kb bab genomic region from 100
isogenic lines and identify the SNPs and other molec-
ular polymorphisms associated with phenotypic diﬀer-
ences among lines. Simultaneously, population-genetic
approaches will be used to understand the evolutionary
forces that control the distribution of these polymor-
phisms in nature. We will then quantify the levels of
bab transcripts in phenotypically divergent lines, and
use this data to understand the impact of molecular
polymorphisms and their interactions on gene expres-
sion and development. Finally, we will analyze DNA
sequence and expression variation in the upstream regu-
lators and downstream targets of the Bab transcription
factors to understand how genetic variation is trans-
mitted through developmental pathways. The ultimate
goal of the project is to develop a predictive model that
links molecular, developmental, and phenotypic varia-
tion in natural population.
The project involves a close collaboration between
two labs: Artyom Kopp’s (developmental genetics/
genomics/ evolution of development) and Sergey
Nuzhdin’s (quantitative molecular genetics and ge-
nomics). The research environment at UC - Davis
will oﬀer the postdoctoral fellow an excellent chance
to interact and collaborate with many other peo-
ple working in the ﬁelds of evolutionary genetics
and genomics. Northern California, where Davis
is located, oﬀers a variety of recreational oppor-
tunities as well. More information about UC -
Davis can be found in the links below. Kopp lab:
http://www2.eve.ucdavis.edu/kopplab/ Nuzhdin lab:
http://nlab.ucdavis.edu/node/view/177 Evolution and
Ecology: http://www-eve.ucdavis.edu/ UCD Genome
Center: http://www.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/-
index html.html College of Biological Sciences:
http://www.dbs.ucdavis.edu/ City of Davis: http://-
www.ci.davis.ca.us/visitors.cfm If interested, please
contact Artyom Kopp at akopp@ucdavis.edu – Artyom
Kopp Section of Evolution and Ecology and Center
for Genetics and Development University of California
- Davis Davis, CA 95616 USA lab (530) 752-8328
oﬃce (530) 752-8657 fax (530) 752-9014 http://-
www2.eve.ucdavis.edu/kopplab/ akopp@ucdavis.edu
UCaliforniaIrvine
EvolInfectiousDisease
Postdoc: Epidemiology and Evolution of Infectious Dis-
ease University of California, IrvineOne or more Postdoctoral Scholar positions are avail-
able to develop computational analyses and mathemat-
ical models of infectious diseases. The project will be
jointly supervised by Robin Bush and Steven Frank,
with opportunity to interact with a diverse group of
evolutionary geneticists and infectious disease biolo-
gists at the University of California, Irvine ( http://-
ecoevo.bio.uci.edu ). This position provides an opportu-
nity to develop an independent line of research and to
collaborate with our group on quantitative problems.
Potential projects include computational analyses of
molecular data, computational tools for inference, and
dynamical models of epidemiology and evolution.
This position requires a Ph.D. and a record of pub-
lished research in areas related to molecular evolution,
epidemiology, computational or mathematical biology.
We require computational experience and quantitative
skills, including competence in at least one commonly
used programming language. Positions are for two or
more years, subject to review after one year. Review
of candidates and applications will begin February 18,
2006.
Qualiﬁed candidates, including minorities and women,
are strongly encouraged to apply. Applicants should
submit a cover letter, a curriculum vitae, and the
names, addresses and phone numbers of two references
to:
Dr. Robin Bush Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology 359 Steinhaus Hall University of California,
Irvine Irvine, CA 92697-2525 phone: 949-824-2243 fax:
949-824-2181 e-mail: rmbush@uci.edu
The University of California, Irvine has an active ca-
reer partner program, is an equal opportunity employer
committed to excellence through diversity, and has a
National Science Foundation Advance Gender Equity
Program.
rmbush@uci.edu rmbush@uci.edu
UCologne BiolInformation
Postdoctoral Position in Statistical Physics of Biologi-
cal Information
The Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of
Cologne (Germany), oﬀers a postdoc position in bio-
logical physics in the newly established research group
of Dr Johannes Berg.
We are looking for a highly motivated individual to66 EvolDir February 1, 2006
work on the statistical physics of biological informa-
tion. Current research topics include biological net-
works and sequences, and gene expression and its evo-
lution. The position involves collaborations both with
biologists and physicists. Applicants should have a
strong background in computational biology or statis-
tical physics.
The University of Cologne oﬀers an excellent environ-
ment for research on the interface between physics and
biology. The Institute for Theoretical Physics has a
strong focus in statistical physics and hosts several
groups working on biological systems. Joint projects
between the Institute of Theoretical Physics and the In-
stitute of Genetics exist within the recently established
Collaborative Research Centre SFB680 “Molecular Ba-
sis of Evolutionary Innovations”.
For further details and application particulars see
http://www.thp.uni-koeln.de/ ˜ berg/jobs.html Prior
enquiries are most welcome.
Johannes Berg Tel.: +49 (0)221 470 4205 Universit¨ at
zu K¨ oln Fax.: +49 (0)221 470 5159 Z¨ ulpicher Straße
77 Institut f¨ ur Theoretische Physik D-50937 K¨ oln Ger-
many
http://www.thp.uni-koeln.de/ ˜ berg Johannes Berg
<berg@thp.uni-koeln.de >
UCork FunctEvoGenomics
Postdoc, UniCork.Ireland. FunctEvoGenomics
SFI Post Doctoral Fellow : Plant functional evolution-
ary genomics
We are seeking an enthusiastic & highly motivated
Postdoctoral Fellow to join our multidisciplinary re-
search team working on epigenetics and reproduction.
Our group employs a combination of molecular biology,
functional genomics, evolutionary bioinformatics and
genetics to study basic and applied aspects of repro-
duction ( www.ucc.ie/spillane ). The successful appli-
cant will work on an Science Foundation Ireland (SFI)-
funded project on elucidating processes of evolutionary
birth & death of genes, using the plant Arabidopsis as a
model for functional evolutionary genomics. The 3 year
project involves collaboration with Karl Schmid (Max
Planck ICE, Jena), Ken Wolfe (Trinity College Dublin)
and Dolores Cahill (National Centre for Proteomics,
Dublin). The starting gross salary for the SFI Postdoc-
toral Fellow will be 33,000 euros per annum. We areseeking candidates that can eﬀectively combine molec-
ular evolutionary/bioinformatics analysis with molecu-
lar/genetics approaches. Candidates with proven ex-
perience in molecular evolution, population genomics,
bioinformatics, plant developmental/molecular genetics
& evolutionary genetics are particularly encouraged to
apply. Applicants should send an e-mail outlining your
research interest and motivations, including; (a) your
C.V. (please list publications and experimental skills)
& (b) contact details and e-mail addresses for 3 referees
to:
Dr. Charles Spillane, Genetics & Biotechnology Lab,
Biochemistry Dept & Biosciences Institute, University
College Cork, Cork, Ireland. E-mail: c.spillane@ucc.ie
Deadline: 3rd February 2006 UCC is an equal oppor-
tunities employer
“Spillane, Charles” <C.Spillane@ucc.ie >
UDurham AncientDNA
The deadline for applications for the following post has
now been set as 10 February, 2006.
Postdoctoral Research Associate Molecular Ecol-
ogy/Ancient DNA:
Population Genetics of an Extinct Southern Elephant
Seal Colony in the Ross Sea, Antarctica
A 2.5 year post is available for a joint position through
the University of Durham (UK) and the University of
Maine (US). Most work will be undertaken at the Uni-
versity of Durham in the UK starting in April 2006.
The study will involve the ampliﬁcation of DNA from
1000-6000 year old southern elephant seal samples from
the Ross Sea. Molecular methods will be used to track
demographic changes in this now extinct population
over time, assess evidence for selection at target loci
(in the context of climate change), assess population ge-
netic structure in comparison with extant populations,
and reﬁne estimates of the mtDNA mutation rate for
this species. The successful applicant will have skills
in the ampliﬁcation of ancient DNA, and experience
with the use of coalescent models. Applicants should
also have an understanding of the estimation of mu-
tation rate by MCMC maximum likelihood methods.
Durham has excellent facilities for work in molecular
ecology and ancient DNA, including 5 automated se-
quencers and a high speciﬁcation purpose-built ancient
DNA lab.February 1, 2006 EvolDir 67
Applicants should submit a cover letter outlining qual-
iﬁcations, a complete CV, three letters of recommenda-
tion, and up to three reprints to:
Dr. A. Rus Hoelzel School of Biological and Biomedical
Sciences South Road, University of Durham Durham,
DH1 3LE, UK email: a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk
a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk
UMaryland HumanEvolGenomics
Postdoctoral Positions in Human Evolutionary Ge-
nomics
Postdoctoral positions are available in a human popu-
lation genetics laboratory in the Department of Biol-
ogy at the University of Maryland at College Park for
NIH and NSF funded research. Research foci in the
lab include the study of African genetic diversity and
population structure (we currently have an extensive
set of samples from over 100 geographically and ethni-
cally diverse African populations), human evolutionary
history, the genetic basis of adaptation (including geno-
type/phenotype studies), the genetic basis of resistance
against infectious disease (with a focus on malaria) and
co-evolution of the human and Plasmodium falciparum
genomes. Additional information about the Tishkoﬀ
lab can be found at http://www.life.umd.edu/biology/-
tishkoﬄab/ .
UMCP is located in a suburb of Washington D.C. with
easy access to a number of research institutions in
the Baltimore/D.C. area including NIH, the Smithso-
nian, TIGR, George Washington University and Johns
Hopkins University. More information about the Biol-
ogy Department and the Behavior, Ecology, Evolution,
and Systematics (BEES) program at UMCP is avail-
able at http://www.life.umd.edu/biology/ andhttp:/-
/www.life.umd.edu/biology/
Candidates with either a strong molecular biology
and/or statistical genetics background are encouraged
to apply for the postdoctoral positions (computational
and laboratory positions are available). Starting dates
are ﬂexible. Salaries are commensurate with qualiﬁca-
tions and experience.
Please send curriculum vita and three letters of ref-
erence to Dr. Sarah Tishkoﬀ, Dept. of Biology, Bi-
ology/Psychology Building #144, Univ. of Maryland,
College Park, MD 20742 or e-mail to tishkoﬀ@umd.edu.
Applications should ideally be received by April, 2006.Women and minority members are strongly encouraged
to apply. The University of Maryland is an equal op-
portunity/aﬃrmative action employer.
Sarah Tishkoﬀ, Ph.D. Associate Professor Dept. of
Biology Biology/Psychology Building Univ. of Mary-
land College Park, MD 20742 Tel: 301-405-6038 Fax:
301-314-9358 email: <mailto:tishkoﬀ@umd.edu >
tishkoﬀ@umd.edu <http://www.life.umd.edu/-
biology/tishkoﬄab/ > http://www.life.umd.edu/-
biology/tishkoﬄab/ **NOTE NEW E-MAIL AD-
DRESS LISTED ABOVE**
UMassachusettsAmherst
DarwinFellow
DARWIN FELLOW
The Graduate Program in Organismic and Evolution-
ary Biology at University of Massachusetts Amherst
announces a two-year POST-DOCTORAL FELLOW-
SHIP/LECTURESHIP. OEB draws together more
than 80 faculty from the Five Colleges (University of
Massachusetts Amherst and Smith, Hampshire, Mount
Holyoke and Amherst Colleges), oﬀering unique train-
ing and research opportunities in the ﬁelds of ecol-
ogy, organismic and evolutionary biology. Our re-
search/lecture position provides recent PhD’s with an
opportunity for independent research with an OEB fac-
ulty sponsor as well as experience developing and teach-
ing a one-semester undergraduate biology course. Po-
sition subject to availability of funds. 1st year salary:
$30,000. 2nd year salary: $32,000. Applicants in the
area of collections-based research are particularly en-
couraged to apply.
To apply, send curriculum vitae, three letters of ref-
erence, statements of research and teaching interests,
and letter of support from your proposed OEB faculty
sponsor. A list of faculty and additional information is
available at www.bio.umass.edu/oeb . For more infor-
mation, see:
http://www.bio.umass.edu/oeb/oeb darwin.html
OEB Darwin Fellowship 319 Morrill Science
Center 611 N. Pleasant Street University of Mas-
sachusetts Amherst Amherst, MA 01003 413-545-0928
darwin@bio.umass.edu Application review begins:
1/30/06 Start date: 8/13/06
The University of Massachusetts Amherst is an Aﬃr-
mative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women68 EvolDir February 1, 2006
and members of minority groups are encouraged to ap-
ply.
Norman Johnson njohnson AT umass DOT edu
UMontpellier SturgeonConservation
Proposal for post doctoral Position
“Conservation of a highly endangered species, the west
European sturgeon, Acipenser sturio L, 1758: strate-
gies for reproductive crossbreeding of reared individu-
als” Key words: Acipenser sturio, endangered species,
conservation ex situ, reproduction, physiology, genetics,
assistance with decision-making, biology conservation.
Foreword: Following the previous proposition in 2005,
an applicant was retained. After two months, the
people resigned for private reasons. New candidates
should sent a motivation letter, a provisional work-
ing schedule and a CV to Patrick.williot@cemagref.fr
with copies to eric.orchard@cemagref.fr as well as
paul.gontheir@cemagref.fr
Setting out the problem Context Most sturgeon pop-
ulations throughout the world are under fairly seri-
ous threat, and some have even disappeared entirely
(Birstein et al., 1997). The European Atlantic stur-
geon, Acipenser sturio Linnaeus, 1758, is no exception
to this trend. Whereas at one time it was present
throughout Europe, from the Baltic Sea to the Atlantic,
the Mediterranean, and the Black Sea, this species can
now be found only in France (Ninua, 1976; Holcik et al.,
1989; Elvira et al., 1991; Almaa & Elvira, 2000; Baran-
nikova et al., 2000; Debus, 1995; Economidis et al.,
2000; Fernandez Pasquier, 2000; Gessner, 2000; Mam-
carz, 2000; Rochard et al., 1990; Williot et al., 2002
a). In 1982 it became a protected species throughout
France. In spite of the status, the situation contin-
ues to deteriorate (Williot et al., 1997; 2002b; Rochard
et al., 2001), Thus from the early 90s attempts have
been made to constitute a small conﬁned stock of ﬁsh
(Williot et al., 1997, Williot et al. submitted). The
number of individuals concerned is small for two rea-
sons. This ancient population is very much dwindled
and rearing methods are still uncertain. From the late
90s, the research programme on species conservation
is shared with a German team (IGB Berlin) within a
cooperation framework. A small batch of specimen ar-
tiﬁcially produced in 1995 was sent to Berlin in 1996
(Williot et al., 2000). The main objective behind con-
stituting an ex situ stock is to increase the number ofindividuals of the species in order to protect it. How can
we plan, organise, and carry out the best reproductive
crossbreeding in order both to protect the species and
maintain maximum genetic diversity in the oﬀspring?
Current state of knowledge The knowledge is limited.
The best environmental and management conditions for
rearing these animals are uncertain. The main uncer-
tainty deals with water salinity, 3 levels are tested 0, 15
& 33. Other constraints and/or uncertainties are food,
density and all other environmental conditions such as
water temperature, light, photoperiod, shape of tanks.
Many biological data are unknown, namely those re-
lated to breeding. There are sex determinism (geneti-
cally controlled with heterozygous female for Acipenser
transmontanus and the hybrid bester after Van Ennen-
naam et al., 1999 and Omoto et al., 2005 respectively),
sex ratio of reared juveniles, dynamics of sexual dif-
ferentiation, and in general the whole gametogenesis.
The ﬁrst genetic investigations date from the end of the
1990s (Birstein et al., 1998; Ludwig and Kirschbaum,
1998). We therefore have our ﬁrst genetic data on stock
that was reared in 2000 (Ludwig et al., 2004). We have
a ﬁrst genetic map covering 6 microsatellites loci (alle-
les, degree of relation, heterozygote) and mitochondrial
DNA. The genetic variability of these loci is weak, there
is a considerable imbalance in the allelic frequencies, de-
grees of relationship are high, few individuals have rare
alleles. All individuals have the same haplotype, which
suggests that all the individuals analysed (recent ani-
mals, as opposed to museum samples) have a similar
maternal line. The genetic variability of the current
population in Gironde is less than for that in the North
Sea, estimated from museum samples (Ludwig et al.,
2004). Since these tests were carried out, a few indi-
vidual ﬁsh have been added to the stock that we have
in France. Recent samples were carried out and are
currently analysed in Germany and Italy with diﬀer-
ent methods. Lastly, a quarterly endocrine monitoring
has recently been put in place for the largest individu-
als. Proposals for work projects There are four parts:
1. Analysis of existing genetic data on two levels: -
General data on A.sturio and 2 neighbouring species,
Acipenser naccarii and Acipenser oxyrinchus (Ludwig
et al., 2002; Holcik, 2000; Garrido-Ramos et al., 1997;
Hernando et al., 1999; de la Heran et al., 2004). - De-
tailed analysis at individual level of animals currently
kept in housing.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 69
UMontpellier SturgeonConservation
2
Sorry, My last message was a bit diﬃcult to read. Here
is a TXT version Yours
======
PROPOSAL FOR POST DOCTORAL POSITION
“Conservation of a highly endangered species, the west
European sturgeon, Acipenser sturio L, 1758: strategies
for reproductive crossbreeding of reared individuals”
Key words: Acipenser sturio, endangered species, con-
servation ex situ, reproduction, physiology, genetics, as-
sistance with decision-making, biology conservation.
Foreword: Following the previous proposition in 2005,
an applicant was retained. After two months, the
people resigned for private reasons. New candidates
should sent a motivation letter, a provisional work-
ing schedule and a CV to Patrick.williot@cemagref.fr
with copies to eric.orchard@cemagref.fr as well as
paul.gontheir@cemagref.fr
SETTING OUT THE PROBLEM Context Most stur-
geon populations throughout the world are under fairly
serious threat, and some have even disappeared en-
tirely (Birstein et al., 1997). The European Atlantic
sturgeon, Acipenser sturio Linnaeus, 1758, is no excep-
tion to this trend. Whereas at one time it was present
throughout Europe, from the Baltic Sea to the Atlantic,
the Mediterranean, and the Black Sea, this species can
now be found only in France (Ninua, 1976; Holcik et al.,
1989; Elvira et al., 1991; Almaa & Elvira, 2000; Baran-
nikova et al., 2000; Debus, 1995; Economidis et al.,
2000; Fernandez Pasquier, 2000; Gessner, 2000; Mam-
carz, 2000; Rochard et al., 1990; Williot et al., 2002
a). In 1982 it became a protected species throughout
France. In spite of the status, the situation contin-
ues to deteriorate (Williot et al., 1997; 2002b; Rochard
et al., 2001), Thus from the early 90s attempts have
been made to constitute a small conﬁned stock of ﬁsh
(Williot et al., 1997, Williot et al. submitted). The
number of individuals concerned is small for two rea-
sons. This ancient population is very much dwindled
and rearing methods are still uncertain. From the late
90s, the research programme on species conservation
is shared with a German team (IGB1 Berlin) within a
cooperation framework. A small batch of specimen ar-
tiﬁcially produced in 1995 was sent to Berlin in 1996
(Williot et al., 2000). The main objective behind con-
stituting an ex situ stock is to increase the number ofindividuals of the species in order to protect it. How can
we plan, organise, and carry out the best reproductive
crossbreeding in order both to protect the species and
maintain maximum genetic diversity in the oﬀspring?
Current state of knowledge The knowledge is limited.
The best environmental and management conditions for
rearing these animals are uncertain. The main uncer-
tainty deals with water salinity, 3 levels are tested 0, 15
& 33. Other constraints and/or uncertainties are food,
density and all other environmental conditions such as
water temperature, light, photoperiod, shape of tanks.
Many biological data are unknown, namely those re-
lated to breeding. There are sex determinism (geneti-
cally controlled with heterozygous female for Acipenser
transmontanus and the hybrid bester after Van Ennen-
naam et al., 1999 and Omoto et al., 2005 respectively),
sex ratio of reared juveniles, dynamics of sexual dif-
ferentiation, and in general the whole gametogenesis.
The ﬁrst genetic investigations date from the end of the
1990s (Birstein et al., 1998; Ludwig and Kirschbaum,
1998). We therefore have our ﬁrst genetic data on stock
that was reared in 2000 (Ludwig et al., 2004). We have
a ﬁrst genetic map covering 6 microsatellites loci (alle-
les, degree of relation, heterozygote) and mitochondrial
DNA. The genetic variability of these loci is weak, there
is a considerable imbalance in the allelic frequencies, de-
grees of relationship are high, few individuals have rare
alleles. All individuals have the same haplotype, which
suggests that all the individuals analysed (recent ani-
mals, as opposed to museum samples) have a similar
maternal line. The genetic variability of the current
population in Gironde is less than for that in the North
Sea, estimated from museum samples (Ludwig et al.,
2004). Since these tests were carried out, a few indi-
vidual ﬁsh have been added to the stock that we have
in France. Recent samples were carried out and are
currently analysed in Germany and Italy with diﬀer-
ent methods. Lastly, a quarterly endocrine monitoring
has recently been put in place for the largest individu-
als. PROPOSALS FOR WORK PROJECTS There are
four parts: 1. Analysis of existing genetic data on two
levels: - General data on A.sturio and 2 neighbouring
species, Acipenser naccarii and Acipenser oxyrinchus
(Ludwig et al., 2002 ; Holcik, 2000 ;
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html70 EvolDir February 1, 2006
UNebraska PopBiol
POPULATION BIOLOGY POSTDOCTORAL RE-
SEARCH FELLOWSHIP
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-LINCOLN is
seeking applications for a 2-year postdoctoral position
in the Interdisciplinary Program in Population Biology.
A Ph.D. in Biology, Ecology, Evolution, Genetics, or
Mathematics, and expertise in any aspect of population
biology is required. Qualiﬁed candidates are required
to contact a potential faculty advisor from the list of
core faculty associated with the program to develop a 2-
year research project. Information about the program
and complete instructions for application can be found
athttp://popbio.unl.edu . Applications must include a
CV, a 5-page research proposal, and a description of
potential graduate seminars (synergistic activity plan).
In addition, the applicant must arrange for three letters
of reference (one of which must be from the proposed
faculty sponsor). Applications and letters should be
sent to:
Population Biology Fellowships Program School of Bi-
ological Sciences University of Nebraska-Lincoln 348
Manter Hall Lincoln, NE 68588-0118.
Applications should be received by 1 March 2006 in or-
der to ensure full consideration. The salary range is in
line with international standards for postdoctoral posi-
tions. We strongly encourage applications from women,
and members of minority groups. UNL is committed to
a pluralistic campus community through Aﬃrmative
Action and Equal Opportunity, and is responsive to
the needs of dual career couples. We assure responsible
accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities
Act. For further information contact Alan C. Kamil at
402-472-6676 for assistance.
Diana Pilson <dpilson1@unl.edu >
UOxford CompEvolBiol
Applications are invited for a one year ﬁxed-term post-
doctoral research position starting immediately. The
post is in association with the Evolutionary Biology
Group and the Ancient Biomolecules Centre, Depart-
ment of Zoology, at the University of Oxford.The position is to be entirely computer-based, and will
involve the analysis of DNA sequences (both ancient
and modern) with the aim to address broad evolution-
ary issues such as domestication, population genetics,
and coalescent processes. Potential candidates should
have an interest in phylogenetics and evolutionary biol-
ogy. The successful candidate will have the freedom to
deﬁne the exact scope of the project, although it should
ﬁt within the current research programme of the group.
Experience with computer programming and/or statis-
tical techniques is desirable, and the post could involve
the development of new evolutionary models within our
existing Bayesian MCMC software.
More information about research taking place in
our groups is available from website: http:/-
/evolve.zoo.ox.ac.uk and http://evolve.zoo.ox.ac.uk
abc.zoo.ox.ac.uk. Further particulars available by Tel:
01865 271190; E-mail: recruit@zoo.ox.ac.uk. Appli-
cations, including curriculum vitae, contact details
of three referees and a description of your research
achievements and interests, should be sent to the Per-
sonnel Oﬃce, Department of Zoology, Tinbergen Build-
ing, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PS quoting ref-
erence number: AT 06008. The closing date for appli-
cations is 10 February 2006.
For more information, please contact
Dr. Beth Shapiro Acting Director, Henry Wellcome
Ancient Biomolecules Centre Oxford University, Depts.
of Zoology and Statistics Oxford, OX1 3PS, UK +44 (0)
1865 281248
beth.shapiro@zoo.ox.ac.uk
VirginiaTech AngiospermMolSyst
A one year postdoctoral position with potential exten-
sion to two years is available in molecular systematics
and evolution of angiosperms. The study focuses on
using gene sequence information from representatives
of angiosperm families to address current systematic
and evolutionary problems in the group. The candi-
date is expected to have experience in molecular sys-
tematic laboratory methods and phylogenetic analyses.
The starting date is preferably ASAP, but May or Au-
gust dates are possible. Salary is negotiable. If in-
terested, please contact Khidir Hilu (hilukw@vt.edu;
Phone: 540-231-5407), or send a cover letter detailing
your experience in the ﬁeld, a current vita, and names
and addresses of two references to: Khidir Hilu, Depart-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 71
ment of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg,
Va 24061, USA
–
Sincerely yours,Khidir Hilu Professor of Biology
Department of Biological Sciences Virginia Tech
Blacksburg, Va 24061 USA Phone: 540-231-5407
Fax: 540-231-9307 http://www.biol.vt.edu/faculty/-
hilu/ “Khidir W. Hilu” <hilukw@vt.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Bloomington EvolComplexity June3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
BodegaMarineLab AppliedPhylogenet Apr8-15 . . . . 72
Edinburgh MolEvol Jul17-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Helsinki GenesUnderNatSel May15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
MBL MolEvol Jul23-Aug4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
MountainLakeBioStation courses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75OhioStateU SpatialHeterogeneity Feb6-10 . . . . . . . . . 76
RiodeJaneiro Phylogenies Mar13-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UEdinburgh QuantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ULausanne HumanCooperation Mar9-10 . . . . . . . . . . 77
UWashington StatGenetics Registration . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Bloomington EvolComplexity June3
Workshop on the Evolution of Complexity
as a part of the Tenth International Conference on the
Simulation and Synthesis of Living Systems: ALife X
June 3rd, 2006. Bloomington, IN, USA
Motivation
The evolution of complexity is a central theme in Biol-
ogy. Yet it is not without any ambiguity. Complexity
has been used to refer to diﬀerent things. For instance,
complexiﬁcation has been interpreted as a process of di-
versiﬁcation between evolving units or as a scaling pro-
cess that is related to the idea of transitions between
diﬀerent levels of complexity. Other meanings of com-
plexity have been introduced, both inside and outside
the realm of Biology. What concerns most researchers
is to get insight into the mechanisms that produce their
notion of complexity.
The focus of this workshop will be on biological inter-
pretations of complexity and the driving mechanisms:
primarily we want the focus to be on evolutionary and
related dynamics as mechanisms for producing com-plexity. Furthermore, we want to bring together his-
torical and novel research in this context.
Questions to be addressed at the workshop include: -
- What are the environmental constraints of complex-
ity growth in living systems? - - What is the origin
and role of developmental mechanisms in evolution? -
- Are the principles of natural selection, as they are
currently understood, suﬃcient to explain the evolu-
tion of complexity? - - What are the limits at diﬀerent
levels to the evolution of complexity, and which con-
ditions could reduce evolved complexity? - - <Which
models are |What language is >more appropriate to
<understand |speak about >the evolution of complex-
ity in living systems? - - How could complexity growth
be measured or operationalised in natural and artiﬁcial
systems? - - How can data from nature be brought to
bear on the study of this issue? - - What are the main
hypotheses about complexity growth that can actually
be tested? - - Is it possible to <direct|manipulate >the
evolution of complexity, or which beneﬁts would bring
its understanding?
Paper Submission:
Submitted papers should follow the format guidelines
for the ALife X proceedings ( http://www.alifex.org/-
submissions/ ). Papers should not exceed 6 pages in
length and must be made in PDF format. The submis-
sions will be made electronically at the workshop web-72 EvolDir February 1, 2006
site. Submissions are open. Please use the submissions
site. Papers will be judged by members of the Pro-
gramme Committee by their relevance to the workshop
and conference, originality, clarity of the presentation,
and overall quality.
Important Dates:
Submission deadline: February 28th, 2006 Notiﬁcation
of acceptance: April 1st, 2006 Camera-ready papers
due: April 15th, 2006 Workshop date: June 3rd, 2006
Workshop Structure:
The workshop will take place in Bloomington, IN, USA,
on June 3, 2006, the ﬁrst day of the conference. The
aim is to have 2-4 invited speakers, and talks by the au-
thors of groundbreaking contributions. We feel that it
is important to have a discussion on the presentations
and submissions at a workshop and hence will introduce
a workshop format that achieves this goal.
Invited speakers (* indicates conﬁrmed): Mark Bedau*
Jim Crutchﬁeld* Stuart Kauﬀman Ricard Sole
Proceedings:
Workshop proceedings will be published in a special vol-
ume distributed at the conference. (This volume will be
diﬀerent from the MIT press conference proceedings).
Depending on the quality of submissions, a special issue
of the Artiﬁcial Life journal may be created.
Programme Committee:
Lee Altenberg Mark Bedau Hugues Bersini John Bon-
ner Dominique Chu Jim Crutchﬁeld Bruce Edmonds
Carlos Gershenson Mario Giacobini Franics Heylighen
Tom Lenaerts Juan Julin Merelo Barry McMullin
Melanie Mitchell Chrystpher Nehaniv Jorge Pacheco
Tom Ray Jon Rowe Stanley Salthe Cosma Shalizi Peter
Schuster Eros Szathmary Richard Watson
Organising Committee:
Carlos Gershenson Centrum Leo Apostel, Vrije Univer-
siteit Brussel Krijgskundestraat 33. B-1160, Brussels,
Belgium cgershenatvub.ac.be
Tom Lenaerts IRIDIA CP 194/6, Universit Libre de
Bruxelles Av. Franklin Roosevelt 50. B-1050, Brussels,
Belgium tlenaertatulb.ac.be
Websites:
Workshop: http://ecco.vub.ac.be/ECO/ Conference:
http://www.alifex.org c.l.nehaniv@herts.ac.ukBodegaMarineLab
AppliedPhylogenet Apr8-15
UC Davis WORKSHOP IN APPLIED PHYLOGE-
NETICS at Bodega Marine Laboratory, Bodega Bay,
California
April 8-15, 2006
sponsored by the
Center for Biosystematics and Bodega Marine Labora-
tory,
University of California, Davis
Introduction. Phylogenetic methods have revolution-
ized modern systematics and become indispensable
tools in evolution, ecology and comparative biology,
playing an increasingly important role in analyses of
biological data at levels of organization ranging from
molecules to ecosystems. The construction of phylo-
genetic trees is becoming a methodology that is well-
deﬁned, with broad agreement on the central issues and
questions. A nearly standard set of topics is now taught
as part of the curriculum at many colleges and univer-
sities. On the other hand, applications of phylogenetic
methods to interesting problems outside of systematics
is an area of special excitement, innovation, and con-
troversy, and perspectives vary widely.
In April, 2006, for the seventh year, we will teach a
workshop for graduate students interested in apply-
ing phylogenetic methods to diverse topics in biology.
The one-week course will be an intensive exploration of
problems to which modern phylogenetic tools are being
applied, including topics in biogeography, ecology, con-
servation biology, phylogenomics, functional morphol-
ogy, macroevolution, speciation, and character evolu-
tion. The course leads oﬀ with recent advances in phy-
logenetic methodology, and then turns to methods and
tools that can be brought to bear to address these “ap-
plied” issues in the context of a given phylogeny.
The course will be held entirely at Bodega Marine Lab
on the Northern California coast, which has extensive
computing resources and on-site housing. The course
format will involve equal parts of lecture, discussion,
and training in software and internet tools. One after-
noon during the week will be left free for ﬁeld trips to
local natural areas.
Speciﬁc Topics to be Covered in the ﬁrst weekFebruary 1, 2006 EvolDir 73
* Finding, evaluating and interpreting phylogenetic
trees; phylogenetic databases * Recent advances in
tree reconstruction: Bayesian inference; stochastic op-
timization strategies; divide-and-conquer methods *
Analysis of character evolution–theory: parsimony,
likelihood and Bayesian approaches; null models and
statistical testing * Analysis of character evolution–
form and function of complex character systems * Phy-
logenetic biogeography and phylogeography; coalescent
methods for inferring migration rates and patterns *
Phylogenetic comparative methods * Phylogenetic per-
spectives on biodiversity and conservation biology *
Data mining of sequence databases for phylogenetic
analysis * Estimation of divergence times from sequence
data
Instructors for the workshop.
* Dr. H. Bradley Shaﬀer * Dr. Michael Sanderson * Dr.
Peter Wainwright * Dr. Tom Near * Dr. Phil Spinks
* Dr. Gordon Burleigh * Dr. Shelley McMahon * Dr.
Justen Whittall * Dr. Rich Glor
Prerequisites. Students should have some familiarity
with phylogenetic methods through previous course-
work. Some experience with PAUP, PHYLIP, or other
programs for phylogeny reconstruction will be assumed.
Admission and Fees. Students will be admitted based
on academic qualiﬁcations and appropriateness of re-
search interests. The course fee is $375. This includes
room and board at BML for duration of the course (ar-
riving April 8, leaving April 15).
Application Deadline. Applications are due by Febru-
ary 15, 2006. Please send a completed application
form (available at http://ginger.ucdavis.edu/sandlab/-
ap.htm ) and one letter of recommendation from your
major advisor. We encourage applications to be sent
via email as PDFs to pqspinks@ucdavis.edu. Sorry, but
due to the limited size of the class, postdocs and fac-
ulty are discouraged from applying. Students will be
notiﬁed via e-mail by February 28 of acceptance.
Send all application materials to
Dr. Phillip Q. Spinks Section of Evolution and Ecology
2320 Storer Hall University of California Davis Davis,
CA 95616 email:pqspinks@ucdavis.edu
Edinburgh MolEvol Jul17-21
BBSRC THEORETICAL GENETICS AND EVOLU-TION SUMMER SCHOOL ON MOLECULAR EVO-
LUTION AND DIVERSITY 2006
Edinburgh, Monday July 17th 2006 (starting at 2pm)-
Friday July 21st (ending at noon)
The BBSRC will be running a summer school (course)
for Postgraduate and Postdoctoral researchers working
on quantitative aspects of evolutionary biology, deal-
ing with variation both within and between species.
The course is intended for young scientists who take
an ongoing and broad interest in molecular evolution-
ary biology, and wish to gain a greater understanding of
quantitative and theoretical tools and approaches that
will aid their interpretation of evolutionary data. The
course will include plenary talks from experts in pop-
ulation genetics and molecular evolutionary analyses,
including people who are working on developing meth-
ods, and people who are applying them to biological
data from a range or organisms. There will be a few
practical (computer) sessions, intended to help partici-
pants learn how to approach analyses of sequence and
other types of data, and to think about how they can
be used in studying biological questions. Those cho-
sen for the course will be asked to present a short talk
or a poster about their research project (or planned
project).
Places on the course, and accommodation during the
course, are free, but are limited to postgraduates and
postdoctoral researchers who have not attended the
course in previous years. Travel to Edinburgh is at
your own expense.
Applications will be via a web site: http:/-
/www.biology.ed.ac.uk/public/conferences/-
molevoldiv2006/ and will ask for a talk or poster
title and abstract as well as your name and supervisors
name and your institution and department. Places are
not restricted to BBSRC-funded students or post-docs.
The deadline is March 31st 2006.
The Summer School will cover the following areas of
micro- and macroevolution:
Theme A: Genetic diversity within populations The
neutral theory and the coalescent Mutation Human
minisatellites Genomic context and molecular evolu-
tion Theme B: Genetic variability between popula-
tions. Theme C: Macroevolution and variation between
species Alignment of sequences Reconstruction of Phy-
logenetic Trees, Detecting natural selection from gene
genealogies Gene families, Gene duplications in evolu-
tion Genome alignment: Theme D: Evolution of devel-
opment Theme E: Evolution in microorganisms
Lecturers in 2006 will include: Nick Barton, Peter
Keightley, Toby Johnson, Brian Charlesworth and Deb-74 EvolDir February 1, 2006
orah Charlesworth (Edinburgh University) John Ar-
mour, John Brookﬁeld, and Paul Sharp (University of
Nottingham), Gil McVean (Oxford University) Michael
Akam (Cambridge, Zoology) Timothy J.C. Anderson
(Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for
Biomedical Research, San Antonio) Jaap Heringa (Cen-
tre for Integrative Bioinformatics, Free University, Am-
sterdam) Susan Ptak (Max Planck Institute for Evolu-
tionary Anthropology, Leipzig) >
– Professor Deborah Charlesworth Institute of Evolu-
tionary Biology, School of Biological Sciences, Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, Ashworth Lab., King’s Buildings,
West Mains Rd., Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK
phone 131-650-5751 Fax: 131-650-6564
deborah.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk debo-
rah.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk
Helsinki GenesUnderNatSel
May15-19
EMBO practical course: “Statistical methods for iden-
tiﬁcation of genes under natural selection”
Helsinki 15th-19th May 2006
Organizers: J. Corander & C. Schl¨ otterer
The identiﬁcation of genes subjected to natural selec-
tion has been one of the primary research interests in
population genetics over the past decades. With the
recent technological advancements and the availabil-
ity of numerous fully sequenced genomes, the empha-
sis is shifting from the analysis of single genes towards
genome scans for genes subjected to selection.
The course aims to train biologists with the fundamen-
tal techniques on how to use statistical methods for the
identiﬁcation of selected genes. Furthermore, we will
also show how the statistical tests could be improved by
the incorporation of available data from genome scans.
Participants of the course will be provided with the
background of the statistical tests, they will be trained
in the use of available statistical software packages, and
ﬁnally they will have the opportunity to apply this
knowledge to their own data.
Teachers: Mark Beaumont Jukka Corander Joachim
Hermisson Christian Schl¨ otterer Ziheng Yang
More information can be found at:
http://cwp.embo.org/pc06-02/ Christian Schloetterer<christian.schloetterer@vu-wien.ac.at >
MBL MolEvol Jul23-Aug4
Workshop on Molecular Evolution
http://workshop.molecularevolution.org/ Michael P.
Cummings, Director
23 July - 4 August 2006 plus extended topics session 5
August - 11 August 2006
Application Deadline 1 March 2006
The Workshop on Molecular Evolution has been the
ﬁnest course of its type in the world since it was started
in 1988. The Workshop consists of a series of lectures,
demonstrations and computer laboratories that cover
various aspects of molecular evolution. A distinguish-
ing feature of the Workshop is a well-equipped com-
puter laboratory with Linux workstations and servers
for comparative analysis of molecular data. Authors
and experts in the use of computer programs and pack-
ages such as Clustal W and Clustal X, FASTA, GCG,
LAMARC, MrBayes, PAML, PAUP*, and PHYLIP
provide demonstrations and consultations. This two-
week program is designed for established investigators,
postdoctoral fellows, and advanced graduate students
with prior experience in molecular evolution and com-
parative genomics. Scientists with a strong interest in
molecular evolution, systematics, and population ge-
netics are encouraged to apply. Enrollment is limited
to 60 students, and 15 students will be admitted to
an extended topics session for the purpose of analyz-
ing their research data sets. Many participants ﬁnd the
extended topics session to be especially useful.
Topics to be covered include:
* Databases and sequence matching: database search-
ing: protein sequence versus protein structure; homol-
ogy; mathematical, statistical, and theoretical aspects
of sequence database searches * Phylogenetic analysis:
theoretical, mathematical and statistical bases; sam-
pling properties of sequence data; Bayesian analysis,
hypothesis testing * Character analysis in a phylo-
genetic context: analysis of quantitative and discrete
characters; hypothesis testing * Maximum likelihood
theory and practice in phylogenetics and population ge-
netics: coalescent theory; maximum likelihood estima-
tion of population genetic parameters * Bayesian meth-
ods in phylogenetic analysis * Molecular evolution inte-
grated at diﬀerent levels: population biology; biogeog-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 75
raphy; ecology; systematics and conservation * Molec-
ular evolution and development: gene duplication and
divergence; gene family organization; coordinated ex-
pression in evolution * Comparative genomics: genome
content; genome structure; genome evolution * Trans-
posable elements: types; history; evolutionary dynam-
ics; as a major component of genomes
Partial funding support for the Workshop comes from
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA).
Fee: $2000 (room and board at no additional charge),
plus an additional $750 for the extended topics session.
Application Form at http://www.mbl.edu/education/-
admissions/applications/ Further information
at http://workshop.molecularevolution.org/
mike@umiacs.umd.edu
MountainLakeBioStation courses
Dear Biologist,
The Mountain Lake Biological Station is pleased to an-
nounce its summer 2006 program. Our NSF REU-Sites
program will be in its 14 year, and we’ll oﬀer ﬁve ex-
citing ﬁeld-based courses (2 and 4 week). See details
below, and attached. Or visit our web site any time.
We appreciate any help you can lend posting or dis-
tributing this material to your colleagues and students.
Thanks for your help.
If the attachments don’t make it, here are the links:
http://mlbs.org/download/MLBS REU Announce.pdf
http://mlbs.org/download/MLBS REU Poster.pdf
Best wishes and Happy New Year,
Eric Nagy Associate Director, MLBS
P.S. Apologies for any multiple copies of this mailing.
Your email address may occur on more than one of the
lists we use.
MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION
<ﬁle:/// www.mlbs.org >mlbs.org SUMMER 2006
The Mountain Lake Biological Station (University of
Virginia) announces paid research opportunities for un-
dergraduates and university-level credit courses in ﬁeld
biology. We oﬀer students hands-on experience and
training in a wide variety of biological ﬁeld studies. Stu-
dents are invited to join us for an exciting and unforget-
table summer in a beautiful and stimulating teachingand research environment. Scholarships and ﬁnancial
aid for courses are available.
NSF-Funded Research Experience for Undergrad-
uates (REU) Program <http://www.mlbs.org/-
REU.html >mlbs.org/REU.html We match under-
graduate students with visiting scientists for 10 weeks
of advanced, independent research on a project of
the student’s own design. REU positions come with
a “take home” stipend of $3,640. And the program
covers all room and board expenses. Minority students
are especially encouraged to apply. Deadline for receipt
of applications is March 1.
Field Courses
<http://%20www.mlbs.org/courses.html >mlbs.org/-
courses.html 1) Plant Biodiversity and Conservation
May 30 - June 23 (4 weeks). The extraordinary
diversity of the Southern Appalachians will serve as a
backdrop to explore the world of plants.
2) Biology of Fungi June 26 - July 21 (4 weeks). An
introduction to the biology of fungi, with emphasis on
ﬁeld identiﬁcation and current experimental methods
used to study fungal genetics, ecology and evolution.
3) Stream Ecology June 26 - July 21 (4 weeks). This
course will focus on integrating principles of stream and
watershed ecology as a means of gaining insight into
stream dwelling organisms and their environments.
4) Ecology & Conservation of Freshwater Fishes July 24
- August 4 (2 weeks). An investigation of the ecology
and conservation of freshwater ﬁshes through a series
of discussions, lectures, lab and ﬁeld exercises.
5) Biodiversity in the Southern Appalachians July 24
- August 4 (2 weeks). This course will teach students
how historical processes and current land-use patterns
shape the compositions of ecological communities.
Our ﬁeld station is located on a mountaintop in
southwestern Virginia and is home to a lively re-
search, teaching and social community. For de-
tails on these programs, full course descriptions, ap-
plication material, and a list of research areas see
our web page <http://mlbs.org/ >mlbs.org Univer-
sity of Virginia, Mountain Lake Biological Station, PO
Box 400327, Charlottesville VA 22904-4327, U.S.A.,
<mailto: mlbs@virginia.edu >mlbs@virginia.edu, +1-
434-982-5486
Eric S. Nagy, Ph.D. Associate Director, Mountain
Lake Biological Station Research Assistant Profes-
sor, Department of Biology University of Virginia /
Mountain Lake Biological Station P.O. Box 400327 /
Charlottesville, VA 22904-4327 USA street address:
485 McCormick Road / 238 Gilmer Hall tel: +1-76 EvolDir February 1, 2006
434-982-5486 (+1-540-626-5227 June-August) fax:
+1-434-982-5626 (+1-540-626-5229 June-August) cel:
+1-434-906-3122 eml: <mailto: enagy@virginia.edu >
enagy@virginia.edu personal web page: <http:/-
/faculty.virginia.edu/nagy >faculty.virginia.edu/-
nagy MLBS web page: <http://www.mlbs.org/-
>mlbs. <http://www.mlbs.org/ >org
enagy@virginia.edu
OhioStateU SpatialHeterogeneity
Feb6-10
Workshop
Spatial Heterogeneity in Biotic and Abiotic Environ-
ment: Eﬀects on Species Ranges, Co-evolution, and
Speciation
Mathematical Biosciences Institute, The Ohio State
University, February 6-10, 2006
Organizers: Sergey Gavrilets (University of Tennessee,
Knoxville), John Thompson (University of California,
Santa Cruz), Mark Kirkpatrick (University of Texas,
Austin)
Webpage: http://mbi.osu.edu/2005/-
workshops2005.html Talks:
Roger Butlin “Adaptation to environmental gradients:
observations on /Littorina saxatilis/ and a simulation”
Ilkka Hanski “Spatially realistic models of metapopu-
lation dynamics” Sylvain Gandon “Fluctuating epis-
tasis (with or without coevolution) and the evolu-
tion of recombination in a metapopulation” Scott L.
Nuismer “Polygenic traits and local adaptation in an-
tagonistic interactions” Richard Harrison “Mosaic Hy-
brid Zones: Twenty Years After” Masakado Kawata
“Speciation by sensory drive through the evolution of
visual pigments along an environmental light gradi-
ent” Troy Day “Evolutionary change in spatially dis-
tributed populations: a kin selection perspective” Alan
McKane “Stochastic models in biology and their de-
terministic analogs” Bob Holt “Reﬂections on demo-
graphic constraints and evolution in heterogeneous en-
vironments” Edmund D. Brodie III “Phenotypic mis-
matches across the geographic range of a predator-
prey arms race” Craig W. Benkman “A coevolutionary
arms race causes ecological speciation in red crossbills”
Sergey Gavrilets “Dynamic patterns of adaptive radi-
ation” Mark Kirkpatrick “Chromosome inversions, lo-
cal adaptation, and speciation” Jane Hill “Evolutionarychanges during climate-driven range expansion” Lau-
rent Excoﬃer “The eﬀect of spatial expansions on neu-
tral molecular diversity” John N. Thompson “Coevo-
lution, Geographic Ranges, and Speciation: Current
Results and Unanswered Questions” Henrik Jeldtoft
Jensen “The Tangled Nature model: a study of com-
munity structure, species area relation and and species
diversity within a model of co-evolution” Jim Mallet
“Speciation in sympatry: is it so diﬃcult?” Jordi Bas-
compte “The spatial dimension of ecological networks”
Richard Gomulkiewicz “Fixation of new mutations in
spatially variable environments”
Sergey Gavrilets <gavrila@math.utk.edu >
RiodeJaneiro Phylogenies Mar13-19
Short lecture and practical course on “Advanced
methods in reconstructing phylogenetic relationships”
funded by the EMBO World Programme. Dates 13th
to 19th March, 2006, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. EMBO
cover hotel accommodation and food, but NOT travel
costs. For details of the course and how to apply
see the course webpage: http://bioinf.ncl.ac.uk:16080/-
molsys/ .Or contact Prof. Martin Embley at mar-
tin.embley@ncl.ac.uk.
Dr. T. M. Embley Professor of Evolutionary Molecular
Biology The Devonshire Building Division of Biology
School of Biology and Psychology University of New-
castle upon Tyne NE1 7RU UK
Tel 0191 246 4804 Fax 0191 246 4998
New Lab Webpage:
http://www.ncl.ac.uk/microbial eukaryotes/ Take a
look at our Molecular Systematics course Web Page - it
is also available in down-loadable (powerpoint) format:
http://bioinf.ncl.ac.uk/molsys Mar-
tin.Embley@ncl.ac.uk Martin.Embley@ncl.ac.uk
UEdinburgh QuantGenetics
MSc in QUANTITATIVE GENETICS AND
GENOME ANALYSIS UNIVERSITY OF EDIN-February 1, 2006 EvolDir 77
BURGH http://www.qgen.co.uk This full-time degree
programme (12 months M.Sc./ 9 months Diploma)
starts each September and provides a solid foundation
in population and quantitative genetics together with
experience in relevant statistical methodologies. It
includes options in evolutionary genetics , human
genetics and animal breeding. There is a growing need
for individuals with these combined strengths to apply
quantitative genetics theory to practical problems in
both the biomedical and agricultural industries; and to
undertake research on current problems in population
genetics, genome analysis, and analysis of complex
traits. This Masters course is an excellent platform for
doctoral studies.
The course is based at the Institute of Evolution-
ary Biology http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/-
institutes/evolution/ with substantial input of teach-
ing and research facilities provided by the Roslin Insti-
tute, Scottish Agricultural College, the Medical Genet-
ics Section of the Department of Medical Sciences, and
the MRC Human Genetics Unit. These are all interna-
tionally recognised centres for research in quantitative
genomics and research training is an integral part of the
course.
**STUDENTSHIPS AVAILABLE FOR SELECTED
APPLICANTS **
The course has a number of scholarships open to UK ap-
plicants and other EU nationals. Details are at http:/-
/www.qgen.co.uk . Studentships will be awarded on a
competitive basis.
We welcome applications from able graduates (expected
2.1 or higher) in either
1. Biosciences, Genetics, Agricultural Sciences,
Medicine or Veterinary Medicine who have an interest
in, and aptitude for quantitative biology, or
2. Mathematics, Statistics or Physical Sciences who
wish to apply theory to genetic problems.
Closing date for applications 31 March 2006 but earlier
applications welcome.
The application form can be downloaded from
the Postgraduate Oﬃce web pages at http://-
www.postgrad.ed.ac.uk Informal enquiries and re-
quests for further information to http://qgen@ed.ac.uk
n.barton@ed.ac.uk n.barton@ed.ac.uk
ULausanne HumanCooperation
Mar9-10This is the second announcement for a symposium on
THE NATURE OF HUMAN COOPERATION
March 9-10 2006
University of Lausanne, Switzerland
The program, some preparatory reading and access in-
formation are now on the website, please go to http://-
www.unil.ch/dee/page25289 en.html . There is no reg-
istration fee, but participants should register through
the website until February 22th 2006.
Invited speakers:
Samuel Bowles (Santa Fe Institute) Robert Boyd (Uni-
versity of California Los Angeles) Ernst Fehr (Univer-
sity of Z¨ urich) Daniel Fessler (University of California
Los Angeles) Herbert Gintis (Sante Fe Institute) Peter
Hammerstein (Humboldt University Berlin) Karl Sig-
mund (University of Vienna) Joan Silk (University of
California Los Angeles) John Tooby (University of Cal-
ifornia Santa Barbara) Robert Trivers (Rutgers Univer-
sity)
Organizers: Michel Chapuisat, Laurent Keller, Jacques
Dubochet, J´ erˆ ome Goudet and Nicolas Perrin Secre-
tary: France Pham, secretariat.dee@unil.ch, Tel + 41
(0) 21 692 41 60
Michel Chapuisat Department of Ecology and Evo-
lution Biophore, Quartier Sorge University of Lau-
sanne CH-1015Lausanne(Switzerland) Ph: +4121
6924178 / Fax: +4121 6924165 URL: http://-
www.unil.ch/dee/page7000.html Michel Chapuisat
<Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch >
UWashington StatGenetics
Registration
Online registration for the 11th Summer Institute in
Statistical Genetics, now located at the University of
Washington in Seattle, is now open at
http://www.biostat.washington.edu – Bruce S. Weir
Professor and Chair, Department of Biostatistics Uni-
versity of Washington Seattle, WA 98195-7232 Phone
(206) 221-7947. Fax (206) 543-3286.
Bruce Weir <bsweir@u.washington.edu >78 EvolDir February 1, 2006
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.