E v o l D i r
February 1, 2019
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .132
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Conferences
Canberra EvidenceSynthesisHackathon Apr8-10 . . . . 2
Gainesville FL LifeDiscovery Mar21-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Granada Spain SalmonidEvolution May20-24 . . . . . . . 3
Hull UK FishEnvironmentalDNA Jul . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
London KingmanSymposium Jan20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Manchester MolecularGenomeEvolution Mar25 . . . . . 5
Manchester SMBE 2019 Jul21-25 CallForAbstractsAn-
dAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Manhattan Kansas ArthropodGenomics Jun12-14 . . 6
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep24-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep24-27 EarlyDeadlineJan31 . . .7
Montpellier DomesticationEvolution Jun3-7 . . . . . . . . 7
Norway iBOL2019 Jun17-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Padova EvolAnthro CallForAbstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Padua ItalianSocEvoBiology Sep1-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
PalmSprings EvolutionMobileDNA Jun23-28 . . . . . . . 9
Portland Oregon Sex Asex Jun2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Portugal EuropeanPhDEvolBiol May26-Jun1 reminder10
RBGKew UK PlantEvolution Apr3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
RhodeIsland SSE Evolution2019 Jun21-25 . . . . . . . . . 11
RoyalSocietyUK MolluscanGenomics Sep16-17 . . . . 12
SouthernNewHampshireU GenomesEvol Jul14-19 . .12
Tjarno Sweden SpeciationGenomics Jun17-19 . . . . . .12
Toulouse EcolBehaviour May19-24 AbstractSubmission
13
UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics Mar19 . . . . . . . . . 14
UCambridge EvolutionEvolving Apr1-4 . . . . . . . . . . . .14
UppsalaU AfricanHumanDiversity May22-25 . . . . . . 14
UYork ASAB Easter Apr3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Ventura Speciation Mar10-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
WashingtonDC RECOMB-Genetics May4 . . . . . . . . . 15
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May 17-19 . . . . . . . . . . . 16
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May17-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Canberra
EvidenceSynthesisHackathon
Apr8-10
Registration for interest in the second Evidence Syn-
thesis Hackathon - to be held from April 8th-10th in
Canberra, Australia - is now open
What: This event is co-organised by a number of Evo-
lutionary Biologists who are interested in promoting
research synthesis in the elds of Ecology and Evolu-
tion.
We want to make it easier to synthesize studies that
can inform eco/evolutionary theory and environmental
management. The Evidence Synthesis Hackathon willbring together researchers and programmers, to discuss
barriers to eective research synthesis and develop tools
and discuss ideas on how to remove those barriers.
Website: http://evidencesynthesishackathon.com/
When: Monday 8th to Wednesday 10th April
Where: UNSW Canberra & Australian National Uni-
versity
Cost: $100 for full registration, $50 for students. Food
included. Attendees can apply for funding to help with
costs.
Who: The event is capped at 60 people. Organising
committee: Neal Haddaway (Stockholm Enviornment
Institute), Shinichi Nakagawa (University of New South
Wales) Daniel Noble (Australian National University)
Martin Westgate (Australian National University)
Conrmed presenters: Adam Dunn (Macquarie Uni-
versity) Kerrie Mengersen (Queensland University ofFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 3
Technology) Gillian Petrokosky (University of Oxford)
Wolfgang Viechtbauer (Maastricht University) Vivian
Welch (Campbell Collaboration).
If this event interests you then please apply, and we
hope to see you there!
Shinichi Nakagawa E : s.nakagawa@unsw.edu.au
W: http://www.i-deel.org/ Daniel Noble E :
daniel.noble@unsw.edu.au W: www.nobledan.com Rose
O'Dea<rose.eleanor.o.dea@gmail.com >
Gainesville FL LifeDiscovery
Mar21-23
5th Life Discovery - Doing Science Education Confer-
ence March 21-23, 2019 Microbiomes to Ecosystems:
Evolution and Biodiversity across Scale, Space, and
Time Gainseville, Florida
Early Bird Registration deadline: Feb 15, 2019 Travel
Award Application deadline: Jan 31, 2019
Announcing Travel Awards for the 5th Life Discovery -
Doing Science Education Conference. Applications are
due on Jan 31, 2019. To increase the diversity of partic-
ipants and institutions, funds are available to support
educator travel and conference registration to the 2019
Life Discovery V Doing Science Education conference
(LDC) These travel awards are made possible through
support from our sponsors.
Priority will be given to faculty from high schools, com-
munity colleges, primarily undergraduate institutions
and minority-serving institutions (colleges and universi-
ties) as well as faculty from underrepresented minority
backgrounds at any institution. Faculty must be teach-
ing at a US based institution.
All awardees are expected to submit a proposal for the
Education Share Fair Roundtable session V a unique
format for friendly, informal peer feedback of teaching
ideas at any stage of development. Call for proposals
are still open!
For full details, please visit, www.esa.org/ldc . For-
warded by:
Richard M. Kliman, SSE Rep to the Life Discovery
Conference
Professor and Chair, Department of Biological Sciences
Cedar Crest College, Allentown, PA
Richard Kliman <Rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu >Granada Spain SalmonidEvolution
May20-24
Granada Spain.SalmonidEvolution.May20-24
Dear Colleagues,
The fth international conference on Stream Salmonid
Ecology will be held in Granada, Spain this May. Held
every ve years, this conference brings together inter-
national researchers working on the evolutionary, popu-
lation, behavioural and conservation ecology of stream
rearing salmonids. With single sessions daily, group
dinners and eld trips, the conference oers a rare op-
portunity for in-depth discussions.
Registration is open, and the early registration discount
ends March 1st.
All relevant information about the conference, travel
and accommodation is available on the conference web-
site: http://www.salmonidsymposium.es On behalf of
the organizing committee,
Kyle A Young <kay62@pitt.edu,
kayoung1969@gmail.com >
kyle young <kayoung1969@gmail.com >
Hull UK FishEnvironmentalDNA
Jul
Dear all, I just wanted to draw your attention on the
extension of the abstract submission for the 2019 FSBI
Symposium, to take place later this year in Hull, UK.
New deadline: Jan 25th Conference information:
https://www.fsbi.org.uk/annual-symposia/symposium-
2019/ twitter updates: @Boristhesh
Thanks,
Stefano Mariani, on behalf of the organising committee.
Mariani Stefano <S.Mariani@salford.ac.uk >4 EvolDir February 1, 2019
London KingmanSymposium Jan20
Kimura Motoo Award Ceremony
Time: 11:00-13:00, Sunday, January 20th, 2019
Place: Royal Society Kohn Centre and Marble Hall,
London, U.K.
Program
11:00-11:20 Kimura Motoo Award delivered to Sir John
Kingman FRS
11:20-12:00 Speech by Sir John Kingman FRS
12:00-13:00 Buet Lunch
Accompanying Symposium to honor Sir John Kingman
FRS, recipient of 2019 Kimura Motoo Award
Time: 13:00-18:00, Sunday, January 20th, 2019
Place: Royal Society Kohn Centre and Marble Hall,
London, U.K.
Symposium Speakers
Dr. Peter Donnelly FRS
Professor, Wellcome Centre for Human Genetics, Uni-
versity of Oxford, Oxford, UK
Dr. Yun-Xin Fu
Professor, School of Public Health, University of Texas
Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA
Visiting Professor, National Institute of Genetics,
Mishima, Japan
Dr. Takashi Gojobori
Professor, Computational Bioscience Research Center,
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology,
Saudi Arabia
Visiting Professor, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
Emeritus Professor, National Institute of Genetics,
Mishima, Japan
Dr. Robert C. Griths FRS
Emeritus Professor, Department of Statistics, University
of Oxford, Oxford, UK
Adjunct Professor in Mathematical Sciences at Monash
University, Australia
Dr. Jotun HeinProfessor, Department of Statistics, University of Ox-
ford, Oxford, UK
Dr. Hideki Innan
Professor, Graduate University for Advanced Studies,
Hayama, Japan
Dr. Naruya Saitou
Professor, Division of Population Genetics, National
Institute of Genetics, Mishima, Japan
Adjunct Professor, Department of Genetics, School of
Life Science, Graduate University for Advanced Studies
Mishima, Japan
Adjunct Professor, Department of Biological Sciences,
Graduate School of Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo,
Japan
Dr. John Wakeley
Professor, Department of Organismic and Evolutionary
Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA
Dr. Ziheng Yang
Professor, University College of London; London, UK
Visiting Professor, National Institute of Genetics,
Mishima, Japan
Symposium Program
13:00-13:05 Greetings from Kimura Fund (by Dr.
Takashi Gojobori)
Session 1 (chaired by Dr. Takashi Gojobori)
13:05-13:35
Diusion processes and Coalescent trees
Dr. Robert Griths
13:35-14:05
Recombination, meiosis, and the origin of a species
Dr. Peter Donnelly FRS
14:05-14:35
A simple application of coalescent modeling to phyloge-
netic data
Dr. John Wakeley
14:35-14:50 Tea Break
Session 2 (chaired by Dr. Naruya Saitou)
14:50-15:20
The multispecies coalescent and its applications
Dr. Ziheng Yang
15:20-15:50February 1, 2019 EvolDir 5
The Coalescent and Recombination
Dr. Jotun Hein
15:50-16:20
Within individual coalescence
Dr. Yun-Xin Fu
16:20-16:30 Tea Break
Session 3 (chaired by Dr. Yoshio Tateno)
16:30-17:00
The coalescent in a cancer cell population
Dr. Hideki Innan
17:00-17:30
High-speed construction of gene genealogies using newly
developed distance matrix methods
Dr. Naruya Saitou
17:30-18:00
An incomplete lineage sorting issue on Japanese Em-
peror's evolutionary study of goby sh populations
Dr. Takashi Gojobori
18:30-20:00 Dinner (invited people only)
$B:XF#@.Li(B <saitounr@nig.ac.jp >
Manchester
MolecularGenomeEvolution Mar25
The 8th Manchester Molecular and Genome Evolution
Symposium (#MaGE2019) will take place on Monday
25th March 2019. Registration and abstract submission
are now open.
MaGE encompasses all aspects of molecular and genome
evolution, ranging from genomic analyses or compu-
tational algorithm development, to molecular ecology,
population genetics, and experimental evolution.
We are very pleased to have plenary talks from Diana
Fusco (Cambridge) and Denis Larkin (Royal Veterinary
College). We will also have a wide range of contributed
talks from PhD students, post-docs and PIs.
MaGE is free to attend, but places are limited so please
register at the URL below. Please submit a title and
abstract if you would like to present a talk or poster.
We are particularly keen to give PhD students and post-
docs a chance to present their work. Contributed talksand posters will be considered for a prize, presented at
the drinks reception following the symposium.
Hope to see you in March!
Registration and more information at: https://-
manchestermage.wordpress.com/ On behalf of the or-
ganisers: Danna Giord, Dave Gerrard, Chris Knight
and Sam Griths-Jones
danna.giord@manchester.ac.uk
Manchester SMBE 2019 Jul21-25
CallForAbstractsAndAwards
We are delighted to announce that abstracts are now be-
ing accepted for SMBE 2019, at http://smbe2019.org/-
abstracts/. The deadline for abstracts is midnight GMT
on Sunday 17 March 2019. Please be aware that the
deadline will not be extended. Abstracts should be no
longer than 2500 characters ( ~250 words), with a title
no longer than 300 characters.
SMBE 2019 is taking place in Manchester, UK on 21-
25 July 2019 at the state of the art venue Manchester
Central. Full details on the symposia programme and
conrmed keynote speakers can be viewed at http:/-
/smbe2019.org/scientic-programme/ . A range of
awards can be applied for during Abstract submission,
all of which require SMBE membership (costing only
$10/ $30 for 3 years for students/others at https://-
www.smbe.org/smbe/MEMBERSHIP.aspx) at the time
of application.
Current graduate students and postdoctoral researchers
who received their primary doctoral-level degree
no earlier than one year prior to the start of
the annual meeting of the society may apply for
the Fitch Award ( https://www.smbe.org/smbe/-
AWARDS/TheWalterMFitchAward.aspx). Extended
abstracts are no longer required this year, just the con-
ference abstract and a cv. Unsuccessful Fitch applicants
will automatically be considered for Young Investigator
and Registration awards.
Any graduate student or postdoc may apply for the
Young Investigator Award ( https://www.smbe.org/-
smbe/AWARDS/AnnualMeetingTravelAwards/-
YoungInvestigatorTravelAward.aspx ), which substan-
tially funds the cost of attending. Application materials
are the same as for the Fitch, i.e. abstract and cv.
Unsuccessful applicants for both will automatically be
considered for Registration-only awards.6 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Undergraduates (including Masters students under
a 3+2 system) can apply for the Undergraduate
Travel & Mentoring Award ( https://www.smbe.org/-
smbe/AWARDS/AnnualMeetingTravelAwards/-
UndergraduateTravelandMentoringAward.aspx). In
addition to presentation title and abstract, this requires
a short explanation (250 words) of why you want to
attend this meeting, including mention of whether
you fall into a group traditionally underrepresented at
SMBE, such as enrolling in university later in life or
being the rst in your family to attend university. You
also need to arrange to have a short letter of support
(250 words) sent from your academic supervisor to
masel@email.arizona.edu, conrming that you are
undergraduate or a Masters student under 3+2, and
that the research is your own.
The Carer Travel Award ( https://www.smbe.org/-
smbe/AWARDS/AnnualMeetingTravelAwards/-
CarerTravelAward.aspx) can be applied for as part
of conference registration rather than abstract
submission, or by email to Nicolas Galtier nico-
las.galtier@umontpellier.fr if an earlier response is
needed. SMBE will make available up to $2000 to
SMBE members with children or dependent adults
(including adult children with a disability or elderly
relatives) to spend as they wish to facilitate the
members attendance at the annual SMBE meeting.
Examples of eligible expenses include (but are not
limited to) providing airfare for your child or for your
caregiver to accompany you, ying a relative out to
help with care at your home while youre at the meeting,
or extra help paying for on-site daycare.
A range of sponsorship opportunities have been de-
veloped for the meeting, if interested please contact
SMBE2019@mci-group.com.
For any queries over abstracts or registration, please
contact SMBE2019@mci-group.com.
\Lulu Stader (SMBE admin)"
<smbe.contact@gmail.com >
Manhattan Kansas
ArthropodGenomics Jun12-14
Hi All: In 2019, the AGS returns to Kansas State Uni-
versity in Manhattan, Kansas.
The meeting begins Wednesday evening, June 12, with
a Welcome Reception featuring our Keynote SpeakerDenise Montell, Duggan Professor and Distinguished
Professor from University of California Santa Barbara.
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from an-
alyzing arthropod genomes and is designed for scientists
interested in genomic studies of Arthropods, both model
organisms and those of agricultural or health relevance.
The program will include platform presentations, wel-
come reception and arthropod genomics-related poster
sessions. A few poster abstract submissions will be
selected for platform presentations. Postdoctoral, grad-
uate, and undergraduate students are also encouraged
to attend. Sessions conclude Friday evening, June 14,
with a walk and dinner on Konza Prairie.
Featured Speakers Include: + Kerri Coons, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, USA + Conor McMeniman, John
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, USA +
Shahideh Nouri, Kansas State University, USA + Luisa
Orsini, University of Birmingham, UK + Mark Rebeiz,
University of Pittsburgh, USA + Stephane Rombauts,
Ghent University, Belgium + Nick Teets, University of
Kentucky, USA + Yoshi Tomoyasu, Miami University,
USA + Jamie Walters, University of Kansas, USA
Additional information about registration and housing
for the symposium to follow in late January.
2019 AGS ORGANIZING COMMITTEE: Sue Brown,
Neal Dittmer, Maureen Gorman, Mike Kanost, Berlin
Londono, Jocelyn McDonald, Mary Ann McDowell,
Kristin Michel, Yoonseong Park, Mike Pfrender, Hugh
Robertson, Gene Robinson, Molly Scheel
Sent on the committees behalf by: Kascha Johnson,
Event Coordinator K-State Arthropod Genomics Cen-
ter Division of Biology, Kansas State University email:
kascha@ksu.edu
Kascha Johnson <kascha@ksu.edu >
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep24-27
Dear all the early dead line for the 23rd evolution-
ary biology meeting at Marseilles September : 24-27
2019 is January 31 2019 see http://aeeb.fr/evolutionary-
biology-meeting-2/ the programs of the 22 previous
meetings are available <http://aeeb.fr/evolutionary-
biology-meeting-2/ >
The meeting will be followed by several visits of the city
and the calanques
see also https://twitter.com/pontarotti https://-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 7
www.facebook.com/groups/203530083353767/ Pierre
Pontarotti DR CNRS Evolutionary Biology team. Aix
Marseille Univ IRD, APHM, MEPHI, IHU M editerran ee
Infection,Marseille France
19-21 Boulevard Jean Moulin 13005 Marseille
tel 33 (0) 4 13 7 32425 https://sites.google.com/view/-
pontarotti/ <https://twitter.com/pontarotti >
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr>
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep24-27
EarlyDeadlineJan31
Dear all the early dead line for the 23rd evolutionary
biology meeting at Marseilles September : 24-27 2019
is January 31 2019 12 PM Paris Time http://aeeb.fr/-
evolutionary-biology-meeting-2/ the programs of the
22 previous meetings are available <http://aeeb.fr/-
evolutionary-biology-meeting-2/ >The meeting will be
followed by several visits of the city and the calanques
see also https://twitter.com/pontarotti https://-
www.facebook.com/groups/203530083353767/ all the
best
Pierre
<https://twitter.com/pontarotti >
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr>
Montpellier DomesticationEvolution
Jun3-7
Dear Colleagues,
We are happy to announce that the registration is now
open for the Third Harlan International Symposium,
3-7th June 2019 Montpellier France.
Please check out our website : http://-
www.harlan3symposium.org This symposium is
dedicated to the Origins of Agriculture and the
Domestication, Evolution, and Utilization of Genetic
Resources. This rare event is a great opportunity to
gather the community around the latest advances inthe study of these topics : don't miss it !
Four sessions will dynamise the discussions about the fol-
lowing subjects : - History of agriculture - Diversity and
adaptation - Mobilization of genetic resources - Agrosys-
tems services and functioning A keynote speaker will
open each session : Greger Larson and Yves Vigouroux
have already conrm their presence.
In addition, we will have the pleasure to welcome addi-
tional speakers, who will address broader perspectives to
the discussion, through a daily opening lecture: among
them Rachel Brezner Kerr and Ford Denison.
Finally, the Call for Abstracts will open very shortly :
stay tuned !
Anne-C eline Thuillet, On Behalf of the organizing com-
mittee
|{
Dear colleagues,
The Call for Abstracts is now opened for the
Third Harlan International Symposium, 3-7th June
2019 Montpellier France. We invite you to sub-
mit an abstract for an oral or a poster presenta-
tion using the online submission form. Please check
out our website : http://www.harlan3symposium.org
<https://www.alphavisa.com/harlan/2019/abstract-
submission/ >
The deadline for abstract submission is 15 March 2019.
The Scientic Committee will evaluate the abstracts
and conrm the type of presentation (oral or poster)
and session retained.
Preliminary program :
Please refer to the Abstract |Guidelines <https://-
www.alphavisa.com/harlan/2019/documents/Abstract-
Guidelines.pdf >in order to get information about the
preliminary program and other useful information.
This symposium is dedicated to the Origins of Agricul-
ture and the Domestication, Evolution, and Utilization
of Genetic Resources. Four sessions will dynamise the
discussions about the following subjects:
^A History of agriculture ^A Diversity and adaptation ^A
Mobilization of genetic resources ^A Agrosystems services
and functioning
We kindly ask you to forward this message to anyone
who may be interested in the Third Harlan International
Symposium.
We are looking forward to welcoming you to Montpellier
in June.
Sincerely,8 EvolDir February 1, 2019
{ Anne-C eline Thuillet For the organizing committee
Norway iBOL2019 Jun17-20
I would like to remind you all that the deadline for
abstract submission to the upcoming iBOL Confer-
ence is January 15! Therefore, if you plan to attend,
please submit your abstract as soon as you can: http:/-
/dnabarcodes2019.org/abstracts/. We need this early
deadline in order to run a proper review process of all
abstracts before publication in the journal Genome.
Although abstracts can be submitted before registra-
tion, please do not hesitate to register. Payment
can be made by credit card or invoice: http://-
dnabarcodes2019.org/registration/ Interested in news
about the conference? Check out our news section
http://dnabarcodes2019.org/category/news/ and follow
@norwbol on Twitter.
More on the program and invited speakers on our
website: http://dnabarcodes2019.org/ Best regards,
Torbjrn
Torbjrn Ekrem, PhD Professor of biosystematics
NTNU University Museum,Department of Natural His-
tory
Torbjrn Ekrem <torbjorn.ekrem@ntnu.no >
Padova EvolAnthro
CallForAbstracts
The bi-annual meeting of the Italian Anthropological As-
sociation aims at bringing together the various streams
of Biological Anthropology in a three-day long interna-
tional conference. In recent years a number of ground
breaking discoveries have been made possible by sev-
eral technological advances in the elds of ancient and
modern genomics, isotopic analysis and virtual anthro-
pology. Also, new developments in the eld of applied
anthropology have changed our approach to the study
of living and past human populations. All these, and
other topics, will be distilled in this year' conference, in
search of what will be the next relevant research ques-
tions. In addition, a joint symposium with SIBE will
promote a dialogue among invited speakers on \what isa population" and on communication of science.
The conference will be structured in four main sessions,
harboring contributions from all elds of Biological An-
thropology: 1) Hominids and Palaeolithic humans -
covering all subjects up to the Palaeolithic 2) From
prehistory to history - from the Neolithic and Bronze
Age cultural revolutions and demographic expansions all
the way to contemporary populations 3) Contemporary
human populations - mostly based on living populations,
with support from ancient data 4) Applied Anthropol-
ogy - including biomechanics, biomedical, forensic and
all other branches of applied Anthropology.
Please send your abstract to aaiconfer-
ence2019@gmail.com using the template provided
on the website ( www.aaiconference2019.it ) and
specifying whether it is intended for a talk, a poster
or either of them. Presenters will be notied by email
about acceptance of their abstract and assignment
to a talk/poster by 15/05/2019 Please note: only
one abstract per registered presenting author will
be considered. This also means that all presenting
authors must pay the registration fee by the abstract
submission deadline (31/03/2019) for their abstract to
be considered.
Looking forward to seeing you all there, Luca Pagani,
Researcher at the University of Padova, Italy on behalf
of the organizing committee
Luca Pagani <lp.lucapagani@gmail.com >
Padua ItalianSocEvoBiology Sep1-4
Dear all, I would like to share the following rst an-
nouncement about the 8'th Congress of the Italian So-
ciety of Evolutionary Biology
Dear all,
we are glad to announce that the 8th Congress of the
Italian Society of Evolutionary Biology (SIBE-ISEB,
http://www.sibe-iseb.it/) will be organized by the De-
partment of Biology of the University of Padua and will
be held on 1-4 September in Padua. The congress will
be hosted in the wonderful locations of the historical
Botanical Garden of Padua, the most ancient botanical
garden in the world and UNESCO world heritage, and
in the 'Galileo Galilei' Main Hall of the XVI century
Palazzo Bo.
The symposia and the events scheduled for SeptemberFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 9
4th will be shared and organized in partnership with
the Italian Anthropological Association (AAI).
During the congress, we will launch the rst edition of
the 'Luigi Luca Cavalli Sforza Award', established by
the Italian Society for Evolutionary Biology. Such an ini-
tiative recognizes eminent personalities in the research
elds of evolutionary biology. The ceremony and the
Cavalli Sforza Lecture will take place on the afternoon
of September 4th in the 'Galileo Galilei' Main Hall.
The congress will be structured in ve sequential sym-
posia promoted by SIBE-ISEB (1-3 September) and
three symposia shared with AAI on September 4 th,
with distinguished international invited speakers giving
their contributions. The general subject of the symposia
shared with AAI will be 'Population genetics and ge-
nomics', while the subjects of the SIBE-ISEB symposia
will be selected very soon, with the aim of accounting for
the existing broad spectrum of interests and approaches
to the study of Evolution.
There will also be a poster session, a public round table
focused on science communication, and a very rich and
surprising programme of social events.
The Society is also pleased to oer a crash course in
Molecular Clocks using BEAST, on the morning of
September 1st, at the Botanical Garden.
The Call for abstracts and deadline for the early-bird
registration will be published soon. We expect, and
particularly hope for, the participation of many young
researchers and students.
English will be the preferred language for both oral
communications and posters.
Please save the dates and we look forward to seeing you
all in Padua!
The President of the Italian Society for Evolutionary
Biology
and the Organizing Committee
Best Regards
Silvia
Silvia Ghirotto, PhD Associate Professor in Genetics
Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology Univer-
sity of Ferrara via Borsari 46 I-44121 Ferrara Phone:
+39 0532 455956 Fax: +39 0532 249761
Silvia Ghirotto <ghrslv@unife.it >PalmSprings EvolutionMobileDNA
Jun23-28
FASEB Mobile DNA is coming this summer!
As a previous attendee of a FASEB Mobile DNA meeting,
please be aware that registration for the 2019 meeting
is NOW OPEN. The Mobile DNA Conference: 25 Years
of Discussion and Research June 23-28, 2019 jPalm
Springs, California
For detailed information, visit https://src.faseb.org/-
mobile-dna/ Important dates: Advance registration
deadline Wednesday, May 8, 2019 Last day to register
Saturday, June 1, 2019
Travel awards are available from FASEB and other spon-
soring organizations. http://www.faseb.org/Science-
Research-Conferences/Awards-and-Travel-Grants.aspx
(Note: The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is sponsoring four travel awards, $500 each,
to junior evolutionary biologists specically for this
conference.)
Organizers for this year's meeting are: David Ray -
Texas Tech University Wenfeng An - South Dakota
State University Victoria Belancio - Tulane University
Stephane Boissinot - NYU Abu Dhabi Richard Cordaux
- Centre National de la Recherche Scientique
Please contact any of us if you have questions not an-
swered at the website.
See you this summer!
{
David A. Ray
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sci-
ences Texas Tech University Phone: (806) 834-
1677 www.davidraylab.com www.crocgenomes.org/-
david.4.ray@gmail.com
Even the best of us have bad days. \I am very poorly to-
day and very stupid and hate everyone and everything."
- Charles Darwin - Oct. 1, 1861
David Ray <david.4.ray@gmail.com >10 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Portland Oregon Sex Asex Jun2-4
Registration is now open for AGA2019!
Sex & Asex: The Genetics of Complex Life Cycles
American Genetic Association President's Symposium
2-4 June 2019, Portland, Oregon
Many organisms across the tree of life have complex
life cycles that include both sexual and asexual repro-
duction or are obligately asexual. These include those
that sequentially switch between sexual and asexual
forms (for example, Daphnia), those whose life histo-
ries can include both types of reproduction in the same
generation (for examples, marine invertebrates capable
of both sexual reproduction and clonal spread, many
plants), and species that appear to have secondarily lost
sexual reproduction, including some surprisingly ancient
lineages. Recently, scientists have been applying both
theory and empirical work, including genomic and ge-
netic studies, to untangle the evolutionary eects of the
amount and timing of sexual and asexual reproduction.
Join AGA President Maria Orive at beautiful McMe-
namins Edgeeld. Conrmed speakers include:
Key Distinguished Lecturer Sally Otto Rebecca Zufall,
University of Houston (Tetrahymena) Stacy Krueger-
Hadeld, University of Alabama at Birmingham (Sea-
weeds) Matthew Harteld, University of Edinburgh
(Theory) Laura Katz, Smith College (Ciliates) Tanja
Schwander, University of Lausanne, Switzerland (Stick
insects) Curt Lively, Indiana University (Snails) Cather-
ine Rushworth, Duke University (Boechera plants)
Solenn Stoeckel, INRA Rennes, France (Theory) Karine
Van Doninck, University of Namur, Belgium (Rotifers)
Jennifer Anderson, Uppsala University, Sweden (Neu-
rospora) Mercedes Burns, University of Maryland (Har-
vestmen arachnids)
Early discounted registration is open. There are
registration and travel awards for students present-
ing posters. Details on the AGA website: http://-
www.theaga.org . \Cough-Schulze, Chantal" <ccough-
schulze@cvm.tamu.edu >Portugal EuropeanPhDEvolBiol
May26-Jun1 reminder
The 25th edition of EMPSEB (European Meeting of
PhD Students in Evolutionary Biology) will take place
from May 26th to June 1st, in Pedr og~ ao Pequeno, Por-
tugal.
This meeting promotes a unique atmosphere for all its
participants, giving them the opportunity to share and
debate their projects with peers and with a group of
invited international scientists, recognised as leaders in
their scientic elds.
Additionally, this event also provides an excellent oppor-
tunity for early-carrer scientists to develop important
soft skills and be exposed to distinct professional aspects
that are intrinsically related to a carrer in science.
Abstract submission for EMPSEB25 is now oOPEN and
will close on February 3rd 2019! There are still a few
slots left, so don't forget to send in your abstract!
For more information please visit the ocial
website for the event EMPSEB25 <http://-
www.empseb25.wixsite.com/pedrogao >and follow us
on Twitter (@empseb25 <http://www.twitter.com/-
empseb25>).
Kind regards,
The EMPSEB25 organizing committee
EMPSEB 25 <empseb25@gmail.com >
RBGKew UK PlantEvolution
Apr3-5
3rd UK Plant Evolution Meeting April 3-5 2019, Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew Deadline for abstract submission:
1st March 2019 Deadline for registration: 31st March
2019 Webpage: https://www.kew.org/kew-gardens/-
whats-on/3rd-uk-plant-evolution-meeting Dear Col-
league,
We are pleased to announce the 3rd UK Plant Evolution
Meeting. The meeting brings together researchers from
across dierent disciplines in plant evolutionary biology,February 1, 2019 EvolDir 11
and follows on from previous successful meetings at the
Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh and Cambridge Uni-
versity Botanic Garden. The programme will comprise
a mixture of invited and contributed talks, and poster
sessions.
Outline of meeting The meeting is divided into two
parts:
Day 1: Symposium entitled ^AMonography: where are
we and where are we going? This day provides the
opportunity for participants to learn about and dis-
cuss approaches to contemporary monography and its
applications.
Days 2 and 3: Conference on Plant Evolution This two-
day conference will follow on Thursday 4 and Friday 5
April, and will be focused on the following four themes:
SESSION 1: Plant development and evolution SESSION
2: Plant traits involved in adaptation and domestica-
tion SESSION 3: Evolutionary drivers of plant diver-
sity SESSION 4: Recent approaches to understanding
macroevolution
Registration Full registration (3 days): pounds 80 (stu-
dents pounds 40) One day registration (day 1 only):
pounds 40 (students pounds 20) To attend this meeting
register here: https://tickets.kew.org/WebStore/shop/-
ViewItems.aspx?CG=uk&C=pem Call for talk and
poster abstracts We are inviting abstract submissions
from researchers wishing to present a poster and/or talk.
A prize will be awarded for the best student and early
career researcher posters. The deadline for abstract
submission is 1st March 2019.
Invited speakers Day 1: Prof. Alexandre Antonelli, Dr.
Olwen Grace, Prof. Sandra Knapp, Dr. Gwil Lewis,
Dr. Eve Lucas, Prof. Robert Scotland, Prof. Nina
R~A^Ansted, Dr. Maria Vorontsova, Dr. Peter Wilkie.
Days 2 & 3: Prof. Jonathan Wendel (Keynote speaker),
Prof. Robin Allaby, Prof. Scott Armbruster, Dr. Chris-
tine Bacon, Dr. William Baker, Dr. Sidonie Bellot, Dr.
Anne Borland, Dr. Samuel Brockington, Prof. Liam
Dolan, Dr. Charilaos Hyotis, Dr. Annaliese Mason,
Dr. Edwige Moyroud, Dr. Mark N. Puttick, Dr. Alex
Twyford.
Further details Full details of the event, registration op-
tions and abstract submission instructions can be found
here: https://www.kew.org/kew-gardens/whats-on/3rd-
uk-plant-evolution-meeting We look forward to seeing
you at the meeting,
The Organising Committee
The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew is a non-departmental
public body with exempt charitable status, whose princi-
pal place of business is at Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,Richmond, Surrey TW9 3AE, United Kingdom.
Michael Chester <M.Chester@kew.org >
RhodeIsland SSE Evolution2019
Jun21-25
Are you planning to attend the Evolution 2019 meeting
in Providence, Rhode Island (ASN-SSE-ASB)? We are
organising a Spotlight Session* on 'Evolutionary Biome-
chanics: Form, function and ecological interactions in
animals and plants', and would like to invite you to
submit a talk for this special session**.
Our goal is to mesh biomechanics with ecological and
evolutionary studies towards a more integrated view
of evolutionary biomechanics. We are particularly in-
terested in organism-level studies in animal and plant
systems, but we are happy to receive any suggestions
from any interested speakers.
Invited speakers, so far, include: Beth Mortimer (Ox-
ford; Animal perception and communication using
vibrations); David Timerman (UToronto; Evolution-
ary biomechanics of windpollination); Callin Switzer
(UWashington; Buzz pollination) and Casper van der
Koi (UGroningen; Flower surface structure evolution).
Topics include (but are not limited to): bioacoustics,
ight and aerodynamics, locomotion, animal commu-
nication, plant biomechanics, pollination, predation,
plant-animal interactions, macroevolution.
To apply: Email a title and brief summary ( <200 words)
of the talk you would like to present before 1st Febru-
ary 2019 to mario.vallejo@stir.ac.uk. Informal enquiries
welcome. Speakers will be selected according to t to
the Session's topic and following the SSE's criteria for
diversity and inclusion.
*A Spotlight Session consist of two consecutive 75 min
sessions (separated by a coee break). Spotlight talks
have the same standard duration (15 min) as regular
talks at the Evolution Meetings.
**Please note that (a) no funding is provided and (b)
speakers at the Spotlight Session will be ineligible to
give another talk at the meeting.
Mario Vallejo-Marin Biological and Environmental Sci-
ences University of Stirling Stirling FK9 4LA United
Kingdom
{ The University achieved an overall 5 stars in the QS
World University Rankings 2018 The University of Stir-12 EvolDir February 1, 2019
ling is a charity registered in Scotland, number SC
011159.
mario.vallejo@stir.ac.uk
RoyalSocietyUK
MolluscanGenomics Sep16-17
Mollusks! Molluscs! Genomes and Long-reads!
Save Sept. 16-17 for #pearls19 aka \Pearls of Wis-
dom", the rst meeting focused on molluscan ge-
nomics, at the Royal Society of London's Chicheley
Hall, UK. Co-organised by Dr Angus Davison, Univer-
sity of Nottingham (angus.davison@nottingham.ac.uk)
and Dr Maurine Neiman, University of Iowa (maurine-
neiman@uiowa.edu)
20+ conrmed speakers from around the world, full
details to follow soon
https://royalsociety.org/science-events-and-lectures/-
2019/09/pearls-of-wisdom/ https://twitter.com/-
angus davison/status/1082311754208739328 Dr
Angus Davison jReader and Associate Professor
in Evolutionary Genetics School of Life Sciences j
University ParkjUniversity of Nottingham jNG7 2RD
+44 (0) 115 8230322 jangus.davison@nottingham.uk j
@angus davisonjangus.davison.org
Angus Davison <Angus.Davison@nottingham.ac.uk >
SouthernNewHampshireU
GenomesEvol Jul14-19
How Genomes Illuminate Our Understanding of Ecolog-
ical and Evolutionary Processes
July 14 - 19, 2019 Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics
Gordon Research Conference
***Registrations now open*** ***At least 8 talks will be
selected from abstracts submitted by young investigators
(trainees and PIs)***
Chairs :
Christian Landry and Angela Douglas
Vice-chairs :Camille Berthelot and Sarah D. Kocher
See list of invited speakers and details here:
https://www.grc.org/ecological-and-evolutionary-
genomics-conference/2019/ ***Note new location,
closer to Boston (70 min) and Manchester (20 min)
airports***
Southern New Hampshire University 2500 North River
Road Manchester, NH, US
Meeting description Genomics tools have never been so
powerful and accessible to biologists interested in how
the interplay between ecological and evolutionary forces
is shaping biodiversity. The 2019 Gordon Research
Conference on Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics
will explore how the genome-scale processes that un-
derpin organismal phenotypes interact with ecological
and evolutionary processes over multiple spatiotemporal
scales. The meeting will be preceded by a Gordon Re-
search Seminar (GRS), which will provide opportunities
for early career researchers (students and postdocs) to
present their projects and will include a special mentor-
ship session.
Topics highlighted at the meeting will include: the eco-
logical and evolutionary signicance of novel genes and
variation in genome architecture, including genomic
conicts; the role of hybridization and introgression
as drivers of diversity; genome-scale perspectives on
the role of the microbiome in host adaptations; and
the increasing contribution of genomics to explanations
of ecosystem function. This meeting will also bring
the latest technological developments in genomics and
genome manipulation, emphasizing their application to
non-model species. Join us to participate in creative dis-
cussions in an inclusive social and scientic atmosphere,
to empower the future research in the eld.
Christian Landry <Christian.Landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
Tjarno Sweden SpeciationGenomics
Jun17-19
Dear colleagues
We are pleased to announce the SMBE Satellite Meet-
ing and Workshop on 'Identifying barriers to gene ow
in the genome' to be held 17th-19th June 2019 at the
Marine Biology Laboratory, Tj ~A^Arn~A^A ¶, Sweden.
Speciation genomics is a fast moving and rapidly chang-
ing eld. Genome scans and demographic inference areFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 13
popular tools for studying how barriers to gene ow
evolve and how species diverge, but the eld has only
recently begun to take into account confounding factors
that might bias these methods.
If standard approaches are insucient for identifying
barriers to gene ow and understanding the processes
involved in speciation, where do we go next? One way
forward is the use of sophisticated approaches to jointly
infer signals of selection, gene ow and demographic
history. We can also use ecient simulation to introduce
greater statistical rigour to our approaches.
This three day workshop/meeting on speciation ge-
nomics will combine talks from invited speakers and
participants, a discussion panel and a hands-on work-
shop to learn how to use a composite likelihood ap-
proach to infer selection, gene ow and demography
from genome scan data.
Invited speakers include: * Reto Burri (University of
Jena) * Jonna Kulmuni (University of Helsinki) * Kelley
Harris (University of Washington) * Simon Aeschbacher
(University of Zurich) * [Frederic Guillaume (University
of Zurich)
The practical workshop will be led by Jerome
Kelleher (Big Data Institute, Oxford) (the impor-
tance of simulations) and Konrad Lohse (Univer-
sity of Edinburgh). Some basic experience in Unix,
and Python programming is necessary but we pro-
vide links to resources on our website: https://-
smbespeciationgenomics.github.io/ There is space for
approximately 40-50 participants. To apply, please
register at https://smbespeciationgenomics.github.io//-
register/. The deadline for applications is 25th February
2019.
It is free to register but attendance will cost $300 (US)
to cover accommodation and food for the three days.
Travel bursaries are available for MSc and PhD students
wishing to attend.
We encourage participants from all backgrounds and
levels to apply and we look forward to welcoming you
to Sweden in June!
https://smbespeciationgenomics.github.io/ Mark
Ravinet, Marina Rafajlovi ~A^A, Michael Matschiner,
Simon Martin, Chris Jiggins & Markus M ~A^A
Mark Ravinet <mark.ravinet@ibv.uio.no >Toulouse EcolBehaviour May19-24
AbstractSubmission
Abstract submission for Ecology and Behaviour 2019 is
now open! The deadline is Friday 15 th February .
What: 14th meeting Ecology & Behaviour
Where: Toulouse, France
When: May 19-24 2019
For whom: students and researchers interested in evolu-
tionary biology, ecology and behavior
The association \Rencontres Ecology & Behaviour"
(AREB), founded in 2005 by a group of students, or-
ganizes each year an international conference about
evolutionary biology, ecology, and animal behaviour .
Fantastic invited researchers conrmed their presence:
* Intraspecic interactions: Charlotta Kvarnemo and
Mike Wilson * Non-genetic heredity: Lucy Aplin and
Etienne Danchin * Phylogeny and population genomics:
Knud Jnsson and Ludovic Orlando * Cognition: learn-
ing and memory: Alice Auersperg and Audrey Dussu-
tour * Conservation and global change ecology: Mike
Bruford and Camille Parmesan * Interspecic interac-
tions: Camille Bonneaud and Fr ed eric Santoul * Eco-
physiology and ecotoxicology: Mathieu Giraudeau and
Lieven Bervoets
To submit an abstract for an oral presentation or
a poster, please login on our website [ https://-
eb2019.sciencesconf.org/ ] and go to \Submissions". Ab-
stracts should be written in English and not exceed 250
words.
As usual, we oer registration, accommodation and
lunches to students exhibiting their work during the
conference. Registration fees (including lunches) for
postdocs and researchers are 70 eand 130 e, respectively.
We also have a special deal for low prices accommo-
dations on the university campus (100 efor the week).
Please visit our website or follow us on twitter (@EcoBe-
hav2019) for more information. Do not hesitate to share
this email with anyone you believe may be interested in
attending.
We look forward to seeing you in the Ville Rose!
Maxime Pineaux, for the E&B organising committee
(EDB lab, Toulouse)
pineaux<maxime.pineaux@univ-tlse3.fr >14 EvolDir February 1, 2019
UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics
Mar19
Dear Colleagues,
The annual Genetics Society \Evolutionary Genetics and
Genomics Symposium" (EGGS) will take place on Tues-
day 19th March 2019 at the University of Cambridge.
The meeting is now pounds 1 to attend. We aim to
bring together participants from a range of backgrounds,
with a particular focus on work at the interface between
genomics and evolutionary biology. This year we will be
celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Genetic Society.
EGGS 2019 will feature keynotes from:
The evolutionary history of M. tuberculosis: insights
from ancient DNA
Professor Anne C. Stone
Regents' Professor, School of Human Evolution & Social
Change, Arizona State University
Cancer Evolution and Immune Escape: TRACERx
Professor Charles Swanton FRCP FMedSci, FRS
Director, CRUK Lung Cancer Centre of Excellence,
Senior Group Leader, The Francis Crick Institute
Flower evo-devo and the link to speciation
Professor Beverley Glover,
Director of Cambridge University Botanic Garden, De-
partment of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge
The meeting is free including a drinks reception. A
subsidised lunch and dinner is available. Registration
is now open and the deadline is 12/03/2019. Please
register at
https://evolutionarygeneticsandgenomics.com/-
registrationevolutionary-genetic s-and-genomics-
symposium/
Abstract submission for talks is now open and the dead-
line is now 31/01/2019. If you are interested in present-
ing a talk, please submit your abstract via this link:
https://tinyurl.com/yao5nwaj With best wishes,
The organising committee.
Arunkumar Ramesh <ar885@cam.ac.uk >UCambridge EvolutionEvolving
Apr1-4
Early bird registration deadline for Evolution Evolving
is Monday 7th January.
Evolution Evolving: Process, Mechanism and Theory
Churchill College, University of Cambridge, UK 1-4
April 2019
Evolutionary biology is a vibrant eld with a theoretical
framework that itself evolves. The Evolution Evolving
conference will focus on some emerging themes in the
relationship between development and evolution. Top-
ics include the evolutionary causes and consequences of
developmental bias, plasticity, niche construction and
extra-genetic inheritance V all of which contribute to
an understanding of evolvability. The conference will
feature a balanced program of talks and poster sessions
spanning three days, and be a mix of empirical and
theoretical work, as well as contributions to the history
and philosophy of evolutionary biology.
Invited speakers include Alex Badyaev, Renee Duck-
worth, Laurel Fogarty, Jukka Jernvall, Alan C Love,
Joanna Masel, Armin Moczek, Angela Potochnik, Sean
Rice & Jessica Riskin.
Conference website: https://evolutionevolving.org/-
Conference twitter: @EvoEvolving Conference email:
evoevolving@st-andrews.ac.uk Organising committee:
Prof Paul Brakeeld, Prof Kevin Laland, Prof Tobias
Uller, Dr Andrew Buskell & Dr Katrina Falkenberg
Katrina Falkenberg <kjf5@st-andrews.ac.uk >
UppsalaU AfricanHumanDiversity
May22-25
Dear Colleagues,
The International conference:* 'Africa, the cradle of hu-
man diversity' will take place on May 22nd-25th 2019
at Uppsala University (Sweden)*. The conference will
assemble 30 leading researchers from dierent elds to
present and discuss state-of-the-art approaches to ad-
dress long-standing questions about past and presentFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 15
human diversity in Africa. These questions include
modern human origins in Africa, the history of farm-
ing expansions, admixture patterns, adaptation to new
environments and cultural transitions. Conference con-
tributions will span the elds of paleoanthropology, pa-
leogenomics, evolutionary genetics, biological anthropol-
ogy, archaeology, historical linguistics, and population
genetics. Further, the conference will feature a keynote
lecture from: Marlize Lombard (Professor and Director
of the Centre for Anthropological Research, Department
of Anthropology and Development Studies, University
of Johannesburg, Johannesburg, South Africa).
The *registration is free*, including conference materials,
coee breaks and a cocktail reception. Registration is
now open and the deadline is on April 22nd. Please reg-
ister at https://goo.gl/forms/ND4ODgZKYQLrSsFi1
*Abstract submission for posters* is also open and
the deadline is on March 22nd. If you are interested
in presenting a poster, please register rst and then
submit your abstract via this link: https://goo.gl/-
forms/ZsYR6PS6BHLINwKy1 For *more informatio*n
please visit the ocial website for the event https://-
africathecradleofhumandiversity.wordpress.com We are
looking forward to welcoming you in Uppsala!
With our best regards, The organizers of 'Africa, the
cradle of human diversity' Cesar Fortes-Lima, Postdoc-
toral researcher in Population Genetics, Ezekia Mtetwa,
Researcher in Archaeogenomics, Cecile Jolly, Research
Engineer, and Carina Schlebusch, Associate Professor
and Group leader at Uppsala University
Cesar FORTES-LIMA <Cesar@eurotast.eu >
UYork ASAB Easter Apr3-5
There are just a few weeks left to submit your abstract
to the ASAB Easter Meeting at York, 3-5th April. Ab-
stracts are welcome in all areas of animal behaviour.
The ASAB (Association for the Study of Animal Be-
haviour) Easter Conference is aimed at postgraduate
students and post-doctoral researchers studying animal
behaviour, but is open to anyone with a keen interest in
the eld. The rst day will focus on postgraduate train-
ing workshops, with the end of that day and subsequent
two days involving plenary talks and conference talks.
Submit your abstract here: https://-
asabeaster2019.weebly.com We look forward to
seeing you in York!Dan Franks <daniel.franks@york.ac.uk >
Ventura Speciation Mar10-15
MEETING REGISTRATION ANNOUNCEMENT:
REGISTRATION IS OPEN UNTIL 10 FEB 2019
We are pleased to announce SPECIATION 2019, the
third Gordon Research Conference (GRC) dedicated
exclusively to speciation research. The conference will
be held at the Four Points Sheraton / Holiday Inn
Express, Ventura, CA during the week of March 10 -
15, 2019, co-chaired by Rebecca Safran (University of
Colorado, USA) and Katie Peichel (University of Bern,
Switzerland).
The conference will be directly preceded by a two-day
Gordon Research Seminar (GRS) on March 9 - 10, co-
chaired by Martin Garlovsky (the University of Sheeld,
UK) and Sheela Turbek (University of Colorado, USA),
that oers opportunities for early-career scientists to get
involved at the forefronts of modern speciation research.
Please follow this link to learn more about these confer-
ences and to register.
https://www.grc.org/speciation-conference/2019/ In-
vited presentations and discussion sessions at both the
GRC and GRS will cover a broad array of timely topics
in speciation research.
Please send questions to Rebecca.Safran@colorado.edu
Sincerely
Rebecca Safran, Katie Peichel, Martin Garlovsky, Sheela
Turbek
Rebecca J Safran <rebecca.safran@colorado.edu >
WashingtonDC RECOMB-Genetics
May4
The 7th RECOMB Satellite on Computational Meth-
ods in Genetics will focus on current research at the
intersection of genetics, computer science, statistics, and
related elds in gathering and analyzing SNP and hap-
lotype data and applying it to problems in medicine
and basic research. Population genetics allows more16 EvolDir February 1, 2019
rened understanding of the demographic history of our
species, association analysis provides insights regarding
the functional and molecular underpinnings of diseases
and traits, while clinical applications suggest genetics
as a trailblazer into personalized medicine. The com-
plex bioinformatic questions arising range from inferring
more nuanced statistical models of genetic information
to algorithms that overcome the complexity challenges
of analyzing millions of SNPs across millions of individ-
uals, to systems level challenges of handling such Big
Data repositories of genotypes and phenotypes.
RECOMB-GENETICS 2019 will be held in The George
Washington University on May, 4th 2019.
https://recombgen.recomb2019.org/ Simon Gravel
<simon.gravel@gmail.com >
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May
17-19
Dear Colleagues,
Please SAVE THE DATE for the 9th Annual Yosemite
Symbiosis Workshop!
The Ninth annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will
take place on May 17-19, 2019 at the Sierra Nevada
Research Institute, Yosemite National Park.
Keynote speaker 2019: Dr. Martha (Molly) S. Hunter
from The University of Arizona!
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our continuing goal is to better integrate the
broad groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis and
microbiome research. Yosemite serves as an ideal site as
it is both beautiful and secluded. This will be our ninth
annual meeting and we have been consistently attracting
scientists from all over the country and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in the mi-
crobiome, cooperation, mutualism, and symbiosis. In
the past we have covered a range of symbiosis topics
from ecology and evolution to molecular mechanisms in
dierent model and non-model systems. We would like
to make room for a diverse group of people so we will ini-
tially accept up to 3 lab members per group (including
the PI) on a rst come rst served basis.
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held 18-19,
2019, though we make accommodation arrangementsavailable for attendees to arrive on Friday the 17th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Past attendees and talks can be found here: http://-
www.sachslab.com/symbiosis-2015.php We will soon
open registration with abstracts likely being due in Mid
March.
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room. Costs: See
details in the registration page (up soon). We will only
be able to accept credit card payments this year
Please direct any questions to the organizers:
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
joels@ucr.edu
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis
May17-19
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now OPEN for the 9th Annual Yosemite
Symbiosis Workshop!
The Ninth annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will
take place on May 17-19, 2019 at the Sierra Nevada
Research Institute, Yosemite National Park.
Keynote speaker 2019: Dr. Martha (Molly) S. Hunter
from The University of Arizona!
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our continuing goal is to better integrate the
broad groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis and
microbiome research. Yosemite serves as an ideal site as
it is both beautiful and secluded. This will be our ninth
annual meeting and we have been consistently attracting
scientists from all over the country and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in the mi-
crobiome, cooperation, mutualism, and symbiosis. In
the past we have covered a range of symbiosis topics
from ecology and evolution to molecular mechanisms in
dierent model and non-model systems. We would like
to make room for a diverse group of people so we will ini-
tially accept up to 3 lab members per group (includingFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 17
the PI) on a rst come rst served basis.
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held 18-19,
2019, though we make accommodation arrangements
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 17th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Past attendees and talks can be found here: http://-
www.sachslab.com/symbiosis-2015.php Where: SNRS
has a set of cabins in Wawona and all within a short
walk of the conference room. Costs: See details in the
registration page (up soon). We will only be able to
accept credit card payments this year
Register here: <https://t.co/i1hTGwqI15 >
https://snri.ucmerced.edu/form/symbiosis-workshop-
2019-registration Pay here:https://commerce.cashnet.com/cashneti/selfserve/-
EditItem.aspx?PCn03 W2-SYWK&ItemCount=1
Payment is required to conrm your registration.
Please direct any questions to the organizers:
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
*Joel L. Sachs* *Professor & Vice Chair* Department of
Evolution Ecology & Organismal Biology Department of
Botany & Plant Sciences (Cooperating Member) Depart-
ment of Microbiology & Plant Pathology (Cooperating
Member) University of California, Riverside
*Mailing Address:* Sachs Lab - UC Riverside 3401
Watkins Dr., 1229 Spieth Hall Riverside, CA 92521
Oce (951) 827-6357 / Fax (951) 827-4286
www.sachslab.com http://www.biology.ucr.edu/-
people/faculty/Sachs.html Joel Sachs <joels@ucr.edu >
GradStudentPositions
AberdeenU 4 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
AgroscopeETH Switzerland AnimalBreeding . . . . . . .19
CharlesU AvianSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
CRAG Barcelona AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
GroningenInst NeuralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
GulbenkianInst Portugal EvolutionaryDynamics . . .23
HongKong MarineAdaptationTranscriptomics . . . . . 24
KULeuven Belgium DaphniaMicrobiome . . . . . . . . . . 24
Liverpool CanaryIslandReptiles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Liverpool EvolutionAnimalBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
London Nagasaki PneumococcalPhylogenetics . . . . . 26
MasseyU 2 PolyploidCytonuclearEvolution . . . . . . . . 27
NorthDakotaStateU BehavioralSelection . . . . . . . . . . .27
OklahomaStateU EvolutionIntegBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Prague MycorrhizalFungalCommunities . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Prague PlantPolyploidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
QueensU Belfast 3 MolluscEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
QueensU MarineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30StockholmU Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
SwedishU eDNApikeMonitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Switzerland EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UAberdeen SpeciesBiogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UBern CichlidRadiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBern Switzerland PaleogenomicsLakeVictoria . . . . 35
UBielefeld Germany ZebraFinchSpermCompetition 36
UCLouvain ArticialEvolutionInDroplets . . . . . . . . . . 37
UFribourg 2 SocialImmunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UFribourg EvoSociallyExchangedFluids . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UGlasgow UEdinburgh AnthraxGenomicEpidemiology
39
UGothenburg Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UGroningen BehaviourEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UGroningen EvolPhilos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UHelsinki SalmonEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UHolar Iceland 2 SticklebackEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UIdaho RedbandTrout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4418 EvolDir February 1, 2019
UKassel Germany EvolutionAntPlants . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UKiel MeioticDrive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
ULeicester DiseaseVariants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UMaine WildlifeDiseaseGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UManitoba SeaLampreyPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UNeuchatel ModellingMicrobialInteractions . . . . . . . 48
UNewOrleans EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UNorthDakota AncientPaleoecology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UPuertoRico Mayaguez BruchidHostSpecicity . . . . 50
USherbrooke TroutEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50UTartu Estonia aDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UVienna AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UWisconsin StevensPoint WalleyeGenetics . . . . . . . . 52
UZurich OrangUtanGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UZurich PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
VictoriaU AbalonePopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
VirginiaTech SumacGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
WageningenU 2 ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
AberdeenU 4 EvolutionaryBiol
Fully funded NERC QUADRAT funded PhD stu-
dentship (3.5 years)
\Eect of species range shifts on trophic networks in
freshwater ecosystems"
This project will be supervised by DrLesley Lancaster
of Aberdeen University, and Drs Paul Caplat and Sarah
Helyar at Queens University School of Biological Sci-
ences. The start date will be 1st October 2019.
https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/project/eect-of-
species-range-shifts-on-trophic-networks-in-freshwater-
ecosystems/?p105126 Brief project outline: As climates
warm in the 21st century, many species are shifting
their geographic distributions towards higher latitudes
and elevations. Previous studies have indicated that
range shifting species may express greater metabolic
and behavioural exibility than species which have
not recently undergone biogeographic shifts, with
long-term implications for the structure and function
of high latitude communities. For instance, research
has already revealed that range shifting species often
negatively impact species richness and biodiversity
of areas where they become established. However,
the processes by which community turnover occurs
in colonised sites are little known, rendering future
biodiversity predictions dicult. We propose to
investigate how range-shifting species aect patterns
of community composition, using pond damselies
(Odonata: Zygoptera: Coenagrionidae) as a model
system. These species are rapidly range shifting in
Britain under climate change, and are important,
keystone predators in freshwater communities; the Irish
species also have high conservation value. Our previous
work has indicated that range shifts in Coenagrionid
damselies are associated with species turnover in
high latitude freshwater ecosystems, but the eectson trophic interactions and resulting community
resilience to future environmental change remain largely
unknown.
To examine the ecosystem consequences of range shifts,
the student will: 1) Relate the colonisation dynamics
of range-shifting damselies in Scotland and Ireland
to changes in freshwater trophic network structure, ac-
counting for land use and climatic variability across
the study region, using hierarchical regression models.
2) Investigate dierences in phenotypes, behaviour and
metabolic rates under dierent thermal regimes in range-
shifting vs. non-range shifting damselies across the
region, in order to identify alternative mechanisms medi-
ating biotic interactions in range- shifting vs. non-range
shifting populations. 3) Using data derived from Next
Generation Sequencing approaches, identify genetic vari-
ants in range-shifting vs. non-range shifting damsely
species that are associated with particular trophic net-
works (Obj 1) and traits (Obj 2).
The project will contribute to our understanding of
how communities are likely to respond to ongoing range
shifts, and identify the mechanisms underpinning global
homogenisation of biodiversity. The results also have
the potential to make fundamental contributions to the
development of the rapidly advancing eld of functional
community ecology.
The student will be based primarily at the University
of Aberdeen, under the supervision of Dr Lesley Lan-
caster, who is a leading researcher in understanding evo-
lutionary and community consequences of range shifts.
The student will be co-supervised by Dr Paul Caplat
at Queens University Belfast, who develops novel ap-
proaches to predict community patterns at multiple
scales from life-history traits, climate and land use. Dr
Sarah Helyar (Queens University) will supervise the
genetic part of the work. There is potential for the
student to establish links with NGOs responsible for
freshwater restoration in Scotland and Ireland for ap-
plication of the results. The student will form part of
the QUADRAT doctoral training programme, which
provides internationally cutting edge training in envi-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 19
ronmental management leadership.
Funding: This project is one of a number that
are in competition for funding from the NERC
QUADRAT Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP).
For details of all the PhDs advertised for 2019 start
please see: https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/program/-
quadrat-doctoral-training-partnership/?i2p4257 This
studentship is available to UK and other EU nation-
als and provides funding for tuition fees and stipend,
subject to eligibility. Candidates should have (or ex-
pect to achieve) a minimum of a 2.1 Honours degree
in a relevant subject. Applicants who are classed as
International for tuition fee purposes are not eligible for
funding.
Deadline: Thursday 31st January 2019. Informal in-
quiries: lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk
Sarah Helyar <S.Helyar@qub.ac.uk >
|{
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
AgroscopeETH Switzerland
AnimalBreeding
I am looking for a person interested in doing a PhD with
the goal of breeding sustainable pigs at an agricultural
research institute in collaboration with the ETH Zurich
(Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich). I am
particularly looking for a person who is interested in
animal breeding, has an integrative biology mindset and
enjoys wrangling with large datasets from a range of
backgrounds (genetics, animal science, (evolutionary)
biology, biochemistry, molecular biology, ...).
Breeding sustainable pigs: the genetic basis of nitrogen
eciency
Meat production contributes more to ecological hazards
like global warming and environmental pollution than
any other food type via the use of fossil energy, land
and water, and in particular through the emission of
greenhouse gases and nitrogen waste. Recently, it has
been shown that a non-negligible part of the Swiss Large
White pig population can cope with diets markedly re-
duced in essential amino acid content without displayingimpaired growth, indicating variation in the eciency to
x dietary protein in the body. This project aims to un-
ravel the genetic basis of this improved eciency using
a two-fold approach: First, the candidate will use quan-
titative genetics analyses to estimate the heritability of
this trait and potential genetic correlations with carcass
and meat characteristics as well as performance and
welfare traits. Second, SNP array and/or sequencing
technology will be used to detect causal variants under-
lying improved protein eciency with the ultimate goal
to provide a tool to select for increased protein eciency.
This project will be carried out in collaboration with
the ETH Zurich, several researchers and technical sta
at Agroscope Posieux, and stakeholders in Switzerland.
Tasks - perform quantitative genetics analyses and
genome-wide association studies using already avail-
able data and collect new phenotypic data at the animal
research facility of Agroscope Posieux - perform Dual-
energy x-ray absorptiometry measurements on carcasses
as well as live animals, organize and help with blood and
tissue collection at the slaughterhouse and extract DNA
from blood samples in our laboratory - potentially assist
with gene expression analyses, genomic prediction and
method development for high-throughput phenotyping
- collaborate with colleagues at Agroscope and ETH
Zurich
Requirements - MSc in genetics, animal science, biology,
biochemistry, or molecular biology - Strong interest in
quantitative work - Motivated to work in the barn with
the animals, in the laboratory and at the computer -
Achievement-oriented, open-minded personality with
the ability to work in a team but also independently -
Good organizational and communication skills - Good
IT skills, including statistical analyses in R, preferably
experience with (or the willingness to learn) Linux -
Working language is German, English or French; how-
ever, sucient English (reading and writing) skills are
necessary
Organisation Agroscope is an innovative research insti-
tute for agriculture and nutrition governed according to
the principles of New Public Management. Agroscope is
part of the federal administration and is attached to the
Federal Department of Economic Aairs, Education and
Research, EAER. It has research stations at a number
of sites around Switzerland but its head oce is in Bern
(Liebefeld). The objectives of the Swine Research Unit
are to optimize the use of phosphorus and protein in
pig production by evaluating the genetic potential of
pigs to develop breeding strategies as well as developing
ecologically and economically viable feeding strategies,
allowing the production of pork of excellent quality. The
advertised project builds upon ample knowledge from
previous work in pig nutrition of the host group.20 EvolDir February 1, 2019
We oer you a varied range of tasks and collaboration
with specialized research teams as well as thorough ini-
tial training. Agroscope has excellent swine research
facilities and well-equipped laboratories. You will en-
joy exible working hours and good employee benets.
The PhD project will be performed in collaboration
with Professor Hubert Pausch at the ETH Zurich, who
will be, together with Dr Claudia Kasper, your main
supervisor.
Place of Work: Agroscope Posieux, 1725 Posieux,
Switzerland. Salary Category: According to the guide-
lines of the Swiss National Science Foundation. Employ-
ment Level: 100%. Start date: April 2019 (negotiable),
Duration: 3 years.
Application If this challenge appeals to you and
you meet our requirements prole, we look forward
to receiving your online application (sylviane.brasey-
badoud@agroscope.admin.ch). Online applications con-
sist of a single PDF containing an application letter, CV,
copy of certicates (MSc &BSc) and email addresses of 2
referees. For further information and informal inquiries:
Dr. Claudia Kasper, animal geneticist
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU AvianSpeciation
*A PhD position on **germline-restricted chromosome
in songbirds** at Charles University in Prague *
Germline-restricted chromosome in songbirds: Under-
standing its genetic composition and potential role in
reproductive isolation
A four-year PhD position is available from October 2019
Application deadline: 15th March 2019
Birds have the smallest genomes among vertebrates.
This has been attributed to selection for smaller cells,
which permits higher metabolic rate required for ight
and more neurons to be packed in the brain. Recently,
it has been shown that reduction of genome size in
songbirds may be facilitated by elimination of genetic
material dispensable for soma from somatic cells and
its maintenance only in the germline, where it forms
the so-called germline-restricted chromosome (GRC).The genetic composition and importance of this chro-
mosome for gametogenesis is still largely unknown. The
rst aim of this project is to sequence the GRC in
the Bengalese nch (*Lonchura domestica*), a song-
bird species where GRC represents the largest element
of the karyotype, and to identify functional genes on
this chromosome. This will be done by comparison of
whole genome sequences of somatic and germinal tis-
sues and by characterization of gonadal transcriptomes.
Furthermore, given the highly variable size and genetic
composition of GRC among species, the second aim is
to study the potential role of GRC in speciation using
crosses between dierent *Lonchura* species.
The project will combine genomic and cytogenetic ap-
proaches. The ideal candidate should have background
in molecular genetics, cytogenetics and/or bioinformat-
ics.
The selected candidate will work in a young indepen-
dent research group of population and speciation ge-
netics (http://web.natur.cuni.cz/ ~radkas/). The group
is based at the Department of Zoology, Faculty of Sci-
ence, Charles University, which belongs to the leading
research institutions in the Czech Republic. The Faculty
of Science is situated in the center of Prague, one of the
world's most beautiful and monumental cities.
How to apply: If interested, please, send (1)
CV including a list of publications, (2) motiva-
tion letter, and (3) contact details for 2'3 refer-
ences to Radka Reifova (radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz)
by 15th March 2019. Besides this, it is neces-
sary to apply for the PhD position through this
web site: https://www.stars-natur.cz/phd-positions/-
biology . { RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D. Phone:
+420 221 95 1852 E-mail: radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz,
radkas@natur.cuni.cz <radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz >
Web page: www.natur.cuni.cz/ ~radkas/<http://-
www.natur.cuni.cz >
Department of Zoology Charles University Faculty of
Science Vini An a 7, 128 44 Praha 2
Katedra zoologie Univerzita Karlova P A rodov Adeck a
fakulta Vini An a 7, 128 44 Praha 2
\RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D."
<radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 21
CRAG Barcelona AncientDNA
PhD position available on Paleaogenomics of dog popu-
lation in Europe.
The Botigue lab for \Genomics of ancient crops and
domestication" in the Centre for Research in Agricul-
tural Genomics (CRAG) in Barcelona is oering a PhD
position under the La Caixa Foundation INPhINIT
Programme to work on the genomic analysis of archae-
ological dog remains from Europe spanning from the
Neolithic up to the Roman Period with the goal to un-
derstand population dynamics within the continent and
gene ow during that period.
DEADLINE
6 February 2019 (Incoming modality)
27 February 2019 (Retaining modality)
TITLE: Genomic analysis of archaeological dog remains
from Europe.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The European continent has played a major role in dog
domestication. A recent genomic analysis of Neolithic
dogs from Germany, though revealing genetic continuity,
showed complex admixture patterns, including gene ow
from a population similar to modern Indian dogs. Addi-
tionally, studies examining the mitochondrial genome of
ancient and modern dogs have detected a replacement
in Europe that took place some time between the Ne-
olithic and the Middle Age. In the present project we
plan to unravel this complex demographic scenario of
prehistoric European dogs by analysing the genome of
twenty ancient dog samples from the Iberian Peninsula
and Germany from a period of over 4,000 years spanning
from the Neolithic up to the Roman Empire.
Analysis of the whole genome and the mitochondrial
genome will be performed to determine the main de-
mographic events that shaped dog populations during
that period. Population structure and admixture will
be studied in ancient dogs in the context of modern dog
variation.
As a result, we will provide for the rst time insights
into the genetic structure, variability and admixture of
dog populations in Europe over a period of 4 millennia,
prior the generation of breeds. Results will elucidate de-
mographic events surrounding dog prehistory in Europe
and their relationship with humans migrating throughthe continent.
JOB POSITION DESCRIPTION
The dearth and the ambition of the current project are
ideal for a PhD candidate. We are therefore looking
for a highly motivated student seeking to pursue his
doctoral studies and specialise in genomics and bioin-
formatics by analysing whole genome sequencing data,
including that from archaeological samples. The stu-
dent will receive extensive training in a broad range
of skills, including theoretical population genetics and
biostatistics. She will learn concepts such as popula-
tion structure, admixture and adaptation, and be able
to recognize the footprints these processes leave in the
genome. Additionally, the student will also learn how to
model demographic inference, gaining knowledge about
coalescent theory and computational simulations. In
order to analyse genomic data, the student will learn
how to use and develop her own bioinformatic tools.
This project is an international collaboration with re-
searchers from the United States and Germany, so the
student will have the opportunity to perform research
stays abroad, increasing her network of peers at an
early stage of her career and learning new skills from
renowned population geneticists. Opportunities to as-
sist international meetings and present her research will
also be granted throughout her PhD.
The PhD will be performed in CRAG'S Plant and An-
imal Genomics programme. During the rst year of
their studies, students receive teaching on state-of-the
art technologies oered by the Core Units and Scientic
Services of CRAG, such as genomics and next generation
sequencing, proteomics, metabolomics, and bioinformat-
ics. The student will also be able to attend internal and
external seminars at CRAG and improve her oratory
skills by giving seminars regularly.
By the end of her PhD, the student will have become a
population geneticist specialised in the analysis of mod-
ern and ancient genomes with a strong computational
background and a wide network of peers.
REQUIREMENTS
The doctoral fellowship programme INPhINIT \la
Caixa" is devoted to attracting talented Early-Stage
Researchers'of any nationality'who wish to pursue doc-
toral studies in Spanish or Portuguese territory.
The doctoral INPhINIT fellowships oer a highly com-
petitive salary and complementary opportunities for
training on transferrable skills (through the collabo-
ration of leading entities such as Vitae and Oxentia),
temporary stays in industry, incentives upon completion
of the thesis, among other elements that make these22 EvolDir February 1, 2019
fellowships some of the most attractive and complete in
Europe.
CONTACT
For questions about the position and further informa-
tion about the project, contact Laura Botigu e, Email:
laura.botigue@cragenomica.es
HOW TO APPLY
Applications should be done using La Caixa INPhINIT
online application system . Please follow the link below
to obtain further information
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GroningenInst NeuralEvolution
Job description
The Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(GELIFES <https://www.rug.nl/research/gelifes >*)*
oers a 4-years NWO-funded PhD position for a project
on the *Genetic dissection of a neuronal circuit under
sexual conict*, with *Drosophila melanogaster* as a
model system.
The project is coordinated by Prof. Jean-Christophe
Billeter< https://www.rug.nl/sta/j.c.billeter/-
>, in collaboration with Prof. Yael Heifetz <
http://departments.agri.huji.ac.il/entomology/-
yael heifetz/index.html >, Prof Bregje Wertheim
<https://www.rug.nl/sta/b.wertheim/ >*,* and
Dr Philip Kohlmeier <https://www.rug.nl/sta/-
philip.kohlmeier/ >. The student will join a lively and
highly international team of post-doctoral researchers,
PhD and master students working on the neurogenetics
of social and sexual behaviours in *Drosophila*,
supported by laboratory technicians.
Sexual conict (SC) shapes the evolution of reproduc-
tive behaviours. It manifests itself in male traits that
limit female reproductive choices, generating selection
for female counter-adaptations. This sexual conict is a
hot topic in evolutionary biology because it is hypothe-
sized to fuel fast and exaggerated evolution of neural,
behavioural and morphological traits that mediate male-
female competition.This projects aims at investigating how a sexual con-
ict has shaped brain functioning in the fruit y
*Drosophila melanogaster*. During mating, males trans-
fer pheromones in their ejaculate that render a mated
female less attractive to other males. As a counter-
adaptation, females eject that ejaculate which restores
attractiveness and facilitates faster remating. We are
now interested in identifying the neuronal circuit that
modulates ejaculate ejection and to reveal potential
counteradaptations of the male. In particular, the PhD
student will apply 1) optogenetics and intersectional
methods to parse the function of single neurons in fe-
male ejaculate ejection, 2) mutant analysis and tran-
scriptomics to identify sensory input 3) trans-synaptic
marking and circuit modelling to reconstitute neuronal
circuitry and 4) sperm-competition and female sexual
receptivity assays to identify the selective drivers that
shape the current state of the sexual conict.
Qualications
We are looking for an enthusiastic and talented PhD can-
didate with a Master's degree (or equivalent) in Biology
with a strong interest in neurogenetics and behavioural
neurosciences, and with an appreciation for evolutionary
biology. The ideal candidate has experience with at least
some of the following techniques: *Drosophila* genet-
ics, *Drosophila* neuroanatomy, behavioural analysis,
confocal microscopy and molecular genetics. We also
ask for excellent communication and writing skills in
English. Other helpful competences include statistical
prociency (ideally in the R software environment) and
bioinformatics.
Conditions of employment
The University of Groningen oers a salary of 2,325
gross per month in the rst year to a maximum of 2,972
gross per month in the nal year (salary scale Dutch
Universities as of Feb 1, 2019), based on a fulltime posi-
tion (1.0 FTE) excluding a 8% holiday allowance and a
8.3% end of the year bonus.
The position is limited to a period of 4 years. A PhD
training programme is part of the agreement and the
successful candidate will be enrolled in the Graduate
School of Science and Engineering. The successful can-
didate will rst be oered a temporary position of one
year with the option of renewal for another three years.
Prolongation of the contract is contingent on sucient
progress in the rst year to indicate that a successful
completion of the PhD thesis within the next three years
is to be expected.
The preferred starting date is between April and June
1st 2019. Organisation
Founded in 1614, the University of Groningen enjoysFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 23
an international reputation as a dynamic and innova-
tive institution of higher education oering high-quality
teaching and research. Flexible study programmes and
academic career opportunities in a wide variety of dis-
ciplines encourage the 30,000 students and researchers
alike to develop their own individual talents. As one of
the best research universities in Europe, the University
of Groningen has joined forces with other top universi-
ties and networks worldwide to become a truly global
centre of knowledge.
*Application* Application should include:
a letter of motivation to apply for this position
a curriculum vitae
a one-page statement of research interests, for instance
description
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GulbenkianInst Portugal
EvolutionaryDynamics
Individuals with any scientic background (i.e., includ-
ing evolutionary, molecular, or systems biology, mathe-
matics, physics, chemistry, computer science, statistics,
and its hybrids) with a genuine interest in evolution-
ary questions and quantitative approaches are welcome
to apply to the available ERC-funded junior and se-
nior postdoc positions under the project \FIT2GO { A
toolbox for tness landscapes in evolution".
Lab
Building on evolutionary theory, research in the lab re-
volves around quantifying epistasis across levels of biolog-
ical organization and across environments, and to study
its impact on the population genetics of adaptation and
hybridization. We approach these questions through a
combination of mathematical modelling, computer sim-
ulations, statistical method development, experimental
evolution, and data analysis and interpretation. The
long-term goal lies in understanding how ecology, evolu-
tion, and molecular constraints shape genomes.
Projects
PhD projects will be developed in collaboration withthe respective candidate and may be focused on either
or several of the following topics:
- develop mechanistic and statistical models of tness
landscapes across environments - quantify intra- and
intergenic epistasis and its consequences for adapta-
tion - infer distributions of tness eects across genetic
backgrounds and environments (experimentally and the-
oretically) - quantify population dynamics and genetics
under clonal interference and epistasis - develop statis-
tical methods for experimental-evolution data analysis -
study the eects of epistasis on diversity and divergence
- develop approaches to predict the cost of antibiotic
resistance across environments (in collaboration with
Isabel Gordo, IGC) - test predicted mechanisms of drug
resistance in inuenza experimentally (in collaboration
with Maria Joao Amorim, IGC)
Application procedure
Applications should be sent by email to evoldynam-
ics@gmail.com and include a letter of motivation, a CV,
and names and contact information of at least two refer-
ees. The anticipated starting date is 1 September 2019.
The student will be associated with the IGCs PhD Pro-
gramme in Integrative Biology and Biomedicine and has
to fulll the according selection criteria; parallel appli-
cation to the PhD Programme through the respective
online platform is encouraged but not necessary: http://-
www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/education/phdprogrammes .Re-
view of applications will begin on February 15, and the
call remains open until the position is lled.
Location
The Gulbenkian Science Institute is a private research in-
stitute located on the coast just west of Lisbon, Portugal,
which provides for both a top-level scientic environ-
ment and excellent quality of life. The IGCs mission
is to meet sciences global challenges: to make ground-
breaking discoveries in the Life Sciences, to innovate
in training, to incubate the next generation of future
leaders, and to place science at the heart of society. Po-
tential applicants are encouraged to scroll through the
lab and institute websites and to informally contact us to
learn more about IGC and the Evolutionary Dynamics
Group: https://evoldynamics.org/ Dr. Claudia Bank
Principal Investigator Evolutionary Dynamics Group
Instituto Gulbenkian de Cioncia Oeiras, Portugal
Claudia Bank <evoldynamics@gmail.com >24 EvolDir February 1, 2019
HongKong
MarineAdaptationTranscriptomics
*Acclimation and Adaptation to Climate Change in
Marine Organisms *
Applications are invited for a funded Ph.D. position in
Molecular Ecology in the School of Biological Sciences at
the University of Hong Kong ( https://www.hku.hk/),
to commence as soon as possible. The University is a
long-standing English-speaking institution and ranks as
one of the top Universities in Asia.
We are looking for a curious, ambitious and enthu-
siastic Ph.D. student to take part in establishing a
new lab led by Dr. Celia Schunter to work on ma-
rine acclimation to climate change. *Research topics
span from molecular, neuronal and behavioural impacts
of climate change to parental eects and transgenera-
tional acclimation in shes and other marine organisms
(www.celiaschunter.com).* The lab is associated with
the Swire Institute of Marine Science, also known as
SWIMS ( http://www.swims.hku.hk/), a beautiful re-
search station in a remote area of the Island of Hong
Kong.
The lab combines several disciplines ranging from *ma-
rine biology*, *behavior/physiology*, *molecular bi-
ology* to *computational biology* and prospective
students should be interested in working in a cross-
disciplinary environment. Generally, projects start with
eld work or aquarium experiments with measurements
of e.g. behavior or other physiological traits, followed
by molecular lab work to extract molecules of interest
(e.g. RNA or proteins). Most projects are based on
next-generation sequencing, subsequent bioinformatic
analyses and writeup into scientic articles. The lab
maintains long-standing international collaborations and
travel might be required.
*Additional requirements*:
^A Willingness to work in a highly international and
collaborative environment ^A If no previous experience,
the student must be eager to learn *bioinformatics*
^A Willingness to work in aquarium systems and/or eld
work in a marine environment.
A Postgraduate Scholarship will be oered, in addition
to annual leave and medical benets. Applicants who
have a Bachelor's degree with honours will be consid-ered for admission to a 4-year PhD programme, whereas
those who already hold a research Master's degree (e.g.
MPhil) will only be considered for admission to a 3-
year PhD programme. Information about the PhD
programme, including requirements for admission, can
be found here https://www.gradsch.hku.hk/gradsch/
Interested candidates should send their CV, a cover
letter summarizing research interests, career goals and
contact information for three references to Dr. Celia
Schunter (schunter@hku.hk). Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until the position
is lled. The start date is exible.
Celia Schunter <schunter@hku.hk >
KULeuven Belgium
DaphniaMicrobiome
We invite applications for a PhD position to study the
role of the gut microbiota in the evolution of stress tol-
erance in host organisms. The focus will be on thermal
stress. The model host system will be the water ea
Daphnia magna, of which we have clones in culture that
evolved thermal resistance. These clones were obtained
from resurrection ecology, experimental evolution and
natural thermal gradients.
The PhD project includes controlled exposure experi-
ments measuring heat tolerance and respirometry, meta-
genetic analyses of gut microbiota communities and gut
microbiota transplant experiments between control and
warm-adapted host clones. In addition, experimental
evolution of stress resistance will be studied in the gut
microbiome.
We are looking for a highly motivated student with an
excellent academic record, a strong interest in evolution-
ary ecology, ecophysiology, genomics and microbiology,
and a high ability for accurate lab work. A very good
command of both spoken and written English is required.
Proven microbiological skills are an asset, but training
can be provided.
We oer a full-time job initially for a period of one year,
but extendable to a total of four years pending good
evaluation. Funding is available, but we request and
give support for applying for your own scholarship.
You will be embedded in an international, enthusiastic
and dynamic team with ample expertise in using aquatic
invertebrates as model systems to address key questions
at the intersection of ecology and evolution (https:/-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 25
/bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/laeec/whoiswho/00034380).
Our team has excellent research facilities including
temperature-controlled rooms and well-equipped
ecophysiology and microbiology laboratories. You
will be co-supervised by Dr. Lizanne Janssens, Dr.
Shinjini Mukherjee, and professor Ellen Decaestecker
(https://www.kuleuven-kulak.be/nl/onderzoek/key-
areas/onderzoeksgroepen/aquatische-biologie2/data/-
persoonlijke-paginas/Prof Ellen Decaestecker) who
have strong expertise in studying the gut microbiome.
Leuven is a beautiful historical university city with
a very high and pleasant standard of living (https:/-
/www.kuleuven.be/english/living). Leuven is a 15-
minute train ride away from Brussels International Air-
port and a 20-minutes train ride from Brussels itself.
Brussels is one of the best-connected cities in Western
Europe; Amsterdam, Paris and London are all reach-
able within 2 hours by train. The university, founded in
1425, has a top research and teaching standard (http:/-
/www.kuleuven.be/english). The KU Leuven features
consistently in Europe's top-15 universities and has
been elected by Reuters as most innovative university
in Europe for three years in a row.
Interested? Please send your CV, a 1-page letter of
motivation including relevant experience, a transcript of
your bachelor and master study results, and the contact
information of two referents as a single PDF to Profes-
sor Ellen Decaestecker (ellen.decaestecker@kuleuven.be)
and Professor Robby Stoks (robby.stoks@kuleuven.be)
with the subject 'PhD Application NAME'. Shortlisted
applicants will be interviewed. The application deadline
is 15 February 2019. The starting date is 1st of April
2019 (can be negotiated).
Robby Stoks <robby.stoks@kuleuven.be >
Liverpool CanaryIslandReptiles
Students interested in applying for a Liverpool John
Moores University scholarship for an evolutionary biol-
ogy PhD supervised by myself (Richard Brown) should
email me at r.p.brown@ljmu.ac.uk.
Reptiles and the Canary Islands have been central
themes in my research but I am exible so feel free
to contact me with ideas that we can formulate as a
PhD proposal.
Areas of particular interest include: 1) Conservation
genomics: impacts of small population size on genomicdiversity 2) Ecological divergence among contiguous ver-
tebrate populations 3) The tness consequences of colour
pattern variation in the wild. 4) Reptile/amphibian phy-
logenetics and biogeography
Please see https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-us/sta-
proles/faculty-of-science/natural-sciences-and-
psychology/richard-brown for a list of papers.
LJMU scholarships are for three years from October
2019 and 1) cover all University tuition fees, 2) provide
£1500 p.a. (2018/19 gure) for consumables (and/or
conference attendance etc) and 3) pay a stipend of
~ £14777 p.a. (2018/19) to cover living costs. There
are also opportunities to work as a demonstrator on
undergraduate laboratory practicals/workshops, etc.
Applicants with a chance of success will be those that
have a very good undergraduate degree, a Masters
degree, some previous signicant research experience
and/or have authored/co-authored a scientic paper.
The closing date is 04/03/19: please get in touch well
before this date!
\Brown, Richard" <R.P.Brown@ljmu.ac.uk >
Liverpool
EvolutionAnimalBehaviour
I am looking for students with excellent CVs (rst
class degree and/or distinction at the Masters level,
plus relevant experience and/or publication success
in peer reviewed journals) to apply for a compet-
itive 3 year doctoral scholarship in the school of
Natural Sciences and Psychology at Liverpool John
Moores University (https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/research/-
phd%20scholarships).
Group living provides substantial advantages but may
also engender conict over reproduction or other re-
sources. In order for groups to form and persist, animals
must be able to manage this conict. Across species,
complex sociality involves an interplay between domi-
nance hierarchies, aggression, submission, cooperation,
and kinship. Understanding these dynamics is a major
focus in social behaviour research. Much of the work
done so far has examined primates and other mammals,
however, conducting carefully controlled experiments
in these species is often dicult. The cooperatively
breeding cichlid sh, Neolamprologus pulcher, lives and
breeds in highly complex permanent social groups. N.
pulcher are small bodied and can easily be housed in26 EvolDir February 1, 2019
aquaria where these remarkable sh will perform their
full suite of social behaviour.
We will make use of a newly established N. pulcher
breeding colony at LJMU. Social behaviours can be
scored within these groups using both live observations
and high denition video recordings. I am interested in
understanding social behaviour from an integrative per-
spective, and thus neural, endocrine and/or molecular
approaches may also be used. The specic details of the
project are exible and can be developed in collabora-
tion with the successful candidate to align with his or
her interests, skills, and expertise. This is an excellent
opportunity for a keen student to develop their own
project. The project will likely be primarily laboratory
based, though eld work in Lake Tanganyika may also
be possible.
Preferred candidate characteristics include a keen in-
terest in animal social behaviour; experience studying
behaviour in the laboratory and/or the eld; strong
writing and analytical skills; knowledge of experimen-
tal design and statistical analysis. Previous experience
working with sh is desirable but not essential. Full
training will be provided. UK/EU nationals only.
The selected candidate will be put up for a competi-
tive internal award (https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/research/-
phd%20scholarships). If successful, the scholarship will
cover all applicable fees for 3 years including a stipend
at the standard UK rate ( ~ £15000pa) and provides
£1500pa in research funding
Please apply by email to a.r.reddon@ljmu.ac.uk with
a CV, a brief statement outlining your interest, and
the names and contact information for two references.
Applications due to me by Feb 18. Please feel free to
email me with any questions.
Adam R. Reddon, Ph.D. Lecturer in Behavioural Ecol-
ogy Liverpool John Moores University Room 234A,
James Parsons Building t: +44 (0)151 231 2034
www.adamreddon.ca A.R.Reddon@ljmu.ac.uk
London Nagasaki
PneumococcalPhylogenetics
Dear colleagues, We are seeking motivated applicants for
a PhD position in PHYLOGENETIC INFERENCE OF
PNEUMOCOCCAL TRANSMISSION IN VIETNAM.
This opportunity falls within the exciting new joint PhD
programme between Nagasaki University, Japan, andthe London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
(LSHTM), UK.
The transmission of S. pneumonae, particularly to in-
fants, is not well understood. However, it is at the core
of the highly topical debate around relying on herd pro-
tection from pneumococcal vaccines in order to reduce
unsustainably high vaccine costs in low- and middle-
income countries.
In Nha Trang, Vietnam, we have collected pneumococ-
cal carriage samples from about 70% of the total infant
and toddler population and their mothers in 2016 and
2018. All samples will have been deep-sequenced by
2019. This allows for a word-wide unique opportunity
to study pneumococcal transmission among young chil-
dren and their mothers, to identify prominent routes
of transmission and characterise factors promoting on-
going paediatric infections.
The PhD candidate will use this data to develop, test
and implement a robust methodology to infer pneumo-
coccal transmission from genomic data and distinguish
transmission events from close genomic proximity for
other reasons (including an indirect transmission link
via an intermediary), investigate who infects infants
and toddlers with pneumococci using those techniques
and will investigate the role of sub-dominantly carried
serotypes for transmission.
As this project is at the forefront of research on the use
of phylogenetics for pneumococcal transmission, a high
degree of personal motivation is essential. Expertise in
computer programming, ideally in R or Python as well
as good command in English is required. Prior knowl-
edge of molecular evolution and statistical prociency
are also desirable.
The student will learn about state-of-the art pneumococ-
cal epidemiology and vaccinology, pathogen molecular
evolution, genomic sequence analyses and phylogenetic
inference.
Supervisory team LSHTM: St ephane Hu e, Stefan
Flasche Nagasaki University (Pasteur Institute Nha
Trang): Lay Mint Yoshida
More information on the Nagasaki-LSHTM joint PhD
program is available here: www.lshtm.ac.uk/media/-
10181 . If you are interested please get in touch directly
with St ephane Hu e (https://www.lshtm.ac.uk/aboutus/-
people/hue.stephane) and/or Stefan Flasche (https://-
www.lshtm.ac.uk/aboutus/people/asche.stefan). Ap-
plications close on 31 January 2019.
Stephane Hue <Stephane.Hue@lshtm.ac.uk >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 27
MasseyU 2
PolyploidCytonuclearEvolution
Two PhD positions are available in the Tate lab <http:/-
/www.massey.ac.nz/ ~jtate/index.htm >at Massey Uni-
versity<http://www.massey.ac.nz/ >(Palmerston
North, New Zealand) to study cytonuclear coordina-
tion in allopolyploids of the owering plant Tragopogon
(Asteraceae).
Eukaryotic cells must coordinate nuclear and organellar
(mitochondrial and plastid) genomes to function prop-
erly. In plants, multiple genomes coordinate to generate
energy (nuclear and mitochondrial) and conduct photo-
synthesis (nuclear and plastid). Successful coordination
of these genomes is crucial for regular growth and de-
velopment in all eukaryotes. Currently, we lack broad
understanding of how nuclear and organellar genomes
successfully integrate in allopolyploids, which form by
hybridization between species and whole genome dupli-
cation.
Using our model polyploid system (Tragopogon) in
which allopolyploids formed recently and recurrently, we
aim to understand the coordination of the duplicated
nuclear genomes with the haploid maternally inherited
genomes using a variety of approaches. Depending
on the interests of the students, the projects can in-
volve dierent aspects of the larger project to include
genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, computational or
physiological work. The project is funded by the Mars-
den fund<https://royalsociety.org.nz/what-we-do/-
funds-and-opportunities/marsden >and is in collabora-
tion with Murray Cox <https://www.genomicus.com/-
>at Massey University, Dan Sloan <http://-
www.biology.colostate.edu/people/dbsloan/ >at Col-
orado State University, and Doug and Pam Soltis
<https://www.oridamuseum.u.edu/museum-voices/-
soltis-lab/>at the University of Florida.
The PhD positions are funded for 3 years at $27,500 with
fees also paid. The successful applicants will be enthusi-
astic and motivated, and have an MSc (or BSc Honours
or equivalent) in Plant Biology, Genetics, Evolutionary
Biology, Computational Biology, or similar. Candidates
with non-standard backgrounds, but a clear t to the
project, are encouraged to apply. Opportunities for
teaching experience are available and encouraged, but
not compulsory. Students will be expected to attend
and present their research at international conferencesduring their PhD.
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, academic
transcript (unocial is sucient) and the names and con-
tact details for three references to j.tate@massey.ac.nz
with 'PhD scholarship' in the subject line. International
applicants are welcome. See the Massey University post-
graduate webpage <http://www.massey.ac.nz/massey/-
postgraduate/postgraduate home.cfm>for additional
entry requirements (including, where relevant, an En-
glish language prociency exam). For full consideration,
materials must be received by February 15th 2019. The
starting date is exible, but the project itself is funded
from 1 March. Please feel free to email me (Jen Tate)
with any questions about the project or the scholarship.
This position oers an opportunity to experience New
Zealand's unique natural and cultural environment. Lo-
cated in Palmerston North, a university town with a
large international community which oers a range of
social and cultural amenities, the city is located close
to mountains, rivers and the sea, and presents regular
opportunities for hiking, skiing, surng, and adventure
sports.
Jennifer A. Tate, Ph.D. Senior Lecturer in Plant Sys-
tematics and Evolution Curator, Dame Ella Camp-
bell Herbarium (MPN) <http://www.massey.ac.nz/-
herbarium >Massey University School of Fundamen-
tal Sciences Private Bag 11222 Palmerston North New
Zealand
Phone: 64-6-350-5515 ext. 84718 FAX: 64-6-350-5682
Homepage <http://www.massey.ac.nz/ ~jtate/-
index.htm>
j.tate@massey.ac.nz
\Tate, Jennifer" <J.Tate@massey.ac.nz >
NorthDakotaStateU
BehavioralSelection
The Dochtermann Lab in the Department of Biological
Sciences at North Dakota State University is seeking to
ll a PhD assistantship examining how selection shapes
behavioral syndromes (behavioral correlations). The
student will develop and pursue their own research top-
ics while working within a broader NSF funded project.
In our lab we focus on evolutionary questions regarding
the maintenance of variation within and among popu-
lations and the evolutionary implications of how traits28 EvolDir February 1, 2019
are correlated.
The position will start Fall Semester 2019. The student
will be housed and working in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences (https://www.ndsu.edu/biology/) with
their degree awarded through the NDSU Environmental
Sciences and Conservation Program.
Requirements: Bachelors or Masters in ecology, evolu-
tion, animal behavior, or related eld; experience collect-
ing and analyzing data; ability to work independently
and as part of a larger collaborative group.
Preferred: MSc preferred; experience conducting quan-
titative genetic experiments; eld research experience
If interested please contact me at
ned.dochtermann@gmail.com and provide a brief
synopsis of your research interests.
Ned
{ Ned A. Dochtermann Associate Professor / Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences / NORTH DAKOTA STATE
UNIVERSITY p: 701.231.7353 / f: 701.231.7149
/ http://www.ndsu.edu www.neddochtermann.com
ned.dochtermann@ndsu.edu
ned.dochtermann@gmail.com
OklahomaStateU
EvolutionIntegBiology
M.S. AND PH.D DEGREE OPPORTUNITIES IN IN-
TEGRATIVE BIOLOGY. The Department of Integra-
tive Biology at Oklahoma State University is recruiting
graduate students for Fall 2019 admission to join a
collaborative and productive degree program. The De-
partment of Integrative Biology takes an integrative
approach to research in organismal biology, focusing on
increasing our knowledge of organisms and their envi-
ronments through studies ranging from the molecular
to the ecosystem level.
We have three inclusive areas of study: evolution, ecol-
ogy, and environmental stress, which we dene quite
broadly. Among other areas, we conduct studies in con-
servation ecology, genomics, neurobiology, behavioral
ecology, environmental toxicology, science education,
ecosystem studies, and physiology. Graduate Teaching
Assistantships with competitive stipends are regularly
available.
Oklahoma State University is located in Stillwater, athriving college community with a low cost of living,
diverse restaurants, a thriving music scene, air service
through American Airlines, and close proximity to both
natural and major metropolitan (Tulsa and Oklahoma
City) areas.
Information on applying to our graduate program can
be found here: http://integrativebiology.okstate.edu/-
graduate-program/admission-procedure. For questions
regarding the application process, please contact our
departmental Graduate Coordinator, Dr. Jen Grindsta
(jen.grindsta@okstate.edu). The application deadline
is February 1, 2019. Evaluation will continue after that
date, but students are encouraged to apply as early as
possible.
waldman@snu.ac.kr
Prague
MycorrhizalFungalCommunities
PhD position available from September 2019
Topic: Symbiotic eciency of arbuscular mycorrhizal
fungi in arable soils
Within a starting project, we seek a student interested in
systematically exploring communities or arbuscular my-
corrhizal fungi (AMF) in arable soils. These important
plant symbionts are known to be negatively aected
by conventional agriculture with respect to diversity
and infectivity. However, their potential to contribute
to crop growth in arable soils is unclear due to a lack
of systematic research on their symbiotic eciency in
these conditions. We will conduct a series of greenhouse
biotests in a wide range of representatively selected
Czech arable soils along with evaluating AMF root col-
onization and diversity in eld samples. Selected AMF
communities from arable soils will be functionally com-
pared to AMF communities from undisturbed grasslands
to test whether arable soils select for lower mutualism.
The student will participate at the establishment of the
experiments, his/her main responsibility will be the col-
lection and analysis of the experimental data: biomass
parameters, root colonization (by microscopy) and di-
versity of AMF (by Illumina sequencing) and/or the
costs and benets of mycorrhiza (by isotope labelling).
The ideal candidate for this PhD position has experience
with experimental plant cultivation and AMF-related
methods, is willing to contribute both to greenhouse a
laboratory work. Experience in the DNA lab is of ad-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 29
vantage but not required. Ability to work independently
and assume responsibility for partial tasks within the
project team is essential as well as sound knowledge of
written and spoken English. We also expect involve-
ment into international collaborations and presentation
at conferences.
The student will work under the supervision of Mar-
tina Janouskova in Department of Mycorrhizal Sym-
bioses, Institute of Botany, Czech Academy of Sciences
in Pruhonice, a suburban village close to Prague. The
Department has excellent facilities for all the types of
work required, good scientic reputation and a friendly
atmosphere. Close collaboration with Laboratory of
Fungal Biology in Institute of Microbiology, CAS, in
Prague oers additionally scientic impulses and con-
tacts.
To be eligible, the candidate must have obtained a degree
equivalent to a biology diploma or M.Sc. by September
2019 (B.Sc. is not sucient due to local legislation).
Formally, the PhD studies can be conducted either at
Faculty of Science of Charles University or at Faculty
of Environmental Sciences of Czech University of Life
Sciences, both in Prague - according to the student's
preferences. Institute of Botany has a well-established,
routine collaboration with both universities in super-
vising Ph.D. students. The position is available for up
to four years, starting in September 2019. The PhD
candidate's net monthly income will be about 18.000
CZK (ca 690 EUR, scholarship + partial employment
in the Institute), which is sucient to cover the living
costs in Prague.
If interested, send a letter outlining your motivation
for this position and specic experience, CV, list of
publications or conference presentations (if available),
abstract of Master thesis, and contact details of two
senior scientist that can provide references on you to
martina.janouskova@ibot.cas.cz until February 20, 2019.
The selected candidate will be assisted in submitting an
ocial application to the university of his/her choice
for the PhD position.
Useful links Institute of Botany ocial web page
https://www.ibot.cas.cz/en/ Department of Mycor-
rhizal Symbioses web page http://www.ibot.cas.cz/-
mykosym/en index.html Faculty of Science, Charles Uni-
versity https://www.natur.cuni.cz/eng?set language=-
en Faculty of Environmental Sciences, Czech Univer-
sity of Life Sciences https://www.fzp.czu.cz/en/ Mar-
tina.Janouskova@ibot.cas.czPrague PlantPolyploidEvolution
PhD position in polyploid evolution of Cardamine amara
(Brassicaceae) Dept. of Botany, Faculty of Science,
Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic
We are seeking a highly motivated student to join a
project focused on ecological and evolutionary conse-
quences of genome duplication (polyploidization) in
plants. Although polyploidization is a leading force
in plant evolution including crops, we know little about
evolutionary drivers promoting origin and coexistence
of dierent ploidy levels within a species. By combining
eld surveys, cytogenomics, population genomics and
crossing experiments, we aim to identify major forces
shaping polyploid evolution in natural populations of
Cardamine amara, a member of plant model family
Brassicaceae. Specically, the project will address fol-
lowing objectives: What was the role of ploidy (parallel)
ecological adaptation in genetic divergence? Was eco-
logical divergence linked with (parallel) whole genome
duplication events? What is the strength of realized
gene ow between diploid and tetraploid populations
and do there exist intrinsic barriers restricting such gene
ow? Had the genome of C. amara contributed to the
formation of polyploid lineages in other species within
the genus?
Biogeographic and biosystematics part will be lead by
Prof. Karol Marhold ( https://botany.natur.cuni.cz/-
brassiploidy/). Population genomic analyses and ex-
perimental work will be done under co-supervision of
Dr. Filip Kol a, group of Ecological genomics (https:/-
/botany.natur.cuni.cz/ecolgen) and the cytogenomics in
collaboration with Ass. Prof. Martin Lysak ( http://-
www.plantcytogenomics.org/). Additional training in
population genomics will be provided under interna-
tional collaboration with the Yant lab (University of
Nottingham, UK).
The student will gain multi-disciplinary experience by
addressing following tasks: - eld surveys across Euro-
pean range of the species and in ploidy contact zones in
central Europe - ploidy level estimation using ow cytom-
etry complemented by cytogenomic techniques (GISH,
chromosome painting) - crossing experiment between in-
dividuals of dierent ploidy - analysis of high-throughput
sequencing data (RADseq, genome resequencing)
We oer - work in an inspiring student-dominated en-
vironment of two interconnected teams of Ecological30 EvolDir February 1, 2019
genomics and Brassicaceae polyploidy - competitive
salary topping-up the standard university scholarship
(altogether monthly net income of 800 EUR) with rise in
the following years when fullling additional PhD study
duties - additional experience by international collabo-
rations - work in the historical centre of the UNESCO
heritage site of Prague city, Czech Republic, EU
We require - strong motivation for interdisciplinary re-
search at the border of ecology, biosystematics and pop-
ulation genomics - a MSc degree in Biology or related
elds (in summer 2019 at the latest)
Please send your CV, contacts for at least one
reference person and a short motivation letter
(max A4) to the project leader, Karol Marhold (
Karol.Marhold@savba.sk). Review of the applications
will begin on March 1st 2019 and will continue until the
position has been lled. The position is available from
September 2019.
Karol Marhold & Filip Kolar
Filip Kolar <lip.kolar@gmail.com >
QueensU Belfast 3 MolluscEvolution
Dear colleagues
We have funding to support up to three new PhD stu-
dents working on great projects on living and fossil
molluscs, between my lab in Queen's University Belfast
and Alex Brasier in University of Aberdeen. Full funding
is available only to EU and UK citizens.
The project based in the Queen's Marine Lab in Porta-
ferry, N Ireland, is co-sponsored by Zeiss microscopy
and would include an internship with them. There are
other excellent opportunities for outside training with
the other projects as well.
Application deadline is 31 January!
Project titles and links to more info and the ap-
plication portal 1. Based in N Ireland, working
on chiton aesthetes : \Bio-inspiration from mol-
luscs: exible armour with embedded sensing
capacity" https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/project/-
bio-inspiration-from-molluscs-exible-armour-with-
embedded-sensing-capacity/?p105243 2. Based in
Aberdeen, working on Jurassic bivalves: \Jurassic
Lagoon: learning from the ancestors of the amazing
mussels" https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/project/-
jurassic-lagoon-learning-from-the-ancestors-of-the-amazing-mussels-quadrat/?p105133 3. Based in
Aberdeen, with eldwork sites in N Ireland, working on
protected reef building mussels in a marine protected
area: \Sea-level change and conservation, past, present
and future" https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/project/-
sea-level-change-and-conservation-past-present-and-
future-quadrat/?p105131 Please circulate this message
to anyone who may be interested, I would be very
happy to hear from interested potential students.
Cheers,
Julia
{ Dr Julia Sigwart Queen's University Belfast, Marine
Laboratory
sabbatical address (2015-2018): University of California,
Berkeley, Museum of Paleontology
www.qub.ac.uk/bb/People/DrJDSigwart/ Julia Sig-
wart<j.sigwart@qub.ac.uk >
QueensU MarineBiodiversity
Fully funded NERC QUADRAT funded PhD stu-
dentship (3.5 years)
\Harnessing the eDNA in tidal ows to assess marine
biodiversity"
This project will be supervised by Dr Sarah Helyar of
Queens University School of Biological Sciences and by
Dr Alex Douglas of the University of Aberdeens School
of Biological Sciences. The start date will be 1st October
2019.
https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/project/harnessing-
the-edna-in-tidal-ows-to-assess-marine-biodiversity/-
?p105223 Brief project outline: For marine management
to be eective, we need to have comprehensive data on
the status of marine biodiversity. However, methods
that can document biodiversity in our oceans are
currently often extremely time consuming. Traditionally
we have used specialist grabs and nets to survey marine
communities, but marine environments can be very
dicult to sample eectively. Rather than directly
sampling these species, sampling the traces of DNA
which are present in a body of water from skin, blood,
faeces or mucous can be used to identify which species
have recently been present in the local environment.
Combined with recent advances in sequencing and
bioinformatics, this environmental DNA (eDNA) oers
a new means of sampling the biodiversity in aquaticFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 31
ecosystems. Not only is sampling eDNA potentially
faster and less expensive than traditional methods,
it is also less destructive and has the potential to
identify species that due to being rare, small, or able to
avoid current sampling gear, are not reliably physically
sampled in the environment.
Much of the current research looking at eDNA as a tool
for sampling aquatic environments has been carried out
in freshwater systems, with currently only a handful of
published studies that have tested the approach in the
marine environment. This project will take advantage of
well characterised, natural, semi-enclosed waterbodies
containing dierent habitat types, such as Strangford
Lough, and asses the eDNA prole associated with each
of those habitats. The eects of biotic and abiotic fac-
tors, such as persistence times, will also be investigated
to determine if tidal ows can be harnessed to monitor
biodiversity. Further technology development or oceano-
graphic modelling may be included depending on the
interests of the student.
The student will address a number of interlinked ques-
tions, including: 1) Dene and ground truth eDNA
proles associated with known habitats.
2) Explore the eects of biotic and abiotic factors on
eDNA samples across enclosed marine water bodies.
3) Determine the utility of single site sampling to assess
the biodiversity of semi enclosed marine water bodies.
The project provides unique opportunities to work on
in a range of stunning locations across Ireland and Scot-
land, combining eldwork with state-of-the-art molecu-
lar genetic techniques (including high-throughput DNA
sequencing and genotyping using second (Illumina) and
third (Oxford Nanopore MinION) generation platforms).
The student will be embedded within a dynamic, vibrant
and supportive research group to gain training in eld
skills, bioinformatics, statistical and laboratory meth-
ods, and will have the opportunity to work with local
stakeholder groups. Furthermore, the student will net-
work with a broader cohort of DTP students to receive
core and generic skills training in a multidisciplinary
context to maximise employability.
Funding: This project is one of a number that
are in competition for funding from the NERC
QUADRAT Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP).
For details of all the PhDs advertised for 2019 start
please see: https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/program/-
quadrat-doctoral-training-partnership/?i2p4257 For el-
igible students, the studentship will provide funding
of fees and a stipend which is currently GBP 14,777
per annum for 2018-19. Applicants who are classed as
International for tuition fee purposes are not eligible forfunding.
Deadline: Thursday 31st January 2019.
Informal inquiries: s.helyar@qub.ac.uk
Sarah Helyar <S.Helyar@qub.ac.uk >
StockholmU Speciation
PhD position in Speciation at Stockholm University
APPLICATION DEADLINE: February 15, 2019 The
evolution of gametic isolation
A fully funded 4-year PhD position on the evolution
of reproductive isolation is available in Rhonda Snooks
group, Department of Zoology, Stockholm University.
Speciation is a fundamental evolutionary process re-
quiring the evolution of barriers to gene exchange and
therefore understanding how these barriers evolve is criti-
cal to understanding speciation. Barriers occurring after
mating but before fertilization (gametic or postmating
prezygotic (PMPZ)) may act early during speciation in
response to rapid evolution between male and female
reproductive traits. However, relatively few studies of
early PMPZ barriers have been performed. This project
aims to ll this gap by determining how the coevolution
of male ejaculate and female reproductive tract traits
within populations contributes to PMPZ RI between
populations. The student will engage in an integrative
research approach, combining phenotypic, proteomic
and genomic work, on populations of Drosophila mon-
tana that vary in whether, and the extent to which,
PMPZ RI between populations occurs.
The successful applicant will be enthusiastic about evolu-
tionary biology with a good understanding of population
genetics and/or are skilled in molecular genetics, along
with enjoying the process of scientic discovery. The
successful applicant must hold a master of science (or
equivalent) in Biology/Ecology or a related eld.
Stockholm Universitys Department of Zoology is a vi-
brant international and interactive community. Working
language in the lab is English.
For informal queries, contact Rhonda on
rhonda.snook@zoologi.su.se
Details about research in Rhonda Snooks lab
can be found here: https://www.su.se/english/-
proles/rhsn2867-1.348903 Details to apply, in-
cluding more about the project, are available32 EvolDir February 1, 2019
here: https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmpage=job&rmjobx29&rmlang=UK Rhonda
Snook<rhonda.snook@zoologi.su.se >
SwedishU eDNApikeMonitoring
PhD position on the development of eDNA approaches
for sh monitoring
A PhD position is available development eDNA ap-
proaches for sh monitoring by joining the research
group of Prof. Anti Vasem ~A^Agi at the Institute of
Freshwater Research, Department of Aquatic Resources,
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. Research in
the Vasem ~A^Agi group focuses on understanding the con-
nectivity of aquatic organisms, relationships between
genotype and phenotype, the genetic basis of adap-
tation and how contemporary natural- and human-
induced selection works on ecological time-scales. Other
researchers involved in the project include Dr. M.
Ogonowski, Dr. G. Sundblad and P. Bohman.
eDNA is a rapidly developing tool for science-based man-
agement of aquatic environments. However, method-
ological issues remain before quantitative eDNA can be
used practically. The northern pike is one of the most
important recreational sh species in Sweden, as well as
a keystone predator important for ecosystem health and
functioning. Despite its ecological and socioeconomic
importance, pike has been neglected in monitoring. One
reason being the low catchability of pike using tradi-
tional monitoring methods. This PhD project will focus
on developing and evaluating the performance of eDNA-
based methods for monitoring northern pike. The po-
sition entails planning and executing a combination of
controlled laboratory and outdoor experiments in sh
tanks and ponds, eldwork (including electroshing and
rod-shing) and modern molecular genetic techniques
to develop and systematically evaluate the usability of
an eDNA approach to provide non-invasive quantitative
estimates of northern pike abundance.
We are looking for a motivated and enthusiastic person
with an interest in molecular ecology, ecological ge-
nomics, sh monitoring and aquatic biology. Preferably,
the applicant's university degree focuses on genetics,
molecular biology, ecology or sh biology. The appli-
cant is expected to be uent in English, both in speech
and writing. Emphasis will be placed on personal skills,
such as the ability to work independently as well as in a
group, attention to detail and an ability to prioritize andmultitask. Documented experience of practical work
with molecular methods or in experimental ecology is
an advantage.
Place of work: Drottningholm, Stockholm. Forms for
funding or employment: Employment 4 years.
Starting date: 1 April 2019 or as agreed. Application:
We welcome your application no later than 2019-03-01,
use the link below. A person has basic eligibility for
third cycle education if he or she has taken a second cy-
cle qualication or has completed course requirements of
at least 240 higher education credits, including at least
60 higher education credits at second cycle education.
Upper secondary school grades equivalent to English
B/English 6 are a basic requirement. Selection among
applicants meeting the requirements is made with refer-
ence to written application including curriculum vitae,
copies of degrees and transcripts of academic records,
one copy of the dissertation for masters or undergradu-
ate degree, a list of at least two references familiar with
the applicant's qualications, certied knowledge of the
English language and an interview. Please observe that
applicant/s chosen to participate in an interview shall
hand in certied true copies of certicates, diplomas and
transcripts from previous studies at an internationally
recognized higher education institution (university or
university college) and transcripts in connection to the
interview. If the applicant is a foreign citizen we require
a certied copy of the page in your passport with your
personal data and photography.
Read about the PhD education at SLU at www.slu.se/-
en/education/postgraduate-studies/ We at the Depart-
ment of Aquatic resources (SLU Aqua) are passionate
about our vision \Viable sh stocks in healthy waters ".
We^Are expanding, searching for employees who want to
develop themselves and make a dierence together with
us. The Department of Aquatic Resources conducts
environmental monitoring and assessment, consulting,
research and education in aquatic ecology with focus on
sh and shellsh. The department is SLU's largest and
has more than 180 employees at three main locations:
Lysekil, ~A regrund and Stockholm (Drottningholm), as
well as four eld stations. The department is highly
focused on data collection and analysis of sh, sheries
and ecosystems, and is characterized by intensive col-
laborations with industry, public agencies and NGO:s.
This creates a vital research environment and gives us
unique opportunities to develop knowledge with high
societal impact. For more information about the de-
partment: https://www.slu.se/en/departments/aquatic-
resources1/
/February 1, 2019 EvolDir 33
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Switzerland EvolutionaryEcol
Eawag, the Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science
and Technology, has an open PhD position in Evolution-
ary Ecology of Ecosystems, at the Center for Ecology
Evolution & Biogeochemistry (CEEB).
The position is fully funded for 4 years, and will be
based in the group of Blake Matthews. The successful
applicant will be a student at the University of Bern,
and be co-supervised by Prof. Ole Seehausen (Institute
of Ecology and Evolution, Bern).
The project will explore 15,000 years of evolution and
ecosystem dynamics in Lake Victoria, East Africa, as
reconstructed from sediment cores, fossils and ancient
DNA. This Swiss NSF Sinergia project is a cooperation
between U Bern, Eawag, the Centre for Geogenetics
at U of Copenhagen, Denmark, the Tanzania Fisheries
Research Institute, U of Arizona, U Massachusetts and
others.
The group of Blake Matthews focuses on phenotypic
evolution in a community and ecosystem context. The
open PhD position will investigate how the community
composition and phenotypic diversity of zooplankton
has changed over time in Lake Victoria. To this end, the
student will analyze subfossil remains of zooplankton
from sediment cores spanning hundreds to thousands
of years of ecosystem and evolutionary history. This
is one of 4 PhD positions funded by the project. In
close collaboration with ecologists, paleo-ecologists and
paleo-genomics researchers, we want to address how the
evolutionary diversication of the cichlid sh along with
other ecosystem changes (e.g. eutrophication), have in-
teracted with the plankton community of Lake Victoria.
Ideally, the candidate has some prior experience in in-
vertebrate taxonomy (ideally with zooplankton) and/or
paleolimnology. The candidate is motivated to learn
about evolutionary ecology in general, and about pale-
olimnology and zooplankton in particular. The groups
working language is English. Knowledge of German or
French is not required.
Eawags CEEB is located on the shore of Lake Lucerne
and is a strong nucleus of Eawag research groupsaimed at integrating evolutionary biology, community
ecology, and ecosystem science http://www.eawag.ch/-
forschung/cc/ceeb/index EN. The PhD student will in-
teract with a diverse range of researchers studying com-
munity ecology, evolutionary biology, ecological genetics,
ecosystem science, and applied environmental science.
Review of applications will start Feb 11th and continue
until the position is lled.
Please send one pdf le only, with CV, letter of motiva-
tion, and contact details of three referees to Dr. Blake
Matthews (blake.matthews@eawag.ch).
Lab homepage: http://homepages.eawag.ch/-
~ matthebl/Welcome.html Publication list:
https://scholar.google.ch/citations?user=-
KPOcG sAAAAJ&hl=en Matthews, Blake
blake.matthews@eawag.ch http://homepages.eawag.ch/-
~matthebl/Welcome.html Eawag, Aquatic Ecology
Department Center for Ecology, Evolution & Bio-
geochemistry Seestrasse 79 6047, Kastanienbaum
Switzerland
\Matthews, Blake" <Blake.Matthews@eawag.ch >
UAberdeen SpeciesBiogeography
Fully funded PhD project at the University of Aberdeen:
Eect of species range shifts on trophic networks in
freshwater ecosystems
Closing date:
31/1/2019
Eligibility:
UK nationals and EU residents in the UK. Minimum
2.1 degree qualication.
Link to apply:
https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/project/eect-of-
species-range-shifts-on-trophic-networks-in-freshwater-
ecosystems/?p105126 Overview:
This is a joint project run between the University of
Aberdeen (Scotland) and the University of Belfast (N.
Ireland), as part of a new Natural Environment Research
Council funded doctoral training program. You will be
part of a large and dynamic cohort of students, and
the training will integrate project work with dynamic
and intensive core training in ecology skills such as eld-
work, policy, and interface with stakeholder groups. The
position is fully funded and includes all tuition, fees,34 EvolDir February 1, 2019
research expenses, and a living expenses stipend for 4
years of study.
Supervisory team:
Dr. Lesley Lancaster (U. Aberdeen, expertise in biogeog-
raphy and community dynamics, ecological genomics),
Dr. Paul Caplat (U. Belfast, expertise in environmen-
tal and ecological modeling, community dynamics), Dr.
Sarah Helyar (U. Belfast, expertise in ecological ge-
nomics, population genetics), and Dr. Pierre Bize (U.
Aberdeen, expertise in physiological ecology and genet-
ics).
Project description:
As climates warm in the 21st century, many species are
shifting their geographic distributions towards higher
latitudes and elevations. Previous studies have indicated
that range shifting species may express greater metabolic
and behavioural exibility than species which have not
recently undergone biogeographic shifts, with long-term
implications for the structure and function of high lati-
tude communities. For instance, research has already
revealed that range shifting species often negatively im-
pact species richness and biodiversity of areas where
they become established. However, the processes by
which community turnover occurs in colonised sites are
little known, rendering future biodiversity predictions
dicult. We propose to investigate how range-shifting
species aect patterns of community composition, using
pond damselies (Odonata: Zygoptera: Coenagrionidae)
as a model system. These species are rapidly range shift-
ing in Britain under climate change, and are important,
keystone predators in freshwater communities; the Irish
species also have high conservation value. Our previous
work has indicated that range shifts in Coenagrionid
damselies are associated with species turnover in high
latitude freshwater ecosystems, but the eects on trophic
interactions and resulting community resilience to future
environmental change remain largely unknown.
To examine the ecosystem consequences of range shifts,
the student will: 1) Relate the colonisation dynamics
of range-shifting damselies in Scotland and Ireland
to changes in freshwater trophic network structure, ac-
counting for land use and climatic variability across
the study region, using hierarchical regression models.
2) Investigate dierences in phenotypes, behaviour and
metabolic rates under dierent thermal regimes in range-
shifting vs. non-range shifting damselies across the
region, in order to identify alternative mechanisms medi-
ating biotic interactions in range- shifting vs. non-range
shifting populations. 3) Using data derived from Next
Generation Sequencing approaches, identify genetic vari-
ants in range-shifting vs. non-range shifting damsely
species that are associated with particular trophic net-works (Obj 1) and traits (Obj 2).
The project will contribute to our understanding of
how communities are likely to respond to ongoing range
shifts, and identify the mechanisms underpinning global
homogenisation of biodiversity. The results also have
the potential to make fundamental contributions to the
development of the rapidly advancing eld of functional
community ecology.
The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered in
Scotland, No SC013683. Tha Oilthigh Obar Dheathain
na charthannas cl?raichte ann an Alba, ?ir. SC013683.
\Lancaster, Lesley" <lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk >
UBern CichlidRadiation
We are seeking to ll a PhD position funded for 4 years
in the group of of Ole Seehausenat the University of
Bern and the Eawag Center for Ecology, Evolution &
Biogeochemistry (CEEB), Switzerland.
We are looking for a commited and enthusiastic graduate
student researcher to work with ancient DNA, subfossils
and paleoecology to explore whether and how the adap-
tive radiation of cichlid sh and the unfoldingHolocene
ecosystem of modern Lake Victoria interacted. The
project is funded by a Swiss NSF Sinergia grant and
involvesresearchersat U Bern, EAWAG (Swiss Federal
Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology), the Cen-
tre for Geogenetics at U of Copenhagen (Denmark), the
Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute (Tanzania), U of
Arizona, U Massachusetts (USA) and others.
The Seehausen groupfocusses on the phenotypic and ge-
nomic evolution of Lake Victorias super-diverse cichlid
sh radiation. This PhD in evolutionary biology and
paleogenetics will investigate the evolution of the cichlid
radiation through study of time series of subfossils and
ancient DNA. Specically, you will analyse subfossil
remains of cichlid sh from long sediment cores. You
will study their phenotypes and ancient DNA content
and you will perform genetics on aDNA sequences. Ex-
tensive reference collections of modern cichlids and their
genome sequences are available in the group to guide
interpretation of fossil phenotypes and aDNA sequence
data. We want to understand how the ecological and
phenotypic diversity of cichlids changed through time,
and how genetic variation arose and got assembled into
new species in the course of the adaptive radiation. Ul-
timately, we want to ask if the radiation was aectedFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 35
by the Holocene changes in the ecosystem, and whether
the radiation changed the ecosystem in turn. To this
end, we collaborate in this project with ecologists, paleo-
ecologists and paleo-genomics researchers. Yours will
be one of 4 PhD positions, and there are also several
Postdoc positions in the project. Your PhD will be
supervised by Dr. Moritz Muschick and Prof. Ole
Seehausen.
We are looking forcandidates that bringprior training
in some or all of the following areas: molecular genetic
lab techniques, statistical shape analysis, computational
analysis of genomic sequence data. Most of all, you have
a good grasp ofevolutionary biology,you are interested
in howevolutionchanges ecosystems, and you are deeply
committed to persuing a career in science. Interest in
cichlid sh or African lake ecosystems will be a plus too.
You will have to learn quickly and will have to often
work independently. Our working language is English
and uency in writing and speaking is required.
Besides Uni Bern, youwill spend time at Eawags Center
for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry, the CEEB.
The CEEB is located at beautiful Lake Lucerne and is
a strong nucleus of Eawag research groups aimed at in-
tegrating evolutionary biology, community ecology, and
ecosystem science http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/-
ceeb/index EN .Salary is at Swiss NSF PhD Fellowship
level (47,000 to 50,000 CHF, 100%). The position is
available from March 1, 2019 (for 4 years).
Review of applications starts on February11, 2019
and continues until the position is lled. Please
direct inquiries to Prof. Dr. Ole Seehausen,
ole.seehausen@iee.unibe.ch. Please applywith one pdf
le only which containsthe following: your CV, a strong
letter of motivation (be specic why you want this
project),transcript of MSc with grades, publication list,
and contact details of three referees. Pleasesend your
application by email to therese.oesch@iee.unibe.ch
We look forward to receiving your applications
Ole Seehausen
ole.seehausen@iee.unibe.chUBern Switzerland
PaleogenomicsLakeVictoria
Dear colleagues
We have funding from the Swiss National Science Foun-
dation for two outstandingly motivated PhD students
for reconstructing the evolution of a species radiation
and its ecosystem using paleo-genomics, paleoecology
and paleontology matched with experimental ecology
and genomics of extant organisms.
Both graduate positions are based at the Institute of
Ecology & Evolution, University of Bern and at the
Eawag Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochem-
istry in Kastanienbaum.
The advert texts follow:
1. PhD in Evolutionary Biology The position is fully
funded for 4 years, and will be based in the Aquatic
Ecology & Evolution group of Prof. Ole Seehausen at
the University of Bern and the Eawag Center for Ecol-
ogy, Evolution & Biogeochemistry in Kastanienbaum,
Switzerland.
The project will explore 15,000 years of evolution and
ecosystem dynamics in Lake Victoria, East Africa, as
reconstructed from sediment cores, fossils and ancient
DNA. This Swiss NSF Sinergia project is a cooperation
between U Bern, EAWAG (Swiss Federal Institute of
Aquatic Science and Technology), the Centre for Geoge-
netics at U of Copenhagen, Denmark, the Tanzania Fish-
eries Research Institute, U of Arizona, U Massachusetts
and others.
The group of Ole Seehausen focusses on the phenotypic
and genomic evolution of Lake Victoria's super-diverse
cichlid sh radiation. The PhD in evolutionary biology
and paleogenetics will investigate the evolution of the
cichlid radiation through study of time series of fossils
and ancient DNA. We want to understand how the eco-
logical and phenotypic diversity changed through time,
how genetic variation arose and got assembled into new
species in the course of the adaptive radiation. This
is one of 4 PhD and several Postdoc positions in the
project. In close collaboration with ecologists, paleo-
ecologists and paleo-genomics researchers, we want to
address how the evolutionary diversication of the ci-
chlid sh interacted with the Lake Victoria ecosystem.
The student will analyse subfossil remains of cichlid sh
from sediment cores for their morphology and ancient36 EvolDir February 1, 2019
DNA content. Extensive reference collections of modern
cichlids and their genome sequences will be available to
aid interpretation of fossil phenotypes and ancient DNA
data. The PhD will be co-supervised by Dr. Moritz
Muschick.
Ideally, the candidate has extensive prior training in
molecular genetic techniques, statistical shape analysis,
computational analysis of genomic sequence data, or
evolutionary biology. The candidate is motivated to
learn and apply advanced laboratory techniques and to
work independently. The group's working language is
English and uency in writing and speaking is required.
Knowledge of German or French is not required.
Besides Uni Bern, the student will spend time at Eawag's
Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry. The
Centre is located at Lake Lucerne and is a strong nu-
cleus of Eawag research groups aimed at integrating
evolutionary biology, community ecology, and ecosys-
tem science http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/-
index EN . Supervisor: Prof. Dr. Ole Seehausen, Insti-
tute of Ecology and Evolution Salary: Swiss NSF PhD
Fellowship (47,000 to 50,000 CHF, 100%). The position
is available from March 1, 2019 (for 3-4 years).
Review of applications starts on January 20, 2019 and
continues until the position is lled.
Please direct inquiries to Prof. Dr. Ole Seehausen,
ole.seehausen@iee.unibe.ch.
Please send one pdf le only, with CV, letter of mo-
tivation, if applicable transcript of MSc with grades,
publication list, and contact details of three referees by
email to therese.oesch@iee.unibe.ch.
2. PhD in Evolutionary Ecology of Ecosystems The
position is fully funded for 4 years, and will be based
in the group of Blake Matthews at the Eawag Center
for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry in Kastanien-
baum, Switzerland. The successful applicant will be a
student of the University of Bern, and be co-supervised
by Prof. Ole Seehausen (Institute of Ecology and Evo-
lution, Bern).
The project will explore 15,000 years of evolution and
ecosystem dynamics in Lake Victoria, East Africa, as
reconstructed from sediment cores, fossils and ancient
DNA. This Swiss NSF Sinergia project is a cooperation
between U Bern, Eawag, the Centre for Geogenetics
at U of Copenhagen, Denmark, the Tanzania Fisheries
Research Institute, U of Arizona, U Massachusetts and
others.
The group of Blake Matthews focuses on phenotypic
evolution in a community and ecosystem context. The
open PhD position will investigate how the communitycomposition and phenotypic diversity of zooplankton
has changed over time in Lake Victoria. To this end, the
student will analyse subfossil remains of zooplankton
from sediment cores spanning hundreds to thousands of
years of ecosystem and evolutionary history. This is one
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UBielefeld Germany
ZebraFinchSpermCompetition
PhD position in Evolutionary Ecology and Functional
Genomics
One Postdoc or PhD position in evolutionary ecology
and functional genomics is available at the Faculty of
Biology at Bielefeld University in the Evolutionary Bi-
ology group (PD Dr Tim Schmoll, see http://www.uni-
bielefeld.de/(en)/biologie/Evolutionsbiologie) in collab-
oration with the Department of Animal Behaviour (Dr
Peter Korsten, see http://www.unibielefeld.de/biologie/-
animalbehaviour). The position is available immediately
for 24 months (Postdoc) or until 31.12.2021 (PhD) and
is funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG)
within the collaborative research centre (SFB/TRR 212)
A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across Behaviour,
Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Confor-
mance, Niche Construction (NC3).
The goal of this project (project B04 of the collabora-
tive research centre) is to test how male Zebra Finches
conform to their social niche as set by the prevailing
level of sperm competition. This will allow us to un-
derstand how individual variation in sexual competition
generates individual variation, and covariation, in both
competitive traits and parenting behaviour. The suc-
cessful candidate will closely work together with a PhD
student to (i) quantify male social niche conformance
by analysing adjustment of sexual competitiveness in-
cluding behavioural (e.g. aggression) and ejaculate (e.g.
sperm motility) traits; (ii) identify the underlying mech-
anisms of social niche conformance on the hormonal (via
endocrinological proling) and the gene expression (via
RNAseq) levels; (iii) assess the adaptive signicance
of niche conformance under a niche match/mismatch
paradigm; and (iv) test for trade-os between invest-
ment in sexual competitiveness versus paternal care. AFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 37
sub-project A will primarily focus on male social niche
conformance through adjustment of behavioural traits
and the hormonal mechanisms underlying niche confor-
mance. A sub-project B will primarily focus on male
social niche conformance through adjustment of ejac-
ulate traits and the gene expression underlying niche
conformance. Note that the position oered here is
exclusively for sub-project B.
The collaborative research centre: The position will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 20 principle investigators, 15 postdocs
and 18 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
exchange and early career support programmes. Full
details of the SFB can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/crc212 . Main responsibilities
* Research tasks (90%): - Designing and conducting
laboratory experiments in which zebra nch males are
exposed to dierent levels of sexual competition - Main-
taining a zebra nch stock population and breeding of
experimental birds - Processing of tissue samples for
transcriptomic analyses - Bioinformatic processing of
high-throughput sequencing data to quantify gene ex-
pression - Phenotyping sperm samples using a newly
established computer-assisted sperm analysis system
and other methods - Assisting in taking behavioural
recordings - Statistical analyses of experimental data -
Collaborating with other research groups in the collabo-
rative research centre - Writing scientic publications
for international peer-reviewed journals
* Organizational tasks in the research groups and col-
laborative research centre (10%)
Applicants' proles
We are seeking a bright, highly motivated and creative
student with - a PhD (for the Postdoc level) or university
degree (for the PhD level) in a relevant discipline with
specializations in one or more of the following elds:
bioinformatics, transcriptomics/genomics, animal be-
haviour, behavioural ecology, behavioural physiology,
evolutionary ecology, and/or veterinary science, - a keen
interest in using molecular genetic methods to answer
behavioural and life history questions, - experience with
bioinformatic processing of high-throughput sequencing
data or a keen interest in acquiring relevant skills (excel-
lent training opportunities available), - experience with
statistical analysis (preferably using R), - ability to work
both independently and as part of a team, and - excellentoral and written communication skills in English.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage: - publications in peer-reviewed international
journals, - experience with sperm phenotyping
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCLouvain
ArticialEvolutionInDroplets
PhD in directed evolution of enzymes using microuidics
(fellowship from Marie Curie ITN EVOdrops)
The selected candidate will be granted with a pres-
tigious Marie Curie ITN fellowship. This Innova-
tive Training Network is called EVOdrops and is
focused on the directed evolution of proteins in
droplets (please see https://cordis.europa.eu/project/-
rcn/218050/factsheet/en for a general presentation of
the network).
The PhD will work at the Louvain Institute of Biomolec-
ular Science and Technology in Louvain-la-Neuve at the
UCLouvain and in the team of Prof. Patrice Soumillion.
The objective of the research project is the development
of a simplied darwinian process in microdroplets for
the directed evolution of enzymes. The central idea is
to couple the activity of a given enzyme to the replica-
tion of its gene. Monodisperse droplets generated by
microuidics will be used as small reactors for in vitro
transcription and translation of enzyme encoding genes.
Droplets that contain active enzyme will accumulate
the product of catalysis that will be necessary for the
replication of the gene. In that way, the genes encoding
the most active enzymes within a combinatorial library
will be selectively enriched in a darwinian process but
without the need of any living cell.
For previous work, see:
G. Worono et al., Anal. Chem., 2011, 15, 2852-7
G. Worono et al., ChemBioChem 2015, 15, 1343-9
Selected candidate will benet from networking with
top-rated european teams in microuidics and enzyme
engineering and from excellent doctoral training at
the UCLouvain (participation to workshops, advanced
courses, conferences...).38 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Candidate must have a Master degree or equivalent with
mention. Experimental skills in molecular biology and
protein biochemistry are required. Skills in enzymology
and/or microuidic technology is an additional asset.
Candidates must also be willing to work in an inter-
disciplinary project requiring collaborations with other
researchers (such as engineers). The project will also in-
volve international mobility for performing experiments
or participating to training workshops within the Marie
Curie network consortium.
Candidates can apply by sending a CV and motivation
letter to patrice.soumillion@uclouvain.be
Belgian fellow cannot apply.
Patrice Soumillion <patrice.soumillion@uclouvain.be >
UFribourg 2 SocialImmunity
A 4-year PhD position is available in the research group
of Professor Nathalie Stroeymeyt in the Department
of Biology, University of Fribourg, to study the eect
of group composition on disease transmission and rela-
tive investment in personal vs. social immunity in ants.
BACKGROUND*/. /*Group living oers favourable
conditions for the spread of infectious diseases, because
high population densities and frequent social contacts
facilitate pathogen transmission. To mitigate that risk,
social animals have evolved a variety of defence mecha-
nisms to prevent the entry and propagation of pathogens
within the group, ranging from a raised investment in
personal immunity to highly coordinated collective san-
itary actions ('social immunity'). Recent studies have
shown that social groups can also adopt organizational
features, such as the subdivision into well-separated
subgroups, which reduce epidemic risk through trans-
mission bottleneck eects. However, the importance of
organizational immunity features in disease risk manage-
ment by real animal groups is still poorly understood.
Our research adopts an empirical approach based on
the experimental manipulations of garden ant colonies
(/Lasius niger/) to (i) quantify the eect of social orga-
nization on disease transmission and test key predictions
from network epidemiology, and (ii) evaluate the rel-
ative of importance of personal immunity, collective
sanitary actions and organizational features under dif-
ferent environmental conditions and at dierent stages
of development (for more detail see https://stroeymeyt-
lab.ch/research). PROJECT. The goal of this PhD
project will be to investigate how group composition(in particular colony size) inuences the social network
topology of ant colonies, and how this in turn aects
disease transmission risk and the need for individu-
als to invest in personal immunity. The project will
rely on automated behavioural tracking, social network
analysis, simulation of disease transmission, monitoring
of the transmission of pathogenic and non-pathogenic
agents, tness measurements, physiological assays and
immune gene expression analysis. Among others, the
project will address general hypotheses about the eect
of group size on social organisation ('size-complexity' hy-
pothesis) and immune investment ('density-dependent
prophylaxis').//The project will be embedded within
an overall project team consisting of two PhD students
and two post-doctoral researchers (https://stroeymeyt-
lab.ch/open-positions/) and will be fully funded for four
years by an ERC Starting Grant. The salary will be
set according to the guidelines of the University of Fri-
bourg (c. 47'000 CHF per year). //PROFILE. We are
looking for candidates with experience in quantitative
behavioural analysis and programming, a good working
knowledge in statistics and experimental design, and a
willingness to apply a variety of approaches (behavioural
tracking, writing own code to analyse the data, and lab
work). Experience with social insects, insect immunity
and/or molecular biology would be a plus. Candidates
must be creative, motivated and passionate about sci-
ence, have excellent oral and written communication
skills, and be at ease working both independently and
as part of a team. A Master's degree (or equivalent)
will be required prior to taking up the position. LO-
CATION. The Department of Biology at the University
of Fribourg is a highly dynamic, |international and
interdisciplinary |environment, spanning a wide range
of |research in evolution and ecology, behaviour, popu-
lation genomics, and bioinformatics, |developmental
genetics, neurobiology, biochemistry and proteomics,
across 27 |groups ( https://www3.unifr.ch/bio/en/ ).
STARTING DATE. The starting date is exible; the
earliest possible start will be May 1 ^st , 2019. HOW
TO APPLY. Please send your application by email
to Nathalie.Stroeymeyt@gmail.com. Your application
should consist of a single merged pdf le including a
letter of motivation, a full CV and publication list, the
names and contact details of at least two referees, and
copies of your publications and/or your MSc thesis (if
available). Evaluation of candidates will begin on Febru-
ary 15th, 2019, and continue until the position is lled.
|{
A 4-year PhD position is available in the research group
of Professor Nathalie Stroeymeyt in the Department
of Biology, University of Fribourg, to study the eect
of prolonged pathogen pressure on long-term invest-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 39
ment in personal and social immunity in ants. BACK-
GROUND*/. /*Group living oers favourable condi-
tions for the spread of infectious diseases, because high
population densities and frequent
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFribourg
EvoSociallyExchangedFluids
2 PhD positions in integrative biology LeBoeuf Lab,
Dept of Biology, University of Fribourg, Switzerland
How do you build a social circulatory system? Our
lab takes an integrative approach to understanding how
socially exchanged uids evolve and how they can be
co-opted by evolution to inuence physiology and be-
havior.
We use social insects as a model system because many
(but not all!) social insects engage in the mouth-to-
mouth uid exchange behavior, trophallaxis. In species
that do engage in this behavior, every individual in
the colony is connected through this network of uid
exchange. The exchanged uid is rich with proteins,
hormones, RNA and small molecules (LeBoeuf et al.
2016 eLife). Some of these components, when fed to
larvae by trophallaxis, can inuence development! This
provides a means for how some social insect communi-
ties can collectively decide on the colonys developmental
progression V by sending cues and signals over the social
circulatory system.
PhD position: Evolution of social uids Involving am-
ple travel and international collaborations, this project
will combine eldwork, proteomics and bioinformatic,
orthology and phylogenetic methods to understand how
trophallaxis behavior, its concomitant social uid, and
the proteins found within it have evolved their roles in
the colonys social circulatory system.
You The ideal candidate is collaborative, hard-working
and passionate about evolution and behavior, with ex-
perience in coding/bioinformatics. A masters degree (or
equivalent) is required prior to taking up the position.
PhD position: Collective control of development in so-
cial insects This project will combine uorescence mi-croscopy, quantitative video tracking of animal behavior,
developmental biology, social networks, and machine
learning to better understand how social insects crowd-
source control of the colonys development using the
social circulatory system.
You The ideal candidate is collaborative, hard-working
and passionate about how social/biological systems can
self-regulate. Ideally you have experience coding and
have some maker/DIY skills. Image processing (e.g.
opencv) and/or machine learning experience are a plus.
A masters degree (or equivalent) is required prior to
taking up the position.
Lab values Creativity, interdisciplinarity, collaboration,
open source, open access, inclusiveness, team mentality.
Positions Start dates are exible, maximum 4 years (3.5
fully-funded). These positions are funded by the Swiss
National Science Foundation (salary matches guidelines,
47K CHF/yr).
Submission Applications (in English) should include a
cover letter (on your background and motivation), CV,
and the names and contact details of two references. Ap-
plications should be sent as a single pdf to adrialeboeuf
AT gmail DOT com. DEADLINE: February 15th, 2019.
Applications will be reviewed until position is lled.
Dr. Adria C. LeBoeuf ( http://leboeuab.com ) Depart-
ment of Biology - Ecology and Evolution, University of
Fribourg
Adria<adria.exists@gmail.com >
UGlasgow UEdinburgh
AnthraxGenomicEpidemiology
\Leveraging pathogen genomics and phylodynamics to
control endemic anthrax"
We are seeking applicants for a 4-year PhD position in
One Health and genomic epidemiology, jointly super-
vised by investigators at the University of Glasgow and
the University of Edinburgh.
Recent advances in sequencing technology have revolu-
tionised our ability to track infectious disease dynamics
using pathogen genomes, such as during outbreak in-
vestigations. However, these tools remain underutilised
for addressing endemic disease threats, especially those
aecting human and animal health in low-resource set-
tings.40 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Anthrax is a classic example of a neglected bacterial
zoonosis, aecting marginalised communities in many
parts of the global south, including much of Sub-Saharan
Africa. It causes signicant mortality in people as well as
livestock losses, but tends to be undiagnosed and under-
reported. Although vaccination of livestock plays a key
role in preventing infection in both people and animals,
it is often not aordable. Moreover, because the spores
of the anthrax bacterium Bacillus anthracis can remain
infectious within the environment for decades, it is not
clear how long livestock vaccination would have to be
maintained before a measurable reduction in infection
risk is achieved. Obtaining genome data from detected
cases, and incorporating genomic and epidemiological
data into phylodynamic models provides a novel and
powerful means to track residual anthrax transmission
and to quantify progress towards elimination.
This project aims to create the necessary framework
for guiding anthrax control programmes in endemic
settings through the use of pathogen genomics and phy-
lodynamic modelling. Building on robust partnerships
and research platforms established in northern Tanzania
by the Glasgow supervisors, including existing genomic
data, our project will:
1) Extend current analytical tools and molecular clock
models to accommodate the alternation between ex-
tended environmental persistence and periodic rapid
replication typical for B. anthracis
2) Develop a simulation model combining genomic, spa-
tial, temporal and epidemiological information to ex-
amine the eect of vaccination on B. anthracis genetic
diversity and transmission in silico
3) Validate this model by generating genomic data ob-
tained during a livestock vaccination program expected
to start in the study area in 2019.
The project will be jointly supervised by Dr Saman-
tha Lycett (Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh)
and Drs Roman Biek, Tiziana Lembo, and Taya Forde
(University of Glasgow). The wide range of skills and
expertise represented by the interdisciplinary supervisor
team will provide excellent training opportunities for the
student at the interface of microbial evolution and ge-
nomics, epidemiological modelling, and human/animal
health.
Applicants will have a rst or upper second class degree
in a relevant scientic discipline (e.g. evolutionary biol-
ogy, bioinformatics, epidemiology, computer science). A
strong quantitative background, including demonstrable
skills in computer programming and statistics, will be es-
sential. Prior experience in mathematical modelling and
molecular evolution will be considered an advantage.Open to home, EU and international students. However,
the tuition fee waiver will only cover Home/EU rates
so international applicants from outside the UK/EU
would need to have additional funding to make up the
dierence in tuition. The 4-year stipends will represent
UKRI rates (estimated to be in the region of £15,000
for 2019/20).
This project is one of twelve One Health projects cur-
rently advertised by the Universities of Glasgow and
Edinburgh. For more information on how to apply see
https://www.ed.ac.uk/studying/postgraduate/-
applying/research/phds/edinburgh-glasgow-joint-phd-
studentships/one-health Application deadline: 5.00pm,
Monday 21 January 2019
For informal inquiries, please contact Roman Biek (ro-
man.biek@glasgow.ac.uk).
Roman.Biek@glasgow.ac.uk
UGothenburg Speciation
PhD studentship in evolutionary genetics of speciation.
Department of Marine Science, University of Gothen-
burg.
Working with Roger Butlin, Kerstin Johannesson, Rui
Faria and Marina Rafajlovic
At the Marine Science department there is a long tradi-
tion in working with marine snails of the genus Littorina
as models for studies of local adaptation, hybrid zones
and speciation. This studentship will be embedded in
a larger project that focuses on ecotype formation and
the subsequent evolution of barriers to gene exchange
in L. saxatilis. This species forms multiple ecotypes
but we concentrate on contrasting adaptations to crab
predation and wave action that occur in many parts
of its North Atlantic distribution, particularly compar-
ing Spanish and Swedish contact zones. Recently, we
have discovered multiple polymorphic chromosomal in-
versions that appear to contribute to ecotype formation
but which may also experience balancing selection. The
studentship will focus on understanding the origin and
evolution of these inversions and particularly the way
in which they contribute to the parallel formation of
distinct ecotypes in many parts of the species range.
For more information and to apply, see:
https://www.gu.se/english/about theuniversity/job-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 41
opportunities PhD student (48 months): ref. PAR
2019/51
Or email Roger Butlin on r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
{ Roger Butlin
Professor of Evolutionary Biology Animal and Plant
Sciences The University of Sheeld
Guest Professor Marine Sciences University of Gothen-
burg
r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
Roger Butlin <r.k.butlin@sheeld.ac.uk >
UGroningen BehaviourEvoDevo
*heading: *UGroningen.EcoEvoDevoAnimalPersonality
*Fully funded 4-year PhD position on the eco-evo-devo
of social personalities*
We are looking for a talented and enthusiastic evolution-
ary or behavioural ecologist for a fully funded 4-year
PhD position. The successful applicant will work on a
multidisciplinary project aimed at understanding the
emergence of social personalities, using an integrative
approach which considers the interplay of ecology, evolu-
tion, and development. To this end, the PhD candidate
will work with researchers from three dierent groups:
Dr. Marion Nicolaus (Animal Ecology), Prof. Franjo
Weissing (Theoretical Biology) and Prof. Ton Groothuis
(Animal Behaviour), which are all embedded within
the Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(GELIFES).
*Description* In most animals, individuals dier system-
atically in social competences and behaviour. The exis-
tence of such social personalities is intriguing both from
an eco-evolutionary perspective (when does the local en-
vironment select for diversication in social behaviour?)
and from a mechanistic perspective (how do personality
dierences emerge in individual development?). Using
an integrative eco-evo-devo framework, the successful
applicant will address three questions: How do the eco-
logical conditions at dierent life stages lead to the de-
velopment of social personalities (eco-devo)? How does
the interplay of environment-dependent selection and
developmental mechanisms aect the stability of social
personalities (evo-devo)? What are the eco-evolutionary
consequences of mechanisms like social niche choice or
social niche construction (eco-evo)? These questionswill be addressed by studies on three-spined stickle-
backs (Gasterosteus aculeatus), both in the eld and in
a semi-natural environment (replicate series of ponds
connected by corridors allowing dispersal and habitat
choice). The empirical research will be complemented
by theoretical modelling to derive testable predictions
and to provide a framework for interpreting the empiri-
cal results. The PhD candidate will receive varied and
cutting-edge research training, with ample opportunities
for following advanced courses, workshops and confer-
ences, complemented by training in transferable skills
and teaching. The successful applicant is committed to
conduct independent and original scientic research, to
report on this research in international publications and
presentations, and to present the results of the research
in a PhD dissertation, to be completed within 4 years.
PhD candidates are expected to contribute 10% of their
overall workload to teaching.
*Qualications* The ideal candidate is highly motivated,
hardworking, ambitious, creative, and has anity with
empirical behavioural ecology research and with theo-
retical modelling. The successful candidate will have
the following required qualications: an MSc degree
with specialization in biology (ecology, evolution and/or
animal behaviour) or related disciplines; the ability to
work independently and in a team; excellent command
of the English language; excellent communication and
presentation skills, both in word and in writing. Prefer-
entially, the successful candidate has some experience
with modelling and knowledge of a programming lan-
guage (R, C++).
*Conditions of employment* The University of Gronin-
gen oers a salary of 2,266 gross per month in the
rst year to a maximum of 2,897 gross per month in
the nal year (salary scale Dutch Universities), based
on a fulltime position (1.0 fte) excluding a 8% hol-
iday allowance and a 8.3% end of the year bonus.
The position oered is for four years. For more de-
tails see https://www.rug.nl/about-us/work-with-us/-
job-opportunities/overview?detailsThe preferred start-
ing date is *15 April 2019*
*Application* Application for this position is open un-
til 15 March 2019. To apply, please ll in the online
application form (click on the Apply button below the
advertisement on this link: https://www.rug.nl/about-
us/work-with-us/job-opportunities/overview?details).
Applications for the position should include (as a single
PDF le): a cover letter explaining the educational
background of the candidate and the motivation to ap-
ply for this position; a detailed description of previous
research experience, such as obtained in bachelor/master
research projects (1-2 pages); a comprehensive curricu-42 EvolDir February 1, 2019
lum vitae, providing details on bachelor and master
degrees, work experience, and a publication list (if ap-
plicable); academic transcripts; contact details of two
or (preferably) three academic references who can pro-
vide information on the candidates suitability for the
position.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGroningen EvolPhilos
4-year PhD position at the University of Groningen, the
Netherlands
Interdisciplinary PhD scholarship in biology and philos-
ophy
Recent developments in molecular genetics and devel-
opmental biology have inspired a re-evaluation of the
legacy of Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck. In this project,
we aim to explore the Lamarckian nature of recent dis-
coveries in the transmission of inherited traits and the
evolution of organismal complexity. In this way, we aim
to establish what modern biology can or cannot learn
from the original ideas of Lamarck, and whether or not
his works oer lessons that change the way we think
about evolution.
This project brings together the disciplines of evolu-
tionary biology and the history and philosophy of sci-
ence. It combines theoretical studies (historical anal-
ysis of the writings of Lamarck and his contempo-
raries; insights from modern studies) with experimen-
tal work (using nematodes as a model system to test
Lamarcks ideas). The project is a collaboration be-
tween Dr. Martine Maan (www.rug.nl/sta/m.e.maan)
and Dr. Han Thomas Adriaenssen (www.rug.nl/sta/-
h.t.adriaenssen). Funded by the Young Academy of
Groningen.
Qualications: The ideal candidate has a background in
both biology and the history and philosophy of science,
a strong interest in evolutionary biology, and hands-on
laboratory experience.
\m.e.maan@rug.nl" <m.e.maan@rug.nl >UHelsinki SalmonEvolution
A PhD student position, is available at the Univer-
sity of Helsinki, Finland to work in Prof. Craig Prim-
mer's research group (http://www.helsinki./evolution-
conservation-and-genomics). The position is a part of a
5-year ERC-funded research program aimed at under-
standing the molecular and ecological basis of sea-age
at maturity in Atlantic salmon, and the consequences
for adaptation (e.g. Barson et al. 2015; Czorlich et al.
2018). Funding is available for up to 4 years.
The PhD student will (depending on the interests and
experience of the successful candidate) conduct be-
havioural, physiological and/ or quantitative genetic
research on the research group's common garden salmon
stocks to identify phenotypic trait variation linked with
sea-age at maturity and the gene(s) controlling this
trait, as well as investigate the potential inuence of
environmental factors (GxE).
The salmon stocks that will be the focus of this project
are already established and are housed in recently built
indoor facilities at the Lammi Biological Station (130km
north of Helsinki) and the student will be required to
regularly spend time at this facility. The group also
employees several research technicians to assist with
salmon stock maintenance.
Skills seen as advantageous for the position include:
previous experience in behavioural and/or physiologi-
cal experimentation, preferably in shes; experience in
quantitative genetic analyses and/or statistical analysis
of evolutionary ecological data in any species, prefer-
ably in R; experience with sh husbandry; an interest
in evolutionary genetics; ability to cooperate with a
multi-cultural team of researchers working on related
projects.
The position is available immediately, and the preferred
starting date is March 15 2019, or earlier. The salary
will be based on level 2 of the demands level chart for
teaching and research personnel in the salary system of
Finnish universities. In addition, the appointee will be
paid a salary component based on personal performance
with the overall starting salary amount being about
2200 EUR per month. A six-month trial period will be
applied.
Please submit your application using the Univer-
sity of Helsinki Recruitment System via the linkFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 43
Apply for the position. https://www.helsinki./en/-
open-positions/doctoral-student-in-salmon-behavior-
physiology-genetics The deadline for applications is
Sunday 10 February 2019.
Informal inquiries should be directed to Prof. Craig
Primmer (craig.primmer(at)helsinki.).
Finland is a member of the EU, has high quality free
schooling (also in English), generous family benets and
healthcare, and was recently ranked as the happiest
country in the world. The University of Helsinki is a
top 100 ranked university in most ranking lists, and
is currently investing heavily in life sciences research
(see https://www.helsinki./en/helsinki-institute-of-life-
science).
Relevant articles: Barson et al. (2015) Sex-dependent
dominance at a single locus maintains variation in age
at maturity in salmon. Nature 528:405-408.
Czorlich, Y., Aykanat, T., Erkinaro, J., Orell, P., &
Primmer, C. R. (2018). Rapid sex-specic evolution
of age at maturity is shaped by genetic architecture
in Atlantic salmon. Nature Ecology and Evolution, 2,
1800-1807.
Pritchard, V. L., M akinen, H., V ah a, J. P., Erkinaro, J.,
Orell, P., & Primmer, C. R. (2018). Genomic signatures
of ne-scale local selection in Atlantic salmon suggest
involvement of sexual maturation, energy homeostasis
and immune defence-related genes. Molecular Ecology,
27, 2560-2575.
Craig Primmer, Academy Professor PO Box 56
Organismal & Evolutionary Biology Research Pro-
gramjBiotechnology Institute 00014, University of
Helsinki, FINLAND Visiting: Room 3404, Biocenter
1C Mobile +358 503116374 craig.primmer@helsinki.
Twitter @FishConGen http://www.helsinki./-
evolution-conservation-and-genomics \Primmer, Craig"
<craig.primmer@helsinki. >
UHolar Iceland 2
SticklebackEvoDevo
*Two PhD positions on ECO-EVO-DEVO dynamics in
threespine stickleback of lake M yvatn, Iceland*
H olar University College, Iceland, seeks two PhD stu-
dents for a Grant of Excellence (RANNIS) project to
study the dynamics of *Ecological (ECO), Evolutionary
(EVO) and Developmental (DEVO) processes*The phenotype, including developmental plasticity, is
an important determinant of the dynamic interactions
between ecological and evolutionary processes (eco-
evolutionary dynamics) and the processes that shape
biological diversity in face of global change. This project
will study the interplay among ECO, EVO and DEVO
to ll knowledge gaps in 1) the dual role of ecology in
evolution (as driver of natural selection and phenotypic
plasticity), 2) the molecular mechanisms underlying phe-
notypic variation, and 3) the feedbacks between pheno-
typic change and ecosystem function. The project takes
a spatio-temporal perspective, using threespine stick-
leback (*Gasterosteus aculeatus*) from lake M yvatn,
Iceland, as a model. The project is lead by Prof. Bjarni
K. Kristj ansson (lead PI, H olar University College, Ice-
land) and Dr. Katja R as anen (Swiss Federal Institute
of Aquatic Sciences, Eawag, Switzerland). It is part of
a large collaboration across H olar Univ. College (Prof.
Sk uli Sk ulason), Eawag (Dr. Blake Matthews), Univ.
of Wisconsin-Madison, USA (Prof. Anthony R. Ives),
Univ. of Iceland (Prof. Zophon as O. J onsson) and the
M yvatn research station (Dr. Arni Einarsson). The
students will have the opportunity to conduct part of
their research at the collaborative institutions.
The two PhD projects will *focus on i) the determinants
of phenotypic variation and ii) consequences of phe-
notypic and genetic variation for ecosystem processes.
*Which of these aspects each student specically focuses
on will depend on their interests as well as expertise (to
be stated in application, see below). These PhD student
projects are an integral part of our integrative study
that includes long-term eld data, laboratory, meso-
cosm and eld experiments, genomics and mathematical
modelling.
*Location*: The students will be based at the Dept. of
Aquaculture and Fish Biology (DAFB - http://holar.is/-
en/department ofaquaculture andshbiology) at
H olar Univ. College (North Iceland) and registered
at the Univ. of Iceland (Reykjavik). HUC is situated
in the beautiful village of H olar (Skagafjordur), with
oces and research laboratories in the nearby town
Sau arkr okur. DAFB is an active research centre and the
students will become part of a dynamic international
team of graduate students and faculty. The beautiful
natural setting and easy travel allow both outdoor and
cultural activities.
*Requirements: *The candidates must hold a MSc de-
gree in a relevant eld (e.g. Ecology, Molecular Biol-
ogy, Evolution, or Development). The ideal candidates
have a strong interest in *evolutionary ecology, *enjoy
working in a dynamic group, and have experience from
eldwork and laboratory work (with relative importance
depending on the project specics). Expertise and in-44 EvolDir February 1, 2019
terest in *molecular genetics (transcriptomics and/or
genomics) is preferable.* Peer-reviewed publication(s),
previous experience with animal experiments (sh in
particular) will be a plus. The candidates will gain ex-
perience in integrative approaches to test pertinent hy-
potheses in eco-evolutionary. *The positions are funded
for three years*.
The working language is English. The students have
to be able to work independently as well as a part of a
team. A valid driving license is a requirement.
Applicants should send an application letter, with a
statement of research interests (and favoured topic of
PhD) and relevant experience (max. 2 pages), curricu-
lum vitae with a list of publications, copies of academic
qualications and the names and e-mail addresses of
three referees, *as a single pdf* to ecoevodevo@holar.is
latest *March 15, 201*9. *Preferred starting date is
May 1st 2019.*
*For further information* contact Bjarni K. Kristj ansson
(Head of the Dept. of Aquaculture and Fish Biology,
H olar Univ. College) (bjakk@holar.is) or Dr. Katja
R as anen (katja.rasanen@eawag.ch).
Dr. Bjarni K. Kristj ansson, Pr ofessor H olask oli -
H ask olinn  a H olum/ H olar University College H olar
 Hjaltadal Iceland bjakk@holar.is Phone: +354 4556300
holar.is
Bjarni Krist ofer Kristj ansson <bjakk@holar.is >
UIdaho RedbandTrout
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITION ECOLOGICAL
GENOMICS AND MODELING OF REDBAND
TROUT UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO NSF-EPSCoR
GEM3
We seek a highly motivated student for a Ph.D. position
at the University of Idaho in the recently funded NSF-
EPSCoR GEM3 program (https://www.idahogem3.org).
The program seeks to understand how genetic diversity
and phenotypic plasticity aect species response to en-
vironmental change, shaping both population response
and adaptive capacity. The program is focused primar-
ily on two taxa: redband trout, a subspecies of rainbow
trout, and sagebrush. These taxa are integral to aquatic
and terrestrial ecosystems across the American West
and are central to land-use management decisions that
drive the economy of the region. This advertised Ph.D.
position is focused on redband trout.The Ph.D. student will join an interdisciplinary cohort of
postdoctoral researchers and students working at scales
from genomic characterization of physiological traits
in trout and sagebrush, to mapping and modeling of
complex ecological, evolutionary, and social-economic
systems. The Ph.D. student will have the opportunity to
gain skills such as molecular population genomics, land-
scape genetics analysis, and agent-based and systems
modeling.
The position is available to start in fall 2019 and will be
co-advised by Lisette Waits (Fish & Wildlife Sciences)
and Paul Hohenlohe (Biological Sciences). Students in
the GEM3 program may choose from several degree
programs at UI, including Natural Resources, Bioin-
formatics and Computational Biology, Environmental
Science or Biology.
To apply, please submit a letter of interest, curriculum
vitae, GRE scores, and contact information for three
references to Paul Hohenlohe (hohenlohe@uidaho.edu).
Review of applications will begin immediately; for full
consideration please apply before February 22, 2019.
Paul Hohenlohe Associate Professor Institute for Bioin-
formatics and Evolutionary Studies Departments of
Biological Sciences and Statistics University of Idaho
http://hohenlohelab.github.io \Hohenlohe, Paul (ho-
henlohe@uidaho.edu)" <hohenlohe@uidaho.edu >
UKassel Germany
EvolutionAntPlants
Dear all, I am looking for a highly motivated PhD stu-
dent to participate in our project \Spatial-temporal evo-
lution of Macaranga ant-plant lineages (Euphorbiaceae)
in Southeast Asia". This is a xed term-position for
three years (part-time, 65 % of a full-time employee),
funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG).
Project description: In this project, we will use
next generation sequencing technology (genotyping-by-
sequencing, GBS) to resolve phylogenetic relationships
among and within myrmecophytic lineages of the South-
east Asian ant-plant genus Macaranga. While many
Macaranga species facultatively attract ants, about
30 species from western Malesia (comprising Borneo,
Sumatra, and the Malay Peninsula, collectively Sun-
daland) live in obligate symbiosis with nine species
of Crematogaster ants. Based on GBS-derived analy-
sis (sample material is already available), we will re-
construct the temporal-spatial evolution of myrmeco-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 45
phytism in the group and will elucidate when, where
and under which circumstances morphological traits as-
sociated with myrmecophytism have been gained (and
lost). Further, we will test the hypothesis that myrme-
cophytism enhanced diversication and speciation in
Macaranga. In the second part of the project, general
aspects of Sundaland biogeography will be addressed
by a comparative phylogeographic approach including
ve widely distributed species with dierent ecologi-
cal requirements and dierent associations to ants. We
specically aim to understand how past climatic and geo-
graphic settings in Sundaland inuenced the population
structure and gene ow patterns of western Malesian
Macaranga.
Requirements: Successful candidates will have a Mas-
ters degree or equivalent in biology / molecular sys-
tematics / evolutionary biology or a related eld, good
knowledge/experience in molecular systematics, and an
interest in tropical ecosystems. Candidates with strong
interest (ideally with prior experience) in bioinformatics
and next-generation sequencing analysis are highly desir-
able. The ideal candidate will have very good oral and
written communication skills in English. Knowledge of
German language would be an advantage, but is not
obligatory.
For further information please contact Dr. Daniela
Guicking, E-Mail: guicking@uni-kassel.de. Applications
should include a cover letter describing the motivation,
previous research activities and current research inter-
ests, the CV with copies of BSc and MSc certicates,
and a list of publications if applicable.
To apply please visit: https://www.uni-kassel.de/-
uni/universitaet/stellenangebote/stellenangebot/post/-
detail/News/research-assistant-mfd-salary-level-eg-13-
tv-h-systematics-and-morphology-of-plants/ Deadline
is 2019-02-15.
Dr. Daniela Guicking University of Kassel FB 10, Fac-
ulty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Biology, Sys-
tematics and Morphology of Plants Heinrich-Plett-Str.
40 34132 Kassel, Germany
Tel: 0049-(0)561-8044170 Email: guicking@uni-kassel.de
\Guicking, Daniela, Dr." <guicking@uni-kassel.de >
UKiel MeioticDrive
*PhD position - meiotic drive of supernumerary chro-
mosomes *A PhD position is available for three years to study the
*meiotic drive of supernumerary chromosomes *with the
Max Planck research group \Environmental Genomics"
headed by Prof. Dr. Eva H. Stukenbrock. The Max
Planck group is aliated with the *Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Biology* in Pl on and the *Christian-
Albrechts University of Kiel* in the North of Germany.
The position is compensated at 65% of TV-L 13 and
candidates are expected to complete a PhD.
*Background***
Selsh genetic elements are widespread in all groups
of organisms. They are likely to have shaped the evo-
lution of diverse biological systems, including genome
structure, sex determination, and meiosis. To date, sur-
prisingly little is known about the exact processes that
underlie the spread of these elements. This project fo-
cuses on selsh genetic elements that cause uniparental
meiotic drive of supernumerary chromosomes in a fungal
pathogen.
Recently we could show that the supernumerary chro-
mosome of the commercially important wheat pathogen
/Zymoseptoria tritici/ show a chromosome drive, i.e. are
inherited to more progeny than expected by Mendelian
segregation, and these chromosomes may therefore be
considered selsh genetic elements. Interestingly this
chromosome drive is restricted to chromosomes inher-
ited from the female parent. We hypothesize that this
drive is based on an additional amplication of unpaired
chromosomes during meiosis. This project aims at un-
derstanding this previously unknown aspect of meiosis
and its exploitation by selsh chromosomes using the
model organism /Z. tritici/.It will involve the establish-
ment of in vitro crosses and the identication of the
genetic and epigentic traits responsible for the chromo-
some amplication.
*Expectations and Requirements:*
The candidate must have university degree (Master or
equivalent) in biology or a related eld. High compe-
tence in statistics, experimental design, and English
writing is a must. Ideally, the candidate has comprehen-
sive experience in molecular genetics, work with plant
pathogens or performance of evolution experiments. The
selected candidate will have the opportunity to collabo-
rate in an interdisciplinary team of biologists (molecular
biologists, evolutionary biologists and population geneti-
cists) as well as to pursue unique research in the eld
of chromosome biology.
Kiel University aims at a higher proportion of women
in research and education, and, therefore, specically
encourages qualied female scientists to apply. Female
scientists will be preferentially considered in case of46 EvolDir February 1, 2019
equivalent qualication, competence and achievements.
Kiel University specically supports employment of
severely handicapped people. Therefore, severely hand-
icapped applicants will be preferentially considered in
case of suitable qualication.
Kiel University specically welcomes application from
people with migration background.
*Application*
Applications should include a motivation letter (max.
2 pages long), CV, publication list, names and contact
details of two referees (who are familiar with the ap-
plicant's work), and copies of certicates. Deadline for
applications is 15. February 2019. Applications should
be sent to:
*Prof. Dr. Eva Stukenbrock, Botanisches Institut,
Christian-Albrechts-Universit at zu Kiel, Olshausenstr.
40, 24118 Kiel*
*orpreferentially as a single-PDF-document by e-mail
to: oce@bot.uni-kiel.de*
We explicitly do not require application photos and
therefore these shall be omitted.
Further information can be obtained from Prof.
Dr. Eva Stukenbrock (estukenbrock@bot.uni-kiel.de).
Please also check: http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/envgen/
Michael Habig <mhabig@bot.uni-kiel.de >
ULeicester DiseaseVariants
Applications for two PhD positions in Genetic Epidemi-
ology at University of Leicester are now open! Informal
enquiries to Dr Chiara Batini (cb334@le.ac.uk) and/or
Prof Martin Tobin (martin.tobin@leicester.ac.uk) are
welcome.
1. \Harnessing large-scale genomic sequencing data
to understand smoking behaviour" supervised by Dr
Chiara Batini and Prof Martin Tobin
In 2018 it has been announced that both whole exome
sequences and whole genome sequences will be analysed
in the 500K individuals in UK Biobank over the next
two to ve years. Recently the UK Secretary of State for
Health and Social Care has launched the plan of the NHS
to sequence up to 5M genomes over the next few years
highlighting the importance of genomics in the future of
medical care. Smoking is one of the leading risk factors
of the top ve causes of death worldwide, includingheart and respiratory diseases, killing around 6 million
people a year. The number of smokers varies among
world regions, and of the 1 billion smokers worldwide,
80% live in low and middle-income countries. Genome-
wide association studies have identied up to 14 loci
associated with smoking behaviour, including genes for
nicotine receptors, nicotine-metabolizing enzymes and
proteins involved in neurotransmission. However, no
study so far has used sequencing data to investigate the
full genomic architecture of smoking behaviour. This
project will aim at (i) understanding the contribution of
rare variants to the genetics of smoking, with a special
focus on nicotine dependence and smoking cessation;
and (ii) ne-mapping causal variants in newly-discovered
and previously described genetic loci associated with
smoking phenotypes. Potential extensions, depending
on skill development and progress, include (i) harnessing
primary care data to derive nicotine dependence vari-
ables; (ii) extending this approach to other substance
use disorders; (iii) evaluating the impact of ascertain-
ment bias in GWAS of non-European populations by
analysing sequencing data in non-European individuals
living in the UK. You will join the Genetic Epidemi-
ology Group, led by Prof. Tobin, which comprises 27
sta and students and has hosted award-winning PhD
students and externally funded early career fellows. You
will be expected to participate in the regular meetings
of the group, departmental seminars, training courses
and conferences relevant to human genomics in the UK
and abroad to present your work and discuss it with
collaborators.
For more information, see https://www.ndaphd.com/-
phds/project/harnessing-large-scale-genomic-
sequencing-data-to-understand-smoking-behaviour/-
?p104782 2. \Genetic variants associated with multiple
diseases" supervised by Prof Martin Tobin and Dr Nick
Shrine
As increasing numbers of genetic associations are dis-
covered, it is becoming clear that some genetic variants
are associated with more than one or human phenotype
(including disease phenotypes). For example, the su-
pervisory team has recently discovered genetic variants
associated with respiratory disease and inammatory
diseases (Shrine et al, Nature Genetics in press). These
associations have important implications for the de-
velopment of treatments. Since genetic variants can
mimic the eect of drugs, such associations help us to
understand opportunities to repurpose drugs (to treat
diseases other than their initial use). When in opposite
directions, such associations can provide warnings about
potential side-eects of drugs. Furthermore, variants
associated with more than one disease can help us to
understand the causes of development of multimorbidityFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 47
to inform more eective prevention and management.
You will join the Genetic Epidemiology Group, led by
Prof. Martin Tobin. The group comprises 27 sta and
students and has hosted award-winning PhD students
and externally funded early career fellows. You will have
an opportunity to learn techniques for genome-wide as-
sociation studies and phenome-wide association studies,
analyse linked healthcare data alongside study-collected
data and contribute to new discoveries informing future
drug development. You will be expected to attend in-
ternal and external training opportunities, conferences
and meetings to develop statistical genetic and broader
academic skills that underpin subsequent postdoctoral
career development.
For more information, see https://www.ndaphd.com/-
phds/project/genetic-variants-associated-with-
multiple-diseases/?p104780 \Batini, Chiara (Dr.)"
<cb334@leicester.ac.uk >
UMaine WildlifeDiseaseGenomics
* Please NOTE: the deadline for this position has been
extended to January 18th, 2019.
Ph.D. Assistantship in Wildlife Disease Genomics
A graduate student position is available in the Ka-
math Lab ( https://kamathlab.weebly.com/) at the
University of Maine, starting in 2019 (Summer or
Fall semester). The student will join a NSF-funded
project on the evolution and transmission of Bacil-
lus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax, in col-
laboration with Drs. Wendy Turner at the Uni-
versity at Albany (www.wendyturner.org) and Hen-
riette van Heerden at the University of Pretoria
( https://www.up.ac.za/veterinary-tropical-diseases/-
article/1945572/h-van-heerden). The Ph.D. research
project will focus on host-pathogen evolutionary dynam-
ics and the genetic basis for heterogeneity in suscepti-
bility to the B. anthracis bacteria in ungulate hosts of
Etosha National Park, Namibia, and Kruger National
Park, South Africa. This position will involve inter-
disciplinary research with strong eld, laboratory and
analytical components. Data collection will require in-
ternational eldwork.
The graduate student will also have the unique opportu-
nity to be part of the interdisciplinary Center for One
Health & the Environment ( https://sbe.umaine.edu/-
school/center-for-one-health-the-environment/).Location: University of Maine, Orono, ME
Salary: The student will be supported by a combination
of research and teaching assistantships, which include
a 12-month stipend ( $21,333), tuition waiver, and 50%
health insurance coverage.
Qualications:
Required qualications: Bachelor's degree in biology,
ecology, evolution, epidemiology, microbiology, immunol-
ogy, genetics, bioinformatics, or a related eld. Can-
didates should have relevant research experience, be
highly motivated, and have a demonstrated ability to
work both independently and in a team.
Preferred qualications: Master's degree in ecology, evo-
lution, or a related eld. Desired candidates will be
accomplished in writing, statistics, molecular methods,
population/ phylogenetic analyses, genomics, bioinfor-
matics, and/or eld skills.
To Apply/Questions: Interested qualied applicants
should send a cover letter, current CV, unocial tran-
scripts, a publication or writing sample, and the names
and contact information for three references to Dr.
Pauline Kamath at pauline.kamath@maine.edu. The
cover letter should describe interest in the project and
in graduate study, relevant coursework, research experi-
ence, and other qualications. Letters of reference may
be requested for nalists.
Review of applications will begin on December 20th and
will continue until the position is lled.
The University of Maine is an EEO/AA employer. All
qualied applicants will receive consideration for employ-
ment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, sexual orientation, age, disability, protected vet-
eran status, or any other characteristic protected by
law.
{ Pauline L. Kamath, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of An-
imal Health Animal and Veterinary Sciences School
of Food & Agriculture 5735 Hitchner Hall, Rm 342
University of Maine Orono, ME 04469-5735 Phone:
+1 207-581-2935 Email: pauline.kamath@maine.edu
Website: https://umaine.edu/foodandagriculture/-
kamath2/ pauline.kamath@maine.edu48 EvolDir February 1, 2019
UManitoba
SeaLampreyPopGenetics
Funded MSc position (2 years) Department of Biological
Sciences, University of Manitoba
Assessing the population genetic structure of resident
freshwater and western Atlantic sea lamprey populations
We are recruiting an MSc student to explore the spatial
genetic structure of native western Atlantic and resi-
dent freshwater sea lamprey populations from within
the Great Lakes, the Finger Lakes, and Lake Champlain.
Our aim is to sample ~30 sea lamprey from ~20 Atlantic
and freshwater sites and use genotyping-by-sequencing
to genotype individuals for this work. The results of
this analysis will contribute to our understanding of the
sea lamprey invasion of the Great Lakes system and the
management of those invasive populations. There will
also be the opportunity to develop your own additional
research questions using these and other available data.
The successful applicant should have an honours under-
graduate degree and an interest in population genetics
and species management. Experience with population
genetic data analyses will be considered an asset but is
not required, we can train you in the necessary skills.
You will work closely with a postdoctoral fellow work-
ing directly on this project and with a broader team
of professors (Colin Garroway, Margaret Docker, and
Ken Jeries), postdocs, and graduate students using
genomic and transcriptomic tools to address sea lamprey
management questions at the University of Manitoba.
Please do not hesitate to get in touch if you have any
additional questions. If you are interested in applying
send Colin Garroway (colin.garroway@umanitoba.ca):
1) a copy of your CV; 2) a brief letter (no more than 1
page) introducing yourself and outlining your general
research interests and your interest in this position in
particular; 3) email addresses and phone numbers for
two references. We will arrange Skype chats with the 3-5
best matched applicants. Our ideal start date is summer
2019 but we may be able to accommodate an autumn
start. Finally, if you have made it this far, but are
looking for a PhD position rather than an MSc, please
still get in touch. We may be able to work something
out for the right t.
Contact:
Colin Garroway Assistant Professor Department of Bio-logical Sciences University of Manitoba Winnipeg, Mani-
toba tel: (1) 204-4748267 www.garroway-lab.com Colin
Garroway<Colin.Garroway@umanitoba.ca >
UNeuchatel
ModellingMicrobialInteractions
PhD position on Modelling Microbial Interactions
I am looking to recruit a PhD student to work on math-
ematical modelling of microbial interactions, including
bacteria growth in biolms, bacteria dispersal through
fungal hyphae networks, and bacteria-fungi interactions
under dierent nutritional conditions, in the Univer-
sity of Neuch^ atel, Switzerland. The student will be
co-supervised by Prof. Redouan Bshary and/or Prof.
Pilar Junier.
Bacteria are powerful in breaking down chemicals and
thus have great potentials in treating polluted soils, but
they cannot disperse in the soil without water, and this
limits the applications of bioremediation of polluted
soils. Recently, it is found that bacteria can disperse in
the liquid layer on the surface of fungal hyphae. The
fungal hyphae networks are like a 3D highway system
that connects vast areas in the soil, providing potentially
a very ecient way for bacteria to disperse. But unlike
the highways we're familiar with, the fungal highways
are living organisms and they interact with bacteria
in complex ways. In the PhD project we will nd out
how bacteria spread through fungal hyphae networks,
and whether the interactions between fungi and bacteria
promote or impede the dispersal. In addition, we will
study how nutrients inuence the interactions between
fungi and bacteria. Our pilot experiments have already
shown that the nature of interactions between fungi and
bacteria can change with the concentrations of nutri-
ents. As fungi and bacteria involve in many dierent
types of interactions, they can cooperate and compete
at the same time, it is interesting to nd out how a
mixture of dierent types of nutrients aect the inter-
actions between fungi and bacteria. Understanding the
eects of nutrients can help us nd ways to manipulate
fungi-bacteria interactions in the way that we want.
The PhD project involves both experiments (20%) and
modelling (80%). The successful applicant should have
a Master's degree in mathematics, physics, biology, or
another related eld. A prerequisite is a keen interest
in both mathematical modelling and understanding real
biological systems. Good quantitative skills are essential.February 1, 2019 EvolDir 49
Experience in mathematical modelling and knowledge of
a programming language is an advantage. Experience in
microbiology experiments is preferred but not required,
since the lab skills required by the experiments are basic
and can be learned quickly. The candidate needs to be
uent in English.
To apply, please send an email to <li[AT]evolbio.mpg.de
>. Please include in your email a statement including
1) your research interests and career plan, 2) a brief
overview of your previous academic and research expe-
riences, and explain how your background ts with the
project, 3) a CV or resume, and 4) a list of 2 to 3 aca-
demic references with their names and email addresses.
The position is funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation with a competitive salary for 4 years. The
starting time should be September 2019 or earlier. Appli-
cations will be reviewed continuously until the position
is lled.
For specic information about the project, please send
me an email.
Xiang-Yi Li (PhD) Institute of Biology University of
Neuch^ atel Rue Emile-Argand 11 CH-2000 Neuch^ atel
Switzerland
li<AT>evolbio.mpg.de
Xiangyi Li <li@evolbio.mpg.de >
UNewOrleans
EvolutionaryPhysiology
Graduate Student (PhD) Position Available
I am seeking motivated applicants to our Integrative
Biology Ph.D. program to begin in the Summer or Fall
of 2019. The successful applicant will be supported by a
research fellowship in the broad area of aquatic conser-
vation biology, with particular emphasis on the evolu-
tionary and ecological physiology of hypoxia tolerance in
estuarine sh (see Townley et al. 2017. AJP 312: R412-
R425, doi: 10.1152/ajpregu.00402.2016 and Rees &
Matute. 2018. PBZ 91: 1046-1056, doi: 10.1086/699596
for recent research). Applicants should have previous
research experience in these or related areas and strong
analytical skills. Interested students should contact:
Dr. Barney Rees Department of Biological Sciences
University of New Orleans brees@uno.edu 504-280-6743
See http://www.uno.edu/cos/biology/index.aspx for in-formation on the department, faculty, and application
procedures. The deadline for applications is February 1,
2019.
Bernard B Rees <brees@uno.edu >
UNorthDakota AncientPaleoecology
U. North Dakota. Ancient paleoecology.
The Laboratory of Human and Forensic Genetics at the
University of North Dakota (www.und.edu) is inviting
applications from highly motivated students who pursue
a PhD degree.
A student will be engaged in a project on computational
analysis of big oral and environmental microbiome data
collected from diverse organisms across the American
Midwest, Eastern Europe, and Madagascar. This cross-
disciplinary project represents an opportunity to get
intensive hands-on training in the methods of ancient
DNA analyses including next-generation sequencing,
computational biology and statistical modelling.
Candidates should demonstrate motivation for hard
laboratory work and strong interest in genomics and
computational biology. Preference will be given to can-
didates with a proven record of computational analysis
and bioinformatics skills. Additional experience in high-
throughput sequencing technologies is a plus. If you are
interested, you need to apply to the University of North
Dakota Biology Graduate Program using the regular
procedure. Requirements and How to Apply procedure
can be found in the UND Biology Graduate School
website:
https://und.edu/programs/biology-phd/-
requirements.html The additional information
can be also found in the Biology Department website:
https://arts-sciences.und.edu/academics/biology/ The
position starts in August 2019. To receive full consid-
eration, applications and required materials should be
received by the Biology Graduate Program by February
15, 2019.
Potential graduate students are strongly encouraged to
make contact with Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov.
Contact information:
Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Professor Lab. of Hu-
man and Forensic Genetics Department of Biology Foren-
sic Science Program University of North Dakota50 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Email: igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu
Thank you.
Igor Ovchinnikov
Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Professor Lab. of
Human and Forensic Genetics Department of Biology
Forensic Science Program University of North Dakota
10 Cornell Street Grand Forks, ND 58202 Phone (oce):
(701) 777-4471 Email: igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu
\Ovtchinnikov, Igor" <igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu >
UPuertoRico Mayaguez
BruchidHostSpecicity
The University of Puerto Rico Mayaguez Invertebrate
Collection (UPRM-INVCOL) is seeking a M.Sc. stu-
dent to ll a two-year position to investigate dierential
gene expression in Bruchidae seed pests. This is a fully
funded USDA project to investigate host specicity in
beetles. Funds include tuition, stipend, and funding for
research project described below that if completed will
serve as your thesis for a M.Sc. degree at UPRM.
Bruchids are a high-priority global pest to food security,
as they are a stored grain pest on many varieties of
legumes. We will be testing dierential gene expression
of larval bruchids on two dierent varieties of beans.
The project aims to identify which genes, if any, are
upregulated in response to resistant and non-resistant
varieties of beans. With that we can begin to investigate
how these genes evolve in bruchids and the underlying
mechanisms of host specicity. This will be the students
primary project, but we have a number of other projects
at INVCOL which the student may also be able to par-
ticipate. These include Curculionoid genome assemblies,
meta-barcoding of leaf litter insects, and various phy-
logenomics projects. Please visit the INVCOL webpage
to nd out more about our research.
https://www.uprm.edu/invcol/ INVCOL is looking for
a highly motivated student with a background in next
generation sequencing analyses. The ideal candidate
would be adept at Linux and R, especially Bioconduc-
tor. A general background in Entomology would also
be greatly preferred as this skill set will transfer well
to other projects, but students with a background in
Biology, or Engineering would also be considered. The
candidate should have a B.S. or similar by July 2019.
Candidates with a B.S. degree and Senior B.S. students
are encouraged to apply.The position will start July 1, 2019.
Candidates should send 2-page CV along with a one
page essay on their interest in Entomology related re-
search, with three letters of recommendation e-mailed to
Dr. Van Dam from your letter or reference writer with
oLetter of Reference for Your Name in the heading of
their e-mail.
Application process will close on January 31, 2019.
If you have further questions don't hesitate to contact
Dr. Alex Van Dam, Director of INVCOL, via e-mail:
alex.vandam@upr.edu
Mr. Alex Van Dam, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Director
of the UPRM Invertebrate Collection
University of Puerto Rico Mayag'ez Department of Bi-
ology
PO Box 9000
Mayag'ez, PR 00681-9000
website:
https://www.uprm.edu/invcol/ Alex R Van Dam
<alex.vandam@upr.edu >
USherbrooke TroutEvolutionaryEcol
MSc project: Stocking of brook trout
We are seeking to recruit a student at the MSc level to
join our research team at the D epartement de biologie,
Universit e de Sherbrooke, starting in May or September
2019.
Our research aims at quantifying the eects of changes
in thermal regime during brook trout production on
growth and survival of young life stages following stock-
ing in the wild. The candidate will participate in study
conducted in 2019-2021 and will contribute to eld-
work each spring/fall. The candidate should ideally
have skills in handling sh and a good knowledge of
statistical analyses and evolutionary ecology.
Interested candidates should send a CV and a cover
letter, as well as contact information of two references
before 16 February 2019 to:
Dany Garant : Dany.Garant@Usherbrooke.ca See also:
labogarant.weebly.com for more details on our research
team.
Dany Garant <Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 51
UTartu Estonia aDNA
Institute of Genomics, University of Tartu (Estonia)
seeks for
PhD student in ancient DNA (Institute of Genomics,
Estonian Biocentre), University of Tartu, Estonia
Supervisors: Dr. Kristiina Tambets, University of Tartu
Dr. Toomas Kivisild, University of Tartu/KU Leuven
Deadline: February 5th 2019
Who we are: The Institute of Genomics of the University
of Tartu was formed in 2018 through a merger of the
Estonian Genome Center and the Estonian Biocentre,
bringing together world class expertise in medical, popu-
lation and evolutionary genomics. We host the Estonian
Biobank (www.geenivaramu.ee) which has 150,000 par-
ticipants and is connected to national health registries
for phenotypic information. Starting in May 2018, we
opened a brand-new ancient DNA laboratory, we have
a core facility for DNA/RNA sequencing and genotyp-
ing and have access to a High-Performance Computing
Cluster (www.hpc.ut.ee). We publish widely in top
journals and sport a vibrant and international research
community of 70 researchers and students.
Web page of our institute: https://-
www.geenivaramu.ee/en and of Estonian Biocentre:
https://www.geenivaramu.ee/en/about-us/estonian-
biocentre Position Description: We are looking
for a motivated PhD student with a background
in archaeology and/or genetics who is interested in
completing their PhD program at the University of
Tartu and in being part of the research group of ancient
DNA.
PhD project focuses on the Medieval and Early Modern
time (13th- 18th cc AD) demographic history of Estonia
using ancient DNA as the primary source of informa-
tion. The Medieval period started in Estonia much later
than in Central Europe and Scandinavia, in the 13th
century AD. The crusades and conquest brought along
vast social, cultural and economic changes that were
also likely to have shaped the genetic structure of the
local population. The main aim of the project is to com-
pare patterns of genetic diversity in Estonian rural and
urban populations in a broader context of dierences
in Eastern Baltic. Comparisons across time transects
will be enabled by the availability of aDNA data from
deeper time layers as well as the data of the present-daypopulation through the biobank of Estonian Genome
Centre, University of Tartu. The knowledge from aDNA
(population structuration, kinship studies, description
of the presence and frequency of pathogens etc.) can
be potentially combined with the data of individual
and societal health status, which gives us clues also for
the understanding of the history of present-day health
problems in the region. The outcome of the project will
be used for: 1) lling one of the remaining gaps in the
synopsis of the population history of the Eastern Baltic
region in Europe with an example of Estonia and 2) for
opening new opportunities associated with the studies
of health and diseases through the aDNA perspective.
Duties and responsibilities: PhD student will be car-
rying out research activity in the eld of ancient DNA
including but not limited to generation of aDNA data
from archaeological samples to genomic library stage,
analysis of whole genome data and writing publications.
Required qualications: MSc in archaeogenetics, bioar-
chaeology, biological anthropology, genetics, molecular
biology or related subjects. Having some knowledge
and experience of working in a cleanroom and of ancient
DNA wet lab protocols as well as having basic knowledge
and experience of ancient DNA bioinformatic analysis
and of current software use would be ideal.
Required language skills: English and/or Estonian
Starting at September 1st 2019
Stipend (per month): 1,100-1,300 The position is funded
for 4 years.
Application documents and notication of results: In
order to be considered for the PhD student position,
the candidate must submit an application to the Insti-
tute of Genomics, Estonian Biocentre (postal address:
Riia 23b, 51010 Tartu, Estonia) OR e-mail to: kris-
tiina.tambets@ut.ee, toomas.kivisild@kuleuven.be and
merilin.raud@ut.ee) the following documents: 1) a letter
of application/motivation; 2) a curriculum <http://-
www.ut.ee/en/curriculum-vitae >vitae; 3) a copy of
a document (including its annexes) which shows the
candidate to hold the required qualication (authorized
translation into Estonian or English if the credential
is not in one of these languages), or examination tran-
scripts if the qualication is yet to be obtained. A
candidate can be required to submit the original or a
certied copy of the document (including its annexes)
showing the candidate to hold the required qualication;
4) other materials considered relevant by the candidate.
Additional information:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.52 EvolDir February 1, 2019
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UVienna AncientDNA
PhD position at the Department of Evolutionary An-
thropology, University of Vienna, Austria
PhD candidate will join a newly established group by Dr.
Elmira Mohandesan at the Department of Evolutionary
Anthropology at the University of Vienna. The project
will be conducted in close collaboration with Prof. Joris
Peters (LMU Munich), and Prof. Ludovic Orlando
(University of Toulouse and University of Copenhagen).
Data generation and analyses will require traveling to
both collaborators labs.
Project Description: Humans have been crossbreeding
wild and domestic members of the family Equidae for
millennia, as illustrated by archaeological, iconographic
and written sources. First-generation equine hybrids
are, however, generally sterile. Maintaining such stocks
thus required considerable wealth, and detecting when
and how such practices developed during history can
provide important information about the organization
of past societies. This project aim at elucidating lo-
cal breeding practices and the contribution of hybrid
equine populations exploited in Germany and Austria in
pre-Roman and Roman times. It will apply a multidisci-
plinary approach combining standard morphology with
Geometric Morphometrics (GMM) and state-of-the-art
methods in ancient DNA research aimed at the detection
of hybrids, and possibly, at the characterization of both
parental stocks. For more information please see https:/-
/www.anthropology.at/news-press-releases/ . Candidate
Background: We are seeking a highly motivated candi-
date with background in molecular biology, population
genetics, bioinformatics or equivalent. Prociency in
written and spoken English is required. Bioinformat-
ics skills (Unix, R, and Python languages) are highly
desired. Direct experience with ancient DNA is highly
desired. Ability to work in a highly-international and
multi-disciplinary team. Prospective student should
demonstrate a desire to learn, work independently, and
multi-task.
Terms of employment: Science Fund: Austrian Science
Fund (FWF) Duration: three years, provided that the
rst year is successful (trial period) Start: anticipated
as June 2019How to apply: To apply for this position, please send
your CV, letter of interests and at least one letter of rec-
ommendation toelmira.mohandesan@univie.ac.at and
elmira.mohandesan@gmail.com. The applications will
be reviewed immediately, and after initial selection the
successful candidates will go through either the MFPL
PhD selection (www.mfpl.ac.at) or the internal selec-
tion at the Department of Evolutionary Anthropology
at University of Vienna.
Elmira Mohandesan, PhD Department of Evolution-
ary Anthropology Faculty of Life Sciences University of
Vienna Althanstrasse 14 1090 Vienna Austria
Elmira Mohandesan <elmira.mohandesan@gmail.com >
UWisconsin StevensPoint
WalleyeGenetics
Master's position in the Larson Lab using genetics to in-
vestigate the reproductive ecology of walleye in northern
Wisconsin
Description and responsibilities: The USGS Wiscon-
sin Cooperative Fishery Research Unit at UW-Stevens
Point is looking for a MS student to conduct research on
walleye populations in northern Wisconsin as part of a
collaborative eort between the Wisconsin Department
of Natural Resources (WDNR) and UW-Stevens Point.
Walleye populations have been declining in northern
Wisconsin over the past decade, and previous studies
have been unable to provide a mechanistic cause for
these declines. This project will utilize genetics to con-
struct pedigrees for two northern Wisconsin lakes with
the goal of correlating various ecological metrics to indi-
vidual tness (i.e. reproductive success). The project
will include both eld and laboratory components. Lab-
oratory work will consist of using a newly developed
SNP panel to genotype thousands of walleye, and eld
work will consist of assisting WDNR with walleye sam-
pling in the spring and fall. Data analysis will leverage a
variety of statistical methods to investigate relationships
between reproductive success and variables such as size,
age, spawning location, and egg quality.
Qualications: B.S. in biology, sheries, or a related
eld, GPA of 3.0+, and GRE of 300+. Previous experi-
ence with sheries ecology is desirable. A background
in genetics is not required.
Salary: $16,000 per year (2 yr) plus health insurance
and tuition waiver. Closing date: May 1, 2019.February 1, 2019 EvolDir 53
Starting date: Position will start in September 2019 but
there may be an opportunity to work in the Larson Lab
during summer 2019 before the position starts.
Contact: Please send CV, transcript copies, GRE scores,
and names and contact information for 3 references to
Wes Larson (Wes.Larson@uwsp.edu).
Web Links: https://larsonlab.wordpress.com/-
https://www.coopunits.org/Wisconsin Fish/-
People/Wes Larson/index.html \Larson, Wes"
<wlarson@uwsp.edu >
UZurich OrangUtanGenomics
Two 4-year PhD positions on orang-utan genomics avail-
able at the University of Zurich
Overview: I am seeking two highly motivated PhD
students for my recently funded projectoOrang-
utan genomics in an evolutionary and conservation
contextat the Evolutionary Genetics Groups of the
Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich
(UZH), Switzerland (https://www.aim.uzh.ch/de/-
research/egg/groupmembers/kruetzenmichael.html).
My group has broad interests in evolutionary genetics
and genomics of primates and delphinids. The work
will be conducted in close collaboration with Prof.
Tomas Marques at University Pompeu Fabra, Spain,
Dr. Logan Kistler (Smithsonian), and Prof. Verena
Sch'nemann (UZH).
The work will entail a combination of genomic labora-
tory work (based on faecal and historic DNA samples) at
UZH and eldwork Sumatra, Indonesia. Both positions
are for 4 years xed term. Remuneration is according to
Swiss PhD salary scales (CHF 48540 p.a. plus employer
social security contributions). Starting date for the rst
PhD project will be 1. April 2019, and for the second
PhD project 1. November 2019.
Background: Environmental mechanisms are some of
the most important forces aecting the evolutionary
history and distribution of species, yet the roles of these
environmental forces in driving genetic diversity and
local adaptation remain underexplored. Investigating
the processes of how such mechanisms have shaped pat-
terns of DNA variation in space and time has long been
one of the most important goals of evolutionary biology.
Such patterns are the result of both adaptive and non-
adaptive processes, and the debate about the relative
importance of natural selection and random genetic driftin shaping genetic diversity within and among species
is still ongoing.
The project aims to investigate (among others) how dif-
ferent evolutionary forces have shaped patterns of DNA
variation within and among extant orang-utan species.
Orang-utans on each island experienced long-lasting en-
vironmental dierences throughout their evolutionary
history, leading to a number of well-documented dier-
ences in their physiology, morphology, among other. As
a rst for a great ape, this puts us into a unique position
to evaluate detailed hypotheses about the occurrence
and maintenance of genetic adaptations, and provides
the unique opportunity to study how environmental
dierences shaped the genomes of one of our closest
relatives in situ.
Requirements: Successful candidates will have a
Diploma/Masters degree in a relevant discipline, a
strong interest (ideally with prior experience) in bioin-
formatic and genomic skills, laboratory work, and some
background in evolutionary genetics. The ideal candi-
dates will have strong oral and written communication
skills in English and the ability to work and share ideas
in a collaborative environment. Knowledge of German
language is not essential, but may help with everyday
life whilst in Zurich.
The students will work in a dynamic research environ-
ment and have access to cutting edge next generation
sequencing techniques. The Department of Anthro-
pology and others at UZH host several seminar series
with high-calibre international speakers. The two PhD
positions will be embedded in the Zurich Life Science
Graduate School's program in Evolutionary Biology
(http://www.lifescience-graduateschool.ch/).
Applications: Interested students should send their ap-
plication package to michael.kruetzen@aim.uzh.ch be-
fore 28. February 2019. The package must include, in
one PDF le: A cover letter expressing research interests
relevant to the position, a complete CV, and reference
letters of two academic referees.
Please also attach low-resolution copies of your ocial
academic transcripts and degrees, as well as copies of
any publications and Diploma/MSc theses.
Informal enquiries can be addressed to Prof. Michael
Kr'tzen, Email: michael.kruetzen@aim.uzh.ch.
Michael Kr'tzen <michael.kruetzen@aim.uzh.ch >54 EvolDir February 1, 2019
UZurich PopulationGenomics
Zurich, January 2019
A four year PhD position is available in the lab of Prof.
Anne Roulin, Department of Plant and Microbial Biol-
ogy - University of Zurich (https://www.botinst.uzh.ch/-
en/research/evogenomics/roulin/open positions.html)
to investigate transposable element evolution in plants
using population genetics/genomics approaches.
*Background & Aims of the project* Transposable el-
ements are mobile DNA sequences that constitute the
main component of most eukaryotic genomes. Because
TEs can modulate gene expression and are activated
by stress, they are especially prone to produce the raw
diversity necessary for individuals to respond and adapt
quickly to new or changing environmental conditions.
Understanding to what extent TEs contribute to adap-
tation in comparison to classical point mutations con-
stitutes an essential step in characterising their role in
evolution.
*Methodology* Genome-wide scans of selection (GWSS)
are ecient methods to identify polymorphisms under
selection at a whole genome scale and in a large number
of populations: new mutations that are benecial leave
clear marks in genomes as they tend to reduce genetic
diversity, increase dierentiation among populations,
and lead to extended haplotypes in the vicinity of the
locus under selection due to genetic hitchhiking. Using
whole-genome sequencing data produced for more than
200 accessions of the grass Brachypodium distachyon
from all over Europe, Middle-East and North-Africa,
the project aims at using GWSS to detect adaptive TEs
under selection across a large number of populations
and to then functionally validate their impact on phe-
notypes. Side projects also involve to reconstruct the
demographic history of B. distachyon populations since
the last glaciations to further investigate the bases of
local adaptation in this species.
*You are'* ' interested in population genetics, genome
evolution, population history and experimental biology.
You will be encouraged to come up with your own ideas
and creativity in order to shape your PhD project ac-
cording to your interests. The successful candidate must
hold a master degree in biology (or in a related eld).
*How to apply? * Send a PDF le including a cover
letter, a CV, and contact information of 2 referees toanne.roulin@boinst.uzh.ch. Applications that do not
follow the guideline will not be considered. Applications
are welcome until the position is lled. Ideal start: from
April to September 2019 (but negotiable). For more
information or to visit the lab, dont hesitate to contact
us.
Anne Roulin Assistant Professor of Plant Evolutionary
Genomics Department of Plant and Microbial Biology
University of Z'rich Zollikerstrasse 107, 8008 Z'rich -
Switzerland Phone +41 (0)44 63 48398
anne.roulin@botinst.uzh.ch
VictoriaU AbalonePopGenetics
PhD position available V Kaikoura region abalone pop-
ulation genetics based on GBS-derived SNPs
The position - A 3-year PhD position is available in the
laboratory of Prof. Jonathan Gardner (Victoria Univer-
sity of Wellington, NZ), working in conjunction with Dr.
Tom McCowan (Paua Industry Council, NZ) and Rob
Elshire (The Elshire Group, NZ). The PhD position has
a start date of early/mid 2019 or soon thereafter.
The project - Our group has received full research-
only funding from Seafood Innovations Limited for this
abalone (Haliotis iris) population genetics SNPs project.
In New Zealand, abalone are called paua.
The November 2016 Kaikoura earthquake had devastat-
ing eects on paua populations resulting in the ongoing
closure of the shery for this locally important species.
The catch reductions resulting from the closure are
worth approximately $3 million annually to the quota
holders, as well as loss of customary and recreational
shing opportunities. It is critical that best available
information is used to inform management decisions
about when and at what level this shery is re-opened
to ensure its future sustainability. Research programs
to monitor both adult and juvenile paua recovery are
currently being undertaken to inform management de-
cisions. A critical gap in the current monitoring is an
understanding of where the new recruits come from that
contribute to population recovery and the spatial scales
that are biologically relevant for future management.
Development of next-generation molecular markers
called SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) for paua
and subsequent genetic analyses will enable a greater un-
derstanding of the patterns and processes for paua pop-
ulation recovery. The recent development of genotyping-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 55
by-sequencing (GBS) means that SNP development is
achievable, even for -model species such as paua. Pop-
ulationVspecic genetic diversity will be used to quan-
tify the magnitude of genetic bottlenecks in northern
South Island paua populations resulting from the earth-
quake, and in neighbouring populations outside the
aected area. Analyses across dierent cohorts will en-
able sources of recruitments to be identied from within
and beyond the aected region. Together these analyses
will assist in reducing the risk in decision making around
the appropriate levels and timing for the shery to be
re-opened, to recover commercial losses from the shery
closure and to provide for sustainable recreational and
customary shing.
The timing - We are looking for an outstanding can-
didate whom we can support through the VUW PhD
scholarship application scheme, to ensure that the per-
son secures a stipend and full fees remission. The next
round of VUW PhD scholarship applications closes on
1st March 2019, so we aim to identify someone before
that date.
The ideal candidate V We are looking for a student with
a background in population genetics and/or bioinfor-
matics and an interest in applying SNPs to a marine
invertebrate coastal shery. Because we will need to
support the candidate through the VUW PhD scholar-
ship application process we need an academically strong
candidate (GPA of >85%). We will give preference to
candidates with a Masters level degree and also with
previous experience of working with GBS and/or SNPs
data sets.
This PhD position is open to all nationalities (i.e., the
successful applicant does not have to be a NZ citizen).
However, an international student (i.e., non-NZ and
non-Australian) will require a NZ student visa to be
allowed to study in NZ. In the normal course of events
this is not a problem given that the student in question
will be supported by VUW. But the visa application
process can take several weeks to a few months. We
understand this, and this is not a problem. The actual
start date is therefore negotiable if the student is and
requires a student visa.
For candidates whose rst language is not English, a
TOEFL or equivalent exam pass is required. The work
location V Most of the 3 year PhD position will be
based in Wellington, but there will be an opportunity
to work with Rob Elshire in Palmerston North, which
is about 2 hours drive north of Wellington. On a day
to day basis the successful candidate will be based at
Victoria University of Wellington. The NZ Paua In-
dustry Council (PIC) is also based in Wellington. An
opportunity exists to visit the eld sites and to helpPIC divers collect paua samples.
For general enquiries please email V
jonathan.gardner@vuw.ac.nz
Applications V Applications from suitably
qualied individuals should be submitted to
jonathan.gardner@vuw.ac.nz, before the closing
date of 31st January 2019. Applications should consist
of: A cover letter outlining why you are interested in
the position and how you meet the candidate selection
criteria (Masters level degree preferred;
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
VirginiaTech SumacGenomics
M.Sc. assistantship available at Virginia Tech
The Holliday Lab in the Department of Forest Resources
and Environmental Conservation at Virginia Tech is
seeking an M.Sc. student for a funded project aimed
at understanding genetic diversity, population struc-
ture, and hybridization in the endangered sumac Rhus
michauxii.
R. michauxii occurs in the southeast United States, pri-
marily in Virginia and North Carolina. The species is
federally listed as endangered, and the goal with this
project is to understand the degree of local population
diversity, population connectivity, and the degree to
which it hybridizes with a related, more widespread
species (R. glabra). The project will involve partici-
pating in sampling eorts during summer of 2019 (i.e.,
prior to ocial enrollment, for which an hourly wage will
be provided) and subsequent genotyping-by-sequencing
library preparation and downstream analyses.
Candidates should have a background in biology, envi-
ronmental science, ecology, or a related eld, and be
interested in learning the necessary computational and
statistical tools to complete this project. Please note
that some foreign nationals may not be eligible for this
project due to the sensitive location of some of the eld
work.
Please send expressions of interest and CV to Dr. Jason
Holliday (jah1@vt.edu).56 EvolDir February 1, 2019
\Holliday, Jason" <jah1@vt.edu >
WageningenU 2
ComparativeGenomics
WageningenU.ComparativeGenomicsFish
Dear All,
I would like to draw your attention to an exciting PhD
project on comparative genomics of sh, at Wageningen
University, The Netherlands.
(text and link to apply available online: https://-
www.wur.nl/en/Jobs/Vacancies/Show/PhD-student-
in-the-area-of-functional-and-comparative-genomics-in-
sh-health-and-immunology.htm)
We are looking for an enthusiastic PhD candidate, with
a clear interest in one or more of the following research
elds: epigenomics/genomics, bioinformatics, health
and immunology, and comparative biology. The PhD
will be employed at a newly funded H2020 project
AQUA-FAANG, aiming to support the global Func-
tional Annotation of ANimal Genomes (FAANG) con-
sortium, with a focus on domesticated sh species. How
are traits of animals encoded in their genomes, and how
is that code triggered to become active? To help an-
swer those questions, AQUA-FAANG aims to generate
a wealth of functional genomic (e.g. expression) and
epigenomic (e.g. chromatin structure) data from six
sh species, including Atlantic salmon, sea bass, and
common carp, for dierent organs and developmental
stages. Special emphasis lies on sh health, as this is
a major concern for economic loss and animal welfare
in aquaculture. Cells and tissues involved in immune
response can be easily studied, and easily triggered, and
therefore serve as a good biological ^Amodel trait'. Since
there are so many economically important sh species,
a comparative genomic approach will be applied to iden-
tify common themes in the functional genomics of sh
health, such as how immune responses are regulated
across species. Special emphasis will lie on the role of
whole genome duplications, that have occurred several
times throughout the evolution of the bony shes.
All candidates should meet the following requirements:
A Master's degree in a relevant biological eld (ge-
nomics/epigenomics, bioinformatics, computational bi-
ology, comparative biology, immunology, or evolutionary
biology), or in a quantitative eld (statistics, data ana-
lytics).The candidate should have:
- A proven anity for computational analysis (e.g. ex-
perience with Python, R, Linux). - A strong interest in
functional genomic and comparative/evolutionary bio-
logical analysis - A strong interest in fundamental and
applied research. - Be creative and innovative.Good
organisational and (written and spoken) communication
- skills in English, as well as a proven ability to collabo-
rate with others. - Willingness to travel internationally,
to attend international project meetings and conferences
and visit other institutes.
We oer you a challenging job for a period of 4 years at
an international leading organization. The position is
available within Wageningen University & Researchat
the Aquaculture and Fisheries group, and Animal Breed-
ing and Genomics group, both at Wageningen Campus.
The organization has good and exible employment con-
ditions, including good education and training facilities
for PhD students. Employment basis: Appointment for
38 hours per week for a period of 1.5 years with exten-
sion of 2.5 years after successful evaluation.. The gross
salary is in according to the Collective Labour Agree-
ment of Wageningen University and rst year salary is
2.266, per month rising to 2.879, in the fourth year.
Additional information about the vacancy can be
obtained from: Dr Hendrik-Jan Megens (hendrik-
jan.megens@wur.nl) +31317482469 or prof. Geert
Wiegertjes (geert.wiegertjes@wur.nl) +31317482732.
For further information about working at Wagenin-
gen University & Research, take a look at http://-
www.wur.nl/en/Jobs.htm Closing date for applications:
08-02-2019
- H-J Megens, PhD, - Assistant Professor - Animal Breed-
ing & Genomics, - Wageningen University, - Wageningen,
The Netherlands - LinkedIn: http://nl.linkedin.com/-
pub/hendrik-jan-megens/24/536/2b8 - Google
Scholar: http://scholar.google.nl/citations?user=-
kGUIXOYAAAAJ |{
WageningenU.ComparativeEpiGenomics
Dear All,
I would like to draw your attention to an exciting PhD
project on evolutionary and comparative epigenomics,
at Wageningen University, The Netherlands.
(text and link to apply available online: https://-
www.wur.nl/en/Jobs/Vacancies/Show/PhD-student-in-
the-area-of-epigenomics-of-chicken-and-pig.htm)
We are looking for an enthusiastic PhD candidate, with
a clear interest in one or more of the following research
elds: epigenomics/genomics,February 1, 2019 EvolDir 57
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Jobs
AMNH NewYork AssistCuratorEntomology . . . . . . . 57
BowdoinC Maine LabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
CarnegieMuseumNatHist AssistDirector . . . . . . . . . . . 58
CCMAR Portugal Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
CornellU FieldAssist PlantPollinatorEvol . . . . . . . . . .59
DukeU AssociateInResearch Biology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
EasternKentuckyU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
GabonResearchBase Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
GeorgeWashingtonU FoundingChairBioinformatics 63
GulbenkianInst Portugal 2 Head Programmer . . . . . 63
HealthCanada Ottawa 2 Biostatistician . . . . . . . . . . . .65
KewGardens UK EvolutionOrchids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
MARE CIBIO Portugal BioinformaticsEvolGenomics
66
MarineBiologicalLab EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 66Medellin Colombia 1yr MicrobiomeBioinformatics . 67
NHM LosAngelesCounty InvertCurator . . . . . . . . . . . .67
OakRidgeNatlLab MicrobialGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
SanDiegoZoo SnrResearchCoord DeadlineExtended 69
StonyBrookU VertebrateEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
SYSAAF France QuantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UBristol 4 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UCalifornia Davis RNAseqLabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
UCambridge PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UHouston TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
UNAM Mexico DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UTexas Austin REU2019 PlantEvolutionaryEcology 73
UVictoria BritishColumbia EvolutionaryCellBiology 74
AMNH NewYork
AssistCuratorEntomology
The Division of Invertebrate Zoology of the American
Museum of Natural History is seeking an outstanding re-
searcher in insect systematics, with particular preference
for candidates with a research specialty in Lepidoptera
or Coleoptera, or in minor insect orders. This is a tenure-
track appointment to be lled at the Assistant Curator
and Assistant Professor level.
Since its founding in 1869, the Museum has advanced
its mission to discover, interpret and disseminate infor-mation about the natural world and human cultures
through wide-ranging programs of scientic research,
education, and exhibition.
The primary responsibility of curators at the Museum
is to perform and supervise original scientic research,
as well as to curate any relevant collections. They are
also expected to provide service to the Museum. This
can include advising programs in exhibition, education,
including participation in the Richard Gilder Graduate
School, or other forms of public outreach, as well as
undertaking eldwork and building collections.
The Museum places a high value on scholarship, as well
as other factors that include collegiality, institutional cit-
izenship, diversity, equity and inclusion. The Museum is
committed to building a diverse community throughout
science and education. Therefore, the service statement58 EvolDir February 1, 2019
should address these objectives. Applicants should re-
quest three letters of reference to be sent separately.
(Others may be solicited during the search process.) All
materials should be submitted through this system.
The closing date for applications is February 1, 2019;
evaluation of applications will begin on February 2, 2019.
Applications should be in PDF format and include a
cover letter, a curriculum vitae with a list of publica-
tions, a research statement of no more than ve pages
including gures and references, a statement addressing
Museum service interests and relevant experience, and
copies of ve signicant publications.
Inquiries about the position should be directed to James
M. Carpenter, Chair of the Search Committee (car-
pente@amnh.org; (212) 769-5611).
Applications should be submitted here: https://-
careers.amnh.org/postings/1699 Susan L. Perkins,
Ph.D. Curator and Professor Sackler Institute for Com-
parative Genomics American Museum of Natural His-
tory 200 Central Park West New York, NY 10024
www.susanperkins.net @NYCuratrix
Immediate Past President, American Society of Para-
sitologists
Susan Perkins <perkins@amnh.org >
BowdoinC Maine LabTech
A full time molecular laboratory technician position is
available in my lab at Bowdoin College, in Brunswick,
Maine. The existing funding is short term, through June,
but it is also possible that it will continue for a few more
months. The project focuses on diet analysis using next
generation sequencing and paired isotope data. Can-
didates with demonstrated experience in a molecular
ecology setting, and who work well independently, are
encouraged to apply.
For additional questions, contact Dave Carlon at: dcar-
lon@bowdoin.edu
Description-
Responsible for day-to-day operations of a molecular
ecology research laboratory at Bowdoin College. Pre-
pares samples, DNA libraries, and generates DNA se-
quence data from using Sanger and Next Generation
Sequencing technology. Provides technical expertise to
students and sta. Maintains a safe and productive
working environment for all end users. This is a beneteligible position.
Education/Skills Requirements BS degree in Biology or
related eld.
Demonstrated expertise in the following areas is pre-
ferred: 1. DNA extraction from environmental samples,
including preserved tissues and environmental samples.
2. Preparation of multiplex libraries for sequencing on
the Illumina platform. 3. PCR and Quantitative PCR
(qPCR). 4. Preparation of amplicons for Sanger sequenc-
ing. 5. Next generation sequencing bioinformatics.
Experience Requirements and/or Equivalents Minimum
of 2 years work experience in molecular biology labora-
tory setting required. Excellent organizational and time
management skills. Computer programming experience
in bioinformatics strongly preferred.
Standard Work Days and Hours Up to 40 hrs/week.
Monday-Friday, 8:30-5:00. This is a temporary position
that is funded through June 30th, 2019.
If interested, you can apply by going to: http:/-
/careers.bowdoin.edu/postings/5713 \dcar-
lon@bowdoin.edu" <dcarlon@bowdoin.edu >
CarnegieMuseumNatHist
AssistDirector
Carnegie Museum of Natural History - Assistant Direc-
tor, Science and Research
Carnegie Museum of Natural History invites diverse
applications for ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, SCIENCE
AND RESEARCH. Successful candidates for this po-
sition will be detail-oriented and have experience and
success in collaboration and communication, in addition
to having advanced training in the natural sciences. Re-
sponsibilities will include project management, support
in organizing activities in the department of Science
and Research, and working with the Director, Science
and Research in providing leadership in meetings and
on emergent projects in the department.
Qualications: Ph.D. in natural sciences or demonstra-
bly equivalent experience with a minimum of three years
of experience in project management of complex science
and science communication projects. Given the mu-
seum's distinguished history of research and collections
focused on the evolution of form, function and phy-
ologeny, a background in evolutionary studies is strongly
welcomed. Excellent written and verbal communicationFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 59
skills; a collaborative, friendly approach, as well as a
general knowledge and interest in natural history, the en-
vironment, and the Anthropocene. Exceptional organi-
zational skills, ability to work independently, creatively,
keep track of details, and to exercise good judgment.
Research experience with an emphasis in conservation
and interdisciplinary elds and good humor preferred.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History is one of the four
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, with a mission in
original scientic research, preservation of collections,
and public science education and engagement. The
museum has approximately 22 million specimens and
artifacts in its collections, has hired six new members to
its curatorial sta in the past four years and endowed
its collection manager positions. Carnegie Museum
of Natural History is located in the bustling Oakland
neighborhood of Pittsburgh, with easy access to shops,
dining, transportation, major universities and cultural
attractions. From the Visit Pittsburgh website, \Not
only are its sports teams a mighty force to be reckoned
with, but the city has overcome adversity in a big way.
Pittsburgh's aordable standard of living, top-notch
health care facilities and cultural attractions combine
to make it America's 'Most Livable City."' For cost
of living comparisons, visit: https://money.cnn.com/-
calculator/pf/cost-of-living/index.html .Consideration
of applications will begin January 20th and continue
until a suitable candidate is identied. Applications can
be submitted here: https://usr55.dayforcehcm.com/-
CandidatePortal/en-US/car/Posting/View/799
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh is rmly committed to
equal employment opportunity for all persons without
regard to race, color, religion, creed, national origin,
ancestry, sex, gender identity or expression, age, marital
status, sexual orientation, citizenship status, veteran
status, non job-related disability or genetic information
as those terms are dened under applicable law.
\Tonsor, Steve" <TonsorS@CarnegieMNH.Org >CCMAR Portugal Bioinformatician
JUNIOR RESEARCHER (M/F) IN BIOINFORMAT-
ICS - 1 VACANCY
Reference: CCMAR/ID/20/2018
The Algarve Centre for Marine Sciences (CCMAR)
opens a call for a Junior Researcher (M/F), of any
nationality, including stateless candidates. The inde-
nite period employment contract will be as part of the
EOSC-Life Research and Innovation Action (RIA) 'Pro-
viding an open collaborative space for digital biology in
Europe' (INFRAEOSC-04-2018).
Job Summary and Duties:
The Junior Researcher will provide bioinformatic and
computational expertise to develop a 'Demonstrator'
project for the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC)
infrastructure.
1) Develop a web-based portal for the EOSC to en-
able access to marine genomic resources, including a
inter-species software pipeline to compare and update
gene annotations and ontologies. a) Develop program-
matically a content management framework (e.g. Dru-
pal) based on the Orcae platform (Online Resource for
Community Annotation of Eukaryotes). b) Develop
programmatically databases and software pipelines for
genome curation, and annotation and ontology com-
parisons. 2) Provide general bioinformatic expertise to
project managers.
Full job description here: https://ccmar.ualg.pt/en/-
job/ccmarid202018-1-vacancy-junior-researcher-mf In-
formal enquires to: Cymon J. Cox cymon@ualg.pt
Cymon Cox <cymon.cox@googlemail.com >
CornellU FieldAssist
PlantPollinatorEvol
The Geber lab at Cornell University seeks a highly mo-
tivated, detail-oriented assistant for summer 2019 eld
research in the Southern Sierra Nevada (May-July) and
lab work in Ithaca, NY (July-August). We are studying
four species of annual plants in the genus Clarkia and60 EvolDir February 1, 2019
their specialist bee pollinators. Our research focuses on
how pollinators may impact plant species evolution and
coexistence. We also study the population biology of
one of the four species throughout its range and have
yearly population censuses to conduct.
Our research sites are located in the Kern River Canyon
in Kern County, California. The lab rents a house on
a property where other labs working in this system are
also based in the summer. This eld assistant would
have a private bedroom, access to a shared bathroom
and a communal kitchen, and wireless Internet access.
Frequent trips are made into town (Lake Isabella and
Kernville) for groceries and other supplies.
Successful applicants are expected to assist in data col-
lection, data entry, and ower, seed, and bee collection
in the eld; work in Ithaca will consist of sample process-
ing and data analysis. The assistant will work a 39-hour
workweek. Weather conditions in the Sierras can be
very hot and dry (100+ degrees F) in the summer, so
assistants should be prepared to work in hot conditions.
Applicants must be able to hike up and down steep hills
for up to 1 mile at a time, stoop or kneel for extended
periods of time, and work in proximity to bees and
snakes. The work can be very physically demanding
and tiring, and the research team typically collects data
7 days a week. A good sense of humor and a positive
attitude are essential.
Qualications: 1) Citizenship and availability: appli-
cants must be US citizens and must be available to
begin working in California as of May 1, 2019. The
exact end date of the position in August is exible.
2) Education: some undergraduate education in biol-
ogy, ecology, or related eld, or equivalent experience.
3) Experience: experience with and enthusiasm about
working outdoors, and/or previous eld research experi-
ence. Previous experience working with plants, bees, or
insects is preferable but not required. 4) Tasks: perform
repetitive tasks with attention to detail, daily hiking. 5)
Personality: interpersonal skills and willingness to live
and work in close quarters with other researchers in a
house.
Compensation: transportation to and from California,
a private room with Internet access in the eld house,
and pay ( $13- $15 an hour depending on experience) will
be provided. Applicants will be responsible for securing
their own housing in Ithaca for July and August.
The deadline for applications is March 1, 2019. Appli-
cants should submit: 1) a short (1 page maximum) cover
letter describing their qualications as well as future
academic and professional goals; 2) a resume or CV
outlining previous work experience and relevant courses
(completed or in progress), extracurricular activities;and 3) two letters of reference. Letters of reference may
be included with the cover letter and resume/CV or
emailed directly by letter writers to the email address
below with the applicants name in the subject line of
the email.
Applications will be reviewed as they are submitted.
Cornell University is an armative action/equal op-
portunity employer. Cornell University and we in the
Geber lab have a commitment to support equality of
education and employment opportunity by arming the
value of diversity. We welcome and encourage scientists
of all backgrounds to apply to work with us! *http://-
blogs.cornell.edu/geberlab/ <http://blogs.cornell.edu/-
geberlab/>*
Email to: Monica Geber, Professor of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology mag9@cornell.edu
Kate Eisen <kee39@cornell.edu >
DukeU AssociateInResearch Biology
Job: DukeU.AssociateinResearch.Biology
*An Associate in Research position is available, starting
in Spring 2019, in the Tung lab at Duke University. *
The Tung lab studies the relationship between behav-
ior, the social environment, and genetics and genomics.
We combine detailed phenotypic and demographic in-
formation with modern genomic data sets on gene reg-
ulation and epigenetics. Current projects focus on the
epigenetic signature of early life ecological and social
adversity; gene regulatory mechanisms linking social
adversity and health in rhesus macaques; trade-os asso-
ciated with helper-breeder transitions in meerkats and
mole rats; and the genomic and phenotypic consequences
of hybridization in wild baboons.
The ideal candidate will have previous experience with
cell culture and aseptic technique, and will be familiar
with basic molecular techniques such as DNA/RNA ex-
traction and library preparation for high-throughput
sequencing. We are also interested in the ability to work
independently and the ability to multi-task. Attention
to detail and careful record keeping are essential.
In addition to performing wet lab work as described
above, duties will also include responsibility for day-to-
day logistics, such as ordering and receiving, working
with trainees in the lab, and exporting/importing irre-
placeable samples to/from our eld sites.February 1, 2019 EvolDir 61
Requirements: bachelor's degree, 1-2 years of experi-
ence in a research laboratory (not just a lab class), and
familiarity with the fundamentals of molecular biology.
Position is for 40 hrs/week, and will last 12 months, with
the possibility of renewal contingent on performance and
availability of funding.
For more information about the lab and our work, see:
http://www.tung-lab.org/ If interested, please apply
via academicjobsonline.org (job #12885). You will need
a copy of your CV, a cover letter, and contact informa-
tion for 3 references.
Duke University is an Armative Action/Equal Oppor-
tunity Employer committed to providing employment
opportunity without regard to an individual's age, color,
disability, gender, gender expression, gender identity,
genetic information, national origin, race, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, or veteran status. Duke also makes
good faith eorts to recruit, hire, and promote qualied
women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, and
veterans.
Tawni Voyles <voyles.tn@gmail.com >
EasternKentuckyU PlantEvolution
The Department of Biological Sciences at Eastern Ken-
tucky University is accepting applications for a Botanist
at the rank of Assistant professor. This is a 9-month,
tenure-track position to begin August 15, 2019. Teach-
ing responsibilities will include courses in the under-
graduate Biology (BS), Wildlife Management (BS), and
graduate (MS) programs. Primary courses to be taught
include General Botany, Dendrology, Plant Systematics,
and Aquatic and Wetland Plants. Additional courses
may be assigned based on the candidate's expertise and
departmental needs. The typical teaching load is 12
hours per semester, but new faculty can expect to teach
9 hours per semester during their rst year.
The successful candidate will be expected to direct and
advance the mission of the Ronald L. Jones Herbarium,
the largest in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, which
is housed in the recently completed (August 2017) Sci-
ence Building. In addition, the incumbent will establish
an active research program, mentor undergraduate and
graduate (MS) students, and engage with conservation-
oriented organizations such as the Kentucky Native
Plant Society, the Oce of Kentucky Nature Preserves,
and US Fish and Wildlife Service. Knowledge of theora of the eastern United States is essential. Areas of
research may include, but are not limited to, compu-
tational biology, population biology, plant phylogenet-
ics/systematics, and organismal diversity.
A Ph.D. is required from a regionally accredited or
internationally recognized institution by the time of
appointment; post-doctoral experience is preferred. Re-
view of applications will begin March 4th and continue
until position is lled. All interested applicants must
apply via http://jobs.eku.edu/postings/9370. At the
present time, EKU is unable to sponsor applicants for
this position for work visas.
For detail regarding facilities, equipment, natural areas,
and space directed toward research refer to our EKU
Biological Sciences website: https://biology.eku.edu/ or
contact Dr. Pat Calie, Search Committee Chair.
Jennifer Koslow, PhD Associate Professor of Plant Ecol-
ogy Department of Biological Sciences Eastern Kentucky
University 521 Lancaster Avenue Science Building 3238
Richmond, KY 40475
oce: Science Building 4232 phone: 859-622-6258 jen-
nifer.koslow@eku.edu
\Koslow, Jennifer" <Jennifer.Koslow@eku.edu >
GabonResearchBase Manager
Research manager for a scientic research base in Gabon
The Mandrillus Project (www.projetmandrillus.com),
created in 2012 by a CNRS researcher (France), is a
long-term scientic project to study the ecology and
sociality of a Gabonese forest primate, the mandrill (
Mandrillus sphinx ). The study population consists
of 180 individuals living in a large social group in the
Lekedi private park, in southern Gabon, near the village
of Bakoumba. The study population is monitored daily.
The Mandrillus Project is recruiting a research man-
ager to supervise this research station, which employs
between 8 and 10 full-time sta and regularly hosts
students and researchers for short or long stays.
The tasks / activities related to the manager position
are:
-behavioral data collection in the eld and daily follow-
up of the mandrills
-laboratory work for the management of biological sam-
ples collected in the eld62 EvolDir February 1, 2019
-management of the scientic data sent regularly to
researchers
-management of scientic protocols developed by re-
searchers and students.
-administration (planning, payrolls and administration
with the Gabonese authorities, budget management) and
human resource management of a team of Gabonese and
European eld assistants
-welcoming and facilitating stays of students and re-
searchers
-management of the car park
-management of scientic/telecom equipment
-writing of monthly reports on project events
-management of the relationships with local communities
and employees of the Lekedi Park
Required skills for the manager:
-Previous experience in the eld is mandatory (preferen-
tially in Equatorial/tropical countries)
-Previous experience in the study of animal behavior is
a real plus
-Experience(s) abroad and / or in isolated conditions
-Previous experience(s) in management / logistics is a
plus
-Excellent communication skills
-Be physically and mentally resistant
-Be open to cultural dierences
-Abilities to live in isolated areas
-Excellent level of French (mandatory)
-Excellent physical conditions (mandatory)
Desirable assets:
-Being in couple (to come and live in Gabon)
-Bachelor degree
-Skills in car mechanics and maintenance
-Scientic rigor
We are looking for a very organized, motivated and seri-
ous person. The recruited person must be ready to live
in isolated conditions and in an Equatorial environment,
in an intercultural context. Although weekly days o
are scheduled, this position often requires a daily invest-
ment . The hired person must be ready to manage their
time optimally for the project.
Because of the isolated conditions, we will give our
preference to a couple . Both partners must be in excel-lent physical conditions, because the eld is very rough,
harder than expected!
The partner will be in charge of behavioral data collec-
tion and lab work (this is a full-time local position).
The person/couple will be housed on site, in the private
park, in very good material conditions (house equipped
with air conditioning, water and electricity). The Lekedi
Park is located 7kms away from a small Gabonese vil-
lage, Bakoumba, and an hour away from a small town,
Moanda.
Although a couple is strongly desired , we will also
consider single applicant. If a couple is hired, arrange-
ments for the signicant-other are possible within the
framework of the project.
Contract length:
1 renewable year (3 months probationary period) up to
2 times.
Salary and benet :
Manager: CNRS tari grid
Housing included
Local salary (=stipends) for the partner (full-time posi-
tion)
An international round-trip (at the beginning and at
the end) for both partners
Deadline for ling a le:
2019, January 31 th
Auditions of the selected candidates (in Montpellier V
the transport to Montpellier is not included or by skype)
and nal answer:
First week of February 2019
Starting date:
May 1 st -15 th 2019 (not very exible)
Application le:
Please send your CV (with names and addresses of three
references for both partners) and a detailed and per-
sonalized letter of motivation (standard letters are not
encouraged) by email only to:
projetmandrillus@gmail.com
{ Marie
Marie Charpentier, Director of Researches, CNRS
ISEM UMR5554, Montpellier
Projet Mandrillus: www.projetmandrillus.com/
Visit my personal website and my opin-
ion regarding the French granting situation:February 1, 2019 EvolDir 63
www.mariecharpentier.net/publications.html Marie
Charpentier <marie.charpentier@umontpellier.fr >
GeorgeWashingtonU
FoundingChairBioinformatics
Tenured Professorship and Founding Chair, Department
of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, George Washington
University
The Milken Institute School of Public Health is seeking a
tenured faculty member as Professor and founding Chair
of the Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics.
We seek a dynamic and visionary individual to oversee
the transition of biostatistical educational and research
activities, currently located in the Department of Epi-
demiology and Biostatistics, into a new department with
an innovative curriculum and cutting-edge scholarship.
The successful candidate will have the opportunity to
help shape the vision of and provide leadership to the
development of the Department of Biostatistics and
Bioinformatics.
Core responsibilities of the position will be to provide
visionary academic leadership of the new Department,
including curriculum development, budgeting, hiring
and evaluation of faculty, assessment of the academic
program as well as expansion of partnerships with other
departments within the University to provide innovative
and integrated educational experiences for all students.
The Chair must be committed to the principle of diver-
sity and inclusion in our students, sta and faculty. The
position requires scientic leadership and experience.
The Milken Institute School of Public Health has a di-
verse and growing faculty, with a $90 million research
portfolio. As the only school of public health in the
nations capital, faculty and students have a unique op-
portunity to work closely with government agencies such
as the National Institutes of Health, the US Department
of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration,
as well as the numerous non-governmental organizations
that are headquartered in DC.
Basic Qualications: We seek applicants with a doc-
torate in biostatistics, statistics, bioinformatics, health
data science or a related eld with strong written and
oral communication skills; an established program of re-
search; and a strong national or international reputation
supported by a signicant record of developing innova-
tive statistical, data analytics or biostatistical methods.Applicants should also have a solid pedagogical record
in one or more areas of teaching, advising, or mentoring
and a demonstrated commitment to public health.
Application Procedure: Applicants should complete
the online faculty application at http://www.gwu.jobs/-
postings/64164 and submit the following documents: 1)
curriculum vitae; 2) letter of interest; and, 3) statement
of qualications. Only complete applications will be con-
sidered. Review of applications will begin on 1/18/2019
and will continue until the position is lled.
The university is an Equal Employment Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer that does not unlaw-
fully discriminate in any of its programs or activities
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
age, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gen-
der identity expression, or on any other basis prohibited
by applicable law. Employment oers are contingent
on the satisfactory outcome of a standard background
screening.
Contact Keith Crandall (kcrandall@gwu.edu) for ques-
tions or informal inquiries.
Professor Keith A. Crandall, PhD Director, Computa-
tional Biology Institute <https://cbi.gwu.edu/ >Di-
rector of Informatics, CTSI-CN Department of Epidemi-
ology &Biostatistics <https://publichealth.gwu.edu/-
departments/epidemiology-and-biostatistics >Milken
Institute School of Public Health The George Wash-
ington University 800 22nd Street, NW - Suite
7000D Washington, DC 20052-0066 USA (o): 571-
553-0107 (m): 202-769-8411 Twitter <https://-
twitter.com/crandallkeith?lang=en >/ LinkedIn <
https://www.linkedin.com/in/keith-crandall-8a9b0a9 >
\Prof. Keith A. Crandall" <kcrandall@gwu.edu >
GulbenkianInst Portugal 2 Head
Programmer
The Instituto Gulbenkian de Cie Incia (IGC) has an
open call for a highly motivated and proactive PhD
holder, with demonstrated experience in the eld of
Bioinformatics and Genomics, to act as a head of its
Bioinformatics & Genomics Unit.
This will be a new facility at the IGC, follow-
ing the merger of its Bioinformatics (http:/-
/facilities.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bioinformatics/-
bioinformatics.php) and Genomics UNITs (http://-64 EvolDir February 1, 2019
facilities.igc.gulbenkian.pt/genomics/genomics.php).
This UNIT at IGC will provide its researchers with
genomics services (Whole Genome Sequencing, Long-
read Sequencing, Transcriptomics, Metagenomics,
Genotyping, Single Cell Analyses, Nucleic Acid QC),
services of consultation, support with experimental
design, data processing, analysis and management and
training courses. IGC also houses Biodata.PT/Elixir
Portugal, the Portuguese distributed e-infrastructure
for biological data and the Portuguese node of the
European bioinformatics infrastructure - ELIXIR.
The Unit works under strong synergy with other facili-
ties at IGC. Adding to its core mission above, this Unit
aims also at providing services to external organizations
and academic institutions with which the IGC has estab-
lished collaborations. Thus we look for a candidate with
experience/interest and strong motivation to collaborate
with other institutions towards the transmural expan-
sion of the services of IGC Bioinformatics & Genomics
Unit.
GENERAL ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS *PhD
*Know-how in bioinformatics and statistical data analy-
sis; research and/or management expertise in NGS tech-
nologies, training experience *Record in grant proposal
development will be a plus. *Leadership Capability
*Ability to work in a team; *Ambition and Motivation
for the exercise of the function; *Initiative and auton-
omy; *Planning and organization.
WE OFFER -Opportunity to lead an innovative UNIT
-Competitive salary depending on the candidate's level
of expertise -Continuous training -Career Development
Perspectives -Dynamic work atmosphere
APPLICATION PROCEDURE Interested candidates
should send an email to igcpositions@igc.gulbenkian.pt
with a PDF le with Motivation Letter (maximum of 1
page), a vision for the Bioinformatics & Genomics UNIT
(2 pages maximum), Detailed curriculum vitae, contacts
of two references, with the subject \BioinfoGeno name
of candidate".
The deadline for submitting an application is 31st Jan-
uary 2019.
SELECTION PROCEDURE After a pre-analysis of
the Curriculum Vitae, motivation letter, vision for the
Bioinformatics & Genomics Facility and recommenda-
tions, the selected candidates will be contacted for an
interview.
NON- DISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL ACCESS
POLICY: The Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciencia of the
Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation actively promotes a
non-discrimination and equal access policy, wherefore
no candidate can be privileged, benetted, impairedor deprived of any rights whatsoever, or be exempt of
any duties based on ancestry, age, sex, sexual prefer-
ence, marital status, family and economic conditions,
education, origin or social conditions, genetic heritage,
reduced work capacity, disability, chronic illness, nation-
ality, ethnic origin or race, origin territory, language,
religion, political or ideological convictions and union
membership.
I am posting this call on behalf of the IGC Direction. For
further inquiries please contact: info@igc.gulbenkian.pt
Dr. Claudia Bank Principal Investigator Evolution-
ary Dynamics Group Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia
Oeiras, Portugal
Open positions in the Evolutionary Dynamics Group:
evoldynamics.org/positions
|{
Individuals with strong programming skills and a gen-
uine interest in evolutionary questions are welcome to
apply to the available ERC-funded programmer posi-
tion under the project \FIT2GO { A toolbox for tness
landscapes in evolution".
Lab
Building on evolutionary theory, research in the lab re-
volves around quantifying epistasis across levels of biolog-
ical organization and across environments, and to study
its impact on the population genetics of adaptation and
hybridization. We approach these questions through a
combination of mathematical modelling, computer sim-
ulations, statistical method development, experimental
evolution, and data analysis and interpretation. The
long-term goal lies in understanding how ecology, evolu-
tion, and molecular constraints shape genomes.
The programmer's missions will be the following:
- develop algorithms and code for lab projects - pro-
vide well-documented implementation of methods and
simulations to be released as supplements or software
packages - write methods, results, and manuals related
to above-mentioned programming - manage the lab's
computing resources - assist lab members regarding
computing/computer questions
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 65
HealthCanada Ottawa 2
Biostatistician
Looking to sta 2 senior bio-statistician positions at
Health Canada in Ottawa Ontario.
Salary range $92,483 to $107,258.
2 permanent positions to be lled immediately.
Details and application: https://goo.gl/7sbohr Must
apply using supplied URL. No email responses or appli-
cations.
Nicholas Petronella <bfssi.nicholas.petronella@gmail.com >
KewGardens UK EvolutionOrchids
A fantastic permanent research position at the Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew has just been advertised.
Research Leader - Sainsbury Orchid Fellow
You will work within the Integrated Monography team,
specialising in the systematics, taxonomy and evolution
of the most economically and ecologically important
groups of plants, including the orchid family, Orchi-
daceae ' one of the most diverse, valuable and threatened
plant families on Earth.
Kew's collections, which have been developed and re-
ned by generations of experts, are vital to this research.
Kew's scientic vision is to document and understand
global plant and fungal diversity and its uses, bring-
ing to authoritative expertise to bear on the critical
challenges facing humanity today.
Comparative Plant & Fungal Biology is one of Kew's six
scientic research departments, with around 90 research
sta, students and associates, generating authoritative
and wide-ranging insights into the systematics, evolution
and traits of major plant and fungal groups.
Hours of work: Full time
Contract type: Permanent
Salary: pounds 37,177 to pounds 40,737 per annum,
depending on skills and experienceClosing Date: 05/02/2019
For more information and to apply please visit:
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/research-leader-
sainsbury-orchid-fellow-374935.html |{
More details
Kew is the world's leading botanic gardens, at the fore-
front of plant and fungal science, a UNESCO World
Heritage Site and a major visitor attraction. We want
a world where plants and fungi are understood, valued
and conserved ' because our lives depend on them.
We use the power of our science and the rich diversity
of our gardens and collections to provide knowledge,
inspiration and understanding of why plants and fungi
matter to everyone.
The Integrated Monography team discovers and de-
scribes species on a global scale, uncovering the evo-
lutionary dynamics and relationships of plants using
taxonomy and -omics technologies. We aim to complete
the tree of life for our focal plant groups and unlock
fundamental biodiversity knowledge for the broadest
audiences and applications, such as conservation, land
management, and plants as resources for the future.
You will need to be qualied to PhD level with signi-
cant postdoctoral experience, with specialist knowledge
in a eld of science relevant to pursuing monographic
research on the Orchidaceae. You will have sucient
skills and experience to plan and develop a world-class
research programme on the orchid family, contributing
to the collections at Kew (e.g. plant systematics, tax-
onomy, genomics, evolutionary biology, biogeography,
ecology).
This will include the ability to motivate, manage and
mentor a small team of researchers, which might include
PhD and postdoctoral students. You will also have a
good track record in securing research funding, and ev-
idence of managing budgets. Your publication record
should demonstrate a broad and deep knowledge of the
systematics and evolution of the orchids, and a range of
research skills.
The salary will be pounds 37,177 to pounds 40,737 per
annum, depending on skills and experience.
We oer a fantastic range of benets including a broad
range of Learning and Development opportunities, with
access to the Civil Service training curriculum, generous
annual leave entitlement for new starters, family friendly
policies, a choice of competitive pensions and exible
benets scheme.
If you are interested in this position, please submit your
application through the online portal, by clicking \Apply
for this job".66 EvolDir February 1, 2019
We are committed to equality of opportunity and wel-
come applications from all sections of the community.
We guarantee to interview all disabled applicants who
meet the essential criteria for the post.
Olwen Grace <o.grace@kew.org >
Dr Olwen M. Grace Senior Research Leader jIn-
tegrated Monography jComparative Plant & Fun-
gal Biology Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond,
Surrey TW9 3AE, United Kingdom www.kew.org j
www.researchgate.net/prole/Olwen Grace
The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew is a non-departmental
public body with exempt charitable status, whose princi-
pal place of business is at Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,
Richmond, Surrey TW9 3AE, United Kingdom.
Olwen Grace <O.Grace@kew.org >
MARE CIBIO Portugal
BioinformaticsEvolGenomics
- New Postdoctoral position in the eld of Bioinformatics
(Evolutionary Genomics) -
- Application deadline: February 8, 2019 -
We are looking for a motivated and skilled Bioinformati-
cian to take on an active role in an international team
working at the leading edge of genomics, environmental
DNA (eDNA) metabarcoding and eDNA metagenomics,
on a project recently funded by the Portuguese Science
Foundation.
This position has an expected duration of 30 months,
starting April 1, 2019, and will be based at the Research
Center MARE, University of Lisbon, and/or CIBIO,
University of Porto, Portugal. There will be plenty
of opportunities to interact with scientists locally, and
also internationally (Indiana State University and the
Norwegian Sequencing Centre).
For more information on the project, contract details
and application procedure, please visit: http://-
www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-
global&jobId9624 and contact Hugo Gante at
hugo.gante@indstate.edu for more details.
- -
Hugo F. Gante, PhD
Assistant Professor Department of Biology TCGA - The
Center for Genomic Advocacy Indiana State University
Terre Haute, IN 47809, USA http://hugofgante.comHugo.Gante@indstate.edu
MarineBiologicalLab
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Josephine Bay Paul Center at the Marine Biologi-
cal Laboratory (MBL) invites applications for a faculty
position at the Assistant Scientist level in the area of
evolutionary and functional genomics. The successful
candidate will apply experimental and computational
approaches to research areas including but not limited
to: microbiome interactions, functional studies of host-
associated marine microbial communities, evolutionary
and ecological changes in marine systems, or genomic
and transcriptomic studies of marine organisms.
The Bay Paul Center and the MBL have strengths
in molecular evolution, functional genomics, microbial
diversity and ecology, advanced imaging, and marine an-
imal husbandry. The Center maintains state-of-the-art
facilities for high-throughput sequencing and computa-
tional analysis. The MBL, an aliate of the University
of Chicago, has a distinguished history in fundamental
biological discovery, now with a renewed focus on marine
organisms, microbiomes, and the impact of environmen-
tal change on coastal ecosystems.
Qualications: Applicants must hold a Ph.D. (or equiva-
lent advanced degree) in a relevant eld. The successful
candidate will demonstrate strong potential for establish-
ing a vigorous extramurally supported research program
that can complement existing areas of strength across
the institutions research and educational programs.
Applications: The MBL is an Armative Action/Equal
Opportunity/Disabled/Veterans Employer and strongly
encourages applications from candidates who would con-
tribute to the diversity of its research community. Ap-
plications will be reviewed immediately upon receipt
and will continue on a rolling basis until the position is
lled. Those interested in the position should submit an
application, including a CV, short summary of accom-
plishments and future research interests, and the names
and contact information of at least three references to
mbl.edu/ASSIS01024
For full consideration applications should be submitted
by March 1, 2019.
dmarkwelch@mbl.edu David Mark Welch, Director of
Research
David Mark Welch <dmarkwelch@mbl.edu >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 67
Medellin Colombia 1yr
MicrobiomeBioinformatics
A temporal research position is available at Vidari-
umVNutrition, Health and Wellness Research Center
in Medellin (Colombia). The position is to be occu-
pied for one year, with the possibility of an exten-
sion for an additional year. The group focuses in un-
derstanding obesity and related cardiometabolic disor-
ders through the analysis of gut microbiota datasets
(16S rRNA, other amplicon sequences, qPCR, metage-
nomics, metabolomics). For more information, see
www.vidarium.org/en or contact Dr. Juan S. Escobar
at jsescobar@serviciosnutresa.com.
The researcher will contribute with the development
of bioinformatic tools to analyze large datasets in the
context of gut microbiota and health, and eventually sup-
port work at the molecular biology lab. The researcher
will also have the freedom to contribute to other ongo-
ing projects. Vidarium has an excellent collaborative
network, oering potential interactions with local and
international researchers from several universities.
Applicants should have at least a masters degree in
computational biology, bioinformatics, or a related eld.
Applicants should have prior computational experience
demonstrated through publications in scientic journals.
Experience with gut microbiota datasets is advanta-
geous.
We are a small team of young interdisciplinary re-
searchers based at Medellin, Colombias second largest
city. In 2012, our city deserved the title City of the
Year, beating New York and Tel Aviv for its transforma-
tions during the past 20 years. At 4,900 feet above the
sea level, culturally diverse Medellin is surrounded by
the Andean Mountains, oering attractions for outdoor
recreation. The area receives year-round sunshine and
warm weather that give it the nickname of Spring City.
Please submit applications through
https://career4.successfactors.com/-
sfcareer/jobreqcareer?jobId=-
3930&company A001139074P&username (Spanish only)
or send your C.V. to jsescobar@serviciosnutresa.com.
Juan Sebastian Escobar Restrepo
<jsescobar@serviciosnutresa.com >NHM LosAngelesCounty
InvertCurator
Curator, Marine Invertebrate Paleoecology
The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
(NHMLA) seeks a Curator (Assistant preferred, but
open to all ranks) to lead its research on invertebrate
paleontology and paleoecology, to oversee the growth
and care of collections of NHMLA's Department of In-
vertebrate Paleontology (IP), and to provide content
for a variety of public programs. More specically, the
successful candidate will conduct collection-based re-
search in late Cenozoic marine paleoecology, with the
aim of contributing to NHMLA's program of long-term
ecological change in Southern California.
NHMLA's vast IP collection ( >7 million specimens)
spans half a billion years of biological and geological
evolution in Southern California. It includes fossils of all
major marine invertebrate groups as well as ichnofossils,
and contains the world's largest collection of Cretaceous-
Cenozoic mollusks from the Pacic Rim, the result of a
century of research by NHMLA sta and amalgamation
of collections from several Southern California univer-
sities. Half of this collection consists of fossils from
the Pleistocene Epoch. Of the 3.5M Pleistocene speci-
mens, 1.5M have been digitized, allowing this long-term
dataset to bear on questions of Southern California's
ecological past and present, in turn greatly augmenting
the eorts of NHMLA's coastal biodiversity initiatives
by incorporating a paleontological perspective.
The successful candidate will have a record of out-
standing research, excellent communication skills, and
a demonstrated ability to engage the public and stake-
holders. A Ph.D., a strong record of peer-reviewed pub-
lications focusing on late Cenozoic marine invertebrate
paleoecology and paleontology, and demonstrated ability
to secure extramural funding are required. Experience
in managing large natural history collections and active
eld programs are highly desirable. The Curator will be
expected to build an active and publicly appealing re-
search program, to lead continued improvement of the IP
collections, to oversee all NHMLA's programs on inverte-
brate fossils, and to supervise sta and volunteers of the
IP Department. Additionally, the successful candidate
is expected to develop working relationships with local
universities, mentor students and postdoctoral fellows,
strengthen NHMLA's presence in key professional and68 EvolDir February 1, 2019
governmental networks, and maintain research through
competitive grants and/or other funding from external
sources. The Curator will be expected to participate
actively in a broad range of museum activities, includ-
ing exhibits, education, community science programs,
educator and volunteer training, public communications,
media interactions, and fundraising activities. A vision
and capability to build a research program that can be
integrated with NHMLA's ongoing eorts to understand
regional biodiversity, and to shape the collections and
research in ways that activate both their scientic and
public appeal, is paramount.
NHMLA is seeking applicants who have demonstrated
experience and commitment working with a diverse com-
munity. This is a full-time position with a salary and
title commensurate with experience.
Application deadline is February 15, 2019. The starting
date is July 1, 2019. Applicants should send a cover
letter, vision statement, curriculum vitae, and the full
contact information of at least three professional refer-
ences as a single PDF document to thayden@nhm.org,
Marine Invertebrate Paleoecology Curatorial Search.
The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Please, No Phone
Calls, No Fax
thayden@nhm.org
OakRidgeNatlLab
MicrobialGenetics
http://bit.ly/2FI7Vyq The Biosciences Division
(https://www.ornl.gov/division/bsd) of the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory seeks a full-time technical profes-
sional sta member to perform genetic analysis and
genetic modication of non-model microorganisms. The
Biosciences Division is focused on advancing science and
technology to better understand complex biological sys-
tems and their relationship with the environment. The
division has expertise and special facilities in genomics,
genetics, computational biology, microbiology, microbial
ecology, biophysics and structural biology, and plant
sciences. The Microbial Ecology and Physiology Group
focuses on microbial ecology, genomics, and genetics of
environmental and engineered organisms. The research
is concerned with the basic science underlying bioenergy
production, synthetic biology for bioproducts, carbon
cycling and sequestration, and biosecurity.Duties and Responsibilities:
* Collaborate with research teams to design, construct,
and analyze biological and environmental samples. *
Perform genetic analysis and genetic modication of non-
model microorganisms, including targeted gene deletion
and overexpression, as well as using library-based ge-
netic approaches. * Work independently to develop,
troubleshoot, and execute workows for cultivation, ma-
nipulation, and characterization of non-model microbes.
* Contribute to data management, visualization, and
analysis as well as writing research publications. * As-
sist with project management activities. * Oversee
instrument installation, maintenance, problem solving
and training of new users. * Ensure compliance with
environment, safety, health and quality program require-
ments.
Basic Qualications
* PhD or MS in Biology, Biochemistry, Cellular and
Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Chemistry or a related
discipline * Signicant contributions to peer-reviewed
research publications * 2-4 years of relevant experience
* Strong verbal and written communication skills are
required to enable eective interaction with research
scientists, postdoctoral researchers, and students * Out-
standing organization skills, including the ability to
coordinate and work productively on multiple projects
* Demonstrated experience developing, executing, and
troubleshooting molecular biology and molecular genet-
ics experiments, including cloning, genetic modication,
sequencing, PCR amplication and strain validation.
Preferred Qualications
* Experience culturing diverse microorganisms (bacteria,
archaea, or fungi) and performing genetic manipulation
of multiple hosts systems * Project management skills
* Experience with environmental, safety, health and
quality programs
Benets at ORNL: UT-Battelle oers a quality bene-
ts package, including a matching 401(k), contributory
pension plan, paid vacation, and medical/dental plan op-
tions. Onsite amenities include a credit union, medical
clinic, cafeteria, coee stands, and tness facilities.
Relocation: Moving can be overwhelming and expen-
sive. UT-Battelle oers a generous relocation package to
ease the transition process. Domestic and international
relocation assistance is available for certain positions.
If invited to interview, be sure to ask your Recruiter
(Talent Acquisition Partner) for details.
Josh Michener Sta Scientist, Biosciences Division Oak
Ridge National Laboratory 1 Bethel Valley Road, Oak
Ridge, TN 37830 https://michenerlab.org \Michener,February 1, 2019 EvolDir 69
Josh"<michenerjk@ornl.gov >
SanDiegoZoo SnrResearchCoord
DeadlineExtended
The Conservation Genetics group at the San Diego Zoo
Institute for Conservation Research is seeking a Senior
Research Coordinator to contribute to the application
of molecular genomic methods to address critical ques-
tions in evolution and conservation. This person will
contribute to existing and ongoing research projects in
conservation genetics.
Essential functions of this position include participating
in collaborative research projects in genomics and bioin-
formatics; documenting research results and data anal-
ysis; contributing to papers in peer-reviewed scientic
journals and popular literature; and giving presentations
to professional groups and the public.
The minimum qualication for the position is a Masters
degree in biology, genetics, bioinformatics or related
elds. This position is appropriate for someone with
a Masters degree and several years of research experi-
ence, or a recent PhD with minimal or no postdoctoral
experience. Solid data analysis skills and bioinformat-
ics background are required, as well as knowledge of
population genetics and recent molecular genomic meth-
ods. Excellent communication and writing skills and the
ability to work eectively with others is desirable. For
inquiries, please email awilder@sandiegozoo.org. To ap-
ply: www.sandiegozoo.org/jobs. Deadline: 1/25/2019.
AA/EOE.
{ Aryn P. Wilder, PhD Researcher, Conservation Genet-
ics San Diego Zoo Institute for Conservation Research
15600 San Pasqual Valley Rd Escondido CA 92027 760-
291-5453
awilder@sandiegozoo.org
StonyBrookU VertebrateEvolution
TENURE-TRACK ASSISTANT PROFESSOR: VER-
TEBRATE EVOLUTION AND ITS ENVIRONMEN-
TAL CONTEXT DEPARTMENT OF ECOLOGY AND
EVOLUTION STONY BROOK UNIVERSITYAs part of a university-wide initiative involving the
Turkana Basin Institute, the Department of Ecology
and Evolution at Stony Brook University invites appli-
cations for a tenure-track faculty position at the rank
of Assistant Professor whose research concerns verte-
brate evolution and/or its ecological and climatological
context. Areas of particular interest include, but are
not limited to, phylogenetics, comparative vertebrate
morphology, vertebrate paleontology, paleoecology, and
paleo-community ecology.
This position is one of ve faculty lines being created
across campus for researchers whose interests intersect
with the goals and resources of the Turkana Basin Insti-
tute. We seek a candidate with the potential to augment
or build upon one or more of the Department of Ecology
and Evolutions current research strengths, while taking
advantage of Stony Brooks unique relationship with the
Turkana Basin Institute and related programs across
campus. The Turkana Basin is a premier site for the
discovery and understanding of hominid and vertebrate
evolution and the ecological and climatological context
of these processes. Candidates need not at present have
a research program in the Turkana Basin.
We seek a candidate who will be an eective teacher
in undergraduate and graduate courses in the areas of
ecology and evolution, and who will develop programs
that will enhance the departments tradition of interdis-
ciplinary research. Details of the departments areas of
research emphasis and current facilities may be found at
http://www.stonybrook.edu/ecoevo/ . The successful
candidate must have a Ph.D. in ecology and evolution
or closely related eld at the time of appointment; pref-
erence will be given to those with related post-doctoral
experience. The successful candidate must also have the
clear potential to establish an internationally recognized,
externally funded research program that would include
mentoring of graduate and undergraduate students.
Applications are due by March 1, 2019 through Aca-
demicJobsOnline.org at http://academicjobsonline.org/-
ajo/jobs/13161 (Position ID: 13161). Applications
must include a cover letter, CV, research and teach-
ing statements and the names and contact information
of three references. Applications should be addressed to
Search Committee, Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tion, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, 11794-
2100, USA. Questions should be directed to the Chair
of the Search Committee, Prof. Jerey Levinton (Jef-
frey.Levinton@stonybrook.edu).
Stony Brook University is an armative action / equal
opportunity employer and educator. If you need a
disability-related accommodation, please call the Uni-
versity Human Resources Services Department at (631)70 EvolDir February 1, 2019
632-6161 or the University Hospital Human Resources
Department at (631) 444-4700. In accordance with the
Title II Crime Awareness and Security Act, a copy of
our crime statistics is available.
Robert Thacker <robert.thacker@stonybrook.edu >
SYSAAF France QuantGenetics
Job Oer: PROPOSAL FOR A \quantitative geneticist"
PERMANENT POSITION (To be lled immediately)
Company: The SYSAAF is a non-prot private Research
and Development umbrella organization exerting its mis-
sion through a delegation ocially agreed by the French
Ministry of Agriculture. SYSAAF sta has a large exper-
tise in poultry and aquaculture breeding and, at present,
provide technical support to around 40 breeding compa-
nies running selection programs of more than 30 dierent
avian and aquaculture species. Presently, the SYSAAF
employs 20 persons among which 10 highly qualied
geneticists and three PhD students. The SYSAAF pro-
vide to its members a wide range of expertise ranging
from design of breeding programs to implementation
of innovative technologies in reproductive biology or
domestication of new species. The SYSAAF invests
an important part of its resources in developing meth-
ods of high throughput phenotyping and in developing
methods of genetic and genomic evaluation adapted to
high throughput selection data. The SYSAAF scientic
and technical expertise evolves permanently through
the involvement in research projects conducted in col-
laboration with scientic partners at the national and
international levels and beneting from National or Eu-
ropean Commission (FEAMP, FP7, H2020) nancial
supports. The participation of the SYSAAF in these
projects is a truly unique opportunity to not only be
pioneer on the front lines of science but also to con-
tribute to the development of breeding programs by
integrating and implementing new scientic innovations
and technologies in these programs.
Position: Quantitative Geneticist to head the Genetic
Evaluation Group. More specically, he/she will have
to:
(1) initiate and contribute to the development of appro-
priate genetic and genomic evaluation tools and methods
tailored to t the specic needs of the SYSAAF and the
particularities of avian and aquaculture species. He/she
will also contribute to the validation of these tools and
methods.(2) participate in research and experimental programs
in order to develop innovative strategies allowing the
SYSAAF to answer SYSAAF and member company
needs.
(3) perform routine genetic and genomic evaluations, as
well as contribute to activities of collective interest.
This position requires an ability to work independently,
but also an ability to share and collaborate within the
SYSAAF and with private and scientic partners.
Prole: PhD or Post-doc in Quantitative Genetic (Pro-
fessional experience is a prerequisite). Extensive theo-
retical and practical knowledge in quantitative genetics,
genomics and statistics is essential. The candidate must
be familiar with genetic evaluation tools based on the
methodology of the mixed model using both frequen-
tist and Bayesian methods of estimation (e.g. VCE,
BLUPF90, WOMBAT, TM, ASREML). The candidate
must also have good skills in the R statistical program-
ming language. He/she will be mostly using Linux
servers, ORACLE and ACCESS databases. Further,
knowledge in poultry and/or aquaculture productions
and skills in statistical modelling and in English will
be highly appreciated. Prociency in French is not a
prerequisite for application, but the recruited candi-
date must learn French during his/her period of inte-
gration in order to be able to work eciently with the
SYSAAF national scientic and professional partners.
Special interest in technology development and transfer
of knowledge towards the SYSAAF member companies
is essential.
Localisation: SYSAAF, Centre INRA - Val de Loire,
UMR-BOA, 37380 Nouzilly, France.
Application: A CV together with a letter of motivation
should be sent by email or postal mail to Dr. Daniel
Gu emen e (SYSAAF Director) (+33 2 47 42 76 43 / + 33
6 62 69 19 58, daniel.guemene@inra.fr, Postal address
SYSAAF, Centre INRA - Val de Loire, UMR-BOA,
37380 Nouzilly, France. Website: www.sysaaf.fr Ro-
muald ROUGER
Romuald Rouger <Romuald.Rouger@inra.fr >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 71
UBristol 4 EvolutionaryBiology
Four academic positions available in the School of Bio-
logical Sciences, University of Bristol, UK.
The School of Biological Sciences seeks four new aca-
demics at lecturer or senior lecturer level. Successful
applicants will be research leaders with proven inter-
national track records commensurate with experience.
They will drive inuential research programmes that
span the long-standing research strengths of the School:
behavioural ecology and sensory biology, ecology and
environmental change, evolutionary biology and plant
and agricultural science.
Successful applicants will have strong interdisciplinary
research portfolios and evidence of academic leadership
along with strong commitment and aptitude for teach-
ing at undergraduate and postgraduate level and roles
across the spectrum of academic life.
A good t to existing University Research Institutes and
the Faculty of Life Sciences would also be an advantage.
For more details on the School and its research see:
http://www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/ < http://-
www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/ >
For informal enquiries please contact Prof Claire Grier-
son (headofschool-biology@bristol.ac.uk).
The closing date for applications is 11:59pm on Thursday
14th February 2019.
It is anticipated that interviews will be held during week
commencing 1st April 2019.
For more details, please see:
http://www.bristol.ac.uk/jobs/nd/-
details.html?nPostingId1774&nPostingTargetId1314&id=
Q50FK026203F3VBQBV7V77V83&LG=UK&mask=-
uobext Jon Bridle <Jon.Bridle@bristol.ac.uk >
UCalifornia Davis RNAseqLabTech
The Ross-Ibarra (rilab.org) and Runcie (run-
cielab.ucdavis.edu) are looking to hire a technicianto help out with a massive quantitative genetic
analysis of RNA-seq in maize. We are especially
interested in candidates with previous experience in
library preparation and sequencing. Apply online at:
https://www.employment.ucdavis.edu/applicants/jsp/-
shared/position/JobDetails css.jsp Jerey Ross-Ibarra
Dept. of Plant Sciences 262 Robbins Hall, Mail Stop
4 University of California One Shields Ave Davis, CA
95616
Tel: 530-752-1152 @jrossibarra www.rilab.org Jerey
Ross-Ibarra <rossibarra@ucdavis.edu >
UCambridge PlantEvolution
The title should be: University Lecturer - University
of Cambridge (ecology and evolution) Link: http://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/19419/ Text below: Applica-
tions are invited for the post of University Lecturer in
Plant Sciences, to take up post in October 2019. Re-
sponsibilities include teaching undergraduates; research;
supervision of graduate students; other duties associated
with academic life. There is the opportunity for the
successful applicant to become a Fellow of a College, we
are operating a collaboration with Newnham College
under the Trinity scheme for Joint Lectureships.
We welcome excellent candidates in all areas of Plant
and/or Microbial Ecology including those with an in-
terest in biodiversity conservation. The University has
recently established a Conservation Initiative with the
construction of the David Attenborough Building at
the cost of £60M. This is a vibrant collaborative and
interdisciplinary research hub that houses a number of
academic groups and members of several NGOs based
in Cambridge.
The appointee will teach undergraduates through lec-
tures, ecology and evolution eld courses, practical
classes and small group supervisions, and will be mo-
tivated to further innovate our teaching methods. We
expect the successful candidate to develop a research
programme that complements and reinforces the existing
Departmental research portfolio.
Candidates must have a PhD in a relevant eld and
an outstanding record of excellence in research that
is reected in their publications. They will have su-
cient breadth and/or depth of specialist knowledge in
the discipline, and of research methods and techniques
to develop research objectives, projects and proposals.72 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Candidates should be able to teach to a high standard,
manage a diverse workload, and have the ability to lead
their own research programme.
Please include with your application a detailed CV (in-
cluding an up-to-date publications list) and a covering
letter indicating how you would contribute to teaching
and research in the Department. The closing date is 3
March 2019.
Once an oer of employment has been accepted, the
successful candidate will be required to undergo a health
assessment.
To apply online for this vacancy, please click on the
'Apply' button below. This will route you to the Uni-
versity's Web Recruitment System, where you will need
to register an account (if you have not already) and log
in before completing the online application form.
Please note if you have not received any news 1 month
after the closing date you should consider that on this
occasion your application has been unsuccessful.
Please quote reference PD17290 on your application and
in any correspondence about this vacancy.
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
\A.J. Tanentzap" <ajt65@cam.ac.uk >
UHouston TeachingEvolution
Job Description
Instructional Assistant Professor - Biology -
(FAC000800) Organization : H0104 Biology Salary
Commensurate with experience Description : The
Department of Biology and Biochemistry at the Univer-
sity of Houston invite applications for an Instructional
Assistant Professor to begin September 2019. The
successful candidate will be responsible for teaching
3 courses/ semester in a highly collaborative setting.
These courses may include, but are not restricted
to, required courses in Genetics or Cell Biology,
electives (e.g., Urban Ecology), and General Biology
for non-majors. This is a 12-month, non-tenure track
appointment with possibility for renewal. Applicants
must have a Ph.D. in a relevant discipline.
Successful candidates will demonstrate broad training,skills in contemporary pedagogy, a strong interest in
teaching undergraduates from diverse backgrounds, and
a willingness to contribute to the development of stu-
dent success initiatives and undergraduate programs in
the biological sciences. Classroom teaching and course
development experience is highly desirable. To apply,
candidates should prepare a brief cover letter, names
and contact information of three references, curriculum
vitae, and a brief (1-2 page) statement of teaching inter-
ests and philosophy. Review of applications will start
immediately and will continue until the position is lled.
The University of Houston is a Carnegie-designated Tier
One research institution, as well as an Hispanic-Serving
Institution (HSI). We are also an ADVANCE institu-
tion, one of a select group of universities to receive NSF
funds in support of our commitment to increase diver-
sity and the participation and advancement of women
in STEM. The Department of Biology and Biochem-
istry is a vibrant unit of 44 tenured/tenure-track and 10
instructional faculty serving roughly 2,500 majors and
an equal number of non-majors. As the fourth largest
city in the U.S. and the most ethnically diverse city in
the country, Houston is a vibrant city in which to live
and work. It has multi-national industries, commercial
centers, the largest medical center in the world, a robust
arts community, professional sports, and is considered
the world capital for petroleum exploration and energy.
The University of Houston, with one of the most diverse
student bodies in the nation, seeks to recruit and retain
a diverse community of scholars.
The University of Houston is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action institution. Minorities, women,
veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
Qualications : Applicants must have a Ph.D. in a
relevant discipline. Notes to Applicant: Ocial tran-
scripts are required for a faculty appointment and will
be requested upon selection of nal candidate. All posi-
tions at the University of Houston are security sensitive
and will require a criminal history check. Incomplete
applications may not receive full considered.
Required Attachments by Candidate: Curriculum Vitae,
Cover Letter/Letter of Application, Teaching Philoso-
phy or Statement
Employee Status : Regular/Benets Job Posting : Nov
30, 2018, 9:16:05 AM
UH Job Listing URL: https://uhs.taleo.net/-
careersection/ex2 uhf/jobdetail.ftl?job ~AoC000800&tz=-
GMT-06%3A00 Best,
Lisa M. Farmer, Ph.D. Instructional Assistant Profes-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 73
sor Department of Biology and Biochemistry University
of Houston 3455 Cullen Blvd., Houston, Texas 77204
Email: lmfarmer@uh.edu Oce: (713) 743-8560
\Farmer, Lisa M" <lmfarmer@Central.UH.EDU >
UNAM Mexico DiseaseEvolution
Humana ante oculos foede cum vita iaceret in terris
oppressa gravi sub religioni... Lucretius
The Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico
(UNAM) invites applications to ll a tenure-track Asso-
ciate Professor position at the Departamento de Ecologia
de la Biodiversidad, Instituto de Ecologia.
The successful candidate will be required to develop an
independent research program on ecology and evolution
of disease. It will be expected that she/he develops col-
laborations, primarily but not exclusively with members
of the Department of Ecology of Biodiversity, lectur-
ing regularly at undergraduate and graduate levels is
compulsory.
Candidates should hold a PhD in Biology or Ecology
and have a background in evolution, epidemiology, and
ecology of disease. Mastering of genomic and bioinfor-
matic tools is desirable. We will consider candidates
with a strong publication record ( >10 high-impact peer-
reviewed papers in the relevant area), a track record
of securing competitive funds, and with veriable expe-
rience teaching and supervising students. Fluency in
Spanish to perform lecturing is a requirement.
Selection will be based on 1) the strength of the candi-
dates Curriculum vitae, 2) a written research proposal
(less than 10 pages) to study ecology and evolution
of diseases to understand their dynamics under global
change, 3) a brief outline of the research activities for
the rst year including teaching and student supervision,
and 4) a two-page proposal for the following three years
outlining how the candidate is planning to increase the
scientic and social impact of his/her research project.
The application should include a letter addressed to the
director of the Institute, Dr Constantino Macias Garcia
stating the candidates reasons to apply, the Curriculum
vitae, a brief description of current and future research
interests, the documents indicated in numbers 2 to 4
(above), a copy of the PhD title, a copy of birth certi-
cate, and the documents supporting the CV (only the
rst page of published papers, letters/e-mails indicating
that papers have been accepted for publication, andevidence of teaching and theses supervision).
All documents should be sent electronically as a single
PDF le to secacad@iecologia.unam.mx. The closing
date is Feb 28th, 2019. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to send the documents by post to: Instituto de
Ecologia, UNAM, Ap. Postal 70-275, Ciudad Universi-
taria, Ciudad de Mexico, CP 04510, Mexico.
Dr. Juan Fornoni Secretario Academico Instituto de
Ecologia, UNAM
maciasg<maciasg@unam.mx >
UTexas Austin REU2019
PlantEvolutionaryEcology
*NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates in Plant
Field Evolutionary Ecology ' Summer 2019*
We seek a talented and diverse group of undergraduate
students interested in conducting mentored indepen-
dent research on the biology of switchgrass (*Panicum
virgatum*) and its related genetic model, *Panicum
hallii*. This is an exciting opportunity to participate
in research studying switchgrass, an emerging biofuel
candidate species at one of multiple locations across the
United States.
Students will be immersed in a sustained research expe-
rience, focused primarily on the eld biology of switch-
grass. Research will mostly consist of intense eld work
with additional lab components. While all science ma-
jors are encouraged to apply, preference will be given
to candidates with a strong interest and/or background
in evolutionary ecology, environmental biology, quanti-
tative genetics or agronomy.
*How to apply?*
- Please visit our website for details; *applica-
tions due Sunday February 25, 2019*: https://-
sites.cns.utexas.edu/juenger lab/summer-research-
opportunities *Who should apply?*
- All undergraduates not in their senior year are welcome
to apply
- Must be a US citizen or permanent resident
*Program description*
- 10 week internship at one of several universities lo-
cated across the US (see below for list of collaborating
institutions), beginning the rst week of June74 EvolDir February 1, 2019
- $4500 stipend + a housing and food allowance, and
travel costs to and from host university
- A presentation { poster, lab meeting, or Powerpoint {
on research must be completed at the end of the program
*Collaborators*
- Prof. Thomas Juenger, University of Texas
- Prof. David Lowry, Michigan State University
- Dr. Philip Fay, USDA ARS, Temple, Texas
- Prof. Felix Fritschi, University of Missouri
- Prof. Rob Mitchell, University of Nebraska
- Prof. Arvid Boe, South Dakota State University
- Prof. Yanqi Wu, Oklahoma State University
Robert Heckman <robert.heckman@utexas.edu >
UVictoria BritishColumbia
EvolutionaryCellBiology
**We welcome applications from evolutionary cell biolo-
gists.**
The Department of Biology seeks applications for a Tier
2 Canada Research Chair (CRC) in Cell Biology. The
successful applicant will be nominated by the University
of Victoria for a Tier 2 CRC and, upon approval of the
Chair by the CRC Secretariat, will be oered a tenure-
track appointment at the appropriate rank. We are a
diverse department that fosters a collegial and collabora-
tive environment. Candidates who share this vision and
can build tangible links to our departments strengths
in developmental biology, cellular neuroscience and/or
evolutionary biology/genetics are especially encouraged
to apply.
Requirements
The successful nominee will have a PhD and/or post-
doctoral training in cell biology. They will have demon-
strated potential to develop an externally funded, inde-
pendent and original research program that focuses on
mechanisms of cell function. Candidates whose research
has a component relating to human health are preferred.
Candidates will be evaluated against criteria set
by the CRC program (www.chairs-chaires.gc.ca/-
program-programme/nomination-mise encandidature-
eng.aspx#s7). In accordance with regulations for the
CRC program, Tier 2 CRC nominees must be within10 years of receiving their highest degree when they
are nominated to the Chair (expected nomination
by April 2019). However, applicants who are more
than 10 years from having earned their highest degree
(and where career breaks exist, such as maternity,
parental or extended sick leave, clinical training, etc.)
may have their eligibility for a Tier 2 CRC assessed
through the programs Tier 2 justication process.
Please contact the Institutional Programs Oce
at the University of Victoria for more information
(c@uvic.ca). Please consult the CRC website <
http://www.chairs-chaires.gc.ca/home-accueil-eng.aspx
>for full program information.
Candidates should submit a single PDF document that
includes a cover letter outlining how the candidate meets
the requirements of the position, a CV, and a 2-page de-
scription of their proposed research program (including
how it complements current departmental strengths).
Candidates must provide a 2-page statement on teach-
ing experience and teaching philosophy, including how
they have and will support diversity and inclusiveness
in teaching and research. Candidates must also include
the names and contact information for three referees.
Additional information
Faculty and Librarians at the University of Victoria
are governed by the provisions of the Collective Agree-
ment<http://www.uvic.ca/vpacademic/assets/docs/-
Collective%20Agreement.pdf >. Members are repre-
sented by the University of Victoria Faculty Association
<http://www.uvicfa.ca/ >.
Contact information
All application documents should be complied into
one pdf le and emailed to: Chantal Lalibert (biol-
ogy@uvic.ca) with the subject headingoCell Biology
position. For questions regarding the position please
contact Dr. Barbara Hawkins, Chair of the Depart-
ment of Biology via email (biochair@uvic.ca) or phone
(250-721-7091).
Application deadline
The committee will begin reviewing applications on Feb
8, 2019, however, applications submitted after this date
will still be considered until the position is lled.
Equity statement
UVic is committed to upholding the values of equity,
diversity, and inclusion in our living, learning and work
environments. In pursuit of our values, we seek members
who will work respectfully and constructively with dier-
ences and across levels of power. We actively encourage
applications from members of groups experiencing bar-
riers to equity. Read our full equity statement here:February 1, 2019 EvolDir 75
www.uvic.ca/equitystatement . The University of Vic-
toria acknowledges the potential impact that career in-
terruptions can have on a candidates record of research
achievement and encourages applicants to explain in
their application the impact that career interruptions
may have had on their record of research achievement.
Persons with disabilities, who anticipate needing accom-
modations for any part of the application and hiringprocess, may contact Francesca Pintucci, Faculty Re-
lations Consultant in the Oce of the VP Academic
and Provost at (250) 472-5491 or frconsultant@uvic.ca.
Any personal information provided will be maintained
in condence.
Steve Perlman Professor Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Victoria
Steve Perlman <stevep@uvic.ca >
Other
AGA EECG Research Awards Deadline Feb1 . . . . . .75
AGA SpecialEventsAwards Deadline Jan31 . . . . . . . . 76
AMNH NewYork WomenSTEMfellowship . . . . . . . . . 76
ASN FundingSupport RegionalMeetings . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ASN StudentAwards LastCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Avian MoultPatterns data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
CallForCollaboration SexRoleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . .77
CornellU MicrobialFriendsFoes REU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
EarlCoreAward PlantTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
EcoEvoRxiv . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
ESEB OutreachFund DeadlineMar15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Finland VolFieldAssist AvianEvolEcol AprilJune . . 79
FortWorth Texas TwoPaidInternships GardenGenomics
79
Gabon 2 ResFieldAssist Mandrills . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
JMolEvol change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Kalahari VolFieldAssist MoleRatEvolution . . . . . . . . 82LMU Munich GeobiologyPaleobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Malacologists Conchologists Grants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
MinnesotaChicago REUsAndInternshipsEchinaceaPro-
ject . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
mtDNA PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Phyloseminar NonTraditionalData FebMar . . . . . . . . 85
PymatuningLaboratory GrantsFellowship . . . . . . . . . .86
SMBE AwardNominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
SMBE NominationsDue Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
Springer Genomics Books . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Survey Functional Traits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Survey PreservingAvianDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
Tenerife Spain VolResAssist ComparativeCognition 89
UNorthCarolina Greensboro REU2019 MathAndEvol-
Biol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
Yukon RedSquirrel FieldTechnician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90
AGA EECG Research Awards
Deadline Feb1
The American Genetic Association grants Evolutionary,
Ecological, or Conservation Genomics (EECG) ResearchAwards to graduate and post-doctoral researchers who
are at a critical point in their research, where addi-
tional funds would allow them to conclude their research
project and prepare it for publication.
These awards are open to any PhD student or postdoc-
toral fellow who is a member of the AGA at the time of
application - visit the AGA homepage for membership
details.76 EvolDir February 1, 2019
The program is not intended to fund an entire research
project, to initiate new research projects, or to pro-
vide salary support. Proposals addressing genome-scale
questions, or ecological, evolutionary and conservation
genetics questions best addressed with genome-scale
data, will be given priority for funding. Awards will
generally range from $5,000 to $10,000, awarded to the
PI or institution (no overhead is provided).
To apply, visit https://www.theaga.org/ Anjanette
Baker, AGA Manager
theaga@theaga.org
AGA SpecialEventsAwards Deadline
Jan31
The American Genetic Association grants awards each
year to its members for support of special events that
advance the mission of AGA, particularly to support
students to attend the event.
Eligible events include specialized workshops and short
courses in topical areas of organismal genetics and ge-
nomics, but any event relevant to AGA's purpose will be
considered, especially those that could lead to Journal
of Heredity articles.
Awards are between $1,000- $15,000, with a total of
$70,000 available for 2019. Funding is competitive, and
applications must follow the guidelines.
To apply, visit https://www.theaga.org/ Anjanette
Baker, AGA Manager
theaga@theaga.org
AMNH NewYork
WomenSTEMfellowship
Dear Colleagues,
The BridgeUP: STEM program at the AMNH is excited
to announce that the application for the Helen Fellow-
ship is open. This fellowship is a one-year residency for
post-baccalaureate, self-identifying females, to devote
time immersed in computational scientic research and
educational outreach at the AMNH. This fellowship isan initiative at the AMNH dedicated to increasing the
diversity of the talent pipeline by providing underrepre-
sented students access to the skills and tools required
for the 21st Century.
To learn more about the fellowship and the applica-
tion process, visit https://www.amnh.org/learn-teach/-
higher-education/helen-fellowship . A colorful PDF yer
can be downloaded at this website.
Who is eligible to apply? The fellowship is intended for
recent college graduates with a conferred bachelors or
masters degree in computer science, natural sciences,
applied mathematics, computational science, or other
relevant majors prior to the fellowship start date in
September.
What are the benets? Fellows will receive an annual
salary of $70,000 plus generous benets. Funding is also
available for research, travel and equipment expenses.
How do I apply? The online application is
now open and is due by midnight of February 3,
2019. To learn more about application require-
ments, visit https://www.amnh.org/learn-teach/higher-
education/helen-fellowship . With Regards,
The BridgeUP: STEM Team
Email: bridgeupstem@amnh.org
\BridgeUP:STEM" <bridgeupstem@amnh.org >
ASN FundingSupport
RegionalMeetings
Call for proposals: American Society of Naturalists
support of regional meetings.
The American Society of Naturalists (ASN) solicits pro-
posals from organizers of regional meetings in the elds
of ecology, evolution and behavior. The purpose of these
small awards it to promote increased participation in
regional conference meetings in the areas of ecology,
evolution and behavior and use this support as a way of
recruiting new membership to ASN. These awards typi-
cally provide subsidized registration for ASN members
at these regional meetings. Applicants should submit a
brief proposal including summary of the meeting focus,
anticipated number of participants, venue and dates.
For additional application details and previous awardees
please visit: https://www.amnat.org/announcements/-
CallRegionalWkshp.html Thanks, Courtney Murren
murrenc@cofc.edu on behalf of the ASN Regional Soci-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 77
ety Liaison Committee
\Murren, Courtney J" <MurrenC@cofc.edu >
ASN StudentAwards LastCall
Applications for the 2019 American Society of Natu-
ralists Student Research Awards are due tomorrow, 31
January.
The ASN Student Research Awards support research
by student members that advances the goals of the soci-
ety: the conceptual unication of ecology, evolution, or
behavior. Each award consists of a $2,000 check to the
candidate. An applicant must be a member of the ASN
(membership is international), must hold a bachelors
degree or equivalent, must have passed to candidacy in
a Ph.D. program or equivalent, and must be at least one
year from completing the Ph.D. Projects in all types of
research (i.e., laboratory, eld, theory) are encouraged.
A total of ten proposals will receive awards. Proposals
will be judged on originality, strength, and signicance of
the questions being addressed, prospects for signicant
results, and the match between the proposed research
and the ASN mission.
For more information: https://www.amnat.org/-
announcements/AWAStuResearch.html Chris Eckert
Department of Biology Queen's University Kingston,
Ontario K7L 3N6 Canada chris.eckert@queensu.ca
Christopher Eckert <chris.eckert@queensu.ca >
Avian MoultPatterns data
Dear All,
Me and my colleague are currently working on meta-
analysis concerning physiological and environmental fac-
tors aecting moult patterns in birds. We are interested
in continuous as well as categorical data.
If you have any unpublished data concerning this topic,
I would be very grateful if you were so kind to send me
this information within the next two weeks.
Best greetings and thanks in advance!
Agnieszka Gudowskaagnieszka.gudowska@uj.edu.pl?
Agnieszka Gudowska, PhD Institute of Environmental
Sciences Jagiellonian University Gronostajowa 7 30-387
Krakow, Poland
Agnieszka Gudowska <agnieszka.gudowska@uj.edu.pl >
CallForCollaboration
SexRoleEvolution
Call for collaboration: Sex role evolution: testing the
impacts of ecology, demography and genes
Sex roles (i.e., courtship, competition for mates, pair
bonding and parenting) are among the most diverse
social behaviour. Recent research is uncovering key ele-
ments of sex role variation, but signicant gaps remain.
Appropriate sexual behaviour is essential for reproduc-
tion, and thus understanding the causes and implications
of sex roles are at the core of evolutionary biology and
fundamental for the study of life history evolution, physi-
ology and population biology. Understanding sex roles is
also important for biodiversity conservation since disrup-
tions to normal sexual behaviour due to environmental
changes reduce the viability of wild populations.
Our team has been recently awarded an ELVONAL
project of Hungarian Science Foundation to investigate
sex role evolution in shorebirds (plovers, sandpipers and
allies). The project is based at University of Debrecen
(Hungary), and will be carried out between 2018 and
2022. Shorebirds exhibit an unusual diversity of sex
role variation, and they provided some of the textbook
examples of mating behaviour, parenting and breeding
systems. Provisional results suggest that some of this
variation is related to adult sex ratios, i.e. the ratios of
adult males to adult females in the local population.
To achieve the objectives of this ambitious project, we
are seeking collaborators willing to study behaviour,
ecology and/or demography of any breeding shorebird
population on the planet. To progress, we have de-
veloped a data collection protocol that explains eld
methodology to gather the information we are seeing
in this project. We hope the ELVONAL project will
lead to joint research publications, and in addition, to
exchange of ideas, discussions and follow-up research.
We also anticipate that our project will have training
and capacity building components, and will impact on
conservation for the benets of shorebirds and people
worldwide.78 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Find out more at: https://elvonalshorebirds.com/ or
contact Dr Vojtech Kubelka kubelkav@gmail.com
Tamas Szekely <bssts@bath.ac.uk >
CornellU MicrobialFriendsFoes REU
The Cornell Institute of Host-Microbe Interactions and
Disease (CIHMID) is accepting applications for the NSF-
funded Microbial Friends & Foes Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) Summer Program: http://-
cihmid.cornell.edu/reu-m.html. Applications are due
February 21, 2019.
The Microbial Friends & Foes Program will take place
from June 3rd to August 9th, 2019. The program will
provide training in the concepts and experimental ap-
proaches central to understanding microbial interactions
with eukaryotic hosts. Students will learn about broad
diversity of microbe-eukaryote interactions through con-
ducting independent research projects, participation in
weekly research group meetings, seminars presented by
CIHMID faculty, Microbial Friends & Foes Synthesis
Panels, CIHMID Summer Symposium, and Microbial
Friends & Foes Poster Session. Emphasis will be placed
on appreciation of the scientic method and developing
eective strategies for conducting research as well as on
the synthesis of concepts important to interspecic inter-
actions across diverse systems. In addition, workshops
in electronic database literacy, science citation software,
research ethics, science communication, and planning for
graduate study will be oered to the Microbial Friends
& Foes program participants. More information about
the program along with a ier can be found at http://-
cihmid.cornell.edu/reu-m.html . Students will receive
a stipend of $5750, travel subsidy, meal allowance and
on-campus housing. Applicants will be asked to iden-
tify 3 laboratories of interest, and will be selected in a
two-step review process by the program organizers and
potential mentors.
WHO SHOULD APPLY
*All undergraduate students interested in understanding
microbial interactions with eukaryotic hosts.
*Members of minorities underrepresented in science, un-
dergraduates from small colleges, and rst-generation
college students.
*Applicants must be United Stated citizens or perma-
nent residents and at least 18 years old.Teresa Pawlowska <tep8@cornell.edu >
\Teresa E. Pawlowska" <tep8@cornell.edu >
EarlCoreAward PlantTaxonomy
Research proposals are now being accepted for the 2019
Earl Core Student Research Award from the Southern
Appalachian Botanical Society. The award provides up
to $1,200 in support of student research projects in plant
taxonomy, systematics, or ecology. Undergraduate and
graduate students are eligible to apply, but the student
and advisor must be members of SABS to be considered.
More details and the application can be found at http:/-
/sabs.us/awards/earl-core-student-research-award/ .Pro-
posals are due by February 28, 2019 to be considered.
Awards will be announced in April.
\Wallace, Lisa E." <lewallac@odu.edu >
EcoEvoRxiv
EcoEvoRxiv: We want your preprints! (and also post-
prints)
EcoEvoRxiv (EcoEvo\archive") is a not-for-prot, on-
line repository for research papers related to ecology,
evolution and conservation.
The archived papers can be empirical, theoretical, review
or of any other research-related type.
The server can be used for freely and legally sharing
of preprints (manuscripts before submissions to jour-
nals), postprints, reports, and datasets, which would
transparency in ecology and evolution.
There are many benets to submitting your work to Eco-
EvoRxiv , including improving the speed and discover-
ability of scientic ndings, promoting interdisciplinarity
which would better science and increase citation rate!
Also, EcoEvoRxiv integrates seamlessly with Open Sci-
ence Framework (https://osf.io/) by the Center of Open
Science (https://cos.io/).
For more details about EcoEvoRxov: https://-
www.ecoevorxiv.com/ For submitting a preprint at Eco-
EvoRxiv: https://ecoevorxiv.org/ Follow us on twitter:February 1, 2019 EvolDir 79
@EcoEvoRxiv
fonti.kar@gmail.com
ESEB OutreachFund DeadlineMar15
*ESEB Outreach Initiative Fund*
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach Initiative
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. The goal of this initiative is to improve public
knowledge about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educational
initiatives that promote evolution, development of evo-
lutionary material (books, lms, web sites) intended
for a general audience, public outreach seminars, public
exhibitions, etc. While most projects will be nanced
for a sum between 1000-1500 Euro, exceptions can be
made if a strong argument is provided for additional
funds.
The application form can be found on the ESEB
website (http://www.eseb.org/prizes-funding/outreach-
fund/). Applications will be accepted twice yearly (dead-
lines March 15, September 15) and should be submitted
by email to Ute Moniatte (oce@eseb.org; Subject:
Outreach).
Dr. Ute Moniatte jESEB Oce Manager jof-
ce@eseb.org European Society for Evolutionary Biology
jwww.eseb.org oce@eseb.org
Finland VolFieldAssist
AvianEvolEcol AprilJune
Volunteer eld assistant/internship in avian evolutionary
ecology
PERIOD: 22.4.-15.7.2019 with exibility on the start
and end dates LOCATION: Turku, Finland
PROJECT Maternal eects play a key role in shaping
ospring development and are a source of phenotypic
variation. Understanding the proximate mechanisms
underlying maternal eects is crucial. I am looking
for a volunteer eld assistant/intern to a collaborativeproject on the role of maternal (egg) hormones shaping
ospring development and tness passerines. The work
will be conducted in April-July in a nest-box population
in Turku, Finland. It is possible to make part of the
data collection into an intern project. It is also possible
to contribute to labwork.
DUTIES The eld assistant/intern will be conducting
nest-box monitoring, tasks related to the experiments,
ringing and measuring chicks (great tits and pied y-
catchers), together with the rest of the team (interna-
tional). Potentially also blood-sampling. The eld work
will include long days (sometimes in bad weather) and
work during weekends, thus the candidate needs to be
prepared for that.
QUALIFICATIONS Suitable candidates should be hard-
working, independent and organized, possess good com-
munication skills and good English. Candidates should
have a valid driving lisence. Experience in eld work
with birds, and bird handling/ringing is a denite asset.
WE OFFER We will train the volunteer/student for
the eldwork and bird handling. Travel costs (from
Europe) will be covered. The candidate will join an
enthusiastic team of researchers and students (French,
Finnish, Taiwanese).
If you are interested, please contact me asap and include
your CV and a short motivation letter.
Suvi Ruuskanen (suvi.ruuskanen@utu.), Department
of Biology, 20014 University of Turku.
Suvi Ruuskanen, Academy research fellow Department
of Biology 20014 University of Turku, FINLAND
Mobile +358503256547
skruus@utu.
FortWorth Texas
TwoPaidInternships
GardenGenomics
PROJECT TITLE: Global Genome Initiative for Gar-
dens: Genome-quality tissue collection and preservation
in Texas, Summer 2019.
POSITION TITLE: Global Genome Initiative for Gar-
dens Internship
TIMETABLE: 14 weeks, May ' August 2019, expected
WHERE: Botanical Research Institute of Texas; Fort
Worth, Texas80 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Payment: The selected applicants will receive a $2,000
stipend for their work with this project.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The Global Genome Ini-
tiative (GGI) is a Smithsonian-led international col-
laboration directed toward collecting and preserving
genomic tissues from global biodiversity. The principle
aim of GGI is to collect and preserve genome-quality
tissue from specimens representing all families from the
major branches of the tree of life and 50% of genera.
To achieve these targets for global plant diversity, the
Global Genome Initiative for Gardens (GGI-Gardens)
was formed at the National Museum of Natural History
in 2015. In August 2018, the Global Genome Initiative
for Gardens (GGI-Gardens) moved its base of operations
to the Botanical Research Institute of Texas (BRIT)
in Fort Worth, TX. Here GGI-Gardens is building a
network of preserved tissue collections from botanical
gardens throughout Texas. During 14 weeks from May-
August 2019, we will collect plant specimens and pre-
serve genome quality tissues from the ora of Texas,
emphasizing living collections in botanical gardens of
Texas. The selected applicants for this internship will
assist in this eort.
QUALIFICATIONS: Required: Enrollment (or recently
graduated) in a program for Bachelor's degree in biology,
botany, environmental/life science, or horticulture (or
demonstration of equivalent experience). Minimum of
one undergraduate- or graduate-level course in botany,
plant science, plant ecology, etc. Ability to work outside
for several hours, lift 30 lbs of eld equipment, and
collect plant specimens from herbs, shrubs, and trees in
dense, wooded vegetation. A valid driver's license and
willingness to drive in and around North/Central Texas.
Preferred: Experience with botanical eldwork. Re-
search experience in botanical sciences. Basic knowledge
of plant taxonomy and major groups of the plant tree
of life.
LEARNING OBJECTIVES: The selected, qualied ap-
plicant will be trained in the collection of genome-quality
tissues from plants in the eld and from greenhouses at
botanical gardens in Texas. The applicant will receive
training for eldwork and tissue collection using eld
techniques as well as liquid nitrogen handling. The ap-
plicant will also be trained in database management and
will have opportunities for basic molecular laboratory
research and training.
TO APPLY: Please send the following to aby-
oung@brit.org with the Subject Line: \GGI Internship:
LAST NAME, FIRST INITIAL."
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 15 February 2019
*^A A statement of interest ( <800 words) in the posi-tion outlining your experience, qualications, interests,
and career and professional goals. * ^A Your resume
or curriculum vitae. * ^A Arrange to have one letter
of reference sent by an individual who can attest to
your academic and/or professional qualications for this
internship.
If you have any questions, please contact GGI-Gardens
Director, Dr. Morgan Gostel at mgostel@brit.org
Morgan Gostel, Ph.D. jResearch Botanist jBotanical
Research Institute of Texas (BRIT) j1700 University
Drive, Fort Worth, Texas 76107-3400 USA jPhone:
817-332-4441 x253 jBRIT.orgjmgostel@brit.org
Morgan Gostel <mgostel@brit.org >
Gabon 2 ResFieldAssist Mandrills
Role description
The Mandrillus Project is a non-prot organisation
aiming at longitudinally studying wild mandrills in
Southern Gabon. We are currently recruiting Volun-
teer Field Assistants for our 2018-2019 eld season.
These positions combine practical research with train-
ing and are entirely eld-based. The volunteers are
trained by and work alongside local eld assistants, eld
managers, sometimes students and researchers, con-
tributing to the research activities of the Mandrillus
Project. Following established protocols, the eldwork
will primarily involve daily follows of a natural pop-
ulation of mandrills on foot, collecting data on the
behaviour of individually recognisable animals, together
with the collection of non-invasive measurements and
samples. Please visit the website of the project to get
an idea of the scientic programs that are currently run-
ning ( [ http://www.projetmandrillus.com/research-and-
conservation.html jhttp://www.projetmandrillus.com/-
research-and-conservation.html ] ).
Positions available
Two Volunteer Field Assistant positions are currently
available, each running for six months from March to
August 2019.
What we cover
Once the volunteers arrive in the eld site,
the Mandrillus Project covers all their work-
related costs, including accommodation (private
equipped room with air-con and private bath-
room, shared kitchen) and a stipend for meals (aboutFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 81
200^ a^A^A:=month ):Theassociationwillalsocoverthecostsofthevolunteers0travelinsurance:Onthesuccessfulcompletionoffieldwork;wealsocontributeaminimumof 150^a^A^A:towardsthecostofthevolunteers0travelfees:
Who are we looking for?
These positions are open to all with an interest in animal
behaviour and ecology. We are particularly keen to hear
from applicants who:
^A Are friendly, easy-going people, happy to live in small
team at a remote eld site
^A Are strongly motivated, reliable, honest and commit-
ted
^A Have good levels of physical tness and stamina - you
will be following the mandrills on foot several hours a
day, 6 days per week, over mountainous terrain, in heat
^A Show good initiative, with a willingness to learn and
show attention to detail
^A A good level in French is mandatory
What do volunteers get out of it?
^A An amazing opportunity to share the lives of wild
mandrills in an equatorial forest landscape
^A An opportunity to learn new skills and gain experi-
ence, especially those relevant to research in behaviour
and ecology
^A An opportunity to be involved in a long-term project
on African wildlife, hosted by an international research
institution
^A An opportunity to use this eld experience with the
Mandrillus Project as a stepping stone on to future
Masters and PhD degree courses
^A Experience a new culture and share knowledge with
local assistants
Further information
For further details about these positions, including the
work involved, our living conditions in the eld, prepa-
rations prior to departure, and what to bring with you,
please see below (and additional information will be
provided to successful candidates).
How to apply
If you would like to apply, please prepare a CV and a de-
tailed covering letter that should explain why you would
like to work on the project. The CV should include the
names of two referees with e-mail contact details.
Applications must be sent at projetman-
drillus@gmail.com by January 22 nd 2019. We
will notify successfully shortlisted candidates few days
after this deadline, and interviews will be held in
Montpellier (for local successful candidates) or by skype
the following week. Telephone/skype interviews will bepossible for overseas applicants.
* * * * * *
The Study Site
Weather
Gabon has an Equatorial climate with little season-
ality. Precipitations are important, almost every day
from October to May, and days may be hot (up to 30
^AoC), although the Lekedi Park benets from a cooler
weather because of its altitude (600m). The long dry
season, from June to September, is characterized by cool
weather (temperatures can fall below 18 ^AoC) with no
precipitation.
Landscape
The Lekedi Park is characterized by a mix of savannas
and gallery forests interspersed with rivers and riverbeds.
Equatorial Marantaceae forests are found in the area.
Wildlife
The Lekedi park is home to a variety of wildlife including
forest bualos, several Apes (chimpazees, gorillas) and
other primates (cephus, nictitans) and, of course, man-
drills! Predators include, occasionally, leopards (but
don't expect any encounter with them!). Birds and
reptiles also abound.
Location
The Lekedi park is located in Southern Gabon. It is
only a 1 hour drive from Moanda, the nearest town that
comprises hotels, petrol stations,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
JMolEvol change
On January 1, 2019, the editorial leadership for Jour-
nal of Molecular Evolution changed, including a new
Editor-in-Chief, a new collection of Senior Editors, and
a large number of new Associate Editors. With it, the
scope of Journal of Molecular Evolution is expanding
to include more theoretical and computational work,
including software for phylogenetic and other molecular
evolutionary analysis, to include more (evolutionary) ge-
nomics, to now include molecular evolutionary ecology,82 EvolDir February 1, 2019
and to include more reviews, in addition to chemical
and biological evolutionary studies that are currently
published.
The new senior editorial leadership is:
Editor-in-Chief
David Liberles, Temple University
Senior Editors
Belinda Chang, University of Toronto, Canada, Gene
and Protein Evolution
Aaron Goldman, Oberlin College, Reviews and Perspec-
tives Editor
Jody Hey, Temple University, Theory in Molecular Evo-
lution
Michelle Meyer, Boston College, Chemical and Abiotic
Evolution
Bill Murphy, Texas A&M University, Genome Evolution
Andrew Storfer, Washington State University, Molecular
Evolutionary Ecology
Arndt von Haeseler, University of Vienna, Austria,
Molecular Evolutionary Software and Computation
The new full editorial board can be found at:
https://www.springer.com/life+sciences/-
evolutionary+%26+developmental+biology/journal/-
239?detailsPage=editorialBoard The new journal
description reads, \Journal of Molecular Evolution cov-
ers experimental, computational, and theoretical work
aimed at deciphering features of molecular evolution
and the processes bearing on these features, from the
initial formation of macromolecular systems through
their evolution at the molecular level, the co-evolution of
their functions in cellular and organismal systems, and
their inuence on organismal adaptation, speciation,
and ecology. Topics addressed include the evolution
of informational macromolecules and their relation to
more complex levels of biological organization, including
populations and taxa, as well as the molecular basis for
the evolution of ecological interactions of species and
the use of molecular data to infer fundamental processes
in evolutionary ecology. This coverage accommodates
such subelds as new genome sequences, comparative
structural and functional genomics, population genetics,
the molecular evolution of development, the evolution
of gene regulation and gene interaction networks,
and in vitro evolution of DNA and RNA, molecular
evolutionary ecology, and the development of methods
and theory that enable molecular evolutionary inference,
including but not limited to, phylogenetic methods."
We hope you will consider submitting your work toJournal of Molecular Evolution.
David Liberles
jme1@temple.edu
Kalahari VolFieldAssist
MoleRatEvolution
We are looking for voluntary eld research assistants
to assist us with our research on the completely sub-
terranean, highly social Damaraland mole-rat in the
Kalahari (South Africa). We are conducting a long-
term eld study, based at the Kalahari Research Cen-
tre, to investigate the life-history, social behavior, de-
mography and microbiome diversity of Damaraland
mole-rats (http://kalahari-meerkats.com/kmp/research-
publications/damaraland-molerats-group/). Entire
groups of mole-rats will be captured and individually
marked. Morphological measurements, tissue samples,
blood samples and gut-microbiome samples will be ob-
tained before the release of the animals. The eld work
is physically demanding and weather conditions are
challenging (heat during the day, cold during the night).
Field work may make trapping during the night nec-
essary. The assistants will mostly be working in small
teams but will be embedded in a large research com-
munity. This position requires working independently
and cooperatively in a remote location on free ranging
animals. Research assistants must have a valid driving
license. The eld work starts in early March 2019 lasts
for 3 months. Candidates need to be available for the
entire period.
Accommodation is provided, and research assistants are
paid a monthly allowance to cover their personal costs
and food during the 3 months on site.
There is no formal application deadline and we will re-
view applications as they arrive. We will aim to have
the eld team appointed by the end of January 2019.
Please apply by email (cover letter + CV) or contact
for further information:
Dr Markus Zottl, Linnaeus University, Sweden
Markus.zottl@lnu.se, +46722032818
Markus Zottl <markus.zottl@lnu.se >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 83
LMU Munich
GeobiologyPaleobiology
Applications for our Master's program \Geobiology and
Paleobiology" (MGAP) from non-EU citizens for the
winter semester 2019/20 can be submitted until 31 Jan
2019. EU citizens can submit their application from
mid-Feb until 31 May 2019.
The Master's program \Geobiology and Paleobiol-
ogy" (MGAP) is a consecutive, research-focussed, four-
semester Master program at the Faculty of Geosciences,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at Munchen, in collabora-
tion with researchers of the Bavarian State collections
under the umbrella of the GeoBio-CenterLMU.
The MGAP program is based on interdisciplinary,
research-oriented courses in geo- and biosciences that
address patterns and processes of the evolution of life
and its habitats on our planet. Principal topics are
evolutionary and environmental geobiology and paleo-
biology, supported by courses in complementary areas
e.g., phylogenetics, bioinformatics, statistics.
Details about the curriculum and the application pro-
cedure can be found here: https://www.mgap.geo.uni-
muenchen.de Dr. Oliver Voigt mgap@geo.lmu.de
\Voigt, Oliver" <o.voigt@lrz.uni-muenchen.de >
Malacologists Conchologists Grants
*The Western Society of Malacologists* (WSM) is proud
to oer a nancial stipend for students to study fossil or
recent malacological collections to further their research.
This award honors the late James H. McLean, Curator
of Malacology at the Natural History Museum of Los
Angeles County from 1964V2001 and Emeritus Curator
until 2013.
*Eligibility: *Graduate, undergraduate, and exceptional
high school students may apply. Those proposing to
visit collections within daily commuting distance of their
residence, university, or high school are ineligible for
funding.
*Research Scope: *The student applicants researchproject must be collections-based and focus on extant
or fossil western North American mollusks (freshwater,
terrestrial, or marine).
*Funding:* The maximum award is $1000 (US dollars)
and should be used to support travel and accommoda-
tion costs incurred by visiting one or more collections.
Collection visits of two or more days are encouraged.
Applicants need not apply for the full $1000 if it is not
necessary.
*Museum(s): *Visits to any University-based or Natural
History Museum collection (domestic or international)
are eligible. Private collections are ineligible. Student
applicants are responsible for conrming their projects
feasibility and arranging visit logistics with the Univer-
sity or Museums collections manager and/or curator.
Students may apply to visit more than one museum
and collection in their proposal. Generally, visits to
collections that are within a feasible driving distance
away (up to 1.5 hours) from the home institution of
the researcher will not be considered as having a high
priority for funding.
*Deadline:* Proposals and recommendations are due
*March 1st,* with announcement and notication of
awardees in May or June. Funds are available for use
until May 15th of the following year.
*Proposal Submission:* Proposals are to be sent elec-
tronically (as one document) to: Jann Vendetti at: jan-
nvendetti@yahoo.com or jvendett@nhm.org, using the
subject line: James McLean Student Grant
*Application: *Two pages (single-spaced) with a ti-
tle, description of the planned research, specic col-
lection(s)/institutions proposed to be visited and why,
anticipated visit dates (and length), and a budget justi-
cation. Personal information including the applicants
name, address, email address, and student enrollment
status (where enrolled, major, degree program, antici-
pated graduation date) should be included.
*One recommendation* from one graduate, undergradu-
ate, or high school advisor should be sent separately to
jannvendetti@yahoo.com with OF APPLICANT: WSM
McLean Student Grant in the subject line.
http://westernsocietymalacology.org/grants/james-h-
mclean-student-grant-in-collections-based-research/
*Conchologists of America (COA) Academic Grants,
2019* Deadline: February 28, 2019 Please see the web-
site: http://www.conchologistsofamerica.org/grants/
*Eligibility:* - Degree-seeking students and anyone
engaging in malacological research is eligible. Typically,
80V90% of applicants are degree-seeking students,
and 80V90% of award recipients are degree-seeking
students. - Persons of any nationality and country84 EvolDir February 1, 2019
of residence may apply. - Applicants from previous
years may re-apply. - Recipients of previous years may
re-apply, but must include a submitted manuscript
to or published article in the American Conchologist
based on the previous award. - Degree-seeking students
must have a letter of recommendations by their advisor
emailed to *jannvendetti@yahoo.com *by the Feb. 28th
deadline with the applicant's name is the subject line.
* Rules & Guidelines:* - All submissions must be sub-
mitted via email as a .doc, or .pdf., preferably in one le.
Keep le size under 3 MB. - The proposal must concern
a malacological topic with any molluscan taxon or taxa
as the focus, e.g., parasite studies should focus on the
molluscan side of the interaction. All disciplines from
autecology to zoogeography, including paleontology, are
eligible. - The project must be self-contained. In other
words, with the funding requested it must be possible to
answer the question posed. However, the proposal may
be a component of the applicant's overall research. - Per-
manent equipment is not an allowable expense. Time
using a piece of permanent equipment (for example,
SEM beam time) is allowable. - Institutional overhead
is not permitted. - The maximum award is $2500 US.
Smaller amounts can be requested and may be more
likely to receive funding. Partial funding is possible at
the discretion of the Academic Grants Committee. -
If a grant is awarded, please consider options to avoid
having to pay personal income tax on it (US citizens
and residents must provide their
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MinnesotaChicago REUsAndIntern-
shipsEchinaceaProject
Are you interested in gaining eld research experience
and learning about the ecology and evolution of plants
and plant-animal interaction in fragmented prairie? The
Echinacea Project is oering positions for students and
soon-to-be graduates, including several NSF-funded
summer REU positions at our eld site in Minnesota,
and a 12-month internship in Minnesota for the summer
and at the Chicago Botanic Garden for the o-season.
With the Echinacea Project, you will survey naturalplant populations, measure plant traits in experimental
plots, observe and collect insects, and assist in all as-
pects of research. Interns will have the option to do an
independent research project. We have diverse potential
projects for students with backgrounds in plant ecology,
pollination biology, evolution, statistics, conservation,
and computer science. In the past, researchers have con-
ducted on a variety of topics including invasive species,
prairie restoration, and plant-herbivore interactions.
No experience is necessary, but you must be enthusiastic,
hard-working, and always willing to learn new things.
Expect working in the tallgrass prairie for up to 8 hours
a day. Housing is provided and there is a stipend. REU
participants will do an independent research project.
Information about our positions for summer 2019
(starting in June) can be found at http://-
echinaceaproject.org/opportunities/. Review of appli-
cations will begin on February 28th for REU positions,
and March 7th for other positions. Please feel free to
email us with any questions you may have.
Michael LaScaleia Research Assistant Chicago
Botanic Garden email: echinaceaproject@gmail.com
http://echinaceaProject.org/og/ http://-
twitter.com/TeamEchinacea Michael LaScaleia
<mlascaleia@chicagobotanic.org >
mtDNA PopGenetics
Dear Colleagues,
Has anyone ever used mitochondrial tRNA sequences to
investigate population dierentiation or species delimi-
tation?
I have some tRNA sequences resulting from the sequenc-
ing of a mitochondrial gene and I was wondering if they
could be informative in terms of population structure
and species dierence. What strategies and methods
have worked (or not) in your experience?
I'll be happy to share results in this mailing list.
Best,
Chiara
chiara.papetti@unipd.it
Chiara Papetti <chiara.papetti@unipd.it >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 85
Phyloseminar NonTraditionalData
FebMar
Here are the next 3 talks on http://phyloseminar.org :
Alexandre Bouchard-C^ ot e University of British
Columbia Advances in computational Bayesian methods
and their use in large-scale single-cell tree reconstruction
Wednesday, February 20, 2019, 10:00 AM PST
I will describe a Bayesian method to reconstruct single
cell phylogenetic trees from copy number events such
as those that arise in cancers with high genomic insta-
bility. The method is motivated by low-depth genome-
wide data which can be obtained for increasingly large
numbers of cells thanks to technologies such as Direct
Library Preparation or 10x Single Cell Genomics. Com-
puting the posterior distribution in this model at scale
is challenging. I will describe how recent advances in
the eld of Bayesian computational statistics can be
used to parallelize the posterior inference computation
to an arbitrary number of cores, touching on topics
such as non-reversible methods and change of measure
approaches. The posterior inference methods described
are available through an open source Bayesian mod-
elling language called Blang, which can be used for a
range of phylogenetic problems including more tradi-
tional phylogenetic models, as well as other Bayesian
analysis problems. The motivating copy-number-based
phylogenetic model is implemented in Blang and avail-
able in a cancer Bayesian phylogenetics and population
genetics library we are actively developing. This library
has been used to infer phylogenetic trees on >4000 cells
using>60 cores.
Miriam Shiman MIT Reconstructing probabilistic trees
of cellular dierentiation from single-cell RNA-seq data
Tuesday, February 26, 2019, 9:00 AM PST
Recent advances in single-cell methods have made tan-
gible how individual cell proles can reect the imprint
of ephemeral or dynamic processes. However, synthesiz-
ing this information to reconstruct dynamic biological
phenomena \ from data that are noisy, heterogenous,
and sparse, and from processes that may unfold asyn-
chronously " poses a computational and statistical chal-
lenge. We develop a full generative model and inference
for reconstructing a dynamic process (cellular dierenti-
ation) from many static snapshots (single-cell RNA-seq
proles), with calibrated uncertainties. Specically, we
dene cell state by the latent parameterization of a dis-tribution over gene expression space, and model these
latent vectors as arising from bifurcating, self-reinforcing
paths along a probabilistic tree \ necessitating the de-
sign of a new class of Bayesian tree models for data
that arise from a latent branching spectrum. In this
talk, I explore how our model lls a hole in the existing
literature on probabilistic trees, and what having an
explicit generative model buys us in the context of recon-
structing trajectories to understand cell fate decisions
in dierentiation.
Aaron McKenna University of Washington Cellular phy-
logenetics - decoding the developmental history and
relationships among individual cells Wednesday, March
6, 2019, 10:00 AM PST
Multicellular organisms develop by way of a lineage tree,
a series of cell divisions that give rise to cell types, tis-
sues, and organs. This pattern mirrors the evolutionary
relationships between species, though our knowledge of
the cell lineage and its determinants remains extremely
fragmentary for nearly all species. This includes all
vertebrates and arthropods such as Drosophila, wherein
cell lineage varies between individuals. Embryos and
organs are often visually inaccessible, and progenitor
cells disperse by long-distance migration. We recently
pioneered a new paradigm for recording cell lineage
and other aspects of developmental history that has
the potential to enhance our understanding of verte-
brate biology. In brief, we engineer cells to stochasti-
cally introduce mutations at specic locations in the
genome during development. The resulting patterns
of mutations, which can be eciently queried by mas-
sively parallel sequencing, can be used to reconstruct
lineage using methods adapted from phylogenetics. We
demonstrate our technique by tracing the lineage of tens
of thousands of cells within individual Zebrash and
Drosophila, relating the lineage of numerous emerging
tissue and organ systems.
{ Frederick "Erick\ Matsen, Associate Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fredhutch.org/ ematsen@gmail.com86 EvolDir February 1, 2019
PymatuningLaboratory
GrantsFellowship
Pymatuning Lab of Ecology Grants in Aid of Research
The University of Pittsburghs Pymatuning Labo-
ratory of Ecology (PLE) invites applications for
Pape/Darbaker/McKinley Grants in Aid of Research.
PLE is a vibrant research and education facility lo-
cated on Lake Pymatuning in Northwest Pennsylva-
nia. PLE's research facilities are spread across 350
acres and include access to a variety of aquatic and
terrestrial ecosystems (http://www.biology.pitt.edu/-
facilities/pymatuning/research). Its 10,000+ square feet
of laboratory facilities include a eld laboratory adja-
cent to an open eld that can be used for large-scale
replicated experiments, a modern molecular laboratory,
and facilities for animal, plant and aquatic studies.
Pape/Darbaker/McKinley Grants are intended to sup-
port researchers in the early stages of their ecological
and evolutionary research programs at PLE. Grant pro-
posals are submitted each year in February and several
awards are made, generally not exceeding $3,500. Most
awards go to graduate students, but consideration will
be given to recent Ph.D.s and more senior researchers
interested in initiating new work at PLE. The due date
for grant proposals is February 22, 2019.
Please visit our website for further details about the
application process:
http://www.biology.pitt.edu/facilities/pymatuning/-
research-grants Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D.
email: cori.zawacki@pitt.edu Associate Professor,
Department of Biological Sciences and Director,
Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology University of
Pittsburgh
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
|{
PLE Schwartz Early Career Fellowship Pymatuning
Laboratory of Ecology Summer 2019
The University of Pittsburgh's Pymatuning Labora-
tory of Ecology (PLE) is pleased to oer the Frank J.
Schwartz Early Career Research Fellowship of up to
$10,000 plus up to three months of station fees and
residency costs for the primary investigator (PI). PLEis a vibrant research and education facility located on
Lake Pymatuning in Northwest Pennsylvania. PLE's
research facilities are spread across 350 acres and include
access to a variety of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.
Its 10,000+ square feet of laboratory facilities include a
eld laboratory adjacent to an open eld that can be
used for large-scale replicated experiments, a modern
molecular laboratory, and facilities for animal, plant
and aquatic studies.
This opportunity is open to researchers holding PhD
degrees in any science discipline that can benet
from PLE's resources (http://www.biology.pitt.edu/-
facilities/pymatuning). The purpose of the fellowship is
to permit researchers to explore new projects or collect
preliminary data. Fellowship funds can be used at the
PI's discretion to facilitate the research but not for PI
compensation. Preference will be given to individuals
and projects with the potential to develop into long-term
research activities at PLE. We especially encourage ap-
plications from individuals in the postdoctoral or early
faculty phases of their careers working on projects in-
volving sh, but researchers holding PhD degrees at all
stages of their careers and working on projects involving
other taxa are also encouraged to apply.
For more information about the fellowship program or
research opportunities at PLE, please contact the Direc-
tor, Dr. Cori Richards-Zawacki (cori.zawacki@pitt.edu).
Applicants should submit a single .pdf le including their
CV, a 2-3 page proposal outlining the proposed research,
a budget detailing how the fellowship funds will be spent,
and planned dates of residence to cori.zawacki@pitt.edu,
placing the words \PLE Schwartz Early Career Fellow-
ship" in the subject line of the email.
Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D. email:
cori.zawacki@pitt.edu Associate Professor, Department
of Biological Sciences and Director, Pymatuning
Laboratory of Ecology University of Pittsburgh
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
\Zawacki, Corinne Lee" <cori.zawacki@pitt.edu >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 87
SMBE AwardNominations
This is a reminder that nominations are due January
25th, 2019.
Nominations Due for Prestigious SMBE Awards
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
smbe@allenpress.com
Dear SMBE Members,
In 2015, SMBE instituted four new awards for: Early-
Career, Mid-Career, and Lifetime Research Achieve-
ments, and Service to the SMBE Community. We are
now calling for nominations for these awards and ask
you to consider nominating your colleagues.
The nominations will be due on January 25, 2019.
Briey, the Junior Award for Independent Research is
intended for nominees in tenure-track positions at the
Assistant Professor level or equivalent; the Mid-Career
Award is for the research contributions of faculty near-
ing promotion to Full Professor or in the early stages
as a Full Professor; the Lifetime Contribution Award is
for exceptional contributions to the published literature
in the eld of molecular biology and evolution; and the
Community Service Award recognizes outstanding ef-
forts on behalf of the Society and the broader scientic
community. Awardees will receive a cash prize and a trip
to the upcoming SMBE Annual Meeting in Manchester,
United Kingdom (July 21-25, 2019).
Here are links to the pages describing these awards:
Allan Wilson Junior Award for Independent Research
(https://t.e2ma.net/click/pv0gs/9yk2r1/lktc2f)
Margaret Dayho Mid-Career Award (https://-
t.e2ma.net/click/pv0gs/9yk2r1/1cuc2f)
Community Service Award (https://t.e2ma.net/click/-
pv0gs/9yk2r1/h5uc2f)
Motoo Kimura Lifetime Contribution Award (https://-
t.e2ma.net/click/pv0gs/9yk2r1/xxvc2f)
Nominations require a nomination letter, which should
clearly indicate the award under consideration and also
serve as a recommendation letter; a separate one-page
summary of the nominees qualications for the award;
a CV of the nominee; and an additional letter of rec-
ommendation. Self-nomination is not allowed. The
nominator need not be an SMBE member, but the nom-inee must be a member of SMBE to be considered for
the award.
The materials should be compiled into a single PDF le,
and should be emailed to smbe@allenpress.com.
Best wishes,
Laura Landweber Past-President, SMBE 2019 SMBE
Awards Committee Chair
810 East 10th Street jLawrence, KS 66044 US
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
<smbe@allenpress.com >
SMBE NominationsDue Awards
This is a reminder that nominations are due January
25th, 2019.
Nominations Due for Prestigious SMBE Awards
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
smbe@allenpress.com
Dear SMBE Members,
In 2015, SMBE instituted four new awards for: Early-
Career, Mid-Career, and Lifetime Research Achieve-
ments, and Service to the SMBE Community. We are
now calling for nominations for these awards and ask
you to consider nominating your colleagues.
The nominations will be due on January 25, 2019.
Briey, the Junior Award for Independent Research is
intended for nominees in tenure-track positions at the
Assistant Professor level or equivalent; the Mid-Career
Award is for the research contributions of faculty near-
ing promotion to Full Professor or in the early stages
as a Full Professor; the Lifetime Contribution Award is
for exceptional contributions to the published literature
in the eld of molecular biology and evolution; and the
Community Service Award recognizes outstanding ef-
forts on behalf of the Society and the broader scientic
community. Awardees will receive a cash prize and a trip
to the upcoming SMBE Annual Meeting in Manchester,
United Kingdom (July 21-25, 2019).
Here are links to the pages describing these awards:
Allan Wilson Junior Award for Independent Research
(https://t.e2ma.net/click/t6n5s/9yk2r1/1cu43f)
Margaret Dayho Mid-Career Award (https://-
t.e2ma.net/click/t6n5s/9yk2r1/h5u43f)88 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Community Service Award (https://t.e2ma.net/click/-
t6n5s/9yk2r1/xxv43f)
Motoo Kimura Lifetime Contribution Award (https://-
t.e2ma.net/click/t6n5s/9yk2r1/dqw43f)
Nominations require a nomination letter, which should
clearly indicate the award under consideration and also
serve as a recommendation letter; a separate one-page
summary of the nominees qualications for the award;
a CV of the nominee; and an additional letter of rec-
ommendation. Self-nomination is not allowed. The
nominator need not be an SMBE member, but the nom-
inee must be a member of SMBE to be considered for
the award.
The materials should be compiled into a single PDF le,
and should be emailed to smbe@allenpress.com
Best wishes,
Laura Landweber Past-President, SMBE 2019 SMBE
Awards Committee Chair
Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
<smbe@allenpress.com >
Springer Genomics Books
The following rst Population Genomics and Paleoge-
nomics books have been published by Springer Nature.
Population Genomics: Concepts, Approaches and
Applications (https://www.springer.com/us/book/-
9783030045876)
Population Genomics: Microorganisms (https://-
www.springer.com/us/book/9783030047559)
Paleogenomics: Genome-scale analysis of ancient DNA
(https://www.springer.com/us/book/9783030047528)
Om Rajora <om.rajora@unb.ca >Om Rajora
<om.rajora@unb.ca >
Survey Functional Traits
In June 2018, we led a workshop at the 5th European
Congress of Conservation Biology entitled, \From fungi
to ies: broadening the use of functional traits in con-servation". During this workshop, it became evident
that researchers across disciplines dene and use the
terms \traits" and \functional traits" dierently, with
implications for communication across disciplines and
collaborative research.
Now we would like your help to better characterize
that diversity by asking you to ll out this 10-15 minute
anonymous survey ( https://tinyurl.com/ycrqo68q). We
would be very grateful if you would take the survey, even
if you do not typically work with traits as we are inter-
ested in how people interpret these terms in general.
The survey will be available until Friday 14th February.
The survey results will be analysed and included in a
manuscript for publication illustrating and discussing
the diversity in terminology and how it may aect re-
search outputs and applications. Please do not hesitate
to contact us if you have any questions or would like
further information about the study.
Sincerely,
Samantha Dawson A. Bradley Duthie Carlos P erez Car-
mona Manuela Gonzalez-Suarez Mari Jonsson
{ The University achieved an overall 5 stars in the QS
World University Rankings 2018 The University of Stir-
ling is a charity registered in Scotland, number SC
011159.
Brad Duthie <alexander.duthie@stir.ac.uk >
Survey PreservingAvianDNA
Do you work with avian blood?
Please, share your experience by lling our survey 'Pre-
serving avian DNA from the wild: your experience of
blood sampling, DNA extraction and storage'.
https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/avian blood storage
It is addressed to biologists and molecular ecologists
handling blood samples collected from birds in the eld
and managing the long-term storage of blood and DNA
extracts. We would like you to share with us your past
and current experiences, along with the adversities you
faced, both in the eld and in the lab.
Sincerely,
Irene Di Lecce, Joanna Sudyka, David F. Westneat and
Marta Szulkin (University of Warsaw and University of
Kentucky)February 1, 2019 EvolDir 89
Joanna Sudyka <joanna.sudyka@cent.uw.edu.pl >
Tenerife Spain VolResAssist
ComparativeCognition
PARROT COGNITION (TENERIFE)
VOLUNTEER RESEARCH ASSISTANTS
Comparative Cognition Research Group, Max-Planck
Institute for Ornithology, Tenerife, Spain
The Max-Planck Comparative Cognition Research
Group (CCRG) https://www.orn.mpg.de/Comparative-
Cognition-Research-Group-von-Bayern invites appli-
cations for volunteer research assistants. The CCRG
forms part of the collaboration between the Max-Planck
Institute for Ornithology, Seewiesen, Germany, and the
Loro Parque Fundaci on (LPF), Tenerife, Spain. We are
currently running various comparative research projects
on social and physical cognition in parrots. Interested
candidates are encouraged to contact us to enquire about
the ongoing projects. Successful applicants can expect
to gain a solid insight in the eld of Animal Cogni-
tion/Experimental Psychology and gain experience in
working with psittacids in a dynamic, international re-
search environment. The research is carried out on
captive parrots of the LPF, which holds the largest par-
rot collection and gene reserve in the world (ca. 350
subspecies) for conservation and research purposes.
Logistics:
Voluntary research assistant position starts on 25 Jan-
uary 2019, but applications will be taken until the po-
sition is lled. The position requires a minimum of 4
months, but ideally 6 months, continuous commitment
at the research station in Tenerife, Spain. Free accommo-
dation in a shared student apartment can be provided.
Successful applicants will be responsible for their own
transportation expenses to and from the research station
(Puerto de la Cruz, Tenerife, Spain).
Important skills/qualications:
Successful candidates will have:
* completed a degree in Biology or any related eld *
a strong interest in comparative cognition * high mo-
tivation and commitment to the project * reliability,
eciency and an ability to work independently * con-
dence to interact with animals * previous research
experience * good verbal and written English skills *
initiative to develop the project * good team work atti-tude and social skills (potentially shared accommodation
between 3 students)
To To apply:
Please send your CV and a cover letter reporting any
relevant experience you have and motivation to par-
ticipate in the project to Dr. Auguste von Bayern
(avbayern@orn.mpg.de ) and Dr. Matthew Petelle
(mpetelle@orn.mpg.de ). Contact details of 2 referees
may be requested.
\Petelle, Matthew" <mpetelle@orn.mpg.de >
UNorthCarolina Greensboro
REU2019 MathAndEvolBiol
REU Opportunity Summer 2019: \Research Experience
for Undergraduates in Mathematics and Biology"
The University of North Carolina at Greensboro
(UNCG) Department of Biology and Department of
Mathematics and Statistics invite highly motivated un-
dergraduate students to apply to our NSF-sponsored
Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) summer
program.
Students will engage in one of multiple, co-mentored
research projects at the interface of mathematics and
biology. While exposure to both disciplines is desired,
advanced expertise in both in not required because you
will work in interdisciplinary teams.
Topics focus on virus transmission dynamics in honey
bees and the evolution of recombination in bacteria.
After a brief initial training period starting May 20, the
students work on the research until July 26, 2019 and
receive a stipend of $5000. Travel support and shared
university housing will also be provided.
For more information, visit https://www.uncg.edu/-
mat/bio-math/REU/ or contact Dr. Jan Rychtar
(rychtar@uncg.edu) or Dr. Olav Rueppell (
olav rueppell@uncg.edu).
Olav Rueppell <oruppel@uncg.edu >90 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Yukon RedSquirrel FieldTechnician
We are looking for eld technicians to assist with eld-
work that will run from March 1 to Oct 1 2019. We are
looking for technicians for the following dierent time
periods: (a) 1 March-15-May (b) 3 April-3 July, and (c)
20 August - 1 October.
The positions are part of a long-term study of red squir-
rel ecology, evolutionary biology and physiology. As
a member of the study, technicians will be involved
with monitoring the reproduction and survival of indi-
vidual squirrels. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping
and handling of squirrels, radio-telemetry, behavioural
observation, and locating young in their nests. This
is an excellent opportunity to gain experience working
with a collaborative research team on a long-term study
of a wild mammal.
All eldwork is carried against the beautiful backdrop
of southwestern Yukon, Canada. We will be staying at
a rustic eld station two hours from Whitehorse, and~30 min to the nearest town (Haines Junction). All
food and accommodation are provided and technicians
are provided with transportation (within reason) to and
from the eld site either through airfare or vehicles.
Training will be provided and no experience is necessary.
Candidates should have an interest in a number of the
following (the more the better!): ecology, evolutionary
biology, wildlife, eld biology, and animal behaviour.
The eld camp is remote and low tech (no showers, cell
phone service, or internet), so successful applicants must
enjoy the outdoors and be able to remain a positive and
responsible team member under relatively isolated and
demanding conditions. Candidates must be in good
physical condition, have an enthusiasm for learning and
a strong work ethic. KRSP aims to be a welcoming, safe,
and inclusive research group and we strongly encourage
applications from underrepresented groups.
If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details for
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email klu-
aneredsquirrels@gmail.com by January 21 2018 (for posi-
tions starting on March1) but applications will continue
to be accepted for the later positions. Please also indi-
cate the time period(s) you are interested in.
\Lane, Jerey" <jerey.lane@usask.ca >
PostDocs
Arizona ComputationalPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . 91
ArizonaStateU BiodiversityDataScience . . . . . . . . . . . 92
ArizonaStateU EvolutionMedicine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Barcelona Transcriptomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Brittany France PopulationGenomicsAphids . . . . . . .94
BrownU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Cornell MarineEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
GeorgetownU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
HolarU Iceland FishFitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
Lisbon MetabarcodingGadyPetrels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98MARE CIBIO Portugal BioinformaticsEvolGenomic 98
MNS LouisianaStateU Systematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
NatlU Singapore EvolutionaryPhotonics . . . . . . . . . . . 99
NIH Bethesda SystemsBiologyGenomeEngineering 100
NorthDakotaStateU AvianEvolutionaryPhysiology 100
NortheasternU EvolutionInChangingSeas . . . . . . . . .101
NTU Taiwan Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
OakRidgeNatlLab MicrobialHGT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
OhioStateU InsectGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
Portugal GulbenkianInstitute 2 EvolutionaryDynamicsFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 91
103
Prague EvolutionaryImmunology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Rennes France Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
SaoPauloStateU Brazil AnuranColorationGenomics 105
StanfordU Hybridization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
StonyBrookU NY EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 107
TempleU PlantReproductiveEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . .107
UAberdeen SpeciationModellingSulwesi . . . . . . . . . . 108
UBielefeld Germany FunctGenomicsSpermComp . 109
UCalifornia Berkeley WheatGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UCalifornia Davis PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . .111
UCalifornia LosAngeles ViralEmergence . . . . . . . . . .112
UChicago EvolutionaryBiochemistry . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UCollege London EvolMulticellularity . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UExeter BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
UExeter InsectVirusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
UFlorida 2 StatGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
UFribourg 2 BehaviourDiseaseDynamics . . . . . . . . . .115
UGothenburg Speciations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UGothenburg Sweden BirdsMacroecolMacroevol . .117
UHelsinki SalmonSexConictModelling . . . . . . . . . . .118UHongKong EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
UIllinois DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .119
UIllinois VirusHeterogeneityEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
UKentucky EvolutionRegeneration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
ULiverpool 2 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .121
ULiverpool EvolutionRodentMicrobiome . . . . . . . . . 121
UMainz PhD PDF InsectSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
UManchester ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
UMississippi MicrobiomePhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 123
UMontana UNebraska EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . 124
UNamur Belgium RotiferGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
UOxford MolMicroSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
UPannonia AvianBehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 126
UppsalaU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
UppsalaU PlantEcoEvolutionaryDynamics . . . . . . . 128
UTuebingen InvasivePlantEpigenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 129
UVermont EpigeneticsThermalPlasticity . . . . . . . . . .129
VirginiaInstMarineScience 2 EvolutionAlgalBlooms 130
YaleU GlobalBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Arizona
ComputationalPopulationGenomics
A postdoctoral research associate position is available in
the Gutenkunst group, in the Department of Molecular
and Cellular Biology at the University of Arizona. The
group focuses on computational population genomics,
with an emphasis on methods development, including
recent forays into cancer genomics. For more informa-
tion, see http://gutengroup.mcb.arizona.edu or contact
Dr. Ryan Gutenkunst at rgutenk@email.arizona.edu.
The postdoc will contribute to an NIH-funded project to
develop and apply methods for inferring novel models of
natural selection from population genomic data. In par-
ticular, the postdoc will work on two-locus methods for
inferring the distribution of tness eects of new muta-
tions, potentially including epistasis. The new methods
will be applied to data from humans, Drosophila, and
other model organisms. The postdoc will also have the
freedom to contribute to other ongoing projects and to
develop their own projects that mesh with the groups
interests.
Applicants should have a Ph.D. in computational bi-
ology, bioinformatics, statistics, evolutionary biology,
or a related eld. Applicants should have prior com-
putational experience and be motivated, creative, andcollegial. Experience with statistical inference for com-
plex models is advantageous. The University of Arizona
has great strength in population and evolutionary ge-
netics, oering potential interactions with Drs. Joanna
Masel, David Enard, Joseph Watkins, Mike Barker, and
others. Computational resources are similarly excellent.
The campus is highly interdisciplinary and very collegial.
The University of Arizona is an EEO/AA - M/W/D/V
Employer.
At 2,500 feet above sea level, culturally diverse Tucson,
Arizona is nestled among ve mountain ranges in the
beautiful Sonoran Desert and is surrounded by Saguaro
National Park. Housing is aordable, quality of life is
high, and outdoor recreation opportunities include the
southernmost ski area in the United States and over
100 miles of bike trails. The area receives over 350
days of sunshine per year and enjoys average high/low
temperatures of 82/54 degrees F.
Applications should include a C.V., cover letter, and
contact information for three references. Please submit
applications through https://uacareers.com/postings/-
34950. Application review begins Feb 18 and will con-
tinue until the position is lled.
rgutenk@email.arizona.edu92 EvolDir February 1, 2019
ArizonaStateU
BiodiversityDataScience
The Biodiversity Knowledge Integration Center (Bio-
KIC) at Arizona State University (ASU) invites ap-
plications for a postdoctoral research scholar position
in biodiversity data science. The position is part of
a new Biodiversity Data Science Initiative launched
at ASU and led by Beckett Sterner and Nico Franz.
The initiative will focus on building an innovative web
platform that leverages theoretical advancements and
prototype software for taxonomic concept alignment
(https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/syw023), with the goal
to establish a scalable taxonomic intelligence service
that will carry value for scientic audiences, science
publishers, government agencies, and environmental con-
sulting rms. The platform will accelerate the growth of
high-quality, reproducible biological data by driving the
adoption of taxonomic intelligence metadata in scientic
datasets and journals.
Position ad: https://sols.asu.edu/sites/default/les/-
job12643.pdf This postdoctoral position will focus on
connecting the taxonomic intelligence platform to users
through designing high-impact use cases and front-end
services for data discovery and integration. The posi-
tion will also involve customer discovery to understand
market demand and user specications for taxonomic
intelligence in order to validate and inform the under-
lying platform design. The successful candidate will
therefore have a strong record of achievement in bio-
diversity informatics, such as implementing scalable
queries for knowledge graphs, building data visualiza-
tion tools, applying machine learning methods, and
designing front-end systems. Experience working with
external clients, digital curation of biological data, and
research in the economic, social and ethical dimensions
of data infrastructure are also preferred. Mentoring of
students and co-/authorship of peer-reviewed publica-
tions, presentations, and of research proposals, will be
strongly encouraged.
Exploratory e-mail inquiries are strongly encouraged.
Interested applicants should send a one-page re-
search statement, clearly indicating their qualications
and motivation to join the project, Curriculum Vi-
tae, and contact information for three references to
nico.franz@asu.edu and bsterne1@asu.edu. The review
of applications is rolling until the search is closed. Thestart date is exible, with a preference for early in 2019.
Salary is commensurate with experience, with a range of
$55,000 to 75,000 annually, plus ASU benets, for excep-
tionally well qualied applicants. Reasonable relocation
funds are available.
Beckett Sterner <beckett.sterner@asu.edu >
ArizonaStateU EvolutionMedicine
The Center for Evolution & Medicine (CEM) at Ari-
zona State University (ASU) invites applications for the
Evolution & Medicine Research Scholars. The program
brings talented researchers with a recently awarded M.D.
or Ph.D. to the ASU campus to develop and extend
their research agendas with opportunities to collaborate
with CEM faculty and other members of their laborato-
ries. Additionally, scholars will spend time working with
their mentor to develop skills in the areas of outreach,
education and grant writing. Possible research areas
include, but are not limited to, Exploring how euthe-
rian evolutionary traits, including invasive placentation,
sex dierences in the immune system, and sex-specic
genomic structure results in common disease risk and
generates sex dierences in health and disease; Iden-
tifying evolutionary processes that buer traditional
populations from metabolic disorders, autoimmune dis-
eases/allergies, cancer, and mental health; Leveraging
evolutionary medicine insights in mitigating tolerance
and resistance associated with the application of health
interventions including prevention and treatment; Ex-
ploring the long-term evolution of pathogens in humans
such as tuberculosis to allow a ne-grained assessment
of the evolutionary dynamics aecting transmission and
adaptation.
The successful scholar(s) will be an outstanding scien-
tist with wide-ranging interests in evolutionary biology
related to disease and health, and an appreciation for
interdisciplinary research. Selections are based on aca-
demic achievement, creativity, and overlap of interests
with multiple CEM faculty. Scholars cannot have had
more than ve years of previous postdoctoral experi-
ence, nor have been employed previously as an assistant
professor, associate professor or professor on the tenure
track. Nominees who are non-US citizens are encouraged
to apply, and will need to be eligible for a J-1 Scholar
visa status for the duration of the program. CEM does
not support H1B visa status. A background check is
required for employment.February 1, 2019 EvolDir 93
Scholars will receive a salary of $60,000 and will have
access to funding of up to $10,000 per annum to support
their research, of which $1,500 may be allocated for
moving expenses. The initial closing date for receipt of
complete applications is March 15, 2019; applications
will be reviewed weekly thereafter until the search is
closed. The earliest anticipated start date is July 1,
2019; the latest is January 1, 2020. This is a full-time
(1.0 FTE) benets-eligible, scal year (July 1 - June
30) appointment. The award is granted for a period of
two years, with a possible third year. Renewal for the
second and possible third year is contingent on perfor-
mance and the availability of resources. For additional
information and policies regarding postdoctoral scholars
at ASU, please see http:// provost.asu.edu/postdoc .
By the start date, candidates must have completed a
Ph.D. in anthropology, biology, psychology or another
natural science eld that provides an extensive back-
ground in evolutionary biology, or an MD, DVM, DrPH
or equivalent level health professional degree. Minimum
qualications include demonstrated proof of advanced
degree listed above and research experience in the eld
of evolutionary medicine by the time of the appoint-
ment. Preference will be given to applicants interested
in working in a multidisciplinary environment and prior
research experience in co-evolution and infectious dis-
eases, regulation of inammation and other defenses,
autoimmune disorders, cancer, genomics, reproductive
health, lactation and factors that inuence disease sus-
ceptibility.
To apply, please email a single pdf document to evmed-
search@asu.edu that contains posting # 12727:
a cover letter explaining your interest in this position
and how it could advance your career plans, and please
identify two faculty members within CEM that you
would be interested in collaborating with. We are specif-
ically looking for scholars that would interface with
strategic projects already underway in the Center (see
research areas above). a curriculum vitae names and
Contact Information for three references
The Center for Evolution & Medicine is a university-
wide Presidential Initiative directed by Randolph Nesse.
Its mission is to improve human health by establishing
evolutionary biology as an essential basic science for
medicine, worldwide. It supports research that demon-
strates the power of evolutionary biology to advance
the understanding, prevention, and treatment of dis-
ease, as well as teaching and outreach initiatives. See
http://evmed.asu.edu for details and information on
Core Faculty. As an interdisciplinary unit, the CEM
provides postdoctoral scholars with opportunities col-
laborate with faculty from a wide-range of disciplinesincluding anthropology, biology, complex systems, com-
putational
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Barcelona Transcriptomics
The candidate will join Marta Mels Transcriptomics
and Functional Genomics lab within the Life Sciences
Department at the Barcelona Supercomputing Center
(BSC). The lab is interested in understanding how the
information encoded in our genome determines gene
expression variation across all cell types in our body.
We ultimately want to understand how these expression
changes in both coding and non-coding genes are asso-
ciated with specic disease states. Expression datasets
are accumulating at high speed and development of
new and ecient computational tools to extract rel-
evant biological information of large and interrelated
data is crucial. Our lab uses novel computational tools
and high-throughput functional assays to tackle these
questions. The candidate will lead the analysis of a
unique dataset of thousands of human transcriptomes
in collaboration with researchers at the Broad Institute
of Harvard and MIT. To this end, he/she will develop
new tools to analyse expression and splicing variation
across human tissues and develop statistical methods
to nd complex patterns across interrelated samples.
Finally, the successful candidate will develop and anal-
yse high throughput functional assays to address the
question of how genetic variation alters gene expression
and ultimately leads to disease.
*Requirements*
* PhD in Transcriptomics, Genomics, Bioinformatics,
Computational Biology, or related elds * Strong pub-
lication record * Strong programming skills including
prociency in programming with bash, python, R, perl,
or similar, and/or experience working in HPC clusters
* Some experience with Next Generation Sequencing
data analysis * Capacity to work as a team in a highly
collaborative and diverse environment * Capacity to
contribute to research projects with novel research ideas
and analysis * Excellent communication skills in spoken
and written English94 EvolDir February 1, 2019
*Conditions*
* The position will be located at BSC within the Life
Sciences Department * We oer a full-time contract,
a good working environment, a highly stimulating en-
vironment with state-of-the-art infrastructure, exible
hours, extensive training plan, tickets restaurant, pri-
vate health insurance, fully support to the relocation
procedures * Duration: Temporary - 1 year renewable *
Salary: we oer a competitive salary commensurate with
the qualications and experience of the candidate and
according to the cost of living in Barcelona * Starting
date: as soon as possible
To apply, visit the site web: https://www.bsc.es/join-
us/job-opportunities/289lstfgr2 and apply.
email: recruitment@bsc.es
{ Marina Fernandez
/HR Support/
/Human Resources /
*Barcelona Supercomputing Center - Centro Nacional
de Supercomputacin*
Tel. +34- 934054508
marina.fernandezl@bsc.es
www.bsc.es http://bsc.es/disclaimer Marina Fernandez
<marina.fernandez@bsc.es >
Brittany France
PopulationGenomicsAphids
Postdoctoral Researcher position in population genomics
of asexuality in insects
A 18-month postdoctoral position is available in
the team Ecology and Genetics of Insects (https:/-
/www6.rennes.inra.fr/igepp eng/Research-teams/-
Ecology-and-Genetics-of-Insects), at INRA, Rennes,
France, starting in June 2019.
INRA, the French National Institute for Agricultural
Research, is an internationally recognized institute con-
ducting research in dierent elds of biological, agri-
cultural and environmental sciences. The team Ecol-
ogy and Genetics of Insects, which is located at INRA
Rennes research center in Brittany, France, has a strong
involvement in adaptive genomics of insect crop pests
and gathers experts in population genetics, functional
genomics and bioinformatics. Our team has a particularinterest in the genomic bases of sex loss in aphids, a
group of insects which frequently shows coexisting sexual
and obligatory asexual lineages in natural populations.
As part of a project recently funded by the French
Research Agency (ANR, http://www.agence-
nationale-recherche.fr/en/anr-funded-project/-
?txlwmsuivibilan pi2%5BCODE%5D=ANR-17-
CE20-0010), we are oering a 18-month postdoc
position to identify genomic regions associated
with reproductive mode variation in the pea aphid
Acyrthosiphon pisum, for which important genomic
resources (including a complete genome) and functional
tools are available.
Highly motivated candidates with a PhD degree and
having a strong background in population genetics and
evolutionary biology are encouraged to apply. Previous
experience with handling and analyzing high-throughput
population genomic data is highly desirable. The can-
didates should also have good communication skills
evidenced by scientic publications and oral commu-
nications in conferences. Ability to work in a team
environment is required.
To apply for the position, please combine cover letter,
CV, brief summary of previous research experience (max
1 page) and names and contact information of three refer-
ees in one PDF le and send it to Julie.Jaquiery@inra.fr
and Jean-Christophe.Simon@inra.fr.
The closing date for applications will be 15th February
2019.
Contact:
Julie Jaquiery, Ph.D.
INRA, UMR Institut de G en etique, Environnement et
Protection des Plantes (IGEPP), Domaine de la Motte,
35653 Le Rheu cedex - France
tel: +33 (0) 2 23 48 51 53
Julie.Jaquiery@inra.fr
Jean-Christophe Simon, Ph.D.
INRA, UMR Institut de G en etique, Environnement et
Protection des Plantes (IGEPP), Domaine de la Motte,
35653 Le Rheu cedex - France
tel: +33 (0) 2 23 48 51 54
Jean-Christophe.Simon@inra.fr
Related publications:
Simon J-C, Rispe C., Sunnucks P. 2002. Ecology and
evolution of sex in aphids. Trends in Ecology & Evolu-
tion, 17:34-39.
Jaqui ery et al. 2014. Genetic control of contagious asex-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 95
uality in the pea aphid. PLoS Genetics 10: e1004838.
Nouhaud et al. 2018. Identifying genomic hotspots
of dierentiation and candidate genes involved in the
adaptive divergence of pea aphid host races. Molecular
Ecology.27:3287-3300.
Julie Jaquiery <Julie.Jaquiery@inra.fr >
BrownU EvoDevo
Postdoctoral Fellow: Cell and Developmental Biology,
Brown University (Providence, RI)
Position type: Full time, at least for 2 ~3 years (or max-
imum of 5 ~6 years with annual renewal)
- Annual Stipend of $50,000 or higher. Insurance and
benets are separately provided.
- Qualication: PhD in the eld of Cell and Develop-
mental Biology.
-Project Description:
(1) Cell and Developmental Biology: Identifying how
germline factors contribute to cellular functions and de-
velopment, using sea urchin embryonic cells and human
cancer cells.
(2) Evolutionary Developmental Biology: Discovering
how the molecular evolution alters the developmental
program and contributes to species diversity, using mul-
tiple echinoderm embryos.
-Required skills: Research record in Cell biology, Em-
bryology and Live imaging (e.g. microinjection, op-
togenetics, and 4D-confocal imaging). Experience in
Biochemistry and bioinformatics is also welcomed. The
PI will provide necessary trainings both in experiment
conducting and manuscript/grant writing.
We greatly appreciate ones independent thinking,
creativity, curiosity, enthusiasm, and hard work-
ing. Interested individuals should contact the PI
(Mamiko Yajima, PhD): mamiko yajima@brown.edu
<mailto:mamiko yajima@brown.edu >. Please enclose
your CV, Cover letter and reprints of your represen-
tative works (if any), and the contact information of
your three referees. Reviews will begin immediately and
continue until the position is lled.
Mamiko Yajima <mamiko yajima@brown.edu >Cornell
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc in marine genomics
The Hare Lab at Cornell University is recruiting a post-
doc with diverse skills to lead genomic aspects of an
NSF-funded project to identify and spatially map bal-
anced polymorphisms underlying oyster tolerance to low
salinity. We are testing the hypothesis that short-term
adaptive responses to environmental stress can involve
distinct genetic architectures across a habitat gradient,
even at spatial scales with high gene ow. These pre-
dictions are for the eastern oyster, a species in which
high standing genetic variation and low linkage disequi-
librium facilitate testing for polygenic architectures. A
rst goal for this study is to identify candidate genes
for tolerance to low-salinity using whole-genome rese-
quencing of experimental challenge before/after samples,
supported by an available chromosome-level reference
genome. Results will inform models of evolutionary
response to environmental change as well as articial
selection strategies in breeding for aquaculture traits.
In general, this study is motivated by the expectation
that dispersing genotypes in high fecundity species will
have phenotype - environment mismatches resulting
in strong viability selection. As a result, functional
genetic dierentiation is generated across small-scale
habitat heterogeneities within each cohort. A second
goal of this project is to measure candidate gene vari-
ation along the estuarine salinity gradient and test for
associations with salinity variation. Field sampling of
Delaware Bay eastern oysters will target larvae, newly-
settled juveniles and adults to measure the extent and
spatial/temporal pattern of recurrent within-generation
selection. Environmental data will provide estimates
of lifetime salinity exposures for oysters from dierent
locations within the estuary, informing two replicate
years of genetic-environment spatial correlation testing.
In addition to collection and analysis of genomic data at
Cornell, this position will include summer work at the
Rutgers Haskin Shellsh Lab in southern New Jersey
to lead experimental challenge experiments. The ideal
candidate will have experimental design experience that
informs these experiments, but primary responsibility
will be for bioinformatic and population genomic anal-
yses of barcoded whole genome and sequence capture
data. Laboratory molecular work will be minimal. The96 EvolDir February 1, 2019
candidate also will be encouraged to develop a related,
independent project according to their interests.
Qualications: A PhD in ecological genetics, population
genetics or related eld is required. We are looking for
a creative and productive scientist with strong compu-
tational and bioinformatic skills, good communication
abilities, and a publication record commensurate with
career stage. The ideal candidate will have previous
experience with experimental design generally, or specif-
ically with challenge and/or evolve and resequence ex-
perimental designs. Programming abilities are highly
desirable.
The position is for 2.5 years with performance re-
view annually. The start date is exible, but sooner
within 2019 is preferred. Information about salary
and benets at Cornell can be found here: https://-
postdocs.cornell.edu/postdoctoral-associates-benets .
Interested candidates should send a cover letter describ-
ing your relevant experience and interest, a CV, the
contact information for three references to Matt Hare
(mph75@cornell.edu). Review of applications will begin
immediately and continue until the position is lled.
Diversity and inclusion are a part of Cornell University's
heritage. Cornell is a recognized employer and educator
valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals
with Disabilities.
Matt Hare Associate Professor Department of Nat-
ural Resources 205 Fernow Hall Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853 https://blogs.cornell.edu/harelab/
mph75@cornell.edu 607-255-5685
mph75@cornell.edu
GeorgetownU EvolutionaryGenetics
* Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Genetics of Vec-
tor Biting *
A postdoctoral position is available in Peter Arm-
bruster's lab at Georgetown University (https://-
armbruster.georgetown.domains/) to study the evo-
lutionary genetics of vector biting.The focus of the
project is to conduct comparative genomics analyses
between biting and non-biting lines/populations of
three mosquito species: 1) the yellow fever mosquito,
/Aedes aegypti/, 2) the northern house mosquito,
/Culex pipiens,/ and 3) the pitcher-plant mosquito,
/Wyeomyia smithii/.The project will leverage previ-
ous work on the genomics of biting in /W. smithii/recently published in /PNAS/ (see https://bradshaw-
holzapfel-lab.uoregon.edu/PDF/PNAS1.pdf). This is a
collaborative project with the Bradshaw/Holzapfel lab
at the University of Oregon and the Meuti lab at Ohio
State University.The position will also include an op-
portunity to develop additional research projects. The
initial appointment will be for two years, with the pos-
sibility of extension based on excellent performance and
additional funding. Starting salary will be $47,400 per
year with benets. The start date is exible, but April
or May of 2019 would be ideal.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Candidates should have completed their PhD in evo-
lutionary biology or a related discipline with a demon-
strated record of research productivity and publica-
tion.The project will involve substantial insect hus-
bandry, molecular biology and bioinformatics analy-
ses.Candidates with expertise in two of these three areas
will be given preference, and a desire to work in all three
areas is essential.
APPLICATION:
Review of applications will begin February 1 ^st
and continue until the position has been lled.
Applicants should submit the following mate-
rial to Peter Armbruster (paa9@georgetown.edu
<mailto:paa9@georgetown.edu >) with 'postdoc appli-
cation' in the subject line: 1) A CV including names
and contact information of three references, and 2)
A one-page research statement describing previous
accomplishments and long-term goals. Informal
inquiries prior to submission of a full application are
welcome.
The Biology Department at Georgetown (https://-
biology.georgetown.edu/) is housed in the recently con-
structed Regents Hall, a state-of-the-art facility.The
Biology Department is a vibrant academic community
with a diverse set of research groups studying a range of
topics in evolutionary ecology. Additionally, Washing-
ton D.C. provides exciting opportunities to interact with
scientists at other institutions (i.e., NIH, Smithsonian In-
stitution, George Washington University and University
of Maryland, etc.).Washington D.C. is an outstanding
place to live with world-class cultural attractions and
numerous (underappreciated) opportunities for outdoor
activities.Georgetown University values diversity and is
committed to equal opportunity for all persons regard-
less of age, color, disability, ethnicity, marital status,
national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
veteran status, or any other status protected by law.
Peter Armbruster, Ph.D. Davis Family Professor Dept.
of Biology, Regents 508 Georgetown University 37thFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 97
and O Streets NW Washington, DC 20057-1229
Oce Phone: 202-687-2567 Lab Phone: 202-687-1741
Fax: 202-687-5662
http://www9.georgetown.edu/faculty/paa9/ Peter
Armbruster <paa9@georgetown.edu >
HolarU Iceland FishFitness
*One-year Post-doctoral position: Evolutionary ecology
of Icelandic Arctic charr*
H olar University College, Iceland (Dr. Camille Leblanc
and Pr. Bjarni Kristj ansson) seeks a Post-doctoral fel-
low to study how *Spatial and temporal variation in
ecological resources aect tness and phenotypic traits
of multiple populations of small benthic Arctic charr.*
Numerous ecological and evolutionary processes con-
tribute to the generation of biodiversity, and the com-
plexity of their interactions has presented a challenge to
our understanding of nature. Our knowledge of the roles
of development, natural selection, genetic drift, and gene
ow in shaping biodiversity is complicated by the spatial
and temporal variability inherent in natural systems. A
powerful approach to better understand such processes
involves monitoring wild populations over generations
and obtaining data including pedigrees, phenotype, and
tness, so that we can directly infer evolutionary param-
eters, particularly those describing selection and genetic
variation. To approach such questions we study cave
charr populations found in lava caves in Iceland, which
are extensively replicated in space, and time. Seven
years of data have been collected on individual sh from
16 populations, and preliminary results show important
dierences in survival, growth rate, shape, movement
and ecology among these populations. The project is a
collaboration between H olar University College, Univer-
sity of St. Andrews in Scotland (Dr. Michael Morrisey),
University of Guelph, Canada (Prof. Moira M. Fergu-
son) and EAWAG in Switzerland (Dr. Katja R as anen).
We are seeking a talented candidate to conduct analyses
of existing data from the previous seven years of eld
work, particularly analyses of spatial variation in size-
dependent growth functions and size-dependent survival.
The appointee will work closely with Dr. Michael Mor-
rissey at the University of Saint Andrews in Scotland.
The post doctoral fellow will have the opportunity to
join the team conducting eldwork in summer.
The project has been funded by two successive grantsfrom the Icelandic Research Council RANNIS. *The
position is funded for one year, *but there are oppor-
tunities for the post doctoral fellow to apply for more
funding to continue this work.
LOCATION:
The home University is H olar Univ. College
(North Iceland) in the Dept. of Aquaculture
and Fish Biology (DAFB - http://holar.is/en/-
department ofaquaculture andshbiology). HUC is
situated in the beautiful village of H olar (Skagafj ordur),
with oces and research laboratories in the nearby town
Sau~Ao arkr okur. DAFB is an active research centre com-
posed by a dynamic international team of post-doctoral
fellows, graduate students and faculty. The beautiful
natural setting and easy travel allow both outdoor and
cultural activities. This position will include a signicant
amount of work with the University of Saint Andrews.
QUALIFICATIONS:
The candidate must hold a doctoral degree and have
the ability to conduct independent work. Suitable can-
didates will have a strong background in evolutionary
biology as demonstrated by publications in relevant
elds. Previous research experience in some or all of:
analysis of natural selection, evolutionary quantitative
genetics, analysis of longitudinal data from populations,
mark-recapture analyses, and Bayesian statistics will be
desirable but not essential. The position oers a highly
competitive salary of up to one year according to the
Icelandic regulation.
The working language is English. A valid driving license
is a requirement.
Applicants should send *a single PDF le named \Cave
charr position 2019"* including an application letter
with a statement of research interests (max 2 pages), a
CV with a list of publications, copies of academic quali-
cations/transcripts, and the names and e-mail addresses
of three academics references, to camille@mail.holar.is
latest *March 01, 201*9. The position is available im-
mediately.
For further information contact Camille A. Leblanc
(Dept. of Aquaculture and Fish Biology, H olar Univ.
College) (camille@mail.holar.is) or Dr. Michael Morris-
sey (*mbm5@st-andrews.ac.uk*)
Camille Leblanc <camille@mail.holar.is >98 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Lisbon MetabarcodingGadyPetrels
Research Scientist position at the cE3c, Lis-
bon, Portugal. Job Posting at http://-
www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-
showAnuncioOportunities&jobId7754&idc=1 .Ap-
plication Deadline is January 20, 2018. The cE3c
(http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/j) is seeking a Research
Scientist to join the team of a project which is
focusing on understanding the mechanisms underlying
allochronic divergence of NE Atlantic Gady petrels
(Pterodroma sp).
The Postdoc will mainly focus on using metabarcoding
tools to characterize the diet of the NE Atlantic Gady
petrels and understand how niche specialization might
be contributing to the allochronic divergence of Petrel
taxa. The Postdoc is also expected to collaborate on
other genomic tasks of the project. Other duties include
leading authorship of publications, presenting research
at conferences, and mentoring junior researchers at the
lab.
Applications can be submitted by candidates holding
a doctorate degree in Biological Sciences, and related
elds, and have specialized expertise in Molecular Ecol-
ogy and Evolution. General requirements include: 1.
Experience in Omic analyses (particularly Metabarcond-
ing) and an understanding of the key issues and relevant
analytical tools in the eld, particularly if applied to
the characterization of foodwebs in marine/estuarine
ecosystems. Experience with DNA extraction from ma-
rine predator diet samples is useful but not essential;
2. Experience with phylogenetic analyses and popula-
tion genomics analytical tools; 3. Knowledge of one or
more programming languages; 4. Excellent writing and
communication skills in English language;
The selection jury will only consider facts attested by
documents issued by relevant people/authorities (copies
of documents, reference letters, etc).
The project and the research position will be part of the
Evolutionary Genetics group at the cE3c research center,
Faculdade de Ci^ encias, Universidade de Lisboa (http:/-
/ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/), which is a dynamic group
studying speciation, population genomics and adapta-
tion in natural and domesticated populations. Within
FCUL there is scope for interaction with other groups
that also apply Molecular Ecology tools to study the
structure of foodwebs in marine and estuarine ecosys-tems.
Monthly remuneration to be paid is the one set by article
23 (3) of RJEC, corresponding to level 33 of the Single
Salary Table, approved by Order no. 1553-C/2008 of
December 31st, i.e. 2.128,34 Euros, plus holiday and
Christmas allowances, and meal allowance.
All applications for consideration must be submitted
online, more information can be found at http://-
www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-
showAnuncioOportunities&jobId7754&idc=1 . For
questions related to this opportunity, please contact
M onica C. Silva, mssilva[at]fc.ul.pt.
Monica Silva <mssilva@fc.ul.pt >
MARE CIBIO Portugal
BioinformaticsEvolGenomic
- New Postdoctoral position in the eld of Bioinformatics
(Evolutionary Genomics) -
- Application deadline: February 8, 2019 -
We are looking for a motivated and skilled Bioinformati-
cian to take on an active role in an international team
working at the leading edge of genomics, environmental
DNA (eDNA) metabarcoding and eDNA metagenomics,
on a project recently funded by the Portuguese Science
Foundation.
This position has an expected duration of 30 months,
starting April 1, 2019, and will be based at the Research
Center MARE, University of Lisbon, and/or CIBIO,
University of Porto, Portugal. There will be plenty
of opportunities to interact with scientists locally, and
also internationally (Indiana State University and the
Norwegian Sequencing Centre).
For more information on the project, contract
details and application procedure, please visit:
http://www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.a-
spx?task=global&jobId9624 and contact Hugo Gante
athugo.gante@indstate.edu for more details.
- -
Hugo F. Gante, PhD
Assistant Professor Department of Biology TCGA - The
Center for Genomic Advocacy Indiana State University
Terre Haute, IN 47809, USA http://hugofgante.com
Hugo.Gante@indstate.eduFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 99
MNS LouisianaStateU Systematics
Job Posting Title: Postdoctoral Researcher at the LSU
Museum of Natural Science
Candidate will conduct research in coordination with
one or more of the Curators. The candidate will also be
responsible for helping with the laboratory supervision
of graduate and undergraduate research assistants and
management of the Museum molecular genetics core
facility. Ongoing projects in the lab include systematics
and population genetics studies of birds, sh, mammals,
reptiles and amphibians.
Duties: 70% Conduct active lab research on a semi-
independent basis. To prepare and publish scientic
manuscripts under the direction of a Curator. To attend,
contribute, and where necessary lead relevant meetings.
To take the responsibility for planning and developing
research methods and techniques within the framework
of the research program. Bring new expertise to the re-
search program. To undertake any other duties relevant
to the program of research, including eld work. To
collaborate with research colleagues and support sta
internally as appropriate to the research and to actively
develop appropriate external contacts and networks rel-
evant to the project and to future funding opportunities.
The person in this position is expected to be part of
the Museum's vibrant academic community, attending
seminars, participating in journal clubs, etc.
30% Responsible for helping with the laboratory su-
pervision and training of graduate, undergraduate, and
high school research assistants, and management of the
Museum's shared molecular genetics facility. Ongoing
projects in the lab include systematics and population
genetic studies of birds, mammals, reptiles and amphib-
ians, and shes. Monitor laboratory cleanliness and
safety. Order general lab supplies for the department.
Establish and enforce lab rules and regulations, and
indoctrinate new sta/students in same at beginning
of each semester. Attend regular meetings with the
research team and investigators as required. Work with
external collaborators as agreed with the investigators.
Min Quals: Ph.D. in Biology or related discipline; Expe-
rience in molecular methods, evolutionary biology, and
computational biology, strong publication record, ability
to manage an active laboratory
To apply, go to: https://lsu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-LSU/job/LSU|Baton-Rouge/Postdoctoral-
Researcher R00031615 Jake Esselstyn Museum
of Natural Science Louisiana State University 119
Foster Hall Baton Rouge, LA 70803
phone: (225) 578-3083 fax: (225) 578-3075 https:/-
/esselstyn.github.io Want to support mammal
research at LSU? Donate to the Alfred L Gard-
ner and Mark S Hafner Mammalogy Fund
at: https://securelb.imodules.com/s/1585/17/-
interior.aspx?sid85&gid=1&pgid\14&cid784 Jacob A
Esselstyn<esselstyn@lsu.edu >
NatlU Singapore
EvolutionaryPhotonics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Evolution-
ary Photonics lab ( http://vinodal.weebly.com) of Vin-
odkumar Saranathan in the Department of Biological
Sciences and Yale-NUS College to study the evolution-
ary and biophysical/optical basis of color production in
buttery wing scales.
The candidate will systematically identify, and struc-
turally and functionally characterize independent mech-
anisms of color production in distinct lineages of butter-
ies, which have convergently evolved to produce cer-
tain colors (such as blues), in order to understand the
evolutionarily independent coloration strategies Nature
employs for the production of similar hues in butteries.
The candidate will also characterize the optical proper-
ties of the hierarchical features of scales by performing
alterations (using nanofabrication tools) on wildtype
buttery scales and mutant scales, as well as assist with
the synthesis of biomimetic reproductions for multi-
functional applications, using nanopatterning and other
techniques.
The position is initially for two years and can start im-
mediately. The position can be extended up to 4 years.
Salary will be competitive and commensurate with ex-
perience. Candidates with prior experience in studying
biophotonic nanostructures, and familiarity with bio-
materials characterization are especially encouraged to
apply.
NUS/Yale-NUS oer world-class research labs and in-
frastructure and a convivial and collaborative environ-
ment. Singapore is a lush, green city oering tropical
weather year around, a diversity of food, and nearby
exotic locations.100 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Interested applicants should APPLY ONLINE using the
NUS Careers portal:
https://nuscareers.taleo.net/careersection/-
nusep/jobdetail.ftl?job You may contact me
(yncvks@nus.edu.sg) with relevant queries. The
deadline for submission of application is January 28th
2019 (Singapore Time)
vinodkumar.saranathan@aya.yale.edu
NIH Bethesda
SystemsBiologyGenomeEngineering
The Intramural Research Program of the National Hu-
man Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) at the Na-
tional Institutes of Health (NIH) is seeking a postdoc
to join the newly formed Systems Biology and Genome
Engineering Section (SBGE), in Bethesda, Maryland.
The sections focus is on genome functionalization: un-
derstanding how variation across the genome aects
phenotypes. To tackle this question, we will be de-
veloping and applying new high-throughput methods.
This includes harnessing the strengths of CRISPR, large
scale oligo synthesis, and yeast genetics. Research in the
SBGE involves both wet lab and dry lab components,
giving postdocs the opportunity to develop and sharpen
skills in either.
Postdocs in the SBGE will be joining the unique scien-
tic environment at the NIH, with thousands of highly
collaborative researchers working on topics spanning
basic biology to clinical research. In addition, the Wash-
ington DC metro area is an exciting, cosmopolitan place
to live, with excellent transit, schools, and attractions.
Qualications: The successful candidate will have com-
pleted or be nearing the completion of their PhD, and
have interests in genetics, evolution, or systems biology.
The position will require strong oral and written com-
munication skills, as well as uency in English. It is
important that the successful candidate be able to work
semi-independently at developing and troubleshooting
novel techniques, reading current scientic literature
and applying it to their project, and presenting data
and ideas through lab meetings, seminars, conferences,
and written publications.
To Apply: Interested applications should send a detailed
letter of interest to Dr. Meru Sadhu at meru@nih.gov.
The letter should include the applicants motivation for
joining the SBGE, as well as one or two project ideasthat the applicant would be interested in pursuing. In
addition, applicants should include their CV and the
names of three potential references.
The NIH and SBGE are dedicated to building a diverse
community in its training and employment programs.
\Sadhu, Meru (NIH/NHGRI) [E]"
<meru.sadhu@nih.gov >
NorthDakotaStateU
AvianEvolutionaryPhysiology
Position Description: An enthusiastic and highly moti-
vated post-doctoral researcher is sought to join the lab
of Dr. Timothy Greives (timothy.greives@ndsu.edu) in
the Department of Biological Sciences at North Dakota
State University (NDSU). This is a NSF funded po-
sition to study the relationship between reproductive
hormones, daily behavioral rhythms and reproductive
success in a wild Eurasian songbird (Parus major). The
initial length of the contract will be for one year with
the opportunity to renew for up to two additional years.
This integrative project is being conducted in collab-
oration with Dr. Michaela Hau at the Max Planck
Institute for Ornithology (Seewiesen, Germany). The
post-doc will primarily reside in Fargo, ND, but will
collaboratively conduct eld research in Germany re-
quiring extended stays of up to several months at a
time. During this position, the post-doc will gain valu-
able experience in research design, avian eld research
techniques, endocrine and molecular techniques, inter-
national research experience, and mentoring graduate
and undergraduate students. The post-doc is also en-
couraged to pursue independent lines of research related
to this project. The start date is somewhat exible, but
ideally will begin around August 15, 2019.
Minimum: Candidates must 1) have a Ph.D. degree
in biological sciences or a related discipline from an
accredited institution; 2) have a demonstrated interest
in research in physiological or evolutionary ecology; and
3) have strong oral and written communication skills,
including an ability to work as part of team and collab-
orate with others, 4) ability and desire to work both in
the United States and abroad in Germany.
Preferred: Preference will be given to candidates with
demonstrated interest in 1) behavioral endocrinology;
2) biological rhythms; 3) evolutionary physiology and
experience with: 4) avian eld research 5) EIA hormoneFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 101
assays, 6) and automated behavioral monitoring, includ-
ing automated telemetry and RFID monitoring, 7) and
a valid drivers license and ability to operate a manual
transmission vehicle.
Application: Applicants must submit a cover letter; a
curriculum vitae; a description of research experience
(2 pages maximum); and contact information (includ-
ing telephone numbers and e-mail addresses) for three
professional references. All application materials must
be submitted online at: jobs.ndsu.edu position number
1800953
Review of applications will begin 5 March 2019 and
continue until the position is lled.
Questions regarding the search may be sent to timo-
thy.greives@ndsu.edu
Timothy J. Greives, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor
Department of Biological Sciences
North Dakota State University
p. 701.231.9461
\Greives, Tim" <timothy.greives@ndsu.edu >
NortheasternU
EvolutionInChangingSeas
A Synthesis Postdoctoral Fellowship is available for
the Research Coordinated Network for Evolution in
Changing Seas. This is an excellent opportunity for the
successful candidate to conduct cutting edge synthesis
across disciplines and engage with a global network of
researchers studying adaptation to ocean change. The
postdoc will have the opportunity to develop their own
research questions for synthesis and meta-analysis of
existing data.
The fellow will be based at Northeastern University's Ma-
rine Science Center and will work closely with PIs Kath-
leen Lotterhos and Geo Trussell. NUMSC a strong
research presence in evolution and ecology research and
there are many opportunities for interaction and collab-
oration both there and in the greater Boston area.
Duration is for 24 months with an anticipated start date
between January and December 2019.
Qualications
Must have a Ph.D.; be able to undertake substantiallyfull-time research or scholarship; work under the super-
vision of a senior scholar.
Specic requirements:
Applicants will be expected to develop and lead projects.
Candidates are required to have a Ph.D. We welcome
candidates from diverse research experiences. Candi-
dates should have a strong track record of publication;
have demonstrated an ability to manage and analyse
large datasets; have strong organizational, written, and
oral communication skills; and be able to work both
independently and as part of a collaborative team. We
think diversity is a component of excellence, and wel-
come applicants regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexuality,
age or disability.
Application website: https://neu.peopleadmin.com/-
postings/58943 To apply, please be prepared to attach
the following materials in a single PDF (noted as cv in
the application system):
^A A cover letter ^A A CV with contact information for
three references ^A One peer-reviewed research publica-
tion (ideally your most signicant or most relevant to
this position)
The successful applicant will have many research oppor-
tunities through the RCN and Northeastern Marine Sci-
ence Center. For more information on this job and oppor-
tunities that will be associated with the position, please
contact Dr. Lotterhos k.lotterhos@northeastern.edu
We will begin reviewing applications on January 31st.
Kathleen E Lotterhos Assistant Professor Department
of Marine and Environmental Sciences Northeastern
University Marine Science Center, Room 113 430 Na-
hant Rd Nahant, MA 01908 Phone: 781.581.7370 ext
304
k.lotterhos@northeastern.edu
NTU Taiwan Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Research Fellow Position in mycobacte-
ria bioinformatics analysis Position in National Taiwan
University, Taipei, Taiwan
Descriptions: This is a prospective four year funded
project on the application of whole genome sequencing
(WGS) in investigating transmission dynamics and the
diagnosis of drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) in south-
ern Taiwan. We have a strong team including major
medical centers, infectious disease epidemiologists, bioin-102 EvolDir February 1, 2019
formaticians, and public health sectors. We will combine
genomic data and epidemiologic information to achieve
the study aims. The use of WGS is anticipated to pro-
vide critical resolution and information for rethinking
of TB diagnosis and management.
Qualications for potential applicants: 1. Ph.D degree
in bioinformatics or related elds 2. Familiarity with
M.tb is a plus
Requirements: Candidates with independent research
experience and good publication records will be given
high priority
Commencement date of employment: Depends on the
qualication check and approval from the National Tai-
wan University
Working location: College of Public Health, National
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan
Salary: USD25515/year-USD34790/year and is com-
mensurate with qualications and experience.
Application: Please contact Prof. Hsien-Ho Lin by email
(hsienho@ntu.edu.tw), and attach following documents:
(1) CV and personal statement (2) Other documents
that support the qualication for this position.
jenny1004wu@gmail.com
OakRidgeNatlLab MicrobialHGT
The Biosciences Division of Oak Ridge National Labo-
ratory (ORNL) has an opening for a microbiologist to
investigate horizontal gene transfer in microbial com-
munities. Horizontal gene transfer has the potential to
disrupt microbial composition, function, and interac-
tions. Through this research, we aim to improve our
ability to predict and manipulate these processes.
In this position, you will use techniques from microbiol-
ogy, genetics, molecular biology, and synthetic biology
to measure, replicate, and apply horizontal gene trans-
fer. You will be expected to collaborate with other
labs at ORNL, including through the Plant-Microbe
Interfaces project (https://pmiweb.ornl.gov/). You will
also design and execute laboratory experiments, analyze
quantitative data, write and communicate results to the
scientic community.
Applications are accepted until the position is lled:
https://jobs.ornl.gov/job-invite/219/ Duties and Re-
sponsibilities:- Work with a diverse team of scientists. - Interface di-
rectly with internal and external partners in various dis-
ciplines. - Present research results at national scientic
meetings. - Publish scientic results in peer-reviewed
journals in a timely manner. - Participate in project
planning and execution. - Maintain detailed and accu-
rate records. - Acquire and analyze data in keeping with
project scheduling. - Self-assess experimental research
skill set and identify weakness and secure learning re-
sources to address these issues. - Ensure compliance
with environment, safety, health and quality program
requirements.
Basic Qualications
A Ph.D. in microbiology, bioengineering, evolutionary
biology, molecular biology, or a related eld is required.
Applicants cannot have received the most recent degree
more than ve years prior to the date of application and
must complete all degree requirements before starting
their appointment.
Preferred Qualications
- Expertise in microbial genetics and physiology, par-
ticularly with diverse non-model microbes - Familiarity
with evolutionary processes in microbes - Expertise ac-
quiring and analyzing high-throughput sequencing data
- Eective writing and presentation skills demonstrated
by a strong publication record from previous research -
Desire to work both independently and collaboratively
as part of a multidisciplinary team
Josh Michener Sta Scientist, Biosciences Division Oak
Ridge National Laboratory 1 Bethel Valley Road, Oak
Ridge, TN 37830 https://michenerlab.org \Michener,
Josh"<michenerjk@ornl.gov >
OhioStateU InsectGenomics
A Post-Doctoral position is available focused on insect
genomics and adaptation. The position is available for
1 year, with opportunities for renewal depending on
progress and funding support. The position will fo-
cus on genomics of adaptation in the soybean aphid
(Aphis glycines) and the fall armyworm (Spodoptera
frugiperda). Specically, the research projects will
help identify insect genes responsible for overcoming
resistance in plant hosts. Candidates with previous
experience in bioinformatics, next-generation sequenc-
ing analysis, population genomics (including genome
scans and QTL) and/or epigenetics are highly desir-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 103
able. Questions can be sent to Dr. Andy Michel
(michel.70@osu.edu, see https://entomology.osu.edu/-
our-people/andrew-michel).
Please visit: http://www.jobsatosu.com/postings/92118
Deadline 02/10/2018.
The Ohio State University is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. All qualied applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, sex orientation, gender identity, national origin,
disability status, or protected veteran status. EO/AA
employer.
michel.70@osu.edu
Portugal GulbenkianInstitute 2
EvolutionaryDynamics
Individuals with any scientic background (i.e., includ-
ing evolutionary, molecular, or systems biology, mathe-
matics, physics, chemistry, computer science, statistics,
and its hybrids) with a genuine interest in evolution-
ary questions and quantitative approaches are welcome
to apply to the available ERC-funded junior and se-
nior postdoc positions under the project \FIT2GO - A
toolbox for tness landscapes in evolution".
|{
Lab
Building on evolutionary theory, research in the lab re-
volves around quantifying epistasis across levels of biolog-
ical organization and across environments, and to study
its impact on the population genetics of adaptation and
hybridization. We approach these questions through a
combination of mathematical modelling, computer sim-
ulations, statistical method development, experimental
evolution, and data analysis and interpretation. The
long-term goal lies in understanding how ecology, evolu-
tion, and molecular constraints shape genomes.
|{
Projects
Postdoc projects will be developed in collaboration with
the respective candidate and may be focused on either
or several of the following topics:
- develop mechanistic and statistical models of tness
landscapes across environments - quantify intra- and
intergenic epistasis and its consequences for adapta-
tion - infer distributions of tness eects across geneticbackgrounds and environments (experimentally and the-
oretically) - quantify population dynamics and genetics
under clonal interference and epistasis - develop statis-
tical methods for experimental-evolution data analysis -
study the eects of epistasis on diversity and divergence
- develop approaches to predict the cost of antibiotic
resistance across environments (in collaboration with
Isabel Gordo, IGC) - test predicted mechanisms of drug
resistance in inuenza experimentally (in collaboration
with Maria Joao Amorim, IGC)
|{
Application procedure
Applications should be sent by email to evoldynam-
ics[@]gmail.com and include a letter of motivation, a
CV, and names and contact information of three refer-
ees. The earliest starting date is 1 March 2019, and the
anticipated duration of each position is 2-4 years (via
postdoctoral fellowships or working contracts). Review
of applications will begin on January 10, and the call
remains open until all positions are lled.
|{
Location
The Gulbenkian Science Institute is a private research in-
stitute located on the coast just west of Lisbon, Portugal,
which provides for both a top-level scientic environ-
ment and excellent quality of life. The IGC's mission
is to meet science's global challenges: to make ground-
breaking discoveries in the Life Sciences, to innovate
in training, to incubate the next generation of future
leaders, and to place science at the heart of society.
Potential applicants are encouraged to scroll through
the lab and institute websites and to informally con-
tact us to learn more about IGC and the Evolutionary
Dynamics Group.
|{
Dr. Claudia Bank Principal Investigator Evolution-
ary Dynamics Group Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia
Oeiras, Portugal
Website: https://evoldynamics.org/ evoldynam-
ics@gmail.com104 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Prague EvolutionaryImmunology
Dear colleagues,
The Evolutionary and Ecological Immunology (EEI)
group at the Faculty of Science, Charles University,
Prague, is currently advertising a ~year (extandable)
PostDoc position in avian evolutionary immunology
with deadline for applications 17th February 2019.
I would be grateful if you could circulate the following
advertisement at relevant fora or pass it to whom it may
concern.
PostDoc project: Diversied cytokine regulation of in-
ammation in parrots and passerine birds
Available from April/May 2019 to June 2020 (the start-
ing date is exible; the contract can be prolonged) Ap-
plication deadline: 17th February 2019
Cytokines are protein signalling molecules that evolve
to precisely regulate immunological processes in ver-
tebrates. Several cytokines modulate inammation, a
well-known ^Adouble edged sword' of immunity that
can clear a pathogen infection as well as kill the host.
Being soluble they have the capacity to systemically
aect various tissues, including other physiological sys-
tems involved in self-maintenance and reproduction. In
this project we are interested in describing the eect
of inammation on brain function and cognition in two
related avian clades ' the passerine birds and parrots.
The objective of this PostDoc project is to characterise
tissue-specic cytokine expression changes linked to lo-
cal and/or systemic inammation in the selected taxa
of birds. A biodiversity-based approach will be adopted
to reveal interspecic and intraspecic variation in the
selected cytokine genes. The main model species of
the research will be the budgerigar (Melopsittacus un-
dulatus), the zebra nch (Taeniopygia guttata), the
great tit (Parus major) and the house nch (Haemor-
hous mexicanus). Additional species will be included
for interspecic comparison. Methods such as tissue-
specic RNA-seq, RT-qPCR and proteomic analysis
of cerebrospinal uid through gel-free quantitative LC-
MS/MS will be used (includes wet lab). Focusing on
birds that represent superior models for research in cog-
nition to rodents (passerines and parrots), this PostDoc
project opens new possibilities for interdisciplinary re-
search of neuroimmunology as well as to understanding
the evolutionary processes forming immune defence invertebrates.
Requirements: We seek for a researcher with experience
in molecular genetics, evolutionary genetics, immunol-
ogy and/or zoology - PhD degree in one of these or
related elds and good English language skills (at least
basic).
Oers: We oer a Research Fellow position at the De-
partment of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Charles Uni-
versity based in Prague, Czech Republic, EU. This is
a full time, ~year contract starting from April-May
2019 (exible), ending on 31.5. 2020 (exible, can be
extended based on mutual agreement). Salary: 26,000-
34,000 CZK per month*# (320,000 CZK-400,000 12,500
' 16,000 per annum; * standard local salary, fully su-
cient to cover living costs in Prague; # the nal salary
will be adjusted at specic check points based on re-
search productivity). The research fellow will be part
of a young and enthusiastic interdisciplinary and in-
ternational team (http://web.natur.cuni.cz/zoologie/-
biodiversity/eei/people) and where she/he will be super-
vised by Dr. Michal Vinkler (http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
zoologie/biodiversity/eei/people/#post-73). We expect
at least two articles being published in international
peer-review journals in the period of two years from
the beginning of the fellowship. Active participation at
international scientic conferences will be encouraged
and supported. The research fellow will also contribute
to the supervision of students as needed.
Application: Please send (1) CV including a list of publi-
cations, (2) copy of PhD diploma, (3) motivation letter,
and (3) contact details for 2'3 referees (references) to
Dr. Michal Vinkler (michal.vinkler@natur.cuni.cz) by
17th February 2019.
About: Charles University was founded in 1348, making
it one of the oldest universities in the world. Yet it
is also renowned as a modern, dynamic, cosmopolitan
and prestigious institution of higher education. It is the
largest and most renowned Czech university, and it is
also the best-rated Czech university according to interna-
tional rankings. There are 17 faculties at the University,
plus 3 institutes and 6 other centres. The Faculty of
Science was established in 1920 as the fth faculty of
Charles University. It currently has 29 departments, 3
museums and a Botanical Garden. The Laboratory for
Evolutionary and Ecological Immunology (team leader
Dr. Michal Vinkler) at the Department of Zoology is
oriented at research in animal defence against infectious
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 105
Rennes France Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral position in bioinformatics at Agrocam-
pus Ouest, Rennes France: Development of genomic
resources on the invasive aquatic plant, water primrose.
The project is funded for 18 months by Region Bre-
tagne Fund with the following eligibility criteria: The
candidate must have spent a maximum of 18 months in
France during the last 3 years as of May 28, 2018 (ie
between May 28, 2015 and May 28, 2018).
Background : Our team is particularly interested in
the invasive aquatic species water primerose, of which
2 species are present in France, Ludwigia grandiora
(decaploid, 10x = 80 chromosomes) and Ludwigia pe-
ploides (diploid, 2x = 16 chromosomes). These two
aquatic species, which are widespread in the national
water system, are also capable of invading wet mead-
ows. In order to understand the adaptation of the water
primrose to the terrestrial environment, genetic and epi-
genetic approaches are or will be developed on Ludwigia
grandiora. Since they do not have genomic resources in
these two species, their development is essential to carry
out such studies. This is why transcriptomic and ge-
nomic analysis are in progress to get data to carried out
a reference genome and a reference transcriptome. Ob-
taining these genomic resources will support the genetic
and epigenetic studies.
The role: The post doctoral researcher will in charge to
generate genome and transcriptome references and to
investigate the terrestrial adaptation of water primrose
(evolution at short term) throught transcriptomic dif-
ferential expression. This will include (1) generating de
novo assembly from reads produced by new generation
sequencing (NGS) from MiSeq and HiSeq technologies
(Illumina) as well as MinION (Nanopore), to propose
and implement strategies for assembling and annotat-
ing genomes or transcriptomes of non-model species, L.
grandiora and L. peploides, (3) to collaborate on the
establishment of a methylome in L. grandiora.
Required qualications: We are looking for an enthu-
siastic candidate with a strong background in NGS
data analyses (genome sequencing, RNA-Seq), in bioin-
formatics and statistical analyses (programming with
languages R and Python or similar; knowledge in vari-
ous informatic tools (Ensembl, IPA, cMAP, mirBase, ..)
and methods for data analysis (Limma, GSEA). Knowl-edge in assembly and annotations of polyploid genomes
as well as in biology will be appreciated. The success-
ful applicant will possess at least an PHD in Bioin-
formatic, in systems biology, in informatic or related
eld. Additional information: The position is based
at Agrocampus Ouest in Rennes in the Research unit
Ecology and Ecosystem health (UMR ESE, https://-
www6.rennes.inra.fr/ese eng/). Rennes (Brittany, West-
ern France) is an historic and dynamic town less than
one hour to the sea and two hours to Paris by train.
- Monthly gross salary is 3 145.20 (i.e. 1 781.39 monthly
net salary) the six rst months then 3 976.89 monthly
gross salary (i.e. 2 267.62 monthly net salary)
- Beginning of project: between 01/04/2019 and
01/06/2019 - Deadline : 15/02/2019
To apply, please send an application letter detailing re-
search background and your experience and skills fulll
the requirements listed above your CV and the contact
of two references by e-mail to Dominique BARLOY
(dominique.barloy@agrocampus-ouest.fr).
Dominique BARLOY <dominique.barloy@agrocampus-
ouest.fr>
SaoPauloStateU Brazil
AnuranColorationGenomics
The Herpetology Lab of the Sao Paulo State University
(UNESP), campus of Rio Claro, Sao Paulo, Brazil, seeks
a highly motivated candidate for a postdoctoral fellow-
ship linked to the project \Colours hidden in the forest:
evolutionary genomics of colour patterns in Neotropical
frogs", funded by FAPESP. The successful candidate
will live in Rio Claro, state of Sao Paulo, Brazil. More-
over, part of the project will be held at the University
of Porto, Portugal, and the candidate should be willing
to spend some seasons in Portugal. The initial duration
of the postdoctoral position is 24 months.
The candidate must have obtained his doctorate within
the last two years in Zoology and must have published
at least one article from his doctorate in international
and high impact journals. In addition, due to the in-
terdisciplinary nature of the project, it is necessary for
the candidate to have experience (proven through scien-
tic publications) with high-throughput sequencing and
morphological and bioacoustics analyzes of Neotropical
anurans. Experience with family Hylidae *sensu lato
*is highly desirable. One of the objectives of the project106 EvolDir February 1, 2019
is the training of personnel, and it is essential that the
candidate has prior experience with student mentor-
ing. It is also desirable that the candidate has attended
some kind of course or workshop in high-throughput
sequencing and / or bioinformatics.
The candidate must have excellent verbal and written
communication in English, and it is also necessary that
the candidate can communicate in Portuguese and have
experience with eldwork in the Neotropical region. The
project is a partnership between Brazil and Portugal,
and it is essential that the candidate has had previous
international experience curricularly demonstrated.
The vacancy is open to Brazilians and foreigners. The
selected candidate will receive FAPESP Post-Doctoral
Fellowship in the amount of R $7,373.10 per month
(about US $2,000) and Technical Reserve equivalent
to 15% of the annual value of the scholarship to meet
unforeseen expenses directly related to the research ac-
tivities.
Interested candidates should send the *curriculum vitae*
to Professor C elio Haddad (haddad1000@gmail.com)
with the subject, in the upper box: \APPLICATION
FOR POST-DOCTORATE POSITION" until 23:59
(GMT -3:00) on February 25, 2019. The result will
be announced within two weeks after the deadline for
submissions, by e-mail.
*The Project*
The study of the evolutionary processes that originate
phenotypic diversity is one of the most important endeav-
ours in biology because it can oer insights into the pro-
cess of adaptation in natural populations. Colouration
patterns are remarkable traits for studying the muta-
tional mechanisms underlying phenotypic diversity and
how these aect patterns of evolutionary change. Among
vertebrates, amphibians are one of the most interesting
groups, exhibiting a vast variation in colouration, whose
function has been mainly associated with thermoregu-
lation, UV protection, conspecic communication, and
predator avoidance. Despite signicant advances have
been made on this topic in both invertebrates and ver-
tebrates, the genetic basis of colouration in amphibians
is still surprisingly unknown. The South American leaf-
frogs of the *Phyllomedusa burmeisteri* group, which
have been widely studied by our research team, is a
compelling case to study the evolution of colour pattern
diversity in amphibians. First, they present striking
variation in the patterns of bright colours at the hidden
surfaces of thighs, which have been interpreted as a
case of aposematism, one of the most widespread defen-
sive strategy among Neotropical amphibians. Second,
colour morphs variants coexist in some populations, of-
fering, thus a unique opportunity for genetic mappingstudies. Finally, these species meet in a well-dened
contact zone, making this system an excellent model
to understand the impact of colour polymorphism in
the dynamics of speciation, and how selection shapes
both phenotypic and genetic variation. The proposed
research seeks to investigate the *genetic bases and
evolutionary processes underlying colour variation in
amphibians*. To this end, we will 1) perform a genome-
wide association analysis using high-throughput DNA
sequencing techniques, including exome capture and
RNA sequencing; 2) study gene expression of associated
genes in several developmental stages; and 3) investigate
patterns of allele frequency change across the contact
zone for causative loci and randomly chosen markers.
Beyond these specic goals, we are convinced that the
genomic data generated for the target species will be
an important resource for further evolutionary studies,
conservation eorts, and in particular for human medic-
inal research, since phyllomedusids are a rich source of
peptides with great nanobiotechnological applications.
With an International team of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
StanfordU Hybridization
Postdoctoral position - Stanford University - Evolution-
ary genetics
Description: The Schumer lab (https://schumerlab.com)
has a postdoctoral position available for motivated and
creative scientists with a background in population ge-
netics, evolutionary genetics, or bioinformatics.
Our lab focuses on understanding the role of hybridiza-
tion in evolutionary processes. A major goal of the
lab is to understand the mechanisms of selection on
hybrids, from identifying loci involved in hybrid incom-
patibilities or adaptive introgression to characterizing
the impact of genetic processes such as recombination
on hybridization. Research in the lab combines empir-
ical and computational approaches with a particular
focus on the genetics of natural hybridization. Possi-
ble projects include characterizing changes in the local
recombination map in hybrids of several species and
analyzing dense time-series data generated from natural
hybrid populations.February 1, 2019 EvolDir 107
Responsibilities: The successful candidate will lead the
analysis of genomic datasets to address questions about
hybrid genome evolution. The main responsibilities of
this position include conducting research, leading the
development of bioinformatics pipelines, working with
large genomic datasets, working with other lab members
and collaborators, and preparing results for publication.
Other responsibilities include attending regular lab meet-
ings and journal clubs, presenting research at scientic
meetings, and being an active member of the Eco-Evo
community at Stanford.
Minimum qualications required at the time of appli-
cation: - Completion of doctoral degree requirements
except the dissertation in population genetics, evolution-
ary biology, or a related eld. - Programming experience
(Python/Perl, R or other programming languages) - Ex-
perience with genomic datasets
Additional qualications: - PhD in population genetics,
evolutionary biology, or a related eld - Established
track record of research productivity and independence
- Experience with relevant theory or methods (e.g. anal-
yses of admixture, construction of recombination maps,
local ancestry inference) - Willingness to work closely
with collaborators and lab members
How to apply: Applicants should submit the following
materials to schumer@stanford.edu: 1) A curriculum
vitae 2) One-page summary of research interests 3) Con-
tact information for 3 references
Salary: This is a full-time position. Salary is commen-
surate with qualications and experience.
The earliest start date is September 2019.
schumer@stanford.edu
StonyBrookU NY
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Veeramah Lab at Stony Brook ( http://-
life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/veeramahlab/index.html) has an
opening for a postdoctoral researcher to begin in April
2019 (earlier or later start dates may be negotiable).
The successful applicant will lead an NIH funded project
using whole genome sequencing data to understand
adaptation of marine Threespine Stickleback that have
recently colonized freshwater lakes. We are studying the
evolutionary trajectories of adaptive alleles by sequenc-
ing samples in time-series from young lake populations.The project will primarily involve bioinformatic pro-
cessing, population and evolutionary genetic analyses
of single sample and Pool-seq whole genome data, and
some minimal sample preparation for sequencing.
The successful applicant should have or will shortly
obtain a PhD in the areas of population, evolutionary
or anthropological genetics, while at least some com-
puter programming experience (particularly in python,
equivalent or lower level languages) is required. Prior
experience analyzing 2nd generation sequencing data
and/or population genetic modeling is desirable.
Applications will be accepted until February 14th 2019.
Applicants should a submit a State employment ap-
plication, cover letter, resume, two references and a
one page research statement through the ocial online
application:
https://stonybrooku.taleo.net/careersection/-
post docs/jobdetail.ftl?job04039&tz=GMT-05%3A00
The ocial REF# is: 1804039
Queries regarding this position can be made by email
to: krishna.veeramah@stonybrook.edu
krishna.veeramah@stonybrook.edu
TempleU
PlantReproductiveEvolution
The Spigler Lab in the Department of Biology at Tem-
ple University is looking to hire a Postdoctoral Fellow.
The Postdoc will be involved in an ongoing project on
pollinator-mediated selection of oral traits and have
opportunities to design and implement new studies re-
lated to areas of active research in the lab, including:
plant-pollinator interactions, mating system evolution,
population genetics/genomics, demography, and oral
nectar chemistry. There are also numerous opportu-
nities to mentor undergraduates in research and to
participate in outreach eorts. Additional informa-
tion about the Spigler lab can be found at http://-
rachelspigler.weebly.com Candidates must have a PhD
in Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Botany, or related
eld; experience designing, conducting, and managing
eld and greenhouse studies; and strong quantitative
skills. Ability and willingness to travel to eld sites,
for up to weeks at a time, during the summer owering
season is required. A demonstrated track record of publi-
cations, excellent communication and time-management
skills, a strong work ethic, and attention to detail are108 EvolDir February 1, 2019
also essential.
The position is anticipated to begin May 2019 and
to last for one year, with the possibility of extension
based on satisfactory progress and funding. Salary is
commensurate with experience, and benets are pro-
vided. Interested applicants should send the follow-
ing as a SINGLE PDF le by email to Rachel Spigler
(rachel.spigler@temple.edu): 1) a short statement (1-2
pages) on research interests, previous experience, and
motivation for applying; 2) curriculum vitae, 3) contact
information for three references. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until the position
is lled.
About the Biology Department at Temple University:
Temple University is a large, comprehensive public re-
search university in Philadelphia, PA, with more than
37,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional stu-
dents enrolled in over 400 academic degrees. The Biology
Department at Temple ( https://bio.cst.temple.edu/)
represents an active research community with strengths
in ecology, genomics, conservation, and evolution-
ary biology and is home to the newly formed Cen-
ter for Biodiversity ( http://cst.temple.edu/research/-
centers-and-institutes/center-biodiversity), Center for
Computational Genetics and Genomics ( https:/-
/bio.cst.temple.edu/ ~hey/CCGG/), and Institute
for Genomics and Evolutionary Medicine (http://-
igem.temple.edu/).
Rachel Spigler <rachel.spigler@temple.edu >
UAberdeen
SpeciationModellingSulwesi
30 month, full-time postdoctoral researcher in School of
Biological Sciences, Aberdeen, UK
Forecasting biodiversity losses in Wallacea from ecologi-
cal and evolutionary patterns and processes
We are seeking a highly motivated post-doctoral re-
searcher in evolutionary modelling to join an exciting,
NERC-funded project investigating the evolution and di-
versication of taxa on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi.
The successful candidate will be one of two post-doctoral
researchers working on this highly collaborative project
with researchers at the University of Aberdeen, Bangor
University and the University of Nottingham. The Re-
search Fellow will join the School of Biological Sciences
at University of Aberdeen and spend a portion of theirtime in Sulawesi.
Candidates should hold a PhD in evolution, ecology
or genetics and have research experience either in (1)
evolutionary biology, molecular ecology or a related dis-
cipline, preferably in relation to speciation or prokary-
otic diversication or in (2) developing spatially-explicit
individual-based models. The Research Fellow will be
responsible for developing models incorporating both
paleogeographic dynamics and speciation processes to
deliver new understanding of the patterns of species
diversity that are observed on Sulawesi today. They will
work with the project team to develop and apply models
for eukaryotes and prokaryotes and will be involved in
work comparing model outputs with empirical patterns
gained by other team members. Finally, the models will
be used to forecast ecological and evolutionary futures
for the island.
Experience in developing evolutionary and/or ecologi-
cal theory and the ability to develop ecient computer
simulation code are both desirable, as is the ability to
work collaboratively on writing and analysis for pub-
lication. Experience in one or more of the following
would also be useful: speciation (or prokaryotic diversi-
cation) modelling, high performance computing, geo-
graphic information systems, approaches for data-model
integration.
This is a xed term appointment until 13 November
2021. Starting Salary: £33,199 pa (Grade 6). Preferred
start date is 01/04/19 or as soon as possible thereafter.
See https://tinyurl.com/yct4e7eh for further details and
how to apply.
Closing date for applications: 07/02/19.
For informal enquiries contact Justin Travis
(justin.travis@abdn.ac.uk)
Mae croeso i chi gysylltu gyda'r Brifysgol yn Gymraeg
neu Saesneg
You are welcome to contact the University in Welsh or
English
Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1141565 - Registered Charity
No. 1141565
Gall y neges e-bost hon, ac unrhyw atodiadau a anfon-
wyd gyda hi, gynnwys deunydd cyfrinachol ac wedi eu
bwriadu i'w defnyddio'n unig gan y sawl y cawsant eu
cyfeirio ato (atynt). Os ydych wedi derbyn y neges e-
bost hon trwy gamgymeriad, rhowch wybod i'r anfonwr
ar unwaith a dilewch y neges. Os na fwriadwyd anfon y
neges atoch chi, rhaid i chi beidio a defnyddio, cadw neu
ddatgelu unrhyw wybodaeth a gynhwysir ynddi. Mae
unrhyw farn neu safbwynt yn eiddo i'r sawl a'i hanfon-
odd yn unig ac nid yw o anghenraid yn cynrychioli barnFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 109
Prifysgol Bangor. Nid yw Prifysgol Bangor yn gwarantu
bod y neges e-bost hon neu unrhyw atodiadau yn rhydd
rhag rysau neu 100% yn ddiogel. Oni bai fod hyn wedi
ei ddatgan yn uniongyrchol yn nhestun yr e-bost, nid
bwriad y neges e-bost hon yw uro contract rhwymol -
mae rhestr o lofnodwyr awdurdodedig ar gael o Swyddfa
Cyllid Prifysgol Bangor.
This email and any attachments may contain conden-
tial material and is solely for the use of the intended
recipient(s). If you have received this email in error,
please notify the sender immediately and delete this
email. If you are not the intended recipient(s), you must
not use, retain or disclose any information contained in
this email. Any views or opinions are solely those of the
sender and do not necessarily represent those of Bangor
University. Bangor University does not guarantee that
this email or any attachments are free from viruses or
100% secure. Unless expressly stated in the body of
the text of the email, this email is not intended to form
a binding contract - a list of authorised signatories is
available from the Bangor University Finance Oce.
Alexander Papadopulos
<a.papadopulos@bangor.ac.uk >
UBielefeld Germany
FunctGenomicsSpermComp
Postdoc position in Evolutionary Ecology and Func-
tional Genomics
One Postdoc or PhD position in evolutionary ecology
and functional genomics is available at the Faculty of
Biology at Bielefeld University in the Evolutionary Bi-
ology group (PD Dr Tim Schmoll, see http://www.uni-
bielefeld.de/(en)/biologie/Evolutionsbiologie) in collab-
oration with the Department of Animal Behaviour (Dr
Peter Korsten, see http://www.unibielefeld.de/biologie/-
animalbehaviour). The position is available immediately
for 24 months (Postdoc) or until 31.12.2021 (PhD) and
is funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG)
within the collaborative research centre (SFB/TRR 212)
A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across Behaviour,
Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Confor-
mance, Niche Construction (NC3).
The goal of this project (project B04 of the collabora-
tive research centre) is to test how male Zebra Finches
conform to their social niche as set by the prevailing
level of sperm competition. This will allow us to un-derstand how individual variation in sexual competition
generates individual variation, and covariation, in both
competitive traits and parenting behaviour. The suc-
cessful candidate will closely work together with a PhD
student to (i) quantify male social niche conformance
by analysing adjustment of sexual competitiveness in-
cluding behavioural (e.g. aggression) and ejaculate (e.g.
sperm motility) traits; (ii) identify the underlying mech-
anisms of social niche conformance on the hormonal (via
endocrinological proling) and the gene expression (via
RNAseq) levels; (iii) assess the adaptive signicance
of niche conformance under a niche match/mismatch
paradigm; and (iv) test for trade-os between invest-
ment in sexual competitiveness versus paternal care. A
sub-project A will primarily focus on male social niche
conformance through adjustment of behavioural traits
and the hormonal mechanisms underlying niche confor-
mance. A sub-project B will primarily focus on male
social niche conformance through adjustment of ejac-
ulate traits and the gene expression underlying niche
conformance. Note that the position oered here is
exclusively for sub-project B.
The collaborative research centre: The position will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 20 principle investigators, 15 postdocs
and 18 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
exchange and early career support programmes. Full
details of the SFB can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/crc212 . Main responsibilities
* Research tasks (90%): - Designing and conducting
laboratory experiments in which zebra nch males are
exposed to dierent levels of sexual competition - Main-
taining a zebra nch stock population and breeding of
experimental birds - Processing of tissue samples for
transcriptomic analyses - Bioinformatic processing of
high-throughput sequencing data to quantify gene ex-
pression - Phenotyping sperm samples using a newly
established computer-assisted sperm analysis system
and other methods - Assisting in taking behavioural
recordings - Statistical analyses of experimental data -
Collaborating with other research groups in the collabo-
rative research centre - Writing scientic publications
for international peer-reviewed journals
* Organizational tasks in the research groups and col-
laborative research centre (10%)
Applicants' proles110 EvolDir February 1, 2019
We are seeking a bright, highly motivated and creative
student with - a PhD (for the Postdoc level) or university
degree (for the PhD level) in a relevant discipline with
specializations in one or more of the following elds:
bioinformatics, transcriptomics/genomics, animal be-
haviour, behavioural ecology, behavioural physiology,
evolutionary ecology, and/or veterinary science, - a keen
interest in using molecular genetic methods to answer
behavioural and life history questions, - experience with
bioinformatic processing of high-throughput sequencing
data or a keen interest in acquiring relevant skills (excel-
lent training opportunities available), - experience with
statistical analysis (preferably using R), - ability to work
both independently and as part of a team, and - excellent
oral and written communication skills in English.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage: - publications in peer-reviewed international
journals, - experience with sperm phenotyping
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia Berkeley
WheatGenomics
A postdoctoral position in wheat genomics is available
in the Krasileva Lab in the Department of Plant & Mi-
crobial Biology, UC Berkeley. Our research is focused
on plant genomics and plant immunity. Plants are
able to recognize and defend themselves against diverse
pathogens. Plant immunity is innate, and therefore
its diversity is specied on the population level rather
than within a single organism. We study both natural
and induced variation in wheat to understand how to
enhance plant defense responses. Specically, we are
working with wheat mutagenized populations that have
been screened against wheat yellow rust pathogen in
the eld. We have already identied mutant lines with
enhanced resistance and are interested in isolating the
causative mutations using genomics approaches, such as
mapping-by-sequencing. We are also sequencing clusters
of rapidly evolving disease resistance genes from natural
wheat accessions, which will allow us to observe how
domestication and polyploidization aected wheat im-
munity. The long-term goal of this project is to isolate
specic nucleotide changes that enhance plant resistanceand introduce them to crops using genome editing tech-
nologies. The candidate will work closely with PI and
other lab members to design and lead research on wheat
genomics and plant immunity. The candidate will be
responsible for analyzing mapping by sequencing data
to map causative mutations from mutagenized lines. In
parallel, the candidate will conduct hypothesis driven
research in the areas of comparative genomics looking
at the evolution of plant disease resistance in polyploid
wheat in comparison to its wild relatives, investigate
the association between disease resistance genes and
dangerous elements with the goal to determine how dis-
ease resistance genes proliferate in genomes and form
new gene fusions. To do this, the candidate will write
scripts, work in high performance computing environ-
ment, summarize data in gures and provide rst drafts
of publications. The candidate will have the opportu-
nity to mentor undergraduate students and to provide
guidance to graduate students.
Krasileva Lab, an interdisciplinary group of people who
combine new technologies, basic and translational re-
search. Our research program spans plant genomics
and plant-microbe interactions. Our common goal is to
understand plant innate immunity, a system that main-
tains plant health and to make an impact on agriculture
and food security. We focus on evolution and func-
tion of plant immune genes, as well as the mechanisms
that regulate genetic diversity. The postdoc will work
closely with PI and other lab members to design and
lead research on wheat genomics and plant immunity.
To read more, please visit Krasileva Lab website (https:/-
/krasilevalab.org/) and look through the Krasileva Lab
Charter (https://tinyurl.com/ybvvq5zy).
Basic Qualications
* Advanced degree or enrolled in advanced degree pro-
gram at the time of application.
Additional Qualications
* PhD (or equivalent international degree) required by
the appointment start date. The candidate may have no
more than four years of post-degree research experience
by start date.
Preferred Qualications
Demonstrated practical experience in next generation
sequencing analysis and bioinformatics
Demonstrated theoretical understanding and practical
experience in areas of mapping by sequencing, popula-
tion genetics, comparative genomics
Demonstrated research eort in formulating testable
hypotheses, experimental design, detailedFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 111
description of data analysis, version-controlled code
Demonstrated ability to work independently and col-
laboratively as part of a team
Demonstrated ability to produce scientic results and to
publish papers in international peer- reviewed journals
Demonstrated eective written and communication
skills
Appointment:
The targeted start date for this position is early 2019.
The initial appointment is for one year, with renewal
based on performance and funding availability. This is
a full time appointment.
Salary and Benets
The annual salary range for this position is $50,760 to
$59,100. Salary will be commensurate with
qualications and experience. Generous benets are
included https://vspa.berkeley.edu/postdocs Interested
individuals should include a 1-2 page cover letter that
summarizes research interests and professional goals,
along with a current CV and the names and contact
information of three references. Letters of reference may
be requested for nalists.
Questions regarding this recruitment can be directed to
Ksenia Krasileva at kseniak@berkeley.edu
The total duration of an individual's postdoctoral ser-
vice may not exceed ve years, including postdoctoral
service at other institutions.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia Davis
PopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Fellow Position in Population
Genomics at the University of California, Davis
Description: The Vector Genetics Lab (VGL) at the
University of California, Davis has a post-doctoral po-
sition available for a highly motivated candidate with
a background in population genetics/genomics. The
VGL is dedicated to research and training in the ar-
eas of population & molecular genetics, genomics andbioinformatics of insect vectors of human and animal
disease. We have developed a program aimed at ex-
panding knowledge that may be applied to improving
control of disease vectors and that also addresses prob-
lems of interest in the eld of evolutionary genetics. See
details at: https://vectorgeneticslab.ucdavis.edu/ On-
going projects include work on the following systems: -
Island populations of Anopheles mosquitoes in islands
o the coast of Africa - Invasive Aedes aegypti popu-
lations in California - Urban and island populations of
Anopheles mosquitoes in India
Ongoing research topics include: - Interspecic hy-
bridization and introgression as a mechanism for adap-
tation - The evolution of populations on isolated islands
- Dening populations in urban centers as ecological
islands - Development of new wgs-based methods to
estimate population size and dispersal - Evaluating the
behavior of gene drive systems via eld trials
Responsibilities: The successful candidate will work on
whole-genome sequencing data sets to decipher recent
population history and evolution in mosquitoes that are
vectors of human diseases.
Required Qualications: - PhD in Population Genet-
ics/Genomics, Bioinformatics, or related discipline (the-
oretical and/or applied) - In-depth knowledge of popula-
tion genetics theory - Demonstrated record of research
productivity and publications
Preferred Qualications: - Experience working in Linux
environment - Experience with genomic data analysis -
Experience with coalescence/IBD methods - Program-
ming experience (e.g. C/C++, Python/Perl, R) - Strong
mathematical/statistical skills
Salary: This is a full-time position. Salary is commen-
surate with qualications and experience.
How to apply: Applicants should submit the following
materials: - A cover letter - A curriculum vitae - List
of relevant publications - Contact information for 3 ref-
erees Send the above combined into a single PDF to
Gregory Lanzaro (gclanzaro@ucdavis.edu). Review of
applications will start immediately. This position will
be open until lled. The appointment is for a duration
of two years.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied ap-
plicants will receive consideration for employment with-
out regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age
or protected veteran status. For the complete Uni-
versity of California nondiscrimination and armative
action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/-
NondiscrimArmAct . hschmidt@ucdavis.edu112 EvolDir February 1, 2019
UCalifornia LosAngeles
ViralEmergence
*POSTDOC: Cross-scale modeling of viral emergence
risk*
*UCLA Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology*
*Lloyd-Smith lab*
We seek a postdoctoral researcher to develop mathe-
matical and statistical models of viral processes, linking
data across scales to understand the determinants of
zoonotic emergence risk. This position is linked to an
exciting DARPA-funded project that brings together a
world-class team of researchers across disciplines from
virology to ecology to epidemiology, to study emergence
risks from bat-borne viruses including Nipah and Hen-
dra virus. The primary focus of this position is to design
quantitative methods to integrate virological data col-
lected in the lab and in the eld, at scales from molecules
to animals, with the goal of developing biological insight
and practical predictors of the evolutionary and epidemi-
ological risk posed by potential zoonotic viruses. The
position oers the rare opportunity to interact closely
with top empirical researchers in virology and allied
elds, and to participate in designing on-going data
collection to support future rounds of modeling. There
will also be rich opportunities to collaborate with other
groups on modeling zoonotic spillover, transmission dy-
namics and viral evolutionary dynamics.
The position is based in the lab of Jamie Lloyd-Smith
at UCLA, where we combine diverse quantitative ap-
proaches with data to study the ecological and evo-
lutionary dynamics of pathogen emergence ( http://-
www.eeb.ucla.edu/Faculty/lloydsmith/). In addition to
the rich intellectual environment of our lab, department,
and broader UCLA campus, the postdoc will interact
and collaborate with other members of the DARPA
project team, across disciplinary boundaries, including
virologists (Hector Aguilar-Carreno, Vincent Munster,
Colin Parrish), ecologists (Raina Plowright (project PI),
Peter Hudson, Hamish McCallum), immunologists (Aga
Apple, Tony Schountz), physiologists (Liam McGuire),
epidemiologists (Nita Bharti, Emily Gurley, Steve Luby),
and quantitative biologists (Barbara Han, Megan Higgs,
Olivier Restif). It is an extraordinary team working
together to tackle important and ambitious problems.
We are looking for a dynamic and intellectually versatileperson to join our team. The ideal candidate will have a
PhD in a quantitative eld, experience with data-driven
modeling of biological systems, and a track record of
research excellence. Strong quantitative and computa-
tional skills are essential, ideally including experience
developing and analyzing mathematical models as well
as the ability to collate, interpret and analyze diverse
data sets. Excellent verbal and written communica-
tion skills are highly desirable, as is experience with
infectious disease dynamics, virology, or systems biology.
Finally, the successful candidate must be comfortable
working both independently and as part of a larger inter-
disciplinary research team, and able to present ndings
clearly to experts from other elds.
UCLA has vibrant communities of researchers working
on quantitative and computational biology, infectious
diseases, and other related elds, and our research group
has ties with the UCLA School of Public Health, School
of Medicine, Institute of Quantitative and Computa-
tional Biology, and Institute of the Environment and
Sustainability. The university is situated in a prime
location in west Los Angeles, within minutes of moun-
tains, beaches, and urban amenities. Quality of life is
excellent V Los Angeles is a fascinating multicultural
city with rich art, music and culinary scenes, and the
region has a wealth of natural beauty and opportunities
for outdoor pursuits.
The position is available immediately, and can be re-
newed for up to three years. To inquire, please contact
Jamie Lloyd-Smith <jlloydsmith@ucla.edu >with your
CV, a brief statement of interest in the project and rel-
evant experience, and your potential start date. Review
of applications is on-going until the position is lled.
Salary and benets will be competitive, and commensu-
rate with experience and qualications.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied ap-
plicants will receive consideration for employment with-
out regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age
or protected veteran status. For the complete Uni-
versity of California nondiscrimination and armative
action policy, see: UC Nondiscrimination & Armative
Action Policy (http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/-
NondiscrimArmAct).
{ James O. Lloyd-Smith
Professor Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Department of Biomathematics University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles 610 Charles E Young Dr South Box
723905 Los Angeles, CA 90095-7239
Phone: 310-206-8207February 1, 2019 EvolDir 113
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UChicago EvolutionaryBiochemistry
Postdoc position in evolutionary biochemistry, Thornton
Lab, University of Chicago
We have an opening for a postdoc in protein evolution
and functional molecular evolution. The labs goal is
to characterize the evolutionary, genetic and biochemi-
cal mechanisms by which biological molecules acquired
their present-day functions, structures, and biochemical
properties. Most projects have combined computational
approaches to reconstruct the historical trajectory of
molecular evolution V particularly phylogenetics and
ancestral sequence reconstruction V with detailed bench
experiments to test hypotheses concerning the causes
and consequences of those events. We also use high-
throughput library-based methods and experimental
evolution to characterize large ensembles of -have-been
histories from ancestral starting-points to better under-
stand why evolution followed the path it took.
A variety of projects are available, depending on the
candidates interests, and we encourage creativity in de-
veloping new projects. We have studied the evolution
of transcription factors, enzymes, ligand-binding and
scaolding proteins, and molecular machines. We have
been particularly interested in the evolution of molec-
ular specicity, complexity, catalysis, multimerization,
and allostery, and in the causes and consequences of
epistasis and the distribution of eect-sizes in shaping
proteins evolutionary processes.
We are a highly collegial group that draws scientists
and students from a variety of disciplines V evolution,
biochemistry, molecular biology, computational biol-
ogy, genetics, biophysics, and more. The University of
Chicago is a fantastic place to do science, especially at
the interface of evolution and the molecular biosciences.
Chicago is a great city rich in high and low culture; it is
a hipster heaven and, in the summer, a fun beach town.
People in the lab are fun, funny, interesting, mutually
supportive, and humane.
More information about the lab is at http://-
www.thorntonlab.org .We strongly encourage applica-tions from scientists who are women and members of
groups underrepresented in science.
To apply, please email a single PDF containing a CV
and brief research statement, including why you are
interested in our lab, to me at joet1@uchicago.edu. The
start date is exible.
Joseph W Thornton <joet1@uchicago.edu >
UCollege London
EvolMulticellularity
The Thompson lab, based at University College London,
is seeking a Research Fellow to work on understanding
how gene network heterogeneity aects the evolution of
multicellular development.
Recently, we found that cell-cell variation in cell cycle po-
sition facilitates symmetry breaking during development,
as it primes cells to respond to dierent dierentiation
cues (Gruenheit et al, Developmental Cell, 2018).
You will perform single cell gene expression analysis
to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying
this cell cycle control of cell fate choice you. For this,
you will utilise our recently generated single cell RNA-
seq dataset in which gene expression in 1000s of single
cells was generated at dierent times after receiving
dierentiation cues.
Your aim will be to reconstruct gene network dynamics
to follow their temporal changes in gene activity in in-
dividual cells from dierent cell cycle positions as they
dierentiate along dierent linages. You will develop
novel computational and statistical methods (e.g. gene
network identication, pseudotime, machine learning)
to characterize the dynamics of gene network activity,
and capture temporal changes in gene network activity
in individual cells from dierent cell cycle stages as they
dierentiate. Live imaging of transcription and molec-
ular genetic approaches to modify network activity in
genetically modied cells will be used to validate your
ndings. You will also develop predictive models to
understand the mechanism controlling cell fate choice.
This will include computer simulation of the molecu-
lar basis of cell cycle control of dierentiation. High
throughput live cell imaging to quantify the dieren-
tiation behaviour of cells at dierent cell cycle phases
will be used to test these models. This framework will
be fundamental in generating new hypothesis guiding
future experiments.114 EvolDir February 1, 2019
You will join a multidisciplinary team led by Professor
Chris Thompson. The approaches used in the lab in-
clude transcriptomics, functional genomics, molecular
genetics, live cell imaging and mathematical modelling.
Candidates with extensive experience of using either
computational genomic approaches or wet lab ap-
proaches to understand the molecular basis of gene
networks will be considered. You should currently hold
or be about to obtain a PhD in Computational, Cell,
Molecular or Developmental Biology.
The post is funded by Wellcome and is available for
24 months in the rst instance (with a possibility of
extension).
Appointment at Grade 7 is dependent upon having been
awarded a PhD, if this is not the case, initially appoint-
ment will be at research assistant Grade 6B (Salary
£30,922 - £32,607 per annum) with payment at Grade
7 being backdated to the date of nal submission of the
PhD thesis.
https://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/BPE898/research-fellow-
single-cell-transcriptomics-of-cell-cycle-heterogeneity-
and-cell-fate-choice Informal enquiries are welcome to
Chris Thompson (christopher.thompson@ucl.ac.uk)
Chris Thompson Professor of Evolutionary and Devel-
opmental Genetics Dept of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment University College London Darwin Building,
Gower Street London WC1E 6BT
Phone: 020 7679 4483 (int 34483)
lab website: http://thethompsonlab.wordpress.com
Treasurer, British Society of Developmental Biol-
ogy email: BSDB-treasurer@manchester.ac.uk website:
bsdb.org
\Thompson, Chris" <christopher.thompson@ucl.ac.uk >
UExeter BacterialEvolution
The evolution of choosiness in bacteria. With Dr. Edze
Westra, Prof. Angus Buckling, Dr Bram Kuijper and
Prof. David Hosken. At the University of Exeter's
Cornwall Campus (UK).
A full time post is available from 1 April 2019 on a
xed term basis until 31 March 2022. The starting
salary will be from £35,211 up to £43,267, depending
on qualications and experience.
We wish to recruit a Postdoctoral Research Fellow toparticipate in a project aimed at understanding the evo-
lution of CRISPR-based choosiness in bacteria. This
Leverhulme Trust funded post is available from the
1st of April 2019 to the 31st of March 2022. You will
carry out experimental evolution, and work in conjunc-
tion with a theoretician (Dr. Kuijper) and his PhD
student, to explain what ecological conditions favour
the evolution of choosiness, and the maintenance of
choosiness, in bacterial populations exposed to mobile
genetic elements. Evolutionary, ecological or microbial
expertise/experience would advantageous.
The post will include designing and performing experi-
ments, data analysis, and writing manuscripts in collab-
oration with Dr. Edze Westra, Prof. Angus Buckling,
Prof. David Hosken and Dr Bram Kuijper. You will also
have the opportunity to present data at international
conferences.
We particularly encourage women and minority candi-
dates to apply.
Applications close on February 3rd.
For informal enquiries please contact Edze Westra:
E.R.Westra@exeter.ac.uk
Prof DJ Hosken Dean Strategic Development, Cornwall
University of Exeter, Cornwall Tremough, Penryn TR10
9FE UK
01326 371843 D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk
http://biosciences.exeter.ac.uk/sta/-
index.php?web idUvid hosken \Hosken, David"
<D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk >
UExeter InsectVirusEvolution
Dear all
I am advertising a postdoc position to look at mech-
anisms underlying dierences in susceptibility across
species of Drosophila. The project will examine why
viruses can successfully infect some hosts and not oth-
ers by examining the cellular and immune factors un-
derlying these dierences in susceptibility - speci-
cally looking at viral suppression of antiviral RNAi
immunity. We plan to examine the ability of the
DCV-1A suppressor of RNAi to prevent processing
of dsRNA into siRNAs by Dicer-2 in dierent host
species. Some background to the project can be
found here https://journals.plos.org/plospathogens/-
article?id.1371/journal.ppat.1004728 and here http://-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 115
genesdev.cshlp.org/content/20/21/2985.long The posi-
tion will be based at the University of Exeters Cornwall
Campus but will collaborate with and spend time in
the lab of Prof Ronald Van Rij (Radboud Institute for
Molecular Life Sciences, Nijmegen, the Netherlands) and
also collaborate with Dr Darren Obbard (University of
Edinburgh, UK).
Full info and application here https://-
jobs.exeter.ac.uk/hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/run/-
ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID\5666Nfzg&WVID817591jNg&LANG=
USA Best wishes,
Ben Longdon
{ Dr Ben Longdon Sir Henry Dale Wellcome Trust/Royal
Society Senior Research Fellow University of Ex-
eter Penryn Campus Cornwall TR10 9FE +44 (0)
1326 259460 https://benlongdon.com/ "Longdon, Ben\
<B.Longdon2@exeter.ac.uk >
UFlorida 2 StatGen
There are openings for two postdoctoral research asso-
ciates with Dr. Lauren McIntyre at the University of
Florida Department of Molecular Genetics and Micro-
biology. The positions will be aliated with the UF
Genetics Institute. Dr. McIntyre's research is in the
area of quantitative genetics, and statistical genetics.
The successful applicants will be working on projects
projects focused on the analysis of regulatory varia-
tion in Drosophila and/or Elegans populations. Skills
expected include: knowledge and interest in Genetics,
particularly Evolutionary/Population Genetics, as well
as substantial quantitative skill and interest/experience
in programming. Candidates with PhD's in either Ge-
netics/Biology or Statistics/Biostatistics/Computer Sci-
ence will be considered for these positions. The work
will be highly interdisciplinary and require interaction
among a diverse group of scientists. The most impor-
tant qualities are analytic thinking and problem solving,
highly developed writing skills, and a genuine interest
in working in a successful team. The initial term of
the position is one year, with renewal for up to three
years, pending successful analytic and writing endeavors.
Email: mcintyre@u.edu with a CV or for questions
about the job(s).
\McIntyre, Lauren M" <mcintyre@u.edu >UFribourg 2
BehaviourDiseaseDynamics
A 2-year post-doc |position is available in the research
group of Professor Nathalie Stroeymeyt in |the Depart-
ment of Biology, University |of Fribourg, to study the
eect of social network properties on disease transmis-
sion dynamics in ant colonies.*//*BACKGROUND*/.
/*Group living oers favourable conditions for the
spread of infectious diseases, because high population
densities and frequent social contacts facilitate pathogen
transmission. To mitigate that risk, social animals have
evolved a variety of defence mechanisms to prevent the
entry and propagation of pathogens within the group,
ranging from a raised investment in personal immu-
nity to highly coordinated collective sanitary actions
('social immunity'). Recent studies have shown that
social groups can also adopt organizational features,
such as the subdivision into well-separated subgroups,
which reduce epidemic risk through transmission bot-
tleneck eects. However, the importance of organiza-
tional immunity features in disease risk management
by real animal groups is still poorly understood. Our
research adopts an empirical approach based on the
experimental manipulations of garden ant colonies (/La-
sius niger/) to (i) quantify the eect of social organi-
zation on disease transmission and test key predictions
from network epidemiology, and (ii) evaluate the rel-
ative of importance of personal immunity, collective
sanitary actions and organizational features under dif-
ferent environmental conditions and at dierent stages
of development (for more detail see https://stroeymeyt-
lab.ch/research).PROJECT. The goal of this post-doc
project will be to experimentally manipulate the social
network topology of ant colonies (e.g. by manipulating
nest architecture) to quantify the eect of network prop-
erties on disease transmission and test key predictions
from network epidemiology. The candidate will use a
combination of automated behavioural tracking, social
network analysis, simulation of disease transmission,
monitoring of the transmission of pathogenic and non-
pathogenic agents, and tness measurements to produce
an integrative understanding of the eect of social orga-
nization and network structure on epidemic risk/. /The
project will be embedded within an overall project team
consisting of two PhD students and two post-doctoral
researchers (https://stroeymeyt-lab.ch/open-positions/)
and will be fully funded for two years by an ERC Starting116 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Grant. The salary will be set according to the guide-
lines of the University of Fribourg (c. 75'000 CHF per
year).//PROFILE. We are looking for candidates with
a strong quantitative background and solid experience
in programming, exploratory analysis of large biological
datasets, social network analysis and/or epidemiological
simulations. As the project will involve an important
experimental component, the candidates would ideally
have a good working knowledge of statistics and experi-
mental design and prior experience with social insects.
Experience with laser-cutting or 3D-printing software
and tools would be a plus. Candidates must be creative,
motivated and passionate about science, have excellent
oral and written communication skills, and be at ease
working both independently and as part of a team. A
PhD will be required prior to taking up the position.
LOCATION. The Department of Biology at the Univer-
sity of Fribourg is a highly dynamic, |international and
interdisciplinary |environment, spanning a wide range
of |research in evolution and ecology, behaviour, popu-
lation genomics, and bioinformatics, |developmental
genetics, neurobiology, biochemistry and proteomics,
across 27 |groups ( https://www3.unifr.ch/bio/en/ ).
STARTING DATE. The starting date is exible; the
earliest possible start will be May 1 ^st , 2019. HOW
TO APPLY. Please send your application by email
to Nathalie.Stroeymeyt@gmail.com. Your application
should consist of a single merged pdf le including a
letter of motivation, a full CV and publication list, the
names and contact details of at least two referees, and
copies of your publications and/or your PhD thesis (if
available). Evaluation of candidates will begin on Febru-
ary 15th, 2019, and continue until the position is lled.
|{
A 3-year post-doc position is available in the research
group of Professor Nathalie Stroeymeyt in the Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Fribourg, to study the
role of caste-specic microbiota in the disease defences
of ant colonies.*//*BACKGROUND*/. /*Group living
oers favourable conditions for the spread of infectious
diseases, because high population densities and frequent
social contacts facilitate pathogen transmission. To
mitigate that risk, social animals have
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUGothenburg Speciations
Postdoc position in evolutionary genetics of speciation.
Department of Marine Science, University of Gothen-
burg.
Working with Roger Butlin, Kerstin Johannesson, Rui
Faria and Marina Rafajlovic
At the Marine Science department there is a long tradi-
tion in working with marine snails of the genus Littorina
as models for studies of local adaptation, hybrid zones
and speciation. This study focuses on ecotype forma-
tion and the subsequent evolution of barriers to gene
exchange in L. saxatilis. This species forms multiple
ecotypes but we concentrate on contrasting adaptations
to crab predation and wave action that occur in many
parts of its North Atlantic distribution, particularly
comparing Spanish and Swedish contact zones. We have
extensive phenotypic and genomic data sets (targeted
capture sequencing, whole genome re-sequencing and
SNPs). This postdoc project will contribute to bioinfor-
matic processing of data and analyses aimed at detecting
selection and its phenotypic correlates, including con-
tributions to reproductive isolation. An L. saxatilis
reference genome and a genetic map is available. The
postdoc may also contribute to eorts to improve these
resources.
For more information and to apply, see:
https://www.gu.se/english/about theuniversity/-
job-opportunities Postdoc (24 months): ref. PAR
2019/50
Or email Roger Butlin on r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
{ Roger Butlin
Professor of Evolutionary Biology Animal and Plant
Sciences The University of Sheeld
Guest Professor Marine Sciences University of Gothen-
burg
r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
Roger Butlin <r.k.butlin@sheeld.ac.uk >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 117
UGothenburg Sweden
BirdsMacroecolMacroevol
Apply by: February 1st 2019
Anthropogenic biases in macroecological and macroevo-
lutionary patterns in birds
Carl Tryggers Postdoctoral Fellow in macro ecology and
macro evolution of birds at the Department of Biologi-
cal and Environmental Sciences Zoology, Gothenburg
University
Project description
Birds are one of the most charismatic and well-studied
group of animals, yet we know very little about how
humans have aected their global patterns of diver-
sity and evolutionary history. This project is part of a
larger initiative on the eects of humans on macroeco-
logical and macroevolutionary patterns in birds. The
project has Sren Faurby (https://tinyurl.com/Faurby)
as a PI and Tim Blackburn (https://tinyurl.com/Tim-
Blackburn; a bird macro-ecologist at University College
London) and Manuel Steinbauer (https://tinyurl.com/-
Steinbauer; an island biologist at Friedrich-Alexander
University Erlangen-N urnberg) as major cooperation
partners. The postdoc will work in very close collabo-
ration with Ferran Sayol (https://tinyurl.com/Ferran-
Sayol) who is working in the same project. The postdoc
will also have the opportunity to collaborate with a wide
group of scientists at the Gothenburg Global Biodiver-
sity Centre, which the wider working environment where
the post doc will be based (ggbc.gu.se).
Earlier work by the PI has discovered substantial biases
in macro-scale analyses of mammals, when conclusions
are drawn based only on present-day distributions (ex-
ample manuscripts below). The goal of this project is to
investigate whether those biases are restricted to mam-
mals (which are expected to be particularly sensitive to
anthropogenic impacts), or are more general and aect
other organisms, like birds.
Ferran Sayol is currently leading the creation a complete
database of birds that have gone extinct in the Late
Pleistocene and Holocene, and this work is expected to
be nished when the incoming postdoc is starring. Part
of the work for the incoming postdoc is to expand on
this and build a model of the approximate number and
plausible taxonomic assignment of the of undescribed
bird species that would have gone extinct in the periodand to gather the needed data for this model to work.
Related manuscript from previous work:
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ddi.12369/full
nature.com/articles/s41558-018-0089-x
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ecog.02287/abstract
Eligibility The applicant must hold a PhD in an area
relevant for the tasks at hand (macroecology, ornithol-
ogy, spatial analysis, macroevolution, palaeontology, or
related elds). Note that the thesis must be awarded
prior to the starting date of this position.
Other required qualications:
Documented capacity to work both in groups and inde-
pendently
Advanced skills in R or potentially another analytical
platform
Excellent written and spoken communication skills in
English
Assessment (other desirable qualications)
A strong publication record (relative to the applicants'
scientic age)
Experience with handling and ideally generating large
databases
Experience with spatial and macro-evolutionary analy-
ses
Knowledge of the study group (birds)
Experience in palaeontology and or taxonomy
Application is by email (to soren.faurby@bioenv.gu.se),
must be written in English and must include (all com-
bined into a single PDF le):
A cover letter with the applicant's justication for the
application which describes how the applicant meets the
selection criteria and potentially her / his plans for this
project (max. two A4 pages)
A list of qualications (full CV)
Certicate of PhD exam and other relevant education
Complete list of publications, including submitted and
accepted manuscripts highlighting the up to ve most
important papers related to the application
Contact information for at least two referees that are
familiar with the applicant's work
The top ranked candidates will be selected for an in-
terview, which will be held in English and may be per-
formed by phone /skype. Postdoctoral positions are ap-
pointed primarily for purposes of research. Applicants
are expected to hold a doctoral (PhD) degree. The118 EvolDir February 1, 2019
position is funded by a tax-free 2-year Carl-Tryggers
postdoctoral scholarship. Start date: as per agreement
(but expected to start during spring 2019) Gothenburg
University strives to be a workplace free from discrimi-
nation and with equal opportunities for all. Please do
not hesitate to contact me (Soren.Faurby@bioenv.gu.se)
with any questions related to the position.
Sren Faurby http://antonelli-lab.net S oren Faurby
<soren.faurby@bioenv.gu.se >
UHelsinki
SalmonSexConictModelling
A postdoctoral researcher position is available for up to
3.5 years in Professor Craig Primmer's research group
at the University of Helsinki, Finland. The position
is available immediately, until 8/2022. The position is
funded by an ERC Advanced Grant entitled \Age at
maturity in Atlantic salmon: molecular and ecological
dissection of an adaptive trait".
The postdoctoral researcher will conduct and co-
supervise research to extend and expand our earlier re-
search reporting sex-specic selection responses and res-
olution of a sexual conict in Atlantic salmon via means
of sex-dependent dominance leading to sex-specic pat-
terns of maturation timing and size (see Barson et al.
2015; Czorlich et al. 2018). More specically, the aim
is to use evolutionary genetic modelling approaches to
better quantify sex-specic selection, sexual conict and
to understand the population genetic consequences of
its resolution. This work is complemented by ecological
and quantitative and molecular genetic research being
conducted within the same project by others in the
group.
An appointee to the position shall hold a doctoral degree
and have the ability to conduct independent scholarly
work. Suitable applicants will have a strong background
in evolutionary genetics as demonstrated by publica-
tions in relevant elds. Previous research experience in
statistical and/or evolutionary modeling and knowledge
of empirical population genetics is an advantage. Enthu-
siasm and ability to work as a part of a larger research
team addressing related questions is also important.
The salary will be based on level 5 of the demands
level chart for teaching and research personnel in the
salary system of Finnish universities. In addition, the
appointee will be paid a salary component based onpersonal performance with the overall starting salary
amounting to c. 3100-3500 EUR per month, depend-
ing on the previous relevant research experience of the
candidate. A six-month trial period will be applied.
Formal applications should include as a single pdf le:
- a CV including a list of publications and with names
and contact details of at least two referees - a max. 2
page letter of motivation
Please submit your application using the University
of Helsinki Recruitment System via the link Apply
for the position. https://www.helsinki./en/open-
positions/postdoctoral-researcher-evolutionary-genetics-
of-sex-specic-selection-and-sexual-conict-resolution-
in-salmon The deadline for applications is Wednesday
13 February 2019, with the preferred starting date being
April 2019 (the position is available immediately).
Informal inquiries can be directed to Professor Craig
Primmer (craig.primmer(at)helsinki.).
Finland is a member of the EU, has high quality free
schooling (also in English), very aordable childcare,
generous family benets and healthcare, and was re-
cently ranked as the best country in the world for expat
families and in the world's top ten most livable cities.
The University of Helsinki is a top 100 ranked university
in most ranking lists, and is currently investing heavily
in life sciences research (see https://www.helsinki./-
en/helsinki-institute-of-life-science).
Relevant articles: Barson et al. (2015) Sex-dependent
dominance at a single locus maintains variation in age
at maturity in salmon. Nature 528:405-408.
Czorlich Y, Aykanat T, Erkinaro J, Orell P, Primmer
CR (2018). Rapid sex-specic evolution of age at matu-
rity is shaped by genetic architecture in Atlantic salmon.
Nature Ecology and Evolution, 2: 1800-1807.
Mobley KB, Granroth-Wilding H, Ellmen M, V ah a
J-P, Aykanat T, Johnston SE, Orell P, Erkinaro J,
Primmer CR (2019) Home ground advantage: local
Atlantic salmon have higher reproductive tness than
dispersers in the wild. Science Advances (in press) (see
also preprint on BiorXiv)
Craig Primmer, Academy Professor PO Box 56
Organismal & Evolutionary Biology Research Pro-
gramjBiotechnology Institute 00014, University of
Helsinki, FINLAND Visiting: Room 3404, Biocenter
1C Mobile +358 503116374 craig.primmer@helsinki.
Twitter @FishConGen http://www.helsinki./-
evolution-conservation-and-genomics \Primmer, Craig"
<craig.primmer@helsinki. >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 119
UHongKong EvolutionaryGenomics
*** Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Genomics ***
We are looking for a Postdoctoral Researcher to work on
genomics projects on birds and other non-model species.
The lab has several study systems and active projects
addressing population genomics, comparative genomics,
genotype-phenotype association, and behavioural genet-
ics. A key focus of the lab is to use genomic, epigenomic
and transcriptomic data to understand the genetic basis
and evolution of phenotypic traits. Collaborative inter-
national projects are already underway, ensuring a quick
and productive start. The Postdoctoral Researcher will
have extensive opportunities to interact with collabora-
tors and involve in dierent evolutionary and ecological
genomics projects.
Duration: The initial appointment is for one year, with
renewal based on performance. Funding is available for
two years. This is a full time appointment.
Qualications: Applicants must have completed a PhD
(or will have completed a PhD before the position start)
in bioinformatics, genomics, evolutionary biology, pop-
ulation genetics, or a related discipline, with a demon-
strated record of research achievement (via publications).
They will also be procient with programming in a
scripted language (e.g. Python, Perl, or R). Experience
with shell scripting and computing cluster environments
and/or experience working with whole genome datasets
in population or comparative genomics will be benecial.
Working Environment: The University of Hong Kong
is an English-speaking institute and one of the most
international universities in Asia. It has a rank of 36 ac-
cording to the Times Higher Education World University
Rankings 2019.
Start Date: Flexible between early-2019 to mid-2019.
Salary: A highly competitive salary plus annual leave
and medical benets will be oered.
How to apply: Please send a CV (with contact informa-
tion for three references), cover letter describing research
interests and skills, and copies of publications to Simon
Sin (sinyw@hku.hk). Review of applications will begin
immediately and continue until the position is lled.
Simon Sin
Assistant Professor School of Biological Sciences
Kadoorie Biological Sciences Building The Univer-sity of Hong Kong Pok Fu Lam Road, Hong Kong
www.simonywsin.com <sinyw@hku.hk >?
sinyw@hku.hk
UIllinois DiseaseEvolution
Post-doctoral position in Genetic Epidemiology -
Chronic Wasting Disease
The Wildlife Veterinary Epidemiology Laboratory at
the Illinois Natural History Survey (INHS) (https://-
wwv.inhs.illinois.edu/directory/show/nohram) is seek-
ing a Postdoctoral Research Associate to study genetic
characteristics, gene ow and prion sequence polymor-
phisms of managed white tailed deer in Illinois. Topics of
interest include use of modeling and genetic techniques
in the study of CWD in Illinois; genetic evaluation of
geographical clusters of CWD infection, the use popu-
lation genetic analysis to describe patterns of genetic
structure, spatial distribution and gene ow that draw
insights into the epidemiology and management of CWD.
The work entails the use of molecular tool epidemio-
logical modeling, GIS tools, and strong collaborative
interactions with biologists, faculty, sta and students
across INHS and the U of I campus.
The job announcement and application instructions
can be found at: https://blogs.illinois.edu/view/7426/-
744695 The University of Illinois conducts criminal
background checks on all job candidates upon accep-
tance of a contingent oer.
Illinois is an equal opportunity employer and all qual-
ied applicants will receive consideration for employ-
ment without regard to race, religion, color, national
origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age,
status as a protected veteran, or status as a quali-
ed individual with a disability. Illinois welcomes in-
dividuals with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and
ideas who embrace and value diversity and inclusivity.
(www.inclusiveillinois.illinois.edu).
Amber Hall Human Resource Associate Prairie Research
Institute 1816 S. Oak St. Champaign, IL 61820 P: 217-
300-4080 www.prairie.illinois.edu \Hall, Amber Renee"
<amberh@illinois.edu >120 EvolDir February 1, 2019
UIllinois
VirusHeterogeneityEvolution
The Brooke Lab (brookelab.org) at the University of Illi-
nois at Urbana-Champaign is looking to a postdoctoral
research associates to work on an NIH-funded project
aimed at understanding how patterns of viral and host
heterogeneity inuence infection dynamics.
Inuenza viruses are highly heterogeneous at the pop-
ulation level, and the vast majority of virions express
variable, incomplete subsets of viral genes. Our lab has
pioneered eorts to understand the role of population
heterogeneity in shaping patterns of viral replication,
evolution, and pathogenesis. We are looking for some-
one to build on preliminary work from our lab by using
single cell RNAseq to understand how changing pat-
terns of viral heterogeneity and co-infection inuence
infection dynamics, in vitro and in vivo. We are also
interested in the broader question of how selection may
act on patterns of viral population heterogeneity.
We are multidisciplinary team that bridges molecular
virology, immunology, evolutionary biology, and bioin-
formatics. The successful candidate will also have the
opportunity to work with colleagues in microuidics,
mathematical modeling, and evolutionary/ecological
theory as part of ongoing collaborations aimed at more
broadly understanding the importance of heterogeneity
during viral infection.
This position is fully funded for 5 years, and comes with
full benets. Highly motivated, creative individuals with
experience in molecular virology, population sequencing,
and/or single cell approaches are encouraged to apply.
Ideal candidates will be highly motivated and creative,
with strong interpersonal skills and command of written
and spoken English. Applicants must have published
in high quality peer-reviewed journals, and must have
a PhD or have successfully defended their thesis prior
to starting the position. Bioinformatics experience is
highly desirable but not essential.
Applications will be reviewed until the position is
lled. Interested candidates should contact Chris Brooke
(cbrooke@illinois.edu) with a cover letter and CV.
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a
world class public research institution located in idyllic
Urbana, Illinois. We have all of the amenities of a thriv-
ing college town, paired with a low cost of living andrelaxed, family-friendly atmosphere. Urbana is a 2 hour
drive from Chicago, and a 3 hour drive from St. Louis.
\Brooke, Christopher Byron" <cbrooke@illinois.edu >
UKentucky EvolutionRegeneration
Postdoctoral Positions in the Evolution of Regenerative
Ability
The Seifert lab in the Department of Biology at the
University of Kentucky (UK) is seeking exceptionally
creative postdoctoral researchers. We utilize a diverse
array of species to understand the cellular and molecular
basis for complex tissue regeneration in mammals. In
addition to maintaining an active breeding colony of
spiny mice (Acomys cahirinus) at UK, we continue to
work with wild-trapped rodent species in Kenya (regen-
erating and non-regenerating). Successful applicants
will initially join an NIH funded project investigating
how macrophages regulate the regenerative response to
injury. Specically, the project looks to dene the inter-
action of macrophage subpopulations and how specic
phenotypes induce behavioral changes in local brob-
lasts. Ideal candidates will have a strong background
in developmental and evolutionary biology, experience
working with model or non-model organisms, exper-
tise in microscopy and comfortability with bioinformat-
ics. Field experience is a plus as opportunities exist
for integrating eld based research in Kenya. While
this is a funded position, postdocs in the Seifert lab
are strongly encouraged to develop their own projects
and external funding portfolios as a pathway toward
independence. Salary follows NIH guidelines for post-
doctoral researchers. Informal inquiries are strongly
encouraged. For additional information visit: http://-
www.ashleyseifert.com/opportunities.html Review of
applications will begin January 30th and will continue
until the position has been lled. Candidates will have
completed their Ph.D. prior to starting the position but
need not have defended their dissertation prior to apply-
ing. Applicants should send a single pdf document to
Ashley Seifert (awseifert@uky.edu) that includes their
CV, names of three references, and a 1-2-page synop-
sis of their current research interests and how these
complement our overall research program.
The Department of Biology houses a strong group of
research labs interested in regenerative, developmental
and evolutionary biology using a diverse array of ani-
mal models (e.g., spiny mice, salamanders, planarians,February 1, 2019 EvolDir 121
lampreys, zebrash) and in vitro systems. Together,
these labs create a vibrant atmosphere to pursue in-
terdisciplinary projects across comparative genomics,
developmental, regenerative and evolutionary biology.
Ashley W. Seifert, PhD Department of Biology jUniv.
of Kentucky 211 THM Bldg jLexington, KY 40506
859-218-2668jwww.ashleyseifert.com \Seifert, Ashley"
<awseifert@uky.edu >
ULiverpool 2 EvolutionaryGenetics
The Betancourt lab in at the University Liverpool, UK,
is seeking TWO postdoctoral researchers for 5-year ap-
pointments each. These positions are funded by the
ERC, and are to investigate transposable element inva-
sions using Drosophila as a model. Informal enquires to
A.Betancourt@liverpool.ac.uk very welcome.
Both applicants should have a PhD in a relevant eld.
As the project encompasses molecular work, genomic
analysis, and y work, ideally one postdoc will be trained
in molecular methods and one in bioinformatics or pop-
ulation genetics. They will work as part of a team
that includes the PI and a full-time research technician,
and will be encouraged to develop their own research
interests.
Dr. Betancourt's group has tackled a wide variety of
questions in evolutionary genetics, addressing the role
of recombination and sex-linkage in evolution, and the
spread of selsh elements in Drosophila (more informa-
tion here: http://www.yevolution.net/).
The Institute of Integrative Biology (IIB) at the Uni-
versity of Liverpool houses a large and active research
faculty (see: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/integrative-
biology/about/), and includes several active groups in
evolutionary biology (see https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/-
integrative-biology/sta/evolution-ecology-and-
behaviour/). IIB also houses several excellent core
facilities, including a genomics and proteomics centres
(more here: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/integrative-
biology/facilities-and-services/).
The posts are available for 5 years from the time of
appointment.
Apply at the links below (or search for the appropriate
job reference at https://recruit.liverpool.ac.uk). Please
include a cover letter, CV, and details for three refer-
ences.Bioinformatics/Population genetics Postdoctoral Re-
search Associate Grade 7 Department: : Evolution,
Ecology And Behaviour Job Reference: : 010756 Salary
: £33,518 - £38,833 pa Closing Date : 03-Feb-2019 23:30
https://bit.ly/2MaNnQw Molecular work Postdoctoral
Research Associate Grade 7 Apply Department: : Evo-
lution, Ecology And Behaviour Job Reference: : 010753
Salary : £34,188 - £39,610 pa Closing Date : 05-Feb-
2019 23:30 https://bit.ly/2FtAM9J Cheers, Andrea
Andrea Betancourt jSenior Lecturer Department of
Evolution, Ecology, and Behaviour (DEEB) jInstitute
for Integrative Biology (IIB) University of Liverpool Bio-
sciences Building Rm 238 / Crown St. / L69 7ZB Liv-
erpool / United Kingdom http://www.yevolution.net
j+44 (0) 151 795 4516 jaabt@liverpool.ac.uk
\Betancourt, Andrea" <A.Betancourt@liverpool.ac.uk >
ULiverpool
EvolutionRodentMicrobiome
Postdoctoral Research Associate Grade 7
Evolution, Ecology And Behaviour
010948
34,188 - 39,610 pa
20-Feb-2019 23:30
We are seeking an enthusiastic and able researcher to
work on an interdisciplinary project investigating the
control of the composition of the microbiome commu-
nity of wild rodents, specically studying the interaction
between the eects of individual's diet, behaviour and
immunological state. This work builds on previous work
by Mark Viney investigating the eco-immunology of
wild mouse populations and of Jane Hurst investigating
the role of scent communication in rodent behaviour.
You will join the research group of Mark Viney, and
further information about the research interests of this
group can be found at: www.MarkViney.com The post
is available for 3 years.
Closing date: 20 February 2019
https://recruit.liverpool.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.display form?p company=-
1&p internal external=E&p display inirish=-
N&p process type=&p applicant no=-
&pform prole detail=&p display apply ind=-
Y&p refresh search=Y&p recruitment id0948 Best122 EvolDir February 1, 2019
wishes,
Bernie
Bernie King On behalf of
IIB Stang Administration Account Institute of
Integrative Biology University of Liverpool Bio-
sciences Building Liverpool L69 7ZB iib@liv.ac.uk
http://www.liverpool.ac.uk/integrative-biology \King,
Bernadette" <B.King@liverpool.ac.uk >
UMainz PhD PDF InsectSymbiosis
PhD and postdoc positions available at the University of
Mainz, Germany, within the ERC-funded project SYM-
Beetle: 'Symbiont-assisted cuticle biosynthesis as a key
innovation contributing to the evolutionary success of
beetles'
Recent evidence indicates that beetles across multiple
dierent families associate with microbial symbionts
that provision their host with tyrosine, an aromatic
amino acid necessary for cuticle biosynthesis, harden-
ing, and tanning. SYMBeetle addresses the hypothesis
that the acquisition of tyrosine-supplementing microbes
constituted a key innovation across phylogenetically dis-
tinct beetles that allowed them to expand into novel
ecological niches. To test this, SYMBeetle will combine
experimental manipulation of symbiotic associations to
assess the symbionts' contribution to cuticle biosynthe-
sis and its tness consequences as well as the molecular
basis of host-symbiont interactions with large-scale com-
parative approaches aimed at elucidating the taxonomic
distribution, ecological contexts, and evolutionary ori-
gins of cuticle-supplementing symbioses. The results are
expected to broaden our understanding of microbes as
important facilitators for the evolution of herbivory and
the colonization of dry habitats in beetles, two factors
of major relevance for the emergence of economically
relevant insect pests of agricultural crops and stored
products.
Within the context of SYMBeetle, the group of Dr. Mar-
tin Kaltenpoth (Evolutionary Ecology Department of
the Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz, Germany)
oers several PhD (65% TV-L EG13) and postdoc po-
sitions (up to 100% TV-L EG13). We are looking for
highly motivated candidates with an MSc or PhD de-
gree in biology, molecular biology or bioinformatics (or
equivalent), excellent English speaking and writing skills
and a deep interest in the evolutionary ecology of insect-microbe interactions. Previous experience with insect
rearing, microbiology, molecular biology (qPCR, RNAi,
FISH), phylogenetic analyses, and/or bioinformatics
techniques (genomic and transcriptomic datasets) are
of advantage, but not a prerequisite.
We oer a dynamic, international working group with
broad expertise and state-of-the-art equipment in en-
tomology, microbiology, molecular biology, and chem-
ical analytics at the new Biocenter I of the Johannes
Gutenberg-University in Mainz. The research group is
integrated into the recently established Institute for Or-
ganismic and Molecular Evolution. Mainz is a charming,
medium-sized, historic city situated at the river Rhine,
in close vicinity to the Frankfurt metropolitan area.
Applications should include a cover letter (1-2 pages)
describing the motivation, previous research activities
and current research interests of the applicant; the CV
of the applicant (with copies of BSc/MSc/PhD certi-
cates, list of publications if applicable); and one (PhD
applicants) or two (postdoc applicants) reference letters.
Please send all documents as a single PDF le (except
for the references, which should be sent directly by the
referees) before February 15th, 2019 to Dr. Martin
Kaltenpoth (mkaltenpoth@uni-mainz.de). Candidates
that are in the nishing stages of their MSc or PhD
theses but do not have their certicates yet are also
explicitly encouraged to apply. Pre-selected candidates
will be invited to participate in a recruitment sympo-
sium at the University of Mainz on March 22nd, 2019.
The positions are available at the earliest convenience.
The Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz is seeking
to increase the number of women in science. Applica-
tions from women are therefore strongly encouraged.
Qualied candidates with disabilities will be preferred.
| Prof. Dr. Martin Kaltenpoth Department for
Evolutionary Ecology Institute of Organismic and
Molecular Evolution Johannes Gutenberg Univer-
sity Mainz Hanns-Dieter-Husch-Weg 15 55128 Mainz
Phone: +49-6131-3924411 Fax: +49-6131-3923731
Email: mkaltenpoth@uni-mainz.de
\Kaltenpoth, Dr. Martin" <mkaltenpoth@uni-
mainz.de>February 1, 2019 EvolDir 123
UManchester
ExperimentalEvolution
Research Associate in Experimental Evolution School
of Biological Sciences Faculty of Biology, Medicine, &
Health The University of Manchester
Applications are invited for a two-year Research Asso-
ciate position in experimental evolution of antibiotic-
resistant clinical strains of E. coli. The position is based
in the School of Biological Sciences at The University
of Manchester.
The project is funded is through a Wellcome Trust ISSF
interdisciplinary award involving experimental, theoret-
ical, and clinical researchers working in the Faculty of
Biology Medicine and Health and the Faculty of Science
and Engineering.
Please note that we anticipate a second theoreti-
cal/computational focused postdoc will also be adver-
tised shortly.
Start date is ASAP and before July 2019 at the latest.
Project description:
The increasing prevalence of anti-microbial resistance
(AMR) is one of the key health challenges of the 21
st century. An important but neglected part of this
problem is the interaction between the microbes and
the aspects of their environment aside from antibiotics.
Understanding of these interactions in relation to AMR
oers the possibility of developing novel approaches that
have the potential to produce not only better or more
'evolution-proof' antibiotics but also allow us to harness
evolutionary processes themselves to allow antibiotic
sensitive microbes to outcompete resistant ones. How-
ever, the evolutionary and environmental interactions
and trade-os are not well understood.
This project will ask a range of fundamental questions
directly:
1. Does genomic background determine the genes in-
volved in antibiotic and post-antibiotic adaptation?
2. Are the genes that evolve in the absence of antibiotics
the same or dierent following more or less adaptation
to antibiotics?
3. How do resistance and competitive tness evolve in
the absence of antibiotics: does the rate dier for strains
longer to adapted to antibiotics?Critically, the answers will allow us to detect signatures
of antibiotic adaptation in the genomes of bacteria found
in a hospital setting as well as those used experimentally.
This work will allow us to shape antibiotic prescription
regimes (e.g. altering usage periods of particular antibi-
otics, tailoring treatments to specic infections) in novel,
evidence-based ways, founded in a molecular, genomic
and population understanding of AMR evolution.
Please send informal enquiries to Danna Giord
( danna.giord@manchester.ac.uk), Chris Knight (
chris.knight@manchester.ac.uk) or Simon Lovell ( si-
mon.lovell@manchester.ac.uk)
For application details and further information,
please visit https://www.jobs.manchester.ac.uk/-
displayjob.aspx?jobid542 Sincerely,
Danna Giord
{ Dr Danna Giord Research Fellow Faculty of Bi-
ology, Medicine & Health The University of Manch-
ester A.4034a Michael Smith Building, Oxford Road,
Manchester M13 9PT United Kingdom https://-
dannagiord.com danna.giord@manchester.ac.uk
UMississippi
MicrobiomePhylogenetics
The Jackson lab (www.colinrjackson.com) and Garrick
lab (www.rcgarrick.org) in the Department of Biology
at the University of Mississippi seek applications for
a Postdoctoral Research Associate. This is a 2-3 year
position, renewable annually, funded by a collaborative
NSF Dimensions in Biodiversity grant. The project is
focused on understanding geographic scaling of diver-
sity and interactions between microbiomes and their
mussel hosts, mussel communities, and the freshwater
environments in which they perform critical ecosystem
services.
The Postdoc will focus on generating and interpreting
DNA sequence data that can be used to characterize
microbiomes, and contribute to phylogenetic analysis of
large data sets. Other duties will include leading author-
ship of publications, presenting research at conferences,
and mentoring graduate and undergraduate researchers
in the PIs' labs.
Minimum qualications are a PhD in Biology or related
eld, and strong publication record relative to oppor-
tunity. Preferred qualications include experience in124 EvolDir February 1, 2019
microbiome analysis, familiarity with microbial ecology
and phylogenetics, strong interests in host-microbe inter-
actions and connecting eld-based research with genetic
analyses, and a willingness to contribute to biodiversity-
related public outreach.
Applicants should contact Dr. Colin Jackson via email
(cjackson@olemiss.edu) to express interest in the posi-
tion and for further information.
The start date is anticipated to be late Spring / early
summer 2019, but is exible.
Ryan Garrick Department of Biology 508 Shoemaker
Hall University of Mississippi University, MS 38677-1848,
USA
webpage: http://www.rcgarrick.org rgar-
rick@olemiss.edu
UMontana UNebraska
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral positions: Genome-to-phenome connec-
tions in wild populations
THE UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA and THE UNI-
VERSITY OF NEBRASKA are seeking applications
for two 2-year postdoctoral fellowship positions. The
positions are funded by a recent NSF award aimed at es-
tablishing a collaborative research and training network
to advance the science of genome-to-phenome connec-
tions in wild populations (www.unveilnetwork.org). One
fellow will be placed at each institution. Research ac-
tivities will center around three core projects, which
are united by their conceptual focus on adaptation to
spatiotemporal environmental variation: 1.) high alti-
tude adaptation and hypoxia resistance in deer mice,
2.) adaptation to climate change in snowshoe hares and
other species that undergo seasonal phenotypic change
and 3.) thermal adaptation in yellow monkeyowers.
Successful applicants may extend these core projects
in novel directions or propose to work on complemen-
tary questions and/or systems with active mentorship
from one or members of the UNVEIL network (https:/-
/www.unveilnetwork.org/our-team/).
The expected salary is approximately $50,000 and the
fellows will be provided generous research funds to sup-
port their work.
To apply, please visit http://umjobs.silkroad.com and
click the job title for this position (Tracking Code 2152-254) under All Openings. Candidates must apply online
and will be asked to upload the following application
materials: a CV, a 2-3 page research statement that
outlines previous and current research, and as well as
a brief statement about future directions. In the state-
ment of future directions, applicants should also identify
potential mentors from the set of PIs listed below. In ad-
dition, the applicants must provide contact information
for 3 references.
Review of applications will begin on March 15, 2019
and the position will remain open until lled. The ap-
pointment is a 12-month Letter of Appointment. The
start date is exible. The position renewable for up to
two years.
Applicants are strongly encouraged to contact one or
more the following project PIs to further rene their
application materials:
Zac Cheviron (Ecophysiology and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics, www. chevironlab.org)
Lila Fishman (Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics;
http://hs.umt.edu/dbs/labs/shman/)
Je Good (Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics,
www.thegoodlab.org)
Scott Mills (Population Ecology and Global Change
Biology, www.umt.edu/research/millslab/)
Kristi Montooth (Evolutionary and Physiological Ge-
netics, http://montoothlab.unl.edu)
Colin Meiklejohn (Evolutionary and speciation ge-
nomics, http://biosci.unl.edu/colin-meiklejohn)
Jay Storz (Evolutionary genetics and physiology, http:/-
/storzlab.unl.edu/)
General inquires can be addressed to Zac Cheviron
(zac.cheviron@mso.umt.edu)
Zac Cheviron <zcheviron@gmail.com >
UNamur Belgium RotiferGenomics
Post-doctoral researcher in extreme resistance
RNAseq/Genomic analysis UNamur Belgium
Description:
The postdoctoral researcher would integrate, asap, the
Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics and Ecology of
Karine Van Doninck at UNamur (Belgium) and will join
the group RISE (Rotifer In Space) supported by Dr B.February 1, 2019 EvolDir 125
Hespeels.
RISE is a project started in 2016 that aims to send
rotifer bdelloids to the International Space Station. Ex-
periments on the rotifer bdelloid A.vaga, with its unique
characteristics and a draft genome available, may con-
tribute signicantly to our understanding of living in
extreme environments. RISE was designed with the
intention to use bdelloids as a new model organism for
space research. Research group addresses the following
questions: 1) How microgravity and space ight are af-
fecting biological processes of A. vaga? 2) What are the
limits of bdelloids extreme resistance to radiation? 3)
What are the molecular mechanisms involved in protec-
tion and repair of damage induced by dierent radiation
sources? 4) Are microgravity and space ight aecting
protection and repair mechanisms of A. vaga?
The postdoctoral researcher will be involved in RNAseq
and genomic data analysis in order to document ques-
tion described before. Specic aims are: -nd pathways
and genes and transcriptomic peculiarities involved in
desiccation, x-ray tolerance and adaptation to G using
available RNAseq data; Evaluate how genome structure
is evolving after massive exposure to DNA DSB under
1G andG environment.
For this project our laboratory would like to hire a
postdoctoral researcher with strong expertise in bio-
informatics and genome assemblies and with a strong
interest in questions related to extreme resistance and
genomic evolution induced by radiation. Applications
from women and international researcher are encour-
aged.
Send CV and motivation letter
to boris.hespeels@unamur.be and
karine.vandoninck@unamur.be before 31th January
2019
Skills/Qualication
Strong background in RNAseq data analysis are required.
Skills in comparative genomics are also appreciated :
management, trimming and analysis of NGS data; de
novo genome assemblies; read mapping; genome annota-
tion; SNP calling; creation of bio-informatic pipelines.
Boris Hespeels <boris.hespeels@unamur.be >UOxford MolMicroSymbiosis
Postdoctoral Researcher position in Molecular Microbi-
ology and Symbiosis
Salary: Grade 7.1 pounds 32,236
The King Lab is oering a Postdoctoral Researcher po-
sition in the Department of Zoology for a xed-term of
3 years (with the possibility of extension). This position
is part of an ERC Starting Grant (COEVOPRO) to
investigate the impact of microbe-mediated protection
on host-parasite interactions using a tripartite system
' Caenorhabditis elegans, Enterococcus faecalis, and
Staphylococcus aureus.
We are seeking a molecular microbiologist (who might
also have experience with bioinformatics) to empiri-
cally elucidate the patterns and processes of coevolving
protective symbioses, and assess impacts on parasite
infection outcomes. This post is part of a dynamic and
interdisciplinary research group ' the lab of Dr Kayla
King ' working on the ecology and evolution of good
and bad host-microbe symbioses.
This post is ideally suited for applicants with a
PhD/DPhil with a strong molecular microbiology com-
ponent, particularly involving gram-positive bacteria.
Previous experience or intense interest in ecology and
evolution is an asset.
Only applications made online before 12.00 midday
(UK time) on 15 February 2018 will be considered.
You will be required to upload your CV and sup-
porting statement. See https://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/job-
vacancies#vacancy 138955 Please send inquiries to
kayla.king@zoo.ox.ac.uk
Dr. Kayla King Associate Professor, Department of
Zoology Tutorial Fellow, Christ Church University of
Oxford
https://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/people/dr-kayla-king https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/kckingevolution/ Kayla King
<kayla.king@zoo.ox.ac.uk >126 EvolDir February 1, 2019
UPannonia
AvianBehaviouralEvolution
POST-DOC POSITION IN BEHAVIORAL ECOLOGY
AND EVOLUTION OF SHOREBIRDS UNIVERSITY
OF PANNONIA, Veszpr em, Hungary
Social interactions are among the most fascinating as-
pects of animal behaviour. This project will focus on the
demographic drivers of sex role reversal in shorebirds
(plovers, sandpipers and allies), when females compete
for mates and males provide parental care. Results from
cutting edge research carried out by our team (see refer-
ences below & on our websites)suggest that role reversal
occur in species where males are the more common sex.
However, solid eld data on sex ratios are scarce and
the processes generating skewed sex ratios are largely
unknown.
The successful candidate will join an international team
of scientists working on shorebird ecology, behaviour and
conservation, and will carry out a eld study on a sex role
reversed, polyandrous species. Most likely target species
include the Bronze-winged and/or Pheasant-tailed Ja-
cana, with potential eld sites in India or Taiwan. This
exciting project will collect data on breeding behaviour,
ospring sex ratio, and survival of males and females in a
closely monitored population. We will use demographic
modelling to estimate adult sex ratio and to identify
its most important determinants. The project will also
contribute to our largescale comparative studies in shore-
birds worldwide (see https://elvonalshorebirds.com/).
The project is led by Prof Andr as Liker (Univiver-
sity of Pannonia, Veszpr em, Hungary, see http://-
ornithology.limnologia.hu/), and is part of a collabora-
tion with Dr Vojt Ach Kubelka (Univiversity of Debrecen,
Hungary), Prof Tam as Sz ekely (University of Bath, UK),
and Dr Andr as Kosztolanyi (University of Veterinary
Science, Budapest, Hungary) to understand breeding
system evolution using shorebirds as model organisms.
The research group uses English as the communication
language.
This job oers an opportunity for an early-stage post-
doc who wants to combine eldwork with cutting-edge
evolutionary and behavioural science. The main tasks
of the post-doc are to organize, carry out and supervise
eld studies. We seek candidates with experience in
behavioural ecology and eld biology preferable with
birds/shorebirds. Publications in high-quality peer-reviewed journals, excellent communication skills, and
solid skills in data handling are essential. See further
specications below.
This is a full-time position and the salary will be above
the normal Hungarian level (up to 1200 EUR, depending
on experience). Note that the cost of living in Hungary
is substantially less than in Western Europe and in the
US. The current position is for 22 months (subject to
probation period), with possibility of extension (pending
on the availability of further funding).
Application deadline is 31 January 2019, although the
screening of candidates may start earlier. The applica-
tion should include (1) a max two pages cover letter, (2)
a CV with list of publications, and (3) the name and
contact details of four referees preferably from research,
academia or conservation. The applications should be
emailed to Prof Andr as Liker ( andras.liker@gmail.com).
The position is available from 1st March 2019.
Selected publications:
Liker, A., Freckleton, R. P., & Sz ekely, T. 2013. The
evolution of sex roles in birds is related to adult sex
ratio. Nature Communications 4: 1587.
Pipoly, I., B okony, V., Kirkpatrick, M., Donald, P. F.
Sz ekely, T. & Liker, A. 2015. The genetic sex determi-
nation system predicts the adult sex ratio in tetrapods.
Nature 527: 91'94.
Schacht, R., Kramer, K.L., Sz ekely, T. & Kappeler, P.M.
2017. Adult sex ratios and reproductive strategies: a
critical re-examination of sex dierences in human and
animal societies. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 372: 20160309.
Eberhart-Phillips, L. J. et al. 2018. Demographic causes
of adult sex ratio variation and their consequences for
parental cooperation. Nature Communications 9: 1651
Kubelka V., A alek M., Tomkovich P., V egv ari Z., Freck-
leton R. P. & Sz ekely T. 2018: Global pattern of nest
predation is disrupted by climate change in shorebirds.
Science 362: 680'683.
Job description:
The post-doc will organize and carry out eld work in
a foreign country,
Supervise PhD students and research assistants, coordi-
nate research with external collaborators,
Coordinate data collection and analyses, and prepara-
tion of publications,
Present and promote the results at conferences and
research seminars,
Assist administration associated with the project,February 1, 2019 EvolDir 127
Carry out other scientic and/or academic activities
that are deemed necessary for the success of the project.
Requirements:
PhD in evolutionary biology, behavioural ecology, zool-
ogy, or relevant eld of life sciences,
Solid knowledge of evolutionary biology, behavioural
ecology, and/or
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU EvolutionaryGenetics
POST DOC POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NETICS - Sexual Selection and Mutation Rate The
Department of Ecology and Genetics at Uppsala Univer-
sity are looking to hire a post doc on a 2-year contract.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Mutations form the raw
material for evolution and do not only aect rates of
adaptation and extinction but also cause fundamen-
tal human health problems. New evidence has demon-
strated that mutation rates can vary systematically both
across the genome and with the health of individuals. In
many species, including humans, there are also system-
atic dierences between the two biological sexes, with
frequently observed male-bias in mutation rate. These
ndings have broad implications for a wide range of evo-
lutionary and demographic processes but the ultimate
causes for the observed variation remain a matter of con-
siderable debate. The successful applicant will take an
approach combining experimental evolution and genome
sequencing to understand the role of sexual selection
in shaping within- and between-population variation in
mutation rate.
The rst aim is to explore the molecular basis for a
link between investment in sexually selected traits and
germline DNA repair by comparing gene expression in
experimental evolution lines of seed beetles stored from
a previous experiment.
The second aim is to use DNA sequencing to explore the
type and location of mutations left unchecked by the
DNA repair system in individuals challenged to engage
in sexual competition. This will explore heterogeneityin DNA repair across the genome and link this variation
to trade-os with investment in sexual reproduction.
The candidate will work in close association with the
host Dr. David Berger and PhD student Julian Baur,
and share lab space and interact with members of the
groups of Prof. G ~A^AArnqvist and Dr. Elina Immonen.
Currently, the beetle lab consists of 8 members and
occasional project students.
WORKING ENVIRONMENT: The Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Centre hosts one of the world's largest aggregations
of evolutionary biologists and Uppsala University was
recently ranked 7th in the world in evolutionary biology
(CWUR 2017). The Department of Ecology and Genet-
ics is an international environment with sta from all
over the world. Our research spans from evolutionary
ecology and genetics to studies of ecosystems. A num-
ber of high-prole projects address natural and sexual
selection, local adaptation, speciation, molecular evolu-
tion, microbial diversity, and ecosystem processes. For
more information, see: ieg.uu.se. Uppsala University
is the oldest university in Scandinavia and the city of
Uppsala is a vibrant college town with beautiful sur-
roundings conveniently situated 40 minutes by train
from Stockholm.
QUALIFICATIONS: A Phd degree in evolutionary,
quantitative, population or molecular genetics, or equiv-
alent. We seek highly motivated candidates with a
broad interest in evolutionary biology. Experience with
sequence data is a merit, including familiarity with lab-
oratory molecular methods and experimental design,
and/or analytical methods and statistical programming
(e.g. R, Python, C).
POSITION: The postdoc is funded by a tax-free 2-year
scholarship from Carl Tryggers Foundation, amounting
to 23,000 SEK per month.
HOW TO APPLY: Application deadline: Application
sent in before February 9, 2019 will be given priority.
The position will be open until lled.
Send an e-mail to david.berger@ebc.uu.se with the sub-
ject heading ^APOST-DOC APPLICATION', with the
following documents combined into ONE pdf le:
- A cover letter describing your research interests and
suitability (1 page) - A CV detailing your education,
previous positions and other achievements (max 3 pages)
- A list of your publications (submitted manuscripts can
be included) - Contact details of 2-3 references who can
be contacted by telephone or e-mail before or after the
interview.
Prospective candidates will be invited for interviews in
person or over Skype in February 2019.128 EvolDir February 1, 2019
Informal inquiries can be directed to:
david.berger@ebc.uu.se Lab home page: http://-
www.ieg.uu.se/animal-ecology/Research+groups/-
berger-lab/ Publications: https://scholar.google.se/-
citations?hl=sv&user'ko 8EAAAAJ We are looking
forward to receiving your application
{ David Berger Animal Ecology Department of Ecol-
ogy and Genetics Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala
University david.berger@ebc.uu.se
E-mailing Uppsala University means that we will pro-
cess your personal data. For more information on
how this is performed, please read here: http://-
www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-policy David
Berger<david.berger@ebc.uu.se >
UppsalaU
PlantEcoEvolutionaryDynamics
Postdoctoral researcher position in Plant Eco-
Evolutionary Dynamics at Uppsala University, Sweden
We seek a Postdoc to join a project examining how
adaptive genetic variation and demographic processes
inuence evolutionary response and population dynam-
ics in a changing environment. The research uses the
short-lived, perennial herb Primula farinosa as a model
system, and focuses on the importance of variation in
oral traits and life history in relation to dierences in
the intensity of biotic interactions and climate along a
latitudinal gradient.
Tasks of the postdoc include the establishment and
monitoring of experiments in the eld, modelling of eco-
evolutionary processes based on available demographic
data collected in the eld for seven years, statistical
analysis and manuscript preparation. Three overarch-
ing questions will be addressed: (1) How is population
viability inuenced by variation in mutualistic and an-
tagonistic biotic interactions and climate?, (2) How does
variation in biotic interactions and climate inuence the
genetic structure of plant populations?, and (3) How
does the presence of genetic variation in traits of adap-
tive signicance and evolutionary responses inuence
population viability in a changing environment? Specic
subprojects can be tailored to the skills and interests of
the successful candidate.
The project is a collaboration between the labs of prof
JonAgren at the Department of Ecology and Genet-
ics, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,and prof Johan Ehrl en at the Department of Ecology,
Environment and Plant Sciences, Stockholm University.
We are looking for a candidate with a keen interest
in population biology and eco-evolutionary dynamics.
Previous experience of modelling, and eld or experi-
mental work is desirable. Prociency in English is a
requirement.
The successful postdoc candidate should have a PhD
completed within 3 years of the application deadline
(reasons such as prolonged periods of illness and parental
leave can motivate a longer period). The postdoc posi-
tion lasts for two years.
Deadline for application is 28 February 2019.
Please nd the announcement, with all information
about how to apply, at:
http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/
For informal enquiries, please contact Jon Agren,
jon.agren@ebc.uu.se, +46-18-471 2860
Some publications from the project:
Thomann, M., J. Ehrl en, and J. Agren. 2018. Graz-
ers aect selection on inorescence height both directly
and indirectly and eects change over time. Ecology
99:2167-2175.
von Euler, T., J. Agren, and J. Ehrl en. 2014. Envi-
ronmental context inuences both the intensity of seed
predation and plant demographic sensitivity to attack.
Ecology 95:495-504.
Agren, J., F. Hellstrom, P. Tor ang, and J. Ehrl en. 2013.
Mutualists and antagonists drive among-population vari-
ation in selection and evolution of oral display in a
perennial herb. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences USA 110:18202-18207.
Vanhoenacker, D., J. Agren, and J. Ehrl en. 2013. Non-
linear relationship between intensity of plant-animal
interactions and selection strength. Ecology Letters
16:198-205.
JonAgren Plant Ecology and Evolution Department of
Ecology and Genetics Evolutionary Biology Centre Up-
psala University Norbyv agen 18 D SE-753 36 Uppsala
Sweden
N ar du har kontakt med oss p a Uppsala universitet
med e-post s a inneb ar det att vi behandlar dina per-
sonuppgifter. For att l asa mer om hur vi gor det
kan du l asa h ar: http://www.uu.se/om-uu/dataskydd-
personuppgifter/ E-mailing Uppsala University means
that we will process your personal data. For more in-
formation on how this is performed, please read here:
http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-policy
JonAgren<jon.agren@ebc.uu.se >February 1, 2019 EvolDir 129
UTuebingen
InvasivePlantEpigenomics
Christina Richards and Oliver Bossdorf at the Univer-
sity of T'bingen are seeking a motivated POSTDOC
IN ECOLOGICAL (EPI-)GENOMICS OF INVASIVE
PLANTS to develop genomic and epigenomic resources
for invasive knotweeds (Reynoutria ssp aka Fallopia
ssp). The postdoc will work in the projectoGenomics
and Epigenomics of Plant Invasion which attempts to
understand large-scale variation and adaptation, and
their underlying (epi)genomic mechanisms, in native vs.
introduced populations of invasive knotweeds. S/he will
develop approaches to full-genome sequencing for these
complex polyploid species, and will be responsible for
analysing RNA-Seq and reduced-representation bisulte
sequencing (epiGBS) data together with phenotypic and
environmental data, as well as for writing manuscripts.
The project is funded through theoMake Our Planet
Great Againinitiative (www.daad.de/mopga-gri/).
It entails a collaboration between the University of
T'bingen (Christina Richards, Oliver Bossdorf, Univer-
sity of Rennes (Malika Ainouche, Armel Salmon) and
various groups in Eastern Asia, in particular the Insti-
tute of Biodiversity Science (Bo Li, Ji Yang) at Fudan
University, China.
Applicants should have a PhD in ecology, evolution,
genetics, bioinformatics, or a related eld. Expertise
in statistics, genomics and bioinformatics is required.
Previous experience with bisulte sequencing, reduced-
representation approaches and/or polyploidy will be
ideal. Strong candidates will also possess the following
attributes: (1) creativity, independence, and a desire
to learn new things, (2) excellent oral/written commu-
nication skills, and (3) a prociency in bash, python
and R. The position is full-time and for 2 years, with a
possible 1-year extension. It will be based at University
of T'bingen, but the postdoc will also spend a signicant
amount of time in Rennes, France. The payment will
be at German payscale level TV-L E13.
The University of T'bingen is one of the oldest uni-
versities in Germany, with a particular strength in
Plant Sciences. T'bingen is a beautiful university
town with a high quality of life. The Plant Evolution-
ary Ecology group (uni-tuebingen.de/plantevoeco) at
T'bingen, which will soon welcome Christina Richards
(ecologicalepigenetics.com) as MOPGA group leader,studies a broad range of questions on plant variation
and adaptation in changing environments. The Ain-
ouche group (ecobio.univ-rennes1.fr/evolution-genome-
adaptation-ega-thematiques.php) in Rennes has ex-
pertise in genomics of polyploids, and an excellent
NGS/bioinformatics environment. Application review
will begin January 20, 2019 and will continue until the
position is lled. The starting date is exible, but ideally
in spring 2019. To apply, please email a cover letter, CV
and the names and contact details of three references
to Christina Richards (clr@usf.edu).
The University of T'bingen is committed to increase the
proportion of women in science, and qualied women
are therefore particularly encouraged to apply. Equally
qualied applicants with disabilities will be given pref-
erence.
Prof. Dr. Oliver Bossdorf University of T'bingen Plant
Evolutionary Ecology Auf der Morgenstelle 5 D-72076
T'bingen, Germany oliver.bossdorf@uni-tuebingen.de
www.uni-tuebingen.de/PlantEvoEco Oliver Bossdorf
<oliver.bossdorf@uni-tuebingen.de >
UVermont
EpigeneticsThermalPlasticity
A post-doctoral position is available in the Helms Ca-
han lab at the University of Vermont to join a new
NSF/EPSCoR-funded project on epigenetic regulation
of thermal plasticity in Drosophila. The overarching
goals of the project are to characterize and test molec-
ular mechanisms driving plastic adjustment of upper
and lower thermal limits occurring across a range of
timescales, from developmental acclimation to rapid
hardening, and role of shifts in epigenetic drivers in the
process of thermal adaptation within and among species
across the genus. The post-doctoral associate will use
cutting-edge approaches in high-throughput sequencing
and bioinformatic network analysis to identify putative
epigenetic regulators in D. melanogaster and experimen-
tally test their roles using functional genetic techniques.
The successful candidate will join a multi-investigator
collaborative team with complementary expertise in
epigenomics and systems biology (Seth Frietze, UVM),
biochemical adaptation and thermal physiology (Nick
Teets, UKY and Brent Lockwood, UVM), insect respira-
tory physiology (James Waters, Providence College) and
phylogeography (Heather Axen, Salve Regina Univ.).
There will be plenty of opportunities for additional self-130 EvolDir February 1, 2019
designed projects in the candidate's area of interest.
The Biology Department at the University of Vermont
is a research-intensive integrative department, with
internationally-recognized faculty conducting both the-
oretical and empirical research in disciplines from cells
to ecosystems. The department has a vibrant PhD
program and is dedicated to a teacher-scholar model
of engaging undergraduates in the research enterprise.
Founded in 1791, UVM is consistently ranked as one of
the top public universities in the United States. The
University is located in Burlington, Vermont, a vibrant
and environmentally-minded small city rich in cultural
and recreational activities for graduate students and
their families.
Applicants for the position should have a strong inter-
est in evolutionary genetics and a PhD in a relevant
discipline. Familiarity with high-throughput genomics
benchwork and/or bioinformatics, and prior experience
working with Drosophila or other insects, are desir-
able. The position is available beginning January 1 for
two years, with the possibility of renewal. Our team
is dedicated to promoting diversity of experience and
perspective in the scientic enterprise; we encourage
applicants from under-represented groups to apply. To
apply, please send a cover letter detailing your interest
and qualications for the position, a current CV, and the
names and e-mail addresses of three potential references
to Sara Helms Cahan (scahan@uvm.edu). Although
the position is available immediately, I am happy to
consider applicants on schedule to nish their degree in
May or over the summer.
To nd out more about research in the Helms Cahan
lab, go to: http://shelmscahan.github.io/index.html#
<http://shelmscahan.github.io/index.html >
To nd out more about the Biology Department, go
to: https://www.uvm.edu/cas/biology Sara Helms Ca-
han Associate Professor and Chair Department of Biol-
ogy University of Vermont Burlington, Vermont 05405
(802)656-2962 scahan@uvm.edu
Sara Cahan <scahan@uvm.edu >
VirginiaInstMarineScience 2
EvolutionAlgalBlooms
The Research Laboratory of Dr. Juliette Smith at
William & Mary's Virginia Institute of Marine Science
(VIMS) is seeking 2 Postdoctoral Research Associates fo-cused in Harmful Algal Blooms and/or their associated
toxins. The Postdoctoral Research Associate will join
the interdisciplinary team in their investigations into
environmental and biological controls over harmful algal
blooms and toxin production, and/or the persistence,
fate, and eects of their associated toxins. Apply at
https://jobs.wm.edu/postings/34500. Application ma-
terials are due on March 15, 2019 for full consideration,
but will continue to be accepted until November 30,
2019, or until both positions have been lled.
The university is an EO/AA employer and encourages
applications from women, minorities, protected veterans,
and individuals with disabilities. The university con-
ducts background checks on applicants for employment.
William & Mary's Virginia Institute of Marine Sci-
ence/School of Marine Science (VIMS/SMS) invites
applications for two postdoctoral research associates to
join in their study of the environmental and biological
controls over harmful algal blooms (HABs) and/or the
persistence, fate, and eects of their associated toxins
along the salinity gradient. Start date is negotiable, but
ideally the positions will begin in spring/summer 2019
(but no later than December 2019). The positions are
for one year, but funding for additional years is possible.
Qualications: At the time of appointment, the success-
ful candidates will hold an earned doctorate (Ph.D.) or
equivalent in chemistry, biological sciences, environmen-
tal science, or a related eld. Demonstrated experience
in conducting and publishing research (at least one
manuscript submitted) focused on toxins/natural prod-
ucts, harmful algal bloom dynamics, or phytoplankton
cultures is required. Preference will be given to those
candidates whose research experience (or interests) align
with recent publications and/or grants led by the Smith
research group.
Responsibilities: The postdoctoral research associates
will work with Dr. Juliette Smith, and join an interdis-
ciplinary team in their investigations into one or both
of the current research areas: 1) environmental and
biological controls over harmful algal blooms and toxin
production, and/or 2) the persistence, fate, and eects
of their associated toxins in the ecosystem. Depending
upon the successful candidates' expertise and interests,
the postdocs will utilize analytical techniques, conduct
culturing studies, and/or lead large-scale eld studies.
The postdoctoral research associates will have opportu-
nities to be involved in projects utilizing the Imaging
FlowCytobot. Additional responsibilities may include,
but are not limited to, proposal and manuscript prepa-
ration, management and analysis of large environmental
datasets, and statistical analysis.
About the Virginia Institute of Marine Science: Char-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 131
tered in 1940, the Virginia Institute of Marine Science <
http://www.vims.edu/ >is currently among the largest
marine research and education centers in the United
States. VIMS has a three-part mission to conduct in-
terdisciplinary research in coastal ocean and estuarine
science, educate students and citizens, and provide advi-
sory service to policy makers, industry, and the public.
The School of Marine Science at VIMS is the graduate
school in marine science for William & Mary <http://-
www.wm.edu/ >. VIMS currently employs 52 full-time
faculty members and 256 sta, and has 80 graduate
students in master's and doctoral programs.
Application materials for the positions should include:
1) a 2-page statement summarizing relevant experience
and how this experience will support one (or both) of
the 2 current research areas above; 2) a cover letter iden-
tifying availability for this position; 3) a full curriculum
vitae; and 4) the names, addresses (including titles and
institutions), e-mail addresses and telephone numbers
of 3 professional references.
Application materials should be addressed to: Search
Committee Chair, HAB Postdoctoral Associates, and
will be accepted through our On-Line Application Sys-
tem at https://jobs.wm.edu <http://jobs.wm.edu/-
postings/34069 >. Application materials are due on
March 15, 2019 for full consideration, but application
materials will continue to be accepted until November
30, 2019.
William & Mary values diversity and invites applica-
tions from underrepresented groups who will enrich the
research, teaching and service missions of the university.
The University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Ac-
tion employer and encourages applications from women,
minorities, protected veterans, and individuals with dis-
abilities. William & Mary conducts background checks
on applicants for employment.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
YaleU GlobalBiodiversity
Postdocs in Global Biodiversity Science and Conserva-
tion Focal groups: mammals, butteries, dragonies,
bees, epiphytesSeveral positions are available associated with the Yale
Center for Biodiversity and Global Change (BGC Cen-
ter; https://bgc.yale.edu), the Max Planck - Yale Center
for Biodiversity Movement and Global Change (MPYC,
https://mpyc.yale.edu), Map of Life (https://mol.org),
and the Jetz Lab (https://jetzlab.yale.edu). Target start
date is spring/summer 2019.
We are seeking innovative thinkers with a strong quan-
titative background who are interested in addressing
ecological questions at large spatial scales. Qualica-
tions for the position include a PhD in ecology, conser-
vation, (bio-)geography, or biological informatics, com-
bined with experience in spatial biodiversity analysis
and inference. The preferred candidates will have a
strong interest in the model-based integration of large,
disparate biodiversity and environmental data, a dedi-
cation toward conscientious work in a team, attention
to detail, and strong communication skills. An ability
to traverse ecological, evolutionary, and conservation
perspectives and to address processes at dierent spatial
and temporal scales are particularly welcome. We expect
strong analysis and scientic writing skills. Experience
in several scripting languages, database management,
taxonomic name management, remote sensing, and/or
biodiversity informatics are highly welcome.
The positions oer broad thematic exibility, and focal
research questions may be macroecological, macroevolu-
tionary, biogeographical, or conservation-focused. There
is also openness regarding the preferred taxonomic study
systems. Our current funding has a particular emphasis
on mammals, butteries, dragonies, bees, and epi-
phytes, and we are especially (but not exclusively) in-
terested in applicants who have experience in one of
these groups. We ask candidates to briey describe their
preferred area of activity in the cover letter. Several
junior or senior positions are available, with a typical
contract length of 2-3 years.
The positions will be based at Yale University, with close
collaborative links to our partners worldwide. The Yale
BGC Center connects biodiversity scientists from across
campus and hosts a range of speaker and workshop
events. It supports research and training around the
use of new technologies and data ows for model-based
inference and prediction of biodiversity distributions
and changes at large spatial and taxonomic scales. Flag-
ship Center projects include Map of Life and associated
activities supporting the Half-Earth Map and the devel-
opment of the GEO BON Species Population Essential
Biodiversity Variables. For animal movement data we
are partnered with the Icarus initiative, a space station-
based near-global GPS animal movement observation
system, and Movebank, which supports the management
and integration of movement data. For camera trapping132 EvolDir February 1, 2019
data we are members of the Wildlife Insights initia-
tive. Other Center initiatives include the integration
of phylogenetic information with spatial distributions
(e.g., VertLife), and the NASA-supported development
and application of remote sensing-informed layers for
biodiversity modelling (EarthEnv).
Yale University oers researchers and sta competi-
tive salaries and a generous package of benets. Yale
has a thriving and growing community of young schol-
ars in ecology, evolution and global change science in
the EEB Department, the Yale Institute for Biospheric
Studies, the Peabody Museum, and the Yale Schoolof Forestry and Environmental Studies. The town is
renowned for its classic Ivy League setting, 75 miles
north of New York City. To apply please send, in one
pdf, a short motivation (i.e. cover) letter, CV and
names and contact information for three referees to
michelle.duong@yale.edu, subject \BGC Postdoc" For
questions contact walter.jetz@yale.edu. The nal selec-
tion process will begin on 20 January 2018. We passion-
ately believe that a diverse team will enable a broader
perspective and enhance creativity, and we strongly
encourage applications from women and minorities.
\Jetz, Walter" <walter.jetz@yale.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Arizona UltraLargePhylogenies Apr12-14 . . . . . . . . . 132
Barcelona PopulationGeneticAnalyses Jun17-20 . . 133
Barcelona QuantGenetics Apr8-12 EarlyBirdExtended
134
Berlin 16SMetabarcoding Apr1-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .135
Berlin aDNAPaleogenomics Jun17-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
Berlin EukaryoticMetabarcoding Mar4-8 . . . . . . . . . 136
Berlin EukaryoticMetabarcoding Mar4-8 LastCall 136
Berlin GenomeAssemblyAnnotation Feb11-15 . . . . 137
Berlin PathwayAnalysisInR Mar11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Berlin RADseq Jun10-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
Bogor Indonesia ConservationResearch Jul15-18 . . 138
ColoradoStateU WildlifeGenomics Jun2-8 . . . . . . . . 139
FridayHarborLabs EvolQuantGenetics Jun10-14 . . 140
Guarda Switzerland Evolution Jun15-22 . . . . . . . . . .141
Jyvaskyla Finland MolecularEvol Feb20-22 . . . . . . . 141London EvolutionLanguage Aug29-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
Portal Arizona Bees Aug18-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
Portugal BioinformaticsUsingJava Mar27-29 . . . . . .143
Portugal WildlifeConservation Apr8-11 . . . . . . . . . . .143
Procida Italy PopulationGenomics Mar30-Apr6 . . 144
Rosco EvolutionNetworkBioinformatics Jun23-29 145
Spain DNAmetabarcoding Mar26-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
Spain NGS Mar14-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
UCalifornia LosAngeles ConservationGenetics Mar23-27
146
UK ComparativeGenomics Apr29-May3 . . . . . . . . . . 147
USheeld UK PopulationGenomics Feb26-28 . . . . .148
UTennessee Knoxville Selection Jun3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . 149
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution Aug1-11 . . . . . . . . . 150
Arizona UltraLargePhylogenies
Apr12-14Trees in the Desert 2019 (http://treesinthedesert.org)
** Grad student travel funds still available **
A workshop on ultra-large phylogenetic trees April 12-14,
2019 Tucson, Arizona
Phylogenetic trees with thousands of species, genes orFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 133
individuals are now being published regularly, and nu-
merous eorts around the globe are aimed at scaling this
up even further. The algorithmic challenges for assem-
bling, evaluating, and applying these large trees remain
formidable, however, with plenty of room for novel ap-
proaches. We invite graduate students in phylogenetic
biology, bioinformatics, mathematics and computer sci-
ence to join us in a three-day workshop on this topic,
supported by a grant from the U.S. National Science
Foundation. The goal is to communicate aspects of
known approaches to the problem, brainstorm collec-
tively about new ideas, and get our hands dirty with
exemplar data sets. The ideal student for this will
be a mid- to-late Ph.D. student in one of these elds,
with some experience in phylogenetic toolkits, program-
ming and bioinformatics infrastructure (e.g., scripting
languages, UNIX shell, etc.). Funds are available to
support travel, lodging and meals for students.
Topics will likely include constructing large trees, eval-
uating their robustness and reliability, and integrating
them with various post-phylogenetic analyses. Specic
topics will be driven by interests and experience of the
participants but may include scalability of conventional
tree building methods, alignment-free tree construction,
model-selection in large trees, coalescent and gene-tree
approaches, missing data and terraces, assembling con-
dence sets of trees for subsequent study, and scalable
inference of tree annotations such as divergence times,
ancestral states, etc. Aside from short talks the rst
day, the format will be almost entirely \hands-on", fo-
cusing on developing and testing new ideas and pushing
existing ones to their feasibility limits.
The workshop will be held at the University of Arizona's
Biosphere 2 (http://biosphere2.org) facility, located in
the foothills of the Santa Catalina Mountains about 30
miles north of Tucson. Tucson proper is anked on its
east and west sides by Saguaro National Park, founded
as a reserve for the saguaro cactus that is so emblematic
of the Sonoran Desert. April is an exceptional time to
visit southern Arizona, with the spring desert bloom
well underway, sunny warm days and cool nights. Bio-
sphere 2 is located in mesquite grassland not far from
trailheads for the Arizona Trail and other hikes into the
Catalina Mountains.
Conrmed instructors:
Mukul Bansal, University of Connecticut Mark Holder,
University of Kansas Michelle McMahon, University of
Arizona Emily Jane McTavish, University of California,
Merced Je Oliver, University of Arizona Dan Portik,
University of Arizona Mike Sanderson, University of
Arizona (Organizer) Mike Steel, University of Canter-
bury John Wiens, University of Arizona Derrick Zwickl,University of Arizona
Application and nancial aid
Class size will be kept small, and funds are available
to support graduate student travel, meals and lodg-
ing. Please copy and paste the questions below and
your answers into an email to Mike Sanderson (san-
derm@email.arizona.edu) by January 25, 2019, together
with a copy of your C.V. Also arrange to have one letter
of recommendation from your advisor sent to the same
email by the deadline.
1. Name and email address:
2. University, degree program, years in program, name
of advisor:
3. Briey describe your knowledge of phylogenetic meth-
ods and experience with phylogenetic software tools:
4. Briey describe your programming experience, if any
5. How is the question of constructing large phylogenetic
trees relevant to your research interests?
6. What specic topics would you like to see discussed
at this workshop?
Michael J. Sanderson, Professor Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology University of Arizona Tucson,
AZ 85721
Oce: BSW 412 Phone:520-626-6848
email:sanderm@email.arizona.edu
lab web site: http://ceiba.biosci.arizona.edu Ceiba phy-
logenetic tree visualization: http://sourceforge.net/-
projects/ceiba r8s software: https://sourceforge.net/-
projects/r8s Mike Sanderson <sanderm00@gmail.com >
Barcelona
PopulationGeneticAnalyses
Jun17-20
Dear colleagues,
This course might be of interest for the members of
this list: MANIPULATION OF NGS DATA FOR GE-
NOMIC AND POPULATION GENETICS ANALYSES.
Date: June 17th-20th, 2019, Barcelona (Spain).
PLACE: Capellades, Barcelona.134 EvolDir February 1, 2019
INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Fran ~A^ASabot (Institute of Re-
search for Development, France) and Dr. Christine
Tranchant-Dubreuil (Institute of Research for Develop-
ment, France).
PROGRAM: - Monday: Introduction to NGS sequenc-
ing platforms. Introduction to basic command lines. Ba-
sic raw data manipulations (counting sequences, listing
les). - Tuesday: Raw data QC & Cleaning. Introduc-
tion to TOGGLe, a NGS pipeline framework. Mapping:
principle, tools, execution. Mapping: cleaning, data con-
trol, realigning, duplicates marking. - Wednesday: SNP
calling: raw calling, cleaning calling, ltering. VCF ma-
nipulations: ltering on MAF, heterozygosity ^A Impact
of SNPs on genes. Population genomics using sNMF. -
Thursday: Context-based analyses. Piping large scale
analyses for multiple samples using TOGGLe. Testing
new tools and dierent conditions to answer dierent
biological questions.
Questions.
More information and registration: https://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/genetics-and-
genomics/manipulation-ngs-data-genomic-population-
genetics-analyses/ Other Transmitting Science's
upcoming courses that can be of interest:
* An introduction to Metagenomics and Metabar-
coding (https://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/genetics-and- genomics/introduction-
metagenomics-metabarcoding/) * Introduction
to Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics (https://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/genetics-and-
genomics/introduction-evolutionary-quantitative-
genetics/) * Introduction to Bayesian Inference
in Practice (https://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/statistics-and- bioinformatics/introduction-
bayesian-inference-practice/) * Mapping Trait
Evolution (https://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/evolution/mapping-trait- evolution/)
With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD Sci-
entic Director Transmitting Science
www.transmittingscience.org Soledad De Esteban
Trvigno<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >Barcelona QuantGenetics Apr8-12
EarlyBirdExtended
Dear colleagues,
Early bird fee has been extended to January 31st for
the courseoIntroduction to Evolutionary Quantitative
Genetics
Instructors: Dr. Erik Postma (University of Exeter,
UK) and Dr. Jes2s Martnez-Padilla (Universidad de
Oviedo, Spain).
Dates and place: April 8th-12th, 2019. Capellades,
Barcelona (Spain).
Check if you can benet of 20 % discount: https://-
www.transmittingscience.org/funding/organizations-
with-discount/ Course Overview:
By simultaneously using the resemblance among all in-
dividuals in the pedigree, these methods provide more
precise and accurate estimates of genetic and non-genetic
variance components (heritabilities and genetic correla-
tions). Furthermore, they allow for the estimation of
individual-level genetic eects (breeding values), and
thereby the inference of evolution.
In this course, we will cover everything from basic quan-
titative genetic theory and statistics to advanced mixed
model-based approaches. You will learn how to estimate
genetic variances and covariances in wild and captive
populations, and how to test for evolutionary change.
Along the way, you will be exposed to the main soft-
ware packages, and the R packages MCMCglmm and
ASReml-R in particular, and you will learn about their
strengths and weaknesses.
You are strongly encouraged to bring your own data (if
you have it), which you will be able to work on during
the course and which will allow you to put the theory
into practice.
More information and registrations: http://bit.ly/-
transmitting-science-course-quantitative-genetics or
writing to courses@transmittingscience.org
Other courses that can be of interest for people in
this list: https://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/-
evolution/ With best regards Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD Scientic Director
Transmitting Science www.transmittingscience.orgFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 135
Berlin 16SMetabarcoding Apr1-5
Dear all,
we still have a few places left for our course \16 S/ITS
Metabarcoding of microbial communities"
( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course30/ )
When: 1-5 April 2019
Where: Free University of Berlin (Germany)
Instructors:
Dr. Antti Karkman (University of Gothenburg, Sweden)
Dr. Anna Sandionigi (University of Milan Bicocca,
Italy)
Dr. Bruno Fosso (Institute of Biomem-
brane,Bioenergetics and Molecular Biotechnologies,
CNR, Italy)
This course will provide a thorough introduction to the
application of metabarcoding techniques in microbial
ecology. The topics covered by the course range from
bioinformatic processing of next-generation sequencing
data to the most important approaches in multivariate
statistics. Using a combination of theoretical lectures
and hands-on exercises, the participants will learn the
most important computational steps of a metabarcoding
study from the processing of raw sequencing reads down
to the nal statistical evaluations. All the hands-on
exercises will be carried out using QIIME2 platform ((
https://qiime2.org/ )).
Learning Outcomes:
1) Understanding the concept, potential and limitation
of microbial metabarcoding techniques.
2) Learning how to process raw sequencing reads to
obtain meaningful information.
3) Obtaining experience on how to statistically evaluate
and visualize your data.
4) Being able to make informed decisions on best prac-
tices for your own data.
For more information about the program, please visit our
website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course30/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR info@physalia-
courses.org http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twit-
ter: @physacourses mobile: +49 17645230846
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses \info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org>
Berlin aDNAPaleogenomics
Jun17-21
Course: aDNA Paleogenomics
Berlin , 17th -21st of June 2018
Instructors:
Dr. Claudio Ottoni (Sapienza University of Rome
(Italy))
Dr. Amine Namouchi (University of Oslo (Norway))
Overview
This course will introduce biologists to the main bioin-
formatic tools for the analysis of Next Generation Se-
quencing (NGS) data from ancient samples. Through
a series of theoretical and practical hands-on sessions,
the main goal of this course is to provide a clear under-
standing of the most common bioinformatic methods
adopted in a wide range of paleogenomics projects (from
metagenomic screening of ancient samples, to NGS reads
mapping and phylogenetic tree reconstruction). Par-
ticular attention will be given to quality control, DNA
damage assessment and variants calling. A basic intro-
duction to NGS platforms and the main le formats
used in most common bioinformatics pipelines will be
provided. Each day will consist of a mix of introductory
lectures on the theoretical background of the programs
that will be used, followed by hands-on exercises using
command line tools performed by the participants under
guided supervision.
Target Audience & ASSUMED BACKGROUND
The course is aimed primarily at researchers (MSc and
PhD students, postdoctoral fellows, engineers) inter-
ested in learning the dierent steps from NGS raw data136 EvolDir February 1, 2019
analysis to phylogenetic tree reconstruction in archaeo-
logical samples. The hands-on sessions are targeted to
beginners and more advanced users alike. The practical
sessions will cover the most common pipelines adopted
in paleogenomics, and can be applied to a wide range
of projects, from metagenomics to genome resequenc-
ing. Attendees should have a background in biology and
some familiarity with genomic data.
STRUCTURE
The course material will be delivered over 5 days, in
10 half-day sessions. These lessons will build o of
one another, and feature a mix of lecture and in-class
exercises.
For more information about the course program, please
visit our website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course27/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
All the best, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR info@physalia-
courses.org http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twit-
ter: @physacourses mobile: +49 15771084054
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses \info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org>
Berlin EukaryoticMetabarcoding
Mar4-8
Dear all, we still have a few places left for our course:
\Eukaryotic Metabarcoding", that will be held in Berlin
(Free University of Berlin) from the 4th to the 8th of
March.
Application deadline is: February 4th, 2019.
Instructors:
Dr. Owen S. Wangensteen (University of Troms, Nor-
way; https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t2/)
Dr. Vasco Elbrecht (University of Guelph, Canada;
https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t7/)
This workshop gives an overview of metabarcoding pro-
cedures with an emphasis on practical problem-solving
and hands-on work using analysis pipelines on real
datasets. After completing the workshop, studentsshould be in a position to (1) understand the poten-
tial and capabilities of metabarcoding, (2) run complete
analyses of metabarcoding pipelines and obtain diversity
inventories and ecologically interpretable data from raw
next-generation sequence data and (3) design their own
metabarcoding projects, including bioinformatic data
analysis and planning of laboratory work. All course
materials (including copies of presentations, practical
exercises, data les, and example scripts prepared by
the instructing team) will be provided electronically to
participants.
For more information about the course, please visit our
website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course4/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
( http://www.physalia-courses.org/ )
Twitter: @physacourses
mobile: +49 17645230846
( https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org>
Berlin EukaryoticMetabarcoding
Mar4-8 LastCall
Dear all,
we would like to inform you that we have the last 5
places left for our Eukaryotic Metabarcoding Workshop,
that will be held in Berlin (Free University) from the
4th to the 8th of March.
Registration deadline: 10th February
Instructors:
1) Dr. Owen S. Wangensteen (University of Troms,
Norway)
2) Dr. Dr. Vasco Elbrecht (University of Guelph,February 1, 2019 EvolDir 137
Canada)
This workshop gives an overview of metabarcoding pro-
cedures with an emphasis on practical problem-solving
and hands-on work using analysis pipelines on real
datasets. After completing the workshop, students
should be in a position to (1) understand the poten-
tial and capabilities of metabarcoding, (2) run complete
analyses of metabarcoding pipelines and obtain diversity
inventories and ecologically interpretable data from raw
next-generation sequence data and (3) design their own
metabarcoding projects, including bioinformatic data
analysis and planning of laboratory work. All course
materials (including copies of presentations, practical
exercises, data les, and example scripts prepared by
the instructing team) will be provided electronically to
participants.
For more information, please visit our website: https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course4/
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
All the best, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
17645230846 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >
Berlin GenomeAssemblyAnnotation
Feb11-15
Dear all, we would like to inform you that we have the
last 4 places left for our course: \Assembly and Anno-
tation of genomes", that will be held in Berlin (Free
Uuniversity) from the 11th to the 15th of February.
Application deadline is: January 11th, 2019.
Instructor: Dr. Thomas D. Otto (University of Glasgow,
UK; ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/-
t28/ ))
Assistant instructor: Mr. Maximilian Driller (Begendiv,
Germany; ( http://bit.ly/2zcwmQT ))
The course is aimed at researchers interested in learning
more about genome assembly and annotation. It will
include information useful for both the beginner and
the more advanced user. We will start by introducing
general concepts and then continue to step-by-step de-scribe all major components of a genome assembly and
annotation workow, from raw data all the way to a
nal assembled and annotated genome. There will be a
mix of lectures and hands-on practical exercises using
command line Linux.
Attendees should have a background in biology. We
will dedicate one session to some basic and advanced
Linux concepts. Attendees should have also some famil-
iarity with genomic data such as that arising from NGS
sequencers.
For more information about the course, please visit our
website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course20/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards and happy 2019,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR info@physalia-courses.org
( http://www.physalia-courses.org/ ) Twitter:
@physacourses mobile: +49 17645230846 ( https://-
groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses
)
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org>
Berlin PathwayAnalysisInR
Mar11-15
Workshop \Squeezing biology out of statistics: Gene set
and pathway analysis in HT data"
Where: Free University of Berlin When: 11-15 March.
Our instructor for this course is Dr. January Weiner
(Sta Scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Infection
Biology, Germany).
Registration deadline: 10th February. We have a limited
number of places available for this course.
This course oers computational techniques that go
beyond a simple technical or statistical analysis. It cov-
ers techniques for the analysis of gene set enrichments,
pathway analysis, gene ontologies, functional analysis
of metabolomic proling and making use of correlations
and coexpression networks. A prominent part of the
course will be devoted to data visualization and visual138 EvolDir February 1, 2019
data exploration.
The students will gain the ability to independently pro-
cess and analyse HT data sets, select the appropriate
tools, functionally interpret the results as well as learn
the paradigms of computational biology and statistics
which will allow them to eciently communicate with
computational biologists.
As an incentive, each student will receive a set of gene
expression proles for a dierent organism, and during
the course they will use these to generate species-specic
gene expression modules and test their utility. If we are
successfull, we will attempt a joint publication.
For more information about the course, please visit the
course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course32/ )
Here you can nd the complete list of our courses and
Workshops:( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/ )
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us at: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR info@physalia-
courses.org http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twit-
ter: @physacourses mobile: +49 17645230846
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses \info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org>
Berlin RADseq Jun10-14
Dear all, happy to inform you that we will run for our
RAD-seq data analysis Workshop based on the last ver-
sion of the Stacks pipeline this June (10th-14th June) in
Berlin, with Dr. Julian Catchen (University of Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign; http://catchenlab.life.illinois.edu/-
).
In this course, we will introduce the dierent approaches
for obtaining reduced representation genome sequencing
data and will specially focus on the data analysis. We
will cover all necessary steps to obtain genome variants
from short read data that are informative for population
genetics, phylogenetic and association studies.
This course is aimed at researchers and technical work-
ers who are generating and/or analyzing reduced repre-sentation genome sequencing data (RAD-seq, ddRAD,
2bRAD, GBS,). Examples demonstrated in this course
will involve primarily non-model organisms and exam-
ples of applications of this data type for dierent pur-
poses will be covered. Attendees should have a back-
ground in biology. We will dedicate one session to some
basic and advanced Linux concepts. Attendees should
have also some familiarity with genomic data such as
that arising from NGS sequencers.
Please visit our website to have more information about
the course content: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course16/ Here is the full list of
our courses and Workshops: https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/ Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
15771084054 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >
Bogor Indonesia
ConservationResearch Jul15-18
This is a call for applications to participate in a Work-
shop to Enhance Collaboration Between US and Indone-
sia in Biodiversity and Conservation Research. Par-
ticipant travel and accommodation costs will be cov-
ered. A brief overview is below, but more informa-
tion and the application can be found here: https:/-
/sites.northwestern.edu/workshopinfo/ What: NSF-
funded workshop co-sponsored with Bogor Agricultural
University, in Bogor, Indonesia. The goal of the work-
shop is to bring together a broad range of scientists
who share an interest in biodiversity and conservation
research in one of the worlds biodiversity hotspots.
Where/When: The workshop will run from July 15-18,
2019 in Bogor, Indonesia. Participants will be expected
to arrive in Jakarta, Indonesia by July 14, and can y
out of Jakarta by the evening of July 19.
Who: We aim to have a diverse group of participants,
who span career stages (from graduate students to later
career professionals) and underrepresented groups in
science. Participants will have expertise in organisms
across the evolutionary tree of life and employ a wide
range of methodological approaches. To be eligible youFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 139
must be studying or working at a US institution (e.g.
university, museum, zoo, botanical garden, etc.).
How to apply: We are now accepting applications to par-
ticipate in this workshop. Participants travel and accom-
modation costs will be covered. For more information
about the workshop and the brief application process,
please visit our website https://sites.northwestern.edu/-
workshopinfo/. The deadline for an application is Feb.
20. We will aim to get back to applicants by early
March.
Questions V contact Nyree Zerega (n-
zerega@northwestern.edu)
Sincerely, Nyree Zerega, Ph.D, Professor of Instruction
and Herbarium Curator Jeremie Fant, PhD, Conserva-
tion Scientist Plant Biology & Conservation Chicago
Botanic Garden & Northwestern University
Nyree J C Zerega <n-zerega@northwestern.edu >
ColoradoStateU WildlifeGenomics
Jun2-8
Where: Colorado State University
What: The 3nd Genomics of Disease in Wildlife Work-
shop
When: June 2-8, 2019
Website for more information and application instruc-
tions: https://www.gdwworkshop.colostate.edu/ Appli-
cation Deadline: February 9, 2019
Email inquiries: CSU gdw@colostate.edu
Overview:
Title: Genomics of Disease in Wildlife: A Workshop
Location: Lory Conference Student Center, Colorado
State University, Fort Collins, CO
Dates: June 2-8, 2019
Website: https://www.gdwworkshop.colostate.edu/ Ap-
plication deadline: February 9, 2019.
Wildlife biodiversity can be drastically aected by the
outbreak and transmission of disease pathogens in both
natural habitats and ex situ populations. Recent tech-
nological advances in genomic sciences and increasingly
aordable Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) assay
costs have coalesced to result in powerful tools to moni-
tor, detect, and reconstruct the past, present and futurerole of pathogens within wildlife biodiversity. This 3rd
annual ¥Genomics of Disease in Wildlife workshop will
provide hands-on training for researchers seeking to in-
corporate genomic data into their wildlife disease related
projects. The course will be taught by a core group of
experts in genome data analyses along with invited pre-
eminent scientists researching host-pathogen genomics
in wildlife.
Why is the workshop needed?
Advances in genomic technology now provide an ex-
traordinary opportunity to rapidly assess the impact of
disease in wildlife biodiversity, management, and con-
servation. Wildlife and animal health researchers are
uniquely positioned to merge ecological, biological, and
evolutionary studies with genomic technologies to gener-
ate unprecedented ¥Big Data tools in disease research.
The workshop will provide a venue to accomplish this
goal, will provide networking opportunities for colleagues
from intersecting interests, and will advance genomic
tools in wildlife and animal health disease investigations.
How will the workshop address the need?
GDW2019 will provide essential training to those with
skills and interest in some or all of the following: genome
sciences & bioinformatics, animal health & veterinary
sciences, wildlife biology & conservation, disease ecology
of host & pathogen.
Attendees will conduct hands-on analyses of ¥real world
genomic data of both host and pathogen. The course will
provide: (1) an overview of current bioinformatics de-
velopments and approaches; (2) guidance to implement
genomic tools in study design; (3) NGS data analysis
and interpretation; and, (4) opportunities for interaction
with peers, core faculty, and invited experts.
Workshop Syllabus
The workshop will cover a typical workow com-
monly used in NGS analyses starting with the initial
raw sequence through the nal stages of identifying
host:pathogen variants linked with disease. Each day of
the workshop will cover an essential component of the
NGS workow in succession.
Morning sessions will be a series of instructional lectures
and demonstrations that will concisely present the pur-
pose, justication and implementation of the specic
workow unit. Short and exciting ¥ash talks presented
by CSU faculty will present some of their ongoing inves-
tigations using genomic tools in both host and pathogen.
The afternoon sessions will be computer-intensive labs
in which attendees will perform ¥hands-on analyses
with real-world genomic data for each workow topic.
Evening plenary lectures from invited speakers will con-140 EvolDir February 1, 2019
clude each days activities.
Teaching tools will include exercises using ¥real-world
NGS data from a range of pathogens and host species.
Participants will learn the importance of integrating
NGS data from both host and pathogen in order to
better understand current epidemics in wildlife.
For the duration of the course, each attendee will be
provided with a MacBook Pro computer and peripheral
equipment, and prepared genome datasets from several
host species and associated pathogens. These datasets
will be organized into various les and formats prior
to the course, demonstrate key concepts, and be the
foundation for computer exercises and teaching tools.
Summary of Workshop Schedule:
Optional Pre-Workshop UNIX Command Line and Cod-
ing Clinic. Sunday June 2, 2019 9AM-3PM
Day 1 V Sunday June 2, 2019* Ocial Opening of
Workshop 6 PM
Arrival, Registration and Opening Reception
The workshop begins in the evening of Sunday June 2,
2019 at the Lory Conference Center. A welcome session
will introduce faculty and an overview of the workshop.
NGS workow projects for teams will be introduced. An
informal welcome reception follows with faculty, sta
and participants.
*Participants will prepare a short 3-4 minute introduc-
tion of their
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
FridayHarborLabs
EvolQuantGenetics Jun10-14
Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics Workshop Friday
Harbor Laboratories, University of Washington, 9-15
June 2019
Credits: 0 Instructor(s): Dr. Stevan J. Arnold, Dr. Joe
Felsenstein Dates: Arrive Sunday, June 9th; depart Sat-
urday, June 15th Max students: 30 Dates of instruction:
Monday, June 10th - Friday, June 14th Application
deadline: March 15, 2019The application form will be found here: https://-
tinyurl.com/EQG2019Application The blog web pages
for the workshop will be found at https://blogs.uw.edu/-
fhleqg/ They currently include a 2018 workshop schedule
which has links to the materials for that year's workshop.
The web page for the workshop at Friday Harbor Labo-
ratories will be found at https://tinyurl.com/EQG2019
Instructors: Dr. Stevan J. Arnold, Department of
Integrative Biology, Oregon State University Dr. Joe
Felsenstein, Dept. of Genome Sciences and Dept. of
Biology, University of Washington
This workshop has been given yearly since 2011. Since
2017 it has been given at the Friday Harbor Laboratories
of the University of Washington, on San Juan Island.
The workshop will review the basics of theory in the eld
of evolutionary quantitative genetics and its connections
to evolution observed at various time scales. One aim
of the workshop is to build a bridge between the tradi-
tionally separate disciplines of quantitative genetics and
comparative methods.
Quantitative genetic theory for natural populations was
developed considerably in the period from 1970 to 1990
and up to the present, and it has been applied to a wide
range of phenomena including the evolution of dier-
ences between the sexes, sexual preferences, life history
traits, plasticity of traits, as well as the evolution of
body size and other morphological measurements.
Phylogenetic approaches to comparative biology were
developed in the 1980s and 1990s, including inferring
how traits covary in evolution and how optimum values
of traits vary between species.
Textbooks have not kept pace with these developments,
and currently few universities oer courses on these
subjects aimed at evolutionary biologists.
Evolutionary biologists need to understand this eld
because of the ability to collect large amounts of data
by computer, the development of statistical methods for
changes of traits on evolutionary trees and for changes
in a single species through time, and the realization that
quantitative characters will not soon be fully explained
by genomics. This workshop aims to ll this need by re-
viewing basic aspects of theory and illustrating how that
theory can be tested with data, both from single species
and fro multiple-species phylogenies. Participants will
use R, an open-source statistical programming language,
to build and test evolutionary models.
The workshop involves lectures and in-class computer
exercises. You can consult the 2018 workshop website
for examples, using the links found at the 2018 schedule
mentioned above.February 1, 2019 EvolDir 141
The intended participants for this workshop are grad-
uate students, postdoctoral fellows, and junior faculty
members in evolutionary biology. The workshop can
accommodate up to 30 participants. Guest instructors
are:
* Marguerite Butler, Biology, Univ. Hawai'i, Manoa
* Patrick Carter, Evolutionary Physiology, Washing-
ton State University, Pullman * Adam Jones, Biol-
ogy, Texas A&M University, College Station * Brian
O'Meara, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Univ. of
Tennessee, Knoxville * Patrick Phillips, Biology, Univer-
sity of Oregon * Samantha Price, Biological Sciences,
Clemson University * Josef Uyeda, Biological Sciences,
Virginia Tech, Blacksburg
Cost: $1000, to be paid to Friday Harbor Laboratories.
This fee will cover housing and meals at FHL and all
other workshop expenses, except travel. Participants
who have been admitted to attend will make their pay-
ment prior to arrival at FHL. Details of payment by
credit card or check will be provided once the applicant
has been admitted to attend.
We have also applied to two scientic societies for addi-
tional support which would enable a 20% refund of the
cost, if the societies agree to provide this support.
Joe Felsenstein joe@gs.washington.edu Department of
Genome Sciences and Department of Biology, University
of Washington, Box 355065, Seattle, WA 98195-5065
USA
felsenst@uw.edu
Guarda Switzerland Evolution
Jun15-22
Guarda summer school in evolutionary biology 2019
It is my pleasure to announce the 2019 Guarda sum-
mer school in Evolutionary Biology for master and PhD
students. The main aim of the course is to develop
the skills to produce an independent research project in
evolutionary biology.
The summer school takes place 15. V 22. June in the
Swiss mountain village Guarda. Faculty include Rose-
mary and Peter Grant (Princeton University, USA),
John Krebs (University of Oxford, UK), Sebastian Bon-
hoeer (ETH-Zurich, Switzerland) and Dieter Ebert
(Basel University, Switzerland; organizer).
The course is intended for master students and earlyPhD students with a keen interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy.
The web page with all details can be found here: http:/-
/www.evolution.unibas.ch/teaching/guarda/index.htm
Application is open now. Deadline is 1. February 2019
Please communicate this information to interested stu-
dents.
With best wishes,
dieter ebert
Dieter Ebert University of Basel, Zoology, Vesalgasse
1, 4051 Basel, Switzerland Tel. +41 (0)61 267 03 60
Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
Dieter Ebert <dieter.ebert@unibas.ch >
Jyvaskyla Finland MolecularEvol
Feb20-22
Registration extended until January 25th, or until the
capacity is lled! Be quick!
Workshop: Molecular Evolution: Patterns and Causes
Time: Feb 20-22, 2019
Place: Konnevesi Research Station of the University of
Jyv~A^Askyl ~A^A, Finland
Conrmed invited speakers: Prof. Adam Eyre-Walker
(Sussex), Prof. Sylvain Glemin (Montpellier), Prof.
Richard Goldstein (University College London), Prof.
Ville Mustonen (Helsinki), Prof. Andreas Wagner
(Zurich), Dr. Jessica Abbott (Lund), and Dr. Kim
Steige (University of Cologne)
This is a great opportunity for researchers and students
to hear talks from world top scientists in evolutionary
and ecological genetics and molecular science, to net-
work, and to discuss your work in a cosy atmosphere!
Please go to https://www.jyu./en/research/summer-
and-winter-schools/ecology/workshop/workshop-1 to
see more details about the program.
To register, go to https://payments.jyu./events/-
population cycles andoutbreaks (don't mind the mis-
naming in the title, please). Registration is open until
Jan 25th, but please register as soon as possible to se-
cure your place in the workshop. If we get too many
registrations, registration will be closed early.
The rate of molecular evolution varies at several levels
of biological organization, e.g. among sites, among pro-142 EvolDir February 1, 2019
teins, among chromosomes, and among lineages. The
forces underlying this variation include mutation rate
and the strength of natural selection, which are in turn
aected by e.g. population size, linkage, generation time,
gene function, gene expression, pleiotropy, and biophys-
ical properties of gene products (e.g. proteins). While
there is a reasonable understanding of these patterns
and forces, many questions remain, and a holistic view
of molecular evolution is still somewhat underdeveloped.
The aim of the workshop is to bring together students
and researchers from all career stages to discuss recent
ndings in the eld of molecular evolution, and to foster
new research and collaborations. The estimated number
of participants is 50.
The workshop starts on Wednesday, Feb 20th at 12:45,
but it is possible to arrive already on Tuesday, Feb 19th.
On Tuesday evening, there will be dinner and sauna
provided. The workshop ends on Friday, Feb 22nd at
16:00.
Participation fee includes accommodation, meals, bev-
erages, and banquet during workshop.
^A Tuesday evening to Friday: 260 ^ a ^A^A:
^A Wednesday morning to Friday: 210 ^ a ^A^A:
^A for students accepted to the course Introduction to
Molecular Evolution, and taking the workshop addition-
ally: 80 ^ a ^A^A:
{ Dr. Mikael Puurtinen Dept. of Biological and
Environmental Science PO Box 35 40014 Univer-
sity of Jyv ~A^Askyl ~A^A, Finland Tel. +358503758975
mikael.puurtinen@jyu.
\Puurtinen, Mikael" <mikael.puurtinen@jyu. >
London EvolutionLanguage
Aug29-30
Dear Colleagues interested in the biological and cultural
evolution of vocal interactions and language,
we are delighted to announce that VIHAR2019 http:/-
/vihar-2019.vihar.org/ International workshop on Vo-
cal Interactivity in-and-between Humans Animals and
Robots, will be held in London 29-30 August 2019
(immediately preceding the International Bioacoustics
Congress). In this discipline-crossing event, we will
bring together perspectives on vocal interaction from
cognitive science, linguistics, robotics, animal behaviour,
language evolution and articial intelligence. We aim atbridging the gap across dierent but contiguous elds of
research that have a potential for strong resonances and
integration. The contribution of evolutionary biologist
will be appreciated. Save the date and join us in London,
together with our keynote speakers:
- Sonja Vernes, Max Planck Institute for Psycholin-
guistics - Mohamed Chetouani, Institute for Intelligent
Systems and Robotics (CNRS), Sorbonne University -
Tecumseh Fitch, University of Vienna - Verena Rieser,
Heriot-Watt University
We will soon announce our calls for papers/abstracts.
This workshop follows the success of the 1st Interna-
tional workshop on Vocal Interactivity in-and-between
Humans, Animals and Robots (VIHAR-2017 <http:/-
/vihar-2017.vihar.org/ >). To join the VIHAR com-
munity, read more about us http://www.vihar.org/,
subscribe to our mailing list https://www.freelists.org/-
list/vihara and follow us on Twitter @vihar2019 https:/-
/twitter.com/vihar2019 The Organising Committee
http://vihar-2019.vihar.org/committees/ Elisabetta
Versace, PhD, Alan Turing Fellow SBCS, Department
of Biological and Experimental Psychology Queen Mary
University of London Email: e.versace@qmul.ac.uk
Phone: + 44 (0) 207882 8798
Twitter: @so evolutionary
Elisabetta Versace <e.versace@qmul.ac.uk >
Portal Arizona Bees Aug18-28
In Partnership with the American Museum of Natu-
ral History and the Southwestern Research Station we
are proud to announce the 21st installment of The Bee
Course. The Bee Course is a ten day workshop held
at the Southwestern Research Station in Portal, Ari-
zona from August 18th through the 28th, 2019. The
course is designed to provide biologists interested in
pollinators with the tools and knowledge necessary to
collect, process, and to begin to identify bee specimens.
We encourage all interested parties to apply. For more
information, including instructions on how to apply, a
list of this years instructors, and course testimonials,
please visit our new website at www.thebeecourse.org
. Bryan N. Danforth, Professor and Chair Department
of Entomology 3124 Comstock Hall Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853-2601 phone: 607-255-3563/FAX: 607-
255-0939 email: bnd1@cornell.edu Lab website: http:/-
/www.danforthlab.entomology.cornell.edu/ The Soli-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 143
tary Bees (forthcoming): https://press.princeton.edu/-
titles/13525.html Northeast Pollinator Partnership:
http://www.northeastpollinatorpartnership.org Bryan
Nicholas Danforth <bnd1@cornell.edu >
Portugal BioinformaticsUsingJava
Mar27-29
This course will introduce students to the fundamen-
tals of programming for bioinformatics using the Java
programming language. Many of the concepts covered
will be readily transferable to other languages. The
course will largely focus on the Java language basics
including: data types; program control structures; and
object-oriented programming features of the language,
with an emphasis on usage within areas of bioinfor-
matics, for example le manipulation, package use and
calling external software. By the end of the course stu-
dents will have had a primer on creating programmatic
solutions to real world problems within the scope of
their research.
Click< https://cibio.up.pt/workshops{courses/-
details/introduction-to-programming-for-bioinformatics-
using-java >here to see the programme for the
course.
COURSE INSTRUCTORS <https://cibio.up.pt/-
people/details/archerj >John Archer - CIBIO-InBIO j
BIOINFORMATICS
INTENDED AUDIENCE
The course will be open to a maximum number of 15
participants.
75% of available student slots are reserved for BIODIV
students. Priority will be given to: - 1st year and other
PhD students attending the BIODIV Doctoral Program;
- PhD students attending other courses; - Other post-
graduate students and researchers.
REGISTRATION Registration deadline: February 02,
2019
To apply, please ll the form available
< https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/-
1FAIpQLSfrU1wjeycZsml7sQ7q3UWwmyPux7MdVD93h1iJGmxmLc0s Q/-
viewform?usp=pp url>HERE
Participation is free of charge for BIODIV students j
65e(students)j125e(other participants). CIBIO-
InBIO members will have an additional discount of 20%.
All applicants will be notied about whether they areaccepted until February 4, 2019.
< https://cibio.up.pt/upload/lemanager/-
rulesadvancedcourses.pdf >Please note that new
rules apply for all BIODIV students.
For more information about the course, please contact:
post.graduation@cibio.up.pt . CIBIO - Centro de Inves-
tiga cao em Biodiversidade e Recursos Geneticos
InBIO Laboratorio Associado, Universidade do Porto
Campus de Vairao
Rua Padre Armando Quintas
4485-661 Vairao
Portugal
t: +351 252 660 400
e: divulgacao@cibio.up.pt w: http://cibio.up.pt
jhttp://inbio-la.pt f: https://www.facebook.com/-
cibio.inbio
CIBIO-InBIO Divulga cao
Portugal WildlifeConservation
Apr8-11
During this 4 days course we will expose students to the
scientic basis and practical applications of the study
of wildlife population biology. The modern study of
wildlife population ecology orchestrates a dance at the
interface of reliable eldwork and the use of mathemati-
cal tools and population genetic techniques. Students
will learn how to collect the data necessary to study
wildlife populations, and how to assess the factors that
aect population growth and interactions with other
species. This will include descriptors of population
dynamics (eg. trends in abundance, cycles), projec-
tions of deterministic and stochastic population mod-
els with stage structure, mechanisms and modeling of
density dependence (positive and negative), targeting
specic conservation actions through sensitivity analy-
sis, metapopulation and source-sink dynamics, viability
analysis, and the interface between genetic variation
and population performance. The focus will be on how
to rigorously analyze population dynamics and apply
the inferences to better conservation decision-making.
By the end of the course, students should have the con-
dence to advance both management and research by
eectively using data, models, and the ecological con-144 EvolDir February 1, 2019
cepts to address pressing questions involving the harvest,
monitoring, and conservation of wildlife populations.
Click https://cibio.up.pt/workshops{courses/details/-
advanced-course-archaeogenetics-approaches-to-
investigate-domestication-and-evolution#prettyPhoto
here to see the programme for the course.
COURSE INSTRUCTORS
http://www.umt.edu/research/millslab/ L. Scott Mills -
University of Montana
https://cibio.up.pt/people/details/psmonter Pedro
Monterroso - CIBIO-InBIO jCONGEN
INTENDED AUDIENCE
The course will be open to a maximum number of 20
participants.
75% of available student slots are reserved for BIODIV
students. Priority will be given to:
- 1st year and other PhD students attending the BIO-
DIV Doctoral Program; - PhD students attending other
courses; - Other post-graduate students and researchers.
REGISTRATION Registration deadline: February 07,
2019
To apply, please ll the form available
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/-
1FAIpQLScjwtC0JnsPUg2xXxVOmC31B8hvsap8OVbMGZhdgnieliBp1g/-
viewform?usp=pp url HERE
Participation is free of charge for BIODIV students j
95e(students)j200e(other participants). CIBIO-
InBIO members will have an additional discount of 20%.
All applicants will be notied about whether they are
accepted until February 18, 2019.
https://cibio.up.pt/upload/lemanager/-
rulesadvancedcourses.pdf Please note that new
rules apply for all BIODIV students.
For more information about the course, please contact:
post.graduation@cibio.up.pt.
CIBIO - Centro de Investiga cao em Biodiversidade e
Recursos Geneticos
InBIO Laboratorio Associado, Universidade do Porto
Campus de Vairao
Rua Padre Armando Quintas
4485-661 Vairao
Portugal
t: +351 252 660 400
e: divulgacao@cibio.up.ptw: http://cibio.up.pt jhttp://inbio-la.pt
f: https://www.facebook.com/cibio.inbio
CIBIO-InBIO Divulga cao divulgacao@cibio.up.pt
Procida Italy PopulationGenomics
Mar30-Apr6
Deadline for registration is approaching soon for the up-
coming EMBO Practical Course \Population Genomics:
background, tools and programming".
IMPORTANT DATES for this Course:
Deadline for applications: 31/01/2019
Latest notication of acceptance: 13/02/2019
Course date: 30/03-06/04/2019
Venue: Conservatorio delle Orfane, Terra Murata, 80079,
Procida, Italy
A maximum of 24 candidates will be selected based on
their application.
Notications of acceptance will be sent shortly after the
closing date of registration.
Full details, including the course programme and the
application form,
at: http://meetings.embo.org/event/19-population-
genomics Instructors:
Anders Albrechtsen (University of Copenhagen, Den-
mark)
Andrea Manica (University of Cambridge, UK)
Andrew Clark (Cornell University, USA)
Chiara Batini (University of Leicester, UK)
Garrett Hellenthal (University College London, UK)
Margherita Francescatto (Fondazione Bruno Kessler -
Trento, IT)
Mathias Currat (Universit e de Gen eve, Switzerland)
Vincenza Colonna (National Research Council, IT)
Course description
Study methods in population genomics have been pro-
foundly reshaped in the last few years, fostered by a
rapid growth of DNA sequence production and sharing.
This unprecedented opportunity guided major steps
forward in the eld and calls for new approaches andFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 145
computational skills to become routine in evolutionary
genomics laboratories.
The objectives of this EMBO Practical Course are to
give an overview of the state of the art methods in popu-
lation genomics, including programming, and to enable
participants to run their project's analyses with high con-
dence. The course combines lectures from outstanding
experienced population geneticists with practice, both
at individual and group level. All conceptual innovation
will be presented in lectures and applied in practice.
This EMBO Practical Course will cover coalescent, ge-
netic diversity, natural selection, population demogra-
phy in time and space, admixture, genetic clustering,
and genome-wide association studies. Population ge-
netics topics will be complemented by computational
ones such as Python programming and machine learning
techniques.
This course aims at evolutionary biologists who already
have basic bioinformatics skills. Ph.D. students and
Postdoc researchers will benet the most out of this
course, but applications from all candidates will be eval-
uated in their context.
Thank you for your interest,
Chiara Batini (University of Leicester, UK) and Vin-
cenza Colonna (CNR, Napoli, IT)
\Batini, Chiara (Dr.)" <cb334@leicester.ac.uk >
Rosco
EvolutionNetworkBioinformatics
Jun23-29
Introduction to the concepts and methods of networks
in evolutionary studies (sequence similarity networks,
genome networks and multipartite graphs)
This free summer school will be held in Rosco, France,
between June 23rd 2019 (date of arrival) and June 29th
(date of departure).
This school is designed in priority for biologists and bio-
informaticians (completing a PhD degree or currently
post-doctoral fellows, as well as researchers), who wish
to learn the bases of network analyses.
The main notions (regarding various types of networks,
the relevance of their analyses, and some bases in graph
theory) will be introduced by short theoretical classes,
followed by practical case-studies, introducing the basicsin programming required to run such network analyses
as well as to use the existing software/tools. Our goal
is that, by the end of this summer school, all applicants
will be qualied to perform network analyses of their
own datasets.
More precisely, we will focus on the following concepts
and methods:
- Introgressive evolution and large-scale diversity studies.
- Construction and analysis of sequence similarity net-
works (construction and sorting of connected compo-
nents, denition of gene families, search for composite
genes, implementation of centrality measures)
- Construction and analysis of genome networks (con-
struction of weighted genome networks, implementation
of their diameter, shortest paths, analyses of labeled
nodes, etc.)
- Construction and analysis of gene-genome bipartite
graphs (detection of connected components, and their
articulation points, and twins)
In addition, 9 conferences on networks and evolution will
be delivered by leading European and North American
scientists during this school.
Conrmed speakers (complete list):
Pr. JP Gogarten (UConn, USA): Lateral Gene Transfer
and Prokaryotic evolution
Pr. Robert Beiko (Dalhousie University, Canada) : In-
troduction to phylogenetic networks
Dr. Eric Bapteste (UPMC, France): Introduction to
sequence similarity networks
Pr. Debashish Bhattacharya (U. Rutgers, USA): Retic-
ulate evolution in eukaryotes
Pr. Eugene Koonin (NCBI, USA) : Viruses and net-
works
Pr. Michel Habib (LIAFA, France): Networks and cen-
tralities
Dr. Damien Eveillard (U. Nantes, France): Co-
occurrence networks and the evolution of geochemical
cycles in the environment
Pr. Daniel Huson (U Tuebingen, Germany): Network
approaches in microbiome analysis
Pr. Marc-Andr e S elosse (MNHN, France): The living
world as a network
This summer school is funded by ERC grant (FP7/2007-
2013 Grant Agreement # 615274). Hence, registration
is free, housing and food (breakfast, lunch) are also fully
covered. Applicants will only need to fund their travel
to Rosco and their evening dinners.146 EvolDir February 1, 2019
10 places only are available, with a mandatory require-
ment: applicants must show basic computer skills (i.e.
to be familiar with Linux environment and with at least
one programming language, preferably Python).
Applications are to be submitted asap, and no later
than February 15th 2019, by email to :
eric.bapteste@upmc.fr , and contain a brief letter de-
scribing why this class will be of signicant interest for
the applicant and his/her future studies.
Applicants will be selected based on their motivation,
and their resume, including the names of two scientic
referees for PhD and postdoctoral fellows.
We are excited to meet you soon in Rosco.
Eric Bapteste + Philippe Lopez + Eduardo Corel
Bapteste Eric <epbapteste@gmail.com >
Spain DNAmetabarcoding Mar26-29
DNA metabarcoding and introduction to metagenomics
March 26-29 2019 (A Coru~ na, Spain)
In this 22-hour course, participants will be introduced
to the most important computational tools used to anal-
yse Illumina DNA metabarcoding and metagenomic
datasets. Participants will learn how to carry out the
main DNA metabarcoding data analyses, from pre-
processing and quality control of the raw data to the
construction of OTU/ASV tables and taxon assignment.
The course will also have an introductory metagenomics
module in which the most relevant points of a metage-
nomics study will be discussed. The participants will
learn how to analyse a dataset to determine the taxo-
nomic and functional composition of metagenomic sam-
ples. The course will combine theory with hands-on
exercises using real datasets.
More info at https://www.allgenetics.eu/-
index.php/services/training/dna-metabarcoding-
and-introduction-to-metagenomics.html Joaqu n
Vierna<jvierna@udc.es >Spain NGS Mar14-15
I would like to annouce the course \High-throughput
sequencing using Illumina, PacBio, and ONT: key con-
cepts and applications" that will take place March 14 -
March 15 in A Coru~ na (Spain).
More info at https://www.allgenetics.eu/index.php/-
services/training/high-throughput-sequencing-
using-illumina-pacbio-and-ont-key-concepts-and-
applications.html .
Thank you very much!
Joaqu n
Joaqu n Vierna <jvierna@udc.es >
UCalifornia LosAngeles
ConservationGenetics Mar23-27
UCLA/La Kretz Workshop in Conservation Genomics,
23 - 27 March, 2019
Conservation biology, genetics, and evolutionary biol-
ogy have had a long and intimate relationship, and
conservation constitutes one of the key applications of
evolutionary analysis to real-world biological problems.
The impacts of population and landscape genetics and
gene expression studies have been particularly strik-
ing, and are helping to solve some of the most pressing
problems in biological conservation.
As the eld of conservation genetics continues to grow
and mature, the availability of genome-scale data stand
to make profound new contributions to our ability to
identify and protect at-risk populations and recover
those that are most endangered. However, genomic
analyses also carry a computational burden-data sets
are enormous, often require diverse skills and approaches
for assembly, quality control and analysis.
The La Kretz annual workshop provides a comfort-
able, rigorous, and informal training environment for a
small group of motivated graduate students to explore
how conservation problems can best be addressed with
genomic-level data. Our goal is to provide hands-on
experience in the ecient collection, troubleshooting,February 1, 2019 EvolDir 147
and analysis of large data sets for conservation-relevant
problems. One of the highlights of our workshop is
active participation from members of several govern-
mental agencies who are at the forefront of endangered
species protection and management, providing a forum
for exploring the most relevant aspects of conservation
genomics to managers.
This year, the Woolsey re destroyed most of our
beloved UCLA/La Kretz Field Station (https://-
www.ioes.ucla.edu/santa-monica-mountains-research/)
where we normally house the workshop. However,
through an incredibly generous subsidy, we will house
participants this year at the Calamigos Ranch next door
(https://www.calamigos.com), with classes at the UCLA
Stunt Ranch Reserve (http://stuntranch.ucnrs.org/),
both in the heart of the Santa Monica Mountains.
Only 30 miles from UCLA and the LAX airport, but
nestled in the relatively undeveloped 160,000 acre
Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area,
Calamigos is a gorgeous setting, and Stunt Reserve
provides an ideal location to explore new developments
in genomic science and pressing needs in conservation
and management together in a single setting.
Our current instructor list, drawn from UCLA faculty
and several other partner institutions, includes:
Gideon Bradburd (Michigan State University) Ben Fitz-
patrick (U. Tennessee Knoxville) Zach Gold/ Emily
Curd Ryan Harrigan Kirk Lohmueller Evan McCartney-
Melstad Alice Mouton Brad Shaer Victoria Sork Erin
Toelmier Ian Wang (UC Berkeley, tentative) Bob
Wayne
Agency partners represented: US Geological Survey, Bu-
reau of Land Management, US Fish and Wildlife Service,
California Department of Fish and Wildlife, The Nature
Conservancy.
Topics covered:
Overview of traditional conservation genetics Next gen-
eration platforms: the best tool for the job Data man-
agement pipelines: Quality Control Data storage Data
organization Data types and analyses: SNPs Sequences
Exploring very large data sets Functional genomic data
RNA-seq RADseq pipelines, from raw reads to analyz-
ing data Genomic data and GIS Visualizing geographic
structure and demographic history Admixture, clines,
and hybridization Detecting adaptive variation RNAseq
in a conservation context eDNA: promise and reality
Prerequisites Available housing limits course enrollment
to~20 students. Preference will be given to masters and
doctoral candidates who are in the early to middle stages
of their thesis research, and who have some familiarity
with using a command line interface or programminglanguages (i.e. Perl, python etc.). We also welcome
applications from postdocs, faculty, and government
researchers. We encourage applications from women,
minorities, and individuals from under-represented de-
mographics in the sciences.
ADMISSION AND FEES
Applicants will be admitted based on academic quali-
cations and appropriateness of research interests. The
course fee is $475. This includes food and lodging at
Calamigos, as well as all incidental fees, for the duration
of the course (arriving Saturday March 23, departing
Thursday March 28).
UCLA students are encouraged to take the La Kretz
Workshop for graduate credit. Other UC students may
also be able to take the course for credit. We will pro-
vide documentation of the course if needed at your home
institution.
Application Forms and Information Visit the UCLA/La
Kretz Center for California Conservation Science website
for additional information and to download an applica-
tion form:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK ComparativeGenomics
Apr29-May3
Comparative genomics (CMGN01)
FINAL CALL!
https://www.prinformatics.com/course/comparative-
genomics-cmgn01/ PR informatics are excited to
announce their new course \Comparative Genomics"
which will be delivered by Dr. Fritz Sedlazeck and Dr.
Matthias Weissensteiner in Glasgow city centre from
the 29 April - 3rd May 2019
Course Overview:
This course will introduce biologists and bioinformati-
cians to the eld of comparative genomics. The course
will give a deeper understanding on the advantages and
disadvantages of each of approach in general to enabling
an informed decision of study design for the participants148 EvolDir February 1, 2019
for future studies and learn the cutting edge approaches
to process state of the art data sets. Dierent tech-
niques will be introduced to identify single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) and structural variations (SVs)
as well as the annotation of these variations and the
assessment for their functional impact.
We will give a broad introduction on how to:
1. Process short and long read data based on multiple
NGS data sets including mapping and de novo assembly
2. Detect SNP and Structural Variations using de novo
assembly, short or long read mapping 3. Assess the
impact of the detected variations 4. Perform population
genetic analysis between multiple samples to obtain a
deeper insight into these variants.
Furthermore, we will teach on how to install and man-
age these methods and give an introduction in Cloud
computing. This will enable the participants to set up
ecient pipelines on their own institutions. The course
will conclude with the participants being aware of the
state of the art approaches and a deepened knowledge
to decide which study design is the optimal for future
studies .
Course programme
Monday 29th V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 Day 1:
Intro + Assembly Lecture: Setting up and getting fa-
miliar with the system Data types, technology overview
De novo assembly Practical: Getting used to the envi-
ronment Manipulating read data (ltering, trimming,
etc.) Short vs. long read assembly Subprocessing: QC,
polishing of de novo assemblies
Tuesday 30th V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 Day 2: As-
sembly quality + polishing ; RNA-Seq + short read
mapping Lecture: How it works behind the scenes Data
formats Common methods Practical: Insight in short
read mappers Long read mapping SNP calling RNA-Seq
expression
Wednesday 1st V Classes from 09:30 to 17.30 Day 3:
SNP? + SVs detection (Assembly, Read based, phas-
ing?) Lecture: Structural variation detection Methods
to detect SV Current state of the art of technologies.
Practical: Short read based SV calling Long read based
SV calling Assembly based SV calling Comparing and
ltering SVs Annotation of SVs
Thursday 2nd V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 Day 4:
Larger analysis over multiple data set and assessment
of mutations over FST Lecture: Evolutionary genet-
ics of structural variation Study design and sampling
schemes Limitations Practical: Downstream analysis:
Descriptive (SNP & SV density) PopGen (Fst, genetic
diversity) Outlier analysisFriday 3rd V Classes from 09:30 to 16:00 Day 5: Sum-
mary and conclusion Group discussions, nal questions
and overall summary (own data questions if time per-
mits)
Email oliverhooker@prinformatics.com
Check out our sister sites, www.PRstatistics.com (Ecol-
ogy and Life Sciences) www.PRinformatics.com (Bioin-
formatics and data science) www.PSstatistics.com (Be-
haviour and cognition)
{ Oliver Hooker PhD.
PR informatics
2017 publications - Ecosystem size predicts eco-
morphological variability in post-glacial diversication.
Ecology and Evolution. - The physiological costs of prey
switching reinforce foraging specialization. Journal of
animal ecology.
prinformatics.com twitter.com/PRinformatics face-
book.com/prstatistics/
6 Hope Park Crescent Edinburgh EH8 9NA
+44 (0) 7966500340
Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prinformatics.com >
USheeld UK PopulationGenomics
Feb26-28
POPULATION GENOMICS WORKSHOP 26-28th
February 2019 University of Sheeld, UK. This course
will be held at the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility
at the University of Sheeld and introduce participants
to a variety of population genomics analyses for large
next generation sequencing (NGS) datasets. It will
include discussion on single nucleotide polymorphism
(SNP) calling and ltering options, an introduction to
population genomics statistics using the PopGenome R
package, examining genetic structure, Fst-based analy-
ses such as outlier detection/genomic islands of diver-
gence, and genome-wide association analysis (GWAS).
The majority of the course will comprise practical com-
puter sessions, giving participants hands-on experience
in these analyses. We will perform these on the high
performance computing cluster at Sheeld and comput-
ers will be provided. Prior experience with the Linux
environment and basic command line tools would be
advantageous. There is no charge for the course, and
successful applicants will be provided with accommoda-February 1, 2019 EvolDir 149
tion for two nights and up to £100 towards travel costs
to Sheeld. The application closing deadline is at 5pm
on Monday 14th January 2019. Further details and how
to apply can be found at: http://bit.ly/2k8L5 Katy
Maher
Kathryn Maher <kathryn.maher@sheeld.ac.uk >
UTennessee Knoxville Selection
Jun3-7
**Feb. 1 Deadline Appr//oaching**
/The National Institute for Mathematical and Biological
Synthesis (NIMBioS) is now accepting applications for
its Tutorial, \The Search for Selection," to be held June
3-7, 2019, at NIMBioS. The tutorial was previously held
in June 2018.
*Objectives:* Biologists are obsessed (indeed, seduced)
by the search for signatures of selection in organismal fea-
tures of interest, ranging from specic traits to genome-
wide signatures. A vast number of approaches have
been suggested in this search for selection, including
genomic-based signatures of recent or ongoing selection,
tests based on either excessive amounts or nonrandom
patterns of divergence (in both fossil sequences and
functional genomics data) and the more classical Lande-
Arnold tness estimates (direct association of pheno-
typic values with tness estimates) and their modern
extensions (such as aster models). Given the breadth
of such searches, a large amount of machinery has been
developed, but is rarely presented in a unied fashion.
This tutorial presents an integrated overview of all these
approaches, highlighting common themes and divergent
assumptions.
The goal of this tutorial is to expose investigators from
all branches of biology to this rich menagerie of tests.
It is applicable for population geneticists, genome biolo-
gists, evolutionary ecologists, paleontologists, functional
morphologists, and just about any biologist who pon-
ders on how to formally demonstrate that a feature
(or features) of interest might have been shaped by
selection.
The intended audience is advanced graduate students,
postdocs, and faculty with an interest in searching
for targets of selection, be they particular genomic se-
quences or particular traits. Given the breadth of this
topic, the material would be of interest to individuals
from functional genomics, population and evolutionarygenetics, ecology, paleobiology, functional morphology,
and statistics (as well as other elds). Background re-
quired: some basic introduction to population and/or
quantitative genetics.
*Location:* NIMBioS at the University of Tennessee,
Knoxville
*Organizer:* J. Bruce Walsh, Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology, Univ. of Arizona
For more information about the tutorial and a link to the
online application form, go to http://www.nimbios.org/-
tutorials/selection2 Participation in NIMBioS tutorials
is by application only. Individuals with a strong interest
in the topic are encouraged to apply, and successful
applicants will be notied within several weeks after
the application deadline. NIMBioS will cover lodging
(5 nights) and provide breakfast and lunch each day at
NIMBioS. Limited travel support is available for those
with a demonstrated need. Applicants should indicate
on the online application whether they need travel sup-
port. * **Application deadline: February 1, 2019*
The National Institute for Mathematical and Biological
Synthesis (NIMBioS) (http://www.nimbios.org) brings
together researchers from around the world to collabo-
rate across disciplinary boundaries to investigate solu-
tions to basic and applied problems in the life sciences.
NIMBioS is supported by the National Science Foun-
dation, with additional support from The University of
Tennessee, Knoxville.
Sergey Gavrilets Distinguished Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department of
Mathematics Associate Director for Scientic Activities
National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Syn-
thesis (NIMBioS) Director, Center for the Dynamics
of Social Complexity (DySoC) University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN 37996 Research Aliate School of An-
thropology, University of Oxford 51-53 Banbury Rd,
Oxford OX2 6PE
phone: (865) 974-8136 fax: (865) 974-3067 e-mail:
gavrila@tiem.utk.edu web: www.tiem.utk.edu/ ~gavrila
NIMBioS: www.nimbios.org DySoC: www.dysoc.org
Sergey Gavrilets <sergey@nimbios.org >150 EvolDir February 1, 2019
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution
Aug1-11
The 2019 Workshop on Molecular Evolution at the Ma-
rine Biological Lab in Woods Hole, MA will be held
August 1 - 11.
Founded in 1988, the Workshop on Molecular Evolu-
tion is the longest-running workshop of its kind. The
Workshop is the premier program for integrating the
methods, theory, and applications of molecular phylo-
genetics, statistical genetics, molecular evolution, and
related disciplines. Students work closely with inter-
nationally recognized scientists, receiving (i) high-level
instruction in the principles of molecular evolution and
evolutionary genomics, (ii) advanced training in statis-
tical methods best suited to modern datasets, and (iii)
hands-on experience with the latest software tools (often
from the authors of the programs they are using). The
material is delivered via lectures, discussions, and bioin-
formatic exercises motivated by contemporary topics
in molecular evolution. A hallmark of this workshop is
the direct interaction between students and eld-leading
scientists. The workshop serves graduate students, post-
docs, and established faculty from around the world
seeking to apply the principles of molecular evolution to
questions of both basic and applied biological sciences.
A priority of this workshop is to foster an environment
where students can learn from each other as well from
the course faculty.
As the course progresses, participants learn how to use
the following software and software to address ques-tions concerning the origins, maintenance, and func-
tion of molecular variation: ASTRAL, BEST, FASTA,
FigTree, GARLI, IQTree, MIGRATE, MAFFT, MP-
EST, RAxML, RevBayes, PAML, PAUP*, SNaQ, and
SVD Quartets. Students will have the opportunity to
work with software on their own laptops as well as re-
ceive training on how to use the same programs on a
computer cluster.
In 2019 the course instructors include Peter Beerli,
Joseph Bielawski, Belinda Chang, Scott Edwards, Laure
Eme, Tracy Heath, Mark Holder, John Huelsenbeck,
Emilia Huerta-Sanchez, Lacey Knowles, Laura Kubatko,
Michael Landis, Paul Lewis, Emily Jane McTavish, Bui
Quang Minh, Claudia Sol s-Lemus, David Swoord, and
Anne Yoder.
Deadline for applications is April 12, 2019: https://-
ws2.mbl.edu/studentapp/studentapp.asp?courseid=-
mole More information on the Workshop is available on
the dedicated course website: https://molevol.mbl.edu/-
index.php/Main Page The dates for the Workshop
are designed to allow students to segue directly from
the Strategies and Techniques for Analyzing Microbial
Population Structures (STAMPS) course, though please
note that applications must be submitted to and are
evaluated separately from those submitted to the
Workshop on Molecular Evolution.
For further information, please contact Workshop co-
Directors:
Mark Holder (mtholder@ku.edu) and/or Paul Lewis
(paul.lewis@uconn.edu)
{ Mark T. Holder
mtholder@ku.edu http://phylo.bio.ku.edu/mark-holder
Associate Professor 6031 Haworth Hall or 507 Dyche
Hall Dept. Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and the
Biodiversity Institute Univ. Kansas
InstructionsFebruary 1, 2019 EvolDir 151
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.