E v o l D i r
April 6, 2007
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Conferences
Barcelona HumanGenomeVariation Sep6-8 . . . . . . . . . 2
Edinburgh InsectParasiteEvol Jul16-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Halifax EvolutionaryEthology Aug . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Halifax SMBE Jun24-28 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Halifax SMBE Jun24-28 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Halifax SMBE Jun24-28 UndergraduateDiversity 5 . 6
Hangzhou QuantGenetics Aug18-24 TravelScholarships
7
Marseilles 11thEvolBiol Sep19-21 Deadlines . . . . . . . . . 7
Montreal CSZ ComparativeMorphology May21-25 . . 7
Montreal GeneticsSocietyCanada Jun18-22 . . . . . . . . . 8
PurdueU Genomics Sep10-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
RoccadeiPapi Italy ProblemSpecies Jun8-9 . . . . . . . . . 9
Roscoﬀ EnvironmentalGenomics Jun9-13 . . . . . . . . . . 10
RoyalSoc London AnimalEvol Jun18-19 . . . . . . . . . . . 10
UBourgogne TheBuﬀonLegacy Sep3-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
UGuelph AppliedEvolution May15-16 3 . . . . . . . . . . . 11Uppsala ESEB SexChromosomeEvol Aug20-25 . . . . 11
Uppsala ESEB SocialEvolution Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . 12
Uppsala ESEB2007 Aug21-25 ConservationGenetics 12
Uppsala ESEBSymposium Epidemiology . . . . . . . . . . 13
Uppsala ESEBSymposium HybridCytonuclearCoevo-
lution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Uppsala ESEBSymposium MHCEvol Aug20-25 . . . . 14
Uppsala EnemiesandDiversiﬁcation Aug20-25 . . . . . . 14
Uppsala EvolBiol and gender Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Uppsala EvolGameTheory Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Uppsala EvolutionaryHistories Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . 15
Uppsala GeneMapping Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Uppsala HostParasiteEvolution Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . 16
Uppsala PhenotypeDepDispersal Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . 17
Uppsala SexRoleDynamics Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
ZhejiangU 3rdIntlQuantitativeGenetics Aug19-24 . . 18
Barcelona HumanGenomeVariation
Sep6-8
9th International Meeting On HUMAN GENOME
VARIATION AND COMPLEX GENOME ANALYSIS
Dear Colleague,
The above meeting (’HGV2007’) will be held from 6th
(midday) - 8th (evening) September 2007 at the Hotel
Dolce Sitges Conference Center, near Barcelona, Spain.
This is a 5-star venue in a region of exceptional natural
beauty.
Further details of the meeting and the venue are
available at http://hgv2007.nci.nih.gov/ A ﬂyer
for the meeting can be downloaded from http://-
hgv2007.nci.nih.gov/HGV2007 Flyer 2.pdf The sym-
posium will focus upon the latest breakthroughs and
challenges concerned with genome variation, particu-
larly aspects such as methods/strategies for eﬀective
utilization of SNPs and CNVs, functional genomics ap-
plications, bioinformatics, population genetics, ethics,and the study of human disease.
Conﬁrmed Invited Speakers: John Armour, Ewan
Birney, Esteban Burchard, Anne Cambon-Thomsen,
Vivian Cheung, George Church, Don Conrad, Em-
manouil Dermitzakis, Ivo Gut, Matthew Hurles, Iuliana
Ionita, Heikki Lehvaslaiho, Debbie Nickerson, Jim Os-
tell, Chris Ponting, Lincoln Stein, Gilles Thomas, Bar-
bara Trask, Joris Veltman.
Meeting Format: All sessions will be in plenum with
20-25 minute presentations by invited speakers and oth-
ers selected from abstracts, with ample time for discus-
sions. All applicants must submit an abstract. Del-
egates not giving an oral presentation are required to
present a poster.
Attendance: The number of delegates at HGV2007 will
be limited to 150. Applications to attend must include
a relevant scientiﬁc abstract that will be competitively
assessed and used as the basis for acceptance/rejection
decisions. Accepted abstracts must be presented in
poster or oral format, as allocated. To encourage at-
tendance by students, postdoctoral fellows, and junior
faculty member in under-represented groups, a number
of meeting grants are available upon request to help
defray costs for such individuals.April 6, 2007 EvolDir 3
Applications: must be submitted via the meeting web-
site by 15th May 2007.
On behalf of the HGV207 Organizers: Anthony
Brookes, Stephen Chanock, Nancy Cox, Xavier Estivill,
Pui-Yan Kwok, Steve Scherer
HGV200x mailing list HGV200x@lists.le.ac.uk http:/-
/lists.le.ac.uk/mailman/listinfo/hgv200x Institute of
Genetics <adminig@sickkids.ca >
Edinburgh InsectParasiteEvol
Jul16-18
Insect Immunity and Parasite Symposia
Royal Entomology Society, Edinburgh. 16-18th July
2007
This year’s Royal Entomological Society meeting will
be held in Edinburgh, and includes several symposia
on host-parasite interactions. The ﬁrst afternoon
will include symposia on insect parasites and medi-
cal/veterinary entomology. The subsequent two days
will have sessions on the evolution and mechanisms of
insect immunity.
Registration and details are at: http://-
www.ento07.org.uk/ . Tick either insect parasites
or insect immunology on the registration form to be
included in these sessions.
fjiggins@staﬀmail.ed.ac.uk fjiggins@staﬀmail.ed.ac.uk
Halifax EvolutionaryEthology Aug
Dear ethologists,
We have decided to extend the Call for Abstracts for
the International Ethological Conference in Halifax,
Canada, to Saturday March 24. Find below the link
to the conference’s web site, registration site, the list of
Plenary Speakers, and the list of Symposia titles and
organisers.
Hope to see you in Nova Scotia in August!
Regards,
The local organising committeeIEC 2007’s web site: <http://-
iec2007.psychology.dal.ca/iec2007/Home.html >http:/-
/iec2007.psychology.dal.ca/iec2007/Home.html
Registration and abstract submission site:
<https://www.esecureshop.com/registration/-
iec2007/index.asp >https://www.esecureshop.com/-
registration/iec2007/index.asp IEC Plenary Speakers
Opening Public lecture:
Hal Whitehead, Dalhousie University, Canada. “Ad-
ventures of a marine mammalogist in the study of whale
language and culture”
Plenary lectures:
Patrick Bateson, Department of Zoology, University
of Cambridge, England “Developmental Plasticity and
Epigenetics”.
Pat Monaghan, University of Glasgow, Scotland.
“Growth, lifespan and life history trade-oﬀs”
Elisabetta Visalberghi, Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie
della Cognizione, Rome, Italy “Behavioral, cognitive
and ecological factors aﬀecting tool use in wild capuchin
monkeys”
Atsushi Iriki, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Japan.
“Brain mechanism for development and evolution of
monkey tool-use as a latent precursor of human intelli-
gence”
Roger T. Hanlon, Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods
Hole, USA “Masters of optical illusion: the neuroethol-
ogy of rapid adaptive camouﬂage and communication
in cephalopods”
Horst Bleckmann, Institut f¨ ur Zoologie der Universit¨ at
Bonn, Germany. “Neuroethology of Sensory Systems”
Rui Oliveira, Instituto Superior de Psicologia Apli-
cada, Lisboa, Portugal “From hormones to behavior
and back: androgens, social context and competition”.
Hanna Kokko, University of Helsinki, Finland “Love
and hatred in a world of feedback”
Sara J. Shettleworth, University of Toronto, Canada
“Cognitive ethology in the 21st century”
Marian Stamp Dawkins, Department of Zoology, Uni-
versity of Oxford, England “The scientiﬁc basis for as-
sessing suﬀering in animals”
Robert L. Trivers, Department of Anthropology, Rut-
gers University, USA “Human Ethology / Genes in
Conﬂict: The Biology of Selﬁsh Genetic Elements”
Maydianne Andrade, Department of Life Sciences, Uni-
versity of Toronto, Canada. “Sexual selection and the
evolution of extreme reproductive strategies”4 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Symposia titles and organisers
“Prospective cognition and future planning by animals”
Nicola Clayton and Anthony Dickinson
“Integrative perspectives on animal contests” Ryan L.
Early
“Behavioural epigenetics” Timothy Bredy
“Swarms of insects, ﬁsh, birds, and ungulates: models
and empirical data” Charlotte Hemelrijk
“Does paternal care require partner preference?”
Katherine E. Wynne-Edwards
“Maternal eﬀects: evaluating maternal eﬀects on the
basis of Tinbergen’s four questions” Jeﬀ Graves and
Ton Groothuis
“Acoustic communication in noise” Peter J. B. Slater
and Henrik Brumm
“Uncertainty in animal cognition” Robert Biegler
“Social and cognitive convergence in vertebrates” Is-
abella Scheiber, Robyn Hudson, Kurt Kotrschal
“Social networks: Patterns” Jens Krause
“Social networks: Processes” David Lusseau
“Allonursing: an adaptive behavior in mammals?”
Beatriz Zapata and Luis Ebensperger
“Avian social cognition: Do birds think about other
minds?” Nathan J. Emery and Shige Watanabe
“Developmental inﬂuences on behavioural phenotypes:
implications for animal welfare” Georgia Mason
“Physiology, Ethology, and Wildlife Conservation”
Christina Buesching
“Welfare assessment: new ideas” Donald Broom
Dr Richard E. Brown Killam Research Professor and
Chairman Department of Psychology Dalhousie Uni-
versity Halifax, Nova Scotia CANADA B3H 4J1
email: rebrown@dal.ca
tel: 902-494-3647 fax: 902-494-6585 http:/-
/myweb.dal.ca/rebrown/ International Etho-
logical Congress. Halifax 15-23 August 2007
http://iec2007.psychology.dal.ca/ Richard Brown
<rebrown@dal.ca >
Halifax SMBE Jun24-28 3
The 2007 annual meeting of the Society for Molecu-lar Biology and Evolution (SMBE) is being held JUNE
24-28 at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia,
Canada. The meeting is being co-hosted by the Cana-
dian Institute for Advanced Research.
Conference registration is now open:
http://www.smbe.org/ The deadline for submission
of conference presentation abstracts and titles is MAY
15. Please note that registration fees will increase after
APRIL 15. We encourage you to register early and to
become a member of SMBE:
http://www.smbe.org/membership.php IMPOR-
TANT: Halifax is a busy tourist destination in
summertime. We STRONGLY ADVISE you to reserve
your hotel or dorm rooms early at the following
website:
https://smbe2007.dal.ca/Accommodation/ Please re-
fer to the SMBE website for more information on con-
ference registration, abstract submission, symposium
topics, preliminary schedule, awards, travel, and more.
Plenary Speakers
MAY BERENBAUM–Department of Entomology, Uni-
versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign DEBO-
RAH CHARLESWORTH–School of Biological Sci-
ences, University of Edinburgh MARCUS FELDMAN–
Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford Univer-
sity NICK LANE–University College London, author
of “Oxygen: The Molecule that made the World” and
“Power, Sex, Suicide: Mitochondria and the Mean-
ing of Life” TRUDY MACKAY–Department of Genet-
ics, North Carolina State University BRIAN SPRATT–
Molecular Microbiology, Imperial College London
SymposiA and invited SPEAKERS (*indicates chair)
Bayesian phylogenetic inference
Robert Beiko*, Dalhousie University John Huelsen-
beck, University of California-Berkeley Bret Larget,
University of Wisconsin Nicolas Lartillot, LIRMM
Marc Suchard*, UCLA
Towards more realistic models of protein evolution
Cecile An´ e, University of Wisconsin Christian Blouin*,
Dalhousie University Nick Goldman, European Bioin-
formatics Institute Richard Goldstein, National In-
stitute for Medical Research Andrew Roger*, Dal-
housie University Ed Susko*, Dalhousie University Zi-
heng Yang, University College London Eukaryotic and
prokaryotic genome beginnings
Eukaryotic and prokaryotic genome beginnings
Siv Andersson, Uppsala University Martin Embley,
University of Newcastle Doug Erwin, SmithsonianApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 5
Institution Peter Gogarten, University of Connecti-
cut Jim Lake*, UCLA William Martin, Universit¨ at
D¨ usseldorf J. William Schopf, UCLA
Evolutionary genomics of domestication
Carlos Bustamante*, Cornell University Bran-
don Gaut*, UC-Irvine Elaine Ostrander, NIH
Francesco Salamini, Max-Planck-Institute f¨ ur
Z¨ uchtungsforschung Tao Sang, Michigan State
University Scott Williamson, Cornell University
Evolution and function of non-protein-coding sequences
in complex organisms
J¨ urgen Brosius, University of M¨ unster Elliott Mar-
gulies, NHGRI (NIH) John Mattick*, University of
Queensland
Extreme genomes
Jean-Michel Claverie, CNRS Patrick Keeling*, Univer-
sity of British Columbia Atsushi Nakabachi, University
of Arizona Jeﬀrey Palmer, Indiana University
Gene / genome duplication
Keith Adams*, University of British Columbia
Matthew Hahn, Indiana University Claude de Pam-
philis, Penn State University Yves van de Peer, Univer-
sity of Ghent Shin Han Shiu, Michigan State University
Todd Vision, University of North Carolina
Genomics of speciation
Dan Hartl*, Harvard University Hopi Hoekstra, Univer-
sity of California-San Diego Rob Kulathinal*, Harvard
University John Willis, Duke University
Introns early, introns late: the sequel
Ford Doolittle*, Dalhousie University Eugene Koonin,
NIH Michael Lynch, Indiana University Scott Roy, Har-
vard University Arlin Stoltzfus, CARB
Lateral gene transfer, the tree, ring, web or network of
Life
Ford Doolittle, Dalhousie University Peter Gogarten,
University of Connecticut James McInerney*, Na-
tional University of Ireland Christos Ouzounis, Insti-
tute of Agrobiotechnology Mark Ragan*, University of
Queensland
Molecular and developmental approaches to speciation
Ehab Abouheif, McGill University Paul Brakeﬁeld,
University of Leiden Brian Hall*, Dalhousie University
Axel Meyer, University Konstanz Michael Shapiro, Uni-
versity of Utah
Plant population genomics
Brandon Gaut, UC-Irvine Thomas Mitchell-Olds, DukeUniversity Brian Morton*, Columbia University Mag-
nus Nordborg, University of Southern California Ker-
mit Ritland, University of British Columbia Stephen
Wright*, York University
Recombination (emphasis on molecular mechanisms)
Sir Alec Jeﬀreys, University of Leicester Jeﬀ Lawrence,
University of Pittsburgh John Logsdon, University of
Iowa Rosie Redﬁeld*, University of British Columbia
Resolution and dating of the eukaryotic tree
Debashish Bhattacharya, University of Iowa B. Franz
Lang*, Universit´ e de Montr´ eal Jan Pawlowski, Univer-
sity of Geneva Herv´ e Philippe*, Universit´ e de Montr´ eal
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Halifax SMBE Jun24-28 4
SMBE Undergraduate Diversity Mentoring Program
Awards
2007 Annual meeting of the society for molecular biol-
ogy and evolution?
June 24-28, Halifax, Nova Scotia, CANADA
CONFERENCE WEBSITE
https://smbe2007.dal.ca DEADLINE FOR RECEIPT
OF NOMINATIONS/APPLICATIONS: APRIL 15
Program outline
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is pleased to make available 10 awards for
undergraduate students from underrepresented groups
to participate in a Diversity Mentoring Program. The
goals of this program are: (1) to promote diversity at
the SMBE annual meeting, (2) to provide students with
the opportunity to experience the excitement of attend-
ing and presenting at an international scientiﬁc confer-
ence, and (3) to foster enthusiasm for molecular biology
and evolution as well as a possible career in this ﬁeld.
To achieve these goals, each recipient of an SMBE Un-
dergraduate Diversity Mentoring Program Award will
be paired with two mentors, one a senior graduate stu-
dent and the other a postdoctoral fellow or faculty
member (who may or may not be the student?s current6 EvolDir April 6, 2007
advisor). Speciﬁc mentoring activities will include:
? Attending conference sessions with the student, an-
swering questions about the basic concepts being pre-
sented, and, more generally, explaining the ?goings-on?
at a multi-day scientiﬁc conference.
? Interacting with the student during some mealtimes,
coﬀee breaks and other social gatherings.
? Introducing the student to other undergraduates,
graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and faculty
members as a way of facilitating connections with po-
tential future graduate supervisors and colleagues.
? Attending the poster session and SBME Undergrad-
uate Diversity Program Award reception with the stu-
dent in order to minimize/overcome the anxiety often
felt by ﬁrst-time conference attendees.
? Serving as a contact point for the student to help
resolve any issues surrounding conference registration,
travel and accommodation.
Eligibility
Candidates must currently be enrolled as undergradu-
ate students (Bachelor’s level degree) or have graduated
within the last 6 months at the time of application and
be from groups underrepresented in our scientiﬁc disci-
pline (e.g., minority groups and/or women).
Conference participation
Recipients of an SMBE Undergraduate Diversity Men-
toring Program Award will be invited to present their
research at a special reception / poster session on Tues-
day, JUNE 25, attended by their mentors, supervisors
and other interested conference participants.
Award
Award recipients will receive US $1,000 to be used to
help cover the cost of airfare, accommodations, and
meeting registration. Each participant will also receive
an online student membership to the Society journal,
Molecular Biology and Evolution, for the year of 2008.
Application
1. Faculty members may nominate undergraduates
by sending a brief letter/email of recommendation
to Laura Katz (Lkatz[at]email.smith.edu) and John
Archibald (jmarchib[at]dal.ca). The letter should out-
line the student?s eligibility for the award and conﬁrm
their current academic status. Also indicate if your stu-
dent would be able to present a poster.
OR
2. Students may apply for the award themselves by
providing information on their background, academic
status and an email address for their current supervi-sor. Students should also indicate whether they are
able to present a poster.
The deadline for receipt of nominations/applications is
APRIL 15.
John M. Archibald, Ph.D. Assistant Professor and
Scholar, CIAR Program in Evolutionary Biology De-
partment of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Dal-
housie University Sir Charles Tupper Medical Building
5850 College Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 1X5,
Canada
Phone: (902) 494-2536 Fax: (902) 494-1355 Webpage:
<http://myweb.dal.ca/jmarchib/ > John Archibald
<jmarchib@dal.ca >
Halifax SMBE Jun24-28
UndergraduateDiversity 5
CALL FOR MENTORS?SMBE UNDERGRADUATE
DIVERSITY MENTORING PROGRAM AWARDS
2007 Annual meeting of the society for molecular biol-
ogy and evolution
June 24-28, Halifax, Nova Scotia, CANADA
https://smbe2007.dal.ca Program outline
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is oﬀering 10 awards to undergraduate stu-
dents from underrepresented groups to participate in
a Diversity Mentoring Program. The goals of this pro-
gram are: (1) to promote diversity at the SMBE annual
meeting, (2) to provide students with the opportunity
to experience the excitement of attending and present-
ing at an international scientiﬁc conference, and (3) to
foster enthusiasm for molecular biology and evolution
as well as a possible career in this ﬁeld.
To achieve these goals, each recipient of an SMBE Un-
dergraduate Diversity Mentoring Program Award will
be paired with two mentors, one a senior graduate stu-
dent and the other a postdoctoral fellow or faculty
member (who may or may not be the student?s cur-
rent advisor). WE ARE SEEKING INDIVIDUALS
INTERESTED IN BEING A MENTOR. Speciﬁc ac-
tivities will include:
? Attending conference sessions with the student, an-
swering questions about the basic concepts being pre-
sented, and, more generally, explaining the ?goings-on?
at a multi-day scientiﬁc conference.April 6, 2007 EvolDir 7
? Interacting with the student during some mealtimes,
coﬀee breaks and other social gatherings.
? Introducing the student to other undergraduates,
graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and faculty
members as a way of facilitating connections with po-
tential future graduate supervisors and colleagues.
? Attending the poster session and SBME Undergrad-
uate Diversity Program Award reception with the stu-
dent in order to minimize/overcome the anxiety often
felt by ﬁrst-time conference attendees.
? Serving as a contact point for the student to help
resolve any issues surrounding conference registration,
travel and accommodation.
Conference participation
In addition to the activities outlined above, mentors
will be invited to attend a special reception / poster ses-
sion on Tuesday, JUNE 25, along with undergraduates,
supervisors and other interested conference attendees.
If you are interested in mentoring an undergradu-
ate at this year?s SMBE meeting please email Laura
Katz (Lkatz[at]email.smith.edu) and John Archibald
(jmarchib[at]dal.ca).
John Archibald <jmarchib@dal.ca >
Hangzhou QuantGenetics Aug18-24
TravelScholarships
Applications are invited for travel scholarships to the
3rd International Conference on Quantitative Genet-
ics, to be held in Hangzhou, China August 18-24, 2007.
Details about the conference may be found at http:/-
/ibi.zju.edu.cn/ICQG Preference will be given to ju-
nior faculty members at US Universities who have sub-
mitted an abstract for a contributed paper to the con-
ference and who list potential future collaborators in
China. The Conference Organizers will try to facili-
tate meetings with these collaborators. Women and
under-represented minority faculty members are espe-
cially encouraged to apply.
Applicants should send a CV, a letter of reference
from a senior colleague, a statement of purpose in
attending the conference, and a copy of their sub-
mitted abstract to Dr B.S. Weir, Department of
Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle WA
98195-7232, USA preferably by email attachment to
bsweir@u.washington.eduApplications are due by 5 pm Paciﬁc Daylight Time on
Tuesday, May 1.
Bruce Weir
Bruce Weir <bsweir@u.washington.edu >
Marseilles 11thEvolBiol Sep19-21
Deadlines
Daer all the eraly dead lines of the 11th evolutionary
biology meeting at marseilles is March 31st. Informa-
tion concerning the program, housing.....is available at
http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol-cgr/ all the best
– Pierre Pontarotti EA 3781 Evolution Biologique Uni-
versit´ e d’Aix Marseille I Centre St Charles 3 Place Vic-
tor Hugo 13331 Marseille Cedex 3 33491106489 http:/-
/www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol
Pierre.Pontarotti@up.univ-mrs.fr
Montreal CSZ
ComparativeMorphology May21-25
The Comparative Morphology & Development section
of the Canadian Society of Zoologists is pleased to an-
nounce the following symposium and two satellite sym-
posia that may be of interest. These will all be part
of the Canadian Society of Zoologists annual meeting
in Montreal, May 21-25. For full details and abstracts,
visit the Comparative Morphology & Development web
site:
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm For
information about the annual meeting, or to register to
attend, please visit the CSZ meeting web site:
http://martin.parasitology.mcgill.ca/csz2007/ ———
———- MAIN SYMPOSIUM Wed. May 23 ————
—–
Appendages & Body Plans: Development, Morphology
and Evolution
Nipam Patel (Berkeley) The evolution of segmenta-
tion and body patterning: Insights from the crustacean
Parhyale
Jarmila Kukalova-Peck (Carleton) Arthropods are all8 EvolDir April 6, 2007
legs: Evolution of arthropod appendages
Bob Shadwick (UBC) Evolution of a unique morphol-
ogy for locomotion in high-performance ﬁshes
—————- SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM #1 Tue. May
22 ————–
Craniofacial Development and Evolution
R. Craig Albertson (Syracuse) The genetic and devel-
opmental basis of cichlid trophic diversity
Kyle Martin, A. Maurya, S. Kuraku, S. Kuratani, M.
Ekker (Ottawa) Regulation of agnathan Dlx genes
Tamara Franz-Odendaal (Mount Saint Vincent) Are all
vertebrate scleral ossicles homologous to one another?
David Evans (Toronto) Cranial crest growth in lam-
beosaurine dinosaurs
(co-sponsored by the journal Developmental Dynamics)
—————- SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM #2 Wed.
May 23 ————–
Developmental Biology and Evolutionary Transforma-
tions
Robert Carroll, Nadia Fr¨ olisch, and Rainer Schoch
(McGill) Evolutionary developmental biology and the
ancestry of modern amphibians
Basile Tarchini, Denis Duboule and Marie Kmita (Mon-
treal)>From ancestral appendages to tetrapod limbs:
A Hox story
Luke Harrison, Hans Larsson (McGill) Molecular evo-
lution and correlation of Hoxa11 and Hoxa13 genes to
skeletal patterning changes across the ﬁn to limb tran-
sition
Marcos Nahmad, Leon Glass, Ehab Abouheif (McGill)
A model for the developmental genetic origin of the
wing polyphenism in ants
–
A. Richard Palmer Systematics and Evolution Group
Department of Biological Sciences University of Alberta
Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 CANADA phone: (780)
492-3633 message: (780) 492-3308 FAX: (780) 492-9234
http://www2.biology.ualberta.ca/palmer/palmer.html
(biological asymmetries, software, course notes)
Chair, Comparative Morphology & Development sec-
tion, Canadian Society of Zoologists. For info.
see:http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm
rich.palmer@ualberta.caMontreal GeneticsSocietyCanada
Jun18-22
The 50th Annual Conference of The Genetics Society
of Canada will take place in Montreal from June 18-22
2007. This meeting will be held jointly with the Cana-
dian Drosophila Research Conference.
To register, to submit an abstract and to view a pre-
liminary schedule please go to the website http://-
life.mcmaster.ca/GSC . Paul Lasko
“paul.lasko” <paul.lasko@mcgill.ca >
PurdueU Genomics Sep10-12
Convergence of Genomics and the Land Grant Mis-
sion: Emerging Trends in the Application of Ge-
nomics in Agricultural Research Purdue University,
West Lafayette, Indiana September 10-12, 2007
You are invited to attend this national conference on
agricultural genomics. The conference will feature in-
vited presentations by recognized leaders in agricultural
genomics from across the Land Grant University land-
scape and beyond. Topics focused on microbes, arthro-
pods, plants, animals and ecological systems will be
blended into sessions that address the following themes:
* Transition from Model to Agricultural Species * Inte-
grating Information Across Databases * Translational
Challenges and Successes
Speakers will address emerging trends, opportunities
for interactions with other genomics research groups,
collaborations with applied researchers, and priorities
for the future address. The meeting will conclude with
a roundtable discussion and recommendations led by
a distinguished panel. The conference is modeled after
the Gordon Research conferences where all speakers are
invited and the number of talks is limited to maximize
interactions among participants. Poster presentations
will be available to those interested.
This conference promises to be a rare opportunity to
exchange scientiﬁc expertise and experiences among ge-
nomics researchers and stimulate new discussions withApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 9
applied researchers, stakeholders, and decision makers
who do not normally interact with the genomics com-
munity. The goal of the conference is to promote syn-
ergisms across disciplines, commodities, and species. A
committee of recognized national leaders in molecular
biology and genomics helped develop the program.
The ﬁnal list of topics and speakers is now set (see the
attachment or the website below for details). Regis-
tration and requests to submit poster presentations are
now being accepted. To learn more about the program,
the organizing committee and other meeting logistics,
go to the conference website at:
www.entm.purdue.edu/conference
dewoody@purdue.edu dewoody@purdue.edu
RoccadeiPapi Italy ProblemSpecies
Jun8-9
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS
Problematic species: Conservation and management
Rocca dei Papi, Monteﬁascone (Viterbo), Italy June 8
- 9, 2007
The University of Tuscia, in collaboration with the
Provincial Authority of Viterbo (Department of Agri-
culture, Hunting and Fishery), has scheduled an Inter-
national Congress, in Monteﬁascone, Viterbo (Latium,
Central Italy) on June 8-9, 2007. The title of the meet-
ing is “Problematic species: Conservation and manage-
ment”, in which several international specialist contrib-
utors will be participating. These two days are an op-
portunity to compare diﬀerent experiences about this
crucial aspect of Wildlife management and conserva-
tion, in particular concerning the relationship with the
human activities and the environments. The congress
concerns diﬀerent levels, from local problems (i.e. Cen-
tral Italy) to National and International cases.
Argument of the meeting will be only birds and mam-
mals
The congress is articulated in four symposia:
a) Alien species: habitat impact and interaction with
native species; b) Fauna-Agriculture interactions; c)
Wildlife conservation and management, and hunting;
d) Vanishing species and spreading species.
The oﬃcial languages will be English and Italian.
Scientiﬁc Committee:Francesco M. Angelici (Universit` a degli Studi della Tus-
cia, Viterbo); Marco Apollonio (Universit` a degli Studi
di Sassari); Nicola Baccetti (Istituto Nazionale per la
Fauna Selvatica, Bologna); Natale E. Baldaccini (Uni-
versit` a degli Studi di Pisa e Unione Zoologica Italiana);
Sandro Bertolino (Universit` a degli Studi di Torino);
Luigi Boitani (Universit` a degli Studi di Roma “La
Sapienza”); Stephen J. Browne (Fauna and Flora Inter-
national, London, UK); Paolo Ciucci (Universit` a degli
Studi di Roma “La Sapienza”); Anna Maria Fausto
(Universit` a degli Studi della Tuscia, Viterbo); Romolo
Fochetti (Universit` a degli Studi della Tuscia, Viterbo);
Philippe Gaubert (Mus´ eum National d’Histoire Na-
turelle, Paris, France) ; Petr Genov (Bulgarian Sci-
ence Academy, Soﬁa, Bulgaria); Piero Genovesi (Isti-
tuto Nazionale per la Fauna Selvatica, Bologna); Vit-
torio Guberti (Istituto Nazionale per la Fauna Selvat-
ica, Bologna); Juan Herrero (Alcala University, Spain)
Alessandro La Posta (Italian Ministry of the Environ-
ment); Massimo Mazzini (Universit` a degli Studi della
Tuscia, Viterbo); Alberto Meriggi (Universit` a degli
Studi di Pavia); Fabio Perco (Stazione Biologica Isola
della Cona); Claudio Prigioni (Universit` a degli Studi
di Pavia); Mario Spagnesi (Ekoclub Italia); Guido Tosi
(Universit` a degli Studi dell’Insubria, Varese)
Under the Patronage of: Italian Ministry of the Envi-
ronment; Italian Ministry of the Agricolture and the
Forestry; Monteﬁascone Town Administration; Latium
Regional Authority; Italian Zoological Society -Unione
Zoologica Italiana (UZI)- Italian Mammal Society -
Associazione Teriologica Italiana (A.T.It.)-; Italian
Centre of Ornithological Studies - Centro Italiano Studi
Ornitologici (C.I.S.O.)-; National Institute of Wildlife
-Istituto Nazionale per la Fauna Selvatica (INFS)-; Ital-
ian Society of Wildlife Ecopathology -Societ` a Italiana
di Ecopatologia della Fauna (SIEF)- Italian League
for Bird Protection -Lega Italiana Protezione Uccelli
(LIPU)-; Legambiente; World Wildlife Fund (WWF),
Italy.
At this meeting will participate both national and inter-
national exponents with oral invited relations, concern-
ing animal ecology and, more generally, applied envi-
ronmental studies. This happening wants to investigate
the problems created by the environmental changes and
the following fauna adaptability. In fact, several species
can represent a problem with the agriculture and other
human activities. In particular, the following issues will
be discussed: Wildlife management in protected areas,
hunting pressure on wildlife, wildlife interaction with
agriculture and livestock, species urbanization.
The Organizer Committee establishes the special prize
“Fauna Etrusca” of 750,00 euros, for the more interest-
ing and innovative contribution (oral relation or poster)10 EvolDir April 6, 2007
presented by young researcher/s, included in one of
these proved categories:
q Young graduated, with any grant; q MSc or PhD
students; q Young researchers unsalaried;
Call for abstracts
All participants are invited to give their scientiﬁc con-
tributions as oral communication, strictly belonging to
the subjects of the symposia, 15’+5’ for the discussion,
or poster (high 120 cm and width 70 cm).
The registration (with the payment receipt), the contri-
bution title/s, the abstract including author/s, address,
phone number, e-mail address must be sent via e-mail
to:info@ecologiaapplicataitalia.it within APRIL 15th,
2007.
For every information, please, contact at one of these
following addresses:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Roscoﬀ EnvironmentalGenomics
Jun9-13
Registration deadline soon (1 March 2007) for the
CONFERENCE JACQUES MONOD Environmental
genomics : from individual genomes to genomes of com-
plex communities
G´ enomique environnementale : du g´ enome individuel
aux g´ enomes de communaut´ es complexes d’organismes
Roscoﬀ (Brittany, France), 9-13 juin 2007, June 9-13
2007
Further information at the following web sites / Sites
web ` a consulter
http://www.cnrs.fr/sdv/cjm/cjmyoung e.html
http://environmental-genomics.univ-rennes1.fr/-
Roscoﬀ 2007/accueil fr.asp http://www.sb-roscoﬀ.fr/
M. L. AINOUCHE Evolution des Genomes et Spe-
ciation, Dpt Ecologie Evolutive UMR CNRS 6553
Ecobio, Universite de Rennes 1 Campus Scientiﬁque
de Beaulieu, Bat. 14A 35 042 Rennes Cedex France
Ph. 33 (0)2 23 23 51 11 Fax 33 (0)2 23 23 50 47
malika.ainouche@univ-rennes1.frRoyalSoc London AnimalEvol
Jun18-19
Dear Colleague,
We are delighted to announce a meeting entitled:
The evolution of the animals: a Linnean tercentenary
celebration
which takes place in the meeting rooms of the Royal
Society, London, 18-19 June 2007. A full two days of
presentations by leading scientists in the ﬁeld of animal
evolution is planned. The meeting is free to attend but
pre-registration online is essential.
http://www.royalsoc.ac.uk/event.asp?id=-
4163&month=6,2006
We expect the meeting to be of interest to all animal
and evolutionary biologists, regardless of developmental
stage or geological age. The Royal Society has assured
us that a large audience can be accommodated, but
early registration will guarantee admission to the main
auditorium.
The list of speakers and session chairs can be found at
the end of this email.
Please forward this announcement to anyone who might
be interested.
With very kind regards and apologies for cross postings,
Yours sincerely,
Max Telford and Tim Littlewood
Chairs and Speakers:
Andrew Smith Simon Conway Morris Michael Akam
Peter Holland Graham Budd, Kevin Peterson Jeﬀ
Boore Herv´ e Philippe Greg Wray Nicole King Jaume
Bagu˜ n` a Ronald Jenner Mark Martindale Gonzalo Giri-
bet Detlev Arendt Max Telford Andrew Peel Billie
Swalla Chris Lowe
m.telford@ucl.ac.uk m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
UBourgogne TheBuﬀonLegacy
Sep3-6April 6, 2007 EvolDir 11
Dijon.France. The Buﬀon Legacy:Natural History in
the 21st century. Sept3-6
Georges Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buﬀon was most re-
sponsible for the rise of world-wide interest in natural
history. To celebrate the 300th anniversary of his birth,
on 7th September 1707, the Universit´ e de Bourgogne
is pleased to organize a major international scientiﬁc
event, The Buﬀon Legacy: Natural History in the 21st
century, to be held in Dijon from 3rd to 6th September,
2007.
The aim is to bring together researchers and other in-
terested parties to discuss the fate of natural history in
modern biology.
The conference will feature three and a half days of ses-
sions on contributed talks, plus a poster session, visit to
the Buﬀon Museum, social events and banquet. Each
day will start with a plenary keynote lecture, followed
by parallel symposia. Papers will cover topics such as
behavioural ecology, biogeography, life-history strate-
gies, and biodiversity in animals and plants.
Invited speakers include: Tim Birkhead (Sheﬃeld,
UK), Douglas Futuyma (Stony Brook, USA), Pierre-
Henri Gouyon (Paris, France), Pierre Joly (Lyon,
France) and Geoﬀ Parker (Liverpool, UK)
http://www.u-bourgogne.fr/buﬀon2007/ Deadline for
abstract submission: May 30 2007
Deadline for registration: July 30 2007
Please visit this website ( http://www.u-bourgogne.fr/-
buﬀon2007/ ) continuously for more information and
updates. Maximum number of delegates are 300. When
300 delegates have registered, registration will close.
Loic Bollache <Loic.Bollache@u-bourgogne.fr >
UGuelph AppliedEvolution
May15-16 3
Online registration for the 2007 Yodzis Colloquium ($55
CAD for students, $130 for non-students, both includ-
ing GST) is now available at
http://www.peopleware.net/index.cfm?siteID=-
323&eventDisp=07YODZIS
In addition, the ﬁrst general meeting of the Canadian
Society for Ecology and Evolution will be in Toronto
(appx. 1 hr from Guelph) directly after the Yodzis Col-
loquium. For information go tohttp://www.eeb.utoronto.ca/CSEE/ Announcing the
2007 Peter Yodzis Colloquium in Fundamental Ecology
“Applied Evolution: Understanding the Past, Predict-
ing the Future”
May 15th and 16th 2007 University of Guelph, Guelph,
Ontario, Canada
The colloquium will focus on the mechanistic basis of
adaptation and the potential to predict adaptive evo-
lution in pure and practical applications. There will be
a series of keynote lectures and an open poster session,
all at a pace conducive to conversation and interaction.
Conﬁrmed keynote lecturers include:
Graham Bell (McGill University) Michael Lynch (Indi-
ana University) David Mindell (University of Michigan)
Patricia Schulte (University of British Columbia) Ruth
Shaw (University of Minnesota) John Willis (Duke Uni-
versity)
For information, go to
<https://webmail.uoguelph.ca/services/go.php?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ecologycolloquia.uoguelph.ca%2Fmain.shtml >http:/-
/www.ecologycolloquia.uoguelph.ca/main.shtml
or e-mail the organizers (Brian Hus-
band and Chris Caruso) at <https://-
webmail.uoguelph.ca/mail//mail/compose.php?to=-
pycolloq%40uoguelph.ca&thismailbox=-
INBOX.sent-mail >pycolloq@uoguelph. <https://-
webmail.uoguelph.ca/mail//mail/compose.php?to=-
pycolloq%40uoguelph.ca&thismailbox=INBOX.sent-
mail>caChristina (Chris) Caruso Assistant Professor
Department of Integrative Biology University of
Guelph Axelrod Building 50 Stone Road East Guelph,
Ontario N1G 2W1 CANADA 519-824-4120 ext. 52030
carusoc@uoguelph.ca
Uppsala ESEB SexChromosomeEvol
Aug20-25
Dear Evoldir,
we would like to invite you to submit your abstracts
(talks and posters) for the symposium *The Evolution
of Sex Chromosomes* at the 11th conference of the Eu-
ropean Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) 2007
in Uppsala, Sweden.
Symposium description: Sex chromosomes evolved re-
peatedly in many lineages. Repeatedly, the non-
recombining, unisexually restricted chromosome has de-12 EvolDir April 6, 2007
generated resulting in the asymmetrical chromosomal
complements in the two sexes. Understanding of the
evolution of sex chromosomes and of the genes located
on the sex chromosomes promises to shed unique light
on the key evolutionary processes aﬀecting all genes
genome-wide.
Invited speakers: Doris Bachtrog (San Diego) Antonio
Bernardo Carvalho (Rio de Janeiro)
ESEB XI runs from the 20th-25th August 2007. Details
of the conference, including online abstract submis-
sion can be found here: http://www-conference.slu.se/-
eseb2007/ Relevant dates: April 15th: Deadline for
submission of abstracts. April 30th: Deadline for re-
duced rate registration.
Symposium organisers: Peter Arndt (MPI, Berlin)
Dmitri Petrov (Stanford)
arndt@molgen.mpg.de arndt@molgen.mpg.de
Uppsala ESEB SocialEvolution
Aug20-25
Call for abstracts for a symposium on ’SOCIAL EVO-
LUTION IN MICROBES AND PARASITES’ at the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
conference 2007, Uppsala, Sweden.
Symposium description: We will bring together re-
searchers who have contributed to our expanding ap-
preciation for the complexity of social interactions in
microbes and parasites and discuss insights gained from
the recent synthesis of evolution and microbiology. The
use of micro-organisms and parasites to test theory on
the evolution of social interactions has provided revolu-
tionary insights to this ﬁeld. Researchers can directly
compare the ﬁtness of alternate social strategies: ag-
gression, exploitation and cooperation. Furthermore,
many social traits have implications for the virulence
of parasites and microbial disease.
Invited speakers: Angus Buckling, University of Ox-
ford, UK Greg Velicer, Indiana University, USA
ESEB XI runs from the 20th-25th August 2007. Details
of the conference, including an online abstract submis-
sion can be found here: http://www-conference.slu.se/-
eseb2007/ Relevant dates: April 15th: Deadline for
submission of abstracts. April 30th: Deadline for re-
duced rate registration.
Symposium organisers: Ashleigh Griﬃn, University ofEdinburgh, UK (a.griﬃn@ed.ac.uk) Sarah Reece, Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, UK (sarah.reece@ed.ac.uk)
Sarah Reece <sarah.reece@ed.ac.uk >
Uppsala ESEB2007 Aug21-25
ConservationGenetics
ESEB 2007- Symposium 3
As organizers of the following symposium at the ESEB
Conference in August 21-25, 2007 in Uppsala, we invite
researchers to submit abstracts for contributions to the
whole day symposium on:
Conservation Genetics: Genetic deterioration and
adaptation to changing environments
The focus of the symposium is on conservation genet-
ics with particular emphasis on the following issues:
Loss of genetic variation and inbreeding are threats to
population persistence as they may reduce the poten-
tial to cope and to adapt to environmental change. In
the symposium we are particularly interested to discuss
synergistic interactions between inbreeding/loss of ge-
netic variation and environmental stress/changing en-
vironments. We welcome contributions that focus on
such interactions and that combine approaches from the
DNA to the phenotypic level.
Invited speakers are:
Markus Fisher, Institute for Biochemistry and Biol-
ogy, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany Juan
L. Bouzat, Dept. of Biological Sciences, Bowling Green
State University, Bowling Green, Ohio, USA Torsten
N. Kristensen, Department of Genetics and Biotech-
nology, Danish Institute of Agricultural Sciences and
Aarhus University, Denmark
This symposium is sponsored by the European Science
Foundation through the Scientiﬁc Programme ConGen.
Through this programme we can cover the registration
fee for a few of the oral contributors to the symposium.
For support of this kind, please apply directly to the
symposium organizers (include a copy of abstract and
a short motivation) after formal registration and sub-
mission of the abstract through the ESEB website.
Organizers are: Kuke Bjilsma, Evolutionary Genet-
ics, University of Groningen, The Netherlands, email:
r.bijlsma@rug.nl and Volker Loeschcke, Ecology and
Genetics, University of Aarhus, Denmark, email:
volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dkApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 13
Volker Loeschcke Dept. of Ecology and Genetics
Aarhus University Ny Munkegade, Buildg. 540 DK-
8000 Aarhus C, Denmark
fax: +45 8942 2722 tlf: +45 8942 3268, cell: +45 2899
2368 email: biovl@biology.au.dk
Volker Loeschcke <volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dk >
Uppsala ESEBSymposium
Epidemiology
Dear Colleagues
We would like to invite you to submit abstracts for the
ESEB XI symposium on “Evolutionary epidemiology
and its implications for disease control.”
Evolutionary biologists have long focused on the long-
term evolution of pathogens, based on game theory, of-
ten overlooking the short-term dynamics of infections.
Recently, novel approaches, both experimental and the-
oretical, have started to unravel the short-term evolu-
tion of pathogens on the same time scale as transient
epidemic dynamics. Integrative methods are needed
to understand the dynamics of traits such as virulence
or antibiotic resistance, and devise appropriate control
measures.
We welcome contributions that rely on experiments or
mathematical models for human, animal or plant infec-
tious diseases. The focus will be on novel approaches,
especially those associating diﬀerent disciplines.
Invited speakers: Troy Day (Queen’s University,
Kingston, Ontario) and Andrew Read (University of
Edinburgh).
Deadline for submission of abstracts: April 15th.
ESEB XI website: <http://www-conference.slu.se/-
eseb2007/index.html >The proceedings of this sym-
posium will be published in the Journal of the Royal
Society Interface.
Organisers: Olivier Restif (University of Cambridge)
and Sylvain Gandon (IRD Montpellier).
Dr. Olivier Restif CIDC - Disease Dynamics Unit Dept.
of Veterinary Medicine University of Cambridge Mad-
ingley Road Cambridge CB3 0ES Great-Britain
Tel: +44 (0)1223 337685 Fax: +44 (0)1223 764667
http://www.vet.cam.ac.uk/cidc/ or226@cam.ac.uk
or226@cam.ac.ukUppsala ESEBSymposium
HybridCytonuclearCoevolution
Dear colleagues,
This is a call for abstracts for a symposium at the ESEB
XI Congress in Uppsala, Sweden (August 20-25, 2007):
“Cytonuclear coevolution and the evolution of hybrid
zones”
The last few years have seen a wealth of data on
the coevolution between the mitochondrial and nuclear
genomes (cytonuclear coevolution). Speciﬁcally, close
interaction among mitochondrial and nuclear polypep-
tides are necessary for optimal function of energy pro-
duction in mitochondrial membranes. Hence, there is
strong selection for coadaptation of linked mitochon-
drial and nuclear genes. The breaking up of coadapted
gene complexes in hybrid zones may lead to dramatic
declines in the performance of hybrids, known as hy-
brid breakdown. This symposium will cover recent de-
velopments in the research on cytonuclear coevolution
(empirical, theoretical, etc.) and our understanding of
hybrid inviability. Given (1) the numerous deep “phylo-
geographic (mtDNA) breaks” discovered within species,
(2) that small cytonuclear incompatibilities may aﬀect
ﬁtness, and (3) that cytonuclear interactions can evolve
rapidly, cytonuclear coevolution must be incorporated
into our understanding of hybrid zone evolution. A
main point of discussion will therefore be on the role
of cytonuclear coevolution in the development of re-
productive isolation and as a possible driving force for
speciation.
Two leading researchers on cytonuclear coevolution are
invited as speakers:
Professor Ronald Burton - Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, Univ. of California, San Diego, USA -
http://burtonlab.ucsd.edu/Site/Home.html - Research
focus on intraspeciﬁc hybrid incompatibility in Tigri-
opus californicus due to maladaptive combinations of
mitochondrial and nuclear genes
Professor David Rand - Department of Ecology & Evo-
lutionary Biology, Brown University, USA - http://-
www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/rand/ - Research
focus on natural selection of mitochondrial lineages and
comparative genomics in Drosophila
If you are interested in participating in the symposium,14 EvolDir April 6, 2007
there are opportunities for talks and posters. The Ab-
stract deadline is April 15) Please send your applica-
tion through the web portal of the ESEB conference at:
http://www-conference.slu.se/eseb2007/ You are most
welcome to contact us with any questions. Feel free also
to send us info on your recent research on cytonuclear
coevolution (e.g. pdfs) for background to a forthcom-
ing review paper. Additional background information
is available at: http://www.zoo.utoronto.ca/lindell/-
symposium.html See you in Uppsala!
Johan Lindell and Staﬀan Bensch, Symposium organiz-
ers
Johan Lindell Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology, University of Toronto E-mail: jo-
han.lindell@utoronto.ca
Staﬀan Bensch Department of Ecology, Lund Univer-
sity E-mail: staﬀan.bensch@zooekol.lu.se
johan.lindell@utoronto.ca
Uppsala ESEBSymposium
MHCEvol Aug20-25
Dear Evoldirists,
we invite you to submit your abstracts for the sym-
posium ’Why MHC makes the diﬀerence its role in
various ﬁelds’ at the 11th conference of the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) 2007 in Upp-
sala, Sweden.
Symposium description: The Major Histocompatibility
Complex (MHC) plays a key role in the adaptive im-
mune system of vertebrates. Its exceptional polymor-
phism brings it into the focus of scientists from several
ﬁelds like evolutionary ecology, immunology, conserva-
tion biology and genetics. We would like to discuss the
evolutionary processes of maintaining such high poly-
morphism and its consequences on mate choice, host-
parasite co-evolution and speciation as well as its use
as a functional marker in population genetics and con-
servation biology.
We would like talks and posters to present diverse
points of view on the evolutionary function of the MHC.
To highlight this interdisciplinary approach, we encour-
age contributions from various ﬁelds.
Invited speakers: Simone Sommer, Leibniz-Institute for
Zoo- and Wildlife Research, Berlin, Germany. Gabriele
Sorci, Biogeosciences, CNRS, University of Bourgogne,Dijon, France
ESEB XI runs from the 20th-25th August 2007. Details
of the conference, including online abstract submis-
sion can be found here: http://www-conference.slu.se/-
eseb2007/ Relevant dates: April 15th: Deadline for
submission of abstracts. April 30th: Deadline for re-
duced rate registration.
Symposium organisers: Tobias Lenz, Max Planck
Institute for Limnology, Germany (lenz@mpil-
ploen.mpg.de) Christophe Eizaguirre, Max Planck
Institute for Limnology, Germany (eizaguirre@mpil-
ploen.mpg.de)
–
Tobias Lenz Max Planck Institute for Limnol-
ogy Department of Evolutionary Ecology August-
Thienemann-Str. 2 24306 Ploen Germany
Tel: +49-(0)4522-763245 Fax: +49-(0)4522-
763310 lenz@mpil-ploen.mpg.de http://www.mpil-
ploen.mpg.de/english/evoleco/staﬀ/lenz.htm
lenz@mpil-ploen.mpg.de lenz@mpil-ploen.mpg.de
Uppsala EnemiesandDiversiﬁcation
Aug20-25
Call for abstracts for a symposium on ’THE ROLE OF
ENEMIES IN DIVERSIFICATION’ at the ESEB XI
Congress, Uppsala, August 20-25, 2007.
Symposium description: This symposium will gather
people working with a mixture of data and theory on
the evolutionary consequences of natural enemies on
diversiﬁcation and adaptive radiation of prey lineages.
Conﬁrmed Invited Speaker: Jim Mallet, University Col-
lege London, United Kingdom
Symposium Organizers: Steven Vamosi, Univer-
sity of Calgary, Canada (smvamosi@ucalgary.ca)
Patrik Nosil, Simon Fraser University, Canada
(pnosil@zoology.ubc.ca)
Conference details can be found at <http://www-
conference.slu.se/eseb2007/ >. Thanks! Steve & Pa-
trik
– Dr. Steven M. Vamosi Assistant Professor
and Ingenuity New Faculty Department of Bi-
ological Sciences, University of Calgary http://-
homepages.ucalgary.ca/ ˜ smvamosi/ “Steven M. Va-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 15
mosi”<smvamosi@ucalgary.ca >
Uppsala EvolBiol and gender
Aug20-25
Call for participation to a symposium at the ESEB XI
Congress at Uppsala, Sweden, August 20-25 2007
“Gender perspectives on evolutionary biology”
Gender perspectives on evolutionary biology has un-
covered male bias in sexual selection theory and em-
pirical research. It has also enabled researchers to per-
ceive the importance of females for evolutionary pro-
cesses and explore additional sexual selection mecha-
nisms. However, these perspectives are still unconven-
tional in evolutionary biology and we would like to en-
courage development in this ﬁeld by bringing together
scholars from diﬀerent disciplines with practical expe-
rience of applying gender perspectives in evolutionary
biology. The symposium will cover papers on theory
and model development, meta analysis and practical,
applied ﬁeld and laboratory research as well as science
criticism. One of the main points of discussion will be
future directions for theoretical and empirical research.
Invited speakers will be Professor Patricia A. Gowaty,
University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, USA. & Pro-
fessor Marlene Zuk, University of California, Riverside,
USA.
If you are interested in participating to the sympo-
sium, there are opportunities for talks and posters.
Please send your application through the web portal
of the ESEB conference http://www-conference.slu.se/-
eseb2007/ Malin Ah-King, Department of Zoology,
Stockholm University, Sweden. E-mail: Malin.Ah-
King@zoologi.su.se
Mans Andersson, Department of Gender Stud-
ies, Uppsala University, Sweden. E-mail:
Mans.Andersson@gender.uu.se
Malin Ah-King <Malin.Ah-King@zoologi.su.se >
Uppsala EvolGameTheory Aug20-25
Call for participation to a symposium ESEB XICongress at Uppsala, Sweden, August 20-25 2007
“GAME THEORY IN ECOLOGICAL CONTEXT”
Adding ecological realism to game theoretical models
has recently led to exciting new results e.g. on the ori-
gin of diﬀerent strategy types (such as Hawk, Dove and
Bourgeois) and revealed that classic results are embed-
ded in a larger framework. Intense research explores the
eﬀect of population structure on the evolution of coop-
eration. These areas are connected to adaptive dynam-
ics, which aims to model evolution starting from pop-
ulation dynamics. The symposium welcomes contribu-
tions in any area of game theory and related ﬁelds (both
theoretical and empirical), but particularly those which
contribute to the unfolding synthesis between ecological
and evolutionary dynamics.
Invited speakers of the symposium are Olof Leimar
(Stockholm University) and John McNamara (Univer-
sity of Bristol). This symposium is organised by Eva
Kisdi and Hanna Kokko (University of Helsinki).
Talks and posters contributing to this symposium
are welcome! Please submit your abstract through
the Congress website, http://www-conference.slu.se/-
eseb2007/, before 15 April 2007. For further informa-
tion, please feel free to contact the symposium organ-
isers.
Eva Kisdi Department of Mathematics FIN-00014 Uni-
versity of Helsinki, Finland eva.kisdi [at] helsinki.ﬁ
kisdi@mappi.helsinki.ﬁ kisdi@mappi.helsinki.ﬁ
Uppsala EvolutionaryHistories
Aug20-25
Call for abstracts for the symposium
“EVOLUTIONARY HISTORIES BEYOND OR-
GANELLE DNA”
at the European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB XI) conference August 20-25, 2007 in Uppsala,
Sweden.
Synopsis: Single locus studies of molecular diversity at
mitochondrial or chloroplast loci still prevail although
it has been known for long that for example stochastic
processes, selection and mode of inheritance may lead
to strong discrepancies among evolutionary histories in-
ferred from diﬀerent loci. The symposium aims to ex-
amine the extent of congruence between evolutionary16 EvolDir April 6, 2007
inferences based on organelle DNA and others mark-
ers, and the relative value of multi-marker or genomic
approaches versus single locus surveys.
Conﬁrmed speakers: Kerry L Shaw, University of
Maryland, USA Remy J Petit, INRA Cestas, France
Abstracts can be submitted online until April 15 at
http://www-conference.slu.se/eseb2007/ . For further
information on this symposium, please contact the or-
ganisers Gerald Heckel (gerald.heckel@zoo.unibe.ch) or
Maarit Jaarola (m jaarola@bison.zbs.bialowieza.pl).
Dr. Gerald Heckel Computational and Molecular Popu-
lation Genetics (CMPG) Zoologisches Institut Universi-
taet Bern Baltzerstr. 6 CH-3012 Bern Switzerland Tel.:
+41 (0)31 631 30 29 Fax: +41 (0)31 631 31 88 Email:
gerald.heckel@zoo.unibe.ch http://cmpg.unibe.ch/-
people/heckel.htm gerald.heckel@zoo.unibe.ch
Uppsala GeneMapping Aug20-25
Call for abstracts for a symposium on ’GENE MAP-
PING IN NATURAL POPULATIONS’. European So-
ciety for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) conference 2007,
Uppsala, Sweden.
We are now seeking abstracts for talks and posters for
this symposium.
ESEB XI runs from the 20th-25th August 2007. Details
of the conference, including an online abstract submis-
sion can be found here: http://www-conference.slu.se/-
eseb2007/ Relevant dates are: April 15th: Deadline
for submission of abstracts. April 30th: Deadline for
reduced rate registration.
Substantial discounts are available for ESEB members.
Background: In recent years quantitative genetics tools
have succesfully been applied to wild animal and plant
populations, yielding considerable insight into processes
of speciation, reproductive isolation, adaptation and
microevolution. The logical extension of this work is
to identify and/or map the genes reponsible for vari-
ation in relevant traits in wild populations, and mea-
sure their ﬁtness eﬀects where possible. Gene mapping
experiments are now underway in a diverse range of
ecologically relevant organisms. This symposium will
showcase recent mapping experiments in wild popula-
tions of animals and plants. Talks will cover empirical,
theoretical and technological breakthroughs.
Conﬁrmed speakers include: Hopi Hoeskstra (Harvard)Loren Rieseberg (University of British Columbia)
If you have any queries please contact Jon
Slate (j.slate@shef.ac.uk) or Christian Lexer
(c.lexer@rbgkew.org.uk)
Jon Slate & Christian Lexer
Jon Slate <j.slate@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
Uppsala HostParasiteEvolution
Aug20-25
Dear Evoldir Members,
We are writing to advertise a symposium at the
XI ESEB Congress, Uppsala, 20-25 August. If you
are interested in contributing a talk to this sympo-
sium, the deadline for abstract submissions is: APRIL
15 (please submit your abstracts to: http://www-
conference.slu.se/eseb2007/index.html )
Thanks
Mark Brown & Thierry Rigaud
Host-parasite evolution: consequences of multi-parasite
infections and host species assemblages Organiz-
ers: Mark Brown (mabrown@tcd.ie) & Thierry
Rigaud (thierry.rigaud@u-bourgogne.fr) Description:
This symposium will examine the evolutionary conse-
quences of complexity in host-parasite systems, focus-
ing on (i) multiple parasite species sharing the same
host and (ii) single parasite species utilising multiple
host species. Invited speakers: Sylvain Gandon & Di-
eter Ebert
Abstract: Classical studies of host-parasite evolution
have concentrated on single-species host-parasite sys-
tems, due to their empirical and theoretical tractability.
However, it has long been known that hosts harbour
multiple parasite or symbiont species, and that many
parasites with direct life-cycles have multiple concur-
rent host species. Consequently, to understand the evo-
lution of host-parasite systems evolutionary biologists
need to address these more complex interactions. Re-
cent work, both theoretical and empirical, has started
to address both sides of the coin. The impact of para-
sites on their hosts may be modulated, both positively
and negatively, by the presence of additional parasite
species. From a parasite perspective, this has impor-
tant implications for the evolutionary trajectory of key
features such as virulence or transmission. Similarly,
the use of multiple host species has implications for theApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 17
evolution of host-exploitation strategies. From a host
perspective, the evolution of defences against parasites,
and consequent life-history trade-oﬀs, may depend on
the parasite community as a whole. The time is ripe
to bring researchers in this ﬁeld together within a sym-
posium, providing impetus for the development of this
research area as well as important synergies between
theoreticians and empiricists.
mabrown@tcd.ie
Uppsala PhenotypeDepDispersal
Aug20-25
Dear Evoldir Members,
This is a call for the symposium “Process and impli-
cations of phenotype-dependent dispersal and settle-
ment”, as part of the 11th European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology (ESEB) conference (20th-25th August
2007, Uppsala, Sweden). You are still in time to submit
abstracts for talks and posters for this symposium.
Conﬁrmed speakers: Dan Bolnick (University of Texas
at Austin, USA) Ben Sheldon (University of Oxford,
UK)
Background: Evidence and appreciation is mounting
for the notion that dispersal and gene ﬂow may not
be the random process that most evolutionary theory
assumes it to be. When individuals carefully com-
pare available environments with their phenotypes and
choose to stay at or move to locations where ﬁtness is
expected to be highest, such matching habitat choice
may cause individuals with similar phenotypes to end
up in the same locations. The resulting spatial struc-
ture in ecological traits can have important implica-
tions for topics such as the rate and degree of local
adaptation, the potential for peak shift, and speciation-
with-gene ﬂow. With this symposium we hope to raise
the proﬁle for this process by exploring and integrating
across neglected and recent studies.
Details of the conference, including an online ab-
stract submission can be found here: http://www-
conference.slu.se/eseb2007/ Relevant dates are: April
15th: Deadline for submission of abstracts. April 30th:
Deadline for reduced rate registration.
Substantial discounts are available for ESEB members.
If you have any queries please contact Pim Edelaar
(pim.edelaar@ebc.uu.se).PS: note my new email address
<pim.edelaar@ebc.uu.se >
Dr. Pim (W.M.C.) Edelaar Marie Curie Post-doctoral
Fellow Uppsala University, Department of Animal
Ecology http://www.uwyo.edu/benkman/Pim.html
http://www.iee.uu.se/zooekol/default.php?type=-
personalpage&id=136
Wilhelmus Edelaar <pim.edelaar@ebc.uu.se >
Uppsala SexRoleDynamics
Aug20-25
Call for poster/presentation abstracts for a symposium
on “MATING COMPETITION AND SEX-ROLE DY-
NAMICS” at the European Society for Evolutionary
Biology (ESEB XI) conference August 20-25, 2007 in
Uppsala, Sweden.
Symposium Summary:
Parental investment has long been recognized as a
key factor underlying the operation of sexual selection.
High levels of parental investment reduce the potential
reproductive rate (PRR) and may skew the operational
sex ratio (OSR), directly inﬂuencing the intensity of
mating competition. Recent work has highlighted the
fact that environmental factors such as ambient temper-
ature and resource availability may disproportionately
inﬂuence male and female PRR, leading to spatial and
temporal variation in sex-roles.
While empirical results ﬁt well with classical theory,
recent theoretical approaches have questioned the pre-
sumed link between PRR, OSR and sexual selection.
At the same time, genomic approaches are allowing the
elucidation of the genetic basis of sex-roles and mating
preferences. This symposium will consider recent theo-
retical approaches to the study of mating competition
and sex-roles, which together with new genetic data
have provoked a reconsideration of classic paradigms of
sexual selection.
Conﬁrmed speakers include: Stephen Shuster (North-
ern Arizona) Lotta Kvarnemo (G¨ oteborg)
Abstracts can be submitted online until April 15 at
http://www-conference.slu.se/eseb2007/ . For further
information on this symposium, please contact Tony
Wilson (tony.wilson@zoolmus.unizh.ch) or Ingrid Ah-
nesj¨ o (ingrid.ahnesjo@ebc.uu.se).
Tony Wilson Assistant Professor, Evolution and Biodi-18 EvolDir April 6, 2007
versity Zoological Museum University of Zurich Win-
terthurerstrasse 190 CH 8057 Zurich Switzerland Tel:
41 44 635 4790 Fax: 41 44 635 4780
tony.wilson@zoolmus.unizh.ch
ZhejiangU
3rdIntlQuantitativeGenetics
Aug19-24
The Third Announcement:
The 3rd International Conference on Quantitative Ge-
netics Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China, August
19-24, 2007
The 3rd International Conference on Quantitative Ge-
netics (ICQG3) will be held during August 19-24, 2007
hosted by Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, China. As
with the 1st ICQG in Ames, Iowa in 1976 and the
2nd ICQG in Raleigh, North Carolina in 1987, the 3rd
Conference will be a comprehensive survey of the cur-
rent status of quantitative genetics. New technologiesin areas ranging from genomics and molecular genet-
ics to statistics are providing both opportunities and
challenges for our understanding of the genetic basis of
quantitative traits in natural populations, the evolution
of characters, and use for plant and animal breeding.
The Conference will be held in an international ho-
tel, the Yellow Dragon Hotel, in the downtown of
Hangzhou.
The program listing invited speakers is on the web-
site. Registration is now open on-line at http://-
www.icqg.org/ . The Conference welcomes participants
to submit contributed papers. Only an abstract is
needed and is to be submitted at registration for the
conference. A limited number of contributed papers
will be selected for oral presentation in an appropriate
session of the conference and all others will be presented
in formal poster sessions. Accompanying persons are
also welcomed, and a special program for them will be
arranged.
Please check out the conference website http:/-
/www.icqg.org/ for more information. If you
have questions and suggestions, please contact
ICQG3@zju.edu.cn.
zeng@statgen.ncsu.edu
GradStudentPositions
ETHZurich InsectBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
ImperialCollegeLondon EvolResponseClimateChange
19
LaurentianU TurtlePopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
LeidenU EvolOfSpeech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
LeidenU TheoBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
McGillU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Muenster Exp mol evol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Munich EvolFuncGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Munich PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
OxfordU MolecularMovements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Portugal ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Saskatoon PlantConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UAkron EvolSynthesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25UAlaskaFairbanks PlantInsectInteractions . . . . . . . . . 26
UCollegeLondon ButterﬂyEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
ULausanne MultigenePhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UNewBrunswick EvolOfMulticellularity . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UNewSouthWales EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UNorthCarolinaGreensboro ApisGenomics . . . . . . . . . 27
UOxford ProblemSolvingAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UTexasArlington XenopusEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 28
UZurich 2 PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UZurich ComparativeAnatomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UZurich MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UZurich PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
WageningenU IntragenomicConﬂict . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32April 6, 2007 EvolDir 19
ETHZurich InsectBehaviour
We are seeking a motivated and creative PhD Student
in Entomology with a Diploma (MSc) degree in Biology
or related University Degree.
The project deals with the ecology and behaviour of
a parasitoid wasp of practical agricultural signiﬁcance,
occurring naturally in Switzerland. In particular, the
focus will be on the examination of the costs of inbreed-
ing and their avoidance. We expect new insights into
how behavioural decisions can aﬀect optimal sex ratios
and ultimately improve the ﬁtness of mass-reared and
released parasitoids. Methods will integrate ﬁeld sur-
veys, behavioural experiments, ﬁtness assays and the
use of molecular tools. Results shall contribute to the
fundamental understanding of sex allocation and mat-
ing structures in parasitoids, as well as to a sound ap-
plication of biological control strategies.
Languages spoken in the group are mainly German and
English.
The position is funded for a duration of three years,
and is open until ﬁlled.
Interested candidates should submit a curriculum vitae
and certiﬁcates, along with name, address and phone
number of three references by e-mail or post to:
Prof. Dr. Silvia Dorn Reference Code PhD-InsBeh
Institute of Plant Sciences/ Applied Entomology ETH
Zurich Schmelzbergstr. 9 / LFO CH - 8092 Zurich
Switzerland
silvia.dorn@ipw.agrl.ethz.ch
Informal inquiries should be directed to Dr. Dominique
Mazzi (dominique.mazzi@ipw.agrl.ethz.ch).
dominique.mazzi@ipw.agrl.ethz.ch do-
minique.mazzi@ipw.agrl.ethz.ch
ImperialCollegeLondon
EvolResponseClimateChange
A funding opportunity is available for excellent can-
didates (UK degree high 2.1 or 1st class + Masters
“Distinction” or equivalent) for a PhD studentship at
Imperial College London on evolutionary responses ofecosystems to climate change. The project could in-
volve a combination of theory, laboratory experiments,
global database analyses or ﬁeld-surveys. Please con-
tact Tim Barraclough at t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk
before the 23rd of March if interested in this possibility,
including a copy of your CV and one paragraph outline
of interests.
—– **MSc course - Ecology, Evolution & Conser-
vation** www.imperial.ac.uk/lifesciences/ecolevolcons
—– Dr. Timothy G. Barraclough, Senior Lecturer in
Biodiversity and Evolution, Imperial College London
and Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
—– Division of Biology Imperial College London
Silwood Park Campus Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7PY,
UK Telephone: +44 (0)20 7594 2247 Fax: +44
(0)20 7594 2339 Web-page: www.imperial.ac.uk/-
people/t.barraclough t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk
t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk
LaurentianU TurtlePopGenet
MSc Position ˆ a Laurentian University, Ontario
Trent-Severn Waterway Turtle Population Genetics
I am seeking a highly motivated and independent per-
son with a love of the outdoors to ﬁll an MSc position
with ﬁeld work starting May 2007 to work on turtle
species at risk (map turtles and stinkpot turtles) move-
ment patterns and gene ﬂow through the Trent-Severn
National Historic Waterway in Ontario, Canada. This
is a two-year radio telemetry and population genetics
project; previous experience with these ﬁeld and lab
techniques is highly desirable. The graduate student
will work as a research technician from May ˆ a August
2007, and formally begin in the MSc Program at Lau-
rentian University in September 2007; thus, the student
will have a full ﬁeld season of data collection ﬁnished
before starting in the MSc Program. The graduate stu-
dent is encouraged to create and develop an additional
project component complementary to the required re-
search. Excellent communication skills are required
as the student will be expected to participate in pub-
lic outreach education programs about reptiles at risk.
The graduate student may also be required to partici-
pate in surveys for turtle species at risk in other areas of
the Trent-Severn Waterway. Laurentian University will
provide a GTA during the school year. The project and
MSc position are pending funding from Parks Canada.20 EvolDir April 6, 2007
How to apply: Please send a letter of intent, CV, and
unoﬃcial transcript to:
Dr. Jackie Litzgus Department of Biology Lauren-
tian University 935 Ramsey Lake Road Sudbury,
Ontario, P3E 2C6, Canada jlitzgus@laurentian.ca
http://oldwebsite.laurentian.ca/biology/english/-
faculty/litzgus.htm Closing date for applications: 1
April 2007
jlitzgus@laurentian.ca
LeidenU EvolOfSpeech
The Leiden Institute for Brain and Cognition (LIBC)
has a position available for a PhD student for the
project:
Towards the template - the early vocal development of
songbirds and human infants.
The aim of this interdisciplinary project is to assess the
similarities in mechanisms underlying selective vocal
learning in human infants and songbirds (zebra ﬁnches)
by running similar experiments in both models. The
project concentrates on the ﬁrst phase of vocal devel-
opment, that of storing a representation of the vocal
input in memory. It will examine to what extend this
process is guided by unlearned initial perceptual biases,
what these biases look like and how the input aﬀects
the formation of a template that precedes vocal pro-
duction. The project is a joint project of the research
groups Behavioural Biology (Institute of Biology Lei-
den) ( http://biology.leidenuniv.nl/ibl/S8/ ) and the De-
partment of Linguistics (ULCL) at Leiden University.
Requirements: Candidates are expected to have an MSc
(drs) degree in Biology, Cognitive Neuroscience or other
relevant discipline, and to have a strong interest in ex-
perimental and interdisciplinary studies. Experience or
qualiﬁcations in working with animal models will be of
advantage.
Appointment: The appointment is for a period of 4
years and is expected to lead to completion of a disser-
tation. The gross monthly salary for a PhD candidate is
?1956 in the ﬁrst year and increases progressively each
year to ?2502 in the fourth year. Salary and fringe ben-
eﬁts conform to the Collective Employment Agreement
for Dutch Universities. We hope to ﬁll the vacancy as
soon as possible.
Applications: Written applications (mentioning refer-
ence number 7-092), including a CV with marks ob-tained and the names, telephone numbers and email
addresses of at least two referees (who have agreed
to be contacted) should be submitted to: Leiden
University, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sci-
ences, attn. mw L. den Hollander. P.O. Box
9502, 2300 RA Leiden, the Netherlands, or by email:
l.den.hollander@science.leidenuniv.nl. Closing date: 15
April 2007.
Further information: Prof dr Carel ten Cate, Be-
havioural Biology, c.j.ten.cate@biology.leidenuniv.nl.
Dr Claartje C. Levelt, Linguistics,
c.c.levelt@let.leidenuniv.nl .
c.j.ten.cate@biology.leidenuniv.nl
c.j.ten.cate@biology.leidenuniv.nl
LeidenU TheoBiol
1 PhD position (4 years) At the section Theoretical Bi-
ology of the Institute of Biology (Leiden University, the
Netherlands)
This PhD project is aimed at developing methods and
models for studying eﬀects of several factors, such as
population structure and genetical mechanisms on in-
trogression probabilities of modiﬁed genes. The mod-
els are based on stochastic processes, and take inter-
individual variation into account. The project is part of
a collaboration between mathematicians, ecologists and
molecular biologists, funded from the progrqm ERGO
of the Dutch government (see http://www.nwo.nl/-
nwohome.nsf/pages/NWOA 6JNP94 Eng). Within
this project 2 PhD1s and 1 Postdoc will be appointed.
The candidate should have: - A master in Mathematics
or Biology, with a specialisation in Mathematical Biol-
ogy - Experience with stochastic modeling of popula-
tion dynamical and/or population genetical processes -
Suﬃcient ﬂuency in writing and speaking English
For more information contact: Dr. P. Hac-
cou, email:.p.haccou@ibl.leidenuniv.nl, tel: +31 7171-
5274917. A description of the project can be down-
loaded from our website: http://biology.leidenuniv.nl/-
ibl/S11/docs/ERGOproject.pdf Applications quoting
vacancy reference number: 7-083 on the letter and enve-
lope can be sent until March 30 to: Faculty of Sciences,
Leiden University, Dienst P&O, Mrs. L. den Hollander,
PO Box 9504, 2300 RA LEIDEN, The Netherlands, e-
mail: l.den.hollander@science.leidenuniv.nl
p.haccou@biology.leidenuniv.nlApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 21
McGillU PlantEvolution
Ph.D. Position at McGill University, Montreal
I am seeking a motivated and independent stu-
dent to study the evolution and breakdown of self-
incompatibility in the plant genus Leavenworthia. This
work involves a combination of lab and ﬁeld studies,
and is part of a 5-year NSERC-funded study. Molecular
lab experience is an asset but not a necessity. The Biol-
ogy Department at McGill University is a vibrant and
interactive group of staﬀ, graduate students, and post-
docs with expertise is all aspects of ecology, evolution,
and conservation biology. Montreal is a safe, bilingual,
and cosmopolitan city. This position is open to stu-
dents from both inside and outside of Canada. Please
contract me for details at: Daniel.Schoen@McGill.CA.
Include in your e-mail message a short description of
your educational background and qualiﬁcations. I will
be happy to provide details about formal application
procedures for the graduate program at McGill.
Dan Schoen
daniel.schoen@mcgill.ca daniel.schoen@mcgill.ca
Muenster Exp mol evol
Open Position (PhD) in Experimental Molecular Evo-
lution
A position for a PhD student is available in the group of
Experimental Molecular Evolution group at the newly
founded Institute of Evolution and Biodiversity, Uni-
versity of Muenster, starting 1st October 2007 or later.
The position is funded by the Volkswagen Founda-
tion, in the context of the “Initiative Evolutionsbiolo-
gie” [ http://www.volkswagenstiftung.de/foerderung/-
impulse/ evolutionsbiologie.html].
Research projects will be in one or more of the following
areas (see our research page for details): - Biodiversity
and phylogeny of animal oncogenic viruses. - Mech-
anisms driving evolution in animal viruses. - Evolu-
tionary implications of codon usage diﬀerences between
virus and host. - Evolution of horizontally transferred
genes in bacterial systems. - Implications of codon us-age preferences in evolutionary dynamics of Horizontal
Gene Transfer events.
Research concept integrates experimental and bioinfor-
matic approaches. Genuine interest in evolution, as well
as ability and willingness to work both in silico and in
vitro/in vivo are essential. Required qualiﬁcations are:
- MSc University degree in a biological area such as bio-
chemistry, microbiology or cell biology OR background
in bioinformatics and research experience in a biologi-
cal ﬁeld (please detail in the application) - Fluency in
English (the oﬃcial language of the group) - Indepen-
dent and critical thinking abilities to develop individual
work - Good social skills; capacity and willingness to
develop teamwork - Interest in programming and data
mining (basic programming skills will be considered a
plus) - Interest in statistics (basic skills in statistics will
be considered a plus)
Candidates are encouraged to send informal inquiries
to: Dr. Ignacio G. Bravo Experimental Molecular
Evolution, Institut for Evolution and Biodiversity, FB
Biologie, Westf¨ alische Wilhelms Universit¨ at M¨ unster
Schlossplatz 4, D-48149 M¨ unster, Germany
http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
Evolution.ExpMolEvol/ e.mail: i.bravo at dkfz.de.
(Present address, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum,
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, 69120, Heidelberg, Ger-
many).
The newly founded Institute for Evolution and Bio-
diversity in Muenster integrates evolutionary research
ranging from bioinformatics and molecular biology to
organismic biology and ecology. It includes senior re-
search groups in Animal Evolutionary Ecology, Evo-
lutionary Bioinformatics, Limnology and Plant Evolu-
tionary Ecology, as well as independent research groups
on Evolutionary Ecology and Didactics of Biology and
in Limnology and Ecology. There is a strong commit-
ment from the University of Muenster itself and from
the Faculty of Biology in the development of a strong
curriculum in Evolutionary Biology, as expressed also
in the funding granted by the Volkswagen Foundation
in the context of their “Inititative Evolutionsbiologie”
regarding new concepts in evolutionary education.
Muenster hosts many excellent scientiﬁc institutions
such as a newly founded Max-Planck Institute for
biomedical research, a Centre for Nanotechnology and
a great number of specialised research areas. Muenster
is a dynamic city with a world-famous heritage centre
and is located in the middle of the beautiful “Muenster-
land”. It is very lively, last but not least because of the
high number of students (around 20% of the residents)
and the rich choice of social, cultural and sporting fa-22 EvolDir April 6, 2007
cilities (see www.muenster.de for further details).
Equal opportunity regulations apply.
Dr. Ignacio Gonz´ alez Bravo
Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum / German Cancer
Research Centre Infection and Cancer F020 Im Neuen-
heimer Feld 280 69120 Heidelberg Germany
phone +6221424935 +6221424943 fax +6221424932
i.bravo@dkfz.de
http://www.uni-muenster.de/evolution/expmolevol/
i.bravo@dkfz-heidelberg.de i.bravo@dkfz-heidelberg.de
Munich EvolFuncGenomics
PhD Student: Evolutionary/Functional Genomics,
University of Munich
A PhD student position is available in the laboratory
of John Parsch at the University of Munich (LMU).
The position is part of a project funded by the Ger-
man Science Foundation (DFG) to study the molecular
evolution of Drosophila genes with sex-biased expres-
sion. The work will be primarily experimental, includ-
ing gene expression analysis and transgenic expriments.
The position will be paid as BatIIa/2 (or equivalent) ac-
cording to the German pay scale. Requirements are a
master’s degree (or Diploma) in biology and a strong in-
terest in molecular evolution. The University of Munich
has a strong, interactive group in evolutionary biology,
including theoreticians and experimentalists working on
both plant and animal systems. We have a very inter-
national group and the everyday working language is
English. The LMU department of biology is housed in
the new state-of-the-art BioCenter on the University of
Munich High-Tech campus. More information is avail-
able on the web at:
http://www.zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/evol Appli-
cants should send a PDF ﬁle with a statement of in-
terest, curriculum vitae, and the contact information
for at least two referees to:
parsch@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
The University of Munich is an equal opportunity em-
ployer with an aﬃrmative action program for the dis-
abled.Munich PopulationGenetics
PhD positions: Population genetics, Munich
Two PhD student positions are available in the labora-
tory of Wolfgang Stephan at the University of Munich.
The positions are funded by the German Science Foun-
dation (DFG) to study the genetics of adaptation in
Drosophila. The work will be primarily experimental,
including gene expression analysis. The position will be
paid as BatIIa/2 (or equivalent) according to the Ger-
man pay scale. Requirements are a master’s degree (or
Diploma) in biology and a strong interest in molecular
evolution and/or population genetics. The University
of Munich has a strong, interactive group in evolution-
ary biology, including theoreticians and experimental-
ists working on both plant and animal systems. Our
group is very international and the everyday working
language is English. The LMU department of biology
is housed in the new state-of-the-art BioCenter on the
University of Munich High-Tech campus.
More information is available on the web at:
http://www.zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/evol Appli-
cants should send a PDF ﬁle with a statement of in-
terest, curriculum vitae, and the contact information
for at least two referees to: stephan@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de
The University of Munich is an equal opportunity em-
ployer with an aﬃrmative action program for the dis-
abled.
rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de rose@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de
OxfordU MolecularMovements
Evolutionary Analysis of Molecular Movements by
Thomas Darden, Jotun Hein and Mark Sansom.
The scholarship is only available to Home and
EU students who meet the residency requirements!!!
Potential applicants should contact Maureen York
(york@stats.ox.ac.uk) for more information.
BackgroundApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 23
Comparative Biology is a major contributor to biologi-
cal understanding and can applied to any biological ob-
jects that are homologous. The large application area
presently is sequences, but other rising areas include
structures, networks, organs and more. The strength of
evolutionary comparison is the ability to detect features
of functional importance and thus select properties that
demands a functional explanation from a sea of noise.
The only requirement for evolutionary comparison is
that the objects to be compared are homologous. In
this sense movements are perfectly homologous as the
movements associated an ancestral molecule would be
inherited with modiﬁcation, when the molecule evolved
over evolutionary time. Movements of molecules have
a series of special properties that singles them out com-
pared to other comparative traits. It we imagined to
compare the movements of globins over time, this would
involved about 3000 atom positions, that could be ob-
served in 109 time steps of size 10-15 seconds. One
could imagine 2-10 globins had been observed and the
total data set would be of the order 1010 spatial posi-
tions. Due to the increase in use of molecular dynamics,
this kind of analysis have great potential and it is clear
that analysis of such data would need entirely new ap-
proaches.
Proposed Research
Conformational change appears to be essential to the
formation of highly speciﬁc but relatively low aﬃnity
binding complexes that characterize signal transduction
in cells. Hubs, or proteins involved in multiple protein-
protein complexes are characterized by having either
disordered domains or high surface charge. Proteins
containing intrinsically disordered regions have been re-
viewed recently by Dyson and Wright. They emphasize
the importance of dynamics, through coupled folding
and binding, to forming short term but highly speciﬁc
interactions. Thus the study of the dynamics of confor-
mationally variable proteins is an increasingly impor-
tant topic within the structural biology of signalling
processes.
Experimental approaches that have been brought to
bear on this problem include X-ray crystallography,
NMR and other spectroscopic approaches, calorimetry,
and ﬁnally various single molecule techniques such as
AFM. Of these crystallography provides the highest
precision but is limited to a speciﬁc trapped confor-
mation. Dynamics is inferred from B-factors and more
importantly from comparison of diﬀerent conformations
of the same protein involved in diﬀerent protein-protein
or protein-ligand complexes. The spectroscopic and sin-
gle molecule approaches provide more direct evidence
of dynamics, but at a cost of structural precision. Re-
cent advances in NMR techniques oﬀer a particularlypromising avenue of approach to both structure and
dynamics.
Dynamics of proteins can be eﬃciently modeled by
coarse grained approaches such as Normal Mode Anal-
ysis, that describe the low frequency collective modes
of activation. This approach has been used to infer
dynamics in protein superfamilies, and thus could be
used to discuss the question of what characterizes the
types of conformations sampled by homologous pro-
teins. However, since these model the protein as a ho-
mogeneous elastic body, the eﬃciency of the approach
comes at the cost of a loss of accuracy and of sequence
speciﬁc information i.e. dynamics is necessarily deter-
mined entirely by the shape of proteins regardless of the
identity of their amino-acid sequence. A far more pre-
cise description is provided by the technique of molec-
ular dynamics simulations, which provides an atomic
level description of protein motions. Currently these
simulations are limited to the picosecond to the sub-
microsecond time scale, and provide high precision but
only semi-quantitative accuracy due to limitations in
the force-ﬁelds. Comparative molecular dynamics of
related proteins increases the reliability of the results
and provides an avenue to study the evolution of dy-
namic modes and allowed conformations.
The study of unfolding and refolding of entire domains
is currently not feasible within either of the above two
theoretical approaches, and experimental results are
few. However the EF-hand domain provides a tractable
highly interesting example of a domain that is struc-
turally conserved, but conformationally variable and
small enough to study with a comparative molecular
dynamics approach. These domains provide a “trigger”
for signalling events by undergoing
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Portugal ComputationalBiol
PhD Programmes at Instituo Gulbenkian de Ciencia,
Portugal
Call for Applications
INSTITUTO GULBENKIAN DE CIENCIA24 EvolDir April 6, 2007
* PhD ProgramME in Neuroscience, Brain & be-
havioural systems
* PhD ProgramME in computational biology
* Gulbenkian PhD ProgramME (Life Sciences)
On-line applications are open to April 20, 2007
Further information on the program is available below
and at www.igc.gulbenkian.pt PHD PROGRAMME
IN NEUROSCIENCE BRAIN & BEHAVIOURAL
SYSTEMS
CALL FOR APPLICATIONS
The Funda¸ c˜ ao para a Ciˆ encia e a Tecnologia (FCT),
The Funda¸ c˜ ao Champalimaud (FC) and the Instituto
Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia (IGC), call for applications to
a 4-years PhD programme in Neuroscience, Brain &
Behavioural Systems. Starting September 17, 2007, a
small group of students, supported by FCT fellowships,
will receive a full year graduate education by an inter-
national Faculty, followed by doctoral thesis work at
the Institute, associate laboratories, or elsewhere in the
world.
The programme wishes to attract highly motivated and
independent thinkers with a strong interest in Biology
and Biomedical Sciences, who aim at excellence and co-
operativity, and at engaging in innovative, risk-taking
research. We seek candidates who are not afraid to
work hard and are not easily disillusioned when faced
with scientiﬁc challenges.
We expect that candidates have successfully completed
a minimum of 4 years higher education (for Europeans,
240 ECTS) by September 1st, 2007, in any area of
Science, Medicine or Technology, but exceptional cases
may be considered. Applicants with a background in
physical sciences, mathematics, engineering or com-
puter sciences are encouraged to apply regardless of
background in biology. Medically qualiﬁed students will
be eligible for thesis work in clinical research. Foreign
students are eligible for support from FCT, provided
they will work in a Portuguese laboratory.
Applications are open to April 20, 2007.
Applicants must submit to <www.igc.gulbenkian.pt >
a brief curriculum vitae, names and contacts of ref-
erences, and a letter of motivation. Applications will
be conﬁrmed by email. Address eventual questions to
Manuela Cordeiro <mcordeir@igc.gulbenkian.pt >Ap-
plicants will be selected for an interview conducted in
person or remotely by phone or videoconferencing and
will be informed of the ﬁnal decisions not later than
June 1, 2007. Further information on the program
is available at <www.igc.gulbenkian.pt >PHD PRO-
GRAMME IN COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGYCALL FOR APPLICATIONS
The Funda¸ c˜ ao para a Ciˆ encia e a Tecnologia (FCT),
the Siemens SA Portugal and the Instituto Gulbenkian
de Ciˆ encia (IGC), call for applications to a 4-years
PhD programme in Computational Biology. Starting
September 17, 2007, 12 students, supported by FCT
fellowships, will receive a full year graduate education
by an international Faculty at the IGC, Oeiras, Portu-
gal, followed by 3 years of research training at a recog-
nised laboratory anywhere in the world. The program is
conducted in close cooperation with the FLAD Collab-
oratorium in Computational Biology, and with several
other institutions in Portugal and abroad.
The program wishes to attract highly motivated and
independent thinkers with a strong interest in Biologi-
cal and Computational Sciences, who aim at excellence
and cooperativity, and at engaging in innovative, risk-
taking research. We seek candidates who are not afraid
to work hard and are not easily disillusioned when faced
with scientiﬁc challenges.
We expect that candidates have successfully completed
a minimum of 4 years higher education (for Europeans,
240 ECTS) by September 1st, 2007, in any area of Life,
Exact or Computer Sciences and Technologies, but ex-
ceptional cases may be considered. Applicants with
unconventional education track records are encouraged.
Foreign students are eligible for support from FCT, pro-
vided they will work in a Portuguese laboratory.
Applications are open until April 20, 2007.
Applicants must submit to <www.igc.gulbenkian.pt >
a brief curriculum vitae, names and contacts of refer-
ences, and a letter of motivation. Hardcopies of the
full application ﬁles must also be posted to: PDBC,
IGC, Apartado 14, PT-2781-901 OEIRAS, Portugal.
Detailed information on the program is available at
<www.igc.gulbenkian.pt >. Address eventual questions
to<pdbc@igc.gulbenkian.pt >. Applicants will be se-
lected for a decisive interview conducted in person or
remotely by phone or videoconferencing, and will be
informed of the ﬁnal decisions not later than June 15,
2007.
GULBENKIAN PHD PROGRAMME
CALL FOR APPLICATIONS
The Funda¸ c˜ ao para a Ciˆ encia e a Tecnologia (FCT) and
the Instituto
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 25
Saskatoon
PlantConservationGenetics
A PhD Position in Plant Conservation Genetics
A highly-motivated student is being searched to ﬁll a
PhD position in plant conservation genetics available
after April 2007 in Dr. Yong-Bi Fu’s lab at Plant
Gene Resources of Canada, AAFC Saskatoon Research
Centre. The research project for the student is open,
but preferably on molecular characterization of plant
transposon elements. Dr. Fu’s lab focuses on the de-
velopment and application of molecular techniques to
address plant conservation issues, particularly in seed
genebanks, and to infer crop domestication ( http://-
pgrc3.agr.ca/staﬀ/fu e.html ). A MSc in molecular ge-
netics or biology (not necessarily in plant) is desir-
able and experiences with gene cloning would be a
valuable asset. The successful candidate will be paid
the stipend of $24,000 plus health beneﬁts and regis-
tered in the Department of Plant Sciences, University
of Saskatchewan. Applicants are expected to submit
a detailed resume along with a one page research pro-
posal outlining the research they would like to conduct.
Proposals should include a brief background statement,
objective(s), method and materials and expected out-
comes and will be evaluated on originality, impact and
feasibility. Informal inquiries concerning the position
may be addressed to Dr. Fu at fuy@agr.gc.ca or 306-
956-7642.
Yong-Bi Fu, PhD
Plant Gene Resources of Canada / Les Ressources Phy-
togenetiques du Canada Saskatoon Research Centre /
Centre de Recherche de Saskatoon
Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada/Agriculture et
Agroalimentaire Canada
107 Science Place
Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X2 Canada Telephone/T´ el´ ephone:
306-956-7642 Facsimile/T´ el´ ecopieur: 306-956-7246
Email: Fuy@agr.gc.ca <mailto:Fuy@agr.gc.ca >
http://pgrc3.agr.ca/staﬀ/fu e.html
FuY@AGR.GC.CAUAkron EvolSynthesis
Ph.D. Position at the University of Akron, working with
Dr. Francisco Moore
I am seeking a graduate student that is interested in
research that integrates micro evolutionary and macro
evolutionary approaches. My lab primarily utilizes long
term experimental evolution in bacteria to test macro
and micro evolutionary theory. While I am currently
most interested in a student willing to work with en-
teric bacteria, I work in vertebrate and microbial sys-
tems and also am interested in computational biology.
Ultimately my students must decide on their own sys-
tem. Critical analysis skills are important and previous
experience can be in any ﬁeld of biology. Optimally, a
student in my lab should be inquisitive enough to get
into trouble occasionally, and smart enough to always
get out of trouble. Training in the Integrated Bioscience
Program at U of Akron allows study of paleontology,
evolutionary genetics and computational biology as well
as a diversity of other interdisciplinary research ar-
eas. We are a new program, and we have a large set
of faculty that work in Ecology, Evolution, Behavior
and Comparative Biology. My fairly minimalist web
site is located at http://www3.uakron.edu/biology/-
moore/PacoMoore.html If you are curious about op-
portunities for graduate study in my lab or at the Uni-
versity of Akron please contact me!
Paco Moore
Dr. Francisco B.-G. Moore
Integrated Bioscience Program
University of Akron
Akron, OH 44325-3908
moore@uakron.edu http://www3.uakron.edu/-
biology/moore/PacoMoore.html (330) 972-2572
If all you have is FORTRAN life is just a series of loops.
Faculty In Ecology Evolution, Behavior and Compara-
tive Biology at U of Akron. Dr. Brian Bagatto - Com-
parative Developmental Physiology of Vertebrates Dr.
Todd Blackledge - Evolutionary Ecology of Spiders Dr.
Bruce Cushing - Developmental mechanisms regulating
social behavior Dr. Joel Duﬀ - Evolution of RNA edit-
ing in plants Dr. Peter Lavrentyev - Marine and fresh-
water microbial food webs Dr. Richard Londraville -
Comparative Physiology of Fish Dr. Randy Mitchell -26 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Evolutionary Ecology Dr. Paco Moore - Evolutionary
Synthesis Dr. Peter Niewiarowski - Evolution of Life
Histories Dr. Jean Pan - Plant and Microbial Ecology
Dr. Lisa Park - Invertebrate Paleontology Dr. Steve
Weeks - Evolution of sex-determining mechanisms
moore@uakron.edu
UAlaskaFairbanks
PlantInsectInteractions
MS or PhD Student interested in plant-insect interac-
tions
I am seeking a highly qualiﬁed MS or PhD student to
work on an NSF-funded project examining plant-insect
interactions involving aspen (Populus tremuloides) in
Interior Alaska. The research examines the impact of
extraﬂoral nectaries (EFNs) and chemical defense on
damage by an herbivore, the aspen leaf miner (Phyl-
locnistis populiella), that currently impacts 80% of all
aspen leaves in the region. Much of our work seeks to
understand the mechanisms leading to patterns of min-
ing damage in relationship to the presence of EFNs and
focuses on tri-trophic interactions involving both ants
and parasitoids.
Competitive candidates will have a sincere interest in
and curiosity about plant-insect interactions, a strong
background in ecology, a good undergraduate record,
superior GRE scores, and strong letters of reference.
The successful candidate will be expected to qual-
ify for admittance to the Department of Biology and
Wildlife and the University of Alaska Fairbanks Grad-
uate School. More information about our gradu-
ate program is available at http://www.bw.uaf.edu/-
bwgraduate.php The successful candidate may enter
our graduate program in the summer or fall of 2007.
For more information please contact Pat Doak
(ﬀpd@uaf.edu).
Pat Doak Department of Biology and Wildlife Insti-
tute of Arctic Biology University of Alaska Fairbanks
AK 99775 (907) 474 6449 FAX (907) 474 6716
ﬀpd@uaf.eduUCollegeLondon ButterﬂyEvol
Three PhD studentships are available (for UK resi-
dents). The studentships cover a variety of environ-
mental science topics, including my own topic on but-
terﬂies: Eﬀects of climate warming on biodiversity at
the edge of the Amazon basin. (see: www.ucl.ac.uk/-
environment-institute/jobs/docs/Mallet.pdf )
Further details and application forms: http:/-
/www.ucl.ac.uk/environment-institute/jobs/
James Mallet http://www.ucl.ac.uk/taxome/jim/
j.mallet@ucl.ac.uk j.mallet@ucl.ac.uk
ULausanne MultigenePhylogenetics
University of Lausanne, Switzerland Department of
Ecology and Evolution
PhD position in bioinformatics and molecular phyloge-
netics
This project aims at better understanding how large
multigene data matrices can be eﬃciently use to build
robust and accurate phylogenetic trees. Several aspects
will be considered including, (i) the eﬀect of supermatri-
ces with low data density on heuristic search algorithms
and the development of speciﬁc algorithms to deal with
such supermatrices, and (ii) the eﬀect of model param-
eters on the accuracy and robustness of trees based on
multigene data matrices.
I seek a candidate with a strong interest in theoretical
aspects of phylogenetic reconstructions and bioinfor-
matics, as well as a good background in evolutionary
biology. Candidates must have completed their Mas-
ter’s degree or equivalent in a relevant ﬁeld. Salary will
be based on standards of the Swiss National Science
Foundation, which is ﬁnancing the project.
Our department oﬀers a supportive and stimulating
environment, with access to excellent computer facili-
ties (links to the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics) and
molecular labs.
The position can start as early as June 2007, but, later
starting dates can be negotiated. To apply, please send,April 6, 2007 EvolDir 27
preferably by email: a letter describing your research
motivation and experience, a CV, and contact details of
two referees. Application deadline is April 30th, 2007.
Further information and address for application: Nico-
las Salamin University of Lausanne Department of
Ecology and Evolution 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland e-
mail: nicolas.salamin@unil.ch tel: +41 21 692 4279
web: www2.unil.ch/phylo
–
Nicolas Salamin Department of Ecology and Evolution
University of Lausanne 1015 Lausanne Switzerland
ph: +41 21 692 4279 fax: +41 21 692 4165 email: nico-
las.salamin@unil.ch web: http://www2.unil.ch/phylo
Nicolas.Salamin@unil.ch Nicolas.Salamin@unil.ch
UNewBrunswick
EvolOfMulticellularity
A graduate student position is available in the labo-
ratory of Aurora Nedelcu, in the Department of Biol-
ogy ( http://www.unb.ca/fredericton/science/biology/-
) at the University of New Brunswick ( http://-
www.unb.ca/ ), Canada. Research in our laboratory
is directed towards understanding general, fundamen-
tal issues in evolution such as the evolution of mul-
ticellularity, development, cell diﬀerentiation, sex, pro-
grammed cell death, altruism. Our research is rooted in
the framework of transitions in individuality and evo-
lution of complexity (at a conceptual level), and of cel-
lular responses to stress (at a more mechanistic level)
(http://www.unbf.ca/vip/amnedelcu/ ). The experi-
mental model-system we are currently using is the green
algal group, Volvocales (see our Volvocales Information
Project; http://www.unbf.ca/vip ). Highly motivated
students with interests in either theoretical or exper-
imental approaches, and previous research experience
are encouraged to apply. Interested applicants should
e-mail a CV, summary of research experience and in-
terests, unoﬃcial transcripts, and contact information
for at least two referees to anedelcu@unb.ca. Appli-
cants should meet the minimum requirements for ac-
ceptance in the Biology Department Graduate Program
(see http://www.unb.ca/fredericton/science/biology/-
Degree Info/Graduate.html ).
anedelcu@unb.caUNewSouthWales EvolBiol
University of New South Wales, Sydney: Evolutionary
biology
A full-stipend scholarship is available for PhD stud-
ies in the laboratory of Dr. Russell Bonduriansky in
the School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sci-
ences at the University of New South Wales. Our lab
pursues research on sexual selection and sexual dimor-
phism, evolutionary genetics, and the evolution of age-
ing through laboratory and ﬁeld research on ﬂies and
other insects, as well as the development of new theory.
The successful applicant will have the opportunity to
choose from several interesting projects, or to develop
their own project within this broad area, in consulta-
tion with Dr. Bonduriansky.
The School includes one of Australias most research-
active clusters in the area of ecology and evolution, and
the evolutionary biology group is currently expanding.
The University of New South Wales is located in Syd-
neys eastern suburbs, about 5 km from the city centre.
For more information, visit: http://-
www.bees.unsw.edu.au/research/research.html
http://www.bees.unsw.edu.au/school/researchstaﬀ/-
bonduriansky/bondurianskyrussel l.html
To apply, submit a CV, contact details for two
academic referees, and a one- page statement of
research interests to Dr. Russell Bonduriansky
(r.bonduriansky@unsw.edu.au). Note that the success-
ful applicant, if not an Australian citizen/resident, will
also need to apply to the University for a fee-waiver
scholarship.
r.bonduriansky@unsw.edu.au
r.bonduriansky@unsw.edu.au
UNorthCarolinaGreensboro
ApisGenomics
MSc Position at the University of North Carolina,
Greensboro
Honey Bee Evolutionary Genomics28 EvolDir April 6, 2007
I am seeking a highly-motivated Masters student to
work on a NSF-funded genomic study of the reproduc-
tive ground-plan hypothesis of social evolution. This
will involve QTL mapping of ovary size in honey bee
workers and follow-up studies. Therefore, an interest
in evolution and genetics, as well as experience in ba-
sic genetic analyses and quantitative skills is desirable.
Additional assets include knowledge of social insects,
self-motivation, and some skills in bioinformatics, quan-
titative genetics, and molecular biology. The research
could begin as early as May 2007 but formal start of
the MSc Program at UNCG would be in August 2007.
In addition, I seek a student for comparative genomic
studies among diﬀerent species in the genus Apis (honey
bees), particularly with respect to genome-wide recom-
bination rates.
Please contact me for more information about the po-
tential projects. Check www.uncg.edu/˜o ruppel for in-
formation about our lab and www.uncg.edu/˜o ruppel
for information on the department.
Please apply as soon as possible with a letter of in-
tent (explain why you are interested and relevant pre-
vious research experience), CV (including names of ref-
erences), and transcripts to:
Dr. Olav Rueppell Department of Biology, 105 Eber-
hart Bldg. University of North Carolina, Greensboro
Greensboro, NC 27403, USA Phone: (1) 336-256 2591
Fax: (1) 336-334 5839 E-mail: olav rueppell@uncg.edu
UOxford ProblemSolvingAdaptation
PhD studentship available on “Individual variation
in problem solving ability amongst great tits and
new caledonian crows: proximate causes and adap-
tive signiﬁcance”. http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/-
studentships.htm Closing date 16 April 2007.
Many thanks
John Quinn
Dr John L. Quinn Departmental Lecturer in Be-
havioural Mechanisms, EGI, Department of Zoology,
University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1
3PS. Tel: 0044(0)1865-271203 Mobile: 0044(0)7740-
869733 Fax: 0044(0)1865-271168
<http://egizoosrv.zoo.ox.ac.uk/EGI/EGIHome.htm >
http://egizoosrv.zoo.ox.ac.uk/EGI/EGIHome.htm
john quinn <john.quinn@zoo.ox.ac.uk >UTexasArlington
XenopusEvolGenomics
A PhD position available in Evolutionary Genomics of
Xenopus, the University of Texas - Arlington, begin-
ning Fall 2007.
I am seeking a highly qualiﬁed and motivated student
with interests in genomics, molecular evolution, bioin-
formatics and biostatistics. The successful candidate
will conduct research on African Clawed Frogs (Xeno-
pus) to address questions about the role of epigenetic
variation and gene regulation in the evolution of re-
productive isolation and phenotypic diﬀerences between
species. An essential component of the project involves
using RNA protocols, chromatin assays, DNA chips for
microarray analysis of gene expression, and embryo in-
jections. Ideally, the candidate should have molecu-
lar biology experience together with an understand-
ing of evolutionary mechanisms and a strong quanti-
tative/computational background. Former experience
with Xenopus, although not required, will be a great
asset.
The University of Texas Arlington, the second largest
component of the UT System, is conveniently located in
the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex, minutes away from
the best sports, entertainment and recreational oppor-
tunities in Texas. The Department of Biology at UTA
provides intellectually stimulating environment with a
number of dynamic research groups with strengths in
genomics, evolutionary biology, taxonomy, and molec-
ular evolution.
Informal inquiries concerning the project and appli-
cations may be addressed to Pawel Michalak, micha-
lak@uta.edu. Applications including a CV, statement
of research interest, copies of relevant publications,
and contact information of three references should be
emailed or mailed to me at the address below.
Pawel Michalak, Department of Biology University of
Texas Arlington 501 S. Nedderman 337 Life Science Ar-
lington, TX 76010-0498
Tel.: 817-272-2871 Fax: 817-272-2855 Email: micha-
lak@uta.edu http://www.uta.edu/faculty/michalak
MICHALAK@uta.edu MICHALAK@uta.eduApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 29
UZurich 2 PlantEvol
Dear Colleagues,
I would be very grateful if you could circulate the fol-
lowing announcement for two Ph.D. positions in plant
evolution among your colleagues and students:
Ph.D. ASSISTANTSHIPS IN PLANT MOLECULAR
SYSTEMATICS/ EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF ZURICH
POSITION DESCRIPTION: Two 3-year Ph.D. As-
sistantships (extendable to a 4th yr., if appropriate)
are available in the area of Plant Molecular System-
atics/Evolutionary Ecology at the Institute of Sys-
tematic Botany of the University of Zurich, under
the supervision of Prof. Elena Conti. The Ph.D.
projects will build upon an existing research program
on macro- and micro-evolutionary aspects of the plant
genus Primula: i) Macro-evolutionary project: Evo-
lution of breeding systems, ploidy levels, and biogeo-
graphic patterns in the framework of dated chloroplast
and nuclear phylogenies at the genus-wide level; ii)
Micro-evolutionary project: Hybridization, pollination
biology, and ﬂoral development in selected hybrid com-
plexes. Further details about the research projects will
be discussed upon interviews with the best-qualiﬁed
applicants. ( http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/-
personen/person.php?l=d&id=24 ). DEADLINE FOR
APPLICATION: April 30, 2007. If needed, the po-
sition will remain open until a suitable candidate is
found. STARTING DATE: Ideally October 1, 2007, but
earlier or later dates could be discussed. REQUIRE-
MENTS: Perspective students are expected to have re-
ceived their Master’s degree or equivalent by the start
of the Ph.D. program. Good knowledge of English and,
possibly, German highly desirable. The ideal candidate
will have documented experience/knowledge in one or
more of the following areas: molecular biology, phy-
logeny reconstruction, population genetics, evolution-
ary ecology, plant breeding systems, pollination biol-
ogy. The selected candidate will be expected to help
in teaching (3 to 5 hours weekly average, 3-4 months
per year) and writing proposals to raise additional re-
search funds. HOW TO APPLY: Send the following
by regular mail (preferred) or email to: Prof. Elena
Conti, Institute for Systematic Botany, Zollikerstrasse
107, 8008, Zurich, Switzerland: I) a one- to two-page
application letter addressing, but not limited to thefollowing questions: a) Why are you interested in a
Ph.D. in this research area? b) What are your career
goals? II) Your detailed curriculum vitae, including
a list of ﬁeld-collecting, molecular, analytical, and lin-
guistic skills, presentations at scientiﬁc meetings, and
publications (if applicable); III) a copy of your under-
graduate and graduate academic records, with grades
and an explanation of the grading system; IV) two or
three letters from your academic advisors addressing:
a) your intellectual and academic skills; b) your dedi-
cation to science; c) your ability to work cooperatively
in a team. Please, follow the directions for application
carefully. FACILITIES: The Institute of Plant System-
atics of the University of Zurich oﬀers state-of-the-art
research facilities in an international and stimulating
academic environment. Located in the heart of Europe,
Zurich oﬀers all the cultural opportunities of a major
European city in close proximity to the Alps.
–
Prof. Elena Conti, Ph.D. University of Zuerich, Insti-
tute for Systematic Botany Zollikerstrasse 107, 8008
Zuerich, SWITZERLAND Ph: 0041 1 634 8424 Fax:
0041 1 634 84 03 email: ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/personen/-
person.php?l=d&id UPCOMING INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCE: July 14-15, 2007, University of
Zurich:
“Origin and Evolution of Biota in Mediterranean Cli-
mate Zones”
http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/mediterranean/-
index.htm ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
UZurich ComparativeAnatomy
Open PhD position
The new research group working on Vertebrate Com-
parative Ontogeny and Palaeobiology at the Palaeon-
tological Institute of the University of Z¨ urich in-
vites applications for a PhD position (3 years fund-
ing, with potential ex-tension). The successful can-
didate will work in a Swiss National Science Foun-
dation supported research project about skeletal het-
erochronies in mammals and other amniotes, un-
der the supervision of Prof. Marcelo S´ anchez.
The Ph.D. project will build upon an existing re-
search program ( http://www.pim.uzh.ch/de/Institut/-
Mitarbeitende/index.php?show=34 ) and includes mu-30 EvolDir April 6, 2007
seum visits world wide and extensive lab work. Inter-
ested ap-plicants should check our website for our pub-
lications and current research projects. Details about
the PhD project will be discussed upon interviews with
the best-qualiﬁed applicants.
The ideal candidate will be a highly-motivated zoolo-
gist with neontological or palaeontological background.
Previous participation in research activities and excel-
lent writing skills in English are required, knowledge
of speaking German is desirable. Perspective students
are expected to have received their Master’s degree or
equivalent by the start of the Ph.D. program. The se-
lected candidate will be expected to help in teaching (3
to 5 hours weekly average, 3-4 months per year) and
writing proposals to raise additional research funds.
HOW TO APPLY: Send the following by regular mail
or email to: Prof. Marcelo S´ anchez: I) a one- to two-
page application letter addressing, but not limited to
the following questions: a) Why are you interested in a
Ph.D. in this research area? b) What are your career
goals? II) Your detailed cur-riculum vitae, including a
list of lab, ﬁeld, analytical, and linguistic skills, presen-
tations at scientiﬁc meetings, and publications (if ap-
plicable); III) a copy of your undergraduate and grad-
uate academic records, with grades and an explanation
of the grading system; IV) two or three letters from
your academic advisors addressing: a) your intellectual
and academic skills; b) your dedication to science; c)
your ability to work cooperatively in a team. Please,
follow the directions for application carefully. DEAD-
LINE FOR APPLICATION: May 1, 2007. If needed,
the position will remain open until a suitable candidate
is found. STARTING DATE: Summer or early Fall
2007 (negotiable).
The University is one of the top comprehensive institu-
tions in Europe and Z¨ urich, in close proximity to the
Alps, oﬀers the conditions for an excellent quality of life.
With a critical mass of researchers in Palaeontology and
Evo-lutionary Biology at the University and the neigh-
bouring Swiss Federal Insti-tute of Technology (ETH
Z¨ urich), Zurich oﬀers an exceptional academic environ-
ment for research and study. The Institute of Palaeon-
tology of the University of Z¨ urich oﬀers state-of-the-art
research facilities in an interna-tional and stimulating
academic environment.
Please send enquiries and applications (letter of appli-
cation, Curriculum Vitae and two references) by regu-
lar mail or by email to Prof. Marcelo S´ anchez (e-mail:
m.sanchez@pim.uzh.ch)
– Marcelo S´ anchez Assistant Professor of Palaeontology
Pal¨ aontologisches Institut und Museum Universit¨ at
Z¨ urich Karl Schmid-Strasse 4 CH-8006 Z¨ urich Switzer-land Phone: +41 (0)44 634 23 42 Fax +41 (0)44 634 49
23 For deliveries (please add): Raum KO2 E63e Email:
m.sanchez@pim.uzh.ch http://www.pim.uzh.ch/de/-
Institut/Mitarbeitende/index.php?show4 Marcelo
S´ anchez <m.sanchez@pim.uzh.ch >
UZurich MolEvol
PhD thesis in molecular evolution/evolutionary bioin-
formatics
Mobile DNA is DNA that can change its position within
a genome. It is an integral component of most bacterial
genomes, and also implicated in the spreading of drug
resistance genes among pathogenic bacteria. Why does
mobile DNA persist in genomes? On one hand, mobile
DNA may be a very eﬀective parasite, replicating itself
at the expense of its host. On the other hand, mobile
DNA can also have beneﬁcial eﬀects, such as occasion-
ally beneﬁcial mutations. An ongoing project in our
group aims at resolving the question why mobile DNA
is maintained in bacte-rial genomes and in eukaryotic
genomes. Despite thirty years of debate, the ques-tion
still has no conclusive answer. The availability of many
completely sequenced genomes provides a unique op-
portunity to remedy this situation. We are searching
for a Ph.D. student with demonstrable experience and
interest in evolutionary biol-ogy and a solid background
in bioinformatics.
The Wagner lab at the University of Zurich studies bi-
ological evolution on all levels of organization, from
genes, genomes, and genetic networks to whole or-
ganisms. A sam-ple of our research can be found at
http://www.biochem.unizh.ch/wagner/ .Lab members
are a group with very diverse backgrounds and research
projects, uniﬁed by their interests in evolution and /or
fundamental organizational principles of life.
The successful candidate will have a strong background
in bioinformatics and computational biology. Fluency
in a major scripting language such as perl, and expe-
rience in software development is a must. Also neces-
sary is a strong back-ground in biology. We are looking
for an individual with a Masters Degree or equivalent,
who is highly self-motivated and independent, and has
demonstrated interests in problems of molecular evolu-
tion. The working language in the labora-tory is En-
glish. German skills are not essential.
Zurich is a highly attractive city in beautiful surround-
ings, with a multinational population, and many edu-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 31
cational and recreational opportunities.
To be considered, please send a single (!) PDF ﬁle
containing a CV including pub-lication list (if avail-
able), a scanned academic transcript (list of grades
in university courses), a statement of research inter-
ests not exceeding two pages, and three refer-ences
to jobs aw@bioc.unizh.ch. Please include the word
MOBDNA in the sub-ject line. The application dead-
line is April 23, 2007.
– Prof. Dr. Andreas Wagner University of Zurich Dept.
of Biochemistry, Bldg. Y27 Winterthurerstrasse 190
CH-8057 Zurich Switzerland
Secr. (Christiane Gujan): +41-44-635-6142
Oﬃce: +41-44-635-6141 FAX: +41-44-635-
6144 Email: aw@bioc.unizh.ch Web: http://-
www.biochem.unizh.ch/wagner/ aw@bioc.unizh.ch
aw@bioc.unizh.ch
UZurich PlantEvol
TWO Ph.D. ASSISTANTSHIPS IN PLANT PHYLO-
GENETICS/ EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF ZURICH: second announcement
POSITION DESCRIPTION: Two 3-year Ph.D. As-
sistantships (extendable to a 4th yr., if appropriate)
are available in the area of Plant Molecular System-
atics/Evolutionary Ecology at the Institute of Sys-
tematic Botany of the University of Zurich, under
the supervision of Prof. Elena Conti. The Ph.D.
projects will build upon an existing research program
on macro- and micro-evolutionary aspects of the plant
genus Primula: i) Macro-evolutionary project: Evo-
lution of breeding systems, ploidy levels, and biogeo-
graphic patterns in the framework of dated chloroplast
and nuclear phylogenies at the genus-wide level; ii)
Micro-evolutionary project: Hybridization, pollination
biology, and ﬂoral development in selected hybrid com-
plexes. Further details about the research projects will
be discussed upon interviews with the best-qualiﬁed
applicants. ( http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/-
personen/person.php?l=d&id=24 ).
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: April 30, 2007. If
needed, the position will remain open until a suitable
candidate is found.
STARTING DATE: Ideally October 1, 2007, but earlier
or later dates could be discussed.
REQUIREMENTS: Perspective students are expectedto have received their Master’s degree or equivalent by
the start of the Ph.D. program. Good knowledge of En-
glish and, possibly, German highly desirable. The ideal
candidate will have documented experience/knowledge
in one or more of the following areas: molecular tech-
niques, phylogeny reconstruction, population genetics,
evolutionary ecology, plant breeding systems, pollina-
tion biology.
HOW TO APPLY: Send the following by regular mail
(preferred) or email to: Prof. Elena Conti, Institute for
Systematic Botany, Zollikerstrasse 107, 8008, Zurich,
Switzerland: I) a one- to two-page application letter ad-
dressing, but not limited to the following questions: a)
Why are you interested in a Ph.D. in this research area?
b) What are your career goals? II) Your detailed cur-
riculum vitae, including a list of ﬁeld-collecting, molec-
ular, analytical, and linguistic skills, presentations at
scientiﬁc meetings, and publications (if applicable); III)
a copy of your undergraduate and graduate academic
records, with grades and an explanation of the grading
system; IV) two or three letters from your academic
advisors addressing: a) your intellectual and academic
skills; b) your dedication to science; c) your ability to
work cooperatively in a team. Please, follow the direc-
tions for application carefully.
FACILITIES: The Institute of Plant Systematics of the
University of Zurich oﬀers state-of-the-art research fa-
cilities in an international and stimulating academic en-
vironment. Located in the heart of Europe, Zurich of-
fers all the cultural opportunities of a major European
city in close proximity to the Alps.
–
Prof. Elena Conti, Ph.D. University of Zuerich, Insti-
tute for Systematic Botany Zollikerstrasse 107, 8008
Zuerich, SWITZERLAND Ph: 0041 1 634 8424 Fax:
0041 1 634 84 03 email: ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/personen/-
person.php?l=d&id UPCOMING INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCE: July 14-15, 2007, University of
Zurich:
“Origin and Evolution of Biota in Mediterranean Cli-
mate Zones”
http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/mediterranean/-
index.htm ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
WageningenU IntragenomicConﬂict32 EvolDir April 6, 2007
PhD position on intragenomic conﬂict in basidiomycete
fungi
A four years PhD position on intragenomic con-
ﬂicts in basidiomycete fungi (’Nuclear tests in mush-
rooms’, see below for a summary) is available at
the Evolutionary Genetics group (Prof. Rolf Hoek-
stra, Wageningen University, the Netherlands) under
supervision of Duur Aanen ( http://www.gen.wur.nl/-
uk/staﬀ/postdocs/duur+aanen/ ). The project is
in collaboration with the laboratory of microbiol-
ogy (Prof. Han W¨ osten, University of Utrecht,
the Netherlands, http://www.bio.uu.nl/microbiology/-
fung/research/index.html ). We are looking for a highly
motivated candidate with interests in the ﬁelds of evo-
lutionary biology (especially levels of selection and/or
social evolution) and microbiology. Knowledge of ba-
sidiomycete life cycles and practical experience using
microbes is recommended but not necessary. The evo-
lutionary genetics group has a wide interest in funda-
mental questions in evolutionary biology and uses ex-
perimental, phylogenetic and theoretical approaches to
study these questions, while the microbiology lab spe-
cialises on functional aspects of fungal biology. A de-
scription of the PhD project is available upon request,
but the ﬁnal details will be worked out with the can-
didate, to accommodate interests and strength. The
position is supported by the Dutch Science Foundation
(NWO-ALW).
Starting date is negotiable, but preferably before July
2007. Knowledge of Dutch is helpful in every day life,
but the working language in the group is English. A
Diploma or Master degree (or equivalent) in biology or
related subject is necessary for admission.
Please send your application by email (all material in
one ﬁle please) to Duur Aanen. Applications should
include a CV, a list of publications (if any) and a state-
ment about research interests. Please give names and
email addresses of two persons who are willing to write
a letter of recommendation. Applications received be-
fore 30th March 2007 will be given full consideration.Further information and application: Duur Aa-
nen Laboratory of Genetics Wageningen Univer-
sity and Research Center The Netherlands Tel.
+31(0)317 482706 Mobile: +31 (0)6 10327948 Fax:
+31 (0)317 483146 http://www.gen.wur.nl/uk/staﬀ/-
postdocs/duur+aanen/ Sincerely,
Duur Aanen Abstract Nuclear tests in mushrooms.
The primary aim of the present project is to test the hy-
pothesis that in basidiomycetes, selection on organelles
(nuclei and mitochondria) within individuals can have
an adverse eﬀect on the ﬁtness of the individual itself.
Mushroom-forming basidiomycetes form one of the very
few organism groups where somatic fusions between ge-
netically diﬀerent individuals (haploid mycelia), some-
times more than two, are part of the regular life cycle.
Normally, after somatic fusion, haploid nuclei are recip-
rocally exchanged and migrate throughout the mycelia,
while mitochondria do not migrate. This leads to ge-
netic mosaics at various scales (cell, tissue, individual),
both with respect to the distribution of nuclei and to
the distribution of mitochondria. However, several ex-
ceptions have been found to this ’textbook’ lifecycle.
For example, nuclear migration is not always reciprocal,
but sometimes only in one direction (Unidirectional Nu-
clear Migration). Selective explanations for such aber-
rations seem problematic, because the ultimate ﬁtness
of the resulting dikaryon is reduced. Recently devel-
oped theory suggests as a possible selective explanation
that selection on organelles within individuals can act
in an opposite direction to selection between individu-
als. This means that selﬁsh nuclear and mitochondrial
genes, with an intra-individual advantage but a dele-
terious eﬀect on the individual, can be selected, which
leads to a genomic conﬂict. The overall aim of the
present project is to test this hypothesis, and to ex-
plore the balance of selection acting on organelles (nu-
clei and mitochondria) within and between individuals
of the basidiomycete model species Schizophyllum com-
mune.
“Aanen, Duur” <duur.aanen@wur.nl >
JobsApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 33
ArlingtonVA BotanicalConservation ResAssoc . . . . . 33
Bethesda 2 Genomics Taxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
EAWAG Switzerland 3 EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
EAWAG Switzerland FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
EAWAG Switzerland PopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Europe ArabidopsisEvolGenetics ResAssist . . . . . . . . 38
LouisianaStateU Museum MolGenetTech . . . . . . . . . . 38
MRC Bioinformatics curator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
McKendreeCollege Temporary EvolBiol teaching . . 39
MichiganStateU SummerRes LifeHistoryEvol . . . . . . 39
Milan EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Muenster 2 CompBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
NESCent Phyloinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
NESCent Programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
NESCent Programmer Web . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
NatlInstMalariaRes Delhi AnophelesEvolGenomics 43
NatureSourceGenetics Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Netherlands EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
NewYorkU Tech CompFuncGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45OhioStateU BiomedicalInformatics DatabaseWebInter-
face . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Paris HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
RoslinInst 3 ComputationalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
TexasAMU QuantEvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UCC Cork Ireland ProgramManager InformaticsSpe-
cialist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UCollegeCork MarineMolecularBiodiversity . . . . . . . . 48
UFlorida Genetics SummerInstr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UIdaho Undergrad Assist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UMiami VisitingGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UNeuchatel Switzerland EvolBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UNewSouthWales 2 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UPompeuFabra Barcelona 3 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . 51
URochester UndergradSummer EndosymbiontEvol 51
USheﬃeld FieldAssist AvianPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UZurich EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
WoodsHole ResTech Endosym . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
ArlingtonVA BotanicalConservation
ResAssoc
http://www.natureserve.org/job/-
jobNSBotanicalRA.jsp JOB TITLE: Botanical
Research Associate EMPLOYER: NatureServe
SUPERVISOR: Director, Botany Department LOCA-
TION: Arlington, VA DATE POSTED: February 2007
CLOSING DATE: Open until ﬁlled FLSA STATUS:
Exempt
INSTITUTIONAL BACKGROUND : NatureServe, a
501(c)3 conservation science and technology organiza-
tion, provides the scientiﬁc basis for eﬀective conserva-
tion action. Together with our international network
of over 80 natural heritage programs across the United
States, Canada, and Latin America, we are the leading
source of information on rare and endangered species
and threatened ecosystems. We provide information
and tools to conservation groups, government agencies,
corporations, academia, and the public to help them
make informed decisions about managing our natural
resources. With nearly 100 staﬀ and a $10 million an-
nual budget, NatureServe is a recognized leader in the
application of scientiﬁc information and advanced tech-
nology for conservation purposes. NatureServe oﬀers
a results-oriented and collaborative workplace where
a common mission provides focus and excitement and
where staﬀ is empowered to take ownership of projects
and mission success. Beneﬁts include a 401K savingsand retirement plan; health and dental insurance; short
and long-term disability; annual and sick leave; and life
insurance.
SUMMARY OF POSITION: The Botanical Research
Associate researches, summarizes, revises, and manages
information relating to native and exotic plant species
of the United States and Canada, with a focus on rare
species conservation. This position may work on a vari-
ety of projects that involve assessing rangewide conser-
vation status, researching rare plant species attributes
(e.g. habitat needs), maintaining database records re-
ﬂecting diﬀering taxonomic treatments, and evaluating
the degree of invasiveness of non- native plant species.
The Botanical Research Associate is responsible for rec-
onciling, summarizing, and analyzing botanical data re-
ceived from NatureServe member programs (Heritage
Programs and Conservation Data Centres) and other
sources, reviewing scientiﬁc journals, and communicat-
ing (orally and in writing) about the botanical informa-
tion holdings and the scientiﬁc methodologies of Na-
tureServe and its network of member programs. The
Botanical Research Associate is supervised by the Di-
rector, Botany Department and supervises no staﬀ.
ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS: 1. Work collabo-
ratively with other staﬀ in maintaining the accuracy
and currency of NatureServe’s botanical data for North
America, including conservation status, taxonomy, dis-
tribution, and U.S. and Canadian federal status. 2.
Provide support to North American natural heritage
programs by resolving problems related to taxonomic
and nomenclatural discrepancies that aﬀect data syn-
chronization with central databases and by providing34 EvolDir April 6, 2007
training, via formal sessions and personal communica-
tions, related to NatureServe scientiﬁc and technical
methodologies. 3. Develop or revise information re-
garding the conservation status of native plant species,
and integrate this information to determine species’
overall status according to standard protocols. This
work typically involves personal communication with
natural heritage ﬁeld botanists and other experts, as
well as literature review. 4. Develop or revise informa-
tion regarding the degree of impact of non- native plant
species on native plants, animals, and ecological com-
munities. This work typically involves personal com-
munication with local and regional experts, as well as
literature/ “gray” literature research. 5. Assist in out-
reach and project development activities related to the
needs of federal agencies, universities, and other part-
ners. Assist with grant/proposal writing and/or with
project management as needed.
KNOWLEDGE/SKILLS: 1. A master’s degree in
botany, ecology, or biology with coursework in plant
taxonomy, biogeography, and plant ecology. 2. Strong
familiarity with major North American geography,
landforms, and vegetation types. 3. Demonstrated
knowledge of principles and practices of plant classiﬁca-
tion, synonymy, and nomenclature. 4. Experience with
large complex databases, especially with data manage-
ment, quality control, searching and reporting. Expe-
rience with SQL desirable. 5. Familiarity with Nature-
Serve and/or IUCN Red List methods for assessing the
conservation status of plant species highly desirable. 6.
Knowledge of invasive species issues. 7. Strong writ-
ing and editing skills, including experience in summa-
rizing and interpreting scientiﬁc data for various audi-
ences. Strong verbal communication skills, including a
capacity for explaining complex technical subjects. 8.
Demonstrated ability to work independently, set prior-
ities, follow procedures, deal meticulously with details,
and work productively with
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Bethesda 2 Genomics Taxonomy
¨ ı/greatermuch¿Computercraft Corp. - Invertebrate Taxonomist
Invertebrate Taxonomist - Bethesda, MD USAComputercraft seeks an Invertebrate Taxonomist to
join the team of highly skilled and dedicated profes-
sional molecular biologists and systematists working
onsite at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in
Bethesda, MD. Our scientists work with genomic ex-
perts at NIH’s National Center for Biotechnology In-
formation (NCBI) in the National Library of Medicine
(NLM) to create and enhance a suite of databases and
tools available to researchers worldwide. We are cur-
rently looking for an invertebrate taxonomist to help
maintain the NCBI Taxonomy database for the Taxon-
omy Project at NCBI.
This technically challenging position requires a PhD
with a broad knowledge of invertebrate systematics at
the morphological and/or molecular level. Familiarity
with the principles of phylogenetic systematics and zo-
ological nomenclature is strongly desired. The success-
ful candidate will be responsible for maintaining the
nomenclature and classiﬁcation of a portion of the tax-
onomy database. Database curation includes verifying
taxon names, ensuring that classiﬁcation is consistent
with current consensus, and interacting with sequence
annotators and submitters. Up to 50% of the candi-
dateˆ as time will be available for independent research.
Opportunities for research collaboration exist within
NCBI and NIH, as well as within other regional in-
stitutions, depending on research interests. Teamwork
interaction, excellent verbal communication as well as
written and organizational skills are essential for this
position.
For consideration please submit cover letter, re-
sume/CV, salary history, salary requirements, and U.S.
employment eligibility (you must currently reside in the
U.S. and be eligible to work). Please note that incom-
plete application cannot be considered.
Computercraft Attn: HR 8300 Greensboro Drive
Suite 720 McLean VA 22102 703.288.4679 fax
hr@computercraft-usa.com
For more information on Computercraft and our
other biotechnology positions, please visit us at
www.computercraft-usa.com We oﬀer an excellent
salary and beneﬁts package, 40-hour week. Comput-
ercraft is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Computercraft Corp. - Metagenome Bioinformatics
Scientist
Metagenome Bioinformatics Scientist ˆ a Bethesda, MD
USA
Computercraft seeks a highly motivated individual to
curate environmental sample sequences in GenBank
and other related resources at the National Institutes
of Health (NIH), National Center for BiotechnologyApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 35
Information (NCBI). These samples include sequences
from more traditional site-directed environmental sam-
ple studies (rRNAs, and other loci) as well as more
recent ˆ ametagenomicsˆ a projects involving undirected
whole-environment shotgun sequencing strategies.
The NCBI directed project aims to make these data
more useful to the relevant research communities. The
successful candidate will be in direct contact with
all the current research and researchers in this ﬁeld.
Speciﬁcally, the individual will work with the external
scientiﬁc groups that generate and study environmen-
tal sequence data, and with the various groups at the
NCBI that are involved in the submission, classiﬁcation
and use of these sequences.
The successful candidate will work in the NCBI Taxon-
omy group and collaborate with experts in GenBank,
Genomes, BLAST, and Probe database groups onsite
at the NIH campus in Bethesda, Maryland. This is an
opportunity for the right person to make a signiﬁcant
contribution to the scientiﬁc community.
Responsibilities:
Design a broad strategy to represent and manipulate
environmental sequence data (site-speciﬁc and metage-
nomic).
Curate the nomenclature and classiﬁcation of environ-
mental sequences in the NCBI Taxonomy Database.
Assist in the development of submission tools, annota-
tion guidelines, analysis and statistical software tools
for environmental sequences.
Develop resources at the NCBI and contacts with the
research community to best support these eﬀorts.
Requirements:
Ph.D. in biology or related ﬁeld Extensive experience
with metagenome/environmental sample studies Excel-
lent oral and written communication skills
For consideration please submit cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, salary history, salary requirements, and U.S.
employment eligibility (you must currently reside in the
U.S. and be eligible to work). Please note that incom-
plete application cannot be considered.
Computercraft Attn: HR 8300 Greensboro Drive
Suite 720 McLean VA 22102 703.288.4679 fax
hr@computercraft-usa.com
For more information on Computercraft and our
other biotechnology positions, please visit us at
www.computercraft-usa.com We oﬀer an excellent
salary and beneﬁts package with a 40-hour week. An
equal opportunity employer.EAWAG Switzerland 3 EvolGenetics
The department of Fish Ecology and Evolution of the
Swiss Institute for Aquatic Science and Technology
(Eawag) still invites applications for three positions
in Ecology, Evolution, Genetics of Aquatic Organisms
that were recently announed in separate postings.
1. Tenure Track Group Leader in Ecol-
ogy/Evolution/Genetics/Conservation of Fish deadline
31 March
2. Fixed term (up to 5 years) research position in
molecular genetics deadline 7 April
3. Computational Population Geneticist / Ecologist (2-
3 years) shared with the Eawag Department of Aquatic
Ecology (Prof. Jukka Jokela) deadline 7 April
Details about the jobs and application procedure are
announced here http://www.ﬁshecology.ch/jobs.htm
see also ( http://naturejobs.nature.com; http://-
naturejobs.nature.com; )
All three jobs are located in the Kastanienbaum Centre
of Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry (Lucerne).
The department of Fish Ecology and Evolution is one
of three departments in the Eawag Centre of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Biogeochemistry in Kastanienbaum
(Lucerne). It is closely aﬃliated with the Institute of
Zoology, University of Bern. The core research of the
department involves building and testing general eco-
logical and evolutionary theories using ﬁsh model sys-
tems, as well as applying such theories to aid the con-
servation and management of ﬁsh populations, com-
munities and biodiversity. The excellent departmental
research facilities are located in Kastanienbaum, on the
shores of Lake Lucerne, about 20 minutes from Lucerne
town and 1.5 hours from Bern University. Facilities in-
clude a fully equipped molecular genetics laboratory
with two 8 capillary DNA sequencers, newly built out-
door glass troughs with lake water through-ﬂow for ex-
perimental work with ﬁshes, modern large cold water
and tropical aquarium facilities, a ﬂeet of stationary
and portable research vessels and cars for ﬁeldwork.
Applicants should send their applications, including
CV, publication list, a two pages statement of research
interests, including links to the research program
of the department (see www.ﬁshecology.ch ), and
the names and email addresses of ﬁve referees to36 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Sandra Isenring, Human Resources, Eawag, Ueber-
landstrasse 133, CH-8600 Duebendorf or per e-mail
to sandra.isenring@eawag.ch, and in one single PDF-
ﬁle to Ole Seehausen (ole.seehausen@eawag.ch).
For questions please contact Ole Seehausen
(ole.seehausen@eawag.ch). For information on
Eawag please consult http://www.eawag.ch/index EN,
for information on our de-partment please consult
www.ﬁshecology.ch
Eawag is the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Sci-
ence and Technology, a Swiss-based and internation-
ally active research institute within the ETH domain,
committed to an ecological, economical and socially re-
sponsible management of water.
Ole Seehausen
Institute of Zoology University of Bern Baltzerstr. 6,
CH-3012 Bern Phone direct +41 31 631 31 31 Phone
secr. +41 31 631 30 09 FAX +41 31 631 30 08 &
EAWAG Centre of Ecology, Evolution and Biogeochem-
istry Seestrasse 79 CH-6047 Kastanienbaum Phone di-
rect +41 41 349 21 21 Phone secr +41 41 349 21 08
FAX +41 41 349 21 68
http://www.ﬁshecology.ch Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch
Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch
EAWAG Switzerland FishEvolution
Research Group Leader in Ecol-
ogy/Evolution/Genetics/Conservation of Fish (tenure
track) at the Eawag Centre of Ecology, Evolution &
Biogeochemistry in Kastanienbaum/Lucerne (Switzer-
land)
We are inviting applications for a tenure track research
group leader position in ecology/genetics/conservation
of ﬁsh at the department of Fish Ecology and Evolution
of the Swiss Institute for Aquatic Science and Technol-
ogy (Eawag), located in Kastanienbaum/Lucerne (Cen-
tre of Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry).
We are seeking a dynamic and innovative scientist with
an excellent track record in science, and proven abil-
ity to attract extramural funding. S/he should be
well versed in ecological and evolutionary theories and
have strong aspiration for understanding how envi-
ronmental changes interact with ecological and evolu-
tionary processes to generate and maintain biodiver-
sity at any levels of biological organization from genes
to communities. The successful candidate is expectedto attract extramural funding from Science Founda-
tion and/or other sources to build a research group
in any aspect of ecology, genetics and conservation,
seeking to build bridges between theory and conser-
vation/management of ﬁsh. We welcome applications
both from theoreticians who work closely with empiri-
cists to develop testable theories, and from empirical
scientists who conduct theory-driven research. The suc-
cessful candidate is expected to actively engage in col-
laborations with other scientists at Eawag . A small
contribution to teaching (e.g. one course) at the Uni-
versity of Bern is envisaged, as is the supervision of
graduate students. Scientiﬁc language of the lab is En-
glish, and teaching is in English too. The advertised po-
sition is a tenure-track research leader with review for
tenure after four years. A formal lectureship aﬃliation
with a university is possible and strongly encouraged.
Requirements: PhD in a relevant ﬁeld and several years
of Postdoc experience
The department of Fish Ecology and Evolution is one
of three Eawag science departments in the Centre of
Ecology, Evolution and Biogeochemistry in Kastanien-
baum (Lucerne) and is closely aﬃliated with the Di-
vision of Aquatic Ecology and Macroevolution of the
Institute of Zoology, University of Bern. The core re-
search of our department involves building and testing
general ecological and evolutionary theories with ﬁsh
model systems, and applying such theories to aid the
conservation and management of ﬁsh populations and
communities. The excellent departmental research fa-
cilities are located in Kastanienbaum, on the shores of
Lake Lucerne, about 20 minutes from Lucerne town and
1.5 hours from Bern University by public transport.
Facilities include a fully equipped molecular genetics
laboratory with two 8 capillary DNA sequencers, two
large newly built outdoor glass troughs with lake water
through-ﬂow suitable for population level experimental
work with ﬁsh, a modern indoor lake water through-
ﬂow aquarium system, a large state of the art tropical
ﬁsh aquarium facility, a ﬂeet of several stationary and
portable research vessels and cars for ﬁeldwork. The
Center further has fully equipped laboratories for stable
isotopes, sedimentology and analytical chemistry. The
Center has recently been renamed (previously Limno-
logical Research Centre). Other recently started re-
search groups at the ecology/evolution interface are
theoretical ecology (Akiko Satake), evolutionary ecol-
ogy of algae and experimental evolution (Bas Ibelings),
molecular microbial ecology (Helmut B¨ urgmann), evo-
lutionary ecology (Jukka Jokela), evolution of species
diversity (Ole Seehausen).
Applicants should send their applications, including
CV, publication list, a short (less than two pages) sum-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 37
mary of future research interests, and the names and
email addresses of ﬁve referees to Sandra Isenring, Hu-
man Resources, Eawag, Ueberlandstrasse 133, CH-8600
Duebendorf or per e-mail to sandra.isenring@eawag.ch,
and in one single PDF-ﬁle to Professor Ole Seehausen
(ole.seehausen@eawag.ch). For questions please con-
tact Ole Seehausen (ole.seehausen@eawag.ch). For in-
formation on Eawag mission and research please con-
sult http://www.eawag.ch/index EN, for information
on our department please consult www.ﬁshecology.ch
Application deadline: March 31, 2007, applications will
be considered until the post is ﬁlled.
Eawag is the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Sci-
ence and Technology, a Swiss-based and internation-
ally active research institute within the ETH domain,
committed to an ecological, economical and socially
re-sponsible management of water. We have an open
tenure track position for an outstanding individual as
Ole Seehausen Professor for Aquatic Ecology & Evolu-
tion
Institute of Zoology University of Bern Baltzerstr. 6,
CH-3012 Bern Phone direct +41 31 631 31 31 Phone
secr. +41 31 631 30 09
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
EAWAG Switzerland PopGenet
The department of Fish Ecology and Evolution of the
Swiss Institute for Aquatic Science and Technology
(Eawag) invites applications for a ﬁxed term (up to
5 years) research position in molecular genetics located
in the Kastanienbaum Centre of Ecology, Evolution &
Biogeochemistry (Lucerne).
We are seeking a young, dynamic and innovative sci-
entist with a proven track record in molecular popula-
tion genetics, ecological or evolutionary genetics and a
hands-on wet-lab approach. S/he should be well versed
in evolutionary and population genetics theory, have
strong aspiration for understanding ecological and evo-
lutionary processes that generate and maintain species
diversity, and should be keen to work on ﬁsh as model
organisms. A major focus of the department is genetics
of adaptive diversiﬁcation and speciation using cichlidﬁsh and postglacial ﬁsh radiations as model systems.
The successful candidate is expected to contribute a
strong molecular genetic component to this research
program, and to attract extramural funding from Sci-
ence Foundation or other sources to build a small re-
search group. Some teaching and supervision of under-
graduate students is expected from fall 2007. Scientiﬁc
language of the lab is English, and teaching is in English
too. Salary depends on number of Postdoc years.
Requirements: PhD in a relevant ﬁeld and ideally some
years of Postdoc experience
The department of Fish Ecology and Evolution is one
of three departments in the Eawag Centre of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Biogeochemistry in Kastanienbaum
(Lucerne) and is closely aﬃliated with the Division of
Aquatic Ecology and Macroevolution of the Institute
of Zoology, University of Bern. The core research of
the department involves building and testing general
ecological and evolutionary theories using ﬁsh model
systems, as well as applying such theories to aid the
conservation and management of ﬁsh populations, com-
munities and biodiversity. The excellent departmental
research facilities are located in Kastanienbaum, on the
shores of Lake Lucerne, about 20 minutes from Lucerne
town and 1.5 hours from Bern University. Facilities in-
clude a fully equipped molecular genetics laboratory
with two 8 capillary DNA sequencers, two large newly
built outdoor glass troughs with lake water through-
ﬂow for population level experimental work with ﬁsh, a
modern indoor lake water through-ﬂow aquarium sys-
tem, a large state of the art tropical ﬁsh aquarium fa-
cility, a ﬂeet of stationary and portable research vessels
and cars for ﬁeldwork.
Applicants should send their applications, including
CV, publication list, a two pages statement of research
interests, including links to the research program
of the department (see www.ﬁshecology.ch ), and
the names and email addresses of ﬁve referees to
Sandra Isenring, Human Resources, Eawag, Ueber-
landstrasse 133, CH-8600 Duebendorf or per e-mail
to sandra.isenring@eawag.ch, and in one single PDF-
ﬁle to Ole Seehausen (ole.seehausen@eawag.ch).
For questions please contact Ole Seehausen
(ole.seehausen@eawag.ch). For information on
Eawag please consult http://www.eawag.ch/index EN,
for information on our de-partment please consult
www.ﬁshecology.ch
Application deadline: April 7, 2007, applications will
be considered until the post is ﬁlled.
Eawag is the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Sci-
ence and Technology, a Swiss-based and internation-
ally active research institute within the ETH domain,38 EvolDir April 6, 2007
committed to an ecological, economical and socially re-
sponsible management of water.
Ole Seehausen University of Berne
ole.seehausen@aqua.unibe.ch
Europe ArabidopsisEvolGenetics
ResAssist
Research Assistant needed for Arabidopsis ecological
plant genetics project in Europe.
We are looking for a Research Assistant to participate
in a large-scale investigation of the evolution of ﬂow-
ering time in the model plant, Arabidopsis thaliana.
Our approach includes analysis of the ﬂowering time
response to a wide range of natural and manipu-
lated environments at levels ranging from DNA se-
quence variation to continental ecotype distributions.
This NSF-funded Frontiers of Integrative Biological Re-
search (FIBR) project is a collaborative eﬀort of four
US labs (Johanna Schmitt, Brown University; Stephen
Welch, Kansas State University; Michael Purugganan,
New York University; Richard Amasino, University of
Wisconsin) as well as Arabidopsis laboratories at ﬁve
research institutions in Europe. Part of this study en-
tails establishing a set of ﬁve common gardens in Eu-
rope at Valencia, Spain; Oulu, Finland; Norwich, UK;
Cologne, Germany; and Halle, Germany. At these sites
large numbers of A. thaliana accessions will be grown in
multiple plantings synchronized with local populations
in order to assess geographic and seasonal variation in
selection of ﬂowering time and other life history traits.
We are seeking a Research Assistant who would be in-
terested in living at one of the ﬁve European ﬁeld sites
and assisting with plant care and measurement. Appli-
cants must have a B.S. degree in biology or a related
science. German or Spanish language skills are desir-
able for this position, but not required.
Prior research experience with plants is necessary be-
cause the Research Assistant may operate largely inde-
pendently for prolonged periods of time. Although the
primary duties involve plant care and measurement, the
successful applicant will have the opportunity to de-
sign and independently conduct plant genetic research
projects of joint interest to and in consultation with
participating host institution scientists. This Research
Assistantship has a strong training component and was
conceived as being analogous to a Fulbright fellowship.The successful applicant will be awarded an NSF-fellow
position. The fellowship stipend will be $35,000 plus
health insurance and other beneﬁts.
To apply, please send a letter of applica-
tion, resume and contact information for three
references (as pdf ﬁles) to Stephen Welch
(welchsm@ksu.edu <mailto:welchsm@ksu.edu >)
or Johanna Schmitt (johanna schmitt@brown.edu
<mailto:johanna schmitt@brown.edu >). Please
reference the position number (W0007455) in the
email Subject line. For further information on the
project see www.egad.ksu.edu/about.html <http://-
www.egad.ksu.edu/about.html >.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: May 15, 2007
– Karlene Varnadore Business Manager K-State Dept.
of Agronomy 2004 Throckmorton Hall Manhattan, KS
66506-5501 785/532-7261
Karlene Varnadore <kgv@ksu.edu >
LouisianaStateU Museum
MolGenetTech
Job Description The Austin Laboratory at the LSU
Museum of Natural Science is seeking a candidate for
a position as a LABORATORY TECHNICIAN. Ex-
perience in molecular genetic methods including DNA
isolation, PCR, automated sequencing are required.
Prior work in genomics and/or phylogenetics and HER-
PETOLOGY are highly desired.
The position entails laboratory management and re-
search, and the ideal applicant will have had exten-
sive experience in a genetics laboratory (i.e., mainte-
nance of laboratory equipment, facilities and frozen tis-
sue collections, and purchasing of supplies and equip-
ment) and conducting and training students and tech-
nicians in various molecular genetic methods (includ-
ing, for example, PCR, DNA sequencing using capillary
sequencers, construction of genomic libraries, develop-
ment of microsatellite and SNP markers).
Position available Summer/Fall 2007.
Applications will be reviewed starting 15 April.
E-MAIL cover letter, CV, and names, addresses, phone
numbers, and e-mail addresses of 3 references to:
Dr. Christopher Austin Assistant Curator/Professor
Museum of Natural Science 119 Foster Hall LouisianaApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 39
State University Baton Rouge, LA 70803-3216
e-mail: ccaustin@lsu.edu http://-
www.museum.lsu.edu/Austin/lab.html http://-
www.lsu.edu/museum ccaustin@lsu.edu
MRC Bioinformatics curator
EUMODIC Research Curator EUMODIC - EU funded
project Bioinformatics Group MRC Mammalian Genet-
ics Unit Oxfordshire
Starting salary £19,238 - £30,589 per annum depend-
ing on experience
The Research Curator will work within the Bioinfor-
matics Group, on the EU funded project EUMODIC.
They will be responsible for managing and curating the
EuroPhenome database, a database of mouse pheno-
type data. In addition they will be involved in the
development and integration of phenotype ontologies
with this database, alongside integration with related
datasets such as Ensembl.
Applicants should hold a ﬁrst degree (or higher) in Bi-
ological Sciences, Computer Science or Bioinformatics
and/or have appropriate experience with mouse phe-
notype data and/or ontology development. The can-
didate should be proﬁcient in at least one program-
ming language, preferably Java. A strong background
in management of large datasets and data integration,
and experience of ontology editors such as Prot´ eg´ e or
OBO-Edit, would be an advantage.
In return, we can oﬀer a competitive salary, 30 days
holiday and a generous pension scheme.
See the EUMODIC group website www.eumodic.eu
for more information on the project and http:/-
/www.mgu.har.mrc.ac.uk/ for more information on
the Unit’s research. Please contact John Han-
cock (j.hancock@har.mrc.ac.uk) or Ann-Marie Mallon
(a.mallon@har.mrc.ac.uk) with any questions.
This post is ﬁxed term for 3 years with possible exten-
sion to the project until 31 January 2011.
For an application form please email ox-
ford.recruitment@ssc.mrc.ac.uk, quoting reference
number 2007-070/MGU EUMODIC Research Curator.
Closing date for applications: 16 March 2007
Dr John M. Hancock Head of Bioinformatics, MRC
Mammalian Genetics Unit, Harwell, Oxfordshire OX110RD, U.K.
E-mail: J.Hancock@har.mrc.ac.uk Telephone: +44
(0)1235 84 1014 Fax: +44 (0) 1235 84 1210
WWW: http://informatics.har.mrc.ac.uk/ Personal
Page: http://informatics.har.mrc.ac.uk/jmhwww/
j.hancock@har.mrc.ac.uk j.hancock@har.mrc.ac.uk
McKendreeCollege Temporary
EvolBiol teaching
Instructor of Biology
McKendree College invites applications for a temporary
one-year, non tenure-track position to start in the Fall
2007 with the option of applying for the full-time tenure
track position for Fall, 2008.
Candidate will be teaching Introductory Biology, Prin-
ciples of Biology II, Genetics, Ecology, and Ani-
mal Behavior. A Ph.D. and prior teaching experi-
ence are required Interested candidates should sub-
mit a cover letter, c.v., three letters of recommen-
dation, and a detailed statement of teaching philoso-
phy to Shirley Jacob, Director of Human Resources,
McKendree College, 701 College Road, Lebanon, IL,
62254 or Hr@mckendree.edu. See www.mckendree.edu
<http://www.mckendree.edu/ >for more information.
“Henshaw, Michael T” <mthenshaw@mckendree.edu >
MichiganStateU SummerRes
LifeHistoryEvol
One NSF-REU (research experience for undergradu-
ates) position is available to work as part of a long-
term ﬁeld experiment designed to test the importance
of food abundance to life history evolution in red squir-
rels. The successful candidate will spend the summer
(May to August) working as part of our core data col-
lection crew near Kluane National Park in the Yukon
of Canada and will collect additional data as part of
an independent research project. Details on the squir-
rels, the area and the large collaborative project can be
found at www.redsquirrel.msu.edu . Transportation to
and from the site, food and a monthly stipend will be
provided.40 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Possible undergraduate research projects include:
1. Spruce cone preferences of left- and right-handed
squirrels.
2. Behavior and nest attendance of females specializing
in the production of many smaller or few high quality
oﬀspring.
If you are interested in spending the summer pursuing
an undergraduate research project please contact me by
email (mcadama@msu.edu) as soon as possible. Include
as attachments to your email a cover letter indicating 1)
your interest in the project, 2) what speciﬁc questions
you might be interested in answering (feel free to sug-
gest one that is not listed above), and 3) a statement
of why you are suited for the position. Also attach
a resume with references. If you are not from Michi-
gan State University then please provide the name of
someone at your home university who could potentially
provide additional mentorship on your project during
the next academic year.
Dr. Andrew McAdam Department of Fisheries
& Wildlife 13 Natural Resources Building Michigan
State University East Lansing, MI 48824 517-432-0396
mcadama@msu.edu
Milan EvolGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Evolutionary Genomics and
Bioinformatics
A postdoctoral position is available in the group of
Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics of Cancer
at the European Institute of Oncology in Milan (Italy).
The group is interested in detecting the genotypic de-
terminants of human cancer through the study diﬀer-
ent features of human genes, proteins and of the entire
genome. A number of projects are currently going on in
the lab. Therefore, a certain ﬂexibility in the choice of
the project is allowed. In all cases, the successful can-
didate will deal with well-assessed procedures for data
analysis as well as with the development of tools for
solving speciﬁc problems. A tight collaboration with
the many wet labs in the campus is a major trait of the
job.
Qualiﬁcations: A PhD in bioinformatics, theoretical
biology, genetics or equivalent is required. Compu-
tational skills (Perl, Phyton, C++) are mandatory.
A background in evolution and developmental biology
would be favourable.To apply: send, via email, a CV, a statement of
research interests,and the names and contact infor-
mation for two references. Applications and in-
quiries should be addressed to Francesca Ciccarelli
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.it
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD IFOM-IEO-Campus
Via Adamello, 16 20139 Milan, Italy tel +39-
02574303-053 fax +39-02574303-231 web: http://-
ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-campus.it/fcwiki/ francesca
ciccarelli
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.it
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.it
Muenster 2 CompBiol
Jobs in Computational Biology - University of Muen-
ster, Germany
The newly founded Institute for Bioinformatics at the
University of Muenster is looking for highly motivated
people to work in multidisciplinary group in the area of
comparative genomics and systems biology. The oﬃ-
cial language of the Institute is English. Two positions
are currently open but several others for graduate and
diploma students are expected to be available in near
future.
SCIENTIFIC PROGRAMMER The ideal candidate
will have a master degree in computer science with
strong experience in programing (Perl, Python, C++)
in UNIX environment (familiarity with Solaris sys-
tem is a plus). The successful candidate will be re-
sponsible to provide programming services for several
research projects ongoing in the Institute mostly re-
lated to development of specialized databases and cre-
ating Web-based user interfaces to these databases.
See for example the Database of Evolutionary Dis-
tances ( http://warta.bio.psu.edu/DED/ ) or the Scrap-
Yard Database ( http://warta.bio.psu.edu/ScrapYard/-
database.html ). This person will also administrate
Solaris-based servers and provide help and advise to
other members of the Institute.
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW Research projects might
be (but are not limited to) in one of the following ar-
eas: - evolutionary comparative genomics - evolution-
ary systems biology - evolution of alternative splicing
- see http://warta.bio.psu.edu/Research.html for other
research projects and current papers Required qualiﬁ-
cations include: - Ph.D. in bioinformatics or computerApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 41
science with strong interest in biology - Fluency in En-
glish - Basic skills in statistics - Programming skills (in
either PERL, C, or PYTHON) - UNIX literacy - Mo-
tivation and proven ability to carry out bioinformatics
research independently - Good social skills; capacity
and willingness to develop teamwork
Expected starting date for both positions is June 2007.
Applications should include a CV, list of publications,
and addresses of three references. Candidates are en-
couraged to send informal inquiries to: Mr. Wolf-
gang Garbers GarberW@mednet.uni-muenster.de In-
stitute for Bioinformatics University of Muenster or Dr.
Wojciech Makalowski wojmak@uni-muenster.de
Muenster hosts many excellent scientiﬁc institutions
such as a newly founded Max-Planck Institute for
biomedical research and newly founded Institute of
Evolution and Biodiversity, a Centre for Nanotechnol-
ogy, and a great number of specialized research areas.
Muenster is a dynamic city with a world-famous her-
itage center and is located in the middle of the beautiful
“Muensterland”. It is very lively, last but not least be-
cause of the high number of students (around 20% of
the residents) and the rich choice of social, cultural and
sporting facilities (see www.muenster.de for further de-
tails).
wojtek@warta.bio.psu.edu wojtek@warta.bio.psu.edu
NESCent Phyloinformatics
Phyloinformatics Summer of Code 2007
A collaborative Phyloinformatics Group, sponsored by
the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent:
http://www.nescent.org/ ), is working to develop user-
interfaces, improve software interoperability and sup-
port data exchange standards in evolutionary bioinfor-
matics. The speciﬁc projects are diverse in nature and
range from the development of AJAX components for
web-based bioinformatics applications, managing work-
ﬂows using approaches from functional and logic pro-
gramming, and developing data exchange standards for
phylogenetic substitution models.
The Phyloinformatics group will be sponsoring stu-
dent collaborators through the Google Summer of Code
program ( http://code.google.com/ soc), which pro-
vides undergraduate, masters and PhD students with a
unique opportunity (over three summer months) to ob-
tain hands-on experience writing and extending open-source software under the mentorship of experienced
developers from around the world. We are particularly
targeting students interested in both evolutionary bi-
ology and software development. Students will have
one or more dedicated mentors with expertise in phy-
logenetic methods and open- source software develop-
ment. Our project proposals are ﬂexible and can be
adjusted in scope to match the skills of students with
less programming proﬁciency. If the program sounds
interesting to you but you are unsure whether you have
the necessary skills, please email the mentors at phy-
losoc {at}nescent {dot}org. We will work with those
who are genuinely interested to ﬁnd a project that ﬁts
your interest and skills. Students will receive a stipend
from Google and will be invited to participate in future
collaborative events such as the NESCent Phyloinfor-
matics Hackathons ( http://www.nescent.org/wg/ phy-
loinformatics).
TO APPLY: Students must apply on-line at the Google
Summer of Code website ( http://code.google.com/soc ).
The application period for students is now open and
ends on Saturday, March 24, 2007 (one week from now).
The Phyloinformatics Summer of Code
project and ideas page is at the fol-
lowing URL: http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2007 The above
page also contains links to the GSoC program rules,
eligibility requirements, and stipend payment mecha-
nism. We encourage all interested students to email
any questions, or self-proposed project ideas, to
phylosoc {at}nescent {dot}org. This will reach all
prospective mentors.
Eligibility requirements for students: http://-
code.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?answer=-
60279&topic=10730
Stipend for students: http://code.google.com/-
support/bin/answer.py?answer=60322&topic=10731
Please disseminate this announcement to appropriate
students at your institution.
Hilmar Lapp Assistant Director for Informatics NES-
Cent
hlapp@duke.edu hlapp@duke.edu
NESCent Programmer
Research Programmer, Data Modeling and Services42 EvolDir April 6, 2007
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center ( http:/-
/www.nescent.org ) seeks a highly motivated Research
Programmer responsible for data modeling, database
design, middleware implementation, and implementa-
tion of web and data services. The incumbent will col-
laborate with scientists and software developers to de-
velop a novel system for the analysis of developmental
and phenotypic diversity data using ontologies. This
project is a collaboration with Paula Mabee (U. of
South Dakota), Monte Westerﬁeld (U. of Oregon) and
the National Center for Biomedical Ontology.
A project home page is being set up. In the
meantime, please visit the Informatics Initiative
on the NESCent website ( http:// www.nescent.org/-
informatics/initiatives.php ) for additional information.
Once set up, the project website will be posted
along with the job ad on the NESCent employ-
ment page: http://www.nescent.org/about/ employ-
ment.php#datamodeling.
Job description:
The incumbent will be responsible for creating the data
model, schema, server-side middleware, and program-
ming libraries that enable the building of client applica-
tions to create, store, browse, search, and manipulate
a database of phenotypic knowledge. The incumbent
will gather requirements from scientists and collabo-
rating developers; determine functional and technical
speciﬁcations; analyze, design, develop, maintain, doc-
ument, and test new and existing database schemas,
object models, APIs, and software; use and contribute
to standards; advise collaborators and supervisors on
emerging technologies in semantic knowledge engineer-
ing; create technical documentation, contribute to sci-
entiﬁc publications; recommend software ﬁxes and en-
hancements; present work at scientiﬁc meetings; advise
supervisor and collaborators of priorities, problems and
proposed solutions.
Required qualiﬁcations:
* Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Engineering,
Bioinformatics, or related ﬁeld * Two or more years
of signiﬁcant experience in database design, middle-
ware implementation, API design, and object-relational
mapping * Thorough knowledge of relational data mod-
eling, ERDs, and normalizing schemas; experience with
translating domain models into relational schemas, ex-
perience with data warehousing principles * Proﬁciency
in the DDL and DML elements of SQL, and under-
standing of advanced elements (e.g., sub-queries, views,
triggers, stored procedures) * Demonstrated ability to
architect, design, and implement object models and
middleware on top of databases * Solid understand-
ing of and experience with modern object-relationalmapping and middleware technologies and program-
ming frameworks (e.g., JDBC, J2EE/EJB, CMP, JDO,
Hibernate) * Experience with designing, implement-
ing, or using resources in an SOA environment (e.g.,
SOAP, REST, CORBA, JAX-WS) * Familiarity with
basic Semantic Web concepts, terminology, standards,
and formats (such as XML, XSD, RDF, RDF/XML,
triple stores, reasoning, CL) * Demonstrated ability to
communicate eﬀectively with both technical and non-
technical scientiﬁc audiences
Preferred qualiﬁcations:
* Master’s or PhD degree in Computer Science, Engi-
neering, Bioinformatics, or related ﬁeld * Three or more
years of relevant and signiﬁcant experience, and at least
two years of experience programming Java * Thorough
knowledge of basic and advanced elements of database
design and programming, such as views, triggers, stored
procedures, query optimization, data warehousing, ide-
ally using a PostgreSQL database * Knowledge of and
experience with Semantic Web concepts, terminology,
standards, and formats * Prior experience and/or edu-
cation in biology (in particular genetics and evolution)
or using or creating ontologies * Demonstrated abil-
ity to work and thrive in a collaborative team environ-
ment, and to ﬂuidly interact with local and external
open- source developer communities; familiarity with
agile development methodologies * Proﬁcient knowl-
edge of software development best practices, such as de-
sign patterns, reuse, modularity, unit testing, usability
testing * Demonstrated ability to contribute to schol-
arly publications
To apply, please send cover letter, resume, and the con-
tact information for three references to the Asst. Direc-
tor of Informatics, Hilmar Lapp (hlapp@nescent.org).
Further inquiries about the position may be directed to
Mr. Lapp by email, or by phone at +1-919-668-5288.
hlapp@duke.edu hlapp@duke.edu
NESCent Programmer Web
Research Programmer, User Interfaces and Web Pro-
gramming
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(www.nescent.org ) seeks a highly motivated Re-
search Programmer to be responsible for the design
and implementation of web applications and user inter-
faces. The incumbent will collaborate with scientistsApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 43
and software developers to develop a novel system for
the analysis of developmental and phenotypic diversity
data using ontologies. This project is a collaboration
with Paula Mabee (U. of South Dakota), Monte
Westerﬁeld (U. of Oregon) and the National Center for
Biomedical Ontologies.
Job description:
The incumbent will be responsible for creating user-
friendly, highly interactive web-based or stand-alone
client applications that will allow collaborating scien-
tists as well as the scientiﬁc community at large to cre-
ate, store, browse, search, and manipulate a database
of phenotypic knowledge using ontologies. The incum-
bent will gather requirements from scientists and col-
laborating developers; determine functional models and
technical speciﬁcations; analyze, design, develop, main-
tain, document, and test new and existing APIs and
software; design, develop, and maintain interactive web
applications and dynamic pages; use and contribute
to standards; advise collaborators and supervisors on
emerging technologies in semantic knowledge engineer-
ing; participate in usability testing and translate the
results into change recommendations; create techni-
cal documentation; contribute to scientiﬁc publications;
recommend software and user interface ﬁxes and en-
hancements; present work at scientiﬁc meetings; advise
supervisor and collaborators of priorities, problems and
proposed solutions.
A project home page is being set up. In the
meantime, please visit the Informatics Initiatives
on the NESCent website ( http:// www.nescent.org/-
informatics/initiatives.php ) for additional information.
Once set up, the project website will be posted
along with the job ad on the NESCent employ-
ment page: http://www.nescent.org/about/ employ-
ment.php#userinterfaces.
Required qualiﬁcations:
* Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Evolution-
ary Biology or related ﬁeld * Two or more years of
signiﬁcant experience in user interface design and pro-
gramming, web design, and web application program-
ming * Demonstrated ability to design and implement
intelligent and highly interactive user interfaces that
meet user requirements * Experience with dynamic
and interactive web page programming (e.g., DHTML,
JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, services) * Experience with
designing, implementing, or using resources in an SOA
environment (e.g., SOAP, REST, CORBA, JAX-WS) *
Familiarity with web application technology stacks, ap-
plication servers, and programming frameworks (e.g.,
J2EE/EJB, JSP, JSTL, JSF, Spring, JBoss, Struts,
Apache Cocoon) * Familiarity with basic SemanticWeb concepts, standards, and formats (such as RDF,
RDF/XML, triple stores, reasoning, CL, metadata) *
Demonstrated ability to communicate eﬀectively with
both technical and non-technical scientiﬁc audiences
Preferred qualiﬁcations:
* Master’s or PhD degree in Computer Science, Evolu-
tionary Biology, or related ﬁeld * Three or more years of
signiﬁcant experience in user interface design and pro-
gramming, web design, and web application program-
ming * Prior experience and/or education in biology (in
particular genetics and evolution) * Prior experience in
using and creating ontologies * Proﬁciency in program-
ming data service aggregation (such as XML, XSLT,
feeds) * Solid understanding of and experience with web
application technology stacks, application servers, and
programming frameworks * Knowledge of and experi-
ence with Semantic Web concepts, terminology, stan-
dards, and formats. * Demonstrated ability to work
and thrive in a collaborative team environment, and
to ﬂuidly interact with local and external open- source
developer communities * Familiarity with agile devel-
opment methodologies * Proﬁcient knowledge of soft-
ware development best practices, such as design pat-
terns, reuse, modularity, unit testing, usability testing
* Demonstrated ability to contribute to scholarly pub-
lications
To apply, please send cover letter, resume, and the con-
tact information for three references to the Asst. Direc-
tor of Informatics, Hilmar Lapp (hlapp@nescent.org).
Further inquiries about the position may be directed to
Mr. Lapp by email, or by phone at +1-919-668-5288.
NatlInstMalariaRes Delhi
AnophelesEvolGenomics
Research Positions on Anopheles minimus Evolution-
ary Genomics at the National Institute of Malaria Re-
search, Delhi, INDIA
The following positions are to be ﬁlled up in an extra-
mural funded project from ICMR, Govt. Of India on
Anopheles evolutionary genomics at the National Insti-
tute of Malaria Research, Delhi, INDIA
1. Senior Research Fellow (SRF) (two positions) 2. Re-
search Assistant (RA) (one position)
The study aims at looking at the genetic diversity, pop-
ulation structure and demographic history of Anophe-
les minimus, the principal malaria vector distributed44 EvolDir April 6, 2007
in the north-eastern parts of India. Our approach
includes analyses of multilocus neutral DNA markers
in the Anopheles minimus genome using genome in-
formation of Anopheles gambiae, similar to that have
been described earlier in Drosophila (Das, Mohanty and
Stephan 2004, Genetics 168: 1975-1985).
For both SRF and RA, masters degree in any branch of
modern biology is required. For SRF, a minimum two
years of research experience with publications is essen-
tial. In addition to PCR and high-throughput DNA
sequencing and analyses of DNA sequence data with
diﬀerent population genetic models, the selected can-
didates also have to travel frequently to north-eastern
part of India for ﬁeld collection of biological samples.
Age, monthly fellowship, and other terms and condi-
tions are as per ICMR and Govt. Of India regulations.
Eligible Candidates may apply with a full CV with two
academic reference letters to:
Dr. Aparup Das, Assistant Director Evolution-
ary Genomics and Bioinformatics Laboratory Na-
tional Institute of Malaria Research (ICMR) Room
No. 100, PVT Block, 2nd Floor 22, Sham Nath
Marg, New Delhi - 110 054, INDIA Tel: +91-11-
23943342 (direct), 23928804 (Extn. 20) Fax: +91-
11-23946150 E-mail: aparup@mrcindia.org; adas@uni-
muenchen.de Web: http://www.mrcindia.org/cv/-
dasa.htm; www.plasmodiversity.org.in
Aparup Das <aparup@mrcindia.org >
NatureSourceGenetics
Bioinformatics
Our new company, working on computational genomics
towards crop improvement, has a position open for a
Bioinformaticist/Programmer. Info is available on our
website below.
If you feel you have members that may be interested in
this, please post, or let me know what additional info
you need to do so. Thanks, Theresa Fulton
– Theresa M. Fulton, Ph.D. Director of Op-
erations Nature Source Genetics, LLC. http://-
naturesourcegenetics.com
tfulton@naturesourcegenetics.com tful-
ton@naturesourcegenetics.comNetherlands EvolEcol
Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO KNAW) is a
research institute of the Royal Netherlands Academy of
Arts and Sciences (KNAW). It comprises three centers:
the Centre for Estuarine and Marine Ecology (CEME)
in Yerseke, the Centre for Limnology (CL) in Nieuwer-
sluis, and the Centre for Terrestrial Ecology (CTE) in
Heteren. Mission of the NIOO is to carry out funda-
mental and strategic research in ecology.
NIOO is oﬀering young, talented researchers, tenure-
track positions. These staﬀ members are expected to
develop their own line of research within a particular
ﬁeld. NIOOs career policy is characterised by ﬂexible
personnel management with a focus on the individual.
Academic achievements are seen as being central to the
academic career and leading for the successful tenure-
track procedure. The NIOO oﬀers the candidate ex-
cellent research facilities and ample opportunities for
professional development and supplementary training
and education.
The Department of Animal Population Biology (APB)
of the Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW)
is oﬀering a
Tenure-track position for an Evolutionary Ecologist
(m/f) Vacancy number CTE-PVD-07320
Job description The tenure track position is for an
evolutionary ecologist, with an aﬃnity for behavioural
and physiological work. The research of APB cen-
tres around the life-history of animals, and combines
long-term population studies on hole-breeding passer-
ines with work in aviaries and molecular techniques.
APB has a high reputation within the international sci-
entiﬁc community and was recently assessed as excel-
lent in an international peer review. One of the research
lines within APB is on avian personalities in the great
tit (Parus major). This research is built on ﬁeld studies
(9 years of breeding data on a population where the ma-
jority of the birds are of known personality) and aviary
experiments (selection lines on personality, 40 aviaries).
The senior researcher leading this research line, Dr P.J.
Drent, is retiring in the near future, and applicants will
be favoured who wish to continue the development of
this research.
Requirements We are looking for a scientist with sev-
eral years of post-doctoral experience and an excellentApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 45
track record in behavioural ecology in terms of both
publications and the acquisition of research grants.
The NIOO has no obligation to teach at University
level, but supervision of Masters and PhD students is
expected as part of normal research activity. Scientiﬁc
communication is carried out in English, so knowledge
of the Dutch language is not required for this post, but
a commitment to learning the language is expected in
longer-term staﬀ.
Appointment: The appointment will be on a temporary
basis for a maximum of 6 years. The appointed scientist
will be evaluated after 3 and on completion of 5 years of
employment there will be an assessment of performance
based on established criteria. If the outcome of the as-
sessment is positive, the researcher will be promoted to
the rank of senior researcher with tenure.
Salary: The salary will dependent on qualiﬁcations and
work experience from 3060. gross per month up to a
maximum of 4190. gross per month (scale 11 CAO-NU)
for a full-time job.
Location: Heteren
Information: Additional information about this po-
sition is available upon request from Prof. Marcel
E. Visser (m.visser@nioo.knaw.nl or +31-26-4791253),
head of department Animal Population Biology. More
information can be found on the NIOO website
(www.nioo.knaw.nl <http://www.nioo.knaw.nl/ >).
Applications: Please send your application including
complete curriculum vitae, 3 referees and the reference
number to Prof. Marcel E. Visser at NIOO-KNAW,
P.O. Box 40, 6666 ZG Heteren, The Netherlands or
g.giesen@nioo.knaw.nl .The closing date for application
is 15 May 2007, and the interviews will take place in
the last week of June.
M.Visser@nioo.knaw.nl M.Visser@nioo.knaw.nl
NewYorkU Tech
CompFuncGenomics
JOB OPENING: Technician/Lab Manager
We have an opening for a techncian/lab manager at the
Purugganan Laboratory in the Department of Biology/
Center for Comparative Functional Genomics at New
York University. The duties include management of
laboratory operations and technical support for various
projects. Experience in molecular genetic techniquesand in the care of plants is desirable. Salary is commen-
surate with experience, and will start at $36,000/year
plus full beneﬁts.
If you are interested, please send me a CV at
mp132@nyu.edu. If you want to know more about
our laboratory, check out our website at http://-
www.nyu.edu/fas/dept/biology/faculty/purugganan/
index.html
Th position will be in NYU’s main campus in Washing-
ton Square at the heart of Greenwich Village in down-
town Manhattan.
Michael Purugganan Dorothy Schiﬀ Professor of Ge-
nomics
Department of Biology Center for Comparative Func-
tional Genomics 100 Washington Square East New
York University New York, NY 10003
Tel. (212) 992 9628
Michael Purugganan <mp132@nyu.edu >
OhioStateU BiomedicalInformatics
DatabaseWebInterface
Title: Jobs for Database and Web Interface Program-
mers
Location: Ohio State University Department of
Biomedical Informatics, Columbus OH (bmi.osu.edu)
Duration: Summer 2007 and perhaps ongoing for the
right programmers.
Ground-up design of phylogeographic services and
workﬂow.
Database Programmer: The database programmer is
responsible for reviewing, analyzing and modifying
PostGIS enabled PostgreSQL database architecture. In
addition, the position is responsible for reviewing and
designing eﬃcient query approaches for both spatial
and standard SQL statements.
The database programmer will be responsible for the
technical and administrative maintenance and design
of PostgreSQL databases. Other duties include:
Implementation of data models and database designs,
data access and table/view maintenance codes.
Resolution of database capacity issues, replication, and
other distributed data issues.46 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Web Interface Developer: The web developer will de-
sign a graphical user interface to create SQL queries
for the non-SQL versed user, and reformat/manipulate
results.
Successful candidates will have demonstrated strength
in analyzing and troubleshooting data and processing
issues.
You must have a desire to learn and understand the
data in order to work incrementally towards a compre-
hensive workﬂow with intermediate milestones. Finally,
you should be able to work independently and make de-
cisions conﬁdently.
2 years PostgresSQL experience desired Current stu-
dent in Computer Science or related ﬁeld Experience
with JAVA and/or PHP Domian Knowlege in genomics
and or cartography a plus
Salary commensurate with experience Please send CV
and links to relevant examples of previous work. Con-
tact: Daniel Janies, (danjanies@hotmail.com) for more
information.
danjanies@hotmail.com
Paris HostParasite
Oliver Kaltz Laboratoire de Parasitologie Evolutive
(CC 237), CNRS-UMR 7103 Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtPierre &
Marie Curie 7, quai St. Bernard 75252 Paris France
++33 1 44 27 38 23 (Phone) ++33 1 44 27 35 16 (Fax)
LECTURER (MAITRE DE CONFERENCE) IN
EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY OF HOST-PARASITE
INTERACTIONSThe Laboratory of Ecology & Evo-
lution (CNRS UMR 7103 & 7625, Universit Pierre-
et-Marie-Curie, Paris, France) invites applications for
a permanent lecturer position (Ma“tre de Confrence)
in evolutionary ecology of host-parasite interactions,
starting in autumn 2007.The successful candidate
should have a strong background in evolutionary
ecology (life history theory, population biology, pop-
ulation genetics). Possible areas of research are
evolutionary epidemiology, evolutionary immunology
or experimental coevolution. Our laboratory has
excellent facilities for experimental work on microbial
systems and we therefore encourage applications of
candidates with experience in microbial ecology and
evolution.Teaching (192 hours per year) ranges from
introductory lectures in ecology and evolution toadvanced courses for Master students. Teaching will
be mostly in French and thus a decent command of
the French language is required.Applications have to
be deposited on the web page of the French Ministry
of Education (Ministre de l’Education Nationale, de
l’Enseignementet de la Recherche, ”ANTARES“;
http://www.education.gouv.fr/personnel/-
enseignant superieur/enseignant chercheur/-
antares.htm ). The deadline for applications is
March 30, 2007. Job interviews will be held in
spring. IMPORTANT: Only preselected candi-
dates that have already obtained their ”candidacy“
(in French: ”qualiﬁcation“) as a lecturer can ap-
ply for this position. This preselection was held
in 2006 (or earlier).For further information, con-
tact Minus van Baalen (minus.van.baalen@ens.fr)
or Oliver Kaltz (okaltz@snv.jussieu.fr).Websites:
http://parasito-evolutive.snv.jussieu.fr/ and http:/-
/ecologie.snv.jussieu.fr/=0DOﬃcial job proﬁle
(n. 1239): http://www.upmc.fr/comspec/-
session1 2007 mc.html=0D
okaltz@snv.jussieu.fr okaltz@snv.jussieu.fr
RoslinInst 3 ComputationalGenetics
ROSLIN INSTITUTE (Edinburgh)
Three posts in quantitative and computational genetics
and statistical bioinformatics
The Roslin Institute has vacancies for three scientists
to work within its numerical genetics group. Roslin
Institute is a world renowned centre for research in an-
imal bioscience, with expertise and resources in genet-
ics/genomics, molecular biology and developmental bi-
ology. The Institute is located just south of Edinburgh,
the beautiful historical and cultural capital of Scotland
and there are strong transport links with the surround-
ing area.
These posts provide the appropriate candidates the op-
portunity to work within a well established and highly
regarded group and interact with scientists at the cut-
ting edge of vertebrate genomics.
Quantitative Geneticist (RI 8/07) A three-year post
within the EC funded SABRE project ( http://-
www.sabre-eu.eu/ ). Working with collaborators across
the EU the appointee will work on developing meth-
ods for QTL and association mapping, on methods for
mapping loci controlling gene expression (eQTL) andApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 47
on the application of these methods for the analysis of
data generated.
Computational Geneticist (RI 9/07) The major objec-
tive of this post is to provide input on experimental
design, data analysis and interpretation. The main ar-
eas of technical expertise required are in quantitative,
population and statistical genetics and genomics.
Statistical Bioinformatician (RI 10/07) Working with
colleagues in Numerical Genetics at Roslin Institute,
the major objective is to assist with use of bioinformatic
tools and extraction and analysis of genomic data. The
main areas of technical expertise required are in bioin-
formatics, genomic analysis and statistics.
Starting salaries will depend on qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience.
The positions are available immediately.
For further information see http://-
www.ri.bbsrc.ac.uk/jobsStudentships/index.php
To apply please contact our Human Resource Team
(0131 527 4481 or email: Roslin.HR@bbsrc.ac.uk).
Please indicate the post(s) of interest to you.
Closing date 29 March 2007. The Roslin Institute is an
Equal Opportunities Employer.
———-
Chris Haley Roslin Institute Roslin Midlothian EH25
9PS, UK Chris.Haley@bbsrc.ac.uk +44 131 5274432
+44 131 4400434
chris.haley@bbsrc.ac.uk
TexasAMU QuantEvolEcol
Texas A&M University Department of Wildlife and
Fisheries Sciences Faculty Position in Quantitative
Ecology
The Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences at
Texas A&M University seeks an outstanding individual
to join the faculty as an Assistant Professor in Quan-
titative Ecology. This position is a 12-month, tenure-
track appointment. This new position is charged with
building a successful teaching and research program
focused on quantitative approaches to ecology, con-
servation, and management of wildlife and ﬁshery re-
sources. Appropriate areas of research specialization in-
clude investigation of population abundance/dynamics
and species interactions, statistical and numerical mod-eling of ecological processes in space and time, and
bioinformatics. Candidates must have a Ph.D. in an
appropriate ﬁeld and a record of research accomplish-
ment as evidenced by authorship of peer-reviewed pub-
lications. A record reﬂecting acquisition of extramu-
ral research funding and experience in university-level
teaching also is desirable. Additional information on
this position, the department, Texas A&M Univer-
sity, and the Interdisciplinary Research Group in Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology can be found at http://-
www.wfsc.tamu.edu andhttp://eeb.tamu.edu . To ap-
ply: Submit an electronic CV, and statements of teach-
ing and research interests, plus contact information for
three references to: Dr. Daniel Roelke, Search Com-
mittee Chair, droelke@tamu.edu. Preference will be
given to applications received by May 25, 2007. Ap-
plications received after this date are not guaranteed a
review by the search committee. The position will re-
main open until a suitable candidate is identiﬁed. Texas
A&M University is an Equal Opportunity Employer
that seeks diversity in its workforce, student body, and
program participation. Those requiring assistance in
the application process should contact the search com-
mittee chair.
– Mariana Mateos, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Section
in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department of
Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences Texas A&M Univer-
sity 320B Heep Laboratory Building 2258 TAMUS
College Station, TX 77843-2258 Phone: 979-847-
9462 Fax 979-845-4096 Email: mmateos@tamu.edu
http://wfsc.tamu.edu/mateoslab/ Mariana Mateos
<mmateos@tamu.edu >
UCC Cork Ireland ProgramManager
InformaticsSpecialist
Program Manager with Informatics Skills
5 Year Fixed Term Contract Post beginning 01.06.2007
Applications are invited for the post of Program Man-
ager in the newly created research group on Microbial
Population Genetics and Genomics, University College
Cork, Ireland. This is a key post within the newly es-
tablished group and will report directly to the group
leader, Prof. Mark Achtman. The post holder will
have responsibility for administering, developing and
installing software and hardware as well as adminis-
tering purchasing and accounting for various research
projects. He/she will work with research scientists to48 EvolDir April 6, 2007
continuously improve the informatics and bioinformat-
ics environment for a variety of projects.
UCC is seeking to appoint an enthusiastic and moti-
vated person to drive the following agenda: “ Instal-
lation of a small network of PCs and a small UNIX
cluster. Administration of this network including the
installation of programs and regular backups. ” Instal-
lation of a PostgreSQL database server and adminis-
tration of access rights to the database. “ Maintenance
and improvement of a WEB site designed in Python and
Zope. Implementation of a SOAP interface and adapta-
tion of additional pre-existing modules written in Perl.
” Write programming scripts in a variety of languages
to support molecular biologists who have limited pro-
gramming experience. “ Administration of purchasing
and accounting of equipment and supplies
Suitable candidate should have a degree in informatics,
bioinformatics, molecular biology or genetics, prefer-
ably to an advanced level, and have excellent commu-
nication and organisational skills.. Experience in infor-
matics and/or bioinformatics in an academic or indus-
try setting is a prerequisite as are experience in adminis-
tration of networks and relational databases, Web page
design and extensive programming skills. A further re-
quirement is the ability to assimilate and understand
scientiﬁc and technological issues. The appointee will
be ﬂexible, conﬁdent, energetic and enthusiastic with
an ability to manage and prioritize a demanding work-
load.
A competitive salary, up to an initial maximal annual
salary of 54,178, will be oﬀered to the successful candi-
date, commensurate with experience and qualiﬁcations.
Closing Date for informal discussions: 17 April, 2007
For informal discussions on this post, please contact
Dr. Mark Achtman. achtman@mpiib-berlin.mpg.de.
Selected applicants will then be requested to submit
completed application forms by mail.
UCC IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYER
Mark Achtman Max-Planck Institut f¨ ur Infektionsbi-
ologie Schumannstr. 21/22 10117 Berlin, Germany
Tel: +4930 28460751 Fax: +4930 28460750 e-mail:
achtman@mpiib-berlin.mpg.de
Mark Achtman <achtman@mpiib-berlin.mpg.de >
UCollegeCork
MarineMolecularBiodiversityPROFESSOR OF MARINE MOLECULAR BIODI-
VERSITY
University College Cork seeks to appoint a Chair in the
area of Marine Molecular Biodiversity. The individual
appointed should have a proven track record in molec-
ular biodiversity of marine eukaryotes and/or prokary-
otes and would be expected to form and lead an active
research group and co-ordinate a graduate programme
in both areas. The research activity would form a link
between the major advances in molecular biology, par-
ticularly in the area of genomics and many areas of
systems biology, whole organism biology, ecology, bio-
diversity and systematics. The post will be located in
the Environmental Research Institute within the Col-
lege of Science, Engineering and Food Science.
For informal discussion contact:
Professor Alan Dobson, Tel.: +353 21 4901946 ; email:
a.dobson@ucc.ie
Application details and further information at http://-
www.ucc.ie/en/hr/EmploymentOpportunities/
“Spillane, Charles” <C.Spillane@ucc.ie >
UFlorida Genetics SummerInstr
Dear Brian,
Please post the following:
The University of Florida Department of Zoology seeks
an Instructor to teach an undergraduate level course in
Genetics this summer (2007). The summer semester
runs from 14 May to 10 August. Applicants please
send a cover letter, CV, statement of teaching interest
and the names and contact information for 2 references
to Amy Dechow (Coordinator, Administrative Ser-
vices, Department of Zoology) at adechow@zoo.uﬂ.edu.
Salary is $12,000. Review of applications will begin im-
mediately and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
–
Charles F. Baer Department of Zoology 223 Bartram
Hall P. O. Box 118525 University of Florida Gainesville,
FL 32611-8525 USA
Phone: 352-392-3550 Fax: 352-392-3704
Email: cbaer@zoo.uﬂ.edu web: http://-
www.zoo.uﬂ.edu/faculty/baer.html cbaer@zoo.uﬂ.edu
cbaer@zoo.uﬂ.eduApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 49
UIdaho Undergrad Assist
Project: I am trying to determine if coevolution shapes
the way that plants and insects adapt to their environ-
ment. To do this I will study the way a native plant-
Round Leaved Alumroot, responds to diﬀerent habitats
and diﬀerent plant-feeding insects. This project will in-
volve a great deal of ﬁeld work along Clearwater River
of Idaho the Blue Mountains of Washington.
Responsibilities: The applicant will be expected to help
establish ecological experiments and then conduct de-
tailed surveys on Round Leaf Alumroot and its asso-
ciated insects. This project will provide training on
methods in ﬁeld ecology, experimental design and nat-
ural history in the Paciﬁc Northwest.
This position will consist of an eight week REU (re-
search experience for undergraduates) with a salary of
4880 dollars.
Interested applicants should contact
William Godsoe gods9193@uidaho.edu Biological sci-
ences University of Idaho
http://www.webpages.uidaho.edu/ ˜ pellmyr/-
pellmyrlabfront.htm “The pure and simple truth
is rarely pure and never simple.”
gods9193@uidaho.edu gods9193@uidaho.edu
UMiami VisitingGenomics
Visiting Assistant Professor in Genomics University of
Miami at Coral Gables
The Biology Department is seeking a researcher who
wishes to pursue genomic research, develop collabora-
tions with young evolutionary and ecological faculty,
and establish research and teaching credentials. The
successful candidate is expected to have a Ph.D. and a
strong research interest in genomics; a record of post-
doctoral work is desirable. The position holds PI status
for grant applications, and any grants awarded will be
transferable when the researcher leaves. Teaching will
comprise one undergraduate course each term (e.g., bio-
statistics in Fall and a specialty upper division coursesuch as genomics in Spring) and one graduate course
or seminar. This is a full-time twelve-month research
professional position, renewable for three years. Salary
is competitive and commensurate with qualiﬁcations.
Submit application materials electronically. Include a
cover letter, CV and descriptions of research interests
and teaching philosophy, and have three letters of ref-
erence sent to GenomicSearch@bio.miami.edu. Review
of applications will begin immediately and will continue
until the position is ﬁlled.
–
Dr Alex Wilson Assistant Professor Department
of Biology University of Miami 1301 Memorial
Drive Coral Gables, Florida 33146-0421 USA Phone:
(305) 284 2003 Oﬃce: Cox Science Room 253
http://www.bio.miami.edu/acwilson/home.htm acwil-
son@bio.miami.edu acwilson@bio.miami.edu
UNeuchatel Switzerland EvolBotany
The *University of Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland*, is seeking
to hire:
*A Full professor (professeur ordinaire) of Evolutionary
Botany*
*Description*: The Institute of Biology at the Univer-
sity of Neuchˆ atel has an important focus on research
in Plant Biology and the successful candidate is ex-
pected to make a signiﬁcant contribution to the ﬁeld. A
comparative approach to research topics such as plant
domestication, reproductive biology and invasion is of
particular interest. Collaboration with the National
Center of Competence in Research “Plant Survival” is
expected. In terms of teaching, we seek a highly moti-
vated naturalist giving courses including ﬁeld work in
plant systematics and ecology at the bachelor level and
courses reﬂecting own research focus in the Master in
Plant Ecology and Physiology. * Duties*: Full chair (6
hours weekly teaching, management of a research pro-
gram and conducting various administrative tasks). *
Requirements*: The successful candidate holds a PhD
in biology and has a strong record of internationally
recognized research in evolutionary botany. Teaching
in French will be expected at the Bachelor level. * Par-
ticularly desired qualities*: . Inclusion of ﬁeld work in
research and teaching . Good knowledge of indigenous
plant taxonomy. * Starting date*: January 1st 2008 or
to be convened*50 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Application*: visit http://www.unine.ch/sciences
<http://www.unine.ch/sciences >under “emploi” for
complete information. The University of Neuchˆ atel,
Switzerland encourages female applicants*.
Information*: please contact Prof. Martine Rahier
(++41 32 718 3137/2500; martine.rahier@unine.ch ) *
Applications deadline*: June 15, 2007. Send complete
application including electronic copy to: Prof. Martine
Rahier, Chaire de botanique ´ evolutive, Institut de bi-
ologie, Rue Emile-Argand 11, CP158, 2009 Neuchˆ atel,
Switzerland.
Dr. Lena Struwe Dept. of Ecology, Evolution,
and Natural Resources/ Dept. of Plant Biology
and Pathology Rutgers University 237 Foran Hall,
59 Dudley Road New Brunswick, NJ 08901-8551,
USA phone: (732) 932-9711 ext. 235, fax: (732)
932-9441 e-mail: struwe@aesop.rutgers.edu home
page: www.rci.rutgers.edu/ ˜ struwe GENTIAN RE-
SEARCH NETWORK: http://gentian.rutgers.edu
Director, CHRYSLER HERBARIUM: http://-
herbarium.rutgers.edu
Lena Struwe <struwe@AESOP.Rutgers.edu >
UNewSouthWales 2 EvolBiol
As part of a Strategic Initiative in Evolutionary and Be-
havioural Ecology, the School of Biological, Earth and
Environmental Sciences intend to appoint two continu-
ing academics at the Lecturer or Senior Lecturer level.
There is considerable overlap between these positions
as they are intended to build on and complement ex-
isting research strengths at UNSW. Applicants wishing
to apply for both positions should submit separate ap-
plications.
Position 4905 is an appointment in adaptive evolution-
ary biology. The appointee will be expected to build a
research program in the process-based study of adap-
tive evolution, to teach in evolution, ecology and whole-
organism biology and to supervise honours and post-
graduate students with interests in adaptive evolution.
Preference may be given to applicants whose research
involves the experimental study of adaptation using
quantitative genetics, functional genomics, physiolog-
ical techniques and/or ecologically-relevant manipula-
tive experiments. Research should involve the testing
of evolutionary theory. Research programs that are
mostly descriptive (e.g. restricted to phylogeography,
systematics, taxonomy or population genetics) will notbe favoured.
Position 4906 is an appointment in behavioural ecology
and behavioural evolution. The appointee will be ex-
pected to build a research program in behavioural ecol-
ogy and evolution, to teach in animal behaviour, evolu-
tion, ecology and whole-organism biology and to super-
vise Honours and postgraduate students with interests
in behaviour, ecology and evolution. Preference may be
given to applicants whose research involves the testing
of theory using experimental approaches, ecologically-
relevant measures of ﬁtness, the use of quantitative ge-
netics and/or demonstration of broad ecological conse-
quences. Skills and experience in experimental design
and data analysis or the use of molecular tools may
confer a further advantage in selection.
The base salary for Lecturer is A$68,320 - A$80,541 per
year, Senior Lecturer is A$82,982 - A$95,202. Member-
ship of a University approved superannuation scheme
is a condition of employment for this position.
The appointment will be full time ongoing. Women
and people from EEO groups are encouraged to apply.
The University reserves the right to ﬁll the position by
invitation or not to ﬁll the position.
Enquiries may be directed to Associate Profes-
sor Paul Adam, Head, School of Biological, Earth
and Environmental Sciences on (61 2) 9385 2067,
p.adam@unsw.edu.au or to Associate Professor Rob
Brooks (rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au)
An information package is available by click-
ing<mailto:HERE >HERE, or email senio-
rads@unsw.edu.au . Interested applicants must
obtain the information package and include a cover
letter in which they address the selection criteria for
the relevant position in their application. They should
also submit a CV including full publication list and
contact details for three referees.
School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences
The University of New South Wales Kensington, Syd-
ney 2052 NSW, Australia PH: +61-2-9385-2587 FAX:
+61-2-9385-1558 http://www.bees.unsw.edu.au/-
school/staﬀ/brooks/brooksrob.html Australasian
Evolution Society: http://www.evolutionau.org
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
UPompeuFabra Barcelona 3
BioinformaticsApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 51
Universitat Pompeu Fabra (Barcelona) (National
Bioinformatics Institute / National Genotyping Cen-
tre)
Three positions available in the areas of computational
and statistical genomics /bioinformatics.
The new Population Genomics Node of the Spanish Na-
tional Bioinformatics Institute ( http://www.inab.org ),
in collaboration with the National Genotyping Centre
(http://www.cegen.org ), has vacancies for three people
(one programmer, one statistician and one postdoctoral
scientist). The Node is located at the Evolutionary Bi-
ology Unit of the Pompeu Fabra University ( http://-
www.upf.edu ) and is part of the Barcelona Biomedi-
cal Research Park ( http://www.prbb.org ), a renowned
centre for Biomedical research that hosts, besides the
University, other institutions such as the CRG (Centre
for Genomic Regulation) and the CMRB (Barcelona’s
Centre for Regenerative Medicine). All these research
centres share a thrilling and dynamic scientiﬁc atmo-
sphere, driven by leading groups in ﬁelds such as bioin-
formatics, molecular biology and evolution. The PRBB
is located close to Barcelona’s City Centre (right in
front of the beach).
These posts provide the appropriate candidates the op-
portunity to work within a well established group and
interact with scientists at the cutting edge of genome
bioinformatics.
- Programmer: The person in this post will become part
of our team of developpers, mostly in charge of pro-
gramming applications for the management and anal-
ysis of SNP data. Experience in PHP, Java, APACHE
and Linux systems are required. Working knowledge
of database design and database-oriented programming
(MySQL) is also desirable.
- Statistician: The major objectives of this post are to
help in the selection of algorithms to be implemented in
our applications, to take part in the application design
process and to assist with the use of bioinformatic tools
for the analysis of genomic data. A degree in Statistics
or Mathematics, or comparable experience, is required.
The main areas of technical expertise required are bioin-
formatics, genomic analysis and statistics.
- Postdoctoral Researcher: A two-year post within a
funded “PROFIT” collaborative project aiming to the
development of tools for analysis of Whole Genome
Scan data and to their application in the study of com-
plex traits (particularly diseases). The appointee will
work on developing methods for large association stud-
ies and on the application of these methods for the anal-
ysis of data generated within the collaborative project.
Salaries will depend on qualiﬁcations and experience.The positions are available immediately.
Motivated and potentially competitive applicants
should send, preferably via e-mail, a short letter of in-
terest a CV and the contact details of two references
to:
Arcadi Navarro i Cuartiellas Unitat de Biologia Evo-
lutiva Universitat Pompeu Fabra Parc de Recerca
Biom` edica de Barcelona C/ Dr. Aiguader 88 08003
BARCELONA SPAIN E-mail: arcadi.navarro@upf.edu
– CHANGE OF ADDRESS!!!
Arcadi Navarro i Cuartiellas ICREA Research Professor
Unitat de Biologia Evolutiva Departament de Ci` encies
Experimentals i de la Salut Universitat Pompeu Fabra
Parc de Recerca Biom` edica de Barcelona Pla¸ ca Charles
Darwin, 1 08003 Barcelona
Phone 00 34 93 3160844 FAX 00 34 93 3160901
arcadi.navarro@upf.edu
URochester UndergradSummer
EndosymbiontEvol
Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships
Summer Research Training Fellowships are available to
study molecular ecology of endosymbiotic bacteria in
insects at the University of Rochester. The fellowships
will include travel expenses, a stipend, and housing for
6-8 weeks. The summer research training program will
span June to August (dates are ﬂexible). Interest in
one of the following areas; entomology, microbiology,
evolution or ecology is required and some experience in
PCR is desirable. During the fellowship you will learn
the methods involved in identiﬁcation of insect hosts
screening, molecular typing of endosymbiotic bacteria
(genus Wolbachia), and analysis of data relating to vari-
ation, global distribution and host associations of these
endosymbionts.
For more information and to download a copy of
the application visit the following website: http:/-
/troi.cc.rochester.edu/ ˜ wolb/FIBR/education.html
mclark11@mail.rochester.edu52 EvolDir April 6, 2007
USheﬃeld FieldAssist
AvianPopGenet
JOB ADVERT:
Field assistants are required to assist in researching co-
operative breeding and migration in the long-tailed tit.
The ﬁeld site is in Estonia, based at an amazing ﬁeld
centre complete with mod-cons and the occasional pass-
ing elk! Assistants should have a background or ﬁrm
interest in zoology, and would suit someone that is look-
ing to progress to doing a PhD or further study of some
kind. The ﬁeld work is tough, challenging, but ulti-
mately rewarding, and if you are into this kind of thing,
you will ﬁnd it fun! Fieldwork will include nest search-
ing, reading colour rings on a very small bird, some
mist-netting and navigating yourself through varying
terrain! Field conditions vary from sub-zero to very
hot during the season, and you should expect to con-
tend with ticks, mosquitoes, the odd brown bear and
wet feet! You should be of average ﬁtness and pre-
pared to walk for long distances to ﬁnd the birds. An
enthusiastic approach coupled with keen eyes and ears
are essential, as with these, the necessary skills can be
taught. Experience in this kind of work is a deﬁnite ad-
vantage, but all applications will be considered. Field-
work runs from the 7th April for 6-8weeks, and you
should be available at least for the ﬁrst month. Accom-
modation is provided and there is some scope for sub-
sidy of food/travel, which we will discuss with the ap-
plicant. Applications are invited immediately, and you
should send your CV along with a covering letter, and
details of 2 referees (if possible, one of whom can com-
ment on your skills during ﬁeldwork) to BETH WOOD-
WARD at b.woodward@sheﬃeld.ac.uk . Review of ap-
plications will begin immediately, and continue until
the position(s) are ﬁlled.
B K Woodward <B.Woodward@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
UZurich EvolutionaryEcol
University of Zurich, Institute of Zoology Our Ecology
Group invites applications for aRESEARCH POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY
ECOLOGY
Applicants must possess a Ph.D. plus some postdoc-
toral experience and should have a good publication
record in evolutionary ecology, population or commu-
nity ecology, conservation biology, population genetics,
behavioral ecology or related ﬁelds.
Detailed information on the Institute of Zoology is
available under www.zool.unizh.ch
The Ecology Group and its research projects
are described under www.zool.unizh.ch/Research/-
Ecology.html
The successful candidate is expected to participate
in ongoing research and teaching programs, establish
his/her own programs and attract external funding.
The position is available from September 2007 to Jan-
uary 2011. If you are interested, please send me your
application with curriculum vitae, list of publications,
summary of research goals and three letters of reference
by 15 April 2007. Sorry, we don not accept applications
via e-mail.
Prof. Dr. Heinz-Ulrich Reyer, Institute of Zo-
ology, University of Zuerich, Winterthurerstrasse
190, CH-8057 Zuerich, Switzerland Tel.: +41-(0)44-
635 49 80, Fax: +41 (0)44 635 68 21 e-mail:
ulireyer@zool.unizh.ch
Uli Reyer <ulireyer@zool.unizh.ch >
WoodsHole ResTech Endosym
Reseach Technician Position Functional and evolution-
ary genomics of bacterial endosymbionts MBL, Woods
Hole, Mass.
Bacterial endosymbionts have played major roles in
the diversiﬁcation of numerous insect lineages. Us-
ing both molecular and computational approaches, we
are exploring genome evolution and potential functions
of these bacterial partners ( http://jbpc.mbl.edu/labs-
wernegreen.html ).
We seek a highly motivated research assistant to con-
tribute to our projects exploring the functional ge-
nomics and population dynamics of endosymbionts
across diﬀerent castes and species of ants, and to as-
sist with evolutionary studies of gene content and DNA
sequence variation in host-associated bacteria.April 6, 2007 EvolDir 53
Details of the position, including experience required
and application instructions, are described on the fol-
lowing website:
http://www.mbl.edu/hr/job search.php?func=-
detail&par=job id=557
Please contact Jennifer Wernegreen (jwerne-
green@mbl.edu) with any questions.Jennifer Wernegreen Josephine Bay Paul Center for
Comparative Molecular Biology and Evolution Marine
Biological Lab 7 MBL Street Woods Hole, MA 02543
ph: 508/289-7257 (oﬃce and voicemail) email: jwerne-
green@mbl.edu
Jennifer Wernegreen <jwernegreen@mbl.edu >
Other
18srRNA alignment answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
AFLPOP simulations vs reallocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
APE web pages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Adansonia digitata samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Adansonia digitata samples error . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Ailanthus samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Allelic dropout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
AmerGenetAssoc FundingSpecialEvents . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Ant olfactory learning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Asobara tabida samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
BAC cloning kit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Bird parasite DNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
CT SNPs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
ChristchurchNZ SSESSB UndergraduateDiversity . 58
Concentrated DNA Extractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Data for MarginalPop Metaanalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Drosophila virilis samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Excursions around the Evolution meeting . . . . . . . . . 59
Excursions around the Evolution meeting 2 . . . . . . . . 60
Gel sticking problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
GeneticDistance with indels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
GeneticDistance with indels answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Gotland FieldAssistVolunteer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Humingbird blood samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Inconsistant micros answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Inconsistent microsats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Journal EvolBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
K12 proposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Laminar Flow Hood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
MHC CloningArtefacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
MHC CloningArtefacts answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65Meditest Incubator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Megabace Fragment Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Micro identiﬁcation answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Mismatch Distribution answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
NESCent Phyloinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Nulls and pop structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Nulls and pop structure answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Old JEB issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
PCRmultiplex software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Plant genomic DNA extraction Kits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Polyploid SSR answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Polyploid SSR question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Silk DNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
SocSystBiol ErnstMayrAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
SocSystBiol MiniPEET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
SocSystBiol TravelAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Software DAMBE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Software TESS Spatial genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Software indel-Seq-Gen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Structure problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
TRF-length analysis service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Teaching biostatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Tortoise CRampliﬁcation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UMinnesota SSB proposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
US passports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
VisitingGradStu Spain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
VisitingGradStu Spain 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Working with multiple copy genes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
modiﬁed Genographer software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
r8s dates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7954 EvolDir April 6, 2007
18srRNA alignment answers
Dear All, Below are the replies I received on the
questions regarding DCSE and 18S rRNA alignments.
Firstly, I was stuck by the amount of replies both those
containing suggestions and those who simply said that
they were in the same situation. Thank you all!
My feeling about it is that all those zoologists/botanists
( i.e. not biochemists or computer programmers) who
are working with phylogenetic studies and use rRNA
as their target gene need to get together and work out
one system to which all those multiple utilities pack-
ages and scripts could be adjusted - otherwise they are
all lost in translation. Perhaps this will be my next
project. Meanwhile I have tried to compile some main
answers I had received from you in the order I asked
the questions.
Please feel free to contact me if you need any additional
information.
1) does anyone know if this software is still in use and
if yes where I can get it? DCSE has probably migrated
to van der Peer’s new location in Belgium, the Antwerp
lab having closed and its members dispersed. One per-
son send me a ink to download DCSE from China.
http://www.cbi.pku.edu.cn/ftp/ftp-a-d.html Many of
you suggested that DCSE should not be used for various
reasons such as compatibility of data format, inability
to run it ( well I am not surprised - it seems to have
been written in the days of Sun Microsystems rule),
and general dislike of the package. I have downloaded
it and could not install it on BSD or Fedora.
2) if there is an alternative package which can read/edit
of assist in alignment of rRNA with secondary structure
(i.e. what do YOU use?)
Here the list of packages people suggested to use.
Please note that none of the packages can actu-
ally align the sequences for you ( apart from ARB
see: http://www.arb-home.de/ ) I have tried ARB
(for quite a long time before - it is an excellent
and very complex package designed originally for 16S
rRNA) but I have some problems making it work
with my sequences. See Dave Kysela’s excellent
tutorial on ARB: http://www.mm.helsinki.ﬁ/users/-
GJURGENS/Arb/ARB tutorial.htm If you want to go
ahead with ARB - it may be diﬃcult to install on MAC
OS X as the manual on the web site is outdated - con-
tact me, I have done it a few times by now. Also LINUX
installation is a bit scary as ARB looks for old librarieswhich you need to link manually - again contact me if
you are stuck.
Other packages( these just let you edit RNA
in a nice way): You can access the ap-
plication at the following address: http://-
4sale.bioapps.biozentrum.uni-wuerzburg.de/ jRNA
pages http://hymenoptera.tamu.edu/rna Some Perl
scripts for conversion http://bioinformatics.org/-
paradise/ SARSE ( http://sarse.kvl.dk/ ). PHASE (has
some scripts and links) www.bioinf.manchester.ac.uk/-
resources/phase/ Max Telford has some scrips: Xstem
Ystem to extract data from DCSE RNA database
depository online. The scripts are availiabl;e from the
author only see his paper: Telford, M. J., M. J. Wise,
et al. (2005). “Consideration of RNA secondary struc-
ture signiﬁcantly improves likelihood-based estimates
of phylogeny: Examples from the bilateria.” Molecular
Biology And Evolution 22(4): 1129-1136.
3) if any of you came across any good “practical” guide
on how to do the secondary structural alignment for
18S rRNA, whether it is “by hand” or computer soft-
ware assisted. This is easy to answer there is only one
guide, which I found rather useful to start with: http:/-
/hymenoptera.tamu.edu/rna/methods.php The above
seem to be the amalgamation of all answers I got I am
sorry if I forgot anyone.
Consequently, I ended up trying to make ARB work
and also doing in parallel a manual alignment based
on the published structure. It is very time consuming,
but after a few days of staring at 4 colored nucleotides
on the screen the world seems so multicoloured I am
almost enjoying it. :-)))
Anton Tsyganov mailto:atsyganov@gmail.com
mailto:bsatsyganov@swansea.ac.uk
atsyganov@gmail.com
AFLPOP simulations vs reallocation
Dear All,
I am working on population structure in the red abalone
using AFLPs and am using the program AFLPOP
(Duschesne and Bernatchez (2002) in Mol Ecol Notes)
to reassign individuals to their appropriate source pop-
ulations.
I have been using the “Simulation: many iterations”
option to set the upper bound for the minimum-logApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 55
likelihood diﬀerence that I go on to use in the “Re-
allocation (source populations)” option. However, I am
getting major diﬀerences in assignment success between
the simulations and reallocations with the same min-
imum log-likelihood setting (e.g. 80-90% assignment
in simulations vs. 50% in reallocations). I even get
this diﬀerence when I use the example data set in the
AFLPOP program package.
Has anyone else had this problem, or is there something
that I am missing when setting up the program to run?
What type of errors in allele frequency calculations be-
tween the two options might account for this?
Any suggestions would be much appreciated!
Best regards, Kristen – Kristen Gruenthal Marine Biol-
ogy Research Division Scripps Institution of Oceanog-
raphy University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman
Drive La Jolla, CA 92093-0208
Phone: 858-534-7827 Email: kgruenth@ucsd.edu
APE web pages
I am pleased to announce the launch of ape’s web pages:
http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/R/ape/ (if you don’t know
what is ape, just click on the link above)
You will ﬁnd general information, screenshots, FAQs,
tips for installation, some plans on current develop-
ments, some literature pointers, and additional docu-
ments. All these will be regularly updated.
There is also a page, in the Literature section, on the
book “Analysis of Phylogenetics and Evolution with R”
with errata, updates, solutions to exercices, and supple-
mentary materials.
Many thanks to the PBIL at the University of Lyon 1
for hosting these pages.
Emmanuel Paradis – Institut de Recherche pour le
D´ eveloppement UR175 CAVIAR GAMET - BP 5095
361 rue Jean Fran¸ cois Breton F-34196 Montpellier
c´ edex 5 France phone: +33 (0)4 67 16 64 47 fax: +33
(0)4 67 16 64 40 mailto: Emmanuel.Paradis@mpl.ird.fr
Emmanuel.Paradis@mpl.ird.fr Em-
manuel.Paradis@mpl.ird.frAdansonia digitata samples
Dear EvolDir members. I’m presently doing a Ph.D.
study on the African Baobab and amongst other things
I’m looking at the phylogeography of the species, but I
have an incomplete set of samples.
Does any of you hold samples - preferably with exact
geographical data - that you are willing to share. I’ve
got samples to “trade”. Seeds are preferred.
Regards
Andersansl@life.ku.dk
anderslarsen333@hotmail.com
Adansonia digitata samples error
Dear members
There was an error in my e-mail address in the request
for samples of Adansonia digitata material. The correct
address is ansl@life.ku.dk
Anders
Anders S. Larsen Mimersgade 118, 5.tv. 2200
Copenhagen N Phone no. +4535854345 Mobile no.
+4561334345
anderslarsen333@hotmail.com
Ailanthus samples
Dear all,
I am currently studying Ailanthus altissima
(Mill.)SWINGLE as invasive and I would like to
compare genetic characteristics of invasive popula-
tions with native ones. I have many populations
from Europe, I would be very interested in getting
samples from Hawaii, USA, Canada, Southern Africa,
Australia, New Zeeland, and of course from the native
area, China.56 EvolDir April 6, 2007
I am using microsatellite allele frequencies, so I need
at last 10 specimens for each population. Freshly col-
lected materiel would be great and only small amounts
of sample are needed (few leaves should be perfect). I
can also cover all postage costs. If you can help me or
know of someone who might be able to, please contact
me via email at eric.motard@univ-paris-diderot.fr.
By advance, thank you very much, Eric MOTARD PhD
student Laboratoire de Physiologie de lArbre Univer-
sit´ e Paris7 Denis Diderot Case courrier 7079 2, Place
Jussieu 75005 PARIS FRANCE
“eric.motard” <eric.motard@paris7.jussieu.fr >
Allelic dropout
Dear EvolDir members,
I amplify macaque faecal DNA using human microsatel-
lite primers. In addition to the risk of contamination,
the chance of allelic dropout is high due to the degraded
condition of the source DNA. There are many reviews
that talk about many plans (e.g.Taberlet et al. 1999
and Pompanon et al. 2005 etc. ) and methods (e.g.
multiple tube approach) to tackle this problem as a sub-
set of the whole genotyping error, but I was wondering
if there is any consensus in the scientiﬁc community
about the solution. Any other suggestion about pater-
nity study in macaques also will be appreciated.
Thank you in advance.
Deb
debapriyo@ncbs.res.in
– Debapriyo Chakraborty
Research Scholar Nature Conservation Foundation
3076/5, 4th Cross, Gokulam Park, Mysore - 570002,
India Website: www.ncf-india.org – Current Address:
Laboratory III National Centre For Biological Sci-
ences Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Uni-
versity of Agricultural Sciences Campus Banga-
lore - 560065, India Telephone: 91-80-23666031
Website: www.ncbs.res.in Debapriyo Chakraborty
<debapriyo@ncbs.res.in >AmerGenetAssoc
FundingSpecialEvents
SPECIAL EVENT AWARDS FROM THE AMERI-
CAN GENETIC ASSOCIATION
The Council of the American Genetic Association in-
vites applications from members of the Association for
support of special events that further the purposes of
the Association. The Association expects to make one
or two awards of approximately $10,000-15,000. Eligi-
ble events include specialized workshops open to Asso-
ciation members in areas of great current interest and
short courses in organismal genetics, but any event that
would advance the purpose of the Association is eligible
for support. We encourage members to think creatively
about the types of events they could oﬀer with support
from the Association and to propose topic areas that
have not been previously covered.
An application for a Special Event Award should in-
clude the following items of information: 1. The
name(s) and title(s) of the individual(s) who will be
responsible for organizing the event and overseeing the
expenditure of any funds awarded. 2. The institution
to which an award should be made, including the com-
plete address of the relevant institutional department
and the signature of an authorized institutional rep-
resentative indicating the institution’s willingness to
administer the award if granted. 3. The title of the
event for which an award is requested. 4. A rationale
for the event explaining (a) why the event is timely
or needed, (b) how the planned event will address the
perceived need, and (c) how support from the Amer-
ican Genetic Association will improve the event, e.g.,
by making it possible or by making it more aﬀordable
for graduate students and post-doctoral research asso-
ciates. The rationale need not be longer than 1 page. 5.
A description of the event including: a list of primary
participants (e.g., workshop leaders, course instructors,
keynote speakers), dates and location of the event, a
preliminary schedule for the event, and a plan for how
participants will be selected (if participation is limited).
The description need not be longer than 2 pages. 6. A
budget for the event showing how funds provided by an
award from the Society would be used to support event
activities. If funds are also being sought from other
sources, the budget should show both how funds from
the Association will be used and how funds from otherApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 57
sources will be used. (The sources of other funds need
not be identiﬁed, but the application should indicate
whether the funds are in hand.)
Applications for a Special Event Award should be sent
electronically as Word or pdf attachments to the As-
sociation oﬃce (agajoh@ncifcrf.gov). The Council will
review all applications received before May 15, 2007
and will decide on an award at its annual meeting in
July 2007.
Questions about the award can be sent to me, ash-
ley@uic.edu .
– Mary V. Ashley Professor Department of Biological
Sciences University of Illinois at Chicago 845 W. Taylor
St., M/C 066 Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-9700 FAX: (312) 996-9462 E-mail:
ashley@uic.edu
http://www.leap.uic.edu http://www.uic.edu/depts/-
malab/ ashley@uic.edu ashley@uic.edu
Ant olfactory learning
Electriﬁable grids
Hello, I’m interested in olfactory learning in ants and I
want to do an experiment in which I use electric shocks
as a form of conditioning. I have tried for several weeks
to obtain the electrical circuit material that is often
used in learning experiments in Drosophila (a.k.a. print
plates). Unfortunately, the only company I’ve found
that can produce the electrical plates charges $900 US,
which is over my budget. Does anyone have electriﬁ-
able grids that I can borrow? I am willing to pay for
any shipment costs. Also, any help or advice would be
greatly appreciated.
Thanks for your time.
Ellen
– Dr. Ellen van Wilgenburg Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology 321 Steinhaus Hall University of California,
Irvine Irvine, CA 92697-2525 USA
Tel.: +1 949 824 2615 email: evanwilg@uci.edu
Ellen van Wilgenburg <evanwilg@uci.edu >Asobara tabida samples
Does anyone have a stock of the wasp Asobara tabida.
Be best if it is being raised on Drosophila subobscura.
I need a transfer for research. Thanks, Ron Woodruﬀ.
–
R. C. Woodruﬀ Distinguished Research Professor
CoEditor-in-Chief , GENETICA Department of Bio-
logical Sciences Corner Merry and N. College Life Sci-
ences Building Bowling Green State University Bowling
Green, Ohio 43403 Telephone: 419-372-0376 Fax: 419-
372-2024 email: rwoodru@bgnet.bgsu.edu
rwoodru@bgsu.edu
BAC cloning kit
Dear all,
Has anyone used a BAC cloning kit? Can anyone indi-
cate a good one and preferably cheap?
Thank you!
Sara Carvalho Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia Portu-
gal saracarvalho@igc.gulbenkian.pt
Sara Carvalho <saranlcarvalho@gmail.com >
Bird parasite DNA
Hi,
I am looking for Haemoproteus, Leucocytozoon and
avian malaria parasite DNA to use as positive control
for PCR.
Thank you,
Ghislaine
Ghislaine Mayer, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Virginia Commonwealth University58 EvolDir April 6, 2007
1000 W. Cary St. Oﬃce: room 345 Room 126 Rich-
mond, VA 23284-2012 Ph: 804-828-0828 Fax: 804-828-
0503
gmayer@vcu.edu
CT SNPs
SNPs
It is known that two thirds of SNPs are C >>T, that is
Cytosine substituted by Thymine.
Assuming that this is an average number (that is, taken
from the entire genotyped population), Would any body
know to what degree variation exists between individ-
uals?
For example, how frequent is an individual half (rather
than two thirds) of whose SNPs are C >>T?
In addition, does anybody know of variability in the
nature of SNPs (such as C >>T), between loci on chro-
mosomes or between loci in genes?
Thanks in advance,
Yair Itay
moranuri@gmail.com
ChristchurchNZ SSESSB
UndergraduateDiversity
For the ﬁfth consecutive year, the Undergraduate Di-
versity at SSE/SSB program, funded by a the Under-
graduate Mentoring in Environmental Biology (UMEB)
program at NSF, will take place again at the 2007 meet-
ing of the Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE)
and the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) this
June in Christchurch, NZ. However, because this is a
bridge year for funding of this program, it will be scaled
down considerably. This year the program will defray
the costs of travel and lodging for 3 minority under-
graduates from the US and Puerto Rico to attend the
SSE/SSB meetings up to $1300. Arrangements will be
made for registration costs of the meeting to be cov-
ered as well. Students are expected to give a poster on
their research at the meetings. The mentoring compo-nent of the program will be less formal than in previous
years. The students are expected to meet and share a
meal with Scott Edwards, who will be attending the
program. It is also hoped that the students can on an
informal basis be put in touch with speciﬁc graduate
student, postdoc and faculty attendees who will be at-
tending the meeting, as well as a special session to inter-
act with undergraduates from New Zealand. Pending
renewal of funding, we expect the program to resume
its normal quota of 15-20 students in 2008.
The application deadline is April 10, 2007. Applica-
tions will consist of a title, author line and abstract
of the poster to be presented by the undergraduate;
a one page statement of academic interests and career
goals and of how attending the Evolution meetings will
help meet these goals; and one letter of recommenda-
tion from the undergraduate’s research advisor. The
letter should indicate how inclusion of the student will
increase diversity of the group participants and whether
or not the student plans to attend graduate school or
medical school. All materials should be submitted as
pdf ﬁles and emailed to Scott Edwards, edwardsad-
min@oeb.harvard.edu. Applications will be accepted
only from students registered or very recently gradu-
ated from U.S. institutions, including Puerto Rico (i.e.,
no later than having ﬁnished classes during the winter
or spring semesters before the meeting) and traveling to
the meeting from within the US. Students demonstrat-
ing a need for funds to attend SSE/SSB will be given
preference, and will be selected so that as a group, they
will maximize cultural diversity among undergraduates
at the meetings. See the following URL for further de-
tails on this program:
http://www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/edwards/-
community/application.html
Concentrated DNA Extractions
Dear All,
I have a question about the best way to get more
concentrated DNA extractions by evaporation (or any
other way). How do most of you people normally do it
knowing that I can only use standard lab material?
Best regards,
Philippe Helsen.
Philippe Helsen University of Antwerp - Campus Groe-
nenborger Dept. of Biology - Evolutionary BiologyApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 59
Group Groenenborgerlaan 171 B-2020 Antwerp Bel-
gium
philippe.helsen@ua.ac.be phone: xx-32-3-265.34.70 fax:
xx-32-3-265.34.74
philippe.helsen@ua.ac.be
Data for MarginalPop Metaanalysis
Steve Lougheed and I are reviewing studies on plants
and animals that have investigated geographic variation
in population genetic diversity and structure, particu-
larly studies comparing the genetic structure of geo-
graphically central versus peripheral populations.
If you have done such a study, we are very interested in
including your data in our meta-analysis. So, we’d love
to receive, at the email address below, PDFs of your
published papers or unpublished manuscripts or data.
The data set we compile will be made available to all
when we publish our review.
Thank you
Chris Eckert Department of Biology Queen’s Uni-
versity Kingston, Ontario K7L 3N6 Canada eck-
ertc@biology.queensu.ca
eckertc@biology.queensu.ca eck-
ertc@biology.queensu.ca
Drosophila virilis samples
Dear Colleaques,
We are working with Drosophila virilis group. We
would need extra samples for developing a molecu-
lar species identiﬁcation method. Does anybody have
spare samples from the following species: D. virilis, D.
a. americana, D. a. texana, D. novamexicana, D. lum-
mei, D. montana, D. lacicola, D. borealis, D. ﬂavomon-
tana, D. littoralis, D. ezoana, D. kanekoi?
Flies can be alive, frozen, dried or stored in ethanol.
Thanks a lot,
Yours,
Maaria Kankare, PhD Researcher Evolutionary Genet-ics Department of Biological and Environmental Sci-
ences P.O. Box 35 FIN-40014 University of Jyv ˜Askyl ˜A
Finland
tel +358 14 260 4247 mobile +358 40 7717398 e-mail
mkankare@bytl.jyu.ﬁ
mkankare@bytl.jyu.ﬁ
Excursions around the Evolution
meeting
Dear EvolDir members,
Two years ago, when the Evolution meeting was in
Alaska, I posted here a proposal for post-conference
travel, looking for buddies, which resulted in a really
good boat trip on Nenana River and a great hike in
Denali with some truly ﬁne people. This year the Evo-
lution meeting is in New Zealand and I am going to do
this again. Moreover, since I am, as are some other Evo-
lution 07 participants, staying in New Zealand for an-
other meeting a week later (namely, ISEPEP2, http:/-
/www.otago.ac.nz/isepep2 ), I have both pre- and post-
conference plans, for which I would like to ﬁnd co-
travelers.
Pre-conference Cook Islands stopover. Air
New Zealand allows inexpensive stopovers en
route to and from NZ if you book on-line
(http://www.airnewzealand.com/airfares oﬀers/-
webspecials ﬂights/ﬂights/default.htm ). Cook Islands
(http://www.southpaciﬁc.org/text/ﬁnding cooks.html
;http://cookislands.bishopmuseum.org <http://-
cookislands.bishopmuseum.org ) are among the best
(and the least visited) coral reef diving/snorkeling
places in the South Paciﬁc (or world). I have a prelim-
inary agreement with a colleague who can introduce us
to an excellent local naturalist/diver/wild life enthu-
siast, who can guide us to the most interesting places
and show us the best of land and sea biodiversity.
There is an AirNewZealand ﬂight to Rarotonga (RAR)
from LA on June 10th, allowing a 5-day stop-over. I
have just booked my ticket and the cost (from LAX
to CHC roundtrip) is US$ 1,155 + 241 tax = 1,396,
which is better than many non-stopover fares currently
available. Most passport holders do not need a visa
to enter Cook Islands (even Russians), if they have an
outbound ticket. Please e-mail me if you’d like to join
me for this trip. We can discuss accommodation and
natural history options.60 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Post-conference hiking. These plans are a lot less de-
ﬁned, but I need to spend 8 days between Evolution
and ISEPEP meetings somewhere on South Island and
something is telling me that one can do it in many
very exciting ways. Please e-mail me with your hik-
ing/skiing/boating suggestions.
– Lev Yampolsky
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sciences
East Tennessee State University Johnson City TN
37614-1710 Phone 423-439-4359 Fax 423-439-5958
“Yampolsky, Lev” <YAMPOLSK@mail.etsu.edu >
Excursions around the Evolution
meeting 2
Dear Brian,
I am still looking for companions, so if I could post this
again? Thanks! == Lev
Dear Colleagues,
A couple of fellow evolutionary biologists have already
decided to join me for the Rarotonga (Cook Islands)
stop-over en route to the Evolution meeting. Ger-
ald McCormack, a local naturalist and the creator
of Cook Islands Biodiversity Heritage Trust ( http://-
cookislands.bishopmuseum.org ), will advise us on the
best ways to enjoy Rarotonga marine and terrestrial
life. I just noticed that AirNewZealand made CI
stopovers free and tickets are still available for June
10th ﬂight from LA to Rarotonga. So if anyone is still
considering joining us, it’s probably a good time to de-
cide. I am also going to decide on accommodations and
other details very soon.
Also still open for suggestions on after-the-meeting
hikes on South Island.
– Lev Yampolsky
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sciences
East Tennessee State University Johnson City TN
37614-1710 Phone 423-439-4359 Fax 423-439-5958
Lev Yampolsky <yampolsk@etsu.edu >Gel sticking problem
Dear collegue
I am a researcher tha work the AFLP technique, But
I have a problem now , and it is related top the gel,
the gel sticks to both plate, I tried several times with
other materials for example, I changed the bind and
repel silane, The 6% Acrylamide solution , TBE buﬀer
and treated both glasses with 10%NaOH, but I didnt
success. Would you please recommend, how can I solve
its diﬃculty. Thank you so much.
Best regards Mahtab Yarmohammadi
mahtab yarmohammadi
<mahtab yarmohammadi@yahoo.com >
GeneticDistance with indels
Dear All, is there some genetic software to measure ge-
netic distance between taxa taking indels into account?
We are studying chloroplast DNA in a number of an-
giosperms, and indels appear to be useful for evolu-
tionary comparisons. Any help and comments will be
greatly appreciated.
Maria Cristina Mosco Postdoctoral Researcher Univer-
sity of Rome ”La Sapienza” Department of Genetics
and Molecular Biology Via dei Sardi, 70 00185 Rome,
Italy Phone +39 06 4991 7807 - FAX +39 06 44 41 591
e-mail: cristina.mosco@uniroma1.it
cristina.mosco@uniroma1.it
cristina.mosco@uniroma1.it
GeneticDistance with indels answers
Below are the answers I received. Many thanks to ev-
eryone who kindly wrote me.
All the best,
CristinaApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 61
MY QUESTION
Dear All, is there some genetic software to measure ge-
netic distance between taxa taking indels into account?
We are studying chloroplast DNA in a number of an-
giosperms, and indels appear to be useful for evolu-
tionary comparisons. Any help and comments will be
greatly appreciated.
ANSWERS
Hi Cristina Please check out my Sys Biol paper via pub-
lication link on home page below. I also know that Gap-
Coder may be superceded with IndelCoder in SeqState
written by Kai Muller. M¨ uller K 2006. Incorporating
information from length-mutational events into phylo-
genetic analysis. Mol Phyl Evol, 38: 667-676. M¨ uller K
2005. SeqState - primer design and sequence statistics
for phylogenetic DNA data sets. Appl Bioinformatics,
4: 65-69. These refer to analysis tools, rather than ge-
netic distances, but frame the indel issue well I hope?
With best wishes
Si Creer Post Doctoral Research Fellow Molecular
Ecology and Fisheries Genetics Group School of Bi-
ological Sciences University Wales, Bangor Bangor
Gwynedd LL57 2UW UK e-mail: s.creer@bangor.ac.uk
Tel: +1248 382302 Fax: +1248 371644 Home Page:
<http://biology.bangor.ac.uk/ ˜ bssa0d/ >http://-
biology.bangor.ac.uk/˜bssa0d/ ———-
ciao, tri scrivo in italiano perch` e ho visto che sei di
ROMA.... puoi usare il software GAPCODER (Young
ND, Healy J (2003) GapCoder automates the use of in-
del characters in phylogenetic analysis. BMC Bioinfor-
matics, 4, 1-6) che ti permette di ottenere un input ﬁle
che considera gli indel come presenza-assenza. Qeusto
muovo dataﬁle puo poi essere utilizzato in PAUP e in
mrbayes 3.1 per calcolare le distanze genetiche. Inoltre,
comunque questi due ultimi programmi ti permettono
di considerare gli indel come ﬁfth base. Prova ad uti-
lizzare tutti i due i metodi e vedi se ottieni dei risulati
diversi. Ciao Federica Costantini
Federica Costantini,PhD
Laboratorio di Ecologia sperimentale
Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca per le Scienze
Ambientali in Ravenna
Universit` a degli Studi di Bologna
via S. Alberto, 163
48100 Ravenna
tel: +39 0544 937401
fax: +39 0544 937411
e-mail: federica.costantini@unibo.itskype username: fedealpha
Pagina WWW:
<http://www.ecology.unibo.it > http://-
www.ecology.unibo.it >
<http://www.ecology.unibo.it/page/federica.htm >
http://www.ecology.unibo.it/page/federica.htm
———–
Cristina, I’ve played with coding them as 1 (sequence
present) or 0 (sequence absent) or as multi-state char-
acters (where there are several discrete classes of the
same indel), and have used AMOVA to analyze sets of
indels, both along with and instead of nucleotide se-
quence diﬀerences for the coding sequence. There are
cases where they really help, and there are cases where
they work better than nucleotide substitutions (typi-
cally dominated by transitional changes) for phyloge-
netic reconstruction. This work is with colleagues who
are “just trying things out” and is not yet published,
as far as I know. The idea is free. It runs against tra-
ditional usage, but the point of the exercise is to ﬁgure
out the phylogeny, not be politically correct. - Peter
Smouse
From: SMOUSE@AESOP.Rutgers.edu [
<mailto:SMOUSE@AESOP.Rutgers.edu >
mailto:SMOUSE@AESOP.Rutgers.edu] Sent: Wednes-
day, March 28, 2007 8:04 AM Subject: other: indels
———-
J. Peter Gogarten
gogarten@gmail.com
Many programs allow to specify indels as missing data
or as a character. Parsimony in Phylip by default uses
gaps as a character, PAUP by default has them as miss-
ing data. If one treats gaps as characters, larger gaps
sometimes are a problem, because each individual po-
sition is counted as a character. A solution is treat the
individual indel as missing data, and to
form additional (0/1) characters for the ab-
sence/presence of a gap.
———
Reed A. Cartwright
Do you want to include indels in the distance mea-
sure or do you want to estimate distance with an algo-
rithm that treats indels as something other than miss-
ing data? I can do the latter with my current research
project. However, if the former is what you are after,
then I caution against it because it would involve nearly
arbitrary choices about how to weight indels and indel
lengths with respect to substitutions.62 EvolDir April 6, 2007
In my work I use substitutions to establish evolution-
ary distance and calculate the proportion of indels per
substitution. I feel that this is the proper way to do it.
Email me if you are interested in my approach.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Gotland FieldAssistVolunteer
Volunteer ﬁeld assistant position for a project on dis-
persal in a fragmented population of birds (Gotland,
Sweden, May-June 2007)
Dispersal between breeding sites is a major life-history
trait that aﬀects multiple evolutionary processes in nat-
ural populations, but its determinism is still poorly
known in many cases. We have been conducting for
several years a series of experiments aimed at under-
standing the factors inﬂuencing dispersal behaviour in
a fragmented population of hole-nesting passerine birds
(collared ﬂycatchers Ficedula albicollis, great tits Parus
major). Our experiments investigate (i) the role of ma-
ternal eﬀects and in particular egg components, (ii) the
relative inﬂuence of early and late factors during the
development of young, and (iii) the role of external
information on habitat quality, on natal and breeding
dispersal behaviour. These experiments are conducted
in collaboration with researchers from Universities of
Lyon I (France), Uppsala (Sweden), Oulu (Finland),
and New South Wales (Australia). We are currently
looking for volunteer ﬁeld assistants to take part in ﬁeld
work during spring 2007 on the Swedish island of Got-
land. The duties of these ﬁeld assistants will include (i)
participating in catching, ringing and measuring breed-
ing adults of these two species before laying, during
incubation, and during the nestling feeding period, and
(ii) participating to the training of the students of the
team in ringing and measuring nestlings, and to the
management of the everyday team work (minimum 8 h
of work per day, and up to 12-13 h during the peak pe-
riod of catching). Therefore, we are looking for volun-
teers strongly experienced in adult passerine bird catch-
ing, handling, ringing and (if possible) measuring.
Conditions: Availability: the assistant has to be avail-
able from the beginning of May until the beginning of
July (i.e. for a minimum of 8-9 weeks). Driving license:the study sites are located up to 15 km of distance from
each other, thus travel between sites are by car and by
bike. Local transport means will be provided. Expenses
coverage: accommodation on the island of Gotland will
be paid. An indemnity of about 1 000 per month will
be provided, plus around 400 for the travel to Gotland.
If interested by this announcement, or for more infor-
mation, please contact me so that we can discuss it;
please also send me a CV detailing your experience in
ringing and handling passerine birds:
Blandine Doligez Department of Biometry and Evolu-
tionary Biology (CNRS UMR 5558) University Claude
Bernard (Lyon I) - Bˆ atiment Gregor Mendel 43, boule-
vard du 11 novembre 1918 F - 69622 Villeurbanne
Cedex
Tel.: +33 4 76 37 38 01 or +33 4 72 43 14 04 - Fax: +33
4 72 43 13 88 E-mail: doligez@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
doligez@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
doligez@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
Humingbird blood samples
I have small quantities of blood from 23 species of
hummingbirds from the eastern slope of the equato-
rial Andes (1300-3500 m), stored unrefrigerated in 95%
Ethanol. Before I freeze-dry them for isotopic analysis,
I can take out a bit if someone needs it. I study al-
titudinal migration, so I toyed with the idea of trying
to look at population structure in sedentary vs migra-
tory birds. If someone needs this for an existing study
or wants to chat about collaborating on that or other
ideas, write
jessica.hardesty@duke.edu
Cheers!
Jessica Hardesty PhD Candidate University Program
in Ecology Duke University
arielle cooley <acooley@gmail.com >
Inconsistant micros answers
Several people expressed an interest in hearing the re-
sponses I got to my microsatellite question. My originalApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 63
question asked for help with the following two problems
with microsatellites I had developed for frogs:
(1) the microsats don’t amplify consistently (i.e. one
sample may give nothing for one PCR but work beau-
tifully the next time under the same conditions), and
(2) my results are largely not reproducible among PCRs
(i.e. I get diﬀerent peak sizes in successive PCRs of the
same individual a large percentage of the time). These
problems happen for all 8 of the microsats I developed.
Here are the answers I got:
- You sometimes have drop out of alleles (especially the
longer ones) and also some loci that diﬀered by one al-
lele between runs due to A-overhangs. You can prevent
by adding a 30 min step at around 60 degrees to the
PCR, but I’m not sure about the allele drop out.
- Amphibian microstatellies are just diﬃcult. Some
have had luck chelexing their already extracted DNAs.
- Check your primer sequences again and try to re-
design primers. As well try to standardize your PCR
with lower annealing temperatures. - inconsistant am-
pliﬁcation is mostly a handling and/or contamination
problem. Are you sure your conditions are always RE-
ALLY the same? Do you vortex/centrifuge all eppis af-
ter thawing? Could it be that you use diﬀerent batches
of water/buﬀer/plasticware? Try to use fresh batches,
re-dilute your primers from stock.
- diﬀerent peak sizes: may occur due to in vitro slippage
events (in fact, during your PCR the same eﬀect hap-
pens that leads to polymorphism in nature: loops form
during strand synthesis). This can be circumvented by
optimization of PCR chemistry (try diﬀerent Mg and
dNTPs concentrations), choice of enzyme (try at least
2-3 diﬀerent brands to see which one works best with
your template), not too many cycles (maximum 32, less
are better; not more than needed for a clear signal on
the capillary), and a long ﬁnal extension at 68 (15 min).
- With degraded DNA the low template number causes
some alleles to be ampliﬁed over others, almost ran-
domly.
- I know of others who have had problems similar to
yours on the ABI 3130 capillary machine. Many of the
problems went away once formamide was used in the
prep of the samples for loading into the sequencer.
- Have you tried running the diagnostic tests on your
PCR machine? If it’s not heating to the same tem-
perature consistently that could explain your problem.
Likewise, if you use diﬀerent PCR machines you could
see a similar eﬀect.
Corinne L. Richards email: clrichar@umich.edu Ph.D.
Student University of Michigan Museum of Zoology Di-vision of Reptiles and Amphibians & Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
clrichar@umich.edu clrichar@umich.edu
Inconsistent microsats
Dear EvolDir members,
I have a question for any of you who have used or de-
veloped microsatellites. I recently developed a set of
microsatellite primers and upon genotyping, found two
disturbing problems: (1) the microsats don’t amplify
consistently (i.e. one sample may give nothing for one
PCR but work beautifully the next time under the same
conditions), and (2) my results are largely not repro-
ducible among PCRs (i.e. I get diﬀerent peak sizes in
successive PCRs of the same individual a large percent-
age of the time). These problems happen for all 8 of
the microsats I developed.
I have tried re-extracting DNAs (which appear ﬁne on a
gel) so that they are fresh as well as varying the amount
of DNA used in the reactions.
Do you have any suggestions as to what might be going
wrong?
Thanks, Corinne Richards
Corinne L. Richards email: clrichar@umich.edu Ph.D.
Student University of Michigan Museum of Zoology Di-
vision of Reptiles and Amphibians & Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
clrichar@umich.edu clrichar@umich.edu
Journal EvolBioinformatics
Dear colleagues
The publishers of Evolutionary Bioinformatics* have
recently replaced their website management platform
and as a result, they now oﬀer automated subscription
and unsubscription to the journal’s emailing list. This
requires you to set up an account on their website.
You can set up an account by going to their home page
(http://www.la-press.com ) where you will ﬁnd a link to
the main pages of Evolutionary Bioinformatics.64 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Allen Rodrigo Associate Editor Evolutionary Bioinfor-
matics
*Evolutionary Bioinformatics is the oﬃcial journal of
the Bioinformatics Institute (New Zealand), and is com-
mitted to the open-access delivery of publications on
computational evolutionary biology and evolutionary
bioinformatics.
a.rodrigo@auckland.ac.nz a.rodrigo@auckland.ac.nz
K12 proposals
Dear Evolution Colleagues,
The National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) and
the UTeach Institute at the University of Texas at
Austin are soliciting proposals from qualiﬁed univer-
sities throughout the United States to participate in a
dramatic initiative to increase the quality and quantity
of K-12 mathematics, science, and computer science
teachers. NMSI, in conjunction with the UTeach Insti-
tute, seeks proposals through a competitive Request for
Proposal process from non-proﬁt institutions of higher
education located throughout the country to imple-
ment teacher preparation programs based on the very
successful UTeach program. In its ten years, UTeach
has graduated more than 1000 undergraduates with a
B.A. degree in a natural science and teaching creden-
tials, 86% of whom have gone on to teach K-12 science.
NMSI and the UTeach Institute encourage institutions
of higher education interested in participating in this
initiative to submit a preliminary proposal describing
the setting at the institution of higher education and
the environment in which the UTeach program will
be implemented. NMSI and the UTeach Institute will
identify candidates who have the necessary resources
to successfully implement the program and invite them
to both attend a proposal preparation conference and
to submit a full proposal. Full proposals will be sub-
mitted through and endorsed by the Governor’s oﬃce
of the institution’s home state. Finalists will be inter-
viewed before grant awards are made. Each stage of
this process is described in detail in the Request for
Proposal found at http://www.uteach-institute.org/-
go/institute/publications/request-for-proposal, includ-
ing information theUTeach program.
While proposals must ultimately be submitted by a
University president (with approval of the home state
governor), we strongly encourage science faculty to take
the lead in organizing these proposals. Given currentchallenges to evolution education around the United
States, it would be particularly valuable to see strong
involvement by evolutionary biologists in organizing
and implementing these science-teacher training pro-
grams. Such programs are a substantial undertaking,
but are also vital to improving early science and math
education nationwide. I strongly encourage you to look
at the Request for Proposals URL listed above and con-
sider taking this opportunity to contribute to science
teacher training.
Information on submitting proposals is available
at http://www.uteach-institute.org/go/institute/-
publications/request-for-proposal . Sincerely,
Dan Bolnick
Dr. Daniel Bolnick Assistant Professor Section of In-
tegrative Biology/UTeach Program University of Texas
at Austin Austin TX 78712
oﬃce: (512) 471-2824 lab: (512) 471-1964 fax: (512)
471-3878
danbolnick@mail.utexas.edu
Laminar Flow Hood
We are looking for a laminar ﬂux hood for cell culture
and wanted to get some advice.
Speciﬁcally, has anyone had experience with the NU-
AIRE PSM2? We can get it through BMS at a pretty
good price, but we know very little about it (other than
the technical specs). Any advice would be much appre-
ciated.
Thanks,
Alexis
Station d’Ecologie Exp´ erimentale du CNRS (USR
2936) Laboratoire Evolution et Diversit´ e Biologique
09200 Moulis
France
Alexis Chaine <alexis.chaine@lsm.cnrs.fr >
MHC CloningArtefactsApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 65
Hello,
I read the discussion about MHC and cloning artefacts
and I found it very interesting as I have a similar prob-
lem with very puzzling results. I study MHC in dogs
(DLA) and to get the alleles in heterozygote individuals
I use cloning (I use the GeneJET cloning kit K1221from
Fermentas). The problem is that I sometimes get more
than two alleles per individual, sometimes as many as
six diﬀerent alleles in one single individual! This prob-
lem has occurred in around 50 % of the samples in each
cloning and the incorrect ones diﬀer every time and
do not occur in speciﬁc individuals. Some of these al-
leles do not correspond to the diploid sequence at all
(for example when the diploid ABI sequence indicates
a T and G as a double peak, the cloned sequence in-
dicates a clear C). Things that I have already done to
avoid problems are the following (some are the same
as the suggestions mentioned in answers in the discus-
sion): * HPLC puriﬁed primer. However, the diﬀer-
ences between the alleles are not where the primers an-
neal but in between the annealing sites, so the artefacts
can not be due to the imperfect synthesis of primers.
* I use Platinum Taq DNA polymerase from Invitro-
gen with high ﬁdelity, which should generate few mis-
incorporated bases. However, the diﬀerences between
the alleles are anyway far too many to be explained by
mutations caused by the polymerase (at least accord-
ing the ratio I know of, around 0.0006). * The PCR
product should be pure as I use a nested PCR with two
diﬀerent primer pairs which should enhance the purity.
* Contamination should not be a problem as I work
in a special lab-room which is more or less DNA free.
The diploid ABI sequences only shows two peaks at the
polymorphic sites and one peak at the other sites and
no indication of contamination between the samples.
So, with that said, what should I do? I read one
comment where recombination between the E.coli were
mentioned as a possible cause and that one should use
a low or non recombinant strain to avoid this. I use
a strain called RRI&#61508;M15. At least one of the
artefact alleles looks as a recombinant of two other al-
leles. Is there anyone that knows how common this
problem is and if this really can cause so many artefacts
as in my case? Could recombination be the problem?
Or what other factor could cause this problem that I
have??
And when I am writing, I will add a related question.
How important is it to purify the PCR product when
one is working with MHC genes and could puriﬁcation
improve sequence quality and reduce background sig-
nals?
I will be very grateful for all suggestions that could helpme. I will put a summary of the answers on evoldir in
a few weeks.
Many thanks in advance/
Erik Hagstr¨ om email: hageri@kth.se
hageri@kth.se
MHC CloningArtefacts answers
Hello Evoldir members, a few weeks ago I posted a ques-
tion about MHC and cloning artefacts and I got a lot
of really good answers which made it possible for me
to solve the problem. So many thanks to you all that
answered me and took your time, it was really helpful!
Below my question I made a summary of most of the
answers.
Please feel free to write to me if you have any more
useful suggestions or any questions!
Best regards / Erik
email: hageri@kth.se
My questions was:
Hello,
I read the discussion about MHC and cloning artefacts
and I found it very interesting as I have a similar prob-
lem with very puzzling results. I study MHC in dogs
(DLA) and to get the alleles in heterozygote individuals
I use cloning (I use the GeneJET cloning kit K1221from
Fermentas). The problem is that I sometimes get more
than two alleles per individual, sometimes as many as
six diﬀerent alleles in one single individual! This prob-
lem has occurred in around 50 % of the samples in each
cloning and the incorrect ones diﬀer every time and
do not occur in speciﬁc individuals. Some of these al-
leles do not correspond to the diploid sequence at all
(for example when the diploid ABI sequence indicates
a T and G as a double peak, the cloned sequence in-
dicates a clear C). Things that I have already done to
avoid problems are the following (some are the same
as the suggestions mentioned in answers in the discus-
sion): * HPLC puriﬁed primer. However, the diﬀer-
ences between the alleles are not where the primers an-
neal but in between the annealing sites, so the artefacts
can not be due to the imperfect synthesis of primers.
* I use Platinum Taq DNA polymerase from Invitro-
gen with high ﬁdelity, which should generate few mis-
incorporated bases. However, the diﬀerences between66 EvolDir April 6, 2007
the alleles are anyway far too many to be explained by
mutations caused by the polymerase (at least accord-
ing the ratio I know of, around 0.0006). * The PCR
product should be pure as I use a nested PCR with two
diﬀerent primer pairs which should enhance the purity.
* Contamination should not be a problem as I work
in a special lab-room which is more or less DNA free.
The diploid ABI sequences only shows two peaks at the
polymorphic sites and one peak at the other sites and
no indication of contamination between the samples.
So, with that said, what should I do? I read one
comment where recombination between the E.coli were
mentioned as a possible cause and that one should use
a low or non recombinant strain to avoid this. I use
a strain called RRI&#61508;M15. At least one of the
artefact alleles looks as a recombinant of two other al-
leles. Is there anyone that knows how common this
problem is and if this really can cause so many artefacts
as in my case? Could recombination be the problem?
Or what other factor could cause this problem that I
have??
And when I am writing, I will add a related question.
How important is it to purify the PCR product when
one is working with MHC genes and could puriﬁcation
improve sequence quality and reduce background sig-
nals?
I will be very grateful for all suggestions that could help
me. I will put a summary of the answers on evoldir in
a few weeks.
The answers were:
1.
the problems you describe are most likely PCR-errors
introduced by the polymerase. Even the best proof-
reading polymerase introduce enough errors that you
ﬁnd in clones, and the fact, that you can not reproduce
the artifacts from the same sample hints to that. I had
similar ﬁndings when cloning single copy genes: 1. base
exchanges, normally found in only single clones (“back-
ground noiose”), 2. other exchanges, that were common
among clones and ﬁtted with double peaks from direct
sequencing (the real “alleles”). and 3. in very rare cases
chimeric clones, that starts with sequences of one allele
and ends with the other (Recombination during PCR:
if in some rare cases elongation of a primer does not go
over the reverse primer, the resulting fragment could in
theory anneal to a a template of the other allele in the
next cycle and produce a mixture of both alleles).
The only chance I see to reduce such errors are: 1. Re-
duce the cycles in your PCRs to a minimum and 2.
Do not use a nested PCR (try to design more speciﬁc
primers, if necessary).When you try this and ﬁnd that errors are reduced you
can be sure, the problems were due to PCR-errors.
2.
I would hazard to guess that you might have a series
of tandem duplications, although I don’t know the dog
genome sequence that well. But even if there is genomic
sequence available, for complex regions like MHC, ini-
tial draft genomic sequence is not very reliable for infer-
ring these type of issues, especially if it not from your
speciﬁc animal.
I would try using some technique to get out into the
5’ or 3’ genomic sequence ﬂanking your genes to see
what is happening. Also, try PCRing with a very long
extension time and see if
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Meditest Incubator
We are currently looking for a constant temperature
incubator (0C-40C) for cell culture (actually, protist
culture - so constant temperature is quite important)
and could use a bit of advice.
Has anyone heard of a Meditest incubator? We have
found a good price on a Meditest 600, but know very
little about its quality. As a point of comparison, we
are also considering a Sanyo, which is a bit more ex-
pensive, but we know it provides excellent temperature
stability.
Thanks!
Alexis
Alexis Chaine <alexis.chaine@lsm.cnrs.fr >
Megabace Fragment Analysis
Dear Evoldir members,
We perform fragment analysis (AFLP) on a 96 capil-
lary Megabace and afterwards analyze the data withApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 67
the software program Fragment proﬁler. We do ﬁnd
it diﬃcult to transport information about the selected
peaks to other programs due to the awkward export
format of Fragment proﬁler.
1) Does anybody know how to export peak areas with
Fragment proﬁler to an excel ﬁle in such a way that a
columns represent the size of the fragments and rows
the diﬀerent samples in such away that sizes of the dif-
ferent samples are aligned ?
2) Are there software extensions written to Fragment
proﬁler (prefereably freeware) that overcome these
problems?
3) Are there alternative software programs (preferably
freeware) to analyze fragment runs from Megabace plat-
forms?
Thanks in advance,
Klaas Vrieling
k.vrieling@biology.leidenuniv.nl
Micro identiﬁcation answers
Dear Evoldir members,
I listed the answers addressed to my query about clon-
ality and deﬁnition of Multilocus Genotypes (MLG).
To give some precision about the context of my study,
I work on the assessment of the structuration of ge-
netic diversity in several populations of Potamogeton
pectinatus, an aquatic macrophyte reproducing by both
clonal and sexual reproduction. I analysed genetic di-
versity and clonality with the help of 9 nuclear mi-
crosatellites. Some MLGs are very distinct from each
other (i.e. diﬀering by two or more alleles) but some
are not so distinct (only one diﬀerence). My question
was to have your opinion about the best way to treat
those MLG.
I am very grateful to each of you who spent time to an-
swer to my question and I hope that the answer listed
below could be useful for others!
stef
Original message :
Dear EvolDir members,
I have a methodological question that deals with the
assessment of clonal diversity with microsatellite loci.
Could we consider that each observed multilocus geno-type (MLG) mirrors reality? Or is it more realistic to
consider two or more MLG diﬀering by only one allele
at a locus (out of several) as a unique MLG? For ex-
ample, could one consider the two following MLG to be
diﬀerent or identical? :
(1) 0102 0202 0405 0405 0103 0203 0405 0405 (2) 0102
0202 0405 0405 0103 0202 0405 0405
Does someone know papers, methods or softwares that
could help to take a decision by taking into account
allelic frequencies or genotyping error rates?
thank you very much for any help and advices!
Stef
sfenart@vub.ac.be
———- ANSWERS:
Hi Stef,
I would consider those two examples of MLG diﬀerent
i.e. not identical. I do not know about software that
would decide for you what is identical - I would say that
such individuals must be the same on all loci, then they
are likely to be a product of asexual (clonal) reproduc-
tion. For that you can just use excel ﬁle and function
of ﬁnding identical individuals. However, identical can
be also product of sexual reproduction (recombination)
and to distinguish between those two - Software ML-
Gsim (Stenberg et al. 2003, Molecular ecology notes,
3: 329-331) calculates probability that two and more
identical (same on all loci) multilocus genotypes are the
result of sexual reproduction and not asexual (clonal)
reproduction. It works on microsatellite data, using al-
lele frequencies and sample size. I’m uncertain, but I
don’t think it takes into account genotyping errors.
Hope this helps a bit. It’s very interesting question, and
I would be interested in the responses you get. Can you
please summarize them and forward to me?
Good luck,
Monika
email: mzavodna@purdue.edu
Hi Stef,
An addition to my previous email: I’ve heard from my
colleage that Genalex software (Peakall and Smouse,
2006, Molecular Ecology notes, 6: 288-295) is also able
to identify identical MLG (function ’matches’ or so).
You can probably check it out, I am uncertain about
details.
Monika
Calculating the probability of identity will help you de-68 EvolDir April 6, 2007
termine whether you can answer this question. We did
this for a wild rice species from texas in the attached ar-
ticle, using an Excel spreadsheet. You can always mod-
ify the PID formulas to add genotyping error, but test-
ing whether the probability passes some kind of thresh-
old is where it would get a bit complicated.
Best,
M. Antolin
Richards, C. M., M. F. Antolin, A. Reilley, J. Poole,
and C. Walter. 2006. Capturing genetic diversity of
wild populations for ex situ conservation: Texas wild
rice (Zizania texana) as a model. Genet Resour Crop
Evol Published online: 7 December 2006
Dear Stef, interesting question about the genotypes &
clones... sorry that I cannot help a lot, but would be
interested in reading the answers that you get, please
post them!
Just a thought: my hunch is that the inferences you
make from your genotype data will largely depend
on the method you use for genotyping, i.e. types of
markers. Because, for instance microsatellites are well
known for high mutation rates... so especially if your
example of the two genotypes was based on microsats,
these two would, in my view, clearly point towards not
only common ancestry but actual possibility of group-
ing them together as a single “clonal lineage”. Very of-
ten it is useful to group genotypes in such a way, simply
because it provides more clarity in your dataset. e.g. if
your two genotypes (1) 0102 0202 0405 0405 0103 0203
0405 0405 (2) 0102 0202 0405 0405 0103 0202 0405 0405
are compared with a third one:
(3) 0101 0303 0405 0505 0101 0101 0202 0303
the number 3 is clearly very distant from the ﬁrst two...
hope this helps. good luck!
Ruza
–~~~~~~~~ Ruza Bruvo Department of Animal and
Plant Sciences The University of Sheﬃeld Western
Bank Sheﬃeld S10 2TN
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlMismatch Distribution answers
Hi to everybody, In this opportunity, I let to know the
answers that I received about the problem of interpreta-
tion mismatch distribution and raggedness index. The
problem was:Results that the curve is unimodal but the
signicance of raggedness index is not signiﬁcant under
the null hipothesis of neutral evolution. The analysis
was performed in DNAsp with coalescent simulations
considered no-recombination and observed theta val-
ues. The question is: The populations suﬀer or not an
expansion? Almost responses coincide in that the ﬁrst
step is realizing a neutrality test (e.g., Fu 1997), if is this
statistic is signiﬁcant negative the next step is perform
a mismatch distribution, to characterize the expansion.
In addition, the program Arlequin 3.00 (Excoﬃer et al
2005) permits test the demographic and spatial models
of expansion with bootstrap approach.
This message is also for Allegra Briggs and Arnaud
Bataille (I hope that this responses are useful for you).
Thanks very much to everyone who replied, your an-
swer were very useful.
Ahh!! I forgoted, excuse me for my poor english.
Best regards, Juan Jose Martinez Cat. Genetica de
Poblaciones y Evolucion FCEF y N - UNC Cordoba,
Argentina juan jmart@yahoo.com.ar
>Si el test no es signiﬁcativo no puedes rechazar la
Ho (pob. estacionaria). Sin embargo los analisis basa-
dos en la mismatch distribution son poco potentes, (ver
Ramos-Onsins y Rozas 2002) y sobre todo para regiones
nucleares (con recombinacion), aunque creo que traba-
jas con regiones mitocondriales. Te aconsejaria que mi-
raras el comportamiento de los estadisticos R2 (Ramos-
Onsins y Rozas 2002) y el Fs de Fu (Fu 1997). Saludos,
Julio Rozas
>Yes, mismatch distributions are diﬃcult to interpret.
I have never done the analysis in DnaSP but it is prob-
ably similar to Arlequin, which I use. It is ok to have
signiﬁcant ﬁt to a unimodal curve but non- signiﬁcant
raggedness index because they are measuring slightly
diﬀerent things. Mismatch is describing pairwise diﬀer-
ences between haplotypes but raggedness is the varia-
tion around the curve. An empirical mismatch distri-
bution that does not deviate from a unimodal distribu-
tion of pairwise diﬀerences among haplotypes and has
a smooth distribution (Harpending, 1994) suggests re-
cent population expansion (Slatkin and Hudson, 1991;
Rogers and Harpending, 1992). In other words, a mis-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 69
match distribution, P >0.05 means you cant reject
the null hypothesis of population expansion. A non-
signiﬁcant raggedness index means you have a rela-
tively good ﬁt of your data to a model of population
expansion. At any rate, this is how I understand it.
You might ﬁnd some helpful information at http://-
www.rannala.org/ gsf/, especially under Arlequin re.
mismatch distributions. Also see Harpending, H. C.
(1994). Signature of ancient population growth in a
low-resolution mitochondrial DNA mismatch distribu-
tion. Human Biology, 66, 591-600. for discussion of
raggedness index. Rogers, A. R., & Harpending, H.
(1992). Population growth makes waves in the distribu-
tion of pairwise genetic diﬀerences. Molecular Biology
and Evolution, 9(3), 552-69. Slatkin, M., & Hudson, R.
R. (1991). Pairwise comparisons of mitochondrial DNA
sequences in stable and exponentially growing popula-
tions. Genetics, 129, 555-62. for some discussion. Good
luck, Kathryn
>Supongo que la raz´ on or la que tus resultados no son
signiﬁcativos bajo la hip´ otesis de evoluci´ on neutral, es
precisamente porque la poblaci´ on est´ a se est´ a expan-
diendo. En DNAsp puedes realizar diferentes tests de
neutralidad. Si tu poblaci´ on se est´ a expandiendo, tus
resultados deben ser negativos y no signiﬁcativos en
el test D de Tajima (lo cual indica desviaci´ on de neu-
tralidad debido a expansi´ on, selecci´ on o “hitchhiking”),
resulados negativos y no signiﬁcativos de los tests D* y
F* de Fu & Li (lo cual indicar´ ıa que no hay selecci´ on o
hitchhiking) y resultados negativos y signiﬁcativos del
test Fs de Fu (lo que indicar´ ıa crecimiento poblacional).
Has tratado de usar el programa ARLEQUIN? En el
puedes hacer an´ alisis de mismatch distribution y probar
si tus datos se desv´ ıan de dos modelos diferentes: uno
de expansi´ on puramente demogr´ aﬁca y el segundo de
expansi´ on geogr´ aﬁca. Espero que esto sea de ayuda. Y
perd´ on por mi espa˜ nol, estoy un poco fuera de pr´ actica.
Saludos... Rodrigo
>The test is evaluating a null hypothesis of a pop-
ulation expansion. The failure to reject the null hy-
pothesis (the non-signiﬁcant raggedness index) indi-
cates that you don’t have any support for a stable (non-
expanding) population - which is thought to result in a
highly multi-modal, and therefore ragged, signal. Fail-
ure to reject
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlNESCent Phyloinformatics
Phyloinformatics Summer of Code 2007
A collaborative Phyloinformatics Group, sponsored by
the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent:
http://www.nescent.org/ ), is working to develop user-
interfaces, improve software interoperability and sup-
port data exchange standards in evolutionary bioinfor-
matics. The speciﬁc projects are diverse in nature and
range from the development of AJAX components for
web-based bioinformatics applications, managing work-
ﬂows using approaches from functional and logic pro-
gramming, and developing data exchange standards for
phylogenetic substitution models.
The Phyloinformatics group will be sponsoring stu-
dent collaborators through the Google Summer of Code
program ( http://code.google.com/ soc), which pro-
vides undergraduate, masters and PhD students with a
unique opportunity (over three summer months) to ob-
tain hands-on experience writing and extending open-
source software under the mentorship of experienced
developers from around the world. We are particularly
targeting students interested in both evolutionary bi-
ology and software development. Students will have
one or more dedicated mentors with expertise in phy-
logenetic methods and open- source software develop-
ment. Our project proposals are ﬂexible and can be
adjusted in scope to match the skills of students with
less programming proﬁciency. If the program sounds
interesting to you but you are unsure whether you have
the necessary skills, please email the mentors at phy-
losoc {at}nescent {dot}org. We will work with those
who are genuinely interested to ﬁnd a project that ﬁts
your interest and skills. Students will receive a stipend
from Google and will be invited to participate in future
collaborative events such as the NESCent Phyloinfor-
matics Hackathons ( http://www.nescent.org/wg/ phy-
loinformatics).
TO APPLY: Students must apply on-line at the Google
Summer of Code website ( http://code.google.com/soc ).
The application period for students is now open and
ends on Saturday, March 24, 2007 (one week from now).
The Phyloinformatics Summer of Code
project and ideas page is at the fol-
lowing URL: http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2007 The above
page also contains links to the GSoC program rules,
eligibility requirements, and stipend payment mecha-
nism. We encourage all interested students to email70 EvolDir April 6, 2007
any questions, or self-proposed project ideas, to
phylosoc {at}nescent {dot}org. This will reach all
prospective mentors.
Eligibility requirements for students: http://-
code.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?answer=-
60279&topic=10730
Stipend for students: http://code.google.com/-
support/bin/answer.py?answer=60322&topic=10731
Please disseminate this announcement to appropriate
students at your institution.
Hilmar Lapp Assistant Director for Informatics NES-
Cent
hlapp@duke.edu hlapp@duke.edu
Nulls and pop structure
Dear EvolDir,
Is there anything approaching a consensus on what
can be done if we have data on a set of microsatel-
lites and many loci have null alleles? Say you have
spent lots of time & money developing and scoring a
set of loci in your favourite species but most show de-
viations from HW consistent with nulls. You might be
interested in patterns of diﬀerentiation (Fst, AMOVA)
and detecting potential cryptic population structure
(Structure/BAPs-style analyses).
I have looked at the literature and so far as I can tell
the most common strategy is to use the standard tech-
niques, acknowledge that nulls are a potential problem,
and hope the reviewers are kind and understanding.
What’s the alternative? Is there a review out there on
which are the most robust analyses to use under these
circumstances (I’d guess AMOVA and ?). Are there any
that explicitly do not assume HW? Can you calculate
conventional Fst and use bootstrapping to analyse pat-
terns despite null alleles? There is clear inconsistency
in the literature on this point.
I suspect this is a common problem and some idea of
’the best’ approach to use would be very useful to many
researchers?
Cheers, Mike
Mike Ritchie Phone 0 (44 outside UK) 1334 463495
Environmental & Evolutionary Biology Fax 0 (44 out-
side UK) 1334 463366 Dyers Brae House University of
St Andrews E-mail mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk St Andrews,Fife Scotland KY16 9TH
Website: http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/mgr.htm
Research website via: http://tiree.st-and.ac.uk/cegg/-
research.html mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk
Nulls and pop structure answers
Very many thanks to all those who replied to my query
about null alleles and population structure. I had
around 50 answers, which is testament to the extent
of the problem.
Shortly before my submission Chapuis & Estoup pub-
lished a simulation of the eﬀects of various ways of esti-
mating the frequency of “the” null allele and adjusting
Fst estimates. They have also developed software to do
this, which will surely become an essential resource to
many:
Chapuis & Estoup 2007. Microsatellite null alleles and
estimation of population diﬀerentiation. Mol. Biol.
Evol. 24: 621-631.
http://www.montpellier.inra.fr/URLB/ Cock van
Oosterhout’s MICROCHECKER (the current version
is a major update from the last time I looked) applies
one of these and is available here:
http://www.microchecker.hull.ac.uk/ van Oosterhout,
C., D. Weetman, and W. F. Hutchinson. 2006. Esti-
mation and adjustment of microsatellite null alleles in
nonequilibrium populations. Mol Ecol Notes 6:255-256.
So, if you are prepared to live with the assumptions of
these (the main ones being that your problem is due
to a single null, and no Wahlund eﬀects) there is great
scope for Fst-style analyses.
A nice surprise to me is that an imminent release of
STRUCTURE allows treating loci as dominant markers
so allowing analyses of potential sub-structure despite
nulls. This is not available yet, but is to be released
soon on the STRUCTURE website and Daniel Falush
and colleagues have a paper (again, just out) in MEN
on this.
http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/doi/abs/-
10.1111/j.1471-8286.2007.01758.x http://-
pritch.bsd.uchicago.edu/structure.html It may be
worth mentioning here that there are also methods for
relatedness and parentage:
Wagner AP, Creel S, Kalinowski ST (2006) EstimatingApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 71
relatedness and relationships using microsatellite loci
with null alleles. Heredity 97:336-345.
I will not send all the responses I received out on
EvolDir, as these are lengthy and the new developments
bypass many of them, but I have compiled most of the
answers here:
http://bio.st-and.ac.uk/supplemental/ritchie/-
NullResponses.html I would like to ﬁnish with
two nice quotes:
My instincts are to think a lot about the data, keep
your eye on the biology and total evidence, and be pre-
pared to argue your case with editors. Sometimes they
are unreasonable, but that can happen on any issue. -
Paul Sunnucks
If we combine our problems, maybe there is food for an
article “S.O.S. - Save Our Samples: survival guide to
get the best out of the worst”. This might get a lot of
citations. - Dieter Anseeuw
Best wishes & thanks again,
Mike
Mike Ritchie Phone 0 (44 outside UK) 1334 463495
Environmental & Evolutionary Biology Fax 0 (44 out-
side UK) 1334 463366 Dyers Brae House University of
St Andrews E-mail mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk St Andrews,
Fife Scotland KY16 9TH
Website: http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/mgr.htm
Research website via: http://tiree.st-and.ac.uk/cegg/-
research.html mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk
Old JEB issues
I am missing the hard copy of JEB for 2004. Blackwell’s
does not have those back issues. I would like to acquire
those issues from anyone willing to part with them and
am willing to pay a reasonable price plus shipping.
Best wishes,
Steve Stearns Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology Yale University
stephen.stearns@yale.eduPCRmultiplex software
Hi,
I am trying to develop primers for PCR multiplex in 8
species of Gadidae, do you know some software for this
purpose? I am also interested in software to perform
RFLP analysis on these same species. Do you know
free software to do that ?
Thank you in advance for all your answers,
Regards,
– V´ eronique Verrez-Bagnis Ifremer D´ epartement Sci-
ences & Techniques Alimentaires Marines Rue de l’Ile
d’Yeu, B.P. 22105 44311 Nantes Cedex 3 - France
T´ el. : +33 (0)2 40 37 40 81 Fax : +33 (0)2 40 37 40 71
E-mail : vverrez@ifremer.fr
Site Web Ifremer : htpp:// www.ifremer.fr
Site web FishTrace : htpp:// www.ﬁshtrace.org
Veronique.Verrez@ifremer.fr
Veronique.Verrez@ifremer.fr
Plant genomic DNA extraction Kits
Dear colleagues,
I have always used Qiagen’s Dneasy Kit to extract clean
plant DNA for sequencing and genotyping. However, it
has come recently to my attention that VWR is sell-
ing an EZNA kit that seems very similar for 1/4 of
the price! Has anyone used the EZNA kit and could
give me some feedback? Or has anyone tried other kits
(besides qiagen) and had success with high through-
put sequencing and genotyping applications? Thanks
in advance for any help!
Dr. Paula X. Kover University of Manchester Faculty
of Life Sciences Manchester, UK
“Paula X. Kover” <kover@manchester.ac.uk >72 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Polyploid SSR answers
Thanks for the helpful suggestions on diﬀerent pro-
grams that I have been playing around the last week.
Here is a summary:
(1) STRUCTURE accepts polyploid SSR data with null
allele treated as “-9” in my case. It gives you no. of
estimated clusters and membership coeﬃcient at both
individual and population levels, which is useful to look
at population structure (esp. in graphic presentation).
(2) SPADEGI accepts polyploid SSR data with null al-
leles treated as “0” only. It computes some basic statis-
tics such as allele no. per locus, gene diversity (He),
Fis, Fst at population level. At individual level, I use
Rousset’s distance to look at relatedness.
(3) TETRASTAT accepts tetraploid data with null al-
leles treated as “0”. It computes He, H’ (diversity)
locus by locus, and Gst at population level, which is
comparable with SPAGEDI.
(4) If you are interest in clustering at individual level,
you may also consider converting genotypic data into
binary. With this binary matrix, you can do NJ, PCA,
and other diversity measures in many programs, which
give you a lot more ﬂexibility.
Up till now I still can’t ﬁnd one program that run ex-
act test in polyploids. However, one suggestion is that if
your tetraploid is of disomic inheritance (or under this
assumption), you may try spliting each locus into two
diallelic loci and run exact test in GENEPOP (I pre-
fer the web-base version).Therotically, these two loci
should be linked from your results and you can group
them as one pair and compare their linkage with an-
other pair. If you ﬁnd contradiction within or between
pairs, this approach might not work for your data or
your allelic designation is not correct.
I will keep an eye on programs for exact tests particu-
larly and pls let me know if you ﬁnd one. Thanks!
Eugenia PhD candidate Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Canada
eugenia.lo@utoronto.caPolyploid SSR question
Hi, I have some microsatellite data from polyploids and
I am interested to test recombination by doing Fisher’s
exact test and measure gene diversity & Fis within poly-
loid populations. Could anyone suggest me softwares
feasible for this purpose in polyploids?
Thanks!
Eugenia PhD candidate Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Canada
eugenia.lo@utoronto.ca eugenia.lo@utoronto.ca
Silk DNA
Subject: DNA from silk
Hello,
We would be interested to hear from anyone who has
successfully extracted DNA from spider silk (or any
other kind of silk). Being able to do this would enable
us to non-destructively study trapdoor spiders, which
otherwise have to be dug out with a crowbar! Many
thanks!
Oliver
Oliver Berry
Population Genetics Laboratory, School of Animal Biol-
ogy (M092) The University of Western Australia Craw-
ley, 6009 Western Australia
ofb@cyllene.uwa.edu.au
SocSystBiol ErnstMayrAward
Ernst Mayr Award
General Information. The Ernst Mayr Award is given
to the presenter of the outstanding student paper in theApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 73
ﬁeld of systematics at the annual meeting of the Society
of Systematic Biologists, as judged by the Ernst Mayr
Award Committee. The award consists of $1000.00
and a set of available back issues of Systematic Zool-
ogy/Systematic Biology.
Who is Eligible. Members of the Society who
are students or have completed their Ph.D. within
the last 15 months are eligible. To be consid-
ered, students should 1) submit their titles for the
SSB Meeting in Christchurch, New Zealand ( http://-
www.evolution2007.com/ ), and indicate at the time of
submission that their talk is a potential competitor for
the SSB Ernst Mayr Award; 2) submit a 400-word ab-
stract of their talk to the awards chair.
The paper may be co-authored. It is understood that
the ideas, data and conclusions presented are primar-
ily and substantially the work of the student presenting
the paper and the intention is that person will be senior
author on the published version of the paper. Previous
Mayr award winners are not eligible.
Judging. Based on the submitted abstracts, the Mayr
Awards committee (appointed by the Awards Chair)
will select a maximum of 15 applicants for inclusion in
the Ernst Mayr session at the Christchurch meetings,
which will be held at a single venue in a separate ses-
sion.
Papers will be judged on creativity, quality, excellence
of research, and quality of presentation. Abstracts
should clearly indicate methods used, the relevance to
systematics and the conclusions. Presentations focus-
ing on other areas of biology (ecology, behavior, genet-
ics, populations or molecular biology, etc.) that lack a
strong systematics emphasis are not eligible.
Notiﬁcation of Winner. The winner of the award
will be announced at the SSB business meeting at
Christchurch, during the banquet or awards ceremony
at the annual meeting, and an announcement will be
published in Systematic Biology.
Abstract submission. Abstracts should be submitted in
the text of an e-mail; please include name and complete
contact information. Applications should be sent to Dr.
Kelly R. Zamudio, SSB Award Committee Chair, at
krz2@cornell.edu E-mail submissions are required. Ap-
plication deadline is 15 April 2007 (same deadline for
title submissions for the conference).
Additional information can be found at: http://-
systbio.org/?q=node/10 –
krz2@cornell.edu krz2@cornell.eduSocSystBiol MiniPEET
Mini-PEET awards to enhance transfer of taxonomic
knowledge
SSB is pleased to announce the availability of awards
to enhance the transfer of taxonomic expertise, mod-
eled after the highly successful PEET program at NSF.
Unlike the NSF PEET program, awards will not be lim-
ited to taxonomically understudied taxa; the primary
purpose of this program is to pass on taxonomic exper-
tise in general. The awards are designed to allow SSB
members (students, post-docs, and faculty) to spend
a summer or semester apprenticed to an expert in a
particular taxonomic group. This would support the
PEET goal of passing on taxonomic expertise before it
is lost. Activities can include a trip to the taxonomists’
laboratory, or pay for the taxonomist to visit the ap-
plicants’ laboratory for a period of time. Requests for
support may be in any amount up to $3,000.
A complete application includes: 1) a brief description
of the project 2) justiﬁcation of the importance of the
taxon 3) an itemized budget 4) the applicant’s CV 5)
a letter of support from the taxonomic expert 6) a let-
ter of recommendation (if the applicant is a student or
post-doc)
The total application should be no more than two pages
long, not including the curriculum vitae and letters of
support.
Requests and inquiries should be sent to Dr. Kelly
R. Zamudio, SSB Award Committee Chair, at
krz2@cornell.edu
E-mail submissions are required, and applicants are en-
couraged to use pdf format for all documents.
Application deadline is March 31, 2007.
Additional information can be found at http://-
systbio.org/?q=node/26 –
krz2@cornell.edu krz2@cornell.edu
SocSystBiol TravelAwards
Scholarships and travel awards for scientists from devel-74 EvolDir April 6, 2007
oping countries to obtain modern systematics training
in the United States
SSB announces the availability of scholarships for schol-
ars from developing countries to attend workshops and
courses in systematics, or to visit a lab engaged in sys-
tematic research for training. The emphasis of this pro-
gram is the transfer of knowledge to the scholar’s home
country. Therefore, applicants should currently be in
their home country or have deﬁnite plans to return in
the near future. Courses such as the Molecular Evolu-
tion Workshop at Woods Hole or the applied System-
atics Course at Bodega Bay are examples of courses
that are appropriate for this funding, in addition to
other equivalent opportunities. Support for attending
a course will be contingent on admission to the course
through the normal admissions process.
Applicants should submit:
1) a CV 2) a letter detailing the purpose of the visit
(what class will you take or what lab will you visit)
and how the knowledge acquired will be transferred to
your country of origin 3) a justiﬁcation of the course
or lab visit as providing appropriate training 4) a letter
of recommendation from a researcher familiar with the
scholar’s work 5) if funds will be spent on visiting a lab
in the US for systematic training, please also submit a
letter from your host expressing interest in your visit.
E-mail submissions are required, and applicants are en-
couraged to use pdf format for all documents. Appli-
cations should be sent to Dr. Kelly R. Zamudio, SSB
Award Committee Chair, at krz2@cornell.edu
Application deadline is March 31, 2007
More information can be found at http://systbio.org/-
?q=node/25 –
krz2@cornell.edu krz2@cornell.edu
Software DAMBE
Dear All,
I have just uploaded a new version of DAMBE that
ﬁxed a few bugs in a few phylogenetic functions and
also included the functions for RNA folding from the
Vienna package. A sample ﬁle (CowtRNA.FAS) is in-
cluded for you to learn the new functions.
1. To explore RNA folding, read in CowtRNA.FAS and
click “Graphics |Plot RNA secondary structure”. The
ﬁrst sequence folded with the default parameters is dis-played. The available options are self-explanatory, es-
pecially for those who have already used the Vienna
package. Click another sequence on the list will plot
the secondary structure of that sequence.
To paste the structure into PowerPoint or any other
software supporting graphics, you have two options
(BMP ﬁle or Windows enhanced metaﬁle). To paste
the BMP image, ﬁrst click “Edit |Copy image as BMP
ﬁle” when the structure is displayed, and then click
Paste when you are in PowerPoint. Transfer windows
enhanced metaﬁle needs one extra step. First you click
“Edit|copy image as Windows enhanced metaﬁle” when
the structure is displayed, then then click ’Paste’ in
PowerPoint. At this point you will only see four small
circular dots on the slide. Just click “Draw |ungroup”
will plot the secondary strucutre in PowerPoint. Win-
dows metaﬁle allows you to produce graphics of any
resolution and you can ungroup the graphic elements
and do whatever modiﬁcations you wish.
2. The functions in the Vienna package also improved
the previous function for predicting tRNA anticodon
loop under the menu ’Seq.Analysis |tRNA anticodon
and AC loop’.
3. Sometimes one may want to build a tree based
on structural similarities. This is done by clicking
“Phylogenetics |Tree with unaligned sequences |distance
based on RNA secondary strucutre”. Everything
follows is self-explanatory. THIS FUNCTION IS
VERY SLOW WITH LONG SEQUENCES BECAUSE
IT NEEDS TO DO THE FOLDING, ALIGN THE
STRUCTURES, AND COMPUTE THE EDIT DIS-
TANCES WHICH ARE THEN MODIFIED TO GEN-
ERATE A TREE.
The release site of DAMBE is at:
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp Best Xuhua
Dr. Xuhua Xia CAREG and Biology Depart-
ment University of Ottawa 30 Marie Curie, P.O.
Box 450, Station A Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N
6N5 Tel: (613) 562-5800 ext 6886 Fax: (613) 562-
5486 URL: http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca Xuhua Xia
<Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca >
Software TESS Spatial genetics
TESS New release version 1.1
The new version includes admixture analysis and manyApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 75
other optional features which are described in the up-
dated reference manual. The reference manual also in-
cludes guidelines for using TESS and some answers to
FAQs.
TESS is a computer program that implements a
Bayesian clustering algorithm for spatial population ge-
netics. The method is based on a hierarchical mixture
model where the prior distribution on cluster labels is
deﬁned as a Hidden Markov Random Field. Given indi-
vidual geographical locations, the program seeks popu-
lation structure from multilocus genotypes without as-
suming predeﬁned populations. Instead the program
builds a network structure indicating which individuals
should be considered a priori genetically close to each
other.
TESS takes input data ﬁles in a format compatible to
STRUCTURE. It returns graphical displays of cluster
membership probabilities and geographical cluster as-
signments from its Graphical User Interface. Is it par-
ticularly useful for seeking genetic barriers or genetic
discontinuities in continuous populations.
The program is available at the following url
http://www-timc.imag.fr/Olivier.Francois/tess.html
The reference for the method is
O. Fran¸ cois, S. Ancelet, G. Guillot (2006) Bayesian
clustering using hidden Markov random ﬁelds in spa-
tial population genetics. Genetics, 174: 805-816.
Do not hesitate to contact me, send comments or ask
questions at <Olivier.Francois@imag.fr >
best wishes, olivier
Olivier Francois <olivier.francois@imag.fr >
Software indel-Seq-Gen
I am happy to introduce a new protein sequence simu-
lator, indel-Seq-Gen:
Strope, CL, Scott, SD, and Moriyama, EN. 2007. indel-
Seq-Gen: A New Protein Family Simulator Incorporat-
ing Domains, Motifs, and Indels. Mol. Biol. Evol.
24(3):640-649.
indel-Seq-Gen has the capabilities to simulate hetero-
geneous evolution, allowing the user to set subsequence
parameters, such as amino acid frequencies, diﬀering
substitution matrices as well as insertion/deletion pa-
rameters such as the length distribution, frequency, andindel model. indel-Seq-Gen also introduces a novel qua-
ternary invariable array that allows unique control of
motif conservation.
Source code and executable ﬁles (Macintosh OSX10.2.8,
OSX10.4.7, and Linux) for
indel-Seq-Gen is available from: http://-
bioinfolab.unl.edu/˜cstrope/iSG
Cory Strope http://bioinfolab.unl.edu/˜cstrope Bioin-
formatics Lab, N169, Beadle Center
Cory Strope <corystrope@gmail.com >
Structure problems
Hi,
I have been running a number of data sets in Struc-
ture (Pritchard et al. 2000, Falush et al. 2003) with
no glitches. However, recently when I run Structure it
hangs up. I get a windows error reporting window and
structure moves to the next run. This happens only for
certain values of K and only for one of my data sets.
For example it will run ﬁne for K=2 to K=9 and hang
at K then I start at K and it hangs at K. I restart at K
then it hangs at K and K. then I start at K and then
well...so far so good. Any insight on why this might be
happening would be greatly appreciated.
Thanks in advance,
David
–
David Rosenthal, PhD Biology Department PO BOX
751 Portland State University Portland OR 97207 503
869 8855
http://web.pdx.edu/ ˜ drosen/Index.html
drosen@pdx.edu drosen@pdx.edu
TRF-length analysis service
Subject: TRF-length analysis service wanted!
Dear all, I am looking for a lab or a technician with ex-
perience in the analysis of telomere restriction fragment
(TRF) length who for payment would analyse about76 EvolDir April 6, 2007
300 Reed bunting (Emberiza schoeniclus) samples for
me. I would therefore be grateful for any information
on people or labs to contact. The samples are frozen
whole blood, that have to be extracted ﬁrst. Prelimi-
nary tests on TRF-length analysis were ﬁne.
Contact: Christian Mayer Institute of Zoology Win-
terthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Zurich Switzerland + 41
446354968 christian.mayer@zool.unizh.ch
Christian Mayer <christian.mayer@zool.unizh.ch >
Teaching biostatistics
Dear colleagues,
About ﬁve years ago, I posted an inquiry on ecolog and
evoldir asking what those of you who teach biostatistics
used in the way of 1) textbooks and 2) software. I got
about 40 replies, suggesting that there was signiﬁcant
interest in the community. A conversation with a col-
league has suggested that it would be a good idea to
update things. If you wish, you may reply directly to
me rather than the list. In a week or so, I will compile
the answers and post them on the two groups.
The question is about a one semester course in biostatis-
tics for biology majors and perhaps graduate students.
As an undergraduate, I took an intense semester course
with lab under the able tutelage of Jim Collins (now
Associate Director for Biosciences at NSF). It was one
of the most memorable and useful courses I have ever
taken. My vision in teaching biostatistics has been to
oﬀer something similar, however some of us may teach
much larger courses without labs and I expect folks
would like to hear about those as well. So, please take
a moment and answer the following questions
1) What is the general layout of your biostats course?
Large or small? Does it have a lab? Homework ex-
ercises? Workshop or lecture format? 2) What text-
book(s) (if any) do you assign and why? 3) What soft-
ware (if any) do your students use for homework and/or
labs? Why? 4) Any additional comments?
Thank you for your interest!
George W. Gilchrist Email: gwgilc@wm.edu Director
of Graduate Studies Phone: (757) 221-7751 Depart-
ment of Biology, Box 8795 Fax: (757) 221-6483 Col-
lege of William & Mary Williamsburg, VA 23187-8795
http://gwgilc.people.wm.edu/ “George W. Gilchrist”
<gwgilc@wm.edu >Tortoise CRampliﬁcation
Hi
I am having trouble amplifying the control region in go-
pher tortoises, Gopherus polyphemus. I am trying to
amplify the entire region, which should be around be-
tween 1-1.5kb. I have designed several sets of primers
in conserved domains ﬂanking this region (e.g. cytb,
12S, and tRNAs). I continue to get multiple bands
and when I get a band of the appropriate size it is
diﬃcult to sequence, perhaps because it is very AT-
rich. There is no reason to believe that there is a gene
rearrangement in this tortoise species. Sequencing of
Testudo, Indotestudo, and Geochelone showed no gene
rearrangements. However, the pancake tortoise, Mala-
cochersus tornieri, has a duplicated control region and
tRNA-phe. I have heard of other people having trouble
amplifying the control region in turtles. Does anyone
have suggestions?
Thanks You,
Rachel Wallace Graduate Student, PhD. Department
of Biological Sciences University of New Orleans 2000
Lakeshore Dr. New Orleans, LA 70148
Rachel Agnes Wallace <rwallace@uno.edu >
UMinnesota SSB proposals
Proposals for 2008 Symposia due June 1, 2007 The
Society for Systematic Biologists invites proposals for
symposia at the 2008 SSB meeting to be held at the
University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, Minnesota 20-
24 June 2008. The meeting will be held jointly with
the American Society of Naturalists and the Society for
the Study of Evolution. Proposals should include (1) a
descriptive title, (2) one or two paragraphs explaining
the purpose of the symposium and its relevance to sys-
tematics, (3) a list of presentations including proposed
speakers, their institutions or aﬃliations, and their pre-
sentation titles, (4) an indication of whether the speak-
ers have been invited and whether they have agreed to
participate, and (5) the proposed length of each talk.
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions. The so-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 77
ciety is particularly interested in symposia whose top-
ics do not overlap with those from previous meetings,
that introduce new ideas or synthesize important con-
cepts, or those that are particularly good examples of
the analysis of empirical data. Proposals that unite
systematics with other ﬁelds are also desirable. We
encourage participation from young investigators and
others typically under-represented in symposia. Lim-
ited funding is available. Proposals will be discussed
and two will be selected at the SSB Council meeting
during the 2007 annual meeting in Christchurch, New
Zealand. Soon after, organizers will be notiﬁed of the
status of their proposals. Proposals should be sent by
email to the Program Chairperson, George D. Weiblen,
gweiblen@umn.edu (Department of Plant Biology, Uni-
versity of Minnesota, 1445 Gortner Avenue, Saint Paul,
Minnesota 55108 USA).
George Weiblen
Associate Professor, Department of Plant Biology
Herbarium Curator, Bell Museum of Natural History
University of Minnesota 250 Biological Sciences Center
1445 Gortner Avenue Saint Paul, MN 55108 USA
Oﬃce: 612-624-3461 Lab: 612-625-8749 Fax: 612-
625-1738 Email: gweiblen@umn.edu Web: http://-
geo.cbs.umn.edu gweiblen <gweiblen@umn.edu >
US passports
I just learned that if you are a US citizen attend-
ing a scientiﬁc meeting outside the US (now including
Canada and Mexico) and your passport needs to be re-
newed, there is a 10-week backlog because of the new
regulations requiring passports for trips to Canada and
Mexico; so apply as early as possible.
If you are organizing a symposium it would be a good
idea to warn your US participants.
(Apparently it is not diﬃcult to get into Canada and
Mexico without a passport but it is much for diﬃcult
to return.)
– Chris Simon Professor, Ecology & Evolutionary Biol-
ogy 75 North Eagleville Road, University of Connecti-
cut Storrs, CT 06269-3043
chris.simon@uconn.edu (Please note that my old ucon-
nvm address no longer works) Oﬃce (860) 486-4640;
Lab (860) 486-3947; Fax (860) 486-6364, Biopharm
305D, 323,325June-August: Victoria University of Wellington, School
of Biological Sciences, Wellington, New Zealand Oﬃce:
Kirk 611; Oﬃce phone: +64-4-463-5026; Fax: +64 4
463 5331; email: as above Home phone 64-4-970-0265
Home page: http://hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/-
people/simon/Simon.htm Reprints: <http:/-
/hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/cicada/-
Resources/reprints.html > chris.simon@uconn.edu
chris.simon@uconn.edu
VisitingGradStu Spain
Dear All,
I am conducting a comparative study of lifespan and
mitochondrial evolution in parrots. Some critical sam-
ples for our underlying phylogeny are held at a zoo in
the Canary Islands. My colleagues there have suggested
that the easiest way to obtain the necessary data would
be to do the extraction, PCR and sequencing at a suit-
able lab in the Canary Islands or elsewhere in Spain.
I am writing to inquire whether anyone might be will-
ing to host my graduate student as a short-term (3-4
weeks) visitor to collect these data. I have ample funds
from NIH to cover any associated costs, and would be
very happy to reciprocally host students in my own lab.
Sincerely, Tim Wright
Assistant Professor Department of Biology MSC 3AF
New Mexico State University Las Cruces, NM 88003
Phone: 505-646-1136 E-mail: wright@nmsu.edu New
oﬃce: 375 Foster Hall New lab: 301 Foster Hall http:/-
/biology-web.nmsu.edu/twright “Timothy F. Wright”
<wright@nmsu.edu >
VisitingGradStu Spain 2
I apologize for re-posting the message below, but our e-
mail server suﬀered a catastrophic failure Sunday night
and many incoming messages were lost, including my
own version of the original message from evoldir. If you
happened to have responded to the original and have
not heard back from me could I ask that you please re-
send you message to me at wright@nmsu.edu? I want
to be sure I respond to all messages.78 EvolDir April 6, 2007
Thank you, Tim Wright
Dear All,
I am conducting a comparative study of lifespan and
mitochondrial evolution in parrots. Some critical sam-
ples for our underlying phylogeny are held at a zoo in
the Canary Islands. My colleagues there have suggested
that the easiest way to obtain the necessary data would
be to do the extraction, PCR and sequencing at a suit-
able lab in the Canary Islands or elsewhere in Spain.
I am writing to inquire whether anyone might be will-
ing to host my graduate student as a short-term (3-4
weeks) visitor to collect these data. I have ample funds
from NIH to cover any associated costs, and would be
very happy to reciprocally host students in my own lab.
Sincerely, Tim Wright
Assistant Professor Department of Biology MSC 3AF
New Mexico State University Las Cruces, NM 88003
Phone: 505-646-1136 E-mail: wright@nmsu.edu New
oﬃce: 375 Foster Hall New lab: 301 Foster Hall http:/-
/biology-web.nmsu.edu/twright “Timothy F. Wright”
<wright@nmsu.edu >
Working with multiple copy genes
Hi everyone
We have been working in population genetics with sev-
eral invertebrate groups. In an eﬀort to develop new
sequence-based markers, not just the usual mitochon-
drial genes, we have been doing sequencing work on
nuclear genes (both introns and exons). We are ﬁnding
in many cases that our target genes are multiple copy
genes. Although the number of copies is low (nothing to
do with rRNA genes, for instance) and probably there
is some concerted evolution, when we clone the ampli-
ﬁcation products we end up with several alleles in most
individuals.
My question is, what can we do with these data?
cloning represents a lot of eﬀort and I wonder if it is
worth it. This kind of data violates assumptions for
most analyses for phylogeny, phylogeography or pop-
ulation genetics. The concept of homgygosis or het-
erozygosis breaks down. They cannot be treated as
polyploid, either, as the diﬀerent copies are paralogous.
Hence, diﬀerent copies may follow diﬀerent evolution-
ary models. To further complicate the issue, often the
diﬀerent copies are close together in chromosomes, so
recombination is possible both intragene and intergene.We can calculate some sort of “haplotype frequency”
based on the diﬀerent sequence types found in the
clones but then, can we legitimally use these estimates
in popgen programs? are there any program that can
handle this information, or any published reference?
Any hint will be appreciated. I will of course compile
and post the answers to the whole list.
Best regards
– Xavier Turon Dept. of Animal Biology (Inverte-
brates) Fac. of Biology Univ. of Barcelona 645, Di-
agonal Ave 08028 Barcelona
e-mail: xturon@ub.edu phone: 34-93-4021441 fax: 34-
93-4035740
Xavier Turon <xturon@ub.edu >
modiﬁed Genographer software
Hi Evol-Dir, I would like to use the program Genog-
rapher to analyze ﬂuorescent AFLP data using 5 dyes
(6FAM, VIC, NED, PET, and the size standard LIZ)
run on an ABI 3730 machine. The latest version
of Genographer http://hordeum.oscs.montana.edu/-
genographer/ does not recognize the LIZ (orange) dye,
and thus cannot be used for data with more than 4
dyes. A Google search brought up an abstract ( http://-
www.intl-pag.org/13/abstracts/PAG13 P229.html ) re-
garding a modiﬁcation to the software that would al-
low analysis of this data, however I have not had any
luck with follow up emails to the abstract authors or to
other colleagues.
If anyone has written a modiﬁcation to update Genog-
rapher and is willing to share it, or knows who to con-
tact, please let me know.
Thanks for your help, Heidi
Heidi M. Meudt, Ph.D. Research Scientist, Botany
Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa P.O. Box
467 Wellington New Zealand heidim@tepapa.govt.nz
phone: +64 4 381 7127 fax: +64 4 381 7070
website: http://www.tepapa.govt.nz/TePapa/-
English/CollectionsAndResearch/ResearchAtTepapa/-
Projects/Plants/ -and-
Adjunct Research Associate School of Biological
Sciences Victoria University 1-85 Kelburn Parade
Room 507, New Kirk Building Wellington New
Zealand phone: +64 4 463 5026 fax: +64 4 463
5331 website: http://www.vuw.ac.nz/sbs/staﬀ/-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 79
staﬀ research fellows/meudt-heidi/meudt-heidi.aspx
HeidiM@tepapa.govt.nz HeidiM@tepapa.govt.nz
r8s dates
Dear All: I wonder if anyone has encountered the fol-
lowing situation using the program r8s? I rooted a
cluster of species of interest with 4 outgroup taxa andpruned the most distant one in order to run r8s. For
calibration, I assigned a date to the root of the ingroup.
The estimated times of divergence for nodes within the
ingroup do make sense, but I can’t ﬁgure out why the
dates for divergence nodes for the remaining ougroup
taxa do not. Values are roughly double what they are
when I make these outgroup taxa the subjects of a sepa-
rate study in which they constitute the ingroup. Many
thanks in advance for your thoughtful opinions. Bill
Chapco.
William.Chapco@uregina.ca
PostDocs
BrownU VertebrateMorphology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
CNRS Lyon EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
CNRS Paris HumanPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
CollegeWilliamMary Biomath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
INRA Versailles TE Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
LeidenU PlantIntrogression . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
LeipzigU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
LouisianaStateU Museum AvianSystematics . . . . . . . 84
Lucerne ModellingPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Milan 2 RotiferEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Milan EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Montpellier HumanEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Potsdam Theor Pop Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
PrincetonU MolEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
QueensU 2 ModelingInﬂuenzaEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
QueensU MathEvolInﬂuenza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Seattle ModellingFishPop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Smithsonian HawaiianSongbirdPhylogenetics . . . . . . 89
UAarhus 2 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UAdelaide AncientBovines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90UAdelaide BovineAncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UBern PlantInvasionBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UCC Cork Ireland MicrobialPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 92
UCDavisGenomeCenter GenomeEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UCaliforniaSanDiego ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UCopenhagen EvolChemCommunication . . . . . . . . . . 93
UEdinburgh CompBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UEdinburgh PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UGlasgow PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UIdaho PlasmidGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
ULausanne ModelingDispersal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
ULaval QTLAssociationMapping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UMissouriColumbia 2 BovineSNPs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UPompeuFabra Barcelona GenographicProject . . . . 98
URennes EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
USheﬃeld ZebraFinchGenomeMapping . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UToronto 2 EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UToronto EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UWindsor CoralReefFishConnectivity . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
YaleU SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
BrownU VertebrateMorphologyPOSTDOCTORAL TEACHING AND RESEARCH
ASSOCIATE IN VERTEBRATE MORPHOLOGY
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy at Brown University is seeking a Postdoctoral
Associate to assist in teaching human anatomy to
medical students and to conduct research in verte-80 EvolDir April 6, 2007
brate morphology. The primary teaching responsi-
bility is in the Human Morphology course for ﬁrst
year medical students, with additional duties teach-
ing advanced medical students and preparing anatom-
ical teaching materials. Brown oﬀers many oppor-
tunities for research collaborations with faculty in
evolutionary morphology and excellent facilities for
morphological research (see http://www.brown.edu/-
Departments/EEB/research/morphology.htm ).
This position is available for the 2007-2008 academic
year with a possibility for a two-year renewal. Appli-
cants must have experience with a cadaver-based gross
anatomy course, a doctorate, and potential for excel-
lence in teaching and research in evolutionary morphol-
ogy.
Applicants should submit a CV, statement of teaching
philosophy and research interests, up to three represen-
tative reprints, and names of three references. Send
materials to Dr. E.L. Brainerd, Box G-B210, Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown Uni-
versity, Providence RI 02912, or send by email to anato-
mysearch@brown.edu.
Application review will begin March 20, 2007
Brown University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative
Action Employer.
–
Elizabeth L. Brainerd Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Box G-B210 Brown Univer-
sity Providence, RI 02912 Oﬃce: 401-863-9261
Lab: 401-863-1032 Fax: 401-863-7544 e-mail:
brainerd@brown.edu Lab Web Page: http://-
www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/brainerd lab
Beth Brainerd <brainerd@brown.edu >
CNRS Lyon EvoDevo
CNRS postdoc position available
https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs07/?pid=-
1&action=view&idx9&lang=en
Diversity of sex determination in ﬁsh: functional ge-
netic analysis of sex chromosomes in the platyﬁsh
Xiphophorus maculatus.
- Description of the project In contrast to the situa-
tion observed in mammals and birds, sex determination
is hypervariable and evolves extremely rapidly in ﬁsh.
This variability is potentially associated with the for-mation of new master sex-determining genes and new
sex chromosomes. Hence, ﬁsh represent an outstanding
model for the study of the evolution of sex determina-
tion, sex chromosomes and sex-linked traits. Under-
standing the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms
involved in the diversity of sex determination requires
the identiﬁcation of master genes controlling the sex of
individuals. The only gene of this type identiﬁed so
far in ﬁsh, dmrt1bY in the medaka, is present in only
a restricted number of species. Due to the absence of
recognizable sex chromosomes and sex-linked molecu-
lar markers, zebraﬁsh and both puﬀerﬁshes Fugu and
Tetraodon, with almost completely sequenced genomes,
are not suitable for this type of analysis. Hence, new
models are required to study sex determination in ﬁsh.
The platyﬁsh Xiphophorus maculatus is an aquarium
ﬁsh reputed for its use in cancer research. Due to the
availability of numerous molecular markers delimiting
the sex-determining region, this species is particularly
suitable to study the control of sexual dimorphism. Our
major goal is to identify through positional cloning and
to characterize at both functional and evolutionary lev-
els the master sex-determining gene of the platyﬁsh, as
well as other sex chromosomal genes involved in pig-
mentation, sexual development and melanoma forma-
tion. Bacterial artiﬁcial chromosome contigs from both
X and Y chromosomes have been already constructed
and are being sequenced to completion in collaboration
with the Genoscope sequencing center. The expres-
sion, function, genomic localization and evolution of the
identiﬁed genes will be studied in platyﬁsh and other
ﬁsh models including killiﬁsh, medaka and zebraﬁsh,
as well as in guppies and mollies, which are impor-
tant biological models closely related to the platyﬁsh.
This study has implications for cancer research through
the identiﬁcation of genes involved in the formation of
melanoma, as well as for aquaculture, for which molec-
ular sexing and manipulation of sex determination are
important economical challenges.
- Candidat proﬁl The candidate will analyse at the func-
tional level the genes identiﬁed on the sex chromosomes
of the platyﬁsh. He/she should be highly motivated
by research in the ﬁeld of \“Evo/devo \” and be ex-
perienced in methods used in ﬁsh developmental biol-
ogy. Knowledge in bioinformatics and molecular evo-
lution would be of advantage. The candidate should
be able to work autonomously and demonstrate inter-
est in pluridisciplinary scientiﬁc interactions inside as
well as outside of the institute. - Duration of project
1 year - Laboratory of project UMR 5242 Rhˆ one Au-
vergne (07) Institut de G´ enomique Fonctionnelle de
Lyon Lyon - Contact Prof. Jean-Nicolas VOLFF jean-
nicolas.volﬀ@ens-lyon.frApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 81
Frederic.Brunet@ens-lyon.fr Frederic.Brunet@ens-
lyon.fr
CNRS Paris HumanPopGenet
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION Human Population
Genetics and Immunity, CNRS-INSTITUT PASTEUR,
Paris
Population genomics of human innate immunity recep-
tors : genetic diversity and natural selection
* Description of the project Infectious diseases have
played a major role in the evolution of modern hu-
mans because they have been paramount among the
threats to health and survival for most of human evo-
lutionary history. Natural selection is a major force
behind the shaping of patterns of human genome vari-
ability. Inferences concerning the action of natural se-
lection in the human genome provide a powerful tool
for predicting regions of the genome potentially associ-
ated with disease. Genetic variants inﬂuencing human
susceptibility to disease are likely to aﬀect the ﬁtness
of the organism, unless the disease concerned begins
late in the life. There is therefore an intimate rela-
tionship between disease and selection that can be ex-
ploited for the identiﬁcation of candidate disease loci.
As infectious diseases have exerted, and exert, strong
selection pressures, the identiﬁcation of selected loci or
variants of immunity-related genes may provide insight
into immunological defense mechanisms and highlight
host pathways playing an important role in pathogen
resistance. To date, some of the strongest evidence for
selection in the human genome has been obtained for
human genes involved in the immune response or host-
pathogen interactions (MHC, G6PD, CCR5), but few
studies have investigated the extent to which pathogens
have exerted selective pressure on the innate immune
system.
The major goal of our research is to investigate the ex-
tent to which natural selection has shaped the patterns
of genetic variability of human genes involved in innate
immunity. The innate immune system governs the ini-
tial detection of pathogens and stimulates the ﬁrst line
of host defense. In this context, we have recently iden-
tiﬁed distinctive patterns of selection in two closely re-
lated innate immunity genes (DC-SIGN and L-SIGN)
(Barreiro et al. 2005. Am J Hum Genet). We have fur-
ther identiﬁed two variants in the DC-SIGN promoter
region associated with stronger protection against thedevelopment of TB (Barreiro et al. 2006. PLoS Med).
These population genetic approaches have allowed us
to show that the patterns of genetic diversity of an-
other innate immunity gene, MBL2, are compatible
with neutrality, suggesting a largely redundant role for
this lectin in immune responses (Verdu et al. 2006.
Hum Mol Genet). In the context of the present project,
we aim to investigate the selective pressures imposed by
the presence of pathogens on genes and gene families en-
coding pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs), such as
Toll-like receptors, C-type lectin receptors and scav-
enger receptors. These PRRs have been shown to rec-
ognize pathogen-derived molecular patterns or to play
key roles in the initial steps of the immune response.
This study, which integrates molecular and population
genetics and bioinformatics approaches, will allow us
to determine the extent to which natural selection has
shaped the patterns of variation of these genes, and to
identify those genes or gene families, variations in which
may aﬀect susceptibility to infectious diseases.
The successful candidate will work in the CNRS Unit
URA3012 at Institut Pasteur in Paris. The main re-
search lines of this Unit are the study of human, vec-
torial and microbial diversity, the interactions among
these populations, and the molecular mechanisms in-
volved in host protection against pathogens. In this
context, the candidate will interact with scientists
in France (Institut Pasteur, Necker Medical School,
Mus´ eum National d’Histoire Naturelle, IRD Montpel-
lier) working in population genetics or other diﬀer-
ent but highly complementary disciplines (Immunol-
ogy, Evolutionary Biology, Microbiology, Anthropology,
Epidemiology). In addition, core facilities for genomic
studies (sequencing, genotyping) are available in Insti-
tut Pasteur Campus. This, together with our interna-
tional collaborations (Universities of Cambridge, Ox-
ford, Yale, Chicago, Barcelona), will provide an excel-
lent framework to carry out this research project.
* Candidate proﬁle The successful candidate will be
expected to hold a Ph.D. in the ﬁeld of population ge-
netics or genomics and have a number of international
publications in the relevant ﬁeld. Applicants are re-
quired to have research experience in basic molecular
biology techniques (sequencing, genotyping, Real-Time
PCR), training in human genetics or population genet-
ics, and bioinformatics skills in genetic data analyses.
In addition, strong background in theoretical popula-
tion genetics, statistics, and computer modeling by sim-
ulation would be an advantage. A willingness to engage
in inter-disciplinary research in population genetics and
evolution, or
/82 EvolDir April 6, 2007
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
CollegeWilliamMary Biomath
The Department of Biology at the College of William
and Mary seeks applications for a two year Visiting
Assistant Professor postdoctoral position in biomathe-
matics. The candidate should be trained in modeling
approaches to population ecology and evolution and
exhibit a sincere commitment to undergraduate edu-
cation and research. Speciﬁcally, the biomath post-
doc will mentor undergraduates in quantitative and
modeling projects, related to population ecology and
evolution, and collaborate with faculty in the biol-
ogy, mathematics, and applied science departments on
new and existing research projects. The postdoc will
also help develop lab activities associated with an in-
troductory biomathematical modeling class. There-
fore, some experience of empirical systems is strongly
desired. More information about recent biomathe-
matics projects and faculty involved with this group
can be found at http://jpswad.people.wm.edu/iibbs/-
home.htm Please forward this information to anyone
you think may be interested.
Informal enquiries and requests for more information
should be directed to Dan Cristol (dacris@wm.edu)
or John Swaddle (jpswad@wm.edu) in the Biology de-
partment, and Sebastian Schreiber (sjschr@wm.edu) in
the Mathematics department. Review begins April
20, 2007 and will continue until an appointment is
made. Submit a letter of application, curriculum vi-
tae, statements of research plans and teaching philos-
ophy, and three letters of reference to Biomathematics
Search Committee, Department of Biology, The College
of William and Mary, P.O. Box 8795, Williamsburg, VA
23187-8795. The College is an EEO/AA employer.
Dr. John Swaddle Director of Environmental Science
and Policy Associate Professor Biology Department
College of William and Mary Williamsburg, VA 23185
http://jpswad.people.wm.edu/ Tel. 757.221.2231
John Swaddle <jpswad@wm.edu >INRA Versailles TE Bioinformatics
Transposable Elements and tobacco genes
A 6 months (postdoc level) position is open at
the Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire, Institut Jean-
Pierre Bourgin, INRA-Versailles, France ( http://www-
ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/ ), in the team “Host-Transposon
Interactions and Plant biodiversity”. The projet will
focus on the bioinformatic analysis of Transposable El-
ements (TEs) sequences found in tobacco databases,
notably EST databases, and on the evaluation of
genes/TEs associations. Previous knowledge of the var-
ious ET types (structure and molecular diversity) will
be highly appreciated.
Starting date: no later than June 1st, 2007 Send
CV and two recommandations contacts to: Dr
Marie-Ang` ele GRANDBASTIEN Laboratoire de Bi-
ologie Cellulaire Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin INRA-
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles cedex, France
gbastien@versailles.inra.fr tel: 33 1 30 83 30 24 fax:
33 1 30 83 30 99
–
Marie-Ang` ele GRANDBASTIEN Laboratoire de Bi-
ologie Cellulaire Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin INRA -
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles, France Tel: 33
(1) 30 83 30 24 Fax: 33 (1) 30 83 30 99 Email:
gbastien@versailles.inra.fr
Marie-Angele.Grandbastien@versailles.inra.fr
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics
POSTDOC IN EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is available in the
lab of Matthew Hahn in the Department of Biology at
Indiana University. The work will examine the evo-
lution of gene gain and loss through the study of gene
families. Our lab has developed the statistical and com-
putational tools necessary to study these phenomena,
and we are looking for a motivated individual to apply
the methods to interesting biological questions. The
postdoctoral candidate will also be encouraged to carryApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 83
out independent work in the lab.
There is a wide variety of research going on in the lab in
addition to the current project, including studies of nu-
cleotide, protein, and gene expression variation within
and between species. For a summary of work in the
lab, please see: http://www.bio.indiana.edu/ facultyre-
search/faculty/Hahn.html
The candidate must have a Ph.D., preferably in popu-
lation genetics, statistical genetics, computational biol-
ogy, or phylogenetics. Programming skills aren?t re-
quired, but the candidate must be willing to learn.
Salary is $40-$45K (plus beneﬁts) commensurate with
experience. The anticipated start date for this position
is August 1, 2007.
Indiana University has a large and active group in evo-
lutionary genetics, and considerable resources are of-
fered by IU’s Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics.
Bloomington is situated in scenic, hilly southern In-
diana, near several parks and wilderness areas. The
cultural environment provided by the University is ex-
ceptionally rich in art, music, and theater.
To apply, please send a CV and two references to Dee
Verostko at dverostk@indiana.edu with ?Hahn applica-
tion? in the subject line. Review of applications will
start immediately and will continue until the position
is ﬁlled.
Indiana University is an Equal Opportunity / Aﬃrma-
tive Action Employer.
Matthew Hahn Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ology & School of Informatics 1001 E. 3rd St. Indiana
University Bloomington, IN 47405 Phone: (812)856-
7001 http://www.bio.indiana.edu/facultyresearch/-
faculty/Hahn.html http://www.bio.indiana.edu/-
˜hahnlab Matthew Hahn <mwh@indiana.edu >
LeidenU PlantIntrogression
1 POSTDOC (F/M) (0.75 position, 4 years), vacancy
reference number: 7-085 In the section Plant Ecology of
the Institute of Biology Leiden University (IBL), Fac-
ulty of Sciences.
The project: Through outcrossing, genes from culti-
vars can be taken up by wild relatives , this is called
introgression. There is growing economical interest and
concern about the genetic modiﬁcation of crops and the
introgression of transgenes to wild relatives. Estimateson the rate and probability of introgression are there-
fore needed. Random events play a large role in the
introgression process, resulting in a large variation be-
tween genotypes of hybrids en their reproductive suc-
cess. Aim of the project is to develop an accurate mea-
sure of the chance of the introgression of transgenes: the
???hazard rate???. This measure will be calculated on
the basis of mathematical models. The parameters for
the developed models will be estimated from crossing
experiments, molecular- and ﬁeld work. A model study
is carried out on carrot and its wild relatives. This
project is a part of a collaboration between mathemati-
cians, ecologists and molecular biologists. Within this
program 2 PhD???s and 1 Postdoc will be appointed.
Postdoc position In collaboration with a PhD student
the postdoc will estimate population dynamic parame-
ters such as gene ﬂow and degree of introgression from
ﬁeld and lab work. The focus of the postdoc is on the es-
timation of these parameters with the aid of molecular
markers. In addition the postdoc will develop molecu-
lar markers to estimate the introgression of crop genes
and transgenes into wild relatives.
The candidate should have: - a PhD on an ecologi-
cal or molecular biological subject - knowledge of mod-
ern molecular techniques - knowledge of existing mod-
els that estimate gene ﬂow, eﬀective population sizes,
hybridisation and selection on markers with molecular
markers - knowledge of software to analyse molecular
data - Suﬃcient ﬂuency in writing and speaking English
The salary in the ﬁrst year is ??? 2740,00 gross per
month increasing to ???3597,00 gross per month in the
fourth year (on the basis of an full time appointment).
The appointment is temporal with a length of 4 years
for a 0.75 position.
For more information contact: Dr. K. Vrieling, email:
k.vrieling@Biology.leidenuniv.nl, tel: +31 71-5275136
Dr. P. Haccou, email:.p.haccou@ibl.leidenuniv.nl,
tel: +31 7171-5274917. For the ERGO pro-
gram see: www.nwo.nl/nwohome.nsf/pages/-
NWOA 6JNP94 EngThe full text of this grant is avail-
able from our website: http://biology.leidenuniv.nl/-
ibl/S11/docs/ERGOproject.pdf Application: Applica-
tions with vacancy number on the letter and envelope
can be sent until March 30 to: Faculty of Sciences,
Leiden University, Dienst P&O, Mrs. L. den Hollander,
PO Box 9504, 2300 RA LEIDEN, The Netherlands,
e-mail: l.den.hollander@science.leidenuniv.nl
“K. Vrieling” <k.vrieling@biology.leidenuniv.nl >“K.
Vrieling” <k.vrieling@biology.leidenuniv.nl >84 EvolDir April 6, 2007
LeipzigU Bioinformatics
The Leipzig University, Fakult¨ at f¨ ur Biowissenschaften,
Pharmazie und Psychologie, Institut f¨ ur Biologie II, are
seeking to ﬁll a Postdoc position in bioinformatics.
Applications are sought from researchers for a postdoc-
toral position in the group for Molecular Evolution and
Systematics with Prof. Dr. Schlegel. The position will
be for a period of three years.
We are looking for a person who can demonstrate re-
search experience in the ﬁeld of bioinformatics. A focus
on molecular phylogenetics would be desirable, but is
not necessary. The research of this position should fo-
cus on bioinformatics and molecular phylogenetics and
the post also includes teaching duties in Zoology and
Molecular Systematics.
The ideal candidate will have a PhD in bioinformatics,
molecular phylogenetics, zoology, theoretical biology or
a related subject.
The deadline is April the 30th 2007, but applications
maybe considered until the post is ﬁlled.
Applications of women are encouraged and given com-
parable qualiﬁcations; applications of handicapped per-
sons will be given preference.
Applications, including curriculum vitae and bibliogra-
phy, summary of past accomplishments, and the names
and email addresses of three references, should be sent
to:
Prof. Dr. Martin Schlegel Universit¨ at Leipzig
Fakult¨ at f¨ ur Biowissenschaften, Pharmazie und Psy-
chologie Institut f¨ ur Biologie II, Molekulare Evo-
lution & Systematik der Tiere Talstr. 33 04103
Leipzig Tel.: 0341/9736725 Fax: 0341/9736848 e-mail:
schlegel@rz.uni-leipzig.de
–
Dr. Thomas U. Berendonk
Universit¨ at Leipzig, Institut f¨ ur Biologie II Molekulare
Evolution und Systematik der Tiere Talstr. 33 D-04103
Leipzig, Tel.: +49-(0)341-9736742 Fax: +49-(0)341-
9736789
e-Mail: tberendonk@rz.uni-leipzig.de
tberendonk@rz.uni-leipzig.deLouisianaStateU Museum
AvianSystematics
POSTDOC POSITION
SYSTEMATICS OF A NEOTROPICAL DIVERSIFI-
CATION: THE OVENBIRDS AND WOODCREEP-
ERS (FURNARIIDAE)
ATTENTION: Molecular systematists and ornitholo-
gists
We are looking for a person to ﬁll a 2-year NSF-funded
postdoctoral position to reconstruct a molecular-based
phylogeny of all species within the Neotropical avian
family Furnariidae (ovenbirds and woodcreepers). This
project investigates a spectacular adaptive radiation of
birds, with the vast majority of the species occurring
in South America.
The successful applicant must have skills in molecular
systematics (primer design, PCR ampliﬁcation, DNA
sequencing, and knowledge of phylogenetic analyses).
Additional desirable skills are experience organizing
and leading collecting expeditions to Central and South
America, and experience with GIS analysis (ArcView,
GARP analysis, etc.), population genetics, and com-
parative phylogeography.
The position is available after April, 2007 and renewal
for the second year will be contingent on progress and
productivity. Review of applications is ongoing and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in biology or a related
ﬁeld. Please send your CV, a statement of research
interests, and the names, phone numbers, and email
addresses of three references to: Dr. Robb T. Brum-
ﬁeld, Museum of Natural Science, 119 Foster Hall,
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA 70803
(voice: 225-578-3081; fax: 225-578-3075; e-mail: brum-
ﬂd@lsu.edu). For additional information and links go to
http://www.museum.lsu.edu/brumﬁeld/research/ pro-
jectfurn.htm
brumﬂd@lsu.edu brumﬂd@lsu.edu
Lucerne ModellingPopGeneticsApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 85
Computational Population Geneticist / Ecologist Lo-
cation: Eawag Centre of Ecology, Evolution & Biogeo-
chemistry in Kastanienbaum (Lucerne)
The Fish Ecology and Evolution department (Ole See-
hausen) and the Aquatic Ecology Department (Jukka
Jokela) at the Eawag Centre of Ecology, Evolution &
Biogeochemistry in Kastanienbaum, are seeking to ﬁll
a 2-3 year Postdoc position for theoretical work at
the in-terface between population genetics, biodiver-
sity theory and conservation biology. We wish to in-
vestigate the relationships between environmental het-
erogeneity, neutral genetic, and adaptive diversity using
the evolutionary melting pot aquatic biota of perialpine
drainages.
We are looking for an advanced Postdoc to develop
theoretical models for investigating the relationships
between environmental heterogeneity, genetic variation
and adaptive diversity, including the emergence of func-
tional polymorphisms and speciation. The ideal candi-
date will have a PhD in theoretical biology, computa-
tional population genetics or a related ﬁeld, and will
have extensive modeling experience in evolutionary ge-
netics and/or metapopulation ecology.
The Postdoc is expected to interact closely with an ex-
isting research team, including PhD students and an-
other Postdoc who does molecular genetic and eco-
logical analyses (stable isotopes, morphometrics) on
aquatic organisms at three trophic levels, and to guide
PhD students.
For information on our departments please consult
www.ﬁshecology.ch and www.eawag.ch/research e/-
lim/e index.html . For speciﬁc information please
contact Ole Seehausen (ole.seehausen@eawag.ch) and
Jukka Jokela (jukka.jokela@eawag.ch). Send applica-
tion letter, CV and publication list, and contact de-
tails of three referees by email to Sandra Isenring, Hu-
man Resources, Eawag, Ueberlandstrasse 133, CH-8600
Duebendorf or per e-mail to sandra.isenring@eawag.ch
Deadline is 7 April 2007, but applications will be con-
sidered until the post is ﬁlled.
Eawag: Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and
Technology
– Ole Seehausen University of Berne
ole.seehausen@aqua.unibe.ch
ole.seehausen@aqua.unibe.chMilan 2 RotiferEvolution
1) two year Post-Doc position available at the Depart-
ment of Biology in Milan, Italy, in the lab of Claudia
Ricci, claudia.ricci@unimi.it. Deadline: 27 April 2007
Analysis of the nervous system of bdelloid rotifers and
its role in anhydrobiosis.
Almost all 380 species of Bdelloidea (phylum Rotifera)
live in freshwater (Segers, 2002), but most of them are
able to survive lack of water entering a form of dor-
mancy known as anhydrobiosis (Ricci et al., 1987; Ricci,
1998, 2001). Anhydrobiotic animals undergo a series of
adaptations at morphological, metabolic, and biochem-
ical level (Crowe, 1971).
In detail, due to evaporation of water, the bdelloids con-
tract in a characteristic tun shape, which slows down
water lost, compacting tissues and organs in ordered
and rigorous ways (Dickson & Mercer, 1967; Schramm
& Becker, 1987).
Plausibly, the nervous system, together with the cy-
toskeleton, is highly involved in activating the events
leading the rotifer to its dormant state. Nevertheless,
few studies dealt with functional and morphological as-
pects of the nervous system in rotifers (see Hochberg,
2006), and almost nothing is known in bdelloid rotifers.
Aims of the projects are: - describing the structure and
ultra-structure of the nervous system in hydrated and
dormant bdelloids, - elaborating a model to understand
how the nervous system is involved in anhydrobiotic re-
sponse, - disentangling the role of the cytoskeleton in
the mechanisms involved in anhydrobiosis.
For details, look at the application form (in Italian
only): http://www.unimi.it/ricerca/assegni ricerca/-
7550.htm 2) Another post-doc position will be opened
soon. This will involve the analysis of DNA damage
in bdelloid rotifers after stressful events (eg dehydra-
tion, radiation, freezing), and of the subsequent repair
mechanisms after recovering.
Experience with microscopic organisms ir preferred, to-
gether with knowledge of techniques of DNA double
strand breakage (tunel assay, comet assay, markers,
etc).
If you are interested, please contact prof. Clau-
dia Ricci, Department of Biology, Universita’ di Mi-
lano, claudia.ricci@unimi.it http://users.unimi.it/ricci86 EvolDir April 6, 2007
diego.fontaneto@unimi.it
Milan EvolGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Evolutionary Genomics and
Bioinformatics
A postdoctoral position is available in the group of
Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics of Cancer
at the European Institute of Oncology in Milan (Italy).
The group is interested in detecting the genotypic de-
terminants of human cancer through the study diﬀer-
ent features of human genes, proteins and of the entire
genome. A number of projects are currently going on in
the lab. Therefore, a certain ﬂexibility in the choice of
the project is allowed. In all cases, the successful can-
didate will deal with well-assessed procedures for data
analysis as well as with the development of tools for
solving speciﬁc problems. A tight collaboration with
the many wet labs in the campus is a major trait of the
job.
Qualiﬁcations: A PhD in bioinformatics, theoretical
biology, genetics or equivalent is required. Compu-
tational skills (Perl, Phyton, C++) are mandatory.
A background in evolution and developmental biology
would be favourable.
To apply: send, via email, a CV, a statement of
research interests,and the names and contact infor-
mation for two references. Applications and in-
quiries should be addressed to Francesca Ciccarelli
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.it
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD IFOM-IEO-Campus
Via Adamello, 16 20139 Milan, Italy tel +39-
02574303-053 fax +39-02574303-231 web: http://-
ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-campus.it/fcwiki/ francesca
ciccarelli –
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD Biocomputing IFOM-
IEO-Campus Via Adamello, 16 20139 Milan, Italy
tel +39-02574303-053 fax +39-02574303-231 web:
http://ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-campus.it/fcwiki/
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.it
Montpellier HumanEvolBiolPOST-DOCTORAL POSITION in Human Evolution-
ary Biology Section Genetics and Environment, Insti-
tute of Evolutionary Sciences, University of Montpel-
lier, France.
Project: Evolution of handedness in human popula-
tions Part 1. Social status and handedness Social sta-
tus is a ﬁtness component in humans, as in other social
species with dominance relationships. Associations be-
tween socio-economic status and handedness have been
found in a western society in a population of children
and in several large cohorts of adults. We propose to
investigate this relation in other cultures, especially in
traditional or sub-traditional societies that have not
experienced the demographic transition. Part 2. Sex
and handedness There are more left-handed men than
women, in most societies so far investigated. Why left-
handed women still exist is not well understood, in light
of the advantage found, in ﬁghting interactions, which
does not concern women. One possible explanation is
an indirect advantage for women, through their sons,
because there is a maternal component in the inher-
itance of left-handedness. This aspect has only been
explored theoretically, and requires empirical evidence.
These two parts are to be completed with other aspects,
according to competence and expertise, e.g. the tem-
poral variation of handedness (through bilateral asym-
metries in past remains), and the investigation of the
evolutionary causes of historical and geographical vari-
ations.
Research team: Human evolutionary biology http://-
www.evolutionhumaine.fr/index ang.php Duration: 24
months (including at least 6 months of ﬁeld work)
Salary: 1,430-1,741 monthly, net (according to experi-
ence)
Candidate: The candidate should have: - a phD in Evo-
lutionary Biology or Evolutionary Anthropology, - some
experience with ﬁeld work, preferably in non-western
countries, - a strong motivation to improve the under-
standing of human evolution!
Application: CV, list of publications, names and email
addresses of at least two research scientists able to fully
evaluate the candidate, and cover letter should be sent
to Michel Raymond ( raymond@isem.univ-montp2.fr )
and Charlotte Faurie ( faurie@isem.univ-montp2.fr ).
Charlotte Faurie
Institut des Sciences de l’Evolution (CNRS UMR
5554) Universit´ e Montpellier II - CC 065 Place
Eug` ene Bataillon F-34095 Montpellier cedex 05 TEL:
+33 (0)467 144 632 FAX: +33 (0)467 143 622
www.evolutionhumaine.fr faurie@isem.univ-montp2.fr
faurie@isem.univ-montp2.frApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 87
Potsdam Theor Pop Genetics
A 2 year position for a postdoc with a strong back-
ground in modelling in either population genetics
or evolutionary ecology is available at the Univer-
sity of Potsdam (close to Berlin/Germany). The
position will start on 1 June 2007 or later and
forms part of the Marie Curie Transfer of Knowl-
edge Project FEMMES (FEedback Mechanisms in
Models for Ecological forecastS, http://www.bio.uni-
potsdam.de/professuren/oekosystemmodellierung/-
aktivitaten/femmes cobo/femmes ).
FEMMES aims to develop innovative models that de-
scribe how dynamic feedbacks between diﬀerent hierar-
chical levels (from genotypes to communities) aﬀect the
response of ecological systems to environmental change.
The project will run over a period of 4 years, comprises
a total of ﬁve positions for visiting scientists, and is
jointly hosted by the Department of Plant Ecology and
Nature Conservation, and the Department of Ecology
and Ecosystem Modelling.
The fellow will be based at the Department of Plant
Ecology and Nature Conservation, a research group
with broad experience in the development of individual-
based and spatially-explicit ecological models (e.g.
Grimm et al. 2005 Science 310: 987-991). In collabora-
tion with host scientists and a senior FEMMES fellow
(Calvin Dytham, University of York, UK), the fellow
will work on the incorporation of population-genotype
feedbacks into such process-based models. The work
will be linked to ongoing research projects on the
dynamics of fragmented populations, the response of
species to climate change, the dynamics of biological in-
vasions, or the spread of transgenes (for details on some
of these projects see http://www.bio.uni-potsdam.de/-
professors/plant-ecology-and-nature-conservation/-
research/main-research/view?set language=en ).
The Department of Plant Ecology and Nature Conser-
vation resides in the picturesque Park of Sanssouci, a
UNESCO World Heritage Site. Potsdam is a pleasant
town a mere 20 minutes from Berlin with its rich cul-
tural life.
Applicants should hold a PhD and should be ﬂu-
ent in English, but knowledge of German is not
required. The Marie Curie Programme is primar-
ily aimed at non-German citizens of the EU or as-
sociated countries, but applicants of any national-ity may be eligible under certain conditions. Salary
is in accordance with the EU payscale for experi-
enced researchers, and includes social security contri-
butions. Additionally, fellows receive travel and mo-
bility allowances. For details on eligibility, salaries
and allowances see http://ec.europa.eu/research/fp6/-
mariecurie-actions/action/knowledge en.html To ap-
ply, please submit a CV and contact details of references
by e-mail to Frank Schurr (schurr@uni-potsdam.de) or
Florian Jeltsch (jeltsch@uni-potsdam.de). The dead-
line for applications is 13 April 2007.
– Dr. Frank Schurr Plant Ecology and Nature Con-
servation University of Potsdam Maulbeerallee 3 14469
Potsdam Germany Tel: +49 331 977-1944 Fax: +49
331 977-1948
schurr@rz.uni-potsdam.de schurr@rz.uni-potsdam.de
PrincetonU MolEvoDevo
Post-Doctoral Positions in Molecular Developmental
Evolution Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA
Several Postdoctoral Research Associate/Associate Re-
search Scholar positions are available in the laboratory
of Professor David Stern to study the molecular mech-
anisms that have caused functional evolution of the
shavenbaby-ovo (svb) gene.
At least one position will focus on the molecular
changes at svb that have evolved in the Drosophila
sechellia lineage leading to their novel larval tri-
chome pattern. (For more information see: Sucena &
Stern. 2000. Divergence of larval morphology between
Drosophila sechellia and its sibling species due to cis-
regulatory evolution of ovo/shavenbay. PNAS.97:4530-
4534).
Another position is available to study the molecular
changes at the svb gene in the D. virilis group of species
that have led to parallel evolution of trichome patterns
(For more information see: Sucena et al. 2003. Regu-
latory evolution of shaven-baby/ovo underlies multiple
cases of morphological parallelism. Nature. 424:935-
038).
We have recently made considerable progress identify-
ing the evolved regions of svb and future work focuses
on a molecular functional characterization of the con-
sequences of individual mutations in the svb regulatory
region. Experience with Drosophila genetics, develop-
mental biology, molecular biology and/or protein/DNA88 EvolDir April 6, 2007
interactions is therefore highly desirable. Candidates
should be available to start the position in 2007.
Further information about the lab and research envi-
ronment can be found at www.princeton.edu/˜dstern
Please send applications, including a letter of interest,
CV, publications list and contact information for three
letters of reference to piaellen@princeton.edu
Princeton University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer. For information
about applying to Princeton, please link to http:/-
/web.princeton.edu/sites/dof/ApplicantsInfo.htm .
dstern@Princeton.EDU dstern@Princeton.EDU
QueensU 2 ModelingInﬂuenzaEvol
Two Postdoctoral Fellowships in the Mathematical
Evolutionary Epidemiology of Inﬂuenza.
Applications are sought from outstanding researchers
for two postdoctoral positions in the mathematical
evolutionary epidemiology of inﬂuenza, in the labs of
Drs. Troy Day (Queen’s University, Canada), Jonathan
Dushoﬀ (McMaster University, Canada), David Earn
(McMaster University, Canada), and Junling Ma (Uni-
versity of Victoria, Canada). Both positions will be
for a period of two years, and will involve developing
and analyzing mathematical and simulation models of
inﬂuenza evolution. Positions should be taken up by
Sept. 1, 2007. Duties will also include the teaching of
two one-semester courses per year. Salary will begin at
C$40,000 per year.
For more information on research in our
labs see: www.mast.queensu.ca/ ~tday,
http://www.eeb.princeton.edu/ ˜ dushoﬀ/-
, http://www.eeb.princeton.edu/ ˜ dushoﬀ/-
, www.math.mcmaster.ca/earn/, and
www.math.mcmaster.ca/earn/, To apply, send
a current curriculum vitae and arrange to have
two letters of reference sent to Dr. Troy Day at
tday@mast.queensu.ca.
Alternatively, materials can be sent by post to: Troy
Day Dept. of Mathematics and Statistics Jeﬀery Hall,
Queen’s University Kingston, ON, K7L 3N6 CANADA
Deadline for applications is May 15, 2007.
tday@mast.queensu.ca tday@mast.queensu.caQueensU MathEvolInﬂuenza
Two Postdoctoral Fellowships in the Mathematical
Evolutionary Epidemiology of Inﬂuenza.
Applications are sought from outstanding researchers
for two postdoctoral positions in the mathematical
evolutionary epidemiology of inﬂuenza, in the labs of
Drs. Troy Day (Queen’s University, Canada), Jonathan
Dushoﬀ (McMaster University, Canada), David Earn
(McMaster University, Canada), and Junling Ma (Uni-
versity of Victoria, Canada). Both positions will be
for a period of two years, and will involve developing
and analyzing mathematical and simulation models of
inﬂuenza evolution. Positions should be taken up by
Sept. 1, 2007. Duties will also include the teaching of
two one-semester courses per year. Salary will begin at
C$40,000 per year.
For more information on research in our
labs see: www.mast.queensu.ca/ ~tday,
http://www.eeb.princeton.edu/ ˜ dushoﬀ/-
, http://www.eeb.princeton.edu/ ˜ dushoﬀ/-
, www.math.mcmaster.ca/earn/, and
www.math.mcmaster.ca/earn/, To apply, send
a current curriculum vitae and arrange to have
two letters of reference sent to Dr. Troy Day at
tday@mast.queensu.ca.
Alternatively, materials can be sent by post to: Troy
Day Dept. of Mathematics and Statistics Jeﬀery Hall,
Queen’s University Kingston, ON, K7L 3N6 CANADA
Deadline for applications is May 15, 2007.
tday@mast.queensu.ca tday@mast.queensu.ca
Seattle ModellingFishPop
Population modeling post-doctoral opportunity at the
Northwest Fisheries Science Center, Seattle, WA
The Northwest Fisheries Science Center, Conservation
Biology Division, is seeking a quantitative population
biologist to develop improved methods of quantify-
ing the eﬀects of harvest on the viability of Paciﬁc
salmon stocks. Successful applicants will have excel-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 89
lent modeling, programming, data analysis and statis-
tical skills and an interest in conservation and nat-
ural resource management. The NWFSC ( http://-
www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/ ) is one of the premier ﬁsheries
research centers in the Paciﬁc Northwest with programs
in conservation biology, population genetics, toxicol-
ogy, stock assessment, population biology, ﬁsh ecology,
ﬁsheries technology and risk assessment. The post-
doctoral positions are part of the National Research
Council Research Associateship Program ( http://-
www7.nationalacademies.org/rap/ ); salary is $45,000
U.S. per year, plus travel for meetings and other sup-
port. The fellowship is funded for 2 years. You
must have received your PhD degree WITHIN the last
ﬁve years. U.S. citizenship is not required. Applica-
tion deadline is May 1, and tenure should begin in
the summer or fall of 2007. Contact Michael Ford
(mike.ford@noaa.gov) for more information.
Mike.Ford@noaa.gov Mike.Ford@noaa.gov
Smithsonian
HawaiianSongbirdPhylogenetics
Postdoctoral Position: Phylogenetics of Hawaiian Song-
bird Lineages
A postdoctoral research position to conduct molecular
and morphological phylogenetic analyses of Hawaiian
songbird lineages is available for up to two years begin-
ning as early as June 2007 (the second year of funding
is contingent upon satisfactory performance in the ﬁrst
year). Most of the species under study are extinct or
endangered, so museum specimen and subfossil bone
material will be analyzed using ancient DNA meth-
ods. Applicants should have a background in molec-
ular methods (PCR, DNA sequencing) and phyloge-
netic analysis. Experience with ancient DNA meth-
ods and morphological character analysis are a plus.
Some paleontological ﬁeldwork in Hawaii is expected,
as well as museum sampling visits. Please send a let-
ter of application detailing your experience in the rele-
vant areas, a full curriculum vitae, examples of your
work (pdfs), and the names, addresses, phone num-
bers and email addresses of at least two references who
know your research experience and abilities. Research
will be conducted in the Genetics Program located in
the National Zoological Park and the National Museum
of Natural History, both located in Washington, DC.
Email application materials to Dr. Rob Fleischer (ﬂeis-cherr@si.edu) and Dr. Helen James (jamesh@si.edu).
Review of applications will begin on 15 March 2007.
Robert C. Fleischer, Ph.D. Head, Center for Conser-
vation and Evolutionary Genetics National Zoological
Park National Museum of Natural History Smithsonian
Institution 3001 Connecticut Ave., NW Washington,
DC 20008 USA phone:1-202-633-4190 fax: 1-202-673-
0040 email: ﬂeischerr@si.edu
“Fleischer, Robert” <FleischerR@si.edu >
UAarhus 2 Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Positions in Statistical and Computa-
tional Bioinformatics
UNIVERSITY OF AARHUS, FACULTY OF
HEALTH SCIENCES, BIOINFORMATICS RE-
SEARCH CENTER (BIRC)
Bioinformatics Research Center (BiRC), University of
Aarhus, Denmark invites applications for two postdoc-
toral positions in statistical and computational biology
from May 2007 (starting date negotiable). The posi-
tions are initially available for one year but with possi-
ble extension to a maximum of three years.
The two positions are related to two diﬀerent projects.
A. The project of the ﬁrst position seeks to develop sta-
tistical methods for analysis of biological network data;
in particular Protein Interaction Networks, preferably
integrated with other relevant data. The exact topic
of the work is open, but should focus somewhat on
the development of MCMC, likelihood-free, or Bayesian
methods for analysis of network data. Currently, one
PhD student and Professor Wiuf are working on the
project. We have a strong collaboration with re-
searchers at Imperial College, London and the candi-
date is expected to spend some time in London. Rel-
evant Refs: [1], [2]; see also <http://www.birc.au.dk/-
%7Ewiuf/group.htm >http://www.birc.au.dk/˜wiuf/-
gr... . B. The project of the second position seeks
to develop statistical methods for validation of methy-
lation arrays and for their further analysis in relation
to diﬀerent cancers and cancer subtypes. Currently,
several PhD students, one postdoc and Professor Wiuf
are working on similar issues using various array types
(SNP, gene, CGH, miRNA). The successful candidate
will work with experimental researchers at the Insti-
tute of Human Genetics, as well as with researchers at
BiRC. Relevant Refs: [3], [4] (though none on methy-90 EvolDir April 6, 2007
lation arrays yet); see also <http://www.birc.au.dk/ >
http://www.birc.au.dk/ ~wiuf/group.htm.
Scientiﬁc qualiﬁcations corresponding to a PhD-degree
are required.
The conditions of employment are based on the agree-
ment between The Ministry of Finance and The Fed-
eration of Graduate Employee Unions. Remuneration
will include an additional pension-based bonus of DKK
44,899.51 per year (April-2006 level).
The application should include a curriculum vitae, a
full list of the applicant’s scientiﬁc publications showing
which publications the applicant wishes to be included
in the assessment. Three copies of each of these pub-
lications should be included with the application. The
assessment committee can decide to include material
which has not been in the evaluation. In this event,
the applicant will be informed and asked to send the
material, or else to withdraw the application.
The guidelines of the Faculty for the assessment com-
mittee and guidelines concerning writing an application
may be found on <http://www.health.au.dk/fakultet/-
stillingsopslag >http://www.health.au.dk/fakult.. . or
can be requested from the Faculty Secretariat on tel.
+45 8942 4105 (Liselotte Westerby).
When the assessment committee has made its evalua-
tion, applicants will receive the part of the evaluation
which concerns them.
Applications are encouraged regardless of age, gender,
race, religion or ethnic background.
Further information about the position can be
requested from Professor Carsten Wiuf; e-mail;
wiuf@birc.au.dk
Four copies of the application, together with three
copies of the publications to be assessed, should be sent
to The Faculty of Health Sciences, Vennelyst Boulevard
9, DK-8000 Aarhus C. Applications must reach the Fac-
ulty Secretariat before 12.00 noon, April 30. 2007.
The application should be marked 2007-212/2-218
Kind Regards
Enette Berndt Knudsen, Administrative Organizer
BiRC - Bioinformatics Research Center University of
Aarhus H-Guldbergs Gade 10, Building 1090 DK- 8000
Aarhus C, Denmark Phone +45 8942 3123 E-mail:
enette@birc.au.dk
enette@birc.au.dkUAdelaide AncientBovines
Evolutionary genetics of bovid genomes over 60,000
years
ARC Senior Research Associate
3 year position available immediately
Level B (salary range of AUD$63,487 - AUD$75,392)
A 3-year postdoctoral position is available at
the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA ( http://-
www.adelaide.edu.au/acad ), The University of Ade-
laide, to study the genetics of ancient bovid popula-
tions. The ARC-funded project will analyze nuclear
QTL in bison and aurochs specimens, in collaboration
with Prof J. Taylor and R. Schnabel at the Animal Ge-
nomics Centre at the University of Missouri ( http://-
animalgenomics.missouri.edu ). The postdoctoral fellow
will be responsible for collecting and analyzing samples,
project logistics and liaising with the University of Mis-
souri collaborators. The aim is to apply cutting-edge
genomics, SNP-screening and chip-based approaches to
ancient DNA extracts and libraries using new molecular
biology methods. The project may involve ﬁeldwork,
collecting samples in European, Russian and North
American museums, and complex and technically chal-
lenging ancient DNA techniques.
The ACAD is a leading international ancient DNA re-
search centre with on-going projects on human evo-
lution, Late Pleistocene animal and plant population
genetics and systematics, genetic impacts of climate
change, molecular dating methods, and geological and
sedimentary DNA studies. Research teams feature both
international and Australian researchers and collab-
orators, ranging from archaeologists to genomics re-
searchers. Adelaide is a scenic, vibrant cosmopolitan
city with notably inexpensive living conditions, and di-
rect access to the coast and extensive wine areas.
Enquiries can be directed to Prof. Alan Cooper
(alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au), and applications quot-
ing the reference number (12593) should be forwarded
to Ms Maria Lekis at maria.lekis@adelaide.edu.au by
Monday 19 March 2007.
Jeremy Taylor Professor and Wurdack Chair in Animal
Genomics S135 ASRC University of Missouri 920
East Campus Drive Columbia, MO 65211-5300 Voice:
(573) 884-4946 Fax: (573) 882-6827 E-mail: taylor-
jerr@missouri.edu http://animalgenomics.missouri.eduApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 91
<http://animalgenomics.missouri.edu taylor-
jerr@missouri.edu
UAdelaide BovineAncientDNA
Evolutionary genetics of bovid genomes over 60,000
years
ARC Senior Research Associate 3 year position avail-
able immediately Level B (salary range of $63,487 -
$75,392)
A 3-year postdoctoral position is available at
the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA ( http://-
www.adelaide.edu.au/acad ), The University of Ade-
laide, to study the genetics of ancient bovid popula-
tions. The ARC-funded project will analyze nuclear
QTL in bison and aurochs specimens, in collaboration
with Prof J Taylor and R Schnabel at the Animal Ge-
nomics Centre at the University of Missouri ( http://-
animalgenomics.missouri.edu ). The postdoctoral fellow
will be responsible for collecting and analyzing samples,
project logistics and liaising with the University of Mis-
souri collaborators. The aim is to apply cutting-edge
genomics, SNP-screening and chip-based approaches to
ancient DNA extracts and libraries using new molec-
ular biology methods. The project may involve ﬁeld-
work, collecting samples in European, Russian and
North American museums, and complex and techni-
cally challenging ancient DNA techniques. The ACAD
is a leading international ancient DNA research centre
with on-going projects on human evolution, Late Pleis-
tocene animal and plant population genetics and sys-
tematics, genetic impacts of climate change, molecular
dating methods, and geological and sedimentary DNA
studies. Research teams feature both international and
Australian researchers and collaborators, ranging from
archaeologists to genomics researchers. Adelaide is a
scenic, vibrant cosmopolitan city with notably inexpen-
sive living conditions, and direct access to the coast and
premier Australian wine areas.
Enquiries can be directed to Prof. Alan Cooper
(alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au), and applications quot-
ing the reference number (12593) should be forwarded
to Ms Maria Lekis at maria.lekis@adelaide.edu.au by
Monday 19 March 2007.
–
Prof. Alan Cooper, Federation Fellow
Darling Blg (DP 418), Rm 209b University of AdelaideNorth Terrace Campus South Australia 5005 Australia
Email: alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au Ph: 61-8 -8303-
5950/3952 Fax: 61-8-8303 4364
http://www.ees.adelaide.edu.au/acad/
alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au
UBern PlantInvasionBiol
Postdoctoral position in plant invasion biology at the
University of Bern, Switzerland
We are seeking a postdoc highly motivated to work on
determinants of plant invasiveness in ﬁeld, garden, and
molecular lab. The work will mainly involve compara-
tive research on congeneric pairs of invasive and non-
invasive plants species native to Switzerland.
The position will be in the new group of Markus Fis-
cher at the Institute of Plant Sciences of the Univer-
sity of Bern ( http://www.botany.unibe.ch/ ), Switzer-
land, and is funded within the framework of the NCCR
(National Competence Center in Research) “Plant Sur-
vival” ( http://www2.unine.ch/nccr ). . We oﬀer a stim-
ulating research environment in a lively and social insti-
tute in a beautiful city close to the Alps. The position
will be for a period of two years, and should start as
soon as possible (1 May 2007 or soon thereafter). The
salary will be about 70’000 CHF per year.
Requirements for the position include a PhD in popu-
lation biology, evolutionary ecology, or related ﬁelds, a
proven record of research, experience with ﬁeld work,
garden or greenhouse experiments, and lab work, sta-
tistical and writing skills, as well as a driver’s licence.
For more information on this position and re-
search in our lab contact Markus Fischer at
Markus.Fischer@ips.unibe.ch or Mark van Kleunen at
vankleunen@ukzn.ac.za . Applicants should e-mail a
short statement of research interests, curriculum vitae,
and contact details of three references to both Markus
Fischer at Markus.Fischer@ips.unibe.ch and Mark van
Kleunen at vankleunen@ukzn.ac.za . The application
deadline is 10 April 2007.
Markus Fischer
Professor of Plant Ecology
Institute of Plant Sciences University of Bern Altenber-
grain 21 3013 Bern Switzerland
Phone Tel. +41 31 631 49 43 Fax +41 31 631 49 4292 EvolDir April 6, 2007
e-mail markus.ﬁscher@ips.unibe.ch
for biodiversity exploratories see http://www.bio.uni-
potsdam.de/biodiversity-exploratories/ for group
in Potsdam see http://www.bio.uni-potsdam.de/-
professuren/biozoenose-botanik/ Markus Fischer
<Markus.Fischer@ips.unibe.ch >
UCC Cork Ireland
MicrobialPopGenetics
Post-doctoral position, Microbial Population Genetics
Fixed Term Contract Post from 01.10.2007-31.05.2012
Applications are invited for a post-doctoral position
in the newly created SFI research group on Microbial
Population Genetics and Genomics (MPGG), led by
Prof. Mark Achtman at University College Cork, Ire-
land. The successful applicant will be responsible for
building on prior high-impact projects on Salmonella
enterica Typhi. In particular, the applicant will initi-
ate, conduct and supervise comparative genomic anal-
yses of Typhi isolates from healthy carriers and acute
phase disease to test the hypothesis that the healthy
carriage state represents a protected niche in the pop-
ulation dynamics of these bacteria. The applicant will
also be responsible for supervising additional ongoing
projects on MLST and ﬁne typing of Salmonella. With
time, it is expected that the applicant will also write
and submit grant applications for independent research.
The MPGG group will begin at UCC in June, 2007
and operate in parallel till 30.09.2008 with Mark Acht-
man’s currently existing group at the MPI for In-
fection Biology, Berlin, whose publication record can
be found at http://web.mpiib-berlin.mpg.de/mlst/-
AGroup/team/marksRef html In addition to the post-
doctoral fellow, the MPGG group will initially con-
sist of Mark Achtman, Daniel Falush (currently Ox-
ford University), a bioinformatician for genomics anal-
yses, an informatics specialist/program manager and
two doctoral students. Over the next three years, the
MPGG group is anticipated to grow to a total size of
15-20 individuals. The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to participate in organization as well as the su-
pervision and instruction of new members of the group.
The successful candidate will have a proven, track
record of success in population genetics, microbiology,
molecular biology and/or bioinformatics. Prior experi-
ence with medium to high throughput genetic typingand/or genomics is desirable but not absolutely neces-
sary. Preference will be given to candidates with excel-
lent communication and organizational skills.
A salary up to an initial gross salary of 41,553 (plus
10.75% Employer’s PRSI and 13.5% Employer’s pen-
sion costs) will be oﬀered to the successful candi-
date, commensurate with experience and qualiﬁcations.
Closing Date for informal discussions: 1 June, 2007.
Starting date: 1 Oct, 2007
For informal discussions on this post, please contact
Mark Achtman. achtman@mpiib-berlin.mpg.de.
Mark Achtman Max-Planck Institut f¨ ur Infektionsbi-
ologie Schumannstr. 21/22 10117 Berlin, Germany
Tel: +4930 28460751 Fax: +4930 28460750 e-mail:
achtman@mpiib-berlin.mpg.de
Mark Achtman <achtman@mpiib-berlin.mpg.de >
UCDavisGenomeCenter
GenomeEvol
Comparative Genomics Postdoc A postdoctoral posi-
tion is available in the research group of Dr. Katherine
Pollard at the UC Davis Genome Center. We recently
developed a computational approach to detect rapidly
evolving genomic regions and applied it to identify the
elements of the human genome that have diverged most
since our common ancestor with chimps. The success-
ful candidate will take a lead role in extending these
comparative genomic methods to study lineage-speciﬁc
evolution in vertebrates, ﬂies, and possibly other phy-
logenies.
Qualiﬁcations The applicant must have a PhD in
(bio)statistics, applied math, computer science, bioin-
formatics, molecular biology or a related ﬁeld, with ex-
perience analyzing genomic data. Ability to program
(e.g. in R/Splus, C, or Perl) is essential. Candidates
interested in doing some experimental work are invited
to apply - opportunities may be available in the labs of
collaborators.
Term Two years, with possible extension. Start date in
2007. Applications will be accepted until the position
is ﬁlled.
To apply Please apply by email to postdoc at wald dot
ucdavis dot edu and include: - CV (including record
of peer-reviewed publication), - cover letter describing
current research activity, - names and email addressesApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 93
of three references.
Details at http://docpollard.com/jobs.html kspol-
lard@ucdavis.edu kspollard@ucdavis.edu
UCaliforniaSanDiego ViralEvolution
Postdoctoral position VIRAL EVOLUTION AND DY-
NAMICS Department of Pathology University of Cali-
fornia San Diego
DESCRIPTION: A fully funded postdoctoral position
(up to two years) will be available starting July 1st,
2007 to work on the evolution, dynamics and epidemi-
ology of the human immunodeﬁciency virus (HIV), In-
ﬂuenza A and Hepatitis C. Because of the requirements
of the funding mechanism, this position is open to US
citizens and Permanent Residents only. Salary is set
using standard NIH scales, and is commensurate with
experience.
RESEARCH GROUP: The position is based in
the laboratory of Dr. Simon Frost ( http://-
www.simonfrost.com ). The successful candidate will
interact with Drs. Sergei Kosakovsky Pond ( http:/-
/www.hyphy.org/sergei/ ) and Art Poon in develop-
ing, implementing and applying cutting edge statistical
methods, for the analysis of viral sequences and im-
munological data. There is the potential to develop
and co-supervise undergraduate and graduate research
projects.
LOCATION: University of California, San Diego. The
position is based at the Antiviral Research Center
(http://www.avrctrials.org ), situated in the Hillcrest
area ( http://www.hillquest.com ) near downtown San
Diego.
REQUIREMENTS: A Ph.D. in statistics, population
genetics, mathematical or computational biology, or
similar. Evidence of research productivity as indi-
cated by scholarly publications is required. Sound
skills in C/C++ programming, algorithms and meth-
ods and the analysis of sequence and/or population dy-
namic data are a prerequisite. Experience in advanced
statistics (random eﬀects models, Markov Chain Monte
Carlo, machine learning) a plus. Evidence of strong
communication and teamwork skills is highly desired.
APPLICATION: Please send letter of interest, C.V.,
and the names and contact details of three referees
by April 9th, 2007 to: Postdoctoral Position in Viral
Evolution and Dynamics, Dr. Simon Frost, UCSD An-tiviral Research Center, 150 W. Washington St., San
Diego CA 92103, USA. Electronic application materi-
als (PDF, Word) are preferred - please email to sdfrost
at ucsd.edu. Review of applications will begin immedi-
ately, and continue until the positions are ﬁlled.
spond@ucsd.edu spond@ucsd.edu
UCopenhagen
EvolChemCommunication
POST-DOC position evolution of chemical communi-
cation, Copenhagen
The position is funded by the European Community via
the Marie Curie Excellence grant CODICES (Chemical
Communication Code of Insect Societies). This inter-
disciplinary project aims at understanding the evolu-
tion of communication in social insects. The method-
ology is a combination of behavioural experiments, ge-
netic, chemical and neuro-physiological studies. The
work is inspired by general principles of kin-selection
and economic optimality, allowing predictions both on
proximate and ultimate aspects of communication sys-
tems. Social insects are important model systems
for studying social evolution and complex interactions.
There is evidence that social insects use the mixture of
long-chain hydrocarbons on their cuticle for nest-mate
recognition.
We are looking for a talented synthetic organic chemist
to implement the synthesis of biologically active cutic-
ular hydrocarbons of ants. The position is initially for
three months and immediately available. The candi-
date should hold a Ph.D in organic chemistry and be
highly interested in chemical ecology. He/She will join
and international team working on an interdisciplinary
project ( www.bi.ku.dk/codices ).
Applications should include CV, list of publications, re-
search interests, letter of motivation, name and email
address of one referee, and be sent by email to Dr. Pa-
trizia D’Ettorre at pdettorre@bi.ku.dk as soon as pos-
sible.
Patrizia D’Ettorre Institute of Biology Department of
Population Biology University of Copenhagen DK-2100
Copenhagen, Denmark Phone +45 3532 1257 Fax +45
3532 1250
“D’Ettorre, Patrizia” <PDEttorre@bi.ku.dk >94 EvolDir April 6, 2007
UEdinburgh CompBiol
University of Edinburgh School of Biological Sciences
Postdoctoral Research Fellow
A computational biologist is required to join the
group of Professor Andrew Leigh Brown ( http://-
homepages.ed.ac.uk/eang09/LeighBrownGroup.html ),
on a BBSRC-funded position to analyse the genetic
determinants of virulence in avian inﬂuenza using
computer modelling approaches. The project will form
part of a major new initiative in inﬂuenza research
centred at the University of Edinburgh, and will link
with the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre to
analyse statistical models in the massively parallel
BlueGene environment. A PhD and experience in
scientiﬁc computing and either statistical analysis or
biomathematics is required; familiarity with analysis
of molecular sequence data would be helpful.
Informal enquiries: A.Leigh-Brown@ed.ac.uk Tel:
+44-131-650-5523 Web: http://homepages.ed.ac.uk/-
eang09/LeighBrownGroup.html Fixed Term: 3 years
Salary: £32,795 - £39,160
Closing date: 13 April 2007
Website for application: www.jobs.ed.ac.uk Ref:
3007126
A.Leigh-Brown@ed.ac.uk A.Leigh-Brown@ed.ac.uk
UEdinburgh PlantGenomics
Postdoc position, EDINBURGH
UNIVERSITY of EDINBURGH Faculty of Biomedical
& Life Sciences Division of Environmental and Evolu-
tionary Biology
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSISTANT IN
PLANT GENOMICS AND ADAPTATION
SALARY £26,666 - £31,840 per annum
Ref: 3007265
A Post-Doctoral Research Assistant position is avail-
able for 2 years to work on a project entitled “Leverag-ing the genome sequences of two Arabidopsis relatives
for evolutionary and ecological genomics”, funded by a
grant from the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences
Research Council, as part of an international consor-
tium assembled under the ERA-plant genomics initia-
tive.
The speciﬁc aims of the consortium are to: 1) Detect
genomic regions responsible for species-speciﬁc adap-
tation 2) Identify genetic variation aﬀecting a model
adaptive trait in Arabidopsis and Capsella 3) Compare
evolution of self-incompatibility (SI) in Arabidopsis and
Capsella
The Edinburgh contribution to the project will be to
study DNA sequence diversity within and between nat-
ural populations of Arabidopsis lyrata, and will in-
volve molecular laboratory work and population genet-
ics analyses. The goals will be to provide reference loci
to aid the analyses of selection which will be done in
other laboratories in the consortium, and to provide
expertise in population genetics analyses.
The applicant must have a PhD or equivalent, and
must have molecular laboratory experience, including
sequencing experience, and should also have previous
experience in software for sequence analyses, such as
sequence alignment, and, ideally, in population genet-
ics analyses.
Further particulars about the post and the research en-
vironment, and online application forms can be found
at:http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/ . A CV will be required,
and the names, postal and e-mail addresses and fax
numbers of two academic referees.
Closing Date: 11 April, 2007.
Informal enquiries by email can be sent to Debo-
rah Charlesworth <deborah.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk >.
– Professor Deborah Charlesworth Institute of Evolu-
tionary Biology, School of Biological Sciences, Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, Ashworth Lab., King’s Buildings,
West Mains Rd., Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK
phone 131-650-5751 Fax: 131-650-6564
Deborah Charlesworth <deborah.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk >
UGlasgow PlantGenomics
UNIVERSITY of GLASGOW Faculty of Biomedical &
Life Sciences Division of Environmental and Evolution-
ary BiologyApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 95
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSISTANT IN
PLANT GENOMICS AND ADAPTATION
SALARY £23,002 - £25,889 / £25,889 - 31,840 per an-
num
Ref: 13138/DPO/A3
This post is available at either a grade 6 or grade 7
depending on qualiﬁcations and experience.
We are seeking a Post-Doctoral Research Assistant to
work on a project entitled “Leveraging the genome se-
quences of two Arabidopsis relatives for evolutionary
and ecological genomics”, funded by a grant from the
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Coun-
cil, as part of an international consortium assembled
under the ERA-plant genomics initiative.
The molecular basis of adaptation and species forma-
tion are fundamental questions in evolutionary biology,
with relevance also to crop biology. Speciﬁcally, tools
and approaches developed for natural populations are
valuable for studying crop domestication. The impend-
ing completion of the genome sequences of the two
Brassicaceae Arabidopsis lyrata and Capsella rubella,
together with the available sequence of A. thaliana, of-
fers opportunities to study adaptation using molecular
evolutionary approaches complemented by functional
analyses. Our consortium will exploit this resource to
study variation in underlying diﬀerences, including two
ecologically important traits, ﬂowering time and self-
incompatibility (SI).
The speciﬁc aims of the consortium are to: 1) Detect
genomic regions responsible for species-speciﬁc adap-
tation 2) Identify genetic variation aﬀecting a model
adaptive trait in Arabidopsis and Capsella 3) Compare
evolution of self-incompatibility (SI) in Arabidopsis and
Capsella
Further particulars about the post and the research
environment can be found at: http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
ibls/news/posts.html and http://www.gla.ac.uk:443/-
ibls/staﬀ/staﬀ.php?who=PQdGnd Letters of applica-
tion, including two CVs, the names, postal and e-
mail addresses and fax numbers of two academic ref-
erees, should be sent to: Caren Cunningham, IBLS,
West Medical Building, University of Glasgow, Glas-
gow, G12 8QQ, UK quoting the reference number
13138/DPO/A3.. Closing Date: 13 April, 2007. This
post is available for up to 3 years. Please send notes
of interest or informal enquiries by email to Barbara
Mable (b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk) as soon as possible.
– Dr. Barbara Mable Senior Research Fellow Divi-
sion of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology Rm
404 Graham Kerr Building University of Glasgow Glas-gow, Scotland G12 8QQ email: b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)141 330 3532 Mobile: +44 (0)791 083
3819 Fax: +44 (0)141 330 5971
b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk
UIdaho PlasmidGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN COMPARATIVE
PLASMID GENOMICS
UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO
The position is immediately available in the lab of Eva
Top for a period of 2 years.
A large-scale comparative genomics project is underway
at the University of Idaho to assess the genetic and
functional diversity of broad-host-range (BHR) plas-
mids that horizontally transfer genes within and be-
tween bacterial species. The postdoctoral scientist will
be involved in annotating the complete sequences of up
to 100 BHR plasmids, analyzing the diversity and likely
function of accessory’ genes, and assessing the phyloge-
netic relatedness of genes found in plasmid backbones’
to determine the evolutionary history of these plasmids.
This will require applying existing methods and devis-
ing novel methods used for comparative genomics of
prokaryotes. By interpreting this wealth of new plasmid
genome information the postdocoral fellow will have the
opportunity to improve our insight in the biology, ecol-
ogy and evolution of plasmids and their hosts. The
plasmids are being sequenced by JGI and the project is
funded by the NSF Microbial genome Sequencing Pro-
gram.
This interdisciplinary project is in collaboration with
Biology faculty, Drs. Celeste Brown, Jack Sullivan, and
Larry Forney, and professors of Art and Design Frank
Cronk and Jill Dacey. The position oﬀers the opportu-
nity to carry out research in a dynamic and interdisci-
plinary research environment with excellent resources
(http://www.ibest.uidaho.edu/ibest/index.html
and http://www.ibest.uidaho.edu/ibest/index.html
www.sci.uidaho.edu/biosci/CRePE/index.html and
http:// www.bcb.uidaho.edu/default.aspx?pid=85454
). The candidate should have a Ph.D. degree in
bioinformatics/ computational biology, microbiology
or related discipline. He/she should also be able to
demonstrate experience in comparative analyses of
prokaryotic genomes, and ability to publish scientiﬁc
papers as ﬁrst author in peer-reviewed journals, and96 EvolDir April 6, 2007
presenting data at scientiﬁc meetings. Some knowledge
of prokaryotic molecular biology or genetics and biol-
ogy and ecology of plasmids is also required. Moreover,
the postdoctoral fellow should be able to work well in
an interdisciplinary team. Preference will be given to
individuals who have had training in computational
biology, one or more years of experience in the ﬁeld
of microbial genome analysis, some experience in
empirical microbiology and/or molecular biology
research, programming skills in C++, PERL or similar
languages, and a strong interest in bacterial plasmids,
microbial evolution, and phylogenetics.
The University of Idaho is an equal opportu-
nity/aﬃrmative action employer. Moscow, the home
of the University of Idaho is a city of 22,000 people,
nestled between Moscow Mountain and the beautiful
rolling hills of the Palouse. With a small town friend-
liness and safety, and many cultural activities, Moscow
is referred to as the “Heart of the Arts”. It is also a
great place for those who love the outdoors, with beau-
tiful rivers, lakes, and diverse mountains within short
driving distance ( http://www.moscow.com ). The Uni-
versity of Idaho and Washington State University, just
eight miles apart, share many collaborative programs
and research activities.
Please apply via the following web-
site: https://www.sites.uidaho.edu/ App-
Track/Agency/Applicant/ViewAnnouncement.asp?
announcement no508078967 Make sure you include
a letter, your CV, and the names and contact infor-
mation of three references. For more information,
please contact Eva M. Top, University of Idaho
(evatop@uidaho.edu). Evaluation of candidates will
begin after March 30.
Dr. Eva Top Associate Professor Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences University of Idaho 347 Life Sciences South
Moscow ID 83844-3051 Phone: 1-208-885-5015 Fax: 1-
208-885-7905 http://www.sci.uidaho.edu/biosci/labs/-
top/ evatop@uidaho.edu evatop@uidaho.edu
ULausanne ModelingDispersal
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION Modelling long-
distance gene ﬂow in plant species
European Project ECOCHANGE (Challenges in as-
sessing and forecasting biodiversity and ecosystem
changes in Europe)A postdoctoral position is available to work with
Jerome Goudet (University of Lausanne, Switzerland)
and Oscar Gaggiotti (Laboratoire dEcologie Alpine,
Grenoble, France) in the context of a project funded
by the European Union. Its overall aim is to assess and
forecast changes in terrestrial biodiversity and ecosys-
tems and changes in the ability of biodiversity and
ecosystems to supply goods and services and to buﬀer
against climate and land use change.
The postdoctoral researcher will participate in a sub-
project aimed at estimating dispersal abilities of plant
species. In models predicting the evolution of ecosys-
tems according to climate and land use changes, the
dispersal abilities of the organisms are of crucial impor-
tance. Short distance dispersal is relatively well known
for plants. However, rare long distance events are ex-
tremely diﬃcult to estimate, despite the fact that they
have a crucial impact on the ecosystem evolution in
changing environments. According to pilot studies from
some of the consortium partners, it seems that the ge-
ographic distributions of the diﬀerent alleles are linked
to the dispersal potential and might therefore be useful
to estimate long-distance dispersal.
The postdoc will carry out a theoretical study to: (i)
asses the potential use of genetic markers to evaluate
the tail of dispersal curves for plants and (ii) propose an
experimental protocol for estimating the dispersal abil-
ities of 100 dominant plant species in European ecosys-
tems.
Requirements for the position include (1) a proven
record of research; (2) a PhD in biology, mathemat-
ics, statistics, or related area; (3) excellent quanti-
tative and computational skills. The ideal candidate
should be well acquainted with scientiﬁc programming
in C/C++.
Applications are welcome from candidates in any coun-
try. Screening of applicants will begin March 26, 2007.
Starting date: as soon as possible.
Highly motivated applicants are encouraged to email
a statement of research interests, CV, and con-
tact details for three references to both Jerome
Goudet (Jerome.Goudet@unil.ch) and Oscar Gaggiotti
(Oscar.Gaggiotti@ujf-grenoble.fr).
– Oscar Gaggiotti Professor Equipe Genomique de
Populations et Biodiversit´ e LECA UMR CNRS 5553
Universit´ e Joseph Fourier BP 53 38041 GRENO-
BLE France Tel.: 33(0)4 76 51 41 15 Fax: 33(0)4
76 51 42 79 http://www-leca.ujf-grenoble.fr/-
membres/gaggiotti.htm http://www-leca.ujf-
grenoble.fr/projets/gaggiottiprojets/IMPBioFr.htm
oscar.gaggiotti@ujf-grenoble.fr oscar.gaggiotti@ujf-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 97
grenoble.fr
ULaval QTLAssociationMapping
Arborea is a Canadian large-scale research project,
which involves about ﬁfty people from universities and
governmental institutions. We want to hire a post-
doctoral fellow for QTL and association mapping study.
The research agenda of the project is the following :
Discovery of genomic tools for the conservation and sus-
tainable use of natural genetic resources, including the
identiﬁcation of novel varieties to improve productivity
and value in spruces by integrating functional genomics
and association studies.
Description: *QTL data analyses to detect genes and
or genomic regions involved in growth related-traits
and adaptation in eastern white spruce (Picea glauca)
*Conduct association study in natural populations to
look for alleles/genes involved in growth and adapta-
tion *Conduct association study in structured popu-
lations to look for alleles/genes involved in wood for-
mation *Supervision of students and technical staﬀ in
related areas *Redaction and presentation of scientiﬁc
papers and reports in referree journals and scientiﬁc
conferences *The successful candidate will be expected
to develop strong lines of communication and coordina-
tion of activities with group members at the Canadian
Forest Service in Qu´ ebec City, as well as with other par-
ticipants in the project, principally at Universit´ e Laval
and the University of Alberta
Qualiﬁcations: *Doctoral degree (Ph. D.) in popula-
tion genetics or related ﬁeld, or statistics applied to
genetics, or QTL data analysis, and or related areas
*Experience with computation methods *Experience in
analysis of mixed-models *Very good verbal and writ-
ten communication skills. *Demonstrated aptitudes for
teamwork *Ability to work independently and to super-
vise
Compensation and conditions: *Duration of contract:
one year (renewable) *Salary range: NSERC (Visit-
ing Fellowships in Canadian Government Laboratories)
*Location of employment: Natural Resources Canada,
Canadian Forest Service-Quebec (Quebec City)
Please send a resume, a description of research experi-
ence, and contact information of three references to:
M. Pascal Poulin Pavillon Charles-Eug` ene-Marchand
Universit´ e Laval Sainte-Foy, Qu´ ebec, Qu´ e G1K 7P4 E-mail : info@arborea.ulaval.ca
pascal.poulin@rsvs.ulaval.ca
UMissouriColumbia 2 BovineSNPs
Division of Animal Sciences
University of Missouri, Columbia
Two postdoctoral positions in Quantitative and Pop-
ulation Genomics are available within the Animal Ge-
nomics group to work on high-resolution SNP data gen-
erated in cattle and closely related species. The Animal
Genomics group is collaborating in the development of
an Illumina iSelect Inﬁnium SNP assay for cattle which
is expected to generate at least 48K bovine SNP geno-
types per assay. The “SNP Chip” is expected to be
available by June 2007 and more than 9,000 samples
representing at least 10 breeds of cattle, bison, buﬀalo,
gaur, banteng, anoa, sheep and ancient auroch and bi-
son will be genotyped at the University of Missouri in
Spring 2007. These samples are expected to produce
over 400M genotypes which will be used in projects
to: 1) Characterize linkage disequilibrium and popu-
lation characteristics (admixture, inbreeding, eﬀective
population size, phylogeny) within cattle and closely
related species, 2) develop novel approaches to the ﬁne-
mapping of QTL based upon historical selection, and
3) map/ﬁne-map QTL associated with fertility, produc-
tion and feed eﬃciency traits in beef and dairy cattle
using association and joint linkage/linkage disequilib-
rium approaches. The successful candidates will be re-
sponsible for the analysis of data modules using existing
analytical tools as well as developing novel methods for
analyzing high density SNP data in livestock popula-
tions. Candidates should have completed a Ph.D. in ge-
netics, statistics, computational or evolutionary biology
or related discipline. Previous experience in computer
programming, population or quantitative genetics and
with the analysis of genomic data is desirable.
The successful candidates will have the opportunity to
participate in the largest population and QTL mapping
projects conducted to date within a livestock species.
The candidates are expected to provide intellectual
leadership to the projects in both analysis and the
authorship of publications. Both positions are avail-
able for up to two years with reappointment in the
second year conditional upon satisfactory performance
during the ﬁrst year. These positions are not eligible for
tenure. Salary will be within the range $32,000-$45,00098 EvolDir April 6, 2007
commensurate with qualiﬁcations and experience. Ben-
eﬁts include medical insurance, paid leave and paid
holidays. An overview of the Animal Genomics group
can be found at ( http://animalgenomics.missouri.edu
<http://animalgenomics.missouri.edu/ >). Informa-
tion about the University of Missouri and the Di-
vision of Animal Sciences can be found at http://-
www.missouri.edu/ andhttp://www.missouri.edu/
For further information contact Dr. Jerry Taylor at
taylorjerr@missouri.edu or (573) 884-4946. Interested
candidates should e-mail their CV and contact informa-
tion for 3 references to taylorjerr@missouri.edu. Appli-
cations will be accepted until suitable candidates have
been identiﬁed.
The University of Missouri System is an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action institution and is nondis-
criminatory relative to race, religion, color, national ori-
gin, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or status as
a Vietnam-era veteran. The University of Missouri is
in compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972,
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and of
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
Jeremy Taylor Professor and Wurdack Chair in Ani-
mal Genomics S135 ASRC University of Missouri 920
East Campus Drive Columbia, MO 65211-5300 Voice:
(573) 884-4946 Fax: (573) 882-6827 E-mail: taylor-
jerr@missouri.edu http://animalgenomics.missouri.edu
taylorjerr@missouri.edu
UPompeuFabra Barcelona
GenographicProject
Post-doc position, Genographic Project,
Evolutionary Biology, Universitat Pompeu Fabra
(UPF), Barcelona
A ﬁve-year post-doc position is available at the Evo-
lutionary Biology Unit ( http://www.upf.edu/cexs/-
recerca/bioevo/index.html ), Universitat Pompeu Fabra
(Barcelona). The position is linked to the Genographic
Project ( <https://www3.nationalgeographic.com/-
genographic >https://www3.nationalgeographic.com/-
genographic ). Applicants must have a wide knowledge
in human genetic diversity, and knowledge of a sec-
ond European language, besides English. The duties
of the position include sampling European human pop-ulations, typing and analysis of several genetic markers.
Phlebotomist skills will be encouraged. The success-
ful applicant will be an organized autonomous person,
with social skills, free to travel.
The position is aimed at a postdoctoral level; a non-
tenure-track full-time position for a maximum of ﬁve
years.
Applicants should send:
* CV
* A letter describing their research interests
* Two names (with e-mail addresses and phone num-
bers) of researchers for reference before April 1st, 2007,
to merche.corral@upf.edu
david.comas@upf.edu
URennes EvolEcol
A one year post-doc position (eventually 2 years) is
available from September 1, 2007 at the University of
Rennes, France.
Title: “Climatic change and the evolution of life-history
and foraging behaviour in parasitoids” Candidate pro-
ﬁle: The post-doc will develop models to investigate
phenotypic and long term evolutionary consequences of
climate change on life-history trade-oﬀs and foraging
behaviour of parasitoids. The ideal candidate will work
in close collaboration with the empirical researchers and
with the local expert in stochastic modeling (Prof. JS
Pierre). She/he has a strong interest in the evolution of
life history traits and insect behaviour and preferably
has previous experience in state-dependent stochastic
dynamic modeling. The post-doc will participate in
the project COMPAREVOL of the Marie Curie Excel-
lence Chair, held for three years by Prof. Jacques van
Alphen in the ECOBIO group (UMR) at the University
of Rennes1 and ﬁnanced by the EU and the region of
Brittany. He (she) will be integrated in the team Im-
pact of Climate Changes of the UMR ECOBIO. The
UMR ECOBIO, led by Dr. P. Marmonier, includes
55 research scientists, 25 engineers and technicians, 30
Post-doc and PhDs in 2006. The research area of the
UMR concerns Ecology in the broadest sense, from ge-
netic expression, life-history traits evolution and adap-
tation to landscape ecology.
The deadline for applications is April 30, 2007.April 6, 2007 EvolDir 99
Salary: 2500 per month
For more details in french: https://www2.cnrs.fr/-
DRH/post-docs07/?pid=1&action=view&idW5
<https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs07/?pid=-
1&action=view&idW5 > in english: https://-
www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/postdocs07/?pid=1&action=-
view&idW5&lang=en <https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/-
postdocs07/?pid=1&action=view&idW5&lang=en >
Contacts: J.J.M.van.Alphen@biology.leidenuniv.nl
<mailto:J.J.M.van.Alphen@biology.leidenuniv.nl > ,
joan.van-baaren@univ-rennes1.fr
t.j.m.van.dooren@biology.leidenuniv.nl
USheﬃeld
ZebraFinchGenomeMapping
Postdoctoral position - University of Sheﬃeld, UK.
Mapping the zebra ﬁnch genome.
Dr Jon Slate, Professor Terry Burke and Professor Tim
Birkhead FRS are seeking a postdoc to work on a
BBSRC-funded project to map the zebra ﬁnch genome,
and to address evolutionary questions relating to re-
combination rates and levels of linkage disequilbrium.
The successful applicant will be responsible for the ac-
cumulation and (more importantly) analysis of molec-
ular marker data. The linkage map forms an important
part of an ongoing project to sequence and assemble
the zebra ﬁnch genome. SNP genotyping has been out-
sourced and data will be available early on during the
project. This is an ideal opportunity to join a large,
high proﬁle grade 5* research department, working on
a project of international signiﬁcance. The post is ten-
able immediately for a period of three years.
Applicants should have a PhD and an existing publica-
tion record in one or more of the following disciplines:
gene mapping, bioinformatics, statistical genetics, com-
parative genomics, population genetics, molecular ecol-
ogy, molecular evolution. They should be a motivated
scientist with the ability to analyse large datasets, work
independently and produce work to fairly tight dead-
lines.
The Department of Animal & Plant Sciences is an inter-
nationally leading (RAE 5*) department with strengths
in several areas of biology including Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, Global Change Biology, Conservation Biology &
Biodiversity and Population and Community Ecology.
Furthermore, Sheﬃeld is very aﬀordable, within easyreach (walking distance) of the Peak District National
Park and claims to be England’s greenest city. The
city centre has undergone substantial redevelopment
and contains a diverse range of cultural activities, mu-
seums, cinemas, restaurants etc.
Applications should be made through the University
of Sheﬃeld website: http://www.sheﬃeld.ac.uk/jobs/-
research.html, quoting job reference no PR2791. Clos-
ing date is 13th April 2007.
For further details please contact
Jon Slate. j.slate@shef.ac.uk http://-
www.jon-slate.staﬀ.shef.ac.uk/ Jon Slate
<j.slate@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
UToronto 2 EvolEcol
Postdoctoral Positions in Quantitative and Evolution-
ary Ecology Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, University of Toronto
Two postdoctoral positions are available in Spring 2007.
1. A position to work with a multi-disciplinary team
of academic and government scientists (Peter Abrams,
Marie-Josee Fortin, Don Jackson, Brian Shuter) on the
spatial ecology of aquatic ecosystems. Areas of inter-
est include (i) statistical approaches to identifying and
quantifying how biomass at several trophic levels varies
spatially and the associations between that variation
and physical habitat features; (ii) associations between
the success of an invasive species and spatial varia-
tion in the distribution and dynamics of its prey; (iii)
mechanistic modelling of the role of spatial variation
in determining interaction strength between ecosystem
components and consequent implications for ecosystem
dynamics; The candidate would have access to a rich,
multi year data base documenting the impacts of an in-
vasive predator (the double crested cormorant) on the
ﬁsh communities resident in large coastal areas of Lake
Huron.
2. A position in theoretical evolutionary ecology. The
person hired would have wide latitude to work on their
own choice of projects, but some should be in collab-
oration with Peter Abrams on one or more of the fol-
lowing topics: (1) developing models of the dynamics
of ecologically important behaviours; (2) examining the
impact of adaptive behaviour on evolutionary change in
traits with related ecological functions within sets of in-
teracting species; (3) modeling coevolution in variable100 EvolDir April 6, 2007
environments.
Positions are for 2 years; initial salary is $40,000 Cana-
dian per year.
Send a curriculum vitae, copies of 2 publications, and
names of two people who could provide letters of refer-
ences to:
Peter Abrams Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology Zoology Bldg. University of Toronto 25
Harbord St. Toronto, ON M5S 3G5 Canada
email: abrams@zoo.utoronto.ca (application by email
is ﬁne, as are electronic copies of publications; applica-
tions should arrive by April 15, 2007; starting date is
ﬂexible within 2007)
Peter Abrams Dept. of Ecology & Evolutionary Biol-
ogy University of Toronto, Zoology Bldg. 25 Harbord
St. Toronto, Ontario M5S 3G5 Canada 416-978-1014
fax 416-978-8532 abrams@zoo.utoronto.ca
Peter Abrams <abrams@zoo.utoronto.ca >
UToronto EvolBiology
University of Toronto EEB Post-Doctoral Fellowships
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
<www.eeb.utoronto.ca >at the University of Toronto
invites applications for Departmental Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships in the areas of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology, broadly deﬁned. One position is available this
year, and we expect that another will become available
next year through an ongoing EEB Post-Doctoral Fel-
lowship Program. Positions are for two years, subject
to review after one year, and can begin as early as July
1, 2007. The salary is $40,000 Canadian per year, with
research expenses covered by the Post-Doctoral Advi-
sor.
The Fellow will be a fully participating member in the
Department. Candidates must identify and communi-
cate with a potential advisor (or advisors) in advance
of the application process. All full-time faculty mem-
bers at the St. George (downtown) campus of the Uni-
versity of Toronto are eligible to serve as advisors (see
<www.eeb.utoronto.ca/postdoc/ >for a list of poten-
tial supervisors). Opportunities for teaching in an up-
per level course may be available.
To apply, applicants should submit a cover letter, a
curriculum vitae, a short (1-2 page) description of re-
search accomplishments, and a short (1-2 page) de-scription of proposed research plans indicating po-
tential faculty mentor(s), and copies of two publica-
tions. Applicants should include names and e-mail ad-
dresses for two potential referees. Applicants should
also indicate the date they will be available to be-
gin the position. All application materials must be
submitted as PDF’s in a single email to: Kitty Lam
(klam@eeb.utoronto.ca). Queries about the EEB Post
Doc fellowship program can be directed to Prof. John
Stinchcombe <stinchcombe@eeb.utoronto.ca >. Evalu-
ation of Applications will begin on April 30, 2007.
Toronto is a vibrant, multicultural city on the shore
of Lake Ontario, with rich cultural options in the arts,
music and ﬁlm, ethnic cuisine, and a high quality of
life. The EEB department is home to an interactive,
collegial group of ecologists, geneticists, and evolution-
ary biologists, and currently supports a strong group of
Post-Doctoral Fellows with diverse research interests.
–
John Stinchcombe Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology University of Toronto, 25 Willcocks St.
Toronto, ON Canada M5S 3B2
416-946-5986
http://www.botany.utoronto.ca/ResearchLabs/-
StinchcombeLab/ stinchcombe@eeb.utoronto.ca
UWindsor
CoralReefFishConnectivity
Post-Doctoral Researcher Great Lakes Institute for En-
vironmental Research (GLIER).
We invite applicants for a Post-Doctoral Researcher Po-
sition in the ﬁeld of reef ﬁsh population connectivity in
the Meso-American barrier reef system (MBRS). The
project involves microsatellite genetics and otolith mi-
crochemistry in the bicolour damselﬁsh oﬀ Mexico, Be-
lize and Honduras. The successful candidate will be
responsible to organize intensive sampling trips to the
MBRS. The position will thus include both ﬁeld and
lab expertise. Existing samples will allow the analysis
of other species to test hypotheses concerning the evo-
lution and ecology of connectivity in coral reef ﬁshes.
The candidate should have proven skills in molecular
genetics and/or otolith microchemistry as well as ex-
perience in SCUBA diving and ﬁeld techniques. The
individual should also have a good track record in anal-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 101
ysis and publishing, and have the ability to work well
in collaborative research.
The GLIER oﬀers a collaborative environment, with
state-of-the-art faculties in genetics, genomics, and el-
emental and stable isotope analyses. GLIER faculty
have expertise in the ﬁelds of aquatic invasions, evo-
lutionary and conservation genetics, environmental sci-
ence, genomics, and ecotoxicology.
The position is for one year, but can be renewed, with
a ﬂexible start date as early as May 2007. Stipend is
competitive, and research travel and other costs will be
paid. Review of applications will begin April 1st, 2007.
Interested applications should send their CV, a brief
statement of research interest, and the e-mail addresses
for at least two referees to:
Daniel Heath Great Lakes Institute for Environ-
mental Research University of Windsor E-mail:
dheath@uwindsor.ca Phone: (519) 253-3000, Ext 3762
Fax: 971-3616
dheath@uwindsor.ca
YaleU SexualSelection
Postdoctoral Position Available To Study Sexual Selec-
tion and Mating Systems
A postdoctoral position is currently available in the lab
of Suzanne Alonzo (PI) at the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology at Yale University to develop
theory and/or conduct empirical work on sexual se-
lection and the evolution and ecology of mating sys-
tems. A Ph.D. in evolution, ecology or related ﬁeld is
required. A background in sexual selection and evolu-tionary ecology is absolutely necessary. The postdoc-
toral researcher will work independently and in collab-
oration with the PI to determine the precise questions
to be addressed.
For this position you MUST have one (or both) of the
following areas of expertise:
1) Evolutionary theory of sexual selection: Applicants
should have a background in sexual selection theory
and have previous experience developing mathematical
models on reproductive behavior or sexual selection.
Individuals with experience using quantitative genetics
are especially encouraged to apply.
AND/OR
2) Paternity analysis: Individuals with experience col-
lecting and analyzing DNA paternity data (especially
using microsatellites and in ﬁsh) are also strongly en-
couraged to apply. Empirical work will be conducted
on Mediterranean wrasses or North American tessel-
lated darters.
Review of applications begins immediately and will con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled. Start date is ﬂexi-
ble but the position is available immediately and must
begin by December 1, 2007. The position is for one
year and is renewable contingent on the availability of
funding. Please submit a curriculum vitae, brief state-
ment of research interests, up to 3 relevant manuscripts
and 3 professional references to Suzanne H. Alonzo by
email (Suzanne.Alonzo@Yale.edu) or mail (Department
of Ecology and Evolution, Yale University, P.O. Box
208106, New Haven, CT 06520-8106).
Yale University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative
Action Employer. Men and women of diverse
racial/ethnic backgrounds and cultures are encouraged
to apply.
Suzanne.Alonzo@Yale.edu
WorkshopsCourses
Durham NESCent CompPhyloinformatics Jul9-19 102
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics Apr20 . . . . . . . . 102
KristinebergMarineResStation Sweden Summer-CourseBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Lisbon Extending the Darwinian Framework Sept10
104102 EvolDir April 6, 2007
MLBS EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Montana ConservationGeneticDataAnalysis Sep11-16
104
Trento Italy AnimalPopGenet Sep6-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . 105UBath MicrobialMathModels Jun5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UManchester QuantEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Durham NESCent
CompPhyloinformatics Jul9-19
Computational Phyloinformatics: A Course at NES-
Cent. 9 - 19 July 2007
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (Durham,
NC, USA)
http://www.nescent.org/summer course Computa-
tional Phyloinformatics is a new course that aims to
give students practical knowledge and hands-on skills
in phyloinformatics.
SYNOPSIS Biologists are faced with ever larger
datasets, more complex evolutionary models, and more
elaborate analytical methods. Seldom is it suﬃcient
to run a dataset through an oﬀ-the-shelf program on
a desktop PC; increasingly, biologists need to write
scripts to interface with internet services and databases,
build analytical pipelines, customize analyses, and dis-
tribute computation over multiple processors.
This course is designed to give graduate students, post-
docs, and researchers in phylogenetics who have an in-
terest in writing programs and scripting analyses the
skills needed to tackle the grand challenges posed by
the Assembling the Tree of Life program, Evo- Devo,
Metagenomics, Phylogenomics, and other emerging re-
search areas. Students will learn how to build and
compute with phylogenetic databases; they will learn
“power-user” skills for scripting analyses in Mesquite
and HyPhy. Students choose between either a Java- or a
Perl-based environment for learning how to write basic
phylogeny programs: parsing NEXUS ﬁles; traversing
and computing over trees; and making practical use of
phylogenetic libraries (e.g. PAL, JEBL, BioJava; BioP-
erl, Bio::Phylo, CIPRES interface). These skills will be
learned in a biological context, touching on a diverse ar-
ray of topics such as automated base calling, ancestral
state and continuous character reconstruction, model
selection, parametric bootstrapping, etc.
INSTRUCTORS Organizer: William Piel
(william.piel@yale.edu) Hilmar Lapp David Maddison
Wayne Maddison Jeﬀ Oliver Sergei L. Kosakovsky
Pond Stephen Smith Arlin Stoltzfus Rutger VosPREREQUISITES Biology: A solid understand-
ing of phylogenetics – for example, having already
taken the Workshop on Molecular Evolution ( http:/-
/www.molecularevolution.org/ ) or equivalent course-
work or experience.
Computing: Prior experience with either Perl or Java;
or, having read and studied the recommended books
on either language (see web site). Students will be us-
ing Mac OSX computers in the course, so should have
experience with basic Unix shell commands.
FEES Tuition is $500.00. Housing is $440 for single
occupancy, $220 for double occupancy in housing pro-
vided at Duke University. Travel awards of up to $620
each are available to subsidize travel expenses for ap-
plicants from underrepresented groups.
HOW TO APPLY Students may apply through the
website ( www.nescent.org/ summer course). You will
be asked to provide a resume, two references, a brief de-
scription of your computational and phylogenetic back-
ground, and your reasons for taking the course. Appli-
cations are due by April 15, 2007. International stu-
dents may wish to apply for Travel awards from the
Society of Systematic Biologists (due date: March 31,
2007, see website for details).
William Piel <william.piel@yale.edu >
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics
Apr20
KSU Arthropod Genomics <dmerrill@KSU.EDU >
Just a reminder that the 1st Annual Arthropod Ge-
nomics Symposium is scheduled for Friday, April 20,
2007, in the Big 12 Room of the Kansas State Univer-
sity Student Union in Manhattan, Kansas. A Poster
Session is planned during lunch from 12:30 to 2:00. You
are invited to set-up your poster between 7:30 and 8:00
a.m. during registration check-in.
Registration is FREE but is required to obtain a
count of attendees for lunch. Please register online
at:<http://www.ksu.edu/agc/RegisterOnline.shtml >
www.ksu.edu/agc/RegisterOnline.shtml, and provideApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 103
us with information about your poster title and au-
thors.
Featured speakers at the Symposium include: <http:/-
/www.nd.edu/%7Ebiology/romero-severson.shtml >
Dr. Jeanne Romero-Severson, University of Notre
Dame; and Dr. Stephen Richards, Human Genome
Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine.
K-State faculty will also provide information about
their Arthropod Genomics research projects including:
Srini Kambhampati, Entomology; Anna Whitﬁeld,
Plant Pathology; Kun Yan Zhu, Entomology; Christo-
pher Culbertson, Chemistry; and Gerald Reeck,
Biochemistry.
The Symposium will begin with refreshments at
7:30 am and conclude by 2:00 pm. A poster
session will be held in the Union Concourse on
the 2nd Floor. A brochure with the sym-
posium schedule is attached and is also avail-
able at our website, <http://www.k-state.edu/-
agc/symposium.shtml >http://www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml . Please register TODAY and plan to
attend! We will appreciate your sharing this invitation
with colleagues and students.
If you have already registered, THANK YOU.
Funded by Targeted Excellence at Kansas State Uni-
versity
Doris Merrill, Program Coordinator K-State Arthro-
pod Genomics Center Division of Biology, Kansas State
University 116 Ackert Hall, Manhattan, KS 66506-4901
(785) 532-3482, dmerrill@ksu.edu
KristinebergMarineResStation
Sweden SummerCourseBiodiversity
MGE Summer Course
Analysing Biodiversity & Life History Strategies
9th - 20th of July, 2007
Kristineberg Marine Research Station (KMRS), Swe-
den
Info doc and application at www.marine-
genomics-europe.org <http://www.marine-genomics-
europe.org/ >Training & Education.
Deadline for application April 30, 2007
Aimsto present the diversity of animal life in the ocean and
introduce the latest methods in analyzing this variation.
To foster cross-over between ecological/whole-organism
and molecular approaches.
Topics
Diversity of meiofauna, large data sets and genomic ap-
proaches in metazoan systematics, phylogeography of
marine species, DNA barcoding and modern taxonomy,
marine life cycles and larval diversity, reproductive sys-
tems in marine invertebrates, biodiversity indices and
marine communities
Target group
PhD students (at least in their second year) and post
docs with basic knowledge in phylo- and population ge-
netics. This course is open to MGE members as well as
non-members.
Costs; course, accommodation and meals
The course fee is paid by the MGE Network for all aca-
demics (pre and post doc). The accommodation for
PhD students is also paid for by the MGE. Lunches
and coﬀees are included in the course fee as well as the
get-together (Sunday the 8th), the excursion (Sunday
the 15th) and the farewell dinner (Friday the 20th). All
participants pay their own travel.
General outline
We intend to introduce the participants to current top-
ics in biodiversity research and developmental biology.
The course has a rather broad focus and will concen-
trate on methods and applications in these ﬁelds, while
less emphasis will be placed on theoretical backgrounds.
Principally we will use the mornings for lectures given
by experts in the ﬁeld and the afternoons for practi-
cal work such as software exercises, wet labs and mini
research projects in smaller groups. The goal of the
projects is to get the participants in direct contact with
the diverse marine fauna on the Swedish west coast
and confront them with typical problems related to the
analysis of patterns of diversity. The course focuses
almost exclusively on marine invertebrate animals.
Application
To apply, please ﬁll in the application form and e-mail
to Ulrika Hjelm (ulrika.hjelm@kmf.gu.se), together
with a 2-page CV before April 30, 2007. This informa-
tion + application form can also be found on the MGE
website: www.marine-genomics-europe.org <http://-
www.marine-genomics-europe.org/ >under Training &
Education.
Matthias Obst, PhD Kristineberg Marine Research
Station Kristineberg 566 450 34 Fiskeb¨ ackskil Swe-104 EvolDir April 6, 2007
den Tel: +46 (0) 523 18553 Fax: +46 (0)
523 18502 Email: Matthias.Obst@biology.au.dk or
matthias.obst@kmf.gu.se
homepage
http://www.kmf.kva.se/users/matthiasobst/-
index.htm http://www.galathea3.dk/dk/Menu/-
Forskning/Dolkhaler <http://www.galathea3.dk >
Matthias Obst <matthias.obst@kmf.gu.se >
Lisbon Extending the Darwinian
Framework Sept10
Extending the Darwinian Framework: New levels of se-
lection and inheritance
Workshop, September 10th 2007, Lisbon.
http://www.uea.ac.uk/ ˜ e197/darwinWorkshop.html
This workshop will explore the formation of new lev-
els of selection and inheritance, the origin of the ﬁrst
evolutionary units and novel modes of natural selec-
tion. Recent work in a variety of ﬁelds has presented a
challenge to standard gene-centric evolutionary theory.
Higher-level and non-genetic sources of heredity have
been discovered. Artiﬁcial selection experiments have
demonstrated a response to selection of whole microbial
ecosystems, with concomitant implications for the for-
mation of new evolutionary units. These results bear
important relation to long-standing questions regarding
the formation of new levels of biological organisation.
The debate over levels of selection has an extended his-
tory. However, given recent empirical results and out-
standing unresolved issues, it again seems pertinent to
ask: What can selection act on? What sources of her-
itable variation exist? How can selection bring about
new units of selection? And how can artiﬁcial life mod-
els help to answer such questions?
Hywel Williams University of East Anglia, UK
Hywel Williams <h.williams@uea.ac.uk >
MLBS EvolBiol
SUMMER FIELD COURSE OPENINGS STILL
AVAILABLE Mountain Lake Biological Station -<http://mlbs.org/ >MLBS.org Dear Biologist,
There are still openings in our summer ﬁeld courses at
Mountain Lake Biological Station (University of Vir-
ginia).
Summer 2007 course oﬀerings: Ecological Applications
of GIS Stream Ecology Herpetology Behavioral Ecol-
ogy Plant Biodiversity and Conservation Dates, fees,
descriptions, and on-line application here: <http://-
mlbs.org/courses.html >http://mlbs.org/courses.html
Please forward this information to students you think
might be interested. Thanks for your help!
Best wishes,
Eric Nagy
Eric S. Nagy, Ph.D. Associate Director, Moun-
tain Lake Biological Station Research Assistant
Professor, Department of Biology University of
Virginia / P.O. Box 400327 Charlottesville, VA
22904-4327 USA street address: 485 McCormick
Road / 238 Gilmer Hall tel: +1-434-982-5486
(+1-540-626-5227 summer) fax: +1-434-982-5626
(+1-540-626-5229 summer) cel: +1-434-906-3122 eml:
enagy@virginia.edu <mailto:enagy@virginia.edu >
skype: ﬂightofthesandor web: <http://-
faculty.virginia.edu/nagy >faculty.virginia.edu/nagy
MLBS web page: <http://www.mlbs.org/ >mlbs.org
enagy@virginia.edu
Montana
ConservationGeneticDataAnalysis
Sep11-16
2nd Conservation Genetics Data Analysis Course Re-
cent Approaches for Estimation of Population Size,
Structure, Gene ﬂow, Landscape Genetics, Selection
Detection & Bioinformatics
11 - 16 September, 2007, Flathead Lake Biological Sta-
tion, Montana
Objective: To provide training in conceptual and prac-
tical aspects of data analysis for the conservation ge-
netics of natural and managed populations. Empha-
sis will be on interpretation of output from recent
novel statistical approaches and software programs.
The course also will allow daily discussions among
young researchers and top-researchers to help develop
the next generation of conservation geneticists, and to
identify developments needed to improve data analy-April 6, 2007 EvolDir 105
sis approaches. This course will cover analysis meth-
ods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate
Bayesian, and likelihood-based approaches.
Who should apply: Ph.D. students, post-docs, and pop-
ulation biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics
and a course in population ecology. Applicants must
have a basic background in population genetic data
analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg propor-
tions and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be
limited to 28 people allowing eﬃcient instruction with
hands-on computer exercises during the course. Pri-
ority will be given to persons with their own data to
analyze (for example graduate students at the end of
their degree program). Deadline for application is 15
June, 2007
Course/Workshop Format: For each subject, we pro-
vide 30-45 minutes of background, theory, discussion
and introduction to concepts. Immediately following,
we will conduct data analyses together for 30-60 min-
utes using relevant software programs and real data
sets. Evening hands-on computer sessions and hous-
ing together of instructors and students in the same
location will allow for extensive exchange and facilitate
learning.
Instructors:
Oscar Gaggiotti, University Joseph Fourier in Greno-
ble, France Gordon Luikart, Center for Investigation of
Biodiversity and Genetic Resources at the University of
Porto (CIBIO), Portugal & University of Montana Al-
bano Beja-Pereira, Center for Investigation of Biodiver-
sity and Genetic Resources at the University of Porto
(CIBIO), Portugal David Lynn, Simon Fraser Univer-
sity, Burnaby (Vancouver), Canada Mark Miller, Utah
State University, Salt Lake, USA Jonathan Pritchard,
University of Chicago, Logan, USA Mike Schwartz, US
Forest Service, Missoula, USA David Tallmon, Univer-
sity of Alaska, Juneau, USA Robin Waples, Northwest
Fisheries Science Center of the National Marine Fish-
eries Service, Seattle, USA
Location: The course will be held at the beauti-
ful Flathead Lake Biological Station near Glacier Na-
tional Park (see ?Location? at http://popgen.eu/-
congen2007/, click ?Site Map? then ?Location Map?).
The International airport is 40 miles drive north of the
Biological Station (see http://www.iﬂyglacier.com/ ).
Application and cost: For detailed information see
http://popgen.eu/congen2007/ . Accommodations and
meals are included in the registration fee. Cost: $US
1,100 per person (plus $200 if payment arrives after
June 15) will cover all meals, lodging, transportationto and from the airport, and a visit to Glacier National
Park. Up to two reduced-cost scholarships could be
available for candidates with no funding.
congen@popgen.eu
conservation genetics course
<congen@mail.icav.up.pt >
Trento Italy AnimalPopGenet
Sep6-8
It gives us great pleasure to announce that the INTER-
NATIONAL WORKSHOP PGAC II - Population Ge-
netics for Animal Conservation II’ will be held at the
Centre for Alpine Ecology (CEA) on Monte Bondone,
near Trento, Italy, September 6-8, 2007. This work-
shop will be hosted by CEA, in collaboration with the
University of Ferrara (Department of Biology)
ALL RELEVANT INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE
AT the web site http:// www.cealp.it (or send an e-
mail to pgac2@cealp.it).
We would especially encourage applications for THREE
FULL BURSARIES that are oﬀered for attendance at
the workshop to young doctoral or post-doctoral re-
searchers from countries where animal conservation is
particularly urgent, but severely underfunded.
Invited speakers include: Karina Acevedo-Whitehouse
(Institute of Zoology, UK) Eric Anderson (NOAA Fish-
eries Service, Santa Cruz, USA) Jon Ballou (Smith-
sonian’s National Zoological Park, USA) Peter Beerli
(Florida State University, USA) Giorgio Bertorelle
(University of Ferrara, Italy) Luigi Boitani (University
of Rome “La Sapienza”, Italy) Mike Bruford (Univer-
sity of Cardiﬀ, UK) Armando Caballero (University
of Vigo, Spain) Rob DeSalle (American Museum of
Natural History, NY, USA) Oscar Gaggiotti (Univer-
sit´ e J Fourier, Grenoble, France) Ilkka Hanski (Uni-
versity of Helsinki, Finland) Rus Hoelzel (University
of Durham, UK) Michael Hofreiter (Max Planck In-
stitute, Leipzig, Germany) Craig Moritz (University of
California, Berkeley, USA) Rasmus Nielsen (University
of Copenaghen, Denmark) Stephen Palumbi (Stanford
University, USA) Josephine Pemberton (University of
Edinburgh, UK) Craig Primmer (University of Turku,
Finland) Pierre Taberlet (Universit´ e J Fourier, Greno-
ble, France)
The aims of the workshop are to identify recent theo-
retical and methodological developments in population106 EvolDir April 6, 2007
genetics suitable for understanding (and possibly solv-
ing) problems of animal conservation, to discuss recent
solutions to past and present controversies in conserva-
tion genetics, and to allow theoretical and applied bi-
ologists to meet and discuss advanced methods of data
analysis and software tools.
The scientiﬁc committee: Giorgio Bertorelle, University
of Ferrara, Italy Mike Bruford, University of Cardiﬀ,
UK Claudio Chemini, CEA, Viote del Monte Bondone,
Trento, Italy Heidi Hauﬀe, CEA, Viote del Monte Bon-
done, Trento, Italy Elena Pecchioli, CEA, Viote del
Monte Bondone, Trento, Italy Cristiano Vernesi, CEA,
Viote del Monte Bondone, Trento, Italy
Cristiano Vernesi Centro di Ecologia Alpina Viote
del Monte Bondone - 38040 Trento - Italy tel
+390461939529 - fax +390461948190
vernesi@cealp.it vernesi@cealp.it
UBath MicrobialMathModels
Jun5-7
EPSRC Workshop:
Mathematical Models and Experimental Microbial Sys-
tems: Tools for Studying Evolution, 5-7 June 2007,
University of Bath, UK
This EPSRC funded workshop is intended to provide
an arena for much-needed interaction between micro-
bial experimentalists, theoretical biologists and math-
ematicians focused around the following evolutionary
questions:
1. What determines species diversity?
2. How did cooperative behaviour evolve?
Based around the above questions the workshop days
will be divided into the following three themes:
1. Consumer-resource experimental systems and diver-
siﬁcation in constant environments.
2. Host-pathogen experimental systems and diversiﬁ-
cation in non-constant environments.
3. Cooperative experimental systems and evolution of
cooperation.
For more details and to register please go to:http://www.bath.ac.uk/math-sci/bics/mmems/
For all scientiﬁc enquiries contact Ivana Gudelj
(i.gudelj@maths.bath.ac.uk). For administrative en-
quiries e-mail:
bics@maths.bath.ac.uk
Ivana Gudelj <ig210@maths.bath.ac.uk >
UManchester QuantEvolGenetics
We are starting a new, one-year, MSc course in Quan-
titative Evolutionary Genetics at the University of
Manchester in September 2007. We expect to be able to
fund some studentships on this course: full studentships
(tuition fees and stipend) for UK-based students or par-
tial studentship (tuition fees only) for EU students.
The course is aimed at graduates in biology who
would like to specialise in evolutionary genetics and at
graduates in the physical sciences (maths, computer
science, etc) who would like to apply their numeracy
skills to some exciting and challenging topics in
evolutionary genetics. The course contains taught
components: on population and evolutionary genetics,
programming, statistics, etc, but a substantial portion
of the degree is research-based involving a long and
a short research project. Projects will be oﬀered
by staﬀ in the Faculty of Life Sciences working on
a wide range of evolutionary topics (see http://-
www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/research/themes/evolution/
and http://www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/research/-
themes/bioinformatics/ ) for some indication of the
range of topics covered). There is also the opportunity
to work on projects with staﬀ from Computer Science
and Mathematics.
Anyone wishing to apply for this MSc course should
send their CV by email to Cathy Walton (Cather-
ine.walton@manchester.ac.uk) as soon as possible.
Please also feel free to ask me further questions about
the course on the same email address.
I would very much appreciate it if you could bring this
course to the attention of suitable prospective students.
Many thanks.
Cathy Walton University of Manchester
Catherine.Walton@manchester.ac.ukApril 6, 2007 EvolDir 107
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.