E v o l D i r
September 1, 2015
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .95
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Conferences
Asilomar AmericanSocNaturalists Jan10-14 . . . . . . . . .2
Edinburgh Conservation Oct14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
FtLauderdale Florida ASN Aug7-12 CallProposals . .3
Manhattan KS EcologicalGenomics Nov6-8 2 . . . . . . . 3
Manhattan KS EcologicalGenomics Nov6-8 Registration4
Marseilles 19thEvolBiol Sep15-18 Deadline 4 . . . . . . . .4
Portland Oregon EvolutionaryEndocrinology Jan3-7 5
SanFrancisco EvolutionCancer Dec10-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Asilomar AmericanSocNaturalists
Jan10-14
Registration is now open for the 2016 Asilomar confer-
ence of the American Society of Naturalists.
The American Society of Naturalists will be holding a
small independent meeting at the Asilomar Conference
Center on the Monterey Peninsula in coastal Califor-
nia, January 10-14, 2016. The goal of the meeting is
to promote integration between evolution and ecology
by attracting a more diverse community of biologists
than typically attend the evolution meetings held jointly
each summer by ASN, SSE, and SSB. Information about
the conference can be found on the conference website:
http://www.amnat2016.orgincluding a general schedule
and information about three afternoon symposia and
exiting evening events.
To register, visit: http://www.amnat2016.org/-
register.html Lodging must be booked separately:
http://www.amnat2016.org/foodandlodging.html Seat-
ing for this conference is limited to 200 people due to
meeting space constraints, so we expect the conference
will ll up completely. We therefore encourage potential
attendees to register shortly after the registration period
opens.
We look forward to seeing you there!Sincerely,
Volker Rudolf
ASN Organizing Committee Chair
Volker H.W. Rudolf, Ph.D. Associate Professor of
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Department of Bio-
Sciences Rice University MS-170 6100 Main Street,
Houston, TX, 77005 Email: volker.rudolf@rice.edu
Phone: 713-348-2834 Fax: 713-348-5232 Web-
page: http://www.owlnet.rice.edu/ ~volker.rudolf/
volker.rudolf@rice.edu
Edinburgh Conservation Oct14
Scottish Postgrad Conference: Ecology, Environment
and Conservation
Scottish Natural Heritage and the Scottish universities
are running a postgraduate student conference on Ecol-
ogy, Environment and Conservation on Wednesday 14th
October 2015 at the Royal Society of Edinburgh
The conference is for PhD and Masters students, includ-
ing those who have recently completed studies. It covers
ecology, the environment and conservation, with empha-
sis on work related to or carried out in Scotland. It's an
ideal opportunity to meet and exchange ideas with your
peers and leading professionals in the eld. We're look-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 3
ing for presentations, poster submissions and delegates.
There will be desks dedicated to organisations/NGOs
to help you with career opportunities.
Invited Speakers Dr Trent Garner-Zoological Society of
London's Institute of Zoology. Professor Bob Furness-
Glasgow University, Chairman of SNHs Scientic Advi-
sory Committee.
PhD Student Speakers include... Janet MacLean-
Rhododendron Control James Fitton- National coastal
erosion risk assessment for Scotland Amanda Trask- A
lethal genetic disease
Cost: Free, lunch provided!
How to apply: Abstract submission deadline-14th Sept
2015 Registration deadline-28th September 2015 , Visit
http://tinyurl.com/njq39xh Conference organisers-
Josephine Pemberton, Des Thompson, David O'Brien,
Chris Spray, Kirsty Park, Dan Haydon, Xavier Lambin,
Amanda Trask, Charles Warren, Paul Robertson.
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, regis-
tered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
PEMBERTON Josephine <J.Pemberton@ed.ac.uk >
FtLauderdale Florida ASN Aug7-12
CallProposals
FortLauderdale.ASN@ESA.Aug7-12,2016
|
Call for ASN Symposium to be held at the 2016 ESA
Meeting
Due September 14th, 2015
The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium
proposals for a special symposium to be held at the
2016 Ecological Society of America annual meeting Au-
gust 7-12, 2016 in Ft Lauderdale, FL. By holding an
annual symposium at ESA, ASN hopes to strengthen
ties between the society and ecologists.
Symposium topics should support the Society's goal
to advance the conceptual unication of the biological
sciences and further knowledge in evolution, ecology,
behavior and organismal biology. Proposals are encour-
aged on topics that are synthetic, interdisciplinary or
that address important emerging issues in evolution,
ecology and behavior.
Because the 2016 symposium is in conjunction withthe ecology meeting, special weight will be given to
integrative topics of interest to ecologists. The ESA
theme for 2016 is Novel Ecosystems in the Anthropocene.
esa.org/ftlauderdale/
A travel, registration, and accommodation budget of
$8,000 is provided to help with expenses.
Proposals should include (1) a title; (2) a description
of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list
of six speakers, including institutional aliations; (4) a
justication for the symposium explaining why the topic
and speakers are appropriate for a Society-sponsored
symposium (up to one page).
Because ESA has a tight schedule we need proposals
to be submitted by midnight Eastern Standard Time
on September 14, 2015 by email (emilies@umn.edu) as
a single pdf attachment, under subject heading: ASN
Symposium Proposal: ESA 2016. Proposals that in-
clude women, young investigators, and individuals from
underrepresented groups are especially encouraged.
The Society's selection committee will evaluate propos-
als based on the signicance and timeliness of the topic,
and on it being substantively dierent from recent sym-
posia sponsored by the Society. All applicants will be
notied of the decision by late September 2015.
Emilie Snell-Rood ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior Univer-
sity of Minnesota emilies@umn.edu
Emilie Snell-Rood <emilies@umn.edu >
Manhattan KS EcologicalGenomics
Nov6-8 2
***LESS THAN ONE MONTH FROM EARLY REG-
ISTRATION DEADLINE!!!
Thirteenth Ecological Genomics Symposium in Manhat-
tan, Kansas
Outstanding speakers and expanded speaking opportu-
nities!
The Ecological Genomics Institute at Kansas State Uni-
versity is bringing the 13th annual symposium to Man-
hattan, Kansas on November 6-8 at the Hilton Garden
Inn. As in previous years, the 13th symposium will fea-
ture a diverse array of established and emerging leaders
in the eld of ecological and evolutionary genomics. In
addition to the invited speakers, this year's symposium
will expand the number of speakers to be chosen from4 EvolDir September 1, 2015
among submitted abstracts.
Featured speakers include:
* Scott Edwards, Harvard
* Michael Lynch, Indiana University
* Melissa Pespeni, University of Vermont
* Stacey Smith, University of Colorado Boulder
* Joan Strassmann, Washington University, St. Louis
* Michi Tobler, Kansas State University Early registra-
tion fee is $235 ($135 for graduate and undergraduate
students). All meals are included in registration fee this
year. Early registration deadline is Friday, September
18.
POSTER SESSIONS: Poster sessions will be held on
Friday evening and Saturday afternoon. Poster topics
should be related to the eld of Ecological Genomics. A
NUMBER OF SUBMITTED POSTER ABSTRACTS
WILL BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRESENTATIONS.
Abstract submission deadline is also Friday, September
18.
NEW THIS YEAR: An option tour of Konza Prairie will
be oered on Sunday afternoon after the conclusion of
the symposium for an additional fee. You may register
for this tour when you register for the symposium.
Visit http://ecogen.k-state.edu/ to register. We hope
to see you in Manhattan!
Jennifer Rhodes <jenniferrhodes@ksu.edu >
Manhattan KS EcologicalGenomics
Nov6-8 Registration
Registration is now open!!!!
Thirteenth Ecological Genomics Symposium in Manhat-
tan, Kansas
Outstanding speakers and expanded speaking opportu-
nities!
The Ecological Genomics Institute at Kansas State Uni-
versity is bringing the 13th annual symposium to Man-
hattan, Kansas on November 6-8 at the Hilton Garden
Inn. As in previous years, the 13th symposium will fea-
ture a diverse array of established and emerging leaders
in the eld of ecological and evolutionary genomics. In
addition to the invited speakers, this year's symposium
will expand the number of speakers to be chosen fromamong submitted abstracts.
Featured speakers include:
* Scott Edwards, Harvard
* Michael Lynch, Indiana University
* Melissa Pespeni, University of Vermont
* Stacey Smith, University of Colorado Boulder
* Joan Strassmann, Washington University, St. Louis
* Michi Tobler, Kansas State University Early registra-
tion fee is $235 ($135 for graduate and undergraduate
students). All meals are included in registration fee this
year. Early registration deadline is Friday, September
18.
POSTER SESSIONS: Poster sessions will be held on
Friday evening and Saturday afternoon. Poster topics
should be related to the eld of Ecological Genomics. A
NUMBER OF SUBMITTED POSTER ABSTRACTS
WILL BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRESENTATIONS.
Abstract submission deadline is also Friday, September
18.
NEW THIS YEAR: An option tour of Konza Prairie will
be oered on Sunday afternoon after the conclusion of
the symposium for an additional fee. You may register
for this tour when you register for the symposium.
Visit http://ecogen.k-state.edu/ to register. We hope
to see you in Manhattan!
Jennifer Rhodes <jenniferrhodes@ksu.edu >
Marseilles 19thEvolBiol Sep15-18
Deadline 4
Dear all , the registrations for the \19th evolutionary
biology meeting at Marseilles" will be closed the 2nd
September.
only spots for poster presentations are available
http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr/ best regards
Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 5
Portland Oregon
EvolutionaryEndocrinology Jan3-7
We would like to invite early career scientists (grad
students through early Assistant Profs) to submit ab-
stracts for consideration for inclusion in a complemen-
tary session to our Society-wide Symposium at the next
meetings of the Society for Integrative and Comparative
Biology (SICB) to be held in Portland, Oregon, USA
(3-7 January 2016).
In the past two decades, the eld of *Evolutionary
Endocrinology* has emerged not only as a means of
understanding the evolution of the endocrine system
itself, but also as a framework for exploring the roles of
hormones in shaping fundamental evolutionary phenom-
ena. Originally centered on classic quantitative-genetic
approaches to the study of endocrine phenotypes, this
eld has recently expanded to include exciting new ideas
about the evolutionary signicance of hormones in struc-
turing genetic covariance, resolving genomic conict,
shaping life-history evolution, facilitating or constrain-
ing adaptation, and mediating non-genetic inheritance
and maternal eects. Our symposium, '*Evolutionary
Endocrinology: Hormones as mediators of evolutionary
phenomena*,' aims to bring together evolutionary bi-
ologists and comparative endocrinologists addressing
these and other topics in a range of vertebrate and
invertebrate systems, and encompassing a variety of
hormones and endocrine axes. Our overarching goals
are to (1) develop an integrative framework for explor-
ing the roles of hormones in mediating key evolution-
ary phenomena, one that will guide and inspire the
expanding eld of evolutionary endocrinology, and (2)
develop new connections between endocrinologists and
evolutionary biologists. More information about the
symposium, including our list of invited speakers, can
be found at: http://sicb.org/meetings/2016/symposia/-
evolendo.php We will be holding a social for symposium
and complementary session speakers, with opportunities
for networking and developing mentoring relationships
between early career biologists and leaders in our eld.
Our symposium has received funding, which will be
used in part to support travel and registration costs for
speakers who contribute talks for our complementary
session.
To be considered for inclusion in the complementary ses-
sion, please submit an abstract following all instructionson the SICB web site (http://sicb.org/meetings/2016/-
abstracts/index.php), and select our symposium under
the 'Complementary Sessions' dropdown list.
best,
Fran Bonier, Bob Cox, and Joel McGlothlin
{
Fran Bonier Assistant Professor Queen's University Bi-
ology Department Biosciences Complex 3523 Kingston,
ON K7L 3N6 Canada
phone: 613-533-6000 x77024 email: bonierf@queensu.ca
http://post.queensu.ca/ ~bonierf/index.html Frances
Bonier <bonierf@queensu.ca >
SanFrancisco EvolutionCancer
Dec10-13
International Biannual Evolution and Cancer Confer-
ence 2015
Evolutionary tradeos and clinical consequences
http://cancer.ucsf.edu/evolution/conference-2015
Dates: Thursday December 10 - Sunday December 13
Location: Mission Bay conference center, UCSF, San
Francisco, USA
We are pleased to announce the Third International
Biannual Evolution and Cancer Conference (IBECC
2015). Tradeos are pervasive in biological systems,
and the evolutionary dynamics underlying cancer are no
exception. IBECC 2015 will explore the ways in which
tradeos have shaped the evolution of cancer suppres-
sion systems and the role of tradeos in the progression
of tumors from benign to malignant. A consideration
of evolutionary tradeos can also help us to identify
challenges and opportunities in cancer therapy and new
horizons for cancer prevention.
We welcome scientists coming from dierent disciplines,
including but not limited to oncology, cell biology, evolu-
tionary biology and mathematics. Abstract submissions
relating to the theme of evolutionary tradeos and clin-
ical consequences are encouraged but submission on all
evolution and ecology of cancer topics are welcome.
Conrmed speakers
Marco Gerlinger, Institute for Cancer Research, London
(Cancer Keynote Address)
Susan Rosenberg, Baylor College of Medicine (Evolution6 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Keynote Address)
Barbara Natterson, University of California, Los Angeles
(Public Lecture)
Bob Gatenby, Mott Cancer Center (Plenary)
Sarah Hill, Texas Christian University (Plenary)
Hanna Kokko, University of Zurich (Plenary)
Dan Nettle, Newcastle University (Plenary)Aurora Nedelcu, U. New Brunswick (Plenary)
Registration and abstract submission for talks and
posters opens September 15. Speakers for parallel ses-
sion talks will be selected from submitted abstracts.
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-
partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, NB
Canada E3B 5A3 phone: (506) 458-7463
Aurora Nedelcu <anedelcu@unb.ca >
GradStudentPositions
AdamMickiewiczU Evolution ncRNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
ClarkU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
CornellU EvolSocialBehav . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
HelmholtzCentre Kiel FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
JamesCookU ShrimpEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . .9
Lausanne Switzerland ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . 10
MarinLutherU HoneybeeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
MonashU PlantEcologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
NTNU Norway EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
OtagoUNewZealand PopulationGeneticTheory . . . . .12
PlymouthU 7 AdaptationToClimateChange . . . . . . . 12
PotsdamU AmphibianEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 13
Switzerland RapidAdaptationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 13
TexasTechU GenomicsMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . 14
TrentU AdaptiveGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UBasel HostPathogenCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UColorado Boulder 2 LichenGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .16UGreifswald Germany BirdEvolutionaryPhysiology 16
UInnsbruck WolbachiaEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
UKiel PopulationGenomics AntibioticResistance . . .18
UlmU Germany MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UMelbourne EvolutionAnimalColourSignals . . . . . . . 19
UNewBrunswick StJohn 2 CodPopulationGenomics 20
UOtago EpigeneticInheritance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
URhodeIsland ComputationalNGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
USaskatchewan LentilGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UTasmania BeetleBarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UTronse Norway Metabarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UWuerzburg SexEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UZurich 2 Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UZurich EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Vienna GenomeArchitecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
AdamMickiewiczU Evolution
ncRNA
PhD studies available at Adam Mickiewicz University
in Poznan, Poland A PhD position is available within agrant from National Science Centre entitled \The reg-
ulatory roles of long non-coding RNAs in the context
of RNA:RNA interactions" (2014/15/D/NZ2/00525).
The project is centered around long non-coding RNAs
(lncRNAs), including prediction of novel lncRNAs, de-
ciphering their functions, expression estimation using
next-generation sequencing data, evolutionary analyses
and developing biological databases. Moreover, labora-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 7
tory tests will be performed to provide experimental evi-
dence for selected predictions. As a result, it is required
that the candidate possesses basic knowledge in the area
o molecular biology, while experience in bioinformatics
and/or programming skills will enhance the application
greatly. A short description of the project is available at:
http://rhesus.amu.edu.pl/fg/Project short version.pdf
Requirements: * Masters degree in biological sciences *
Knowledge of basics of molecular biology * Fluency in
English * Writing and editing scientic texts * Option-
ally: programming skills, experience in bioinformatics
Conditions: * A scholarship from National Science Cen-
tre of 3000 PLN/month * Term of scholarship: 36
months
Candidates are asked to submit their applications at
miszcz@amu.edu.pl, including: * Motivation letter *
Curriculum Vitae * At least one reference letter * Any
additional documents that might enhance candidate's
application
Deadline: September 10th, 2015.
Best regards, Micha A Szcze Aniak, PhD Adam Mick-
iewicz University in Poznan, Poland
Michal Szczesniak <szczesniak.pl@gmail.com >
ClarkU EvolutionaryGenomics
The Gibbons lab (https://wordpress.clarku.edu/-
jgibbons/) in the Biology Department at Clark Uni-
versity is accepting applications for PhD students to
start in August 2016.
The overarching research theme of our lab is to under-
stand how evolutionary forces shape the genome and how
these changes inuence phenotype. Our lab uses an evo-
lutionary genomics lens to broadly study (1) microbial
domestication, and (2) fungal copy number variation.
To gain a comprehensive understanding of these top-
ics, we heavily utilize whole genome next generation
sequencing data to characterize patterns of genomic
variation. Additionally, we pair comparative and pop-
ulation genomic analyses with functional experiments
spanning the realms of transcriptomics, proteomics, and
metabolomics. Applicants interested in fungal biology
will also have opportunities to interact and collaborate
with the Hibbett lab (http://www.clarku.edu/faculty/-
dhibbett/).
Clark University is a vibrant and supportive small liberalarts research university located in Worcester, MA. The
Biology Department at Clark has particular strengths
in Evolutionary Biology, Genomics, and Molecular Bi-
ology. PhD students are guaranteed funding for ve
years, with a possible extension through teaching and re-
search assistantships. For more information please visit
our departmental web page (http://www.clarku.edu/-
departments/biology/).
Interested applicants should send an email with the
subject \evolutionary genomics phd position", a brief
description of why you are interested in the position,
and a current resume or CV to jgibbons@clarku.edu.
John G. Gibbons Assistant Professor of Biology Clark
University 950 Main Street Worcester, MA 01610
Email: jgibbons@clarku.edu Tel: 508.793.7129 https://-
wordpress.clarku.edu/jgibbons/ \JGibbons@clarku.edu"
<JGibbons@clarku.edu >
CornellU EvolSocialBehav
The Sheehan lab (http://mjsheehan.weebly.com) in the
Department of Neurobiology & Behavior at Cornell Uni-
versity is accepting applications for PhD students to
start in Fall 2016.
The lab uses tools from evolutionary biology, behavioral
ecology and genomics to understand basic questions
about animal social interactions. Major areas of research
include the evolution of both the signals and processing
that underlie animal communication (especially individ-
ual recognition) as well as variation in social systems
across populations. Students are encouraged to develop
their own independent research projects related to on-
going work in the lab. Some major ongoing projects in
the lab include: (1) the evolution of color patterning
used for individual recognition in paper wasps, (2) the
population and evolutionary genomics of pheromone
scent marks in house mice and (3) the ecological causes
of variation in cooperative breeding among paper wasps.
The Department of Neurobiology and Behavior and
the associated graduate eld have faculty (http://-
www.nbb.cornell.edu/faculty.shtml) with a wide range
of expertise in animal behavior and neurobiology, with
the potential for students to develop integrate research
projects under the guidance of multiple mentors. Out-
side of Neurobiology and Behavior there are numerous
biology departments and centers with excellent faculty -
making Cornell a top institution for pursuing graduate
education in the biological sciences.8 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Students interested in studying the evolution of commu-
nication and/or cooperation using either paper wasps or
house mice as model systems are encouraged to apply.
Interested students should rst send an email with a
short description of their interests and why they are
interested in the lab as well as a CV or short description
of research experiences to msheehan@cornell.edu
Michael J Sheehan
Assistant Professor Neurobiology and Behavior Cornell
University 215 Tower Rd Ithaca NY, 14853
(607) 254-4302
msheehan@cornell.edu
Michael Sheehan <msheehan@cornell.edu >
HelmholtzCentre Kiel FishEvolution
PhD Position in the research unit \Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy of Marine Fishes" at GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre
for Ocean Research Kiel
The PhD student will be employed on the research
project \implications of anthropogenic stressors on rapid
co-adaptation in a tripartite species interaction". The re-
search program is embedded in the DFG funded priority
programme \Rapid Evolutionary Adaptation: Potential
and Constraints" (SPP1819), which consists of a group
of experts working on rapid adaptation distributed all
over Germany. Regular meetings with all experts guar-
antee a unique opportunity to establish a solid network
and to discuss research ideas and data. The project
leader is Dr. Carolin Wendling (GEOMAR, Kiel) in
collaboration with Dr. Olivia Roth (GEOMAR, Kiel)
and Dr. Heiko Liesegang (University of G ottingen). A
close cooperation with a second PhD student from the
University of G ottingen in the same project is expected.
Project description:
The project aims on investigating rapid evolutionary
adaptation in response to anthropogenic stressors in
a three-way host-parasite interaction. The work will
be conducted on an established model system consist-
ing of pipesh Syngnathus typhle (i.e the nal animal
host), bacteria of the genus Vibrio, and their associ-
ated temperate phages (i.e. viruses that infect Vibrio
bacteria). In a unique research approach we will ad-
dress (1) the implications of bioinvasion (2) the eects
of temperature heterogeneity and (3) the exposure to
antibiotics on the coevolutionary dynamics between thethree players. In each of the three goals the empirical
approach will consist of an in vitro evaluation of local
adaptation among the players involved. We will then
use evolution experiments and whole genome sequencing
to investigate how each of the anthropogenic stressors
aects phage-bacteria adaptation in vitro and how this
correlates with bacterial virulence against local pipesh
in vivo.
The GEOMAR, the University of Kiel and the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology in Pl on of-
fer a stimulating research environment with focus on
evolutionary biology. The PhD student will have the
possibility to join one of our two graduate schools, ei-
ther the International Max-Planck-Research School (IM-
PRS) \Evolutionary Biology" or the \Integrated School
of Ocean Sciences" (ISOS). Kiel is the capital of the
most Northern state of Germany, directly located at the
coast of the Baltic Sea. The town oers many opportu-
nities for leisure activities; in particular people enjoying
water sports will love the environment.
Qualication
The successful candidate is required to have a Master
or Diploma in Biology or related topics. We expect
a motivated PhD student with a high commitment to
science that has a strong background in evolutionary bi-
ology, preferably experimental evolution and/or skills in
applied bioinformatics to analyse NGS-generated high-
throughput genomic data. Knowledge of microbiolog-
ical and molecular biology methods as well as applied
bioinformatics is desired. In addition, the PhD stu-
dent should have good English language skills and the
ability to work in team. Furthermore, the candidate is
expected to spend some time in the cooperating group
at the University of G ottingen (Dr. Liesegang).
The position is available for a 3-year funding. The salary
will be 65% according to class E13 TV oD of the German
tari for public employees.
The GEOMARjHelmholtz Centre for Ocean Research
is an equal opportunity employer and encourages female
scientists and scientists with disabilities to apply.
Applications including a one-page statement of research
interests and motivation, CV and contact details of 2
referees should be sent as a single PDF le (max size
1MB) no later than 20 ^. September 2015 to the fol-
lowing e-mail address with a single pdf le, using the
keyword \Rapid Evolution":
alaessig@geomar.de
For further information do not hesitate to contact
Carolin Wendling (cwendling@geomar.de) or visit
the webpage: www.geomar.de/en/mitarbeiter/fb3/ev/-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 9
cwendling Dr. Carolin Wendling PostDoc GEO-
MARjHelmholtz-Zentrum f ur Ozeanforschung Kiel
D usternbrooker Weg 20 24105 Kiel, Germany
Tel.: 0431 600 4569 Fax: 0431 600 4553
cwendling@geomar.de
Carolin Wendling <cwendling@geomar.de >
JamesCookU
ShrimpEvolutionaryGenomics
PhD projects@JCU on Advanced Shrimp Breeding and
Evolutionary Genomics
As part of a large collaborative project in Advanced
Shrimp Breeding and Genomics, we are looking for vari-
ous motivated students with skills in genomics, transcrip-
tomics and evolutionary bioinformatics for the following
projects:
Project 1 Comparative, evolutionary and functional ge-
nomics of the black tiger prawn (James Cook University
& University of Sydney)
This project will be a component of the full genome
assembly of an inbred black tiger prawn (Penaeus mon-
odon) based on a combination of short-read sequences
and standard mate-pair end Illumina together with the
use of long-read sequencing data based on PacBio, HiC,
Nanopore platforms for improved hybrid assembly (scaf-
fold/chromosome level). After genome annotation, the
project will aim to nd syntenies and reconstruct the evo-
lutionary history of Decapods/crustaceans by comparing
the P. monodon genome to the genomes of Daphnia,
Artemia, Litopenaeus vannamei and potentially other
decapods/crustaceans.
Project 2 ^ a\ Functional transcriptomics of viral infec-
tion in the black tiger prawn (James Cook University
and CSIRO)
This project will examine whether the manner in which
a black tiger prawn (Penaeus monodon) is challenged
with Gill-associated virus (GAV) aects what defence
response pathways can be activated to protect the prawn
against infection/disease. Essential components of the
project will be GAV challenge trials in P. monodon
and the generation and interrogation of RNAseq data
to identify/predict genes and gene pathways activated
in response to GAV challenge via the various infection
routes examined. Silencing of gene expression using
RNA interference (RNAi) will also be employed to fur-ther explore the functioning of genes predicted to have
pivotal roles in the prawn defense response.
Requirements
The desired candidates will preferably have a back-
ground in molecular genetics (mainly for project 2) com-
plemented with proven skills in next-generation sequenc-
ing approaches and computational analyses (project 1
and 2). Successful candidates will either be enrolled
through James Cook University (or University of Syd-
ney), and will work embedded or alongside partners
of the ARC Research Hub for Advanced Prawn Breed-
ing depending on the project (ie CSIRO, AGRF). The
student will need to obtain an Australian Postgrad-
uate Award (APA) or a JCU PGRS award for na-
tional/international students through James Cook Uni-
versity; therefore a rst class Honours or Masters De-
gree and/or evidence of publishing in international peer-
reviewed scientic journals are highly recommended.
About James Cook University
James Cook University is one of Australia's most dis-
tinctive universities with a focus on creating a brighter
future for life in the tropics worldwide. The University
is located in the vibrant regional community of tropi-
cal Queensland, which has one of the fastest growing
economies in Australia, adjacent to the Great Barrier
Reef and Wet Tropics World Heritage Areas. The Uni-
versity's internationally recognized research is matched
by strong commitment to its region, partners and teach-
ing.
For more information on additional PhD opportuni-
ties, including what the Hub will achieve and part-
ners please visit https://research.jcu.edu.au/itrh-apb
For further details on projects and information on
how to apply, please contact Professor Dean Jerry
(dean.jerry@jcu.edu.au), Director ARC Hub for Ad-
vanced Prawn Breeding, Townsville, Australia.
Gregory Maes, Ph.D. Lecturer in Evolutionary and
Applied Genetics Centre for Sustainable Tropical
Fisheries and Aquaculture School of Marine and
Tropical Biology James Cook University Ph: +61
(0)7 4781 4790; E-mail: gregory.maes@jcu.edu.au
Oce: ATSIP DB145-314 (Molecular Ecology and
Evolution Laboratory) Personal webpage: https://-
research.jcu.edu.au/portfolio/gregory.maes/ School web-
page: http://www.jcu.edu.au/mtb/ "Maes, Gregory\
<gregory.maes@jcu.edu.au >10 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Lausanne Switzerland
ExperimentalEvolution
PhD position: physiological basis of experimental adap-
tation to malnutrition in Drosophila
Tadeusz Kawecki's research group, Dept. of Ecology
and Evolution, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.
The proposed project builds upon an evolution ex-
periment in which replicate populations of fruit ies
have adapted to larval malnutrition over 180 genera-
tions, evolving high tolerance to nutrient shortage at
the expense of increased vulnerability to a food-borne
pathogen (Vijendravarma et al, Ecology Letters doi:
10.1111/ele.12490). The project will address the phys-
iological and molecular changes underlying these evo-
lutionary changes; it will involve comparisons of gut
physiology and histology, gene expression patterns, en-
zymatic activities, nutrient absorption/storage rates
(using stable isotopes), as well as microbiome manipu-
lations and genetic experiments. The ideal candidate
should have a broad understanding of evolutionary con-
cepts and some experience with basic molecular biol-
ogy techniques. More information about the research
group can be found under http://www.unil.ch/dee/-
en/home/menuinst/research/group-kawecki.html . The
position is foreseen for 4 years, with the initial salary
of CHF 47,000 per year (plus a possible supplement
for a contribution to teaching), the initial date between
October 2015 and March 2016. The research environ-
ment is English-speaking and no-preexisting knowledge
of French is required, but learning basic French would
make living in Lausanne easier. It is a formal require-
ment that the student will have completed a Master or
equivalent degree before starting the PhD (although not
necessarily at the time of application).
Lausanne is a medium-sized city on the shores of Lake
Geneva, surrounded by a wine growing region recog-
nized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and within
one hour of the Alps. It oers a great variety of cul-
tural, recreational and outdoor opportunities. With
over 20 research groups, the Department of Ecology and
Evolution (www.unil.ch/dee), is a strong center of re-
search in evolutionary biology and a vibrant community
which has just hosted the congress of European Society
for Evolutionary Biology (wp.unil.ch/eseb2015/). The
student will have the opportunity to participate in a
variety of courses and workshops in the framework ofdoctoral programs \Ecology and Evolution" (http://-
biologie.cuso.ch/en/ecologie-evolution) and \Staromics"
(http://biologie.cuso.ch/staromics).
To apply, send a single pdf le with a motivation letter,
cv, a description of your research experience and interest,
and names of 2-3 referees to tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch,
with \PhD position" on the subject line. The review
of applications will start on September 2, 2015 and will
continue until a suitable candidate is found.
{ Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department of
Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Biophore,
oce 3111 CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
Tadeusz Kawecki <tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch >
MarinLutherU HoneybeeEvolution
PhD student Position in Molecular Ecology and Evolu-
tion
We oer a xed-term position in the Molecular Ecology
research group at the Martin-Luther-University Halle-
Wittenberg (Germany).
Duration: 3 years (start: expected November 2015)
Salary: 50% E13 TV-L
We are seeking a person with a Master of Science or
Diploma in Biology.
The successful candidate will be familiar with molecu-
lar biological methods (incl. gene expression analyses
or Transcriptomics) and the biology of social insects.
Practical and theoretical knowledge in the eld of micro-
biology, immunology, statistics or experience in working
with honeybees is desirable, but not mandatory.
Excellent command of the English language in both
writing and speaking is essential.
The successful candidate will participate in the DFG
project 'Self-medication and innate immunity in the hon-
eybee Apis mellifera' and in teaching activities in ecology
and population genetics at the BSc/ MSc. The group
has excellent laboratory facilities with all state-of-the-
art equipment including a next generation sequencing
platform.
The research focus of the group is on evolution-
ary biology of social bees with the honeybee be-
ing used as the model system for many studies. A
detailed research prole can be found at http://-
www.mol-ecol.uni-halle.de/ , and more project relatedSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 11
details at http://www.mol-ecol.uni-halle.de/research/-
host parasite/self medication/ More detailed informa-
tion can be obtained by Dr. Silvio Erler, Tel: 0049-(0)-
345-55-26305, E-Mail: silvio.erler@zoologie.uni-halle.de
Please submit your application before Sep 15. 2015 re-
ferring to Reg.-No. 5-6495/15-D together with your CV,
certicates, name of at least one referee (all as single
PDF le) by e-mail to: silvio.erler@zoologie.uni-halle.de
or in hard copy to: Dr. Silvio Erler, Molekulare
~Akologie, Institut f ur Biologie/Zoologie, Martin-Luther-
Universit at Halle-Wittenberg, Hoher Weg 4, 06120 Halle
(Saale), Germany
{ Dr. rer. nat. Silvio Erler
Martin-Luther-Universit at Halle-Wittenberg Institut f ur
Biologie-Zoologie Molekulare ~Akologie Hoher Weg 4
06099 Halle, Germany
Mail: silvio.erler@zoologie.uni-halle.de Phone: +49-
(0)345-5526305 Fax: +49-(0)345-5527264
Website: http://www.mol-ecol.uni-halle.de/sta/erler-
s/ ResearcherID: http://www.researcherid.com/rid/-
B-4162-2012 Silvio Erler <silvio.erler@zoologie.uni-
halle.de >
MonashU PlantEcologicalGenomics
The Hodgins lab is currently seeking outstanding PhD
candidates interested in studying plant ecological ge-
nomics (www.zoology.ubc.ca/ ~hodgins/). Our labora-
tory studies the genetic basis for adaptation in plants.
We are particularly interested in using introduced species
as a model for studying rapid adaptation. We also study
adaptation to climate in forest trees and plant domes-
tication. To address evolutionary questions relating to
these topics, we use a combination of genomics, ecologi-
cal eldwork and experimental approaches.
The project can commence any time during 2016 and
will be developed in collaboration with the student.
Teaching is not required for the duration of the PhD
(3.5 years in Australia). Research funding as well as
attendance in one conference per year is guaranteed.
Two fully funded PhD stipends are available. The
stipends include all course fees plus approximately
$25,000 AUD per annum tax-free. All Australian and
New Zealand citizens are eligible to apply. International
funding is also available. A top-up scholarship will be
awarded to the successful recipient of an Australian Post-graduate Award (tax-free 2016 rate of approximately
$25,000 AUD, top up of $5000, approximate equivalent
of $40000 before tax).
Melbourne is diverse and thriving city with a desirable
climate. It is one of the most livable cities in the world
and is a cultural and recreational hub.
Monash is a member of the Group of Eight, a coali-
tion of top Australian universities recognized for their
excellence in teaching and research.
*Please send your CV, a transcript, a brief statement of
your research interests and the contact details of two
referees to kathryn.hodgins@monash.edu*
The deadline for scholarship applications at Monash
University is October 31, 2015 for a January 1, 2016
start date.
Kristin Nurkowski <kristin.nurkowski@monash.edu >
NTNU Norway EvolutionaryEcology
PhD position in Evolutionary Ecology
In the project \Evolutionary Responses to Variable and
Unpredictable Environments" we will build a series of
models to understand how within generation adapta-
tions to variability and predictability in the environment
(e.g. plasticity, insurance, and variance-sensitivity) coe-
volve with bet-hedging. We are seeking a PhD candidate
to be part of a team of investigators on this project.
We will be using dierent types of models, including
individual-based simulation models and analytical mod-
els based on quantitative genetics. We are seeking a
person with good understanding of evolutionary theory
and preferably with some background in evolutionary
ecology. Our candidate should have some competence
in mathematics and computing, a strong logical sense
and be interested in developing theory.
Further information about the position can be found
here: http://t.co/VhxcH8vPij or obtained from Dr. Irja
Ida Ratikainen, Department of Biology, NTNU, Tel.
+47 47344606, E-mail: irja.i.ratikainen@ntnu.no. Fur-
ther information about the Department can be found
at http://www.ntnu.edu/biology Applications must
be submitted electronically through www.jobbnorge.no.
The reference number of the position is: NT- 54/15
Application deadline: September 4th 2015
Irja Ida Ratikainen Researcher, CBD (Centre for Bio-
diversity Dynamics) Department of Biology Norwe-12 EvolDir September 1, 2015
gian University of Science and Technology http:/-
/www.nt.ntnu.no/users/irja/ Irja Ida Ratikainen
<irja.i.ratikainen@ntnu.no >
OtagoUNewZealand
PopulationGeneticTheory
Two PhD Projects Available
University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand
1. Evolution of Polymorphism. I am seeking a PhD stu-
dent to construct and analyze population-genetic models
of natural selection and mutation that can explain the
levels of genetic variation found in natural populations.
2. Population Epigenetics. I am seeking a PhD student
to construct and analyze models that incorporate epige-
netics into standard population- genetic models, with a
view to understanding patterns of epigenetic variation
in natural populations.
Candidates should be comfortable working with equa-
tions and have some computing experience. The projects
will involve a combination of analytical modelling and
computer simulation. An excellent command of both
written and spoken English is essential.
My laboratory will provide funding for research
costs, but the student will need to be admit-
ted to the University of Otago's PhD programme
(see http://www.otago.ac.nz/study/phd/handbook/-
index.html) and be awarded a University of Otago Doc-
toral Scholarship (see http://www.otago.ac.nz/study/-
scholarships/database/otago014687.html), which will
cover normal living expenses and tuition fees for three
years. Interested applicants should contact me, includ-
ing (1) a brief cover letter outlining their research inter-
ests, (2) a comprehensive CV, (3) an academic transcript
and (4) contact details of two referees.
Professor Hamish G. Spencer E:
hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz W: http:/-
/www.otago.ac.nz/zoology/sta/-
spencer.html \hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz"
<hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz >PlymouthU 7
AdaptationToClimateChange
Plymouth University (UK) is advertising 50 PhD
projects, fully funded for European students, including
7 projects in the School of Biological Sciences (this is a
competitive scheme and not all projects will necessarily
be funded).
Projects in the School include those investigating
evolutionary and ecological responses to climate
change - project titles are listed below; full de-
tails for each project are available at the Graduate
School website (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/student-
life/your-studies/the-graduate- school/fully-funded-phd-
studentships/science-and-engineering).
Applications to be made via the Graduate School web-
site.
Project titles in the School of Biological Sciences:
1. Development of an ex vivo model to assess dietary
induced inammation in sh
2. A biologically meaningful evaluation of phenological
responses to climate change
3. Evolutionary mechanisms of adaptation to tempera-
ture variation
4. Analytical, toxicogenomics and modelling approaches
to determine the impacts of radionuclides and metals
5. Biotechnological potential of methanotrophic bacteria
for production of sh/animal feeds
6. Facing up to climate change: the role of aspect and
micro-climate in species colonisation and persistence
7. Sustainable shellsheries and water quality
Dr Michael Thom Lecturer in Evolutionary
Biology School of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Plymouth PL4 8AA +44(0) 1752
5 84473 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/sta/-
michael-thom \michael.thom@plymouth.ac.uk"
<michael.thom@plymouth.ac.uk >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 13
PotsdamU
AmphibianEvolutionaryGenomics
DFG-funded PhD position in Evolutionary Genomics
of Amphibians at Potsdam University
A 3-year PhD position (TVEL 13; 65%) is available at
the Unit of Evolutionary Biology/Systematic Zoology at
the University of Potsdam, starting October 1 ^st 2015.
The Unit of Evolutionary Biology/Systematic Bi-
ology has a strong focus on population genetic
and speciation research, involving various taxo-
nomic groups and a suite of molecular, morpho-
logical, and behavioural approaches (see http://-
www.uni-potsdam.de/ibb/arbeitsgruppen/ordentliche-
professuren/evolutionsbiologie-spez-zoologie.html for
recent work).
The successful applicant will work on the genomic ba-
sis of adaptation in the Fire-bellied toad (Bombina
bombina). The project will have a strong bioinformatics
component as well as it will include both eld work
and experimental approaches. The project is part of
the DFG-funded priority program Rapid evolutionary
adaptation: Potential and constraints).
Applicants must hold a university degree (Diplom oder
Master of Science in biology, bioinformatics, or a re-
lated discipline). Familiarity with modern molecular
genetic techniques (PCR etc.), genomic data analysis,
multivariate statistics and/or eld/experimental work
on amphibians is desirable.
The University of Potsdam is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. If equally qualied, disabled applicants will
be preferably considered. The University of Potsdam
aims at increasing the number of female researchers and
encourages qualied females to apply.
Potsdam is a beautiful city in close vicinity to the Ger-
man capital of Berlin. Potsdam University takes an
eort to assist its members in family-related issues and
has repeatedly been awarded the total e-quality award.
Please send your application by email (preferably in
a single pdf) before 31 ^th of August 2015 to: Prof.
Dr. Ralph Tiedemann, University of Potsdam, Insti-
tute of Biochemistry and Biology, Evolutionary Bi-
ology/Systematic Zoology, Karl-Liebknecht-Str. 24-
25, Haus 26, D-14476 Potsdam, Germany, Email:
tiedeman@uni-potsdam.deProf. Dr. Ralph Tiedemann Unit of Evolution-
ary Biology/Systematic Zoology Institute of Bio-
chemistry and Biology University of Potsdam Karl-
Liebknecht-Str. 24-25, Haus 26 D-14476 Pots-
dam Germany Tel: +49-331-977-5249, -5253 (secre-
tary) Fax: +49-331-977-5070 Email tiedeman@uni-
potsdam.de www.uni-potsdam.de/ibb/evolution Ralph
Tiedemann <tiedeman@uni-potsdam.de >
Switzerland
RapidAdaptationGenomics
The Department of Fish Ecology and Evolution (FishEc)
located in Kastanienbaum (Lucerne, Switzerland) has
a vacancy for a 1 PhD-student in Genomics of Rapid
Adaptation.
The notion that evolution can be rapid, when adaptive
changes and changes in population size occur at the same
time scale, raises questions regarding the genetic basis of
adaptive traits and the need to understand the temporal
dynamics of adaptive evolution, i.e., how frequent adap-
tive changes are and what inuences the rate of change.
Experiments with chemostat systems showed that host
(Chlorella green algae) and virus rapidly evolved re-
sistance and counter adaptation. The entanglement
of the coevolutionary and population size dynamics
(eco-evolutionary dynamics) makes this a fascinating
study system of rapid evolution. The experiments are
replicated and tness of the populations and individual
clones at dierent time can be assessed.
The PhD project advertised here is aiming to study the
underlying genomic changes evolving during experimen-
tal host virus coevolution. A goal will be to dierentiate
between neutral and adaptive changes and characteriz-
ing the dynamics of those changes across the time course
of the experiments. This will require the development of
innovative analysis methods, which make full use of the
replicated and innovative experimental setup aiming to
disentangle the eect of selection and demography.
The successful candidate will have substantial opportu-
nities to develop his or her own research skills and
to assist in the supervision of Bachelors, and Mas-
ter students. The work will consist of the analysis
of next generation whole genome data, the develop-
ment of bioinformatics pipelines and tools, and the
interpretation and publication of the results. This
study will be carried out in a close collaboration be-
tween the Fish Genomics group at Eawag Kastanien-14 EvolDir September 1, 2015
baum (http://www.eawag.ch/en/department/shec/-
main-focus/sh-genomics/) and Lutz Becks and the
group of Community Dynamics at the Max Planck
Institute for Evolutionary Biology in Pl on (http://-
web.evolbio.mpg.de/comdyn/Site/Welcome.html).
Applications are sought from individuals with a pro-
found interest in Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics. Applicants should have earned a MSc-degree
(or equivalent) in a relevant eld of evolutionary biology,
or bioinformatics. Excellent communication skills in En-
glish and skills in team work are essential. The position
is nanced by the Swiss National Science Foundation.
We are a research department of Eawag (Department of
Fish Ecology and Evolution; http://www.eawag.ch/-
forschung/shec/index EN) and a division (Aquatic
Ecology) of the Institute of Ecology and Evolution of
the University of Bern, and the successful candidate will
have a unique possibility to take advantage of both these
excellent academic environments. The work place is at
Eawag's Center for Ecology, Evolution and Biogeochem-
istry in Kastanienbaum, Lucerne, which besides the
Fish Ecology and Evolution Department hosts research
group from the Departments \Aquatic Ecology" and
\Surface Waters - Research & Management" and oers
a beautiful workplace at the shores of Lake Lucerne,
a friendly international working climate and a strong
cross-disciplinary research environment. The successful
candidate will be enrolled in the University of Bern
PhD-student program.
Applications must be submitted by 31 September 2015
and should include an application letter describing your
interests and their relevance to this position, a CV, uni-
versity diplomas, and the names and contact information
for two references. Eawag is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. Women are explicitly encouraged to apply. The
starting date for the position is anticipated as soon as
possible. For further information, please contact Philine
Feulner (philine.feulner@eawag.ch; +41 58 765 21 06)
We look forward to receiving your application through
our webpage, any other way of applying will not be con-
sidered. Please follow the link https://apply.reine.ch/-
673277/0393/pub/1/index.html, this will take you to
the application form.
\Feulner, Philine" <Philine.Feulner@eawag.ch >TexasTechU
GenomicsMolecularEvolution
The Ray laboratory in the Department of Biological
Sciences at Texas Tech University is looking for mo-
tivated graduate students to perform research in the
area of animal genomics, molecular evolution, and bioin-
formatics. The laboratory focuses on using cutting
edge computational resources and bioinformatic tools
to study the evolution of genomes at a broad taxonomic
scale. In particular, we examine patterns of transpos-
able element activity, small RNAs, genome structure
and transcriptomics in a variety of taxa including bats,
rodents, crocodilians, and insects. We study the im-
pact of all of these processes on taxonomic diversity.
Recent (2014/2015) publications have appeared in Sci-
ence, Molecular Biology and Evolution, Genome Biology
and Evolution, Genomics, and Mobile DNA. Research
includes a combination of eld and laboratory studies.
Multiple positions are open and we encourage students
to apply for the academic year beginning in August
of 2016. Applicants should preferably have or should
be nishing a master ^As degree and have a desire to
learn and use bioinformatics tools and/or develop their
own. Teaching and research assistantships are avail-
able to support graduate students in an active and
competitive research environment. For more informa-
tion on our research, eld work, and a comprehen-
sive list of publications, please direct your browser to
www.davidraylab.com or write to david.a.ray@ttu.edu.
Texas Tech harbors a vibrant research community in
the South Plains of West Texas. The Department of
Biological Sciences at TTU has particular strengths in
Evolutionary Biology, Genomics, Molecular Biology and
Ecology. We have a close working relationship with the
Genetic Resources Collection at the Natural Sciences
Research Laboratory (NSRL) housed at the Museum
of Texas Tech. For more information about the de-
partment, visit http://www.biol.ttu.edu . { David A.
Ray
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sci-
ences Texas Tech University Phone: (806) 834-
1677 www.davidraylab.com www.crocgenomes.org/-
david.4.ray@gmail.com
Even the best of us have bad days. \I am very poorly to-
day and very stupid and hate everyone and everything."
- Charles Darwin - Oct. 1, 1861September 1, 2015 EvolDir 15
David Ray <david.4.ray@gmail.com >
TrentU AdaptiveGenomics
Graduate Students in Adaptive Genomics
A collaborative research program on characterizing genes
important for adaptation to climate change is seeking
MSc and PhD students with strong quantitative skills.
This project is a partnership between academic and
provincial government agencies and builds on a multi-
year dataset. Students with interest or experience in
conservation genetics, molecular ecology, landscape ecol-
ogy/genetics, molecular biology and/or bioinformatics
will be considered. Specic projects students will be
involved in range from assessing the adaptive dier-
ences and hybridization between northern and south-
ern evolved species, such as the northern and south-
ern ying squirrels and deer and white-footed mice, to
characterizing the spatial genetic structure and environ-
mental variables inuencing populations within these
species. Projects will build on neutral genetic markers
and expand into genome-wide surveys to identify single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) analyses, functional
genes and mitogenomics for larger-scale population ge-
nomic proling. Applicants should submit a CV, a
statement of research interests, and the names and con-
tact information for three references.
Please submit applications to:
Dr. Paul J. Wilson Canada Research Chair in DNA
Proling, Forensics & Functional Genomics Trent Uni-
versity, 1600 West Bank Drive, Peterborough, ON,
K9J7B8 Phone 705.748.1011 ext. 7259 Website:
www.wilsoncrcresearch.ca pawilson@trentu.ca
or
Dr. Je Bowman Research Scientist Wildlife Re-
search & Monitoring Section Ontario Ministry of
Natural Resources Trent University DNA Building
2140 East Bank Drive Peterborough, ON, K9J 7B8
Phone 705-755-1555 je.bowman@ontario.ca http:/-
/people.trentu.ca/jebowman \jillianlalor@trentu.ca"
<jillianlalor@trentu.ca >UBasel HostPathogenCoevolution
University of Basel, Switzerland
PhD-position in host-pathogen interactions
is available in the group of Dieter Ebert at Basel Uni-
versity, Basel, Switzerland. I am looking for a highly
motivated candidate with interests in evolutionary ge-
netics and host-parasite interactions. The PhD project
is concerned with the coevolution of the bacterium Pas-
teuria ramosa and its host Daphnia magna. The aim of
the project is to gain insights into the genetic interac-
tions of the pathogen and its host using eld-based, ex-
perimental and population genetic/genomic approaches.
The position is supported by the Swiss National Science
Foundation and the University of Basel. The Ebert
research group covers the entire range from epidemiolog-
ical and ecological aspects of host-symbiont interactions,
to studies on the population genetics and genomics of
hosts and symbionts. For more information see: http:/-
/evolution.unibas.ch/ebert/ Starting date for the PhD
is negotiable (any time from October 2015 onwards).
Speaking German is helpful in every day life in Basel,
but is not a requirement. The working language in
the group is English. A Diploma or Master degree (or
equivalent) in biology or related subject is necessary for
admission.
Please send your application by email (all material in
one PDF please) to Dieter Ebert. Applications should
include a CV, a list of publications and a statement
about research interests (motivation letter). Please give
names and email addresses of two persons who are will-
ing to write a letter of recommendation. Application
deadline is 7. Sept. 2015.
Further information and address for application:
Prof. Dr. Dieter Ebert, University of Basel, In-
stitute of Zoology, Basel, Switzerland, Email: di-
eter.ebert@unibas.ch Tel. +41-(0)61-267 03 60. Web:
http://evolution.unibas.ch/ebert/ You may come and
nd me during the ESEB meeting in August in Lau-
sanne.
Dieter Ebert Universit at Basel, Zoologisches Institut,
Vesalgasse 1, 4051 Basel, Switzerland Tel. +41
(0)61 267 03 60 Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
http://www.evolution.unibas.ch/ebert/ di-
eter.ebert@unibas.ch16 EvolDir September 1, 2015
UColorado Boulder 2
LichenGenomics
We are currently seeking applications for 2 PhD students
{ one to be based at The University of Colorado, and
one to be based at The New York Botanical Garden {
to advance research on a recently funded project on bio-
diversity gradients in a global lichen diversity hotspot:
the Southern Appalachian Mountains of eastern North
America.
The PhD students will be expected to develop an in-
dependent research project pertinent to the theme of
lichen bioidversity gradients in the southern Appalachi-
ans. This research will draw evidence from diverse elds
such as genomics, eldwork, and systematic biology
including:
-intensive eld study and biodiversity inventory -
molecular systematics, taxonomy, phylogenomics -
biodiversity gradients, biogeography, endemism -large
scale genome assemblies for algal and fungal symbiotic
partners -outreach and conservation
Prior experience or training in lichenology or mycology
are preferred. The PhD position is to be begin in the fall
of 2016 (refer to our respective websites for information
on admissions to our programs).
Prospective students should inquire directly with Erin
Tripp (erin.tripp@colorado.edu; University of Colorado)
or James Lendemer (jlendemer@nybg.org; New York
Botanical Garden), including your CV as well as state-
ment of interest in your inquiry.
Assistant Professor, Department of Ecology & Evolu-
tionary Biology Curator of Botany, Museum of Natural
History (COLO Herbarium) University of Colorado,
Boulder C105 Ramaley Hall, Campus Box 334 Boul-
der, CO 80309-0350 phone: 303.492.1862 (EBIO) phone:
303.492.2462 (Herbarium) fax: 303.492.0823 (or 4195)
Erin Tripp <erin.tripp@colorado.edu >UGreifswald Germany
BirdEvolutionaryPhysiology
University of Greifswald, Zoological Institute and Mu-
seum
PhD position in Animal Ecology
Application deadline: 30.09.2015
The Department of Animal Ecology, Zoological Insti-
tute and Museum at the University of Greifswald invites
applications for a PhD position.
Starting date: November 1st 2015.
Duration: 3 years.
Salary: German salary scale (TV-L 13, 65%).
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD candidate with
interests in ecophysiology, behavioural ecology and evo-
lution. The general aim of the PhD project is to char-
acterize the threat that heat waves may constitute for
a tropical bird species (Gouldian nch), and how varia-
tion in terms of oxidative status may participate to this
threat. Towards this end, the candidate will measure the
eects of high temperature on (i) oxidative markers, (ii)
fertility and fecundity markers, and (iii) ageing markers.
The candidate will also examine whether these eects
can be alleviated by the consumption of natural food re-
sources of high antioxidant potency. The whole project
will be conducted in captivity at the University of Greif-
swald, but also includes collaborative work with the
universities of Groningen, Neufchatel and Strasbourg.
The successful candidate will hold a Masters in Biology
or equivalent (e.g. Dr. Vet. Med), and will have a strong
background in behavioural ecology and/or physiology.
Prior work with birds or mammals and laboratory work
will be advantageous. English communication skills are
essential and some German knowledge might also be
useful. The successful candidate will be expected to
take actively part to the set-up and the organization
of the project, as well as to take care of birds. Finally,
she/he will have the opportunity to take part to the
Graduate School RESPONSE as associated doctoral re-
searcher (http://www.mnf.uni-greifswald.de/institute/-
fr-biologie/graduiertenkolleg-rtg-2010.html).
The department of Animal Ecology works in the
eld of evolutionary ecology, focusing on life-history
evolution, stress adaptation and reproductive biol-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 17
ogy. Current projects focus on temperature stress
resistance, temperature-mediated plasticity, reproduc-
tive resource allocation, sexual selection and sexual
conict. For further information on our research,
please visit http://www.mnf.uni-greifswald.de/-
institute/fr-biologie/institute-und-forschung/zool-
institut-museum/tieroekologie.html and https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Michael Beaulieu2 .
Greifswald is a small and pleasant university town
located on the coast of the Baltic Sea between the
islands of R ugen and Usedom. The region oers great
opportunities for outdoor activities and bird watching.
Large cities like Berlin and Hambourg are easy to reach.
Applications should include:
(1) a cover letter with a short statement of motivation,
(2) a short statement of research accomplishments (max.
1 page),
(3) a CV,
(4) a list of publications (if any),
(5) the contact details of one or two academic referees.
Applications should be submitted electronically as a
single PDF le to: Dr. Micha ~Al Beaulieu e-mail:
beaulieum@uni-greifswald.de
The University of Greifswald is an equal opportunity
employer.
For any enquiries, please contact Micha ~Al Beaulieu
via e-mail.
Dr. Micha ~Al Beaulieu Zoological Institute & Museum
Greifswald University J.-S.-Bach-Str. 11/12 D-17489
Greifswald Phone: +49-3834-864266 Fax: +49-3834-
864252 \Dr. Micha ~Al Beaulieu" <beaulieum@uni-
greifswald.de >
Michael Beaulieu <miklvet@hotmail.fr >
UInnsbruck WolbachiaEvolution 2
MOLECULAR ECOLOGY, INSTITUTE OF ECOL-
OGY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK PhD student
position in Wolbachia transinfection: deadline for appli-
cation extended to 20 August 2015
We seek to hire a PhD student with training in ecologi-
cal and especially molecular-biological methods; some
research experience with arthropods and/or Wolbachia
or other bacterial endosymbionts would be an asset but
is not required. The position is a 48-months position atthe Molecular Ecology group of the Institute of Ecology,
starting from 1 October 2015; for details, see below.
Focusing on the Alpine Space, the group's mission
is interdisciplinary research, embedded in interna-
tional collaboration networks. A list of research top-
ics can be found at: http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/-
forschung/molecular ecology.html.en . ***Responsibili-
ties*** 1. transinfecting the climate-change study sys-
tem Drosophila nigrosparsa with Wolbachia 2. charac-
terising endosymbiont phenotype(s), e.g. cytoplasmic
incompatibility, sex ratio distortion 3. characterising
endosymbiont tropism(s) 4. evaluating endosymbiont in-
uence on host life history traits 5. evaluating endosym-
biont inuence on host gene expression using Illumina
sequencing (RNA-seq) 6. manuscript writing 7. contact
and collaboration with scientists at other Austrian and
international research facilities 8. teaching 1 hour/week
***Selection criteria*** A. MSc degree or equivalent
graduation B. published research experience in biology
C. proven lab skills in molecular biology and/or mi-
croscopy; skills in handling small and delicate samples
D. basic knowledge in bioinformatics, e.g. sequence
assembly, GenBank search algorithms, NGS analysis
pipelines, scripting E. ability to work as part of a multi-
disciplinary team F. ability to work independently G.
very good knowledge of English
***Salary*** The annual minimum gross salary is Euro
18,634. The salary will be higher if you have worked
in a similar position before. The contract includes full
social (health, unemployment, annuity) insurance and 5
weeks of holidays annually.
***Project details*** In an ongoing project, we have
developed the alpine y Drosophila nigrospasa towards
a model system for evolution of heat tolerance in moun-
tain arthropods and have thoroughly characterised its
life history traits. We published an annotated tran-
scriptome of the species, and the genome will become
available in due course. Maternally inherited bacte-
rial endosymbionts like Wolbachia and Spiroplasma are
widespread in insects and able to alter their host's re-
production and tness. Our lab has key experience in
the study of Wolbachia in various hosts and was the
organiser of the 8th International Wolbachia Conference
in 2014. As far as known today, Drosophila nigrosparsa
is free of endosymbionts but likely to come in close con-
tact with other, endosymbiont-infected dipterans due
to increasing temperatures in the alpine environment.
Thus, natural horizontal transfer of Wolbachia into D.
nigrosparsa might occur in the future. The successful
candidate will perform an in-depth assay of the bacterial
fauna of D. nigrosparsa and transfer Wolbachia (and
maybe other endosymbionts) into laboratory strains of18 EvolDir September 1, 2015
D. nigrosparsa using egg cytoplasma microinjection. Af-
ter successful transinfection, the y lines will be used
to study tropism, phenotypes, and life history trait al-
terations of the novel endosymbiont/host interaction in
the laboratory.
***How to apply*** To apply, please submit via the job
portal of the university at http://orawww.uibk.ac.at/-
public/karriereportal.details?asg idin=3D8484: a cover
letter, systematic point-by-point replies as to your readi-
ness for the responsibilities and how you meet the selec-
tion criteria, curriculum vitae, and complete list of pub-
lications. Arrange for at least one letter of recommenda-
tion to be sent to <birgit.schlick-steiner@uibk.ac.at >.
Applications must be written in English. The deadline
for receipt of all applications has been extended to 20
August 2015. ***The research institution and its envi-
ronment*** Detailed information about the Molecular
Ecology group can be found at http://www.uibk.ac.at/-
ecology/forschung/molecular ecology.html.en. The Uni-
versity of Innsbruck has a long-standing and interna-
tionally renowned tradition in life sciences and oers
a vibrant research atmosphere. It has 28,000 students
and 4,500 sta members. Innsbruck is situated in the
Alps and very close to Switzerland, Germany, and Italy;
scenery and outdoor recreation are fantastic.
***More information needed?*** For more information,
please contact: Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner <birgit.schlick-
steiner@uibk.ac.at >
Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UKiel PopulationGenomics
AntibioticResistance
The Department of Evolutionary Ecology and Genetics
at the Zoological Institute of the University of Kiel is
seeking to ll a position within the research project
\Population Genomics of antibiotic resistance" for a
**PhD student (m/f)**
Deadline for applications: 30 August 2015. Start of
position: October 2015 or soon afterwards.The position will be for three years. The regular weekly
working hours amount to 65% of a full time position (at
the moment 25.155 hours). The salary will be according
to the German TV-L-13 pay scale.
*Project: *
The alarming spread of resistant bacteria is complicat-
ing even the most routine clinical interventions. Case in
point are highly resistant /Pseudomonas aeruginosa/,
which cause almost untreatable respiratory and wound
infections in the hospital, and play a driving role in
cystic brosis.
Our research program is aimed at investigating ways in
which existing antibiotics can be intelligently used to
prevent or at least slow down the evolution of resistance.
The project will involve /in vitro/experimental evolu-
tion using /Pseudomonas aeruginosa/and subsequent
phenotypic, genomic and functional-genetic analyses of
resistant strains. The aim of this PhD project is to
study the role of population-genetic/genomic processes
in rapid evolution of resistance during combination ther-
apy.
The project is funded by the German Science Founda-
tion (DFG, Priority Program SPP1819 Rapid Evolution)
and will be based in the Department of Evolutionary
Ecology and Genetics at the University of Kiel, North-
ern Germany, under the supervision of Dr. Gunther
Jansen (http://www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/-
antibiotics/). The department provides an interna-
tional and interactive atmosphere, while Kiel University
and connected institutes (e.g., Max Planck Institute in
Ploen) oer a stimulating research environment with
a particular focus on evolutionary biology. The city of
Kiel is a medium-sized pleasant town located at the
coast of the Baltic Sea. It is the capital of the most
Northern state of Germany, Schleswig-Holstein. It oers
many opportunities for leisure activities, including the-
atres, an opera, the Schleswig-Holstein classical music
festival, the world's largest metal festival in Wacken,
sailing, surng, cycling, and the famous festivities of
the \Kieler Woche" { one of the major sailing events in
Europe.
*Requirements for the position:*
Master in biology, genetics, microbiology, biochemistry
or related topic; excellent background in microbiology,
evolution, genetics and statistics; knowledge of basic
molecular techniques; experience with complex experi-
mental designs; high motivation; a collaborative spirit;
uency in English is a must.
The University of Kiel strives to increase the proportion
of women in research and education. It therefore encour-
ages qualied women to apply. Women will be preferredSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 19
in cases of comparable qualications. It also explicitly
welcomes applications from people with a migratory
background. The University further makes an eort to
employ disabled people and will prefer such candidates
in case of equal qualication.
Please send applications with CV, one-page statement
of research interests, and two references, as a pdf-
le by email to gjansen@zoologie.uni-kiel.de. Please
refrain from submitting photos. For further details
and questions, you are welcome to contact me at
gjansen@zoologie.uni-kiel.de.
I look forward to your application!
{
Gunther Jansen, PhD Department of Evolution-
ary Ecology and Genetics Zoological Institute
Christian-Albrechts-Universitaet zu Kiel Am Botanis-
chen Garten 1-9 24118 Kiel Germany Tel.: +49
431 880 4148 Fax: +49 431 880 2403 Email:
gjansen@zoologie.uni-kiel.de URL: http://www.uni-
kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/jansen/ http://www.uni-
kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/evolreservoirs/ Gunther
Jansen <gjansen@zoologie.uni-kiel.de >
UlmU Germany MolecularEvolution
*Two MSc projects at the Institute of Evolutionary
Ecology and Conservation Genomics, Ulm University,
Germany** ** **Start September/October 2015*
*Project description* The Greater Flamingo, Phoeni-
copterus roseus, is a partially long-distance migratory
and dispersing waterbird species. It is the most abun-
dant avian species in Mediterranean wetlands and feeds
intensively in areas where a large number of birds have
defecated in shallow waters, which increases the risk
of gastrointestinal pathogen infection. It is therefore
an ideal model organism to investigate the interactions
between MHC diversity, gastrointestinal bacterial com-
munities and tness of a long-distance dispersing host.
We are seeking two master students to carry out the
following two projects:
1. By using a relatively large sample (n <400 ) of con-
temporary samples (2014) the student will investigate
the association between MHC Class II exon 2 diversity
and gastrointestinal bacterial community of breeding
populations across the Mediterranean basin.
2. By combining a large number of samples collected inFrance (n <1000), a long-term life-history dataset (1995-
1998) and recently available next-generation sequencing
methods, the master student will identify MHC-tness
trait correlations.
*Project qualications* The applicants should have a de-
gree in Molecular Biology/Zoology/Ecology/Evolution
or similar discipline. We are looking for candidates who
have some experience working in a molecular labora-
tory and are prepared to learn state of the art next
generation sequencing methods. Both successful appli-
cants will be expected to work closely in the lab since
they will be both doing very similar work, albeit on
dierent samples. The students must also be enthusias-
tic about both working in the laboratory and learning
complex statistical models (particularly project 2 which
will require capture-mark-recapture models). Finally
candidates should be procient in speaking and writing
in English.
*How to apply* To apply please send a CV and a letter
of motivation by email to:
mark.gillingham@uni-ulm.de
More project information can be found at http://-
www.uni-ulm.de/nawi/bio3/prof-dr-simone-sommer/-
research-associates/dr-mark-gillingham.html . Prospec-
tive applicants are also welcome to inquire about
further information.
{ Dr. Mark Gillingham University of Ulm Institute
of Evolutionary Ecology and Conservation Genomics
Albert-Einstein Allee 11 D-89069 Ulm Tel.: 0049-731-
5022660 Fax: 0049-731-5022683 mark.gillingham@uni-
ulm.de
Mark Gillingham <mark.gillingham@uni-ulm.de >
UMelbourne
EvolutionAnimalColourSignals
PhD Project Available (Commencing 2016) School of
BioSciences, The University of Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia, 3010 Causes of Colour: Mechanisms of colour
production and evolution of animal signals.
We are seeking a PhD student to work on an ARC-
funded project starting in 2016, investigating how stress
aects both pigment deposition and nano-structures of
cells and tissues which together produce colour.
The mechanisms underlying colour production have fun-
damental implications for the costs and constraints on20 EvolDir September 1, 2015
colour signals. This project will investigate how diverse
colours are produced in reptiles and the information
these colours convey about individual health, condition
and performance.
The main aims are to identify the factors driving the
evolution of two dierent classes of pigment (pteridine^ a
versus carotenoid) based signals among species; test
whether pteridine and carotenoid^ abased signals dier
in the information they convey about individual health,
condition and performance; evaluate how stress inu-
ences pteridine^ a versus carotenoid^ a based colours, the
underlying reective structures, and their interaction.
This PhD project may involve eldwork throughout
Australia, as well as laboratory work.
The student will need to obtain an Australian Post-
graduate Award (APA; $25,849 per year, or an IPRS
for international students) through The University of
Melbourne; therefore a rst-class Honours or Masters
Degree and/ or evidence of publishing in international
peer-reviewed scientic journals are essential.
Interested applicants please submit: a brief cover letter
outlining your research interests; a comprehensive CV;
academic transcript, and contact details of two referees
(including a previous research supervisor).
Closing date for applications is 25th September 2015.
For further information, and to submit an application,
please contact:
Dr. Devi Stuart-Fox
d.stuart-fox@unimelb.edu.au
devistuartfox.com
Katrina Rankin <katrina.rankin@unimelb.edu.au >
UNewBrunswick StJohn 2
CodPopulationGenomics
*PhD Position in Ecological Genomics at University of
New Brunswick Saint John: Atlantic Cod Population
Genomics (Winter or Summer 2016)*
A position is available for a PhD student to partici-
pate in an integrated Atlantic Cod genomics research
program. The student will use cutting edge genomics
techniques to assess population structure, adaptive ge-
netic variability, and genotype-phenotype associations in
recovering Atlantic Cod populations in Atlantic Canada.
The student will be part of a new Canada ResearchChair lab in Aquatic Molecular Ecology and Ecological
Genomics at the University of New Brunswick in Saint
John.
Funding is available for a stipend or top-up bonus for
students with funding. The student will use state-of-
the-art laboratory equipment, including robotics, to
streamline repetitive tasks and will have priority ac-
cess to a high-powered computer with 1.5 TB of RAM
for bioinformatics. The lab is located at the Canadian
Rivers Institute (www.canadianriversinstitute.ca).
Strong candidates will have a solid quantitative back-
ground with experience in genetics and genomics lab
work and/or bioinformatics. Candidates must have a
positive attitude and willingness to work with a team.
Experience in programing with R, Python or Perl com-
puter languages is a plus.
The position will begin in the winter or summer
term of 2016. Submit a Cover Letter, CV, contact
information for three references and unocial tran-
scripts that include course names to Dr. Scott Pavey
(scott.pavey@unb.ca). Application packages will be ac-
cepted until the position is lled.
|{
*MSc. Position in Ecological Genomics at University of
New Brunswick Saint John: Striped Bass Adaptation
(Winter or Summer 2016)*
A position is available for a Masters of Science student
to participate in an integrated Striped Bass genomics
research program. The student will use ecologically di-
vergent populations and full-genome re-sequencing to
determine the genetic basis of adaptation. The student
will be part of a new Canada Research Chair lab in
Aquatic Molecular Ecology and Ecological Genomics at
the University of New Brunswick in Saint John.
Funding is available for a stipend or top-up bonus for
students with funding. The student will use state-of-
the-art laboratory equipment, including robotics, to
streamline repetitive tasks and will have priority ac-
cess to a high-powered computer with 1.5 TB of RAM
for bioinformatics. The lab is located at the Canadian
Rivers Institute (www.canadianriversinstitute.ca).
Suitable candidates will have a solid quantitative back-
ground with experience in genetics and genomics lab
work and/or bioinformatics. Candidates must have a
positive attitude and willingness to work with a team.
Experience in programing with R, Python or Perl com-
puter languages is a plus.
The position will begin in the winter or summer
term of 2016. Submit a Cover Letter, CV, contact
information for three references and unocial tran-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 21
scripts that include course names to Dr. Scott Pavey
(scott.pavey@unb.ca). Application packages will be ac-
cepted until the position is lled.
{ Scott A. Pavey PhD Canada Research Chair in
Aquatic Molecular Ecology and Ecological Genomics
Department of Biological Sciences & Canadian Rivers
Institute 100 Tucker Park Road University of New
Brunswick Saint John Saint John, New Brunswick,
Canada, E2L 4L5 Oce: CRI 201 Lab: CRI: 215 Lab
website: www.scottpavey.com <http://www.unb.ca/-
saintjohn/sase/research/kiddlab/index.html >CRI web-
site: www.canadianriversinstitute.com Ph. 506-638-
2434
Scott Pavey <scottapavey@gmail.com >
UOtago EpigeneticInheritance
PhD position studying the eect of parental experience
on transgenerational epigenetic inheritance in sh
Parents inuence their ospring in multiple ways, but
recent studies have highlighted the role of non-genetic
(epigenetic) pathways. Revolutionary new work sug-
gests that life-history challenges experienced by parents
may be transmitted epigenetically to increase ospring
tness. We seek a highly motivated and enthusiastic
student to investigate whether environmental challenges
experienced aect the tness of multiple generations,
and to identify key candidate genes for transgenera-
tional eects. This work will use a vertebrate model,
the zebrash (Danio rerio), and involves extensive ex-
perimental work manipulating environmental stressors
(e.g. toxins, hypoxia), personality and life-history phe-
notyping, breeding the lines through to obtain multi-
generational data, and the generation and analysis of
next-generation sequence data. This work involves an
exciting multidisciplinary team led by Dr. Sheri John-
son (Department of Zoology, University of Otago, New
Zealand): two collaborators from Otago (Prof Neil Gem-
mell and Dr Tim Hore in the Department of Anatomy),
a collaborator at the University of New South Wales
(Associate Prof Shinichi Nakagawa) and a collabora-
tor from Uppsala University (Associate Prof Simone
Immler).
Selection criteria: We seek a student with a strong aca-
demic record, a keen interest in behavioural ecology,
appropriate practical and technical experience, and a
demonstrated ability in written and oral communication.Application/scholarship details: If you are interested
in joining our exciting project at Otago, please send
an e-mail with an expression of interest, explaining
why you are interested in this project, and your CV to
Sheri Johnson (sheri.johnson@otago.ac.nz). High qual-
ity applicants will apply for an Otago PhD scholarship,
which covers tuition and provides a stipend ($25000
NZD/year).
The position will remain advertised until lled.
For information on PhD study at the University of
Otago, including entry requirements, see: http://-
www.otago.ac.nz/postgraduate/index.html . For infor-
mation on the Department of Zoology, see: http://-
www.otago.ac.nz/zoology . Sheri L. Johnson, PhD
Lecturer of Behavioural Ecology
sheri.johnson@otago.ac.nz Department of Zoology j
M102 University of Otago jTe Whare W ~A >1
2nanga o
Ot~A >1
2go Box 56 Dunedin 9054 New Zealand Ax340
Great King St AxP (64) (3) 479- 7929 AxF (64) (3)
479-7584 Axhttp://www.otago.ac.nz/Zoology Sheri
Johnson <sheri.johnson@otago.ac.nz >
URhodeIsland ComputationalNGS
The Zhang lab at the University of Rhode Island in-
vites applicants for graduate students positions in the
computational analysis of next-generation sequencing
data. We are specically interested in the comparative
analysis of meta-omics and mathematical modeling of
metabolic activities. More information can be found at
http://zhanglab.uri.edu/ Applicants for this position
should have a BS or MS degree in bioinformatics, mi-
crobiology, environmental sciences, computer sciences,
or related elds. Prociency in computer programming
(e.g. in Python, C, etc) and familiarity with the Linux
command-line systems are expected. Good analytical
skills and previous trainings in statistics will be consid-
ered favorably. Some experience with basic laboratory
skills in molecular biology, including DNA/RNA extrac-
tion, PCR, electrophoresis and DNA sequencing will be
an asset, but not required. Interested applicants should
contact Dr. Ying Zhang (yingzhang@uri.edu) to discuss
eligibility and potential projects.
Thanks, Ying
*** New email address: yingzhang@uri.edu ***
Ying Zhang Assistant Professor Department of Cell and22 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Molecular Biology College of the Environment and Life
Sciences University of Rhode Island
Ying Zhang <yingzhang@uri.edu >
USaskatchewan LentilGenomics
Graduate student opportunity
START DATE: September 2015 or January 2016
SUMMARY OF RESEARCH: The overall goal of our
large scale lentil genomics project is to develop and ap-
ply genomic tools in the lentil breeding program at the
University of Saskatchewan to improve the productivity
of Canadian lentils. Extensive genotyping and pheno-
typing will be conducted to characterize the primary
and secondary gene pools of the genus Lens. The infor-
mation will then be used to gain better understanding
of the adaptation and domestication processes of lentil
in three main growing regions of the world. Specically,
this position will involve population genomic analysis
of exome capture and other next generation sequenc-
ing datasets as well as analysis of phenotypic datasets.
It is anticipated that resources and tools arising from
this project will allow breeders to better use exotic
germplasm and wild relatives to expand the genetic
diversity of the Canadian lentil breeding program.
QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. applicants should have (or
expect to soon complete) a M.Sc. degree from a rec-
ognized University. A publication record is a denite
asset.
**PLEASE NOTE: The graduate student must be able
to travel to the United States on a regular basis to
complete some of the research components**
Successful applicants will have a strong academic back-
ground and will be expected to apply for scholarship
funding if selected for the position. A strong commit-
ment to pursuing a research career, good communication
and writing skills, and the ability to work in a team envi-
ronment are essential qualities. A successful application
to the College of Graduate Studies and Research at the
University of Saskatchewan will be required. Informa-
tion on College admission requirements and application
forms can be obtained at www.usask.ca/cgsr ORGA-
NIZATIONS/LOCATIONS: The Pulse Crop Research
Group at the Department of Plant Sciences, University
of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada is unique in its
scope and expertise in pulse crop research, and is home
to one of the largest pulse crop (lentil, pea, chickpea,common bean, faba bean) breeding programs in the
world.
http://agbio.usask.ca/departments/plant-sciences/-
index.php This project is in collaboration with Florida
International University (FIU) in Miami, Florida, USA.
FIU, located at the edge of Everglades National Park,
is the largest Hispanic-serving public university in the
US with strengths in ecology and agroecology. Faculty
and students at FIU work closely with several botanic
gardens, including the US National Tropical Botanic
Garden and Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Please refer to http:/-
/agbio.usask.ca/students/graduate/index.php for addi-
tional information regarding graduate programs at the
Department of Plant Sciences, College of Agriculture
and Bioresources. SALARY: $24,000/yr for 4 years for
a Ph.D. student
TO APPLY: Submit your curriculum vita, a one-page
statement of research experience and interests, names
and contact information for three (3) references to Drs.
Kirstin Bett and Eric von Wettberg (c/o: Crystal Chan,
crystal.chan@usask.ca)
Eric Bishop von Wettberg Biological Sciences Florida
International University Miami, Fl, USA 305 348 2298
Eric J Bishop-von Wettberg <ebishopv@u.edu >
UTasmania BeetleBarcoding
PhD project in molecular approaches to applied forest
conservation and biomonitoring - Tasmania, Australia
The project is supported by an Australian Research
Council Linkage grant \A new integrated approach for
ecologically sustainable forest management" in collabo-
ration with state forest management agencies Forestry
Tasmania and VicForests. The project will compare
managed tall wet eucalypt forest landscapes in Tasma-
nia and Victoria with varying amounts and congura-
tions of mature forest. A challenge in both landscapes
is balancing timber supply with habitat conservation
for biodiversity. Advanced technologies will be devel-
oped for monitoring forest biodiversity and assessing
biological responses to forest age and fragmentation.
Decision theoretic approaches will be developed to as-
sist forest managers to optimise retention strategies for
conservation.
One of the PhD projects (based in the Biological Sci-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 23
ences School at UTAS) will develop next generation
DNA technology for beetles. Traditional morphology-
based identication will be combined with the lat-
est molecular methods to develop metabarcoding ap-
proaches that can identify species and potentially pro-
vide information on relative abundance of beetles from
eld-samples. Responses of beetles to forest landscapes
will be quantied, and patterns of community assem-
blage investigated phylogenetically. A background in
molecular approaches and good quantitative (bioinfor-
matics) skills would be benecial.
Eligibility The ARC grant provides funding for project
running costs and top-up scholarships ($7,000 per year
for 3.5 years). Students would need to be able to obtain
their own base-level scholarship, most likely through
the UTAS competitive scheme ( ~$23,000 per year for
3.5 years), where scholarships are available to both do-
mestic (Australian and New Zealand) and International
candidates. Successful applicants will hold a rst class
Honours or Masters degree or an equivalent combination
of qualications and experience. In addition, at least one
previous publication in a reputable international journal
will greatly improve the likelihood of attaining a scholar-
ship. Applicants with other sources of scholarship funds
will be considered. With respect to the project, appli-
cants must be procient in spoken and written English
and molecular laboratory techniques (NGS desirable).
Note that Scholarship application rounds at UTAS close
at the end of September and October for International
and Domestic applicants, respectively.
Environment The University of Tasmania is one of Aus-
tralia's top 10 research Universities, and within which,
the School of Biological Sciences is the research-leading
school, containing a vibrant mixture and diversity of
research activities, students, and academics. Hobart pro-
vides a low-cost-of-living environment with benign cli-
mate and proximity to wilderness areas (including World
Heritage Areas). Animal-based DNA-related research
within the School are detailed at www.evogentas.org
. Enquiries Interested applicants should contact Dr
Chris Burridge (chris.burridge@utas.edu.au). Please in-
clude a statement of your background and interest, your
Curriculum Vitae, and a copy of your undergraduate
academic transcripts.
Chris Burridge jSenior Lecturer, Molecular Ecol-
ogy & Evolution School of Biological Sciences j
University of Tasmania jPrivate Bag 55 jHobart
jTasmania 7001 jAustralia Room 320a Life Sci-
ences BuildingjPh +61 3 6226 7653 jFax +61
3 6226 2698jhttps://rmdb.research.utas.edu.au/-
public/rmdb/q/indiv detail warp trans/3975#research-
tab-5 http://scholar.google.com.au/citations?user=-
3D4cYH8ZYAAAAJ&hl=3Den evogentas.org\Chris.Burridge@utas.edu.au"
<Chris.Burridge@utas.edu.au >
UTronse Norway Metabarcoding
UTromsoe Norway.PhD candidate Metabarcoding
Application deadline: 15.09.2015
Ref.no: 2015/399
Troms ~A University Museum has a PhD position va-
cant from 1st of July 2015 for applicants who wish to
obtain the degree of Philosophiae Doctor (PhD). The
position is attached to the research group in taxonomy
and biodiversity.
The appointment is for a period of four years.
The PhD position will be connected to two ongoing
projects. 1) The Norwegian Barcode of Life project
(NorBol, http://www.norbol.org/en/) is a national net-
work of research institutions collaborating on DNA bar-
coding of organisms in Norway and a regional node
in the International Barcode of Life Project (iBOL <
http://www.ibol.org/ >). For vascular plants, we do
low coverage shotgun sequencing of genomic DNA and
assemble the whole plastid DNA, nuclear rDNA and
large parts of mitochondrial genome. 2) The After Ice
DNA Metabarcoding project (http://en.uit.no/ansatte/-
inger.g.alsos) explores the occurrence of boreal species
at northern latitudes by ancient DNA analyses using the
P6 loop of the plastid DNA trnL (UUA) intron. Lake
sediments have been collected at key sites for palaeoen-
vironmental reconstructions in Norway and Svalbard.
The PhD candidate will bridge these projects by de-
veloping laboratory and bioinformatic tools to apply
shotgun sequencing on the ancient samples. This will
provide valuable data which the candidate will use to
explore eects of past climate change on e.g. species
turnover, dispersal, extinction, and phylogenetic diver-
sity. In both projects, we collaborate with colleges at
the University Joseph Fourier in Grenoble, who run
similar projects focused on the Alps, and the candidate
is expected to spend a 3-6 month research stay there.
http://www.jobbnorge.no/ledige-stillinger/stilling/-
116506/phd-candidate-in-metabarcoding-at-tromsoe-
university-museum? Prof. Inger Greve Alsos
Troms ~A University Museum NO-9037 Troms ~A Norway
Telephone: +47 77 62 07 96 Telefax: +47 77 64 51 05
Email: inger.g.alsos@uit.no http://en.uit.no/ansatte/-24 EvolDir September 1, 2015
inger.g.alsos
UWuerzburg SexEvolution
*Evolution of sex determining regulatory networks*
Sex can be determined by a plethora of mechanisms
and the dierent mechanisms do not follow a phyloge-
netic pattern. Moreover sex determination is highly
variable, sometimes even among closely related groups
of organisms. The current understanding is that the
primary signal, which triggers the genetic sex determi-
nation cascade, diers between the various groups of
organisms, while the downstream regulatory network
remained evolutionarily highly conserved. Our recent
results and a detailed re-examination of previous work
indicate however, that also downstream of the primary
sex determiner a great variety of molecular mechanisms
exist. This is in stark contrast to the molecular control
of other vertebrate organ systems. So far, no explana-
tion has been oered how such a variety in the molecular
pathways of sexual development is possible and why it
exists.
Teleost sh show a particular wide variety of sex deter-
mination mechanisms were even sister species can have
totally dierent modes how the male vs. female decision
during embryogenesis is made. We use sh of the genus
/Oryzias/ (medaka and related species) as models to
approach three major questions:
1.)Are dierent SD mechanisms triggering the same, re-
lated or totally specic molecular pathways during the
process of the fate dierentiation of the gonad anlage?
2.)How stable are SD mechanisms in evolutionary terms?
3.)What is the evolutionary meaning of the high vari-
ability of sex determination mechanisms?
The PhD project will focus on the identication of
chromosomal sex determination mechanisms in dierent
species of the genus and a comparative molecular char-
acterization of regulatory interactions of a known sex
determining genetic network from the medaka /Oryzias
latipes/ in related species with similar or divergent
sex determining mechanisms. On the methodological
level the project will include up to date new sequenc-
ing technologies (RAD-tags, RNA-seq, ChIP-seq) and
the toolbox for functional analyses in evolutionary de-
velopmental biology (in-vivo bioimaging, conventional
transgenesis and genome editing by CRISPR/Cas9).The PhD project is embedded in a binational collabora-
tion between the INRA institute for sh physiology and
genomics in Rennes, France and the Biocenter of the
University in W urzburg, Germany. The PhD student
will be enrolled at the International Graduate School of
W urzburg and work at both locations according to the
experimental plan during the progress of the project.
For more details and practical information, please con-
tact Prof. Dr. Manfred Schartl (phch1@biozentrum.uni-
wuerzburg.de) at W urzburg.
For application, please send a detailed CV, letter of
motivation, copies of Bachelor/Masters certicate (or
equivalent) and a transcript of records.
Manfred Schartl <phch1@biozentrum.uni-
wuerzburg.de >
UZurich 2 Evolution
Two PhD positions. University of Zurich, Institute of
systematic Botany and Institute of Plant Biology.
RESEARCH PROJECT: The most prominent bipha-
sic organisms are multicellular land plants, where a
haploid gametophyte phase alters with a diploid sporo-
phyte phase. It is widely agreed that embryophyte land
plants have originated from a haplontic ancestor with
the evolution and subsequent elaboration of the sporo-
phyte and a parallel reduction of the gametophyte phase.
The bryophytes, the most basal group of extant land
plants, have subordinate, unbranched, monosporangiate
and upright sporophytes that remain attached to and
nurtured by the gametophyte generation. By contrast,
vascular land plants have established complex branched
sporophytes consisting of a diversity of vegetative and
reproductive organs. In spite of its evolutionary signi-
cance, information on the detailed developmental and
genetic mechanisms underlining the elaboration of the
sporophyte phase remains fragmentary. Advancement in
the eld is primarily hindered by the lack of appropriate
model systems in basal groups of land plants.
Our project proposes to ll this gap by providing a
detailed account on the regulatory mechanism govern-
ing sporophyte development in the most basal group
of extant land plants, the bryophytes. Importantly, we
have recently established two new model species, one
for mosses and one for hornworts, making this research
feasible. More specically, we propose (1) to investigate
the regulatory networks governing the development ofSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 25
the sporophyte in two major groups of bryophytes, the
mosses and hornworts, using laser capture micro dissec-
tion assisted RNA sequencing; (2) to reconstruct the
putative regulatory networks of bryophyte sporophyte
development and to assess their homology with develop-
mental mechanisms of angiosperms; and (3) nally, to
begin to experimentally verify the regulatory function
of candidate genes using reverse genetics.
This project is founded by a Swiss National Science
Foundation (SNSF) grant.
The Institute of Systematic Botany hosts research
groups working on the evolutionary and ecological
drivers of biodiversity, on the macroevolution of plants,
on plant-insect interactions/pollination, on the evolution
of mating systems, hybridization and speciation. The
Institute of Plant Biology hosts many groups working
on plant molecular and developmental biology, epigenet-
ics, community genomics and plant adaptation. Both
institutes are housed in the beautiful Botanical Gardens
and host a diverse community of researchers in plant
biology.
Ideal candidates will have an MSc in biology with a spe-
cialization in evolution, developmental genetics and/or
bioinformatics. They should be experienced in labora-
tory techniques (DNA/RNA extraction, PCR and RT-
PCR, DNA sequencing, molecular cloning, plant trans-
formation, In Situ Hybridization) with advanced skills
in handling, analyzing and interpreting high-throughput
next-generation sequencing and RNA-seq data. The
position is initially for three years. Selected candidates
will be enrolled in one of the two aliated PHD schools
in evolution or plant sciences.
CLOSING DATE: The positions are opened until lled,
but all application material including CV, a summary
of research experience, a letter of motivation, copies
of relevant publications (published or submitted) and
names and contact information of three reference per-
sons should be received by the 1st of September 2015 to
ensure full consideration. The position will start at the
earliest possible date but it is negotiable (October 2015).
Candidates should indicate in a cover letter when they
could take up the position.
^A Please send all application material to: Peter
Szovenyi, peter.szoevenyi@uzh.ch, as a single pdf doc-
ument. For enquiries please contact Peter Szovenyi
(peter.szoevenyi@uzh.ch).
Peter Szovenyi Oberassistent University of
Zurich Institute of Systematic Botany Zol-
likerstr 107 CH-8008 Zurich Phone: (+41)
044 63 48418 http://www.systbot.uzh.ch/-
Personen/ProfessorenundDozenten/szovenyi.htmlAND/OR http://peterszovenyi.weebly.com pe-
ter.szoevenyi@systbot.uzh.ch
UZurich EvolutionaryGenomics
Ph.D. student in molecular evolution at the University
of Zurich:
We are seeking a highly motivated Ph.D. student to un-
dertake an interdisciplinary project on the evolution of
transcriptional regulation. The project combines exper-
imental and computational approaches to elucidate the
relationship between mutational robustness and cryp-
tic diversity in transcription factor binding sites, and
to understand how such diversity may facilitate evolu-
tionary innovation in transcriptional regulation. The
project - funded by SystemsX V will be carried out in
the laboratory of Prof. Andreas Wagner at the Univer-
sity of Zurich. Dr. Yolanda Schaerli and Dr. Joshua L.
Payne will co-mentor the student in the experimental
and computational portions of the project, respectively.
The duration of funding is three years.
The successful candidate will have a strong background
in molecular biology and microbiological techniques.
Prior programming experience or coursework in com-
puter science is also highly desirable, as is a demon-
strated interest in evolution.
We are looking for an individual with a Masters Degree
or equivalent, who is highly motivated and can work
independently. The working language in the laboratory
is English. German skills, although helpful, are not
essential.
Zurich is a highly attractive city in beautiful surround-
ings, with a multinational population, and many educa-
tional and recreational opportunities.
Lab members are a group with very diverse backgrounds
and research projects, unied by their interests in evo-
lution and /or fundamental organizational principles of
life.
To be considered, please send a single (!) PDF
le merged from the following parts to an-
nette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch: CV including publication list
(if available), a scanned academic transcript (list of
grades in university courses), a statement of research
interests not exceeding two pages, and three references.
Please write for SystemsX iPhD position in the subject
line. Applications will be considered until the position
is lled. The desired starting date is January 1st, 201626 EvolDir September 1, 2015
or earlier.
Further information about Prof. Wagner and Drs.
Schaerli and Payne can be found at the following links:
http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/wagner/ http://-
www.ieu.uzh.ch/sta/leaders/schaerli.htmlhttp:/-
/www.ieu.uzh.ch/sta/leaders/joshuapayne.html
Joshua Payne <joshua.payne@ieu.uzh.ch >
Vienna GenomeArchitecture
PhD Project Available (Commencing 2016)
Gregor Mendel Institute, Vienna, Austria
Evolution of genome architecture
We are seeking a PhD student to work on the factors
that have resulted in higher order genome architecture
Genomes of ancestral plants show little dierentiation
in their spatial organization in contrast to owering
plants. The main aims are to determine the origin of
this change in genome architecture during plant evolu-
tion and investigate the advantages conferred. We willuse Marchantia and other related land plant ancestors
as models.
The PhD project may involve a combination of genomics,
molecular evolution, biochemistry, molecular biology, ge-
netics and state of the art microscopy depending of the
student main interest.
Our laboratory will provide funding but the stu-
dent will need to be qualied at the Vienna Bio-
center PHD program and should follow the applica-
tion at http://www.vbcphdprogramme.at/prospective-
students/how-to-apply/ Experience in bioinformatics
and/or molecular evolution would be a bonus.
Interested applicants please submit: 1) a brief cover let-
ter outlining your research interests, 2) a comprehensive
CV, 3) academic transcript and 4) contact details of
two referees (previous research supervisor).
Closing date for applications is 01 October 2015
For further information and to submit an application,
please contact:
Dr. Frederic Berger Frederic.Berger@gmi.oeaw.ac.at
website: https://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/research-
groups/frederic-berger/ \Berger, Frederic"
<frederic.berger@gmi.oeaw.ac.at >
Jobs
AgnesScottC EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
BGBM Berlin Germany SciencePolicyCoordinator . 27
BrighamYoungU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
BroadInst Massachusetts MalariaBioinformatics . . . 29
ChicagoBotanicGarden ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . 29
ClaremontCollege PhysiologyGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
ClarksonU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
CSIRO Australia 3 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
FWS Georgia FishConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . .32GregorMendelInst Vienna EvolutionaryGenomics . . 33
GroningenU TheoreticalEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
HarvardMedSchool Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
HarvardU DNASequenceTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
InstitutPasteur Bioinformatics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
KAUST EvolutionaryBioinformatics PaidInternship 37
Memphis Tennesse TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
NIE Korea Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Pioneer PlantBreeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38September 1, 2015 EvolDir 27
Pioneer PlantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
RiceU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
StockholmU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
TexasAMU AssistantCurator InsectCollection . . . . . 41
TulaneU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
TunghaiU DivingFieldAssist CoralAdaptation . . . . . 42
UCalifornia Berkeley ProgramCoordinator Cli-
mateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
UCalifornia Davis EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UCalifornia Davis MolecularAnthropology . . . . . . . . . 44
UCalifornia Davis ResTech FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . 44
UCalifornia SanDiego EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . .45
UCalifornia SantaCruz LabTech Plankton . . . . . . . . . 45
UConnecticut BioinformaticsScientist . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UFlorida Gainesville ResTech EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . 47ULouisiana EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UMaryland ResTech SpermCooperation . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UMelbourne SystemsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UMemphis EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UMichigan EvolBiologyofFishesorBirds . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UMichigan FishBirdEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UOklahoma AvianGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .51
UOklahoma PlantSystematistCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UPennsylvania ResTech ProteinEvolution . . . . . . . . . 52
UPittsburgh 3 Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Uppsala Tech Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UUtah 4 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
UWyoming 2 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
WashingtonU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
AgnesScottC EvolutionaryBiol
Although the ad species ecology, we are hoping to nd
an evolutionary ecologist.
Lock
The Agnes Scott College Biology Department invites
applications for a tenure-track Assistant Professor in
ecology and related areas, to begin August of 2016. A
strong commitment to both undergraduate teaching
and research is expected. The ideal candidate should
be prepared to conduct and publish original research
and incorporate undergraduates into his or her research
program. The 3/2 teaching load includes introductory
biology, a senior seminar course, courses in areas of
specialty, and contribution to the college global learning
or leadership objectives. A Ph.D. is required by August
of 2016, but post-doctoral experience is desired. The
successful candidate will possess teaching experience,
research publications, and a commitment to work with
a socially and economically diverse student population.
Interested applicants should e-mail their curriculum vita,
teaching and research statements, and three letters of
recommendation to: Prof. Karen J. Thompson, Chair,
Department of Biology, biosearch@agnesscott.edu.
Teaching evaluations will be solicited from selected candi-
dates later in the hiring process. Review of applications
will begin on October 1, 2015.
In addition to the biology major program, the biology
department contributes to neuroscience and molecular
biology and biochemistry BS programs as well as to en-vironmental and sustainability studies and public health
programs. The biology faculty benet from excellent
laboratory space on campus in a building dedicated to
the sciences, and the opportunity to work with other
biologists in the Atlanta area. Agnes Scott College is a
highly selective, independent national liberal arts college
for women located in metropolitan Atlanta, a cosmopoli-
tan and ethnically diverse region with a vibrant cultural
life. The college is committed to providing its faculty
with a supportive academic environment that includes a
balance of teaching, research, and service. Excellence in
undergraduate teaching, the establishment of an eec-
tive and sustainable research program, and service to the
department and the college are necessary for tenure and
promotion. Support for faculty development includes
travel funding, a one-semester research leave at full pay
after successful completion of the third-year review, a
post-tenure sabbatical program, and the opportunity
to apply for many internal professional development
awards. Agnes Scott College has a strong commitment
to diversity. The College urges members of underrep-
resented groups to apply. EOE. www.agnesscott.edu
\Rogers, Lock" <lrogers@agnesscott.edu >
BGBM Berlin Germany
SciencePolicyCoordinator
The Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin
(BGBM) is a research and collection institution with a
strong international network. Our focus is on exploring
and conserving, presenting and explaining the world's
plant diversity. The BGBM is not only a central sci-28 EvolDir September 1, 2015
entic hub of the Freie Universit at Berlin, but also on
the national and international level. It is one of the ve
largest botanic gardens worldwide.
We are looking for a Science Policy Coordinator Starting
date: 1 October 2015, Salary: according to TV-L FU,
E 13 (100%)
Responsibilities: - Scientic and administrative assis-
tance to the director in order to strengthen the scientic
prole of the BGBM, including: conceptualizing inter-
and transdisciplinary research projects on biodiversity
and raising research funds, administrating the BGBM's
Research Board, and disseminating relevant scientic
and political topics within the institution; - Liaison
with counterparts at inner-university, local, national
and international levels, including the communication
and coordination with partner institutions; - Represen-
tation of the BGBM and active participation in relevant
scientic and political organisations and bodies, on the
local, national and international level.
Required qualications: - University degree in Biology
or a related eld
Further desired qualications: - PhD in Botany or an-
other discipline that is relevant for the candidate's re-
sponsibilities - in-depth knowledge of the national and in-
ternational scientic landscape, including research fund-
ing schemes, and of the current topics in science and
environmental policy; - profound experience and com-
petence in science and project management; - excellent
communication and organizational skills; - strong com-
mand of German and English (oral and written), and
preferentially also Spanish; - demonstrated ability to
work eciently and accountably in an interdisciplinary
team, outstanding enthusiasm and a strong commitment
to promote and advance our projects.
Please submit your application and documents (CV,
certicates) with reference code \Koordinator/in" until
27 August 2015 to av-p@bgbm.org (in PDF format) or
to:
Freie Universit at Berlin ZE Botanischer Garten und
Botanisches Museum Berlin Ms. Sylke Gottwald
K onigin-Luise-Str. 6-8 14195 Berlin
The original job announcement (in German) can be
found here: http://www.fu-berlin.de/service/stellen/-
st2015/st-20150803/index.html . | Dr. Ludo A.H.
Muller Freie Universit at Berlin Institut f ur Biolo-
gie - Botanik Altensteinstrae 6 14195 Berlin Ger-
many Tel. +49 (0)30 838 56539 Fax +49 (0)30 838
4 56539 E-mail: ludo.muller@fu-berlin.de Homepage:
http://userpage.fu-berlin.de/ ~ludom/ \ludo.muller@fu-
berlin.de" <ludo.muller@fu-berlin.de >BrighamYoungU Biodiversity
Faculty Position in Biodiversity
The Department of Biology seeks to ll a full-time,
Continuing Faculty Status (BYU's equivalent to tenure-
track) position focusing on biodiversity. Qualied appli-
cants with a PhD, postdoctoral experience, and exper-
tise in a biodiversity related discipline (including, but
not limited to, systematics, evolution, ecology, conser-
vation, organismal biology, population or quantitative
genetics, evolutionary development, and biodiversity
informatics) are encouraged to apply. The successful
candidate is expected to maintain an externally funded
research program involving both undergraduate and
graduate students. Excellence in teaching is required.
Teaching responsibilities will include general biology,
and both an undergraduate and graduate course in the
candidate's area of expertise. The department oers
competitive start-up packages and reduced teaching
loads for new faculty. Interested persons should apply
online at https://yjobs.byu.edu by completing a faculty
application, and attaching a current CV and statements
of teaching and research interests. Questions may be
directed to: Steven L. Peck, Biodiversity Search Com-
mittee Chair, 4102 LSB, Department of Biology, BYU,
Provo, UT 84602 or bio@byu.edu.
The review process will begin Oct 1. Additional depart-
ment and college information is available at: http://-
biology.byu.edu/home. Brigham Young University, an
equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate on
the basis of race, color, gender, age, national origin, vet-
eran status, or against qualied individuals with disabili-
ties. All faculty are required to abide by the university's
honor code and dress and grooming standards. Prefer-
ence is given to qualied candidates who are members
in good standing of the aliated church, The Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Successful can-
didates are expected to support and contribute to the
academic and religious missions of the university within
the context of the principles and doctrine of the aliated
church.
Steven Peck <stevepkrahe@gmail.com >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 29
BroadInst Massachusetts
MalariaBioinformatics
Associate Computational Biologist II Broad Institute of
MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA (USA)
We are searching to ll an associate computational biol-
ogist position for the Malaria Genome Sequencing and
Analysis group at the Broad Institute. The person lling
this position will assist in performing bioinformatic anal-
yses on genomic and transcriptomic data from infected
blood samples. She or he will work collaboratively with
other bioinformatic scientists as well as wet lab biolo-
gists to interpret data and make it accessible to a large
interdisciplinary group. The scope of activities may
range from generating analysis pipelines that will be
used many times to carrying out one-o analyses to ask
a specic question of a particular dataset. The broader
goals of the work will be to develop dierential genomic
and transcriptomic diagnostic markers of malaria and
other co-morbid infectious diseases aecting the devel-
oping world, to better understand the biology, evolution,
and transmission of malaria parasites, and to determine
how genomic diversity contributes to drug-resistance,
immune evasion, and other etiologies in malaria.
CHARACTERISTIC DUTIES:
Perform bioinformatic analyses to extract biological
meaning from next-generation sequencing, genotyping
and RNA-seq transcription data Research and identify
proper approaches for interrogating data using primary
literature Work collaboratively with wet lab scientists
at the Broad as well as other institutions to make data
accessible and interpretable Learn, utilize, and extend
existing tools and pipelines for data analysis within
the group Submit large datasets to public archives Per-
form other duties as necessitated by the position or as
assigned
B.S. degree in computer science, bioinformatics, bio-
logical sciences, or related eld required, M.S. degree
strongly desired.
REQUIREMENTS:
Prociency in: R statistical programming language Unix
Scripting languages such as Perl or Python
Working knowledge of: Basic sequence analysis tools
(BLAST, alignment, etc.) Other statistical tools (Mat-
lab, etc.) Next generation sequence data analysis tools(BWA, samtools, GATK, etc.) RNAseq analysis and
visualization tools (Tuxedo Tools, Trinity, etc.) Bioin-
formatics tools (Cuinks, GenePattern, IGV, GENE-E)
Relational databases
General abilities required: Must be able to run traceable
and reproducible analyses. Must have an aptitude for
data display and interpretation. Must be able to multi-
task, work independently and collaboratively, adapt to
changing priorities, and work in face-paced environment.
Strong verbal, written, and presentation communication
skills are essential.
Apply to Requisition Number 1925 here: https:/-
/www.broadinstitute.org/careers/job-openings neaf-
sey@broadinstitute.org
ChicagoBotanicGarden
ConservationBiol
Due some issues with advertising the post, the dead-
line for this position has been extended to Oct 2nd.
All applications and any questions about the posi-
tion should be sent directly to Kayri Havens-Young
(khavens@chicagobotanic.org). Anyone who has already
applied please also contact Dr Havens-Young to ensure
that the application has been received.
The Chicago Botanic Garden seeks a conservation ecol-
ogist with research strengths in landscape ecology, com-
munity ecology, plant/animal interactions, or seed ecol-
ogy for its Plant Science and Conservation Division. Du-
ties include developing a conservation-oriented research
program, seeking external funding, collaborating with a
wide range of academic stewardship organizations, and
teaching/mentoring. The successful candidate will be
expected to teach Plant Community Ecology at North-
western University as part of the joint Chicago Botanic
Garden/Northwestern University graduate program in
Plant Biology and Conservation and will mentor gradu-
ate students as well as other students in the Garden's
Science Career Continuum.
For more details please check out the follow-
ing website http://www.chicagobotanic.org/-
jobs/conservation ecologist Genetics Lab
<Lab@chicagobotanic.org >30 EvolDir September 1, 2015
ClaremontCollege
PhysiologyGenomics
Two Positions in Biology at the Claremont Colleges
1. Assistant Professor in Animal Physiology
The W.M. Keck Science Department of Claremont
McKenna College, Pitzer College, and Scripps College in-
vites applications for a tenure-track appointment in Ani-
mal Physiology at the Assistant Professor level to begin
July 2016. The department, which houses the biology,
chemistry, physics, and environmental science faculty
for three of the ve undergraduate Claremont Colleges,
oers innovative and interdisciplinary programs in the
natural sciences.
We seek a broadly trained animal physiologist who is
committed to excellence in teaching and to working
within a cross-disciplinary and integrative department,
and who will develop a vibrant research program that
fully engages undergraduate students. We are especially
interested in applicants whose work involves integrative,
comparative/evolutionary, or computational approaches.
The position oers opportunities to teach an animal or
human physiology course with laboratory, introductory
biology, biology courses for non-majors, and to design
new courses in the candidates eld. Candidates should
hold a Ph.D. degree with focus in physiology or a related
eld. Postdoctoral experience and a record of scholarly
publication are preferred.
Please apply online https://webapps.cmc.edu/jobs/-
faculty/faculty opening detail.php?PostingID=14027
.Uploaded materials should include a cover letter,
curriculum vitae, a statement of teaching philosophy,
a description of current and future research with
equipment needs, and a diversity statement outlining
the applicants philosophy for fostering an educational
environment that is inclusive of all students. Please also
ensure that three reference letters be uploaded. Inquiries
about the position should be addressed to Dr. Donald
McFarlane at dmcfarlane@kecksci.claremont.edu.
Additional information about the department can be
found athttp://www.kecksci.claremont.edu. Review of
applications will begin September 21st 2015, and the
position will remain open until lled.
2. Assistant Professor in Genomics
The Keck Science Department invites applications for
a tenure-track appointment in biology at the AssistantProfessor level to begin July 2016. The department,
which houses the biology, chemistry, and physics faculty
for Claremont McKenna, Pitzer, and Scripps Colleges
(three of the ve undergraduate Claremont Colleges),
oers innovative and interdisciplinary programs in the
natural sciences and prides itself on its small class sizes
and emphasis on hands-on, investigative learning by stu-
dents in both classroom and research laboratory settings.
The colleges are located near Los Angeles, surrounded
by other colleges and universities.
Strong candidates will be committed to excellence in
teaching and will develop a vibrant research program
that fully engages undergraduate students. Of partic-
ular interest are candidates who use genomics-based
approaches with an empirical, laboratory component
to address important problems in, but not limited to,
molecular/cellular biology, plant biology, microbiology,
or evolutionary biology. Teaching responsibilities in-
clude an upper division course in genomics with bioin-
formatics, Introductory Biology (cell/molecular), and
other courses in the candidates eld. A Ph.D. degree,
post-doctoral experience, and a record of scholarly pub-
lication are required.
Please apply online at https://webapps.cmc.edu/jobs/-
faculty/home.php. Uploaded materials should include
1) a cover letter, 2) a curriculum vitae, 3) a state-
ment of teaching philosophy, 4) a description of pro-
posed research with equipment needs, 5) a diversity
statement (one page) outlining the applicant's philos-
ophy for fostering a learning environment that is in-
clusive of all students. Please also ensure that three
letters of recommendation are uploaded. Inquiries
about the position should be directed to Dr. Emily
Wiley at ewiley@kecksci.claremont.edu. Additional
information about the department may be found at
www.kecksci.claremont.edu. Review of applications will
begin September 21, 2015, and the position will remain
open until lled.
Sarah Gilman <sgilman@kecksci.claremont.edu >
ClarksonU EvolutionaryBiology
Clarkson University is a nationally ranked research uni-
versity and the institution of choice for more than 3,400
enterprising, high-ability undergraduate and graduate
students. The Department of Biology seeks an excellent
teacher and productive researcher to ll a tenure-track
position at the rank of Assistant Professor beginningSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 31
with the 2016V17 academic year.
The successful applicant will hold a Ph.D. and have
postdoctoral experience in evolutionary biology, bioin-
formatics, or a related eld with a focus in one or more
of the following: evolutionary ecology, evolutionary ge-
netics, phylogenetics, epidemiology, zoology, or other
relevant area. Teaching duties will include evolution,
bioinformatics, and other undergraduate and graduate
courses in the areas of the successful applicants exper-
tise. The successful candidate will develop a strong,
externally funded research program that complements
our strengths in environmental biology, biotechnology,
and health sciences. The Clarkson University Biology
Program values excellent undergraduate teaching and
innovative research involving undergraduates and grad-
uate students in our Interdisciplinary Bioscience and
Biotechnology doctoral program. We value research col-
laboration among researchers; the successful candidate
will be expected to develop research and teaching collab-
orations with Clarkson colleagues, including researchers
aliated with the Trudeau Institute and Institute for
a Sustainable Environment. Applications should be
received by 1 October 2015 for full consideration.
To submit your application, go to https://-
clarkson.peopleadmin.com/postings/2495 . An
equal opportunity /armative action employer,
Clarkson University actively seeks and encourages
applications from minorities, women and people with
disabilities.
James Schulte <schultej@beloit.edu >
CSIRO Australia 3 EvolutionaryBiol
National Research Collections Australia Commonwealth
Scientic and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO)
3 research positions open:
* Help build CSIRO's research collections in tropical
plant diversity at the Australian Tropical Herbarium
* Contribute to the research output for the Australian
National Wildlife Collection * Undertake research on
the largest and most signicant collection of Australian
insects in the world
National Research Collections Australia (NRCA) is a
world class, collections-based, research facility that man-
ages Australia's six national biological research collec-
tions based in Canberra, Hobart and Cairns. NRCA
scientists conduct basic and applied research in evo-lutionary biology, taxonomy, phylogenetics, biogeogra-
phy, population genetics and conservation biology and
contribute strongly to the development of biodiversity
management plans and policy. NRCA also hosts the
National Collaborative Research Infrastructure Strategy
(NCRIS) supported Atlas of Living Australia, a world
leading biodiversity data synthesis, visualization and
analysis web-portal.
Three challenging and exciting opportunities currently
exist within the NRCA for experienced Research Scien-
tists who are innovative, results focussed and able to
build strong and enduring relationships with clients and
partners. The successful candidates will contribute their
expertise to projects and activities in three areas across
the NRCA group, specically the Australian Tropical
Herbarium (ATH), the Australian National Insect Col-
lection (ANIC) and the Australian National Wildlife
Collection (ANWC).
We welcome applications from suitably qualied indi-
viduals with strong research and publication history in
plant molecular systematics, evolutionary genomics, sys-
tematic entomology, vertebrate evolutionary biology, or
an alternative discipline relevant to the positions listed
below. Candidates must enjoy the challenges of leading
and/or contributing to systematic research projects at
signicant scale, and have the motivation to carry out in-
dependent individual research to achieve organisational
and professional goals.
Ref: Position: Location: Salary Range:
3282 Research Scientist - Plant molecular systematics:
Australian Tropical Herbarium Cairns, Qld AU$ 92K -
AU$100K *
3602 Research Scientist - Insect systematics: Australian
National Insect Collection Canberra, ACT AU$ 92K -
AU$100K *
3501 Senior Research Scientist - Vertebrate evolution-
ary biology: Australian National Wildlife Collection
Canberra, ACT AU$106K - AU$124K *
About CSIRO: Australia is founding its future on sci-
ence and innovation. Its national science agency, the
Commonwealth Scientic and Industrial Research Or-
ganisation (CSIRO), is a powerhouse of ideas, technolo-
gies and skills for building prosperity, growth, health
and sustainability. It serves governments, industries,
business and communities.
Copy the relevant link below for further details and
instructions on how to apply.
Applications close: Wednesday 30 September, 2015
*Salaries in Australian Dollars & will include additional
employer contributed superannuation (pension fund) of32 EvolDir September 1, 2015
up to 15.4%
Links:
3282 Research Scientist - Plant molecular systematics
(ATH) https://jobs.csiro.au/job/Cairns%2C-QLD-
Research-Scientist-Plant-molecular-systematics/-
290203600/
3602 Research Scientist - Insect systematics (ANIC)
https://jobs.csiro.au/job/Canberra%2C-ACT-Research-
Scientist-Insect-systematics/290222100/
3501 Senior Research Scientist - Vertebrate evo-
lutionary biology (ANWC) https://jobs.csiro.au/-
job/Canberra%2C-ACT-Senior-Research-Scientist-
Vertebrate-evolutionary-biology/290230800/ Recruit-
ment.Team3@csiro.au
FWS Georgia
FishConservationGenetics
Regional Geneticist
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Warm Springs Fish Technology Center
Warm Springs, GA
The Warm Springs Fish Technology Center (Center),
Warm Springs, GA, provides applied shery research and
development capabilities to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service (Service) Southeast Region. The Center's ap-
plied research programs assist aquatic restoration, and
recovery eorts through the scientic development and
evaluation of new methods, concepts, systems, and tech-
nologies. The Center maintains research in the elds
of conservation genetics and cryopreservation, and also
manages the National Fish Strain Registry and the Na-
tional Triploid Grass Carp Inspection and Certication
Program.
The incumbent serves as the Regional Fish Geneticist
and head of the Conservation Genetics Laboratory at
the Center. The incumbent is the Southeast Region's
Fisheries Program's lead authority and subject matter
expert on conservation genetics issues for aquatic species
and provides technical expertise and recommendations
to the Regional Directorate on international, national,
and Region-wide conservation issues and policies. The
incumbent serves as the primary liaison for the Service
to: other Federal and State agencies; tribal governments;
and non-governmental organizations on the application
of conservation genetics techniques used in the conserva-tion and management of aquatic resources. The incum-
bent supervises professional and technical sta. The con-
servation genetics program consists of: the development
of program and Regional policies to fully protect and con-
serve genetic resources of wild/natural populations; the
genetic characterization of hatchery and wild/natural
stocks; the establishment of propagation guidelines to
prevent loss of genetic variation and conserve genetic
diversity in hatchery and wild/natural stocks; and the
monitoring of change in the genetic resource and life
history patterns of hatchery and wild/natural stocks.
Major duties include the following:
-Develop complex applied study proposals and experi-
mental designs to address issues critical to the Service
and its partners. Implement genetic monitoring and
assessment studies for conservation, restoration, and
or recovery of genetic resources, with an emphasis on
aquatic species. This includes designing studies and
projects to develop technology, techniques, and proce-
dures for the management and culture of species for
which no information currently exists.
-Implements, coordinates, and conducts monitoring of
captive and wild/natural stocks, determines whether
genetic changes have occurred and to what extent, and
develops complex methodologies for monitoring genetic
resources and life history patterns of wild/natural stocks
with which captive stocks may interbreed or interact.
-Develops project proposals, scope of work, grants, and
budgets for applied research investigations, which are
submitted to internal (Service) and external funding
sources.
-Provides direct supervision of technical and professional
sta in the Center's Conservation Genetics Laboratory.
-Prepares a wide variety of written materials including
manuscripts for publication in peer-reviewed scientic
journals, popular articles, technical bulletins, study pro-
posals, and progress reports based on activities and
ndings. This includes the ability to provide expert re-
views and detailed comments on highly technical study
proposals, scientic reports, and manuscripts referred to
incumbent by colleagues, peers, and editors of scientic
journals.
-Prepares and delivers oral reports of ndings at re-
gional, national, and international professional confer-
ences, workshops, seminars, program reviews, and public
meetings. Provides authoritative advice, policy guid-
ance, and technical assistance to Headquarters and Re-
gional Service personnel, other professionals, agencies,
tribal governments, and educational institutions on an-
alytical techniques, conservation genetics, and research
accomplishments.September 1, 2015 EvolDir 33
-Conducts interactions with other professionals in the
elds of genetics and other related sciences by reviewing
articles and reports, attending professional meetings,
and responding to questions and challenges among sub-
ject matter experts and other professionals to maintain
professional credentials, discuss ndings with other ex-
perts in the eld, to sustain a dialogue of current nd-
ings and trends, and to continue to develop and build
upon the Service's conservation genetics community of
practice.
Requirements:
Ph.D. with work experience in genetics or related disci-
pline. The incumbent must be highly motivated, outgo-
ing, with demonstrated ability in successful coordination
and teamwork, and supervision of technical and profes-
sional employees.
Salary: $70,192 to $108,507/year
Closing Date:
September 9 ^th, 2015
Contact:
Applications accepted only from U. S. citizens. Applica-
tions MUST be
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GregorMendelInst Vienna
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Gregor Mendel Institute (GMI) is recruiting a
Group leader. The GMI is devoted to basic research
in plant biology, a eld we consider ripe with opportu-
nity. Presently, we are targeting evolutionary genomics,
however, we welcome all applications with relevance to
plant biology. Our main criterion is scientic excellence
and we favor projects with a potential for high impact.
Candidates are expected to develop an independent re-
search program at the highest level. The GMI oers
outstanding research support, including a very substan-
tial yearly research budget and access to state-of-the-art
facilities. The initial contract will be for ve years (a
three-year extension is subject to review).The GMI is part of the Vienne Biocenter, a research clus-
ter with over 1,700 researchers from over 40 countries,
located close to the center of Vienna, and 20 minutes
from the airport. English is the working language. The
working environment is family-friendly, with subsidized
on-campus child care facilities. The GMI is core-funded
by the Austrian Academy of Sciences and also receives
funding from numerous national and international agen-
cies.
Please send your application, including a curricu-
lum vitae, a brief description of your proposed re-
search (no more than four pages), and contact de-
tails for at least three referees to Carmen Huegel (car-
men.huegel@gmi.oeaw.ac.at).
Informal inquiries can be directed to Dr. Magnus Nord-
borg (mangus.nordborg@gmi.oeaw.ac.at).
Review of applications with begin September 1, 2015
and will continue until the position is lled.
\matthew.watson@gmi.oeaw.ac.at"
<matthew.watson@gmi.oeaw.ac.at >
GroningenU TheoreticalEvol
3 Postdoc and 2 PhD positions in theoretical biology,
systems biology & experimental evolution
At the Theoretical Research in Evolutionary Life Sci-
ences group (TR ~AS, formerly known as Theoretical
Biology) at the University of Groningen in the Nether-
lands, we have the following 5 positions immediately
available:
(1) Postdoc (2.5-3yr): Towards a quantitative evolution-
ary theory of caste-specic senescence in social insects.
The reproductive casts of eusocial insect species typi-
cally far outlive their genetically nearly identical worker
casts. This makes them uniquely suitable for develop-
ing and testing evolutionary theories of ageing. In this
project, quantitative evolutionary models will be devel-
oped to predict cast-specic senescence proles and how
they vary with species-specic social structure, ecology
and life history characteristics of social insects. Both
relatively simple analytical life history models and more
complex systems biological simulation models will be
developed. In close collaboration with several experi-
mental social insect groups in Germany, models will be
parameterized with life history data and experimental
data from other projects in order to test predictions and34 EvolDir September 1, 2015
guide further experimental research. Contact: Ido Pen
(i.r.pen@rug.nl)
(2) Postdoc (2yr): The evolution of self-organized divi-
sion of labour in social insects.
Division of labour (DOL) is characterized by the coordi-
nated interaction of individuals that collectively achieve
a common goal with high eciency by specializing on
certain tasks. DOL plays a crucial role for life on this
planet; yet its evolution is not well-understood. Nat-
ural selection on DOL is indirect, since DOL is not a
heritable property in itself but the result of self- organ-
isation. The challenge is to understand how selection
acting on individual behaviour results in the evolution
of well-organized collective behaviour. To meet this
challenge, we will develop and analyse models for the
evolution of self-organized division of labour in social
insects. In the project we will study how evolved di-
vision of labour is shaped by the interplay of internal
factors (such as genetic system, mating structure, be-
havioural architecture) and external conditions (such
as the spatial and temporal distribution of resources
or between-colony conicts). Contact: Franjo Weissing
(f.j.weissing@rug.nl)
(3) Postdoc (1yr): The evolution of dispersal syndromes.
The study of 'behavioural syndromes' or 'animal per-
sonalities' is currently a hot topic in the behavioural sci-
ences. In organisms ranging from squids to chimpanzees
it has been shown that individuals dier systematically
in their behavioural tendencies, that this dierences
are stable in time, and that behavioural dierences in
quite dierent domains (like dispersal and parental be-
haviour) are correlated with each other. Over the years,
our group has developed many models for explaining
the evolutionary emergence and stability of such syn-
dromes. In this project, we will develop evolutionary
models for dispersal syndromes. In hundreds of species
it has been shown that genetically similar individuals
dier strongly in their dispersal and migration tenden-
cies, and that these dierences are correlated with other
behavioural and physiological dierences. A general
explanation for the emergence and structure of these
syndromes is, however, still lacking. This is a joint
project with empirical behavioural ecologists (Prof. Dr.
Jan Komdeur, Dr. Hannah Dugdale). It is an ideal
stepping-stone for writing a grant proposal for a longer
stay at the University of Groningen. Contact: Franjo
Weissing (f.j.weissing@rug.nl)
(4) PhD (4yr): Molecular evolution of the bacterial
chemotaxis network.
The molecular network underlying chemotaxis in bacte-
ria has emerged as a prototype for studying the molec-ular basis of behavior and evolutionary adaptation.
This small signal- transduction network has been ex-
tensively studied in Escherichia coli, but has also been
characterized in other bacteria, such as Bacillus sub-
tilis. Surprisingly, many components of the chemotaxis
network are shared across species, while striking inter-
specic dierences exist in the topology and complex-
ity of the network. In this project, we will combine
systems-biology modelling, evolutionary analyses and
bio-informatic approaches to explain these patterns, and
also aim to develop broader insights into the evolution
of molecular networks. Contact: Sander van Doorn
(g.s.van.doorn@rug.nl)
(5) PhD (4yr): Genome architecture and adaptation
Evolutionary models typically assume that traits have
a simple genetic basis, but in reality genes occur in
a complex genomic context. In this project, we focus
on the architecture of the genome, and how it aects
mutation, recombination and, eventually, phenotypic
adaptation. Also, we will investigate how selection and
non-adaptive processes shape
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
HarvardMedSchool Bioinformatics
36640BR Bioinformaticist/ Computer Software Engineer
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
The successful individual will provide bioinformatics
support and development for an energetic research lab
(the Reich laboratory), carrying out a wide variety of
genetics research especially in the area of evolutionary
biology and ancient DNA.
http://genetics.med.harvard.edu/reich/Reich Lab/-
Welcome.html Typical projects include: - preparing
datasets for the analysis of population history - building,
maintaining, and improving an easy-to-use database
to support the ancient DNA laboratory. The database
is a critical project, and will involve supporting and
interacting with multiple sets of scientists simultane-
ously: - a team of molecular biologists who will input
information on each sample and use the database to
track experiments. - a team of other bioinformaticians
who will collaborate on automating analyses on theSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 35
data using a variety of tools - a team of population
geneticists who will require processed data for further
analyses.
This will be a challenging position where the successful
applicant will have the opportunity to work with some
of the best next generation sequencing and ancient DNA
data available and substantially extend their existing
organizational and computational skills.
Qualications:
Masters or Ph.D. degree in Computer Science or re-
lated eld and 5 years of experience in bioinformatics.
Advanced degree may count toward experience.
Must have uency in C/C++, Perl/Python/Ruby,
MYSQL/PostgreSQL databases and a working knowl-
edge of statistics.
This is a term appointment ending on June 30, 2017
with the possibility of renewal. Harvard Medical School
unfortunately cannot sponsor visas for sta scientist
positions so successful applicants will need to have a
U.S. work visa.
Apply here https://jobs.brassring.com/1033/-
asp/tg/cim jobdetail.asp?partnerID=3D25240&=-
siteID=3D5341&AReq=3D36640BR David Reich
<reich@genetics.med.harvard.edu >
HarvardU DNASequenceTech
Harvard University Instrumentation Specialist (DNA
Sequencing)
Auto req ID
36627BR
Business Title
Instrumentation Specialist
School/Unit
Faculty of Arts and Sciences
Location
USA - MA - Cambridge
Time Status
Full-time
Schedule
35 hours per weekDepartment
FAS Science Operations
Salary Grade
057
Union
00 - Non Union
Duties & Responsibilities
We are seeking an Instrument Specialist to support
sequencing technologies in the Bauer Core Facility (Har-
vard University Division of Science). Duties include:
preparing and assessing the quality and quantity of
libraries for Illumina sequencing from various sample
sources; training and supporting researchers who pre-
pare their own samples for sequencing; operating Il-
lumina HiSeq, NextSeq, and ABI3730xl instruments.
The Instrument Specialist must work closely with other
members of the sequencing team to hand-o samples
and information to keep the sequencing pipeline working
smoothly. He or she may be asked to help support users
on other center instruments and techniques
Basic Qualications
A BS degree in Biology, Chemistry, Molecular & Cellu-
lar Biology, or Engineering and at least three years of
laboratory experience is required.
Additional Qualications
DNA sequencing experience is required. Illumina library
preparation experience is preferred. Strong communica-
tion and collaboration skills are essential.
Additional Information
All formal written oers will be made by FAS Human
Resources.
Pre-Employment Screening
Identity
EEO Statement
We are an equal opportunity employer and all qualied
applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national ori-
gin, disability status, protected veteran status, gender
identity, sexual orientation or any other characteristic
protected by law.
Please apply at http://hr.harvard.edu/jobs . \Reardon,
Claire" <Creardon@CGR.Harvard.edu >36 EvolDir September 1, 2015
InstitutPasteur Bioinformatics 2
The Institut Pasteur is hiring group leaders for its new
Center of Bioinformatics, Biostatistics and Integrative
Biology (C3BI)
Application web site: https://c3bi.pasteur.fr/research-
teams-apply/ The Institut Pasteur is a non-prot pri-
vate foundation dedicated to fundamental, interdisci-
plinary research and to translating scientic knowledge
to medicine and public health. Topics of interest include
microbiology (bacteria, viruses, parasites and fungi) and
infectious diseases, cell biology, immunology, develop-
mental biology and stem cells, neuroscience, genomics,
genetics and cancer. The Paris campus houses 130
research units belonging to 11 research departments,
employing about 2,600 people. It is recognized world-
wide as a leader in infectious disease research and is
ranked as a top level institution for publication impact
in the eld of microbiology.
** A strategic priority The new direction of the Institut
Pasteur has dened Bioinformatics, Biostatistics and
Integrative Biology as strategic priorities. A new cen-
ter (C3BI) to foster research in these domains was set
up in 2014. Substantial resources were allocated for
the creation and development of the C3BI, with the
recruitment of 40 research engineers in bioinformatics
and biostatistics between 2014 and 2017. A building will
be renovated on the Paris campus to house the C3BI.
The aim is to facilitate collaborations in bioinformatics
and biostatistics, to support and develop training in
these elds, to encourage interactions between all the
Institut Pasteur teams, and to stimulate the develop-
ment of new computational and statistical approaches
for biological data analysis and modeling. Currently,
the C3BI comprises 8 research units, 2 of which were
recently created, and a bioinformatics platform with 30
engineers providing services to the campus.
In this context, the Institut Pasteur is looking for several
new senior and/or junior* group leaders in bioinformat-
ics, biostatistics and integrative biology, with a strong
methodological component. The main focus is on com-
putational and statistical analysis of biological big data,
typically produced by new generation sequencing and
-omics technologies, but all modeling and computational
approaches of biological questions closely connected with
Institut Pasteur research areas are eligible. Highly at-
tractive packages to match the experience of the can-didate will be provided, including institutional salaries
(principal investigator, permanent scientists, secretary
and postdoctoral fellows), a substantial contribution to
running costs and equipment, as well as support for
relocation expenses and administrative issues.
Candidate's prole Successful candidates will possess
the following qualications: - PhD with a minimum of 6
years of research experience - Recognized scientic lead-
ership in bioinformatics/biostatistics - Broad experience
in methodological development and analysis of various
types of data - Consistent publishing record of cutting
edge research as senior/rst author - Signicant experi-
ence in mentoring scientists and managing an innovative
research program - Demonstrated ability to collaborate
with experimental and computational biologists
Application documents (deadline September 20, 2015
midnight CEST) 1. A web form to be lled on applica-
tion web site (see above) to summarize your application.
2. In a single le (pdf, 1.5 spacing) to be uploaded on
application web site: - Description of past and present
research activities (4 pages) - Proposed research project
(6 pages) - Detailed CV and full publication list - Three
scientists from whom letters of recommendation can be
sought - The names of scientists with a potential conict
of interest
Further information on the institute and C3BI
can be found at http://www.pasteur.fr and
https://c3bi.pasteur.fr/
Short-listed candidates will be invited for interview in
October 2015, and results will be announced by mid-
December. The new research groups will start by early
2016 (the precise date is negotiable).
Informal inquiries can be addressed to Olivier Gascuel
(Head of C3BI C3BICall2015@pasteur.fr)
* Institut Pasteur is an equal opportunity employer. Ju-
nior group leaders should be less than 8 years after PhD
at the time of their submission. Women are eligible up
to 11 years after their PhD if they have one child, and
up to 14 years after their PhD if they have two or more
children.
Olivier Gascuel <olivier.gascuel@pasteur.fr >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 37
KAUST EvolutionaryBioinformatics
PaidInternship
We are seeking an intern (graduate or postgraduate stu-
dent) for a 3-6 months stay in our lab to work on the
following project:
*Bioinformatics on population genetics and adaptation
to climate change in a coral reef sh* We are seek-
ing a highly motivated internship student to work on
the computational analysis of a long-term experimental
project on damselsh *(Acanthochromis polyacanthus)*.
Our data has the main focus to understand adapta-
tional processes to climate change on the molecular
level. Adaptive transgenerational measurements were
taken in dierent projects looking at temperature as well
as ocean acidication. We are using High throughput Se-
quencing approaches (mostly Illumina based) and have
collected integrated genome-wide sequencing datasets.
The intern will be able to look at a variety of data, but
will mostly be working on the computational analysis of
comparative genomics and transcriptomics. This will be
a great opportunity for a student to be able to work on a
large dataset and be part of large project and can learn
and improve his/her knowledge on population genomic
analyses. The intern will need to have some experience
in bioinformatics work and will be expected to work
independently.
The student will receive ights, housing, visa and a
salary of 800$ per month.
The internship conditions and requirements can be found
on this webpage: http://www.kaust.edu.sa/internship/
You can apply directly on this webpage by just follow-
ing the instructions and sending the lled out form to
david.yeh@kaust.edu.sa.
Here you can nd out more about the lab: http:/-
/systemsbiology.kaust.edu.sa If you have any ques-
tions please write to timothy.ravasi@kaust.edu.sa or
celiaschunter@gmail.com
{ Celia Schunter, PhD Postdoctoral Fellow
Integrative Systems Biology Lab <http://-
systemsbiology.kaust.edu.sa >King Abdullah University
of Science and Technology (KAUST) Personal webpage
<http://sites.google.com/site/celiaschunter >tel:
(+966)546258894
Celia Schunter <celiaschunter@gmail.com >Memphis Tennesse
TeachingEvolution
Position announcement:
Assistant/Associate Professor, Department of Biological
Sciences, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN
38152
Tenure-track Assistant/Associate Professor in Biological
Sciences Education, beginning in August 2016.
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Memphis (www.memphis.edu/biology) invites
applications for a tenure-track position in biological sci-
ences education (research and teaching) at the Assistant
or Associate Professor level. Candidates must have a
Ph.D. in a Biological Science discipline with evidence
of excellence in post-secondary biology teaching and
scholarship.
The successful candidate's demonstrated focus must be
in biological sciences education research and in devel-
oping innovative instructional approaches to teaching
undergraduate biology courses, including knowledge of
assessment strategies. Responsibilities of the position
include teaching and assisting with curriculum develop-
ment for introductory and core courses in biology and/or
departmental service courses. We are also interested in
expanding an existing graduate level teaching course to
help our graduate students further develop their teaching
skills. Candidates applying at the Assistant Professor
level will be expected to pursue extramural funding in
STEM education. Candidates at the Associate Professor
level should have current funding or a history of funding
in STEM education. Startup funds are available and
salary will be commensurate with experience.
The University of Memphis is a leading metropolitan
research institution with over 25 faculty specializing in
diverse subdisciplines of the biological sciences. The
Department serves approximately 500 majors and over
40 M.S. and Ph.D. students. The W. Harry Feinstone
Center for Genomic Research, the interdepartmental
Program in Bioinformatics, the Ecological Research Cen-
ter, the Integrated Microscopy Center, and the Meeman
Biological Field Station, are all administered through
the department and oer outstanding opportunities for
research, teaching, and collaboration.
Candidates should submit a letter of application,
statements of STEM research interests and teach-38 EvolDir September 1, 2015
ing philosophy, and a CV online at http://-
workforum.memphis.edu/. Applicants should also pro-
vide contact information for three references willing to
write letters of recommendation, if requested. Review
of applications will begin September 15, 2015 and may
continue until the position is lled. Inquiries should
be directed to Dr. Omar Skalli, Chair, STEM Faculty
Position, Department of Biological Sciences, University
of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152, USA (or email os-
kalli@memphis.edu). The University of Memphis, a
Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action employer. We urge
all qualied applicants to apply for this position. Ap-
pointment will be based on qualications as they relate
to position requirements without regard to race, color,
national origin, religion, sex, age, disability or veteran
status.
\Zachary L Ramsey (zlramsey)"
<zlramsey@memphis.edu >
NIE Korea Biodiversity
Job Announcement Visiting Researcher
The National Institute of Ecology (NIE) is a newly-
established government-funded research institution of
ecology in Korea. The two main research themes that
the NIE pursues are $B!H(BBiodiversity ecology$B!I(B
and $B!H(BClimate change science$B!I(B. In addition to
establish rm bases for both basic and applied ecological
research, the NIE is running the Technical Support Unit
(TSU) for the Knowledge & Data TF of IPBES. Thus
we are now trying to recruit experienced researchers
from abroad who could help us develop promising new
research traditions. Successful candidates will carry out
research with researchers in a collaborative environment.
The researcher will be able to direct our ongoing projects
and/or initiate new his/her own independent project.
The position may begin as short-term appointment but
can be extended for multiple years. We welcome any
ecological researchers who are in transition, i.e., looking
for more experience before settling down at a permanent
position, seeking an exciting place for sabbatical, want-
ing to share his/her lifelong expertise after retirement,
and so on. Let us know what you can contribute to this
exciting new institution.
2015. 7. 26.
Jae C. Choe, President National Institute of Ecol-
ogy Seocheon-gun Maseo-myon Geumgang-ro 1210Chungcheongnam-do Republic of Korea
Carol Eunmi Lee, Ph.D. Professor Center of Rapid Evo-
lution (CORE) 430 Lincoln Drive, Birge Hall University
of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706 carollee@wisc.edu
http://carollee.labs.wisc.edu Carol Lee
<carollee@wisc.edu >
Pioneer PlantBreeding
Research Scientist - Breeding Technologies
(RES00003099)
Johnston, IA
DuPont Pioneer, headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa, is
the world's leading developer and supplier of advanced
plant genetics, agronomic support, and services to farm-
ers in more than 90 countries. Innovative and customer-
focused, DuPont Pioneer seeks to increase farmer pro-
ductivity and protability, and to develop sustainable
agricultural systems for people everywhere. Increasing
populations, changing economies, and limited cultivat-
able land are signicant factors driving Pioneer to use
the broad application of plant science to improve the
value generated from each eld.
The Crop Genetics Research & Development (CGR&D)
group at DuPont Pioneer integrates cutting-edge sci-
ence and technology into innovative products that help
feed and fuel the world. The Breeding Technologies
(BT) group resides in CGR&D and is responsible for
developing and deploying next-generation statistical and
numerical methods that integrate, analyze and visualize
complex genetic relationships for use in applied plant
breeding programs. The advertised scientist position
will work as a member of a multi-disciplinary team to
develop, understand, and deploy the molecular diver-
sity and its molecular breeding applications for several
commercially important crops. The job position will be
based in Johnston, Iowa (USA), however the successful
candidate will be expected to coordinate and collaborate
closely with scientists within specic crops. Intermittent
international travel will be required.
Duties/Responsibilities and % of Time:
* 60% - Lead interactions between the Pioneer plant
breeding community in order to evaluate and enhance
novel germplasm characterization and its application
within genetic signal detection and prediction of productSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 39
performance. The successful candidate will utilize next-
generation sequencing information to develop molecular
understanding of commercially important crops to facil-
itate germplasm utilization and performance prediction.
Responsibilities will include: Development and utiliza-
tion of high-density SNP information for germplasm
characterization, analysis of large (phenotypic, marker
and pedigree) data sets for method and tool develop-
ment, organization and summarization of key molecular
breeding information and results for use across/within
crop research programs, and develop new or adapt exist-
ing methods for crop- specic molecular breeding activi-
ties. * 30% - Work with members of Breeding Technolo-
gies to use simulation, phenotypic, and genomic data to
characterize germplasm diversity and its contribution
to phenotypic variation. * 10% - Make recommenda-
tions and train scientists working with specic crops
on best practices for the eective use of germplasm
characterization and whole genome prediction.
Problem Solving:
* Collaborate with Breeding Technology and other sci-
entists to integrate new germplasm diversity approaches
into the molecular breeding pipelines developed for prod-
uct development * Assist in the development and deploy-
ment of novel germplasm characterization and genetic
evaluation and genetic detection methods within the BT
group that address specic needs relevant to scientists
supporting product development
Decision Making:
* Work with scientists within Pioneer to evaluate the
impact and importance of new genomic technologies
on molecular breeding processes within specic crops
* Work with members of information management to
integrate appropriate methods and software * Identify
and help to use data analysis tools to meet project goals
and timelines, communicate key issues and discoveries
appropriately
Qualications:
* PhD in statistics, quantitative genetics, population
genetics, bioinformatics, plant or animal breeding, or
a related eld and a minimum of 2 to 4 years of post-
doctoral and/or industry experience preferred. Master's
degree in statistics, quantitative genetics, population
genetics, bioinformatics, plant or animal breeding, or a
related eld and a minimum of 6 to 8 years of industry
experience required. * Understanding and experience
utilizing genomic data to categorize population diversity
* Demonstrated prociency using Python, R, or similar
programming languages to manipulate large datasets for
custom analysis. Experience with C or C# is an advan-
tage but is not required * Strong background applyingand interpreting statistical analysis of large, unbalanced
datasets for genetic signal detection * Understanding
and experience using statistical software such as
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Pioneer PlantGenetics
Post Doc Research Scientist (RES00003050)
Johnston, IA
The Crop Genetics Research & Development (CGR&D)
group at DuPont Pioneer integrates cutting-edge sci-
ence and technology into innovative products that help
feed and fuel the world. The Breeding Technologies
(BT) group resides in CGR&D and is responsible for de-
veloping and deploying next-generation computational,
statistical and precision phenotyping methods that char-
acterize, integrate, analyze and visualize complex bi-
ological, genetic and phenotypic relationships for use
in applied plant breeding programs. The advertised
post-doctoral position will work together with BT sci-
entists, as well as scientists from the wider DuPont
Pioneer research organization, on the development of,
and integration within, novel computational predictive
techniques that incorporate biological, physiological and
environmental data for routine use in active Pioneer
maize breeding programs. The position will be based at
the DuPont Pioneer world-wide headquarters in John-
ston, Iowa (USA). Duration of employment will be 12
months with a possibility of renewal for an additional
12 months depending on evaluated performance and
business need.
Duties/Responsibilities:
Collaborate with key members of BT, Trait Characteri-
zation & Development (TCD), Crop Genetics Informat-
ics (CGI) and Product Development (PD) to develop
and implement computational and statistical analyses
that utilize both estimated genetic eects and multi-
trait interactions to predict eld performance within
applied breeding programs. Use both simulated and
eld data collected from active breeding programs to
evaluate the performance of predictive statistical mod-
els that combine biological, genetic and/or multi-trait
precision phenotyping information. Prepare internal40 EvolDir September 1, 2015
scientic reports as well as scientic manuscripts for
external publication to document the ndings of the
methodology development and evaluation steps.
Problem Solving:
Assist in the development and evaluation of novel pheno-
typic and/or statistical genetics techniques and compu-
tational algorithms targeted towards improved genetic
evaluation and gene detection within DuPont Pioneer
product development. Interact with scientic teams of
CGR&D researchers, manipulate and summarize large
amounts of data, interpret scientic results and commu-
nicate scientic ndings in a clear and concise manner.
Decision Making:
Make scientic evaluations, recommendations and rou-
tine communications to CGR&D scientists regarding
the performance and utility of advanced computational
and/or statistical genetics techniques that integrate bio-
logical, physiological, environment, phenotypic and ge-
nomic/genetic data. Identify, design, develop and help
implement data analysis tools to meet project goals
and timelines, communicate key issues and discoveries
appropriately.
Qualications:
* PhD in statistics, quantitative or population genet-
ics, plant breeding, animal breeding, or a related eld.
* Demonstrated ability to quantitatively evaluate and
analyze complex scientic problems, interpret scientic
results, and work easily with large volumes of data. *
Good understanding of whole genome analysis (genomic
selection and/or association mapping) techniques. *
Good understanding of Bayesian statistics principles
and mixed model BLUP methodology as applied to
unbalanced data. * Demonstrated competency in sta-
tistical programming languages such as R and scripting
languages such as Python is required; prociency in
scientic programming languages such as C is a plus.
* Basic understanding of the principles of biological
models such as growth models or gene regulatory net-
work and/or of multi-trait analysis techniques is a plus.
* Demonstrated ability to work in dynamic scientic
teams, and demonstrated ability to contribute to com-
plex research projects performed under tight deadlines.
* Strong communication skills; ability to speak, read,
and write in English
Apply online at: <http://careers.dupont.com/-
jobsearch/job-details/post-doc-research-scientist/-
RES00003050/ >
Tracy Lillie <tracy@ecreativegroup.com >RiceU EvolutionaryBiol
TENURE TRACK FACULTY POSITION IN ECOL-
OGY & EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY
Applications are invited for an anticipated open-rank fac-
ulty position in the BioSciences Department at Rice Uni-
versity in any area of ecology and evolutionary biology.
We welcome applicants who employ theory, experiments,
or some combination thereof and especially encourage
candidates who complement existing strengths of current
faculty in the Ecology & Evolutionary Biology graduate
program to apply. Candidates must have a Ph.D. and
outstanding potential in research and teaching. Success-
ful candidates are expected to develop and maintain
a vibrant research program supported by extramural
funding and participate in education and mentorship
of graduate and undergraduate students. We are espe-
cially interested in candidates who can contribute to the
diversity and excellence of the academic community.
Our application and instructions can be found under the
employment section on the left menu on the department
website, http://biosciences.rice.edu. Review of applica-
tions will commence September 25, 2015 and continue
until the position is lled. Rice is a private university
with a strong commitment to the highest standards of
research and undergraduate and graduate education.
/Rice University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action employer, committed to excellence through diver-
sity and inclusion. In this spirit, we particularly welcome
applications from women and members of historically
underrepresented groups who bring diverse cultural ex-
perience and who are especially qualied to mentor and
advise all members of our diverse student population.
The University will provide reasonable accommodations
to individuals with a disability. /
Volker Rudolf <vr2@rice.edu >
StockholmU PopulationGenetics
*Assistant Professor in Population Genetics **Depart-
ment or Zoology, Stockholm University, Sweden. *
*Closing date for application: October 5, 2015*****September 1, 2015 EvolDir 41
We welcome applicants from population geneticists to a
tenure-track position at the level of Assistant Professor.
The Department of Zoology has a long history of ba-
sic and applied research from the perspectives of its
ve divisions: Ecology, Ethology, Population Genetics,
Functional Morphology, and Systematics and Evolution.
The Department holds 16 permanent Lecturer/Professor
positions and c. 100 sta including c. 40 PhD students
and oers an international and stimulating work envi-
ronment.
The advertised position will be aliated to the Division
of Population Genetics, which has a theoretical and em-
pirical focus on conservation genetics issues with recent
research also focused on developing and using genomic
tools in non-model species to uncover the genetic basis
of local adaptation and life history evolution.
The position is four years full-time with a strong research
focus (some teaching possible also) and the possibility
of promotion to Associate Professor.
Stockholm University is situated in the beautiful sur-
roundings of a National City Park were you can stroll in
ancient forests and swim o rocks or beaches just within
short walks from campus. It is a modern university with
a long history characterized by an open atmosphere and
a multicultural environment. Stockholm University is
one of the world ^As top 100 higher education institutes.
Read more and apply here: http://www.su.se/-
english/about/vacancies/vacancies-new-list?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=375&rmlang=UK Department of
Zoology:www.zoologi.su.se/en/index.php Stockholm
University: http://www.su.se/english/ Do not hesitate
to contact us if you have questions: Prof. Linda
Laikre linda.laikre@popgen.su.se & Dr Chris Wheat
chris.wheat@zoologi.su.se
We look forward to your application!
Linda Laikre <linda.laikre@popgen.su.se >TexasAMU AssistantCurator
InsectCollection
POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
Assistant Curator, Texas A&M University Insect Col-
lection (TAMUIC)
The Department of Entomology at Texas A&M Uni-
versity seeks an Assistant Curator (collection manager)
for the Texas A&M University Insect Collection. This
is a full-time, base-budgeted, sta-level, position with
benets located on the main campus of Texas A&M Uni-
versity in College Station, Texas. The position reports
to the faculty Curator of the collection and is available
1 September 2015.
The TAMUIC is a land grant university-based collec-
tion of insects and related arthropods specializing in
the fauna of the south-central and southwestern United
States and the northern Neotropical region (especially
Mexico). The primary mission of the collection is to
build and maintain a comprehensive collection of insects
and related arthropods from these regions for research,
reference and educational purposes. Containing approx-
imately 2.7 million curated specimens, the TAMUIC
supports a diverse range of activities in the TAMU De-
partment of Entomology, Texas AgriLife Research, and
Texas AgriLife Extension; serves the worldwide entomo-
logical community as a source of high-quality specimens
for systematics research; and provides a focal point for
the activities of a dedicated group of entomologists in
Texas and adjacent states.
The positions responsibilities include: management of
the day-to-day operations of the TAMUIC; recruitment,
training, and supervision of personnel to assist in car-
rying out collection operations; coordination with and
general supervision of the curatorial activities of the
departmental teaching collection manager; promotion of
collection development through collection-based research
in arthropod faunistics and systematics; and mainte-
nance of the departmental arthropod identication and
information service.
General inquiries about the position may be sent to:
Mr. Robert Jensen Department of Entomology Texas
A&M University College Station, TX 77843-2475 U.S.A.
E-mail: r-jensen@tamu.edu
A complete description of the position and duties, and
the portal through which all applications must be re-42 EvolDir September 1, 2015
ceived, can be found here: https://greatjobs.tamu.edu
V search and apply for NOV 08731. Follow website
directions for completing an on-line application, and
uploading and attaching cover letter, resume, etc. In-
terested individuals are encouraged to submit their ap-
plications by 15 August 2015. Contact Robert (above)
if you experience problems.
Please forward this announcement to qualied individu-
als you may know.
Hojun Song <hsong@tamu.edu >
TulaneU EvolutionaryBiology
Assistant/Associate Professor: Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
Tulane University, is conducting a broad search for an
Ecologist or Evolutionary Biologist. We are interested
in applicants who will t into our department's focal
research areas of tropical biology and coastal wetlands.
We are especially interested in applicants whose research
is solutions-based and who would expand departmental
expertise in areas of bioinformatics, genomics, biostatis-
tics, urban ecology, or disease ecology. Applicants with
a taxonomic focus on plants, invertebrates, or microbes
are particularly encouraged to apply.
Submit letter of application, curriculum vitae, state-
ments of research and teaching interests, three selected
publications, and names and addresses of three refer-
ences to: apply.interfolio.com/30088. This site will
begin accepting applications on August 1. Review of
applications will begin October 15, 2015, and the search
will remain open until the position is lled. Tulane is
an EOE/M/F/Vet/Disabled employer.
Seehttp://tulane.edu/sse/eebio/about/positions for de-
tails about the position, department, and search.
Please contact any member of the search committee
below if you have additional questions
Dr. Tom Sherry (tsherry@tulane.edu, committee chair)
Dr. Caz Taylor (caz@tulane.edu) Dr. Sunshine Van
Bael (svanbael@tulane.edu) Dr. Elizabeth Derryberry
(ederrybe@tulane.edu)
{ Elizabeth Derryberry, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Ken
and Ruth Arnold Early Career Professor in Earth &
Ecological Science Department of Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118504-862-8285 (oce) 504-862-8706 (fax) elizabethderry-
berry.tulane.edu
Elizabeth Derryberry <ederrybe@tulane.edu >
TunghaiU DivingFieldAssist
CoralAdaptation
Although this job position is more ecology-oriented, it
still has minimal evolutionary component.
Job: research assistant for the ecological resilience of
coral reefs in the Pratas Island, Taiwan (focus on sh
and macroalgae)
Our project investigates the inuence of abiotic and
biotic factors on the ecological resilience of coral reefs
in the Pratas Island, Taiwan in South China Sea. The
work of the eld assistant will be to mainly SCUBA
diving eldwork involving sh and macroalgae survey
around reefs. Data analysis, report writing and other
daily administrative work. This work will give insight
into integrative
experiments on coral ecosystem involving mesocosm,
invertebrates, shes, macroalgae, seagrass, and coral
reefs.
Research Assistant in Department of Life Science, Tung-
hai University, Taiwan.
Full time position with health care benets.
Salary: US$1000 for Bachelor degree and US$1100 for
Master degree. (Salary according to national research
council.). The minimum wage in Taiwan is US$640. The
living expense is around $US500 in this city (Taichung).
Annual bonus amounting to 1.5 months of salary.
Primary qualications/training:
1. Bachelor degree or master degree from biology or
related eld preferred. Other elds will also be consid-
ered.
2. Minimum 50 logged dives is essential. Advanced
diver or Divemaster qualications preferred.
3. Knowledge of basic statistical analysis and computer
work.
Language: Fluent in either Mandarin or English
Inquiries: Dr. Colin Wen (colinwen@gmail.com) or Dr.
Shao-Lun (Allen) Liu (shaolunliu@gmail.com)
Applicant should submit 1) cover letter, 2) resume 3)September 1, 2015 EvolDir 43
copy of degree/certicates.
All applications must be submitted by the closing
date (31 Aug 2015). Sincerely yours, Shao-Lun
(Allen) Liu Assistant Professor Department of Life
Science, Tunghai University Taichung 40704, Tai-
wan Web: http://algae.thu.edu.tw/lab Shao-Lun Liu
<shaolunliu@gmail.com >
UCalifornia Berkeley
ProgramCoordinator
ClimateAdaptation
Please distribute widely to your networks:
Academic Program Coordinator: Berkeley Initiative in
Global Change Biology
The Berkeley Initiative in Global Change Biology
(BiGCB) at the University of California, Berkeley is
seeking applications for an Academic Program Coordi-
nator. The expected start date of this 100% full-time,
one-year position is August 31, 2015 and may be renew-
able annually up to 5 years.
This position is the nexus for the coordination and imple-
mentation of the BiGCB. A cornerstone of our education
and research activities is a new National Science Foun-
dation Research Traineeship (NRT) interdisciplinary
graduate training program Environment and Society:
Data Science for the 21st Century (DS421). It is antici-
pated that 50% of the Program Coordinator's time will
be spent implementing the DS421 program.
For more information on the BiGCB and DS421
see: http://globalchange.berkeley.edu http://-
ds421.berkeley.edu Applications should be received
by August 18, 2015. The detailed job description can
be viewed at: https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/-
JPF00745 . Michelle Koo <mkoo@berkeley.edu >
UCalifornia Davis EvolutionaryBiol
Lecturer with Potential Security of Employment - UC
Davis
The Department of Evolution and Ecology (EVE) in-
vites applications for a full-time Lecturer with Potentialfor Security of Employment (LPSOE). Faculty in LP-
SOE positions are eligible for promotion to Lecturer
with Security of Employment (LSOE), the equivalent of
tenure for ladder rank faculty. LPSOE/LSOE faculty
are Academic Senate faculty members whose expertise
and responsibilities center on undergraduate education
and on the scholarly analysis and improvement of teach-
ing methods. We are interested in the following areas:
Ecology, Evolution, Phylogenetics, Genetics, Genomics,
and General Education courses on topics related to these
areas.
The successful applicant will be responsible for teach-
ing lower, and possibly upper division undergraduate
biology classes, as well as biology-based General Educa-
tion courses for non-biologists. S/he will be expected
to play a leadership role in the scholarship of teaching
and learning by having a research program in biological
science education, assessment strategies, or an academic
discipline, and by working with other faculty and LP-
SOE's within the college to develop, implement, and
assess course learning objectives and new pedagogical
methods.
Qualied applicants must have a Ph.D. in biology or sci-
ence education, experience conducting scientic research
in ecology, evolution, genetics, genomics or phylogenet-
ics, preferably with postdoctoral training in teaching,
education, or scientic research. Other preferred qual-
ications include documented success in some or all
of the following areas as related to life sciences educa-
tion: teaching undergraduate classes, use of evidence-
based teaching practices, use of modern instructional
technology including virtual models, online media in
instruction, the ability to identify and develop eective
teaching strategies for diverse student populations, con-
ducting life sciences education research, as consistent
with a successful discipline-based education research
program. Salary will be commensurate with education
and experience.
Closing date: open until lled, but all application ma-
terials, including letters of recommendation, must be
received by October 1, 2015 to be assured full con-
sideration. We are hoping to interview in Decem-
ber. Applicants should submit materials online at:
https://recruit.ucdavis.edu/apply/JPF00682. Please
submit a cover letter, your curriculum vitae, a de-
scription of your research background (not to ex-
ceed two pages), statement of current and proposed
teaching and research/leadership activities (not to ex-
ceed four pages); summaries of teaching evaluations
from three courses in a relevant subject matter (op-
tional); and a separate statement on strategies aimed
at fostering diversity in the scientic workforce. Ap-
plicants should also arrange to have three referees44 EvolDir September 1, 2015
submit supporting letters online at the above web-
site. The administrative contact is Korie Martinez,
kmartinez@ucdavis.edu, and the faculty contact is Gail
Patricelli, gpatricelli@ucdavis.edu. More information on
the EVE department and the College of Biological Sci-
ences is available online: (http://www-eve.ucdavis.edu/;
http://biosci.ucdavis.edu/index js.html)
The University of California is an armative ac-
tion/equal opportunity employer committed to excel-
lence through diversity and strongly encourages applica-
tions from all qualied applicants, including women and
minorities. UC Davis is responsive to the needs of dual
career couples, is dedicated to work-life balance through
an array of family-friendly policies, and is the recipient
of an NSF ADVANCE Award for gender equity.
UCalifornia Davis
MolecularAnthropology
University of California, Davis- Assistant Professor in
Anthropology - Molecular Anthropology- Deadline: Oc-
tober 30, 2015
The Department of Anthropology at the University of
California, Davis, invites applications for a tenure-track
Assistant Professor position in Molecular Anthropology.
Ph.D. must be completed by the rst day of courses
(September 2016). This recruitment is conducted at the
assistant rank. The resulting hire will be at the assis-
tant rank, regardless of the proposed appointee????????s
qualications.
We seek applicants with a strong commitment to origi-
nal research and scientic publication on using genetic
and genomic data to illuminate human or non-human
primate evolution (phylogeny, demography, adaptation),
with a background in bioinformatics, molecular biology,
and/or population genetics. Applicants must demon-
strate exceptional promise as scholars and teachers.
The position is a nine-month appointment within the
Department of Anthropology. The proposed start date
is July 1, 2016. Teaching duties will be four courses per
academic year (quarter system) at the introductory, ad-
vanced undergraduate, and graduate level. Courses will
include an introduction to Human Evolutionary Biology,
an advanced undergraduate course in Anthropological
Genetics, and a graduate seminar. The candidate will
develop additional classes, perform undergraduate and
graduate advising, and supervise graduate and under-graduate student research. The University of California,
Davis, and the Department of Anthropology are inter-
ested in candidates who are committed to the highest
standards of scholarship and professional activities, and
to the development of a campus environment that sup-
ports equality and diversity.
Applicants should submit: (1) a curriculum vitae; (2)
a cover letter that outlines completed research, cur-
rent research program, and teaching experience; (3)
copies of up to three publications; and (4) the names
and addresses of three referees. Applications must be
submitted online to: http://recruit.ucdavis.edu/apply/-
JPF00659 . For full consideration, applications should
be complete by October 30, 2015. The position is open
until lled.
The University of California, Davis, is an armative
action/equal opportunity employer with a strong insti-
tutional commitment to the achievement of diversity
among its faculty and sta.
UC Davis is a smoke and tobacco free campus. Smok-
ing, the use of smokeless tobacco products, and the
use of unregulated nicotine products (e-cigarettes) is
strictly prohibited on any UC Davis owned or leased
property, indoors and outdoors, including parking lots
and residential space.
Jennifer N. Willard Academic Personnel Specialist Di-
vision of Social Sciences Green Cluster Departments
of Anthropology & Sociology Program in Middle East
and South Asian Studies UC Davis ???? 328B Young
Hall One Shields Avenue ???? Davis, CA 95616 Oce:
530-754-4936 ???? Fax: 530-752-8885
Email: jnwillard@ucdavis.edu
Oce Hours: M-F 8:00am-4:30pm
Jennifer N Willard <jnwillard@ucdavis.edu >
UCalifornia Davis ResTech
FishEvolution
EVOLUTION AND ECOLOGY JUNIOR SPECIALIST
POSITION AVAILABLE
The Wainwright lab at the University of California,
Davis, seeks a junior specialist to assist with research
on the functional morphology and evolution of shes.
This person will organize and oversee the use of the
laboratory by lab members, maintain live shes in the
laboratory, and conduct studies on their feeding andSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 45
locomotion functional morphology. Additional responsi-
bilities are managing a research collection of preserved
and cleared and stained sh specimens and assisting
other lab members with research projects.
Requirements: Bachelor's degree in biological sciences
or related eld required. Some previous experience in
the eld is required. The applicant must possess excel-
lent written and oral communication skills. The ideal
applicant will have a strong interest in shes, functional
morphology and phylogenetics, or some combination of
these topics, and will have ambitions to go on to grad-
uate school in the next couple of years. This is a full
time, 40 hour per week position. Starting date can be
immediately but before mid-October, with a proposed
duration of one year with possibility of extension.
Salary: $36,984 annually plus health benets
Application: please submit by email a letter of interest,
CV, and contact information for 3 references to:
Peter Wainwright pcwainwright@ucdavis.edu
Peter Wainwright <pcwainwright@ucdavis.edu >
UCalifornia SanDiego
EvolutionaryBiol
Assistant Professor: Evolutionary Biology
The Division of Biological Sciences
(www.biology.ucsd.edu), Section of Ecology, Be-
havior and Evolution, invites applications for a faculty
position at the tenure-track Assistant Professor level in
Evolutionary Biology. We are broadly searching for an
evolutionary biologist. Research topics could include,
but are not limited to, vertebrate biology, evolutionary
ecology, or comparative or population genomics.
All candidates must have earned a Ph.D. or equivalent
degree, and be committed to teaching at the undergrad-
uate and graduate levels. In addition to excellence and
creativity in research and scholarship, successful candi-
dates must also demonstrate a commitment to equity
and inclusion in higher education. We are especially
interested in candidates who have created or contributed
to programs that aim to increase access and success of
underrepresented students and/or faculty in the sciences,
and/or have detailed plans to accomplish such goals.
The Division of Biological Sciences at UCSD is a vibrant
center of scientic discovery, innovation, and collabo-
ration. Our large research base spans many areas ofbiology and has one of the most celebrated graduate
programs in the country. We are committed to academic
excellence and diversity within the faculty, sta, and
student body. This is where discovery comes to life.
Salary is commensurate with qualications and based
on University of California pay scales.
Completed applications received by October 1, 2015 will
be assured of consideration.
Interested applicants must submit a cover letter, cur-
riculum vitae, 3-5 references, statement of research,
statement of teaching, a statement describing their past
experience and leadership in fostering equity and diver-
sity and/or their potential to make future contributions,
and 3-5 publications. For information on preparing di-
versity statements and divisional initiatives to promote
diversity, see: http://facultyequity.ucsd.edu/Faculty-
Applicant-C2D-Info.asp and http://biology.ucsd.edu/-
diversity/index.html . Applications must be submit-
ted through the University of California San Diego's
Academic Personnel RECRUIT System at: https://-
apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/apply/JPF00871 Further details
about the required application material can be found at:
http://biology.ucsd.edu/jobs/apply-lrf-lsoe.html UCSD
is an Armative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
with a strong institutional commitment to excellence
through diversity. All qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to gender,
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national
origin, disability, age or protected veteran status.
\Ta, Laura" <lta@ucsd.edu >
UCalifornia SantaCruz LabTech
Plankton
Laboratory Technician Position
Our lab at the University of California Santa Cruz is
searching for a full-time lab technician with experience
in biological research for a project investigating the in-
teraction of marine phytoplankton and zooplankton and
their respective microbiome. The position is supported
until 2017 with renewal every year contingent of fund-
ing availability. Santa Cruz California is a beautiful
place surrounded by redwoods and beautiful beaches
and oers a lot of outdoor activities.
For more details on the position, please see the
posting on UCSC HR site, https://jobs.ucsc.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFind=3D68354 or email46 EvolDir September 1, 2015
msisonma@ucsc.edu.
Essential Functions and Responsibilities:
The laboratory technician will assist in the development
of gnotobiotic systems on zooplankton and phytoplank-
ton with a focus on studying the ecology, evolution and
mechanisms of microbiome-phytoplankton/zooplankton
interactions. The technician will be responsible for over-
seeing daily workings of the lab, conducting experiments
and maintaining zooplankton and phytoplankton stocks.
The applicant must be willing to work independently
and communicate eectively with the principal inves-
tigator (PI). The technician will be working alongside
undergraduate students, and will be expected to assist
the PI in delegating tasks. Excellent skills in organiza-
tion and communication, clear attention to details with
accurate record keeping are therefore essential.
Qualications:
Applicants should have a minimum of a bachelors degree
in biology, microbiology, molecular biology or related
subject with experience working in a research labora-
tory setting and is capable of going out on boats for
ocean sampling. The technician will be trained on how
to do microscopy for FISH bacterial probing and as-
sist in preparation of samples for transcriptomics and
metagenomics.
Prociency with computers and Microsoft Excel is re-
quired. The technician will also be taught on how to
analyze next-gen sequences using bioinformatics tools.
Preferred Qualications:
- Experience with molecular biology and microbiology
methods including PCR, qPCR, RNA and DNA extrac-
tions and sequence data analysis.
- Knowledge of marine biology, microbiology, evolution
or ecology
Interested candidates should submit a letter of interest,
resume and the names and contact information of three
professional references to msisonma@ucsc.edu.
Marilou P. Sison-Mangus Assistant Professor, Ocean
Sciences University of California Santa Cruz 1156 High
Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064
Phone: 831-459-5563 Fax Main Oce: 831-459-4882
msisonma@gmail.comUConnecticut
BioinformaticsScientist
POSITION SUMMARY The University of Connecti-
cut seeks a Bioinformatics Scientist to serve faculty,
researchers, and graduate students on the main UConn
campus and the UCHC within the Center for Genome
Innovation housed in the cross-campus Institute for Sys-
tems Genomics (isg.uconn.edu). We are seeking applica-
tions from dynamic, motivated individuals interested in
providing computational biology and statistical exper-
tise to help develop and analyze a variety of projects.
The Bioinformatics Scientist will work closely with mem-
bers of the Center for Genome Innovation (sequencing
core facility) to support investigators as they design
their experiments, particularly those that involve next-
generation sequencing data. The user base of the CGI is
broad, and the successful candidate can expect to work
on a diverse array of problems in a range of systems
(both model and non-model organisms).
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The successful can-
didate will provide consultation to faculty, researchers,
and graduate students on the use of specic computing
tools for solving a broad range of problems in biology,
interface with biologists and computer scientists, and
maintain web and tutorial resources. They will have an
excellent command of verbal and written communication
to facilitate the dissemination of results through presen-
tations, reports, and scientic publications. They will
stay informed on the latest software tools and test these
for possible integration into existing analysis pipelines.
APPOINTMENT TERMS Candidates with commensu-
rate experience will be considered at the more advanced
Academic Assistant 3 classication. This is a non-tenure
track, annual 11-month appointment. Salary will be
commensurate with qualications.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS M.S. with two or more
years post M.S. work experience or Ph.D. in bioinformat-
ics or a related area; direct experience or equivalent skills
to design experiments and analyze data from studies
focused on: RNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq, RAD-Seq, metage-
nomics, genome assembly, variant detection, and/or
phylogenetics. Prociency in one or more scripting lan-
guages (Perl or Python) as well as uency in Unix and
comfort in high performance computing environments
is expected. Excellent project management and organi-
zation skills required.September 1, 2015 EvolDir 47
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS Solid foundation in
statistics as well as software development is desired.
Expertise in R/Bioconductor is desired.
How To Apply: Interested applicants must ap-
ply electronically using the University of Con-
necticut UConn Careers (http://hr.uconn.edu/eeoaa-
employment-statement/). Please submit a cover letter,
curriculum vitae, and three letters from professional
references. For questions regarding this position email
jill.wegrzyn@uconn.edu. All applications must be re-
ceived by close of business, September 21, 2015.
Jill Wegrzyn <jill.wegrzyn@uconn.edu >
UFlorida Gainesville ResTech
EvolBiol
The genetics lab of Drs. James Austin and Samantha
Wisely is looking for an energetic, well-organized person
to join a growing team of biologists, graduate students
and post-doctoral researchers at a at the Department
of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation at the University
of Florida, Gainesville. The biological scientist will con-
tribute to a variety of projects involving a wide-variety
of terrestrial and aquatic organisms. Examples include
the study of disease in game (e.g. deer) and other non-
model species (arctic shore birds), the genetic impacts
of stocking practices in freshwater sheries (e.g. large-
mouth bass), conservation genetics and genomis of rare
and endangered species (e.g. beach mice, black-footed
ferrets, bonneted bats, snail kites, among others).
The primary duties will involve generating molecular
genetic data (DNA/RNA isolations, PCR, Real-time
PCR, SNP and microsatellite genotyping, and Sanger
and next-gen sequencing) and assisting the lead biologi-
cal scientist in overseeing general lab operation (general
equipment maintenance, ABI 3130 and ABI 3730 main-
tenance, organization of equipment use) in a highly
active, diverse conservation genetics research laboratory.
In addition, the candidate will assist with student train-
ing (basic laboratory training of undergraduate and new
graduate students).
Minimum requirements are a BS or equivalent science
degree, plus 1 years experience working or conducting
research in a molecular genetics laboratory. Preference
will be given to candidates with independent research
experience (e.g. completed MS in biological sciences).
Applicants having experience in generating molecular
genetic data, with an emphasis on next-generation se-quence data analysis, and SSR marker development,
data collection, and basic analysis; demonstrated record
keeping, data organization, data archiving skills as well
as experience in the basic application of languages such
as python and/or R, the ability to use Arc GIS, and
an aptitude for learning these skills and experience con-
ducting eld ecology work will be preferred. Strong
inter-personal skills are required, as the candidate will
be interacting with a diverse group of lab users.
Preference will be given to applicants that clearly artic-
ulate their relevant experience in their cover letter, and
who provide references that can speak to your ability to
perform in a busy molecular laboratory and be a team
player.
This is a three-year TEAMS position (see for new
hire details: http://hr.u.edu/wp-content/uploads/-
publications/handbook.pdf), thereafter renewable on
an annual basis upon availability of funding. Start-
ing salary is $30,000 plus benets (information about
benets can be found at the UF HR website, http://-
hr.u.edu/benets/new-employees/).
Job posting ends Aug. 30, 2015. We will be screening
applicants as they come in, and potentially conduct-
ing initial interviews before and up to the closing date
(to allow for early consideration of promising candi-
dates). Start date is expected to be in October (exact
date to be negotiated). Inquiries should be made to
Drs. Jim Austin, austinj@u.edu or Samantha Wisely
wisely@u.edu.
Applicants will be required to formally apply through
the University of Florida employment site: http://-
jobs.u.edu/. This position number is 493185. However,
it is encouraged that you also contact one or both of
the PIs above with your CV, cover letter, and contact
information for 3 references.
\austinj@u.edu" <austinj@u.edu >
ULouisiana EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Biology (http://-
biology.louisiana.edu) at the University of Louisiana,
Lafayette seeks to ll a tenure-track position at the
Assistant Professor level. We are searching for an out-
standing scientist who utilizes genomics, bioinformatics,
or molecular biology to address important questions
in evolution, behavior, physiology, or environmental
biology.48 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Minimum qualications are a Ph.D. in a relevant eld, a
signicant publication record, and postdoctoral experi-
ence. Successful applicants will be expected to establish
a vigorous, externally-funded research program, provide
instruction to undergraduates and graduate students
and participate in our Ph.D. program in Environmen-
tal and Evolutionary Biology. Cover letter, curriculum
vitae, statement of research interests, statement of teach-
ing interests, and a list of three references (including
postal and email addresses) should be emailed as a sin-
gle pdf attachment to: genomics.search@louisiana.edu.
Please refer to Integrative Genomics search in the sub-
ject line. To ensure full consideration, applications
should be received by October 9, 2015.
The University of Louisiana at Lafayette is a public
research university with High Research Activity with
accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges
and Schools Commission on Colleges. With an enroll-
ment of over 18,000 students and 575 full-time faculty
members, UL Lafayette is the largest of nine universities
in the University of Louisiana System. The University
oers degree programs in 54 undergraduate disciplines,
20 post bachelor certicates, four graduate certicates,
the masters degree in 27 disciplines, and the doctor-
ate in 10 disciplines. Further information about the
University is available on the University's webpage at
http://louisiana.edu. With approximately 30 faculty
members and 70 graduate students, the biology program
is one of the largest of its kind on the Gulf Coast.
For information about safety at the University of
Louisiana at Lafayette, and to review the Annual Se-
curity Report, which contains information about crime
statistics and other safety and security matters, please go
to http://police.louisiana.edu/jeanne-clery-act, where
you will also nd details on requesting a hard copy of
the Annual Security Report.
UL Lafayette is an EEO/AA employer.
Paul Leberg <leberg@louisiana.edu >UMaryland ResTech
SpermCooperation
The newly established Fisher Lab at the University of
Maryland, College Park is looking to hire 1-2 Research
Technicians or Research Associates to carry out NIH
funded research aimed at understanding the molecular
and physical mechanisms underlying sperm coopera-
tion in Peromyscus mice. This research is necessarily
integrative and no one candidate is expected to have
all skills needed, but a willingness to learn is essential.
Experience with gamete handling and microscopy is
highly preferred. Lab duties will depend on candidate
interests, but assistance with day-to-day lab operations
and training new students is essential.
Minimum requirements: - BS in biology, animal sci-
ences or related elds - Laboratory experience with
DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, buer prep - Organized,
detail-oriented, able to work independently - Able to
learn and troubleshoot new protocols
Preferred experience: - MS or Ph.D. in biology, ani-
mal sciences or related elds - Optical microscopy and
imaging - Reproductive techniques such as IVF, AI and
gamete handling - Rodent handling and husbandry -
Next gen sequencing library prep and data analysis
Compensation based on experience, skills and level of
education, ranging from $35,000-50,000 for full-time em-
ployment; part-time is negotiable. Benets and tuition
remission available for full-time. UMD is easily acces-
sible by the Metro, connecting campus to the greater
DC metro area - a hub of exciting biomedical research,
diversity and culture.
To apply, please email Heidi Fisher (hssher@umd.edu)
and include a copy of CV or resume and 3 references.
{ Heidi S. Fisher Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ology University of Maryland College Park, MD 20742
Oce (BRB 2128): 301-405-2005 Lab (BRB 2119): 301-
405-5613
\hssher@umd.edu" <hssher@umd.edu >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 49
UMelbourne SystemsGenomics
Lectureship in Systems Genomics (continuing) - Univer-
sity of Melbourne
Deadline: Wednesday, August 12, 2015
The School of BioSciences is seeking to recruit an
excellent researcher, with a commitment to teach-
ing and other academic duties, in the area of sys-
tems genomics, dened broadly to include a range of
computation/statistics-based research on any aspects of
the processes leading from genotype to phenotype. The
postholder can also be a member of the University's new
Centre for Systems Genomics (http://sysgenmelb.org/)
Further details and to apply: http://-
jobs.unimelb.edu.au/caw/en/job/886164/lecturer-
in-systems-genomics { David Balding Schools of
BioSciences and Maths & Stats University of Melbourne
ph +613 8344 3730 internal 43730 mob +614 6652 0579
dbalding@unimelb.edu.au
https://sites.google.com/site/-
baldingstatisticalgenetics/home
UMemphis EvolutionaryBiol
Position announcement:
Assistant/Associate Professor, Department of Biological
Sciences, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN
38152
Tenure-track Assistant/Associate Professor in Biological
Sciences Education, beginning in August 2016.
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Memphis (www.memphis.edu/biology) invites
applications for a tenure-track position in biological sci-
ences education (research and teaching) at the Assistant
or Associate Professor level. Candidates must have a
Ph.D. in a Biological Science discipline with evidence
of excellence in post-secondary biology teaching and
scholarship.
The successful candidates demonstrated focus must be
in biological sciences education research and in devel-oping innovative instructional approaches to teaching
undergraduate biology courses, including knowledge of
assessment strategies. Responsibilities of the position
include teaching and assisting with curriculum develop-
ment for introductory and core courses in biology and/or
departmental service courses. We are also interested in
expanding an existing graduate level teaching course to
help our graduate students further develop their teaching
skills. Candidates applying at the Assistant Professor
level will be expected to pursue extramural funding in
STEM education. Candidates at the Associate Professor
level should have current funding or a history of funding
in STEM education. Startup funds are available and
salary will be commensurate with experience.
The University of Memphis is a leading metropolitan
research institution with over 25 faculty specializing in
diverse subdisciplines of the biological sciences. The
Department serves approximately 500 majors and over
40 M.S. and Ph.D. students. The W. Harry Feinstone
Center for Genomic Research, the interdepartmental
Program in Bioinformatics, the Ecological Research Cen-
ter, the Integrated Microscopy Center, and the Meeman
Biological Field Station, are all administered through
the department and oer outstanding opportunities for
research, teaching, and collaboration.
Candidates should submit a letter of application,
statements of STEM research interests and teach-
ing philosophy, and a CV online at http://-
workforum.memphis.edu/. Applicants should also pro-
vide contact information for three references willing to
write letters of recommendation, if requested. Review
of applications will begin September 15, 2015 and may
continue until the position is lled. Inquiries should
be directed to Dr. Omar Skalli, Chair, STEM Faculty
Position, Department of Biological Sciences, University
of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152, USA (or email os-
kalli@memphis.edu). The University of Memphis, a
Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action employer. We urge
all qualied applicants to apply for this position. Ap-
pointment will be based on qualications as they relate
to position requirements without regard to race, color,
national origin, religion, sex, age, disability or veteran
status.
\Duane McKenna (dmckenna)"
<dmckenna@memphis.edu >50 EvolDir September 1, 2015
UMichigan
EvolBiologyofFishesorBirds
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
and the Program in the Environment at the University
of Michigan seek applicants for an assistant professor
(tenure-track) position in the ecology or evolutionary
biology of shes or birds. While we expect to make a
junior hire, outstanding senior applicants will also be
considered. This is a university-year appointment with
an expected start date of September 1, 2016. We seek
outstanding individuals who use comparative sh or
bird systems to study any area of ecology or evolution-
ary biology, and who would oer exceptional courses in
the ecology or evolution of either taxon. Also strongly
encouraged are research programs that could take ad-
vantage of the world-class biodiversity collections of
the Museum of Zoology and/ or utilize the EEB De-
partment's biological eld stations. Museum curatorial
activities may replace some teaching duties for appro-
priate candidates.
Applications should include a cover letter, CV, a state-
ment describing your current and future plans for re-
search, a statement of your teaching philosophy and
experience, evidence of teaching excellence (if any),
statement of curatorial philosophy and experience (if
appropriate), and copies of publications (maximum of
4).
To apply, use this link: http://www.resources-
eeb.lsa.umich.edu/search15/ and arrange to have three
letters of recommendation submitted through the same
website. Review of applications will begin on October
1st 2015 and will continue until the position is lled.
Women and minorities are strongly encouraged to ap-
ply. The University of Michigan is supportive of the
needs of dual career couples and is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer.
View the full ad at: http://www.resources-
eeb.lsa.umich.edu/search15/index.php Meghan Duy,
Ph.D. Associate Professor Department of Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology http://duylab.wordpress.com/
Oce: 1039 Ruthven Museums Building Phone:
734-763-3658
\duymeg@umich.edu" <duymeg@umich.edu >UMichigan FishBirdEvolution
Ecology or Evolutionary Biology of Fishes or Birds
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
(http://www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/) and the Program in
the Environment (http://www.lsa.umich.edu/pite) at
the University of Michigan seek applicants for an as-
sistant professor (tenure-track) position in the ecology
or evolutionary biology of shes or birds. While we
expect to make a junior hire, outstanding senior appli-
cants will also be considered. This is a university-year
appointment with an expected start date of Septem-
ber 1, 2016. We seek outstanding individuals who use
comparative sh or bird systems to study any area of
ecology or evolutionary biology, and who would oer
exceptional courses in the ecology or evolution of either
taxon. Also strongly encouraged are research programs
that could take advantage of the world-class biodiversity
collections of the Museum of Zoology and/ or utilize the
EEB Department's biological eld stations. Museum
curatorial activities may replace some teaching duties
for appropriate candidates.
Applications should include a cover letter, CV, a state-
ment describing your current and future plans for re-
search, a statement of your teaching philosophy and
experience, evidence of teaching excellence (if any),
statement of curatorial philosophy and experience (if
appropriate), and copies of publications (maximum of
4).
To apply, go to http://www.resources-
eeb.lsa.umich.edu/search15/ and arrange to have
three letters of recommendation submitted through
the same website. Review of applications will begin
on *October 1st 2015* and will continue until the
position is lled. *Women and minorities are strongly
encouraged to apply. The University of Michigan is
supportive of the needs of dual career couples and is an
equal opportunity/armative action employer.*
L. Lacey Knowles Professor and Curator Dept. of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Museum of Zoology Uni-
versity of Michigan Ann Arbor MI 48109-1079
\knowlesl@umich.edu" <knowlesl@umich.edu >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 51
UOklahoma AvianGenomics
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR/CURATOR - AVIAN GE-
NETICS/GENOMICS
POSITION AVAILABLE: Tenure-track Assistant Cura-
tor of Ornithology and Assistant Professor of Biology,
Sam Noble Museum and Department of Biology, Uni-
versity of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma.
SALARY: Negotiable (9-month appointment). Tenure
will be in the Department of Biology.
BEGINNING DATE: 16 August 2016
DESCRIPTION OF POSITION: We seek a creative,
collaborative thinker with a collection-based research
program involving molecular approaches to studying
avian systems. We are especially interested in candi-
dates who use genomic tools and datasets in combination
with innovative computational, ecological, behavioral
and/or comparative approaches to address important
biological questions ranging from the origin and mainte-
nance of organismal diversity, adaptation to changing
environments, and human health and disease. Areas
of research interests include, but are not limited to:
comparative genomics, landscape/population genetics,
geographical ecology, global change biology, evolution-
ary genetics, and mechanisms of evolution. Preference
will be given to biologists with a documented record of
collections-based research in natural history who also
clearly demonstrate cross-disciplinary research programs.
A Ph.D., teaching experience, and eld and museum
research experience in ornithology are required.
RESPONSIBILITIES: The successful candidate will
be expected to: (1) develop and maintain an innova-
tive, extramurally-funded research program in avian
systems; (2) oversee care and obtain support for a col-
lection of more than 26,000 specimens by maintaining
records, identifying and cataloging specimens, supervis-
ing preparators and assistants, expanding and preserving
the collections, and developing long-range plans for col-
lection maintenance and development; (3) contribute
to museum public exhibit development and support;
(4) develop and contribute to museum-related outreach
activities; and (5) contribute to undergraduate and grad-
uate teaching, including instruction of one course per
year (one-half the regular department teaching load) in
ornithology, animal behavior, biogeography, genetics,
evolution, ecological modeling, or bioinformatics. A full-time collection manager is funded in this collection (50%
collection, 50% Genetic Resources Core Facility), and a
rotating graduate assistant appointment is assigned to
the collection.
GENERAL INFORMATION: The Sam Noble Museum
is an organized research unit of the University of Ok-
lahoma and is one of the nest university museums in
the world. The museum has an outstanding curatorial,
collections, education, exhibits, and support sta that
serves the museum's mission from research to preser-
vation to education at all levels. The Department of
Biology is a leading academic department with a tradi-
tion of excellence in organismal biology. It is home to 20
of the 44 faculty in the University's graduate program in
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and it is currently in
the process of hiring several new faculty in the next two
to three years to expand on its strengths in geographical
ecology and the biology of behavior.
APPLICATIONS: Send cover letter, curriculum vitae,
summary of experience and goals (including teaching,
research, and curation), and representative pdf reprint
examples to Dr. Michael A. Mares, Director, ma-
mares@ou.edu. Applicants should also arrange to have
three signed letters of reference sent to mamares@ou.edu
or to Genetic Ornithologist Search Committee, Sam
Noble Museum, 2401 Chautauqua Ave., Norman, Ok-
lahoma, 73072-7029. Visit us at http://snomnh.ou.edu
and http://biology.ou.edu . CLOSING DATE: Screen-
ing of candidates will begin 1 October 2015 and continue
until the position is lled.
THE UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA IS AN AF-
FIRMATIVE ACTION/EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EM-
PLOYER AND ENCOURAGES DIVERSITY IN THE
WORKPLACE. PROTECTED VETERANS AND IN-
DIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES ARE ENCOUR-
AGED TO APPLY.
\Wall, Salina E." <salinawall@ou.edu >
UOklahoma
PlantSystematistCurator
PLANT SYSTEMATIST/CURATOR POSITION
Department of Microbiology and Plant Biology (MP-
BIO) and The Oklahoma Biological Survey (OBS) at the
University of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma, invite ap-
plicants for a tenured or tenured-track Faculty Position
in Plant Biology and Curator of the Bebb Herbarium.52 EvolDir September 1, 2015
The position will be at the rank of Assistant Prof., As-
sociate Prof., or Professor. The position is a 12-month,
joint appointment in MPBIO and the OBS(one-half
time in each unit) with tenure awarded jointly begin-
ning July 1, 2016. We are committed to achieving a
diverse workforce.
We seek a plant biologist with strong curatorial skills
and a research program focusing on the systematics and
conservation of plants.Areas of research interests include:
comparative genomics, population genetics, conserva-
tion biology, and mechanisms of diversication.The suc-
cessful candidate will utilize collection-based systematic
techniques, have experience in eldwork and natural his-
tory collections, and will demonstrate cross-disciplinary
research capability. Responsibilities will include: (1)
oversight and curation of a vascular plant collection of
250000+ specimens (in conjunction with a collections
manager); (2) contributing to undergraduate and gradu-
ate teaching, including courses such as plant taxonomy
and specialized courses in areas of expertise; (3) devel-
oping and maintaining an extramurally funded research
program, and (4) conducting public outreach. The OBS
is a state agency and a research department at OU
with a mission to gather, analyze and disseminate infor-
mation regarding the biota and ecological communities
within the state and associated geographical areas.
Candidates must have: (1) A Ph.D.in Plant Biology or
related area, herbarium research experience with strong
record of publication and external funding. (2) Demon-
strate a solid, collection-based research program in the
systematics, biogeography, conservation and biology of
plants. (3) Evidence of and commitment to obtain ex-
tramural funding to support research and collections.
(4) Commitment to excellence and innovation in the
teaching and mentoring of graduate and undergraduate
students. (5) Contribute to undergraduate and graduate
teaching, including courses such as plant systematics
and owering plants, as well as specialized classes in
areas of expertise. (6) Commitment to contributing to
the service activities of the Oklahoma Biological Survey,
Department of Microbiology and Plant Biology, College
of Arts and Sciences, University, and to the profession.
The University of Oklahoma (OU) is a Carnegie-R1
comprehensive public research university known for ex-
cellence in teaching, research, and community engage-
ment, serving the educational, cultural, economic and
health-care needs of the state, region, and nation from
three campuses: Norman, Health Sciences Center in
Oklahoma City and the Schusterman Center in Tulsa.
OU enrolls over 30,000 students and has more than 2700
full-time faculty members in 21 colleges. In 2014, OU
became the rst public institution ever to rank #1 na-
tionally in the recruitment of National Merit Scholars,with 311 scholars. The 277-acre Research Campus in
Norman was named the No.1 research campus in the
nation by the Association of Research Parks in 2013.
Norman is a culturally rich and vibrant town located
just outside Oklahoma City. A with outstanding schools,
amenities, and a low cost of living, Norman is a peren-
nial contender on 'best place to live' rankings. Visit
http://ou.edu/provost/ipbookand www.* ou*.edu/-
publicaairs/* oufacts *.html <http://www.ou.edu/-
publicaairs/oufacts.html >for more information.
*Application Process.* Condential review of applica-
tions will begin October 1, 2015 and continue until both
positions are lled. Interested individuals are invited to
submit a letter of application, current curriculum vitae,
up to ve representative publications, a statement of re-
search plans, as well as a statement of teaching interests
and philosophy.Three to ve letters of reference should
be sent directly to mpbiofacultysearch@ou.edu.To apply,
please visit the University's Human Resources web site
at https://jobs.ou.edu and search listings for requisition
number *23222*. *ALL APPLICANTS MUST APPLY
ONLINE.*
For information on the Plant Systematist/Curator
Position: Dr. Bruce Hoagland, Professor,
bhoagland@ou.edu. Attn. Plant Systematist/Curator
Search Committee. 770 Van Vleet Oval, Norman,
Oklahoma, 73072-7029. Visit us at mpbio.ou.edu and
biosurvey.ou.edu <http://www.biosurvey.ou.edu >.
/The University of Oklahoma is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UPennsylvania ResTech
ProteinEvolution
Assistant Professor of Biology
University of Pennsylvania
Research Technician Position Available
The newly minted Levine Lab (www.levinelab.io) in the
Department of Biology and the University of Pennsyl-
vania is seeking to hire a research technician and/or
lab manager. The lab group investigates the causesSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 53
and functional consequences of rapid evolution at pro-
teins that package DNA. Using primarily Drosophila
melanogaster as a model system, we integrate evolution-
ary genetics, genomics, and cell biology to learn about
chromatin biology and epigenetics. The successful appli-
cant will help set up this new lab while working closely
with the PI on several exciting projects. The position
will start late August 2015.
Responsibilities
Drosophila maintenance, dissection, crossing, and screen-
ing
Molecular biology including DNA/RNA preparation,
PCR, cloning, Western Blotting, immunouorescence,
cell transfection and staining
Lab organization, maintenance, and purchasing
Participation in group meetings and planning sessions
Essential Qualications/Skills
Bachelors degree in biology or related eld
At least two years experience in a research laboratory
executing molecular biology protocols, including PCR,
cloning, Western blotting
Capacity to work both independently and collabora-
tively
Meticulous lab notebook keeping
Excellent communication skills
Enthusiasm for evolutionary biology and/or genetics
Preferred Qualications/Skills
xPrevious experience rearing Drosophila
Exposure to confocal microscopy
Comfort at the command line
To Apply:
Please apply online at http://jobs.hr.upenn.edu/-
postings/11498 and send to m.levine AT sas.upenn.edu
as a single pdf the following:
Cover letter stating interest in the position and de-
scribing qualications (please address list of essential
qualications listed above)
CV
E-mail addresses of three references
Mia Levine <mial@sas.upenn.edu >UPittsburgh 3 Evolution
Dear Colleagues,
The Department of Biological Sciences at the University
of Pittsburgh invites applications for a cluster hire of
three tenure-track faculty positions in the broad areas
of ecology, evolution, and/or behavior. Two positions
are anticipated at the ASSISTANT PROFESSOR level
and one at the ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR level, pend-
ing budgetary approval. We seek outstanding scientists
who will enhance and complement existing strengths
in ecology and evolution in our broad-based interactive
biology department. We invite applications from all
candidates working on cutting edge questions incorpo-
rating the topics of ecology, evolution, or behavior and
using animal, plant or microbial systems. Candidates
working in the following areas are especially encouraged
to apply:
- Species (plant, animal, microbe) interactions - Micro-
bial ecology or ecology/evolution of the microbiome -
Population, functional or evolutionary genomics - Phys-
iological, biophysical or functional ecology
Successful candidates will have a Ph.D. and postdoc-
toral experience and will be expected to establish an
extramurally funded research program, train graduate
students, and actively participate in undergraduate
science education. To ensure full consideration, ap-
plications and reference letters should be received by
September 30, 2015. Applicants can apply online at:
https://facultysearch.as.pitt.edu/apply/index/MTA2 .
Candidates should submit a letter of application, CV,
a 2-3-page statement of research accomplishments and
future plans, a brief description of teaching interests and
at least three letters of reference. For each reference,
you will have the opportunity to input a personal email
address or an email address generated through Interfo-
lio^A1s Online Application Delivery. In both cases, an
email notication will be sent to the designated address
with instructions about uploading the letters to our
system. The University of Pittsburgh is an Armative
Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and values equal-
ity of opportunity, human dignity and diversity. Women
and members of minority groups under-represented in
academia are especially encouraged to apply. Further in-
formation about the Department of Biological Sciences
is available at: http://www.biology.pitt.edu . Sincerely,
Nathan Morehouse54 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Assistant Professor Department of Biological Sciences
University of Pittsburgh 165 Crawford Hall Fifth
and Ruskin Avenues Pittsburgh, PA 15260 http://-
www.morehouselab.pitt.edu/ \Il y a un autre monde
mais il est dans celui-ci." - Paul ~Aluard
\nim@pitt.edu" <nim@pitt.edu >X-MS-Has-Attach:
Uppsala Tech Bioinformatician
Bioinformatician
We seek a dedicated and talented person to join Hans El-
legren's research group at the Evolutionary Biology Cen-
tre, Uppsala University, Sweden (http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
evolutionsbiologi/ellegren-se/?languageId=1) as bioin-
formatician.
We work with large-scale genomic approaches to gen-
eral evolutionary questions such as speciation, DNA
sequence evolution and sex chromosome evolution. Our
main study system is birds and we have sequenced and
assembled the ycatcher genome in house (Ellegren et
al 2012 Nature 491:756-760), and were part of the large
avian phylogenomics consortium (Jarvis et al 2014 Sci-
ence 346:1320-1331). By whole-genome re-sequencing of
large population samples of dierent ycatcher species
we gather extensive amounts of SNP data and use these
for population genomic analyses. The bioinformatician,
who will be fully integrated with the research group, will
work with genome assembly and detection of structural
variation using data from NGS-technologies that provide
long ( >10 kb) reads. She/he will also be responsible
for curation of ycatcher genome sequence data and
participate in research projects.
The position is initially for one year but can be extended.
It can also be combined with PhD studies.
Suitable background is a BSc or MSc in, for example,
bioinformatics or computer science. Experience from
working with NGS-data in UNIX environment is of merit,
as is familiarity with relevant programming languages
(e.g. Perl, Pyton).
To apply for the position, please visit the Uppsala Uni-
versity web site for Open Positions and log in and reg-
ister your application at http://uu.se/en/about-uu/-
join-us/details/?positionId=73431 Closing date for the
application is Sep 20.
Please feel free to contact me at
Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se with any questions.Our research group consists of some 15 scientists, includ-
ing PhD students, post-docs and bioinformaticians. The
research is funded by the European Research Council
(ERC), Knut and Alice Wallenbergs Foundation and
the Swedish Research Council.
The venue for the position, the Evolutionary Biology
Centre, is situated in central Uppsala. The working
atmosphere is international with the great majority
of PhD students and post-docs recruited from abroad.
The Centre constitutes an exciting arena for multidisci-
plinary research in evolutionary biology in a broad sense,
housing some 300 scientists and graduate students. The
scientic environment with numerous seminars, jour-
nal clubs and social activities oer excellent possibili-
ties for contacts and collaborations. Local platforms
for high-performance computational analyses (https:/-
/www.uppmax.uu.se/uppnex), NGS, SNP genotyping
and proteomic analyses (http://www.scilifelab.se) en-
sure immediate access to state-of-the-art technology.
Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scandi-
navia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant student town
with beautiful and easy accessible surroundings conve-
niently situated close to Stockholm.
The Ellegren group is part of the Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology (http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-
biology/), which is a branch of the larger Depart-
ment of Ecology and Genetics (http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
?languageId=1). The Department of Evolutionary Bi-
ology houses 8 independent research groups and about
25 PhD students, 25 postdocs, and several bioinformati-
cians. A common theme is that we address key questions
in evolutionary biology, like speciation, local adaptation,
life history evolution, genome and molecular evolution,
using genomic approaches. We have tight connections
with several other research groups in the Department of
Ecology and Genetics within the Evolutionary Biology
Centre.
Professor Hans Ellegren Department of Evolutionary Bi-
ology Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala University
Norbyv agen 18D SE-752 36 Uppsala Sweden
Email: Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se
LAB WEB PAGE: http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
evolutionsbiologi/ellegren-se/?languageId=1 Hans
Ellegren <hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 55
UUtah 4 Biodiversity
University of Utah
Multiple Tenure-Track or Tenured Faculty Positions in
Sustaining Biodiversity
Biodiversity, the richness of life on Earth, past and
present, is declining at unprecedented rates, accelerated
by human activity. The need for outstanding research
and broad-reaching public education related to biodi-
versity and its preservation is urgent.
The University of Utah is establishing a faculty clus-
ter where biodiversity research is combined with learn-
ing research for a novel interdisciplinary emphasis that
strongly supports the University's commitment to sus-
tainability. Each faculty position will be jointly hired
between the Natural History Museum of Utah and any
of the following departments/institutes participating
in the cluster: Anthropology, Biology, Computer Sci-
ence, Educational Psychology, Geography, Geology &
Geophysics, and the Scientic Computing & Imaging
Institute. Research is expected to be based, in part, on
the Museum's unique resources of scientic collections
(plants, vertebrates, entomology, paleontology, and ar-
chaeology) and access to the public. Although research
experience in the Western US is not required, it is ex-
pected that successful candidates will conduct some
portion of their research in the Intermountain West.
We are seeking applicants for one or two tenure-track or
tenured faculty positions at the Assistant or Associate
rank to begin in July 2016. An additional two or three
hires are planned for 2017 to complete a total of four
faculty in the cluster. Candidates should have an ex-
cellent and sustained record of research (both eld and
laboratory), a demonstrated ability to generate extra-
mural funding, demonstrated understanding of working
in a Museum environment, and experience in working
with diverse researchers from across the disciplinary
spectrum. We will hire one faculty member in learning
sciences, and three in some combination of the other
elds described below:
Informal Learning Science
Research emphasis on STEM learning in informal con-
texts (particularly regarding museum collections, en-
vironments, and research foci), potentially including
learning at every life stage, bridging formal and infor-
mal learning environments, citizen science, leveragingdigital technologies to enhance learning opportunities in
multiple contexts, and/or analyzing/assessing cognitive
learning processes as well as outcomes.
Conservation Biology
Areas of research emphasis could include ecological
and evolutionary responses to habitat loss and climate
change, ecological and evolutionary responses to inva-
sive species, identifying and ameliorating threats to
endangered species, strategies and methods of restor-
ing habitat and ecosystem functionality, and/or citizen
science.
Paleoecology
Research emphasis on fundamental questions of pro-
cess and response in ecosystems to past and present
global change, and/or applying quantitative tools to
understand geospheric and biospheric interactions over
ecological and geological timescales.
Biodiversity Genomics
Areas of research emphasis could include document-
ing changes in the genetic make-up of species over time
(including the use of ancient DNA), phylogenetic system-
atics, biogeography, coevolution, species domestication,
evolutionary responses to changing environments, popu-
lation genetics, symbiosis, conservation genetics, and/or
community phylogenetics. Applicants should have expe-
rience in current genomic techniques and analysis.
Visualization
Research emphasis on information visualization, scien-
tic visualization, visual analytics, human-computer
interaction, or image cognition for knowledge discovery
and interpretation. Competitive applicants will have
a research focus relevant to biodiversity, conservation,
and/or the elds of Geography and Geovisualization, as
well as interest in use of visualization for public engage-
ment.
Responsibilities include: (1) meaningful collaboration
with faculty in the Sustaining Biodiversity cluster as
well as faculty at NHMU and in the relevant academic
department; (2) development and maintenance of an
ongoing program of scholarly research; (3) design, teach-
ing, and coordination of core courses in the relevant
academic department; (4) teaching of graduate level
courses in area of specialization; (5) advisement and
supervision of graduate students; (6) development of
research funding proposals to appropriate national agen-
cies and foundations; (7) participation in Museum public
programming; (8) engagement with the public and with
Museum collections, and (9) participation in faculty
governance at the department, college, and university
levels.56 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Appointments will be split equally between the Mu-
seum and one pertinent academic department, with the
exception of the visualization position, which will be
appointed in combination with the Museum, SCI Insti-
tute, Geography, and/or other academic department.
Retention, promotion and tenure decisions will be made
according to the academic department's
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UWyoming 2 Bioinformatics
RESEARCH SCIENTISTS IN BIOINFORMATICS
#4939 and #4351 Department: Molecular Biology Col-
lege of Agriculture
The Wyoming INBRE Bioinformatics Core is seeking to
hire two Research Scientists. These positions will sup-
port the bioinformatics research and education activities
of the Core, and will include service (50%), teaching
(40%), and research (10%) components. The Core serves
a state- wide network that includes the University of
Wyoming (Laramie and Casper), as well as several com-
munity colleges, so some travel within the state is asso-
ciated with the positions. The successful applicants will
collaborate with biological researchers on bioinformatics
problems, and these activities will constitute the service
component of the positions. The research component
is anticipated to mostly consist of co-authored publica-
tions arising from these collaborative projects. However,
as long as the service goals of the positions are achieved,
maintenance of an independent research program will be
encouraged. The teaching component will mostly consist
of organizing and conducting formal training activities
(short courses, workshops), as well as one-on-one train-
ing sessions with researchers. Minimum requirements
for these positions include an undergraduate degree in a
discipline related to computational biology or bioinfor-
matics, and evidence of productive research experience.
Candidates with a PhD in a relevant discipline, experi-
ence with successful interdisciplinary collaboration, and
experience in formal or informal teaching or training will
be preferred. A salary commensurate with experience
will be oered. To apply, send your CV and a state-
ment of professional interests (research and teaching
accomplishments, future research and teaching interests,and interdisciplinary background) collated into a single
pdf le, by email to nlward@uwyo.edu. Three letters of
recommendation will be requested separately at a later
date, for those candidates that progress in the search.
Review of applications will begin on September 15, 2015
and continue until the position is lled. Inquiries about
details of the position may be directed to Dr. Naomi
Ward (nlward@uwyo.edu). The anticipated start date
of the positions will be November 15, 2015, although
alternative start dates may be negotiated.
The University of Wyoming is an Equal Employment
Opportunity/Armative Action employer. All qualied
applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national ori-
gin, disability or protected veteran status or any other
characteristic protected by law and University policy.
Please see www.uwyo.edu/diversity/fairness. We con-
duct background investigations for all nal candidates
being considered for employment. Oers of employment
are contingent upon the completion of the background
check.
Naomi Louise Ward <nlward@uwyo.edu >
WashingtonU
ComputationalGenomics
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN COMPUTATIONAL BI-
OLOGY/GENOMICS
The Department of Biology at Washington Univer-
sity in St. Louis (http://www.wubio.wustl.edu <
http://www.wubio.wustl.edu/ >) invites applications
for a tenuretrack faculty position at the Assistant Pro-
fessor level from candidates whose research employs
computational and/or genomicscale approaches to an-
swer important biological and/or evolutionary ques-
tions. We seek an innovative and accomplished scientist
whose research program will complement and diver-
sify existing departmental areas including epigenetics in
plant/animal/microbial systems, developmental biology.
The successful candidate will have an appointment at
the rank of Assistant Professor in the Department of Bi-
ology and is expected to establish an externally funded
research program. Contributions to both undergradu-
ate and graduate teaching and research mentoring are
required. Duties will also include writing research pub-
lications, serving as a formal advisor to undergraduate
students, and participating in departmental committeesSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 57
and university service. Qualications include a PhD
degree and strong research, mentoring and teaching
credentials. Competitive start-up funding, laboratory
development resources and ancillary support commen-
surate with the candidate's qualications and needs are
available with this position.
Consideration of applicants will begin on October 1,
2015 and will continue until the position is lled. Ap-
plicants should submit the following materials in a sin-
gle pdf le format: cover letter; current curriculum
vitae; separate statements of research and teaching in-
terests; and the names and contact information of threeindividuals who can serve as references upon request.
Application materials must be submitted electronically
to: computationalsearch@wustl.edu Questions regarding
the search process should be directed to Douglas Chalker
(dchalker@wustl.edu), Chair of the Search Committee.
Washington University is committed to excellence
through diversity, and we particularly encourage ap-
plications from persons from underrepresented groups.
Washington University is an Armative Action Em-
ployer
\Musick, Judy" <jmusick@wustl.edu >
Other
Evolution conservation survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
InMemoriam BillGelbart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Parasitism Evolution reviews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
QueensU Interns EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .58SouthAfrica VolResAssist EvolutionCooperation . . .59
SugarBeet pathogens samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Turtle ant samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Evolution conservation survey
Seeking participants for survey on evolution and con-
servation I am recruiting people who think about the
intersection of evolutionary processes (speciation, hy-
bridization, divergence with gene ow) with taxonomic
and conservation practices (naming units and determin-
ing legal protection). The data will be used to describe
current conservation practices and suggest alternative
actions for a manuscript on incorporating evolution into
restoration.
Please use the following link to access the survey
and invite others you think may be interested inthe topic: https://cuboulder.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=-
3DSV erFwO9SDZ5IU94p Thank you in advance and
please contact me with any questions.
Sierra Love Stowell, M.A. Ph.D. Candidate, Martin Lab
Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Univer-
sity of Colorado at Boulder lovestowell@gmail.com
Sierra Love Stowell <lovestowell@gmail.com >
InMemoriam BillGelbart
= Dr. William Gelbart It is with great sadness that
we report the passing of Dr. William (Bill) Gelbart.
Bill was professor of molecular and cellular biology at58 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Harvard University. His laboratory focused on under-
standing the molecular basis of pattern formation in
higher animals, focusing on cell-cell signaling related to
the decapentaplegic pathway.
Beyond his many research contributions, Bill is well
respected for his leadership in the Drosophila commu-
nity. He has served as Principal Investigator for Fly-
Base <http://www.ybase.org/ >since the project
was initiated in 1991. He was also a trusted advisor to
many other community eorts ^AXincluding WormBase,
Zebrash Information Network, The Arabidopsis Infor-
mation Resource, and many others ^AXand served on
the National Advisory Council for the National Human
Genome Research Institute.
Bill earned his BS in biology from Brooklyn College in
1966 and his PhD in genetics from the University of
Wisconsin in 1971. He did postdoctoral work with Ed
Lewis at Caltech and Art Chovnick at the University
of Connecticut before moving to Harvard in 1976. In
addition to his research and teaching during his tenure
at Harvard, Bill served as the Head Tutor for the un-
dergraduate concentration in biology and as program
director for an interdepartmental predoctoral training
program in genetics and genomics.
Bill is survived by his devoted wife, Susan; his loving
daughters Marnie, Courtney, and Jennifer; his adoring
grandchildren Delilah, Theodore, and Amelia; a brother
and sister-in-law; many nieces, nephews and dear friends.
A memorial service honoring Bill will take place at a
later date.
The family has requested that in in lieu of owers, con-
tributions can be made to the The Greater Boston Food
Bank <http://www.gbfb.org/ >or WGBH <http://-
www.wgbh.org/ >(Boston's PBS station).
Regards, FlyBase FlyBase News by FlyBase http://-
tinyletter.com/FlyBase 1001 E Third St Bloomington,
IN 47405 USA
FlyBase <ybase@indiana.edu >Parasitism Evolution reviews
Dear friends,
I am teaching evolution for Biology students e some of
them are interested in to read about parasitism evolu-
tion but I cannot nd good reviews. There are many
study cases and articles about one specic group of
parasites!
I was planing to use some chapters of this book ~A https:/-
/muse.jhu.edu/books/9781400840809?auth=0, but I
dont have access!
If you have some good PDF articles or book chapters
about parasites evolution, please send me some of them!
Thanks for any help!
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI ~A
Grupo de Pesquisa e Ensino em Biologia da Con-
serva ~A^Ax~A^A$o - ECOTROP
Universidade de Taubat ~A^Ac, Departamento de Biolo-
gia Taubat ~A^Ac, SP. 12030-010. ~A
E-Mail: jcvoltol@uol.com.br ~A
* Grupo de pesquisa ECOTROP CNPq: http://-
dgp.cnpq.br/dgp/espelhogrupo/6541980798150818
* Curr ~Aculo Lattes: http://lattes.cnpq.br/-
8137155809735635 ~A * Assessoria Estat ~Astica:
http://assessoria-estatistica.blogspot.com.br/ * Fotos
de Cursos e Projetos: http://www.facebook.com/-
ecotrop VOLTOLINI <jcvoltol@uol.com.br >
QueensU Interns EvolutionaryBiol
Dear Colleagues,
I would greatly appreciate your assistance with advertis-
ing a few research opportunities in Evolutionary Ecology
and Ecological Genetics/Genomics with the Colautti
Lab (bit.ly/colautti) at Queen's University in Canada
(www.queensu.ca).
These internerships are for 12 weeks in the
spring/summer and are targeted at undergraduates who
wish to gain research experience and explore the possi-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 59
bility of doing a MSc or PhD degree in Canada. Three
positions are available in our lab for senior undergradu-
ate students in the following countries: Australia, Brazil,
China, France, India, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia,
and Vietnam
Interested students should apply by September
24, 4pm PDT, directly through the Mitacs web-
site: https://www.mitacs.ca/en/programs/globalink/-
globalink-research-internship Many Thanks,
Rob
Dr. Robert I. Colautti Biology Department Queen's Uni-
versity Biosciences Complex 116 Barrie St. Kingston,
ON Canada K7L 3N6 robert.colautti@queensu.ca Phone:
613-533-2353 Fax: 613-533-6617 http://bit.ly/colautti
robert.colautti@queensu.ca
SouthAfrica VolResAssist
EvolutionCooperation
Volunteer Research Assistant position Cooperative be-
haviour of the Damaraland Mole-Rat
Rute Mendon ca (PhD student, University of Pretoria)
and Jack Thorley (PhD student, University of Cam-
bridge) are looking for a volunteer research assistant
to help with their exciting experiments involving cap-
tive Damaraland mole-rats, Fukomys damarensis. The
study site is at the Kuruman River Reserve, in the South
African Kalahari Desert.
Our research questions relate to individual variation
in the display of helping behaviour and its underlying
physiological consequences in the cooperatively breeding
Damaraland mole-rat.
We are looking for applicants that are available for a 12
month period to start at the beginning of September
2015. Shorter availabilities can also be considered.
The position mainly involves data collection (be-
havioural observations and collection of blood, sperm
and urine samples), but other general tasks related to
animal husbandry will also be expected. Working weeks
will typically be 6 working days and 1 exible day-o.
Working days are usually long, starting at 7 am and
often not nishing before 7 pm.
Applicants should be hardworking, enthusiastic, phys-
ically t, and prepared for long hours of observations.
A degree in biological sciences is preferable but not
required. Driving license desirable.Costs of food and accommodation while at the project
will be covered. The successful applicant will be part
of a larger community of volunteers and researchers on
site working on a variety of social taxa.
If you are interested in this position send your
CV and cover letter to Rute Mendon ca (rutemmen-
donca@gmail.com) and state in your email what is your
availability and when youd be ready to start. Shortlisted
applicants will be invited for a Skype interview.
Deadline: 7th August 2015 (the position will remain
open until lled)
Rute Mendon ca <rutemmendonca@gmail.com >
SugarBeet pathogens samples
Dear Members,
Do you take nice walks along the coast? If so, we are
after powdery mildew samples from Sea beet (Beta mar-
itima) from around the world. If not, do you take nice
walks in the countryside? If so, we are after powdery
mildew samples from Sugar beet (Beta vulgaris) from
around the world.
Our focus for the project is primarily the UK and if you
can send us a leaf we would be most grateful.
If you are outside the UK we must ask that you do
a DNA extraction (sample the leaf and please get in
touch).
If you are out and about and you identify a whitish dusty
coating on the leaf of a Beta species (coastal species
look like dock (Rumex)) if you can snip the leaf record
your location and get in touch that would be great!
Please contact mark.mcmullam@tgac.ac.uk
Lawrence.Percival-Alwyn@tgac.ac.uk for more in-
formation: if you have snipped a leaf, if you would like
to know how to identify beets or if you just want to
know more about the project. Best, Mark
Dr Mark McMullan Postdoctoral Research Associate
The Genome Analysis Centre Norwich Research
Park Twitter: mcmullan0 Skype: mark.mcmullan
http://www.tgac.ac.uk/genomics/plant-and-microbial-
genomics/mark-mcmullan/ \Mark McMullan (TGAC)"
<Mark.McMullan@tgac.ac.uk >60 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Turtle ant samples
Turtle ant (Cephalotes) samples requested for molecular
work in the Moreau Lab (http://www.moreaulab.org/).
As part of a collaborative NSF Dimensions of Biodiver-
sity (DoB) project between the labs of Corrie Moreau
(Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago), Jacob
Russell (Drexel University, Philadelphia), Scott Powell
(George Washington University, D.C.) and John Wertz
(Calvin College) we are requesting samples of turtle ants
(genus Cephalotes).
As part of this project we are interesting in inferring the
evolutionary history of the genus using phylogenomic
data and also testing the potential co-evolution of their
gut-associated bacterial communities.
To answer these questions samples of as many
Cephalotes species as possible from various parts of
their distribution range from South America to the
southern United States are necessary. We are partic-
ularly interested in samples from Central and South
America.As these are medium-sized ants only a few worker ants
of each Cephalotes collection are necessary and will be
helpful for this study.
If you have any turtle ant specimens, and you would
be willing to donate some for this project, please email
me or send them to the address below. Any and all
samples, regardless of the preservation method, would
be greatly appreciated, although specimens preserved
in high-grade ethanol are preferred. However, if you
will go collecting in the future and have a chance to col-
lect turtle ants that you would be willing to contribute,
preservation in >95% ethanol would be the best.
Please forward this to anyone you know that may have
turtle ant specimens and feel free to contact me with
questions.
Thank you in advance, Corrie
Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D. jMacArthur Associate Cura-
tor - InsectsjIntegrative Research Center jDepartment
of Science and Education jField Museum of Natural
Historyj1400 South Lake Shore Drive jChicago, IL
60605 USAjOce: (312) 665-7743 jFax: (312) 665-
7754jEmail: cmoreau@eldmuseum.org jMoreau Lab
website: http://www.moreaulab.org/ jFMNH website:
http://eldmuseum.org/users/corrie-moreau jField Mu-
seum Women in Science: http://eldmuseum.org/-
womeninscience cmoreau@eldmuseum.org
PostDocs
BielefeldU Uppsala PinnipedPopGenomics . . . . . . . . .61
CharlesU Prague NightingaleSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . 62
CornellU EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
Dresden DrosophilaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
ERI England BacterialGeneGainLoss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
EroFellowship Canada Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
EwhaWomansU Korea TheoreticalPopGenetics . . . . 64
Finland SalmonidThermalAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65HobartWilliamSmithCollege MilkweedPhylogenomics
66
IsraelInstTech PhDPDF BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . 66
Lyon EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
MichiganStateU BEACON Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
MichiganStateU EcologicalGenomicsPlantMicrobe . 68
Minnesota EvolutionSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
NIH Bethesda InuenzaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69September 1, 2015 EvolDir 61
NorthCarolinaStateU AppliedEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . .70
NortheasternU Massachusetts EvolutionaryGenomics
71
NorthernArizoanU PathogenDetection . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
OpenU Israel EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
PennStateU EvolutionaryGenetics EvoDevoMimicry 73
PennsylvaniaStateU PlantVillage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
SantaFeInst EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
StowersInst Missouri CaveFishAdaptation . . . . . . . . . 75
TrentU ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UCalifornia SanFrancisco MechanismsVariation . . . .76
UCalifornia SanFrancisco PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UEdinburgh BacterialEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 77
UHelsinki EpigeneticsOfPhenology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UKansas EvolutionRNASilencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
UManchester ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UMemphis BeetlePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UMichigan EvolGeneticImprinting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80UMichigan EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
UNC ChapelHill Genomics of Fitness Landscapes Pup-
sh Cichlids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81
UNewBrunswick StJohn CodPopulationGenomics . 82
UNewHampshire BeeComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . 82
UOregon MolecularEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Uppsala 2 PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
Uppsala 3 MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Uppsala WolfPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
USFDA Maryland EvolutionFoodPathogens . . . . . . . 86
USheeld EvolutionaryComputation PopulationGenet-
ics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UTuebingen Paleogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UWashington ComparativeFunctionalMorphology . 88
VanderbiltU UPittsburgh ComputationalEpigenetics 89
WayneStateU 2 DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
BielefeldU Uppsala
PinnipedPopGenomics
Post-doctoral position: Pinniped population genomic-
sWith Dr Joe Homan (Bielefeld University, Germany),
Prof Oliver Kruger (Bielefeld University, Germany), and
Dr Jochen Wolf (Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala,
Sweden)
A two-year postdoctoral researcher position is available
to work in the groups of Joe Homan at Bielefeld Uni-
versity in Germany and Jochen Wolf at the Evolutionary
Biology Centre in Uppsala, Sweden.
This postdoc position is broadly embedded in a research
project on Galapagos sea lions (Zalophus wollebaeki)
that Prof Fritz Trillmich and Dr Jochen Wolf started
12 years ago (http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/-
animalbehaviour/trillmich/sealions.html). Using whole
genome re-sequencing data from more than 100 individ-
uals across the entire species range, the postdoc will
explore key evolutionary processes such as the genetic
basis of speciation, adaptation and tness. An impor-
tant feature of this system is the presence of dierent
ecotypes in an essentially sympatric setup (Wolf et al.
2008, Shafer & Wolf 2013). There will also be the op-
portunity to work on Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus
gazella), opening a comparative axis to the project.
Funding: This postdoc is funded by the German Science
Foundation (DFG) for up to two years and includes
health insurance. The pay scale is TVL E13 (100%).The postdoc will be based in Bielefeld, but will have
considerable exibility over how much time they spend
in Bielefeld and in Uppsala. A joint postdoc will pro-
vide you with an excellent opportunity for international
travel and collaboration, and experience of working in
diverse environments.
The environment: The postdoc will join the Department
of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld University, Germany
(www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/vhf/index.html) and the
Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University, Swe-
den (http://www.ebc.uu.se). The department of Animal
Behaviour in Bielefeld is the oldest of its kind in Ger-
many and currently hosts six principal investigators,
seven postdocs and twenty PhD students. It oers a
stimulating international environment and an excellent
research infrastructure. The working language of the
Department is English. Bielefeld is a small city with
an attractive historical centre and easy access to the
Teutoburger Wald for hiking and other outdoor pur-
suits. It oers a very high standard of living and is well
connected to most major European cities.
The Evolutionary Biology Centre is one of the world ^A^As
leading research institutions in evolutionary biology. It
is part of Uppsala University which has been ranked rst
place among all European Universities in the subject of
biology (CHE European ranking) and bridges a broad
variety of disciplines. The scientic environment with
numerous seminars, journal clubs and social activities of-
fers excellent possibilities for contacts and collaborations.
Dr Wolf's lab is part of the Department of Evolutionary
Biology (http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol)
and addresses fundamental evolutionary questions using
a wide range of dierent approaches. As a member of the62 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Science for Life Laboratory (http://www.scilifelab.se)
we have access to high performance computing re-
sources (https://www.uppmax.uu.se/uppnex), excellent
lab facilities and extended bioinformatic infrastructure
(http://www.scilifelab.se/platforms). The lab is situ-
ated in the student town of Uppsala, which oers rich
opportunities for cultural and outdoor activities. Swe-
den's capital Stockholm is less than an hour's train ride
away.
Qualications: The successful applicant will hold a PhD
degree, have a thorough background in population ge-
netics and/or comparative genomics and be experienced
in handling large genome-wide data sets. Population
geneticists with a more theoretical background are also
encouraged to apply. A high standard of spoken and
written English is required.
How to apply: Please provide: (i) a letter of motivation
including a maximum 2-page statement of your research
interests, relevant skills and experience; (ii) a CV includ-
ing publication list; and (iii) names and contact details
of three referees willing to write condential letters of
recommendation. All materials should be emailed as
a single PDF le to: joseph.homan@uni-bielefeld.de
with 'Postdoc application' in the subject line.
The application deadline is October 5th 2015 and inter-
views will take place in the following few weeks. The
start date is exible and will depend on the timeframe
of the most qualied applicant, but would ideally
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU Prague
NightingaleSpeciation
POST-DOC POSITION AT CHARLES UNIVERSITY
IN PRAGUE AVAILABLE FROM JANUARY 2016!
Genomics of speciation in nightingales
Understanding the mechanisms of species origin is a ma-
jor goal of evolutionary biology. Until recently, studies
of genetic basis of species formation has been restricted
to model organisms amenable to laboratory crosses. De-
velopment of next-generation sequencing methods along
with the emergence of novel population genomic ap-proaches brings a great opportunity to study genetic
underpinnings of speciation even in wild populations.
This can broaden our knowledge of mechanisms of spe-
ciation and allow us to make more general conclusions
about selective forces driving the origins of biodiversity.
The aim of this project is to elucidate the genetic archi-
tecture of reproductive isolation between two closely
related and still hybridizing song bird species, the
Common Nightingale (Luscinia megarhynchos) and the
Thrush Nightingale (L. luscinia). Using novel genotyp-
ing approaches based on next generation sequencing we
will genotype several hundreds of DNA samples from nat-
urally occurring hybrid populations, already collected
during our previous research. The obtained data will
allow us to use two complementary approaches for study-
ing genetic basis of reproductive isolation. First, we will
use genomic cline analysis to identify candidate repro-
ductive isolation loci with low levels of introgression
relative to most of the genome. Second, we will use ad-
mixture mapping to examine genetic basis of traits that
contribute to reproductive isolation. Combination of
both approaches will enable us to infer the importance
of dierent reproductive barriers in nightingale specia-
tion, identify candidate speciation genes and elucidate
the mechanisms responsible for the large eect of the
Z chromosome in reproductive isolation, a hallmark of
avian speciation.
Eligibility: We are looking for a post-doc trained in
bioinformatics and/or population genetics. The appli-
cant must have received a PhD degree no more than
10 years prior to the application deadline. The post-
doc research fellow is recruited to work on the research
project for a period of two years.
Supervisor: Radka Reifov a, Ph.D. Department of Zool-
ogy, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague
Email: radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz Web page: http:/-
/web.natur.cuni.cz/ ~radkas/ Salary: The candidate's
net monthly income will be 50,000 CZK (ca 2,000 EUR)
(Note that living expenses in the Czech Republic are
generally lower than in Western European countries.)
How to apply: If interested, please, send (1) a CV includ-
ing a list of publications, (2) motivation letter and (3)
a letter of reference of your PhD supervisor or research
advisor to Radka Reifov a (radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz)
by 21th August 2015.
{ RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D. Phone: +420 221
95 1872 E-mail: radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz, rad-
kas@natur.cuni.cz Web page: www.natur.cuni.cz/-
~radkas/ Department of Zoology Charles University
in Prague Faculty of Science Vini en a 7, 128 43 Praha 2
{September 1, 2015 EvolDir 63
Pokud je tento e-mail sou e ast  obchodn ho jedn an ,
P~A rodov ~A a fakulta Univerzity Karlovy v Praze: a)
si vyhrazuje pr avo jedn an  kdykoliv ukon eit a to i bez
uveden  d ~A1vodu, b) stanovuje, ^A3
4e smlouva mus  m t
p semnou formu, c) vylu euje p ~Aijet  nab dky s dodatkem
 ei odchylkou, d) stanovuje, ^A3
4e smlouva je uzav ~Aena
teprve v ~A1
2slovn ~A1
2m dosa ^A3
4en m shody na v ^A1ech
n ale^A3
4itostech smlouvy.
\RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D."
<radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz >
CornellU EvolutionaryPhysiology
Postdoc: Evolutionary Physiology at Cornell
A postdoctoral position is available in the Vitousek Lab
at Cornell University (vitousek.weebly.com) to inves-
tigate variation in the capacity to cope with stressors.
This NSF-funded project will conduct experimental stud-
ies within and across tree swallow populations to test
hypotheses about the traits that confer stress resistance.
The project will involve leading a eld research team
from April-August of each year. Some of the eld work
takes place in remote locations, including the interior
of Alaska. Applicants must therefore be willing to be
in the eld and away from Ithaca, NY for 3-4 months
per year, and to camp for up to several months at a
time. During the non-eld season, activities will include
laboratory sample analysis, analyzing data, mentoring
students, and writing publications.
The successful applicant will have a Ph.D. in an ap-
propriate eld with a demonstrated ability to publish
in peer-reviewed journals, have experience leading eld
research, ideally in remote locations, experience han-
dling and collecting blood samples from birds, and an
interest in stress physiology, behavior, and evolution.
Other desired skills include experience with hormone
assays and/or measures of oxidative stress, genetic and
genomic techniques, and wilderness camping.
The anticipated start date is between January and
March of 2016. The initial appointment will be for
one year with the possibility of renewal for up to three
years.
To apply please submit a cover letter describing
your relevant experience and interest, a CV, the
contact information for three references, and 1-
2 relevant publications to Dr. Maren Vitousek(mnv6@cornell.edu <mailto:mnv6@cornell.edu >).
Diversity and inclusion are a part of Cornell University's
heritage. Cornell is a recognized employer and educator
valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals
with Disabilities.
{ Maren N. Vitousek, Ph.D. Cornell University W253
Seeley G. Mudd Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 254-4529
vitousek.weebly.com
Maren N Vitousek <mnv6@cornell.edu >
Dresden DrosophilaGenomics
A postdoctoral research position is avalaible in the Ap-
plied Zoology lab at TU Dresden, Germany to look into
genomic and epigenomic comparison of experimental
Drosophila lines. The application deadline is 9 Sept
(the job ad says 8 Sept - don't worry) - please nd more
details here (download):
https://tudaz.les.wordpress.com/2015/08/-
evolgenbioinf tudaz.pdf The group (http://tudaz.net)
has just started and the applicant will join evolutionary
and molecular biologists. The starting date is soon,
somewhat exible but the position is restricted till
October 2017.
We are seeking a team-oriented individual with experi-
ence in genome sequencing and its analysis as well as the
analysis of epigenetic information to examine a number
of Drosophila melanogaster lines that have evolved for
>150 generations under hypoxia, hypercapnia and other
conditions. These analyses augment current surveys into
genetic and phenotypic plastic changes in these lines.
Applicants are also welcome to pursue an own research
eld within evolutionary or genetics, or bioinformatics,
such as metagenomics of microbiomes, image analysis,
phylogenetics, or others.
Despite Pegida, Dresden is a beautiful while aordable
city with gorgeous surroundings. There is an amazing
expertise in biotechnology, biophysics and related topics
(for a start see here: http://www.dresden-concept.de/-
en/alliance/projects.html).
Please contact me for more info, preferably after 31
August ( <klaus.reinhardt@tu-dresden.de >). To apply,
please send a single .pdf with the usual documents but
without photograph and date of birth to <anja.jahn@tu-
dresden.de >or via regular mail. Thank you, Klaus
Klaus Reinhardt, Dr. rer.nat. Professor for Applied64 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Zoology http://tudaz.net Dept Biology, TU Dresden
D-01062 Dresden
Royal Ent Soc Meeting on Arthropod Cuticle
8/9 Sept http://tudaz.net/sig/ Klaus Reinhardt
<klaus.reinhardt@tu-dresden.de >
ERI England
BacterialGeneGainLoss
A post-doctoral fellowship is available in the research
groups of Nick Goldman (EBI) and John Welch (Ge-
netics Department, Cambridge University) under the
EMBL-EBI / Cambridge Computational Biomedical
Postdoctoral Fellowship scheme.
The project is on bacterial gene gain and loss
and emerging pathogenicity, and is described in
full here: https://www.ebi.ac.uk/research/postdocs/-
ebpods/projects/goldman-welch-2015 The EMBL-EBI
/ Cambridge Computational Biomedical Postdoctoral
(\EBPOD") Fellowship scheme is described here:
https://www.ebi.ac.uk/research/postdocs/ebpods The
closing date for applications is 3 September 2015.
Nick Goldman EMBL-European Bioinformatics Insti-
tute
Nick Goldman <goldman@ebi.ac.uk >
EroFellowship Canada Conservation
Liber Ero Fellowship Program - call for post-doctoral
applications
We are delighted to announce the fourth call for post-
doctoral applications for the Liber Ero Fellowship Pro-
gram. The Liber Ero Fellowship Program supports
exceptional post-doctoral fellows who address pressing
conservation challenges of relevance to Canada. The
Program aims to develop the next generation of conser-
vation scientists, trained in the latest methods and in
the skills necessary to aect policy and improve conser-
vation of Canada ^A1s wild places and natural resources.
The Liber Ero Fellowship is open to candidates from
any country whose research furthers conservation goals
within Canada. Fellows must be hosted at a Canadianinstitution, with mentorship teams drawing from exper-
tise in non-governmental organizations, government, and
universities. Applications are now being accepted, with
a deadline of November 1, 2015. See http://liberero.ca/
for more details.
Please see http://liberero.ca/meet-the-fellows/ to read
about the current cohort of fellows and their projects.
Contact information: info@liberero.ca
\info@liberero.ca" <info@liberero.ca >
EwhaWomansU Korea
TheoreticalPopGenetics
Post-doc position at Ewha Womans University, Seoul,
Korea to study theoretical and statistical problems in
population genomics.
The Laboratory of Adaptive Evolution in Ewha Wom-
ans University is seeking a postdoctoral researcher to
develop new theoretical models and/or statistical tools
for analyzing population genomic data. The position
is open to both Korean and non-Korean nationals with
primary language for research being English.
Applicants must have or are scheduled to obtain doctoral
degree in population/evolutionary genetics or related
elds with strong quantitative skills. The candidate
will primarily collaborate with Yuseob Kim (http://-
home.ewha.ac.kr/ykim/) to investigate theoretical prob-
lems in inferring adaptive evolution from within- and
between-species DNA sequence variation. We are par-
ticularly interested in the following research areas:
1. Advancing the method of detecting incomplete selec-
tive sweeps (Vy and Kim 2015, Genetics 200:633)
2. Modes of positive selection inferred from the spatial
patterns of incomplete and complete selective sweeps
3. Patterns of neutral polymorphism under temporally
uctuating environment (Gulisija and Kim 2015, Evolu-
tion 69:979)
4. Inferring the rate and mode of adaptive evolution in
inuenza viruses (Kim and Kim 2015, MBE 32:704).
There are other theoretical and evolutionary-
bioinformatic problems to be explored and applicants
may also propose his/her own project.
Appointment for this position will initially be for 12
months, with renewal for up to four years.September 1, 2015 EvolDir 65
Applications should include a cover letter with a short de-
scription of research interests and accomplishments ( ~1
page), a CV, and names and email addresses of two ref-
erences. Please email these materials or informal inquiry
to yuseob@ewha.ac.kr with POSTDOC APPLICATION
in the subject line. Screening begins immediately and
continues until a suitable candidate is found.
Yuseob Kim
Associate Professor Dept. of Life Science and Division of
EcoScience Ewha Womans University 52 Ewhayeodae-
gil, Seodaemun-gu Seoul, Korea 120-750
yuseob@ewha.ac.kr
Yuseob Kim <yuseob@ewha.ac.kr >
Finland
SalmonidThermalAdaptation
Post-doc position: The molecular mechanisms of rapid
thermal adaptation in a grayling metapopulation (2016-
2019)
A 3.5 year post-doctoral position, including a 25% teach-
ing component, is available at the University of Turku,
Finland to work in Prof. Craig Primmer's research group
(http://users.utu./primmer). The research component
of the position is a part of a recently funded project
that will build on earlier research (see below) aimed
at understanding the processes by which by European
grayling have adapted to dierent thermal conditions
in 20-25 generations.
The post-doc will be responsible for conducting and co-
supervising research applying genomic, transcriptomic,
proteomic and epigenetic approaches to identify the
genes and molecular pathways involved in rapid thermal
adaptation. Teaching will involve giving lectures and
computer classes on topics related to the position.
Suitable candidates will have a strong background in
evolutionary genetics/genomics and/or bioinformatics
(in any species). Experience with proteomic and epige-
netic methodologies and/or data analysis and R coding
skills is also an advantage, as is undergraduate teaching
experience.
Informal inquiries should be directed to Prof. Craig
Primmer (craig.primmer@utu.). Formal applica-
tions should include a CV (with names and con-
tact details of at least two referees), a publica-
tion list, an academic portfolio and a max. 2page letter of motivation and can be submitted
via http://www.utu./en/university/university-as-an-
employer/open-vacancies/Pages/home.aspx .The dead-
line for applications is Wed. September 30, with the
preferred starting date being January 2016. The po-
sition is available until August 31 2019. The starting
salary is 3140 - 3500 EUR per month, depending on the
previous relevant research and teaching experience of
the candidate.
Turku, Finland's 5th largest city (183 000 people), is
located in southwestern Finland. It has a rich academic
and cultural history and is the gateway to a beautiful
archipelago. The University of Turku is one of the major
multidisciplinary universities in Finland and is ranked
in the top 1.6% of universities in the world.
Previous related research Barson NJ, Haugen TO,
V~Allestad LA & Primmer CR (2009) Contemporary
isolation-by-distance, but not isolation-by-time, among
demes of European grayling (Thymallus Thymallus, Lin-
naeus) with recent common ancestors. Evolution 63:
549-556
Junge C, V ~Allestad L A, Barson NJ et al. (2011) Strong
gene ow and lack of stable population structure in the
face of rapid adaptation to local temperature in a spring-
spawning salmonid, the European grayling (Thymallus
thymallus). Heredity, 106, 460-71.
Koskinen MT, Haugen TO, Primmer CR (2002) Contem-
porary sherian life-history evolution in small salmonid
populations. Nature, 419, 826-830.
M akinen H, Papakostas S, Vollestad A, Leder E, Prim-
mer CR (2015) Plastic and Evolutionary Gene Expres-
sion Responses Are Correlated in European Grayling
(Thymallus thymallus) Subpopulations Adapted to Dif-
ferent Thermal Environments. Journal of Heredity (on-
line early).
Papakostas S, V ~Allestad LA, Bruneaux M et al. (2014)
Gene pleiotropy constrains gene expression changes in
sh adapted to dierent thermal conditions. Nature
Communications, 5, 4071.
Craig Primmer, Academy Professor Division of Genetics
and Physiology Department of Biology, University of
Turku, FINLAND
Room 7004, 7th oor, Pharmacity It ainen pitk akatu 4,
20520 Turku
Oce +358 2 333 5571 Mobile +358 40 1560 365
craig.primmer@utu. http://users.utu./primmer Twit-
ter: @FishConGen
\craig.primmer@utu." <craig.primmer@utu. >66 EvolDir September 1, 2015
HobartWilliamSmithCollege
MilkweedPhylogenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN MILKWEED PHY-
LOGENOMICS
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position investigating milk-
weed (Asclepias) phylogenomics is available in the
Straub Lab at Hobart and William Smith Colleges in
Geneva, New York. The diversity of Asclepias in North
America is the product of a recent, rapid evolutionary
radiation. Because milkweed species diversied over
a short evolutionary time span, reconstructing their
evolutionary relationships requires genome-scale data.
Targeted sequencing of the nuclear genome of Asclepias
combined with sampling of many individuals per species
will allow us to distinguish common causes of gene tree
discordance: incomplete lineage sorting and introgres-
sion. The postdoc on this project will be responsible for
1) planning and conducting eld work, 2) performing
targeted sequencing of the Asclepias nuclear genome,
3) phylogenomic analyses, 4) manuscript preparation,
and 5) public outreach. This research will be conducted
in collaboration with Dr. Mark Fishbein at Oklahoma
State University.
Required Qualications: Ph.D. in plant systematics,
evolution, genomics, bioinformatics or related discipline
Desire and ability to plan and conduct eld work, travel
extensively in North America Strong record of publica-
tion Strong organizational, oral, and written communi-
cation skills
Desired Qualications: Background in phylogenetics
Strong computational skills, including knowledge of
one or more programming languages (Python, Perl,
R/BioConductor etc.) Laboratory skills for prepara-
tion of Illumina libraries Experience with analysis of
NGS data
The initial appointment will be for one year with the
possibility of renewal for a second year contingent on sat-
isfactory performance. The start date for this position
is exible with a target date of January 4, 2016. Salary
is commensurate with experience and the position is
benets eligible.
Applications should be submitted through Interfolio
https://apply.interfolio.com/30948 and consist of 1) a
cover letter describing the candidate's research interests
and experience, 2) a CV, and 3) the names and con-tact information for three references. Questions about
the position should be directed to Shannon Straub at
straub@hws.edu. Review of applications will begin on
October 12, 2015 and continue until the position is lled.
EOE
\Straub, Shannon" <STRAUB@hws.edu >
IsraelInstTech PhDPDF
BacterialEvolution
Interrogating bacterial interactions in droplets: an
experiment-theory collaboration
Within a collaborative project funded by the Human
Frontiers in Science Program, a position is available
for a PhD student or postdoc in the Theoretical Bio-
physics Group at Technion, Israel. The student/postdoc
will develop theoretical and computational models to
describe the evolution and stability of bacterial co-
operative and competitive interactions in milliuidic
droplets. The droplet setting highlights intermediate
timescales and nite populations, which are highly rel-
evant from a population-dynamics and evolutionary
perspective but usually neglected in models (Y. Elha-
nati and N. Brenner 2012, PLoS One 7, e52105). The
project thus raises general theoretic questions in micro-
bial evolution; at the same time, two specic systems
will be studied: the antibiotic-degrading enzyme TEM-1
^I2-lactamase and the iron-scavenging siderophore py-
overdin. The student/postoc will be involved in exper-
iment design for probing the evolutionary causes and
consequences of interaction mediated by extracellular
products. He/she will be part of an international con-
sortium including three other experimental groups (biol-
ogists Paul Rainey at Massey University, New Zealand
and Arjan de Visser at Wageningen University, The
Netherlands; and chemist J er^ ome Bibette at ESPCI,
Paris).
Prole: We seek a highly motivated per-
son with a strong theoretical background
(Physics/mathematics/engineering) and a keen
interest in biology in general and in evolution in
particular. Previous knowledge and experience in the
Life Sciences is a benet. Initial appointment will be
for 1 year with possible extension to a total of 4 years
(PhD student) or 3 years (postdoc). Salary will be
according to the Israeli salary scales for PhD students
and postdocs taking experience into account. The
project can start immediately, but not later than 1September 1, 2015 EvolDir 67
December 2015.
Applications: Please send CV, letter explaining moti-
vation and suitability for the position, and names and
contact info of two references to Naama Brenner (nbren-
ner@technion.ac.il).
Prof. Naama Brenner Dept. of Chemical Engineering
& Network Biology Research Lab Technion - Israel In-
stitute of Technology Haifa, 32000 Tel: +972 4 8293578
Fax: +972 4 8295672 ISRAEL nbrenner@technion.ac.il
http://biophysics.net.technion.ac.il Naama Brenner
<nbrenner@techunix.technion.ac.il >
Lyon EvoDevo
*Postdoctoral position at the Institute of Functional
Genomics, Lyon, France: *
*Hydrophobic bristles and the ability to walk on water.
*
**
We invite applications for a two-year postdoctoral posi-
tion in the group of Abderrahman Khila at the IGFL-
ENS de Lyon, France. Our lab provides a vibrant
international environment and collaborative research
community of experimental and computational groups
interested in Development, Physiology, and Evolutionary
Biology. The postdoctoral project is part of a broader
ERC-funded grant, and aims to understand the develop-
mental, genetic, and adaptive basis of the hydrophobic
bristles |a key trait associated with the ability of water
striders to maintain their body weight on the water sur-
face by exploiting surface tension. The position involves
experimental evo-devo work as well as a bioinformatics
component. The main responsibility will be to generate
RNAseq data of the legs of three species (we have the
genomes of two and the full transcriptome of the third
one) to conduct a comparative transcriptomics analysis.
This involves handling deep sequencing datasets and
the identication of dierentially expressed transcripts.
This part will be followed by gene expression and func-
tional analyses of a set of candidates emerging from the
transcriptomics approach as in the following examples:
Khila et al. 2012; Refki et al. 2014; Santos et al. 2015;
Armisen et al. in press. The successful candidate will
benet from existing technical support within the lab.
The successful candidate should have a PhD and experi-
ence within the elds of evolutionary genetics/genomics
or evolutionary biology and some knowledge in the use oflarge genetic datasets to address important questions in
evolutionary developmental biology. Excellent written
and verbal communication skills in English as well as
the ability to work as part of a team are required. Any
additional experience such as statistics or population
genetics is a plus.
The position is available immediately and the net salary
will be within a min-max bracket of 2037EUR and
2836EUR per month based on the number of years
of experience. Applicants should send a pdf le with
CV, contact details of three references, and a letter
of motivation detailing past experience and why the
application is consistent with this project. Please
send your application or enquiry to Abderrahman
Khila (abderrahman.khila@ens-lyon.fr) by September
15, 2015.
References:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25750411
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24886828
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22556252
Abderrahman Khila <abderrahman.khila@ens-lyon.fr >
MichiganStateU BEACON Teaching
Michigan State University BEACON Center for the
Study of Evolution in Action
Post-doctoral Fellowship in Evolution Outreach and
Education
Salary: $ 40,000 to 42,000
The BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in
Action (BEACON) at Michigan State University (MSU)
invites applications for a postdoctoral fellow in Evolu-
tion Outreach and Education.
This is a full-time, benets-eligible, two-year appoint-
ment. Renewal for a third year is possible, contingent
on satisfactory performance, availability of resources,
and the needs of the program. This post-doctoral fel-
lowship is ideal for early career scientist-teachers who
are interested in an academic pathway involving science
outreach and education serving the K-12 and under-
graduate communities and the general public, with a
particular emphasis on communities under-represented
in STEM.
The successful candidate will have either: Ph.D. in
evolutionary biology, with K-12 teaching/outreach ex-
perience, OR Ph.D./Ed.D. in science education with68 EvolDir September 1, 2015
extensive training in evolutionary biology
Candidates with experience in the following are pre-
ferred: developing, implementing and assessing science
outreach activities and education resources; working
with programs intended to increase diversity in STEM
disciplines; and conducting educational research.
Up to 25% of the postdoc's time can be dedicated to
pursuing independent research in evolutionary science
and/or evolution education/outreach.
The successful candidate will have a commitment to
science education and diversifying STEM disciplines,
outstanding writing and organizational skills, demon-
strated capacity for independence and innovation, and
the ability to work as part of a team.
The BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Ac-
tion approaches evolution in an innovative way, bringing
together biologists, computer scientists, and engineers
to study evolution as it happens and apply this knowl-
edge to solve real-world problems. BEACON is an NSF
Science and Technology Center, headquartered at Michi-
gan State University with partners at North Carolina
A&T State University, University of Idaho, University
of Texas at Austin, and University of Washington.
To apply, please email a single pdf document containing
a letter of application that states your interest in and
qualications for the position, a curriculum vitae, names
of three references, and an item of choice that represents
your approach to teaching in an undergraduate science
classroom to Dr. Louise Mead, BEACON Education
Director, at lsmead@msu.edu.
Applications will be accepted and reviewed immediately
and until the position is lled, with a start date as early
as September 1 ^st, 2015.
{ Louise S. Mead, PhD E ducation Director BEACON
Center for the Study of Evolution in Action 567 Wilson
Ave, BPS 1441 East Lansing, MI 517-884-2560
Louise Mead <lsmead@msu.edu >MichiganStateU
EcologicalGenomicsPlantMicrobe
Postdoc in Plant Transcriptomics and Microbiome Anal-
ysis
The Friesen Lab in the Department of Plant Biology at
Michigan State University is seeking a highly motivated
individual to contribute to data analysis and manuscript
preparation for two funded projects investigating the
transcriptomic connections linking plant-plant compe-
tition and plant-microbiome interactions in legumes
(collaborative with Sharon Strauss at UC Davis) and
grasses (collaborative with Sarah Evans, Lisa Tiemann,
and Jim Cole at MSU).
Key qualications include a strong statistical and com-
putational background with the ability to ask creative
questions. Familiarity with Illumina data and bioinfor-
matics is desired but not essential. Excellent communi-
cation and organizational skills are required along with
a track record of timely publications.
Funding is initially available for one year with renewal
based upon performance. The successful applicant
would be encouraged to develop independent lines of
research in accordance with an individualized mentoring
plan. The Friesen lab is located in the Molecular Plant
Sciences building which is designed to foster collabora-
tion.
Please send a ~1 page statement of interest, CV, and
contact info for 3 references to mfriesen@msu.edu I will
be attending the ESA meeting in Baltimore next week{
drop me a line if you'd like to meet in person.
Maren L. Friesen Assistant Professor, Dept.
Plant Biology Michigan State University 612
Wilson Rd, East Lansing, MI USA 48824-
6481 http://friesen.plantbiology.msu.edu/
maren.l.friesen@gmail.comSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 69
Minnesota EvolutionSpeciation
TL/DR version If you are an evolutionary biologist
excited to combine evolutionary theory, population ge-
nomics and/or comparative analyses looking for a post-
doc opportunity with substantial independence [but
much care and guidance] and an awesome set of col-
leagues contact yaniv brandvain [ybrandva AT umn d0t
edu] about joining him in the twin cities.
The Brandvain lab at the University of Minnesota St
Paul is looking to hire a postdoc. Our research focuses
on speciation/diversication and the roles of mating
system evolution, genetic conicts, geographic isolation,
hybridization, adaptation, and competition in generat-
ing and maintaining diversity.
The applicant is expected to work with Yaniv and
other members of the lab group to develop one or more
projects that complement ongoing work and interests.
Ideal projects will integrate novel theory with the anal-
ysis of population genomic and comparative data.
Strong candidates would have an interest and back-
ground in >1 of the following topics - population ge-
nomics, evolutionary theory, macroevolution, or quanti-
tative genetics. Additionally, the candidate should be
prepared to extend his/her research to integrate their
background with another one or two of these topics.
The most competitive applicants will have competency
with computing and mathematics, a strong publication
record, and creative ideas for independent research that
t the directions of the Brandvain Lab. Collabora-
tive projects with allied labs [e.g. Goldberg, McGaugh,
Moeller, Tin, and others in UMN's pbio and eeb de-
partments] are also possible.
Start date is exible, but in envision a rough start date
of 1/1/16. The position is initially available for two
years with additional renewals contingent on both per-
formance and funding. Interested applicants should send
a preliminary inquiry with CV, references, and a state-
ment describing interests, and why you are interested
to ybrandva AT umn d0t edu. I hope to maintain a
diverse, enthusiastic, rigorous and supportive lab group,
and competitive candidates will reect these goals.
The successful candidate will also nd nancial support
for related sequencing and/or experimental projects,
and for travel to meetings etc.https://brandvainlab.wordpress.com/ ybrand-
vain@gmail.com
NIH Bethesda InuenzaEvolution
Post-doc position at the NIH to study phylodynamics
of inuenza viruses in swine
The Fogarty International Center's Division of Interna-
tional Epidemiology and Population Studies (DIEPS)
at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, MD is
seeking a postdoctoral researcher to study inuenza A
virus evolution in swine. The position is for one year,
renewable. We are seeking candidates with a strong
background in mathematical and computational evolu-
tionary biology.
Specically, we are interested in a researcher who can use
a range of phylogenetic methods (including Bayesian)
to study how animal movements, farm production prac-
tices, inter-species transmission, and genomic reassort-
ment drive the emergence of novel inuenza viruses with
pandemic potential in swine on a global scale.
The position is funded by NIAID's Centers of Excel-
lence in Inuenza Research (CEIRS) program, a global
research network that performs inuenza surveillance,
integrated with research on host immune response, viral
pathogenesis, and factors that drive the emergence and
transmission of inuenza viruses. The project will be
conducted in partnership with members of this network
who are collecting inuenza viruses in swine globally and
performing experimental studies in pigs. The work will
also be conducted as part of Fogarty's MISMS project,
initiated in 2001 to study the interaction between the
epidemiology, ecology, and evolutionary dynamics of
inuenza on a global scale.
For further information, please contact Dr Martha Nel-
son at nelsonma@mail.nih.gov.
http://www.niaidceirs.org/ http://www.c.nih.gov/-
http://www.origem.info/misms/ Martha I. Nelson Re-
search Fellow Division of International Epidemiology
and Population Studies Fogarty International Center
National Institutes of Health nelsonma@mail.nih.gov
\Nelson, Martha (NIH/FIC) [V]"
<nelsonma@mail.nih.gov >70 EvolDir September 1, 2015
NorthCarolinaStateU
AppliedEvolBiol
Postdoc: Applied Evolutionary Biology
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Selsh genetic elements have been studied for over a cen-
tury, and as far back as the 1960's researchers became
interested in using the power of selsh genetic elements
to drive genes into pest species to suppress their im-
pacts (Gould et al. 2006). Until recently, the focus of
applied work was on naturally occurring elements. In
the past decade some progress was made on developing
synthetic elements that mimicked natural meiotic drive
and selective embryo-killing, but de-novo creation of a
gene-drive system in a pest species was elusive. With
the harnessing of the bacterial CRISPR-Cas9 system in
the past few years there has been a revolution brewing in
this eld (Esvelt et al. 2014, Oye et al. 2014). In March
2015 a pivotal article by Gantz and Bier (2015) came
out in Science on-line demonstrating a CRISPR-Cas9
construct in Drosophila with strong gene drive. This
proof of principle has gained much attention.
Prospects are good that very soon a single student could
engineer a system for driving deleterious or behavior
modifying genes into pest populations. Not everyone
is comfortable with these developments and there has
even been a call for a moratorium on certain experi-
ments. There are also concerns about nefarious use of
the technology.
The bottom-line is that progress in molecular biology is
ahead of the population genetic work needed to build
systems that are less risky but accomplish changes in
the public interest.
We have been funded by the NIH and the W. M. Keck
Foundation to conduct this kind of population genetic
research. Our focus has been on mosquitoes that trans-
mit dengue and malaria, but we are also interested in
other biological systems (There is hope that these self-
ish genetic elements can save endangered species like
Hawaiian honeycreepers and specic seabirds (Gould
2008, Esvelt et al. 2014).
The postdoc in this position will build a set of simple
to complex models to examine the expected dynamics
of gene drive systems in mosquitoes and other taxa.
The most detailed model that we have developed simu-lates the population dynamics and population genetics
of Aedes aegypti, the vector of dengue, in a city on the
Amazon river, Iquitos, for which there are rich data sets
on both mosquito dynamics and dengue epidemiology
(e.g. Magori et al. 2009, Okamoto et al 2014). An
accompanying epidemiological model is currently under
development. The goals of two other postdocs in our
group are to expand the mosquito model and the hu-
man epidemiology model to encompass the entire city of
about 400,000 people. The postdoc in this new position
will collaborate with the other postdocs to use these
detailed models to test gene drive systems, but will also
develop more generic models (e.g. Huang et al. 2010).
In addition to working on model development and analy-
sis, the person in this position will have the opportunity
to collaborate in an interdisciplinary research group
composed of mosquito ecologists, disease epidemiolo-
gists, molecular biologists, biomathematicians, ethicists,
and scientists from disease-endemic countries. We are
dedicated to taking seriously the ethical and political
issues surrounding this technology.
DESIREABLE SKILLS: A background in population
genetics and the ability to program in C++ (or knowl-
edge of a related programming language), and training
in evaluation of mechanistic models.
TO APPLY: email a cover letter and CV to
Fred Gould@ncsu.edu
References:
Esvelt, K. M., A. L. Smidler, F. Catteruccia, G.
M. Church. 2014. Concerning RNA-guided gene
drives for the alteration of wild populations. eLife.
10.7554/eLife.03401.
Gantz, V. M. and Bier, E. 2015. The mutagenic
chain reaction: A method for converting heterozy-
gous to homozygous mutations. Science 24 April
2015- 442-444. Published online 19 March 2015
[DOI:10.1126/science.aaa5945]
Gould, F. 2008. Broadening the application of evolu-
tionarily based genetic pest management. Evolution 62:
500-510.
Gould, F., K. Magori, Y. X. Huang 2006 Genetic strate-
gies for controlling mosquito-borne diseases. American
Scientist. 94 (3): 238- 246.
Huang, Y., Lloyd, A.L., Legros, M., Gould, F. 2010.
Gene-drive into insect populations with age and spatial
structure: a theoretical assessment. Evol. Appl. ISSN
1752-4571.
Magori, K., M. Legros, M. Puente, D. A. Focks, T. W.
Scott, A. Lloyd, F. Gould. 2009. Skeeter Buster: a
stochastic, spatially-explicit modeling tool for studyingSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 71
Aedes aegypti population replacement and population
suppression strategies. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 3(9): e508.
doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0000508
Okamoto, K. W., Robert M. A., Gould, F., Lloyd,
A. L.2014) Feasible Introgression of an Anti-pathogen
Transgene into an Urban Mosquito Population without
Using Gene-Drive. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 8(7): e2827.
doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0002827.
Oye, K. A. et al. 2014. Regulating gene drives. Science.
345:626-628
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NortheasternU Massachusetts
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral fellow in Ecological and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Lotter-
hos Lab (https://sites.google.com/site/katielotterhos/-
home) at Northeastern University Marine Science Center
(NUMSC), in Nahant, Massachusetts. A central goal
of the lab's research is to understand how populations
will respond both ecologically and evolutionarily to an
ever-changing world. Projects currently underway in
the laboratory span the population genetics of marine
sh, the evaluation of genome-scan methods under more
realistic scenarios, epigenetics in marine invertebrates,
and adaptation to climate in conifers. In our research we
use a combination of eld surveys, experiments, mathe-
matical modeling, genomics, and bioinformatics.
Responsibilities and Qualications Applicants will be
expected to develop and lead projects. Candidates are
required to have a Ph.D. in Genomics, Evolutionary
Genetics, Computational Biology (bioinformatics, sys-
tems biology), or related disciplines. Experience in the
preparation of libraries (RAD-seq, RNA- seq, MBD-
BSseq) for high throughput sequencing data is highly
necessary. A computing background is required, espe-
cially experience with Unix, and knowledge in one or
several programming languages (Perl, Python, C/C++,
R/BioConductor, etc). Knowledge and experience work-
ing in marine systems (especially with marine larvae ormanipulation of carbonate chemistry) would be highly
desirable but not necessary. Candidates should demon-
strate a strong track record of publication; have strong
organizational, written, and oral communication skills;
and be able to work both independently and as part of
a collaborative team.
The appointment is for 18 months. Start time is exible,
with a desired start in Fall 2015. NUMSC a strong
research presence in evolution and ecology research and
there are many opportunities for interaction and col-
laboration both there and in the greater Boston area.
We welcome applications from candidates with diverse
educational backgrounds.
Apply at https://neu.peopleadmin.com/postings/37107.
Position is open until lled.
Please contact Dr. Lotterhos with any questions at
k.lotterhos@neu.edu
\klott@zoology.ubc.ca" <klott@zoology.ubc.ca >
NorthernArizoanU
PathogenDetection
NorthernArizonaUniversity.molecular biology.Informatics
Postdoctoral Scholar Informatics and Computing
Program Northern Arizona University Location:
Flagsta, AZ Closes: September 14th, 2015 Posting:
601178 Apply at: https://hr.peoplesoft.nau.edu/-
psp/ph92prta/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/-
HRS HRAM.HRS APP SCHJOB.GBL?Page=-
HRS APP JBPST&Action=U&FOCUS=-
Applicant&SiteId=1&JobOpeningId=-
601178&PostingSeq=1 The Fofanov Bioinformatics
Lab within the Informatics and Computing Program at
Northern Arizona University is seeking a post-doctoral
scholar to join its research team. This highly applied,
research-heavy group is focused on designing High
Throughput Sequence data computational and data
mining tools for immediate and practical applications
in areas of pathogen detection, environmental/clinical
metagenomics, and rare variant (quasi-species) determi-
nation. Additional details on the people and projects
of the lab can be found at www.fofanovlab.us. Our
research is highly interdisciplinary, and the prospective
post-doctoral scholar can anticipate involvement in
all aspects of the work, from experimental design and
sample collection, to molecular diagnostic tool design,
to sequence data analysis and modeling. Individuals72 EvolDir September 1, 2015
from elds ranging from Statistics to Molecular Biology
are encouraged to apply, provided they meet the
programming experience requirements.^ a^ a^ a^ a^ a
Job responsibilities include but are not limited to:
xDesign and implementation of research projects
xTraining of graduate and undergraduate research stu-
dents.
xHigh Throughput Sequence data analysis
xSoftware development, testing, and execution Eligibil-
ity:
An earned PhD in Computer Science, Statistics, Bioin-
formatics, Genomics, Computational Biology or a re-
lated eld by the time of the appointment
Preferred Qualications:
* Demonstrated experience with at least one program-
ming/scripting language * Demonstrated experience
with High Throughput Sequencing data analysis * Ex-
perience with statistical/modelling packages (R, Mat-
lab, SAS, or equivalent) * Prociency with common
Bioinformatics databases and tools * Experience with
high performance and/or parallel computing environ-
ments * Experience with scripting languages (C-Shell,
Python, Perl, or equivalent) * Experience with object
oriented programming languages (C++, Java, or equiv-
alent) * Working knowledge of basic data structures
(trees, hashes, arrays, etc) * Strong publication record *
Experience and/or commitment to work eectively with
NAU's diverse faculty, sta, and student populations.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
* Demonstrated understanding of Molecular Biology
concepts * Prociency in UNIX operating system envi-
ronment * Excellent written and verbal communication
skills * Experience programming in UNIX environment *
At least basic or intermediate understanding of database
access and design * Ability to work eectively in diverse,
interdisciplinary research environments
How to Apply:
A curriculum vitae, cover letter, three references and
a letter of recommendation is required. Please send
the letter of recommendation to Gretchen Povlsen
at gretchen.povlsen@nau.edu. To apply for this
position, please click https://hr.peoplesoft.nau.edu/-
psp/ph92prta/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/-
HRS HRAM.HRS APP SCHJOB.GBL?Page=-
HRS APP JBPST&Action=U&FOCUS=-
Applicant&SiteId=1&JobOpeningId=-
601178&PostingSeq=1 You must submit your
application by clicking on the \Submit" button by mid-
night of the application deadline. If you need assistancecompleting your application there are instructions
available on line at http://nau.edu/human-resources/
or in person in the Human Resources Department
located in Building 91 on the NAU Campus - on the
corner of Beaver and DuPont Streets.
If you are an individual with a disability and need reason-
able accommodation to participate in the hiring process
please contact the Armative Action Oce at 928-523-
3312/TDD - 928-523-1006 or PO Box 4083, Flagsta
AZ 86011.
Gretchen Rowe Povlsen <Gretchen.Povlsen@nau.edu >
OpenU Israel EvolutionaryGenomics
Our group at the Open University, Raanana, Israel, in-
vites applications for a postdoc position in Evolutionary
Genomics.
Our group research interests are focused on Endosim-
biotic Gene Transfer. In our research we use computa-
tional approach the study the abundance and signicant
of naturally occurring organelle-to-nucleus gene trans-
fers.
Candidate qualications: (1) Highly motivated person
with a PhD degree in Molecular Evolution, Bioinformat-
ics or related elds (2) Prociency in computer program-
ming (preferable - PERL/Python). (3) Any of following
expertise is an advantage: phylogenomics, genomics,
biostatistics. (3) Good oral and written communication
skills (English is required). (4) Skills and motivation to
communicate and interact with other scientists.
This position is funded by the German-Israeli grant
(awarded to Dr. Hazkani-Covo and Prof. Dr. William
Martin, Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf, Ger-
many). Applicant will have the opportunity to travel
to the German partner lab. Initial appointment will
be for 1 year with a possible extension to a total of 3
years. Salary will be according to the Israeli salary scale
approx. 18,300- 25,800 Euro yearly.
Applicants should send curriculum vitae with a list
of publications, a motivation statement and contact
addresses of at least two referees to Dr. Einat Hazkani-
Covo (einatco@openu.ac.il). For enquiries regarding
the position please contact Dr. Einat Hazkani-Covo
(einatco@openu.ac.il).
Review of applications will begin August 30 2015 and
will continue until the position is lled. The plannedSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 73
starting date for the position is January 2016 or earlier.
Dr. Einat Hazkani-Covo, Department of Natural and
Life Sciences The Open University of Israel 1 University
Road P.O Box 808 Ra'anana 43537 ISRAEL
Tel: 972-9-7780981 http://www.openu.ac.il/-
Personal sites/einat-hazkani-covo/ Einat Hazkani-Covo
<einatco@openu.ac.il >
PennStateU EvolutionaryGenetics
EvoDevoMimicry
A postdoc position is available in the lab of Heather
Hines (hineslab.org, hmh19@psu.edu) in the Department
of Biology at The Pennsylvania State University, Univer-
sity Park, PA. The postdoc will work on an NSF-funded
project developing a new system for evolutionary genet-
ics through investigating the genetic basis of mimetic
color pattern diversity in bumble bees. This project
includes targeting the genes that underlie color varia-
tion in two comimicking species and studying the role
of these genes across the bumble bee radiation. The
postdoc will also be involved in functionally validating
the role of these genes using gene and protein expression
assays and new genetic technologies. This project will
be performed in collaboration with Je Lozier from the
University of Alabama (http://bama.ua.edu/ ~jlozier)
and training will further be facilitated through inter-
actions with faculty that are part of several reputable
programs at Penn State (e.g., Bioinformatics and Ge-
nomics, Ento mology, Molecular and Cellular Integrative
Biosciences, Ecology, Biology).
Applicants must have a PhD in the biological sciences,
should be creative and independent, have good writing
skills and a strong publication record, and have a demon-
strated passion for evolutionary research. The ideal can-
didate would have experience in entomology and with
performing research in several of the following elds: evo-
lutionary genetics, evo-devo, genomics, bioinformatics,
population genomics, systematics, and developmental bi-
ology. Experience with next generation sequencing and
laboratory genetics, population-level genomic analysis
(e.g., GWAS), and developmental functional validation
techniques are especially desired. Postdoc development
of their own related research projects is encouraged.
The Pennsylvania State University requires all appli-
cants to register and complete the application form at
the Penn State employment website at https://psu.jobs/-job/59284. A complete application will include a cover
letter detailing relevant experience and research inter-
ests, a current CV, and contact information for three
professional references. This is a xed-term appointment
funded for one year from date of hire with excellent pos-
sibility of re-funding. Anticipated start date is between
October 2015 and February 2016. Review of applica-
tions will begin in early-September and continue until
the position is lled.
CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS: For more
about safety at Penn State, and to review the Annual
Security Report which contains information about crime
statistics and other safety and security matters, please
go to http://www.police.psu.edu/clery/, which will also
provide you with detail on how to request a hard copy
of the Annual Security Report.
Penn State is an equal opportunity, armative action
employer, and is committed to providing employment op-
portunities to all qualied applicants without regard to
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran
status.
\hmh19@psu.edu" <hmh19@psu.edu >
PennsylvaniaStateU PlantVillage
The Hughes Lab is seeking a Postdoctoral Scholar to
work on PlantVillage. This position is in collaboration
with the lab of Dr Marcel Salathe at EPFL, Switzer-
land who together with Hughes is the co-founder of
PlantVillage. The position is available in the Centre for
Infectious Disease Dynamics (www.cidd.psu.edu), The
Pennsylvania State University, University Park Campus.
PlantVillage (www.plantvillage.com) wants to impact
global food production by making the knowledge needed
to increase crop yields immediately available to all grow-
ers around the world. Agriculture was humanitys rst
and arguably most important knowledge society. It was
knowledge that led to crop domestication and the many
improvements in the subsequent 10,000 years, providing
the foundation for modern civilization. But the knowl-
edge is not available everywhere. The move towards
universal access to broadband via mobile devices oers
the promise of democratizing access. The smartphone
platform PlantVillage is already doing that. PlantVil-
lage makes available thousands of pages and images of
high quality, science-based knowledge on plant health.
This is free to anyone with a smartphone or Internet74 EvolDir September 1, 2015
connection. We provide any grower, anywhere, the es-
sential knowledge they need. In addition, we provide
the world`s largest social network within a community
platform of global experts. Post a question and the
global community answers it. Using our platform, grow-
ers are not limited by their lack of access to knowledge
and so can get the latest advice on nutrient delivery,
pest management and cultivation, as well as where to
source seeds and sell produce. The Postdoctoral Scholar
position at Penn State involves the development of ap-
proaches that facilitate the automatic identication of
plant diseases via smartphones. This involves codifying
both the diseases and the decisions plant pathologists
make. This is important for the development of eventual
algorithms that automate disease diagnosis. The ideal
candidate will have a range of applicable skills including
plant pathology, image recognition of diseases, biostatis-
tics and modeling disease in plants. The position also
requires contributing to the PlantVillage database by
collecting images of healthy and diseased plants as well
as adding content to the PlantVillage library. The
candidate should also engage in the community Q&A
portion of PlantVillage as well as liaising with a diverse
group of stakeholders interested in disease detection in
crops. This position will involve travel to eld sites both
nationally and internationally to source images. Candi-
dates should demonstrate a track record of publication;
have extremely strong organizational, written, and oral
communication skills; and be able to work both indepen-
dently and as part of a collaborative team. This position
is initially funded for one year, with the possibility of
a second year. For further information, please feel free
to contact Dr Hughes (dph14@psu.edu; +1 814- 863-
6073). Interested applicants should upload a curriculum
vitae, a 1-2 page statement of research interests that
explicitly describes professional qualications for this
position, and contact information for three referees. Re-
view of applicants is ongoing and the position will begin
when a suitable candidate is selected. The Pennsylvania
State University requires all applicants to register and
complete the application form at the Penn State em-
ployment website at https://psu.jobs/job/59930 David
Hughes: Hughes, is a behavioral ecologist who has stud-
ied social insects and their diseases in 11 countries on
5 continents. He has worked with diverse diseases as
well as the behavior of healthy and infected ants un-
der eld (rain- and temperate forests) and laboratory
conditions. In recent years he has become interested
in plant diseases. www.hugheslab.com Penn State is
an equal opportunity, armative action employer, and
is committed to providing employment opportunities
to all qualied applicants without regard to race, color,
religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
national origin, disability or protected veteran status.David Hughes CIDD, Dept Entomology & Biology,
Penn State www.hugheslab.com www.plantvillage.com
dhughes@psu.edu twitter: @zombieantguy, @plantvil-
lage 814 863 6073 (Oce) 814 777 7366 (Cell)
David Hughes <dph14@psu.edu >
SantaFeInst EvolutionaryBiology
We will be accepting applications online for the 2016
Cohort beginning 10 August and ending 1 November
2015. Candidate interviews will be conducted in late
January 2016 in Santa Fe, NM.
The Omidyar Fellowship at the Santa Fe Institute oers
you:
- transdisciplinary collaboration with leading researchers
worldwide - up to three years in residence in Santa Fe,
New Mexico - discretionary research and collaboration
funds - competitive salary and generous benets - a
structured leadership training program - unparalleled
intellectual freedom
Apply online www.santafe.edu/ofellowship
The Omidyar Fellowship at the Santa Fe Institute is
unique among postdoctoral appointments. The Institute
has no formal programs or departments. Research is
collaborative and spans the physical, natural, and social
sciences. Most research is theoretical and/or compu-
tational in nature, although some research includes an
empirical component. SFI averages 10 resident faculty,
100 external faculty, and 250 visitors per year. SFI's
research themes and interests of its faculty and cur-
rent fellows can be found at http://www.santafe.edu/-
research . As thought leaders who shape the future of
science, Omidyar Fellows participate in a provocative
training program structured to develop leadership skills
throughout their three-year residencies and beyond. The
program focuses on sustained mentoring relationships
with SFI resident and external faculty, skill develop-
ment workshops, o-campus research and teaching ex-
periences, and the variety of scholarly leadership and
science management opportunities at SFI.
Requirements: - a Ph.D. in any discipline (or expected
Ph.D. by September 2016) - strong computational and
quantitative skills - an exemplary academic record - a
proven ability to work both independently and collabo-
ratively - a demonstrated interest in multidisciplinary
research - evidence of the ability to think outside tradi-
tional paradigmsSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 75
Applications are welcome from: - candidates from any
country - candidates from any discipline - women and
members of underrepresented groups are encouraged to
apply SFI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Application Materials: Interested candidates must sub-
mit the following:
Curriculum vitae (including publications list). State-
ment of research interests (max. 2 pages) including
a short description of the research you would like to
pursue and why. Description of interest in SFI (max. 1
page) that describes your potential contribution to the
SFI community and also explains the potential impact of
SFI on your research. Consider addressing one or more
of the following: What kind of input from other elds
would most improve your future research? What type of
multidisciplinary workshop might you want to organize
during your Fellowship? What aspects of your present
or future research are dicult to pursue in a traditional
academic environment? Three letters of recommenda-
tion from scholars who know your work. (The letters
should be sent independent of the application. When
you complete the online application, please be prepared
to provide e-mail addresses of the three individuals who
will recommend you. SFI will contact them directly
with instructions for submitting letters.) (Optional) A
copy of one paper you have written in English, either
published or unpublished.
Inquiries: email to ofellowshipinfo@santafe.edu
Hilary Skolnik <hilary@santafe.edu >
StowersInst Missouri
CaveFishAdaptation
Postdoctoral Research Associate
The Stowers Institute for Medical Research has two open-
ings for postdoctoral researchers to work on projects
using the cave sh system (Astyanax mexicanus) to ad-
dress questions about the genetic basis of adaptation to
new and extreme environments, with a particular focus
on metabolic evolution.
Candidates will use RNA-sequencing, whole genome
sequencing, transgenics, and metabolomics to uncover
the genetic basis and underlying mechanism of the im-
pressive metabolic adaptations cavesh have acquired
to survive in nutrient poor environments.
Qualied candidates should have a background in evo-lutionary genetics and bioinformatics or a background
in ecological genetics. Research may be eld-based,
lab-based, or both. Researchers who integrate genome
level data with studies of ecology and evolution are
encouraged to apply
One of the positions will involve substantial eld work
(in the caves in Mexico) to link the ecological settings
in the caves with the observed and studied phenotypes.
Another position will direct the bioinformatics of the
genomics of non-model organisms, and will analyze and
interpret data accordingly. Experience in handling large-
scale sequence data is essential.
The ideal candidate has a doctorate degree in bioinfor-
matics, genomics, or a related eld; strong command of
UNIX and other programming languages; hands-on ex-
perience with genomic data; and an interest in pursuing
research on emerging model organisms. In addition, the
successful candidate will have a strong background in
analysis of genetic and genomic data (e.g., whole-genome
resequencing, RAD genotyping, QTL mapping) and/or
experimental developmental biology (e.g., manipulation
of gene expression, transgenesis, genome editing), and
an ability and willingness to work both independently
and collaboratively in a team-oriented environment. No
previous experience working with sh is required.
To apply, please submit a cover letter that includes a
short summary of interests, a CV, and the contact infor-
mation of 2-3 professional references to nro@stowers.org
Deadline for applications is September 15, 2015. The
positions are available October 1, 2015 (start date is
exible).
About the Stowers Institute for Medical Research
The Stowers Institute for Medical Research in Kansas
City, Missouri* is a non-prot, basic biomedical research
organization dedicated to improving human health by
studying the fundamental processes of life. Jim Stowers,
founder of American Century Investments, and his wife,
Virginia, opened the Institute in 2000. Since then, the
Institute has spent over 900 million dollars in pursuit
of its mission.
Currently, the Institute is home to almost 550 re-
searchers and support personnel; over 20 independent
research programs; and more than a dozen technology-
development and core facilities. Kansas City is an emerg-
ing metropolitan city in the Midwest with a high quality
of living and aordability.
*Visit https://www.visitkc.com for information about
living and working in Kansas City.
Andrew Daniels76 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Stang Specialist
Stowers Institute for Medical Research
1000 E. 50th Street
Kansas City, MO 64110
(816) 926-4379
andrew.daniels@stowers.org
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:
The contents of this email message and any attachments
are intended solely for the addressee(s)
and may contain condential and/or privileged informa-
tion and may be legally protected from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient of this
message or their agent, or if this message
has been addressed to you in error, please immediately
alert the sender by reply email and then
delete this message and any attachments. If you are not
the intended recipient, you are hereby
notied that any use, dissemination, copying, or storage
of this message or its attachments is
strictly prohibited.
\Daniels, Andrew" <ajd@stowers.org >
TrentU ConservationGenomics
Post-Doctoral Fellow (PDF) in Conservation Genomics
A collaborative research program on caribou conserva-
tion is seeking a researcher with strong quantitative
skills to complement a research team assessing the con-
servation of Canadian boreal caribou. This project is
a partnership between academic, federal and provincial
government agencies and the private sector and builds
on a national multi-year dataset. Researchers with expe-
rience in conservation genetics, molecular ecology, land-
scape genetics, molecular biology and/or bioinformatics
will be considered. Specic projects the PDF will be
involved in range from assessing the relationships among
sub-species and ecotypes in the reconstruction of caribou
population histories across Canada to characterizing the
spatial genetic structure and landscape/environmental
variables inuencing caribou populations, ecotypes and
associated subspecies. Projects will build on neutral
genetic markers and expand into genome-wide surveys
to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) anal-yses, functional genes and mitogenomics for larger-scale
population genomic proling. The PDF will be expected
to take a leadership role in coordinating a team of grad-
uate and undergraduate students and liaise with project
partners. The salary is $40,000/year and the position
will be lled as soon as a suitable candidate is found.
Applicants should submit a CV, a statement of research
interests, and the names and contact information for
three references.
Please submit applications to:
Dr. Paul J. Wilson Canada Research Chair in DNA
Proling, Forensics & Functional Genomics Trent Uni-
versity, 1600 West Bank Drive, Peterborough, ON,
K9J7B8 Phone 705.748.1011 ext. 7259 Website:
www.wilsoncrcresearch.ca pawilson@trentu.ca
\jillianlalor@trentu.ca" <jillianlalor@trentu.ca >
UCalifornia SanFrancisco
MechanismsVariation
We are seeking applications for a Post-Doctoral scholar
to join the Oral and Craniofacial Science Program at
the University of California San Francisco. The appli-
cants should be recent Ph. D. awardees who are highly
motivated and energetic. The successful candidate will
join Dr. Ralph Marcucios laboratory at UCSF to work
in collaboration with Dr. Benedikt Hallgrimsson at the
University of Calgary. The goal of the research is to
assess genetic, biochemical, cellular and morphogenetic
mechanisms that underlie variation in facial shape in
a variety of animal models of evolutionary change and
disease. The candidate will be strongly encouraged and
mentored to develop a research project that will lead
to independent funding. Applicants should have strong
molecular biology skills and strong interest in evolu-
tionary developmental biology. Please submit C.V. and
names of at least 2 references to:
Ralph Marcucio, Ph.D. Professor, Department of Or-
thopaedic Surgery University of California, San Fran-
cisco San Francisco, CA
Ralph.Marcucio@ucsf.edu
\Marcucio, Ralph" <Ralph.Marcucio@ucsf.edu >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 77
UCalifornia SanFrancisco
PopGenetics
Postdoctoral Fellow in Population Genetics / Epidemio-
logical Modeling of Malaria at University of California,
San Francisco (USA)
A postdoctoral position is available starting immediately
in the laboratory of Bryan Greenhouse, MD, MA in the
Division of Infectious Diseases at U.C. San Francisco.
The current position will focus on analysis of parasite
genetics and epidemiologic data to characterize transmis-
sion and evolution of malaria parasites. The successful
candidate will have the opportunity to work closely with
a diverse team of scientists at UCSF and international
collaborators on a number of exciting projects. This
research includes work in malaria elimination regions,
where densely sampled genetic data will be used to con-
struct transmission networks, to studies in areas with
higher malaria burden leveraging broader scale spatial
variation in genetic diversity. The fellow will be expected
to develop and extend computational methods for deriv-
ing epidemiologically relevant information on malaria
transmission from genetic, spatial, and epidemiologic
data, and will be encouraged to develop an independent
line of work under the mentorship of Bryan Greenhouse
and co-mentorship of Rasmus Nielsen (U.C. Berkeley).
Our work is directly connected to on-the-ground malaria
control and elimination eorts, and the scientic output
from this position is expected to directly aect inter-
ventions in the eld in addition to leading to academic
publications. Competitive salary including full benets
will be provided commensurate with experience and
qualications.
Essential Skills
- PhD in a relevant eld (e.g. population genetics, com-
putational biology, infectious disease dynamics)
- Strong background in population genetics
- Strong statistical and computational skills
- Demonstrated ability to produce independent, creative
work
- Ability to work well as member of a team
- Strong written and oral communication skills
Helpful Skills
- Experience with geostatistical data analysis- Experience in analysis/modelling of pathogen dynamics
- Familiarity with performance and development labora-
tory genetic/genomic assays and data
To Apply: Please send a CV including publications,
brief statement of research/career interests, and contact
information for 3 references to Bryan Greenhouse, MD,
MA at bryan.greenhouse@ucsf.edu
\Greenhouse, Bryan" <bryan.greenhouse@ucsf.edu >
UEdinburgh
BacterialEvolutionaryGenomics
Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Bacterial Pathogen Evolu-
tionary Genomics
A post-doctoral researcher position is available in the
Laboratory for Bacterial Evolution and Pathogenesis
at The Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh with
Professor J. Ross Fitzgerald, in collaboration with col-
leagues at National Health Service (NHS) Scotland and
Dr Nick Loman at the University of Birmingham. The
2 year Scottish executive-funded project will investigate
the evolutionary genomics of the human pathogen Le-
gionella pneumophila, responsible for major outbreaks
of Legionnaires disease in human populations, using
a comparative next generation sequencing approach.
Building on recent and ongoing work from the group,
the post-doc will investigate the evolutionary origin,
dissemination, and pathogenicity of the common strains
of Legionella associated with outbreaks in Scotland, and
the rest of the world. In addition, high throughput
sequencing including Illumina and Nanopore sequencing
technologies will be applied to develop a culture-free
approach for identifying Legionella strain variation in
environmental and clinical samples, in order to enhance
outbreak investigations. The candidate will have a PhD
in bacterial genomics/computational biology and have
broad experience of handling large numbers of bacte-
rial genome sequences for comparative and evolutionary
analyses. The Roslin Institute is a world-class centre
for biomedical research of relevance to both animal and
human health with a strong focus on infectious diseases.
The Institute has access to state of the art research fa-
cilities for imaging, proteomics, and genomics, including
high-throughput sequencing. The project will involve
close collaboration with clinical and public health col-
leagues in the NHS, Scotland and other research groups
within Edinburgh Infectious Diseases in the University78 EvolDir September 1, 2015
of Edinburgh.
Informal enquiries: Ross.Fitzgerald@ed.ac.uk
Relevant selected references:
McAdam PR, Vander Broek CW, Lindsay DS, Ward
MJ, Hanson MF, Gillies M, Watson M, Stevens JM, Ed-
wards GF, Fitzgerald JR. Gene ow in environmental
Legionella pneumophila leads to genetic and pathogenic
heterogeneity within a Legionnaires' disease outbreak.
Genome Biol. 2014 Nov 3;15(11):504.
McAdam PR, Richardson EJ, Fitzgerald JR. High-
throughput sequencing for the study of bacterial
pathogen biology. Curr Opin Microbiol. 2014
Jun;19:106-13.
{ The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, reg-
istered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
FITZGERALD Ross <ross.tzgerald@roslin.ed.ac.uk >
UHelsinki EpigeneticsOfPhenology
The Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki
invites applications for a
TWO-YEAR POST DOCTORAL RESEARCHER PO-
SITION
in the research group of Assistant Professor Arild Husby.
The successful applicant will be part of the Centre of
Excellence in Metapopulation Research at the Depart-
ment of Biosciences, University of Helsinki (http://-
www.helsinki./science/metapop/).
The main goal of the post doc project is to examine the
epigenetic basis of avian timing of breeding using the
great tit (Parus major) as a model species. The success-
ful candidate will examine DNA methylation patterns
using targeted bisulphite sequencing of previously iden-
tied candidate genes. DNA methylation levels will be
compared among two groups of extreme phenotypes us-
ing blood samples already collected. In addition, the can-
didate will be involved in some eld work to collect addi-
tional data to examine trans-generational DNA methy-
lation patterns. The work will be performed in close
collaboration with Prof. Marcel Visser and Dr Kees van
Oers at the Netherlands Institute of Ecology (https:/-
/nioo.knaw.nl/en/department-animal-ecology). Field-
work will be carried out in the Hoge Veluwe national
park near Wageningen, The Netherlands and close to
Viikki campus, Helsinki, Finland.The successful candidate should have PhD / postdoc-
toral experience within the elds of evolutionary genet-
ics/genomics with previous experience in sequence based
analysis of DNA methylation data. Previous experience
working on birds is not necessary. Excellent written and
verbal communication skills in English are required and
you must also demonstrate ability to work as part of a
team.
The position will have a probationary period of four
months. The starting date is exible but at latest 1st
January 2016.
The salary will be based on level 5 of the demands
level chart for teaching and research personnel in the
salary system of Finnish universities. In addition, the
appointee will be paid a salary component based on per-
sonal work performance. The total minimum salary at
the beginning of the employment is 3311,17 ^ a :=month:
To apply, please send, in a single pdf le, your CV with
publications included and a letter (max 2 pages) with a
description of your research interests and, in particular,
why you would be a suitable candidate for the project.
The application letter should also contain possible start-
ing dates and contact details of three references. The
applicatiions are to be addressed to Dr Arild Husby and
submitted to biotiede-mrg@helsinki. by 1st October
2015 at 15.45 local Helsinki time.
For more information about this position, please contact
Dr Arild Husby (arild.husby@helsinki.), see also our
lab website: blogs.helsinki./husby
Arild Husby, Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
sciences (Biocenter 3, oce 5415), University of Helsinki
PO box 65, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland
web: http://blogs.helsinki./husby/ mail: ar-
ild.husby@helsinki. oce phone: +358294157691
\arild.husby@helsinki." <arild.husby@helsinki. >
UKansas EvolutionRNASilencing
Postdoctoral Researcher in Evolution and Epigenetics
of RNA Silencing
An NSF-funded postdoctoral research position is avail-
able in the laboratory of Dr. Justin Blumenstiel at the
University of Kansas. The major aim of research in
the Blumenstiel lab is to determine how genetic conict
in the germ line shapes the evolution of genetic and
epigenetic systems, with a dual focus on the epigeneticsSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 79
of RNA silencing and the machinery of meiosis. We
integrate genomics, genetics, molecular evolution and
population genetics to address these questions. The
specic focus of the research position is to determine
how tension between transposon control by piRNAs and
o-target gene silencing shapes the evolution of the RNA
silencing machinery. This will be achieved by examining
modes of transposon and gene silencing by piRNA in
dierent populations and species of Drosophila. With a
foundation in empirical studies, we will explore various
hypotheses using theoretical approaches. Signicant
opportunity will be provided to allow the researcher to
develop an independent research program.
Applicants should have a Ph.D. in a subject area re-
lated to evolutionary genetics, developmental genetics,
genomics or computational biology. As work in the
lab is interdisciplinary, this position is well suited for a
researcher with a background in genetics or genomics
seeking to apply evolutionary approaches. Candidates
with a background in evolutionary biology with inter-
ests in genomics and epigenetics are also encouraged to
apply.
For additional details, please contact Justin Blumenstiel
at jblumens@ku.edu.
To apply, please see http://employment.ku.edu/sta/-
1768BR . Please submit a CV, a cover letter describing
research interests and two to three references. Please
indicate that you are applying to work with Justin Blu-
menstiel and contact him to notify that an application
has been submitted.
|{
Justin Blumenstiel Associate Professor
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Kansas 1200 Sunnyside Avenue Haworth Room
7026 Lawrence, KS 66045
jblumens@ku.edu 785-864-3915 http://www2.ku.edu/-
~eeb/faculty/blumenstiel.shtml \No Drosophila female
could conceivably lay two billion eggs in her lifetime." -
R.C. Lewontin and J.L. Hubby
\Blumenstiel, Justin P" <jblumens@ku.edu >
UManchester
ExperimentalEvolution
We are looking to recruit a highly motivated Research
Associate to work as part of a BBSRC-funded project ad-dressing 'survival-of-the-attest' (where tter individu-
als may be lost in favour of those with greater mutational
robustness) in the evolution of antimicrobial resistance.
The post is part of a collaboration between the Uni-
versities of Manchester (evolutionary biologist, Chris
Knight, tinyurl.com/knightFLS), Keele (computer sci-
entist, Alastair Channon, http://www.scm.keele.ac.uk/-
sta/a channon/ ) and Middlesex (mathematician Ro-
man Belavkin, www.eis.mdx.ac.uk/stapages/rvb/) and
will test and develop novel ideas about how small popu-
lation sizes aect organisms' exploration of tness land-
scapes.
You will be based in Manchester, UK and be responsible
for developing and testing model microbial systems in
the laboratory. You will work with the wider team to cre-
ate a clear understanding, in theory and practice, of the
relationship between the shape of antibiotic resistance
landscapes, population size and survival-of-the-attest.
Candidates must have a PhD in evolutionary genetics
or a related discipline. The position is available to start
as soon as possible for three years.
For further details and to apply see: https://-
www.jobs.manchester.ac.uk/displayjob.aspx?jobid=-
10171 Dr Christopher Knight Michael Smith Building
Lecturer Faculty of Life Sciences Tel: +44 (0)161
2755378 The University of Manchester room B.2012
Oxford Road tinyurl.com/knightFLS/ Manchester M13
9PT UK
\Chris.Knight@manchester.ac.uk"
<Chris.Knight@manchester.ac.uk >
UMemphis BeetlePhylogenomics
A USDA-funded postdoctoral research fellowship in
longhorned beetle phylogenomics and evolution is avail-
able in the McKenna laboratory at the University of
Memphis. The successful applicant will help generate
a phylogenomic data set for longhorned beetles, and
will contribute to studies of the evolution of host plant
associations in longhorned beetles and their near rela-
tives. The initial appointment is for one year, renewable
for one additional year dependent on continued funding
and satisfactory progress. The position oers a compet-
itive salary plus benets. The desired start date is Sept.
30, 2015 or shortly thereafter. Review of applications
will begin on August 21, 2015; however, applications
will be considered until the position is lled. Apply at:
https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/10686 De-80 EvolDir September 1, 2015
sired Qualications: (Ideal applicant; applicants without
these skills will be considered)
- Prociency in computer programming - Background in
insect (especially beetle) systematics - Interest in plant
systematics and evolution - Experience with the analysis
of traditional molecular phylogenetic data and standard
molecular laboratory techniques
Required Qualications: - Ph.D. in systematics, molec-
ular phylogenetics and evolution, evolutionary genet-
ics/genomics, bioinformatics, computational biology, or
a related eld. Advanced ABD's may be considered
if degree completion is imminent - Experience analyz-
ing large (NGS) DNA sequence data sets - A strong
publication record - Strong communication and inter-
personal skills, including a proven ability to work both
independently and as part of a team
The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Re-
gents institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action employer. We urge all qualied applicants to
apply for this position. Appointment will be based on
qualications as they relate to position requirements
without regard to race, color, national origin, religion,
sex, age, disability or veteran status.
dmckenna@memphis.edu
UMichigan EvolGeneticImprinting
Postdoctoral Position Genetic Imprinting in Humans
A postdoctoral research fellowship is available on a
project that explores the role of genetic imprinting in
the epigenetic transmission of stunting from parents to
ospring. Stunting refers to pathologically short stature
and is one of the foremost causes of the global burden of
disease in low-income countries. This position provides
a unique opportunity to tap both eld and molecular
data from a three-generation prospective cohort study
of the Dogon people of Mali, West Africa. The data
set provides deep pedigrees, longitudinal growth data
recorded annually from infancy to adulthood, and data
on genetic imprinting from placental tissue. The project
is grounded in evolutionary theory and the \Conict Hy-
pothesis" while having practical utility in shedding light
on the developmental origins of disease. The successful
applicant should have high competency in such areas as
Bio-Statistics, Bio-Informatics, Human Genetics, and
Evolutionary Biology.
The successful applicant is expected to take the lead instatistically analyzing the molecular data in conjunc-
tion with growth and life history data, including new
quantitative approaches for the analysis of this novel
longitudinal data set. He or she will program in R, help
to maintain and mine a six to twelve generation pedi-
gree data-base on the study population, and be active
in drafting manuscripts for publication. He or she will
coordinate with senior project members, the laboratory
sta, and Michigan's Bio-Informatics Core Facility. Di-
rect participation in eld or wet laboratory work is not
anticipated. The position is based at the Institute for
Social Research and the Department of Anthropology
at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan,
USA.
The postdoctoral research fellow should have a PhD
in Evolutionary Biology, Genetics, BioStatistics, BioIn-
formatics, Anthropology, Epidemiology, or a related
eld. Demonstrated expertise in biostatistics, strong
analytical skills, enthusiasm for writing manuscripts,
and demonstrated ability to write clearly in English is
required.
To apply, visit the University of Michigan site:
umjobs.org and put the position number of 114586 in
the keyword search eld. You will need a motivation let-
ter including current research directions, an up-to-date
CV, and the contact information for three references.
Informal enquiries about this position may be directed
to Dr. Beverly Strassmann by email: bis@umich.edu.
Beverly I. Strassmann, Professor Department of An-
thropology and RCGD, Institute for Social Research
University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109
Beverly Strassmann <bis@umich.edu >
UMichigan EvolutionaryGenomics
*Postdoctoral Position in Computational Evolutionary
Genomics at University of Michigan*
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Jianzhi
\George" Zhang in a collaborative project with Dr.
Joong-Ki Park on marine genomics that is funded
by the Korean government. The postdoctoral fellow
will analyze newly generated animal genomic and tran-
scriptomic data to address various evolutionary ques-
tions. The position requires a motivated individual
with an interest in evolution and experience in analyz-
ing next-generation sequence data. Applicants should
email CV and contact information of three references toSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 81
jianzhi@umich.edu. The initial appointment will be for
one year, but the appointment is renewable contingent
on satisfactory performance and availability of funding.
For further information about the Zhang lab, see http:/-
/www.umich.edu/ ~zhanglab/ . \jianzhi@umich.edu"
<jianzhi@umich.edu >
UNC ChapelHill Genomics of
Fitness Landscapes Pupsh Cichlids
Postdoctoral position in Speciation Genomics: Genetic
basis of tness landscapes driving adaptive radiation in
Caribbean pupshes and Cameroon crater lake cichlids
The Martin Fish Speciation Lab at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill seeks a postdoc for pop-
ulation genomic and/or quantitative genetics projects
investigating the genetic architecture of adaptive phe-
notypes and tness in the wild. We are developing
two study systems, Caribbean pupshes and Cameroon
crater lake cichlids, using a broad suite of evolution-
ary, ecological, and behavioral approaches. Pupshes
present a rare opportunity to investigate the recent
origins of spectacular adaptive radiation and the evo-
lution of novel niches (e.g. scale-eating) localized to
a single Bahamian island despite thousands of similar
Caribbean environments. Cameroon crater lake cichlids
are (in)famous as one of the best examples of sympatric
speciation in nature, but more work is needed to de-
termine what mechanisms are driving this process and
reexamine existing theoretical predictions.
A 2.5 year position is available (initial 12 month ap-
pointment with the possibility of renewal). Start date
is exible, but ideally after January 2016. Salary is
$38,000 with benets. The cost of living in the Triangle
is aordable compared to other regions with such a high
concentration of universities.
The postdoc will have the opportunity to choose among
a number of ongoing projects in the lab:
1) Estimate the genetic architectures of novel adaptive
traits within Caribbean pupshes and/or Cameroon
cichlids using a combination of controlled laboratory
crosses, divergence mapping from whole-genome rese-
quencing, or association mapping. F2 hybrid laboratory
crosses are genotyped and phenotyped awaiting analysis.
2) Measure the relationship between genotype, pheno-
type, and tness across a complex tness landscape
estimated from the growth and survival of nearly 4000F2 hybrid pupsh placed in eld enclosures (see previous
experiment: Martin and Wainwright. 2013. Science).
This experiment is completed and awaits analysis.
3) Demographic/coalescent analyses of local population
histories within introgressed genomic regions for pup-
shes and/or cichlids using whole-genome resequencing
of an existing tissue collection.
The postdoc will also have the option to participate in
eldwork in the Bahamas and/or Cameroon, but previ-
ous eld experience is not necessary and participation
is not required.
Required qualications:
Ph.D. or equivalent degree in biology, evolution, genet-
ics, bioinformatics, or related eld. Publication of work
based on dissertation. Working knowledge of bioinfor-
matics pipelines, in particular genomic resequencing
workows and standard population genomic analyses.
Prociency in scripting language (e.g. Python or Perl)
and depth in some area of population genomics or quan-
titative genetics is preferred. No pipetting experience
necessary as this position is for downstream data analy-
sis.
UNC Chapel Hill is a leading global research institu-
tion for biological sciences with a vibrant community
of evolutionary biologists interested in speciation, both
within the department and the greater Triangle area.
The postdoc will be integrated into departmental ac-
tivities (seminars, outreach events, happy hours) and
will receive professional mentoring on job applications,
interviews, and teaching. The quality of life in this area
is consistently rated among the highest in the nation.
UNC was also rated as one of the top 20 \best places
to postdoc" by The Scientist magazine.
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is an
equal opportunity employer with a strong institutional
commitment to inclusiveness and diversity. Applicants
from under-represented backgrounds are especially en-
couraged to apply.
Interested candidates should submit a cover letter de-
tailing their interest in the position, relevant experi-
ence, and research accomplishments along with con-
tact information for three references to Chris Martin at
chmartin@unc.edu
Please feel free to contact me at the above email address
with any questions.
Christopher Martin
Assistant Professor
Biology Department
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill82 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Chapel Hill, NC 27599
bio.unc.edu/people/faculty/martin-christopher/
\chmartin@unc.edu:
UNewBrunswick StJohn
CodPopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellowship Position in Ecological Genomics
at University of New Brunswick Saint John: Atlantic
Cod Population Genomics (Winter 2016)
A position is available for a Postdoctoral Fellow to par-
ticipate in an integrated genomics research program.
The postdoc will use cutting edge genomics techniques
to assess population structure, adaptive genetic vari-
ability, and genotype-phenotype associations in Striped
Bass, Atlantic Cod, Atlantic Salmon, and other species.
The postdoc will be part of a new Canada Research
Chair lab in Aquatic Molecular Ecology and Ecological
Genomics at the University of New Brunswick in Saint
John.
The postdoc will use state-of-the-art laboratory equip-
ment, including robotics, to streamline repetitive
tasks and will have priority access to a high-powered
computer with 1.5 TB of RAM for bioinformatics.
The lab is located at the Canadian Rivers Institute
(www.canadianriversinstitute.ca).
Strong candidates will have experience creating RAD-
tag and GBS libraries, conducting bioinformatics, and
have a strong publication record. Candidates must have
a positive attitude and willingness to work with a team.
Experience in programing Python, Bash or Perl com-
puter languages is required.
The position will begin in Jan. of 2016. Submit a Cover
Letter, CV, contact information for three references to
Dr. Scott Pavey (scott.pavey@unb.ca). Application
packages will be accepted until the position is lled.
Scott Pavey <scottapavey@gmail.com >UNewHampshire
BeeComparativeGenomics
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher for a collab-
orative project (between the labs of Sandra Rehan at
the University of New Hampshire and Amy Toth at
Iowa State University) investigating evolutionary ge-
nomics of sociality in bees. The project will investigate
the types of genomic changes that are associated with
the earliest origins of very simple sociality and then
its subsequent elaboration into advanced eusociality. It
utilizes a unique clade of bees, the Xylocopinae (car-
penter bees), where social behavior ranges enormously,
from solitary through to highly complex, but with many
intermediate and very weakly social species. For an
outline of the conceptual foundation of this project, see
Rehan and Toth 2015 \Climbing the social ladder: the
molecular evolution of sociality" in Trends in Ecology
and Evolution.
http://www.cell.com/trends/ecology-evolution/-
abstract/S0169-5347(15)00126-3
A Postdoctoral Fellowship position is available for three
years. This highly interdisciplinary project will involve
eld work with bees in dierent areas of the US and
Australia, high throughput DNA- and RNA- sequenc-
ing, and extensive bioinformatic and statistical analyses.
Importantly, the postdoc will have the opportunity to
work with a large data set and the latest advances in
genomics, bioinformatics and computational biology as
part of this project.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in a rele-
vant area, and a strong background in social evolution
and genomics. They will demonstrate computational
and bioinformatics skills (experience in handling and
analysing next-generation sequencing data; competence
in programming e.g. Perl, R, Python would be an ad-
vantage).
The University of New Hampshire is an Equal Opportu-
nity Employer and encourages applications from women
and underrepresented groups. If interested, please send
a CV, names of three references, and a short statement
of interests to Sandra Rehan sandra.rehan@unh.edu by
September 8, 2015.
{ Sandra Rehan, Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
logical Sciences University of New Hampshire 191 Rud-
man Hall, 46 College Road Durham, NH, USA 03824 mo-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 83
bile phone: (267) 650-2528 oce phone: (603) 862-5310
oce fax: (603) 862-3784 email: sandra.rehan@unh.edu
website: www.unhbeelab.com sandra.rehan@gmail.com
UOregon MolecularEvol
Postdoctoral Research Scholar Institute of Ecology and
Evolution Posting: 150610 Location: Eugene Closes:
2016-06-30
The Institute of Ecology and Evolution at the Univer-
sity of Oregon seeks to create a pool of applicants for
potential funding contingent postdoctoral research po-
sitions. Positions are limited duration appointments
potentially renewable for up to a total of three years.
In limited circumstances, there is the possibility of re-
newal beyond three years based on programmatic need,
funding and performance. Postdoctoral scholars will be
conducting research under the direction of a principal in-
vestigator for the purpose of acquiring research training.
Ph.D. in biology or related eld is required. Topics of
particular interest in IE2 are molecular evolution; evolu-
tionary genetics; evolution, development, and genomics;
microbial ecology; functional ecological genetics; biolog-
ical oceanography; and conservation biology and global
change. Please see our website (http://ie2.uoregon.edu)
for more information about the type of research being
done. Salary dependent upon experience, hires from
this pool may require a criminal background check.
To apply, please send a cover letter stating your areas
of interest, three references and current CV as a single
attachment to : ie2jobs@uoregon.edu with subject: Pool
150610
Applications will be accepted on a continuous basis and
remain active through June 30, 2016. Screening of ap-
plications will take place as positions become available
and continue until positions are lled.
The University of Oregon is an equal opportunity, af-
rmative action institution committed to cultural di-
versity and compliance with the ADA. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
Oce of Armative Action & Equal Opportunity x677
East 12th Ave., Suite 452 x5221 University of Oregon,
Eugene, OR 97403-5221 Oce (541) 346-3123, Fax (541)
346-4168xThis announcement is available in alternate
formats upon request. If you are a qualied applicantwith a disability and need accommodation with the
application process, please contact us for assistance.
{ INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 5289
University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-5289 F (541)
346-2364 http://IE2.uoregon.edu \ie2jobs@uoregon.edu"
<ie2jobs@uoregon.edu >
Uppsala 2 PopulationGenomics
Two post-doctoral positions in population genomics
Three two-year post-doctoral positions are available
in the Ellegren lab at the Evolutionary Biology Cen-
tre, Uppsala University, Sweden (http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
evolutionsbiologi/ellegren-se/?languageId=3D1). Two
positions are broadly dened as population genomics
(presented below) and one as molecular evolution, al-
though there is some extent of overlap both in terms of
concepts and data used among the positions.
1. Population genomics
We use ycatchers of the genus Ficedula to study evo-
lutionary processes related to the evolution of hetero-
geneous genomic landscapes of species dierentiation
(e.g. Ellegren et al 2012 Nature 491:756-760). There is
increasing evidence that genomic regions with elevated
dierentiation ('dierentiation islands') can evolve by
processes unrelated to speciation. For example, the
concept of linked selection, which is particularly pro-
nounced in low-recombining regions, will locally reduce
the eective population size and thereby enhance genetic
drift of segregating variants. Pursuing these studies
using haplotype-based statistics and NGS-data from se-
quencing platforms generating long reads is one possible
direction of research for the post-doc. Other directions
include, for example, demographic analyses and studies
of the recombination landscape. The specic questions
to be addressed will be decided in dialogue with the
successful candidate and will depend on her/his interests
and background. Recent publications from the group
relating to the project include Nadachowska-Brzyska et
al 2015 Current Biology 25:1375-1380; Nater et al 2015
Systematic Biology, in press; Smeds et al. 2015 Nature
Communications 6:7330; Suh et al 2015 PLoS Biology
13:1002224.
2. Population genomics The wolf was once widespread
in Scandinavia, as well as in other parts of Europe, but
long-term persecution led to its extinction by the 1960s.
Two animals founded a new population in Sweden in
the 1970s and a limited number of immigrants have sub-84 EvolDir September 1, 2015
sequently become integrated with the population and
it has grown to several hundreds of individuals. The
population is highly inbred (inbreeding coecient of
newborns is currently 0.25 on average) and there are
signs of inbreeding depression. We are now conduct-
ing whole-genome re-sequecning of 100 animals sampled
from throughout the time period since the new popu-
lation was founded. The post-doc will be responsible
for analysing these data with the aims of investigat-
ing the rate of allelic loss, the extent and distribution
of genomic regions identical-by-descent, the genomic
contribution of each founder to the extant population,
and to compare genetic relationships derived from the
pedigree and genome sequence data. Several other re-
search questions can apply as well. The project is a
collaboration with Grimso Wildlife Research Station of
the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences.
Suitable background to these position is a PhD geared
toward evolutionary biology, population genetics, or
bioinformatics. Experience from bioinformatic analyses
of next-generation sequencing data is of merit. Depend-
ing on the direction of research to be taken, experience of
demographic modeling, molecular evolutionary analyses
or conservation biology could also be of merit.
Start date is exible, ideally before January 1, 2016.
The positions can be extended for up to two more years.
For full consideration, please send application materials
by September 18, 2015. Interested candidates should
submit the following to Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se - a
cover letter stating research interests, - CV, including
publication record - a short (1-2 page) description of
research accomplishments, - email addresses and phone
numbers of three references Please feel free to contact
me at the above email address with questions.
The venue for the positions, the Evolutionary Biology
Centre, is situated in central Uppsala. The working
atmosphere is international with the great majority
of PhD students and post-docs recruited from abroad.
The Centre constitutes an exciting arena for multidisci-
plinary research in evolutionary biology in a broad sense,
housing some 300 scientists and graduate students. The
scientic environment with numerous seminars, jour-
nal clubs and social activities oer excellent possibili-
ties for contacts and collaborations. Local platforms
for high-performance computational analyses (https:/-
/www.uppmax.uu.se/uppnex), NGS, SNP genotyping
and proteomic analyses (http://www.scilifelab.se) en-
sure immediate access to state-of-the-art technology.
Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scandi-
navia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant student town
with beautiful and easy accessible surroundings conve-
niently situated close to Stockholm./
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Uppsala 3 MolecularEvolution
Post-doctoral position in molecular evolution
Three two-year post-doctoral positions are available
in the Ellegren lab at the Evolutionary Biology Cen-
tre, Uppsala University, Sweden (http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
evolutionsbiologi/ellegren-se/?languageId=3D1). Two
positions are broadly dened as population genomics
and one as molecular evolution (presented below), al-
though there is some extent of overlap both in terms of
concepts and data used among the positions.
We are interested in how sequence evolution and evolu-
tion of base-composition are related to factors such as
epigenetic modications, life history and recombination.
Avian genomes are in focus for our research (allowing
analyses of highly heterogeneous recombination land-
scapes) and we perform whole-genome re-sequencing of
population samples to obtain detailed estimates of the
site-frequency spectrum. Examples of on-going work
are studies of methylation in avian genomes based on
whole-genome bisulte sequencing and how methylation
aects substitution patterns and gene expression, how
GC-biased gene conversion give genomic signals mim-
icking those of selection (and how signals of gBGC and
selection can be separated), and the link between life
history and rates of diversity/divergence. The specic
questions to be addressed will be decided in dialogue
with the successful candidate and will depend on her/his
interests and background.
Recent publications from the group relating to the
project include Weber et al 2014 Genome Biology 15:542
and 15:549; Mugal et al 2015 G3 5:441-447; Smeds et
al 2015 Nature Communications 6:7330; Uebbing et al
2015 Mol Biol Evol, in press.
Suitable background to this position is a PhD geared to-
ward molecular evolution, population genetics, or bioin-
formatics. Experience from bioinformatic analyses of
next-generation sequencing data is of merit.
Start date is exible, ideally before January 1, 2016.
The position can be extended for up to two more years.September 1, 2015 EvolDir 85
For full consideration, please send application materials
by September 18, 2015. Interested candidates should
submit the following to Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se - a
cover letter stating research interests, - CV, including
publication record - a short (1-2 page) description of
research accomplishments, - email addresses and phone
numbers of three references Please feel free to contact
me at the above email address with questions.
The venue for the position, the Evolutionary Biology
Centre, is situated in central Uppsala. The working
atmosphere is international with the great majority
of PhD students and post-docs recruited from abroad.
The Centre constitutes an exciting arena for multidisci-
plinary research in evolutionary biology in a broad sense,
housing some 300 scientists and graduate students. The
scientic environment with numerous seminars, jour-
nal clubs and social activities oer excellent possibili-
ties for contacts and collaborations. Local platforms
for high-performance computational analyses (https:/-
/www.uppmax.uu.se/uppnex), NGS, SNP genotyping
and proteomic analyses (http://www.scilifelab.se) en-
sure immediate access to state-of-the-art technology.
Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scandi-
navia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant student town
with beautiful and easy accessible surroundings conve-
niently situated close to Stockholm.
The Ellegren group is part of the Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology (http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-
biology/), which is a branch of the larger Depart-
ment of Ecology and Genetics (http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
?languageId=3D1). The Department of Evolutionary
Biology houses 8 independent research groups and about
25 PhD students, 25 postdocs, and several bioinformati-
cians. A common theme is that we address key questions
in evolutionary biology, like speciation, local adaptation,
life history evolution, genome and molecular evolution,
using genomic approaches. We have tight connections
with several other research groups in the Department of
Ecology and Genetics within the Evolutionary Biology
Centre.
Professor Hans Ellegren Department of Evolution-
ary Biology Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala
University Norbyv agen 18D SE-752 36 Uppsala
Sweden Email: Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se LAB WEB
PAGE: http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionsbiologi/-
ellegren-se/?languageId=3D1 Hans Ellegren
<hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se >Uppsala WolfPopulationGenomics
Post-doctoral position in population/conservation ge-
nomics of wolves
A two-year fully funded post-doctoral position is avail-
able in the Ellegren lab at the Evolutionary Biology
Centre, Uppsala University
The Scandinavian wolf population is very well moni-
tored population that has been focus for extensive ge-
netic studies of, for example, genetic rescue eects, in-
breeding depression, origin and immigration (Hedrick
et al Evolution 55:1256-1260; Sundqvist et al Mol Ecol
10:1959-1966; Vila et al Proc R Soc Lond B 270:91-97;
Flagstad et al Mol Ecol 12:869-880; Seddon et al Proc
R Soc Lond B 271:2283-2291; Liberg et al. Biol Lett
1:17-20; Seddon et al Mol Ecol 14:503-511; Bensch et al
PLoS One 1:e72; Seddon et al Conserv Genet 7:225-230;
Vali et al Mol Ecol 17:3808-3817; Hagenblad et al Mol
Ecol 18:1341-1351). The wolf was once widespread in
Scandinavia, as well as in other parts of Europe, but
long-term persecution led to its extinction by the 1960s.
Two animals founded a new population in Sweden in
the 1970s and a limited number of immigrants have sub-
sequently become integrated with the population and
it has grown to several hundreds of individuals. The
population is highly inbred (inbreeding coecient of
newborns is currently 0.25 on average) and there are
signs of inbreeding depression. We are now conduct-
ing whole-genome re-sequecning of 100 animals sampled
from throughout the time period since the new popu-
lation was founded. The post-doc will be responsible
for analysing these data with the aims of investigat-
ing the rate of allelic loss, the extent and distribution
of genomic regions identical-by-descent, the genomic
contribution of each founder to the extant population,
and to compare genetic relationships derived from the
pedigree and genome sequence data. Several other re-
search questions can apply as well. The project is a
collaboration with Grimso Wildlife Research Station of
the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences.
Start date is exible, ideally before January 1, 2016.
The position can be extended for up to two more years.
For full consideration, please send application materials
by September 6, 2015. Interested candidates should
submit the following to Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se - a
cover letter stating research interests, - CV, including
publication record - a short (1-2 page) description of86 EvolDir September 1, 2015
research accomplishments, - email addresses and phone
numbers of three references
Please feel free to contact me at the above email address
with questions.
The venue for this position, the Evolutionary Biology
Centre, is situated in central Uppsala. The working
atmosphere is international with the great majority
of PhD students and post-docs recruited from abroad.
The Centre constitutes an exciting arena for multidisci-
plinary research in evolutionary biology in a broad sense,
housing some 300 scientists and graduate students. The
scientic environment with numerous seminars, jour-
nal clubs and social activities oer excellent possibili-
ties for contacts and collaborations. Local platforms
for high-performance computational analyses (https:/-
/www.uppmax.uu.se/uppnex), NGS, SNP genotyping
and proteomic analyses (http://www.scilifelab.se) en-
sure immediate access to state-of-the-art technology.
Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scandi-
navia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant student town
with beautiful and easy accessible surroundings conve-
niently situated close to Stockholm.
The Ellegren group is part of the Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology (http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-
biology/), which is a branch of the larger Depart-
ment of Ecology and Genetics (http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
?languageId=3D1). The Department of Evolutionary
Biology houses 8 independent research groups and about
25 PhD students, 25 postdocs, and several bioinformati-
cians. A common theme is that we address key questions
in evolutionary biology, like speciation, local adaptation,
life history evolution, genome and molecular evolution,
using genomic approaches. We have tight connections
with several other research groups in the Department of
Ecology and Genetics within the Evolutionary Biology
Centre. The project is a collaboration with Grimso
Wildlife Research Station of the Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences.
Suitable background to the position is a PhD geared
toward evolutionary biology, population genetics, con-
servation biology or bioinformatics. Experience from
bioinformatic analyses of next-generation sequencing
data is of merit.
Professor Hans Ellegren Department of Evolutionary
Biology Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala Univer-
sity Norbyv agen 18D SE-752 36 Uppsala Sweden Email:
Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUSFDA Maryland
EvolutionFoodPathogens
We denitely want someone with an evolutionary biol-
ogy background but this position would be more applied.
Thanks!
\FOOD SAFETY POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP
The Method Development Branch of the Division of An-
alytical Chemistry, Oce of Regulatory Science of the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Center for Food
Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN) seeks a postdoc-
toral fellow to participate in our food safety/food defense
research program. The FDA faces signicant challenges
in the area of food safety. These challenges involve the
detection and quantication of unintentional or natural
contaminants, and intentional adulterants, in foods and
dietary supplements. The FDA must also develop analy-
sis methods that are sensitive and specic, and that also
work in complex food matrices. New DNA based molecu-
lar species identication tools have and will compliment
established chemical methods, especially with regards
to processed plant products. Previous work with plants
showed that whole chloroplast genomes were critical to
developing a species-specic real time-PCR method to
detect plant species in mixed products.
To increase the FDA's capability to develop plant iden-
tication methods, the Agency is constructing a chloro-
plast genome library for targeted plant species and their
close relatives. Once developed, the library will be
used to develop specic DNA- identication methods
for species of current FDA concern. A wide range of
instrumental analytical methods will be employed, in-
cluding sanger sequencing, next generation sequencing
such as the Illumina miseq/hiseq, as well as assays de-
veloped from these genomes including PCR, RT-PCR
and QPCR.
Algorithms to analyze data from these experiments are
also necessary, including pipelines to automatically pro-
cess and extract information from sequence data. The
candidate should be comfortable in the linux environ-
ment and have expertise in one scripting language such
as Perl or Python.
Scope of Work: The Postdoc will assist in the following
tasks, including but not limited to:
1. Assist in the development of sample preparation meth-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 87
ods for the analysis of complex mixtures for the presence
of industrial chemical contaminants, toxins and aller-
gens, or in the development of sample preparation for
DNA-based identication of plant species 2. Determine
the best way to amplify chloroplast DNA from plant
cells a) PCR-based approach, b) physical extraction of
the chloroplasts or c) Sequence all genomic data and iso-
late the chloroplast DNA post-sequencing. 3. Generate
chloroplast genome sequence data for plants deemed to
be of interest. Sequencing will be carried out, using the
Illumina Miseq as well as other next generation sequenc-
ing platforms. Vouchered and taxonomically-identied
source materials will be obtained from in-house and
external collections and collaborators. 4. Assist in the
development of data analysis software or pipelines for
next generation sequencing data and software-based
approaches for the identication of plant, or the identi-
cation and of contaminants and adulterants in foods
and dietary supplements.
Candidates should have a Ph.D. degree (within the last
ve years) in Botany, Plant Science, Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, Bioinformatics or a related eld and should have
a strong background with next generation sequencing
and the use of bioinformatics tools. A U.S. citizenship,
permanent resident status or a valid J1 Visa is required
(F1 with OPT is acceptable until a J1 is obtained). The
start date is as soon as possible. Salary: up to $77,000.
Duration: 1 year with possibility of renewal. Please
email your CV to: Dr. Sara Handy, US FDA/Center for
Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, HFS-717, College
Park, MD 20740. Sara.Handy@fda.hhs.gov"
\Handy, Sara" <Sara.Handy@fda.hhs.gov >
USheeld
EvolutionaryComputation
PopulationGenetics
The Department of Computer Science at the University
of Sheeld is oering a Postdoc position on Theory of
Evolutionary Computation and Population Genetics
A Research Assistant or Research Fellow position is
available to work on analysing the eciency of evolu-
tionary processes in evolutionary algorithms and models
of natural evolution. The position is part of SAGE
(Speed of Adaptation in Population Genetics and Evo-
lutionary Algorithms, http://www.project-sage.eu/), an
interdisciplinary European project in the Future and
Emerging Technologies scheme. This is a xed termpost, startingSep 1st 2015 (negotiable) andending on
Dec 31st 2016. It is based in the Department of Com-
puter Science, University of Sheeld, and reports to Dr
Dirk Sudholt.
SAGE is a joint eort between four European research
institutions{University of Nottingham, University of
Sheeld, Hasso Plattner Institute Potsdam, and IST
Austria{to develop world-leading research at the inter-
face between Population Genetics and Computer Science.
Specically, SAGE aims at bringing together these two
research elds to develop a unied quantitative theory
that describes how quickly populations adapt to evolve
high-tness individuals in both natural and articial
evolution. Our goal is to reveal how this eciency is
fundamentally determined by evolutionary and environ-
mental parameters, and how these parameters can be
tuned to use evolution most eectively in applications
ranging from evolutionary algorithms to experimental
evolution and synthetic biology. The successful candi-
date will join a growing team of young and ambitious
researchers that has already made excellent progress
towards achieving these goals.
Applications are invited from highly skilled researchers
in Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics, Theoret-
ical Biology or related areas (at the interface between
computer science and biology). A good understanding
of evolutionary computation and/or population genetics
will be an advantage. In addition, strong mathematical
and analytical skills are essential. The applicants must
have (or be very close to completing) a PhD in Com-
puter Science, Biology, Mathematics, Physics or related
disciplines.
The post is available at Grade 7 (Research Associate,
29,552-37,394 per annum) or Grade 8 (Research Fellow,
38,511-40,847 per annum), depending on experience.
Further details and an online application form are avail-
able from https://t.co/1DL71Fo2Ia Applicants need to
apply through the above online system beforeAugust
26, 2015.
Please send informal enquiries to Dirk Sud-
holt,d.sudholt@sheeld.ac.uk.
Tiago Paixao <paixao@ist.ac.at >
UTuebingen Paleogenetics
A postdoc position in bioinformatics is available in the
Archaeo- and Paleogenetics group at the University of88 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Tuebingen. The research group focusses on ancient DNA
analyses with a specic interest in ancient pathogen evo-
lution and bacterial genomics.
The successful candidate will be involved in ongoing
pathogen genome projects. In addition he/she will have
the possibility to develop own projects and initiate col-
laborations.
Applicants should have a PhD in bioinformatics, in-
formatics or a related eld. The ideal candidate will
have experience in the analysis of NGS data, evolution-
ary genetics and in at least one of the major scripting
languages (Perl, Python or R). A strong interest or al-
ready existing expertise with ancient DNA and pathogen
genomics is highly advantageous. Complementary ex-
pertise in molecular evolution and statistics is a plus. A
strong publication record as well as excellent communi-
cation skills are required.
The initial contract is for two years with the possibility
of a tenure position and a salary according to E13 TV-L.
Teaching obligations cover Bsc and Msc programs of
Archeological Sciences for a total of currently 4 hours
per week.
Applications containing a cover letter including research
interests, a CV, a publication list and three references
should be sent to sonia.varandas@uni-tuebingen.de until
the 30 ^th September. The intended start date is fall
2015, we are however exible.
For informal inquiries please contact
johannes.krause@uni-tuebingen.de or
verena.schuenemann@uni-tuebingen.de.
The University of Tuebingen is committed to strength-
ening the proportion of women in research and teach-
ing, and strongly encourages applications of qualied
female scientists. Applicants with disabilities who pos-
sess equivalent qualications will be given preferential
treatment.
Dr. Dr. Verena Schuenemann Group leader Archaeo-
und Paleogenetics Institute for Archaeological Sciences
University of Tuebingen Ruemelinstr. 23 72076 Tuebin-
gen
Sonia Varandas <sonia.varandas@uni-tuebingen.de >UWashington
ComparativeFunctionalMorphology
A postdoctoral position is available at the Santana lab
at the University of Washington in Seattle (http:/-
/faculty.washington.edu/ssantana/wordpress/). The
postdoc will be part of current research on compar-
ative functional morphology of the mammalian feeding
apparatus, with a particular emphasis on bats. The
research will integrate tools from comparative anatomy,
biomechanics and evolutionary biology to elucidate the
links between morphological evolution and ecological
diversication in bats.
The postdoc will be involved in: (a) planning, conduct-
ing and/or supervising the collection of morphological
data, (b) designing and conducting modeling studies,
and (c) conducting phylogenetic and other statistical
analyses. Additionally, there will be opportunities for
participation in eldwork to document feeding behavior
and performance from live animals. The ideal candi-
date will have a strong background in relevant labora-
tory methods, including CT-scanning, dissections, and
biomechanical modeling (e.g., nite element analyses).
Prociency with R, phylogenetic comparative methods
and multivariate statistics will be highly regarded. We
seek a highly motivated candidate who is able to work
both collaboratively and independently.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. Exceptional candidates
completing their Ph.D. within the next few months will
also be considered. Applicants should submit:
1. A cover letter describing research experience, interests
and goals, and their relevance to the project.
2. A full CV, including publications, and
3. The names and contact information for three individ-
uals willing to serve as references.
Please submit all application materials as a single PDF
le to ssantana@uw.edu with \Postdoctoral application"
as the subject line. Funding is available for two years
contingent upon a successful one-year review. Review
of applications will begin September 1st and continue
until the position is lled.
The postdoc will join a center of excellence in ecology,
evolutionary and organismal biology at UW (http://-
www.biology.washington.edu), s/he will have constant
interaction with other faculty and lab collaborators, andSeptember 1, 2015 EvolDir 89
will have ample opportunities for further development
in research, teaching and outreach at the Department
of Biology and the Burke Museum of Natural History
and Culture.
VanderbiltU UPittsburgh
ComputationalEpigenetics
Postdoctoral Positions in Computational Epigenomics
Two postdoctoral positions in Computational Epige-
nomics are available in the labs of Tony Capra at Van-
derbilt University in Nashville, TN and Dennis Kostka
at the University of Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh, PA. The
positions could be based at either location.
The successful candidates will lead several projects fo-
cused on the modeling and interpretation of how epige-
nomic changes contribute to the gene regulatory pro-
grams that drive cellular dierentiation. One goal is the
development and implementation of statistical methods
for modeling the dynamics of epigenetic modications,
gene expression, and transcription factor binding across
dierentiation and disease. Another focus is the appli-
cation of these new methods to genome-wide epigenetic
data sets generated by our experimental collaborators,
which include blood cell dierentiation, pancreatic can-
cer, heart dierentiation, and maintenance of pluripo-
tency. There is also substantial room for the initiation
of new projects.
A record of successful publications and a PhD in bioin-
formatics, computer science, statistics, or a similar dis-
cipline is required. Programming and analytical skills
are essential for this position. Experience in epigenet-
ics, statistics, and bioinformatics is preferred, but not
strictly necessary.
The general focus of the Capra Lab is comparative
and evolutionary genomics. We have active projects
investigating gene regulatory changes in recent human
evolution, modeling eects of genetic variation on pro-
tein structures, and evaluating the eects of admixture
with archaic groups on modern humans. For more in-
formation about the group and our work, visit http:/-
/www.capralab.org/ . The Kostka Lab focuses on the
design and application of statistical methods and al-
gorithms in the area of functional and comparative
genomics. Current projects include investigating the
role of enhancer sequences in vertebrate left-right pat-
terning, transcriptional characterization of single cells
of the heart, and modeling of epigenomic changes dur-ing development and dierentiation. More information
is available at http://www.kostkalab.net/ . Interested
applicants should send a CV and a cover letter outlin-
ing qualications and research interests to both Den-
nis Kostka <LASTNAME@pitt.edu >and Tony Capra
<tony.LASTNAME@vanderbilt.edu >with the phrase
\postdoc application" in the subject line. Please provide
contact information for three references.
\tony.capra@vanderbilt.edu"
<tony.capra@vanderbilt.edu >
WayneStateU 2 DiseaseEvolution
POST-DOCTORAL POSITIONS
Two post-doctoral positions are available in the research
groups led by Francesca Luca and Roger Pique-Regi, at
the Center for Molecular Medicine and Genetics, Wayne
State University, Detroit, MI. The research focus of the
groups is on the genetic and molecular characterization
of gene regulation from an evolutionary and functional
perspective. Examples of collaborative projects include:
characterizing variation in the response to hormonal
and environmental stimuli at the individual and pop-
ulation level; identifying tissue-specic cis-regulatory
modules with ATAC-seq and footprinting analysis; de-
tecting signals of selection and adaptation in gene regu-
latory regions. The ultimate aim is to learn about the
genetic and evolutionary basis of disease susceptibility
and response to treatment.
We have a strong record in using both functional and
evolutionary genomics approaches. We use a combi-
nation of high throughput experimental platforms and
computational/statistical tools. We seek applicants who
are very creative, energetic, and can work independently.
We operate relatively small but well-funded and intense
laboratories. The goal is that everyone should have
the resources, support and mentorship needed to be
successful and become an independent investigator.
The two positions are intended for applicants with com-
plementary expertise. Specically we are looking for
talented individuals with either a strong experimental
and/or computational background that will contribute
to create a team jointly supervised by Dr. Luca and Dr.
Pique-Regi.
The experimentalist position would be under the direct
supervision of Dr. Luca, and requires experience in
collecting genome-scale data, in mammalian cell and90 EvolDir September 1, 2015
tissue culture techniques and in functional genomics
techniques. Familiarity with the quantitative skills re-
quired for the analysis of genomic data (e.g., Python,
R, scripts for setting up an analysis pipeline) is also
required.
For the computational position (under the direct su-
pervision of Dr. Pique-Regi), applicants should have
a strong background in quantitative/statistical skills,
and a very strong interest in biological applications. Abackground in genomics, gene regulation or statistical
genetics is an advantage, although we will consider out-
standing candidates with quantitative degrees (e.g. in
Statistics, CS, or Engineering)
For more information please contact: Francesca
Luca, PhD e-mail: uca@wayne.edu website:
www.lucalab.wayne.edu Roger Pique-Regi, PhD
e-mail: rpique@wayne.edu
Francesca Luca <uca@wayne.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona MacroevolutionPhytools Mar14-17 . . . . . . 90
Chillan Chile ConservationGenetics Nov30-Dec11 . .91
Glasgow Bioinformatic Oct19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
RoyalStatSociety London EvolutionComplexTraitsG-
WAS Oct19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93UAdelaide AdvancedBioinformatics Nov9-13 . . . . . . .93
UFlorida BeetleClassication May2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
UW Madison EvoSysBio Modeling Aug25 . . . . . . . . . 94
Vairao Portugal Morphometrics Oct5-9 2 . . . . . . . . . . 95
Barcelona MacroevolutionPhytools
Mar14-17
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the course \Using Phytools
(and other R packages) to Study Macroevolution on
Phylogenies", taught by Dr. Liam Revell (University of
Massachusetts Boston, USA), developer of Phytools.
Dates: March 14th-17th, 2016.
PLACE: Facilities of the Centre de Restauraci i In-
terpretaci Paleontologica, Els Hostalets de Pierola,
Barcelona (Spain). Registration and more info: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/evol/phytools/
PROGRAM: 1. Introduction to phylogenies & the com-
parative method. 2. Introduction the basics of the Rstatistical computing environment. 3. Introduction to
reading, writing, manipulating, & visualizing phyloge-
nies and comparative data in R. 4. Models of phenotypic
trait evolution on trees: Brownian motion. 5. Simulat-
ing Brownian motion on trees using R. 6. Introduction to
the phylogenetic comparative method: Phylogenetic in-
dependent contrasts. 7. Phylogenetic independent con-
trasts & exploring the properties of contrasts regression
using simulation in R. 8. Phylogenetic generalized least
squares regression & phylogenetic generalized ANOVA.
9. Multivariate statistical methods with phylogenies:
Phylogenetic principal components analysis, canonical
correlation analysis, & other approaches. 10. Phyloge-
netic PCA & phylogenetic CCA in R. 11. Continuous
character models of trait evolution on phylogenies. 12.
Fitting continuous character models to univariate trait
data in R. 13. Ancestral state reconstruction I: Con-
tinuous characters. 14. Reconstructing ancestral states
for continuous traits on phylogenies using R. 15. An-September 1, 2015 EvolDir 91
cestral state reconstruction II: Discrete characters. 16.
Reconstructing ancestral states for discrete traits on
phylogenies using R. 17. Exploring the limitations of
ancestral state reconstruction for continuous & discrete
characters on phylogenies using R. 18. Testing for the
inuence of one discrete character on a second using
Pagels (1994) method. 19. Exploring the promise &
limitations of the Pagel (1994) method using R. 20. An-
alyzing discrete character coevolution, and the evolution
of discrete & continuous characters using the threshold
model. 21. Fitting models of discrete & continuous
character evolution on trees using the threshold model.
22. Multi-rate, multi-regime, & multivariate models of
character evolution on phylogenies. 23. Fitting multi-
regime & multivariate models for continuous character
evolution in R. 24. Visualizing tr ees & phylogenetic
comparative data. 25. Plotting phylogenies & compara-
tive data using R. 26. Wrap-up & optional additional
exercise or lecture. Knowledge of R is required.
This course is organized by Transmitting Science, the In-
stitut Catal de Paleontologia and the Centre de Restau-
raci i Interpretaci Paleontologica.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, Ph.D.
Course Coordinator courses@transmittingscience.org
Transmitting Science www.transmittingscience.org
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Chillan Chile ConservationGenetics
Nov30-Dec11
The Conservation Genetics Network (ReGeneC) an-
nounces the X Latin American Conservation Genetics
Course.
The Conservation Genetics Network (ReGeneC) gathers
together scientists with experience in dierent areas of
conservation genetics who work in the region. The X
Latin American Conservation Genetics Workshop will
be held between November 30 to December 11 (2015)
in Chillan, Chile. This postgraduate course is given
in Spanish and seeks to train and integrate human re-
sources, facilitating the conservation and the appropriate
use of the regional biological richness.
The course combines discussion sessions, hands-on data
analysis, and in-depth review and presentation of on-
going research by participating students, with formallectures in project design, marker choice, statistical
analysis, phylogenetics, phylogeography, and population
genetics. Throughout the course, we emphasize practical
applications to the real-world process of conservation.
Application deadline: August 31st, 2015. See \Ac-
erca de las Pre-inscripciones" http://regenec.org/taller/-
nov2015/ for application process details.
For more information, please visit our website http:/-
/regenec.org/taller/nov2015/ or send an email to asis-
tenciaregenec@gmail.com or regenec@gmail.com
||
La Red de Gen ~A^Actica para la Conservaci ~A^A3n
(ReGeneC) anuncia el X Taller Latinoamericano de
Gen~A^Actica para la Conservaci ~A^A3n. La Red de
Gen~A^Actica para la Conservaci ~A^A3n (ReGeneC)
re~A^Aone a cient ~Acos con experticias en distintas
~A^Areas de esta tem ~A^Atica que trabajan en la regi ~A^A3n.
El X Taller Latinoamericano de Gen ~A^Actica para la
Conservaci ~A^A3n se desarrollar ~A^A entre el 30 de Noviem-
bre y 11 de Diciembre 2015, en Chillan, Chile. El
curso es dictado en espa ~A^Aol, tiene nivel de post-
grado y busca, entre otros aspectos, formar y favore-
cer la integraci ~A^A3n de recursos humanos para facili-
tar la conservaci ~A^A3n y el uso adecuado de la riqueza
biol~A^A3gica de esta regi ~A^A3n. El curso combinar ~A^A
sesiones de discusi ~A^A3n, clases pr ~A^Acticas de an ~A^Alisis
de datos y revisi ~A^A3n profunda y presentaciones de
investigaci ~A^A3n activa por los estudiantes, con ponen-
cias formales en dise ~A^Ao de proyectos, selecci ~A^A3n
de marcadores, an ~A^Alisis estad ~Asticos, log ~A^Acnia,
logeograf ~Aa y gen ~A^Actica de poblaciones. A
trav~A^Acs del curso, se enfatizar ~A^An aplicaciones
pr~A^Acticas al proceso de conservaci ~A^A3n en el mundo
real. Fecha l ~Amite de postulaci ~A^A3n: 31 de Agosto
de 2015. Ver la secci ~A^A3n~A^ a:AAcercadelasPre  
inscripciones ~A^a: ?`12en http://regenec.org/taller/-
nov2015/ para detalles del proceso de postulaci ~A^A3n.
Para m ~A^As informaci ~A^A3n, visite nuestro sitio web
http://regenec.org/taller/nov2015/ o cont ~A^Actenos por
correo electr ~A^A3nico en las siguientes direcciones: asis-
tenciaregenec@gmail.com o regenec@gmail.com
Dr. Elie POULIN Laboratorio de Ecolog ~Aa Molecular
(LEM) Instituto de Ecolog ~Aa y Biodiversidad (IEB) De-
partamento de Ciencias Ecol ~A^A3gicas Facultad de Cien-
cias, Universidad de Chile Las Palmeras 3425, Casilla
653 CP 780-0024, ~A^ au~A^Aoa, Santiago, Chile http:/-
/lem.dm.cl/ http://www.ieb-chile.cl/ Phone: (56)-2-
9787298 Fax: (56)-2-2727363 E-mail: epoulin@uchile.cl
Elie Poulin <epoulin@uchile.cl >92 EvolDir September 1, 2015
Glasgow Bioinformatic Oct19-23
Bioinformatics of geneticists and biologists (training
course) 19th - 23rd October 2015
The course is being delivered by Dr. Nic Blouin and Dr.
Ian Misner This 5 day course will be held at SCENE
(Scottish Centre for Ecology and the Natural Environ-
ment), Glasgow, United Kingdom from 19th - 23rd
October 2015
The handling of large datasets has become intractable
without some level of bioinformatic literacy. Many bi-
ologists, especially in the eld of genetics, nd that
there is a steep learning curve to develop the condence
required to explore their genomics datasets eectively.
This bioinformatics short course includes a rich col-
lection of hands-on instruction and lectures specically
intended to help novice users become comfortable with a
range of tools currently used to analyse next-generation
data. There is no prerequisite for this course other than
a willingness to learn and to work hard throughout the
week.
Course timetable: Day 1: Linux Linux is taught on the
rst day, this takes the entire day. Once you get through
this portion you will be on your way to completing your
own NGS analysis. A workbook has been created for
this portion of the course. This is a step by step, or in
the case, command-by-command, Linux guide. We com-
plete each command as a class and discuss and review
issues along the way.
Day 2: RNAseq We will cover two of the more popular
tools in this workshop, The Tuxedo package & Trinity.
Outcomes: condence to design eective RNAseq ex-
periments; knowledge of NGS sequencing platforms and
their diering applications, ability to analyze Illumina
data for quality and contamination; prociency to imple-
ment the Tuxedo package to analyze an RNAseq dataset;
create publication ready graphics with cummeRbund
and EdgeR.
Day 3: Assembly Whether you have a reference genome
or are working with de novo samples there are some
basic tools and practices that we cover to help assist you
in your genome project. In this module we will cover
the basic metrics you should review when doing assem-
bly as well as best practices to consider in your own
project. Outcomes: take raw reads through a complete
assembly process; working knowledge of dierent assem-bly issues/challenges; the eect of assembly settings on
assembly outcomes.
Day 4: Annotation We will use MAKER and Blast2GO
and annotate the genome we assembled in the assem-
bly module. Outcomes: understand the dierences
between functional and structural annotations; train
MAKER to improve structural annotations; understand
how MAKER improves with more evidence and train-
ing; visualize structural annotations; apply functional
annotations with Blast2GO.
Day 5: Python Why Python? In truth it doesn't matter
what coding language you learn but you should learn
one. Python has a very straightforward syntax that
is easy to understand. In this module we will utilize
the clearly explained training examples from Python
for Biologists. Outcomes: understand Python language
syntax; create scripts to answer biological problems &
parse and analyze BLAST outputs using custom Python
code.
Fees: Cost is $540 for the 5 days including lunches and
refreshments or $715 for an all-inclusive option which in-
cludes the addition of accommodation, breakfast, lunch,
dinner and refreshments.
Intended audience: Research postgraduates, practicing
academics, and environmental professionals in govern-
ment and industry.
Teaching format: This is principally a hands-on course.
Participants will conduct all analyses in this course
using their own laptops. Introductory lectures on the
concepts will be given as necessary. Participants need to
bring their own laptops and should come willing to work
diligently to complete all analyses during meeting times.
The level of comfort of the class as a whole will determine
the pace of the class. For further details or questions or
to register please email oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk
or visit www.prstatistics.co.uk Please feel free to dis-
tribute this material among colleagues if you think it is
suitable
Additional upcoming courses; GENETIC DATA ANAL-
YSIS USING R; APPLIED BAYESIAN MODELLING
FOR ECOLOGISTS AND EPIDEMIOLOGISTS; SPA-
TIAL ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL DATA USING
R; ADVANCING IN STATISTICAL MODELLING US-
ING R; STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING
SIAR, SIBER AND MIXSIAR;
\oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk"
<oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 93
RoyalStatSociety London
EvolutionComplexTraitsGWAS
Oct19
Hidden Complexities in Complex Traits and Genome-
Wide Associations
(19th October 2015, Royal Statistical Society, London)
Genetics promises to help us understand the underlying
evolutionary structure of complex traits and so give
insight into the heritable component of many important
diseases.
But scientic advances have remained incremental - with
the implication that current methodology is limited. Im-
proved statistical methods and modelling will be key to
making the most of the existing data and preparing for
the next generation of data.
This workshop aims to bring together experts on the
methodology underpinning the analysis of complex
traits, their relationship to genetics and biological func-
tion. Bringing together experts in both the statistical
analysis of complex traits, and the practical analysis of
them, we will discuss the current cutting edge of method-
ology and methodologically driven understanding of this
notoriously dicult problem.
This workshop is on 19th October 2015 at the Royal
Statistical Society in London, UK, from 9:30-5:30.
Speakers:
Jerey Barrett, Sanger Institute, UK Heather Cordell,
University of Newcastle, UK Gibran Hemani, University
of Bristol, UK Kirk Lohmueller, University of California
Los Angeles, USA Gilean McVean University of Oxford,
UK Nuala Sheehan, University of Leicester, UK Chris
Spencer, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics,
UK Eleftheria Zeggini, Sanger Institute, UK
This workshop is organised by Dan Lawson, Mark Beau-
mont and Nic Timpson of the University of Bristol.
For more information, and registration, see
http://www.sustain.bris.ac.uk/ws-hidden .
\madjl@bristol.ac.uk" <madjl@bristol.ac.uk >UAdelaide AdvancedBioinformatics
Nov9-13
Advanced Bioinformatics Workshop for Early Career
Researchers 9 - 13 November, 2015 The University of
Adelaide, North Terrace Campus
Hosted by the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA
(ACAD), this workshop is back for 2015, and early bird
registration is currently open. The workshop is based
on the successful 2012 to 2014 workshops encompassing
an intensive 5 day hands-on training course tutored by
international experts utilising the latest techniques and
available software for the analysis of Next Generation
Sequencing (NGS), Genomics and Metagenomics data.
This year's line-up is Paul Stothard (variant discovery,
RNA-seq), Rob Knight (metagenomics, QIIME), Mar-
tin Kircher (NGS and data pre-processing) and Remco
Bouckaert (BEAST, SNAPP).
Pre-requisites: Delegates must be familiar with UNIX
environments and basic command lines, and will have a
basic knowledge of the technology and analytical tools
of NGS.
Early bird registration is now open with 40 seats avail-
able, so be quick to reserve your place. Further in-
formation can be found at the ocial website: http://-
www.adelaide.edu.au/acad/events/bioinfo15/ { Bastien
Llamas, PhD ARC Senior Research Associate
Australian Centre for Ancient DNA Department of
Genetics and Evolution School of Biological Sciences
The University of Adelaide South Australia 5005
AUSTRALIA Ph: +61 (0)8 8313 5565 jFax: +61
(0)8 8313 4364 jMob: +61 (0)411 539 426 E-
mail: bastien.llamas@adelaide.edu.au Web: https:/-
/www.adelaide.edu.au/directory/bastien.llamas For
more information about ACAD, check out our Gravatar
<http://en.gravatar.com/acadadelaide >web page for
links to our blog, recent publications and the ocial
website.
CRICOS Provider Number 00123M
bastienllamas@gmail.com94 EvolDir September 1, 2015
UFlorida BeetleClassication
May2-6
TO ALL STUDENTS AND RESEARCHERS IN FOR-
EST ENTOMOLOGY, ECOLOGY, AND RELATED
FIELDS: The Forest Entomology Lab at the University
of Florida is pleased to invite you to the SECOND Bark
& Ambrosia Beetle Academy. This comprehensive, fun
and nerdy workshop on the most intriguing forest pests
will be held in Gainesville, FL, on May 2-6, 2016.
Are you a researcher or a student interested in
bark and ambrosia beetles? Do you need to know
more about the beetle identication, classication,
ecology or damage? Learn from international ex-
perts through hands-on labs, eld demonstration, lec-
tures, and fun socializing. Choose one or both mod-
ules: Applied and Academic. See details at http://-
www.ambrosiasymbiosis.org/academy/. Sign up soon!
Last year all 30 seats were taken in a few weeks.
Jiri Hulcr, Assistant Professor
University of Florida jSchool of Forest
Resources and Conservation 352-273-0299
j www.ambrosiasymbiosis.org \Hulcr,Jiri"
<hulcr@u.edu >
UW Madison EvoSysBio Modeling
Aug25
Are you interested in breaking down barriers of commu-
nication between disciplines using innovative approaches
for understanding evolution better?
Have you ever dreamt of a computer that could help
navigate the messy realities of biology without needless
complexity or bugs? Dream computers are one thing.
Real ones are more frustrating.
All who have worked at interfaces between messy com-
plexities of biology, the physical world, and precise math-
ematics can tell stories from the trenches. Reality is
too complex, so we all simplify. We call these simpli-
cations 'models', and our disciplines provide excellent
tools for constructing them from dierent perspectives.But the strength of one discipline is often the weakness
of another, and we all have dierent pieces of the puz-
zle - each written in a dierent disciplinary language.
Computers could help us see more of the big picture, if
we could nd a common lexicon.
This workshop is about putting pieces from dierent
elds together for a lexicon we could share among each
other and with computers. Join modeling experts at
the interface between evolution, biochemistry, systems
biology, simulation, math, computer science, and more
at the:
Workshop on Evolutionary Systems Biology & Modeling
2015
August 25, 2015 (Tue)
2pm-9:30pm, 3rd Floor Teaching Lab, 330 N Orchard
St, Wisconsin Institute for Discovery, University of
Wisconsin-Madison
Evolutionary systems biology aims to build bridges be-
tween rigorous mechanistic models in evolutionary biol-
ogy, molecular systems biology, and the many disciplines
between them. At the workshop, we will discuss a broad
mix of topics from gene regulatory networks to evolution-
ary biology, while highlighting some diverse theoretical
challenges and quantitative methods that have proven
useful to address them. Bring your laptop to get started
with simulating a gene regulatory network. End the day
by asking hard questions or share your insights in the
Bazaar of Ideas. Who knows what you may learn.
For more details see the workshop website (free regis-
tration, needed for catering):
http://evolutionarysystemsbiology.org/meeting/2015-
Madison/index.html Graduate students with interests
in interdisciplinary research are particularly encouraged
to consider submitting a poster or talk in one of the
many areas relevant to evolution, systems biology or
the quantitative methods they build on. Slots are still
available.
See you in Madison, Laurence
{ Laurence Loewe, Assistant Professor Laboratory
of Genetics and Wisconsin Institute for Discov-
ery, UW-Madison 330 N Orchard Street, Madison,
WI, 53715, USA Phone: +1(608)-316-4324 email:
loewe@wisc.edu http://wid.wisc.edu/prole/laurence-
loewe/ \loewe@wisc.edu" <loewe@wisc.edu >September 1, 2015 EvolDir 95
Vairao Portugal Morphometrics
Oct5-9 2
International Workshop \An Introduction to Geometric
Morphometrics using R"
October 5-9, 2015 @ CIBIO-InBIO, Vairao, Portugal
The analysis of organismal shape is central to many
questions in ecology and evolution. This workshop aims
at providing an introduction to the theory and meth-
ods of geometric morphometrics for analyzing variation
in shape and its covariation with other variables. It
will provide an overview of the theory underlying the
quantication of shape using landmark methods, and
a practical guide to data acquisition, standardization
for obtaining shape variables, statistical treatment of
shape variation, and visualization of the results in theR language for statistical programming.
R knowledge is a requirement for the course and it will
be assumed that all participants are uent for data ma-
nipulation and basic operations in the R environment.
Click here http://cibio.up.pt/workshops{courses/-
details/introduction-to-geometric-morphometrics-using-
r to see the PROGRAMME for this course.
COURSE INSTRUCTORS
Prof. Dean C. Adams http://www.public.iastate.edu/-
~dcadams/homepage.html Dr. Michael Collyer
https://www.wku.edu/biology/sta/michael collyer Dr.
Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou http://cibio.up.pt/people/-
details/akaliont REGISTRATION DEADLINE
Deadline for registration is August 20, 2015.
To know more about this course, please visit CIBIO-
InBIO's website http://cibio.up.pt/workshops{courses/-
details/introduction-to-geometric-morphometrics-using-
r or contact us at GM2015@cibio.up.pt.
CIBIO Divulga c~ ao
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old96 EvolDir September 1, 2015
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.