E v o l D i r
September 1, 2021
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862 EvolDir September 1, 2021
Conferences
ESEB StudentSeminarSeries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Online CIGENE Genomics Autumn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Online Transposons Oct7-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Phoenix SocIntegrativeComparativeBiology Jan3-7 . 3Switzerland ForestEvolution Sep14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
UTartuOnline GeneForum Aug25-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
ESEB StudentSeminarSeries
\ The rst in the new ESEB Student Seminar Series last
month was a success!
The next meeting will be on the 27th of August at
3PM Central European Summer Time where Anika
Wohlleben will deliver a talk on the evolution of com-
plex life cycles in parasites. Anika's seminar will be
followed by a Q&A session on her talk, as well as the op-
portunity to voice your opinions and suggestions regards
ESEB to us (Falk and Ronan!) so we can pass feedback
to the rest of the ESEB council. In case you have an
immediate suggestion for the next council meeting on
25th August, please send us an email (egsr@eseb.org).
Follow this link to join the meeting: https:/-
/us02web.zoom.us/j/84469119521?pwd=-
WWFlZVNsMXhNQjl6L3B4UjQzRURvQT09
Meeting ID: 844 6911 9521 Passcode: 862776
If you want to be the next seminar speaker, do not
hesitate to contact us at egsr@eseb.org
To make it easier for you to nd out about future meet-
ings, we have created a Twitter account where we will
regularly post updates on future seminars and all other
ESEB matters relevant to the Society's student mem-
bership. You can nd it under https://twitter.com/-
EsebStudent . Best regards, Falk and Ronan
Student Representatives European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology
Email: egsr@eseb.org Website:
eseb.org/society/student-representatives/
Ronan James Osullivan <113499328@umail.ucc.ie >Online CIGENE Genomics Autumn
Dear EvolDir members,
Hi, I hope all is well.
The CIGENE seminar series, Autumn 2021, will start
up in September. We will continue with online stream-
ing, but may also meet physically in the audithorium for
some of the seminars. We will provide more information
in due time before the seminar series starts.
For more information on CIGENE seminars, please visit:
https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/ There are still
a few open slots. If you are interested in giving a pre-
sentation, or know someone who may be willing to do
so, please let us know through the above webpage.
Sincerely, ***We are hiring one more PhD stu-
dent in evolutionary and functional genomics!!!***
https://youtu.be/KNLIX3asTiE Marie SAITOU,
Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal Investigator, Centre
of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty of Bio-
sciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie Saitou
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
Online Transposons Oct7-8
Dear colleagues,
The free registration for the 5th Uppsala Transposon
Symposium (virtual on October 07-08, 2021) is open!September 1, 2021 EvolDir 3
Invited speakers: - Welkin E. Johnson (Boston College)
- Kathleen H. Burns (Dana-Farber Cancer Institute)
There will be coee breaks (please B.Y.O.B.) and dis-
cussion rounds for networking, and the opportunity to
present your research as a regular talk or lightning talk
with poster. Submission deadline for abstracts on topics
related to transposons and viruses is September 17.
You can nd more information about the meet-
ing and the link to the registration form here:
https://transposonsymposium.wordpress.com/5th-
uppsala-transposon-symposium-going-fully-virtual/
Welcome!
Please stay safe and best wishes, Alex
(on behalf of the organizing committee)
|
Organizing committee: - Alexander Suh (University of
East Anglia and Uppsala University) - Claudia Kutter
(Karolinska Institute) - Patric Jern (Uppsala University)
- Contact us: transposonsymposium@gmail.com
N >1
2r du har kontakt med oss p >1
2Uppsala universitet
med e-post s >1
2inneb >1
2r det att vi behandlar dina
personuppgifter. F >1
2r att l >1
2sa mer om hur vi g >1
2r
det kan du l >1
2sa h >1
2r: http://www.uu.se/om-uu/-
dataskydd-personuppgifter/ E-mailing Uppsala Univer-
sity means that we will process your personal data. For
more information on how this is performed, please read
here: http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-
policy Alexander Suh <alexander.suh@ebc.uu.se >
Phoenix
SocIntegrativeComparativeBiology
Jan3-7
Halo-DaSH: The Deep and Shallow History of Aquatic
Life's Passages between Marine and Freshwater Habi-
tats. A symposium to be held at the Annual Meeting
of the Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology
(SICB) in Phoenix Arizona (Jan 3-7, 2021)
Marine and freshwater biota have long been intertwined.
Major branches of the tree of life originated in the
oceans and colonized freshwater habitats; these deep-
time halo-transitions have transformed the biosphere
and a broad range of taxa. Yet these transitions exist as
shallow-time processes and halo-transitions occur today
in both directions, oering the opportunity to investigate
eco-evolutionary responses to changes in halo-habitatin real time. Indeed, in the shallowest time scale for
halo-transitions, individual organisms may live in both
freshwater and marine environments, such as in diadro-
mous shes. Moving between fresh and marine waters
requires navigating through estuarine zones of mixing
that have their own uniquely demanding regimes. The
organismal processes that permit halo-transitions pro-
vide an important context for exploring the deep-time
patterns of evolutionary euryhalinity.
We have organized a symposium and workshop on
the subject, with an accompanying contributed pa-
per session, at the 2022 Annual Meeting of the So-
ciety of Integrative and Comparative Biology (SICB;
3-6 January, Phoenix Arizona). Information on the
symposium and workshop are at our website, https:/-
/draft.halodash.research.uconn.edu/. Contributed pa-
pers on this subject will have their own dedicated session.
Please consider submitting an abstract! Abstracts are
due on 9/1, at https://sicb.burkclients.com/meetings/-
2022/abstracts/index.php . Please direct any questions
about this to eric.schultz@uconn.edu.
\Schultz, Eric" <eric.schultz@uconn.edu >
Switzerland ForestEvolution
Sep14-17
EVOLTREE Conference 2021: Last reminder for on-
site/online registration
The rst EVOLTREE Conference on \Genomics and
Adaptation in Forest Ecosystems" will take place 14-17
September, 2021, at WSL Birmensdorf in Switzerland.
Thanks to the improved situation concerning the pan-
demic in many countries, we will hold the conference in
hybrid format (on-site and online).
Registration is still possible - on-site: 15 August 2021
- online: 1 September 2021 at the registration website
https://conf.wsl.ch/evoltree/ Registration follows a two-
step procedure (rst as user of the registration tool,
then as conference participant).
The conference focuses on the genomics and adaptation
of trees and interacting species from evolutionary, de-
mographic, ecological and conservation perspectives. It
features - diverse topical sessions - two poster sessions
- two teaching lectures - a half-day excursion - ample
opportunities for scientic networking
For more information and the detailed program, visit
our conference website: http://www.evoltree.eu/-4 EvolDir September 1, 2021
index.php/network/current-information/news/10-
news/news-middle/180-evoltree-conference Note that
the on-site participation is subject to government travel
restrictions that may change at short notice. To enter
Switzerland, special rules apply at the moment for
certain countries and regions (i.e., a 10-day quarantine).
More details and respective links can be found on the
conference webpage.
EVOLTREE (http://evoltree.eu) is a European network
of research institutions and universities engaged in study-
ing the evolution and functioning of forest ecosystems,
in particular trees as the foundation species in forest
stands. A prime topic in the face of ongoing climate
change is to elucidate how trees, together with their
associated organisms such as mycorrhizal fungi, respond
to rapid environmental changes.
With best regards, the organizing committee:
Felix Gugerli, WSL Christian Rellstab, WSL Susanne
Senn-Raschle, WSL
evoltree@wsl.ch
felix.gugerli@wsl.ch
UTartuOnline GeneForum Aug25-27
The Institute of Genomics of the University of Tartu
cordially invites you to the 20th International Gene
Forum 2021, August 25-27!
In response to the global COVID-19 pandemic, we are
no able to organize the traditional conference and cele-
brate all together the 20th Gene Forum. We are gladly
announcing, that this year's conference will be held on-
line and is free of charge! It provides an opportunity for
much wider audience to listen to presentations by top
scientist in the eld of genomics.
Due to its interdisciplinary scope, the conference brings
together 18 distinguished experts from Europe, the US
and Israel for discussion of the progress in the eld. This
year's presentations will cover themes from the use of
genomic data in personalized medicine and applicationsin healthcare, pharmacogenomics, regulatory genomics
and molecular functions, population genomics and hu-
man microbiome interactions. Given the situation in
the world, this year's Gene Forume will also have session
on COVID-19 research.
As the organizers, we hope that the forthcoming Gene
Forum 2021 will create an inspiring environment and
be professionally stimulating.
Registration: *FREE* Register at http://-
www.geneforum.ee. After the conference, registered
participants will have access to the recording of the
presentations. An access link will be active 5 days.
More information can be found at http://-
www.geneforum.ee. Information is also available
on socialmedia.
Geneforum 2021 speakers are:
Peter Donnelly, Genomics PLC, UK Samuli Ripatti,
University of Helsinki/Institute for Molecular Medicine
Finland^ a e(FIMM), Finland Gert Matthijs, KU Leu-
ven, Belgium Cathryn Lewis King's College London,
UK Andres Merits University of Tartu, Estonia Adrian
Hayday, Francis Crick Institute and King's College, UK
Andrea| Ganna Senior researcher at the Institute for
Molecular Medicine Finland/| instructor at the Har-
vard Medical School / instructor at the Massachusetts
General Hospital, Finland/USA Charity Nofziger Phar-
mGenetix GmbH, Austria Ewan Pearson University
of Dundee, Scotland Jesse Swen LUMC, Netherland
Michael Zimmermann Structural and Computational
Biology Unit, EMBL, Germany Yingyuan Fu University
of Gr oningen, Netherland Judith Zaugg EMBL, Ger-
many Urmo V ~Asa, University of Tartu, Estonia Shai
Shen-Orr Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Is-
rael Tilman Sanchez-Elsner University of Southampton,
UK Richard Oram, University of Exeter, UK Matteo
Fumagalli, Imperial Collage, UK
Additional information: geneforum@ut.ee
https://www.facebook.com/events/339928894232569/-
?ref=newsfeed See you at the Gene Forum!
Yours sincerely, Gene Forum 2021 Organising Commitee
Anders Eriksson <anders.eriksson@ut.ee >Anders Eriks-
son<anders.eriksson@ut.ee >September 1, 2021 EvolDir 5
GradStudentPositions
AMU Poznan EvolutionaryImmunogenetics . . . . . . . . . 5
AustralianNatlU BatEcholocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
BOKU Vienna ForestGeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
CIBIO Portugal EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Clermont-Ferrand France PolyploidEvolution . . . . . . . 7
Israel EvolutionaryChange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Israel InferenceFromGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
JagiellonianU EvolutionEndothermy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
JagiellonianU PredatoryBehaviorEvolution . . . . . . . . 10Liverpool HippopotamusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Montpellier 2 PlasticityPhenology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
TexasTech 2 AntGenomics Peromyscus . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UArkansas EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UPotsdam MammalPalaeogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UTasmania SexDeterminationEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UToronto Mississauga 2 NeuroEvolution . . . . . . . . . . .15
Wageningen PlantVirusBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
AMU Poznan
EvolutionaryImmunogenetics
Graduate position: AMU Poznan.EvolutionaryImmunogenetics
PhD position in evolutionary biology is available for four
years starting in NCN-funded project aiming to investi-
gate coevolution between Lime disease agent Borrelia
afzelli and its rodent host, at the level of genes. The
student will join Evolutionary Biology Group of Pro-
fessor Jacek Radwan (http://evobio.home.amu.edu.pl).
In addition to carrying out research in an enthusias-
tic team, the student will have opportunity to attend
specialized courses for PhD students in English. The
candidate should hold MSc degree in biological sciences
or bioinformatics. Interested candidates should sent
their CV and a motivation letter (via email) to the
project leader, who will provide further information
about the project and application procedure (email:
jradwan@amu.edu.pl).
Jacek Radwan <jacek.radwan@amu.edu.pl >
AustralianNatlU BatEcholocation
ANU.BatEcholocation
We are oering a fully-funded 3 year PhD position at
the Australian National University. The project willemploy 3D modelling approaches to understand how
bats modify sound during echolocation.
**Project background** Bats possess some of the most
extreme mammalian adaptations. Having evolved both
echolocation and self-powered ight, bats underwent
one of the greatest adaptive radiations in mammalian
history, which enabled them to exploit an enormous
untapped foraging niche: insects in the night sky. Bat
echolocation is considered one of the most complex and
diverse modes of sensory perception in animals, but its
origin and evolutionary history is a highly contentious
issue that remains unresolved. This is due to diculty
in inferring the echolocation capabilities of fossil species,
along with a lack of molecular markers for echolocation
in bats and their potential relatives. The broad aim
of this project is to combine insights from craniofacial
development, evolution and form-function engineering
tests to uncover echolocation traits and assess how dif-
ferences in cranial shape relate to sound production.
**The PhD position** The PhD student will use 3D scan
data, represented by diceCT (soft-tissue stained) and
microCT, to construct and validate engineering models
that simulate airway function in bats. These models
will be used to understand the functional implications
of cranial shape variation among echolocators.
**The project team** The PhD student will work with a
mutli-disciplinary team of researchers, led by Dr Laura
Wilson at ANU, in collaboration with Dr Jason Bourke
(New York Institute of Technology), Assoc. Prof. Al-
istair Evans (Monash University) and Assoc. Prof.
Daisuke Koyabu (University of Tsukuba, Japan).
**The student** The successful applicant must have an
excellent grade (i.e. H1 or HD/First Class International
equivalent) in an Honours or MSc research program in6 EvolDir September 1, 2021
a relevant subject area and proven skills in scientic
writing. The student should have a strong quantita-
tive background in evolutinary morphology/zoology or,
preferably, engineering and a willingness to learn compu-
tational modelling approaches. Experience with Finite
Element Modelling or Computational Fluid Dynamics
is desirable.
Interested applicants should send a cover letter outlining
their motivation and experience, an academic CV, and
a list of contact information for 1-3 academic referees
to Dr Laura Wilson (Laura.Wilson@anu.edu.au) by 3
Sept 2021. This scholarship is open to Australian cit-
izens, permanent residents and international students.
The Australian National University is a member of the
Group of Eight, Australia's leading research-intensive
universities, and is ranked 31st in the world (QS World
Rankings 2021). To nd out more about research in our
labs, please see: Wilson - https://tinyurl.com/h9tctbmh,
Koyabu - https://tinyurl.com/jphbnxdh, Evans - http:/-
/evomorph.org, Bourke - https://tinyurl.com/62yexdh3
The student will be embedded within the ARC ITTC on
multiscale 3D imaging, modelling and manufacturing at
the ANU: https://m3d.edu.au The successful candidate
will be awarded a 3-year PhD scholarship ( ~AU$28,597
p.a. tax free [2021 rate], indexed annually), with top-up
available ( $5,000 p.a.) for qualied candidates. Start
date anticipated Oct-Nov 2021.
Laura A. B. Wilson, Ph.D. ARC Future Fellow, Head
of Biological Anthropology The Australian National
University Canberra ACT 2601 Australia https://-
researchers.anu.edu.au/researchers/wilson-l Laura Wil-
son<Laura.Wilson@anu.edu.au >
Laura.Wilson@anu.edu.au
BOKU Vienna
ForestGeneticsGenomics
The Department of Forest- and Soil Sciences, Institute
of Silviculture is currently seeking (subject to project
funding) a Postgraduate Research Associate Project
employment (Reference code: 166) Extent of employ-
ment: 30 hours per week Duration of employment: 1st
of October 2021, limited to 30th of September 2024
Workplace: 1190 Vienna, Peter-Jordan-Str. 82 Gross
monthly salary and pay grade in terms of collective
agreement for university sta (payable 14 times per
year): B1, euro 2.228,60
The research project EicheFit (Climate-smart oakforests: genetic adaptive potential of oak species, hy-
brids, seed sources and orchards), funded by the Aus-
trian Forest Fund (Waldfonds), will investigate the ge-
netic variability and drought stress tolerance of native
and non-native oak species and provenances in Austria.
In the framework of work package 4 (Northern red oak in
Austria), genetic and genomic methods will be applied
in order to examine the origin and genetic variation
of northern red oak (Quercus rubra L.) populations in
Austria and assess their suitability as a seed source for
climate-smart forests.
For this project, we search a highly motivated research
associate (without PhD) who will undertake both re-
search and coordination activities. The project EicheFit
will be conducted in cooperation with the Federal Re-
search and Training Centre for Forests, Natural Hazards
and Landscape (BFW).
Responsibilities - Planning and implementation of leaf
and seed collections in northern red oak stands - Organ-
isation and supervision of molecular genetic analyses in
the lab (genotyping at marker loci), population genetic
analysis of the data resulting from genotyping - Contri-
bution to the establishment and care of a progeny test,
as well scientic supervision of the trial - Conception and
conduction of a genome-wide association study (GWAS;
association between phenotype and genotype) based
on DNA-sequences (from next-generation sequencing;
NGS), phenotypic and physiological data - Contribu-
tion to data management, project administration and
work coordination with the partners - Publication of
the results in scientic journals and application-oriented
media - Planning and implementation of tendering and
contracting for: 1) Seed harvesting 2) Genotyping by
means of NGS, as well as 3) Phenotyping of the northern
red oak seedlings
Required skills and qualications - Diploma degree in
forest / environmental sciences, biology or other equiv-
alent university degree - Advanced knowledge in the
research eld of population genetics - Advanced knowl-
edge in statistics, data analysis and bioinformatics -
Experience in the use of statistical software packages
(e.g. R) - Willingness to work in eld trips for sev-
eral days - Excellent knowledge of written and spoken
English; a good knowledge of the German language is
an advantage - Teamwork and communication skills -
Driving licence of B class
Desirable skills and qualications - Readiness to conduct
a doctoral dissertation at the University of Natural Re-
sources and Life Sciences (BOKU) Vienna - Experience
in population genetic analysis using suitable software
packages - Ability to deal with the Unix/Linux oper-
ating system - Knowledge of computer programmingSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 7
languages (e.g. Pearl, Python) - Knowledge and expe-
rience in the eld of forest reproductive material and
forest genetics-
Applications can be submitted until: 2nd of September
2021 University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences
Vienna seeks to increase the number of its female fac-
ulty and sta members. Therefore qualied women are
strongly encouraged to apply. In case of equal qualica-
tion, female candidates will be given preference unless
reasons specic to an individual male candidate tilt the
balance in his favour. People with disabilities and ap-
propriate qualications are specically encouraged to
apply.
Please send your job application incl. - motivation letter
- CV - Copies of diplomas and certicates to Personnel
department, University of Natural Resources and Life
Sciences, Peter-Jordan-Strae 70, 1190 Vienna; E-Mail:
kerstin.buchmueller@boku.ac.at. (Reference code: 166)
We regret that we cannot reimburse applicants travel
and lodging expenses incurred as part of the selection
and hiring process.
Dr. Charalambos Neophytou Senior Scientist In-
stitut f ur Waldbau Dept. f ur Wald- und Boden-
wissenschaften Universit at f ur Bodenkultur Peter-
Jordan-Strae 82/II A-1190 Wien Telefon: +43 1
47654-91335 charalambos.neophytou@boku.ac.at http:/-
/short.boku.ac.at/neophytou.html Charalambos Neo-
phytou<charalambos.neophytou@boku.ac.at >
CIBIO Portugal
EvolutionaryBiology
PhD holder research position
Main research eld: Biological Sciences
A second PhD holder Research position (Reference
BIOPOLIS 2021-08) is available at CIBIO-InBIO,
through BIOPOLIS, funded by the project \The Genetic,
Cellular, and Photonic Mechanisms of Avian Structural
Colouration (reference 101000504)".
We seek a highly motivated postdoctoral fellow to be
a key player in a multi-team collaboration to elucidate
the genetic, cellular, molecular, and photonic basis of
avian structural coloration using the tail feathers of
the Indian peafowl (Pavo cristatus) as a model system.
The ideal candidate will have prior experience in using
the techniques of cell and molecular biology to studydevelopment and/or physiology in vertebrates. The can-
didate will be primarily focused on understanding how
the genes identied by genetic mapping are expressed
within developing feathers and how the resultant pro-
teins function to create the remarkable nanostructures
that underlie the peafowl's brilliant structural colors.
The techniques to be used by the candidate will include
(but are not limited to) in situ hybridization, antibody
staining, light and electron microscopy, cell and tis-
sue culture, virus-mediated transgenesis, CRISPR-Cas9-
mediated knock-out, reporter assays, and HPLC.
The successful candifate will work directly with
Miguel Carneiro (https://scholar.google.pt/-
citations?user=onCfzJ4AAAAJ&hl=pt-PT) and Joseph
Corbo (https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
o0Ic3 EAAAAJ&hl=en). Questions can be directed to
Miguel Carneiro (miguel.carneiro@cibio.up.pt).
The work will be primarily conducted at Joseph Corbo
lab at Washington University, St Louis, USA, and Asso-
cia cao BIOPOLIS/CIBIO Research Center in Biodiver-
sity and Genetic Resources, in Campus de Vairao, Rua
Padre Armando Quintas n  >1
27, Vairao, Portugal.
Application deadline: September 01, 2021
For more information: https://cibio.up.pt/open-
positions-careers/details/reference-biopolis-2021-0 8
Questions can be directed to Miguel Carneiro:
miguel.carneiro@cibio.up.pt
CIBIO-InBIO Divulga >1
2 >1
2o
Clermont-Ferrand France
PolyploidEvolution
The PaleoEVO group would like to advertise the follow-
ing PhD position:
EFFECTS OF POLYPLOIDIZATION ON THE
WHEAT METHYLOME TRANSCRIPTOME COM-
PLEX
SUPERVISORS: Peter Civan (https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Peter-Civan), Jerome
Salse (https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Jerome Salse)
LABORATORY: INRAE-UCA UMR 1095 GDEC,
G >1
2n >1
2tique, Diversit >1
2et Ecophysiologie des
C >1
2r >1
2ales, PaleoEVO team (http://bit.ly/PaleoEvo),
5 chemin de Beaulieu, 63000 Clermont-Ferrand8 EvolDir September 1, 2021
PERIOD: Starting before the end of 2021 until 2024
FUNDING: INRAE (https://www.inrae.fr/) & ISITE-
CAP2025 Challenge 1 (https://cap2025.fr/)
APPLICATION: please send your CV and letter of sup-
port to peter.civan@inrae.fr and jerome.salse@inrae.fr
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Wheat is one of the most
important crops globally, forming a crucial part of hu-
man diet. Bread wheat has a polyploid genome result-
ing from ancient hybridization between its diploid and
tetraploid progenitors some 10K years ago. Understand-
ing the genetic consequences of polyploidization on the
wheat genome, transcriptome, and ultimately pheno-
type, can have crucial implications for utilization of
genetic diversity in breeding. The seminal polyploidiza-
tion of bread wheat evolution can be recreated in ex-
perimental settings, producing synthetic/nascent poly-
ploids, which are not simply a sum total of the parental
genomes, but are modied by various genetic and epige-
netic changes, including sequence elimination, transcrip-
tomic changes and epigenetic modications. Although
some of these changes are reproducible and similar to the
ones found in natural polyploid wheats, their systematic,
genome-wide characterisation is lacking. Moreover, the
mechanistic basis of these changes remains poorly under-
stood, and it is unclear whether they are necessary for
proper functioning and fertility of the nascent polyploids,
or mere (potentially deleterious) byproducts of the poly-
ploidization process. The best described consequence
of polyploidization in wheat is the re-programming of
its transcriptome, also called expression partitioning.
Transcriptomic studies have shown that homoeolog si-
lencing is pervasive in bread wheat, with 27.6%-45%
of homoeologous groups having one or two gene copies
silenced. A portion of these changes is established im-
mediately after polyploidization and can be studied
in synthetic allohexploids. Although there are several
possibilities how transcriptional reprogramming can be
achieved (e.g., gene loss, TE insertion in gene's vicinity;
position eect due to translocation), mounting evidence
suggests that DNA methylation (i.e. cytosine methyla-
tion) is the primary mechanism of polyploidy-induced
reprogramming that ensures its heritability. Despite the
obvious importance of gene expression (de)regulation
in polyploid crops, virtually no studies have examined
on the genome-wide scale the possible links between
gene expression changes and DNA methylation patterns
in nascent wheat polyploids. This projects aims to
provide gene-based (but genome-wide) exploration of
these processes. Building on existing transcriptomic
data collected from families of nascent synthetic allo-
hexaploids where 'binary DEGs' have been identied
(dierentially expressed genes showing no transcription
in the synthetic wheat despite robust transcription inthe parents), the PhD candidate will rst explore gene
losses and aneuploidy as the potential causes of such
patterns. Subsequently, the core of the project will fo-
cus on links between cytosine methylation and altered
expression. These will be explored through methylome
sequencing (Illumina) of amplicon libraries (homoeolog-
specic) constructed from the binary DEGs. Various
gene partitions (UTRs, exons, introns), sequence con-
texts (CpG, CHG, CHH), crossing schemes, tissues and
generation will be examined to provide a detailed as-
sessment of methylation changes in respect to altered
transcription in polyploids. These changes will be evalu-
ated in the context of wheat diversity and agronomically
important traits, with the aim to inform future breeding
eorts.
REQUIRED SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS: * MSc
degree in molecular genetics, or similar (required) *
wet-lab experience with DNA extractions, PCR, etc.
(required) * experience with primer design and DNA
methylation analysis (benecial) * bioinformatics: expe-
rience with command-line interface, R, scripting, next-
generation sequencing data (benecial) * procient use
of English (required) * scientic curiosity, strong moti-
vation to learn new methods and deliver the outlined
goals
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Israel EvolutionaryChange
Prof. Gila Kahila Bar-Gal's laboratory is seeking a doc-
toral student candidate. The research project focuses
on the evolutionary change of biodiversity in Israel since
the Natuan period.
Global climate change and rapid anthropogenic alter-
ations to biotic and a-biotic conditions are accelerating
biodiversity decline and changing ecosystems' functions.
Loss of genetic diversity and ecological integrity might
ultimately reduce the evolutionary potential of animal
populations experiencing rapidly changing conditions.
The proposed multidisciplinary research will focus on
understanding the genetic changes among species shar-
ing the same habitat and ecosystem at the southern
Levant such as the mountain gazelle (Gazella gazella)September 1, 2021 EvolDir 9
and the jungle cat (Felis chaus). The genetic changes
will be studied using state-of-the-art genomic analysis of
samples from the Natuan period ( ~15,000 years ago)
to the present day.
I am seeking a strong independent graduate student,
background in bioinformatics is an advantage. The can-
didate will receive a scholarship for the entire period
of her/his PhD. study. The project will be carried out
in collaboration with a laboratory in the United States,
as well as with researchers from other institutions in
France and Israel.
All interested candidates need to send a letter of interest,
CV and copy of university transcripts, until the 10th
of September 2021. The research can start as early as
October 2021.
Please contact: gila.kahila@mail.huji.ac.il
Prof. Gila Kahila Bar-Gal,
Director of National Natural History Collections
Head of Laboratory of Molecular Evolution, Koret
School of Veterinary Medicine
The Robert H. Smith Faculty of Agriculture, Food and
Environment The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Is-
rael
Gila Kahila <gila.kahila@mail.huji.ac.il >
Israel InferenceFromGenetics
The Greenbaum and Gokhman labs are looking for a
MsC/PhD student interested
Can we predict the phenotypes of organisms by look-
ing at their genomes? How will this be possible for
complex phenotypes? An exciting opportunity for a
MSc/PhD/postdoc project is available to investigate
inference of traits directly from genetic information.
The project is a collaboration between the Green-
baum lab at the Hebrew University and the Gokhman
lab at the WeizmannInstitute in Israel. Background
in programming, mathematics, physics or computa-
tional modeling is required,and background in genet-
ics/evolutionary biology is an advantage.
For additional information about the labs:
www.greenbaumlab.com www.gokhmanlab.com
For details, please contact Gili Greenbaum
(gil.g@mail.huji.ac.il) or David Gokhman(david.gokhman@weizmann.ac.il).
David Gokhman <davidgokhman@gmail.com >
JagiellonianU EvolutionEndothermy
Graduate position
PhD in Avian Oxidative Stress Biology A fully funded
PhD 4-year position is available in the research team of
Ulf Bauchinger at the Institute of Environmental Sci-
ences, Jagiellonian University, Cracow, Poland (https:/-
/eko.uj.edu.pl/zespoly-badawcze/badania).
Project in brief:
As endotherms, mammals and birds have evolved the
capacity to thermoregulate, an evolutionary achieve-
ment with profound impact on biology and ecology.
Endothermy, however, does not necessarily entail a con-
stant body temperature throughout a day, a year or
a life time. Instead, many mammals are known to hi-
bernate seasonally or enter torpor, reducing their body
temperature by a few ^AoC to several tens of ^AoC be-
low the normothermic level. Birds are known to also
become torpid or and reduce body temperature during
the night by rather a few ^AoC with some exceptions
of up to two tens of ^AoC. These on rst sight small
temperature drops may, however, have profound eects
on enzymatic activity. The rate of biochemical reactions
in general, and enzymatic reactions in particular are
highly temperature dependent, which also applies to
enzymes that act as antioxidants against free radicals.
They protect against the negative eects of oxidative
stress through free radical scavenging and if this protec-
tive enzymatic action is reduced in its rate, free radicals
may remain unchecked, which may lead to oxidative
damage of biomolecules. Such oxidative damage risks
functional integrity of biomolecules and is currently one
of the most frequently forwarded driver of aging. This
research is designed to understand how regulation of
body temperature may be hampered by increasing age
and how this impaired thermoregulatory capability may
lead to increased oxidative stress when animals grow
old.
While it is well established for mammals, including us
humans, that body temperature and the capacity to
thermoregulate declines with increasing age, such data
are virtually absent for birds, and in addition were never
linked to oxidative stress. Our research project will pro-
vide thorough understanding how age in the context of10 EvolDir September 1, 2021
senescence inuences thermoregulation in birds. The
second goal of our research is then to relate the ther-
mogenic capacity of birds of dierent age to oxidative
stress to test the hypothesis that body temperature is
related to the rate of oxidative damage. The starting
date is ideally October 2021. Review of applications will
begin on September 3, 2021 until the position is lled.
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student with
a MSc in life science (biology, ecology, evolution, zo-
ology or related), an interest in animal experimental
biology, avian physiology and animal metabolism for
a NCN funded project \The eect of aging on body
temperature dependent oxidative stress: the burden of
heterothermy". If you enjoy critical thinking, creativ-
ity, a high motivation in learning new methods, and
have a good level of spoken and written English, then
please apply by sending (1) a letter of motivation, (2)
your CV with publication list, and (3) the contact de-
tails of at least two references in a single pdf e-mail
(ulf.bauchinger@uj.edu.pl).
Students must be accepted as PhD student at Institute
of Environmental Sciences, UJ (please see details for
application process at https://irk.uj.edu.pl/en-gb/oer/-
SDPC21/programme/n.scis.przy phd.biol sdPC/-
?from=org-unit:UJ.SDSP For further information please
contact Ulf Bauchinger (ulf.bauchinger@uj.edu.pl).
Ulf Bauchinger <ulfbauchinger@uri.edu >
JagiellonianU
PredatoryBehaviorEvolution
Four-year PhD position at the Institute of Environmen-
tal Sciences, Jagiellonian University (Poland)
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate to
join the Evolutionary Physiology Team of Dr. Pawe ^A3
Koteja. The successful candidate will work in a project
of Edyta Sadowska \Mechanisms determining predatory
behavior: insights from an experimental evolution on
bank vole".
Conditions of employment: a scholarship for 48 months
of 5000 PLN / month (equivalent to mean gross income
in Poland)
Requirements 1. MSc in life science (biology,
zoology, neurology, evolution, or related). 2.
Admission in the International PhD Biology pro-
grams at JU (eective on 1.10.2021; https://-
science.phd.uj.edu.pl/ <https://www.researchga-te.net/deref/https%3A%2F%2Fscience.phd.uj.edu.pl%2F >).
3. Good communication skills, good level of spoken and
written English. 4. Previous experience in statistical
analysis of biological data. 5. Research experience
with animals (preferably rodents) and behavioral or
neuro-physiological laboratory. 6. Achievements such as
publications or conference presentations are considered
advantageous.
Description of project One of the main challenges in
biology is to understand the evolution of complex adap-
tations that allow realization of the astonishing variety
of \lifestyles." Predator-prey interactions are important
components in ecological communities, where under the
pressure of natural selection, predators have evolved
a variety of behavioral, morphological and/or physio-
logical adaptations for detecting, catching, killing, and
digesting prey. The examples include the wolf with its
cooperate hunting skills, the cheetah - the world's fastest
land animal, the golden eagle with excellent eyesight that
allows to spot even a small prey from the great height, or
the grasshopper mouse Onychomys, hunting on cotton
rats that are three times their weight. The predatory
behavior is important not only from the ecological and
evolutionary, but also from biomedical perspective. It
is surprising that our knowledge concerning biological
mechanism determining the predatory aggression is very
limited, especially in comparison with that concerning
conspecic-directed aggressive behavior.
The main question to be addressed in the project: Char-
acterization of details of the predatory behavior to learn
whether the selection increased only the propensity to
attack, or also the hunting skills. Is selection for preda-
tory behavior caused changes in conspecic-directed
aggression? Assessing the contribution of \nature - nur-
ture" eects on the behavioral dierences between the
predatory and control lines. Uncovering the mechanisms
underlying the dierences due to selection for predatory
behavior, we will investigate hormones, neurotransmit-
ters and brain activity activated by recent experience
with crickets. We will use our unique experimental evo-
lution model system: lines of a rodent, the bank vole,
selected for predatory behavior. The biochemical and
neurological methods will be used to uncover the mech-
anisms underlying the dierences due to selection for
predatory behaviour. We will apply a cross-fostering
experiment in which newborn voles will be exchanged
between mothers from the selected and control lines.
This will allow to test whether rearing by a predatory
mother increases predatory propensity of an individual
independently of its genetic background. Samples of
tissues will be preserved for follow-up project focused
on for investigation of the molecular background (gene
expression level). For further information please contactSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 11
Edyta Sadowska (edyta.sadowska@uj.edu.pl)
Preliminary enquiry: email to the principal investigator
- Edyta Sadowska (edyta.sadowska@uj.edu.pl). Please
apply by sending (1) a letter of motivation, (2) your CV
with publication list, and (3) at least one reference (4)
signed information on data (http://www.heddlelab.org/-
images/Personal%20data%20NCN.pdf). The applica-
tion should be sent by email (edyta.sadowska@uj.edu.pl)
by 03.09.2021 (the term will be automatically prolonged
if needed).
Edyta Sadowska, PhD Institute of Environmental Sci-
ences Jagiellonian University 7 Gronostajowa Street,
30-387 Krak ow Poland oce phone: +48 12 664 5210
mobile phone: +48 509 49 89 94 fax: +48 12 664 6912
Edyta Sadowska <edyta.sadowska@uj.edu.pl >
Liverpool HippopotamusEvolution
PhD project title: Molecular phylogeny of extinct and
extant hippopotamus species
Project outline: The family Hippopotamidae is an in-
triguing mammal group; extant hippo are more closely
related to whales and dolphins (clade Whippomorpha)
than to the many ruminants that occupy similar niches
- and habitat in Africa. Over the Pliocene-Pleistocene
and into the Holocene - there were over 30 species within
the family. Many became extinct during the Pleistocene
- but some persisted through the Holocene until very
recently. At present there are two extant hippos; the
common hippo and the pygmy hippo. We propose the
application of ancient DNA techniques to determine his-
torical relationships within the Family Hippopotamidae
A PhD position is available for this research.
Location: Liverpool John Moores University (LJMU) in
the United Kingdom will administer this collaborative
project, in collaboration with Aberdeen University. The
Project will principally be based in the Ancient DNA
Lab at LJMU (Prof Richard Brown and Dr Lochran
Traill) and Aberdeen (Dr Linus Girdland Flink). There
will be an expectation to travel to Africa including
Madagascar and also the Mediterranean region. Dr
Traill has aliation with Witwatersrand University in
South Africa to facilitate work in Southern Africa.
Duration: 3 years
Eligibility: British Nationals only, or EU Nationals that
have permanent residence in the UK.Financial support: this is for British nationals. Scholar-
ships are available for high achieving students through
the LJMU Vice Chancellor Award Scheme with a dead-
line at 20th September. See details here: https:/-
/www.ljmu.ac.uk/research/phd-scholarships Scholar-
ships are highly competitive and candidates are expected
to have a First Class Honours degree (or a MSc) and
at least one research publication. The scholarship will
cover fees, living costs and travel expenses for 3 years.
How to Apply: Please contact in the rst instance Dr
Lochran Traill (l.w.traill atljmu.ac.uk) or Prof Richard
Brown (r.p.brown atljmu.ac.uk). Include a one page
CV.
\Traill, Lochran" <L.W.Traill@ljmu.ac.uk >
Montpellier 2 PlasticityPhenology
We are looking for a PhD student (3 years funding) in co
direction between Celine Teplitsky (Montpellier, France)
and Pierre-Yves Henry (Brunoy, France). Plasticity of
phenology is considered as one of the major mechanisms
through which organisms can adapt to climate change.
However, we still know little about the limits to the
expression of plasticity in new environments such as
exceptionally warm springs or urban environments.
This PhD project will tackle this question by investigat-
ing whether we can already see limits to plasticity in
exceptionally warm years, and/or in urban environments
(where the nutrient and heat constraints are magnied).
The project will be run at a large spatial scale, based
on human landscape use. If such limits of plasticity
exist (1) can they be predicted based on some species /
populations / habitats features, and (2) what are the
constraints to the evolution of plasticity? This last
question will be tackled by investigating the within pop-
ulation genetic variance for plasticity and the extent
to which it varies among populations, but also across
species, trying to evaluate more long term constraints
on plasticity evolution.
This project will be based on statistical analyses of long
term data obtained from monitoring of wild bird popu-
lations, mainly blue and great tits but an interspecic
approach can be developed on several passerines birds
based on citizen science monitoring
Work conditions: The PhD will be implemented at the
CEFE (Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive,
Montpellier, France) and at MECADEV (M ecanismes12 EvolDir September 1, 2021
adaptatifs & Evolution, MNHN, Brunoy, France).
Appointment. The appointment is for a period of 3
years (period: November 2021 - October 2024) from a
funding from the  >1
2Climate and Biodiversity initiative'
of BNP Paribas. The salary is 1700 eafter taxes and
includes social security benets. The candidate commits
to complete a PhD dissertation, at least two publica-
tions in high-prole international journals before PhD
defence, and communication(s) at international congress
Requirements: Candidates are expected to have a MSc
degree (Master 2 in France) in evolutionary biology or
ecology with a strong statistical background. The PhD
student will be expected to contribute to data collection
during the eld season. Field experience is a plus but
not mandatory if there is a will to learn.
Applications. Written applications (in French
or English), including a cover letter, a com-
plete CV, marks obtained obtained at university
and names and contacts of at least two refer-
ees, should be submitted online on the CNRS por-
tal (https://emploi.cnrs.fr/Ores/Doctorant/UMR5175-
CELTEP-003/Default.aspx?lang=EN). Incomplete ap-
plications will not be considered. A preliminary selec-
tion will be made based on application les. Selected
candidates will be interviewed early October.
Do not hesitate to contact us for further details (ce-
line.teplitsky@cefe.cnrs.fr; pierre-yves.henry@mnhn.fr).
Closing date for application: September 15th 2021 (12
p.m.)
|{
We are looking for a PhD student (3 years funding) in
co-supervision between Celine Teplitsky (Montpellier,
France) and Erik Matthysen (Antwerp, Belgium). Plas-
ticity of phenology is considered as one of the major
mechanisms through which organisms can adapt to cli-
mate change. However, we still know little about the
ecological factors that will constrain or facilitate this
adaptation.
This PhD project is organized around two main themes
(1) Evaluate how environmental conditions aect the
expression of plasticity. Plasticity is always a response
to the environment, but this plasticity (i.e. how the
organism responds to the environment) can itself change
with the environment, due to simultaneous variation
in multiple factors or environments experienced earlier
in the organisms' life; and (2) Evaluate how adaptive
these responses are to multiple environmental factors.
Recent modelling approaches allow estimating optimum
phenotypes in the wild and assessing the adaptive value
of expressed reaction norms.This project will be based on statistical analyses of long
term data obtained from monitoring of wild bird popu-
lations, mainly blue and great tits but an interspecic
approach can be developed on several passerines birds
based on citizen science monitoring as well.
Work conditions: The PhD will be implemented at the
CEFE (Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive,
Montpellier, France) and at the Evolutionary Ecology
Research Group (Antwerp, Belgium).
Appointment. The appointment is for a period of 3
years (period: November 2021 - October 2024) from a
funding from the 'Climate and Biodiversity initiative' of
BNP Paribas. The net salary is about 1700 eafter taxes
and includes social security benets. The candidate
commits to
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
TexasTech 2 AntGenomics
Peromyscus
The Manthey research group in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences at Texas Tech University is recruiting a
highly motivated individual for graduate studies (PhD)
to work on questions related to the ecology and evolu-
tion of carpenter ants (Genus Camponotus) and their
endosymbionts (Blochmannia) in North America.
Our group has collected whole-genome sequencing
data from samples of several Camponotus species and
their endosymbionts from hundreds of localities across
North America to date (see: https://mantheylab.org/-
eldwork/). We are looking for someone to join our
research group to both work on the data sampled so
far and expand the project in scope based on individ-
ual interests. Our current research themes with this
study system include: (1) coevolution of ants and their
symbionts, (2) landscape genomics of both ants and
symbionts, and (3) genome evolution. Applicants with
interests and/or experience in genomics and/or entomol-
ogy are encouraged to apply.
The position is funded for 5 years (PhD applicants)
through a combination of research and teaching assis-
tantships in the Department of Biological Sciences at
Texas Tech University.September 1, 2021 EvolDir 13
Interested individuals should email a CV/resume to
Dr. Joseph Manthey ( jdmanthey@gmail.com or
joseph.manthey@ttu.edu), as well as a statement of how
your interests and the funded conservation genomics
project complement each other. This statement will be
used as a writing sample as well as an assessment of
applicants' potential t to the position.
The Department of Biological Sciences has a strong
and dynamic group of scientists with a focus in ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology. The department has
strengths in multiple areas of genomics, bioinformatics,
and specialized disciplines of ecology and evolution-
ary biology. The departmental website can be found
here: http://www.depts.ttu.edu/biology/ ~Deadline
for applications ~Our department has year-long open
admissions but has deadlines to be considered for schol-
arships and fellowships. For Fall 2022, this deadline is
early January 2022. Please nd all application details
here: http://www.depts.ttu.edu/biology/academics/-
graduate/prospective-students/ All qualied applicants
are encouraged to contact me and apply. While aca-
demic scores have a role in admissions, motivation and
research experience are highly valued. Texas Tech Uni-
versity is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and we wel-
come applications from all qualied persons and will
ensure that all applicants are treated fairly, equally, and
respectfully.
Joseph D. Manthey, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Bio-
logical Sciences Texas Tech University Email: jdman-
they@gmail.com jjoseph.manthey@ttu.edu https://-
mantheylab.org/ ||
The Manthey research group in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences at Texas Tech University is recruiting a
highly motivated individual for graduate studies (PhD
or MS) to work on a recently funded project in conser-
vation genomics to begin Fall 2022.
This project is funded through Texas Parks and Wildlife
to study the evolutionary history, demography, and dis-
tinctiveness of the mouse Peromyscus truei comanche,
and is in collaboration with Drs. Caleb Phillips and
Robert Bradley in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences. We expect the project will include eld work,
bioinformatics of whole-genome sequencing data, and
morphometric analyses of museum specimens. There
will be opportunities for expanding the project in scope,
particularly for PhD applicants. Applicants with inter-
ests and/or experience in genomics and/or mammalogy
are encouraged to apply.
The position is fully funded for 2.5 years (MS applicants)
or 5 years (PhD applicants) through a combination of
research and teaching assistantships in the Department
of Biological Sciences at Texas Tech University.Interested individuals should email a CV/resume to
Dr. Joseph Manthey ( jdmanthey@gmail.com or
joseph.manthey@ttu.edu), as well as a statement of how
your interests and the funded conservation genomics
project complement each other. This statement will be
used as a writing sample as well as an assessment of
applicants' potential t to the position.
The Department of Biological Sciences has a strong
and dynamic group of scientists with a focus in ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology. The department has
strengths in multiple areas of genomics, bioinformatics,
and specialized disciplines of ecology and evolution-
ary biology. The departmental website can be found
here: http://www.depts.ttu.edu/biology/ ~Deadline for
applications ~Our department has year-long open admis-
sions but has deadlines to be considered for scholarships
and fellowships. For
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UArkansas EvolutionaryEcol
Graduate assistantships are available for Ph.D. students
in the Siepielski Lab (https://asiepielski.wordpress.com)
in the Department of Biological Sciences and the Ecol-
ogy, Evolution, and Organismal Biology group (https:/-
/eeob.uark.edu) at the University of Arkansas (https://-
fulbright.uark.edu/departments/biology/).
Our lab focuses on questions at the intersection of evo-
lutionary biology and ecology and. Current projects
include: the contribution of evolution in shaping the
demographic processes regulating populations and struc-
turing species coexistence, how species evolve in response
to multiple-species interactions such as competition, pre-
dation, and parasitism, how extreme ecological events
drive eco-evolutionary change, and determining the ma-
jor features characterizing natural selection in the wild.
To explore these topics, we use a combination of obser-
vational, experimental, meta-analytical, and theoretical
approaches. Most of our work is with damselies, a
voracious and awesome predatory insect.
Graduate research fellowships ( $30,000 - 40,000,
plus health insurance and tuition waiver) are also
available for highly competitive candidates. Please14 EvolDir September 1, 2021
see https://graduate-and-international.uark.edu/-
graduate/costs-and-funding/doctoral-fellowships.php
for additional information on fellowship funding
opportunities.
Prospective students should check out our lab website
https://asiepielski.wordpress.com for additional informa-
tion. If interested in considering joining our lab group,
please contact me via email (amsiepie@uark.edu). In
your email, please include the following: 1) a brief de-
scription of your overall research interests, career goals,
and why you think our lab would be a good t for you,
and 2) your CV. If you have any questions, please ask.
Ideal candidates will be hard-working, highly motivated,
and excited about studying questions at the interface
of ecology and evolutionary biology. Prior coursework
in ecology, evolutionary biology, and statistics, a strong
interest in mentoring undergraduates and participating
in outreach, and relevant research experiences (including
eld biology) are desirable, but not required.
Please note that the deadline for Fall 2021 admission
into our program is January 15, 2021. All materials
should be submitted well before then.
The University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, is a Tier I
research university located in the beautiful Ozark Moun-
tains. The faculty and graduate students at UARK are
highly interactive and include an internationally known
group of evolutionary biologists and ecologists. We are
located in an ideal setting for eld-based projects in
aquatic systems (AR has more than 2,300 lakes and thou-
sands of smaller ponds, and equally impressive numbers
of rivers, streams and creeks). Fayetteville, located in
northwest Arkansas, oers a high quality of living at a
low cost, an excellent climate, and is a large enough city
to oer diverse activities and amenities. Rock climbing,
hiking, kayaking, canoeing, and especially mountain bik-
ing (tons of amazing mountain bike trails, and more
every year!) opportunities are in close proximity.
Adam Michael Siepielski <amsiepie@uark.edu >
UPotsdam MammalPalaeogenomics
The Evolutionary Adaptive Genomics Group of Prof.
Dr. Michael Hofreiter at the University of Potsdam
in collaboration with the Leibniz-Research Institute for
Archaeology is oering a PhD position for 2.5 years with
the possibility of extension. The PhD will be within
the project AlterEco funded by the Leibniz Society andaiming at palaeogenomic studies of a number of un-
gulate species from the site of Neumark Nord, which
has been shown to yield specimens with excellent DNA
preservation, despite its Eemian age. In this project,
the successful applicant will trace the population dy-
namics of elephants, fallow deer, red deer and aurochs,
which are present during most of the Eemian substages.
To this end, it is planned to both target the mitochon-
drial genome using hybridization capture and shotgun
sequence the best-preserved samples for nuclear genomic
data. The obtained data will be analyzed using state-
of-the-art population genetic approaches, tailored for
time-structured data.
Applicants are expected to have a background in evo-
lutionary genetics and/or molecular biology as well
as some basic knowledge in bioinformatics. Exper-
tise in analyzing NGS-data is of advantage but not
required. Please send your application documents to
michael.hofreiter@uni-potsdam.de. Deadline for appli-
cations is 17th September 2021. Prof. Dr. Michael
Hofreiter Professor for Evolutionary Adaptive Genomics
University of Potsdam
mark.scherz@gmail.com
UTasmania
SexDeterminationEvolution
PhD position: Sex chromosome evolution in a viviparous
reptile with genotypic and temperature-dependent sex
determination
Project theme:
Sex-determination controls the most signicant varia-
tion within animals- the division into males and females.
While the dierent systems of sex-determination involv-
ing genetic or environmental control are relatively well
understood, transitions between these systems remain
enigmatic in evolutionary biology. This project aims to
address this gap by revealing the molecular and cytoge-
netic changes required to transition between modes, us-
ing one of only two known lizard species exhibiting both
genetic and temperature control of sex. This knowledge
will have important implications for species conservation,
facilitating predictions of highly biased sex ratios under
climate change, plus potential commercial applications
for species where the production of one sex is favoured.
A PhD position is available to contribute to this research.
This student will conduct advanced cytogenetic researchSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 15
on species of Australian lizards to help understand the
genomic changes accompanying transitions between ge-
netic and temperature-dependent sex determination.
The University of Tasmania administers this collabora-
tive research project (funded by the Australian Research
Council Discovery Project grant, ARC DP) between Uni-
versity of Tasmania (Assoc Profs Chris Burridge and
Erik Wapstra) and the University of Canberra (Prof
Tariq Ezaz). This PhD project will be based at the
cytogenetics laboratory of Prof Tariq Ezaz (University
of Canberra). However, the successful PhD candidate
will spend signicant time at the University of Tasma-
nia to perform eldwork and some molecular genetic
analysis. The Cytogenetic techniques to be employed in-
clude C-banding, Comparative Genomic Hybridisation
(CGH), chromosome microdissection, uorescence in situ
hybridisation (FISH), BAC library screening, and Next-
Generation Sequencing (NGS). Bioinformatics such as
comparative mapping will be also be conducted.
The Ideal Candidate
The ideal candidate will possess experience in molecular
cytogenetics (e.g. cell culture, chromosome preparation,
uorescence in situ hybridisation), and genomics (e.g.
genomic data mining, experience and familiarisation
with sequence analyses and NGS technology). Knowl-
edge of chromosome biology and sex determination is
desirable. The candidate will be self-motivated and
well-organised, with a demonstrated capacity to learn
and apply the broad skill set necessary for the success-
ful completion of a research project. The successful
candidate will be able to work alongside a wide variety
of people in multi-function and multicultural laborato-
ries. The successful candidate(s) will also have a strong
commitment to excellence in research and scholarship.
Scholarships
Financial support for domestic and international
students is expected to be available for a high achieving
student through University of Canberra scholarship
round (applications close 30 September 2020). These
scholarships are highly competitive. To be competitive,
candidates should have a rst-class honours degree or
equivalent in a relevant area and other evidence of
research potential (such as publications and relevant
work experience). The scholarship and project are
for three years. More information on the scholarships
and admission process can be found at http://-
www.canberra.edu.au/future-students/scholarships-
and-nancial-support/scholarships-and-fees Eligibility
The University of Canberra scholarships are open to all
nationalities. However, overseas candidates for whom
English is not a rst language must secure an IELTSscore of 6.5 and have no individual score falling below 6.0
to satisfy our English language requirements. More infor-
mation can be found here http://www.canberra.edu.au/-
future-students/research-students/english-prociency
How to Apply
Interested applicants should submit a CV, a copy of
their academic transcript, a sample of your written
scientic work, and a cover letter outlining their re-
search interests to tariq.ezaz@canberra.edu.au and or,
chris.burridge@utas.edu.au
This email is condential, and is for the intended re-
cipient only. Access, disclosure, copying, distribution,
or reliance on any of it by anyone outside the intended
recipient organisation is prohibited and may be a crimi-
nal oence. Please delete if obtained in error and email
conrmation to the sender. The views expressed in this
email are not necessarily the views of the University of
Tasmania, unless clearly intended otherwise.
Christopher Burridge <chris.burridge@utas.edu.au >
UToronto Mississauga 2
NeuroEvolution
The Senatore Lab at the University of Toronto Missis-
sauga is recruiting 2 highly motivated and enthusiastic
PhD students to study the evolution of ion channel and
neurotransmitter receptor function in the nervous sys-
tem. The students will integrate a range of exciting
techniques including genome bioinformatics, protein bio-
chemistry, uorescence microscopy, immunohistochem-
istry, and patch-clamp/sharp electrode electrophysiol-
ogy.
The position is open to Canadians, permanent residents
of Canada, and international applicants who have suc-
cessfully defended their Master's degree. Applicants
with particularly strong academic records and experi-
ence in wet-lab research will be considered for direct
entry into the PhD program. Individuals who identify
with underrepresented groups in the elds of science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) are
especially encouraged to apply. Preference will be given
to applicants who have demonstrated excellence in aca-
demics, research, and scientic communication. Expe-
rience conducting research with fruit ies (Drosophila
melanogaster) is also benecial.
The Senatore lab is in the William G. Davis Building at
the University of Toronto Mississauga. We are part of16 EvolDir September 1, 2021
the Department of Cell and Systems Biology, comprised
of a vibrant, diverse, and energetic group of researchers
across all three University of Toronto campuses (St.
George, Mississauga, and Scarborough). The University
of Toronto Mississauga campus backs onto the Credit
River, with quick access to beautiful hiking trails along
the river. The campus is 33 kilometers west of the
University's St. George campus in downtown Toronto,
with easy access via university shuttle buses and public
transportation.
Students wishing to apply should email their CV, a one-
page statement of research interests, and an unocial
undergraduate transcript to
adriano.senatore@utoronto.ca.
Best regards,
Adriano Senatore
https://senatorelab.com/ https://csb.utoronto.ca/-
faculty/adriano-senatore/ https://csb.utoronto.ca/-
graduate-studies/prospective-students/csb-
graduate-program/ Adriano Senatore
<adriano.senatore@utoronto.ca >
Wageningen
PlantVirusBioinformatics
The Evolutionary (Meta-)genomics group in the Bioin-
formatics Group at Wageningen University invites ap-
plications for a bioinformatics PhD student in  >1
2Virus
diversity and evolution in natural plant ecosystems'.
You might share our view that wild plant communities
might act as viral reservoirs that are also connected to
agricultural plants. Since viruses can spill over from
natural to agricultural systems, it is highly relevant to
characterize virus diversity in wild plants. Plant virus
genomes are highly diverse and evolve rapidly. To know
which role plant viruses play in shaping natural plant
communities, we must characterize their biodiversity
and evolution.
You might be familiar with the phenomenon that plant
virus infections are often asymptomatic, i.e., they do not
cause overt disease, and can even be benecial for the
host. Recently, plant virus research expanded from the
study of individual virus-host systems into characteriz-
ing global diversity using metagenomics, i.e., sequencing
the genetic content of environmental samples without
the need for prior virus isolation. Metagenomics led
to the surprising observation that virus infections areubiquitous, that there is a high incidence of mixed infec-
tion, and that most plant viruses identied in crops also
occur in wild plants. There is growing evidence that
viruses can impact plant ecosystems, which calls for a
reappraisal of the role of viruses in natural ecosystems
and accentuates the need to understand virus genomes
and their function and evolution.
The aim of this project is to develop bioinformatics meth-
ods to analyze plant virus metagenome data that has
been sampled from wild plants in the Netherlands. This
(and potentially your) project will contribute to under-
standing plant virus diversity and evolution in natural
Dutch ecosystems. You will contribute to developing
bioinformatics methods to discover and reconstruct virus
genomes from high-throughput plant virus sequencing
data and to analyze ecological and evolutionary proper-
ties of these viruses. To this end, we aim to analyze the
eect of host range and mixed infections on intra-host
diversity and estimate how recombination and selection
impact virus genome evolution.
Beyond the scientic and potentially application merits,
you will build a wide network for your future career
both within and outside Wageningen University.
The research is embedded within the chair group of
Bioinformatics at Wageningen University which is led by
Prof. Dick de Ridder (https://www.bioinformatics.nl/).
You will be supervised by Dr. Anne Kupczok (https://-
annecmg.github.io/). The research will be carried out in
close collaboration with Dr. Mark Zwart at the Nether-
lands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW) (https://-
nioo.knaw.nl/nl/employees/mark-zwart). The position
is for four years and funded by the graduate school Ex-
perimental Plant Sciences (https://www.graduateschool-
eps.info/).
We ask - a successfully completed MSc degree in bioin-
formatics or a related eld; - excellent background in
high-throughput sequencing analysis and comparative
genomics; - anity with ecology, evolution, and popu-
lation genomics; - interest in close collaborations with
experimental biologists and ability to work eectively
as a team member and to carry out individual research;
- very good level of oral and written English.
Please nd all details and instructions how to
apply here: https://www.wur.nl/en/vacancy/PhD-
position-Virus-diversity-and-evolution-in-natural-
plant-ecosystems.htm For enquiries regarding the
position and research topic, please contact Anne
Kupczok: anne.kupczok@wur.nl
Dr. Anne Kupczok Assistant Professor Bioinformatics,
Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen University
\anne.kupczok@wur.nl" <anne.kupczok@wur.nl >September 1, 2021 EvolDir 17
Jobs
Beijing PDF or Prof PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Beijing Prof PDF PhD MosquitoeEvolution . . . . . . . 18
CaliforniaStateU Fresno Microbiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
CheetahConservation Namibia LabTech ConsGenetics
20
ClemsonU HumanGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
ColumbiaU EvolutionaryBiol EvolutionaryEcol . . . . 21
Computercraft 2 GenBankData . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
DukeU LabManager PlantPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Eawag Switzerland AdaptationFreshwaterEcosystems
23
Edinburgh PlantEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
FieldMuseum Chicago PteridophytesCurator . . . . . . 25
FredHutchinsonResCenter Phylodynamics . . . . . . . . . 25
Glucester Massachusetts FishGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MichiganStateU ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MichiganStateU LabTech ConservationGenomics . . 28
NewJersey HumanBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
OklahomaStateU PlantEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . 29
OregonStateU HatcheryDirector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30PrattInst PartTimeInstructor Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . 31
SangerInstitute UK TreeofLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
SouthwesternOklhomaStateU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . 32
SUNY-ESF Syracuse CollectionsManagerVertebrateAn-
imals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
TelumTherapeutics Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
TexasAMU HeadConservationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Tufts EcoEvoLecturer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UCalifornia Riverside GenomicsCoordinator . . . . . . . 36
UChicago Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
UKansas Tech EvolutionaryVirology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UMichigan EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UNeuchatel EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UNewMexicoMSB HerbariumCollectionManager . . .39
UWuerzburg TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . 39
VanderbiltU EvolutionaryBiochemistry . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Vienna ResAssoc PlantDroughtAdaptation . . . . . . . . 40
YaleU ResAssist QuantitativeBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Beijing PDF or Prof PopGenetics
Post-doctoral or assistant or associate prof. position
available: Ancient Genomics
The Fu Molecular Paleontology Lab has post-doctoral,
assistant professor, and associate professor positions
available. If you have a background in statistical pop-
ulation genetics and/or data science, this might be for
you!
Our ancient DNA laboratory pioneered large-scale stud-
ies of human population history requiring analysis of
large numbers of samples simultaneously. We use an-
cient DNA to understand early modern human migra-
tion routes; to explore how Paleolithic, Neolithic, and
more recent humans expanded across Asia; and to study
gene ow between modern and archaic humans. In ad-
dition, we are studying the genetic diversity of past
mammals, including pandas and gray wolves, as well as
the evolution of ancient pathogens in early East Asian
populations.We are looking for a highly motivated post-doctoral
researcher with appropriate experience and interests to
work on analysis of these data. Potential projects will
likely investigate the biological history of humans using
ancient and present-day genomic data.
The successful candidate will have analytical and com-
puter skills that allow exploration of large and complex
genetic data sets, preferably with previous experience in
a world class ancient DNA lab. Research is conducted in
English. The position will be supervised by Dr. Qiaomei
Fu.
Applicants are requested to send their CV, a short state-
ment of their research interests, and the names and
contact information of two references to Dr. Qiaomei
Fu at fuqiaomei@ivpp.ac.cn. Strong candidates will be
expected to participate in a Skype or on-site interview.
The position will be open until lled. The position is
for two years with a possibility of renewal, and salary
will be internationally competitive. Please address any
questions to Dr. Fu.
The Fu Molecular Paleontology Lab, consisting of 28
members (including group leaders, postdoctoral schol-
ars, doctoral and master's students and technicians), is
a cutting edge international ancient DNA laboratory.18 EvolDir September 1, 2021
It is based at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology
and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
near the center of Beijing, China, with easy access to
public transportation. The Fu lab focuses primarily on
ancient genomic analysis, but the institute's research
environment is diverse, with a vibrant community of
researchers studying anthropology, archaeology and pa-
leontology. Beijing is a thriving fast-growing city with
a robust international community.
Dr. Fu's work has been published in Nature, Science,
Cell, PNAS, Current Biology, AJHG, amongst others,
with one awarded the \top 2014 annual ten scientic
events" in Nature. She was selected as one of the \Ten
Chinese Science Stars" in 2016 by Nature, has received
the \Distinguished Young Scientist" award from the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, is part of China's Thou-
sand Youth Talents program, is a HHMI International
Scientist, and is one of China's Top Ten Innovative Pio-
neers of Science and Technology. For more information,
her Research Gate site can be accessed here: https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Qiaomei Fu . Yichen Liu
<yichen.liu@ivpp.ac.cn >
Beijing Prof PDF PhD
MosquitoeEvolution
Assistant prof., Post-doctoral, and PhD candidate posi-
tions available:
The Host Microbiota Omics and Application Group at
Institute of Zoology of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing, China (http://www.wanglab.com.cn) has post-
doctoral, assistant professor, and PhD candidate posi-
tions available. If you have a background in Entomology;
Microbiology; Genomics; Biological Engineering, this
might be for you!
Mosquitoes are vectors of many human pathogens in-
cluding dengue virus, Zika virus, chikungunya virus,
yellow fever virus, West Nile virus, Mayaro virus, and
malaria. Roughly half of the world >1
2 >1
2s population is
at risk of these diseases, with the highest burden falling
on socially and economically disadvantaged populations.
Dengue incidence has increased over 30-fold in the past
50 years, currently resulting in over 400 million new in-
fections per year.The research direction mainly includes
three aspects: (1) New mosquito control technologies
based on microbiome and gene editing/drive. (2) Micro-
bial function mining. (3) Microbial structure regulation
mechanisms. Main research content around microbialand host interaction, using multi-omics, gene editing, mi-
crobial separation screening, aseptic system technology,
reveals the microbial-driven host resistance, theoretical
mechanism of microbial and host collaborative dier-
entiation. Please visit our research websites for more
details on our research: http://www.wanglab.com.cn
. 1. Assistant professor Under the guidance of the PI,
participate in the research in the following two direc-
tions according to the personal interest: (1) Mosquito
control using microbiome and genetic technologies. (2)
Host-microbiota interactions using wasp/mosquito as
system. Key responsibilities include but are not limited
to the following: Perform laboratory work, undertake
the scientic research task independently and carry out
innovative research, participate in data analysis and
interpretation of the results, write publications with
other members of the team, apply fundings.
Required Qualications: (1) With postdoc research ex-
perience, engaged in bioinformatics, molecular biology,
microbiology, evolutionary biology, synthetic biology,
and other related studies during the doctoral or post-
doc period. (2) During the postdoc published at least
one SCI article of JCRTOP 15% or IF  >1
2 >1
25. (3)
Procient in transcriptional groups, genomic genome,
high-throughput sequencing, gene cloning and other
related technologies. (4) Priority will be given to candi-
dates for one or several related professional background
in functional omics or mosquito related background The
age is generally less than 35 at the time of application.
2. Postdoc Your primary role will be to under the
guidance of the PI, mainly engaged in the research
of Microbial structure regulation mechanisms, using
metagenomics, metabolomics, gene editing, and aseptic
system. we will focus on the molecular and physiological
mechanisms how host regulates microbiota structure,
providing theoretical basis for the establishment of mi-
crobial technology for pest control. Undertake the scien-
tic research task independently and apply for postdoc
or other scientic research funds. Applicants are en-
couraged to consider applying for funding opportunities
Required Qualications: (1) Background in bioinfor-
matics, genetics, microbiology, evolutionary biology and
other related studies, etc. (2) Obtained a doctoral de-
gree in relevant major in recent three years or must meet
the graduation requirements at the time of application,
and has published at least one SCI paper as the rst
author. (3) Procient in gene knockout, Real-time PCR,
Crispr, gene cloning, next-generation microbiome 16s
analysis, and other related technologies.
3. PhD candidate Mainly engaged in scientic research
in mosquito prevention and control, developing new eco-
nomic, sustainable, and environment-friendly mosquito
control technologies based on microbiome and geneSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 19
editing. The ideal candidate will possess experience
in genomics and bioinformatics. Candidates have the
demonst rated capacity to learn and apply the broad
skill set necessary for the successful completion of a
research project. The successful candidate will also
have a strong commitment to excellence in research and
scholarship. According to the institute and relevant
national regulations, above positions provide competi-
tive compensation and benets. If you are interested in
applying for this opportunity, please email materials to
ghwang@ioz.ac.cn. To ensure full consideration, please
submit the following materials: (1) a current curriculum
vitae; (2) statement of research interests; (3) academic
background and degree certicate; (4) contact informa-
tion for two references (name, unit, and email). Review
of applications will
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CaliforniaStateU Fresno
Microbiology
The Department of Biology in the College of Science
and Mathematics at California State University, Fresno
seeks applicants for a tenure-track, academic year po-
sition as an Assistant Professor in Microbiology. The
successful candidate will be broadly trained with ex-
pertise in microbiology. All candidates whose research
program uses a microorganism (archaea, bacteria, eu-
karyotic microorganisms) as a model will be considered.
Applicants who study molecular/cellular/biochemical
mechanisms underlying microbial physiology, disease, or
biotechnology are encouraged to apply. Specic teaching
assignments will depend on the candidate's expertise
and departmental needs, which may include general mi-
crobiology, microbial physiology, medical microbiology,
microbial genetics, microbial ecology, and/or graduate
courses in the candidate's area of expertise. The success-
ful candidate is expected to develop a research program
that involves both undergraduate and graduate masters
students, and pursue external funding. Faculty mem-
bers are also expected to engage in service activities at
all levels of the university and provide academic and
professional advice to students.*Required Education:* An earned doctorate (Ph.D.) in
Microbiology, Biology with a specialization in Microbi-
ology, or a closely-related discipline from an accredited
institution (or equivalent) is required.
*Required Experience:*
1. Ability to demonstrate a commitment to working
eectively with faculty, sta, and students from diverse
ethnic, cultural, and socioeconomic backgrounds, 2. Ev-
idence of publications in scholarly journals, 3. Demon-
stration of grant writing or scholarly activity at the
university level, 4. Evidence of teaching preparedness.
*Preferred Qualications:*
1. Experience teaching and working with undergraduate
and graduate students, 2. Postdoctoral research or ex-
perience, 3. A publication record that is commensurate
with the candidate's experience, 4. Success obtaining
extramural grants and contracts for research.
*Application Procedures:* Review of applications will
begin on 10/1/2021, and will continue until the position
is lled. To ensure consideration, apply by this date. To
apply, applicants must complete an online application
at http://jobs.csufresno.edu and attach the following:
1. A cover letter specically addressing required expe-
rience and preferred qualications, 2. A current cur-
riculum vitae, 3. A statement of current and future
research, 4. A statement of teaching philosophy, 5. A
statement addressing your commitment to working with
faculty, sta, and students from diverse ethnic, cultural,
and socioeconomic backgrounds, 6. Names and contact
information of ve professional references.
Upon request, nalists will be required to submit:
1. Three current letters of recommendation 2. Ocial
transcripts
For more information on the department and university,
visit: https://csucareers.calstate.edu/detail.aspx?pid=-
86325 . For inquiries, contact: Dr. Katherine Waselkov,
Search Committee Chair, California State University,
Fresno, Department of Biology, College of Science and
Mathematics; email: kwaselkov@csufresno.edu.
Katherine Waselkov <kwaselkov@csufresno.edu >20 EvolDir September 1, 2021
CheetahConservation Namibia
LabTech ConsGenetics
Genetics Laboratory Technician Cheetah Conservation
Fund, Namibia
The Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF), Namibia, is cur-
rently looking for a highly motivated individual to join
its genetics laboratory sta in the position of Laboratory
Technician.
The specic title and remuneration are dependent on
the applicant's level of experience. The successful appli-
cant should have a Master's degree in a relevant eld
of research or a minimum of 3 years of professional ex-
perience. The position is available immediately, with
expected start date in or as close as possible to Septem-
ber 2021. Namibian residency is preferred. Applicants
should send their CV, letter of motivation, and contact
details of 3 references to genetics@cheetah.org.
The successful candidate should have a strong back-
ground in best laboratory practices in molecular bi-
ology/genetics, and have excellent organizational and
communication skills. His/her main responsibilities will
include ensuring accuracy of microsatellite genotypes
produced in the laboratory and supervision of interns
and students, ensuring that good laboratory practices
and protocols are followed. Other responsibilities will
be curation of databases, development of laboratory
services, writing of permit applications and reports, and
keeping the laboratory adequately stocked at all times.
Prior experience in these particular tasks is not required;
however, willingness to learn and attention to detail are
essential, and prior experience with microsatellite geno-
typing (ideally di-nucleotides) would be appreciated.
This position will also provide opportunities for direct
participation in research projects as time permits.
The genetics laboratory is located at the CCF research
centre, about 40 km east of Otjiwarongo, Namibia.
Sta members live on CCF property and housing is
provided. Further information regarding CCF and its
mission to conserve cheetahs in the wild may be found
at www.cheetah.org . Anne Schmidt-K >1
2ntzel, DMV,
PhD
Assistant Director for Animal Health and Research Life
Technologies Conservation Genetics Laboratory
Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF) www.cheetah.orgEmail: genetics@cheetah.org Tel (CCF general number):
+264 67 306 225
genetics@cheetah.org
ClemsonU HumanGenetics
Job: Clemson University Assistant Professor in Human
Genetics
Clemson University invites applications for a tenure-
track Assistant Professor as part of a Cluster Hire at
the Center for Human Genetics, with an expected start
date of August 2022. Clemson University oers compet-
itive salaries,benets and start-up funds.
The successful applicant will have an accomplished
research record at theforefront of human genet-
ics/genomics. Applicants whose research combines
experimental laboratory work and computational ap-
proaches are especially desirable. Areas of special inter-
est are the mechanisms by which variation in epigenetic
modication, gene regulatory networks, chromatin con-
formation and nuclear architecture aect variation in
human health and disease. However, all areas with the
potential to signicantly advance the eld of human
genetics will be considered.
The Center for Human Genetics (https://-
scienceweb.clemson.edu/chg/) is housed in Self
Regional Hall, a 17,000-square-foot building located
in Greenwood, South Carolina on the Greenwood
Genetic Center Partnership Campus. The Center
for Human Genetics provides a vibrant interactive
research environment with state-of-the-art genomic
and computational resources, and is ideally congured
for collaborative research. The successful applicant
will be part of a collaborative and interdisciplinary
environment that includes the research, diagnostic
andclinical geneticists at the Greenwood Genetic
Center, the genetics, genomics, statistics and bioin-
formatics faculty at Clemson University, the USC
School of Medicine in Greenville and thePrisma Health
System. The home department at Clemson will
be determined bythe t of the applicant's research
interests with the mission of one of the departments
in the College of Science (www.clemson.edu/-
science), including the Department of Genetics
and Biochemistry (www.clemson.edu/science/-
departments/genetics-biochemistry/index.html),
the School of Mathematical and Statistical Sci-
ences (www.clemson.edu/science/departments/-September 1, 2021 EvolDir 21
mathematical-sciences/index.html) and the Department
of Biological Sciences (www.clemson.edu/science/-
departments/biosci/index.html).
Clemson University is committed to building a diverse
and inclusive community of faculty scholars dedicated
to working and teaching in a multi-cultural environment
(http://www.clemson.edu/inclusion/). We encourage
applications from women,minorities and individuals with
a commitment to mentoring colleagues and students
from demographic groups underrepresented in the sci-
ences. We are also supportive of the needs of dual-career
couples.
Successful candidates must hold a doctoral degree and
have postdoctoral experience. Competitive candidates
will demonstrate an ability to develop a vigorous and in-
dependent, externally funded and nationally recognized
research program; demonstrate teaching excellence and
a commitment to diversity inclusion; and participate
in relevant undergraduate and graduate education pro-
grams.
Applicants should submit the following items via Inter-
folio at https://apply.interfolio.com/82505: (1) cover
letter; (2) Curriculum Vitae; (3) statement of research
interests including future plans; (4) statement of teach-
ing interests and experience; (5) statement describing
past experience and/or future plans to promote diversity
and inclusion; and (6) up to three reprints in one PDF.
Applicants should also arrange, through Interfolio, the
submission of three condential letters of recommenda-
tion on their behalf.
Inquiries should be directed to Dr. Trudy Mackay
(tmackay@clemson.edu).
For full consideration, applications should be submit-
ted by October 1, 2021. Review will continue until the
position is lled.
Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer and does
not discriminate against any person or group on the
basis of age, color, disability, gender, pregnancy, na-
tional origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, veteran
status or genetic information. Clemson University is
building a culturally diverse faculty and sta committed
to working in a multicultural environment.
TRUDY F. C. MACKAY, PhD,FRS SELF FAMILY
ENDOWED CHAIR OF HUMAN GENETICS DIREC-
TOR, CENTER FOR HUMAN GENETICS PROFES-
SOR OF GENETICS AND BIOCHEMISTRY Center
for Human Genetics
Clemson University 110 Self Regional Hall 114 Gregor
Mendel Circle Greenwood, SC 29646 w864-889-0522
c919-604-6531tmackay@clemson.edu
Trudy Frances Charlene MacKay
<tmackay@clemson.edu >
ColumbiaU EvolutionaryBiol
EvolutionaryEcol
TITLE: ColumbiaU.EvolutionaryBiol.EvolutionaryEcol
The Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environ-
mental Biology (E3B) at Columbia University invites
applications for a tenure-track position at the Assistant
Professor level. Applicants can use any combination
of modern experimental, computational, or theoretical
approaches to study fundamental questions in evolu-
tionary biology or evolutionary ecology, or apply these
approaches to societally-relevant challenges. Preference
will be given to those who study non-model organisms
in the lab or eld. The successful candidate is expected
to establish a vigorous, externally funded research pro-
gram that complements and augments existing strengths
within E3B, and to participate in undergraduate and
graduate teaching.
E3B is an intellectually diverse and stimulating depart-
ment consisting of a vibrant and close-knit community.
It has strong links to other departments and disciplines
at the University, including evolutionary biologists (evo-
lutionatcolumbia.org), behavioral biologists (Center for
Integrative Animal Behavior), neuroscientists (Zucker-
man Mind Brain Behavior Institute), earth and environ-
mental scientists (Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory,
the Earth Institute, and other centers in the Climate
School), and disease experts (Mailman School of Public
Health). E3B also has close ties with New York partner
institutions, including the New York Genome Center,
the American Museum of Natural History, the New York
Botanical Garden, the Wildlife Conservation Society,
and the EcoHealthAlliance. These connections provide
ample opportunities for interaction and collaboration.
Review of applications will begin October 1, 2021, and
will continue until the position is lled.
LINK:https://academic.careers.columbia.edu/#/-
78039 Qualications
Minimum Degree Required:Ph.D.
Minimum Qualications:Strong research and publica-
tion record.
Preferred Qualications:Training and experience in evo-22 EvolDir September 1, 2021
lutionary biology or evolutionary ecology.
Application Instructions
Please submit applications online in Interfolio. Include
a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a statement of research
interests that describes not only signicant accomplish-
ments but also a vision for the future of the eld and
the applicant's role in it, a teaching and mentoring
statement, a statement describing your commitment
to increasing diversity through research, teaching, and
service, three PDFs of re-prints/pre-prints, and contact
information for three reference letter writers.
Additional Information:Please note that you will not
be able to submit your application without providing
the names and email addresses of three people who will
write your reference letters.
Equal Employment Opportunity Statement
Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer
/ Disability / Veteran
Dustin R. Rubenstein-Professor Columbia University
Department of Ecology, Evolutionand Environmental Bi-
ology 10th Floor Schermerhorn Extension,MC 5557 1200
Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-4881
- @DustRubenstein -http://www.columbia.edu/ ~dr2497
Dustin Reid Rubenstein <dr2497@columbia.edu >
Computercraft 2 GenBankData
Interested in an exciting and rewarding alternative ca-
reer in the biosciences? Tired of bench work? Enjoy
puzzles and problem solving? Incredibly detail oriented?
If you answered yes to these questions, consider joining
our team of highly skilled and dedicated scientists work-
ing on site at the National Center for Biotechnology
Information (NCBI), part of the National Library of
Medicine (NLM) at the National Institutes of Health
(NIH) in Bethesda, Maryland.
Using molecular biology skills, the successful candidate
will partner with computational biologists, genomic sci-
ence experts, and computer specialists at NCBI to help
build and maintain GenBank, one of the world's largest
publicly available nucleotide sequence databases. De-
signed to provide and encourage access within the scien-
tic community to the most up-to-date and comprehen-
sive DNA sequence information, GenBank now contains
more than 776 billion bases and 226 million sequences,
and it continues to grow. Computercraft has providedscientic expertise to GenBank continuously since 1991.
For more information about GenBank, visit https://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank/ . To apply for this
position or learn about other Computercraft job oppor-
tunities, please visit the Careers section of our website:
https://computercraft-usa.com/ . Computercraft oers
a competitive salary, an excellent benets package, and
the opportunity for a positive work-life balance with a
standard 40-hour work week and the chance to work
alongside a team of highly accomplished professionals.
Computercraft is an equal opportunity employer.
|{
Computercraft is seeking data wranglers to contribute
to an exciting new initiative of the National Center for
Biotechnology Information (NCBI), part of the National
Library of Medicine at the National Institutes of Health
(NIH), to expand tools and resources for working with ge-
nomic data. NCBI is planning a major modernization of
its resources, their user interfaces, and their underlying
infrastructure to support the rapidly growing collections
of sequence and other data on species across the tree of
life. By rearchitecting these resources, NCBI aims to
improve the user experience for researchers doing a wide
range of work, reach more users, support more research
organisms, and ultimately drive biomedical discoveries
that have the potential to improve human health.
To apply for this position or learn about other Comput-
ercraft job opportunities, please visit the Careers section
of our website: https://www.computercraft-usa.com/ .
Computercraft oers a competitive salary, an excellent
benets package, and the opportunity for a positive
work-life balance with a standard 40-hour work week
and the chance to work alongside a team of highly ac-
complished professionals.
Computercraft is an equal opportunity employer.
JYU@computercraft-usa.com JYU@computercraft-
usa.com
DukeU LabManager
PlantPopGenetics
Position Title: Associate in Research in Evolutionary
Ecology Deadline: Priority will be given to applica-
tions received before Monday August 23, 2021; Online
applications open until Friday September 3, 2021
Job Description Overview: The Associate in ResearchSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 23
will serve as a lab manager and participate in eld and
laboratory research on genetic adaptation and popula-
tion demography in a weedy plant. We are looking for an
intellectually curious lab member who wants experience
in research and involvement in the eld of Evolutionary
Ecology.
Work performed: Planning and executing experiments in
the lab and eld; plant care; DNA and RNA extraction,
quantication, and troubleshooting; data organization,
processing, and analysis, and presenting results of re-
search; purchasing, recordkeeping, organizing lab proto-
cols and safety, maintaining inventory; coordinating use
of plant growth equipment and lab space among users;
some supervision and training of other lab personnel.
Required skills and experience: BS in Biology or an
equivalent eld; research experience in the eld of ecol-
ogy, genetics, evolutionary biology or similar eld; expe-
rience with plant care; prociency with molecular biol-
ogy procedures such as DNA and RNA extraction and
quantication, PCR; experience with eldwork; excel-
lent organizational and troubleshooting skills; familiarity
with data manipulation and analysis a plus.
Required Materials: cover letter, CV, names and contact
information of two or more references
YOU MUST APPLY ONLINE AT THE DUKE
EMPLOYMENT WEBSITE AT: https://-
academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/19096 Contact:
Kathleen Donohue: k.donohue@duke.edu
Eawag Switzerland
AdaptationFreshwaterEcosystems
Eawag, the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science
and Technology, is an internationally networked aquatic
research institute within the ETH Domain (Swiss Fed-
eral Institutes of Technology). Eawag conducts research,
education and expert consulting to achieve the dual goals
of meeting direct human needs for water and maintain-
ing the function and integrity of aquatic ecosystems.
The Department of Aquatic Ecology has a vacancy for
a
Group Leader Position in Adaptation to Environmental
Change in Freshwater Ecosystems (tenure track)
Topic: Environmental change is occurring at rates and
along dimensions that are unprecedented in human his-
tory. The multifarious aspects of environmental changecan act interactively, and should be studied together. We
are looking for someone who will study the ecological and
evolutionary eects of these drivers on freshwater ecosys-
tems at multiple levels of biological organization. These
may include populations, species interactions, communi-
ties and/or food web structures, and/or biodiversity and
ecosystem-level functions. The successful candidate will
establish an innovative, independent research program
to advance the fundamental understanding of adapta-
tion to environmental change in freshwater ecosystems,
as well as its relevance for society and implementation
in practice.
To establish a group with a high international visibility,
the candidate should have: - a PhD degree in ecology,
evolution or environmental sciences or a related eld -
a successful track record of research on environmental
change in aquatic ecosystems, preferably with a focus on
population, community, food web or ecosystem ecology
- experience with experimental approaches and a strong
quantitative and/or modeling background - willingness
to collaborating with multidisciplinary research teams
at the institution level and externally with national and
international partners - commitment to communicating
relevant research to policy-makers and stakeholders
The position will be based in the Department of
Aquatic Ecology at Eawag in D ubendorf/Z urich (https:/-
/www.eawag.ch/en/department/eco/). Involvement in
teaching and training of students is expected at either
ETH Zurich or the University of Zurich. Eawag of-
fers an exciting and stimulating research environment
with excellent opportunities for collaborative research.
By taking advantage of Eawag's environment and its
world-class infrastructure and facilities, the successful
candidate is expected to acquire third party funding,
build up a research group and contribute to Eawag's
mandate in teaching and expert consulting. Excellent
communication in English and team work skills are
essential.
Eawag is a modern employer and oers an excellent
working environment where sta can contribute their
strengths, experience and ways of thinking. We promote
cultural and gender equality and are committed to sta
diversity and inclusion. The compatibility of career and
family is of central importance to us. For more infor-
mation about Eawag and our work conditions please
consult www.eawag.ch and www.eawag.ch/en/aboutus/-
working/employment . Applications must be submitted
by September 5, 2021 and should include a brief applica-
tion letter describing your interests and their relevance
to this position, research (max. 2 pages) and teaching
(max. 1 page) statements, also highlighting your contri-
butions to diversity, a CV with list of publications, and
the contact information for three references.24 EvolDir September 1, 2021
For further information, please contact Prof. Dr.
Christoph Vorburger (Christoph.Vorburger@eawag.ch).
We look forward to receiving your application. Please
send it through this webpage: https://apply.reine.ch/-
673277/0864/pub/1/index.html Any other way of ap-
plying will not be considered.
Yours sincerely
*** Christoph Vorburger Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute
of Aquatic Science and Technology & Institute of Inte-
grative Biology, ETH Z urich ~Aberlandstrasse 133 8600
D ubendorf Switzerland
Phone: +41 58 765 5196 e-mail:
christoph.vorburger@eawag.ch or vorburgc@ethz.ch
group homepage: http://homepages.eawag.ch/-
~vorburch/ ***
\Vorburger, Christoph" <Christoph.Vorburger@eawag.ch >
Edinburgh PlantEvolGenetics
We are seeking an enthusiastic ecologist keen to grow
their skills and potentially to build a career with us.
The purpose of the role will be to undertake practical
work in the eld and molecular biology lab in support of
projects in the Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Change Group at UKCEH Edinburgh. The position will
oer the opportunity to build practical and analytical
skills in ecological genetics, and to gain experience in
applying the results to the conservation and manage-
ment of plant genetic diversity. The ideal candidate will
be an individual with a passion for ecology, capable of
independent and organised working indoors and out-
doors, but at an early career stage and with an open
and exible approach to learning new skills.
The post will be within the Ecology, Evolution and En-
vironmental Change group at UKCEH Edinburgh. We
are a diverse team, working on a wide range of questions
of how plant species and communities respond to change,
especially to the new pressures of climate change and
novel pests and diseases. We have a particular focus on
trees and forests, but undertake research on a range of
species in the UK and its overseas territories as well as
Europe, Africa and Latin America.
Main duties/responsibilities: The role will primarily in-
volve: Field work including identication, mapping and
sampling of wild plant populations and trait measure-
ments in experimental plantations and glasshouse trials;Molecular biology lab work including DNA extraction,
PCR, sample preparation for sequencing and genotyp-
ing, ow cytometry; Data handling including analysis
and presentation of results. The role will involve travel
within the UK and potentially abroad, occasionally for
several weeks at a time.
Skills and knowledge required (essential and desirable):
The ideal candidate will have a good undergraduate
degree in Ecology, Evolutionary Biology or a related
discipline, and have some experience of lab and eld
work. Although fundamental skills in data handling
and analysis would be an advantage, we are primarily
looking for someone with initiative, the enthusiasm to
learn, and a demonstrable ability to undertake organised
and ecient work.
Skills to be gained: Field surveying and sampling tech-
niques; Experimental design; Molecular Biology lab
skills; Genetic data analysis - population genetics, ge-
nomics and quantitative trait data; A wide range of
transferable skills including data handing and statistical
analysis, presentation, writing and scientic publication.
About the Research Associate Programme The initial
appointment for Research Associates will normally be
for a three-year term, however they are able to apply
internally for permanent vacancies at any time. Subject
to the Research Associate's performance and long term
skills needs within their Science Area, appointments may
be reviewed and considered for open ended positions.
There is an expectation that RA will be appointed at
the bottom of the salary scale and will automatically
progress to the next pay point at the anniversary of
their appointment.
How to Apply https://ceh.wd3.myworkdayjobs.com/-
en-US/CEH Careers/job/Edinburgh/Plant-Ecological-
Genetics JR422 This email and any attachments
are intended solely for the named recipients and are
condential. If you are not the intended recipient, please
reply to the email to highlight the error and delete this
email from your system; you must not use, disclose,
copy, or distribute this email or any of its attachments.
UK Centre of Ecology & Hydrology (UKCEH) has
taken reasonable precautions to minimise risk of this
email or any attachments containing viruses or malware,
but the recipient should carry out its own virus
and malware checks before opening the attachments.
UKCEH does not accept any liability for any losses
or damages which the recipient may sustain due to
presence of any viruses. Opinions, conclusions or other
information in this message and attachments that are
not related directly to UKCEH business are solely those
of the author and do not represent the views of UKCEH.
We process your personal data in accordance withSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 25
our Privacy Notice, available on the UKCEH website.
https://www.ceh.ac.uk/privacy-notice Registered oce
address; Maclean Building Benson Lane, Crowmarsh
Giord, Wallingford, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom,
OX10 8BB Companies Registered Name; UK Centre for
Ecology & Hydrology Place of Registration; England
Registered Company Number; 11314957
\Cavers, Stephen" <scav@ceh.ac.uk >
FieldMuseum Chicago
PteridophytesCurator
https://careers.hireology.com/eldmuseum/620575/-
description The Field Museum invites applications
for an Assistant Curator of Pteridophytes. We seek
PhD-level candidates demonstrating excellence in
collections-based research, especially in evolutionary
biology and related elds. The successful candidate
will be expected to develop a robust externally-funded
research program, curate and co-manage the Museum's
pteridophyte collection, pursue opportunities in
education, outreach, and professional service, and
contribute to the Museum's administration and public
programs.
The Field Museum's Searle Herbarium is the fth largest
in the Western Hemisphere and houses over 3 million
specimens, including nearly 40,000 types. Our collec-
tions are particularly strong in tropical Central and
South America. The fern and lycopod collection is the
fourth largest in the U.S.A., with over 110,000 speci-
mens including almost 1,000 types. The entire collec-
tion has been digitized through our participation in the
Pteridological Collections Consortium, an NSF- funded
initiative to database and image over 1.76 million herbar-
ium and fossil pteridophyte specimens and produce an
unprecedented online digital resource for studies of vas-
cular plant evolution. In addition, the Museum has core
facilities for molecular/genetic labwork, SEM and light
microscopy, and high-performance computing. Close
relationships with local universities provide abundant
opportunities for undergraduate and graduate training.
This is a full-time (10 month) position with a renewal
schedule of 3 + 3 years; after successful promotion to the
Associate level, it is renewable every 7 years, according
to the Field Museum  ^A>^A1
2s Policy Statement on the
Curatorial Ranks.
To apply and for inquiries, please email:fernssearch@eldmuseum.org
Applications should include:
- Curriculum Vitae - Statement of research interests and
career objectives - Statement describing experience in
and/or vision for increasing diversity and inclusion in a
museum setting - Contact information for three letters
of recommendation (solicited for shortlisted candidates
only) - Copies of up to ve relevant publications
Submit all materials in PDF format. For full consid-
eration, complete applications should be received by
September 30, 2021. The start date will be on or after
August 1, 2022.
The Field Museum is committed to equity, diversity,
and inclusion and we encourage individuals from under-
represented groups in the sciences to apply. We strive
to create a working environment that is free of sexual,
racial, and ethnic discrimination, and one that promotes
human dignity and mutual respect among all sta. As
such, it is the policy of the Field Museum to hire without
discrimination regarding race, religion, color, national
origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, disability, or veteran
status.
The Field Museum strives to ensure that our career web-
site and recruiting process are accessible to all. If you
are unable or limited in your ability to use or access our
online application, or if you require a reasonable accom-
modation in completing this application, interviewing,
completing any pre-employment testing, or otherwise
participating in the employee selection process, please
direct your inquiries to accessibility@eldmuseum.org.
{ Richard Ree Curator of Flowering Plants jHead
of Life Sciences Negaunee Integrative Research Cen-
ter Co-Director, Grainger Bioinformatics Center
<https://www.eldmuseum.org/science/labs/grainger-
bioinformatics-center >Field Museum <https:/-
/www.eldmuseum.org > j1400 S Lake Shore
Drive, Chicago IL 60605, USA (+1) 312-665-7857 j
www.reelab.net jpronouns: he/him/his
Richard Ree <rree@eldmuseum.org >
FredHutchinsonResCenter
Phylodynamics
The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center (Fred
Hutch) invites applicants for an open full-timefaculty
position at the assistant or associate level in the Vaccine26 EvolDir September 1, 2021
and Infectious Disease Division (VIDD).The success-
ful candidate will conduct cutting-edge, independent
research in the areas of infectiousdisease dynamics, evo-
lutionary dynamics, pathogen evolution, phylodynamics
or genomicepidemiology. The COVID-19 pandemic has
pushed the eld of pathogen genomics well into the fu-
turewith over 2.6 million publicly available SARS-CoV-2
genomes as of August 2021. Such genomic dataalong
with other novel datastreams enable detailed reconstruc-
tion of epidemiological and evolutionaryinfectious dis-
ease dynamics to an unprecedented degree.
We seek candidates who are pushing forward innova-
tive analysis of infectious disease dynamics usinglarge
datasets, genomic or otherwise. A successful candidate
will establish a dynamic research programconsisting of
independent projects and collaborative studies pertinent
to our mission to identify andquench outbreaks and
mitigate spread of diseases such as COVID-19, Ebola,
inuenza, tuberculosisand other bacterial or viral infec-
tious diseases.
For consideration, the candidate must hold a PhD or
equivalent degree in evolutionary biology,epidemiology,
computer science, statistics or another relevant disci-
pline. Individuals with computationalresearch programs,
with or without lab-based research components, are en-
couraged to apply. Asuccessful candidate will have
demonstrated the ability to work in a highly collabo-
rative environmentincluding investigators with diverse
scientic backgrounds, such as virologists, immunol-
ogists,statisticians, data scientists and public health
practitioners.
At Fred Hutch, we believe that the innovation, collabo-
ration, and rigor that result from diversity andinclusion
are critical to our mission of eliminating cancer and
infectious diseases. We seek faculty whobring dierent
and innovative ways of seeing the world and solving
problems. Fred Hutch is in pursuit ofbecoming an an-
tiracist organization. We are committed to ensuring
that all faculty hired share ourcommitment to diversity,
antiracism, and inclusion.
The Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division (VIDD) is a
recognized leader in translational and \bench-to-bedside"
science. VIDD integrates the expertise and creativity
of scientists in basic, translational andclinical research
to prevent, treat and cure infectious diseases, including
known and emerging infectionsof major global health
importance such as COVID-19, HIV and cancer-related
infectious diseases.
More broadly, Fred Hutch has strong data science, ge-
nomics, virology and immunology communitiesthat are
highly collaborative and supportive, and the scientic
community in Seattle is vibrant. Ourinterdisciplinaryteams of world-renowned scientists and humanitarians
work together to prevent,diagnose and treat cancer,
HIV/AIDS and other diseases. Our researchers includ-
ing three Nobellaureates bring a relentless passion to
their work and deliver hope to patients who come here
from allover the world. Fred Hutch provides outstand-
ing colleagues, a collegial atmosphere, and a wealth
ofresources to support junior and senior faculty suc-
cess. Excellent collaborative opportunities exist forjoint
and/or aliate appointments in Fred Hutch Divisions
of Clinical Research, Basic Sciences, PublicHealth Sci-
ences or Human Biology, as well as at the University of
Washington, depending on mutualinterests.
The Fred Hutch oers a vibrant intellectual environment
within a beautiful lakeside campus in Seattle'sSouth
Lake Union biotech hub. The Fred Hutch campus con-
tains ve major research buildings alongwith the Seattle
Cancer Care Alliance and is in close proximity to major
research partners such as theUniversity of Washington
School of Medicine, Seattle Children's Research Institute
and the AllenInstitute for Immunology.
Interested candidates should submit a CV, a research
statement describing past researchaccomplishments and
future research plans (ve pages or less), a diversity
statement describing yourpast contributions to diversity,
equity, and inclusion and your future plans for continu-
ing these eorts(two pages or less), and the names and
contact information for three (3) references.
Applications should be received byOctober 31, 2021to
assure consideration. Later applications mayalso be
considered if the position has not been lled.
Questions about this position can be directed to
Charles Smarr, Fred Hutch Faculty Recruiter, atcs-
marr@fredhutch.org.
Please apply athttps://apply.interfolio.com/92807 .
Trevor Bedford <trevor@bedford.io >
Glucester Massachusetts
FishGenomics
We just opened a job ad for a Research Associate
(BS/MSc level) to join the Fisheries Team at Gloucester
Marine Genomics Institute, that I thought might be of
interest to other evolutionary biologists. It would be
great if you could include this as a listing in the \Jobs"
directory.
Thanks and please let me know if I can provide anySeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 27
additional information,
-Shelly
Shelly Trigg, Ph.D. Research Scientist Gloucester Ma-
rine Genomics Institute 417 Main Street Gloucester,
MA
01930 978-879-4575 x 111 shelly.trigg@gmgi.org
www.gmgi.org Shelly Trigg <shelly.trigg@gmgi.org >
MichiganStateU
ConservationGenomics
The Fitzpatrick Lab (www.swtz.com) at the W.K. Kel-
logg Biological Station, Michigan State University is
seeking applicants for a full-time Research Assistant /
Lab Manager position. Research interests in the Fitz-
patrick lab span topics in evolutionary ecology and evo-
lutionary conservation biology. The successful candidate
will have the opportunity to participate in several ongo-
ing conservation genomic projects designed to improve
the design, implementation, and monitoring of genetic
rescue in federally endangered or threatened species
(e.g., Eastern massasauga rattlesnake, Florida Scrub-jay,
Mitchell's Satyr Buttery, Poweshiek Skipperling). Pri-
mary duties will include: DNA extractions, preparing
whole genome and reduced representation sequencing
libraries, bioinformatic processing and analysis, data
management, protocol development, equipment main-
tenance, ordering supplies, applying for and renewing
permits, report writing, and basic administrative du-
ties. There will also be opportunities for contributions
to experimental design, manuscript preparation, under-
graduate mentorship, and eld work, depending on the
background and interests of the successful candidate.
This position is based at W.K. Kellogg Biological Station
(www.kbs.msu.edu <applewebdata://6A7F4885-1018-
468C-A768-204CDA96C4D2/www.kbs.msu.edu >),
a premier biological research station located ~65
miles from the main campus of Michigan State
University. KBS is home to a vibrant community
consisting of faculty and their graduate students
and post-doctoral researchers, as well as full-time
research sta, visiting research scientists, and
many summer undergraduates. KBS is home to
the KBS LTER program (www.lter.kbs.msu.edu
<applewebdata://6A7F4885-1018-468C-A768-
204CDA96C4D2/www.lter.kbs.msu.edu >), the
GLBRC, and a recently upgraded Molecular Ecology
and Genomics Laboratory. KBS and the FitzpatrickLab are committed to positive work culture and
creating opportunities for career development in all
students, technicians, and postdocs.
This position is for one year initially, renewable depend-
ing on performance and funding availability. Start date
is as soon as possible, with some exibility. Salary
range is $47,000- $50,000 USD depending on previous
experience, plus benets.
Applications will be reviewed on September 20, 2021.
The link to apply is here <https://careers.msu.edu/en-
us/job/507535/research-assistant-i >.
Required Degree Undergraduate degree from a 4-year
institution
Minimum Requirements B.S. or M.S. in Biology or
related elds; Eective communication skills (verbal
and written); Demonstrated prociency in molecular
techniques, including preparation of high throughput
sequencing libraries; Experience with bioinformatic pro-
cessing of next generation sequencing data (e.g., WGS,
RADseq, GBS); Excellent organizational skills, includ-
ing the ability to manage multiple projects at one time
Desired Qualications The ideal candidate will have a
Masters or PhD in a relevant eld, or equivalent com-
bination of education and research experience with a
focus on conservation/population genomic data collec-
tion and analysis. Strong candidates will have expe-
rience computer programming including writing and
troubleshooting code; a publication record from their
Master's or other work (papers published, in press, or
submitted); experience with lab/project coordination
and management.
Required Application Materials Interested applicants
should submit: a cover letter describing research inter-
ests and motivation, including a discussion of how your
skills are aligned with the needs of the position described
above, a CV, and names and contact information for
three references
Sarah W. Fitzpatrick, PhD Assistant Professor Kel-
logg Biological Station and Dept. of Integrative Bi-
ology Michigan State University http://swtz.com/-
stz@msu.edu she/her/hers28 EvolDir September 1, 2021
MichiganStateU LabTech
ConservationGenomics
Lab Technician Position in Conservation Genomics
lab The Meek Lab at Michigan State University
(meeklab.com) is looking to hire a full-time, highly moti-
vated and skilled lab technician. The lab uses eld collec-
tions and experiments, combined with next-generation
sequencing data, to address fundamental ecological ques-
tions that are highly relevant to the conservation and
management of species. We primarily work in aquatic
systems. This position is for one year initially, renew-
able depending on performance and funding availability.
Start date is as soon as possible.
Primary duties will include:
1. Conducting molecular lab work, such as sample pro-
cessing, DNA and RNA extractions, PCR, and preparing
sequencing libraries (70%)
2. Ordering equipment and supplies for the lab (10%)
3. Lab supply and equipment maintenance, organization,
and cleaning (10%)
4. Maintaining a database to organize lab samples (5%)
5. Training and coordinating lab work of fellow lab
members and visiting scholars (5%)
Required Qualications: The job requires: knowledge
equivalent to that which normally would be acquired
by completing a four-year college degree in ecology, evo-
lution, genetics, or related eld, up to six months of
related and progressively more responsible or expansive
work experience in basic research techniques in molecu-
lar ecology; or an equivalent combination of education
and experience.
Desired Qualications: Applicants with extensive ex-
perience conducting molecular lab work will be given
priority.
*How to apply* Interested candidates should read
about the work we do at http://meeklab.com and
apply through the MSU Applicant Page at https://-
careers.msu.edu/cw/en-us/job/506400/technical-aide
Applications will be reviewed starting on September 1,
2021.
If you have questions, email Dr. Mariah Meek (mh-
meek@msu.edu), but do not send application material
to this email address. Required applicant materials: 1)Cover letter describing research and lab work experience
and career goals 2) CV 3) Names and email addresses
for 3 references
Mariah Meek, PhD Assistant Professor Department of
Integrative Biology Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior
Program Michigan State University East Lansing, MI
meeklab.com She/her/hers
Vice President, Society for Conservation Biology
Conservation Genetics Working Group <https:/-
/conbio.org/groups/working-groups/conservation-
genetics-working-group >
Member, IUCN North American Genetics Specialist
Group<https://www.cgsg.uni-freiburg.de/ >
Editorial Board, Conservation Science and Prac-
tice<https://conbio.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/-
25784854>
\mhmeek@msu.edu" <mhmeek@msu.edu >
NewJersey HumanBiodiversity
Scientist
Coriell Institute for Medical Research is currently seek-
ing an experienced scientist to join the Biobanking team.
The ideal candidate for this role is a PhD with post-
doctoral experience and experience in human genet-
ics/genomics research. Additional experience in project
and resource management is desirable but not manda-
tory. We are interested in meeting potential candidates
with proven ability to eectively collaborate with scien-
tists and other department leads to oversee biorepository
management activities.
The successful candidate will support landmark collec-
tions housed at Coriell, including the NIGMS Human
Genetic Cell Repository and NHGRI Sample Repository
for Human Genetic Research. S/he will also support
cutting-edge stem cell and genomic technologies em-
ployed for research and biobanking at Coriell.
Under the direction of the Chief Biobanking Ocer, the
incumbent for this role will be responsible for partner-
ing with other members of Coriell's Biobanking team to
oversee and sustain the eciency and productivity of
daily repository operations. Key responsibilities include
but are not limited to the following:
supporting ongoing contract and grant-related require-
mentsSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 29
supporting internal and external reporting require-
ments
contributing to scientic conference presentations and
peer reviewed publications
supporting biorepository recruitment and outreach ac-
tivities
actively participating in Coriell strategic initiatives and
research activities
contributing to external funding opportunity applica-
tions
performing other duties as assigned
If you are interested in applying for this opportu-
nity, please email a cover letter and resume to ca-
reers@coriell.org. Please include a detailed description
of your relevant experience in human genetics and/or
genomics, along with an explanation of any project and
resource management know-how. Applicants are en-
couraged to highlight their background with non-prot,
medical, healthcare, academic, and/or scientic research
organization(s).
Now in its 60th year, Coriell Institute for Medical Re-
search is an independent non-prot research center ded-
icated to the study of the human genome. Expert sta
and pioneering programs in the elds of molecular and
cellular biology, genetics, genomics and epigenomics,
and biobanking drive our mission. To learn more, visit
www.coriell.org . Coriell is committed to a respectful
and inclusive working environment. All qualied appli-
cants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, preg-
nancy, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity
or expression, age, disability, genetic information, vet-
eran status and all other protected categories under
federal or applicable state law. This policy applies to all
terms and conditions of employment, including recruit-
ing, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layo,
recall, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and
training.
Laura Scheinfeldt <lscheinfeldt@coriell.org >OklahomaStateU
PlantEvolutionaryBiology
Plant Evolutionary Biologist
The Department of Plant Biology, Ecology, and Evolu-
tion at Oklahoma State University in Stillwater (http:/-
/plantbio.okstate.edu) seeks a tenure-track Assistant
Professor to begin August 2022. The ideal candidate
will address fundamental questions in Plant Evolution-
ary Biology, especially if using approaches that contain
a genomic or genetic component. The position will com-
plement departmental strengths in evolutionary biology,
ecology, genetics, and cell and molecular biology. The
successful candidate is expected to build an innovative,
externally-funded research program, and contribute to
undergraduate and graduate teaching and mentoring.
Eective and engaging teaching of introductory and ad-
vanced courses in the candidate's specialty are expected.
A Ph.D. in evolution, ecology, genetics, plant biology,
or a related eld is required; postdoctoral experience is
expected. All applications should be submitted online
through Interfolio (http://apply.interfolio.com/93190).
Include 1) cover letter, 2) CV, 3) statement of research
accomplishments and future objectives, 4) statement
of teaching philosophy and goals, 5) statement of expe-
rience and philosophy in the areas of diversity, equity,
and inclusion, and 6) names and contact information for
three references. Candidates from groups underrepre-
sented in science and academia are especially encouraged
to apply. Review of applications will begin October 1
and continue until position is lled, contingent upon
availability of funding. Contact information: Destiny
Goree, destiny.goree@okstate.edu, 405-744-5559. http:/-
/plantbio.okstate.edu . Oklahoma State University, as
an equal opportunity employer, complies with all applica-
ble federal and state laws regarding non-discrimination
and armative action. Oklahoma State University is
committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all indi-
viduals and does not discriminate based on race, religion,
age, sex, color, national origin, marital status, sexual
orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, or
veteran status with regard to employment, educational
programs and activities, and/or admissions. For more
information, visit https:///eeo.okstate.edu . \Fishbein,
Mark"<mark.shbein@okstate.edu >30 EvolDir September 1, 2021
OregonStateU HatcheryDirector
Director Oregon Hatchery Research Center and Asso-
ciate/Full Professor (with Tenure), Oregon State Uni-
versity
The Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conserva-
tion Sciences in the College of Agricultural Sciences at
Oregon State University is seeking a Director for the
Oregon Hatchery Research Center (OHRC): https:/-
/jobs.oregonstate.edu/postings/102538 The successful
candidate will be hired on a 12-month basis as Director
in a professional faculty position at 0.50 FTE and as
an Associate or Full Professor at 0.50 FTE in a tenured
academic faculty position. The Director position will
serve at the pleasure of the Department Head.
The OHRC is a cooperative research venture between
the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW)
and Oregon State University (OSU). Goals of the OHRC
are to:
1. Understand mechanisms that may create dierences
between hatchery and wild sh.
2. Develop approaches to manage hatchery sh that
conserves and protects native sh.
3. Educate and train students, shery biologists, man-
agers and the public on the relationship between hatch-
ery and wild sh, the connection between sh and water-
shed, estuarine and ocean systems, and the implications
for sh management and stewardship.
Further details about the OHRC's science goals and
its stakeholder Board can be found at: https://-
www.dfw.state.or.us/sh/ohrc/ Overview:
The Director leads the OHRC's research, education,
and outreach. The individual develops and leads a
multi-faceted applied and basic research program and fa-
cilitates undergraduate/graduate training, professional
development programs, and public education. As an
eective researcher, educator, communicator, leader and
administrator the Director must: conduct and facilitate
collaborative research that aligns with the OHRC goals;
operationalize research priorities identied by ODFW
and the OHRC Board; articulate the Center's mission,
goals and objectives and work eectively with sta,
advisory groups, industry groups, public agencies, edu-
cational groups, and private organizations; and establish
programs and processes which lead the OHRC towardsuccessful accomplishment of its goals, consistent with
sh management needs.
The Director works with the OHRC Board and ODFW
to develop and implement research strategies that fur-
ther the Center's mission, coordinates ODFW-sponsored
and externally funded research projects, obtains exter-
nal funding, supervises OSU employees and students,
and communicates science to professional and public au-
diences. The Director ensures that all people have equal
employment and program participation opportunities,
particularly those from historically underrepresented
racial/ethnic groups, women, individuals with disabili-
ties, veterans, LGBTQ community members, and others
who demonstrate the ability to help us achieve our vision
of a diverse and inclusive community.
As a tenured Associate Professor or Full Professor at
Oregon State University in the Department of Fisheries,
Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences, the Director main-
tains an active research laboratory of graduate students,
postdoctoral researchers, undergraduate interns, Faculty
Research Assistants and/or Research Associates. Areas
of research should include biological, ecological, or so-
cial sciences related to salmonid conservation in Oregon
and/or improving sheries through advances in the man-
agement of hatchery sh but are not restricted to those
topics. The Director is expected to teach one undergrad-
uate or graduate course per year, plus a seminar course,
workshop, or experiential learning opportunity for OSU
students. Service to the profession and university are
also expected.
Oregon State University and the Department of Fish-
eries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences have commit-
ted strongly to creating an inclusive work environment
that welcomes and supports employees and students
from all backgrounds. We actively seek to broaden
participation in our academic programs, the eld of
sheries science, and in recreational shing and sheries
management.
This position is located in Corvallis, Oregon and is
jointly funded and supervised by OSU and ODFW.
The new closing date (for full consideration) is Septem-
ber 12th 2021.
Start date is as soon as possible, but we will work with
the chosen candidate to honor existing commitments
with an anticipated start date of January 17, 2022.
Application materials should include: * A cover letter
that addresses your interest in the position, and sum-
mary of your skills and experience in the context of
each of the required and preferred qualications; * A
summary of research interests and ideas/opportunities
for collaboration within and external to OSU (maxi-September 1, 2021 EvolDir 31
mum of 3 pages); * A statement on your philosophy and
approach regarding diversity, equity, and inclusion; and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PrattInst PartTimeInstructor
Evolution
The Department of Mathematics and Science at Pratt
(Brooklyn Campus), seeks part-time faculty applicants
for the Fall 2021 semester (and beyond) to teach one or
more of the following course sections:
MSWI-260C, Evolution - Section 01 meets Tuesdays
2-4:50pm - Section 03 meets Fridays 9-11:50am
Our ideal candidate is a late-career (ABD) graduate
student or early-career post-doc who is interested in
teaching nonmajors.
Interested candidates should apply here:
https://apply.interfolio.com/91768
Questions about this opportunity? Please contact me!
-Chris Jensen (cjensen@pratt.edu)
Christopher Jensen, PhD jActing Chairperson
PRATT INSTITUTE Math and Science 200 Willoughby
Avenue jActivities Resource Center G 43 jBrooklyn,
NY 11205 phone: 718.687.5638 jfax: 718.399-4482 j
cjensen@pratt.edu Pronouns = he, him, his / Please
feel free to call me \Chris" <https://www.pratt.edu/-
the-institute/diversity-and-inclusion/dei-allies/ >
Christopher Jensen <cjensen@pratt.edu >
SangerInstitute UK TreeofLife
The Tree of Life Programme at the Sanger Institute
is seeking to recruit four Faculty leaders at any level
with research interests in any (or a combination) of
the following: - biodiversity genomics requiring largescale data generation - comparative genomics of symbio-
sis. - computational phylogenomics including phylogeny
reconstruction across the tree of life.
Faculty positions in Tree of Life
The Tree of Life Programme is a new initiative, taking
its place in the global vanguard of genomic science. Our
focus is to understand the structure and function of
the biomes that support human society, at a time when
those systems face acute strain. Using the latest long-
read and long-range sequencing technologies, as well as
algorithmic advances in assembly and curation, it is now
feasible to sequence all life. The Darwin Tree of Life
project and Earth Biogenome Project aim to do just
that, their ambition only matched by the dedication of
their teams. The data gathered across these and other
projects will be used to investigate species diversity,
species interactions and the evolution of genome struc-
ture - and all of it will be made openly available to the
wider scientic community. Having launched in 2019,
the Tree of Life programme is now fully operational and
has become one of the most exciting places to work in
biodiversity genomics. We will also gain new insights
into molecular mechanisms that underpin genetic asso-
ciations with diseases and traits involving blood and
immune cells, including both disease susceptibility and
disease progression, to empower the development of new
drugs and the implementation of eective stratied and
preventative medicine.
Humanity stands at a crossroads, where climate change
and environmental degradation threaten to cause the
sixth great extinction. Understanding the interconnect-
edness of the health of human society and ecosystem
health, we will deliver a groundbreaking programme to
sequence the diversity of eukaryotic life on Earth. Using
decades of experience at the Wellcome Sanger Institute
and radical new technologies, we will produce high qual-
ity reference genomes and explore their evolution, their
functioning, and their interactions with each other. We
will analyse these data to understand life's origins, con-
serve biodiversity and provide the underpinnings of a
new biotechnology.
For more information about the programme visit
www.sanger.ac.uk/programme/tree-of-life/ Support in
Tree of Life
We have an established core operations infrastructure
to support delivery of the far-reaching ambitions of the
Programme. The Delivery & Operations teams, led by
the Associate Director of Delivery & Operations, are
structured into four primary areas:
* Production Genomics: responsible for high-throughput
data generation, including assembly and curation for32 EvolDir September 1, 2021
tens of thousands of reference genomes
* Enabling Platforms: responsible for building new soft-
ware systems and data management
* Informatics Infrastructure: responsible for implement-
ing cutting- edge informatics pipelines and managing
programme IT infrastructure
* Project Management & Operations: responsible for
meeting the many compliance, admin and project man-
agement needs of our scientists
These teams work collaboratively to deliver a backbone
of operational support to the Tree of Life Programme
Faculty, as well as major national and international se-
quencing consortia, enabling them to focus on delivering
their cutting-edge research.
The operations teams also provide a key interface with
central Institute functions including the core Sanger
pipelines within Scientic Operations and the Manage-
ment Operations teams. The Project Management &
Operations team provides day-to-day administration
including core and grant funding nance management,
identifying third party funding opportunities, and en-
suring regulatory and legal compliance in collaboration
with central Institute teams.
Roles available in Tree of Life
The Wellcome Sanger Institute is seeking up to four ex-
ceptional scientists across all levels of its Faculty model,
each joining as a Core Faculty member leading a re-
search team in Tree of Life and contributing to the
Institute's scientic portfolio. Positions carry a signif-
icant core package of salaries and support, which are
backed by rewarding and exible employment terms
including excellent benets and relocation support.
Our exceptional core funding enables the Faculty to
focus their energy on science, supported by a rapidly
growing team of dedicated scientists and science facil-
itators, and beneting from the state-of-the-art facili-
ties located in the beautiful grounds of the Wellcome
Genome Campus.
For further information on the application process,
please see our recruitment page
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlSouthwesternOklhomaStateU
EvolutionaryBiol
The Department of Biological Sciences at Southwest-
ern Oklahoma State University invites applications for
a tenure-track assistant professor (Ph.D or ABD) or
instructor (M.S.) position starting January 2022.
We are seeking a biologist committed to excellence in
teaching organismal biology. We invite applications
from all areas of eukaryotic organismal biology espe-
cially quantitative, population, or ecological genetics.
The candidate will teach across the curriculum includ-
ing majors and non-majors introductory courses, core
biology courses and upper-division courses in their spe-
cialty.
Tenure-track assistant professor candidates will also con-
tribute to a growing undergraduate research program
and will work with colleagues to integrate research into
the biology curriculum. Startup funds and research
space are available.
The candidate is expected to participate in depart-
ment and university service. Our department val-
ues collegiality and participation in its mission to
provide an excellent learning environment for stu-
dents. Additional information about the depart-
ment can be found at: https://bulldog.swosu.edu/-
academics/biological-sciences/index.php . To ap-
ply: https://swosu.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/1/-
home/requisition/33?c=swosu Rickey Cothran Asso-
ciate Professor & Chair Department of Biological Sci-
ences Southwestern Oklahoma State Univ. https:/-
/rdcothran.wixsite.com/hyalella \Cothran, Rickey"
<rickey.cothran@swosu.edu >
SUNY-ESF Syracuse Collections-
ManagerVertebrateAnimals
ANNOUNCEMENT OF PROFESSIONAL VACANCY
State University of New York College of Environmental
Science and Forestry 1 Forestry Drive, Syracuse, New
York 13210-2778September 1, 2021 EvolDir 33
July 21, 2021
MUSEUM COLLECTIONS MANAGER - VERTE-
BRATE ANIMALS
Campus Title: Collections Manager, Vertebrate Ani-
mals
Unit: Department of Environmental Biology
Professional Rank and Salary Range: SL4, Salary DOQ
https://esf.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID3917 Brief Description
of Duties: The State University of New York College of
Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) in Syracuse,
NY invites applications for a calendar year position as
an Instructional Support Specialist, serving specically
as the Collections Manager within the Department
of Environmental Biology. The successful candidate
will be in charge of the physical care, maintenance,
accessibility, specimen preparation, and preservation of
the College's vertebrate collections and their associated
data, housed within the Roosevelt Wild Life Collections
(RWLC). These research and teaching collections are
primarily composed of birds and mammals, but also
shes, amphibians, and reptiles. The Collections
Manager will promote and support use of collections for
educational and research purposes, maintain specimen
and loan records, and respond to information and
loan requests. The Collections Manager will provide
technical assistance for collections-related fund-raising,
exhibitions, and other tasks associated with specimens
and their data. The Collections Manager will also
recruit, train, and supervise diverse student interns,
volunteers, and researchers in museum techniques,
cooperate with faculty across the College to address
their collections-related teaching and research needs,
and participate in a professional outreach capacity to
promote the use and importance of the RWLC for
natural history education.
Primary Responsibilities include but are not limited to:
* Position workload: 40% collections management, 30%
records administration, and 30% education and out-
reach * Provide knowledge on vertebrate taxonomy,
morphology, and natural history as appropriate to the
RWLC, for the purposes of collections management, ver-
tebrate preparation, education, and outreach (including
handling extension calls) * Employ best practices in
the physical care, maintenance, specimen preparation,
preservation, protection, organization, pest manage-
ment, import/export, acquisition, and strategic growth
of vertebrate collections. Some of these duties can
include knowledge and proper use of chemicals and
their disposal * Stay current on relevant regulatory laws
and compliance procedures related to vertebrate collec-tions, and maintain any permits relevant to the RWLC
* Ensure meticulous record keeping and data accessi-
bility * Manage multiple projects and their progress
in an organized fashion * Work on extended, iterative
tasks (e.g., data entry) with minimal supervision * Use
computer as an important collections tool, including
word processing, spreadsheets, data entry, le organi-
zation, digitization, imaging, and data archiving * Use
and modify a relational collections database (especially
Specify open-source collections database software) to
enter, retrieve, and organize specimen data * Recruit,
train, and supervise collections interns, volunteers, re-
searchers, student teaching assistants, faculty, and sta
in proper specimen and data handling and related mu-
seum techniques * Seek ongoing collections improvement
(e.g., data and specimen accessibility and interpretation,
physical infrastructure, workow) * Keep collections
spaces and equipment clean, tidy, pest-free, and in work-
ing order, addressing any issues in a timely manner *
Cultivate specimen acquisition, including specimen ex-
changes, donations, and eld collections or salvage, to
address strategic needs, in consultation with Head Cu-
rator * Eectively and professionally communicate with
members of the college and the public (both written
and oral) * Foster a positive and cooperative working
environment with undergraduate and graduate students,
sta, and faculty from diverse backgrounds * Teach a
course in museum techniques, focused on vertebrate ani-
mals and specimen preparation * Work with faculty and
students to identify collections-based research projects;
Collections Manager may also participate directly in
research related to collections * Keep abreast of current
collections trends, issues, and best collections practices,
including biodiversity informatics being an active mem-
ber of the Society for the Preservation of Natural History
Collections (SPNHC)
Requirements:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
TelumTherapeutics Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Specialist
POSITION DESCRIPTION:34 EvolDir September 1, 2021
Exciting opportunity for experienced bioinformatician
to join the team at Telum Therapeutics (TT). TT is
seeking a highly motivated individual skilled in bacte-
riophage genomics and protein library construction.
Incorporation date: October 2021 or earliest availability
CONTRACT:
Permanent, full time.
Open to exible working requests.
RESPONSABILITIES:
Computational analysis of various genomic data sets us-
ing common bioinformatics tools, statistical techniques,
and developing analytic pipelines. Generate endolysin
libraries taken from lytic and lysogenic phages with
antimicrobial capacity. Provide analysis, reports, and
recommendations to senior leadership
REQUIRED SKILLS:
High prociency in scripting languages: python, bash
and SQL are required, R would be an advantage
Excellent prociency in bioinformatics tools/software
(metaSPAdes, ProtParam, RADAR, Phyre 2, ...)
Familiar with public databases for sequence and struc-
tural data, as well as protein modelling tools Outstand-
ing communication, collaboration, and problem solving
skills
Well organized and able to work both independently
and as part of a multidisciplinary team
Knowledge of multivariate statistical analysis, machine
learning methods and AWS or similar cloud services
would be an advantage
REQUIREMENTS:
Experience with sequence analysis and bioinformatics
software Strong problem solving and analytic skills
Ph.D. in Biology, Life Sciences, or a related discipline.
Three (3) to Five (5) years of experience in computa-
tional biology
More info: contact@telumtherapeutics.com
KR, Roberto D ez-Mart nez, PhD EMBA CEO
Plaza CEIN 5 B1 31110 No ain, Navarra +34 660 164
975 rdiez@telumther.com
CONFIDENCIALIDAD La informaci on contenida en-
esta comunicaci on puede ser condencial y est adestinada
para el uso exclusivo del destinatarioarriba designado.
Si usted no es el destinatario,cualquier divulgaci on, re-
producci on, distribuci on ouso de esta comunicaci on est a
estrictamenteprohibida.Si usted ha recibido esta trans-misi on porle rogamos nos informe de este error. Si
ustedes el destinatario de esta comunicaci on, por favor
notransmita ni distribuya su contenido sin laautorizaci on
previa del autor de la comunicaci on. CONFIDENTIAL-
ITY: The information contained in thiscommunication
may be privileged and condential and is intended for
the exclusive use of theaddressee designated above. If
you are not theaddressee, any disclosure, reproduction,
distributionor other dissemination or use of this commu-
nication isstrictly prohibited. If you have received this-
transmission in error please would you be kindenough
to inform us. If you are the intended recipient,please
do not forward or distribute the contentselectronically
or in a hard copy without the priorauthorisation of the
author of this communication. of the author of this
communication.
TexasAMU
HeadConservationBiology
Description Applications are invited for the position of
Professor and Department Head of the newly formed
Department of Ecology and Conservation Biology at
Texas A&M University. The Professor and Head will
serve as the chief administrative ocer for the Depart-
ment, reporting to the Vice Chancellor and Dean of the
College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. This will be a
9-month tenured position, with a research appointment
(25-50%), and an administrative stipend equivalent to
two months of summer salary.
The Head will provide visionary leadership for numer-
ous departmental initiatives including undergraduate
and graduate education; knowledge creation through
extramurally funded research; a diverse, equitable and
inclusive climate; synergistic relationships with diverse
stakeholder groups; and facilitate communication of
science-based ndings to inform policy. A commitment
to working cooperatively with university administra-
tion, multidisciplinary and multicultural scholars and
the general public is essential. A record of success in
the development of funding and program support is
expected.
The Department has 37 faculty (https://eccb.tamu.edu),
oers a B.Sc. degree in Ecology and Conservation Biol-
ogy that contains four tracks - Ecology and Conservation
Biology, Vertebrate Zoology, Forestry, and Ecoinformat-
ics - and has a large graduate student program. The
Department occupies a new building and maintains theSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 35
Biodiversity Research and Teaching Collections (https:/-
/brtc.tamu.edu/) and S.M. Tracy Herbarium, which are
among the top 10 university-based biodiversity collec-
tions in the USA. Research programs in the department
address fundamental questions in ecological science that
span from genes to ecosystems to produce knowledge
that is immediately applicable to pressing 21st cen-
tury challenges, including climate change, biodiversity
loss, ecological restoration, and integrative approaches
to conservation. The Department is engaged in the
campus-wide interdisciplinary programs of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology (https://eeb.tamu.edu/), Genetics
(https://genetics.tamu.edu/), and Applied Biodiversity
Science (https://biodiversity.tamu.edu/).
Texas A&M is ranked 4th among public universities, has
a student population of 67,000 from all 50 states and
124 countries, and is a top 20 research enterprise. Texas
A&M is supported by a $13.5-billion-dollar endowment
and is a Land, Sea, and Space Grant university. Col-
lege Station/Bryan has 180,000 permanent residents, is
consistently ranked among the best places to live in the
country, has a low cost of living, and ready access to
the metropolitan centers of Austin and Houston.
Qualications Candidates must have an earned doctor-
ate in ecological sciences or a closely related discipline
and possess a record of academic accomplishment com-
mensurate with the rank of full professor. Primary qual-
ications include an interdisciplinary vision, an inter-
nationally recognized research program, demonstrated
commitment to inclusive undergraduate and graduate
education, and experience in academic administration.
Candidates with active research programs and inter-
est in continuing active scholarship at Texas A&M are
particularly encouraged to apply.
Application Instructions Applicants should submit the
following: 1) a cover letter; 2) a detailed curriculum
vitae; 3) a statement of vision for the Department; 4)
a research statement; 5) a statement on Diversity, Eq-
uity, and Inclusion; 6) a statement of administrative
philosophy, and 7) contact information for three to ve
references.
Applications are to be submitted via Interfolio (ap-
ply.interfolio.com/91184). Questions can be addressed
to the Advisory Search Committee Chair, Dr. Phillip
Kaufman (phillip.kaufman@ag.tamu.edu).
Review of applications will begin September 15 and con-
tinue until the position is lled. The position is available
January 1, 2022.
Application Process This institution is using Interfolio's
Faculty Search to conduct this search. Applicants to
this position receive a free Dossier account and can sendall application materials, including condential letters
of recommendation, free of charge.
Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Texas A&M
University is committed to enriching the learning and
working environment for all visitors, students, faculty,
and sta by promoting a culture that embraces inclusion,
diversity, equity, and accountability. Diverse perspec-
tives, talents, and identities are vital to accomplishing
our mission and living our core values.
Equal Opportunity/Armative Ac-
tion/Veterans/Disability Employer committed to
diversity.
Sincerely,
Mariana Mateos, Ph.D. (she/her)
Mariana Mateos <mmateos@tamu.edu >
Tufts EcoEvoLecturer
The Department of Biology at Tufts University seeks a
full-time faculty member beginning September 1, 2022.
The lecturer's responsibilities will include but not be
limited to organizing and teaching the lecture portion
of an introductory course (Bio 14 ?>` Organisms and
Populations, usual enrollment ~380 students) which is
taught as an integrative course, highlighting linkages
between evolution, ecology, and physiology. In addition,
the successful applicant will teach a course in biostatis-
tics (Biology 132) and either ecology (Biology 142) or a
portion of an ecology laboratory course (Bio 51). Re-
sponsibilities will also include undergraduate advising
and departmental service.
Qualied candidates must have a Ph.D. and show evi-
dence of successful teaching in introductory and interme-
diate biology courses. We require experience or invested
interest in developing inclusive classroom spaces through
equitable mentoring and innovative evidence-based ped-
agogy that promotes success and career enhancement
of underrepresented students in STEM. If desired, the
successful candidate will have opportunity to engage in
education research in collaboration with the Department
of Education at Tufts, or potentially some other area of
biological research.
This is an academic year, benetted, non-tenure-
track 2-year position and is renewable contingent
upon performance. Lecturers at Tufts Univer-
sity are unionized (https://access.tufts.edu/collective-
bargaining-agreements) with the potential for long-term36 EvolDir September 1, 2021
careers with promotional advancement within the Lec-
turer ranks.
Applicants should submit a cover letter, curriculum
vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, statement of
commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice
(DEIJ), sample syllabus, teaching evaluations if avail-
able, and two letters of recommendation. The DEIJ
statement should demonstrate your knowledge of barri-
ers facing under-represented groups in higher education
and shed light on your own eorts and future plans
to advance DEIJ in the biology curriculum. All ap-
plication materials must be submitted via interfolio at
apply.interfolio.com/91439
Please contact sta assistant to the chair/faculty Geneva
Frank at Geneva.Frank@tufts.edu with any questions.
Review of applications will begin January 5, 2022 and
will continue until the position is lled.
uricchil@gmail.com
UCalifornia Riverside
GenomicsCoordinator
The INSTITUTE FOR INTEGRATIVE GENOME BI-
OLOGY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
RIVERSIDE invites applications for an Academic Coor-
dinator in the established Genomics Core Facility. The
position will involve running/organizing the genomics
core and developing new initiatives for the core & col-
laboration with other UC Core facilities.
For details and to apply please visit: https://-
aprecruit.ucr.edu/JPF01426 Review of applications
will begin on 08/23/2021.
Best Wishes, Quinn S. McFrederick
Associate Professor University of California, Riverside
Department of Entomology
Quinn McFrederick <quinnmc@ucr.edu >
UChicago Evolution
As part of a multi-year hiring initiative, the Department
of Ecology & Evolution at the University of Chicago issearching for faculty in evolutionary biology who use
either empirical or a combination of empirical and theo-
retical approaches. Appointment at the rank of tenure-
track assistant professor is expected, but applicants for
tenured ranks will be considered.
Competitive research space and start-up funding will be
available, as will the potential for interactions with our
o-campus aliates, Argonne National Laboratory and
the Marine Biological Laboratory. Scientists working
on plant evolution will have access to endowed research
funds and dedicated space in the greenhouse facilities
and the Warren Woods Biological Station in Three
Oaks, Michigan. The University is an exciting center of
scientic discovery and innovation, and opportunities
for multidisciplinary collaboration and participation as
graduate student trainers abound. Most university di-
visions and centers are contained within one compact
campus in Chicago's vibrant Hyde Park neighborhood,
where many faculty members and students live.
Please apply through the University of Chicago's Aca-
demic Recruitment job board, which uses Interfolio to
accept applications: https://apply.interfolio.com/91625.
Applications must include a cover letter, a C.V. includ-
ing bibliography, contact information for 3 references,
a research statement that preferably outlines research
goals and highlights up to three selected publications or
pre-prints, and a teaching statement that may describe
the candidate's experience in teaching diverse students
[The University's Diversity Statement can be found
at https://provost.uchicago.edu/statements-diversity].
Each statement should be less than three pages in length.
Review of complete applications will begin September
6, 2021, and continue until the position is lled. Prior
to the start of employment, qualied applicants must
have a doctoral degree or equivalent.
We seek a diverse pool of applicants who wish to join an
academic community that places encourages diverse per-
spectives, experiences, groups of individuals, and ideas
to inform and stimulate intellectual challenge, engage-
ment, and exchange. The University's Statements on Di-
versity are at https://provost.uchicago.edu/statements-
diversity . The University of Chicago is an Arma-
tive Action/Equal Opportunity/Disabled/Veterans Em-
ployer and does not discriminate on the basis of race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
national or ethnic origin, age, status as an individual
with a disability, protected veteran status, genetic infor-
mation, or other protected classes under the law. For
additional information please see the University's Notice
of Nondiscrimination.
For instructions on the Interfolio application process,
please visit http://tiny.cc/InterfolioHelp. Job seekers inSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 37
need of a reasonable accommodation to complete the
application process should call 773-702-1032 or email
equalopportunity@uchicago.edu with their request.
Joe Thornton (joet1@uchicago.edu)
Joseph W Thornton <joet1@uchicago.edu >
UKansas Tech EvolutionaryVirology
Assistant Researcher position in the Unckless Lab at the
University of Kansas The Unckless Lab in the Depart-
ment of Molecular Biosciences, University of Kansas,
seeks an assistant researcher with interests and experi-
ence in molecular biology, invertebrate immunity and
evolutionary virology. The successful candidate will
work with a research group that addresses the broad
themes of host-pathogen interaction and genetic conict.
Specically, the assistant researcher would assist with an
NSF-funded study of the genetics of a large DNA virus.
The work would involve cloning the virus into a bacterial
articial chromosome (BAC), performing genetic ma-
nipulations of the virus, and optimizing cell culture con-
ditions for optimal viral replication. Work will include
cell culture, molecular cloning, viral genome sequencing,
CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing and microscopy. The
position consists of an initial 2-yr appointment begin-
ning in fall 2021. The applicant should be extremely
organized, work well with others, have a willingness to
learn, and be able to participate at many levels in the
laboratory.
Job Description:
50% Cloning a DNA virus into a bacterial articial chro-
mosome (BAC). Experiments to isolate high molecular
weight viral DNA, manipulate plasmid vectors, clone
the virus and screen for recombinants. Eventually, this
would include genetic manipulation of the virus. These
experiments require considerable molecular biology and
cell culture work.
20% Optimizing conditions for viral growth in cell cul-
ture. Develop new cell lines from relevant species and
tissues. Experiment with dierent media, temperatures,
nutrients, etc. and perform assays to measure viral
replication and growth.
20% Work on an independent research project. If in-
terested, the assistant researcher can initiate their own
research project related to the theme of host/virus in-
teraction if agreed upon with the PI.10% Experiments in live Drosophila. Infect Drosophila
with the DNA virus and measure mortality, viral titer,
host gene expression, etc.
Required Qualications: -B.S. in Biology or closely
related eld. -Experience with molecular biological tech-
niques as evidenced by application materials.
Preferred Qualications: -Experience with cell cul-
ture (insect or otherwise). -Experience working with
Drosophila. -Experience with molecular cloning. -
Experience with next-generation sequencing library
preparation.
A complete online application includes a CV, cover let-
ter and contact information for two reference letters.
For more details including required and preferred qual-
ications and directions about how to apply, please
visit https://employment.ku.edu/sta/19900BR. Appli-
cation deadline is August 31, 2021. If you have any
inquiries about the position, please contact Rob Unck-
less (unckless@ku.edu).
The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on
the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national
origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sex-
ual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender
identity, gender expression, and genetic information in
the university's programs and activities. Retaliation
is also prohibited by university policy. The following
persons have been designated to handle inquiries re-
garding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title
IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Direc-
tor of the Oce of Institutional Opportunity & Access,
IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development
Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045,
785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards,
Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal
Opportunity Oce, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mis-
sion Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711
TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas
medical center campuses).
\Unckless, Robert L" <unckless@ku.edu >
UMichigan EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites applications for a
full-time, tenure-track position in any area of ecology or
evolutionary biology. This is a university-year appoint-
ment at the level of Assistant Professor with an expected38 EvolDir September 1, 2021
start date of August 29, 2022. A successful candidate
will be expected to establish a thriving research program,
to eectively teach and mentor both undergraduate and
graduate students, and to contribute to an equitable
and inclusive departmental climate. They might also
leverage University of Michigan and EEB facilities in-
cluding world class biodiversity collections (Museum of
Zoology and Herbarium), a local eld research facility
(the Edwin S. George Reserve), and a large educational
and research facility in northern Michigan (the Univer-
sity of Michigan Biological Station). The university is
located in Ann Arbor, which is a vibrant community
with excellent schools and proximity to both natural
areas and Detroit.
Applications must be submitted here: https://-
webapps.lsa.umich.edu/Apply/1441. You will be asked
to upload a cover letter, CV, a concise (2-4 pg) statement
describing current and future research plans, a state-
ment of teaching philosophy and experience, a statement
of commitment and contributions to diversity, equity
and inclusion in academia, and contact information for
three references. Application review will begin Octo-
ber 1, 2021 and continue until the position is lled.
Questions about this search should be directed to mol-
lyiz@umich.edu, executive assistant for the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.
EEB is committed to fostering diversity throughout
the department, including with respect to race, eth-
nicity, gender, and disability status of faculty mem-
bers. Women and members of other groups underrepre-
sented in science are particularly encouraged to apply.
The university supports the needs of dual career cou-
ples. The University of Michigan is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer.
Molly Hunter, CAP
Executive Secretary University of Michigan Ecology and
EvolutionaryBiology
Biological Sciences Building 2240 1105 N University Ave
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1085 p: (734) 615-4915
f: (734) 763-0544 mollyiz@umich.edu she/her/hers
Molly Hunter <mollyiz@umich.edu >UNeuchatel EvolutionaryGenetics
The University of Neuch^ atel, Switzerland, invites appli-
cations for a position of Full professor of evolutionary
genetics
Description of position: The successful candidate will
teach courses at the Bachelor and Master's levels (7
hours per week and per semester) at the Faculty of
Science, in the Institute of Biology. He/she will also
supervise Master's and PhD dissertations. He/she will
conduct high-level research in evolutionary genetics, us-
ing quantitative genetics and genomics. We particularly
welcome applicants who take an experimental approach
to study sustainable agriculture, as such research com-
plements existing strengths within the institute and
hence facilitates internal collaborations. Courses are
taught in English (MSc) and French (BSc), requiring
a commitment to obtain sucient uency in French
within one year.
Start date: 1st of January 2023 or upon agreement.
Required qualications: PhD in Biology, internationally
recognized research and funding record in evolutionary
genetics and strong teaching and administration skills.
Application Submission Date: 30th September 2021.
Applications should be uploaded onto www.unine.ch/-
candis (ref. FS-GenEvol) in the form of a single PDF le,
including a letter of motivation, a CV documenting full
teaching and research experience, a list of publications,
copies of diplomas and a list of experts able to assess
the candidate's competence (with at least three names).
The candidate is also invited to present a statement
(three pages max.) of teaching and research interests,
his/her scientic approach to the domain, and projects
that he/she intends to undertake at Neuch^ atel.
Further information can be obtained from the
President of the Hiring Committee, Prof. Re-
douan Bshary (redouan.bshary@unine.ch) or the Dean
(doyen.sciences@unine.ch), as well as on the site
www.unine.ch/sciences . The University of Neuch^ atel
is committed to provide non-discriminatory working
conditions.
BSHARY Redouan <redouan.bshary@unine.ch >September 1, 2021 EvolDir 39
UNewMexicoMSB
HerbariumCollectionManager
The Museum of Southwestern Biology (MSB) invites
applications for a Senior Science Museum Collection
Managerfor the Herbarium (http://www.msb.unm.edu/-
divisions/herbarium/index.html), a full-time, 12-month
sta position. The University of New Mexico Herbar-
ium (UNM) is centrally located on the main campus in
Albuquerque, a city with a rich cultural heritage in a
biodiverse, scenic landscape. The MSB develops and
maintains natural history collections for use in research
and education, beneting the university, science, and
society at large.
The UNM Herbarium holds over 133,000 vascular plants,
bryophytes, lichens, and fungi representing the deep his-
tory of botany in the southwestern United States. It is
the oldest and most comprehensive herbarium in New
Mexico, yet it has modern infrastructure, ample expan-
sion space, and the majority of its specimens have digital
and image data. The mission of the Herbarium is to sup-
port collections-based research, discovery, and education
by collecting, documenting, preserving, and curating
specimens and their data. Through these activities, the
Herbarium provides unique learning opportunities for
eld and museum-based botany, enhancing scholarship
and outcomes for undergraduate and graduate students
at the University of New Mexico. Looking forward, the
Herbarium is seeking new ways to implement extended
(holistic) specimen models, to utilize its historical collec-
tions for the study of change over time, and to provide
experiential learning for students.
We seek applicants with a strong commitment to the
mission and vision of the Herbarium. The Collection
Manager will be one of eight Collection Managers in the
MSB. The position oers opportunities for mentoring,
outreach, and career development, including research
within the context of curatorial priorities.
UNM is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Action Em-
ployer and Educator. Women and underrepresented
minorities are strongly encouraged to apply.
Education and Experience: A Master >1
2s Degree with
at least 5 years experience with preparation and care of
plant specimens and management of a plant collection
is required.
Posting Salary Range: $3,553.33 - $4,629.42 Monthly(benets eligible)
Visit the application on UNM Jobs (req16008) for more
information:
https://unm.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/18/home/-
requisition/16008?c=unm The following will be
required: 1) A Cover Letter for this position should
address any and all of the preferred qualications that
you meet for this position; 2) Curriculum vitae; 3)
Names and contact information of three references;
4) Unocial Transcripts (ocial transcripts will be
required before date of hire); 5) Up to two representative
publications or other products.
For full consideration, submit materials by August 30,
2021. The position begins in September 2021, or as soon
as possible after that.
Please contact the Herbarium Curator, Dr. Hannah
Marx (hmarx[at]unm.edu), with any questions.
Hannah E. Marx, PhD (she/her) Assistant Professor,
Department of Biology Curator of the Herbarium, Mu-
seum of Southwestern Biology University of New Mexico
Hannah Marx <hmarx@unm.edu >Hannah Marx
<hmarx@unm.edu >
UWuerzburg
TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiology
Dear All,
Below I am passing on an advertisement of a position at
W urzburg University (Germany) who seek a theoretical
evolutionary biologist (in a wider sense, i.e. including
conceptual work): At the Center for Computational and
Theoretical Biology (CCTB) of the Faculty of Biology
at the Julius-Maximilians-Universita It of Wu Irzburg,
the vacant position for the
Professorship (W2) of ^ aEvolutionary Biology'
is to be lled as soon as possible.
The newly established professorship is based in the Bio-
center and will be integrated into the Center for Compu-
tational and Theoretical Biology (CCTB). The CCTB
is a member of the Center for Articial Intelligence and
Data Science (CAIDAS), which is part of the Bavarian
High-Tech agenda at the University of Wu Irzburg. The
applicant should have a strong track record of both
research in and teaching of Theoretical Evolutionary Bi-
ology, and thereby strengthen the scientic focus of the40 EvolDir September 1, 2021
faculty. Experience in procuring external funding and
establishing interdisciplinary research collaborations is
expected.
The full advertisement and application instructions can
be found at:
https://go.uniwue.de/theoevo The application deadline
is 17th September, 2021.
Klaus Reinhardt TU Dresden (Germany) Faculty Biol-
ogy
klaus.reinhardt@tu-dresden.de
VanderbiltU
EvolutionaryBiochemistry
TENURE TRACK ASSISTANT PROFESSOR - EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOCHEMISTRY
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, VAN-
DERBILT UNIVERSITY
Vanderbilt University invites applications for a tenure-
track, faculty position in evolutionary biochemistry at
the Assistant Professor rank. Investigators that ap-
ply experimental, engineering, and/or computational
approaches to understand a) how proteins or other struc-
tural and catalytic features of cells evolve or b) how
metabolic pathways evolve are particularly encouraged
to apply. The selected candidate will join the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences (https://as.vanderbilt.edu/-
biosci/) and the Vanderbilt Evolutionary Studies Ini-
tiative (https://www.vanderbilt.edu/evolution/), with
opportunities for a dual appointment in the Department
of Chemistry (https://www.vanderbilt.edu/chemistry/-
) and aliation with the Department of Biochem-
istry (https://medschool.vanderbilt.edu/biochemistry/-
) and the Center for Structural Biology (https://-
www.vanderbilt.edu/csb/).
The candidate will be expected to develop an indepen-
dent laboratory research program that complements cur-
rent departmental and institutional strengths in evolu-
tion, biochemistry, genome science, biophysics, cell and
molecular biology, chemical biology, synthetic chemistry,
drug discovery, computational biology, host-microbe in-
teractions, and neurobiology. As a new faculty member,
the candidate will play an integral role within the trans-
institutional Vanderbilt Evolutionary Studies Initiative
and will benet from collaborations with diverse inter-
nationally recognized programs, centers, and institutes.Top candidates will demonstrate excellence in research,
highly eective teaching and mentoring to undergradu-
ate and graduate students, and a desire to contribute to
a collaborative academic community. Applicants must
have earned a Ph.D. no later than August 16, 2022, and
preferably one or more years of postdoctoral research
experience.
Applicants should submit directly to http://-
apply.interfolio.com/93130: (a) a letter of interest,
(b) full curriculum vitae, (c) a statement of research
interests, (d) a statement of teaching philosophy, (e)
a statement of equity, diversity, and inclusion, and (f)
three or more letters of recommendation.
Completed applications must be received no later than
October 15, 2021. Vanderbilt University is an Equal
Opportunity/ Armative Action employer, embraces di-
versity and inclusion, and has a strong institutional com-
mitment to recruiting and retaining an academically and
culturally diverse community of faculty and to teaching
students who are diversied by gender, race/ethnicity,
and other social locations. Minorities, women, individu-
als with disabilities, and members of other underrepre-
sented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. Vander-
bilt University ranks in the top 15 National Universities
and is located in the heart of Music City, Nashville, TN.
Nashville is consistently rated as a great place to live
(https://www.vanderbilt.edu/nashville/).
Antonis Rokas Cornelius Vanderbilt Chair in Bio-
logical Sciences Professor of Biological Sciences and
Biomedical Informatics Director, Vanderbilt Evolution-
ary Studies Initiative Department of Biological Sci-
ences, Vanderbilt University VU Station B 351634,
Nashville, TN 37235 antonis.rokas@Vanderbilt.Edu; +1-
615-936-3892 (tel) http://www.rokaslab.org (lab) http:/-
/www.vanderbilt.edu/evolution (Evolutionary Studies
Initiative)
\Rokas, Antonis" <antonis.rokas@Vanderbilt.Edu >
Vienna ResAssoc
PlantDroughtAdaptation
Post-Graduate Position in Physiological and Biochemi-
cal responses to drought stress
Full Time (40h/w) - Limited for 3 years - Vienna (Aus-
tria)
In the Unit of Provenance research and Breeding at
the Department for Forest Growth, Silviculture andSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 41
Genetics of the Austrian Federal Research and Train-
ing Centre for Forests, Natural Hazards and Landscape
(BFW), Vienna.
We are seeking an experienced and highly motivated
Post-Graduate research associate in the eld of plant
physiology to join our growing team of scientists and
practitioners. This is a unique opportunity to work
in a collaborative environment with a dynamic team
engaged in the molecular breeding of forest tree species.
Our group specialized in genetics and molecular defense
responses, is greatly interested in the physiological and
biochemical responses to drought stress. Our unit cur-
rently lacks a specialist who would expand our scientic
knowledge in this area.
Your responsibilities:
The research associate will work within a new project an-
alyzing the role of terpenoids (plant secondary metabo-
lites) on drought stress in Norway spruce (Picea abies).
The job prole includes the organization and collection
of Norway spruce seeds across Europe (especially at the
warmest fringe of the natural range), the design and
implementation of phytotron experiments, the analysis
of physiological traits using advanced multi-sensor and
multi-approach high-throughput plant phenotyping plat-
form in Austria (PHENOPlant), scientic data analysis
and publication, as well as project management tasks.
Your prole:
- M.Sc. degree in Plant physiology and biochemistry,
especially on plant drought stress metabolism and phys-
iology. One scientic publication in plant physiology or
this specic area will be greatly appreciated
- Experience in plant phenotyping, physiological and
biochemical trait measurements
- Experience in growing and managing plants from the
seed to the seedling stage
- Basic Knowledge on genetics, transcriptomics and
metabolomics
- Experience with basic research principles and methods,
data acquisition, and publishing.
- Scientic writing skills & strong written and verbal
communication skills
- High level of self-organization and willingness to work
in a team
- Willingness to travel in Austria and abroad for sam-
pling, data collection, data analysis and scientic dis-
cussions
- Knowledge of Statistics and R for data analysis. Other
programing languages are also welcome (e.g. Python)- Knowledge of setting-up experimental designs
- Experience in literature research and analysis & expe-
rience with large data sets
Others: This is a 40 hour, 3-years term position be-
ginning 1st of October or until the position is lled.
The gross monthly salary is at least EUR EUR 2.820,40
based on salary scale for federal employees in evaluation
group v1.
If we have raised your interest, please send your ap-
plication including a cover letter detailing your mo-
tivation, your CV and contact information for three
references, and one recommendation letter by Septem-
ber 15th, 2021 to the Federal Research and Training
Centre for Forests, Natural Hazards and Landscape,
1130 Vienna, Seckendor-Gudent-Weg 8 via e-mail to:
marcela.vanloo@bfw.gv.at.
Link to the job application webpage:
https://www.bfw.gv.at/wp-content/uploads/-
BFW 08WaldFIT-PostgraduateAss 2021.pdf Vanloo
Marcela<marcela.vanloo@bfw.gv.at >
YaleU ResAssist
QuantitativeBiology
TITLE:
Research Assistant in Quantitative Biology, Yale Uni-
versity
AGENCY:
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale
University
Ogbunu Lab website: https://medium.com/geeqslab
POSITION: The Ogbunu Lab at Yale University is
recruiting a fully-funded Research Assistant (RA) to
work on a set of projects at the intersection of data
science, modeling and computation, for projects ranging
in scope from epidemiology, to population genetics, eld
ecology, and computational social science.
TERMS AND SPECIFICS: The expectation is for an
in-person position, for research to take place on site in
New Haven, Connecticut, USA. The initial appointment
is for one year, renewable upon review. The start date
is exible. Salary is negotiable but will be based on
experience. There is no rm deadline: Interviews will
continue until the position is lled42 EvolDir September 1, 2021
RESEARCH KEYWORDS: Computational and math-
ematical modeling, data analysis, data science, data
visualization, data management, programming
SCIENTIFIC DESCRIPTION: The ideal candidate
would have experience with a range of computational
and/or mathematical techniques.
Skills to be emphasized: data analysis, statistics, mathe-
matical modeling, data visualization, data science. The
candidate need not be an expert at all of these, but
rather, have a strong enough background that they can
build on their skills.
QUALIFICATIONS: Bachelors degree or equivalent in
one of a number of elds related to science. Practical
experiences are valued. Programming experience is re-
quired. Experience with mathematics and computer
science coursework is strongly recommended.
PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS: The ideal candi-
date would be motivated, organized, and precise. While
they should feel comfortable with independence, theyshould also enjoy being a member of a research program
where communication and collaboration are prioritized.
While many personality-types are welcome, decency, pro-
fessionalism, and generosity are absolute requirements.
Those driven entirely by competition and self-interest,
rather than curiosity, will be a poor t.
OTHER ASPECTS: Mentoring and professional devel-
opment are additional aspects of the traineeship: The
PI (Ogbunu) and RA will engage in concrete discussion
in these areas. In addition, all members of the Ogbunu
Lab are strongly encouraged to participate in outreach,
activism, scientic communication, or other activities
at the intersection of science and society. Self-care is
very high priority.
APPLICATION: Formal Application Link: https://-
bit.ly/66418BR.1 Send questions and application mate-
rials to: brandon.ogbunu@yale.edu I can also be reached
via social media (Twitter & IG): @big data kane
\C. Brandon Ogbunu" <brandon.ogbunu@yale.edu >
Other
EdMembers ProcB Preprint Team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
GlobalInvertebrate GenomicsAlliance JoinToday . . .43UZurich Internship TheoEvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
EdMembers ProcB Preprint Team
Other: Editorial Members for ProcB Preprint Team
We are seeking new members for our preprint solici-
tation team. The primary mission of our team is to
look through preprints contributed to biorxiv.org, iden-
tify work that ts the aim and scope of Proceedings B,
and encourage authors to submit their manuscript for
consideration, with the overall goal of diversifying the
geographic origin of submitting authors|and the type
of content that is published in the journal. Active solic-
itation of submissions from a preprint server highlights
the value of a culture where scientic work is rapidly
and openly disseminated and recognised, and a broadergoal of this eort is to address social justice-related
issues in scientic publishing.
Each month, team members look through submissions
made to the BioRxiv subject section that aligns with
their individual expertise, and select potentially suitable
manuscripts. Authors of promising preprints will be con-
tacted to encourage submission by ProcB Preprint Edi-
tior Maurine Neiman. Editorial team members receive
feedback on their manuscript suggestions, providing
hands-on insight into editorial processes.
For more information on the team, please see
these interviews with team members [https://-
royalsociety.org/blog/2020/09/trust-in-peer-review-
the-role-and-reputation-of-preprints/], or the recent
paper summarising the \development, implementation
and impact of a new preprint solicitation process at|
Proceedings B" [https://royalsocietypublishing.org/-
doi/10.1098/rspb.2021.1248])September 1, 2021 EvolDir 43
If you are interested in joining the team, please send
a brief CV, your current institution and position, and
the subject group(s) for which you would be a good t.
We'd also like to hear why you would be interested in
joining us, and how your addition to the team would
broaden our perspectives and voices. In particular, our
team is not yet globally representative, which is why we
particularly encourage applications from students and
postdocs from the global south
Applications should be send to Robin
Bagley [bagley.72@osu.edu], Gozia Gazda
[m.gazda@cibio.up.pt], or Friederike Hillemann
[friederike hillemann@eva.mpg.de].
We are currently recruiting new team members for the
following subject groups:
-||| Animal Behavior & Cognition -||| Biochem-
istry -||| Bioinformatics -||| Biophysics -|||
Cancer Biology -||| Cell Biology -||| Develop-
mental Biology -||| Ecology -||| Epidemiology
-||| Evolutionary biology -||| Genetics -|||
Genomics -||| Immunology -||| Microbiology
-||| Molecular Biology -||| Neuroscience -|||
Paleontology -||| Physiology -||| Plant Biology
-||| Scientic Communication and Education -|||
Systems Biology -||| Zoology
Friederike Hillemann <friederike hillemann@eva.mpg.de >
GlobalInvertebrate
GenomicsAlliance JoinToday
Dear interested GIGA Members,
I'm writing as the Global Invertebrate Genomics Al-
liance (GIGA) early-career Vice President to try and
get YOU to join our mission. The overarching goal
of GIGA is to form a collaborative network of diverse
scientists that wish to advance the state of invertebrate
(non-insect/non-nematode) genomic research for the in-
ternational scientic community. If you are interested
in invertebrates, genetics, genomics, or learning more I
encourage you to become a member.
One of the great things about GIGA is that member-
ship is free and we don't require an annual renewal of
membership. In the past we have had travel and re-
search grant opportunities for anyone working on invert
related genetic/omic projects. Our alliance is going
strong with 257 members and it's nearly time to elect
new ocers for our 2-year positions (President, VicePresident (VP) for Conferences, VP for Early Career
Development/Scholarships, and VP for Development
and Fund Raising).
What we need from you:
Please visit https://www.giga-cos.org/membership-join-
giga/ and complete the membership form, even if you
have done so previously. It's a very simple form that
takes no time to complete. Also, please consider sharing
this message with any colleagues interested in inver-
tebrate genomics who may not be a member of the
alliance.
We look forward to seeing you in GIGA! Everyone is
welcomed.
All the best,
Heather Bracken-Grissom
Heather Bracken-Grissom, PhD Assistant Director of
the Coastlines and Oceans Division Associate Professor,
Institute of Environment & Dept. of Biological Sciences
North American Governor, The Crustacean Society
Florida International University-Biscayne Bay Campus
3000 NE 151 Street, MSB-361 North Miami, Florida
33181, USA 305 919-4190 (Phone) 305 919-5838 (lab)
CRUSTOMICS: Crustacean Genomics and Sys-
tematics Lab http://www.brackengrissomlab.com/-
heather.brackengrissom@u.edu www.u.edu/ ~marine
Heather Bracken-Grissom <hbracken@u.edu >
UZurich Internship
TheoEvolBiology
Internship in Theoretical Evolutionary Biology and
Database Design and Implementation / Software Engi-
neering
We are seeking an intern for a 3 month project to design
and implement a database with a web-based interface.
The position is available in the Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology and Environmental Sciences at the
University of Zurich.
Your responsibilities The intern will design and imple-
ment a database of mathematical models published in
academic journals in the domain of evolutionary biology.
The database will be accessed via a web-based inter-
facedesigned and implemented by the intern. The pri-
mary users of the database will be academic researchers.
The intern will be supervised by a PostDoc.44 EvolDir September 1, 2021
Your prole You have a Bachelor degree in computer
science and previous experience in web-based database
design and implementation. A good command in En-
glish is required, experience in theoretical/mathematical
biology is a plus.
We oer - an excellent opportunity to gain credentials
and experience in database design and implementation
- exible working hours and an attractive work environ-
ment at one of the Switzerland >1
2s leading universities.
Place of work Laboratory of Prof. Hanna Kokko De-partment of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental
Studies University of Zurich Winterthurerstrasse 190
8057 Zurich
State of employment The employment start date is
exible but not later than September 2021. Appli-
cants should submit a CV toTadeas Priklopiltadeas-
jan.priklopil@uzh.ch. Application review will start now
until the position is lled. Tadeas Priklopilwill be
pleased to answer you questions.
Tadeas Priklopil <tadeasjan.priklopil@uzh.ch >
PostDocs
Barcelona PredictingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
BaylorCollege Texas PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . 46
Brazil PlantMicrobeInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
CambridgeUK 2 BioinformaticsModelling . . . . . . . . . .47
CISRO Australia Skink eDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48
CornellU AshBorerMicrobes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
Czechia ExperimentalComputationalMicrobiology . 50
EasternWashingtonU PopGenSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . 51
HarvardU ComparativePopulationGenomics . . . . . . . 51
ImperialC London ForestMicroclimate . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
IowaStateU 2 TurtleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
JagiellonianU GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
KielU MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
LMU Munich PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
LundU ProteinEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
MichiganState SpatialPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . 57
MichiganStateU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
MissouriBotanicalGarden 2 PlantEvolutionaryBiology
58
MIZ Poland BeetlePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
NorthCarolinaStateU Computational Evolutionary Ge-
netics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
NTNU Norway PDF PhD EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . 60
Okinawa 3 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
OklahomaStateU EvolGeneticsAmphibianDisease . .61
OregonStateU MarineEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 62
PennsylvaniaStateU 2 DeerConservation . . . . . . . . . . .63
Postdoc:UTexas MitochondrialMutations . . . . . . . . . . 64
Princeton EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64RiceU Texas Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
RutgersU TickGenomicsDiseaseSurveillance . . . . . . . 65
Senckenberg Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Swedish MNH InsectDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
TexasStateU HostPathogenDynamicsCoevolution . . 67
UBath SocialSignals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
UCalifornia Berkeley ConservationPopulationGenomics
69
UCalifornia Davis PopulationAdaptationGenomics 69
UCaliforniaRiverside EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 70
UCalifornia SantaBarbara EvolutionaryEpigenomics 71
UCollegeLondon MitonuclearCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . 71
UGeneva ModellingPaleogenomicData . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
ULiverpool DrosophilaNutritionLifehistory . . . . . . . . 72
UMichigan ComparativeGenomicsFungi . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UMinnesota PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UNewHampshire EcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UNorthCarolina Charlotte CnidarianDiversity . . . . . 74
UOttawa ConservationAndClimate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UOulu BiodiverseAnthropocenes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
USouthCarolina PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . 76
USouthernMississippi MarineEDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UTurku EvolutionDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UWindsor StressResponseChips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UWisconsin Milwaukee KelpGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
UZurich MicrobiomeInsectReproduction . . . . . . . . . . . 79
YorkU Canada EcolEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . .80September 1, 2021 EvolDir 45
Barcelona PredictingEvolution
Predicting evolution (postdoc in Barcelona): Comparing
the approaches of evo-devo and quantitative genetics in
predicting articial selection experiments.
1.Job/ project description:
The research will involve using, rening and adapting
an existing mathematical model of wing morphogenesis
to explore whether it can be used to predict how wing
morphology changes over generations in an articial
selection experiment. In addition, we will estimate the
matrix of additive genetic covariances between morpho-
logical traits in the wings of the experiment (12 traits
per wing to fully conform a multivariate analysis). In
contrast to most existing experiments we will estimate
this G matrix in each generation to better predict mor-
phological evolution in the experiment. This matrix
will also be used to predict the result of the articial
selection experiments. We will then compare, quanti-
tatively, the predictive accuracy of the developmental
model approach compared to the quantitative genetics
approach. We will not just check which approach better
predicts evolution, we will also study which aspects of
morphological evolution (e.g. linear/non-linear, dimen-
sionality, etc.) are better predicted by one approach or
the other and why.
The research will take place in the Genetics and Micro-
biology Department of the Autonomous University of
Barcelona but in close collaboration with the Biotech-
nology Institute in the University of Helsinki.
The job is for 1,5 years and it may be extendable for
two more years.
2. Background:
The process of embryonic development is now widely ac-
knowledged to be crucial to understand evolution since
any change in the phenotype in evolution (e.g. morphol-
ogy) is rst a change in the developmental process by
which this phenotype is produced. Over the years we
have come to learn that there is a set of developmental
rules that determine which phenotypic variation can
possibly arise in populations due to genetic mutation
(the so called genotype-phenotype map). Since natural
selection can act only on existing phenotypic variation,
these rules of development have an eect on the direction
of evolutionary change.
Our group is devoted to understand these developmental
rules and how these can help to better understand thedirection of evolutionary change. The ultimate goal is
to modify evolutionary theory by considering not only
natural selection in populations but also developmen-
tal biology in populations. For that aim we combine
mathematical models of embryonic development that
relate genetic variation to morphological variation with
population models. The former models are based on
what is currently known in developmental biology.
There are two traditional approaches to study pheno-
typic evolution. One is quantitative genetics and one
is developmental evolutionary biology. The former is
based in the statistics of the association between ge-
netic relatedness and phenotypic variation between in-
dividuals in populations, the latter in the genetic and
bio-mechanical manipulation of the development of lab
individuals. While the former models trait variation
with an statistical linear approach the latter models it by
deterministic non-linear models of gene networks and tis-
sue bio-mechanics. For the most, these two approaches
are largely isolated from each other.
The current project aims to contrast and put together
these two approaches in a specic easy to study system:
the y wing. In brief, we are growing y populations
and, in each generation, we select the founders of the
next generation based on how close they resemble an
arbitrary optimal morphology in their wings (based on
the proportions between several of their traits). In each
generation also, we estimate the G matrix and the selec-
tion gradient to see how well one can predict evolution
in the next generation. The quantitative genetics predic-
tions will be contrasted with the predictions stemming
from a wing morphogenesis model that we built based
on our current understanding of wing developmental
biology (see Dev Cell. 2015 Aug 10;34(3):310-22 for
the model and for slightly similar approaches: Nature.
2013 May 16;497(7449):361-4. and Nature. 2010 Mar
25;464(7288):583-6 and
Evolution. 2020 Feb;74(2):230-244)
Our groups in Barcelona and Helsinki include researchers
working in the developmental biology of teeth, wing,
brain and coating patterns and bioinformaticians, popu-
lational and quantitative geneticists, systems biologists
and paleontologists.
3. Requirements:
The applicant must hold a PhD in either evolutionary
biology, developmental biology, quantitative genetics,
statistics, morphometrics or in evolutionary develop-
mental biology (evo-devo). Applicants with a PhD in
theoretical or mathematical biology are also welcome.
Programming skills or a willingness to acquire them is
required.46 EvolDir September 1, 2021
The most important requirement is a strong interest
and motivation on science and evolution. A capacity for
creative and critical thinking is
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BaylorCollege Texas
PopulationGenomics
Title: Postdoctoral Associate Division: Molecular and
Human Genetics Schedule: Monday - Friday, 8 am - 5
pm Work Location: Texas Medical Center, Houston,
TX Salary Range: $54,540 FLSA Status: Exempt Req-
uisition ID: 7940 Summary
The Atkinson lab in the Department of Molecular &
Human Genetics is recruiting a motivated Postdoctoral
Associate to lead research projects in statistical and
population genomics across diverse human populations.
This postdoc will use large-scale genomic datasets to
decrease disparities in genetics research across ances-
try groups. They will have opportunities for driving
analyses in consortium projects and gain mentorship
experience via helping to train junior investigators in
the group. The postdoc will have the exibility to tailor
projects to their own related areas of interest and work
on a range of eorts, including: - Elucidating the genetic
architecture of complex (primarily psychiatric) traits
in diverse cohorts using ancestry-informed methods for
GWAS, PRS, and heritability analyses - Extending and
developing statistical and computational tools for the
improved genomic study of diverse populations - Charac-
terizing patterns of admixture, demographic history, and
evidence of natural selection for key human phenotypes
in diverse understudied cohorts
Our lab is in the leadership of multiple international con-
sortia including the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium
(PTSD working group), Neuropsychiatric Genetics in
African Populations study (NeuroGAP), and the Latin
American Genomics Consortium, aording trainees ac-
cess to a wealth of diverse large-scale genomic datasets
containing a wide range of phenotypes for potential
study. Baylor College of Medicine is a global leader
in genetics research and provides a vibrant multidisci-
plinary research environment with close links to manyother world-class institutions in the Texas Medical Cen-
ter as well as BCM-aliated hospitals across Houston.
As a member of our team, you will be provided the
opportunity for your contributions to be utilized and
recognized across the vast global network of researchers
in the elds of genomics and psychiatric disease research.
The successful candidate will take ownership of their
project, including involvement in the design, implemen-
tation and troubleshooting of analyses, interpretation of
data & results, and writing manuscripts and abstracts
to report the discoveries in the forms of journal publica-
tions and conference communications.
Job Duties
- Analyze large genomic datasets including ancestrally
diverse participants and/or modeling demographic his-
tory. - Characterize the genetic basis of psychiatric and
other complex disorders. - Conduct analysis of large-
scale datasets in a high-performance computing cluster
or cloud-based system. - Build exible analytic pipelines
and computational resources for study of diverse cohorts.
- Implement statistical genetic tests. - Interact with and
training of junior researchers from diverse backgrounds.
- Disseminate results in the form of publications and
conference presentations.
Minimum Qualications
* MD or Ph.D. in Basic Science, Health Science, or a
related eld. * No experience required.
Preferred Qualications
Candidates with backgrounds in genomics, population
genetics, bioinformatics, and/or statistics would thrive
in our group. Ideal candidates for this role would have a
PhD in a relevant eld and experience/interest in several
of the following domains: - Analyzing genomic datasets
including ancestrally diverse participants and/or model-
ing demographic history - Conducting analysis of large-
scale datasets in a Unix system on a high-performance
computing cluster or cloud-based system - Coding ex-
perience, preferably with some background in python
and/or R - Comfort with statistical analysis, especially
linear/logistic regression - Willingness to interact with
and train junior researchers from diverse backgrounds
- Strong writing and presentation skills - Scientic cre-
ativity and the ability to work well in a team as well as
independently
Strong skills in genomics and an interest in diverse pop-
ulations are expected. While we study a range of phe-
notypes and populations, our work is centered around
psychiatric traits and mixed populations, so experience
in these areas is a plus.
Baylor College of Medicine is an Equal Opportu-September 1, 2021 EvolDir 47
nity/Armative Action/Equal Access Employer.
Elizabeth Atkinson, PhD
Assistant Professor Department of Molecular and Hu-
man Genetics Lab / Oce: 619 / 621 Taub Research
Center Baylor College of Medicine egatkinsonlab.com
\Atkinson, Elizabeth G"
<Elizabeth.Atkinson@bcm.edu >
Elizabeth.Atkinson@bcm.edu
Brazil PlantMicrobeInteractions
Are you interested in complex systems? Come join
GaTE as a PD fellow to uncover the contribution of
genes, genomes and transposable elements at the inter-
face of plant-microbe interactions. This is one of the
fundamental processes for the functioning of natural and
agricultural ecosystems.The project integrates molecu-
lar and bioinformatics approaches from heterogeneous
data produced by NGS sequencing of multiple organ-
isms in support of a systems biology view. The selected
candidate is expected to address data sources locally
produced, contribute with modeling network inferences
and predictive outputs.
The position is announced athttps://-
euraxess.ec.europa.eu/jobs/673083 The fellowship
period is 18 months and may be extended up to 24
months based on performance. Those interested should
send a concise CV to gate.pd.gemac@gmail.com, a letter
describing your interest in the vacancy, a one-page of
the challenges and results achieved during the doctoral
period, two letters of recommendation from advisors
and/or supervisors and a two-page work plan describing
how you can contribute to this project.
Expertise in programming is expected. Modelling bio-
logical data and database development are considered
dierential skills. Interest to use IA to integrate biologi-
cal networks is a plus.Science background and previous
experience will be considered. It is expected that the
applicant publication record supports your informed
expertise. Please, provide your ORCID, Publons and
Google Scholar web link.
Based on the applications received, candidate expertise
and research output, an interview will follow for the
ve most related to the subject area of the announced
position.Applicants must have obtained their PhD no
later than in the past 6 years.The vacancy is open to Brazilians and foreigners. The
selected candidate will receive a FAPESP Post-Doctoral
Research Fellowship.
Marie Anne van Sluys <mavsluys@usp.br >
CambridgeUK 2
BioinformaticsModelling
Dear colleagues,
two post-doc positions are open in the Evolutionary
Ecology Group, Department of Zoology, University of
Cambridge UK ( http://www.eeg.zoo.cam.ac.uk). Infor-
mal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to
the PI, Professor Andrea Manica, am315@cam.ac.uk.
*Local adaptation in humans * https://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/30697/ Fixed-term: funds
available until 28 February 2022.
We are looking for a highly motivated post-doctoral
researcher with advanced skills in bioinformatics and
experience handling large datasets to contribute to a
project on local adaptation in humans.
You will be an excellent team player, with enthusiasm
for working with colleagues in dierent disciplines. The
preferred start date is as soon as possible, given the
short duration of the post.
The successful candidate will join an ERC-funded
project, led by Professor Andrea Manica, that aims to
test hypotheses on drivers of selection for locally adapted
genes in humans. The project will take advantage of
a novel spatial modelling framework and paleoclimate
reconstructions to disentangle complex demographies
and heterogeneous selection pressures in space and time.
The PDRA will help with the processing of published
genomes (both contemporary and modern) to be used
in the modelling. Depending on interest and time, there
will be opportunities to be involved in the modelling of
some of the case studies.
You should hold a PhD in bioinformatics, genetics or
a relevant subject, and demonstrable skills in handling
large genomic datasets (but it does not have to be on hu-
mans). Previous experience working on selection would
be desirable. You will enjoy working with a wide range
of people, as part of a team, and be able to organise
your time eectively.
*Application*: go to the page https://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/30697/, click the 'Apply'48 EvolDir September 1, 2021
button at the bottom to register an account with
the recruitment system (if you have not already) and
apply online. Please quote reference PF27495 on your
application and in any correspondence about this
vacancy.
*Local adaptation in space and time * https://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/30698/ Fixed-term: funds
available until 28 February 2022.
We are looking for a highly motivated post-doctoral
researcher with advanced skills in population genetics
to expand a novel spatial modelling framework to test
hypotheses on the drivers of local adaptation.
You will have excellent coding skills in C++, and help
develop additional modules for the modelling framework
to cover dierent types of selection.
The successful candidate will join an ERC-funded
project, led by Professor Andrea Manica, that aims
to test hypotheses on drivers of selection for locally
adapted genes in humans. The project will take ad-
vantage of a novel spatial modelling framework and
paleoclimate reconstructions to disentangle complex de-
mographies and heterogeneous selection pressures in
space and time. The PDRA will work on model devel-
opment, but, depending on interest and time, there will
be the opportunity to be involved in the application of
the models to some of the case studies.
You should hold a PhD in bioinformatics, genetics or a
relevant subject, and demonstrable skills in coding in
C++. Previous experience building population genetics
models, ideally with selection, is essential. You will
enjoy working with a wide range of people, as part of a
team, and be able to organise your time eectively.
*Application*: go to the page https://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/30698/, click the 'Apply'
button at the bottom to register an account with
the recruitment system (if you have not already) and
apply online. Please quote reference PF27497 on your
application and in any correspondence about this
vacancy.
Michela Leonardi <ml897@cam.ac.uk >
CISRO Australia Skink eDNA
Hello all
I am happy to announce that applications are open for
a postdoctoral position to lead the development of aproject using eDNA methods to study the biology of
tjakura, the Great Desert Skink Liopholis kintorei, in
Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park (UKTNP), the iconic
heart of Australia >1
2s red centre. We seek an innova-
tive specialist to play a lead role in developing eDNA
methodology that will help build a picture of tjakura >1
2s
population biology in UKTNP and guide its conserva-
tion and management.
The postdoctoral fellow will be employed through
Australia >1
2s federal science agency, CSIRO https:/-
/www.csiro.au/en/, and strongly supported by Parks
Australia https://parksaustralia.gov.au/, a branch
within Australia >1
2s federal Department of Agriculture,
Water and Environment. To be based in Canberra at
CSIRO >1
2s Australian National Wildlife Collection
https://www.csiro.au/en/about/facilities-collections/-
collections/anwc, the Fellow will work closely with the
traditional owners of Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park
https://parksaustralia.gov.au/uluru/in Australia >1
2s
red centre. Also working closely with the Fellow
will be a supervisory team comprising members from
CSIRO >1
2s National Research Collections Australia
https://www.csiro.au/en/about/facilities-collections/-
Collections (Drs Leo Joseph, Andrew Young), Parks
Australia (Drs Nick MacGregor, Samuel Merson)
and the Australian National University (Dr Scott
Keogh) https://biology.anu.edu.au/people/academics/-
professor-scott-keogh . Details about the position and
how to apply are on the CSIRO Careers web page at
https://jobs.csiro.au/job/Canberra%2C-ACT-CSIRO-
Postdoctoral-Fellowship-in-Genomics-and-Population-
Ecology/772339000/ .Please feel free to circulate
this message widely to whomever you think may be
interested. Of course, if you are eligible, please feel very
welcome to apply.
Again, and on behalf of the supervisory team, I would
be very grateful if you can circulate this widely through
your networks and to whomever you think may be in-
terested. Again, should you be eligible please feel free
to apply.
Applications close 31 August
On behalf of the supervisory team,
Kind Regards
Leo
Dr Leo Joseph Director Australian National Wildlife
Collection National Research Collections Australia,
CSIRO GPO Box 1700 Canberra ACT 2601 Aus-
tralia Phone: + 61 (0)2 6242 1689 Fax: + 61 (0)2
6242 1688 Email: Leo.Joseph@csiro.au Web: http://-
people.csiro.au/J/L/Leo-Joseph \Joseph, Leo (NCMI,
Crace)"<Leo.Joseph@csiro.au >September 1, 2021 EvolDir 49
CornellU AshBorerMicrobes
Postdoctoral Position in Evolution of Invasive Insect
Microbiomes
Cornell University, Section of Plant Pathology & Plant
Microbe-Biology, School of Integrative Plant Science,
Ithaca, NY
Position Description:
A postdoctoral position is available to investigate mi-
crobes associated with the emerald ash borer (Agrilus
planipennis), an invasive beetle from Asia. This NSF
funded project will focus on the taxonomic, functional,
and genetic biodiversity of microbes associated with
emerald ash borer and to understand how microbial com-
munities may evolve during colonization of this insect
pest of new environments and ranges. The postdoc will
conduct eldwork in NY, Minnesota, and Georgia in the
U.S. to collect emerald ash borer, ash, and gallery sam-
ples and will use both metagenomic and transcriptomic
approaches to characterize the microbiomes associated
with these environments. They will also investigate
functions of microbes in enabling insect infection of ash
trees. Functional traits of microbes that may be investi-
gated in laboratory and greenhouse bioassays include
degradation of lignocellulose, detoxication of ash plant
defense compounds, vectoring plant pathogenic fungi to
enhance disease, or entomopathogenic fungi with the po-
tential for biocontrol. This project will collaborate with
parallel work being conducted in East Asia (China) to
characterize evolutionary changes in microbial symbiont
communities between the native and invasive ranges of
this insect.
Anticipated Division of Time: Field research - 25%,
Laboratory Research - 25%, Computational Data anal-
ysis - 30%, Writing - 15%, Mentoring graduate and
undergraduate students - 5%.
Requirements: A PhD in Plant Biology, Fungal Biol-
ogy/Mycology, Entomology, Molecular Biology, Forestry
or a related eld required. Experience isolating and
identifying microbes using metabarcoding or metage-
nomic approaches, experience using R and other software
packages to analyze microbial community composition
and structure, and a willingness to learn computational
skills to analyze functional gene content of shotgun
metagenomes are highly desirable.
Applications: Applicants should submit a cover letterthat addresses the requirements above, and include a
statement of your research interests and experience, a
curriculum vitae, astatement of diversity, equity, and
inclusion, and the names and contact information for
three references viahttps://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/-
jobs/19116. Applications will be reviewed beginning
onSeptember 8, 2021and the position will remain open
until lled. The start date is exible but should be
before 01/2022.
Application Materials Required:
Submitthe following items online through the above
website:
?? Cover letter ?? Curriculum Vitae ?? A statement
of diversity, equity, and inclusion ?? A one-page state-
ment of past research interests and accomplishments ??
3 Professional References(actual letters acceptable but
not required, just names and contact information)
And anything else requested in the position description.
Further Info: Please contact Dr. Kathryn Bushley
(keb45@cornell.edu) for further information about the
position.
The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS)
at Cornell University embraces diversity and seeks can-
didates who will contribute to a climate that supports
students, faculty, and sta of all identities and back-
grounds. We strongly encourage individuals from un-
derrepresented and/or marginalized identities to apply.
The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences is a pi-
oneer of purpose-driven science and home to Cornell
University???s second largest population of students,
faculty and sta. We work across disciplines to tackle
the challenges of our time through world-renowned re-
search, education and outreach. The questions we probe
and the answers we seek focus on three overlapping
concerns: natural and human systems; food, energy
and environmental resources; and social, physical and
economic well-being. CALS is fundamentally invested
in improving the lives of people, their environments and
their communities both in New York State and around
the world.
Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell Univer-
sity???s heritage. We are a recognized employer and
educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and
Individuals with Disabilities. Employment Assistance:
If you require an accommodation for a disability in order
to complete an employment application or to participate
in the recruiting process, you are encouraged to con-
tact Cornell University's Department of Inclusion and
Workforce Diversity at voice (607) 255-3976, fax (607)
255-7481, or email at owdi@cornell.edu. For general50 EvolDir September 1, 2021
questions about the position or the application process,
please contact the Recruiter listed in the job posting.
Applicants that do not have internet access are encour-
aged to visit your local library, or local Department of
Labor. You may
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Czechia ExperimentalComputa-
tionalMicrobiology
Two postdoctoral positions in experimental and compu-
tational microbiology
The Eukaryotic microbiology group at Centre Algatech,
Institute of Microbiology in Trebon, Czech Republic
is seeking two post-doctoral fellow researchers, one in
Experimental microbiology and another in Computa-
tional genomics. The group, led by Jan Janouskovec,
is under the umbrella of Laboratory of Photosynthesis
and works on the understanding of diversity, evolution
and ecology of protists, algae and cyanobacteria (e.g.,
Janouskovec et al., 2017, PNAS 114(2); Janouskovec
et al., 2017 Curr Biol 27(23); Janouskovec et al., 2019,
eLife 8, e49662). The two positions will focus on charac-
terizing novel metabolic pathways in mitochondria and
plastids of protists and algae, and their importance to
cell biology, organismal interactions and eukaryotic evo-
lution, by computational (bioinformatics and genomics)
and molecular methods (genetic transformation, in-situ
localization, metabolite proling, expression analysis,
compound radiolabelling).
Located in a picturesque historic building in the heart of
a UNESCO biospheric area and regional tourist hotspot,
Centre Algatech hosts several internationally recognized
groups in microbial photosynthesis research. With
a high proportion of international researchers and a
friendly, collegial atmosphere, Centre Algatech is driven
by research excellence and currently hosts several major
grant awards (ERC, EXPRO). The working language
is English. We have outstanding facilities for modern
biological research within the network of the Institute
of Microbiology and strong research ties with the Biol-
ogy Center of the Czech Academy of Sciences and the
University of South Bohemia in Ceske Budejovice, bothlocated in the nearby capital of the South Bohemian
region.
Post-doctoral position in Experimental microbiology:
The candidate will have a PhD in Cell/molecular biol-
ogy, Biochemistry, Microbiology, or Plant/animal biol-
ogy with an enthusiasm for cell biology processes and
metabolism and a record of rst-author publications in
established journals. S(he) will be highly independent
with strong interpersonal skills, and self-motivated to
generate own results. Demonstrable experience with
cell genetics, biochemistry and/or protists (especially
with their lipids and/or phosphorus metabolism) and
a record of striving for research excellence are strong
assets.
Post-doctoral position in Computational genomics: The
candidate will have a PhD in Bioinformatics, Computa-
tional biology, or Evolution. (S)he will have independent
thinking in developing computational pipelines, experi-
ence with big data analysis, and strong communication
skills. The candidate will know Shell, Python/Perl
and/or R ,and have rst-author publications in estab-
lished computational biology research journals. Experi-
ence with laboratory genomic and transcriptomic sample
preparation pipelines is considered a strength.
We oer: The candidates will be given strong, individual
mentorship from the project leader and have the oppor-
tunity to instruct PhD and MSc students. They will
work in modern research facilities and have opportunities
to develop their own research networks by participating
in international meetings. The project involves collab-
oration with the University of Cambridge, University
of Southampton, and the ICM in Barcelona and the
candidates may be asked to travel to these or other
destinations. The institute will oer a post-doctoral
contract based on standard academic pay grades, which
will consider the amount of previous experience. The
contract includes full health and dental insurance paid
by the employer and is topped with generous benets
including lunch vouchers, sport activity vouchers, and a
paid vacation of 30 days per year. The contract will be
for the period of 3 years including an initial probation pe-
riod of 3 months. The area is highly aordable in terms
of living expenses. We strive for gender equality and we
welcome applicants from all minority backgrounds.
The preferred start date for both positions is between
September 2021 and January 2022. Review of applica-
tions will start on August 7, 2021 and continue on a
rolling basis. The positions remain open until lled (at
which point the advertisement will be taken down).
To apply: Please send a SINGLE PDF document in
English containing the following information in the
specied order to the lab assistant Lucie Fraitova:September 1, 2021 EvolDir 51
fraitova@alga.cz: - Motivation letter detailing your t
for the position (1 page max.) - Curriculum Vitae (2
pages max.) - Complete list of peer-reviewed publica-
tions - Contact information for 2 academic referees (do
not include letters with the application)
For further information about the position please con-
tact: Jan Janouskovec: janouskovec fatgalga.cz [1] Cen-
tre Algatech, Institute of Microbiology, Trebon, Czech
Republic
Links:
[1] http://alga.cz janouskovec@alga.cz
EasternWashingtonU
PopGenSymbiosis
Post-Doctoral Researcher in Symbiosis Evolution and
Ecology A two-year postdoctoral research position is
available at Eastern Washington University as part of a
$1.4 million NSF-funded collaborative project with The
New York Botanical Garden titled \Integrating Digiti-
zation, Exploration, Genomics, and Student Training
to Illuminate Forces Shaping Appalachian Lichen Dis-
tributions." The project will examine how intrinsic
biological characteristics and extrinsic environmental
conditions shape species distributions through develop-
ment of lichen symbioses in the Appalachian Mountains
as a model system. The project will involve assembly
of new resources for lichen biodiversity through integra-
tion of existing biodiversity datasets with new data from
extensive eldwork and laboratory study of reproduc-
tive traits. Comparative population genomics of species
with contrasting distribution sizes will yield previously
unparalleled datasets for symbiont specicity, gene ow,
and adaptation.
The postdoctoral researcher will be primarily responsible
for conducting multiple large-scale analyses and publish-
ing the results in high-impact journals. Specically, they
will complete the comparative, multi-symbiont popula-
tion genomics analyses and nal integrative modeling of
the full dataset. Past experience analyzing population
genomics data sets is essential. No prior experience
working with lichens is required. Additional aspects of
the position can be negotiated to match the postdoctoral
researcher's career goals and interests (e.g., include eld
work, undergraduate and graduate student mentoring,
teaching, and public outreach). This position includes
funding for travel to two conferences, workshops, orother networking and training opportunities each year.
The ideal candidate for this position will take advantage
of the opportunity to gain substantial experiences inte-
grating research with undergraduate education. EWU is
a regional comprehensive university and the 20 faculty
members in the Biology Department excel in undergrad-
uate research and education. The Biology Department
also hosts a Master's of Science program that enrolls 25
students. EWU is located in Cheney, Washington, 16
miles south of Spokane, WA, which was recently recog-
nized as one of the up-and-coming small cities in the
USA. Situated at the edge of the Rocky Mountains, a
few hours' drive from the Cascade Mountains, and mul-
tiple large lakes and rivers, the area has a great deal to
oer outdoor recreation enthusiasts. There are multiple
other universities and research institutes in the area
with which EWU faculty maintain active collaborations,
including Washington State University, The University
of Idaho, Gonzaga University, and Pacic Northwest
National Laboratories.
The candidate will be co-mentored by James Lende-
mer at The New York Botanical Garden, and will work
collaboratively with the team in New York City as an
invited research fellow for a portion of their time in this
position.
Requirements:
1. PhD at time of hire in Bioinformatics, Evolution-
ary Biology, Ecology or related elds, 2. Demonstrated
expertise in genomics and bioinformatics, 3. Skills in
manuscript writing and publishing.
Preferred qualications:
1. Ability to analyze population genomics datasets, 2.
Student mentoring and undergraduate teaching, 3. Pub-
lic outreach and science communication, 4. Field and/or
lab work with fungi.
Contact: Jessica Allen with your CV and statement of
interest at jallen73[at]ewu.edu
Award Summary: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/-
showAward?AWD ID=2115191&HistoricalAwards=-
false \Allen, Jessica" <jallen73@ewu.edu >
HarvardU
ComparativePopulationGenomics
We are hiring two postdoctoral fellows to work on an
NIH-funded project focused on the comparative and52 EvolDir September 1, 2021
population genomics of conserved non-coding elements
in birds, building on our published work on PhyloAcc,
a program to infer evolutionary forces acting on non-
coding sequences in a phylogenetic context.
There are two positions. The rst position will be ideal
for a candidate with a background in Bayesian statistics,
and will focus on developing new comparative genomic
models and methods to detect genome-wide signatures
of adaptive evolution on phylogenies and link genomic
and phenotypic variation on trees. The second position
will be ideal for a candidate with a background in popu-
lation genetics or comparative genomics, and will focus
on the within-species population genetics of conserved
non-coding elements, including linking sequence varia-
tion to function in collaboration with colleagues with
expertise in developmental biology. Both positions will
be based at Harvard University in the groups of Scott
Edwards (Organismic and Evolutionary Biology), Jun
Liu (Statistics), and Tim Sackton (Bioinformatics).
Funding is available for multiple (up to 3) years; contin-
uation and extension will be based on ongoing successful
performance. We expect the successful candidates to
be on site so as to maximize interaction with PIs and
others working on the project.
*Qualications* The preferred candidates will have
broad expertise in statistics, computational biology, pop-
ulation genetics, phylogenetics, computer science, or
related elds, and a demonstrated record of research
achievement (via publications or preprints). Candi-
dates for the rst position will benet from expertise
in developing new phylogenetic statistical models and
comparative methods, whereas candidates for the sec-
ond position will benet from expertise in evolutionary
biology, population genetics, or comparative genomics.
Experience with bioinformatics, working with large-scale
data, and computational method development (using
Python, C, C++, or a related language) will benet any
candidate.
However, enthusiasm for the research questions, a track
record of accomplishment, and a desire to learn are more
important than any specic skills.
*Working Environment* The successful candidates will
be based in one or more of the PI labs (Jun Liu, Scott
Edwards, Tim Sackton). The exact logistics are ex-
ible and will depend on the candidate's interests and
experience, and the postdoctoral associates will have
an opportunity to gain experience and training in bioin-
formatics, statistics, population genetics, comparative
genomics, developmental genetics,and ornithology as
necessary. The successful candidates will also have the
opportunity to interact with collaborators Emma Far-
ley (UCSD) and Cli Tabin (Harvard Medical School).The combined experience of our groups spans a wide
range of topics and provides an outstanding opportunity
for training, collaboration, and scientic growth. The
larger scientic environment in Boston is unparalleled
and provides numerous opportunities for engagement,
including the Boston Area Evolutionary Supergroup
and numerous seminar series and journal clubs.
*Contact* Preferred start date would be fall of 2021, but
there is exibility around this. To apply, please send
a CV and cover letter describing interest and previous
experience to Tim Sackton (tsackton at g.harvard.edu),
Scott Edwards (sedwards at fas.harvard.edu), or Jun
Liu (jliu at stat.harvard.edu) cc-ing all three. Informal
inquiries welcome. Applications will be reviewed on a
rolling basis until the position is lled.
We are committed to diversity and especially encourage
members of underrepresented communities to apply.
Tim Sackton, PhD Director of Bioinformatics Infor-
matics Group Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard
University
Tim Sackton <tsackton@g.harvard.edu >
ImperialC London
ForestMicroclimate
Job Title: Research Associate in Forest Microclimate
Ecosystems cannot be understood through piecemeal
studies of their individual components. As a Postdoc-
toral Research Associate in Forest Microclimate, you will
be part of an attempt to generate a synthetic, systems-
level understanding of how a tropical forest ecosystem
operates. We are building a team to create a virtual
rainforest: a general ecosystem model replicating the
physical and biotic components of the ecosystem and
their interactions, with a view to understanding system-
level emergent properties.
You will be responsible of developing a process-based
simulation of the physical environment in a tropical
rainforest ecosystem, that will be one of four modules
that together will form the virtual rainforest (the others
are plants, animals and soil microbes). Your simulation
will be based on inputs of local topography, macro and
regional climate from atmospheric circulation models,
and dynamically updated vegetation structure from the
plants module, from which it will need to predict spatial
and temporal variation in microclimate (e.g. air and
soil temperature, soil moisture, vapour pressure decit),September 1, 2021 EvolDir 53
vertical proles of wind speed and canopy temperature,
and, ideally, streamow (e.g. base ows, ood frequency
and magnitude).
Your primary role will be to develop the physical environ-
ment module of a virtual rainforest simulation, and you
will be assisted in this by additional team members. The
project provides a generous budget for placements and
secondments to collaborate with research groups beyond
our own. The virtual rainforest will rely heavily on data
collected from the SAFE Project (www.safeproject.net),
and you will be required to help with the management
of these datasets. All team members will be expected
to help develop the skills and competencies of their
peers through the sharing of tasks and knowledge, and
you will be given time, resources and encouragement to
pursue your professional development.
We specically encourage female applicants and appli-
cants from underrepresented groups in STEM subjects.
We also welcome applications from candidates that
would like full-time or part-time positions on this project,
and will explore job-sharing arrangements should that
be appropriate.
Applicants from any climate, physics or ecological back-
ground are encouraged to apply. You will be one member
of a core team of ve people, across which we are seeking
team members who provide complementary technical
skills and disciplinary knowledge. Programming experi-
ence - preferably in Python - is essential, and experience
with either process-based or numeric simulation mod-
elling is desirable.
This position is full-time and xed term until 30 Septem-
ber 2024, and will be based at Imperial College London's
Silwood Park Campus.
To apply, visit https://www.imperial.ac.uk/jobs/-
description/NAT00971/research-associate-forest-
microclimate, or go to www.imperial.ac.uk/jobs and
search by the job reference NAT00971. The deadline
for applications is 30-Aug-2021.
Applicants will need to complete an online application,
including a CV and cover letter. Cover letters should
make clear what disciplinary knowledge you possess,
and what subset of the skills required for the whole
team that you would bring.
Should you require any further details on the role please
contact: Prof. Rob Ewers - r.ewers@imperial.ac.uk.
Informal enquiries are welcomed.
\Ewers, Robert M" <r.ewers@imperial.ac.uk >IowaStateU 2 TurtleEvolution
The Valenzuela lab at Iowa State University (https://-
www.eeob.iastate.edu/faculty/valenzuela/) is recruiting
a postdoctoral researcher to work on a 4yr NSF funded
EDGE project to develop functional genomics tools in
turtles using broblasts and organoids for future evolu-
tionary studies.
The ideal candidate will have demonstrated expertise
on molecular techniques, including cell/tissue culture.
Experience with gene-editing, knockdown, and overex-
pression techniques is preferred.
This work is highly collaborative, and training will also
take place in the labs of Maura McGrail and Je Ess-
ner (Genetics, Development, and Cell Biology), and
in the labs of Karin Allenspach and Jonathan Mochel
(Biomedical Sciences, Veterinary Clinical Sciences) at
ISU.
The initial appointment will be for one year from the
date of hire, with the possibility of renewal beyond the
initial term. Inquiries can be e-mailed to Nicole Valen-
zuela (nvalenzu@iastate.edu), and should include a CV
and a brief statement of research/career goals.
Application Deadline: Evaluation will begin 1 Sept 2021,
but inquiries are still highly encouraged after that point.
Start date is available immediately.
The position is at Iowa State University, a premier
land-grant university, in the intellectually vibrant De-
partment of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology
(http://www.eeob.iastate.edu/).
To apply, please submit your materials at the
following link: https://isu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
IowaStateJobs/job/Ames-IA/Postdoc-in-Turtle-
Functional-Genomics R5971 Dr. Nicole Valenzuela
Professor Dept. of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal
Biology Iowa State University Bessey Hall, Ames,
IA 50011-4009 URL https://www.eeob.iastate.edu/-
faculty/valenzuela/ Voice (515) 294-1285; FAX
515-294-1337
|{
Postdoc in Turtle Molecular Cytogenetics
A Postdoctoral position in Turtle Molecular Cytogenet-
ics is open in the laboratory of Dr. Nicole Valenzuela at
Iowa State University (https://www.eeob.iastate.edu/-
faculty/valenzuela/) to work on the evolution of genome54 EvolDir September 1, 2021
organization across chelonians.
The ideal candidate will have demonstrated expertiseon
molecular (and classic) cytogenetic techniques such as
FISH, zooFISH, CGH, and be broadly interested in
evolutionary genomics. Experience with non-model ver-
tebrates (such as reptiles) is preferred. Experience with
cell culture is preferred but not required. The initial
appointment will be for one year from the date of hire,
with the possibility of renewal beyond the initial term
depending on availability of funding and upon a satis-
factory performance.
Inquiries can be e-mailed to Nicole Valenzuela
(nvalenzu@iastate.edu), and should include a CV and a
brief statement of research/career goals.
Application Deadline: Evaluation will begin 24 August
2021, but inquiries are still highly encouraged after that
point. Start date is available immediately.
The position is at Iowa State University, a premier
land-grant university, in the intellectually vibrant De-
partment of Ecology,Evolution, and Organismal Biology
(http://www.eeob.iastate.edu/).
To apply, please submit your materials at the
following link: https://isu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
IowaStateJobs/job/Ames-IA/Postdoc-in-Turtle-
Molecular-Cytogenetics R5969 Dr. Nicole Valenzuela
Professor Dept. of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal
Biology Iowa State University Bessey Hall, Ames,
IA 50011-4009 URL https://www.eeob.iastate.edu/-
faculty/valenzuela/ Voice (515) 294-1285; FAX
515-294-1337
\Valenzuela, Nicole [EEOB]" <nvalenzu@iastate.edu >
JagiellonianU GenomeEvolution
Postdoctoral position in Bioinformatics ' JU-FBBB
The \Laboratory of Bioinformatics and Genome Biol-
ogy" lead by Dr. Guillem Ylla will open at the Jagiel-
lonian University (Krakow, Poland) next fall and in-
vites applications for a fully funded 3-year post-doc
position starting between November 2021 and January
2022. The candidate will have the chance to work in
a young lab, collaborate with international researchers,
and use state-of-the-art technologies, infrastructure, and
methodologies to study the evolution of genomes and
gene regulatory networks.
We are seeking a motivated candidate interested in ana-lyzing \omics" data to unveil the dierent mechanisms
of gene expression regulation and genome evolution.
The candidate will also participate in writing articles
and grants, mentoring students, and managing the lab
resources. Candidates belonging to minority groups are
strongly encouraged to apply. We oer a competitive
postdoc salary plus all benets available for university
employees.
Requirements:
- Ph.D. in Bioinformatics, Biotechnology, Biology or
similar eld.
- Experience in omics data analysis (at least one of the
following: genomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, or
metagenomics)
- Good communication skills in English (written and
spoken).
- Intermediate or advanced programming skills (R or
Python).
- Familiarity with Linux command line.
Preferences: (not required but are a plus)
- Experience working with data from non-model organ-
isms.
- Interests in evolutionary biology, ecology, and/or
arthropods biology.
- Experience with R-Shiny, Python-Dash, or similar.
To apply:
Please send the following documents by email to Dr.
Guillem Ylla (guillem.ylla@uj.edu.pl) adding \Post-Doc
position application ' Your Name" as email subject .
1- CV including a list of publications.
2- Cover letter describing the research interests (2 pages
max).
3- The contact information (email and phone number)
of 2 to 4 references that might be contacted. Please
state the aliation, position, and role of the references.
About the Lab & PI:
Dr. Guillem Ylla will establish an inclusive and di-
verse research laboratory at the Jagiellonian University
' the oldest and one of the most prestigious universities
in Poland ' Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics and
Biotechnology. Dr. Ylla was trained as a scientist in
world-class research centers and universities in dierent
countries, and published his works in high-impact scien-
tic journals. The laboratory will excel on developing
computational tools, and analyzing omics data to study
the evolution of the gene expression mechanisms and
how these have shaped the evolution.September 1, 2021 EvolDir 55
This position will give you the opportunity to work
closely with the PI., have research autonomy, mentor
students, engage with international collaborators, and
publish your work in scientic journals.
For informal inquiries contact Dr. Guillem Ylla
(guillem.ylla@uj.edu.pl) with the email subject \Inquiry
about the Post-Doc position ' Your Name"
{
Guillem Ylla, Ph.D. Post-Doctoral Fellow
Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology
Harvard University
https://guillemylla.github.io https://es.linkedin.com/-
in/gylla https://www.researchgate.net/-
prole/Guillem Ylla \Ylla, Guillem"
<guillem ylla@fas.harvard.edu >
KielU
MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics
In the Genomic Microbiology Group of Prof. Tal Da-
gan at the Institute of Microbiology at Kiel University,
Germany, a
Postdoc position (m/w/d)
in the eld of computational evolutionary microbiology
is available for an initially limited period of 36 months
at the earliest possible date. The weekly working time
corresponds to 100% of full employment (If the legal
requirements under collective bargaining law are met,
the tari grouping is carried out up to pay scale 13
TV-L. The obligation to teach amounts to 4 hours.
The Genomic Microbiology Group research interests are
focused on microbial genome evolution with an emphasis
on the study of lateral gene transfer. In our research we
use both computational and experimental approaches
(see www.uni-kiel.de/genomik). The position oers the
opportunity to develop an independent research pro-
le within the group research focus. The successful
applicant is expected to be involved in teaching of bioin-
formatics and molecular evolution, including the devel-
opment of teaching materials (lectures/exercises/short
videos).
Your prole: Doctoral or PhD degree in Molecular
Evolution, Bioinformatics or related elds. Knowledge
and experience in programming (e.g., Python) and bio-
statistical analysis (e.g., with R or MatLab). Any ofthe following expertise is an advantage: the analysis of
genomic or transcriptomic data, phylogenetic reconstruc-
tion, comparative genomics. Good oral and written
communication skills in English. Ability to teach in
German is an advantage (alternatively, an indication to
do so from the 2nd year on). Skills and motivation to
communicate and interact with other scientists.
The Christian-Albrechts-University sees itself as a mod-
ern and cosmopolitan employer. We welcome your ap-
plication regardless of your age, gender, cultural and
social background, religion, ideology, disability or sexual
identity. We promote equality of the sexes.
The Christian-Albrechts-University is committed to the
employment of people with disabilities. Preference will
be given to applications from severely handicapped per-
sons and persons of equal standing, provided they are
suitable.
We expressly welcome applications from people with a
migration background.
For enquiries regarding the position, teaching obliga-
tions and research topic please contact Prof. Tal Dagan:
tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de.
Applications should be submitted by email to Mrs.
Haacks (dhaacks@ifam.uni-kiel.de) as a single PDF and
include: (1) a letter of motivation (max 1 page, Ar-
ial 11, line spacing 1.15), (2) CV, (3) PhD certicate.
Please use 'GMG postdoc application - [your name]' as
a subject.
Please, refrain from sending us application photos.
Application deadline: August 31 2021 or until the posi-
tion is lled. Interviews will take place during Septem-
ber/October 2021. The planned starting date for the
position is exible (but in 2021).
Tal Dagan <tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de >56 EvolDir September 1, 2021
LMU Munich PlantEvolution
Postdoc Position
Faculty of Biology - Princess Therese von Bayern chair
of Systematics, Biodiversity & Evolution of Plants
(Kadereit group:
https://www.en.sysbot.bio.lmu.de/people/professors/-
kadereit/index.html)
Occupation date: As soon as possible
End of application period: 05.09.2021
Remuneration group: TV-L E13
Employment time limit: This position is limited to four
years.
The position is nanced by the Princess Therese von
Bayern Foundation to promote woman in Science at
the LMU Munich (https://www.frauenbeauftragte.uni-
muenchen.de/foerdermoegl/lmu/therese/index.html).
It also oers a research budget of 5,000 Euros annually.
The research topic should match the research area of
the chair, but is otherwise open.
Tasks
Independent research, setting up your own working
group. Independent acquisition of third-party funding.
Supervision of bachelor, master and doctoral theses.
Participation in bachelor- and master-level teaching, e.g.
supervision of practical courses.
Requirements
You have completed a University degree and above-
average doctorate (Ph.D.) in the area of botany, system-
atics, phylogenetics, biodiversity, ecology, or evolution.
You are aiming for a scientic career. You are enjoying
working in teams while at the same time shaping your
own research prole.
Our oer Your work place is located at the Chair for
Systematics, Biodiversity & Evolution of plants at Men-
zinger Str. 67 in Munich. There is a close cooperation
with the Botanical Garden M unchen-Nymphenburg and
the Botanische Staatssammlung M unchen. The central
facilities of the Chair (molecular laboratory, climate
chambers, microscopy, etc.) can be used. The remu-
neration group is based on TV-L E13. The position
is initially limited to one year, but can be extended
for up to four years. The position has an annual re-search budget of 5,000 Euros. There is the possibility
of habilitation. Part-time employment is principally
possible. Severely disabled people are preferred if they
have essentially the same qualications.
Contact Please send your convincing application doc-
uments (including motivation letter, research concept,
CV, and list of publications) by 05.09.2021 the latest via
e-mail (PDF max 5MB) to Prof. Dr. Gudrun Kadereit.
E-mail: G.Kadereit@lmu.de For further questions do
not hesitate to contact Prof. Dr. Gudrun Kadereit.
E-mail: G.Kadereit@lmu.de
An^Ae^Aerdoner ~Aalasan<A.Zerdoner@lmu.de >
LundU ProteinEvolution
There is a post-doc position available in Gemma Atkin-
son's protein evolution group in Lund University.
Information and application instructions here:https:/-
/atkinson-lab.com/post-doctoral-scholarship-in-
bioinformatics/ In the Atkinson lab our aim is to
make fundamental discoveries about the evolution of
protein function and structure. We work mainly with
bioinformatic methods, developing our own tools and
taking advantage of the huge amounts of available
genome and predicted proteome sequences. One of our
main research directions concerns toxin-antitoxin (TA)
systems of bacteria and bacteriophages. Our studies of
toxSAS TA enzymes that dramatically inhibit bacterial
growth though producing poisonous nucleotides, or
modifying tRNA have recently been recently published
in PNAS [1] and Molecular Cell [2], respectively, and
our recent discovery of a hyperpromiscuous antitoxin
domain that we have named Panacea is currently
in revision [3]. As a mechanism of defence against
bacteriophages, TAs have signicance for developing
new biotechnological tools, as well as understanding
and eventually overcoming natural barriers to phage
therapy for treating antibiotic resistant infections.
Our work on toxin-antitoxins, and their evolution,
structure, function and biotechnological applications
was recently supported by a generous project grant
from the Knut and Alice Wallenberg foundation
(https://kaw.wallenberg.org/grundforskning-djupt-
inne-i-bakteriernas-arvsmassa).
The post-doctoral scholarship will be an opportunity for
scientic development in protein bioinformatics and skill
acquisition in coding and web development. Building onSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 57
the success of our gene-neighbourhood analysis Python
tool FlaGs (www.webags.se) [4], you will be participat-
ing in the development of bioinformatic methods for the
discovery of new exciting biology. The bioinformatic
predictions will be tested experimentally in our group
and through our collaborative network.
References
Jimmy, S. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S
A 117, 10500-10510 (2020). Kurata, T. et
al.Molecular Cell81(15): 3160-3170 Kurata, T. et
al.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.05.07.442387v1(2021).
Saha, C. K. et al. Bioinformatics37, 1312-1314 (2021).
For more information email gemma.atkinson@med.lu.se
Gemma C. Atkinson Associate Professor Department
of Experimental Medicine,Lund University, Sweden
https://atkinson-lab.com/ gemma.atkinson@med.lu.se
Gemma Atkinson <gemma.atkinson@med.lu.se >
MichiganState
SpatialPopulationGenetics
The Bradburd Lab at Michigan State University is look-
ing for a postdoc to join the lab and work on NIH-funded
research in spatial population genetics. Possible projects
include: using pedigrees to estimate population density
landscapes; two-locus models for the analysis of spatial
population structure over genealogical strata; spatial
models for identifying adaptive introgression or studying
polygenic adaptation.
Research in the Bradburd Lab combines computational
and statistical approaches, with a strong emphasis on
empirical data analysis. The position is ideal for some-
one with training in statistical, theoretical, or compu-
tational population genetics, and/or someone with a
strong background in evolution, mathematical biology,
statistics, or computing, and an interest in population
genetics.
The position is available for up to three years (starting
at 1 year, with annual review), with a starting salary
of$52,000/yr and full benets. Given the uncertainties
surrounding the state of the pandemic, the successful
candidate may work remotely (i.e. ghostdoc), at least
for the rst year of the position, and possibly beyond.
The expected start date is January 2022, but that date
can be exible for the right candidate.
The Bradburd lab values diversity and is committed tocreating a safe, welcoming, and supportive lab environ-
ment. Applications from candidates with related scien-
tic interests who are also passionate about diversity,
equity, and inclusion in STEM are strongly encouraged.
Michigan State is an excellent place to be a postdoc,
with an extraordinarily favorable cost-of-living : salary
ratio, as well as many other labs engaged in exciting
population genetics and evolutionary research.
Application instructions can be found at http://-
www.genescape.org/recruitment.html. Applications will
be reviewed starting on Sept 13th, but applicants will be
considered until the position is lled. If you're interested
in the position, please contact bradburd[at]msu[dot]edu
with any questions.
Gideon Bradburd (*he/him*) Dept. Integrative Biol-
ogy Michigan State University genescape.org <http://-
www.genescape.org/ >
\bradburd@msu.edu" <bradburd@msu.edu >
MichiganStateU EvolutionaryBiol
MSU PRESIDENTIAL POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW-
SHIP IN ECOLOGY, EVOLUTION, AND BEHAVIOR
The Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior (EEB) program
at Michigan State University invites applications for the
MSU Presidential Postdoctoral Fellowship in Ecology,
Evolution, and Behavior.
The position is for two years, subject to review after
one year, and will begin no later than September 1st,
2022. It has a starting annual salary of $60,000 plus
benets, as well as a research stipend of $8,000 per year.
We encourage applications from candidates in any early-
career stage, from nishing PhD students to current
postdoctoral scholars.
The Fellow will be a fully participating member of EEB
at MSU and will be expected to have a cutting-edge
research program that bridges the interests of two or
more EEB core faculty members. A list of possible fac-
ulty mentors can be found here: https://eeb.msu.edu/-
people/core-faculty/. Candidates should contact po-
tential faculty mentors before applying, as sponsoring
faculty will need to submit letters of support. The Fel-
low will also propose a community engagement initiative;
possible ideas include (but are not limited to): a work-
shop on diversity, equity, and inclusion, professional
development, or a technical research skill; a science
communication or public engagement product or event;58 EvolDir September 1, 2021
a public science initiative, a journal discussion group;
curriculum development; etc.
APPLICATION COMPONENTS: Applications (in-
cluding letters of reference) must be submitted
via Careers@MSU <https://careers.msu.edu/en-us/-
job/507553/research-associatexed-term >(Position
724329) and received by November 12th, 2021. Materials
include: cover letter, CV, past and future research state-
ment, community engagement proposal, DEI statement,
and up to 2 publications, preprints, or manuscripts
representative of the applicant's work. Additionally,
applicants should have letters of support from 2 refer-
ences and a single joint letter from the proposed EEB
sponsors.
For more information on the MSU Foundation EEB
Postdoctoral Fellowship, including detailed applica-
tion instructions and the current cohort of Fellows,
please see https://eeb.msu.edu/initiatives/postdoctoral-
fellowship/ . Michigan State University is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action employer, and actively
encourages applications and/or nominations of women,
persons of color, veterans, and persons with disabil-
ities. International candidates are eligible. E-mail
questions to committee chair: Gideon Bradburd (brad-
burd@msu.edu) (however don't send your application
material to this email).
\Meek, Mariah" <mhmeek@msu.edu >
MissouriBotanicalGarden 2
PlantEvolutionaryBiology
The Center for Conservation and Sustainable Develop-
ment (CCSD) at the Missouri Botanical Garden (MBG)
seeks to hire two full-time postdoctoral scholars. One po-
sition will focus on studying Neotropical plant evolution,
biogeography and community assembly and another on
population genomics & ecological restoration in the U.S.
midwest (descriptions below).
Candidates with a completed Ph.D. or that will soon
graduate with a Ph.D. in Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Botany, Genetics, Restoration Science, Envi-
ronmental Science, Conservation Biology, or a related
eld are encouraged to apply. The term for these po-
sitions will be up to 2 years, with renewal in the 2nd
year contingent on satisfactory performance. Salary will
be commensurate with experience, and the positions
include a comprehensive benets package.Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until either the positions are lled or until the
application closes on December 15, 2021. The goal
is to have the successful applicants in place by spring
of 2022. Applications can be submitted at: https://-
us60.dayforcehcm.com/CandidatePortal/en-US/MBG
POSITION 1. Postdoctoral Fellow on Plant Evolution,
Biogeography and Community Assembly
The postdoc will work closely with Drs. Christine Ed-
wards and J. Sebastian Tello at MBG as part of an
NSF-funded project to study how mountain uplift has
shaped the plant diversity of the Tropical Andes, the
most species-rich biodiversity hotspot in the World. The
postdoc will work with existing biodiversity datasets
and generate new phylogenomic information using tis-
sue samples collected in Latin America. The focus of
the project is to study how the uplift of the Andes has
shaped the evolution and distribution of species and the
assembly of tree communities. During this work, the
postdoc will have an opportunity to build their skills
in bioinformatics, molecular phylogenetic reconstruc-
tion and biogeographical analyses, as well as to interact
with MBG researchers and collaborators in the U.S.
and Latin America. Further details and applications
at: https://us60.dayforcehcm.com/CandidatePortal/en-
US/MBG/Posting/View/755 Essential Duties and Re-
sponsibilities: * Conducts DNA sequencing, genotyping
and or/ data mining of DNA sequences databases * Con-
ducts phylogeny reconstruction, biogeographic analyses,
and analyses of trait evolution. * Conducts analyses of
phylogenetic community composition and turnover. *
Conducts research and writes results for publication in
collaboration with researchers in North America and
Latin America. * Participates in scientic meetings and
delivers lectures to professional organizations and to the
general public.
Qualications/Experience: * Strong background includ-
ing (2) years prior experience in one or more of the
following elds: molecular systematics, phylogenomic,
population genomics, biogeographic analysis, phyloge-
netic community ecology. * Strong background including
a minimum of (6) months prior molecular lab experience.
POSITION 2. Postdoctoral Fellow on Population Ge-
nomics & Restoration
The postdoc will work closely with Dr. Christy Edwards
in the Conservation Genetics Laboratory at MBG. The
candidate will 1) develop and implement collaborative re-
search project(s) that employ population-genomic tech-
niques to evaluate the eects of restoration techniques
on the genetic diversity, genetic structure, and popula-
tion dynamics of restorations in woodlands, savannahs,
and grasslands at MBG >1
2s Shaw Nature Reserve andSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 59
the broader region; 2) train and mentor undergradu-
ate and graduate students; 3) assist MBG scientists
with coordinating grant-funded activities including re-
cruitment and mentoring of students, organizing and
participating in outreach events and workshops, and
presenting lectures to professional organizations and the
general public; 4) prepare and submit manuscripts for
publication; 5) build relationships with SNR sta and
collaborative partners; and 6) actively participate in
events with the St. Louis Ecology, Evolution, and Con-
servation community. Further details and applications
at: https://us60.dayforcehcm.com/CandidatePortal/-
en-US/MBG/Posting/View/612 MBG >1
2s Shaw Na-
ture Reserve contains over 2000 acres of re-maintained
woodlands, grasslands, and glades. Ecological restora-
tion (i.e., selective tree thinning, removal of invasive
species, prescribed re) has been ongoing at SNR over
the last 3 decades. The restorations have also involved
seeding of native species from local and regional seed
sources, and the successful candidate will be expected
to work on research projects related to these restored
populations of native plants at SNR and other
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MIZ Poland BeetlePhylogenomics
Postdoc: MIZ Poland.BeetlePhylogenomics
Call for a postdoc position
The research group led by Dr. Dagmara Zyla at the
Museum and Institute of Zoology, Polish Academy of
Sciences (MIZ, PAS) is looking for candidates for a post-
doc position to work within the project entitled: \The
Impact of the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum
on diversication dynamics in Paederinae rove beetles"
funded by the Polish National Science Centre. The main
goal of this project is to investigate the evolutionary
response of Paederinae predatory beetles to the most
rapid and signicant climatic warming event in Cenozoic.
To do so, a set of innovative methods, such as machine
learning for species identication, Next Generation Se-
quencing, and Bayesian statistical phylogenetics will be
combined with modern approaches in insect systematics.
Scope of work - performing laboratory work, i.e. DNAextractions, library preparation, enrichment with UCE
baits, sequencing - processing and preparing raw se-
quences for the phylogenomic analysis - participating
in phylogenetic and diversication dynamics analyses
- working closely with other members of the group -
participating in data analysis and interpretation of the
results - writing publications with other members of the
team - presentation and dissemination of the obtained
results in the form of conference talks and scientic
papers
Requirements - PhD degree in biological sciences or a
related area, awarded or to be awarded before Octo-
ber 2021, but no earlier than 7 years ago - experience
in the molecular lab work, including NGS techniques
- experience in bioinformatics concerning the analysis
of genomic data for phylogenetic purposes - theoretical
knowledge on phylogenetics and evolutionary biology -
experience in working with beetles will be an advantage,
but it is not required - uency in English (at least B2
level) - enthusiasm for science - communication and
organizational skills - creativity, high motivation and
ability to work alone and in a team
Conditions of employment: The postdoctoral researcher
will be based in the Museum and Institute of Zoology in
Warsaw, but will also work in close collaboration with
the Centre of Natural History (CeNak) in Hamburg
(Germany), part of the Leibniz Institute for the Anal-
ysis of Biodiversity Change (LIB). The position starts
on 1.10.2021 or soon after and is funded for 2 years.
A gross salary in the amount of 8300 PLN (ca. 6400
PLN after taxes ~1400 EUR) per month will be oered
to the successful candidate. This is sucient to cover
the life expenses and assures a good standard of living
in Poland.
Research environment The research at MIZ is focused
on a broad range of themes in animal biology, including
systematics, biogeography, evolutionary biology, ecology
and population genetics. Dagmara Zyla's research group
is part of the Department of Systematics, Zoogeography
and Ecology of Invertebrates led by Prof. K. Wioletta
Tomaszewska focused on insect systematics, taxonomy,
evolution and phylogeny. MIZ laboratories contain mod-
ern equipment for genomic analyses, as well as tools
for studying morphology, like SEM and micro-CT. The
Museum's zoological collection is among the largest and
most valuable in Europe.
Application process The deadline for submitting the
application is 29.08.2021 11:59 pm CEST. The applica-
tion must be in English. Please submit the documents
as one PDF le named with your surname to zyladag-
mara@gmail.com with the email subject \Application
for a postdoc position". The le must include:60 EvolDir September 1, 2021
1. A copy of your PhD degree certicate (or a docu-
ment conrming your enrollment in a PhD programme
together with a letter from the PhD supervisor stating
the expected completion date)
2. Cover letter (max. 1 page)
3. CV including the list of publications and/or
manuscripts in preparation, with the following state-
ment provided at the end: \I give my consent to the
processing of personal data provided in my application
documents by the Museum and Institute of Zoology PAS
for the purpose of the recruitment process, pursuant to
the Personal Data Protection Act of 10 May 2018 (Jour-
nal of Laws 2018, item 1000) and in agreement with
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of per-
sonal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection
Regulation; L 119 from 04.05.2016)".
Important: Applications that do not include this state-
ment will not be considered.
4. Contact details of two persons who could provide
references.
The candidates will be assessed based on the information
in the submitted documents. The shortlisted candidates
will be invited for an online interview and the results
are expected on 17.09.2021 the latest.
All interested candidates, irrespective of age, gender,
race, disability, religion or ethnic background are en-
couraged to apply.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NorthCarolinaStateU
Computational Evolutionary
Genetics
The Guerrero lab at NC State University is recruting
a postdoctoral researcher. The lab, in the Department
of Biological Sciences and aliated with the Bioinfor-
matics Research Center, focuses on a combination of
data analysis and mathematical/statistical modeling inpopulation genetics. We are looking for an independent
researcher who is interested in developing and testing
evolutionary genetics theory. Specic questions and
systems are exible.
We are interested in a collaborative researcher that has
completed, or will soon complete, their PhD in Biology
(Evolution or Genetics), Bioinformatics, or related eld.
Previous experience with population genetics modeling
is preferred but not required. The ideal applicant will
have expertise in some combination of the following
research areas: sex chromosome evolution, structural
variation / chromosomal rearrangements, speciation ge-
netics, genetic interactions and genetic conict.
Funding is available for three years, subject to annual
review and can begin as early as October 1, 2021.
To apply, please contact Rafael Guerrero by email
(rfguerre@ncsu.edu) with a CV and a one-paragraph
description of primary research interests to explore po-
tential research directions and overall t to the position.
Interviews will take place via Zoom. Applications will
be considered until the position is lled.
Rafael F. Guerrero Department of Biological Sciences
North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695
Web: rguerrer.org Twitter: @guerruhroh
Rafael Guerrero <rfguerre@ncsu.edu >
NTNU Norway PDF PhD
EvolutionaryEcol
Hi,
I have two three-year postdoc positions and a PhD in
evolutionary ecology available at the Centre for Biodi-
versity Dynamics, NTNU, Norway.
Details are below. Application deadlines are
Sept 21st 2021. Enquiries can be sent to me
(jane.m.reid@ntnu.no).
Many thanks for your help,
Jane Reid
PhD in Evolutionary Movement Ecology
https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/-
210635/phd-opportunity-in-evolutionary-movement-
ecology Postdoctoral position in theoretical evo-
lutionary ecology https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/-
available-jobs/job/210627/postdoctoral-research-September 1, 2021 EvolDir 61
fellow-in-theoretical-evolutionary-ecology Post-
doctoral position inquantitative evolutionary
ecology https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-
jobs/job/210483/postdoctoral-research-fellow-in-
quantitative-evolutionary-ecology \Jane M. Reid"
<jane.m.reid@ntnu.no >
jane.m.reid@ntnu.no
Okinawa 3 EvolutionaryBiology
The Kondrashov lab is looking for a Data Scientist to es-
tablish and maintain a workow of analyses of complex
experimental data of the genotype to phenotype map
(tness landscape). The main directions of research in-
clude the application of machine learning approaches on
large in-house experimental data from deep mutational
scans and other synthetic libraries probing the tness
landscapes of proteins and more complex genotypes.
Development of the scientist's own research direction
is encouraged and training and supervision of molecu-
lar work of junior scientists and students is expected.
The position is in Okinawa, Japan, salary competitive
and negotiable, long-term contracts available, starting
date from January 2022. Applicants should send their
CV and statement of purpose to Fyodor Kondrashov
(fkondrashov@gmail.com). Please include a brief descrip-
tion of the research direction in data analyses and/or
machine learning that is most interesting to you.
|{
The Kondrashov lab is looking for an experienced molec-
ular and/or synthetic biologist to spearhead a series of
experiments focusing on the study of the genotype to
phenotype map (tness landscape). The main direc-
tions of research include the study of deep mutational
scans and other synthetic libraries probing the tness
landscapes of proteins and more complex genotypes.
Development of the scientist's own research direction is
encouraged and training and supervision of molecular
work of junior scientists and students is expected. The
position is in Okinawa, Japan, salary competitive and
negotiable, long-term contracts available, starting date
from January 2022. Applicants should send their CV
and statement of purpose to Fyodor Kondrashov (fkon-
drashov@gmail.com). Please include a brief description
of a tness landscape or synthetic biology project you
may wish to undertake independently and why you may
want to do it.
|{The Kondrashov lab is looking for an experienced bioin-
formatician to spearhead genomic and bioinformatic
analysis for a range of projects in the lab. The main di-
rections of research include assembly and annotation of
non-model organism genomes and work with sequencing
of DNA libraries from experiments of deep mutational
scans. Development of the scientist's own research di-
rection is encouraged and training and supervision of
bioinformatic work of junior scientists and students is ex-
pected. The position is in Okinawa, Japan, salary com-
petitive and negotiable, long-term contracts available,
starting date from January 2022. Applicants should
send their CV and statement of purpose to Fyodor Kon-
drashov (fkondrashov@gmail.com). Please include a
brief description of a genome sequencing project you
may wish to undertake as your own project and why
you may want to do it.
Fyodor Kondrashov <fkondrashov@gmail.com >
OklahomaStateU
EvolGeneticsAmphibianDisease
Postdoctoral Position, Oklahoma State University Eco-
logical Immunogenetics and Amphibian Disease Ecology
Research in the Waldman lab at the Department of In-
tegrative Biology at Oklahoma State University focuses
on the interaction of disease, adaptive immune function,
and the evolution of behavioral strategies to eectively
respond to emerging infectious pathogens.
Recent studies demonstrate that amphibians can rapidly
evolve immunogenetic defenses to pathogens such as the
amphibian chytrid fungus. However, these adaptations
potentially entail life-history costs that otherwise de-
crease tness. We are examining, from an integrative
perspective, how immune system genes, through the
production of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
molecules and their regulation of microbial assemblages,
generate social signals. Studies are underway both of
the mechanisms of social discrimination and their tness
consequences.
The project is global in scope, and takes advantage of
collaborations with researchers in Asia, Australia, Cen-
tral America and Europe. The successful candidate will
have ample opportunities to interact with members of
our department along with international colleagues. The
Department of Integrative Biology has 28 faculty whose
research addresses three main research themes: ecology,62 EvolDir September 1, 2021
evolution, and environmental stress, all key aspects of
our project.
Candidates should have a Ph.D. in biology or related
elds with experience in molecular biology, population
genetics, bioinformatics, and a strong interest in evolu-
tion. Initial appointment is for one year, with expecta-
tion of renewal given satisfactory progress. The position
is available beginning October 1, although the start date
can be negotiated.
Oklahoma State University is a Carnegie Tier 1 re-
search university with excellent facilities for research
and instruction, including a high-performance comput-
ing center. Because of its mid-continent location that
spans a broad expanse of habitats, from deciduous forest
to semi-arid grasslands, Oklahoma oers a rich tapestry
of prairie and forest ecosystems that support an excep-
tional level of biodiversity.
The University is located in Stillwater, Oklahoma, rated
the friendliest college town in America. Stillwater oers
a high quality of life  ^A>^A1
2Xa thriving college commu-
nity with a low cost of living, and a local airport served
by daily commercial ights. Two major metropolitan
areas, oering additional cultural, recreational and shop-
ping opportunities, are little more than an hour away
by car.
Applications should include a cover letter describing
your experience and goals for the position, a full curricu-
lum vitae, and the names and contact details (phone
numbers and email addresses) of three references. Pre-
liminary enquiries are welcome. Review of applications
will begin 08/15/2021 but will continue until the posi-
tion is lled. Applications or enquiries should be emailed
to bruce.waldman@okstate.edu.
Oklahoma State University, as an equal opportunity
employer, complies with all applicable federal and state
laws regarding non- discrimination and armative ac-
tion. Oklahoma State University is committed to a
policy of equal opportunity for all individuals and does
not discriminate based on race, religion, age, sex, color,
national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, gen-
der identity/expression, disability, or veteran status with
regard to employment, educational programs and activ-
ities, and/or admissions. For more information, visit
https:///eeo.okstate.edu . Bruce Waldman Department
of Integrative Biology Oklahoma State University 501
Life Sciences West Stillwater, Oklahoma 74078
Bruce Waldman <bw@bronze.lcs.mit.edu >Bruce Wald-
man<bw@bronze.lcs.mit.edu >OregonStateU
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
*Postdoctoral Research Scholar - Evolutionary and Phys-
iological Genomics*
A postdoctoral scholar position is available in the re-
search group of Dr. Felipe Barreto in the Department
of Integrative Biology at Oregon State University. The
position is funded by an NSF grant led by Dr. Barreto
and Dr. Allie Graham (University of Utah).
Research in our lab examines broad questions in evo-
lutionary biology in marine animals. The successful
candidate will participate in work examining the ge-
netics of adaptations and reproductive isolation in the
lab >1
2s primary study system, the intertidal copepod
*Tigriopus californicus*. Upcoming funded projects will
focus on genetic mechanisms of response to environmen-
tal hypoxia in *T. californicus*, combining eld and
laboratory studies of physiology and gene expression
with experimental evolution and trait mapping, among
others. In addition, the postdoc trainee will be encour-
aged to develop projects on new questions and/or new
study species according to their interests, strengths, and
training goals.
Please visit our research websites for more details on
our research:
https://www.barretolab.com/ https://-
alliemgraham.weebly.com/ Candidates must have
a Ph.D. in biology or related elds, with a strong
background in evolutionary genetics, as demonstrated
by scholarly activities.
The work will involve a range of laboratory (physiology
and molecular genetics) and computational (bioinfor-
matics and statistics) approaches. Skills in these areas
are desirable but not required for applying, as the posi-
tion will provide continuous opportunity for training in
these areas.
The position is available as early as October 1, 2021, but
the start date is exible, and we can accommodate start
dates as late as Summer 2022. We will begin screening
applications on September 1, and will continue until the
position is lled.
To apply, please send the following to Felipe Barreto by
email ( felipe.barreto@oregonstate.edu):
- A current CVSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 63
- A brief personal statement (1-2 pages) describing re-
search background and interests and motivation for this
position.
- Contact information for up to 3 professional references.
Informal inquiries before applying are welcome!
Additional information:
Dept. of Integrative Biology: http://-
ib.oregonstate.edu/ Center for Quantitative Life
Sciences: https://cqls.oregonstate.edu/ Oregon State
University in Corvallis, OR is located within the
traditional homelands of the Mary's River or Ampinefu
Band of Kalapuya. Following the Willamette Valley
Treaty of 1855 (Kalapuya etc. Treaty), Kalapuya
people were forcibly removed to reservations in Western
Oregon. Today, living descendants of these people are
a part of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde
Community of Oregon and the Confederated Tribes of
the Siletz Indians.
Felipe S. Barreto Assistant Professor Department of
Integrative Biology 3029 Cordley Hall Oregon State
University Corvallis, OR 97331
Felipe Barreto <felipe.barreto@oregonstate.edu >Felipe
Barreto<felipe.barreto@oregonstate.edu >
PennsylvaniaStateU 2
DeerConservation
Post Doctoral Scholar
Establishing a national tissue and reagents repository
for chronic wasting disease
We seek a postdoctoral researcher to assist in estab-
lishing a national CWD tissue and reagents repository.
The signicance of this program is multifold. First, a
repository of CWD eld isolates from a wide-ranging
geographic location in North America will allow, for the
rst time, the means to begin to assess the distribu-
tion and frequency of CWD strains in North America.
Since prion strains can dier in pathogenicity and host
range, this is essential data for the determination for
risk of interspecies prion transmission to humans and
to domestic livestock and wildlife. Second, this reposi-
tory can provide uniform standardized CWD-infected
and uninfected sources of tissue for diagnostic develop-
ment, mitigation testing and for basic research purposes.
Finally, the implementation of the repository will facili-
tate cooperation between the various state agencies thatcould lead to new collaborative eorts.
The Post Doctoral Scholar will be responsible for three
specic objectives: 1. Summarize current state of knowl-
edge of known strain types in various cervid species
throughout the world for submission to a peer reviewed
journal, 2. Assist in creating online infrastructure for a
virtual tissue and reagents repository for chronic wast-
ing disease along with researchers at the Department of
Energy, Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), and
3. Assisting ORNL with linking metadata for tissues
and reagents to the repository by working with state
agencies interested in contributing samples to the online
repository.
This project aligns with FY21 EMA annual guidance,
and was funded by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)
RFP priority: Chronic Wasting Disease. This is also
part of a larger collaborative eort with the USDA-
APHIS-WS, National Wildlife Research Center and
USGS.
The successful candidate will be part of an interdisci-
plinary group that includes ecologists, geneticists, vet-
erinarians, and state agency researchers. This full-time
position is located at The Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania or remotely depending
on the candidate's preference. The selected candidate
must agree to follow all Covid-19 safety guidelines and
protocols established by the university. This is a one-
year appointment, with an additional 6 months possible
pending performance and funding availability. Start
date is exible and dependent upon hiring process but
ideally within a month or two of oer.
Salary: $60,000/year plus excellent benets.
Closing date: Until position lled
Qualications: Competitive candidates should be highly
motivated and possess a PhD in prion biology or disease
epidemiology or a related discipline. Specic experi-
ence with prion biology is preferred. The ability to
work both independently and collaboratively in a team
environment is essential. Submission to or publishing
in peer-reviewed journals is required and mandatory
prior to any potential renewal beyond the one-year ap-
pointment. Please provide: (1) a cover letter detail-
ing your experiences for the qualications above and
how they have prepared you for this position, (2) a
CV, (3) names and contact information of three pro-
fessional references, and (4) two relevant publications.
Please submit these materials to Dr. W. David Walter
via email (wdw12@psu.edu) as a single pdf. Qualied
applicants will need to also submit application mate-
rials to Penn State's employment website at https://-
psu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/PSU Sta |{64 EvolDir September 1, 2021
Postdoctoral Research Associate
Linking Genetics to Movements of White-tailed deer to
Assist Surveillance for Chronic Wasting Disease.
We seek a postdoctoral researcher using landscape genet-
ics to understand landscape features, dispersal charac-
teristics, and transmission and spread of chronic wasting
disease (CWD) in white-tailed deer through assessment
of population structure throughout the state of Min-
nesota. This is the culmination of a research eort that
was initiated in 2019 in the Southeast CWD Manage-
ment Zone of Minnesota that has since expanded to
other parts of the state in the North Central, South
Metro, and Southeast Control Zones as CWD has ex-
panded. The post doc will be responsible for identifying
the frequency and distribution of prion gene variants
(PRNP) and use of microsatellite genotypes and mito-
chondrial haplotypes to explore culling operations in
free-ranging white-tailed deer. To date, nearly 600 deer
from several management zones have been genotyped
with additional samples to be added in 2021-2022. This
project aligns with FY20 EMA annual guidance, and
was funded by the USGS RFP priority: Chronic Wasting
Disease: Research to investigate the impact of genetics
on CWD dynamics in cervid populations.
The successful candidate will be part of an interdisci-
plinary group
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Postdoc:UTexas
MitochondrialMutations
The Havird Lab at the University of Texas at Austin
is looking for an enthusiastic and motivated postdoc-
toral researcher (start date is exible). This is part
of an NIH-funded project to examine the causes and
consequences of mitochondrial mutations (https://-
tinyurl.com/3zmx83ef). Postdocs will have the opportu-
nity to develop independent projects that complement
research themes in the lab on molecular evolution, cy-
tonuclear interactions, and environmental physiology.
Of particular interest are applicants with experience
analyzing next-gen sequencing data in the context of
detecting mutations through sequencing approaches.Related projects in the lab examine coevolution be-
tween cytoplasmic and nuclear genomes, the roles
of cytoplasmic genomes at species boundaries, and
ecophysiology/environmental adaptation ( https://-
sites.cns.utexas.edu/havird). Multiple organismal sys-
tems are used in the lab, including plants and animals, as
well as making use of existing publicly available genomic
datasets (especially during remote, quarantine-driven
work).
The lab is part of the growing Integrative Biol-
ogy Department at the University of Texas. In-
terested applicants should contact Justin Havird (
jhavird@utexas.edu) and provide a brief description of
your research interests along with a current CV. Appli-
cants are encouraged to consider applying for funding
opportunities (e.g., NSF/NIH postdoctoral fellowships
and the the Stengl-Wyer Postdoctoral Scholars Program
at UT).
The University of Texas is located in Austin, TX, which
is known for its high quality of life, environmental aware-
ness, outdoor culture, and keeping it weird in general.
Justin C. Havird Department of Integrative Biology The
University of Texas at Austin he/him/his
Princeton EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at Princeton University has an open call for applications
for two opportunities: the newly established Postdoc-
toral Initiative Program in ecology/behavior/evo-bio for
postdoctoral or more senior research associates, and the
2021 EEB Scholars Program for current undergraduate
juniors, seniors, and recent graduates.
1. Postdoctoral Initiative Program
We are interested in receiving applications from members
of groups that have been historically underrepresented
in ecology, evolutionary biology and related elds. Can-
didates who have demonstrated a strong commitment to
remedying the historical underrepresentation of people
of color in the areas of ecology, evolutionary biology and
related elds through work promoting inclusion, equity,
and diversity through teaching, advising, mentoring,
advocacy, or public outreach are especially encouraged
to apply. A description of the applicant's work in broad-
ening opportunities in the eld for underrepresented
minorities should be included in the application.
Appointments will be made at the postdoctoral or moreSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 65
senior research rank. Appointments are for one year,
renewable annually based on satisfactory performance
for a total of up to three years, and include a research
fund.
The link for applying for the position can be
found at https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/-
apply/application.xhtml?listingId=20021 . Please note
that the application deadline has been extended to
September 30, 2021.
2. EEB Scholars
This is a graduate student-led initiative aimed at clos-
ing gaps in access to graduate programs for underrep-
resented minority students, including Black, Indige-
nous, and People of Color, in the elds of ecology
and evolutionary biology. This program brings stu-
dents from across the nation for a graduate school pre-
view event comprising networking opportunities, pro-
fessional development workshops, campus and facili-
ties tours, and familiarization with the graduate school
application process. EEB Scholars also aims to pro-
vide a safe space for minorities to discuss their experi-
ences and challenges in academia. Application details
can be found at this link: https://eeb.princeton.edu/-
graduate/eeb-scholars-program . \Mary C. Stoddard"
<mstoddard@princeton.edu >
RiceU Texas Evolution
The BioSciences department of Rice University (http:/-
/biosciences.rice.edu/) seeks to ll a Faculty Fellow po-
sition in ecology and/or evolution. The position is a
two-year appointment with a third year extension possi-
ble, with a tentative start date of January 1, 2022.
Our prestigious EEB Faculty Fellow Program aims to
recruit outstanding postdoctoral researchers who merge
excellence in teaching and research. Fellows receive fac-
ulty status, employee benets, competitive salary, and
research funds for independent or collaborative research.
Collaborative interests with the existing faculty in the
EEB research area are a plus.
Application review will begin August 23. The appli-
cation will include a curriculum vitae, a statement of
research interests, a statement of teaching interests, and
a statement of contribution to diversity, equity, and
inclusion. The research statement should outline the
candidate >1
2s research questions and motivation, pre-
vious work, and future plans. The research statementdoes not need to include a detailed plan for the research
that will be conducted during the Fellowship. The
teaching statement should describe the candidate >1
2s
teaching philosophy, experience, and future teaching
interests. The statement for diversity, equity, and inclu-
sion should describe how the candidate will contribute
to diversity, equity, and inclusion as a member of the
Rice community, noting any relevant experience in this
area if applicable. The application, along with contact
information for three people who can provide letters
of recommendation should be submitted at https://-
apply.interfolio.com/91557. Letters will be requested
from a subset of candidates following initial review.
For further questions please contact Dr. Julia Saltz
(julia.b.saltz@rice.edu), Search Committee Chair. Rice
University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Action
Employer and values a diverse faculty. People from
groups historically excluded from STEM are encouraged
to apply.
Julia B. Saltz Associate Professor Biosciences at
Rice University lab website: Saltzlab.com <http:/-
/saltzlab.wordpress.com/ >twitter: @julia saltz pro-
nouns: she/her
Julia Saltz <julia.b.saltz@rice.edu >Julia Saltz
<julia.b.saltz@rice.edu >
RutgersU
TickGenomicsDiseaseSurveillance
The Price Lab within the Department of Entomology /
Center for Vector Biology at Rutgers University seeks
to ll an open Postdoctoral Associate position specializ-
ing in the evolutionary and molecular biology of ixodid
ticks to carry out USDA-NIFA funded research focus-
ing on surveillance of ticks and tick-borne disease, and
molecular control mechanisms e.g., anti-tick vaccines.
This is a grant-funded position with an initial term of
one year with possibility of multiple-year renewal.
The successful candidate will be an exceptional scientist
with a strong track record of published research in-
volving molecular and evolutionary biology, surveillance
and ecology of hard ticks (Acari: Ixodidae). Candidates
must have strong communication and interpersonal skills
and a publication record consistent with the position.
The successful candidate will be expected to integrate
in two USDA-NIFA funded projects and lead both eld
surveillance and lab-based molecular analyses of eld66 EvolDir September 1, 2021
ticks consistent with project aims.
Minimum Education and Experience: Requires a PhD
in relevant area of Entomology, Acarology, Ecology, Im-
munology, or Veterinary Sciences focusing on ticks, tick
biology and/or genome-oriented arthropod research.
Required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: Preference
will be given to candidates with prior experience span-
ning two major disciplines: (1) DNA/RNA extraction,
handling, processing, next-generation library prepara-
tion and sequencing on Illumina and Oxford Nanopore
platforms, associated bioinformatic analyses of sequence
data, and (2) basic eld techniques for tick collection
and surveillance. The ability to communicate eectively
with a wide variety of audiences including University
personnel, state and local health departments, and the
public is essential.
Equipment Utilized: The successful candidate will
regularly utilize basic molecular laboratory equip-
ment (pipettes, balances, agarose gel electrophoresis,
PCR/qPCR instrumentation) in addition to varying
bioinformatic tools pertaining to genomic research im-
plemented on high-performance computing clusters. In
addition, standard eld equipment for tick collection will
be utilized and the applicant must complete required
Environmental Health safety training and Defensive
Driving classes.
Physical Demands and Work Environment: Must be
able to drive a University-owned vehicle, including pick-
up truck. Must be able to conduct outdoor eld research
under New Jersey summer weather conditions.
Work Overview: 40% Plan and conduct eld surveil-
lance of tick populations from urban and rural forest
stands
40% Conduct laboratory (molecular) experiments involv-
ing hard ticks including but not limited to 1. pathogen
testing and quantitation via qPCR, and 2. analysis of
in-house generated next-generation genome and tran-
scriptome data to further assess gene function and role
in tick metabolism.
5% Keep record of work, analyze data, and create drafts
of manuscripts for publication. Responsible for coherent
documentation of experiments and surveys. A lengthy
written and continually updated notebook is required.
5% Maintain equipment, keep inventory of supplies;
maintain proper adherence to all health and safety pro-
tocols and regulations.
10% Training and mentoring of Rutgers undergraduate
and graduate students.
For inquiries and further application information please
contact Dr. Dana Price (d.price at rutgers.edu), searchcommittee chair. Please indicate \USDA Post-doc Posi-
tion" in the subject line. Rutgers University is an Equal
Opportunity Employer and values a diverse faculty. Peo-
ple from groups historically excluded from STEM are
encouraged to apply.
\d.price@rutgers.edu" <d.price@rutgers.edu >
Senckenberg Biodiversity
Job announcement ref.#11-21018 The Senckenberg
Gesellschaft fu Ir Naturforschung (SGN), a member in-
stitution of the Leibniz Association, with almost 800
employees and its headquarters in Frankfurt am Main,
is conducting integrative natural history research with
leading research institutions in six federal states. The
Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(SBiK-F) explores interactions between biodiversity and
climate.
The working group of Prof. Thomas Mu Iller at the
Senckenberg BiK-F invites applications for a Postdoc-
toral researcher (m/f/d) in \Movement Ecology" (full
time position)
We are seeking a candidate (m/f/d) with a strong back-
ground in quantitative ecology. You will join the team
working on the \Nature 4.0 Sensing Biodiversity" project
(https://www.uni-marburg.de/en/fb19/natur40). Re-
search questions will revolve around movements of forest
birds and mammals and could relate to animal behavior
(e.g. activity patterns, navigation) as well as ecosys-
tem functioning (e.g. herbivory or dynamic food webs).
You will have the opportunity to develop your own re-
search questions together with the team and will work
with data emerging from an automatic radio tracking
system as well as GPS tags. We expect a background
in ecology and excellent programming skills in R. Ex-
periences with movement analyses and management
and programming/optimizing of large databases (e.g.
mySQL or MariaDB) are advantageous. You will join
an interdisciplinary and collaborative research team and
we expect you to be highly motivated to collaborate
with members of the Nature 4.0 team as well as lab
members of the Movement Ecology group at SBiK-F
(http://www.bik-f.de/root/index.php?page id=1241).
Position requirements - PhD degree in ecology or a
related eld - Strong quantitative skills and program-
ming skills in R - Experience in movement analyses
and large databases preferred - Excellent publication
record - Excellent oral and written communication skillsSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 67
in English
Salary and benets are according to a public service
position in Germany (TV-H E 13, full time position).
The contract should start no later than February 1st,
2022 and will be restricted to December 31st, 2022 (end
of the project).
SGN supports equal opportunity of men and women and
therefore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qual-
ied handicapped applicants will be given preference.
The place of employment will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuIr Naturforschung (SGN).
You would like to apply? You are requested to send
your application documents (a cover letter describing
your motivation to apply, a detailed CV including a full
publication list, full credentials/certicates and contact
details of two academic references, as well as copies of
your two most important publications), mentioning the
reference of this job announcement (ref. #11-21018)
until September 15th, 2021 by e-mail (attachment in a
single pdf document) to recruiting@senckenberg.de or
apply directly on our homepage via the online applica-
tion form. For scientic enquiries please contact Prof.
Dr. Thomas Mu Iller: thomas.mueller@senckenberg.de.
<raphael.royaute@senckenberg.de >
<raphael.royaute@senckenberg.de >
Swedish MNH InsectDiversity
Dear all,
The Insect Biome Atlas (www.insectbiomeatlas.org) at
the Swedish Museum of Natural History (www.nrm.se)
is advertising two postdoc positions. IBA is a ve-year
international project aimed at characterizing the diver-
sity of insects in Sweden and Madagascar. The project
uses metabarcoding of thousands of Malaise trap and soil
samples to study the size, origins, structure and function
of the insect biomes and associated microbiomes.
We are looking for:
1) An applied *statistician / quantitative ecologist* with
a keen interest in ecology, to work on joint species dis-
tribution models, community structure and species rich-
ness estimators using large datasets of insect community
composition.
2) A *community ecologist* with a rm grip on quan-
titative methods, to work on phenological patterns ofinsect species and address questions related to spatial
variation in ecosystem functions.
The postdocs will have access to unprecedented datasets
on insect community composition compiled through
the metabarcoding of >8000 insect community sam-
ples collected over 12 months sampling in Sweden and
Madagascar. The positions will be associated with the
Swedish Museum of Natural History, in close collabora-
tion with Tomas Roslin at SLU Uppsala and Ayco Tack
at Stockholm University.
For enquiries, please contact Fredrik Ron-
quist (fredrik.ronquist@nrm.se); Andreia
Miraldo (andreia.miraldo@nrm.se); Tomas
Roslin (tomas.roslin@slu.se) and/or Ayco Tack
(ayco.tack@su.se).
You can apply for the positions until the 22nd of Septem-
ber at www.nrm.se/vacancies Please forward to anyone
that you think might be interested!
Best regards,
*Andreia Miraldo*
Project Manager/Researcher Department of Bioinfor-
matics and Genetics Insect Biome Atlas *https://-
insectbiomeatlas.org* *Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet* SE
 >1
2V 114 18, Stockholm, Sweden Phone: + 46-(0) 8-
51955118 Mobile: + 46-(0)70-1497322
andreia.miraldo@nrm.se
Andreia Miraldo <andreia.miraldo@googlemail.com >
TexasStateU
HostPathogenDynamicsCoevolution
The Rodriguez Lab in the Dept. of Biology at Texas
State University is seeking a Postdoctoral Scholar for a
multi-year project investigating post-invasion dynamics
of the amphibian-killing fungus via rapid genetic diver-
sity assessments of both hosts and pathogens, which
is funded by the National Science Foundation. The
aims of this research are to: 1) perform real-time strain
detection and sequencing to reveal pathogen diversity
and geographic distribution along an equatorial tran-
sect including canopy habitats, 2) parse amphibian ge-
netic identity in hyper-diverse assemblages to allow host-
specic estimates of pathogen/strain prevalence, and 3)
Use cophylogenetics/population genetics to test for the
inuence of host diversity on pathogen invasions. We
are seeking independent and motivated candidates with68 EvolDir September 1, 2021
strong interests in herpetology, conservation genetics,
bioinformatics, and disease ecology. The start date is
negotiable and the expected term is two-years depend-
ing on yearly progress, but a term extension is possible.
The position will remain open until lled.
The selected candidate will participate in real-time,
in situ surveillance of Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis
and measurements of amphibian diversity in Ecuador
by leveraging emerging portable technology (nanopore
sequencing and rt-PCR via magnetic induction cy-
cling), and will drive the application of emerging genetic
methodologies to address common challenges in wildlife
disease ecology. The postdoctoral scholar is expected
to lead their own research related to the project but
also mentor and collaborate with undergraduates and
graduate students from Texas State University on their
research, and collaborate with junior and senior scien-
tists and parabiologists from Ecuador. The postdoctoral
scholar will also co-develop and lead one introductory
bioinformatics undergraduate course (R for Biologists).
Texas State University is a Hispanic-Serving Institution,
thus the postdoctoral scholar will participate in the re-
cruitment of underrepresented minorities interested in
ecology and evolutionary biology. This position will also
provide opportunities to learn tree-climbing techniques
to access canopy habitats.
Required Qualications: A Ph.D. in biology, evolution,
ecology, or a related science eld is required at the time
of employment. Proven experience in eld biology and
molecular biology.
Preferred Qualications: Knowledge of and/or expertise
with some of the following: conservation biology, disease
ecology, phylogenetics, population genetics, genomics,
bioinformatics, and statistics. A record of publication in
peer-reviewed literature. Bilingual (English and Span-
ish) candidates are encouraged to apply.
Application Procedures: Only applications submitted
through the Texas State University website will be
accepted and considered, https://jobs.hr.txstate.edu/-
postings/35901 . To ensure full consideration, please
submit the following materials by August 16, 2021: 1) a
current curriculum vitae with contact information of 2-3
professional references; 2) a letter of intent that speci-
cally addresses the qualications noted in this posting
3) unocial transcripts.
For inquiries, please e-mail Dr. David Rodriguez at
drdz@txstate.edu. Please indicate \NSF Post-doc Posi-
tion" in the subject line of all correspondence.
The selected candidate will be required to provide ocial
doctoral transcripts.
Why Work at Texas State? Texas State University ishome to more than 38,000 students and 2,000 faculty
members in the growing Austin-San Antonio corridor. A
member of the Doctoral Universities: Higher Research
Activity Carnegie classication, the university creates
new knowledge, fosters cultural and economic develop-
ment, and prepares its growing population of diverse
students for the endless possibilities that await them as
citizens of Texas, the nation, and the world. Bolstered
by research with relevance and innovation in creative
and scholarly work in a full range of academic disci-
plines and a spirit of inclusiveness, Texas State seeks
outstanding candidates for a variety of faculty positions.
\Rodriguez, David" <drdz@txstate.edu >
UBath SocialSignals
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral researcher
to join a team working to understand the evolution
of greenbeard social signals. This NERC funded in-
ternational collaboration will integrate mathematical
modelling (population genetic and game theoretical ap-
proaches) with analysis of gene sequence evolution and
experimental approaches to develop and test theories for
how greenbeard loci evolve. The postdoc will work as a
member of a research team with a broad array of exper-
tise, providing opportunities to develop and combine a
range of skills.
The successful candidate will be based in Jason Wolf's
group in the Milner Centre for Evolution at the Univer-
sity of Bath, working in collaboration with Jean van den
Elsen and Ben Ashby (in Bath) and Chris Thompson (at
UCL). The candidate will also work with collaborators
at University of S >1
2o Paulo (Brazil).
The position is xed-term of 24 months, with the possi-
bility to extend to 27 months. Salary starts at  >1
234,304.
The start date is somewhat exible, so please contact
us to discuss possibilities if you are interested.
For further details, see the job listing in our recruitment
system:
https://www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?id=18855
Please contact us for further information or with any
questions (see the job listing for more contact details)
Jason Wolf <jbw22@bath.ac.uk >September 1, 2021 EvolDir 69
UCalifornia Berkeley
ConservationPopulationGenomics
Project Scientist in conservation and population ge-
nomics Nachman lab, UC Berkeley Details: https://-
aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03075 There is an opening
for a Project Scientist to study conservation and popu-
lation genomics of mammals as part of the California
Conservation Genomics Project (CCGP) in the lab of
Professor Michael Nachman in the Museum of Verte-
brate Zoology at UC Berkeley. The California Con-
servation Genomics Project (CCGP) is a state-funded
initiative with the goal of producing the most compre-
hensive, multispecies, genomic dataset ever assembled
to help manage regional biodiversity. More information
about this statewide eort can be found here: https://-
www.ccgproject.org/. This position will involve bioin-
formatic analysis of whole-genome sequences from 750
individual mammal specimens representing 15 species.
The primary goal of this project is to generate a map
of genetic diversity for these 15 species across Cali-
fornia. We are also interested in inferring historical
demographic changes, assessing the extent to which se-
lection has shaped patterns of genomic variation, and
linking genotype to phenotype for traits of interest. The
ideal candidate will have a strong background in popula-
tion, conservation, or landscape genomics and signicant
experience in the analysis of large genomic datasets.
Research in the Nachman lab (https://-
www.nachmanlab.org/) focuses on population,
evolutionary, and ecological genetics and genomics. We
are broadly interested in the genetic basis of evolu-
tionary change, including the genetics of adaptation
and the genetic basis of speciation. For example, we
are interested in uncovering signatures of selection in
patterns of DNA sequence variation and in linking
specic genetic changes to specic adaptive phenotypes.
Much of the current work centers on the genetic basis
of adaptation to dierent environments. Our research
utilizes a wide range of methods and approaches
including eld studies, genetic crosses in the laboratory,
tools of molecular biology, genomics, and bioinformatics
analyses of large datasets.
Michael Nachman Director, Museum of Vertebrate Zo-
ology Professor, Department of Integrative Biology 3101
Valley Life Sciences Building University of California,
Berkeley Berkeley, CA 94720-3160(510) 642-1792 mnachman@berkeley.edu
\Prof. Michael Nachman" <mnachman@berkeley.edu >
UCalifornia Davis
PopulationAdaptationGenomics
Postdoc in population/adaptation genomics. University
of California Davis, Whitehead lab. Available immedi-
ately, remote work options will be considered.
Background Info: Research in the Whitehead lab
(https://whiteheadresearch.wordpress.com/) focuses on
evolutionary change in human-altered environments. We
seek applicants for a Postdoctoral Research Associate
to study population genetic change through space and
time in Pacic herring. The causes of the collapse of the
Prince William Sound (PWS) Pacic herring stock are
controversial, and the reasons for the lack of recovery
remain a mystery. We hypothesize that interactions
between the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill and a subse-
quent viral epidemic were inuential. We have collected
whole genome sequences from ~1,300 individual sh
from across Alaska and across time (four times span-
ning three decades), and throughout the rest of their
range, to explore genomic change associated with the
collapse and the period since; with these data we seek
to explore and test hypotheses about the causes and
consequences of the collapse, and test hypotheses about
the genetic basis of parallel local adaptation. This huge
population genomics dataset is ready for the right can-
didate to make rapid progress. Data are collected, and
curated; we have a ltered variant data set where sum-
mary population genetics statistics have been estimated.
Collaborations are in place with scientists in academia
and with State and Federal agencies. The ideal candi-
date has experience in population genetics, statistical
genetics, and computational biology. We are especially
interested in candidates with a passion for open science
and for connecting their work to decision makers, the
public, and the broader conservation biology and evolu-
tionary biology communities. There is funding for one
year, with possibility of extension. We are open to the
candidate working remotely. Our group is committed
to creating a safe, inclusive, diverse, optimistic, and
equitable work environment.
Responsibilities: Contribution to analysis strategy, code
development, data analysis and interpretation, review
of relevant literature, preparation of project reports and
manuscripts for publication in peer-reviewed journals,70 EvolDir September 1, 2021
presentation at professional conferences.
Minimum qualications: PhD in genetics, population
biology, evolution, genome science, data science, or an-
other relevant eld.
Preferred qualications: Preference will be given to ap-
plicants with 1) expertise in population genomics and
computational biology; 2) strong communication and
organizational skills; 3) can code in R and python and
have an interest in transparent and reproducible science;
and 4) strong publication records, or the potential for
developing one. Our team believes in and values the
power of diversity; candidates from groups that have his-
torically been underrepresented in science are strongly
encouraged to apply.
Salary: Commensurate with qualications and experi-
ence.
Application: Interested candidates should submit:
a one-page cover letter, your CV, and names and contact
information of at least three references familiar with
your work.
Please submit materials to Andrew Whitehead (awhite-
head@ucdavis.edu) with \Popgen Postdoc" in the sub-
ject. Applications will be reviewed as they arrive, inter-
views will be over Zoom, and the position will remain
open until lled. The position is available immediately,
with preferred start dates between late spring and early
summer 2021.
Email any questions to Andrew Whitehead (awhite-
head@ucdavis.edu)
Andrew Whitehead, Ph.D. Department of Environ-
mental Toxicology 4121 Meyer Hall University of Cal-
ifornia, Davis, CA 95616 530-754-8982 <tel:530-754-
8982>http://whiteheadresearch.wordpress.com/ An-
drew Whitehead <awhitehead@ucdavis.edu >
UCaliforniaRiverside
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Ostevik Lab at the University of California, River-
side seeks to hire a postdoctoral scholar to conduct
research in evolutionary genomics. The scholar will
analyze RNA-seq data that has been generated to ex-
plore reproductive protein evolution in a pair of selng
and outcrossing plants. In addition, the scholar will
have the opportunity to develop additional projects in
the eld of plant evolutionary genetics and to mentorundergraduate students.
UCR oers competitive salaries and comprehensive ben-
ets (https://graduate.ucr.edu/postdoctoral-studies).
Initial appointments are for one year (start date exi-
ble), with possible renewal. Also, this position can be
held remotely as long as the candidate is legally entitled
to work in the United States for the duration of the
appointment.
Requirements: Ph.D. in biology, evolutionary biology,
genomics, or a related eld Familiarity with Linux com-
mand line and genomic analyses Demonstrated record of
scientic publications and independent research Strong
communication skills Intermediate R programming skills
UCR is a world-class research university with an excep-
tionally diverse undergraduate student body. Its mission
is explicitly linked to providing routes to educational
success for underrepresented and rst-generation college
students. A commitment to this mission is a preferred
qualication.
To apply: Please contact Kate Ostevik by email (koste-
vik@ucr.edu) with a single pdf that includes (1) a CV,
(2) a one-page statement of research interests and expe-
rience, (3) contact information for two references, and
(4) a preferred start date. A review of applications will
begin on September 1st, 2021 and continue until the
position is lled.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied appli-
cants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected
veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by
law.
\kostevik@ucr.edu" <kostevik@ucr.edu >September 1, 2021 EvolDir 71
UCalifornia SantaBarbara
EvolutionaryEpigenomics
Several postdoctoral positions are available in Soo-
jin Yi's lab at UC Santa Barbara. Positions are
available for a variety of themes. For an overview
of our current research projects refer to the groups
Research (https://yilab.eemb.ucsb.edu/research) and
Publications (https://yilab.eemb.ucsb.edu/publications)
pages.Below are two broad themes we are currently fo-
cused on.
Comparative Neurogenomics and Epige-
nomics:Postdoctoral positions are available to
investigate human brain evolution using comparative
genomic and epigenomic tools. Strong quantitative
background and practical skills in bioinformatics are
necessary.
Evolutionary Epigenomics:Scholars who are interested
in pursuing epigenomic studies of nonmodel organisms
are encouraged to apply. Our current interests in-
clude, but not limited to, insects, marine invertebrates,
snakes, and birds. In other words, we have a lot of
questions and ideas involving a variety of species and
genomics/epigenomics methods.
Interested? Please send an inquiry toSoojin
Yi(soojinyi@ucsb.edu). To apply include a cover let-
ter indicating your scientic interests and why you are
a good t to the lab. Also, include your CV (with
publication list) and the names of three references.
Soojin Yi<soojinyi@gmail.com >
UCollegeLondon
MitonuclearCoevolution
Job: Postdoctoral researcher in Mitonuclear coevolution.
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral researcher
to join a project in the Department of GEE, UCL on
mitochondrial genetics. The project examines the evolu-
tionary consequences of mito-nuclear interactions using
Drosophila melanogaster as a model species. We have
created a large panel of 81 mito-nuclear genotypes, whichhave coevolved or mismatched genomes. Using this sys-
tem, we want to test theories regarding mitonuclear
coadaptation and also the Mother >1
2s Curse hypothe-
sis.
The applicant should have a strong evolutionary biol-
ogy background. They should also have skills in plan-
ning and executing large phenotypic experiments with
Drosophila, including collection and analysis of data.
The applicant will need an understanding of mitochon-
drial biology with particular interest in mitochondrial
and nuclear interactions. Experience of genome-wide
mapping and gene editing techniques are desirable as
are bioinformatic skills in genome evolution. The candi-
date is expected to be an active member of the research
team, assisting in the development of research plans and
delivery of the overall project objectives.
The post is available to start from 01 November 2021.
It is funded for 2 years in the rst instance, with possi-
bilities for extension, with salary of  >1
236,028- >1
243,533
per annum (inclusive of London allowance). A PhD in a
relevant subject area (for example, evolutionary biology,
genetics, genomics) is essential.
For informal enquiries about the post please contact
Kevin Fowler / Florencia Camus at k.fowler@ucl.ac.uk
/ f.camus@ucl.ac.uk. The project team includes Flo Ca-
mus, Kevin Fowler, Max Reuter, Nick Lane and Richard
Mott.
Closing date for formal applications is 06 September, via
https://atsv7.wcn.co.uk/search engine/jobs.cgi?SID=-
amNvZGU9MTg3NzcwOCZ2dF90ZW1wbGF0ZT05NjUmb3duZXI9NTA0MTE3OCZvd25lcnR5cGU9ZmFpciZicmFuZF9pZD0wJmpvYl9yZWZfY29kZT0xODc3NzA4JnBvc3RpbmdfY29kZT0yMjQ
If you have any queries regarding the application
process please contact Biosciences stang on bio-
sciences.stang@ucl.ac.uk quoting the vacancy
reference number: 1877708.
\Fowler, Kevin" <k.fowler@ucl.ac.uk >\Fowler, Kevin"
<k.fowler@ucl.ac.uk >
UGeneva
ModellingPaleogenomicData
Postdoc position available at the University of Geneva
A postdoctoral position in computational modelling
of paleogenomic data is available at the Laboratory
of Anthropology, Genetics and Peopling history (AGP
lab) of the University of Geneva (Switzerland). This
postdoctoral research will be under the supervision of
Dr Mathias Currat (http://ua.unige.ch/en/personne/-72 EvolDir September 1, 2021
mathiascurrat/) and is part of the Swiss NSF project
\Paelogenomic investigation of the evolution of European
populations using computational simulations" (http:/-
/p3.snf.ch/Project-182577). The postdoctoral project
will consist in the simulation of ancient genomic data
under various evolutionary models using an original
computational method developed in the lab and the
comparison with observed patterns. The primary tasks
will consist to adapt the existing modelling framework
to the specic questions of the project, to perform anal-
yses and to write papers. The main aim is to investigate
the inuence of hybridisation with extinct hominids
on the evolutionary history of modern humans. We
are seeking a highly motivated person with a strong
interest in human evolution, population genomics and
computer tools. The successful candidate will belong
to an interdisciplinary research group, which is part of
an international network of research including leading
ancient
Requirements: PhD degree in biology or equivalent;
Skills in population genetics, biostatistics, bioinformat-
ics and English; Skills in computational modelling; Skills
in R and Bash scripting; Collaboration and communica-
tion abilities.
Terms of employment: Duration: 12 months; Start: the
position is available from Autumn 2021. Salary: SNSF
salary scale for a postdoc.
Other conditions: The postdoctoral researcher will par-
ticipate in teaching and other activities of the AGP
Lab.
About the AGP lab The AGP lab is part of the De-
partment of Genetics and Evolution at the University of
Geneva, Switzerland. It is located in the Science campus
in the heart of the city of Geneva. It oers a very stim-
ulating scientic environment with several independent
groups of research, international collaborations and ex-
cellent computer resources. Both French and English are
the working languages in the lab. More details about the
research group may be found at http://ua.unige.ch/en/-
personne/mathiascurrat/ How to apply Applications
should be sent as a single pdf le by email to Dr Math-
ias Currat (mathias.currat@unige.ch) by September 15,
2021. It should include a cover letter, a detailed CV,
a one page research statement. At least two letters
of recommendation will be requested from candidates
selected for interview. Please include the details of your
references in your cover letter.
Mathias Currat <Mathias.Currat@unige.ch >ULiverpool
DrosophilaNutritionLifehistory
We are seeking an individual to work on Drosophila
nutrition and life-history, to join the group of Dr Stuart
Wigby (University of Liverpool), as part of a BBSRC-
funded project. You will examine the eects of nutrition
on male fertilisation success and ageing. This will involve
y experiments, integrating precision-nutrition methods
with assays of male fertility, sperm metabolism, and
seminal uid proteomics, across male ages. A PhD in bi-
ology is essential, as is expertise in relevant experimental
and analytical approaches.
Experience of large-scale experiments in D. melanogaster
or similar systems is required, and experience in - or
willingness to learn - sophisticated statistical analysis
of large multidimensional datasets is desirable, though
training will also be given. You will be based in Dr
Wigby's group in Liverpool, but will interact closely
with the Centre for Proteomics Research at Liverpool,
led by Professor Claire Eyers, Dr Juliano Morimoto's
group at the University of Aberdeen, and collaborators
Dr Matthew Piper (Monash University) and Profes-
sor Stephen Simpson (University of Sydney). Sperm
metabolism work will be conducted via a short-term
research visit to the Technische Universit at Dresden, in
the lab of Professor Klaus Reinhardt.
The post is available from 1 February 2022 until 31
January 2025
Application deadline 3rd September 2021
Informal enquiries to s.wigby@liverpool.ac.uk
https://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/CIF449/postdoctoral-
research-associate-in-drosophila-nutrition-and-life-
history Note - a technician position on this project will
also be advertised shortly
\Wigby, Stuart" <S.Wigby@liverpool.ac.uk >September 1, 2021 EvolDir 73
UMichigan
ComparativeGenomicsFungi
The James Lab at the University of Michigan
(www.umich.edu/ ~mycology) is seeking a postdoctoral
fellow in comparative genomics of fungi. Research will
involve the analysis and generation of genomes and tran-
scriptomes from uncultivated single cells, metagenomes,
and cultured fungi. Scientic areas of interest are: re-
verse ecology using genomic sequences, phylogenomics
and horizontal gene transfer, host specicity, and host-
pathogen interactome.
The primary study system is the marine yeast
Malassezia, a ubiquitous but uncultivated component of
the numerous marine habitats. This project is funded
by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation and is a
collaboration with Anthony Amend (U. Hawaii), Amy
Gladfelter (U. North Carolina), and Ashleigh Theberge
(U. Washington) with the aim of developing Malassezia
as a model marine fungal system for studying symbiosis.
This position will also work at the intersection of mul-
tiple projects ongoing in the lab including projects on
chytrid parasites of algae, amphibian-chytrid symbiosis,
and mycoviruses of early diverging fungal lineages.
The ideal candidate will be well-versed in bioinformatics
with experience using and creating analytical pipelines
for answering biological questions with 'omics data. In-
terest and knowledge in fungal or microbial systems
is desired. Applicants may be involved with lab or
eld work depending on experience. Opportunities for
mentoring undergraduates or research assistants will be
provided. Ideal start date is by the end of 2021 and
review of applications will begin immediately and close
on Sept. 15. The initial appointment is for one year
with a possibility of extension to a second year pending
performance review.
Our lab pursues diverse projects in fungal biology
and embraces diverse perspectives and backgrounds in
STEM. The lab is in the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology (http://www.eeb.lsa.umich.edu/-
eeb/index.html), an intellectually stimulating environ-
ment in a vibrant college town (Ann Arbor, MI).
Interested applicants should email Tim James (ty-
james@umich.edu) with a CV, cover letter, and the
names and contact information of three references.
Tim James (he/him) Dept. of Ecology and Evol. Biol-ogy University of Michigan
\tyjames@umich.edu" <tyjames@umich.edu >
UMinnesota
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Location: University of Minnesota, Department of
Agronomy and Plant Genetics, St. Paul, MN
Research Area: Population Genetics and Genomics
Do you want to contribute to improving food and nutri-
tion security in the face of climate change?
We are seeking a Postdoctoral Research Associate in
population genetics and genomics to work on an FFAR-
funded project that seeks to increase thermotolerance in
cowpea, an important legume crop. The successful can-
didate will conduct a diverse set of activities, including
environmental association, resequencing and annotation,
and evaluation of homologous genes in related species.
The successful candidate will be part of a multidisci-
plinary team of scientists at the University of Minnesota,
Colorado State University, University of Florida, Uni-
versity of Leon (Spain), and the International Institute
of Tropical Agriculture (Nigeria). There will be oppor-
tunities for domestic and international travel.
There are also opportunities to improve biocomput-
ing skills through tutorials hosted by the Minnesota
Supercomputing Institute https://www.msi.umn.edu/-
tutorials and the Biocomputing Discussion Group
https://morrelllab.github.io/compute/. On the St. Paul
campus, there are several faculty with research programs
in genomics (including Candy Hirsch, Gary Muehlbauer,
and Nathan Springer) and evolutionary genetics (in-
cluding Yaniv Brandvain, Suzanne McGaugh, David
Moeller, Ruth Shaw, and Peter Tin).
Qualications: PhD in evolutionary, population, or
quantitative genetics, plant breeding, or related eld.
Prociency in UNIX shell, Python, or other program-
ming languages is preferred. A demonstrated ability
to publish original research in peer-reviewed journals
is preferred. Basic molecular biology skills, including
DNA extraction and PCR, are preferred.
To apply, send a cover letter and curriculum vitae to
Peter Morrell (pmorrell@umn.edu) and Maria Munoz-
Amatriain (maria.munoz amatriain@colostate.edu). Re-
view of applications will begin on 15 September 2021
and continue until the position is lled.74 EvolDir September 1, 2021
\pmorrell@umn.edu" <pmorrell@umn.edu >
UNewHampshire EcologyEvolution
The Garnas lab (http://mypages.unh.edu/garnaslab)
seeks a highly motivated postdoctoral scholar to address
basic and applied questions related to beech bark dis-
ease in eastern North America. A successful project will
focus on eco-evolutionary feedbacks of relevance to the
scale insects and multiple fungi associated with this dis-
ease, including feedbacks mediated by host tree response.
Other elements of the project will be of the postdoc-
toral scholar  ^A>^A1
2s own design. Candidates focused on
conceptual or theoretical approaches to understanding
complex dynamics and community feedbacks in ecologi-
cal systems are also encouraged to apply.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in a related eld and a
strong interest in eld ecology and evolutionary biol-
ogy as well as in applying molecular, histological, or
theoretical tools to natural (non-model) systems.
For an example of current work on this topic from our
lab, please see: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/-
10.3389/gc.2021.673099 .The University of New Hamp-
shire and the Department of Natural Resources and
the Environment are home to a vibrant community of
productive researchers with a strong commitment to
student success. Located in the town of Durham, UNH
is a beautiful campus surrounded by forest and natural
landscapes and is less than 30 minutes from the ocean
and 90 minutes from the White Mountains. Outdoor
and other recreational activities abound.
Interested applicants must apply via the university em-
ployment site: https://jobs.usnh.edu/postings/42283 .
Review of applications will begin on 8/16/2021 but will
continue until the position is lled. The preferred start
date is October 1, 2021. Funding is available for up to
two years.
Apologies for the short turnaround and for any
cross-postings. Questions can be directed to gar-
naslab.recruiting@unh.edu.
Je Garnas <je.garnas@unh.edu >Je Garnas
<je.garnas@unh.edu >UNorthCarolina Charlotte
CnidarianDiversity
A Postdoctoral Researcher position is available to study
genetic diversity of a coastal cnidarian (Nematostella
vectensis) and its viruses in the lab of Adam Reitzel at
the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.
Work in the Reitzel lab is focused broadly on the ecol-
ogy and evolution of marine invertebrates, particularly
cnidarians. For this NSF-funded position, we are seeking
a post-PhD candidate to analyze the genomic diversity
of anemones from dierent locations, the variation in
viral communities, and adaptation of anemones to biotic
communities.
This work involves eld experiments in the United States
as well as laboratory studies at UNC Charlotte. This
project is a collaboration with Dr. Yehu Moran (Hebrew
University of Jerusalem, Israel). Successful candidates
for this position will need to have demonstrated ex-
perience in the generation and analysis of short read
Illumina data. Experience with long read data (PacBio,
Oxford Nanopore) and metagenomics is desirable. The
selected candidate will have the opportunity to explore
independent research directions during their time that
contributes to a broader understanding of viruses as-
sociated with this species. The selected candidate will
also have the opportunity to co-mentor undergraduate
and graduate students.
Candidates
Applications are encouraged from individuals who have
a Ph.D. in Biology, Bioinformatics, or related disciplines,
with experience in genome/transcriptome sequencing,
viruses, and/or metagenomics. Top candidates will have
a strong track record of research productivity and inter-
est in collaborative science.
Candidates should apply at the following site: https:/-
/jobs.uncc.edu/hr/postings/36340. Your application
should include a cover letter, a curriculum vitae, a one-
page statement describing your research interests and
goals, and names and contact details for three references.
Start Date and Project Duration
The start date is ideally on or before November 1 but
applications will be evaluated until the position is lled.
Initial application review will begin on September 10.
The position is funded for up to three years dependentSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 75
on progress.
Contact for additional information:
Adam Reitzel (he/him) Department of Biological Sci-
ences University of North Carolina at Charlotte Char-
lotte, NC 28223 Email: areitze2@uncc.edu Web: https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/thereitzellab/ Adam Reitzel
<areitze2@uncc.edu >
UOttawa ConservationAndClimate
Postdoctoral Researcher: Integrating climate microrefu-
gia into networks of protected and conserved areas
We seek to recruit a motivated postdoctoral researcher to
join a collaborative eort between the University of Ot-
tawa (Ottawa, Canada) and Environment and Climate
Change Canada to better understand how to integrate
climate microrefugia into networks of protected and
conserved areas. The researcher will play a key role in
this collaboration, developing a framework and applying
methods to provide guidance for biodiversity conserva-
tion, including Species at Risk recovery planning. The
objectives of the project are to: (1) identify climate-
vulnerable species dependent on microrefugia, (2) de-
velop a framework to guide the identication of climate
microrefugia in climate-informed conservation planning,
and (3) develop guidance on the integration of climate
refugia into planning frameworks. The researcher will
be mentored by Dr. Heather Kharouba (University of
Ottawa, Canada) and Dr. Ilona Naujokaitis-Lewis (En-
vironment Climate Change Canada) and there will be
opportunities to work with a diverse set of other col-
laborators. The location of the position is exible with
remote work possible.
The position is available to be lled as early as Septem-
ber 2021 with a preferred start date no later than Octo-
ber 1, 2021 and is expected to be of 18 months duration,
with potential extension to 2 years. Renewal after the
rst year is contingent upon performance.
Qualications include: a Ph.D. in ecology, natural re-
source sciences, conservation biology, or a related eld;
evidence of publishing in peer-reviewed publications;
experience in ecology, one or more aspects of biodiver-
sity conservation, climate change/global change ecology;
strong quantitative and computational skills (statistics,
GIS, R, github); and excellent communication abilities.
Canadian and international applicants are welcome. The
Kharouba and Naujokaitis-Lewis labs are committed toan equitable, diverse and inclusive research environment.
Underrepresented groups are encouraged to apply.
Review of applications are underway and will continue
until a suitable candidate is found. Applicants should
send the following: (1) A cover letter that briey indi-
cates how the applicant meets the criteria, and includes
a brief short statement of research interests; (2) Cur-
riculum Vitae; and (3) Names and email addresses of
three references. Please send application, and informal
inquiries about the position, to Dr. Heather Kharouba
(heather.kharouba@uottawa.ca).
Heather Kharouba (she/her/elle) Associate Professor
Department of Biology University of Ottawa website:
kharoubalab.weebly.com
\kharouba@gmail.com" <kharouba@gmail.com >
UOulu BiodiverseAnthropocenes
Biodiverse Anthropocenes program of the University
of Oulu, Finland (https://www.oulu./en/biodiverse-
anthropocenes) is very pleased to announce that it is
now seeking to hire two Postdoctoral Researchers (3-year
positions).
Deadline: 20 September 2021 at midnight (Finnish
time).
The positions are aimed at candidates from across
multiple disciplines (and in particular they encourage
transdisciplinary scholarship) spanning a range of re-
search focuses, including biodiversity genomics, human-
environment relations, geographies and sustainability.
We hope to encourage outstanding, ambitious scholars
to apply for these jobs. And do please feel free to share
word of these positions among your colleagues and with
your networks.
For more information, see: http://rekry.saima./-
certiahome/open jobview.html?did=5600&lang=-
en&id=000011778&jc=1 Marko Mutanen
Marko Mutanen <Marko.Mutanen@oulu. >76 EvolDir September 1, 2021
USouthCarolina
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
The Wessinger lab in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences at the University of South Carolina is recruiting
postdoctoral researchers to study plant evolutionary
genetics (of penstemons). Potential research projects
are focused on the parallel evolution of complex traits,
including investigating the contribution of adaptive in-
trogression to parallelism, comparative studies of the
genetic and genomic basis of complex trait divergence,
and population genetic processes that maintain com-
plex trait dierences between closely related species
that hybridize. For more information about our lab's
research and study system, see our website: wessinger-
lab.github.io. Successful candidates will have opportu-
nities to develop independent research directions and
will contribute to mentoring undergraduates in the lab.
Funding is available for up to four years, subject to
annual review, with a exible start date.
The EEB group at U of SC is an interactive, support-
ive, and collaborative community with several new and
growing labs. U of SC is located in beautiful Columbia,
SC. Columbia is a diverse and aordable small city with
a vibrant downtown, wonderful climate, and easy access
to outdoor activities.
Applicants should have a PhD in evolution, genetics, or
a related eld; peer-reviewed publications; experience in
research mentoring; experience working with genomic
data; and demonstrated skills in experimental design,
data management, and data analysis. Expertise in any
or all of the following is preferred: population genomics,
phylogenomic analyses, quantitative genetics, popula-
tion genetic modeling, statistics, and/or eldwork. We
are committed to building a diverse research team and
encourage applications from members of historically
excluded groups in STEM.
Interested individuals should contact Carrie Wessinger
by email (wessinc@mailbox.sc.edu) with a CV and state-
ment of interest. Inquiries will be considered until the
positions have been lled.
\Wessinger, Carolyn" <WESSINC@mailbox.sc.edu >USouthernMississippi MarineEDNA
A postdoctoral position is available in marine environ-
mental DNA (eDNA) research in the School of Biological,
Environmental, and Earth Sciences at the University of
Southern Mississippi. The candidate will design novel
species-specic eDNA assays for marine shes of in-
terest and conduct eDNA eldwork and lab analysis.
The candidate will compare resultant data with those
acquired via other approaches to assess the ecacy of
eDNA methodologies to assess the presence and relative
abundances of marine target species. The successful
candidate will be highly motivated and have the abil-
ity to work independently. Funding is available for two
years; continuation in the second year is contingent upon
satisfactory performance and progress during the rst
year.
Primary Duties and Responsibilities
1. Work closely with PI and the multi-institutional
research team to plan, design, and execute eld and
lab research activities. 2. Lead eDNA eldwork, which
will include water sampling and ltration in coastal and
oshore marine waters. Fieldwork will require travel. 3.
Design species-specic multiplex Droplet Digital PCR
(ddPCR) assays. Lab analysis of eDNA samples, in-
cluding DNA extractions, ddPCRs. Maintain a detailed
laboratory notebooks and data records. Prepare reports
and peer-reviewed publications 4. Data analyses, which
may include limits of quantication, detection proba-
bilities, relative abundance estimates, and/or eDNA
particle tracking models. 5. Train and mentor graduate
and undergraduate students in the lab. 6. Performs
other duties as assigned.
Minimum Qualications
* Ph.D. degree in Biological Sciences (Ecology, Genetics,
Marine Science, or a related eld). * Demonstrable
record of publishing scientic papers in peer- reviewed
journals. * Knowledge of marine sh biology, ecology. *
Prociency with Microsoft Oce.
Knowledge, Skills & Abilities Ability and willingness to
conduct marine eldwork in hot, cold, or rainy condi-
tion and lift 40 lbs repeatedly during eldwork activities.
Meticulous attention to detail; ability to follow rigor-
ous methodological protocols, work independently and
multi-task. Excellent teamwork and communication
skills in a diverse lab group.September 1, 2021 EvolDir 77
Preferred Qualications Demonstrable experience con-
ducting marine eDNA research, developing novel mul-
tiplex and/or species-specic PCR assays, and compe-
tency with R and/or python. Strong background in
molecular ecology or population genetics in terms of the-
ory and lab techniques. Prociency with primer/probe
design, qPCR, and/or ddPCR.
Special Instructions to Applicants Review of applicants
will begin September 7 and the position will remain
open until lled. Applicants must submit: 1) a cover
letter detailing qualications and relevant experience, 2)
CV, 3) a statement of research interests (not to exceed 2
pages), and 4) names and contact information for three
references. Application link: https://usm.csod.com/-
ats/careersite/JobDetails.aspx?id=2138&site=1 About
The University of Southern Mississippi The University of
Southern Mississippi (USM) is a comprehensive public
research institution delivering transformative programs
on campuses in Hattiesburg and Long Beach, at teaching
and research sites across the Mississippi Gulf Coast, as
well as online. Founded in 1910, USM is one of only 131
universities in the nation to earn the Carnegie Classica-
tion of Institutions of Higher Education's \R1: Doctoral
Universities - Very high research activity" designation,
and its robust research enterprise includes experts in
ocean science and engineering, polymer science and en-
gineering, and large event venue safety and security,
among others. USM is also one of only 37 institutions in
the nation accredited in theatre, art and design, dance
and music. As an economic driver, USM generates
an annual economic impact of more than $600 million
across the state. USM welcomes a diverse student body
of more than 14,000, representing 71 countries, all 50
states, and every county in Mississippi. USM students
have collected four Truman Scholarships and 37 Na-
tional Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow-
ships, while also leading Mississippi with 27 Goldwater
Scholarships, an honor that recognizes the next genera-
tion of great research scientists. Home to the Golden
Eagles, USM competes in 17 Division I sports spon-
sored by the National Collegiate Athletic Association
(NCAA). For more information, visit www.usm.edu . As
an Armative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity
employer/Americans with Disabilities Act institution,
The University of Southern Mississippi encourages mi-
norities, women, veterans and persons with disabilities
to apply.
Nicole Phillips
Associate Professor
The University of Southern Mississippi
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UTurku EvolutionDisease
University of Turku, Faculty of Science, Department of
Biology, invites applications for
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER (Infectious Dis-
easeEpidemiology)
Appointment Specication
Fixed-term position begins ideally on 1st of October
2021 and in 24 months is due to completing the tasks
relating to the NORDEMICS project funded by Nord-
Forsk (2021-2024) and coordinated at the Department
of Biology, the Ecology Division.
The working place is in the Lummaa Group (https:/-
/human-life-history.science/) and the postdoctoral po-
sition is embedded in an interdisciplinary network of
epidemiologists, ecologists and social scientists with Prof.
Lone Simonsen at Roskilde University (Denmark), with
Prof. Nils Chr. Stenseth at the University of Oslo
(Norway) and with Prof. Tommy Bengtson at Lund
University (Sweden).
A six (6) month trial period applies to the position.
The duties
The duties of the Postdoctoral researcher include
a) collecting and validating historical demographic
and epidemiological records, b) analysis of the socio-
demographic and environmental factors that aect the
epidemic dynamics of childhood infections in histori-
cal populations, c) statistical quantication of epidemic
dynamics of childhood infections, d) mathematical mod-
elling of epidemic dynamics using SIR models and e)
writing up and presenting results for scientic journals
and at interdisciplinary scientic meetings. The tasks
will be specied together with the department sta.
A maximum of 10 % teaching duties (lectures and super-
vising undergraduate and graduate students) is included
in working time of the position without separate com-
pensation.
A good applicant for this post has:
experience with collecting and validating historical data
experience with advanced statistical methods such as78 EvolDir September 1, 2021
generalized linear and additive models, wavelet and
travelling waves analyses
experience with and enthusiasm for epidemiological mod-
elling such as S(E)IR models
excellent computer and (R-)coding skills
enthusiasm and ability for interdisciplinary research
that covers biology, epidemiology, historical and social
sciences
excellent academic writing and communication skills in
English
excellent collaboration skills in a vast interdisciplinary
research network across the Nordic countries, Europe
and the United States.
Formal qualications
A person selected for the post must possess a doctoral
degree in Biology, Epidemiology or related discipline
with the above-described qualications. Persons ap-
pointed must have successfully completed their doctoral
degree by the end of the application period.
Salary
The salary for the post is determined in accordance with
the university salary system for teaching and research
personnel. The task specic salary component for the
postdoctoral researcher is 3 000,49 euros per month (ac-
cording to level 5 of the job demands chart). In addition,
a personal work performance component will be paid.
The personal work performance component is 6-50%
of the task specic salary component. Salary for this
position will be in between 3180,52 - 3510,57 euro .
Applications
Applications are submitted to the Faculty of Science.
Applications must include:
1) A curriculum vitae
2) An academic portfolio in accordance with the uni-
versity practice https://www.utu./en/university/come-
work-with-us/academic-portfolio 3) A list of the appli-
cant's scientic publications
4) Motivation letter
5) Other documents that can be relevant for lling the
post
Applications must be submitted by Monday 6th of
September 2021 (23:59), using the electronic applica-
tion form of the University of Turku on the following
address: https://www.utu./en/university/come-work-
with-us/open-vacancies The link to the application
system is at the beginning of this announcement (Apply
for the job).Enquiries
For the position, please contact Professor Virpi Lum-
maa, email: virpi.lummaa(at)gmail.com or dr. Michael
Briga, email: michbriga(at)gmail.com
For questions related to the application pro-
cess, contact HR specialist Kaisa Ketom aki
(kaisa.ketomaki(at)utu.).
Michael Briga <michbriga@gmail.com >
UWindsor StressResponseChips
Drs. Daniel Heath (University of Windsor) and Kenneth
Jeries (University of Manitoba) have an opening for a
Post-Doc to assist in the development of the GEN-FISH
Stress-response Transcriptional Proling (STP) chip-a
suite of quantitative gene expression assays to assess
sh health and responses to environmental stressors.
The Post-Doc will coordinate with P.I.s, graduate stu-
dents, lab managers, and industry professionals from
collaborating institutions to develop a robust collection
of cDNA, tissue samples, and transcriptomic sequence
data for the STP-chip design, testing, and validation.
Candidates are required to have a PhD in Biology or
related eld, extensive experience with bioinformatic
analyses, and practical knowledge of R-based software
use. Lab experience with qRT-PCR and RNA-seq anal-
ysis is preferred. Exceptional attention to detail, organi-
zation, and time-management skills with a track record
of success in managing multiple projects and deadlines
are essential qualities for this position. A full summary
of the functions and duties of the position can be found
on our website: https://gen-sh.ca/post-doc-position/
. Applicants are asked to send an updated CV, repre-
sentative publications, a cover letter and/or statement
describing the candidate's past experience and accom-
plishments, interests (generally and with respect to the
specics of this position), and the names and e-mails
of at least two references. These materials should be
combined into a single pdf document and sent to Dr.
Jeries (Ken.Jeries@umanitoba.ca).
The Heath and Jeries labs are committed to increasing
gender, ethnic, disciplinary, and cultural diversity. They
aim to promote equity, diversity, and inclusion within
our eld of research in Canada.
The position is expected to start as soon as possible,
September 2021. We will review applications as they
arrive, beginning August 2021.September 1, 2021 EvolDir 79
Paige Breault (she/her) GEN-FISH Communications
Coordinator Great Lakes Institute for Environmental
Research University of Windsor
Paige Wilson <Paige.Wilson@uwindsor.ca >
UWisconsin Milwaukee
KelpGenomics
The Department of Biological Sciences at the University
of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM) is currently accepting
application submissions for a postdoctoral appointment
in Dr. Filipe Alberto's laboratory.
The postdoctoral fellow will work on population ge-
nomics analysis of large brown algae (kelps). The Al-
berto lab is currently applying genomic analysis to the
conservation and breeding of giant (Macrocystis pyrifera)
and bull (Nereocystis luetkeana) kelps in the northeast
Pacic.
The successful candidate will have a strong bioinfor-
matics background to tackle large data sets of WGS
sequenced individuals. We are looking for someone with
demonstrated experience (as evidenced by publications
and letters of reference) in at least two of the following
broad topics: dierential expression analysis from RNA-
seq experiments; analysis of large sets of WGS data
mapped to an annotated reference genome, including
characterization of genomic regions under selection, de-
mographic and seascape genomics analysis; simulation
and analysis of population genomics data sets, genomic
analysis of epigenetic variation. The candidate should
be familiar with UNIX operating systems (e.g., Linux),
bash scripting, and program in at least one programming
language, preferably Python or R, with AWK scripting
an appreciated addition.
Applicants are required to have a Ph.D. in evolutionary
ecology, plant breeding, population genetics/genomics,
or genetics.
The postdoctoral fellow will have the opportunity to
collaborate with our extended network of partners, in-
cluding but not limited to, the following groups, Bob
Miller and Dan Reed from UCSB, Sergey Nuhzdin from
UCS, Pete Raimondi from UCSC, Scott Lindell and
Charles Yarish from WHOI, the Puget Sound Restora-
tion Fund team, The Nature Conservancy California
Oceans team, and the California Conservation Genomics
consortium.
Informal inquiries about our projects are encouraged.Please apply by sending a single pdf document, including
1. CV,
2. a declaration of research interests,
3. previous experience and t for the position, and
4. the email address and telephone number of three
potential contacts for reference letters.
Applications should be emailed to Dr. Filipe Alberto,
albertof(at)uwm.edu. The initial contract will be for
one year with a possible extension to one additional
year.
The review of applications starts on September 16, 2021,
and will continue until the position is lled. The position
is expected to start as soon as possible.
UW-Milwaukee is an AA / EEO employer strongly com-
mitted to maintaining a climate supporting equality of
opportunity and respect for dierences based on gender,
culture, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, marital
status, race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
age and lawful activities.
For more information about the lab see:http://alberto-
lab.blogspot.com/ . UWM has an active group of re-
searchers studying evolutionary ecology and behavior:
https://uwm.edu/biology/research/ecology-evolution-
and-behavior/ Filipe Alberto Associate Professor
Dept. of Biological Sciences University of Wisconsin
- Milwaukee 3209 N. Maryland Ave. Milwaukee, WI
53211
URL: http://alberto-lab.blogspot.com/ URL: http://-
giantkelpbreeding.com Email: albertof@uwm.edu Tel:
414-251-8262
Filipe Aos Alberto <albertof@uwm.edu >
UZurich
MicrobiomeInsectReproduction
Postdoc: Microbial eects on host reproduction
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher to join our
group at the University of Zurich for an SNSF-funded
project (2 years) examining microbial eects on the re-
productive function of insects, particularly Drosophila.
This project will combine ambitious y experiments
with microbiota characterization and manipulation and
a variety of assays of reproductive function, including
sperm quality and seminal uid proteome.80 EvolDir September 1, 2021
A PhD in biology is required to be considered for this
position. An good applicant additionally has:
- experience working with insects
- expertise in host-microbiome interactions
- ideally some experience with proteomics or similar
analyses
- ability to manage large datasets
- excellent analytical and scientic communication skills
in English
- ability to work in a team, including local and interna-
tional collaborators
Preferred start in January 2022. Funding is available
for two years.
To apply, please send your documents (CV, statement
of motivation and research interests, and contact in-
formation for three people who can provide letters of
recommendation) to stefan.luepold@ieu.uzh.ch. Appli-
cation review will begin on 10 September 2021.
Stefan Lupold SNSF Professor Department of Evolu-
tionary Biology and Environmental Studies University
of Zurich
http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/en/sta/member/-
luepold stefan.html http://www.lupoldlab.net \ste-
fan.luepold@ieu.uzh.ch" <stefan.luepold@ieu.uzh.ch >
YorkU Canada
EcolEvolutionaryGenomics
The honey bee lab (www.yorku.ca/zayedlab) at York
University's Dept. of Biology (Toronto, Canada) hasseveral positions available starting Fall of 2021. Projects
include:
1) Ecological genomics and pollinator health: Our group
is leading a national initiative called BeeCSI (https://-
beecsi.ca/) to identify stressor specic biomarkers for
use in pollination conservation. We are looking for a
postdoctoral fellow with experience in transcriptomics
and interest in bee biology to participate in both wet-lab
and bioinformatic components of this research.
2) Comparative population genomics of eusocial insects:
We are looking for a postdoctoral fellow to study the
relationship between genome evolution and social evo-
lution using population genomic datasets on a large
number of insects that vary in their social organization.
Starting Salary: $55,000 per year
Qualied candidates are encouraged to submit their CV
to Amro Zayed (honeybee@yorku.ca).
In addition to the honey bee lab, York University is
home to the Center for Bee Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation (BEEc, https://bees.yorku.ca). Successful
candidates will have a chance to interact with the diverse
faculty, fellows and students at BEEc, and participate
in BEEc activities and training initiatives.
Ida Conitti <iconitti@gmail.com >
iconitti@gmail.com
WorkshopsCourses
Ingelheim Mutualism Oct8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Online DNA Skills Sep13-Dec5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Online EmergingViralThreats Sep6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Online EnvironmentalMetabolomics Sep15-22 . . . . . 82
Online EvolGeneticsMedicine Aug30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Online EvolQuantGenetics Sep13-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83Online MetabolomicsInR Nov1-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Online PlantEvolution Oct5 12 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Online SpeciationGenomics Dec6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Portugal Evolution 2021-2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84September 1, 2021 EvolDir 81
Ingelheim Mutualism Oct8
Dear Colleagues,
There are still some limited slots available to partic-
ipate on-site and present a poster at our Gutenberg
Workshop \The Rise and Fall of Mutualisms" in In-
gelheim, Germany! Please register asap and submit a
poster abstract, if you would like to attend in person.
After the maximum number of people allowed due to the
Covid regulations is reached, I will have to decline fur-
ther registrations and defer them to online participation.
Registration for online participation (livestream and
chat) will still be possible until Oct 8. You can nd ad-
ditional information on the workshop and how to register
here: https://gutenberg-workshops.uni-mainz.de/rise-
and-fall-of-mutualisms-oct-2021/ I am really excited
about having this workshop in a hybrid format!
Best wishes, Martin
Prof. Dr. Martin Kaltenpoth Director Department
of Insect Symbiosis Max Planck Institute for Chem-
ical Ecology Hans-Kn oll-Str. 8 07745 Jena Email:
kaltenpoth@ice.mpg.de
Martin Kaltenpoth <kaltenpoth@ice.mpg.de >
Online DNA Skills Sep13-Dec5
PDNA-7001-FA Virtual DNA Skills Training Course:
The Virtual DNA Skills Training Course is designed to
teach participants the fundamentals of molecular tech-
niques including DNA extraction, amplication (using
PCR), sequencing and interpretation. This non-credit
course is oered as an online virtual course.
The cost of the online virtual training course is $600.00
CDN.
The next scheduled time for the Virtual DNA Skills
Training Course is: September 13 to December 5, 2021.
For more information please contact us at 807-343-8010
ext. 8616 or email paleodna@lakeheadu.ca or visit our
website at www.ancientdna.com and click on 'Training
Courses'.
Thank you.Karen.
Karen Maa Administrative Assistant Lakehead Univer-
sity Centre for Analytical Services (LUCAS) 955 Oliver
Road Thunder Bay, ON P7B 5E1
Karen Maa <kmaa@lakeheadu.ca >
Online EmergingViralThreats
Sep6-10
Few spots are still available for the course
*Emerging viral threats in a globalized society: molecu-
lar, epidemiological, clinical and social aspects of emerg-
ing viral diseases*
ONLINE COURSE - One-week interdisciplinary online
course on emerging viral infectious diseases.
This online course includes lectures on SARS-CoV-2,
mammalian-borne emerging viruses and arboviruses,
coupled with practical sessions on the analysis of ge-
nomic and meta-genomic data through state-of-the-art
bioinformatic approaches. A session on scientic com-
munication with David Quammen (author of spillover)
will conclude the course. Lecturers include world-wide
experts in vaccines development as Andrea Car (Mod-
erna) and Claudia Sala (Fondazione Toscana Life Sci-
ences), clinicians as Fausto Baldanti (University of
Pavia), epidemiologists as Giovanni Rezza (General Di-
rector of Prevention of the Italian Ministry of Health),
vector biologists as Andrea Cristanti (University of
Padova), among many others. Check the complete
speakers list at|https://isags-pavia.unipv.it/virology/-
speakers/ . This school is proposed for PhD students
and early-stage researchers in microbiology, epidemiol-
ogy, bioinformatics and public health policies.
The course aims at providing an inter-sectorial overview
of the rising problem of emerging viral infectious dis-
eases, from genomics to clinical aspects, from social
and demographic drivers to control strategies against
emerging viral threats.
When/Where: 30 total hours on Sept. 6-10, 2021, On-
line on Zoom Language: English
Fee: 100 euros 50% discount for PhD students from
developing countries Deadline: 31 August
Course Organizers: University of Pavia - Fausto Bal-
danti, Giovanni Maga, Davide Sassera More informa-
tion at:|https://isags-pavia.unipv.it/virology/ Lino82 EvolDir September 1, 2021
Ometto Department of Biology and|Biotechnology |
j|University of Pavia Via Ferrata 9 - 27100 Pavia
- Italy email: lino.ometto@unipv.it | j|phone: +39
0382986079
Societ a Italiana di Biologia Evoluzionistica|www.sibe-
iseb.it Lino Ometto <lino.ometto@unipv.it >
Online EnvironmentalMetabolomics
Sep15-22
Introduction to EnvironmentalMetabolomics
In-person, September 15-22 at Aarhus University, Den-
mark
6 days of lectures, exercises and workshops for PhD
fellows and Early career researchers
The aim of the summer school is to introducestate-
of-the-art environmental metabolomicsbased on high-
resolution mass spectrometryincludingits possibilities
and shortcomings.The course willintroduceanalytical-
hardware (e.g.Orbitrap mass spectrometry) andacqui-
sition strategies, study design and sample preparation
in an environmental context.The course will place its
main focus(day 2-6)onworking withstate-of-the-art in-
formatic tools for data (pre-)processingand statistical-
analysis,e.g.MZmine, XCMS, GNPS, Compound Dis-
coverer,MatLaband R.Participants can bring own un-
targeted metabolomic datafor usein the workshops.
More information: https://projects.au.dk/-
environmentalmetabolomics/ If your have any
questions, please contact Associate Professor Martin
Hansen, Dept Environmental Science, Aarhus University
(martin.hansen@envs.au.dk).
Best wishes, Martin
Martin Hansen Associate Professor Environmental-
Metabolomics Lab
Aarhus University Faculty of Technical Sciences Depart-
ment ofEnvironmentalScience Section ofEnvironmental-
Chemistry andToxicology
Martin Hansen <martin.hansen@envs.au.dk >Online EvolGeneticsMedicine Aug30
*The Tartu Summer school on Evolution, Genetics and
Medicine 2021*
This is the rst school of a series of annual international
summer schools that brings together evolution, genetics
and medicine. The school is organised by the cGEM
group at the Institute of Genomics, University of Tartu,
Estonia.
*Programme* The summer school is focussed on meth-
ods and resources for identifying the present-day conse-
quences of past natural selection for phenotypic variation
and susceptibility to disease, and will cover advanced
methods for inferring evolutionary histories from ge-
nomics data and linking them to large-scale genomic
and functional datasets. Lectures introducing theo-
retical concepts and methods will be combined with
workshops designed to give hands-on experience.
Anders Eriksson: Evolutionary theory of complex traits
Vasili Pankratov: Tree-based based methods of evolu-
tionary inference Michael Dannemann: Introgression
from archaic humans Mayukh Mondal: Deep learning
methods for evolutionary inference T ~Anis Org: Epige-
netics and cell-based functional assays
The school will be held online between August 30 and
September 2, and will be free of charge.
*Application* The course is aimed at PhD students
of mathematics and bioinformatics with an interest in
evolution. We also welcome students from biological
and medical backgrounds with sucient background in
computational analysis, advanced undergraduates, and
postdocs. We can accept maximum 40 students.
Applications are to be sent by email to kaisa.kuus@ut.ee.
The application should contain: * full contact data
(name, aliation, postal address, email address) * a
brief CV containing prior studies and/or positions *
a one-paragraph description of scientic interest and
motivation * list of publications (if any)
Please send all relevant information in one pdf le (not
in the email text).
The deadline for applications is August 18 and we shall
notify all applicants by August 23.
Best wishes Anders Eriksson
Associate Professor of Interdisciplinary Research in Ge-September 1, 2021 EvolDir 83
nomics Center for Genomics, Evolution and Medicine
(cGEM) Institute of Genomics University of Tartu email:
anders.eriksson@ut.ee
\anders.eriksson@ut.ee" <anders.eriksson@ut.ee >
Online EvolQuantGenetics Sep13-17
Dear evoldir members,
Transmitting Science is oering the LIVE ONLINE
course 'Introduction to Evolutionary Quantitative Ge-
netics'
Instructor: Dr. Erik Postma (University of Exeter, UK)
Dates: September 13th-17th, 2021 - 10:00-13:00 & 15:00-
18:00 (Madrid time zone)
A FULL SCHOLARSHIP is available for this course.
Deadline for scholarship applications is August 15th.
COURSE OVERVIEW:
The response to both natural and articial selection
critically depends on the additive genetic variances and
covariances underlying the traits subject to selection.
As a consequence, understanding the genetic basis of
complex morphological, life-history, physiological, or-
namental and behavioural traits is crucial if we are to
understand their evolutionary potential, and the evolu-
tionary process in general.
Quantitative genetics uses the phenotypic resemblance
among related individuals to infer the role of genes and
the environment in shaping phenotypic variation. De-
pending on the species, we can use data obtained from
breeding experiments under controlled conditions (e.g.
insects, plants), or from individual-based monitoring pro-
grams in the wild (e.g. birds and mammals). Especially
the latter has beneted greatly from the application
of animal model methodology, originally developed in
animal breeding to identify individuals of high genetic
merit. By simultaneously using the resemblance among
all individuals in the pedigree, these methods provide
more precise and accurate estimates of genetic and non-
genetic variance components (heritabilities and genetic
correlations). Furthermore, they allow for the estima-
tion of individual-level genetic eects (breeding values),
and thereby the inference of evolution.
In this course we will cover everything from basic quan-
titative genetic theory and statistics to advanced mixed
model-based approaches. You will learn how to estimate
genetic variances and covariances in wild and captivepopulations, and how to test for evolutionary change.
Along the way, you will be exposed to a range of general
statistical methods (including generalised and mixed
models), the R packages MCMCglmm and ASReml-R
in particular. Furthermore, we will discuss a number
of landmark papers that have put the concepts and
methods covered during the lectures and practicals into
practice to address fundamental evolutionary questions.
You are strongly encouraged to bring your own data
(if you have them), which you will be able to work on
during the course and which will allow you to put the
theory into practice.
For more information and registration: https://-
www.transmittingscience.com/courses/genetics-and-
genomics/introduction-evolutionary-quantitative-
genetics/ Contact: courses@transmittingscience.com
<courses.greece@transmittingsciene.com >
All the best,
Haris Saslis, PhD Course Coordinator Transmit-
ting Science www.transmittingscience.com <http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/ >
haris.saslis@gmail.com
Online MetabolomicsInR Nov1-4
Metabolomics: from study design to data analysis in R
Online, 1-4 November
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course55/ )
Instructor: Dr. Pietro Franceschi (Fondazione E. Mach,
Italy)
OVERVIEW: The aim of the course is to cover some
of the fundamental aspects of metabolomics from the
\data analyst" point of view. We will cover all the key
aspects which have to be considered to set-up a success-
ful metabolomics investigation, from the practical issues
related to study/analytical design to data pre-processing
and statistical analysis. The course will be delivered re-
lying on a mixture of lectures, computer-based practical
sections, and group discussions.
Prerequisites: Familiarity with R will be assumed. A
full day of the course will be however devoted to a fast
introduction to data carpentry and visualization in R.
A basic experience in metabolomics will be welcomed.
Full list of our courses and Workshops: ( https://-84 EvolDir September 1, 2021
www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops )
Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate
to contact us: info@physalia-courses.org
All the best, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org>
Online PlantEvolution Oct5 12 19
Save the Date!
Registration announcement to follow.
Interested in plant responses to global change? Join our
FREE, online workshop series October 5, 12, and 19:
3:00-5:00 EST
1. Introducing Project Baseline: A research seedbank to
study plant evolution & ecology 2. Resurrection Ecol-
ogy Basics: A powerful tool for studying plant using
preserved seeds 3. Getting Started: Meet & collaborate
with a diverse group of plant researchers
Contact us to be added to our mailing list!
projectbaseline@gmail.com Facebook: @project-
baselineseedbank Twitter: @PBseedbank https://-
www.baselineseedbank.org/ Project Baseline is funded
with support from the NSF and the NLGRP
\Weber, Jennifer J" <jennifer.weber@siu.edu >
Online SpeciationGenomics Dec6-10
Dear all,
registrations are now open for our 5th edition of the
Speciation Genomics course with Dr. Mark Ravinet
(University of Nottingham, UK) and Dr. Joana I. Meier
(University of Cambridge, UK).
The course will be held online in December (
6th-10th): https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course37/ This course will provide a thor-
ough introduction to the growing eld of speciationgenomics. The course aims to take students from the
initial steps required for handling raw sequencing data
to demographic modelling and inference of genome-wide
signatures of selection and introgression. Through a
combination of lectures covering key theoretical and
conceptual topics, alongside hands-on exercises, partici-
pants will learn the most important computational ap-
proaches used in speciation genomics. This will include
a heavy emphasis on data visualization and intepreta-
tion. After completing of the course, the participants
should be able to begin using NGS data to shed light on
the genomic aspects of speciation in their study system
of choice.
Learning Outcomes:
1.Handling NGS data from raw reads to genetic variants
2.Applying basic population genetic statistics
3.Visualizing the genetic structure
4.Inferring demographic history
5.Identifying regions under divergent selection or barri-
ers to gene ow
6.Understanding the potential and limitations of dier-
ent methods to detect regions under selection
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org>
Portugal Evolution 2021-2022
cE3c Advanced Courses 2021/2022 - List already avail-
able
The detailed program of the Advanced Courses orga-
nized by cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and En-
vironmental Changes for the academic year 2021/2022
is already available. There are 21 courses in total, of
which three are new.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Most courses are intended to beSeptember 1, 2021 EvolDir 85
presential, but if needed (e.g. due to COVID-19 secu-
rity measures by the time of the course) they may be
adapted to be given remotely (online). Courses that will
only occur if possible in presential format are noted.
These courses are aimed for students enrolled in Doc-
toral Programmes in Biology or related areas. They
can also be attended by post-graduate students of other
Doctoral Programmes or Masters in Biology, or others
with basic biology formation (such as BSc in Biology or
related areas).
These courses are free for 1st year PhD students of sev-
eral Doctoral Programmes of the Faculty of Sciences
of the University of Lisbon (FCUL) or institutions in
partnership with FCUL, counting credits for their for-
mation:
- Biology, Ci^ encias do Mar or other PhD programmes
at FCUL;
- Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution - BIODIV (ULis-
boa and UPorto);
- Biology and Ecology of Global Changes - BEAG (ULis-
boa and UAveiro);
- Sustainability Science (ULisboa)
The courses have in general an intensive format, with
one week of duration, with 5-6 ECTs recognition for the
above mentioned Doctoral Programmes. Some have a
shorter format (see details in each course's programme).
We detail below the list of courses, teachers and cal-
endars. More details (including programmes, fees and
procedures for applications) can be found at:
https://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat Ad-
vanced Courses cE3c 2021/2022
October 25th - 29th 2021 - Scientic Writing and Com-
munication (Gabor L ovei). Deadline for applications
September 17th 2021. (only occurs if possible in presen-
tial format; due to COVID-19, it may be cancelled or
re-scheduled).
November 8th - 12th 2021 - Production of Science
Communication Activities (Cristina Lu s, Filipa Vala
& Patr cia Garcia Pereira). Deadline for applications
October 15th 2021.
November 15th - 19th 2021 - Stable isotopes in Ecology
and Environment: a tool to integrate scales and com-
plexity (Cristina M aguas). Deadline for applications
October 15th 2021.
November 15th - 19th 2021 - Natural History Collections
and Biodiversity (Maria Judite Alves et al.). Deadline
for applications October 15th 2021
November 22nd - 26th 2021 - EvoS-2 - EvolutionaryStudies - applying evolutionary thinking outside the
biology realm (Filipa Vala). Deadline for applications
October 22nd 2021.
January 17th-21st 2022 - Island Biogeography (Ana
Margarida Santos et al.). Deadline for applications De-
cember 15th 2021. (only occurs if possible in presential
format, may be cancelled due to COVID-19)
January 24th - 28th 2022 - Soil ecology and ecosystem
services (Teresa Dias & Cristina Cruz). Deadline for
applications: December 27th 2021.
February 7th - 11th 2022 - Until death do us apart:
living in a symbiotic world (Silvana Munzi, Cristina
Cruz & Lourdes Morillas). Deadline for applications
January 7th 2021.
February 14th-18th 2022 - Urban Ecology: the green
within the city (Pedro Pinho, Julia Bentz,Cristina Bran-
quinho et al.). Deadline for applications January 14th
2022.
March 7th - 11th 2022 - Strategies for citizen engage-
ment in science communication (Cristina Lu s, Esther
Marin et al.). Deadline for applications February 11th
2022.
April 4th - 6th 2022 - Science and the Media: bring-
ing together scientists, journalists and society (Marta
Daniela Santos). Deadline for applications March 7th
2022.
May 4th- 6th 2022 - Introduction to R programming and
biological data analysis (In^ es Fragata & Vitor Sousa).
Deadline for applications April 4th 2022.
May 9th - 13th 2022 - Advanced R for Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology (In^ es Fragata & Vitor Sousa).
Deadline for applications April 4th 2022.
May 16th- 20th 2022 - Hands on Functional Diversity:
from Ecological Indicators to Ecosystem Services (Alice
Nunes, Paula Matos, Laura Concostrina-Zubiri et al.).
Deadline for applications April 15th 2022.
May 23rd-27th 2022 - Climate Change Adaptation (Sil-
via Carvalho et al.). Deadline for applications April 1st
2022. (NEW)
May 30th - June 3rd 2022 - Experimental Design and
Reproducibility in Science (In^ es Fragata, Leonor Ro-
drigues & Diogo Godinho). Deadline for applications
April 29th 2022. (NEW)
June 20th - 24th 2022 - Applied Methods in Commu-
nity Ecology and Functional Ecology (Paulo Borges &
Fran cois Rigal). Deadline for applications May 6th 2022.
June 27th - July 1st 2022 - Botany in the 21st century:
integrating modern molecular methods and classical de-86 EvolDir September 1, 2021
scriptive taxonomy (Patr cia dos Santos et al.). Deadline
for applications May 15th 2022. (NEW) (only
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.