E v o l D i r
June 1, 2009
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Conferences
Adelboden Switzerland SocialEvolution Aug15-18 . . 2
Berlin WildlifeGenetics Sep21-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
BrownU Genomics Jun8-11 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Budapest RECOMB Comparative Genomics Sep27-29
4
Crete MediterraneanEvolution Sep21-25 DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Girona Spain SpongeEvolution Sep20-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics Jun11-14 . . . . . . . . . . 5
London E-Biosphere challenge Jun1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
PortlandOR Ontologies Jul25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
QueenslandU GenomicDataAnalysis Oct5-6 . . . . . . . . . 7
Regensburg GermanZoologicalSociety Sep25-28 . . . . . 8
Roscoﬀ France ViralEvolution Sep26-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
StonyBrook Evolution Nov4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Tilton NewHampshire EvolutionaryGenomics Jul12-1711
UBristol MathModelsInEcologyEvolution Sep10-11 12
UGuelph FrontiersEvolution May20-21 2 . . . . . . . . . . 12
UIdaho SSE2009 Jun12-16 reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UIdaho SSE PhotoPedagogy Jun12-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UIdaho SSE UndergradDiversity 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UIowa SexRecombination May31-Jun3 2 . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIowa SMBE2009 Jun3-7 CallAbstracts . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIowa SMBE2009 Jun3-7 MentoringProgram 2 . . . . 15
UIowa SMBE2009 Jun3-7 updates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Uruguay Darwin200 Spe2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
USheﬃeld InsectEvolution Jul15-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UStAndrews ComparativeGenomics Aug18 . . . . . . . . 18
Utrecht EvolutionLanguage Apr14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Adelboden Switzerland
SocialEvolution Aug15-18
The use of vertebrate model systems to study social
evolution 15 ˆ a 18 August 2009, Adelboden, Bernese
Alps, Switzerland
Invited speakers: Prof. Nadia Aubin-Horth, Univer-
sit˜Ac/circlecopyrtde Montr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtal, Canada Prof. Sigal Balshine,
McMaster University, Canada Prof. Tim Clutton-
Brock, University of Cambridge, UK Prof. Jan
Komdeur, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen, Netherlands
Dr. David S. Richardson, University of East Anglia,
UK
Summary: To understand the evolution of complex so-
cial organization (including structured groups, cooper-
ation between group members, task sharing, individ-
ualized relationships, divergent social roles) we need
suitable model systems that (1) dispose of the required
complexity of social organization, (2) allow to observe
and measure relevant traits and their ﬁtness eﬀects in
the ﬁeld, and (3) enable performance of crucial exper-iments to unravel underlying ultimate and proximate
mechanisms of advanced sociality. Among vertebrates,
there are a few model systems that fulﬁl these criteria,
like meerkats, Seychelles warblers and Lake Tanganyika
cichlids. The aim of this symposium is to provide state-
of-the-art insight into the mechanisms underlying ad-
vanced social behaviour by bringing together experts
studying respective model systems in mammals, birds
and ﬁshes.
Structure of the symposium: Invited speakers and other
participants who wish to contribute to the theme of the
symposium will present relevant results and overviews
of the(ir) research on the respective model systems. In
the discussion, we shall emphasize the involved ulti-
mate and proximate mechanisms and attempt to com-
pare them between diﬀerent vertebrate taxa to under-
stand the importance of intrinsic diﬀerences in their
biology. We shall further discuss the pros and cons of
the respective model systems to unravel general princi-
ples of social evolution. We expect that at the end of
this symposium the participants will dispose of a good
understanding of some of the most complex and best
studied model systems of social evolution.
Where and when: The symposium will take place
in Adelboden, an alpine village in the BerneseJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 3
Alps ( http://www.adelboden.ch/en/navpage-
SummerAB.html ). The venue is the high-altitude
holiday resort Crea ( http://www.hotel-crea.ch/-
adelboden/ ) that combines the convenience of a nice
setting in a breathtaking landscape with the practi-
cal amenities of a well-proven seminar venue. It is
within easy reach by public transport from any Swiss
city. For all details of the meeting and registration
please consult: http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/-
index.php?pp=56&pf Registration until 1 June 2008
at:marlis.gerteis@iee.unibe.ch
Credits:1-2 ECTS can be obtained, depending
on the contribution of the participant Orga-
nizer: Michael Taborsky, University of Bern
(michael.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch)
Corinna von K¨ urthy PhD candidate Institut of Ecology
and Evolution Division Behavioural Ecology University
of Bern Wohlenstr. 50a 3032 Hinterkappelen Switzer-
land
Phone: +41 (31) 631 91 58
“von Kuerthy, Corinna”
<corinna.vonkuerthy@iee.unibe.ch >
Berlin WildlifeGenetics Sep21-24
Dear Colleagues,
on behalf of the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife
Research (IZW) and the European Association of Zoos
and Aquaria (EAZA) we would like to invite you to the
7th International Conference on Behaviour, Physiol-
ogy and Genetics of Wildlife“ between 21st and 24th
September 2009 in Berlin, Germany.
Please be reminded that THE DEADLINE FOR THE
EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT
SUBMISSION ENDS ON 1st OF JUNE 2009 !
For those who have not registered yet, please do so:
http://www.bayceer.uni-bayreuth.de/izw7/ The main
topics of the conference are: - Life History & Maternal
Eﬀects (Pat Monaghan, Universtity of Glasgow, UK) -
Stress & Disturbance (Marco Apollonio, Universita Sas-
sari, Sardinien, Italy) - Reproduction Biology (David
Wildt, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, USA) -
Evolutionary Genomics in Conservation (Pierre Taber-
let, Universit´ e Joseph Fourier, Grenoble, France) - Con-
servation Biology (Eric Dinerstein, Director of science
WWF-USA, Washington, USA)The Conference oﬀers several workshops: 1. Evolution-
ary Genomics in Conservation (Pierre Taberlet, Univer-
sit´ e Joseph Fourier, Grenoble, France & Simone Som-
mer, IZW, Berlin, Germany)
2. Communication in Mammals and Birds (Francesco
Bonnadonna, Centre d’Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evo-
lutive, Montpellier, France & Martin Dehnhard, IZW,
Berlin, Germany)
3. Welfare and Conservation (Eric Dinerstein, se-
nior scientist WWF-USA, Washington, USA & Marion
East, IZW, Berlin, Germany)
4. Stable Isotopes, Nutrition and Energetics (Carlos
Martinez del Rio, University of Wyoming, USA; Sylvia
Ortmann, IZW, Berlin, Germany & Christian Voigt,
IZW, Berlin, Germany)
5. Behavioural Rhythms (Serge Daan, University of
Groningen, the Netherlands & Anne Berger, IZW,
Berlin, Germany)
6. Research by, in, with and for zoos, aquaria
and other ex situ-institutions (Kirstin Leus, EAZA &
IUCN/SSC:CBSG Europe, Antwerpen, Belgium)
A practical training workshop on non-invasive monitor-
ing of hormones will also take place at the IZW/Berlin
during the week preceding the conference; Martin
Dehnhard, IZW.
The conference dinner will take place at a beautiful set-
ting in the city center overlooking the river ”Spree“.
You will ﬁnd more information about the conference
on our homepage at: http://www.izw-berlin.de/de/-
ﬂink/7thIZW-Conference.html Please do not hesitate
to contact us if you require any further information:
symposium@izw-berlin.de, IZW, Berlin, Germany.
We are looking forward to welcome you, Kind regards,
Simone Sommer
Prof Dr Simone Sommer Evolutionary Genetics,
Leibniz-Institute for Zoo- and Wildlife Research &
Evolutionary Ecology, University of Potsdam Leibniz-
Institute for Zoo- and Wildlife Research (IZW) Alfred-
Kowalke Str. 17 D-10315 Berlin Tel. +49 30 5168 315
Fax +49 30 5126 104
”Sommer, Simone“ <SOMMER@izw-berlin.de >
BrownU Genomics Jun8-11 24 EvolDir June 1, 2009
The ﬁnal Program of invited talks has been posted for
The American Genetic Association Symposium on
“The Genetics and Genomics of Environmental
Change”
The Symposium will be held at Brown University in
Providence, Rhode Island 8-11 June 2009
Have a look at the program : http://www.brown.edu/-
Departments/EEB/aga/ The Symposium is open to
all, and registration will remain open until the start of
the meeting.
The deadline for Poster abstract submission will be
open until Monday 25 May, so there is still time to
contribute a paper at the meeting.
Speakers will address genetic and genomic approaches
to the following topics:
Clinal variation and spatial scales of environmental
change Paleontological scales of environmental change
Life history evolution in response to temperature stress
Adaptation to human environmental stressors Geno-
type x Environment Interactions
Hope to see you in Providence
David M. Rand Professor of Biology Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Box G-W, 80
Waterman Street Brown University Providence, RI
02912 Voice: (401) 863-2890 (Oﬃce - Walter Hall
202) (401) 863-1063 (Lab - BioMed Center 516-518)
Fax: (401) 863-2166 email: David Rand@brown.edu
web pages: http://www.brown.edu/Departments/-
EEB/rand/index.htm http://research.brown.edu/-
research/proﬁle.php?id=1100924991&r=1
david rand@brown.edu david rand@brown.edu
Budapest RECOMB Comparative
Genomics Sep27-29
Dear all,
Submission of papers is now open for the upcoming RE-
COMB Comparative Genomics (RECOMB-CG) meet-
ing, which will take place in Budapest in September
27-29 2009. The deadline for paper submission is June
20, 2009.
DESCRIPTION OF THE CONFERENCE:
Comparison of related genomes oﬀers enormous infer-
ential power, revealing a wealth of knowledge about
genome evolution itself and about genetic function andcellular processes. As the number of fully sequenced
genomes grows, so do the opportunities and challenges
for computational comparative genomics. This work-
shop brings together leading researchers in the mathe-
matical, computational and life sciences to discuss cut-
ting edge research in comparative genomics, with an
emphasis on computational approaches and novel ex-
perimental results. The program will include a combi-
nation of keynote speakers and contributed talks. Top-
ics of interest include, but are not limited to
* Algorithms in comparative genomics * Comparative
study of orthologous genes * Gene ﬁnding using multi-
ple genomes * Sequence homology * Genome rearrange-
ments * Measures of evolutionary distance * Whole
genome phylogeny reconstruction * Sequence assembly
using sequence comparison * Multiple genome align-
ment * Gene and genome duplication * Identiﬁcation
of conserved and fast evolving sequences
CONFIRMED INVITED SPEAKERS:
- Richard Durbin (Welcome Trust Sanger institute)
- Jotun Hein (University of Oxford, UK) - Laurence
Hurst (University of Bath, UK) - Csaba P´ al (Biological
Research Center, Szeged, Hungary) - Lisa Stubbs (Uni-
versity of Illinois) - Jeroen Raes (EMBL Heidelberg)
MEETING WEBSITE: http://www.renyi.hu/-
conferences/recomb-cg2009/ CONTACT:
rcg2009@renyi.hu
CONFERENCE CHAIRS:
Istv´ an Mikl´ os (R´ enyi Institute, Budapest) Francesca
Ciccarelli (European Institute of Oncology IEO, Milan)
–
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD Biocomputing IFOM-
IEO-Campus Via Adamello, 16 20139 Milan,
Italy tel +39-02574303053 fax +39-0294375990
web: http://ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-campus.it/
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.it
Crete MediterraneanEvolution
Sep21-25 DeadlineExtended
Dear colleague,
The published deadline for talk/poster presentations at
the upcoming International Congress on the Zoogeogra-
phy, Ecology and Evolution of Eastern Mediterranean
that will take place in Irakleio (Crete, Greece) betweenJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 5
the 21 ^st and the 25 ^th of September (2009) ( http://-
www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11/ ) is May 31st.
As several people have indicated that they need more
time, we have decided to extend the deadline to *June
30*.
On behalf of the organizing committee, I thank you for
registering promptly, as it makes all the diﬀerence is
assembling the meeting schedule.
Poulakakis Nikos
– Assist. Prof. Nikos Poulakakis Department of Biol-
ogy and Natural History Museum of Crete University
of Crete Knossos Av., P.O.BOX 2208 Irakleio, Crete,
GR-71409 Greece
Phone +302810324366, +302810393282 e-mail:
poulakakis@nhmc.uoc.gr
Nikos Poulakakis <poulakakis@nhmc.uoc.gr >
Girona Spain SpongeEvolution
Sep20-24
Dear Evoldir members
The next International Sponge Conference will be held
in Catalonia, Spain
Dates: 20-24 September 2010
Venue: “Palau de Congressos” of the city of Girona:
http://www.auditorigirona.org/eng/-
pc.presentacio.php Girona is the capital of the
province where our laboratory belongs. It is located
some 100 Km North of Barcelona.
http://www.ajuntament.gi/web/eng/index.php The
sponge conference is held every 4 years and gathers to-
gether people working on diﬀerent aspects of sponge
biology. Topics for the 8th edition will include:
Evolution and phylogeny Organismal biology Popula-
tion biology Ecology Natural products Sponges and so-
ciety Taxonomy
We are now setting up the web page and other details.
We will post a second announcement once the webpage
is working. In the meantime you can address any ques-
tion to:
spongeconference2010@ceab.csic.es
With best wishesM.J. Uriz, M.A. Becerro, M. Maldonado, X. Turon Or-
ganizing Committee 8th International Sponge Confer-
ence
–
Xavier Turon Dept. of Aquatic Ecology Center for Ad-
vanced Studies of Blanes (CEAB, CSIC) Acc´ es a la Cala
S. Francesc 14 17300 Blanes (Girona) Spain
E-mail: xturon@ceab.csic.es Phone: +34 972 336101
Fax: +34 972 337806 http://www.ceab.csic.es/
http://www.ub.edu/beb/english/invertebrates/-
turon/turon.htm xturon@ceab.csic.es
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
Jun11-14
3rd ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPO-
SIUM, June 11-14, 2009, Kansas City
ORGANISM GROUP MEETINGS:
We welcome the opportunity to facilitate meetings of
the various organism groups during the Symposium. If
you would like to organize a meeting of your organ-
ism group during the Symposium, please contact Doris
Merrill, dmerrill@k-state.edu, for arrangements.
POSTER ABSTRACTS: If you would like to have your
poster abstract considered for an oral presentation,
the deadline for submission is Friday, May 15, 2009.
Guidelines are available at http://www.k-state.edu/-
agc/abstracts/index.html .
REGISTRATION: The deadline for discounted regis-
tration fees is Friday, May 15. After May 15, we will
continue to welcome your registration to attend the 3rd
Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium at a slightly
higher cost.
Register online: http://www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symp2009/register.html and attend
Frontiers in Arthropod Genomics
June 11 - 14, 2009, Kansas City, USA
HOTEL <http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2009/-
hotel.html >RESERVATIONS: The deadline to reserve
your hotel room at the conference site is Thursday, May
21, or until the room block is depleted.
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symp2009
WORKSHOPS and SEMINARS:6 EvolDir June 1, 2009
- Pre-symposium workshop on Chado Databases and
Integration with GMOD Tools, Scott Cain, Ontario In-
stitute for Cancer Research
- Genomic Sequence Capture and Next-Gen Sequencing
Seminar, sponsored by Roche NimbleGen
- BeeSpace demonstrations
POSTER SESSIONS: There will be two poster sessions.
A few platform presentations will be chosen from sub-
mitted poster abstracts. Abstract Submission Dead-
line: May 15, 2009.
SYMPOSIUM <ﬁle:///C: \Documents%20and%20Settings \Doris \My%20Documents \Arthropod \AGC%20
Comm-Symposium \2009%20Symposium \Schedule-
Revised.pdf >PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
will begin Thursday evening, June 11, and continue
on Friday and Saturday, with additional events on
Saturday evening and Sunday morning. Speakers
will present new insights from genomic approaches in
arthropods and describe the development of tools for
genomic analysis. Workshops will be held Thursday
prior to the Symposium and Friday evening. Activities
will conclude by noon on Sunday, June 14.
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION: Sunday morning will
highlight a roundtable discussion led by members of the
ArthropodBase Consortium regarding the generation of
integrated arthropod genome databases and tools for
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
join the fun as we share our progress by providing feed-
back on these projects and proposing new possibilities.
KANSAS CITY JAZZ AND BBQ: Join the group in a
fun-ﬁlled evening of Kansas City Jazz and Barbecue!!!
Participants are invited to enjoy “Kansas City’s BEST
BBQ” - Fiorella’s Jack Stack Barbecue at the Freight
House location and the Kerry Strayer Jazz Trio on Sat-
urday night. The separate charge for this optional ac-
tivity is $50 ($25 for students). Transportation will be
provided.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
Muehlebach/Marriott Hotel in downtown Kansas City.
Participants are invited to stay Saturday night for an
optional evening of jazz and KC barbeque.
INFORMATION: Visit our website, www.k-state.edu/-
agc/symp2009, for complete details and brochure.
QUESTIONS: Contact us at (785) 532-3482 or dmer-
rill@ksu.edu. Please share this announcement with col-
leagues and students!
SPONSOR: Center for Genomic Studies on Arthropods
Aﬀecting Human, Animal and Plant Health, Kansas
State University
KEYNOTE SPEAKER:*William M. Gelbart, Harvard University,
“Opportunities & Challenges for Arthropod Genomics
and
Informatics in the NextGen World.”
FEATURED SPEAKERS:
* Volker Brendel, Iowa State University, “Opportuni-
ties and challenges for automated genome annotation
and modeling in a time of unlimited access to sequence
data”
* Susan J. Brown, Kansas State University, “Proﬁling
genome transcription during Tribolium development:
From egg to eternity”
* Jay D. Evans, USDA-ARS Bee Research Lab, Mary-
land, “Chasing your honey: Genomic studies of honey
bees and their pathogens”
* Marian R. Goldsmith, University of Rhode Island,
“The new silk road: From Bombyx to butterﬂies”
* David G. Heckel, Max Planck-Institute for Chemical
Ecology, Jena, Germany, “Insect defenses in chemical
co-evolution: Transcriptional responses of the gener-
alist herbivore Helicoverpa armigera to plant defense
compounds, phytohormones, and insecticides”
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
London E-Biosphere challenge Jun1
Dear All,
I would like to invite everyone attending e-Biosphere to
join in a challenge entry that will i) illustrate the human
sensor-net concept, and ii) be a collective demonstra-
tion of the semantic web in action. (To be fair, we
should probably exclude ourselves from consideration
during voting. But if we feel like we’ve won, I’ll buy
beer for everybody.) There will be a number of ways to
participate:
1. Post pictures of London wildlife during the con-
ference, and encourage friends back home (or in other
interesting parts of the world) to also post pictures.
The metadata will be published in RDF, and integrated
with background natural history data that is already inJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 7
RDF. This will enable us to pose and answer queries like
“Show observations of species that are invasive where
they were observed.”; “Show the Northernmost obser-
vation of the Asian Longhorned Beetle”; “Show obser-
vations of predators and prey of threatened species”;
etc.
If requested, pictures will be sent to a crowdsourcing
tool for species identiﬁcation.
2. You can volunteer to help identify images.
3. You can specify queries that you would like to see
supported. This is important for our demonstration,
since part of the social/semantic web’s discrete charm
is its ﬂexibility in responding to ad-hoc queries. A wiki
will collect user’s queries.
4. You can contribute RDF, and help assemble the
glue (e.g., owl:sameAs statements, etc.) that will bind
all the RDF together.
For reporting observations, you are welcome to use
Spotter ( http://spire.umbc.edu/spotter/ ), but can also
simply submit data via spreadsheet or email.
Details on the other modes of participation will be
forthcoming.
Here’s a brief description of the concept in the
context of eco-blogging: http://ebiquity.umbc.edu/-
blogger/2007/09/14/semantic-eco-blogging-spotter-
10-released/ (For the challenge, photos need not
be embedded in a blog. They simply need to exist
somewhere on-line, e.g. on Flickr.)
Suggestions are most welcome.
I look forward to seeing what comes together - Joel.
Note: this message is duplicated at: http:/-
/forum.e-biosphere09.org/viewforum.php?fe
jsachs@csee.umbc.edu
PortlandOR Ontologies Jul25
WORKSHOP on ONTOLOGIES FOR ICHTHYOL-
OGY & HERPETOLOGY
To be held in conjunction with the joint meeting of
Ichtyologists and Herpetologists
Portland Oregon July 25, 2009
https://www.phenoscape.org/wiki/ASIH09 workshop
WORKSHOP GOALS: Ontologies, controlled vocabu-
laries with well-deﬁned relations among terms, are akey tool in scientiﬁc data integration. By using on-
tologies, scientists from diﬀerent disciplines can know
when they are referring to the same entity by diﬀer-
ent names, and new discoveries are enabled by com-
puter software being able to reason across disciplines
and over large datasets. Already widely used in ge-
nomics, ontologies are of growing importance in sys-
tematics, ecology, behavior, genetics, morphology and
physiology. This workshop aims to explore the util-
ity of ontologies for ichthyology and herpetology, us-
ing the Teleost Anatomy Ontology and the Amphibian
Anatomy Ontology as case studies of community re-
sources that are being actively developed and used by
members of ASIH. Participants will present examples
of how these ontologies are being used to provide new
ways of exploring data within morphological and pheno-
typic databases. Talks in the morning will be followed
in the afternoon with ontology development workshops
and hands-on demonstrations of Phenoscape and Am-
phibAnat tools.
DATE & TIME: Saturday, July 25, 2009 PLACE:
Hilton Portland & Executive Tower
SPEAKERS: * Hilmar Lapp (National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center) A gentle introduction to ontologies
for biology * Monte Westerﬁeld (Director, Zebraﬁsh In-
formation Network and Institute of Neuroscience, Eu-
gene, OR) Linking animal models and human diseases *
Paula Mabee (University of South Dakota) Phenoscape:
Using ontologies to link comparative morphology to
genes * Greg Riccardi (Florida State University) Why
ontologies are important for understanding morpholog-
ical images * Peter Vize (University of Calgary) The
Xenopus ontology and database * Anne Maglia (Mis-
souri University of Science and Technology) Develop-
ment of an anatomical ontology for amphibians * Marc
Robinson-Rechavi (Universite de Lausanne, France) In-
tegrating ontology and homology for the study of gene
expression evolution
SPONSORS & ORGANIZERS The workshop is
jointly sponsored by the Phenoscape and AmphibAnat
projects. Organizers include Paula Mabee, Anne
Maglia, Professor, Todd Vision and Monte Westerﬁeld.
tjv@bio.unc.edu tjv@bio.unc.edu
QueenslandU GenomicDataAnalysis
Oct5-6
Dear colleagues,8 EvolDir June 1, 2009
You are cordially invited to attend The Australasian
Conference on Statistical Methods for Genomic Data
Analysis, to be held at The Queensland University of
Technology Gardens Theatre on the 5th and 6th of Oc-
tober, 2009. The Conference is jointly organised by The
Queensland University of Technology and the Queens-
land Institute of Medical Research.
Statistics applied to genetics and genomics is a grow-
ing ﬁeld. There is signiﬁcant expertise within Australia
and New Zealand across a broad range of applications.
The purpose of the conference is to bring researchers
together to ﬁnd out what is going on in local research
and to facilitate collaboration, integration and resource
sharing. This meeting will bring together experts in
bioinformatics and statistical genetics from Australia,
New Zealand and further aﬁeld to share recent ground-
breaking discoveries and methods, and to facilitate new
research partnerships, in a relaxed and friendly atmo-
sphere. There will be sessions encompassing genome-
wide association studies, genomic selection, sequence
analysis, phylogenomics, QTL mapping, comparative
and functional genomics, gene expression and network
analysis.
Conference registration is free, but nevertheless please
contact Zoe van Havre (zoe.vanhavre@qut.edu.au) be-
fore August 31 to register. Invited speakers have now
been ﬁnalised, but a limited number of contributed
talks are also sought. If you would like to present at
the conference, please submit titles and short abstracts
(up to 200 words) to Zoe van Havre at the above email
address.
Further details of the conference are contained in
the attached ﬂyer and at the conference web-
site ( http://genepi.qimr.edu.au/genomics/ <http://-
genepi.qimr.edu.au/genomics/ >). A list of our in-
ternationally renowned invited speakers is available at
the website, together with details of the venue. Please
bookmark the website and keep an eye on it for future
developments.
Regards, The Conference Organising Committee Allan
McRae Beben Benyamin Carla Chen Jonathan Keith
Kerrie Mengersen Naomi Wray Peter Visscher Zoe van
Havre
Dr Beben Benyamin Queensland Statistical Genetics
Queensland Institute of Medical Research 300 Her-
ston Road,Brisbane 4029,Australia Tel: +61 7 3362
0169 Fax: +61 7 3361 0101 Email:bebenB@qimr.edu.au
Web: http://genepi.qimr.edu.au/ Beben Benyamin
<Beben.Benyamin@qimr.edu.au >Regensburg
GermanZoologicalSociety Sep25-28
The German Zoological Society, DZG, will hold its an-
nual meeting for the Darwin Year 2009 in Regensburg,
Germany, from Sept. 25 to Sept. 28, 2009.
Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution provides the foun-
dation of modern biology and its diverse subdisci-
plines. Therefore the organizers of this meeting have at-
tempted to commemorate the 200th birthday of Darwin
and the 150th anniversary of the publication of “The
Origin of Species” through the selection of renowned
main speakers, including Dorothy Cheney, Jim Good-
son, Thomas Junker, Hubert Markl, Mark Martindale,
Svante P¨ a¨ abo, Massimo Pigliucci and Joan Strassmann.
Through your participation the meeting would reﬂect
the entire breadth and meaning of modern zoology.
Conference language is English. Please register at
www.dzg2009.de before May 18.
Regensburg is a middle-sized town on Danube river. Its
historical city center has recently obtained UNESCO
World Heritage status and is certainly worth a visit.
Regensburg can easily be reached from Munich (MUC)
or Nuremberg (NUE) airports by train.
Looking forward to seeing you in Regensburg
J¨ urgen Heinze
Prof. Dr. J¨ urgen Heinze Biologie I Universit¨ at Re-
gensburg D-93040 Regensburg Tel. –49 941 943 2475
Fax –49 941 943 3304 http://www.uni-regensburg.de/-
evolution
Juergen.Heinze@biologie.uni-regensburg.de
Roscoﬀ France ViralEvolution
Sep26-30
Understanding emergence of infectious diseases: focus
on New Experimental and Theoretical Approaches to
Virus Evolution
Roscoﬀ (Brittany), France, September 26-30, 2009June 1, 2009 EvolDir 9
http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/2009/elena e.html (ex-
pended) deadline for application: May 15th, 2009
New viruses have been emerging during the last decades
as a consequence of the climatic change and of the in-
creasing introduction of human societies and its domes-
tic animals and plants into virgin areas of the planet
(HIV, SARS, Inﬂuenza, Ebola, etc). So far, and despite
tremendous economical and manpower investments, ef-
forts to control and eradicate viruses, with a few im-
portant exceptions (e.g., poliovirus), have been of quite
limited success. Moreover, the perspective of future
eradications will be overbalanced by the emergence of
new viruses. This lack of success is a consequence of
the great evolvability of viral populations owed to their
large population size, short generation times and com-
pacted genomes. This dynamic nature of viral popula-
tions has been largely ignored by pharmacological treat-
ments. Owing to the failure of current approaches, new
ones taking into consideration the evolvability of viral
populations are thus very much needed. Understand-
ing the ecological and genetic mechanisms behind the
genesis, maintenance, and fate of viral diversity, and
the interaction of heterogeneous viral populations with
their standard and putative new hosts, became pivotal
for the development of such new strategies.
In the recent years, comprehensive research programs
have been conducted to gain insights into the mecha-
nisms of emergence of plant and animal viruses. Not
always paralleling these empirical progresses, theoreti-
cians have been developing increasingly complex mod-
els to account for the peculiarities of viral populations
with the aim of predicting their behavior.
The aim of this Jacques Monod Conference is to bring
together empiricists and theoreticians working on virus
evolution, whatever the host species (animal, plants,
bacteria). The conference should then promote a cross-
talk that will create the basis for reaching the dual goal
of making more biologically realistic models and of de-
signing new hypothesis-driven experiments. To achieve
this goal, speakers will then be asked to present their
work around one of the four following topics: (1) gene-
sis and maintenance of viral diversity, (2) evolution of
virulence and viral ﬁtness, (3) genomic evolution, and
(4) host-virus coevolution.
Invited speakers : (provisional titles)
BERKHOUT Ben (Amsterdam, The Netherlands)
HIV-1 evolution: frustrating antiviral therapies, but
disclosing molecular mechanisms
BLANC St ˜Ac/circlecopyrtphane (Montpellier, France) Multiple in-
fection of individual host cells by genomes of a plant
virus populationBONHOEFFER Sebastian (Zurich, Switzerland) Re-
combination in HIV-1
BRIONES Carlos (Madrid, Spain) Evolution of minor-
ity memory subpopulations within RNA virus quasis-
pecies
BUCKLING Angus (Oxford, United Kingdom) Host-
virus experimental coevolution
BURCH Christina L. (Chapel Hill, USA) Viral coin-
fection allows a test of Wright’s physiological model of
dominance
CHEVILLON Christine (Montpellier, France) Dengue
virus type 2 evolution in French Guiana through 1993-
2006: recombination, selection and migration patterns
at light of full- length sequences
DESBIEZ C ˜Ac/circlecopyrtcile (Avignon, France) Emerging
strains of Watermelon mosaic virus in France: evidence
for limited spread but rapid local shift in populations
DOMINGO Esteban (Madrid, Spain) Molecular mech-
anisms of lethal mutagenesis of RNA viruses
ELENA Santiago F. (Valencia, Spain) Evolutionary
Systems Biology approach to host-virus interaction
FROISSART R ˜Ac/circlecopyrtmy (Montpellier, France) Host omic
modiﬁcations due to virus adaptation
FROST Simon D.W. (San Diego, USA) Phylodynam-
ics of simple epidemiological models of HIV and HCV
transmission
GANDON Sylvain (Montpellier, France) Dynamics of
mutation load in virus populations
GARCIA-ARENAL Fernando (Madrid, Spain) Ara-
bidopsis thaliana as a tool to study virus-host coevo-
lution
GOLDBERG Tony L. (Urbana, USA) Fine-scale eco-
logical drivers of arbovirus evolution: the case of West
Nile virus in Chicago, USA
HOLMES Edward C. (University Park, USA) The evo-
lutionary genomics of RNA viruses
MALIM Michael (London, United Kingdom) APOBEC
proteins and HIV-1 - lethal and beneﬁcial editing?
MANRUBIA Suzanna (Madrid, Spain) Stochastic ex-
tinction of viral infectivity: the role of defectors
MICHALAKIS Yannis (Montpellier, France Eﬀective
population size and plant virus transmission
MOURY Beno ˜At (Montfavet, France) Adaptation of
viral populations to polygenic resistances in plants
ROOSSINCK Marilyn J. (Ardmore, USA) Plant virus
metagenomics10 EvolDir June 1, 2009
SANJU ˜AN Rafael (Valencia, Spain) The role of robust-
ness in evolution: experimental studies
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
StonyBrook Evolution Nov4-8
Dear Colleagues:
Darwin 2009: 150 Years of Evolutionary Biology
On November 4-8 2009, the Department of Ecology &
Evolution at Stony Brook University will celebrate the
150th anniversary of Darwins The Origin of Species by
hosting a four-day meeting where leading evolutionary
biologists will lecture and help lead discussions on the
current status and future of the study evolutionary bi-
ology. We will have three stimulating days of keynote
addresses, evening panels and discussion groups, and
ample opportunity for communication on the important
issues of the present and future of evolutionary biology.
All lectures will be in modern and pleasant facilities at
Stony Brook University, with available nearby lodging
and convenient transportation to the meeting site.
To register, secure lodging, and get further information
on transportation, our Advisory Board, and other mat-
ters, please visit our web site
http://darwin09.org Below is our schedule of events
and speakers.
Wednesday, November 4
6:00 - 8:00 Welcoming Reception for Participants
Thursday, November 5
8:45 - 9:00 Welcome from Stony Brook University
9:00 - 9:40 Opening Keynote Address, Douglas J. Fu-
tuyma, Stony Brook University
9:40 - 10:00 Q&A
10:00 - 10:30 Coﬀee Break
10:30 - 11:10 History, Peter Bowler, Queens University,
Belfast
11:10 - 11:30 Q&A
11:30 - 12:10 Natural Selection, Mark Kirkpatrick, Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin12:10 - 12:30 Q&A
12:30 - 2:00 Lunch
2:00 - 2:40 Behavioral Ecology, Hanna Kokko, Univer-
sity of Helsinki
2:40 - 3:00 Q&A
3:00 - 3:40 Evolutionary Ecology, Anurag Agrawal, Cor-
nell University
3:40 - 4:00 Q&A
4:00 - 4:30 Coﬀee Break
4:30 - 5:10 Organismal Adaptation, May R. Beren-
baum, University of Illinois
5:10 - 5:30 Q&A
6:00 - 8:00 Dinner
8:00 - 10:00 Informal Discussions
Friday, November 6
8:45 - 9:00 Welcome and Announcements
9:00 - 9:40 Philosophy, Roberta L. Millstein, University
of California, Davis
9:40 - 10:00 Q&A
10:00 - 10:30 Coﬀee Break
10:30 - 11:10 Evolutionary Genetics, Jianzhi George
Zhang, University of Michigan
11:10 - 11:30 Q&A
11:30 - 12:10 Genetics of Population History, John
Wakeley, Harvard University
12:10 - 12:30 Q&A
12:30 - 2:00 Lunch
2:00 - 2:40 Genomics, Doris Bachtrog, University of Cal-
ifornia, Berkeley
2:40 - 3:00 Q&A
3:00 - 3:40 Speciation, Richard G. Harrison, Cornell
University
3:40 - 4:00 Q&A
4:00 - 4:30 Coﬀee Break
4:30 - 5:10 Evolvability, Gunter Wagner, Yale Univer-
sity
5:10 - 5:30 Q&A
6:00 - 8:00 Dinner
8:00 - 10:00 Informal Discussions
Saturday, November 7
8:45 - 9:00 Welcome and AnnouncementsJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 11
9:00 - 9:40 Ancient Origins, Antonio Lazcano, Univer-
sidad Nacional Autunoma de Mexico
9:40 - 10:00 Q&A
10:00 - 10:30 Coﬀee Break
10:30 - 11:10 Tree of Life, David Hillis, University of
Texas at Austin
11:10 - 11:30 Q&A
11:30 - 12:10 Evolution in the Fossil Record, to be de-
termined
12:10 - 12:30 Q&A
12:30 - 2:00 Lunch
2:00 - 2:40 Evolutionary Developmental Biology, Gre-
gory Wray, Duke University
2:40 - 3:00 Q&A
3:00 - 3:40 The Fossil Record of Diversity, Michael
Foote, University of Chicago
3:40 - 4:00 Q&A
4:00 - 4:30 Coﬀee Break
4:30 - 5:10 Evolutionary Radiations, Jonathan B. Losos,
Harvard University
5:10 - 5:30 Q&A
6:00 - 8:00 Dinner
8:00 - 10:00 Informal Discussions
Sunday, November 8
8:45 - 9:00 Welcome and Announcements
9:00 - 9:40 Human Origins, Tim D. White, University
of California, Berkeley
9:40 - 10:00 Q&A
10:00 - 10:30 Coﬀee Break
10:30 - 11:10 Cultural Evolution, Peter J. Richerson,
University of California, Davis
11:10 - 11:30 Q&A
11:30 - 2:30 Lunch
12:30 - 1:10 Applied Evolution, Joanne P. Webster, Im-
perial College London
1:10 - 1:30 Q&A
1:30 - 2:10 Closing Keynote Address, Hopi E. Hoekstra,
Harvard University
Meeting web site address:
http://darwin09.org Jeﬀrey Levinton,
For the Organizing Committee– Jeﬀrey Levinton Distinguished Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution Stony Brook University Stony
Brook NY 11794-5245
tel (631) 632 8602 fax (631) 632 7626 Marine Biol-
ogy Web Page http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/marinebio/-
mbweb.html
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Tilton NewHampshire
EvolutionaryGenomics Jul12-17
The Gordon Conference in Evolutionary and Ecologi-
cal Genomics will be held from July 12-17 in beautiful
Tilton, NH. The meeting is ﬁlling up fast, and we invite
you to apply and register for what will be an extraordi-
nary meeting of ecologists, genomicists and evolution-
ary biologists.
Meeting description: http://www.grc.org/-
programs.aspx?year=2009&program=evoeco To
apply: http://www.grc.org/application.aspx If you
haven’t yet been to a Gordon conference, this would
make a great entree - sessions are held in the mornings
and evenings, with all afternoons available for relaxing
and enjoying the company of your scientiﬁc colleagues
in the beautiful setting of Tilton, NH. There will be
access to kayaking, hiking and many other outdoor
activities. The meeting will highlight the research of
22 internationally renowned scholars in the areas of
global change genomics, plant ecological genomics,
genomics of social insects, microbial genomics, human
population genomics, and many other ﬁelds. You will
have the opportunity to present your work in one of
the poster sessions, which are attended by all at the
meeting and provide a forum for getting the feedback
of colleagues in a small but vibrant meeting. Apply
now, and please contact Scott Edwards if you have any
questions:
Scott Edwards Harvard University sed-
wards@fas.harvard.edu ph: 617-384-8082
sedwards@fas.harvard.edu sedwards@fas.harvard.edu12 EvolDir June 1, 2009
UBristol
MathModelsInEcologyEvolution
Sep10-11
Dear colleagues,
the University of Bristol will host Mathematical Mod-
els in Ecology and Evolution this year, from Septem-
ber 10th to 11th. MMEE 2009 will have a Darwinian
ﬂavour, in honour of the bicentenary of Darwin’s birth,
and 150 years since the publication of The Origin of
Species. While not a mathematician himself, Darwin’s
ideas ﬁnd natural expression in the form of mathemat-
ical models, allowing further development and reﬁne-
ment of the theory. This two-day meeting will showcase
the latest developments of formal models in evolution
and ecology, and will include keynote addresses on the
mathematical modelling of Darwin’s key theories and
insights.
Keynote Speakers * Professor Rob Boyd, Department
of Anthropology, University of California Los Angeles *
Professor Alan Grafen, Department of Zoology, Univer-
sity of Oxford * Professor Hanna Kokko, Department
of Biological and Environmental Science, University of
Helsinki * Professor Franjo Weissing, Department of
Biology, University of Groningen
Abstract Submission Abstract submission will close on
June 12th 2009. Please visit the conference website for
further details.
Registration Registration will close on July 10th 2009.
Registration will cost 50 GBP for standard delegates,
to include lunches, coﬀee breaks and conference recep-
tion. 40 free-registration places will be available for
postgraduate student on a ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst-served basis.
Please visit the conference website for further de-
tails, and for a conference poster: www.cs.bris.ac.uk/-
mmee2009 We hope to see you in Bristol in September.
Best wishes, James Marshall, John McNamara, Alas-
dair Houston
sean.rands@bristol.ac.uk sean.rands@bristol.ac.ukUGuelph FrontiersEvolution
May20-21 2
This is a friendly reminder that there is still space and
time to register for the ’Frontiers in Evolution’ collo-
quium at the University of Guelph, in sunny Guelph
Ontario, May 20-21.
Invited speakers talking about research at the Fron-
tiers of evolutionary biology include: Dr. David Sloan
Wilson; levels of selection Dr. Ryan Gregory; genome
evolution Dr. Richard Lenski; experimental evolution
Dr. Belinda Chang; molecular evolution Dr. Craig Al-
bertson; developmental evolution Dr. Hans Thewissen;
paleontology and genetics
While there are no other speaking session except for
the plenary, there is an opportunity to present posters
during a social session on the evening of May 20.
For more information and to register, please see:
http://www.uoguelph.ca/Ecologicalcolloquia/-
Academic.html Faculty: 200$ Postdocs and Grads:
100$
Kind regards,
Beren W. Robinson Assoc. Prof. Dept. of Integra-
tive Biology University of Guelph Guelph, Ontario N1G
2W1, Canada
email: berenrob@uoguelph.ca Phone: 519-824-4120
x58968 Fax: 519-767-1656 Oﬃce location: Scie 2455
Lab location: Scie 2403
“Beren W. Robinson” <berenrob@uoguelph.ca >
UIdaho SSE2009 Jun12-16 reminder
Evolution 2009 is drawing close, and there are a few lo-
gistic updates. It will be possible to register to attend
at any time, so walk-ins are ﬁne. Meanwhile, if you
plan to use conference bussing, on-campus housing, or
to subscribe to a meal plan, please do so on or before
May 24. Thanks, and we look forward to seeing you all
in Moscow!
Olle Pellmyr Program chair, Evolution 2009June 1, 2009 EvolDir 13
Olle Pellmyr <pellmyr@uidaho.edu >
UIdaho SSE PhotoPedagogy
Jun12-16
Members of ASN, SSB, SSE:
I. Photo Contest
Please submit your photos of anything with an evolu-
tion theme to be shown at the annual joint meeting of
our societies in Moscow, Idaho (6/12-6/16). Photos will
be judged at the All-Society banquet and cash awards
of 100, 50, and 25 US dollars or equivalent will be given
to the top three entrants. The photos may contribute
to the SSE web site. You do not need to attend the
meeting or banquet, but you do need to be a member
of one of the three societies.
Please submit one photo as a power point slide with a
ﬁgure legend of 2-3 lines written in Ariel font (or sim-
ilar) of font size 24, Black. Legend should begin with
your name followed by a colon, e.g., Alice Smith: The
LEGEND MUST BE IN BLACK FONT IN A WHITE
TEXT BOX BELOW THE FIGURE (or will not be
considered).
Please submit electronically by Monday noon June 8th
to Charles B. Fenster, EVP SSE: cfenster@umd.edu
with subject header: Photo for Joint Meeting. In the
text of your letter please indicate your society aﬃlia-
tion.
II. Pedagogy
Please submit an exercise or lecture aid that you use for
a large lecture class to facilitate the explanation of an
evolutionary concept or phenomenon., e.g., more clever
than using dice to demonstrate probabilities, coin toss-
ing to explain drift, a cryptically colored creature to
demonstrate camouﬂage.
Please provide a power point slide to illustrate your
teaching aid. Depending on time and entry number,
contributions will be noted at the banquet. You do not
need to attend the meeting or banquet, but you do need
to be a member of one of the three societies.
Following review, all entries will be listed on the web
site and contributors will be acknowledged.
Please submit electronically by Monday noon June 8th
to Charles B. Fenster, EVP SSE: cfenster@umd.edu
with subject header: Pedagogy Joint Meeting. In thetext of your letter please indicate your society aﬃlia-
tion.
Judy Stone <jstone@colby.edu >
UIdaho SSE UndergradDiversity 3
UNDERGRADUATE DIVERSITY AT SSE/SSB,
CALL FOR MENTORS
Approximately 15 undergraduates will be participating
in the NSF- and NESCent-supported Undergraduate
Diversity at SSE/SSB program at Evolution 2009 in
Moscow, ID. This program, which brings students to
the annual Evolution meeting, has been running con-
tinuously since 2003.
An important component of the program is the mentor-
ing that students receive from graduate students, post-
docs and faculty. Duties will include meeting a pair
of undergraduates in the program, attending and de-
mystifying a day of talks with them, joining them for
a meal, introducing them to colleagues, and in general
befriending them in ways that show that evolutionary
biology is a welcoming discipline. Based on surveys of
participants, it is clear that they prefer to meet their
mentors early in the meeting; therefore, mentors will
be expected to meet their mentees at the opening re-
ception. No costs for travel, housing or registration are
covered.
If you are interested in serving as a mentor, please send
an email to Rich Kliman (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu),
Scott Edwards (sedwards@fas.harvard.edu), or Jory
Weintraub (jory@nescent.org). Please also indicate
your broad ﬁeld of interest, and we will do our best to
pair you with students with overlapping interests. And
please help spread the word about this very rewarding
activity.
Thanks to those who have already volunteered!
Best regards, Rich Kliman
rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu
UIowa SexRecombination
May31-Jun3 214 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Last call for abstracts for Evolution of Sex & Recom-
bination: In Theory & In Practice May 31 to June 3,
2009.
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/ Sex & Rec is less
than three weeks away. There is still plenty of room for
additional attendees and poster-presenters.
Abstract submission deadline for inclusion in the pro-
gram is May 18th.
For the scientiﬁc program, see: http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/program.php Conﬁrmed
speakers ( http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/-
speakers.php ) Aneil Agrawal Marco Archetti Irina
Arkhipova Philip Awadalla Ricardo Azevedo Doris
Bachtrog Graham Bell Bill Birky Antonio Bernardo
Carvalho Adam Chippindale Josep Comeron Thomas
D’Souza Lynda Delph Beth Dumont Ursula Goode-
nough Lilach Hadany Joseph Heitman Donal Hickey
Tim James Vera Kaiser Alex Kondrashov Jennifer
Kovacs Curt Lively Michael Lynch Bryant McAllister
David Mark Welch Matthew Meselson Stephanie Meir-
mans Levi Morran Maurine Neiman Stephen Proulx
Rosemary Redﬁeld Denis Roze Tanja Schwander
Rama Singh Ingo Schlupp Isa Schon Andrew Schurko
David Soll Laurie Stevison Andrew Stewart Marcy
Uyenoyama Melissa Wilson Cliﬀord Zeyl
General Information follows:
“EVOLUTION OF SEX & RECOMBINATION: IN
THEORY & IN PRACTICE”
May 31 - June 3, 2009 at the University of Iowa, Iowa
City, USA
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec The Roy J.
Carver Center for Comparative Genomics and the De-
partment of Biology at the University of Iowa announce
an international conference on the evolution of sex &
recombination taking place May 31 - June 3, 2009. The
meeting will start on the evening of Sunday, May 31st
with a reception and keynote talk (Graham Bell) and
will conclude at ~1:00 pm on Wednesday, June 3rd.
This conference will immediately precede the 2009 Soci-
ety for Molecular Biology and Evolution annual meet-
ing (SMBE 2009: http://smbe2009.org ), also located
in Iowa City, on June 3-7, 2009. In order to integrate
both meetings, an “overlap day” (June 3rd) will feature
topics of clear interest to both sets of attendees.
The Sex & Recombination meeting was previously
scheduled and fully organized for June 16-19, 2008, but
was suddenly cancelled due to severe ﬂooding in Iowa
City. The organizers are pleased to note that a majority
of the previously-scheduled attendees have committed
to attend this meeting on the rescheduled dates.Talks will be given by invited speakers at both the ju-
nior and senior level. There will also be some opportu-
nities for contributed talks and posters to be given by
conference attendees at all levels of seniority. A number
of travel awards will be provided to deserving students
and postdocs.
Topics will include: Advantages of sexual reproduction
Experimental evolution of sex Estimating recombina-
tion rates Mating types & sex determination Linkage,
selection & population size Sex chromosomes Sex &
pathogenesis Sexual selection Sexual conﬂict
Sponsorship for this meeting includes generous support
from the American Genetic Association, but we encour-
age additional sponsorship inquiries. A symposium is-
sue to be published in Journal of Heredity is planned.
Check the website for up-to-date information on con-
ﬁrmed speakers, details regarding registration, accom-
modation, etc. Registration is $200 for grad stu-
dents and postdocs and $300 for faculty. Registration
includes the closing banquet (and keynote: Michael
Lynch) to be held on the evening of June 2nd.
All enquiries are encouraged and should be directed to
the organizers: sexrec@uiowa.edu.
Facebook users: Join our oﬃcial meeting group.
On behalf of the organizing committee,
John Logsdon –
John M. Logsdon, Jr., Ph.D. Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Roy J. Carver Center for Comparative Genomics
University of Iowa Department of Biology 319 335 1082
oﬃce 310 Biology Building 319 335 1083 lab Iowa City,
IA 52242-1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu > web <
http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/ccg/ ><http:/-
/www.biology.uiowa.edu/ccg/ > < http:/-
/euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
john-logsdon@uiowa.edu john-logsdon@uiowa.edu
UIowa SMBE2009 Jun3-7
CallAbstracts
Last call for abstracts for SMBE 2009!
http://smbe2009.org SMBE 2009 is only three weeks
away. There is still plenty of room for additional atten-
dees and poster-presenters.June 1, 2009 EvolDir 15
Abstract submission deadline for inclusion in the pro-
gram is May 15th.
Some updates and reminders:
The scientiﬁc program of symposia and con-
tributed sessions has been determined. See:
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/program.php
Hotels are ﬁlling up fast. The cut-oﬀ date for
the SMBE room blocks at the Marriott is May
19th. See http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/-
venue accommodations.php for information on booking
accommodation. Please remember to book as soon
as possible; otherwise, ﬁnding lodging will become
diﬃcult.
Banquet tickets are still available. If you did not
purchase your ticket(s) at the time of your registration,
you may log into the registration site ( https:/-
/www.continuetolearn.uiowa.edu/conferencereg/-
login.aspx ) and purchase them now for $50.00 each.
We have booked a terriﬁc band “The Diplomats of
Solid Sound” to provide live music after the banquet.
If you have registered for the conference, but haven’t
submitted an abstract yet, don’t forget! The ab-
stract submission deadline is May 15th. Go to http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/subform.php to submit an
abstract, using your unique ﬁve-digit registration num-
ber in your registration code. If you are not submitting
an abstract, please ﬁll out the abstract submission page
with your information, selecting “None” for your pre-
sentation type.
To keep up on the latest information and updates,
please visit the SMBE 2009 updates page at http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/updates.php General in-
formation on the meeting follows:
**SMBE 2009, Iowa City** “Darwin to the Next Gen-
eration ”
The 17th annual meeting of the Society for Molecular
Biology and Evolution-SMBE 2009-will be held in Iowa
City June 3-7, 2009, on the campus of The University
of Iowa.
Visit our meeting website ( http://smbe2009.org ) for
the most current information.
The SMBE 2009 scientiﬁc program will include 4 ple-
nary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
~240 talks; more than half will be contributed talks se-
lected on a competitive basis from submitted abstracts.
We anticipate ~300 poster contributions will be high-
lighted in two evening poster sessions.
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and
conﬁrmed speakers): * Biological networks from genes
to populations * Epigenetics, environment & evolu-tion * Evolution of networks * Genome evolution af-
ter polyploidy * Genomics of speciation & recent di-
vergences * Historical roots of molecular evolution *
Impacts of next generation sequencing on evolution *
Insect evolutionary genomics * Molecular arms races
* Molecular basis of speciation * Molecular evolution
of biological complexity * Molecular evolution of func-
tional noncoding sequences * Molecular evolution of
plant:biotic interactions * Mutation accumulation in
eukaryotic genomes * Origin & evolution of animal
genomes * Population genomics: selection, demography
& mutation * Population genomics: theory, computa-
tion & adaptation * Primate functional & comparative
genomics * Reproductive protein function & evolution *
Sex-speciﬁc demography using the X * Teaching molec-
ular evolution * Types of molecular evolution * Vanish-
ing genomes
On behalf of the organizers, we’ll see you soon in Iowa
City! John
–
John M. Logsdon, Jr., Ph.D. Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Roy J. Carver Center for Comparative Genomics
University of Iowa Department of Biology 319 335 1082
oﬃce 310 Biology Building 319 335 1083 lab Iowa City,
IA 52242-1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu >web<http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu
> < http://euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
john-logsdon@uiowa.edu john-logsdon@uiowa.edu
UIowa SMBE2009 Jun3-7
MentoringProgram 2
SECOND CALL
MENTORS NEEDED SMBE UNDERGRADUATE
DIVERSITY MENTORING PROGRAM AWARDS
2009 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY FOR
MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION
June 3-7, Iowa City
CONFERENCE WEBSITE
http://www.smbe2009.org PROGRAM OUTLINE
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is oﬀering 10 awards to undergraduate stu-
dents from underrepresented groups to participate in16 EvolDir June 1, 2009
a Diversity Mentoring Program. The goals of this pro-
gram are: (1) to promote diversity at the SMBE annual
meeting, (2) to provide students with the opportunity
to experience the excitement of attending and present-
ing at an international scientiﬁc conference, and (3) to
foster enthusiasm for molecular biology and evolution
as well as a possible career in this ﬁeld.
To achieve these goals, each recipient of an SMBE Un-
dergraduate Diversity Mentoring Program Award will
be paired with two mentors, one a senior graduate stu-
dent and the other a postdoctoral fellow or faculty
member (who may or may not be the students cur-
rent advisor). WE ARE SEEKING INDIVIDUALS
INTERESTED IN BEING A MENTOR. Speciﬁc ac-
tivities will include:
Attending conference sessions with the student, an-
swering questions about the basic concepts being pre-
sented, and, more generally, explaining the goings-on
at a multi-day scientiﬁc conference.
Interacting with the student during some mealtimes,
coﬀee breaks and other social gatherings.
Introducing the student to other undergraduates, grad-
uate students, postdoctoral fellows and faculty mem-
bers as a way of facilitating connections with potential
future graduate supervisors and colleagues.
Attending the poster session and SBME Undergradu-
ate Diversity Program Award reception with the stu-
dent in order to minimize/overcome the anxiety often
felt by ﬁrst-time conference attendees.
Serving as a contact point for the student to help resolve
any issues surrounding conference registration, travel
and accommodation.
CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION
In addition to the activities outlined above, mentors
will be invited to attend a special reception / poster ses-
sion along with undergraduates, supervisors and other
interested conference attendees.
If you are interested in mentoring an undergraduate at
this years SMBE meeting please email John Archibald
as soon as possible (jmarchib[at]dal.ca).
John M. Archibald, Ph.D. Associate Professor and As-
sociate Graduate Coordinator Associate Director, CI-
FAR Program in Integrated Microbial Biodiversity De-
partment of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Dal-
housie University Sir Charles Tupper Medical Building
5850 College Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 1X5,
Canada
Phone: (902) 494-2536 Fax: (902) 494-1355 Web-
page: http://myweb.dal.ca/jmarchib/ Nirenbergs sec-ond reading in Moscow electriﬁed the audience, Crick
later wrote. (Whereupon, in the interest of historical
accuracy, Seymour Benzer, who had been in Moscow
too, mailed Crick a photograph taken of that audience,
in which several people appeared to be asleep.)
Horace Freeland Judson, The Eighth Day of Creation
John Archibald <jmarchib@dal.ca >
UIowa SMBE2009 Jun3-7 updates
Some updates to SMBE 2009 follow:
1. All of the contributed talks and travel awards
have been selected, Check the various symposia
for participants. http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/-
symposia.php 2. The program of symposia and con-
tributed sessions has been determined. See: http:/-
/ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/program.php 3. There
is plenty of room for additional attendees and poster-
presenters. 4. Hotels are ﬁlling up and cut-oﬀ dates
for hotel space are fast approaching. The cut-oﬀ
date for the SMBE room blocks at the Sheraton and
the Heartland Inn is May 3rd and the Marriot’s is
May 19th. See http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/-
venue accommodations.php for information on book-
ing accommodation. Please remember to book as soon
as possible; otherwise, ﬁnding lodging could become
complicated. 5. We are currently seeking additional
dormitory rooms. If you were interested in staying
in the dorms, but have not yet registered to do so,
please contact The Center for Conferences (confer-
ences@uiowa.edu) and ask to be placed on a waiting
list. You will need to include your requested dates,
your gender and potential roommate names in any
correspondence regarding dorms. 6. SMBE 2009 t-
shirts are now available for pre-order! See the design
athttp://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/tshirt.php . You
may pre-order shirts in your requested size and style by
logging into the registration site and clicking on “reg-
ister now”: ( https://www.continuetolearn.uiowa.edu/-
conferencereg/login.aspx ) and adding it to your con-
ference registration. The cost is $15.00 for shirts pre-
ordered by May 19th; pre-ordered shirts will be pro-
vided to you upon arrival and registration. A lim-
ited number of shirts will also be available on-site
at $20.00 each. 7. Banquet tickets are still avail-
able. If you did not purchase your ticket(s) at the
time of your registration, you may log into the regis-
tration site ( https://www.continuetolearn.uiowa.edu/-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 17
conferencereg/login.aspx ) and purchase them now for
$50.00 each. 8. If you have registered for the confer-
ence, but haven’t submitted your abstract yet, don’t
forget! The abstract submission deadline is May
15th for inclusion in the program. Go to http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/subform.php to submit an
abstract, using your unique ﬁve-digit registration num-
ber in your registration code. If you are not submit-
ting an abstract, please ﬁll out the abstract submis-
sion page with your information, selecting “None” for
your presentation type. 9. All registration and dor-
mitory fees are required to be paid in full by May
15th. Please contact the Center for Conferences (con-
ferences@uiowa.edu) to make your payment arrange-
ments. Alternately, you may return to the Conferences
website and pay your fees on-line. 10. To keep up on the
latest information and updates, please visit the SMBE
2009 updates page at http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/-
smbe/updates.php General information on the meeting
follows:
**SMBE 2009, Iowa City** “Darwin to the Next Gen-
eration ”
The 17th annual meeting of the Society for Molecular
Biology and Evolution-SMBE 2009-will be held in Iowa
City June 3-7, 2009, on the campus of The University
of Iowa.
Visit our meeting website ( http://smbe2009.org ) for
the most current information.
The SMBE 2009 scientiﬁc program will include 4 ple-
nary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
~240 talks; more than half will be contributed talks se-
lected on a competitive basis from submitted abstracts.
We anticipate ~300 poster contributions will be high-
lighted in two evening poster sessions.
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and
conﬁrmed speakers):
* Biological networks from genes to populations * Epi-
genetics, environment & evolution * Evolution of net-
works * Genome evolution after polyploidy * Genomics
of speciation & recent divergences * Historical roots of
molecular evolution * Impacts of next generation se-
quencing on evolution * Insect evolutionary genomics *
Molecular arms races * Molecular basis of speciation *
Molecular evolution of biological complexity * Molecu-
lar evolution of functional noncoding sequences
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlUruguay Darwin200 Spe2-6
Dear Colleague,
150 years of Darwin’s Evolutionary Theory: a
South American celebration will gather internation-
ally renowned evolutionary scientists in Punta del Este,
Uruguay, on September 2-6, 2009. The meeting is the
single Latin American scale of the Darwin200 Sym-
posia, organized by The International Union of Biolog-
ical Sciences (IUBS), and will include keynote lectures,
several symposia and poster sessions.
Conﬁrmed keynote speakers: Giorgio Bernardi, Daniel
Dennett, Douglas Futuyma, Takashi Gojobori, Eviatar
Nevo, Francisco Salzano, Emile Zuckerkandl
Symposia to be held: (chairs * and preliminary list of
invited speakers) Evolutionary Genomics and Molecu-
lar Evolution (Fernando ´Alvarez*, Hugo Naya*, Gior-
gio Bernardi, Gast´ on Gonnet, Olivier Gascuel, Pablo
Goloboﬀ) Evolutionary Physiology (Francisco Bozi-
novic*, Ernesto Gianoli, Carlos Navas, Pablo Sabat,
Ariovaldo P. Cruz-Neto, Enrique Caviedes-Vidal) Viral
Evolution (Juan Cristina*, Raul Andino, Eckard Wim-
mer) Paleontology and Evolution (Richard Fari˜ na*,
Sergio Mart´ ınez*, Sergio Vizca´ ıno, Laura del R´ ıo)
Human Evolution (Monica Sans*, Francisco Salzano,
H´ ector Puccarelli) Darwinism and Society (Alci´ on
Cheroni*, Daniel Dennett)
Abstract & Scholarship deadline: June 30th, 2009
150 Km horse back ride, following part of Darwin’s path
in Maldonado, will take place the two days before the
meeting. For more information on Abstract submission,
Fellowships for Students, Registration and Housing,
please visit our web site www.darwin200.edu.uy You
can also contact us by e-mail: darwin200@fcien.edu.uy
Fernando Alvarez On behalf of the Organizing Com-
mittee
Hector Romero <eletor@fcien.edu.uy >
USheﬃeld InsectEvolution Jul15-17
Royal Entomological Society Symposium18 EvolDir June 1, 2009
focussing on insect evolution and ecology
Sheﬃeld, UK , July 15-17 2009
Only one week left to register: deadline JUNE 1
Register online: http://www.royensoc.co.uk/register/-
index.php Scientiﬁc sessions:
Evolution, Ecology and Mechanisms of nsect Infection
and Immunity
Speakers include:
George Dimopoulos (John Hopkins Malaria Research
Institute, USA)
Fotis Kafatos (Imperial College, UK)
Greg Hurst (University of Liverpool, UK)
Jean Luc Imler (Institut de Biologie Mol´ eculaire et Cel-
lulaire, Strasbourg, France)
Jacob Koella (Imperial College, UK)
Shelley Adamo (Dalhousie, Canada)
Brian Lazzaro (Cornell University, USA)
Paul Schmid-Hempel (ETH Zurich, CH)
Mike Siva-Jothy (University of Sheﬃeld, UK)
Evolutionary Ecology of Predation
Invited speakers: Johanna Mappes (Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Fin-
land) Robby Stoks (Leuven, Belgium)
Range Expansion Invited speakers: Jane Hill, York, UK
Rosa Menendes, Lancaster, UK
Chemical Ecology
Stefano Turillazzi (University of Firenze)
Evening Plenary by Naomi Pierce, Harvard, USA:
“Nabokov meets Darwin: origin and evolution of blue
butterﬂies”
Register online
Register online: http://www.royensoc.co.uk/register/-
index.php Student Travel Support:
The Society oﬀers excellent support for students: stu-
dents can apply for support of up to 50% of all costs
(travel, accommodation, registration). Also, as confer-
ence dinners are very good networking opportunities,
the dinner is only £15 for students. Early application
is strongly recommended. Applications must be made
by letter or email (bill@royensoc.co.uk) to the Regis-
trar at the RES oﬃce and the deadline for receipt is
1st May 2009.
Daytime childcare is available on request (child-
care.ento2009@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).Jens Rolﬀ <JOR@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
UStAndrews ComparativeGenomics
Aug18
Dear EvolDir,
I would like to draw your attention to these events in
St Andrews this August:
- One day conference, “Comparative Genomics” -
Summer school, “Bioinformatics and Comparative Ge-
nomics” - Workshop, “The Role of Behaviour in Speci-
ation”
Details are below.
**************
Comparative Genomics one-day international confer-
ence
Date: 18th August 2009 Location: Bute Building, Uni-
versity of St Andrews, UK
**************
The Scottish Bioinformatics Forum and the University
of St Andrews are pleased to announce a one-day in-
ternational conference, “Comparative Genomics”, with
nine invited speakers and an open poster session.
Conﬁrmed speakers:
- Prof MARK BLAXTER, University of Edinburgh.
“Comparative nematode genomics”. - Prof GEOFF
BARTON, University of Dundee. “A tale of three small
RNAs”. - Prof DANNIE DURAND, Carnegie Mellon
University. “The evolution of multidomain families”. -
Prof NEIL HALL, University of Liverpool. “Fast for-
ward genetics using second generation sequencing”. -
Dr MATTHEW HEGARTY, Aberystwyth University.
“Genomic mergers: the consequences of hybridisation
and polyploidy in Senecio”. - Prof IAN KORF, Uni-
versity of California Davis Genome Center. “Intron
mediated enhancement”. - Dr DAVID MARTIN, Uni-
versity of Dundee. “Predicting protein function”. -
Dr ZEMIN NING, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.
“Cancer genome assemblies and variation detection be-
tween normal and tumor human cells”. - Prof ZIHENG
YANG FRS, University College London. “Population
genomics and human-chimpanzee speciation”.
For more information on the conference, including reg-
istration and poster abstract submission, please see:
http://www.sbforum.org/events.php?e idpJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 19
**************
Summer School - Bioinformatics and Comparative Ge-
nomics
Start Date: 15th August 2009, 9:00 am End Date: 18th
August 2009 (including one-day conference) Location:
University of St Andrews, UK
**************
The Scottish Bioinformatics Forum and the University
of St Andrews are pleased to announce the ﬁrst Summer
School on Bioinformatics and Comparative Genomics.
The summer school will address practical bioinformat-
ics for sequence analysis and comparative genomics, for
use in biological and biomedical research.
The summer school will be held in St Andrews on 15th-
17th August 2009. Registration for the summer school
also includes attendance at the one-day conference on
Comparative Genomics on 18 August (see above).
Conﬁrmed tutors:
- Prof ZIHENG YANG FRS, University College London
- Dr ZEMIN NING, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute -
Dr DAVID MARTIN, University of Dundee - Prof IAN
KORF, University of California Davis Genome Center -
Dr CHRIS JANSSEN, SBF and University of Glasgow
- Prof NEIL HALL and Dr ALISTAIR DARBY, Uni-
versity of Liverpool - Dr DAVID FERRIER, University
of St Andrews - Prof DANNIE DURAND, Carnegie
Mellon University - Prof GEOFF BARTON and Dr
JIM PROCTER, University of Dundee - Dr DANIEL
BARKER, University of St Andrews
For more information on the summer school and regis-
tration details, please see:
http://www.genome-bioinformatics.org/index.html
Workshop - The Role of Behaviour in Speciation
Start Date: 19th August 2009 End Date: 22nd August
2009 Location: University of St Andrews, UK
This is a separate workshop at St Andrews, arranged
by the EU Marie Curie Initial Training Network “SPE-
CIATION”. Details of this workshop are available from
Prof Mike Ritchie:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/mgr.htm and
will appear at:
http://speciation.group.shef.ac.uk Looking forward to
seeing you in St Andrews!
Kind Regards
Daniel Barker
– Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/-
db60.htm The University of St Andrews is a charity
registered in Scotland : No SC013532db60@st-andrews.ac.uk db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
Utrecht EvolutionLanguage
Apr14-17
Dear colleague,
Below is a conference announcement and call for pa-
pers for next year’s Evolang; I would much appreciate
it if you could distribute this announcement through
the Evoldir mailinglist to researchers in evolutionary
biology.
Many thanks, Willem Zuidema
***
EVOLANG8
The 8th International conference on the Evolution of
Language (Evolang8), will be held 14-17 April, 2010 in
the historic city of Utrecht, in the Netherlands. The
conference again promises to be an exciting event. The
following speakers have accepted an invitation for a ple-
nary presentation: Stephen Anderson (Yale), Morten
Cristiansen (Cornell), Terrence Deacon (Berkeley), Pe-
ter Gardenfors (Lund), Marc Hauser (Harvard), Wil
Roebroeks (Leiden), Eors Szathmary (Budapest) and
Maggie Tallerman (Newcastle). In addition, 12 ex-
perts in various contributing ﬁelds have been invited
to present papers in an attempt to involve in the con-
ference a larger number of pertinent areas and promi-
nent participants. The full list of invited speakers, and
lots of other information, is at our website: http://-
evolang2010.nl CALL FOR PAPERS
The conference welcomes substantive contributions re-
lating to the evolution of human language from any
relevant discipline, including Anthropology, Genetics,
Population Biology, Linguistics, Psychology, Primatol-
ogy, Ethology, Paleontology, Archeology, Artiﬁcial Life
and Mathematical Modelling. Normal standards of aca-
demic quality apply. Thus, submitted papers should
aim to make clear their own substantive claim, relating
this to relevant scientiﬁc literature, and brieﬂy setting
out the method by which the claim is substantiated,
the nature of the relevant data, and/or the core of the
theoretical argument concerned.
TYPES OF SUBMISSION
There are two possible types of submission: Full Papers,
which can have a length of between 6 and 8 pages. Ab-
stracts, which can be at most 2 pages long. All accepted20 EvolDir June 1, 2009
submissions will be published in the proceedings of the
conference. All papers or abstracts accepted will be al-
lotted the same presentation length (probably 25 min-
utes plus 10 minutes discussion). Proceedings will be
published by World Scientiﬁc. Formatting instructions
(MS Word, Latex) are available through the website:
http://evolang2010.nl SUBMISSION DEADLINE
Submissions due: 2 October 2009 Acceptance Notiﬁ-
cations: 13 November 2009 Final versions due (provi-
sional): 11 December 2009. All submissions are han-
dled by our electronic submission system accessible
through http://evolang2010.nl WORKSHOPS
Prior to the main conference, three full-day workshops
are planned on Wednesday April 14th. Separate calls
for papers for these workshops will be sent out in due
time on the evolang mailing list – sign up for the mail-
ing list on our website. The themes for these workshops
are: - Human language & bird song - The evolution ofsemantics - Computational modelling of language evo-
lution
LOCAL ORGANIZERS
The conference is hosted by the Utrecht Institute of
Linguistics OTS (UiL OTS) of Utrecht University, the
Netherlands. The Local Organizing Committee are tak-
ing various steps to ensure that Evolang 2010 will be
a signiﬁcant event from a scientiﬁc perspective. These
include inviting, in addition to plenary speakers, a num-
ber of other leading scientists to present papers at
the conference, extending the range of pertinent per-
spectives on language evolution to be included in the
programme, revising the review procedure for submit-
ted papers, and exploring the possibility of publish-
ing, in addition to the proceedings, a selection of re-
worked/expanded papers with an publisher of high re-
pute. All details are at http://evolang2010.nl . Jelle
Zuidema <w.h.zuidema@uva.nl >
GradStudentPositions
ETH Zurich SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
INRA Rennes Ecotoxicology and evolution . . . . . . . . 21
INRA Toulouse PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
KansasStateU GrassGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
LavalU EvolutionarySystemsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Munich EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
NorthCarolinaStateU InsectPhylogeny . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
SimonFraserU SharkExtinctionRisk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Spain Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Switzerland NicheEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
TexasAMIntlU 2 CichlidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Trondheim PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UBasel BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27ULausanne SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ULaval ModellingForestGeneIntrogression . . . . . . . . . 29
UMontpellier ExperimentalCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UNeuchatel PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UPorto Portugal EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
USouthernMississippi ConservGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UVermont InvasivenessEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UWesternOntario EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . 32
UWesternOntario Phylogenetics Sociogenomics . . . . 32
Zurich InvasionBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Zurich MaleReproductiveTactics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
ETH Zurich SexualSelection
PhD Position in Evolutionary Biology at the ETH
Zurich3-year PhD position funded through a Swiss National
Science Foundation research grant. The student will
be supervised by Dr. Oliver Martin and be part of
the Experimental Ecology group (head: Prof. Paul
Schmid-Hempel), Institute of Integrative Biology at the
ETH Zurich (see: http://www.eco.ethz.ch/ ). The in-
stitute maintains close links with various local researchJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 21
groups at the ETH and University of Zurich and further
aﬁeld providing opportunities for regular interactions
with leading scientists working on related topics.
Project background: There is strong theoretical sup-
port for a role of sexual selection (especially sexual
conﬂict) as a powerful engine driving speciation. Sim-
ilarly, theoretical and comparative evidence indicates
that sexual selection could cause extinction. A main
focus of the PhD will be evaluating to what extent sex-
ual selection is involved in shaping biodiversity. As
part of this undertaking, the projects will assess im-
pacts of sexual selection on individual and population
ﬁtness, the inﬂuence of environmental change & trade-
oﬀs between reproductive and immune traits. Within
this broad framework the student will have the oppor-
tunity to address a range of speciﬁc questions using
rapidly breeding insect models (mainly Tribolium bee-
tles). There is also plenty of scope for accommodating
additional individual project ideas.
Starting date: Ideally the candidate will be able to start
on the 1st of July 2009 or soon thereafter.
Salary details: Yearly salary: ca. CHF 39 000 p.a. in
year 1 (then ca. CHF 42 000 in year 2 + ca. CHF 45
000 in year 3).
Application: Applicants must have a university degree
(e.g. Diplom, M. Sc) required for entrance to the PhD
program (preferably in evolutionary biology, ecology
or molecular ecology). Previous experience with ex-
perimental evolution, behavioral observations, immune
assays, insect rearing or molecular methods would all
be advantageous. The working language in our multi-
national research group is English. Although not abso-
lutely necessary, knowledge of German would certainly
be practical for living in Zurich. Zurich is a very at-
tractive international city set in beautiful surroundings.
For information about studying at the ETH and Zurich
see e.g.: http://www.ethz.ch/prospectives/index EN
http://www.zuerich.com/de/welcome.cfm Application
procedure: Please email your application documents as
a single pdf ﬁle to: oliver.martin@env.ethz.ch Docu-
ments should contain: cover letter stating motivation
for pursuing scientiﬁc career and interest in this posi-
tion, CV, summary of research interests and experience
(ca. 1 page) and contact details for three people will-
ing to provide references (additional pdfs of M. Sc or
Diploma certiﬁcates, transcripts, theses or other docu-
ments are also welcome if relevant).
Closing date: Applications are welcome until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled, evaluation of applications will begin im-
mediately.
For further information: Dr. Oliver Y. Martin, In-stitute for Integrative Biology, Experimental Ecol-
ogy, CHN K 14, Universitatstrasse 16, CH-8092
Zurich, Switzerland http://www.eco.ethz.ch/people/-
assistants/martioli oliver.martin@env.ethz.ch
Martin Oliver Yves <oliver.martin@env.ethz.ch >
INRA Rennes Ecotoxicology and
evolution
PhD Position in ecotoxicology and evolution
A PhD position is available on the adaptive potential
of molecular responses to stress, of a freshwater snail
exposed to pesticides. Position is opened in the group
of Ecotoxicology and quality of aquatic environments,
UMR ESE 985, Rennes, of the French National Insti-
tute for Agricultural Research (INRA). The project is
proposed in the context of population ecological risk
assessment and pesticide use. Evolutionary processes
are only recently incorporated as a relevant dimension
into these research issues. Such processes are diﬃcult
to predict, due to the diversity of their potential de-
terminants, among which: (i) activated mechanisms of
physiological and molecular defence, (ii) interactions,
(iii) relationship with other traits, including those re-
lated to ﬁtness, (iv) potential cost, (v) population char-
acteristics, including history of exposure, population
size and level of genetic variability. Speciﬁc issues ad-
dressed in this project relate to the components of vari-
ation observed at the level of biochemical and molecular
systems activated in response to pesticide stress, in a
freshwater snail, /Lymnaea stagnalis/. We are speciﬁ-
cally interested in estimating the adaptive potential of
such systems (enzymatic activity, expression of genes
involved in the antioxidant pathway and in less spe-
ciﬁc stress)*. The amount of genetic additive variation
will be estimated using quantitative genetics (experi-
mental lines), and adaptive divergence between pop-
ulations will be searched for by comparing contrasted
ecotypes, using common-garden experiments. Fitness-
related traits will be jointly measured, in order to esti-
mate possible costs and trade-oﬀs. *depending on fund-
ings obtained, the project may be extended to gene ex-
pression at a larger scale (transcriptomics)./
Salary: the project is currently submitted to several
national / regional grant sources, including INRAs
“Young Researcher Contract”, which includes both a
3 year PhD funding and a 2 year postdoc funding.
Expected start date is September 2009. If in-22 EvolDir June 1, 2009
terested, please send (before June 1 ^st ): CV,
documentation of undergraduate grades, names and
addresses of two referees and a statement describing
the reason(s) for your interest in this research to:
marie-agnes.coutellec@rennes.inra.fr <mailto:marie-
agnes.coutellec@rennes.inra.fr >.
See also sujet n89 at: http://www.vas.univ-rennes1.fr/-
themes/Concours annuel/Proﬁls/Autres/ –
Marie-Agn` es Coutellec UMR INRA-Agrocampus Ouest
985 ESE Equipe Ecotoxicologie et Qualit´ e des Milieux
Aquatiques 65 rue de Saint-Brieuc - CS 84215 35042
Rennes cedex - FRANCE
t´ el.: +33(0)2 23 48 52 48 fax: +33(0)2 23 48 54 40
marie-agnes.coutellec@rennes.inra.fr
INRA Toulouse PopulationGenetics
We are seeking applications for a “Young Researcher
Contract” in population / statistical genetics, which in-
cludes both a 3 year PhD funding and a 2 year postdoc
funding. The PhD subject concerns the detection of
loci under selection in livestock populations. The suc-
cessful applicant will develop new detection methods
that take into account the speciﬁcities of livestock pop-
ulations (large number of breeds, small eﬀective sizes,
short divergence time ..). He will also analyse dense
SNP genome-wide data arising from several projects on
pig and sheep.
The PhD will take place at the Laboratory of Cel-
lular Genetics in Toulouse (France), which is part of
the French National Institute for Agricultural Research
(INRA).
Interested applicants are invited to send a curriculum
vitae to Magali San Cristobal msc@toulouse.inra.fr or
Simon Boitard simon.boitard@toulouse.inra.fr before
the 31th of May, and to contact them for further in-
formation. Strong statistical and programming skills,
and a high interest in population genetics, will be re-
quired.
simon boitard <simon.boitard@toulouse.inra.fr >
KansasStateU GrassGenomicsPhD Assistantship Available: Ecological Genomics of
Drought Stress in Prairie Grasses We have a position
available for a PhD student to study the ecological ge-
nomics of drought stress. The project will include stud-
ies of the responses of native prairie grasses to variation
in precipitation using the ecologically dominant prairie
grass big bluestem as a model. The work is part of
a project funded by the USDA Plant Biology Abiotic
Stress program. The project will include common gar-
den transplant experiments and genomic approaches to
test for the signature of adaptive genetic diﬀerentiation
among natural populations of big bluestem across the
precipitation gradient of the Great Plains.
This collaborative research group assembles investi-
gators with complementary expertise in Plant Eco-
logical Genomics (Johnson www.ksu.edu/johnsonlab/,
Garrett www.ksu.edu/pdecology), Genomics (Ahkunov
eakhunov@ksu.edu), Evolutionary Genetics (Mor-
gan(http://www.ksu.edu/morganlab/ ) and Restora-
tion Ecology (Baer, SIU ( www.plantbiology.siu.edu/-
Faculty/Baer/index.html ) to elucidate the response
and adaptation of prairie grasses to abiotic stresses.
This work will take place in the laboratories of Drs.
Johnson, Akhunov, and Garrett, with close collabo-
ration with Drs. Morgan and Baer. There will also
be opportunities to interact with other researchers
in the context of the Ecological Genomics Institute
(www.ecogen.ksu.edu ).
Applicants should have a demonstrated interest in eco-
logical or evolutionary genomics. Preference will be
given to individuals with experience in modern molec-
ular approaches and genomics tools.
Review of applicants will begin June 1, and continue
until the successful applicant is identiﬁed. The starting
date is ﬂexible. The position oﬀers competitive salary
of $25,000 and beneﬁts.
Applications should include a cover letter with a state-
ment of research interests and explanation of your moti-
vation and suitability for the project, a CV, and names
and contact information for three professional refer-
ences who can document the applicant is self-motivated
and can work independently. Please send your ap-
plication through e-mail to Loretta Johnson (John-
son@ksu.edu). Please include the following in the sub-
ject of your e-mail: Application for Ecological Ge-
nomics Assistantship’.
Kansas State University is located in the college town
of Manhattan (population ~45,000) in the Flint Hills
of eastern Kansas, about 2 hours away from Kansas
City. Kansas State University is an equal opportunity,
aﬃrmative action employer and actively seeks diversity
among its employees.June 1, 2009 EvolDir 23
johnson@ksu.edu johnson@ksu.edu
LavalU EvolutionarySystemsBiol
Graduate positions available in evolutionary systems
biology
Chosen candidates will study the evolution of signal-
ing networks using genomics, proteomics and bioinfor-
matics tools. Projects will aim at understanding the
evolution of protein-protein interactions among signal-
ing molecules and the role of gene duplication in shap-
ing these networks. The budding yeast Saccharomyces
cerevisiae and its relatives will be used as models but
other relevant species could also be used. We have tools
to study protein-protein interactions on a genome-wide
scale.
Our research is funded by the Canadian Institutes of
Health Research (CIHR) and the Fonds de la Recherche
en Sante du Quebec (FRSQ). Research will be con-
ducted at the Laval University Institut de Biologie
Int´ egrative et des Syst` emes (IBIS), in Qu´ ebec City,
Canada. IBIS hosts more than 30 researchers work-
ing in genetics, genomics and proteomics as well as or-
ganismic biology. Laval University is one of the oldest
universities in North America and is a major research
institution in Canada. Quebec city is a magniﬁcent and
vibrant city.
Competitive stipend + bonus for students who can ob-
tain external fellowships.
Starting date: September 2009 or January 2010
Requirements: The ideal candidate is highly motivated,
has experience or training in molecular biology, bio-
chemistry or microbiology, is interested in evolution and
has basic skills in bioinformatics.
Pertinent references: How perfect can protein interac-
tomes be? Science Signaling 2009.
Weak functional constraints on phosphoproteomes.
Trends in Genetics 2009.
Systems biology spins oﬀ a new model for the study of
canalization. Trends in Ecology and Evolution 2009.
An in vivo map of the yeast protein interactome. Sci-
ence 2008.
Genetic properties inﬂuencing the evolvability of gene
expression. Science 2007.
Systems-level analysis and evolution of the phototrans-duction network in Drosophila. PNAS 2007.
Interested candidates should send an application with
a complete CV, academic transcripts and a short state-
ment of interest by email and have three letters of ref-
erences sent to:
clandry@post.harvard.edu
Letters of recommendation from these references should
be sent separately.
Informal inquiries are welcome,
Christian Landry, PhD D´ epartement de Biochimie Fac-
ult´ e de M´ edecine Universit´ e de Montreal C.P. 6128,
Succ. Centre-Ville Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3C 3J7
Christian Landry <clandry@post.harvard.edu >
Munich EvolutionaryBiology
Dear all,
With this e-mail I would like to encourage students who
are interested in doing a PhD in the ﬁeld of evolution,
ecology and systematics to consider coming to the Uni-
versity of Munich. Munich has a very lively community
of researchers working on a wide range of topics in evo-
lution, ecology and systematics. We have Master and
PhD students from all over the world. See http://-
www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki There are currently two possi-
ble routes to become a PhD student in the EES (Evo-
lution, Ecology and Systematics) program in Munich:
1) apply to the newly established Graduate School Life
Science Munich ( http://www.lsm.bio.lmu.de/ ). You
can apply to this school with a BSc or with an MSc de-
gree. If you hold an MSc degree, you can apply for the
three year PhD program. Students in this program are
paid by the individual research groups (usually about
1000 Euro per month). The LSM graduate school of-
fers additional training and services. The LSM also
accepts students with a Bachelor’s degree. For these
students there is the possibility to obtain a Master’s
degree before starting with the PhD, or to do a two
or three semester preparatory program and enter the
PhD without obtaining a Master’s degree. The LSM
will only accept a very limited number of outstand-
ing applicants with a Bachelor’s degree. Students in
the fast-track path will get a scholarship of 643 Euro
per month during two or three semesters for living ex-
penses. The deadline for the LSM is the 30th of June
2009.24 EvolDir June 1, 2009
2) if you have an idea for a research project which
you would like to do in Munich and which has an
evolutionary focus, there is the possibility to ap-
ply for a research grant at the Volkswagen Foun-
dation. This foundation funds PhD and Postdoc
projects. The next deadline is the 15th of October
2009 (see http://www.volkswagenstiftung.de/funding/-
thematic-impetus/evolutionary-biology.html?L=1 )
If you are interested in either of these two possibili-
ties, please have a look at the EES website http:/-
/www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/EES people and contact the
person you would like to work with. Alternatively,
you can contact me ﬁrst (Pleuni Pennings, pen-
nings@lmu.de).
Best wishes, Pleuni Pennings
–
Pleuni S. Pennings
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
* Postdoc in theoretical evolutionary biology
Evolutionary Biology, Department Biologie II Univer-
sity of Munich (LMU) Großhaderner Str. 2 D-82152
Planegg-Martinsried
Tel: 0049 89 2180 74 234 http://www.eeslmu.de/-
eeswiki/Pleuni Pennings pennings@lmu.de
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
NorthCarolinaStateU
InsectPhylogeny
North Carolina State University Department of Ento-
mology Insect Museum
Two graduate assistantships are available (PhD-level
preferred) for exceptional students broadly interested in
biodiversity, phyloinformatics, evolution, and systemat-
ics. Selected candidates will work with a large team
of engaging, approachable, and highly motivated re-
searchers that have diverse interests and skill sets. As-
sistantships pay for tuition and fees and provide $19,000
stipend per annum.
Opportunity A: Student will study molecular phyloge-
netics and diversiﬁcation in empidine dance ﬂies (Em-
pididae) as part of an NSF- funded project on the evo-
lution of dance ﬂy mating systems, behavior, and mor-phology. (Advised by: Dr. Brian Wiegmann)
Opportunity B: Student will address biodiversity and
evolutionary questions concerning Hymenoptera (Ad-
vised by: Dr. Andy Deans)
Desirable qualities for applicants: excellent oral and
written communication skills, a willingness to engage
both the public and research communities, a penchant
for foreign travel, familiarity with insect taxonomy and
natural history.
Students will have the opportunity to learn and develop
fundamental biodiversity tools as part of their gradu-
ate training, including Web application development,
databases in evolutionary biology, data mining, ontol-
ogy design/implementation, PCR, primer design, phy-
logenetic methods, advanced microscopy. Prior experi-
ence is beneﬁcial but not required, and we will consider
applicants with degrees in computer science, anatomy,
bioinformatics, information visualization, or other re-
lated ﬁelds.
How to apply: North Carolina State University hosts
a top-rated Entomology program, and as a vertex of
North Carolina’s Research Triangle, we beneﬁt from
close proximity to a large community of evolution-
ary biologists and our aﬃliation with the National
Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent; http://-
www.nescent.org/ )<http://www.nescent.org/ >.
Interested students must apply to the NCSU De-
partment of Entomology: http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/-
entomology/students/how-do-i-apply More details
and contact information available here: http://-
entomology.ncsu.edu/ /AA/EOE. ADA Accommoda-
tions: Drs. Andrew R. Deans andy deans@ncsu.edu or
Brian Wiegmann brian wiegmann@ncsu.edu, 919-515-
2833.// NC State welcomes all persons without regard
to sexual orientation./
Brian M. Wiegmann Department of Entomology North
Carolina State University http://www4.ncsu.edu/-
unity/users/b/bwiegman/public html/labweb/
Andrew R. Deans Department of Entomology North
Carolina State University http://deanslab.org/
brian wiegmann@ncsu.edu brian wiegmann@ncsu.edu
SimonFraserU SharkExtinctionRisk
**Readvertised**
* *June 1, 2009 EvolDir 25
*Extinction risk, life histories and demography and in
sharks and rays*
Funded PhD project available at Simon Fraser Univer-
sity, Vancouver; starting 2009
Sharks and rays are among the most threatened ver-
tebrates because they have slow life histories1,2 and
they are subject to high mortality due to unregulated
bycatch in trawl and longline ﬁsheries3,4. The aim of
this project is to use the existing knowledge to develop
predictive models of extinction risk grounded in life his-
tories and demography.
This funded PhD project will provide the student with
broad training in phylogenetic comparative analysis
and statistical modeling of large complex datasets. The
student will be expected to collaborate with and work
alongside other students and will gain a wider training
in the links among life histories, population dynamics
and conservation biology of ﬁshes. The student will be
based at the vibrant and expanding Earth to Ocean
research group at the Department of Biological Sci-
ences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Vancouver,
BC Canada.
To apply for this project please send a CV with details
of three referees, a 1-page research proposal (including
context, hypotheses and approach) and a cover letter to
the contact supervisor (Nick Dulvy: nkd3@sfu.ca with
the subject heading $B!H(BPhD competition B$B!I(B)
before June 31st2009. It is strongly encouraged that
the candidate read the references provided below prior
to building the conceptual framework of their own pro-
posal. An understanding of life histories and population
dynamics is desirable. Ideal candidates should have
good organizational skills and be comfortable working
autonomously, as needed. We are keen to consider can-
didates without prior experience of ﬁsh or ﬁsheries. Fi-
nancial support will be CAD$20,000 per year. Interna-
tional students considering graduate studies at Simon
Fraser University should obtain current immigration re-
quirements from a Canadian Embassy or consulate.
1. MG Frisk, TJ Miller, MJ Fogarty (2001). Estima-
tion of biological parameters in elasmobranch ﬁshes: a
comparative life history study. *Canadian Journal of
Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences* *58*, 969.
2. MK McAllister, EK Pikitch, EA Babcock (2001).
Using demographic methods to construct Bayesian pri-
ors for the intrinsic rate of increase in the Schaefer
model and implications for stock rebuilding. *Cana-
dian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences* *58*,
1871.
3. JK Baum, RA Myers, DG Kehler, B Worm, SJ
Harley, PA Doherty (2003). Collapse and conservationof shark populations in the northwest Atlantic. * Sci-
ence* *299*, 389.
4. SC Clarke, MK McAllister, EJ Milner-Gulland, GP
Kirkwood, CGJ Michielsens, DJ Agnew, EK Pikitch, H
Nakano, MS Shivji (2006). Global estimates of shark
catches using trade records from commercial markets.
*Ecology Letters* *9*, 1115.
Dr Nick Dulvy
Canada Research Chair in Marine Biodiversity and
Conservation
Biological Sciences Simon Fraser University Burnaby,
BC V5A 1S6 Canada
e-mail: nick dulvy@sfu.ca tel: +1-778-782-4124
(direct), 782-4475 (secretary) fax: +1-778-782-
3496 skype: nick.dulvy http://www.dulvy.com
Why not submit a paper to Conservation Let-
ters! www.blackwellpublishing.com/conl Why
not submit a paper to Journal of Applied Ecol-
ogy! http://www.blackwellpublishing.com/jpe
Why not submit a paper to Fish and Fisheries!
http://ﬁshandﬁsheries.googlepages.com Nick Dulvy
<nick dulvy@sfu.ca >
Spain Biodiversity
SUBJECT: New edition of the Master’s Degree Pro-
gram “Biodiversity in Tropical Areas and its conserva-
tion”
MAIN TEXT: ANNOUNCEMENT of the new edition
of the Master’s Degree Program in “Biodiversity in
Tropical Areas and its conservation”
As the previous edition, the Master’s Degree Pro-
gram in “Biodiversity in Tropical Areas and its con-
servation” is a one-year MSc program (75 ECTS) of-
fered jointly by the International University Menen-
dez Pelayo (UIMP, Ministry of Education, Spain), the
Spanish National Research Council (CSIC, Ministry
of Science, Spain), and the Universidad Central del
Ecuador (UCE, Ecuador). The program is fully funded
by the CSIC, with a strong emphasis on fellowships
for Latinamerican students; the title is an oﬃcial Eu-
ropean MSc degree conceded by the UIMP; and the
program will be taught in Ecuador, with an emphasis
on practical studies in natural reserves. The program
is international, with a minimum of 15 and a maximum
of 30 students.26 EvolDir June 1, 2009
ROUTE TO PHD DEGREE.- Excellent graduates from
the MBATC program have the possibility to continue
their PhD studies in CSIC Departments (Real Jardin
Botanico, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales, etc.)
through separate application calls opened each year.
They can also apply to other programs in the Spanish
science system, or to any European or American uni-
versity, as this MSc title is an oﬃcial European degree.
WHAT DO I NEED TO APPLY TO THE
PROGRAM?.- You are eligible to apply to the program
if you hold a Bachelor’s degree in any suitable ﬁeld, es-
pecially on biosciences: biology, forestry, or agriculture,
but also in geography, for example. You must be proﬁ-
cient in Spanish language.
FINANCIAL SUPPORT.- The CSIC oﬀers 5 full schol-
arships (6300 euros/student) and 5 for registration fees
(1300 euros/student). The program ﬁnances additional
full scholarships for Latin American applicants.
HOW TO APPLY?.- The application period for stud-
ies starting in September 2008 begins 4-May-2009 and
closes 3-July-2009. You can ﬁnd all the information
and detailed instructions on how to apply at
http://www.masterenbiodiversidad.org/ –
Jes´ us Mu˜ noz e-mail: jmunoz@rjb.csic.es Real Jard´ ın
Bot´ anico (CSIC) Plaza de Murillo 2 tlf. +34 91 420
3017 E-28014 Madrid fax. +34 91 420 0157 ESPA ˜NA
(Spain)
http://www.masterenbiodiversidad.org http:/-
/www.rjb.csic.es/jardinbotanico/jardin/-
contenido.php?Pag=413&tipo=cientiﬁco&codf
KRAKEN research group (environmental mod-
elling, data processing & analysis): http://-
www.unex.es/unex/grupos/grupos/kraken SYN-
THESYS: EU funds short visits to our institution:
http://www.synthesys.info/index.htm Jes´ us Mu˜ noz
<jmunoz@rjb.csic.es >
Switzerland NicheEvolution
Sorry for any cross postings.
Ph.D. Positions in Ecology and Evolution
The goal of the interdisciplinary project SPatially Ex-
plicit Evolution of Diversity (SPEED) is to understand
how evolutionary history and the potential for rapid
evolution can inﬂuence the response to climate change
by species, biotic communities, and regional patterns ofbiological diversity. The project focuses on species in
the Restionaceae, a family of grass-like monocots that
are primarily found in the fynbos of South Africa. The
project employs the tools of molecular phylogenetics,
evolutionary modeling across phylogenies, ﬁeld experi-
mentation, plant physiology, community phylogenetics
and niche modeling. Collaborating institutions include
the University of Lausanne, the University of Zurich
and the Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL. SPEED
is funded by the Sinergia program of the Swiss National
Fund for Science (SNF). There are three open positions,
each with funding for three years. Here are the two
Ph.D. student positions:
Ph.D. in evolutionary modeling and phylogenetics.
This position will focus on models of niche evolution
through the development of Bayesian models to es-
timate how niche parameters of species are evolving
through time and lineages. The project will also gener-
ate molecular data to complement actual Restionaceae
phylogenetic trees. This students primary location will
be in the Salamin lab at the University of Lausanne
(http://www.unil.ch/phylo ).
Ph.D. in population genetics and ecological niche vari-
ability. This position will focus on the relationship be-
tween geographical range and niche and genetic vari-
ation, and explore the patterns of inheritance of the
niche and genetic attributes of selected species. This
students primary location will be in the Linder lab at
the University of Zurich.
Applications MUST be received no later than Sunday,
May 31, 2009. Interviews to be held fourth week in
June. Start date in September, 2009. For further in-
formation about the SPEED project:
http://www.wsl.ch/projects/SPEED Please contact
Peter B. Pearman or the relevant person linked to your
interest. The SPEED project proposal is available to
interested applicants upon request.
To apply, send the following materials, as separate PDF
ﬁles: 1. PDF of cover letter, addressed to The SPEED
Search Committee, indicating –position applied for –
your career goals –your research interests in context of
the SPEED project –a detail of how the previous expe-
rience and skills shown in your CV prepare you speciﬁ-
cally for the position for which you are applying 2. PDF
of CV, complete, showing contact information, title of
thesis and dissertation, date, universities, research ex-
perience, notable skills, advanced courses, publication
list, posters and talks presented, awards, service, etc 3.
PDF of the abstract of your Masters thesis or Ph.D.
dissertation research 4. PDF of university report of
coursework, showing grades and degrees earned (must
be in English) 5+. PDF’s of published papers and pa-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 27
pers in-press.
Send application as e-mail with attachments, with the
following subject line
SPEED Project (and insert position applied for: evo-
lutionary modeling or population genetics)
Send a separate e-mail, cover letter (PDF), and other
PDF documents for each position applied for (if more
than one) to:
sibylle.hauser@wsl.ch
Dont forget the deadline!
– Peter B. Pearman, Ph.D. Land Use Dynamics Fed-
eral Research Institute WSL Z¨ urcherstrasse 111 8903
Birmensdorf Switzerland
pearman@wsl.ch Tel. ++41 (0)44 739 2524 Fax ++41
(0)44 739 2215
pearman@wsl.ch pearman@wsl.ch
TexasAMIntlU 2 CichlidEvolution
There is an opening this fall for 2 Masters students in
the lab of Dr. Michael Kidd in the Department of Bi-
ology and Chemistry at Texas A&M International at
Laredo. There are number of potential projects con-
cerning the labs primary interest of understanding the
molecular basis of complex behaviors, which includes
work on an exciting NSF funded project studying the
molecular basis of mate choice in cichlid ﬁshes. Stu-
dents in my lab will have the opportunity to learn a
wide variety of techniques, including; how to quantify
behavior, perform hormone assays and manipulations,
in situ hybridization, quantitative PCR, and the statis-
tical analysis of microarray data. Research assistance-
ships (RA) are available.
Applicants should have a B.S. or B.A. in biology, genet-
ics, or a related ﬁeld. Although preference will be given
to students with some ﬁeld or lab experience, particu-
larly in molecular genetics, endocrinology or behavior,
the only requirement is an interest and enthusiasm for
animal behavior, evolution, and genetics. Please send
me a copy of your CV with coursework, description of
research experience, and the names and contact infor-
mation for the people you will ask for letters of refer-
ence.
Prospective students should contact me directly:
Dr. Michael R. Kidd University of Texas at AustinSection of Integrative Biology 1 University Station,
#C0930 Austin, Texas 78712
Phone: 512-475-7318 Fax 512-471-3878 Email:
mrkidd@mail.utexas.edu
mckidd@earthlink.net
Trondheim PopulationBiology
PhD position in population ecology, Trondheim, Nor-
way One PhD position in population ecology with par-
ticular focus on the interaction between parasites and
host populations is available at the Department of Bi-
ology, NTNU. The fellowship is for three years with the
possibility of a fourth year including 25 % teaching du-
ties to the Department of Biology. The aim of the PhD
project is to quantitatively investigate the coevolution-
ary dynamics between parasites and hosts, with partic-
ular emphasis on the impact of the infracommunity of
parasites on host population dynamics in a metapopu-
lation consisting of 18 insular populations of house spar-
rows (Passer domesticus) in northern Norway. *Appli-
cation deadline: May 22 2009. *
You can ﬁnd the oﬃcial job announcement in
the following link: https://secure.jobbnorge.no/-
visstilling2.aspx?stillid=57656 ** Thor Harald
Ringsby, Associate Professor (PhD) Centre for Con-
servation Biology (CCB) Department of Biology
Norwegian University of Science and Technology
NO-7491 Trondheim Norway
Oﬃce: +47 73596277 Fax: +47 73596100 Mobile: +47
91897032
E-mail: Thor.Harald.Ringsby@bio.ntnu.no Website
Department of Biology: http://www.ntnu.no/biologi/-
english Website CCB: http://www.ntnu.no/ccb Web-
site personal: http://www.bio.ntnu.no/users/thorr/
thorhr <thor.ringsby@bio.ntnu.no >
UBasel BehaviouralEvolution
PhD-POSITION IN BEHAVIOURAL EVOLUTION.
We are looking for a highly motivated graduate stu-
dent interested in behavioral/social evolution. The
research of our group focuses on the early evolution28 EvolDir June 1, 2009
of family interactions by cooperation, conﬂict and co-
adaptation. Our research is carried out using a (sub-
)social insect species, the common earwig Forﬁcula au-
ricularia (Dermaptera). Earwig females provide food
to their early instar nymphs and protect them against
predation. The nymphs interact with their mothers to
inﬂuence food provisioning, and they compete among
each other for resources. Earwigs are an ideal system
to help us better understand the functional context
in which the early evolution of family life took place,
because nymphs are not fully dependent on maternal
care. One aspect our previous work showed, which
we will investigate further, is that insect progeny so-
licit from their caring parents by chemical signalling
(pheromones). The details of the project will be de-
veloped together with the successful candidate also de-
pending on her/his skills and interest.
BACKGROUND. Applicants should have a MSc degree
(or equivalent) in a relevant ﬁeld, and a strong back-
ground and keen interest in behavioural and/or chem-
ical ecology. Previous experience with behavioral ob-
servation and quantiﬁcation is an advantage, and an
interest in learning GC/MS techniques is required.
RESEARCH GROUP AND INSTITUTE. Our research
group is part of the Zoological Institute at the Uni-
versity of Basel, which hosts various groups shar-
ing a common interest in evolutionary biology (see
www.evolution.unibas.ch for more information).
POSITION AND APPLICATION. The PhD-position
is funded through a Swiss National Science Foundation
(SNF) research grant for the duration of three years.
Starting date is negotiable, but should ideally be be-
tween 1st July and 1st October 2009. Please send your
application documents (CV, list of publication, short
summary of your current research, a statement on your
reasons to pursue a PhD, contact details for two refer-
ees) by e-mail and as single pdf to:
Dr. Mathias Kolliker (Ass Prof SNF), Uni-
versity of Basel, Zoological Institute, Evo-
lutionary Biology, Vesalgasse 1, 4051 Basel.
E-mail: mathias.koelliker@unibas.ch; inter-
net:www.evolution.unibas.ch/koelliker . Applications
received before **31. May 2009** will be given full
consideration.
Mathias.Koelliker@unibas.ch Math-
ias.Koelliker@unibas.chULausanne SocialEvolution
PhD POSITION, SOCIAL EVOLUTION AND ANTI-
PARASITE DEFENCES, LAUSANNE
Applications are invited for a PhD position in the
research group of Michel Chapuisat (Department of
Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne). We
study social evolution, social conﬂicts and collective de-
fences against parasites in ants. Please look at http:/-
/www.unil.ch/ dee/page7000.html for information and
references.
The project will focus on (1) the impact of ento-
mopathogenic fungi on ant societies of various degrees
of complexity and (2) the collective defences of ants
against fungi. The main model system will be the so-
cially polymorphic ant Formica selysi and several of its
naturally occurring fungal pathogens. The precise ques-
tions and methods will be developed together with the
successful candidate, depending on his skills and inter-
ests. We seek candidates with a strong motivation to
pursue a scientiﬁc career, good knowledge in evolution-
ary biology, and some speciﬁc expertise in ﬁelds that
are relevant for the project (e.g. behavioural ecology,
parasitology, molecular ecology, chemical ecology).
The position will be funded by the University of Lau-
sanne and the Swiss National Science Foundation. It
is available for three to four years, and involves some
teaching. The gross salary starts at 46’662 CHF per
annum. Starting date is negotiable, but September
2009 would be ideal. The Department of Ecology
and Evolution provides an excellent training environ-
ment for PhD students (see http:// www.unil.ch/dee/,
http://www.unil.ch/ee and http://www.unil.ch/fbm/
page2334 en.html).
Informal enquiries and applications should be sent to
Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch. Applications should include
a cover letter, complete CV with publication list, and
contact details of three referees, preferentially embed-
ded in a single pdf ﬁle.
I will review the applications on 22 June 2009, but will
continue to consider incoming applications until the po-
sition is ﬁlled.
Michel Chapuisat <Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch >
Michel Chapuisat
Department of Ecology and Evolution Biophore,June 1, 2009 EvolDir 29
Quartier Sorge University of Lausanne CH-1015 Lau-
sanne (Switzerland)
Ph: +4121 6924178 http://www.unil.ch/-
dee/page7642.html Michel Chapuisat
<Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch >
ULaval
ModellingForestGeneIntrogression
Modelling gene introgression in native Populus of west-
ern Canada
A PhD position in evolutionary genomics and ecolog-
ical modelling is available with Universit´ e Laval and
the Canadian Forest Service (Laurentian Research Cen-
ter; CFS). Full funding is provided by the Canadian
Regulatory System for Biotechnology in the context of
wider projects on the genomics of Canadian forest tree
species. The research problem is this: Over the last
century, several exotic Populus hybrids were widely in-
troduced over the prairie and parkland regions of west-
ern Canada. CFS researchers have developed diagnos-
tic markers for the detection of exotic genes and doc-
umented their spread within native populations of P.
balsamifera. The research opportunity is to develop
spatial- temporal models to explain observed patterns
of introgression and project them into the future while
accounting for the ecological consequences of the intro-
duction of novel traits. Most of the necessary data has
been assembled, including extensive historical records
of the time and location of speciﬁc introductions across
the region.
The successful applicant will develop advanced skills in
spatial simulation, multi-level statistical modelling and
management of large complex databases. Some experi-
ence with programming and with R will be signiﬁcant
advantage. A working knowledge of GIS would also be
an asset, although technical support will be available.
Otherwise, the main qualiﬁcations for this position are
strong quantitative skills and an interest in molecular
ecology, spatial simulation and ecological modelling, re-
gardless of disciplinary background. The position is
funded for 3yr at $21,500/yr. Holders of their own
scholarships will be eligible for a top-up of $7,000/yr
over the period of their grant. The position may com-
mence in September 2009. The student will be part of
an active and growing “meta-lab” on spatial simulation,
statistical ecology and conservation biology, and will be
a member of the Centre d’´ etude de la forˆ et <http:/-/www.cef-cfr.ca/ >. Qu´ ebec is a world heritage site
with a rich cultural environment and many opportuni-
ties for outdoor recreation. It is also presents an excel-
lent opportunity to acquire or master the French lan-
guage. Note that although the language of instruction
at Universit´ e Laval is French, one’s thesis is expected
to be written in English. Applicants should submit a
one-page statement of interest, a current CV, and the
names of three references to any of the undersigned,
who may be contacted for further information.
Steve Cumming Chaire de Recherche du Canada-
Boreal Ecosystems Modelling Centre for Forest Re-
search D´ epartement des sciences du bois et de la forˆ et
Universit´ e Laval stevec@sbf.ulaval.ca
Eliot McIntire Canada Research Chair-Conservation
Biology Centre for Forest Research Universit´ e Laval
eliot.mcintire@sbf.ulaval.com
Nathalie Isabel Ressources naturelles Canada, Ser-
vice canadien des forˆ ets, Centre de foresterie des
Laurentides Chaire de recherche du Canada en
g´ enomique foresti` ere et environnementale, Universit´ e
Laval Nathalie.Isabel@RNCan- NRCan.gc.ca
“Lamothe, Manuel” <Manuel.Lamothe@RNCan-
NRCan.gc.ca >
UMontpellier
ExperimentalCoevolution
University of Montpellier
Institute of Evolutionary Sciences
PhD dissertation fellowship: Experimental coevolution
Applications are invited for a 3-year PhD fellow-
ship to study antagonistic coevolution between phage
pathogens and their bacteria hosts in spatially hetero-
geneous environments. The thesis is funded by the
French Agence Nationale de la Recherche, and will by
supervised by Dr. Michael Hochberg.
The project will address the dynamics of genetic and
phenotypic adaptation in Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens and
its lytic bacteriophages. Speciﬁcally, the student will
conduct experiments and develop mathematical mod-
els to understand how space and environment inﬂuence
trait evolution in both antagonists. In addition to ex-
perimental and mathematical (or programming) tech-
niques, the thesis will involve molecular assays and so-
phisticated statistical analysis.30 EvolDir June 1, 2009
We seek candidates holding the equivalent of a Masters
Degree or equivalent in evolutionary biology. Experi-
ence in experimenting with microbes is strongly pre-
ferred.
Additional information about our lab including
reprints, can be found at http://mike.hochberg.free.fr/-
,or by email by writing to Dr. Hochberg at
mhochber@univ-montp2.fr .
The thesis will be conducted in our laboratories at the
Universit´ e de Montpellier II, France. Interested candi-
dates should send a detailed CV, a letter of motivation,
and the names and contact details of three potential
referees to Dr. Hochberg on or before the 30th of June.
Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-montp2.fr >
UNeuchatel PlantEvolution
How do plants adapt to environmental change? - This is
the main question addressed by a SNF-funded project
on the genetics and ecology of drought adaptation in
Arabidopsis lyrata. A three-year graduate/PhD po-
sition is available to join this project, supervised by
Yvonne Willi at the Institute of Biology, University of
Neuch ˜Atel, Switzerland.
The causes and mechanisms of adaptation to environ-
mental change are relevant to many ﬁelds of biology,
and we will tackle them from multiple sides: An exper-
imental evolution study on drought resistance, a study
of phenotypic change in morphological and physiolog-
ical characters, and tracking allele frequency shifts at
candidate genes. We will also work on drought resis-
tance in natural populations across environmental gra-
dients.
The Institute of Biology at Neuch ˜Atel consists
of a dozen groups working in diverse ﬁelds of
ecology, evolution, physiology and molecular and
cell biology. For more information, contact
Yvonne Willi (yvonne.willi@agrl.ethz.ch) or see http:/-
/www2.unine.ch/biol/ Neuchatel is a University town
in the French-speaking part of Switzerland, situated be-
tween the Jura Mountains and a 40km long lake. The
town is well connected with larger centers such as Lau-
sanne, Geneva or Berne by public transportation.
Applicants must have a university degree in the nat-
ural sciences (ideally evolutionary biology, molecular
ecology and/or plant physiology) that allows entrance
to a PhD program, and very good organizational, ana-lytical and writing skills. Motivated applicants should
submit (1) a one-page letter that summarizes interests
and relevant experience, (2) a CV, (3) copies of un-
dergraduate and masters/diploma transcripts, and (4)
contact information for 3 references (all as PDFs) to:
yvonne.willi@agrl.ethz.ch
Yearly salary: CHF 38ˆ a000 - 44ˆ a000.
Closing date: Applications are welcome until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled. Earliest evaluation of applications is on
June 15, 2009.
Yvonne Willi <yvonne.willi@agrl.ethz.ch >
UPorto Portugal
EvolutionaryBiology
PhD Students Proposals
Selection of candidates for a PhD grant proposal to
submit to the Portuguese Foundation for Science and
Technology
We accept applicants for a PhD grant proposal to be
submitted to the Portuguese Foundation for the Science
and Technology under the following topics:
1. “A genome-wide sequencing study to characterize
genes responsible for the development and adaptation
in Vertebrates”. Major phenotypic changes in verte-
brates (from mammals to ﬁsh), occurred by the evolu-
tion of various gene products over the last half billion
years. Understanding the genetic basis of the diversiﬁ-
cation of development genes in vertebrates can provide
fundamental biological insight about species evolution,
ecological ﬁtness, and genetic diseases.
2. “A molecular genomic approach to unravel the evo-
lution of natural toxins”. Gene families, which encode
toxins, are found in many marine animals (from deadly
poisoning jellyﬁshes to sea snakes), yet there is lim-
ited understanding of their evolution at the nucleotide
level and the evolutionary signiﬁcance of their protein
mutations. Understanding the evolution of ecological
specialization is important for making inferences about
the origins of natural toxins biodiversity.
3. “Global phylogeny and biogeography of cyanobacte-
ria species”. It is much debated whether microorgan-
isms are easily dispersed globally or whether they, like
many macro-organisms, have historical biogeographies.
Recent ﬁndings using faster evolving genetic markers in
protozoa species revealed considerable genetic structureJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 31
and suggested that protest biodiversity may be signiﬁ-
cantly higher than previously thought.
4. “Genomic diversity of proto-eukaryotes symbiosis”.
Harvesting light to produce energy and oxygen (photo-
synthesis) is the signature of all land plants. This abil-
ity was co-opted from a precocious and ancient form
of life known as cyanobacteria. The most widespread
cyanobacterial symbiosis is that of plastids in eukary-
otes that happened more than 2 billion years ago. How-
ever, much more recent episodes of symbioses occurred
between cyanobacteria and eukaryotic hosts, both non-
photosynthetic (from marine sponges to ascidians) and
photosynthetic (from diatoms to the ﬂowering plants)
hosts. Characterizing the evolutionary mechanism un-
derlying such genetic cooperation is fundamental to un-
derstanding the origin of genomic symbiosis.
5. “Genomic research on the chimerical origin of Eu-
karyotic genomes”. Eukaryotic genomes are replete
with genes of eubacterial ancestry, namely from the
Cyanobacteria, the Proteobacteria, and the Thermo-
plasmatales. These signals correspond to distinct sym-
biotic partners involved in eukaryote evolution: plas-
tids, mitochondria, and the elusive host lineage. Eval-
uating the evolutionary relationships between such an-
cient relationships is important for making inferences
about the origins and diversiﬁcation of life.
The granted candidates will have a monthly salary
of 980 euros and will develop their work at CIMAR,
University of Porto, Portugal ( http://www.cimar.org/-
). The candidates should have a B.S. or Graduation
in Biology, Biochemistry or other related ﬁelds with a
competitive score (16 out of 20, or 15 plus a Master
degree) and should have a strong interest in developing
research in Molecular Evolution, Genomics and Popu-
lation Genetics.
The candidates should include:
- Detailed curriculum vitae; - Scanned copy of the Grad-
uation title (and Master title if applicable). Preference
will be given to European (EU) citizens but other ap-
plicants will also be considered.
The applications should be submitted till 21 May
2009 by email to Dr Agostinho Antunes (aan-
tunes@ncifcrf.gov)
Dr. Agostinho Antunes Geneticist Laboratory of Ge-
nomic Diversity - National Cancer Institute, Frederick,
Maryland 21702-1201, USA; Tel: 301-846-1299 Fax:
301-846-6327 e-mail: aantunes@ncifcrf.gov
In Portugal: CIMAR, University of Porto Rua dos Bra-
gas, 177; 4050-123 Porto, Portugal; Tel: (351) 22 3401
813 Fax: (351) 22 3390 608Agostinho Antunes <aantunes@ncifcrf.gov >
USouthernMississippi
ConservGenetics
A graduate student (M.S.) position in ﬁsheries con-
servation genetics is available in the Department of
Coastal Sciences at the University of Southern Missis-
sippi. The project will involve developing molecular
markers and studying population genetics of Gray Trig-
gerﬁsh in U.S. waters. Interest in ﬁsheries conservation
genetics is suitable and experience with molecular tech-
niques is an asset. The successful applicant will be pro-
vided a 12-month full-time Research Assistantship and
a tuition waiver. The position is available with an an-
ticipated start date in fall 2009 and is contingent upon
acceptance to the Department of Coastal Sciences grad-
uate program. The Department of Coastal Sciences is
located at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory ( http:/-
/www.usm.edu/gcrl ) in Ocean Springs, Mississippi, on
the Gulf of Mexico coast.
Interested individuals should send CV, unoﬃcial tran-
scripts, GRE test scores and letter of interest to: Eric
Saillant, Assistant Professor, The University of South-
ern Mississippi Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, 703
East Beach Drive, Ocean Springs, MS 39564, E-mail:
eric.saillant@usm.edu
AA/EO
Eric.Saillant@usm.edu Eric.Saillant@usm.edu
UVermont InvasivenessEvolution
PhD Assistantship available evolution of invasiveness
at the Department of Plant Biology, University of Ver-
mont. PhD position in population and evolutionary
ecology with particular focus on the evolution of inva-
siveness is available in the Department of Plant Biology,
University of Vermont. We seek one highly motivated
PhD student to work on the evolution of invasiveness in
one of several model experimental systems being used
in the lab. Students interested in projects that focus on
how the genetic changes inﬂuence invasive success are
encouraged to apply. The PhD student should have an
excellent background in evolution. Students with mas-32 EvolDir June 1, 2009
ter?s degrees are strongly preferred. Support in the
form of a teaching or research fellowship will be guar-
anteed throughout the degree. Applications will be ac-
cepted until June 15th . Interested applications should
send their CV, a summary of their transcript, their
GRE scores, the names of 3 letters of recommendations
and a brief statement of interest. Students who are be-
ing considered will need to ﬁll out an oﬃcial application
to the Department of Plant Biology, University of Ver-
mont. More information about the department and the
project can be found on the website www.uvm.edu/-
˜plantbio and www.uvm.edu/ ~plantbio/ ~jmolofsk.
Jane Molofsky, Professor Department of Plant Biol-
ogy University of Vermont Burlington, Vermont 05405
Email: Jane.Molofsky@uvm.edu Fax:802-656-0440
Jane Molofsky <jmolofsk@uvm.edu >
UWesternOntario
EvolutionaryPhysiology
MSc/PhD Studentship: Evolutionary Physiology/ Evo-
lutionary Ecology of Insect Cold Tolerance
The Sinclair lab at the University of Western Ontario
seeks a creative, motivated and evolutionary-minded
MSc or PhD student to start in 2010. Research will
fall within the general theme of insect cold tolerance,
preferably with a strong evolutionary slant. Projects
could be largely physiological or ecological (or a combi-
nation thereof), and may include insects from the wild
or a multi-species Drosophila system we have estab-
lished in the lab.
The Sinclair lab ( http://publish.uwo.ca/˜bsincla7/ ) is
medium-sized, vibrant and social, and we aim to per-
form excellent science while having fun. The lab is ex-
ceptionally well-resourced for insect low temperature
biology in an evolutionary/ecological context thanks
to recent CFI infrastructure grants, uses techniques
from molecular to macroecological, and has active col-
laborations with researchers in France, the UK, the
USA, South Africa and New Zealand, with potential
for lab or ﬁeld work in those countries. The Biology
Department at the University of Western Ontario is a
research-intensive department with over 150 students in
the graduate programme. The University’s picturesque
campus is located in London, Ontario (pop. 370,000),
close to both large cities and rural areas. UWO provides
competitive bursaries and Teaching Assistantships toboth Canadian and non-Canadian students.
This position will suit students with a background in
ecology, physiology, evolutionary biology or entomology
(and preferably an interest in all four!). Please email
Dr Brent Sinclair ( bsincla7@uwo.ca ) to initiate infor-
mal discussions.
Brent J. Sinclair, PhD
Assistant Professor of Invertebrate Biology Department
of Biology Room 2078, Biological & Geological Sciences
Building 1151 Richmond Street North The University
of Western Ontario London, ON N6A 5B7 Canada
Tel: + 1-519-661-2111 ext 83138 Fax: + 1-519-661-
3935 bsincla7@uwo.ca http://www.uwo.ca/biology/-
Faculty/sinclair/index.htm
Brent Sinclair <bsincla7@uwo.ca >
UWesternOntario Phylogenetics
Sociogenomics
Two graduate positions available at The University of
Western Ontario, Canada.
1) Graduate position in insect sociogenomics. I have
an opening for an MSc or PhD student with an interest
in insect genomics as it relates to the study of social
behaviour. The project will focus on the honey bee,
Apis meliﬀera, and employ newly available oligo arrays
and on- line bioinformatic resources to screen for genes
important to social living (reproduction, immunity, di-
vision of labour, etc).
The suitable candidate will have experience in nucleic
acid quantitation, and have interests in animal be-
haviour, molecular biology and evolution. For more
context and information about our general research
theme, please see our lab web site: http://tinyurl.com/-
ce87eo .
The University of Western Ontario has a large and
vibrant Department of Biology ( http://www.uwo.ca/-
biology/ ), and has strong links to the London Regional
Genomics Centre (LRGC) and SHARCNET computing
facilities, as well as the Bee Lab at the nearby Univer-
sity of Guelph.
Candidates must meet the entry requirements for Grad-
uate Studies at Western: http://www.uwo.ca/biology/-
graduate/graduate.htm . To inquire, submit (via email)
a cover letter with a brief summary of your research in-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 33
terests and a CV to: graham.thompson@uwo.ca - Gra-
ham Thompson Department of Biology, University of
Western Ontario, London Ontario. The anticipated
start date is September 2009 or January 2010. The
deadline for September admission is June 15, 2009.
2) Graduate position in molecular phylogenetics. I have
an opening for an MSc or PhD student with an inter-
est in computational biology and its application to the
evolution of insect social behaviour. The project will
focus on the analysis of large amounts of nucleotide
sequence data within a phylogenetic context. The ulti-
mate goal is to develop a statistically well-founded phy-
logeny of termites (Isoptera) and use this phylogeny to
develop and test alternative hypotheses regarding the
evolution of insect social behaviour (and other char-
acter sets). Prospective students should have an in-
terest in computational biology (bioinformatics, in sil-
ico analyses, evolutionary algorithms) or evolutionary
biology (molecular evolution, phylogenetics, sociobiol-
ogy, insect biodiversity). For more context and infor-
mation about our general research theme, please see
our lab web site: http://tinyurl.com/ce87eo The Uni-
versity of Western Ontario is located in London, On-
tario, Canada. It has a large and vibrant Department of
Biology ( http://www.uwo.ca/biology/ ) and hosts the
SHARCNET high-performance research computing fa-
cility ( http://www.sharcnet.ca/ ). Southern Ontario
also hosts a large invasive subterranean termite popu-
lation, suitable for experimental work.
Candidates must meet the entry requirements for Grad-
uate Studies at Western: http://www.uwo.ca/biology/-
graduate/graduate.htm . To inquire, submit (via email)
a cover letter with a brief summary of your research in-
terests and a CV to: graham.thompson@uwo.ca - Gra-
ham Thompson Department of Biology, University of
Western Ontario, London Ontario. The anticipated
start date is September 2009 or January 2010. The
deadline for September admission is June 15, 2009.
Graham Thompson Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Western Ontario 1151 Richmond
Street North London, Ontario N6A 5B7 CANADA
519 661 2111 (ext 86570) 519 615 6066 (cell)
graham.thompson@uwo.ca http://www.uwo.ca/-
biology/Faculty/thompson Graham Thompson
<graham.thompson@uwo.ca >
Zurich InvasionBiologyThe Swiss Federal Research Institute Agroscope
Reckenholz-T¨ anikon ART, located in Z¨ urich, is look-
ing for a highly motivated PhD student to join the
biosafety group. This group is responsible for all as-
pects in research and implementation of biosafety is-
sues related to organisms used in biological control,
to genetically modiﬁed plants and to invasive arthro-
pods. The incumbent will work on a project funded by
the Swiss Federal oﬃce for the Environment ( http://-
www.bafu.admin.ch/ ) in collaboration with the Univer-
sity of Fribourg ( http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/ ).
Rationale Invasive alien species are regarded as one of
the major threats to biodiversity. Invasion is a pro-
cess involving several steps. The routes followed by
invaders and processes enabling their survival and re-
production after arrival have received little attention.
Sound knowledge on the initial dispersal stage is par-
ticularly important as early detection and eradication
is considered the most cost-eﬀective approach to reduce
the negative impact of invasive species.
Ever-growing human travel, tourism and trade erased
barriers between previously isolated geographical re-
gions and facilitate the movement of animals and plants
across biogeographic regions. The worldwide airline
transportation network contributes to unwanted species
movement by providing frequent transportation, mostly
of small organisms such as insects, along numerous
routes. Climate, especially temperature has a strong
and direct inﬂuence on insect development, reproduc-
tion and survival. A fundamental requirement for the
establishment of any species outside its home range is
that the potential invaded range must have suitable cli-
matic conditions for the invader. Like invasive species,
climate change is thought to represent a major threat to
ecological equilibrium. Predicted climatic changes are
expected to increase / decrease the geographical range,
aﬀect phenology, and inﬂuence the growth rate and de-
velopment time of several species. Surprisingly, invasive
species and climate change have largely been studied
independently. The proposed project aims to identify
pests and pathways (cargo type and origin) that are
posing a high risk to European agriculture and ecosys-
tems under current and future climates. This knowl-
edge could be used to tailor inspection schemes and
monitoring plans at and around airports for early detec-
tion, and to develop action plans for eradication cam-
paigns for the most likely pest organisms. The project
will be conducted in close collaboration with a research
group at the University of Fribourg (Sven Bacher) as
well as diﬀerent international partners.
Requirements Applicants for the PhD position should
hold a masters degree in Biology or Agronomy. Knowl-
edge or expertise in applied entomology, statisti-34 EvolDir June 1, 2009
cal multivariate analyses, climate-matching tools (e.g.
CLIMEX), large database management and interest in
independent research and team work would be relevant.
Good oral and written communication skills in English
are expected.
Conditions Total duration of the project is 3 years.
The doctoral thesis will be done as a series of En-
glish manuscripts. The working place will be the Agro-
scope ART research station close to Zurich ( http://-
www.art.admin.ch ).
Start of the project To be discussed
Applications If you are interested, please send your CV,
certiﬁcates, and the names (with E-mail address) of
potential referees per E-mail to Dr. Alexandre Aebi,
Agroscope ART, Reckenholzstr. 191, 8046 Zurich,
Switzerland, E-mail: alexandre.aebi@art.admin.ch.
The deadline for application is June 30, 2009.
For further information, please contact Dr. Alexandre
Aebi via E-mail or phone (+41-44-3777669).
alexandre.aebi@art.admin.ch
Zurich MaleReproductiveTactics
PhD position
Evolution, Hormones, Metabolism and Behavior: In-
teractions and Causal Relationships
We are looking for a PhD candidate to study causal
inﬂuences of hormones on alternative male reproduc-
tive tactics in the African striped mouse (Rhabdomys
pumilio). The main aim of our research group is to
understand the evolved physiological mechanisms that
allow animals to behave adaptively in a changing envi-
ronment. In the proposed study we want to test for a
causal inﬂuence of hormones on social behavior while
taking into account interactions between the diﬀerent
hormones and resting metabolic rate. The study will be
based at the University of Zurich and experiments will
be conducted with a captive colony. The study will
use methods of hormone manipulations via implants,
hormone measurements, measurements of oxygen con-
sumption (RMR) and behavioral observations. A sum-
mary of the proposed PhD project can be found below.
We are seeking a highly-motivated, independent can-
didate with excellent organizational skills. The ideal
candidate has a background in animal behavior, behav-
ioral endocrinology, physiology or ecology and evolu-tion, some experience with animal handling, lab work,
and experience in experimental design and statistical
analysis of data. A degree equivalent to a diploma or
MSc in Biology is required. Good knowledge of written
and spoken English is essential. The working language
in our group is English. Some knowledge of German
would be beneﬁcial for living in Switzerland but is not
necessary.
The student will be supervised by Dr. Carsten Schradin
and be part of the research group studying striped
mice (see www.stripedmouse.com ). The student will
be based at the Department of Animal Behavior at
the Zoological Institute of the University of Zurich
(www.zool.uzh.ch ). Zurich is a highly attractive city
in beautiful surroundings, with a multinational popu-
lation, and many educational and recreational oppor-
tunities ( http://www.zuerich.com )
The position is funded for two years, and the salary fol-
lows the Swiss National Science Foundation scale (CHF
39 600 for the ﬁrst year, CHF 42 600 for the second
year). The student is expected to apply for funding
for a third year from other foundations, for example
from the Forschungskredit, a foundation based at the
University of Zurich ( http://www.researchers.uzh.ch/-
promotion/forschungskredit.html ). The student will
get full support from Dr. Carsten Schradin when ap-
plying for additional grants.
The earliest starting date is July 2009, but can be ne-
gotiated.
Deadline for application is the 20th of May, and inter-
views will take place at the end of May. If not enough
suitable applicants applied by this deadline, a second
call will be released and interviews will then take place
at the start of July.
Please send your application including a CV (as PDF),
PDFs of publications (published, in press or in prepa-
ration), PDF of your diploma or master thesis, a letter
outlining your past research and particular motivation
for this position (max. 2 pages), as well as contact
details of 2 referees to carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch.
PD Dr. Carsten Schradin Research Associate, Zoologi-
cal Institute, Department of Animal Behavior, Univer-
sity of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich,
Switzerland. Tel: +41 - (0)44 635 5486 Fax: +41 -
(0)44 635 5490 (Tel. secretary: +41 - (0)44 635 5271)
Honorary Researcher at the School of Animal, Plant
and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwa-
tersrand, South Africa.
Succulent Karoo Research Station, Goegap Nature Re-
serve, Private Bag X1, 8240 Springbok, South Africa.June 1, 2009 EvolDir 35
visit http://www.stripedmouse.com Summary
The newly established ﬁeld of endocrine ecology has in-
creased our knowledge about how physiological mech-
anisms enable animals to be successful and survive in
challenging environments. However, so far most stud-
ies are correlative, especially in mammals. If exper-
iments are conducted, interactions between hormones
are normally not taken into account, nor are the pos-
sible eﬀects of hormones on other important physio-
logical parameters such as metabolic rate. Since 2001
we have conducted ﬁeld studies on the African striped
mouse (Rhabdomys pumilio) in the Succulent Karoo
desert. The striped mouse is now one of the best stud-
ied mammal species in the ﬁeld of endocrine ecology,enabling the planning of experiments under controlled
laboratory conditions. It is a useful example to study
the inﬂuence of hormones on social behavior because
it shows extraordinary social ﬂexibility. Males have
three diﬀerent social tactics that diﬀer physiologically:
(i) philopatric group-living males have low testosterone
and prolactin levels, high corticosterone levels and high
resting metabolic rate (RMR), (ii)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Jobs
AfricanWildlifeFoundation GIS Modeler . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Barcelona CRG GroupLeader . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
BrownU OneSemesterTeaching EvolutionaryBiol . . 37
Denver OneYearResTech MolPopBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
KansasStateU ResTech QuantGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
LeesMcRaeCollege Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
LudwigMaximilianU StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ManchesterU FieldAssist EcuadorianAmazon . . . . . . 39
NatHistMus London BotanicalDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 40
OhioStateU AnimalEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Phoenix DesertPlantConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ResAssist DrosophilaMitochondrialEvolution . . . . . . 41SantaClaraU OneYearTeach EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . 42
UArizona ResTech DesertMiceEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UIowa ResTech MolecularPrimatology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UMichigan OneYear EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . 43
UniversidaddelosAndes Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UniversidaddelosAndes VisitingProf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UOulu PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UPerpignan ResAssist MolBiolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 44
UUmea WildPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
WesleyanU Visiting IntroEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
AfricanWildlifeFoundation GIS
Modeler
*GIS/STATISTICAL MODELER CONTRACTOR
SOUGHT *
*/Geographic Information System Analyst/*
*//Terms: Part time, independent contract position
working with EcoAdapt and the African Wildlife Foun-
dation**Salary: TBD. Tasks will be completed subject to dead-
lines of subcomponents of the project following a sched-
ule determined by the consultant and EcoAdapt/AWF.
Upon inquiry, and submission of a cv or resume, suit-
able candidates will receive a detailed scope of work.
We will request a bid along with a 1-2 page proposal
of methods that will be used to complete the scope of
work from qualiﬁed candidates. *
*Duration: Immediate to **31 July, 2010** *
*Location: Can work from your home base, with some
travel expected*
*GENERAL DESCRIPTION*36 EvolDir June 1, 2009
The GIS Analyst will play an important role within the
African Wildlife Foundation-EcoAdapt project “The
Implications of Global Climate Change for Mountain
Gorilla Conservation in the Albertine Rift.” The foun-
dation of this project is a multi-stakeholder assessment
of the implications of global climate change to moun-
tain gorilla conservation in the Albertine Rift, East
Africa. The GIS Analyst (Analyst) will work closely
with the project team to create and maintain a geo-
referenced database of numerous gorilla, forest, pro-
tected area, and regional environmental condition pa-
rameters, and perform customized statistical (spatial
and temporal) analyses including creating models of
relevant scenarios, and informative, easy-to-read data
presentation tools.
*SOME ESSENTIAL and DESIRED SKILLS AND
BACKGROUND:*
* Demonstrable command of appropriate GIS (ESRI
ArcGIS preferred) and relevant statistical software,
proven GIS data management skills, solid database
skills, and experience with relational database systems.
* Familiarity with general environmental, ecological,
geological, and biological processes. Experience work-
ing with environmental and GIS issues in the Alber-
tine Rift region is a plus. * Experienced and inven-
tive with mathematical and statistical spatial analy-
ses of complex data sets in GIS unique to the ﬁeld of
landscape ecology, and possess suﬃcient programming
skills to create the necessary customized mathematical
algorithms. * Masters or PhD degree in either biol-
ogy, ecology, environmental science, conservation biol-
ogy, forestry, or similar, with training in GIS and at
least 4 years’ experience applying these combined skills.
Please send cover letter and curriculum vitae or resume
to Tasha Belﬁore at careers@ecoadapt.org. Inquiries
will be considered as they are received, but not later
than June 22, 2009.
Natalia Belﬁore <nmb@berkeley.edu >
Barcelona CRG GroupLeader
Group Leader in Bioinformatics & Genomics Ref. GL-
BG-0509
The Bioinformatics and Genomics Programme of
the CRG, coordinated by Roderic Guig´ o, com-
prises 4 groups: Bioinformatics and Genomics
(Roderic Guig´ o), Comparative Bioinformatics (CedricNotredame), Comparative Genomics (Toni Gabald´ on)
and Evolutionary Genomics (Fyodor Kondrashov).
The programme has strong links with the IMIM-UPF
Research Group of Biomedical Informatics (GRIB,
http:www.imim.es/grib ). Within the framework of the
partnership with the EMBL, the Bioinformatics and
Genomics Programme has established a speciﬁc col-
laboration with the European Bioinformatics Institute
(EBI). The CRG is now looking for group leaders
from all areas of bioinformatics, such as algorithms,
molecular evolution, comparative genomics, transcrip-
tome analysis, epigenomics, etc, but priority will be
given to outstanding candidates with expertise in image
bioinformatics, medical bioinformatics, or algorithms
for next generation sequencing. Candidates combin-
ing computational and experimental approaches are en-
couraged to apply. Candidates should have an MD,
PhD, or equivalent degree.
Each group leader position comes with funds for one
postdoctoral position, one graduate student, and one
technician, an equipped laboratory for up to 7 people,
as well as funding for consumables and equipment. The
initial contract is for 5 years, renewable up to 9 years
upon review by an external scientiﬁc committee.
The Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG,
www.crg.cat ), located at the Parc de Recerca
Biom` edica de Barcelona (PRBB, www.prbb.org ), is
a leading Institute in Genomics Research. The CRG
includes 6 research programmes: Gene Regulation,
Diﬀerentiation and Cancer, Cell & Development
Biology, Systems Biology, Genes and Disease, and
Bioinformatics and Genomics, and has a partnership
with the EMBL through the Systems Biology Pro-
gramme. The PRBB regroups 3 other institutions: the
department of Life Sciences of the University Pompeu
Fabra (CEXS/UPF, www.upf.edu/cexs ), the Municipal
Institute of Medical Research (IMIM, www.imim.es ),
and the Centre for Regenerative Medicine (CMRB,
www.cmrbarcelona.org ), in a scientiﬁc international
environment, prone to collaborations. Scientists have
access to state-of-the-art core facilities including
genomics and next generation sequencing instruments,
proteomics, advanced optical microscopy, FACS and a
modern animal house.
Fyodor Kondrashov
fyodor.kondrashov@crg.esJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 37
BrownU OneSemesterTeaching
EvolutionaryBiol
Teaching Position: Evolutionary Biology at Brown Uni-
versity
Applications are being sought for a one-semester sab-
batical replacement position to teach the introductory
evolutionary biology course at Brown University in
Providence, RI ( www.brown.edu ). The course will be
oﬀered from September - December 2009 and involves
three 50-minute lectures per week, with additional dis-
cussion sections lead by graduate students. Enrollment
will be approximately 50-60 students. The instructor
will be responsible for the overall organization of the
course, giving the lectures, writing problem sets and
exams, and contributing to the correcting of problem
sets and exams.
A complete set of course notes, prepared lectures, and
old tests are available for the successful candidate, if
needed.
Please send a CV, a brief statement of teaching and
research interests, and the names and email addresses
of three (3) people who can serve as a reference, to
Trina Pappadia@brown.edu
David M. Rand Professor of Biology Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Box G-W, 80
Waterman Street Brown University Providence, RI
02912 Voice: (401) 863-2890 (Oﬃce - Walter Hall
202) (401) 863-1063 (Lab - BioMed Center 516-518)
Fax: (401) 863-2166 email: David Rand@brown.edu
web pages: http://www.brown.edu/Departments/-
EEB/rand/index.htm http://research.brown.edu/-
research/proﬁle.php?id=3D1100924991&r=3D1
david rand@brown.edu
Denver OneYearResTech
MolPopBiol
A full time research technician is needed to perform
molecular biological procedures for a study of Indiana
Bats at the Rocky Mountain Center for ConservationGenetics and Systematics in Denver, Colorado. This
position is a one year temporary position with the US
Geological survey that may be extended if funding is
available. The position requires experience in molecular
biological techniques including PCR, DNA sequencing
and electrophoresis, DNA extraction, and microsatel-
lite characterization. Candidates with experience in
primer design, genetic studies of populations, and use
of related software analytical tools wanted. The suc-
cessful candidate would be joining the Rocky Moun-
tain Center for Conservation Genetics and Systemat-
ics, which is staﬀed by both university and govern-
ment researchers. For more information and to ap-
ply go to www.usajobs.gov <http://www.usajobs.gov
>using announcement number CR-2009-0345. This
position closes on May 26, 2009.
tom.quinn@du.edu tom.quinn@du.edu
KansasStateU ResTech QuantGenet
Research Technician, Division of Biology, Kansas State
University
A position is available for a Research Technician in
our lab in Division of Biology at Kansas State Uni-
versity. We are seeking an enthusiastic person in-
terested in science to manage day-to-day lab activi-
ties and participate in our molecular quantitative ge-
netic research. Our lab studies the genetics and evo-
lution of environmental- stress-response phenotypes
in Drosophila (see http://www.ksu.edu/morganlab for
more info). Job responsibilities will include maintain-
ing Drosophila stocks, performing basic molecular biol-
ogy techniques, and participating in large scale pheno-
typic assays. Additional opportunities for independent
research projects may exist, depending on the experi-
ence and interest of the successful candidate. Minimum
required qualiﬁcations: B.S. degree in biology or a re-
lated ﬁeld and a minimum of 1-2 years experience in
genetics or molecular biology. This should include ex-
perience with DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, and DNA
sequencing. Preferred: M.S. degree in biology or re-
lated ﬁeld. The successful candidate should be moti-
vated, have good organizational skills, and be able to
work independently. Salary will be commensurate with
experience and will include beneﬁts.
Kansas State University has a very active commu-
nity within the life sciences, thus creating numer-
ous opportunities for stimulating academic interaction.38 EvolDir June 1, 2009
These include the large and diverse Division of Biol-
ogy ( www.ksu.edu/biology ), as well as the interdepart-
mental programs of the Ecological Genomics Institute
(ecogen.ksu.edu) and the Arthropod Genomics Center
(www.ksu.edu/agc ).
Kansas State University is located in the city of Man-
hattan ( www.ci.manhattan.ks.us ), a pleasant commu-
nity of about 50,000 located in the scenic Flint Hills
of north central Kansas, about 2 hours west of Kansas
City. For more information on life in Manhattan see
www.ksu.edu/morganlab . Review of applications will
begin on June 8, 2009, and continue until the position
is ﬁlled. For further information, please contact Ted
Morgan at (785)532-6126. To apply, send an electronic
copy of a cover letter, CV, and contact information for
three professional references to: Ted Morgan, Division
of Biology, Kansas State University, 116 Ackert Hall,
Manhattan, KS 66506; email: tjmorgan@ksu.edu. KSU
is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and actively seeks
diversity among its employees. Background check re-
quired.
Theodore Morgan Division of Biology Kansas State
University 116 Ackert Hall Manhattan, KS 66506 of-
ﬁce: 785.532.6126 lab: 785.532.6074 fax: 785.532.6653
Email: tjmorgan@ksu.edu www.ksu.edu/morganlab tj-
morgan@ksu.edu tjmorgan@ksu.edu
LeesMcRaeCollege Teaching
Job: Asst Prof Biology at Lees-McRae College
I would like to bring the following teaching position
to the attention of the Evoldir community. The posi-
tion is for a full-time junior faculty position to teach
Anat&Phys and PreHealth Biology related courses, as
well as core curriculum science courses. The college
focuses on teaching but is interested in faculty-guided
student research as well. Applications received after
May 26th will be considered. Please feel free to di-
rect questions regarding the position to Chrissy Spencer
(spencerc@lmc.edu).
Banner Elk, NC is situated in the Blue Ridge Moun-
tains of southern Appalachia, with area skiing, hiking,
and cycling, and nearby access to the Blue Ridge Park-
way and the Appalachian trail. The town is 30 minutes
from Boone, NC and Appalachian State University.
Job ad posted in the Chronicle: Position: Assistant
Professor or Instructor of Biology Institution: Lees-McRae College Location: North Carolina Date posted:
5/12/2009
Position: Lees-McRae College invites applications for a
full-time assistant professor or instructor of Biology, be-
ginning in August 2009. This is a one-year appointment
with the possibility of renewal. The College is seeking a
caring, energetic, and highly motivated individual with
traits such as a sense of humor, a commitment to a lib-
eral arts education, ﬂexibility, creativity, and a sense of
daring.
Qualiﬁcations: Potential candidates must possess a
doctorate in biology, though master’s or ABD can-
didates will be considered for an instructor’s posi-
tion. Teaching duties may include introductory biology
courses for majors and non-majors, anatomy & physi-
ology, biomechanics, elective courses to support a pre-
health program, and senior research. Other responsi-
bilities include advising of pre-health biology students,
scholarship, and service to the College and profession.
Preference is given to candidates with a commitment
to service learning, a desire to conduct faculty/student
research projects, and an interest in interdisciplinary
curriculum.
Submission: Review of applications will begin May
26, 2009. Interested individuals should electronically
submit a letter of application describing teaching ex-
perience and philosophy, vita, all college transcript
copies, and names of three references with contact in-
formation to the Biology Faculty Search Committee at
franklin@lmc.edu.
Lees-McRae College, a four-year, co-educational liberal
arts college aﬃliated with the Presbyterian Church,
USA, is located in the scenic Blue Ridge Mountains
of northwestern North Carolina. Being a year-round
tourist destination, the area provides the best of a vi-
brant college community coupled with natural beauty
and a rich history. Please see www.lmc.edu for more
information. Lees-McRae is an AA/EO employer com-
mitted to increasing the diversity of its faculty.
–
Chrissy Spencer PO Box 1962 Banner Elk, NC 28604
USA
email: chrissy.c.spencer@gmail.com cell: 828
789 9089 work: 828 898 8764 website:
web.me.com/chrissy.spencer
Chrissy Spencer <chrissy.c.spencer@gmail.com >June 1, 2009 EvolDir 39
LudwigMaximilianU
StatisticalGenetics
An Assistant Professor position (Akademischer
Rat/Akademische R¨ atin, A13, auf Zeit) is available
in the group of Statistical Genetics at the Ludwig-
Maximilians University in Munich, Germany.
The assistant will be involved in the research projects
in our group, such as the development of mathematical
models and statistical methods for population genetic
analyses. He or she will be responsible for teaching
undergraduate and graduate courses for a total of ﬁve
hours per week.
A prerequisite for this position is a doctoral degree
in Mathematics, Statistics, Biology or a related ﬁeld.
Applicants should demonstrate expertise in some of
the following areas: theoretical population genetics,
stochastic processes, modern methods of multivariate
statistics, evolutionary bioinformatics, quantitative ge-
netics, MCMC and other methods of computational
Bayesian statistics. Of advantage is experience teach-
ing in English and German, in the analysis of biological
data (preferably in R), in developing interdisciplinary
projects, in programming (preferably in C/C++), and
in grant applications.
The position is available starting in October 2009 ini-
tially for three years, with the possibility of extension
for an additional three years.
The University of Munich is interested in increasing the
number of female employees and encourages women to
apply. The university is an equal opportunity employer
and handicapped candidates with equal qualiﬁcations
will be given preference.
The application should include: a full CV, names and
contact information of three referees, and a statement
of research interests. If you submit your application
electronically, please include all documents in a single
pdf ﬁle.
Please submit your application by May 25, 2009 to:
Prof. Dr. Dirk Metzler Biozentrum der LMU Depart-
ment Biologie II Großhaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-
Martinsried
metzler@bio.lmu.de
http://www.zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/evol/-
StatGen.html rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.derose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
ManchesterU FieldAssist
EcuadorianAmazon
Field Assistant Position
We are looking for a ﬁeld assistant to accompany a PhD
student for a ﬁeld season (August - November 2009)
in the Ecuadorian Amazon. The research project is
an interdisciplinary study examining the link between
socioeconomic variables and environmental impacts in
indigenous Kichwa communities. Field-work for the
project will include a series of interviews and focus
groups in indigenous communities and households as
well as a series of biodiversity surveys using standard
techniques (Transects, Quadrats) and indicators (Am-
phibians, Ferns, Dung-Beetles).
This is a unique opportunity to live along-side indige-
nous communities in the Amazon basin, gain exten-
sive hands-on experience of biological and sociological
research tools and receive authorship on any relevant
publications. Successful applicants will also experience
some of the last remote and untouched rainforests in
one the world’s biodiversity hotspots.
Living conditions will be basic (often with no running
water or electricity) and the work is very physically de-
manding. Interested applicants should be prepared to
walk long distances (up to 15km per day) and work long
hours (sampling during the day and night). Conditions
are also psychologically challenging since one is often
out of regular communication for long periods of time
and with little privacy since living quarters will most
likely be shared
This post would suit budding researchers with an inter-
est in social anthropology and/or conservation biology.
Previous ﬁeldwork experience and good working knowl-
edge of Spanish are essential.
Please send enquiries to Johan Oldekop (johan.oldekop-
2@postgrad.manchester.ac.uk ) or Richard Preziosi
(preziosi@manchester.ac.uk)
JOHAN OLDEKOP
PREZIOSI LAB Faculty of Life Sciences The University
of Manchester Michael Smith Building Oxford Road
Manchester M13 9PT England
T: +44 7984 771405
E: johan.oldekop-2@postgrad.manchester.ac.uk40 EvolDir June 1, 2009
W: http://www.preziosilab.org Johan.Oldekop-
2@postgrad.manchester.ac.uk Johan.Oldekop-
2@postgrad.manchester.ac.uk
NatHistMus London
BotanicalDiversity
Research Scientists in Botanical Diversity
The Natural History Museum is one of the world’s lead-
ing museums, internationally recognised for its dual role
as a centre of excellence in scientiﬁc research and as a
leading exponent in the presentation of natural history
to the general public through exhibitions, public pro-
grammes and the web.
The Department of Botany houses over six million spec-
imen collections of immense value and international
importance and is a world-class centre of excellence
for collections-based studies, inspiring research that re-
ﬂects the remarkable variety of botanical life in the nat-
ural world. Researchers make a signiﬁcant contribution
to the scientiﬁc future of the department and museum.
You will have a proven research record and interests
in one or more of the preferred research areas below.
Consideration will be given to interests in other areas,
providing they address the Museum’s and Department’s
priority research foci.
* Global Plant Diversity Specialist * Plant Monogra-
pher
* Research Bryologist * Research Lichenologist
Closing date: Thursday 11 June 2009.
At the Natural History Museum we value the diversity
of our employees and the unique perspectives they bring
to our business.
Emilie
Human Resources Oﬃcer
Tel: 020 7942 5865
Emilie Tunstall <e.tunstall@nhm.ac.uk >
OhioStateU AnimalEvolutionaryBiolVisiting Assistant Professor Animal Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal
Biology The Ohio State University
We seek an individual to ﬁll a one-year, non-tenure
track position in animal evolutionary biology. The suc-
cessful candidate will teach or co-teach three courses:
Introductory Biology (Autumn Quarter), Organismal
Diversity (Winter Quarter), and Extinction (Spring
Quarter). Supervision of Graduate Teaching Associates
is required for each course. Laboratory space also is
available for research activities. A Ph.D. in animal
evolutionary biology or the equivalent is required. In-
structor of record experience teaching college-level biol-
ogy courses is desirable. Position start date is Septem-
ber 1, 2009 and salary is $60,000 per year. More in-
formation about the EEOB department can be found
at eeob.osu.edu <http://eeob.osu.edu/ >and about
the city of Columbus, Ohio at www.osu.edu/visitors/-
columbus.php .
To apply, submit electronically a cover letter, your cur-
rent CV with the names of three professional references,
and a statement of teaching and research interests to:
Ms. Faith Haleem, Haleem.2@osu.edu (phone contact:
614-292-8280). To build a diverse workforce Ohio State
encourages applications from individuals with disabil-
ities, minorities, veterans, and women. EEO/AA em-
ployer. To assure full consideration you must apply by
June 28, 2009.
Thanks very much,
PS Curtis
Peter S. Curtis Professor and Chair Dept. of Evolution,
Ecology, and Organismal Biology The Ohio State Uni-
versity 318 W. 12th Ave. Columbus, OH 43210-1293
614-292-8280 curtis.7@osu.edu http://www.biosci.ohio-
state.edu/˜pcurtis/
“Curtis, Peter” <Curtis.7@osu.edu >
Phoenix DesertPlantConservation
Program Director Conservation of Threatened Species
and Habitats Desert Botanical Garden, Phoenix, Ari-
zona
One of the world’s major botanical gardens specializ-
ing in desert plants seeks an individual to direct an ex-
panded and enhanced conservation program. The suc-
cessful applicant will have (1) training in botany andJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 41
the ecology of rare species, (2) knowledge of conserva-
tion policy issues and governmental regulatory frame-
works and (3) experience in implementing conservation
measures. The Program Director will be a member
of the Research Department and report to the Direc-
tor of Research. Responsibilities include program de-
velopment and management, collaboration with other
conservation organizations and governmental agencies,
and seeking extramural funding for program initiatives.
Ph.D. and strong supervisory skills are required. Send
C.V., a 1-page description of your philosophical ap-
proach to conservation issues, and names and contact
information of three references to Ms. Mary Catellier,
Director of Human Resources, Desert Botanical Gar-
den, 1201 N. Galvin Pkwy., Phoenix, AZ 85008
Review of applications will begin June 15, 2009 and ap-
plications will be accepted until position is ﬁlled. An
Equal Opportunity Employer.
sfehlberg@dbg.org
ResAssist
DrosophilaMitochondrialEvolution
Research Assistant Position: Drosophila mitochondrial
genetics at Brown University
A research assistant position is available to work on
nuclear- mitochondrial ﬁtness interactions in the labo-
ratory of David Rand and Brown University. The gen-
eral theme of this NIH funded project is to study the
epistatic interactions among nuclear and mitochondrial
genotypes that modulate ﬁtness, physiological and bio-
chemical traits in Drosophila. Mitochondrial genotypes
from diﬀerent strains and species of the melanogaster
subgroup are placed on various nuclear chromosomal
genetic backgrounds to dissect the genetic basis of life
history traits. The project involves molecular and
quantitative genetic assays of Drosophila strains, ge-
netic mapping experiments, microarray and biochem-
ical assays of speciﬁc genotypes, and inferences from
molecular population genetics and evolution.
Applicants must have completed a B. A in Biology
before starting the position, and have some combina-
tion of experience with molecular genetic techniques,
Drosophila genetics, quantitative genetics, biochemi-
cal assays, molecular evolution, computational analy-
sis, and an interest in evolution or genetics. Salary will
depend on previous experience.Applications can be ﬁled through the Human Resources
link on the Brown web page: www.brown.edu Search
for job posting M02141
The start date is spring or summer 2009. Applications
will be reviewed until the position is ﬁlled. To apply
please send 1) a CV, 2) a short statement of research
interests and experience, including a paragraph on how
your previous experience makes you well qualiﬁed for
this position, and 3) contact information for three ref-
erences to:
David Rand email: David Rand@brown.edu
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Box G-W, 80 Waterman Street Brown Uni-
versity Providence, RI 02912 Voice: (401) 863-
2890 (Oﬃce) (401) 863-1063 (Lab) Fax: (401)
863-2166 web pages: http://research.brown.edu/-
research/proﬁle.php?id=1100924991&r=1 http://-
www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/rand/index.htm
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at Brown is an interactive group with strengths that
span genomics, evolutionary biology, functional mor-
phology, ecology, and environmental science. There are
close ties to the Department of Molecular and Cellular
Biology, and the Center for Computational Molecular
Biology, as well as the Marine Biological Laboratory
in Woods Hole
http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/-
index.html http://www.brown.edu/Departments/-
Molecular Biology/ http://www.brown.edu/-
Research/CCMB/ http://www.mbl.edu http://-
jbpc.mbl.edu/ http://ecosystems.mbl.edu/ Infor-
mation on postdoctoral studies at Brown can be
found here: http://biomed.brown.edu/grad-postdoc/
Providence is widely recognized (by Rhode Islanders)
as the Venice of New England and is wonderful place
to live.
http://www.providenceri.com/ David M. Rand
Professor of Biology Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Box G-W, 80 Waterman Street
Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Voice: (401)
863-2890 (Oﬃce - Walter Hall 202) (401) 863-1063
(Lab - BioMed Center 516-518) Fax: (401) 863-2166
email: David Rand@brown.edu web pages: http://-
www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/rand/index.htm
http://research.brown.edu/research/proﬁle.php?id=-
1100924991&r=1 David Rand@brown.edu42 EvolDir June 1, 2009
SantaClaraU OneYearTeach
EvolutionaryBiol
Position Title: Lecturer V Ecology and Evolution De-
partment:Biology Status: Annual Year Lecturer (AYL)
Overview The Department of Biology at Santa Clara
University, A Catholic, Jesuit comprehensive university
located in the Silicon Valley, is seeking applicants for a
one-year Lecturer position for the 2009-2010 academic
year to teach undergraduate courses in Ecology, Evo-
lution, Conservation Biology, and Biostatistics. The
Biology Department is focused on undergraduate edu-
cation. The selected candidate will be required to teach
the equivalent of seven quarter-long courses per year.
Qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. in Biology or related ﬁeld, and
demonstrated excellence teaching relevant courses at
the college level.
Rank and salary: Academic year lecturer, $48,300 to
$51,100, depending on experience
Starting date: Sept. 1, 2009
Deadline: May 27, 2009
Responsibilities: Duties include but are not limited to
teaching 1) a laboratory course in ecology/evolution as
part of our introductory series for majors; 2) an upper
division course in conservation biology, and 3) an upper
division course in Biostatistics.
Application Procedure: Applications should include
the following 1. Letter of interest outlining qualiﬁca-
tions, teaching experience (including a statement de-
scribing experience working with people of diverse cul-
tures and identities), and teaching philosophy. 2. Cur-
riculum vitae 3. Names and contact information for
three references
Applications may be submitted electronically to Bi-
ology@SCU.edu, ( mailto:Biology@SCU.edu, ) or by
regular mail to Biology Department, Santa Clara Uni-
versity, 500 El Camino Real, Santa Clara, CA 95053.
Please state Lecturer in Biostatistics, Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology in the subject line.
Janice Edgerly-Rooks, PhD Chair, Biology, Santa Clara
University Santa Clara, CA 95053 tel. (408) 554-4149
Janice Edgerly-Rooks <jedgerlyrooks@scu.edu >UArizona ResTech
DesertMiceEvolution
Research Technician / Research Specialist, University
of Arizona
A research position is available in the laboratory of
Dr. Michael Nachman in the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology at The University of Ari-
zona. The successful candidate will be the primary lab
manager in a laboratory of population and evolution-
ary genetics. The responsibilities include conducting
evolutionary studies using molecular techniques, breed-
ing experiments with mice, occasional ﬁeld work in the
Sonoran Desert, analysis of data, ordering lab supplies,
assistance in preparing manuscripts for publication, su-
pervision and training of undergraduates in the lab,
and travel to national meetings to present research re-
sults. Details of the research can be found at http://-
eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/nachman/ . Qualiﬁcations:
bachelor’s degree in biology or a related ﬁeld and some
laboratory research experience as well as some compu-
tational experience. Knowledge of evolutionary genet-
ics, genomics, bioinformatics, and molecular biological
techniques preferred. To apply, please send a letter
describing your interests and qualiﬁcations, a CV, and
contact information for three references to: Dr. Michael
Nachman (nachman@u.arizona.edu). The University of
Arizona is an Aﬃrmative Action / Equal Opportunity
Employer.
Ming Beckwith Program Coordinator IGERT Program
in Genomics Biosciences West, Room 328 University of
Arizona Tucson, AZ 85721
Phone: 520.626.0988 Fax: 520.621.9190 ge-
nomics@email.arizona.edu
UIowa ResTech
MolecularPrimatology
The Ting Laboratory for Molecular Anthropology at
the University of Iowa seeks a full time research labo-
ratory technician to aid in various projects that inves-
tigate the impact of human hunting and habitat frag-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 43
mentation on African primate communities. The tech-
nician will be responsible for collection and organization
of molecular data as well as general laboratory admin-
istration. This one-year position will begin in August
2009 and is extendable dependant on funding. It would
serve as an excellent opportunity for a recent gradu-
ate who is seeking further experience prior to graduate
school. Please visit http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/-
ting/ for more information about the Ting Lab.
The successful candidate will have a BA/BS in Biology,
Anthropology, or related ﬁeld and at least 1-2 years
of laboratory experience in genetics. In particular, the
candidate must be organized, detail oriented, and expe-
rienced in one or more of the following methods: DNA
isolation, PCR, microsatellite genotyping, and sequenc-
ing. Motivated candidates may have the opportunity to
conduct ﬁeldwork and have greater involvement in data
analysis, write up, and publication. Salary will range
from 25-30K depending on experience.
Interested applicants should send a letter of interest,
CV, and names and contact information of three ref-
erences to Dr. Nelson Ting ( nelson-ting@uiowa.edu).
The subject of the email must read ResLabTech for con-
sideration. Applications will be reviewed as they are
received and the position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Nelson Ting, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department of
Anthropology Macbride Hall 114 University of Iowa
Iowa City, IA 52242-1322 Oﬃce: (319) 335-2891 Fax:
(319) 335-0653 http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/ting/
nelson ting <nelson-ting@uiowa.edu >
UMichigan OneYear
EvolutionaryBiology
Lecturer, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Michigan
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
invites applications for a Lecturer III position to begin
September 1, 2009. This is a full-time, one year position
with the possibility of reappointment. Responsibilities
include serving as course coordinator for Biology 171
(Introductory Biology: Ecology and Evolution). At-
tend all class lectures, teach honors discussion sections,
evaluate and design section exercises, conduct and co-
ordinate workshops that provide training for ﬁrst-time
Graduate Student Instructors (GSIs) in Biology, run
course prep sessions, and ﬁll in for GSI absences in dis-cussion sections. Duties also include scheduling makeup
exams, coordinating grading, and responding to stu-
dent emails regarding the course. Other teaching duties
are included as appropriate to the expertise of the suc-
cessful candidate. Courses of potential interest include
core courses in vertebrate anatomy, animal physiology,
animal diversity, ecology, and evolution, and courses in
any relevant area for non-majors.
Terms and conditions of employment for this position
are subject to the provisions of a collective bargaining
agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Lecturers’ Employment Organization.
To apply, please send an application letter explaining
your qualiﬁcations and teaching philosophy, a current
CV, evidence of teaching excellence, and the names of
two references to:
Barry OConnor Associate Chair for Curriculum De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology 2019
Kraus Natural Science Building 830 N. University Ann
Arbor, MI 48109-1048
Or by email to: bsonja@umich.edu
Requirements include a PhD in Biology, Ecology, Evo-
lutionary or Organismal Biology, Botany, Zoology, or
related ﬁeld. Prior teaching experience at a university
level is required, with experience teaching or coordi-
nating a large-enrollment undergraduate course highly
preferred.
“Oconnor, Barry” <bmoc@umich.edu >
UniversidaddelosAndes
Bioinformatics
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sidad de los Andes (Bogot´ a, Colombia) seeks to ﬁll a
position for a full time assistant or associate professor
with formal training and research experience in com-
putational biology or bioinformatics. Applicants must
have a Ph.D. degree, preferably with postdoctoral re-
search and teaching experience. Researchers with expe-
rience in the analysis of molecular data in the context of
evolutionary or genomic studies are especially welcome.
The successful candidate is expected to teach an intro-
ductory course in biology and the Genomics and Bioin-
formatics course, to supervise undergraduate and grad-
uate students, and to promote and conduct research
projects in the proposed ﬁeld.44 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Send curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a
research program, and two letters of recommendation
by July 31th, 2009
Faculty Search Committee Departamento de Cien-
cias Biol´ ogicas Universidad de Los Andes Carrera 1
No. 18A-10 P.O. Box 4976 Bogot´ a, Colombia ccont-
bio@uniandes.edu.co
– Carlos Daniel Cadena Profesor Asociado Departa-
mento de Ciencias Biol´ ogicas Universidad de los An-
des Apartado A´ ereo 4976 Bogot´ a, Colombia Tel: (57-1)
3394949 Ext. 2072
http://evolvert.uniandes.edu.co http://-
evodiversidad.blogspot.com/ Co-Editor Ornitolog´ ıa
Colombiana www.ornitologiacolombiana.org/-
revista.htm Carlos Daniel Cadena Ordonez
<ccadena@uniandes.edu.co >
UniversidaddelosAndes VisitingProf
UNIVERSIDAD DE LOS ANDES
The Department of Biological Sciences (DCB) at Uni-
versidad de los Andes (Bogot´ a, Colombia) seeks a vis-
iting professor in the area of Ecology (for undergrad-
uate non-biology majors) for the 2009 fall semester.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. degree and be ﬂuent
in Spanish. Researchers with a potential interest in
joining one of the labs at the DCB as postdoctoral fel-
lows are especially encouraged to apply (see http://-
cienciasbiologicas.uniandes.edu.co/centros.htm ). This
message is sent to evolutionary biologists because the
course involves teaching basic principles of evolutionary
theory in an ecological context, and because research in-
terests in labs at the DCB cross bridges between ecology
and evolutionary biology.
Send curriculum vitae and two letters of recommenda-
tion by June 30, 2009 to:
Faculty Search Committee Departamento de Ciencias
Biol´ ogicas Universidad de Los Andes Carrera 1 No.
18A-10 Apartado A´ ereo 4976 Bogot´ a, Colombia ccont-
bio@uniandes.edu.co
– Carlos Daniel Cadena Profesor Asociado Departa-
mento de Ciencias Biol´ ogicas Universidad de los An-
des Apartado A´ ereo 4976 Bogot´ a, Colombia Tel: (57-1)
3394949 Ext. 2072
http://evolvert.uniandes.edu.co http://-
evodiversidad.blogspot.com/ Co-Editor Ornitolog´ ıaColombiana www.ornitologiacolombiana.org/-
revista.htm Carlos Daniel Cadena Ordonez
<ccadena@uniandes.edu.co >
UOulu PopGenetics
A professorship in evolutionary/or population genet-
ics/genomics will be open at the University of Oulu,
Finland. The biology department at the University
of Oulu has en emphasis on evolution/ecology, with
many active groups in this area, see http://cc.oulu.ﬁ/-
˜biolwww/english/genetics research.html . The Finnish
National Graduate School for Population Genetics is
coordinated by the Univ. of Oulu. Teaching can be in
English or Finnish. Population genetics and bioinfor-
matics related work at the University also takes place
within Biocenter Oulu ( http://www.biocenter.oulu.ﬁ/-
).
For further information about the position, please
seehttp://www.lutk.oulu.ﬁ/english/index english.htm
and/or get it touch with Outi.Savolainen@oulu.ﬁ or
Pertti.Tikkanen@oulu.ﬁ.
Outi Savolainen Department of Biology PO Box 3000
FIN-90014 University of Oulu Finland
Outi Savolainen <Outi.Savolainen@oulu.ﬁ >
UPerpignan ResAssist
MolBiolEvolution
Job: Research Assistant in Molecular Biology and Evo-
lution Institution: University of Perpignan, France Lo-
cation: University of Perpignan - UMR5244 CNRS-
EPHE-UPVD, Perpignan, France Start date: 1st of
July 2009
A Research Assistant position is available start-
ing the 1st of July 2009 in a molecular evolu-
tion laboratory supervised by Dr. Serge Planes
in the Centre de Biologie et Ecologie Tropi-
cale et M´ editerran´ eenne at the University of Per-
pignan, France ( <http://cbetm.univ-perp.fr/ephe/-
personnel/planes.htm >http://cbetm.univ-perp.fr/-
ephe/personnel/planes.htm ). The successful candi-
date for this position will assist with ongoing researchJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 45
projects, with primary responsibilities to include ex-
traction of DNA, PCRs, sequencing, and genotyping
microsatellites (including the set up of protocols), and
some laboratory management duties including occa-
sional training and supervision of laboratory personnel.
Requires a bachelor of science degree in the biological
sciences (biology, biochemistry, molecular biology or re-
lated area) and a master of science degree (or equiva-
lent experience) in biological sciences (or related ﬁelds).
Must have laboratory skills in working with DNA and
microsatellites (including screening). Salary is 1350 eu-
ros net per month (including social security beneﬁts).
Screening of applicants to begin immediately and con-
tinue until position is ﬁlled. To apply, email a cover
letter brieﬂy describing your experience, interest in the
job, and career goals, along with your resume, and
contact information for three references to Dr. Serge
Planes at planes@univ-perp.fr (place “Research Assis-
tant position” in subject line). This is a non-tenure
track, ﬁxed-term appointment funded for six months
from date of hire with a possibility of re-funding for
another 12 months.
– Ce message a ´ et´ e v´ eriﬁ´ e par MailScanner pour des
virus ou des polluriels et rien de suspect n’a ´ et´ e trouv´ e.
CRI UPVD http://www.univ-perp.fr Cecile Fauvelot
<cecile.fauvelot@univ-perp.fr >
UUmea WildPopulations
Assistant Professor in Terrestrial Animal Ecology
The Department of Wildlife, Fish and Environmen-
tal Studies at SLU, Umea in Sweden, invites appli-
cations for a 4-year full-time Assistant Professorship.
Job description: Our department studies the ecology
of populations, typically combining fundamental and
applied aspects in our ambition to improve our under-
standing and capacity to manage wild populations and
the ecosystems they inhabit. We are now looking to
strengthen our competence in terrestrial systems, par-
ticularly in the ﬁeld of animal ecology. The success-
ful candidate will be expected to develop and maintain
an active, independent research program in this area.
Qualiﬁcations: We are looking for a highly motivated
candidate with a PhD in biology, interested in terres-
trial small animal ecology, and with an ambition to ad-
dress both applied and fundamental research questions.
A record of innovative and productive research combin-
ing multiple analytical approaches and data types (e.g.behavioral, physiological, and epidemiological) will be
a strong merit. Proﬁciency in theoretical/modeling and
quantitative approaches to ecology will also be evalu-
ated favorably. Eligibility: Applicants should have a
PhD or the equivalent. Priority will be given to ap-
plicants who have been awarded their PhD within ﬁve
years of the application deadline. Salary is negotiated
on an individual basis.
For further information please see http://-
personal.slu.se//LEDANS/2009-1212eng.pdf
Goran.Spong@vfm.slu.se Goran.Spong@vfm.slu.se
WesleyanU Visiting IntroEvolBiol
Dear Brian, thank you very much for the info. We
would be delighted to hire an evolutionary biologist,
since we think the kind of interdisciplinary breadth we
seek is more likely in someone trained in evolutionary
bio than a more reductionist discipine. So I do think
Evoldir is a good place to post the listing.
Here it is, in plain text– the heading can be something
like “Visiting position at Wesleyan” if thats not too
long.
thank you again
Sonia
Visiting Assistant Professor Biology/Molecular Biology
& Biochemistry Departments Wesleyan University
A Visiting Assistant Professor is sought for the 2009-
2010 academic year. The initial appointment will be for
two years with the possibility of renewal for a further
two years. The Visitor will teach and coordinate teach-
ing assistants for the undergraduate laboratory compo-
nent of Introductory Evolutionary Biology in the fall
and spring semesters, and will also teach a section of
the Introductory Evolutionary Biology lecture course
in the fall (32 students), and an elective course in the
area of his/her expertise in the spring. Applicants must
possess a Ph.D. degree and be broadly trained in the bi-
ological sciences; prior teaching experience is preferred,
and commitment to teaching excellence is essential. In-
terested applicants should submit a curriculum vitae
and a teaching statement, and have three letters of ref-
erence sent via e-mail to our administrative assistant,
Ms. Deborah Alexson (dalexson@wesleyan.edu), or by
mail to Search Committee, Department of Molecular
Biology and Biochemistry, Wesleyan University, Mid-46 EvolDir June 1, 2009
dletown, CT 06459-0175. Applications must be re-
ceived by June 15. See www.wesleyan.edu/mbb/ for
more information about this position.
Wesleyan University is proud of its record of commit-
ment to diversity, and encourages applications from
women and persons of color. Wesleyan University is
an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer– Sonia E. Sultan Professor of Biology Department of
Biology Wesleyan University Middletown, CT 06459-
0170 USA
Phone: 860.685.3493
Fax: 860.685.3279
http://www.wesleyan.edu/bio/sultan/sultan.html So-
nia Sultan <sesultan@wesleyan.edu >
Other
AFLP problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
AGARst software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Automated ﬂow cytometer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Beauveria primers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Brehmmer supports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Bremmer support PAUP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Brits Appointments to BBSRC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Celegans strain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
CitizenScienceChallenge Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Class data sets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Computer time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Conserved proteins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Copy of paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Couterselect Bac Modiﬁcation Kit Genebridges . . . . 50
Daphnia DNA extractions answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
DNA from parasitic wasp larvae . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Drosophila diﬀerence database . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
FarmingHumanPathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Finding Pedigree Software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Fst question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Juniperus seed DNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Lepidopteran housekeeping primers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Lepidopteran housekeeping primers answers . . . . . . . 53
Mac program degenerate sites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54Mark-recapturesoftware answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Mark recapture study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Mascarene island paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Microarray course help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Minimum spaning network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
MrBayes consensus answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
MrBayes consensus trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
MrBayes question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Phil Theory Biology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Phylogenetic Handbook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Program for haplotypes answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Secondary structure phylogeny . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Short movies about evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Short movies about evolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Skull morphology data sets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Software FastTree1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Software GenGIS 1 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
TeX LaTeX templates for MBE available . . . . . . . . . . 61
Tree construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Unifying Biology paper 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Wanted MultiblockSystem software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Web resource EvolverZone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
AFLP problems
Dear EvolDir Members,I am contacting you regarding some peculiar AFLP re-
sults (bright white smears) a few of us have been expe-
riencing in the last few months.
Background: We use the AFLP protocol adapted from
Ajmone-Marsan (1997) which involves a Taq and EcoRI
enzyme digestion. We have used this protocol for some
years now and it has always worked ﬁne.June 1, 2009 EvolDir 47
Problem: 3 months ago unusual bright white smears
were seen in pre-ampliﬁcation checking gels, sometimes
starting from the wells and other times slightly ex-
tended smears, but always exceptionally bright (the
pre-amp was carried out using a ligation mix that had
previously given good proﬁles). This was repeated nu-
merous times but always gave the bright smears, some-
times in the negative as well and sometimes not. Soon
after all PCR reagents were changed and the bright
smears disappeared from the pre-amps. I thought it
was as simple as that, but when I carried out the se-
lective PCR and sent to fragment analyse there were
no peaks (sometimes just one or two at around 50-80bp
but nothing like the proﬁles I am used to getting with
>100 peaks). We ran these selective products on a gel
and saw the same bright white smears in everything
(sometimes in the negative as well and sometimes not,
sometimes there are also faint bands in the gel, but
often not).
Since this we have tried new reagents (multiple times),
other peoples reagents, new primers, new enzymes, dif-
ferent PCR machines, diﬀerent samples, new low TE
buﬀer for the dilutions and all of this has been tried
twice independently by myself and a colleague. We are
running out of ideas. The most frustrating thing is that
we have no idea what the bright white smears could be
(contamination or the result of two or more reagents
reacting adversely?). Also, we occasionally get a good
selective PCR proﬁle but often using the same reagents
that haven’t worked previously?
Apologies for the lengthy e-mail but we are now clutch-
ing at straws, so to speak. I would be very grateful if
you have any suggestions as to what may be happening
to cause these smears or what we could try next...
Much obliged, Jo Bluemel and colleagues
BluemelJK1@cardiﬀ.ac.uk
Joanna Bluemel PhD student Cardiﬀ School of Bio-
sciences, Biomedical Sciences Building, Cardiﬀ Univer-
sity, Cardiﬀ, CF10 3AX, UK
02920 875073
sbijkb@groupwise.cf.ac.uk sbijkb@groupwise.cf.ac.uk
AGARst software
Dear evoldir members,
I have been searching on the web for the software
AGARst (Harley 2002) with no success:Harley EH (2002) AGARst. A program for cal-
culating allele frequencies, GST and RST from mi-
crosatellite data plus a number of other population
genetic estimates and outputting ﬁles formatted for
various other population genetic programs. Avail-
able at http://web.uct.ac.za/Departments/chempath/-
genetic.htm . The above link doesn’t work anymore.
I have also tried an alternate link I found in a recent
paper, but again, it is not working:
http://www.web.uct.ac.za/depts/chempath/-
genetic.htm I’ll be very grateful if somebody can
either send me (1) a copy of the program, (2) the
correct link, or (3) Prof. Eric H Harley’s current email
address so I can contact him directly.
Thank you in advance, Daniel
Dr Daniel Gomez-Uchida Visiting Postdoctoral Fellow
for Parks Canada Department of Biology, Life Sci-
ences Centre Dalhousie University 1355 Oxford Street
Halifax, Nova Scotia Canada B3H 4J1 Phone: (902)
494 1688 Fax : (902) 494 3736 Email : daniel.gomez-
uchida@dal.ca
daniel.gomez-uchida@dal.ca daniel.gomez-
uchida@dal.ca
Automated ﬂow cytometer
Dear all,
My name is Andreas v. Bohl and at the moment I’m
doing my bachelor thesis in the Work group of Gisep
Rauch in the institute for evolution and biodiversity in
the University of M¨ unster in Germany. My research
project, for my bachelor thesis, is to establish a paral-
lel and automated method for counting *Paramecium
tetraurelia* and its bacterial parasites with a ﬂow cy-
tometer (BD Facscanto II). The problem is that the
cells (100 µm long and 30 µm broad) are too big for the
ﬂow cytometer and that they block the capillary.
Does anybody have experience working with *Parame-
cium* using a ﬂow cytometer? Has anybody an idea
how to solve the problem of blocking the ﬂow cytome-
ter capillary? Has anybody already established an au-
tomated counting routine for *Paramecium* using an
alternative technique?
I would be very thankful for any advice. Andreas
andreas.v.bohl@googlemail.com
Andreas v. Bohl48 EvolDir June 1, 2009
*Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity* Westf¨ alische
Wilhelms-Universit¨ at H¨ uﬀerstrasse 1, D48149 M¨ unster,
Germany
andreas.v.bohl@googlemail.com
Beauveria primers
Dear Evoldir members,
I would like to know about any speciﬁc primer that only
ampliﬁes Beauveria. The idea is to seggregate Beauve-
ria from other isolates from my collection without being
sequenced. Please reply me.
Johny – Johny Shajahan 4120, Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences Illinois State University Normal, IL-61790-
4120, USA Ph:(309) 438-7799
“Shajahan, Johny” <jshajah@ilstu.edu >
Brehmmer supports
Dear community,
I’d like to aknowledge all the people who have sent
me “how to” in order to obtain decay indexes. Thank
you so much and feel free to contact me for anything.
Cheers,
– Prof. Dr. Rodrigo A Torres Laborat´ orio de Genˆ omica
Evolutiva e Ambiental Departamento de Zoologia Cen-
tro de Ciˆ encias Biol´ ogicas Universidade Federal de Per-
nambuco Av. Prof. Moraes Rego s/n Cidade Uni-
versit´ aria Recife, PE 50670-420 +55(81) 2126-8353
+55(81) 9692-9547
“Rodrigo A. Torres” <rodrigotorres@ufpe.br >
Bremmer support PAUP
Dear community,
Does anyone know a “how to protocoll” to generate
Bremmer supports at PAUP* ?Thanks a lot and best regards.
Prof. Dr. Rodrigo A Torres Laborat´ orio de Genˆ omica
Evolutiva e Ambiental Departamento de Zoologia Cen-
tro de Ciˆ encias Biol´ ogicas Universidade Federal de Per-
nambuco Av. Prof. Moraes Rego s/n Cidade Uni-
versit´ aria Recife, PE 50670-420 +55(81) 2126-8353
+55(81) 9692-9547
“Rodrigo A. Torres” <rodrigotorres@ufpe.br >
Brits Appointments to BBSRC
Dear all,
It would be very beneﬁcial for the community to get
some interested evolutionary biologists to apply for
these positions on the BBSRC panels and committees.
It is hard work but very rewarding in many ways.
Sincerely
Max Telford (apologies for cross posting)
Appointments to BBSRC Strategy Panels, Research
Committees and Pool of Experts
The Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research
Council (BBSRC) funds basic and strategic biologi-
cal research, supports postgraduate training, promotes
knowledge transfer and public engagement with science.
We are looking to appoint high calibre, committed in-
dividuals from academic and industrial sectors to ﬁll a
number of vacancies on our Strategy Panels and Com-
mittees.
The Panels play leading roles in the development and
implementation of the Council’s policies and priorities.
The Committees play key roles in delivering BBSRC’s
Mission by carrying out peer review of research grant
proposals, the awarding of studentships and fellowships
and assessing ﬁnal reports on funded proposals.
This year applications are also encouraged from indi-
viduals who wish to join the BBSRC Pool of Experts
to assist BBSRC with its many other activities, such
as the Research Committee Pool of Experts, scientiﬁc
reviews, initiative panels or advisory groups.
Appointments will commence in January 2010 for one
year initially, with anticipated extension for a further
two years.
Further details, including role of the Panels, Commit-
tees and Pool of Experts, Person Speciﬁcation and Ex-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 49
pression of Interest Form can be found on the BB-
SRC website at http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/media/news/-
2009/090420 appointments panels commit tees.html
The closing date for applications is Friday 9 June 2009.
The BBSRC welcomes applications from all sections of
the community irrespective of race, age, transgender,
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, disability or gen-
der.
m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
Celegans strain
Hi,
Can anyone tell me whether the exact location of the
ccIs4251 transgene (containing GFP coding sequence)
in the PD4251 strain has been described? I need to
know the sequence of the genomic regions ﬂanking this
transgene but all I found so far is that it maps to the
center of chromosome I...
Thanks!
Sara Carvalho Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia Portu-
gal
saranlcarvalho@gmail.com
CitizenScienceChallenge
Instructions
Greetings everyone,
Here are instructions for participating in the “citizen
science on the semantic web” challenge. Please circu-
late to anyone (anywhere) who you think will want to
contribute.
For those in London, here’s a preliminary list of
places to mini-blitz: http://spire.umbc.edu/ebio/-
Main/London If you know London, please feel free to
add more. (Email me for the edit password.)
See you all soon - Joel.
joel sachs <jsachs@csee.umbc.edu >Class data sets
Dear friends,
I am teaching Biostatistics for Biology students and I
would like to use measurements of hominids skulls and
dinosaurs body, skulls, etc. To teach about graphs and
analysis.
I am trying to obtain data from articles or in websites
but nothing until now!
If you have some published data or indication of web-
sites for students with data like that please send me!!!
Thanks for any help!!!
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Grupo de Estudos em
Ecologia de Mamiferos (ECOMAM) UNITAU, Depto.
Biologia, Taubate, SP. 12030-010. * Grupo de pesquisa
ECOMAM: http://jcvoltol.sites.uol.com.br/ * Fotos de
projetos e cursos: http://jcvoltol.fotoblog.uol.com.br/-
* Exemplo de um curso de ecologia de campo:
http://trabiju.blogspot.com/ * Fotos artisticas: http:/-
/voltolini.fotos.net.br/texturas jcvoltol@uol.com.br
Computer time
Dear evoldir members,
I’m looking for somewhere I can run a few computer
simulations remotely, on a computer system that’s at
least 10 times faster than my 2.2 GHz MacBook Pro.
My university doesn’t have any central facility where
I can do this, just a ’grid’ of computers that are indi-
vidually too slow to be useful. I don’t mind paying a
modest charge.
The simulation is written in Perl (about 1000 lines of
code). It doesn’t do anything fancy so I think it should
run on any unix system. The runs are very computa-
tionally intensive; the MacBook Pro takes about a day
to run 10,000 evolutionary cycles on a 20kb genome,
and I’d like to get data for a few runs of 100,000 or
more cycles on a 200 kb genome.
Given the widespread availability of web sites where we
can run sophisticated DNA sequence analyses for free,50 EvolDir June 1, 2009
I’m thinking that somebody somewhere must have a
site where I can upload my program and run it, per-
haps paying for cpu with my credit card or PayPal.
Any suggestions?
Thanks,
Rosie
Dr. Rosemary J. Redﬁeld redﬁeld@interchange.ubc.ca
Department of Zoology Oﬃce: (604) 822-3744 Univ. of
British Columbia Lab: (604) 822-6323 Vancouver, B.C.
V6T 1Z4 Fax: (604) 822-2416 Canada
We’re now in the Life Sciences Centre (RJR oﬃce 2551,
lab 2520; email us for directions)
Web site: http://www.zoology.ubc.ca/ ˜ redﬁeld
Research blog: http://rrresearch.blogspot.com red-
ﬁeld@zoology.ubc.ca redﬁeld@zoology.ubc.ca
Conserved proteins
Hi,
I am trying to ﬁnd protein alignments for gene fami-
lies that are very well conserved, and so can encompass
both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, like basic enzymes
and transporters. Anyone?
I work for Ensembl, so www.ensemblgenomes.org
doesn’t count.
Thanks,
Albert.
avilella@ebi.ac.uk avilella@ebi.ac.uk
Copy of paper
Dear all,
thank you very much for all those who sent me a copy of
Smocovitis 1992 paper. I received almost 20 messages
with the requested ﬁle. And it was fun also, because
two evoldir members conditionally requested to me the
same ﬁle !
Thank you for your kindness.
AldoAldo<aldomel@portoweb.com.br >
Couterselect Bac Modiﬁcation Kit
Genebridges
Dear kollegues,
I am trying to get the Couterselect Bac modiﬁcation kit,
a recombineering kit working with a high copy plasmid
construct. Problems with bacterial resistance occured,
esp concerning streptomycin. Does anyone of you have
any experience with this kit and could give some hints
how to get it working.
Thanks.
Sincerely,
Dorothea Baranyai.
dorothea.baranyai@arcor.de
Daphnia DNA extractions answers
Dear all
A few days ago I posted a request concerning eﬃcient
DNA extractions in plates. Below you ﬁnd my original
e-mail:
>I like to do DNA extractions from single Daphnia
using the chelex >method for economical reasons. As
I have to proceed a high quantity of >samples, I would
like to do the extractions directly in >96-well-plates.
Does anyone have any experiance if this works and do >
you have found a good systems for grinding the animals
directly in the >plate?
Please ﬁnd below a selection of the answers I received.
Many thanks for all your help and the useful informa-
tion!
Best regards, Barbara Barbara Walser University of Fri-
bourg E-mail: barbara.walser@unifr.ch
From: Ben Longdon (b.longdon@ed.ac.uk) We do
Drosophila chelex extractions using heavy duty 96 well
plates with deep wells, putting ball bearings in the
wells, then shaking the ﬂies on a homemade device
which consists of a sheet sander, which we’ve adaptedJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 51
to strap the plates to. Can then transfer the DNA to a
standard 96 well plate for ease of use.
From: Brant Faircloth (brant@ucla.edu)
you may wish to look into the use of steel beads (1-
2 per well; BioSpec Products, Inc. SKU 11079132c;
you may prefer stainless beads, however) along with a
paint-shaker or reciprocating saw to do your tissue dis-
ruptions (i can send PDFs if you don’t have access):
1) reciprocating saw methodology - http://-
www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/118523651/-
abstract 2) paint shaker - see http://-
www.springerlink.com/content/d70250873105gq05/
once the tissues are disrupted, you can chelex normally.
The stainless beads are less likely to introduce nasties
to your samples, but they are more expensive and
non-disposable (treat with 10% bleach and a few
ultra-pure water washes prior to re-use).
if you wish to separate the solution from the chelex (it is
hard to remove supernatant from chelex extracted sam-
ples in plates and chelex can cause problems with some
tips/needles in liquid handlers), you can ﬁlter it out
using Millipore plates (MAHVN4510) or similar sus-
pended over inexpensive skirted plates + centrifugation
at 900 G for 5 m.
Use ﬁltrate from the plates normally in downstream
applications (PCR, etc.).
From: Lena Bayer-Wilfert [lb445@cam.ac.uk] for single
Drosophila ﬂies, we grind the ﬂies in a deep 96 well plate
with the help of ball bearings and a home-made con-
traption using a sander and some bits of wood. Not sure
whether that would grind single Daphnia well enough.
I guess that you’ll get some more useful feedback from
the Daphnia community, but if not let me know and I
can try to get you a better description of what we do.
Tom Little [tlittle1@staﬀmail.ed.ac.uk]
We use the CTAB method, which is very reliable.
Chelex used to cause some trouble (I think especially if
the samples were to be stored, probably Chelex is ﬁne
if you use the DNA right away). John Colbourne at
Indiana would be a good source of update information.
From: Africa Gomez [A.Gomez@hull.ac.uk] May I sug-
gest that you consider an alternative method to Chelex
which we have shown to work on Daphnia and al-
lows for easy high-throughput (and can be carried out
in 96-well plates)? Paper freely available at: http:/-
/www.aslo.org/lomethods/free/2008/0218.pdf From:
Michael Monaghan [monaghan@igb-berlin.de]
I have used 96-well plates extensively for DNA extrac-
tion, mostly with insects but also with Daphnia. The
animals can be placed in lysis buﬀer + protK in a 96-deep-well plate overnight in a water bath. there is no
need to grind them. i use the deep well plate available
from VWR (cat. nr. 732-0585) and cover it with plastic
ﬁlm or a PCR plate cover to minimize evaporation.
From: Joaquin Munoz [quini@ebd.csic.es]
I have no experience making DNA extraction with
Chelex in 96-well plates, but I suggest to read our re-
cent paper describing a new cheaper method which use
HotSHOT protocol in resting eggs and pieces of adults
from Daphnia, Artemia, Rotifers....
From: natassa [natassa g2000@yahoo.com] I used
Chelex a long time ago for the same economic reasons,
and I just wanted to say that I am not convinced it is
worth it. I was screening a lot of transformants to ﬁnd
mutants, and I realized a long time later that I had far
more than i estimated (due to poor DNA quality). It
all depends on your goal... I used heat shock for lysing
cels, but well, it is far easier in the fungus I was work-
ing on rather than in Daphnia I suppose. From: Alice
Dennis [alicebdennis@gmail.com] I use Chelex for ex-
tractions in the snail’s I’m working on, but I use 8-well
strip tubes because they have a cap that snaps tighter
than anything I’ve found for a 96-well plate. This makes
vortexing and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
DNA from parasitic wasp larvae
Hi
I am working with small parasitic wasp larvae (around
1 mm), and I am only getting small amounts of DNA
from it. A colleague mentioned that I should try
the GenomiPhi V2 DNA ampliﬁcation Kit (from GE
Healthcare) and I would like to know if anyone ever
used this before. If you did, can you please tell me if
it was successfull and if you changed any thing in the
protocol?
Many thanks,
Ana Santos
“Santos, Ana” <a.santos05@imperial.ac.uk >52 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Drosophila diﬀerence database
Dear all,
David Stern and I compiled more than 150 morpholog-
ical, physiological and behavioral traits that have been
reported to diﬀer between at least two species of the
D. melanogaster subgroup (D. melanogaster, D. simu-
lans, D. sechellia, D. mauritiana, D. yakuba, D. san-
tomea, D. teissieri, D. erecta and D. orena). Our com-
pilation is available online at www.normalesup.org/-
˜vorgogoz/FlyPhenomics . This database may be useful
for Drosophila researchers who aim to identify the mu-
tations underlying phenotypic variation and for biolo-
gists in general who want to get a picture of the amount
of phenotypic variation between closely-related species.
All comments and suggestions are welcome.
With best wishes,
Virginie – Virginie Orgogozo CNRS - Universit´ e
Pierre et Marie Curie UMR7622 - case 24 9 quai
Saint Bernard 75005 Paris France (33) 1 44 27 22
59www.virginie.orgogozo.org vorgogoz@snv.jussieu.fr
vorgogoz@snv.jussieu.fr
FarmingHumanPathogens
Farming Human Pathogens: Ecological Resilience
and Evolutionary Process by R Wallace et al.,
Springer ( http://www.springer.com/computer/-
computational+biology+and+bioinformatics/book/-
978-0-387-92212-6 ).
Dear Colleagues,
Farming Human Pathogens: Ecological Resilience
and Evolutionary Process has just been published by
Springer under its computational biology and bioinfor-
matics line.
The book introduces a cutting-edge formalism based on
the asymptotic limit theorems of information theory to
describe how punctuated shifts in mesoscale ecosystems
imposed by human intervention can entrain patterns
of gene expression and organismal evolution. The de-
velopment is applied to several infectious diseases, in-cluding HIV and inﬂuenza. The book also presents a
related treatment of Eigen’s Paradox and the RNA ’er-
ror catastrophe’ that bedevils models of the origins of
viruses and of biological life itself.
More information about the book can
be found at the book’s blog at http://-
.farmingpathogens.wordpress.com . Sincerely,
Rob Wallace Department of Geography University of
Minnesota
rwallace24@gmail.com
– Robert G. Wallace, Ph.D. Visiting Assistant Profes-
sor Department of Geography University of Minnesota
414 Social Sciences Building 267 19th Avenue South
Minneapolis, MN 55455, U.S.A. walla353@umn.edu
Finding Pedigree Software
Dear all,
I am experiencing some troubles trying to access the
link I have for Pedigree Software by Smith et al 2001
(Genetics, 158, 1329ˆ a1338). ˆAˆADoes anyone knows if it
has been moved?
Thank you very much Sincerely,
Carolina I. Mi ˜A±o, MSc. Doctoral Student Labo-
rat˜A3rio de Gen ˜Ac/circlecopyrttica de Aves Departamento de
Gen˜Ac/circlecopyrttica e Evolu ˜A§˜A£o Universidade Federal de
S˜A£o Carlos Rodovia Washington Luis km 235 SP-310
CEP: 13565-905 Monjolinho. S ˜A£o Carlos,SP, Brazil.
Phone number: +55 16 3351 8391 (Work) Fax: +55 16
3351 8377 Mobile: +55 16 91190380
Carolina Minio <carolinaianido@yahoo.com.ar >
Fst question
Hello,
I am looking for software that will allow me to esti-
mate PAIRWISE Fst for EACH LOCUS separately. I
have only been able to ﬁnd programs that will calculate
locus-speciﬁc Fst globally.
Also, is there a program that uses jackkniﬁng or boot-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 53
strapping to get conﬁdence intervals for Fst?
Thanks for your help, Erika
Erika Crispo, PhD candidate McGill Uni-
versity, Department of Biology http://-
www.biology.mcgill.ca/grad/erika/index.htm Erika
Crispo <erika.crispo@mail.mcgill.ca >
Juniperus seed DNA
Dear Evoldir members,
We are working with Juniperus cedrus (crupessaceae)
in population genetics. We have tried to extrac DNA
from seed (endocarp tissue) using diﬀerent protocols
and comercials kits. However, we havent obtain DNA
enough . Juniperus seeds are small and very hard. So,
there are anybody that have extracted DNA from sim-
ilar seeds or woody tissues successfully?
Thank in advance,
Beatriz Rumeu
brumeu@ipna.csic.es
canariensis750@hotmail.com
Lepidopteran housekeeping primers
Dear all,
Can anyone recommend a primer set for a general in-
sect or Lepidopteran-speciﬁc housekeeping gene? I have
been trying to amplify CO1 (see Lunt et al 1996, Ins.
Mol. Biol. 5: 153) as a control for Wolbachia assays,
but its not working as well as I would like, so I wish to
give something else a try.
Any suggestions would be much appreciated.
Best,
Zen
Dr Zenobia Lewis
Post-doctoral Research Fellow Laboratory of Evolu-
tionary Ecology Graduate School of Environmental Sci-
ence Okayama University Japan
zen.lewis@googlemail.comLepidopteran housekeeping primers
answers
Dear all,
I recently posted a question with regards in-
sect/lepidopteran housekeeping primers as a control for
wolbachia assays. My original email was as follows:
>Can anyone recommend a primer set for a general
insect or >Lepidopteran-speciﬁc housekeeping gene? I
have been trying to amplify CO1 >(see Lunt et al 1996,
Ins. Mol. Biol. 5: 153) as a control for Wolbachia >
assays, but its not working as well as I would like, so I
wish to give >something else a try. >
Many many thanks toeveryone that gave me advice -
in case anyone else is interested, some of the answers i
received are copied below.
Cheers,
Zen
– Dr Zenobia Lewis
Post-doctoral Research Fellow Laboratory of Evolu-
tionary Ecology Graduate School of Environmental Sci-
ence Okayama University Japan
In our lab, we work on bumblebees and use RPS5 (ribo-
somal protein S5) as our housekeeping gene, though we
do have primers also for actin. RPS5 seems to work very
well, and was initially used by Evans (2004) Journal of
Invertebrate Pathology 85 (2004) 105’111 for immune
studies. Our housekeeping primers were re-designed
speciﬁcally for bumblebees, but it might be worth a go
using Evans’s honeybee primers, as RPS5 is very well
conserved between bees, butterﬂies nd wasps ( >70%
nucleotide homologay).
You might want to check out EF1-alpha. The Lep
primers won’t amplify the EF1-alpha from Wolbachia.
For primers and conditions, see: Monteiro and Pierce.
2001. Mol. Phylogene. Evol. 18: 264-281.
I have had excellent luck with COI primers 1709 and
2353, in a wide variety of Lepidoptera as well as other
insects. The reference for those primers is: Simon, C.,
T. R. Buckley, F. Frati, J. B. Stewart, and A. T. Beck-
enbach. 2006. Incorporating molecular evolution into
phylogenetic analysis, and a new compilation of con-
served polymerase chain reaction primers for animal
mitochondrial DNA. Annual Review of Ecology, Evo-54 EvolDir June 1, 2009
lution, and Systematics 37:545-579.
I’ve been running the Jerry/Pat2 primer pair (Simon et
al. 1994 but the Pat is modiﬁed in Murray and Pashley
Prowell 2004) in my Wolbachia assays.
I’m working on wasps, but some of the primers I use
should be general enough to work for Lepidoptera as
well. You might want to check Brian Danforth’s page,
which gives an excellent overview of primers used pri-
marily in bees, but it’s also the best one I know for in-
sects in general: http://www.entomology.cornell.edu/-
BeePhylogeny/index.html We have successfully se-
quenced wingless, EF1-alpha, Arginine kinase and
LW rhodopsin with the primers given there. Oth-
erwise, you could try beta-actin, which is often
used as a housekeeping gene control (if you need
it for quantiﬁcation by qPCR, that’s probably the
gene of choice). For our wasps, we designed some
primers, and Actin-F1 and -R1 worked quite well
(over a range of annealing temperatures, from 45-56
C): Actin-F1 5’-GGTAACGAAAGATTCCGTTG-3’
Actin-R1 5’-GATCCACATCTGTTGGAAGG-3’ They
amplify a fragment of about 320 bp of beta-actin. I
don’t know whether they would work for Lepidoptera,
you should check some Lepidopteran actin sequences
from GenBank whether the primers match.
In the honeybee Apis mellifera, actin has been used,
and also Krh I and Rp49 (Navajas et al 2008, BMC
Genomics), or ribosomal protein S5 (Schl¨ uns & Crozier
2007, Ins Mol Biol) etc. Maybe they can also be used
for other insects?
Try the primers in : Evolutionary relationships of
Drosophila mojavensis geographic host races and their
sister species Drosophila arizonae L. K. REED, M. NY-
BOER, T. A. MARKOW Molecular Ecology Volume
16, Issue 5 , Pages1007 - 1022 I had a lot of luck with
these universal CO1 primers.
zen.lewis@googlemail.com
Mac program degenerate sites
Can anyone suggest a program for a Mac that can de-
termine the proportion of fourfold degenerate sites be-
tween two species. Thanks, Ron Woodruﬀ
R. C. Woodruﬀ Distinguished Research Professor
CoEditor-in-Chief , GENETICA Department of Bio-
logical Sciences Corner Merry and N. College Life Sci-
ences Building Bowling Green State University BowlingGreen, Ohio 43403 Telephone: 419-372-0376 Fax: 419-
372-2024 email: rwoodru@bgnet.bgsu.edu
Ronny C Woodruﬀ <rwoodru@bgsu.edu >
Mark-recapturesoftware answers
Thanks to all of you who have answered! If your fa-
vorite software isn’t here, please let me know.
//Peter
——– Original Message ——–
It depends on what types of questions you are wanting
to ask and what forms your data are in. MARK is a
great place to start, since you can access most of the
other stand-alone software through the MARK inter-
face. I would consider using POPAN (via the MARK
interface), provided your data ﬁt the appropriate mod-
els. Another package to consider is M-SURGE, which
belongs to the U-SURGE/ECARE cluster of programs.
It’s a bit more troublesome to work with, and results
aren’t published as much. If you ﬁnd any others that
look promising, please do forward them along - I’d be
quite interested to see!
————————————
Hi, i think that you have to know what you want to
do. Mark is a good software that i used to study pop-
ulation dynamic on subantarctic seabirds. For basic
study it is enough but it seems that m-surge is bet-
ter for multi-state study. if you want to download
the programme you should ﬁnd it at the web site:
http://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/BIOM/en/softwares.htm . I
will also give you the adress to download a paper
of Lebreton: http://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/pdf/Lebreton-
EcoMonog-1992.pdf . It can be useful when you start
with Mark-recapture. Good luck
————————————
Your only practical options are either MARK or M-
SURGE/E-SURGE. M-Surge used to be much easier
to work with than Mark since you could write simple
commands that control what you want the program to
do instead of more or less manually manipulate matri-
ces as in Mark. In this way even complex analyses is
simple to perform. However, Mark can now be run from
R.
I mainly use M-Surge. For what it does (including sim-
ple and multi-state standard capture-recapture analy-
ses) it is a superb program and as simple to use as itJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 55
gets. Mark is more general and can do other things.
Information and discussion of capture-recapture soft-
ware can be found at http://www.phidot.org/forum/-
index.php Capture-recapture is not something you
learn to do in an afternoon, though. Start with the
“Gentle introduction” by Cooch and White: http://-
www.phidot.org/software/mark/docs/book/
———————————–
Dear evoldir, I am about to start a mark-recapture
study. Which software would you recommend for an-
alyzing the data? So far I have found the software
MARK.
Kind regards, Peter Halvarsson Phd-student, EBC, Up-
psala University
peter.halvarsson.1887@student.uu.se pe-
ter.halvarsson.1887@student.uu.se
Mark recapture study
Dear evoldir, I am about to start a mark-recapture
study. Which software would you recommend for an-
alyzing the data? So far I have found the software
MARK.
Kind regards, Peter Halvarsson Phd-student, EBC, Up-
psala University
Peter.Halvarsson.1887@student.uu.se Pe-
ter.Halvarsson.1887@student.uu.se
Mascarene island paper
Dear all,
I wasn’t able to get a pdf ﬁle of Cheke, A.S., 1987.
An ecological history of the Mascarene Islands, with
particular reference to extinctions and introductions of
land vertebrates. In: Diamond, A.W. (Ed.), Studies of
Mascarene Islands Birds, Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, pp. 5 ±89.
If someone could send me one pdf ﬁle I would appreciate
very much. Many thanks.
Salmona Jordi
jordi.salmona@gmail.comMicroarray course help
Dear EvolDir members,
For the ﬁrst time, I am implementing a course in Special
Topics that will include on DNA Microarray topics for
Biology students. It is being oﬀered during this sum-
mer beginning May 29, 2009 at undergraduate level. If
you have and know the basic material including the re-
search papers, please send me and/or suggest the web
link. Also, suggest me the books that I may use in the
course. I will compile and resend it to Dr. Brian for
re-publication.
Your cooperation is highly appreciated
Thank you,
Anand
Anand P. Gupta, Ph.D Johnson C. Smith University
Department of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, SHB
307 100 Beatties Ford Road Charlotte, NC 28216
Voice: (704) 378-3580
e-mail to: agupta@jcsu.edu
Web: http://sites.google.com/site/-
geneticsandevolution < http://sites.google.com/-
site/geneticsandevolution >
“Gupta, Anand P” <agupta@jcsu.edu >
Minimum spaning network
Dear community,
Does someone could advise me how to generate the di-
agram of a minimum spawning network obtained from
Arlequim? Thanks a lot.
– Prof. Dr. Rodrigo A Torres Laborat´ orio de Genˆ omica
Evolutiva e Ambiental Departamento de Zoologia Cen-
tro de Ciˆ encias Biol´ ogicas Universidade Federal de Per-
nambuco Av. Prof. Moraes Rego s/n Cidade Uni-
versit´ aria Recife, PE 50670-420 +55(81) 2126-8353
+55(81) 9692-9547
“Rodrigo A. Torres” <rodrigotorres@ufpe.br >56 EvolDir June 1, 2009
MrBayes consensus answers
Dear colleagues,
Thank you to everyone who sent information on the
patch for the 64-bit version. It appears that my prob-
lem was much simpler: I used to run MB in a non-
parallel version some years ago. Since I have moved
to another institution a number of things have changed
but I never read the new manual (ooops) or updated
my input ﬁles accordingly. So here’s the ﬁx:
If you use MB that is compiled as a parallel version it is
set to run 2 runs by default. In this case, when specify-
ing sumt do NOT include the .t in the ﬁle name as MB
will add .run1.t / .run2.t and so on. When recalling the
tree ﬁle MB cannot ﬁnd the ﬁle if you already speciﬁed
.t as the ﬁle ending.
The sump command was ok (I could open the .p ﬁles
in Tracer) but for continuity reasons I left it out now
and is seems to be ok.
Looks like I had a blond moment after all!
Take care, Birgit
On 21/5/09 15:16, “Birgit Meldal”
<bhmm2@medschl.cam.ac.uk >wrote:
Dear colleagues,
I am having trouble getting MrBayes saving the consen-
sus ﬁle from the sumt command. There is no indication
that it shouldn’t work automatically, however...
I found a similar posting in the archives where it was
pointed out that it was due to compiling it as a 64-bit
binary. I don’t compile my own program as it is run-
ning on the bioinfomatics server. I would be surprised
no-one else has this problem as I know MrBayes is very
well used on the server. It used to work at my former
institution in an older version but not now.
If anyone can enlighten me so I can save time but not
doing it manually in PAUP that would be greatly ap-
preciated!
With kind regards,
Birgit
PS: Maybe I am just having a blond moment...
Birgit Meldal, Ph.D. Division of Transfusion Medicine
Department of Haematology University of CambridgeNHS Blood & Transplant, Cambridge Centre Long
Road Cambridge CB2 0PT U.K.
+44 1223 548049 bhmm2@cam.ac.uk
MrBayes consensus trees
Dear colleagues,
I am having trouble getting MrBayes saving the consen-
sus ﬁle from the sumt command. There is no indication
that it shouldn’t work automatically, however...
I found a similar posting in the archives where it was
pointed out that it was due to compiling it as a 64-bit
binary. I don’t compile my own program as it is run-
ning on the bioinfomatics server. I would be surprised
no-one else has this problem as I know MrBayes is very
well used on the server. It used to work at my former
institution in an older version but not now.
If anyone can enlighten me so I can save time but not
doing it manually in PAUP that would be greatly ap-
preciated!
With kind regards,
Birgit
PS: Maybe I am just having a blond moment...
Birgit Meldal, Ph.D. Division of Transfusion Medicine
Department of Haematology University of Cambridge
NHS Blood & Transplant, Cambridge Centre Long
Road Cambridge CB2 0PT U.K.
+44 1223 548049 bhmm2@cam.ac.uk
Birgit Meldal <bhmm2@medschl.cam.ac.uk >
MrBayes question
Has anyone encountered the following problem with en-
tering text in mrbayes (vers 31.2): After entering (or
pasting) about 2.5 lines to deﬁne a usertree, I’m pre-
vented from continuing. Not sure what is going on.
Program does work with fewer taxa (one line or less).
Suggestions? Thanks, Bill Chapco.
Dr. William Chapco Professor Emeritus Depart-
ment of Biology University of Regina Regina, SK,June 1, 2009 EvolDir 57
S4S 0A2 Canada 306-585-4478 306-337-2410 (FAX)
chapco@uregina.ca
William.Chapco@uregina.ca
Phil Theory Biology
Dear Colleagues,
Philosophy & Theory in Biology (P&TB) is a new peer-
reviewed open- access online journal to be launched in
the Fall of 2009, and it aims to bring together philoso-
phers of science and theoretically inclined biologists in
order to interact across disciplinary boundaries. The
goal of this interaction is to foster a broader conception
of what it means to do theory in science and philo-
sophically analyze the sciences, in order to beneﬁt both
research communities.
P&TB is for a mixed audience of philosophers of sci-
ence and biologists, and therefore we seek papers that
are methodologically diverse, including but not limited
to standard philosophy of biology analyses of concepts
or research programs and theoretical papers by biolo-
gists. P&TB also publishes select, in-depth reviews and
trend articles pertinent to theoretical biology and phi-
losophy of biology in order to stimulate discussion on
topics with implications for both biologists and philoso-
phers.
P&TB strives to maintain the highest standards of
scholarship while simultaneously making its papers
available at no cost to the academic community, in-
dependent scholars, and the public at large. P&TB is
published only online, a choice that springs from the
advantages oﬀered by new technologies and from a de-
sire to reduce publication and environmental costs.
The editorial board consists of a highly distinguished
group of philosophers and biologists, including: Alex
Badyaev (University of Arizona), John Beatty (Uni-
versity of British Columbia), Carol Cleland (University
of Colorado), Deborah Gordon (Stanford University),
Paul Griﬃths (University of Sydney), Eva Jablonka
(Tel Aviv University), David Jablonski (University of
Chicago), Elizabeth Lloyd (Indiana University), Jay
Odenbaugh (Lewis & Clark College), Samir Okasha
(University of Bristol), Anya Plutynski (University of
Utah), Sean Rice (Texas Tech University), Elliott Sober
(University of Wisconsin), Mike Wade (Indiana Univer-
sity), Gunter Wagner (Yale University) and Mary Jane
West-Eberhard (Smithsonian Institution, Panama).Instruction for authors can be downloaded on
the provisional web site of the journal, at
www.philosophyandtheoryinbiology.org . Further
information can be obtained by writing an email to
editors@philosophyandtheoryinbiology.org .
Sincerely, the Editors Massimo Pigliucci (City Uni-
versity of New York) Jonathan Kaplan (Oregon State
University) Alan Love (University of Minnesota) Joan
Roughgarden (Stanford University)
Massimo Pigliucci www.rationallyspeaking.org “I ﬁnd
television very educational. Every time someone
switches it on I go into another room and read a good
book.” -Groucho Marx
Phylogenetic Handbook
Dear Colleagues,
A second edition of the Phylogenetic Handbook has
been published by Cambridge University Press. The
book aims at providing a comprehensive introduc-
tion to theory and practice of nucleotide and pro-
tein phylogenetic analysis. This second edition in-
cludes many new chapters and has a stronger fo-
cus on hypothesis testing than the previous edition.
Many analysis tools are described by their original
authors (including MrBAYES, PAUP*, BEAST, HY-
PHY, RDP3, LAMARC, DAMBE, CLUSTAL, TREE-
PUZZLE, IQPNNI, MODELTEST, etc..)
More information, Links to software, data sets, contrib-
utors and table of contents can be found at: http://-
www.thephylogenetichandbook.org We hope that the
book will be a useful teaching guide for advanced-level
undergraduate and graduate students.
Sincerely, Philippe Lemey Rega Institute, K.U. Leuven
Leuven, Belgium
philippe.lemey@gmail.com philippe.lemey@gmail.com
Program for haplotypes answers
Hello,
A few days ago I posted a message asking for help with
a program that would estimate or determine individ-58 EvolDir June 1, 2009
ual haplotypes (i.e., gametic phase) from a set of direct
sequences of heterozygote individuals.
Thank you so much to those of you who took the time
to reply, particularly to those friends who went out of
their way to highlight potential problems and alterna-
tives, BTW I will reply personally : ^)#. I have com-
piled excerpts for the suggested programs below for the
beneﬁt of the community.
Thanx again and cheers!
Axa
ABOUT PHASE AND fastPHASE
From: John C Garza [mailto:carlosjg@ucsc.edu]
PHASE by Matt Stephens (University of Chicago) is
the best program for determining the population fre-
quencies of haplotypes and therefore determining the
most likely phase of heterozygous sequences. However,
it (and all other phasing algorithms) can run into trou-
ble with MHC, since there is so much gene conver-
sion/recombination.
In what species are you are studying MHC? How we
minimize sequencing is by using SSCP with Sybr Gold
staining to determine mobility patterns for select se-
quenced alleles, then do population genetic screening
with SSCP.
From: Darren Obbard
[mailto:dobbard@staﬀmail.ed.ac.uk]
phase and fastPhase from Mathew Stephens
http://stephenslab.uchicago.edu/software.html Are
both widely used, and trusted.
From: Magdalena Zarowiecki
[mailto:m.zarowiecki@nhm.ac.uk]
I’ve been spending a lot of time with this problem.
The most commonly used software is PHASE, but it
doesn’t work for my dataset, as it is too big (300 taxa,
80 variable characters.) Instead I’ve been using fast-
PHASE, it is available for Mac, PC and Linux, but I
only ever got the Linux version to work. I have also
used the ELB algorithm in Arlequin, and a new soft-
ware called BEAGLE, all of which are relatively hassle-
free.
You can convert your data to PHASE/fastPHASE in-
put on this website:
http://www.mnhn.fr/jﬄot/seqphase/ There is a nice
paper that came out last year that compares several
diﬀerent phase-solving algorithms, and also suggests a
method for solving a problem just like yours, complete
with some useful PERL-scripts.From: Michael Sorenson [mailto:msoren@bu.edu]
Not sure how well the software will work on MHC, but
please see the following paper for a favorable evaluation
of PHASE:
Harrigan, R.J., M.E. Mazza & M.D. Sorenson. 2008.
Computation versus cloning: evaluation of two meth-
ods for haplotype determination. Molecular Ecology
Resources 8: 1239-1248.
ABOUT DNAsp/PHASE
From: Mark Chapman
[mailto:mchapman@plantbio.uga.edu]
The PHASE algorithm in DnaSP will do this. you make
a fasta ﬁle of your (aligned) genotypes and open it as
“unphase/genotype data ﬁle”. I have come across some
alignments that it cant handle for whatever reason and
the program crashes, but this is only maybe 5% of the
time and is probably due to very few homozygous geno-
types. Each ﬁle takes 1 minute to 1 hour to run typi-
cally, so it can be frustrating to do this several times.
A signiﬁcant advantage is that once this has been done
in DnaSP you can export several ﬁletypes, like nexus,
to use in other programs.
See our Plant Cell paper for a little more
info ( http://markachapman.googlepages.com/-
ChapmanPlantCell2008.pdf ).
From: John Wares [mailto:jpwares@uga.edu]
You can use software like PHASE - it is currently fully
implemented in DNAsp, which makes life MUCH easier
than only a few months ago when you had to know or
use a little PERL to get data in and out for analysis.
It is a likelihood-based analysis that considers the fre-
quency of homozygous alleles at each site as well as the
combinations of alleles to infer haplotypes directly from
sequences.
So, that is the easy answer to your question. The thing
I’m worried about with doing this for MHC data is
that probably every individual is a heterozygote, so
there will be no non-statistical inference of haplotypes,
and they are all heterozygotes because MHC harbors
so many alleles - maybe hundreds, right? Depends on
what you are working on these days but even devil’s
hole pupﬁsh carries a ton of diversity.
PHASE software works great when you can count the
number of segregating sites on your hands, but I think
you are going to have a great deal of uncertainty once
you cross that threshold. Plus, there is the issue of what
is a heterozygous site - we all know that sequencing is
usually pretty clean, but probably a few sites - even
in haploid mtDNA - that are ambiguous. You would
want to sequence in both directions to eliminate mostJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 59
of the sequencing/coding errors, and maybe multiple
sequences per individual, because each of those chem-
istry errors (not actual heterozygous sites) will be used
by PHASE
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Secondary structure phylogeny
Hello everyone,
I am trying to reconstruct phylogeny using secondary
structure of a segment of 28s rDNA in arthropods.
Since now I have used 4SALE and CBCanalyser soft-
ware, but it seems that there is something wrong, cause
the cladogram is match diﬀerent from the cladogram
made with the sequences.any ideas of other software
packages or anything relative? on the other hand, do
you think I could use the structures in other way???is
there any software to compare sec.structures?
Thanks! PS: please send your replies at martimi-
anakis@gmail.com , cause I have a few problems with
this mailbox.
Stefanos Martimianakis PhD Student Dep. of Biology
Sec. of Genetics University of Patras Greece email:
martimianakis@gmail.com
stmartim@upatras.gr
Short movies about evolution
Dear members of the Evoldir community,
Athttp://www.evolution-of-life.com you will ﬁnd three
short ( <10 min) movies about evolution / evolutionary
research. The movies are the result of a project by
Yannick Mahe and myself.
One animation movie is about the evolution of life,
one animation movie about life and work of Darwin
and one video documentary about coevolution between
army ants and myrmecophiles. Four more movies willfollow (topics: drug resistance in bacteria, evolution in
the lab, lactase persistence and shrinking cod).
The movies are meant for a general audience, but
certainly evolutionary biologists will also enjoy them.
Great care was taken to make them scientiﬁcally cor-
rect.
The movies are / will be available in English, German
and French. The can be viewed online or downloaded.
You are free to show them in lectures, at your local
Darwin-year-event or elsewhere. For the exact terms of
use, please check the website.
We’d be happy to get feedback. Especially if you are
showing the movie to schoolchildren, students or a gen-
eral audience, we’d love to know about it.
Best wishes, Pleuni Pennings
–
Pleuni S. Pennings PhD
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
* Postdoc in theoretical evolutionary biology
http://www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/Pleuni Pennings pen-
nings@zi.lmu.de
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Short movies about evolution 2
Dear friends,
I am teaching evolution in a Brazilian University in a
place with many creationist students. Thats why some-
times my classes are exausting because I need not just
to teach but also try to open some minds! Movies are
terriﬁc for this task and then.... congratulations for the
Munich team!
After seeing the videos I would like to share some ideas:
1 - The Darwins and the Origin of life videos dont have
subtitles. Please include the subtitles! This is very im-
portant for teachers in not english countries. This is
not a detail but a VERY important tool to improve the
concepts understanding. I know there are a rtf ﬁle with
subtitles but this is not enough because videos like that
will be copied and passed to another people by internet
and many of them cannot understand english but they
can read and have the big picture.
3 - In the ants video the interactions are more discussed60 EvolDir June 1, 2009
than the ORIGIN of the chemicals and behaviours. If
not possible in the video I suggest to include a text in
the website asking the people to think about the PRO-
CESS and not ony the PATTERN. Those adaptions
came from VARIATION, MUTATION, and after that
NATURAL SELECTION. They cannot just happen!
An important ﬁnal comentary, if this videos are in-
tented to be used for education the approach is very
especiﬁc; we need to be focused on HOW the informa-
tion is passed!
Jus as an idea..... maybe I can translate the texts (sub-
titles) for Brazilian Portuguese and other people could
do the same for chinese, japanese, etc. These transla-
tions could be available in the website.
Thanks again for the material and I will use them in
several classes and courses!
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Grupo de Estudos em
Ecologia de Mamiferos (ECOMAM) UNITAU, Depto.
Biologia, Taubate, SP. 12030-010. * Grupo de pesquisa
ECOMAM: http://jcvoltol.sites.uol.com.br/ * Fotos de
projetos e cursos: http://jcvoltol.fotoblog.uol.com.br/
* Exemplo de um curso de ecologia de campo: http:/-
/trabiju.blogspot.com/ * Fotos artisticas: http://-
voltolini.fotos.net.br/texturas —– Original Message —
– From: <evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca >
To:<jcvoltol@uol.com.br >
Sent: Sunday, May 17, 2009 2:51 AM
Subject: Other: short movies about evolution
Dear members of the Evoldir community,
Athttp://www.evolution-of-life.com you will ﬁnd three
short ( <10 min) movies about evolution / evolutionary
research. The movies are the result of a project by
Yannick Mahe and myself.
One animation movie is about the evolution of life,
one animation movie about life and work of Darwin
and one video documentary about coevolution between
army ants and myrmecophiles. Four more movies will
follow (topics: drug resistance in bacteria, evolution in
the lab, lactase persistence and shrinking cod).
The movies are meant for a general audience, but
certainly evolutionary biologists will also enjoy them.
Great care was taken to make them scientiﬁcally cor-
rect.
The movies are / will be available in English, German
and French. The can be viewed online or downloaded.
You are free to show them in lectures, at your local
Darwin-year-event or elsewhere. For the exact terms of
use, please check the website.We’d be happy to get feedback. Especially if you are
showing the movie to schoolchildren, students or a gen-
eral audience, we’d love to know about it.
Best wishes, Pleuni Pennings
–
Pleuni S. Pennings PhD
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
* Postdoc in theoretical evolutionary biology
http://www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/Pleuni Pennings pen-
nings@zi.lmu.de
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
jcvoltol@uol.com.br
Skull morphology data sets
Dear friends,
On week ago I sent a message requesting data sets on
hominid skulls or dinosaur morphology to use in my
stats classes.
Several people wrote requesting also a copy but... sorry
guys; nobody sent me any material.
The quest continues....
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Grupo de Estudos em
Ecologia de Mamiferos (ECOMAM) UNITAU, Depto.
Biologia, Taubate, SP. 12030-010. * Grupo de pesquisa
ECOMAM: http://jcvoltol.sites.uol.com.br/ * Fotos de
projetos e cursos: http://jcvoltol.fotoblog.uol.com.br/-
* Exemplo de um curso de ecologia de campo:
http://trabiju.blogspot.com/ * Fotos artisticas: http:/-
/voltolini.fotos.net.br/texturas jcvoltol@uol.com.br
Software FastTree1 1
We announce an update to FastTree, a tool for inferring
minimum-evolution trees for large alignments.
New in FastTree 1.1:
* FastTree 1.1 uses nearest-neighbor interchanges and
subtree-prune-regraft moves to improve accuracy aboveJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 61
distance-matrix methods such as neighbor joining,
BIONJ, or FastME. * FastTree 1.1 is even faster: it
inferred a tree for 158,000 16S rRNAs in just 11 hours
and 2.5 GB. * Pseudocounts improve accuracy for align-
ments with many truncated sequences. * Fast tools for
comparing large trees. * Fast-global bootstrap – ana-
lyze 40,000 ABC transporters with 100 bootstraps in
just 20 hours, by using the tree for the full alignment
as the starting topology for the resampled alignments.
http://www.microbesonline.org/fasttree/ Reference:
Price, M.N., Dehal, P.S., and Arkin, A.P. (2009)
FastTree: Computing Large Minimum-Evolution
Trees \with Proﬁles instead of a Distance Ma-
trix. Molecular Biology and Evolution, to appear.
http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/-
msp077?ijkey=DtzbXulQ86zzROU&keytype=ref
morgannprice@yahoo.com
Software GenGIS 1 0
Hi everyone,
We have recently released the ﬁrst full version of
GenGIS, a geospatial information system for genetic
and genomic data. GenGIS allows the integration of
digital maps, sequence information, and trees to build
2D and 3D geophylogenies, and show similarity-based
clustering of georeferenced samples.
The software includes a Python console that allows the
user to script data analyses and video ﬂythroughs, and
hooks into the R statistical language allowing exposed
data to be passed directly into R.
GenGIS is extensively documented, with tutorial
movies and examples. It is available for Win32 and
Mac OSX (tested on Leopard). We are also in the pro-
cess of using GenGIS to track data from the emerging
H1N1 outbreak. Classical examples include the sala-
mander ’ring species’ Ensatina eschscholtzii, and Banza
katydids from the Hawai’i archipelago.
Main GenGIS page: http://kiwi.cs.dal.ca/GenGIS/-
Main Page Documentation including tutorials: http:/-
/kiwi.cs.dal.ca/GenGIS/Documentation H1N1 page:
http://kiwi.cs.dal.ca/GenGIS/H1N1 Best wishes, Rob
Beiko Faculty of Computer Science, Dalhousie Univer-
sity beiko@cs.dal.caTeX LaTeX templates for MBE
available
25 May 2009
Dear Folks!
Improved .cls and .bst ﬁles for preparing manuscripts
for submission to Molecular Biology and Evolution us-
ing TeX or LaTeX are now available on the MBE web-
site:
http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our journals/molbev/-
forauthors/msprep submission.html See you at the
SMBE meetings in Iowa City next week!
All the best, Marcy Uyenoyama Editor, Molecular Bi-
ology and Evolution
marcy@duke.edu marcy@duke.edu
Tree construction
Dear Evoldirs,
Recently, I am trying to identify the best estimated tree
using 10 nuclear DNA intronicsequences. As you might
know,each nuclear gene might have diﬀerent evolution-
ary rate. I’ve seen many papers dealing constructing
tree by combined nuclear DNA dataset. My ques-
tion isif it is the best to estimate the tree usingmany
nuclear DNAmarkers which has diﬀerent evolutionary
rate. How aboutis the case for mitochondrialgenome?
Some use several mtDNA fragments andotheruse com-
plete mtDNA. In mt genome, 13 coding genes, sev-
eral rRNA, tRNA, andcontrol region are present. If
you useonly 2 ~3 selected mtDNA markers todraw tree,
would it tell you the same treewith the onedrawn from-
complete mtDNA? Are there diﬀerent evolutionary rate
for eachgenes of mtDNA as well? How diﬀerent are
they? Are there good references to read?
Please let me know.
Best Junghwa AN
An Junghwa <junghwa an@yahoo.fr >62 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Unifying Biology paper 1992
Dear all,
I wasn’t able to get a pdf ﬁle of Vassiliki Smocovitis pa-
per Unifying Biology: The Evolutionary Synthesis and
Evolutionary Biology, published in the Journal of the
History of Biology, 25(1) 1 - 65, 1992. I would like to
get this paper to discuss with my students (I have a
printed version). If someone could send me one pdf ﬁle
I would appreciate very much. Many thanks.
Aldo Mellender de Ara´ ujo aldomel@portoweb.com.br
Departamento de Gen´ etica, Instituto de Biociˆ encias,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Ale-
gre, Brasil
Wanted MultiblockSystem software
Dear Evoldir members
our laboratory has lost the PC CD-rom for the old-
ish program “Multiblock System version 2.09”. This
is needed to run Thermo Hybaid PRC machines. The
manufacturer claims the program is not available any-
more. Does anyone have an idea how to get a copy of
this program or another version of it?Thank you for any tips! e-mail:
Kalevi.Trontti((at))helsinki.ﬁ
best wishes,
Kalevi Trontti Coordinator, PhD Laboratory of Molec-
ular Ecology and Systematics Department of Biological
and Environmental Sciences P.O. Box 65 (Viikinkaari
1) 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland
Tel: +358(0)9-191 57680 Fax: +358(0)9 191 57694 Mo-
bile: +358(0)40-350 0882
Kalevi Trontti <kalevi.trontti@helsinki.ﬁ >
Web resource EvolverZone
I am pleased to announce the launch of Evolver Zone,
a web resource with multimedia and information about
databases, journals, societies, software, and web links
related to evolution. The collection is meant to be of
use to teachers, students, and researchers interested in
evolutionary biology. The site is free to access.
http://www.evolverzone.com/ Cheers,
- Ryan Gregory
Dr. T. Ryan Gregory Assistant Professor Department
of Integrative Biology University of Guelph, Guelph,
Ontario N1G 2W1 CANADA
http://www.gregorylab.org/ “T. Ryan Gregory”
<rgregory@uoguelph.ca >
PostDocs
CSIRO Australia BeetleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
EAWAG Switzerland CichlidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
IowaStateU PlantInsectInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
KansasStateU ComparativeProteomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
KansasStateU PlantEvolutionaryGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
KansasStateU SpeciationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66LaurentianU MinkPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
MichiganStateU EvolutionInvasions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Munich EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
QueenMaryU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
RutgersU QuantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
SaoPaulo SugarcaneGenomeOrganization . . . . . . . . . . 69June 1, 2009 EvolDir 63
StonyBrook EvolutionFlightMetabolism . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Switzerland RapidEvolution Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
TulaneU HawaiianFishBiogeographyGenetics . . . . . . 70
UAixMarseille SpatialGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UArizona AlgalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UArizona GeneNetworkEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UBourgogne NeuroEvoParasito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UBritishColumbia EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UCaliforniaBerkeley FungalCompartiveGenomics . . 73
UCaliforniaIrvine PlantComparativeGenomics . . . . . 74
UCalifornia SantaBarbara EvolutionaryTheory . . . . 74
UCDavis StatPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UEastAnglia WarblerFitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UIdaho EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75UKoblenzLandau EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ULausanne SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ULyon SexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UManchester VertebrateComparativeGenomics . . . . 77
UMichigan EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UOxford SocialEvolutionTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UPierreMarieCurie PigeonGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UTartu OptimalityModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UTartu PhylogeneticComparativeMethods . . . . . . . . . 79
UVienna DrosophilaAgingGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UWisconsinMadison Disease Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
YaleU BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
CSIRO Australia BeetleEvolution
https://recruitment.csiro.au/asp/-
JobDetails.asp?RefNo=2009%2F244 We are seeking
an enthusiastic, innovative and highly independent
scientist with broad based experience in insect system-
atics, molecular phylogenetics, and molecular dating
methods. Skills and experience in beetle systematics or
identiﬁcation and with insect fossils and/or the insect
fossil literature will be highly desirable. Applicants
will have completed a PhD in a related discipline and
be willing to partake in CSIROs Postdoctoral training
program.
The successful applicant will be an early career sci-
entist with (i) a good knowledge of insect systemat-
ics and molecular phylogenetics, (ii) excellent commu-
nication, personal, and inter-personal skills; and (iii)
a documented record of publishing papers in interna-
tional, peer-reviewed journals. You will be expected to
be strongly self-motivated and able to work collabora-
tively as well as independently on a variety of projects;
hence, being able to multi task is high desirable. If
successful, you will join the molecular systematics and
beetle systematics groups within the ANIC to conduct
research into the evolution of Australias beetle fauna.
Beetles are the single most diverse animal group both
in terms of species numbers but also in terms of life his-
tory strategies including highly speciose groups of her-
bivores, carnivores, fungivores, saprivores, parasitoids.
By determining the relationships and divergence times
for Australian beetle groups you will develop snap-shots
of the evolution of Australias biota across the last 35
million years and how this fauna has responded to ﬂoral
evolution and climate change.CSIRO is Australias leading research organisation with
over 6,500 staﬀ located across the country. Its aim is to
deliver great science and innovative solutions for indus-
try, society and the environment by igniting the creative
spirit of its staﬀ. The ANIC is the largest collection of
insects in Australia and has the largest research pro-
gram in insect taxonomy, systematics and evolution.
The OCE Fellowship is a prestigious early career fellow-
ship funded through the Oﬃce of the Chief Executive
of CSIRO and is available for a maximum of 3 years.
These highly competitive fellowships are available to
candidates with less than 3 years postdoctoral experi-
ence.
Please Note: CSIRO uses some extremely opaque HR-
speak to phrase selection criteria which are part of the
application process. If you require any explanation as
to what they are actually on about please dont hesitate
to email or call me.
Details and online application:
https://recruitment.csiro.au/asp/-
JobDetails.asp?RefNo=2009%2F244 Stephen
Cameron
Senior Research Scientist,
ANIC & CSIRO Entomology,
Black Mountain Laboratories,
Clunies-Ross St, Canberra, ACT, 2601,
AUSTRALIA
ph: +612 6246 4084
fax: +612 6246 4264
skype: stephenlcameron
website: http://www.csiro.au/people/-
Stephen.Cameron.html seago@nature.berkeley.edu64 EvolDir June 1, 2009
seago@nature.berkeley.edu
EAWAG Switzerland
CichlidEvolution
Postdoctoral Position in Comparative Analysis of Ci-
chlid Fish Radiations
A postdoctoral research associate position is
available in the labs of Ole Seehausen ( http://-
www.ﬁshecology.ch ) at Eawag, Switzerland and Luke
Harmon ( http://www.webpages.uidaho.edu/ ˜ lukeh/ )
at University of Idaho to investigate pattern and
process of adaptive radiation in cichlid ﬁsh.
We are interested in what facilitates or constrains the
origin of species diversity. Cichlid ﬁsh are an ideal sys-
tem to address this. They are a wide spread family
of freshwater ﬁsh and have made many independent
adaptive radiations in tropical lakes. Lakes Victoria,
Malawi and Tanganyika are well known, but many oth-
ers are less well known. The Seehausen Lab has collated
genetic and phenotypic data on various cichlid ﬁsh ra-
diations. The Harmon lab has developed quantitative
concepts and analysis tools for investigating adaptive
radiations.
The Postdoctoral researcher will engage in phylogenetic
and phenotypic analyses, and use comparative analy-
sis tools to address questions about phylogenetic iner-
tia, temporal trends in adaptive radiations, and pre-
dictions of neutral and non-neutral models of diversi-
ﬁcation. The Postdoctoral researcher will be located
mainly at the Eawag Centre of Ecology, Evolution &
Biogeochemistry in Switzerland, with shorter stays at
the University of Idaho.
Candidates have a thorough background in evolution-
ary biology, and are familiar with sequence-based phy-
logenetic analysis. Preference will be given to candi-
dates familiar with the R environment and possess-
ing either knowledge of comparative methodology or
of African cichlid ﬁsh. Funding is available for 10-12
months, depending on the starting date, with a pos-
sibility for continuation dependent upon performance.
Given the availability of data and analysis tools, we ex-
pect the project will quickly begin to generate results.
A start date of August 1 2009 or a mutually agreeable
date in late Summer 2009 is strongly preferred. Salary
will be commensurate with experience and qualiﬁca-
tions.Send a letter of application, curriculum vitae,
and names and addresses of three references to
ole.seehausen@eawag.ch
Ole Seehausen ( http://www.ﬁshecology.ch ) University
of Bern, Institute of Ecology & Evolution, & Eawag
Centre of Ecology, Evolution and Biogeochemistry
(CEEB), Switzerland
Luke Harmon ( http://www.webpages.uidaho.edu/-
˜lukeh/ ) University of Idaho Department of Biological
Sciences
Ole Seehausen Institute of Ecology & Evolution (IEE)
University of Bern Baltzerstr. 6, CH-3012 Bern Phone
direct +41 31 631 31 31 Phone secr. +41 31 631 30
09 FAX +41 31 631 30 08 & eawag Centre of Ecology,
Evolution and Biogeochemistry (CEEB) Seestrasse 79
CH-6047 Kastanienbaum Phone direct +41 41 349 21
21 Phone secr +41 41 349 21 08 FAX +41 41 349 21 68
http://www.ﬁshecology.ch “Seehausen, Ole”
<Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch >
IowaStateU PlantInsectInteractions
Postdoctoral Research Associate Department of Ento-
mology Iowa State University
Available 1 June, 2009
Position Summary: Postdoctoral position studying
plant-insect and tritrophic interactions among Bt crops,
pest insects, and entomopathogens.
Duties and responsibilities –Work as part of a team
to accomplish research goals –Run large-scale ﬁeld ex-
periments and laboratory bioassays, and assist stu-
dents participating in these experiments –Prepare
manuscripts for publication –Assist with grant writing –
Consult with principal investigator, technical personnel
and other researchers to improve design of experiments
and interpretation of results
Minimum qualiﬁcations –Ph.D. in Entomology, Biol-
ogy, or Ecology and Evolution –Demonstrated ability
to publish results in refereed journals –Ability to work
independently
Preferred qualiﬁcations –Knowledge of population ge-
netics –Knowledge of insect resistance to insecticides or
transgenics –Experience designing and conducting ﬁeld
and laboratory experiments –Experience studying en-
tomopathogenic organismsJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 65
To apply, send a letter of application, curriculum vi-
tae, reprints of 2 papers, and the names and contract
information for three references to Aaron Gassmann
(aaronjg@iastate.edu). Although electronic applica-
tions are preferred, application materials may also be
mailed to, Dept. of Entomology, 110 Insectary Bldg.,
Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011
Review of applications will begin immediately and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Aaron Gassmann Assistant Professor Department of
Entomology 18 Insectary Bldg. Iowa State University
Ames, IA 50011-3140 Oﬃce: 515-294-7623 Lab: 515-
294-8675 FAX: 515-294-7406
KansasStateU
ComparativeProteomics
Research Associate: Comparative proteomics and spe-
ciation at Kansas State University
A postdoc position is available in the laboratory of Dr.
Jeremy L. Marshall to work on the NSF-funded project,
The genetics of postmating, prezygotic isolation. This
project focuses on using cutting-edge proteomic, ge-
nomic, and gene-silencing technology to identify the
ejaculate proteins in the ground cricket (Allonemobius
socius complex) that inﬂuence conspeciﬁc sperm prece-
dence and other fertilization/reproductive traits.
The three species (A. socius, A. fasciatus, and A sp.
nov. Tex) in the Allonemobius socius complex diverged
from a common ancestor ~30,000 years ago and are only
isolated from one another by postmating, prezygotic
traits (such as conspeciﬁc sperm precedence and the
ability of males to induce females to lay eggs). These
reproductive barriers to gene ﬂow are strong and main-
tained in zones of secondary contact. Therefore, the
main objective of this research is to identify ejacu-
late proteins that are divergent between species, remain
species-speciﬁc in zones of secondary contact, and func-
tionally inﬂuence the degree of reproductive isolation
between species.
The responsibilities of the postdoc will include, but
are not limited to, basic statistical analyses, learning
and conducting proteomic techniques to identify ejacu-
late proteins, conducting molecular work such as PCR,
cloning, cDNA synthesis, dsRNA synthesis, and over-
seeing/conducting mating and behavior experiments to
test for protein functions. There are also ample oppor-tunities for developing independent projects within this
system.
Required qualiﬁcations: (1) A Ph.D. in evolutionary
biology, molecular biology, biology, or a related ﬁeld.
(2) Experience with basic molecular techniques such as
PCR and cloning or a strong background in proteomics.
(3) Strong interest in evolutionary genetics and evolu-
tionary biology, as evidenced by dissertation research,
publications, and/or previous postdoc experience.
To apply, send the below items as a single PDF to Dr.
Jeremy L. Marshall at cricket@ksu.edu
(1) Send a cover letter summarizing your research in-
terests and background as well as a statement on your
career goals. (2) A recent CV, including the names
and contact information of three persons that I may
contact for reference letters and/or more information
about you.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled or closed. Salary and
beneﬁts are competitive and have the potential to be
renewed for 2 or 3 years. Ph.D. degree must be com-
pleted by start date. Kansas State University is an
equal opportunity employer.
Dr. Jeremy L. Marshall Department of Entomol-
ogy Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506
cricket@ksu.edu
KansasStateU
PlantEvolutionaryGenet
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION AVAILABLE TO
STUDY EVOLUTIONARY GENETICS IN PLANTS
A postdoctoral position is currently available in the lab-
oratory of Mark Ungerer at Kansas State University in
the Division of Biology. The successful candidate will
contribute to ongoing research investigating the possi-
ble causes and evolutionary consequences of massive
retrotransposon proliferations that have occurred in-
dependently in the genomes of three hybrid sunﬂower
species. Speciﬁc responsibilities of the postdoctoral re-
searcher will include oversight of one or more major
subprojects that examine the impacts of retrotranspo-
son proliferation on genome function and structure and
the environmental and genomic conditions under which
such proliferation events take place. The position will
require both laboratory and greenhouse work as well as
seasonal trips to the southwestern US to collect from66 EvolDir June 1, 2009
natural populations and natural hybrid zones. Candi-
dates must have strong molecular biology skills (includ-
ing experience working with RNA) and/or interest in
the ﬁelds of molecular and genome evolution.
To apply, send a cover letter describing your research
interests/past research achievements, a C.V., and the
names and contact information for three individuals
willing to provide letters of recommendation. Mate-
rials should be sent to the address below. Review of
applications will begin on May 25, 2009 and continue
until the position has been ﬁlled. Ph.D. degree must
be completed by start date. Email applications pre-
ferred. KSU is an equal opportunity employer and ac-
tively seeks diversity among its employees. Background
check required by university policy.
Mark Ungerer Division of Biology Kansas State Uni-
versity Manhattan KS 66506 mcungere@ksu.edu oﬃce:
785.532.5845 fax: 785.532.6653
mcungere@ksu.edu mcungere@ksu.edu
KansasStateU SpeciationGenetics
Hi all,
If you are interested in this postdoc position (see ad be-
low) and attending this year’s SMBE meeting in Iowa
City, I would welcome the opportunity to meet with
you. I will be presenting a contributed talk on the be-
low research as part of the Reproductive Protein Func-
tion and Evolution Symposium on Friday, June 5, at
4:45. If you would like to discuss this postdoc opportu-
nity with me at this meeting, please feel free to contact
me via e-mail to set up a meeting (please e-mail me
at the following two addresses: cricket@ksu.edu and
the.marshalls@sbcglobal.net) or stop me at any time
during the meetings.
Best, Jeremy
P.S. The ad is below.
Jeremy L. Marshall, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor Department of Entomology 123 W.
Waters Hall Kansas State University Manhattan, KS
66506-4004
E-mail: cricket@ksu.edu
Oﬃce Phone: 785-532-5588 Fax : 785-532-6232
AD: Postdoc: Comparative proteomics and speciation
at Kansas State UniversityA postdoc position is available (to start anytime be-
tween now and Fall 2010) in the laboratory of Dr.
Jeremy L. Marshall to work on the NSF-funded project,
The genetics of postmating, prezygotic isolation. This
project focuses on using cutting-edge proteomic, ge-
nomic, and gene-silencing technology to identify the
ejaculate proteins in the ground cricket (Allonemobius
socius complex) that inﬂuence conspeciﬁc sperm prece-
dence and other fertilization/ reproductive traits. The
three species (A. socius, A. fasciatus, and A sp. nov.
Tex) in the Allonemobius socius complex diverged from
a common ancestor ~30,000 years ago and are only iso-
lated from one another by postmating, prezygotic traits
(such as conspeciﬁc sperm precedence and the ability of
males to induce females to lay eggs). These reproduc-
tive barriers to gene ﬂow are strong and maintained in
zones of secondary contact. Therefore, the main objec-
tive of this research is to identify ejaculate proteins that
are divergent between species, remain species-speciﬁc in
zones of secondary contact, and functionally inﬂuence
the degree of reproductive isolation between species.
The responsibilities of the postdoc will include, but
are not limited to, basic statistical analyses, learning
and conducting proteomic techniques to identify ejacu-
late proteins, conducting molecular work such as PCR,
cloning, cDNA synthesis, dsRNA synthesis, and over-
seeing/conducting mating and behavior experiments to
test for protein functions. There are also ample oppor-
tunities for developing independent projects within this
system.
Required qualiﬁcations: (1) A Ph.D. in evolutionary
biology, molecular biology, biology, or a related ﬁeld.
(2) Experience with basic molecular techniques such as
PCR and cloning or a strong background in proteomics.
(3) Strong interest in evolutionary genetics and evolu-
tionary biology, as evidenced by dissertation research,
publications, and/or previous postdoc experience.
To apply, send the below items via e-mail to Dr. Jeremy
L. Marshall at cricket@ksu.edu
(1) Send a cover letter summarizing your research in-
terests and background as well as a statement on your
career goals. (2) A recent CV, including the names
and contact information of three persons that I may
contact for reference letters and/or more information
about you.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled or closed. The successful
candidate may begin immediately or anytime between
now and Fall 2010. Salary and beneﬁts are competitive
and have the potential to be renewed for 2 or 3 years.
Ph.D. degree must be completed by start date. Kansas
State University is an equal opportunity employer.June 1, 2009 EvolDir 67
Dr. Jeremy L. Marshall Department of Entomol-
ogy Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506
cricket@ksu.edu
LaurentianU
MinkPopulationGenetics
Post-Doctoral Opportunity in Population Genetics of
Domestic and Wild Mink American mink (Neovison vi-
son) have been domesticated for >100 years to sup-
ply the fur industry. Although much is known about
the eﬀects of escaped domestic mink in Europe and
South America where it is an exotic species, little is
known about these eﬀects in North America where
American mink are native. We have described a de-
cline in American mink across Canada that is asso-
ciated with the presence of mink farms. In addition,
we have documented a large proportion ( >50%) of
mink in free-ranging populations in Ontario are es-
caped domestic mink, or hybrids. As part of a NSERC
Strategic Grant, we are seeking a Post-Doctoral Fel-
low to continue our studies in Ontario, and to ex-
amine free-ranging populations in Nova Scotia for ev-
idence of escaped domestic mink and wild-domestic
hybrids. Nova Scotia has one of the highest mink
farm densities in Canada. The candidate will be part
of a group of researchers and students at Laurentian
University, Trent University and the Ontario Ministry
of Natural Resources that are additionally examining
the potential spread of a parvovirus (Aleutian dis-
ease) from mink farms into wild mink populations,
as well as the eﬀects of sexual selection on hybridiza-
tion between wild and domestic mink. We are espe-
cially looking for candidates with expertise in genetic
techniques and population genetic analysis. Interested
candidates should send a copy of their CV and the
names of two referees to Dr. Albrecht Schulte-Hostedde
(aschultehostedde@laurentian.ca) and Dr. Jeﬀ Bow-
man (jeﬀ.bowman@ontario.ca). Applications will be
accepted until July 31st, 2009 or until a suitable can-
didate has been identiﬁed.
Albrecht I. Schulte-Hostedde, PhD Associate Professor
Director - Wildlife Research Station ( http://-
www.uoguelph.ca/ ˜ wrs/ ) Department of Biology
Laurentian University Sudbury, Ontario, Canada
P3E 2C6 aschultehostedde@laurentian.ca (705)
675-1151 x2356 http://laurentian.ca/biology/-
aschultehostedde Albrecht Schulte-Hostedde<aschultehostedde@laurentian.ca >
MichiganStateU EvolutionInvasions
Post-doctoral Position in Evolutionary Ecology of Bio-
logical Invasions
I am searching for a creative, motivated post-doc to
work on an NSF-funded project on the evolutionary
ecology of biological invasions. The proposed research
applies community genetics to the study of biological
invasions to investigate how genetic variation in both
exotic and native community members inﬂuences the
outcome of biological invasions and to test the hypoth-
esis that the ?match? between the traits of the invad-
ing genotypes and the novel environment determines
invasion success. Goals of the project include: 1) Iden-
tifying how genetic variation in both native and ex-
otic species impact the invasion process; 2) Assessing
genotype-by-genotype interactions in a pair of strongly
interacting species, and 3) Investigating how environ-
mental variation inﬂuences the outcomes of genotype-
by-genotype interactions. For more details on research
conducted in the Lau lab see https://www.msu.edu/-
˜ jenlau/index.html . The primary responsibility of the
post-doc will be to implement experiments, analyze
data, and prepare manuscripts. The post-doc will be
housed at Michigan State University?s Kellogg Biolog-
ical Station ( http://www.kbs.msu.edu/[1] ) in Hickory
Corners, Michigan, but the position requires ﬁeld work
in California for several weeks each year.
Applicants must have (or nearly so) a Ph.D. in Ecol-
ogy, Evolution, Plant Biology or a related ﬁeld, and
should have experience performing large manipulative
ﬁeld and/or greenhouse experiments, analyzing data,
and completing manuscripts. Two years of funding
are available. Start date is ﬂexible, but Fall 2009 is
preferable. Interested parties should email a cover let-
ter explaining why they are interested in the position,
a CV, and a brief statement of research interests to
jenlau@msu.edu. Evaluation of applications will begin
28 May 2009 and continue until the position has been
ﬁlled.
Jennifer Lau Assistant Professor Kellogg Biological Sta-
tion and Dept. of Plant Biology Michigan State Uni-
versity jenlau@msu.edu phone: 269-671-2107 fax: 269-
671-2104
[1]http://www.kbs.msu.edu/ jenlau@msu.edu68 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Munich EvolutionaryBiology
Dear all,
With this e-mail I would like to encourage PhD stu-
dents and postdocs in the ﬁeld of evolution, ecology
and systematics to consider coming to the Univer-
sity of Munich to do a postdoc. Munich has a very
lively community of researchers working on a wide
range of topics in evolution, ecology and systemat-
ics. We have Master and PhD students from all over
the world. See http://www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki Next
to the “standard” options (Marie Curie, HFSP, Hum-
boldt) it is possible to apply for postdoc funding at
the Volkswagen Foundation. This foundation currently
funds projects in the ﬁeld of evolutionary biology. So
if you have an idea for a research project which you
would like to do in Munich and which has an evo-
lutionary focus, this funding option may be of inter-
est to you. The next deadline is the 15th of October
2009 (see http://www.volkswagenstiftung.de/funding/-
thematic-impetus/evolutionary-biology.html?L=1 )
For an overview of who works on what in Munich,
see the EES website http://www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/-
EES people . If you are considering applying for a Volk-
swagen Foundation fellowship, please contact the per-
son you would like to work with. Alternatively, you can
contact me ﬁrst (Pleuni Pennings, pennings@lmu.de).
Best wishes, Pleuni Pennings
–
Pleuni S. Pennings
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
* Postdoc in theoretical evolutionary biology
Evolutionary Biology, Department Biologie II Univer-
sity of Munich (LMU) Großhaderner Str. 2 D-82152
Planegg-Martinsried
Tel: 0049 89 2180 74 234 http://www.eeslmu.de/-
eeswiki/Pleuni Pennings pennings@lmu.de
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.deQueenMaryU EvolutionaryBiol
Details of several postdoctoral projects at Queen
Mary University of London are advertised at
on this site http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/research/-
postdoc projects.shtml The subset with a particu-
larly evolutionary/genetics ﬂavour are ˆ a Theoretical
and Empirical Studies of Human Cultural Evolution ˆ a
The statistical analysis of spatial genetic data ˆ a Social
learning across species boundaries ˆ a How fast should
colour vision be? An electrophysiological study of
the early visual system ˆ a Human sexual orientation ˆ a
Plant cytogenetics and genome evolution ˆ a Compara-
tive physiology and evolution of neuropeptide signalling
systems ˆ a Neurobiology, neuropathology and evolution
of endocannabinoid signalling ˆ a Computational analy-
sis of the evolution of conserved vertebrate cis- regula-
tory elements ˆ a Functional analysis of vertebrate regu-
latory elements in the developing embryo ˆ a Evolution-
ary changes in arthropod neurogenesis ˆ a Using genomic
data to study the evolutionary dynamics of duplicate
genes ˆ a Developing new approaches to phylogenomics
ˆ a Research in crossmodal cognition ˆ a Two-component
regulatory systems in chloroplasts ˆ a Genetics of metal
metabolism in Drosophila
Richard Nichols <r.a.nichols@qmul.ac.uk >
RutgersU QuantGenetics
Postdoctoral Fellow Quantitative and Molecular Genet-
ics
A postdoctoral associate position in the ﬁeld of Quan-
titative/ Molecular genetics and genomics is available.
The successful candidate will have the opportunity
to work on identifying and characterizing novel clock
components using quantitative genetics/genomics and
molecular approaches. Candidates with doctoral de-
grees in genetics, molecular biology, or related ﬁelds
with strong training in a quantitative ﬁeld, such as
statistics, biostatistics, bioinformatics are encouraged
to apply. This project is funded by NSF for three
years. Applicants should submit a statement of re-
search interests, curriculum vitae, pdf ﬁles of publi-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 69
cation, and contact information of three references to
kwang1@camden.rutgers.edu.
Kwangwon Lee, Ph.D. Department of Biology Center
for Computational & Integrative Biology Rutgers Uni-
versity Science Building, Room 202 315 Penn Street
Camden, NJ 08102-1411
Reference: Kim T-S, Logsdon BA, Park S, Mezey JG,
Lee K. 2007 Quantitative trait loci for the circadian
clock in Neurospora crassa. Genetics 177:2335-2347.
Michael TP, Park S, Kim T-S, Booth J, Byer A, Sun Q,
Chory J, Lee K. 2007 Simple sequence repeats provide
a substrate for phenotypic variation in the Neurospora
crassa circadian clock. PLoS ONE 2: e795
Kim T-S, Booth J, Gauch HGJ, Sun Q, Park J, Lee Y-
H, Lee K. 2008 Simple sequence repeats in Neurospora
crassa: distribution, polymorphism and evolutionary
inference. BMC Genomics 9:31.
Kwangwon Lee <kl272@cornell.edu >
SaoPaulo
SugarcaneGenomeOrganization
Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Molecular Biology is avail-
able to study sugarcane genome organization and gene
expression associated to the presence of Transposable
elements under the supervision of Dr. Marie-Anne Van
Sluys. Our group has a tradition to study the associ-
ation of Transposable elements and genomes and their
impact in gene/genome structure and gene regulation.
Experimental infrastructure to use molecular, cellular,
genetic, and transgenic plant techniques are available
to investigate the regulation of genome.
The PD position is associated to the Sugarcane genome
sequencing initiative within a BioEnergy-FAPESP pro-
gram. The proposed project involves sequencing of
300 selected BACs using pyrosequencing and Sanger
technologies. Assembly and annotation pipelines are
available. Three questions will be addressed: How are
these elements contributing to allelic variation in sugar-
cane genome and expression proﬁle of genes of interest
(BRIX, drought, RGAs and high CO2 environment?
What is the diversity of chromatin target binding sites
of selected transposases? How are the identiﬁed TE
lineages diversifying in Saccharum genome compared
to other Saccharineae and Poaceae species?
It is expected to use SSA-P methodology and RBIPderived markers to provide tools for screening allelic
variations and dosage in progenies interest. Other high
throughput technologies, such as microarray, are avail-
able.
For additional information, visit our web site at
GaTE Lab http://www.ib.usp.br/gate/ BIOEN pro-
gram http://bioenfapesp.org/ Applications should be
sent to: mavsluys@usp.br Include a curriculum vitae,
bibliography, cover letter with a brief description of re-
search experience and interests, and the names of 3 ref-
erences along with their postal and e-mail addresses.
Best regards,
Marie-Anne
Marie-Anne Van Sluys, Full Professor GaTE Lab
(Genomics and Transposable elements) Departamento
de Botˆ anica-IBUSP rua do Matao, 277 05508-900;
S˜ ao Paulo, SP, BRASIL tel:55-11-30917759 fax:55-11-
30917724 email:mavsluys@usp.br
mavsluys@usp.br
StonyBrook
EvolutionFlightMetabolism
Postdoctoral Position at Stony Brook V Physiological
genetics of ﬂight metabolism
A three year NSF-supported postdoctoral position is
available in the ﬁeld of physiological genetics of ﬂight
metabolism using Drosophila melanogaster as a model.
The project involves the study of the eﬀects of the
glycolytic pathway on ﬂight performance [see Eanes,
W. F., T. J. Merritt, J. M. Flowers, S. Kumagai, E.
Sezgin et al. 2006 Flux control and excess capac-
ity in the enzymes of glycolysis and their relation-
ship to ﬂight metabolism in Drosophila melanogaster.
Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A. 103: 19413-19418]. More
speciﬁcally, the position involves P-element knockout
and genetic manipulation of genes involved with path-
way steps. Candidates with a Ph.D. in genetics, phys-
iology, molecular biology, or related ﬁelds with strong
training in a quantitative skills are encouraged to ap-
ply. The position is available immediately. Appli-
cants should submit a statement of personal research
interests, curriculum vitae, publication PDFs, and
addresses for references to walter@life.bio.sunysb.edu.
Walt Eanes, Dept. of Ecology and Evolution, Stony
Brook University, Stony Brook, New York 1179470 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Thanks, Walt
Walter F. Eanes Professor Dept. of Ecology and Evo-
lution Stony Brook University Stony Brook, New York
11794
weanes@notes.cc.sunysb.edu
Switzerland RapidEvolution
Diversity
Sorry for any cross postings.
Post-doctoral position in physiological and experimen-
tal plant ecology
The goal of the interdisciplinary project SPatially Ex-
plicit Evolution of Diversity (SPEED) is to understand
how evolutionary history and the potential for rapid
evolution can inﬂuence the response to climate change
by species, biotic communities, and regional patterns of
biological diversity. The project focuses on species in
the Restionaceae, a family of grass-like monocots that
are primarily found in the fynbos of South Africa. The
project employs the tools of molecular phylogenetics,
evolutionary modeling across phylogenies, ﬁeld experi-
mentation, plant physiology, community phylogenetics
and niche modeling. Collaborating institutions include
the University of Lausanne, the University of Zurich
and the Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL. SPEED
is funded by the Sinergia program of the Swiss National
Fund for Science (SNF). There are three open positions,
each with funding for three years. Here is the post-doc
position:
Post-doctoral research in physiological and experimen-
tal plant ecology. This position will focus on study
of the relationship between the fundamental and re-
alized ecological niches of species in the Restionaceae.
Experimental work will be done in greenhouse facili-
ties in Switzerland and potentially include substantial
ﬁeldwork in South Africa. The researcher’s primary as-
sociation will be with the Linder lab at the University
of Zurich. The position will include some project man-
agement (not more than 20%).
Applications MUST be received no later than Sunday,
May 31, 2009. Interviews to be held fourth week in
June. Start date in September, 2009. For further in-
formation about the SPEED project:
http://www.wsl.ch/projects/SPEED Please contact
Peter B. Pearman or the relevant person linked to yourinterest. The SPEED project proposal is available to
interested applicants upon request.
To apply, send the following materials, as separate PDF
ﬁles: 1. PDF of cover letter, addressed to The SPEED
Search Committee, indicating –position applied for –
your career goals –your research interests in context of
the SPEED project –a detail of how the previous expe-
rience and skills shown in your CV prepare you speciﬁ-
cally for the position for which you are applying 2. PDF
of CV, complete, showing contact information, titles of
thesis and dissertation, dates, universities, research ex-
perience, notable skills, advanced courses, publication
list, posters and talks presented, awards, service, etc...
3. PDF of the abstract of your Ph.D. dissertation re-
search 4. PDF of university report of coursework, show-
ing grades and degrees earned (must be in English) 5+.
PDF’s of published papers and papers in-press.
Send application as e-mail with attachments, with the
following subject line:
SPEED Project Postdoc
to:
sibylle.hauser@wsl.ch
Don’t forget the deadline!
– Peter B. Pearman, Ph.D. Land Use Dynamics Fed-
eral Research Institute WSL Z¨ urcherstrasse 111 8903
Birmensdorf Switzerland
pearman@wsl.ch Tel. ++41 (0)44 739 2524 Fax ++41
(0)44 739 2215
TulaneU
HawaiianFishBiogeographyGenetics
Postdoctoral Position in Biogeography and Genetics of
Hawaiian Fishes
A postdoctoral research associate position is available
in the Blum Lab ( www.tulane.edu/˜mjblum ) in the De-
partment of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology at Tulane
University. The incumbent will engage in DoD funded
research on the landscape genetics and biogeography of
amphidromous ﬁshes native to the Hawaiian Islands.
The research focuses on (1) development and use of
genetic tools for assessing aquatic environmental con-
dition of oceanic island stream ecosystems (2) assessing
metapopulation dynamics and phylogeography of am-
phidromous ﬁshes across the Hawaiian archipelago andJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 71
(3) comparing genetic assays of dispersal with estimates
based on otolith microchemistry. The incumbent will
be encouraged to develop additional research areas that
complement these set objectives.
Preference will be given to candidates possessing in-
depth knowledge of molecular techniques and ﬁeld
based studies of stream ﬁshes. An initial appointment
will be for one year, with continuation for at least one
additional year dependent upon performance. A start
date of August 1 2009 or a mutually agreeable date in
late Summer 2009 is strongly preferred. Salary will be
commensurate with experience and qualiﬁcations. Send
via email attachment a letter of application, curricu-
lum vitae, statement of research interests, and names
and addresses of three references to Dr. Michael Blum
at mjblum@tulane.edu .Tulane University is an Aﬃr-
mative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity Em-
ployer. Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.
“Blum, Michael J ” <mjblum@tulane.edu >
UAixMarseille
SpatialGeneticDiversity
A postdoctoral position (12 moths) is available in IMEP
(UMR 6116 CNRS/IRD) at University of Aix-Marseille
(France) on the following subject : Spatial ecology in
agricultural landscape: from genotypes to plant com-
munities.
This postdoc opportunity is available to start in 2009
and is adressed to doctors who have done and obtained
their PhD elsewhere than in France. The salary is
about 1945 euros/month.
The objective is to investigate spatial structure of
geneitic diversity and plant communities in relation-
ships with hypothesis of eﬀect of landscape struc-
ture and history on microevolution process in the
Champsaur valley (South Alps). This work will be
based on spatially explicite collection of genotypes,
ﬂoristic relev´ es, and landscape structure data for two
herbaceous species (Primula vulgaris and Moehringia
trinervia) occuring within the same habitat.
Qualiﬁcations: the candidate should have a strong
background in spatial ecology and SIG analysis. Plant
population genetic or ecology experiences will be also
favourable. The candidate will collaborate to achieve
integration of genetic and communities according to
landscape or communities genetics approaches. Know-ing that ﬁeld and lab data are already obtained, most
of the work will be adressed to data analysis, modelling
and publishing. There will be opportunities to develop
similar projects on mediterranean landscape within and
outside the lab.
DEADLINE : 13/06
For further details or published papers on the
subject : Pascal.Campagne@legs.cnrs-gif.fr or
alex.baumel@univ-cezanne.fr.
To apply please send a CV to Alex Baumel
(alex.baumel@univ-cezanne.fr), Pascal Campagne
(Pascal.Campagne@legs.cnrs-gif.fr), and Thierry
Tatoni (thierry.tatoni@univ-cezanne.fr).
IMEP web site : http://www.imep-cnrs.com Alex
BAUMEL <alex.baumel@univ-cezanne.fr >
UArizona AlgalEvolution
A postdoctoral position is immediately available
in the laboratory of Jeremiah Hackett ( http:/-
/www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Faculty/Hackett/-
Home.html ), Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Department, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona.
The successful candidate will use genomic approaches
to investigate the ecology, physiology and evolution
of saxitoxin producing dinoﬂagellate algae. We are
using next-generation sequencing and gene expression
methods to understand harmful algal bloom formation
and toxin production and comparative genomics to
investigate the origin and evolution of genes involved
in the production of toxins and other secondary
metabolites. This is a NSF-supported position for 1
year, renewable for an additional year with satisfactory
performance. With your application, submit a CV
and a statement of interest describing your previous
research experience and two (2) letters of reference.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations: We are looking for a highly
motivated individual with a Ph.D. degree and with
demonstrated ability to carry out outstanding research
in the ﬁelds of genetics, genomics, algal ecology, or re-
lated ﬁelds.
Experience with molecular biology techniques and
demonstrated communication skills are essential quali-
ﬁcations.
Preferred Qualiﬁcations: Previous research experiences
with harmful algae, functional genomics, phylogenet-72 EvolDir June 1, 2009
ics and molecular evolution, and/or bioinformatics are
highly desirable.
Direct questions and inquires regarding this position to
Jeremiah Hackett (hackettj@email.arizona.edu)
Please apply to this posting via the University of Ari-
zona’s careers website:
www.uacareertrack.com/applicants/-
Central?quickFind4658 Jeremiah D. Hackett Assistant
Professor University of Arizona Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Department Biosciences West 336 1041
E. Lowell St. Tucson, AZ 85721 Ph: (520) 621-7514
Fax: (520) 621-9190 hackettj@email.arizona.edu
Jeremiah Hackett <hackettj@email.arizona.edu >
UArizona GeneNetworkEvolution
Two postdoc positions are available to work with
PI Joanna Masel ( http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/-
masel ) at the University of Arizona in Tucson. The
Masel group’s main research interests are in evolvabil-
ity, gene networks, canalization, and evolutionary ca-
pacitance, using a mixture of analytical theory, bioin-
formatic and simulation approaches. Both positions are
renewable over multiple years, and are available imme-
diately.
One position will be to study the properties of cryptic
genetic variation and evolvability via evolutionary ca-
pacitance using theoretical population genetics and/or
bioinformatic approaches. Ph.D. with a strong quan-
titative background and computational and/or model-
ing experience is required. A background in evolution-
ary theory is strongly preferred. Some interest in the
molecular biology of transcription, translation, protein
folding and the errors in each of these processes is an
advantage.
The second position involves completing the implemen-
tation of a computational model of transcriptional net-
works that is both realistic enough to be related to yeast
data and simple enough for evolution to be rapidly sim-
ulated. The model will then be used to study a range
of questions, including network topology and the evo-
lution of robustness/canalization to mutation, to the
environment, and to the stochasticity associated with
small numbers of molecules in cells. This project is
a collaboration with Mark Siegal ( www.nyu.edu/fas/-
dept/biology/faculty/siegal ) at NYU. Ph.D. with scien-
tiﬁc programming experience is required. Experience inevolutionary biology, genomics, systems biology, math-
ematical modeling and/or the biology of transcription
factors and their binding sites is preferred.
Contact Joanna Masel at masel@u.arizona.edu for more
information and to apply for either position.
masel@U.Arizona.EDU masel@U.Arizona.EDU
UBourgogne NeuroEvoParasito
Project title: Neurophysiological basis of parasite ma-
nipulation: how do acanthocephalan parasites interfere
with the serotonergic pathway of their crustacean host
?
A postdoctoral associate is sought to collaborate on a
highly original project at the interface between inver-
tebrate neurophysiology and behavioral ecology. The
main goal of the project is to understand the neuro-
physiological basis of parasite manipulation. Parasite
manipulation is deﬁned as the ability, shared by sev-
eral parasite groups, to modify their hosts behaviour in
ways that enhance their own transmission, for instance
through increasing the intermediate hosts vulnerabil-
ity to predation by the ﬁnal host. We are speciﬁcally
investigating how parasites interfere with the serotoner-
gic system of their host to alter behavioural perception
and/or response to environmental cues (such as pho-
totactism or chemotactism). The project will use the
amphipod Gammarus pulex and its acanthocephalan
parasites Pomphorhynchus sp. as a model system. It
will address how reaction to light and/or odor is con-
troled by serotonin (receptors involved) and whether
parasites are altering certain components of the sero-
tonergic pathway (serotonin brain/hemolymph concen-
trations, post-traductional changes in 5HT-receptors,
changes in SERT gene expression...).
The candidates should have a PhD in neurophysiology,
or in behavioural ecology with research experience in in-
vertebrate neurobiology. Experience with biochemical
techniques (western blot, ELISA, HPLC, immunocyto-
chemistry, analysis of post-traductional modiﬁcations)
are requested. Skills in proteomics or gene expression
analysis will also be considered.
The successful applicant will join the evolutionary
ecology lab at University of Dijon, France, and be
jointly supervised by Professor Frank Cezilly ( www.u-
bourgogne.fr/BIOGEOSCIENCE/cv/cezilly ) and Dr.
Marie-Jeanne Perrot-Minnot ( www.u-bourgogne.fr/-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 73
BIOGEOSCIENCE/perrot ). The position will be ap-
pointed for two years with a net salary of 2500 eu-
ros/month Start date is negotiable from september to
december 2009. Applicants are requested to email
a letter of introduction and motivation, CV, and
references to fcezill@u-bourgogne.fr and mjperrot@u-
bourgogne.fr. The deadline for application is may the
28th, 2009
*** Marie-Jeanne Perrot-Minnot Associate Professor
Ecology Evolution lab UMR CNRS 5561 Biogeosciences
Univ. Bourgogne 6 Bd Gabriel 21000 Dijon France
Marie-Jeanne Perrot-Minnot <mjperrot@u-
bourgogne.fr >
UBritishColumbia EvolGenomics
A Postdoctoral Fellow position is available in the lab
of Dr. Keith Adams at the University of British
Columbia in the area of evolutionary genomics. My
lab’s research combines evolutionary biology with
molecular genetics and bioinformatics approaches to
study how gene expression, regulation, structures,
and sequences evolve. See my web page at http:/-
/www.botany.ubc.ca/people/adams.htm for a descrip-
tion of current research. I am looking for a postdoc to
study evolutionary genomics of alternative intron splic-
ing patterns in plants. Projects may include examining
alternative splicing in hybrids using RNA-seq transcrip-
tome proﬁling and analyzing selective forces acting on
alternatively spliced introns. The postdoc can develop
an independent project as well. The postdoc can inter-
act with postdocs in other labs, including the Rieseberg
and Cronk labs, who study evolutionary genomics and
use next generation sequencing to answer evolutionary
questions. My lab is housed in new research building
with excellent computational infrastructure.
Candidates should have a strong background in evo-
lutionary genomics, molecular evolution, bioinformat-
ics, or genome analysis in any organism. Experience
with computational analysis of sequence or expression
data is required as is the ability to do scripting in Perl
or Python. Experience with next generation sequence
analysis (Solexa, 454, or SOLiD) is desirable but not
required. The start date can be any time between late
June 2009 and early January 2010. Funding is available
for at least two years.
For more information contact Keith Adams at kei-
tha@interchange.ubc.ca Informal inquiries about theresearch area and projects are welcome. To apply, send
a CV, a description of your research interests and your
Ph.D. research, and contact information for three ref-
erences to the above email address.
Keith Adams Assistant Professor Botany Department
and Centre for Plant Research University of British
Columbia Vancouver, Canada
keitha@interchange.ubc.ca keitha@interchange.ubc.ca
UCaliforniaBerkeley
FungalCompartiveGenomics
–== -969864445== ma=======
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=“us-ascii” ;
format=“ﬂowed”
Postdoctoral Scholar Position in fungal comparative ge-
nomics available July 1, 2009 at the University of Cal-
ifornia, Berkeley in the laboratory of John W. Taylor
Our research involves comparative genomics and com-
parative transciptomics among and within species in
Ascomycete fungi. With knowledge of species and pop-
ulations, we are using evolutionary biology to address
fungal adaptation in the broad sense. We have com-
pared Sanger genomes of two sibling species and related
fungi to ﬁnd genes whose history of selection makes
them candidates for adaptation, including gene family
expansions, gene gain and loss, rapid evolution, and an
excess of replacement substitutions (in press at Genome
Research). Now, we are obtaining data on transcription
(Illumina RNA-seq), resequenced population samples
(Illumina) and sequences of close relatives (de novo, Il-
lumina) to add population and phylogenetic approaches
to detect selection on proteins.
For details, interested applicants with experience in
computational biology and evolutionary biology should
contact John Taylor at jtaylor@nature.berkeley.edu.
John Taylor Department of Plant and Microbial
Biology 111 Koshland Hall Berkeley, CA 94720
jtaylor@nature.berkeley.edu http://pmb.berkeley.edu/-
˜taylor/ –
John Taylor, Department of Plant and Microbial
Biology, 111 Koshland Hall, University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, CA 94720-3102 Tel(510) 642-5366,
Fax(510) 642-4995, jtaylor@nature.berkeley.edu lab
web site: http://pmb.berkeley.edu/ ˜ taylor/ jtay-
lor@nature.berkeley.edu jtaylor@nature.berkeley.edu74 EvolDir June 1, 2009
UCaliforniaIrvine
PlantComparativeGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER/SCHOLAR PO-
SITION
A postdoctoral position in plant evolutionary genetics
is available immediately in the Department of Ecology
& Evolutionary Biology at the University of California,
Irvine. The aim of the project is comparative evolu-
tionary analysis of plant genomic sequence data, partic-
ularly comparisons of Arabidopsis thaliana to the new
genome sequences of Arabidopsis lyrata and Capsella
rubella.
The successful applicant must have a PhD and demon-
strated expertise in molecular evolution and bioinfor-
matics methods. To apply for this position, please send
a statement of interest, a CV, and contact information
for 3 references to:
Dr. Brandon S. Gaut bgaut@uci.edu
You can learn more about the interests and projects in
the lab by visiting titus.bio.uci.edu
The University of California, Irvine has an active ca-
reer partner program, is an equal opportunity employer
committed to excellence through diversity, and has a
National Science Foundation Advance Gender Equity
Program.
bgaut@uci.edu
UCalifornia SantaBarbara
EvolutionaryTheory
A postdoctoral position in evolutionary theory is cur-
rently available in the Proulx lab at UCSB. The post-
doc would participate in an NSF funded project to de-
velop theory describing the evolution of genetic inter-
actions in an ecological context. The postdoc is ex-
pected to design their own research project within the
broader scope of the funded research. Interested appli-
cants should have a strong background in evolutionary
theory, mathematical modeling, and interests in either
organismal adaptation or molecular evolution.UCSB has an active group working in several areas of
theoretical biology. Areas of expertise include popu-
lation dynamics, ecological epidemiology, systems biol-
ogy, complex systems, and population genetics.
To apply, please send an email with a letter of inter-
est and cv to postdoc@proulxresearch.org and include
“theory postdoc” in the subject.
For more information on the lab and our research
see http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/faculty/-
proulx/index.html http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/426873
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.0014-3820.2006.tb01168.x
– Stephen Proulx Assistant Professor Ecology,
Evolution, and Marine Biology UC Santa Barbara
proulx@lifesci.ucsb.edu
stephen.proulx@gmail.com
UCDavis StatPopGenomics
A postdoctoral position in statistical population ge-
nomics is currently available in the Rannala re-
search group at the Genome Center <http://-
genomics.ucdavis.edu >and Department of Evolution
and Ecology at UC Davis. The postdoc would par-
ticipate in an NIH funded project aimed at develop-
ing statistical methods and algorithms for analyzing
genome-wide SNP data to infer recombination rates,
demographic parameters, and human genetic disease
associations. Candidates should have a recent Ph.D. in
theoretical population genetics, statistics, or a related
area, and strong programming skills. Prior experience
analyzing human population genomic data is desirable
but not essential. Funding is available for a period of
up to 3 years.
To apply, please send an email with a letter of inter-
est, CV, and the names (and email addresses) of two
references to brannala@ucdavis.edu.
– Bruce Rannala, Professor Genome Center and De-
partment of Evolution and Ecology University of Cali-
fornia Davis Ph: 530-754-4060
Bruce Rannala <brannala@gmail.com >
UEastAnglia WarblerFitnessJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 75
The following postdoc position has become available
again due to the previously chosen candidate being un-
able to take up the position
Telomeres as biomarkers of costs and quality in the Sey-
chelles warbler
UEA SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
SENIOR RESEARCH ASSOCIATE Ref: RA519
29,704 to 35,469 per annum
This NERC funded postdoctoral position is available
from June 2009 for a period of two years and nine
months to undertake a comprehensive longitudinal
study of telomere shortening in a wild avian popula-
tion. The researcher will help to develop and then
utilise molecular protocols to screen for telomere length
in the Seychelles warbler. You must have, or shortly ob-
tain, a PhD (or equivalent) in a relevant discipline, have
a keen interest in understanding life history trade-oﬀs
and senescence and have practical experience in modern
molecular techniques.
Closing date: 12 noon on Thursday 2 April 2009. This
is a readvertisement but previous applicants are wel-
come to apply.
Further particulars and an application form are
available on our website: www.uea.ac.uk/hr/jobs/
<ﬁle:///C: \Documents%20and%20Settings \k483 \
Local%20Settings \Temporary%20Internet%20Files \
OLK1A \www.uea.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ > or Tel. 01603
593493.
David S Richardson Centre for Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation School of Biological Sciences University of
East Anglia e-mail: david.richardson@uea.ac.uk Nor-
wich NR4 7TJ ph: (44) 01603 591496 ENGLAND fax:
(44) 01603 592250
http://biobis.bio.uea.ac.uk/biosql/fac show.aspx?ID=
325
“Richardson David Dr (BIO)”
<David.Richardson@uea.ac.uk >
UIdaho EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Researcher in Evolutionary Genomics:
University of Idaho
Position Description: A postdoctoral position is avail-
able in the laboratory of Dr. Erica Rosenblum to study
evolutionary genomics of the deadly chytrid fungus, thepathogen implicated in global amphibian declines. The
postdoctoral scientist will be involved in research using
comparative and functional genomics tools to better un-
derstand the genetic basis of chytrid pathogenicity and
the dynamics of host- pathogen interactions. The post-
doctoral scholar will specialize on the empirical and/or
computational aspects of the project depending on in-
terest and prior experience. The ideal candidate will
have a strong bioinformatics background and will be
involved in the analysis and synthesis of genome-scale
datasets, with a particular emphasis on computational
analysis of next generation 454 and Solexa data. How-
ever, applicants with a background in molecular biology
or genetics will also be considered for empirical aspects
of the project. The successful candidate will contribute
to existing collaborative projects across multiple insti-
tutions and will also be expected to develop new in-
dependent research directions. The start-date for this
position will be summer or fall 2009, and salary will be
commensurate with current NIH guidelines.
Qualiﬁcations: Minimum qualiﬁcations include a Ph.D.
in Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Statistics,
Molecular Biology or a related ﬁeld. For computational
applicants, demonstrated experience in bioinformatics
and proﬁciency in programming is necessary. For em-
pirical applicants, demonstrated experience in molecu-
lar biology and genetics is required. For all applicants,
experience with next generation sequencing is desirable
but not required. Ability to communicate clearly, work
independently, and interact collaboratively is essential.
To Apply: Details about the job responsibilities and
the necessary qualiﬁcations can be found at https://-
www.sites.uidaho.edu/AppTrack/Agency/Applicant/-
ViewAnnouncement.asp?announcement no=-
12508082883 . Applications consisting of 1) a
CV, 2) a statement of research interests and expe-
rience including how previous experience relates to
the position description (2 page max) and 3) contact
information for three references must be submitted
online at www.hr.uidaho.edu . Review of applications
will begin June 11th, 2009 and continue until the po-
sition is ﬁlled. Informal inquiries are welcome. Please
contact Erica Rosenblum at rosenblum@uidaho.edu.
General information about the lab can be found at
ttp://people.ibest.uidaho.edu/ ~bree/.
About University of Idaho: The successful applicant
will be aﬃliated with the Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences ( http://www.uiweb.uidaho.edu/biology ),
the Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Pro-
gram ( http://www.bcb.uidaho.edu ), and the Initiative
for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies ( http://-
www.ibest.uidaho.edu ). These groups support a world-
class genomics facility and have a strong culture of col-76 EvolDir June 1, 2009
laboration among evolutionary, statistical, mathemat-
ical and computational biologists. The postdoctoral
researcher will join a community of highly interactive
research labs working on disease genomics. The Uni-
versity of Idaho is in the Palouse region of northern
Idaho and is ten miles from the main campus of Wash-
ington State University. The successful candidate will
also work closely with collaborators at the University
of California (Berkeley and Riverside campuses), the
University of Michigan, and Florida State University.
The University of Idaho is hosting the 2009 Evolution
meetings this summer.
Erica Bree Rosenblum, Ph.D. Assistant Professor De-
partment of Biological Sciences Life Sciences South 346
University of Idaho Moscow, ID 83844-3051
oﬃce phone: (208) 885-1007 email: rosen-
blum@uidaho.edu
Erica Bree Rosenblum <rosenblum@uidaho.edu >
UKoblenzLandau
EvolutionaryGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY
GENETICS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF KOBLENZ-
LANDAU
Academic appointment is within the University’s De-
partment of Environmental Sciences, section MOLEC-
ULAR ECOLOGY, and the position is based at Lan-
dau (Rhineland-Palatinate). The position’s distribu-
tion is 60% research and 40% administration and educa-
tion. The successful candidate is expected to establish
an extramurally funded research program, attract and
mentor successful graduate students, and mentor un-
dergraduate researchers. Area of research is ecological
genetics using model organisms such as Daphnia. Re-
search activities should complement existing strengths
at the environmental sciences department. Possibilities
include (but are not limited to) invasive species ecol-
ogy, restoration ecology and experimental evolutionary
biology.
The successful candidate should have the equivalent of
a master’s degree, diploma or Ph.D. in biology, a ﬁrm
background in evolutionary biology, experience with
molecular techniques and a strong commitment to basic
research. The applicant should have a strong publica-
tion record, very good written and oral English lan-
guage skills, ﬂuency in German and interest in joininga multidisciplinary research team are required. The po-
sition is open starting June 2009 and available at maxi-
mum for six years; pay and conditions are according to
the German 1,0 EGr. 13 TV-L scale for civil servants.
The University Koblenz-Landau advocates gender
equality. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to
apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference. Closing date for applications is
26st May 2009. Please send your application (us-
ing the reference number 31/2009) including a de-
tailed CV, 3 references, a list of publications and
three selected reprints, to the Pr¨ asident der Univer-
sit¨ at Koblenz-Landau, Pr¨ asidialamt, Isaac-Fulda-Allee
3, 55124 Mainz, Germany. For enquiries about the sci-
entiﬁc framework and practical work please write to
Prof. Dr. Klaus Schwenk. E-mail: schwenk@uni-
landau.de
schwenk@uni-landau.de
ULausanne SocialEvolution
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION, SOCIAL EVOLU-
TION AND ANTI-PARASITE DEFENCES, LAU-
SANNE
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral position in
the research group of Michel Chapuisat (Department
of Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne). We
study social evolution, social conﬂicts and collective de-
fences against parasites in ants. Please look at http:/-
/www.unil.ch/dee/page7000.html for information and
references.
The project will focus on (1) the impact of ento-
mopathogenic fungi on ant societies of various degrees
of complexity and (2) the collective defences of ants
against fungi. The main model system will be the so-
cially polymorphic ant Formica selysi and several of its
naturally occurring fungal pathogens. The project can
take various directions and there will be scope to accom-
modate personal ideas or individual research projects.
Along with solid background in evolutionary biology,
experience in one or more of the following areas would
be an asset: behavioural ecology, host-parasite rela-
tionship, microbiology, fungal biology, chemical ecol-
ogy, molecular techniques, population genetics.
The position is funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation and is available for three years, with a pos-June 1, 2009 EvolDir 77
sibility of extension. The gross salary starts at 58’994
CHF per annum. Starting date is negotiable, from
September 2009 onwards. The Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution is large and thriving, and provides
excellent facilities for research and training (see http:/-
/www.unil.ch/dee/ ).
Informal enquiries and applications should be sent to
Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch. Applications should include
a cover letter, complete CV with publication list, and
contact details of three referees, preferentially embed-
ded in a single pdf ﬁle.
I will review the applications on 22 June 2009, but will
continue to consider incoming applications until the po-
sition is ﬁlled.
Michel Chapuisat <Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch >
Michel Chapuisat
Department of Ecology and Evolution Biophore,
Quartier Sorge University of Lausanne CH-1015 Lau-
sanne (Switzerland)
Ph: +4121 6924178 http://www.unil.ch/-
dee/page7642.html Michel Chapuisat
<Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch >
ULyon SexChromosomeEvolution
Postdoctoral position on the origin and evolution of
young plant sex chromosomes
An ANR-funded postdoc position (2 years) is avail-
able in Gabriel Marais’ lab at the University of Lyon
(France).
The project will focus on Silene latifolia a dioecious
plant species with X and Y chromosomes. This species
is emerging as a model species for the understand-
ing of the evolution of sex chromosomes. The aim of
the project will be to use the genomic resources that
have recently become available in S. latifolia (BAC se-
quences, ESTs and microarrays) to investigate several
points in relation to the origin and evolution of XY in
this species: XY recombination suppression, Y degen-
eration, and sex determination. We collaborate on this
project with Prof. Alex Widmer’s lab (ETH Zurich).
We seek a highly motivated candidate with skills in
data analysis and a strong interest in genome evolution
and evolutionary biology in general. A PhD in one or
several of the following ﬁelds is expected: bioinformat-ics, genomics, molecular evolution, population genet-
ics, biostatistics. The applicant does not need to be a
French speaker.
We are part of the Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics group, which includes about 25 people (includ-
ing Laurent Duret and Manolo Gouy). The BGE group
has a long-standing experience in bioinformatics and of-
fers a very stimulating scientiﬁc environment (highest
rate by CNRS at last evaluation in 2006). We have a
vast range of locally available bioinformatics tools and
excellent computing facilities (UNIX servers, PC clus-
ters). Our weekly lab meeting and journal club are
held in English. Find more details at http://lbbe.univ-
lyon1.fr/ . Lyon is the 2nd largest French city. Its
city center has been classiﬁed “world heritage” by UN-
ESCO and Lyon is considered French capital of gastron-
omy. Excellent public transports exist within the city
(metro, bus, tramway, public bikes), and to the nearby
Alps, Paris (two hours by train) and the rest of Europe.
To apply, please send to Gabriel Marais (email:
marais@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr): a letter describing
your research motivation and experience, a CV includ-
ing publication list, full contact details of two scientiﬁc
referees.
The position should start on fall 2009. Annual gross
salary will be about 28,000 euros. Review of materials
will begin late April and will continue until the position
is ﬁlled. For further information, please contact:
Dr. Gabriel Marais Bioinformatics and Evolutionary
Genomics group Institute for Biometrics and Evo-
lutionary Biology University of Lyon Campus de la
Doua, Villeurbanne Email: marais@biomserv.univ-
lyon1.fr Website: http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-
-Marais-Gabriel-.html?lang=en Gabriel Marais
<marais@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr >
UManchester
VertebrateComparativeGenomics
Post Doctoral Research Associate - Comparative Ge-
nomics of Gene Regulation in Vertebrates
University Of Manchester Faculty Of Life Sciences Ref-
erence: LS/90559 Closing date: 28/05/2009
Based in the laboratory of Dr. Casey Bergman, we
seek a capable and enthusiastic computational biologist
to study the comparative genomics of gene expression
in vertebrates as part of an FP7-funded consortium of78 EvolDir June 1, 2009
experimental and computational groups in France, Ger-
many, Italy and the UK. This project will involve the
analysis of genome-wide sequence and expression data
in vertebrates to gain insight into the cis- regulatory
logic and evolution of transcriptional control in neural
stem cells.
You should have (or expect to hold shortly) a relevant
PhD or equivalent appropriate postdoctoral level expe-
rience in Bioinformatics/ Computational Biology, Evo-
lutionary Genetics, Comparative Genomics, Gene Ex-
pression, Computer Science or related disciplines. This
position is tenable for up to 2 years and salary will be
£28,839 - £31,514 per annum.
Informal enquiries can be addressed to: Dr.
Casey Bergman Tel: +44 (0)161 275 1713 Email:
casey.bergman[at]manchester.ac.uk < http://-
www.bioinf.manchester.ac.uk/bergman/ >
Application forms and further particulars can be
obtained at: <http://www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/-
about/jobs/job/index.asp?ref=3D154458 > < http:/-
/www.manchester.ac.uk/ contentlibrary/ vacancies/-
furtherparticularsmax10mbpdf,154458,en.pdf >
Information on computational biology research at the
University of Manchester can be found at: <http://-
www.manchester.ac.uk/ bioinformatics >.
casey.bergman@manchester.ac.uk
casey.bergman@manchester.ac.uk
UMichigan EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Genomics at
University of Michigan
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Jianzhi
George Zhang to use the budding yeast Saccharomyces
cerevisiae and its relatives as model organisms for the
study of evolutionary processes. Potential topics in-
clude but are not limited to (1) the molecular basis of
adaptation, (2) genic and genomic bases of reproduc-
tive isolation, (3) mechanisms of retention and func-
tional divergence of duplicate genes after gene/genome
duplication, and (4) driving forces and molecular mech-
anisms of transcriptome evolution, including changes of
gene expression noise. Potential approaches include ex-
perimental evolution and next-generation sequencing,
in addition to yeast molecular genetics.
The position requires a motivated individual with an in-terest in evolutionary genetics and experience in molec-
ular genetics or genomics. Prior training in yeast genet-
ics is a plus but not required. Experience in analyzing
genome-wide data of DNA sequences, transcriptomes,
and/or gene functions will be a plus.
Applicants should email a short statement of research
interests, CV, and contact information for three refer-
ences to jianzhi@umich.edu. The position is available
immediately.
For further information about the Zhang lab, see http:/-
/www.umich.edu/ ˜ zhanglab/ Jianzhi George Zhang
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Michigan 1075 Natural Science Building 830
North University Avenue Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA
Tel: 734-763-0527 Email: Jianzhi@umich.edu http:/-
/www.umich.edu/ ˜ zhanglab/ jianzhi@umich.edu
jianzhi@umich.edu
UOxford SocialEvolutionTheory
University of Oxford Department of Zoology Postdoc-
toral Research Assistant: Social Evolution Theory
Grade 07S Salary: ˆA£28,839 ˆ a 35,469 per annum
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Research
Assistant to work under the supervision of Prof Stu-
art West to study social evolution theory. The post
is funded by the European Research Council, and is
available for three years, extendable up to ﬁve.
The main part of the proposal will be to develop models
which can explain the evolution and maintenance of co-
operative social behaviours in bacteria. The other part
of the proposal is to develop models which can explain
the evolution and maintenance of cooperative social
behaviours in humans and cooperative breeding ver-
tebrates. Some related papers on this can be found at
http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/group/west/social.html . De-
pending upon the applicant, the work could be taken
in a number of directions, ranging from issues such as
cultural evolution to sex allocation, to the development
of general methodology.
Further particulars and application forms can be down-
loaded from http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/jobs/adverts/-
at09020.pdf or are available from the Personnel Of-
ﬁce, Department of Zoology, Tinbergen Building, South
Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PS, tel: 01865 271190. E-
mail: recruit@zoo.ox.ac.uk Applications, together with
CV and contact details of three referees, should beJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 79
sent to the above address, quoting reference number
AT09020 The closing date for applications is noon on
19 June 2009.
Mirella Lingwood <mirella.lingwood@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
UPierreMarieCurie PigeonGenetics
A one-year post-doctoral position funded by the Centre
National de la Recherche Scientiﬁque is available in our
research unit “Ecology & Evolution” CNRS/ University
Pierre & Marie CURIE (Paris 6).
In the context of growing urbanisation, understanding
the functioning of natural populations inhabiting cities
is required. The research project aims at identifying
the particular selective pressures exerted by the urban
environment, focusing on genetic and phenotypic diﬀer-
entiation of feral pigeons in relation to environmental
factors. It is in line with an interdisciplinary project
(more details in French at http://pigeons.u-psud.fr/ ).
The candidate will have strong interest and experience
in evolutionary ecology, population genetics, ornithol-
ogy, and/or GIS, and being able of strong autonomy,
creativity, organisational and relational skills.
Contact Adrien Frantz at adrien.frantz@snv.jussieu.fr
for more information and to apply (before 15 June
2009).
– Adrien FRANTZ
Assistant Professor/Lecturer UMR 7625 “Ecologie et
Evolution” Universit´ e Pierre et Marie Curie - Paris 6
7, quai Saint-Bernard Bˆ at. A 7` eme ´ etage - Case 237
F-75252 Paris cedex 05 T´ el: +33 (0)1 44 27 38 23 Fax:
+33 (0)1 44 27 35 16
adrien.frantz@snv.jussieu.fr
UTartu OptimalityModeling
Position in evolutionary ecology available: optimality
modeling
We wish to recruit a post-doctoral researcher to under-
take OPTIMALITY MODELING in the ﬁeld of LIFE
HISTORY research. The position will be opened atthe recently established Centre of Scientiﬁc Excellence
’Frontiers in Biodiversity Research’ (FIBIR, http://-
ﬁbir.ut.ee ) at the University of Tartu, Estonia ( http:/-
/www.ut.ee ). The successful candidate will work in
Prof. Toomas Tammaru’s ( http://www.ut.ee/ ˜ tam-
marut ) research group, whose primary focus is the life
history evolution of insects (the evolution of body size
in particular). Having mainly relied on experimental
methods to date, the group is looking to strengthen the
modeling component of its research activity. We have
various ideas waiting to be formalized, and empirical
data are available to serve as the foundation of empiri-
cally based models. However, the work proﬁle is largely
ﬂexible, and the researcher will be able to develop his or
her own ideas. The successful candidate will be encour-
aged to collaborate with other research groups, both at
FIBIR and elsewhere. Funding is presently available
for 24 months, though there is a strong possibility that
this can be extended, subject to the candidate’s perfor-
mance. FIBIR oﬀers an excellent research environment
within a modern infrastructure. The salary level corre-
sponds to that of European Union framework projects
and is open to negotiation. The position is available
from 1st June, 2009, though the start date is ﬂexible.
The successful candidate is expected to have a strong
publication record that demonstrates his or her abil-
ity to apply either analytical or numerical methods to
model biological systems. Competence in the ﬁeld of
mathematical statistics would be an advantage. Pre-
vious experience with insect life history research is not
essential. In the case of very strong candidates, it would
be possible to transform the post-doctoral position into
that of a senior researcher. If interested, provide your
CV, a list of publications and the contact details of at
least two academic referees by 11th May, 2009. For
this purpose, and for informal enquiries, please con-
tact Toomas Tammaru at toomas.tammaru@ut.ee (cc
to maarika.maesalu@ut.ee).
tammarut@ut.ee tammarut@ut.ee
UTartu
PhylogeneticComparativeMethods
Position in evolutionary ecology available: phylogenetic
comparative methods
We wish to recruit a post-doctoral researcher in evo-
lutionary ecology to undertake research using PHY-
LOGENETIC COMPARATIVE METHODS. The po-80 EvolDir June 1, 2009
sition will be opened at the recently established Cen-
tre of Scientiﬁc Excellence ’Frontiers in Biodiversity
Research’ (FIBIR, http://ﬁbir.ut.ee ) at the University
of Tartu, Estonia ( http://www.ut.ee ). The success-
ful candidate will work in Prof. Toomas Tammaru’s
(http://www.ut.ee/˜tammarut ) research group, whose
primary focus is the life history evolution of insects.
Having mainly relied on experimental methods to date,
the group is now looking to develop its expertise in
the ﬁeld of phylogenetically explicit comparative ap-
proaches. The strengths of the group include a rare
combination of in-depth knowledge about the taxonomy
and life-history of insects (mainly Lepidoptera), and
a productive interest in various questions in the ﬁeld
of evolutionary biology. While we have well-deﬁned
research questions in mind for the post-doctoral re-
searcher (evolution of body size, egg size, host spe-
cialization etc.), and respective data sets available, the
work proﬁle is largely ﬂexible. The successful candi-
date will be encouraged to collaborate with other re-
search groups, both at FIBIR and elsewhere. Funding
is presently available for 24 months, though there is a
strong possibility that this can be extended, subject to
the candidate’s performance. FIBIR oﬀers an excellent
research environment within a modern infrastructure.
The salary level corresponds to that of European Union
framework projects and is open to negotiation. The po-
sition is available from 1st June, 2009, though the start
date is ﬂexible. The successful candidate is expected to
have a strong publication record that features research
using a phylogenetic comparative approach. However,
we may also consider candidates with experience of
other phylogeny-based analyses or statistical analysis
of autocorrelated data). Previous experience with in-
sect life history research is not essential. In the case
of very strong candidates (excellent publication record
and very good skills in comparative analyses), it would
be possible to transform the post-doctoral position into
that of a senior researcher. If interested, provide your
CV, a list of publications and the contact details of at
least two academic referees by 11th May, 2009. For
this purpose, and for informal enquiries, please con-
tact Toomas Tammaru at toomas.tammaru@ut.ee (cc
to maarika.maesalu@ut.ee).
tammarut@ut.ee tammarut@ut.ee
UVienna DrosophilaAgingGenetics
1 POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN DROSOPHILAAGING
A postdoctoral position in the genetics of Drosophila
aging is available in the research group of Dr.
Thomas Flatt at the University of Veterinary
Medicine in Vienna, Austria (Institute of Popula-
tion Genetics) ( http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/-
Flatt website/ﬂatt home.html ). The postdoc position
is funded by a grant from the Austrian Science Foun-
dation (FWF) and will be for three years.
This research project will focus on the identiﬁcation
of the molecular basis of the trade-oﬀ between re-
production and lifespan in the fruit ﬂy, Drosophila
melanogaster, a powerful genetic model system. In
many organisms, from fruit ﬂies to humans, reproduc-
tion shortens lifespan, but the underlying mechanisms
remain unknown (e.g., Flatt & Kawecki 2007, Evolu-
tion; Flatt & Promislow 2007, Science). Experiments
in C. elegans suggest that hormonal signals from the
gonad aﬀect longevity (Hsin & Kenyon 1999, Nature),
and we have recently found that germline ablation ex-
tends lifespan and aﬀects insulin signaling in Drosophila
(Flatt et al. 2008, PNAS). However, the details of this
systemic regulation of lifespan by the reproductive sys-
tem remain unclear. In our project we are interested
in dissecting the hormonal mechanisms that modulate
the reproduction-longevity trade- oﬀ. By employing
mutant and transgene analysis, genetic manipulation
of the gonad, epistasis experiments, and hormonal ma-
nipulations we will examine the endocrine mechanisms
whereby signals from the reproductive system modulate
longevity.
We are seeking a highly talented, dynamic, indepen-
dent, and self- motivated young biologist with good so-
cial skills. The successful candidate will have a Ph.D.
and a strong background in genetics and molecular bi-
ology using the Drosophila system. Some background
in the biology of aging, evolutionary biology, and/or
endocrinology would be ideal, but is not required. The
postdoc will work closely with a PhD student and the
PI on this project. The working language in the labo-
ratory is English, so the candidate should be proﬁcient
in spoken and written English. German skills, although
helpful, are not essential. The initial appointment will
be made for one year, with a possible extension to up
to three years. The annual salary is 54,180 Euro. The
position is available as of now, but the starting date is
negotiable.
In a 2009 world-wide survey by the William M. Mercer
Institute, Vienna ranked ﬁrst world-wide in terms of
standards of living. Vienna is a beautiful, historical yet
modern city, located in the heart of Europe, close to the
Alps and to major cities like Munich, Zurich, Prague,June 1, 2009 EvolDir 81
and Budapest. Being famous for its concert sites, opera
houses, theathers, museums, and coﬀee shops, Vienna
also provides great outdoor activities, such as sailing
on the Neusiedler See, ice skating, biking and hiking in
the Viennese woods and the nearby Alps. Moreover,
the city has a wide range of great restaurants, bars,
wineries, cinemas, clubs, libraries, galleries, and art col-
lections. The Vienna area is also an exceptional and
highly international research environment. Four major
life science universities and three world-class research
institutes (GMI, IMBA, IMP) provide a dynamic and
interactive setting. Vienna hosts an active Drosophila
community, and the onsite availability of the Drosophila
RNAi center (VDRC) provides a great opportunity for
functional Drosophila work. In population genetics and
evolutionary biology, the Vienna research area also pro-
vides excellent prospects, due to a growing number of
evolutionary research groups.
To apply for this position, please send a single pdf ﬁle
including: (1) a cover letter explaining why you would
like to join our group, (2) your Curriculum Vitae (in-
cluding a description of your skills), (3) your publica-
tion list, (4) a statement of research interests, and (5)
contact details for 2-3 academic references who are will-
ing to write a reference letter on your behalf to the
following email address: thomas.ﬂatt@vu-wien.ac.at
Informal inquiries are welcome and should be sent
to the same e-mail address. For further in-
formation see ( http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/-
Flatt website/ﬂatt home.html ).
The deadline for submission is 1 July 2009.
Dr. Thomas Flatt University of Veterinary Medicine
Department of Biomedical Research Institute of Popu-
lation Genetics Veterin?rplatz 1 / Josef Baumann Gasse
1 A-1210 WIEN Austria
VOX +43(0)1-25077-4334 FAX +43(0)1-25077-4390
E-mail: Thomas.Flatt@vu-wien.ac.at
—–
1 RESEARCH ASSISTANT/TECHNICIAN POSI-
TION IN DROSOPHILA AGING
A research assistant/technician position in the biology
of Drosophila
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlUWisconsinMadison Disease
Evolution
UWisconsinMadison.Disease.Evolution
The Goldberg lab at University of Wisconsin-Madison
invites applications for a post-doctoral position focused
on the ecology and evolution of infectious disease. This
is a unique opportunity for a post-doctoral scholar with
broad interests in infectious disease ecology, evolution,
and molecular approaches to engage in creative research
as part of a dynamic team. Projects include (but are
not limited to):
1) Ecology and evolution of West Nile virus in urban
areas. Ecology of West Nile virus transmission in subur-
ban Chicago, with an emphasis on molecular epidemiol-
ogy and viral evolution, funded by the NIH/NSF Ecol-
ogy of Infectious Diseases Program.
2) Diversity, evolution, and immunology of porcine re-
productive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV).
Molecular epidemiology of PRRSV, with an emphasis
on the development of broadly eﬀective polyvalent vac-
cines, funded by USDA.
For more information, please see the Goldberg lab web-
site:
http://svmweb.vetmed.wisc.edu/goldberglab/
Applicants should have a primary interest in infectious
disease ecology and evolution (experience with viral sys-
tems is a plus), strong quantitative skills in molecu-
lar phylogenetics/phylodynamics, and a demonstrated
ability for creative research. Projects involve a ﬂexible
combination of ﬁeldwork, lab work, and computational
analyses. The successful applicant will be expected to
explore new research directions of her/his choosing, as-
sisted by a strong team of collaborators.
University of Wisconsin-Madison is a top-notch insti-
tution for research and training in the biomedical sci-
ences, with strong programs in ecology, evolution, and
microbial sciences ( www.wisc.edu ). Madison, WI, is a
vibrant city with outstanding culture and exceptional
opportunities for outdoor recreation ( www.wisc.edu/-
about/location.php ).
Applicants should send a CV, a brief statement of re-
search interests, and a list of three people (names, ad-
dresses, e-mails) who can serve as references.
Materials and inquiries should be sent to tgold-
berg@vetmed.wisc.edu. Application materials should
be received by June 15 2009 for full consideration; the82 EvolDir June 1, 2009
position is available starting September 1, 2009 and is
for a minimum of 2 years, with an option to extend.
Thanks very much!
Tony
Tony L. Goldberg, PhD, DVM, MS Professor of
Epidemiology Department of Pathobiological Sciences
School of Veterinary Medicine University of Wisconsin-
Madison 1656 Linden Drive Madison, Wisconsin
53706 Phone: 608-890-2618 FAX: 608-262-7420 e-
mail: tgoldberg@vetmed.wisc.edu Website: http://-
svmweb.vetmed.wisc.edu/goldberglab/ Tony L Gold-
berg<tgoldberg@vetmed.wisc.edu >YaleU BacterialEvolution
A one-year postdoctoral position is available imme-
diately under the co-supervision of Paul Turner and
David Post in the Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology at Yale University. The project con-
cerns empirical tests of theory at the interface of ecology
and evolution, via high-throughput experiments with
microbes using a liquid-handling robot. Experience in
a bacterial system such as E. coli is preferred, but all
strong candidates will be considered. Please direct in-
quiries to paul.turner@yale.edu
Paul Turner <paul.turner@yale.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Budapest Levels of Selection Sep13-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Bydgoszcz Poland ForestGeneFlow Jun15-19 . . . . . . 83
Colombia Bioinformatics Aug23-30 DeadlineMay1 2 84
Iceland ArabidopsisEvolution Aug14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Lisbon ComputationalPhyloinformatics Jul9-19 . . . . 84
Montana PopulationGenetics DataAnalysisCourse
Aug31-Sep4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Munich HostParasiteCoevolution Sep20-25 . . . . . . . . 86
Portugal PopulationGenetics Jun15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Regensburg EvoDevo Sep24-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Roscoﬀ France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 88
Roscoﬀ France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics May25-Jun5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Trento Italy PopulationGenomics Jul22-24 . . . . . . . . 90
UAzores PhylogeneticComputing Jul20-25 . . . . . . . . . 90
UBern PlantMicrevolution Jul7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Uganda BiodiversityConservation Jun21-25 . . . . . . . . 92
ULisbon BioinformaticsCompBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UMichigan EvolutionaryEpidemiology Jul27-31 . . . . 92
UWashington SummerInstStatGenetics EarlyRegistra-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Valencia MolEvol Jun15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Venice EvoDevo Sep14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Budapest Levels of Selection
Sep13-16
CALL FOR EXTENDED ABSTRACTSLevels of Selection and Individuality in Evolution: Con-
ceptual Issues and the Role of Artiﬁcial Life Models
*** One day Workshop at ECAL 2009 conference (13th-
16th September, Budapest, Hungary)
Submission deadline: Monday 22 June 2009
Understanding how new levels of biological organisa-
tion, selection and individuality can arise are excitingJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 83
and open challenges in both evolutionary biology and
artiﬁcial life. In attempting to understand these issues
we are forced to ask questions that challenge our exist-
ing preconceptions of evolutionary theory, such as what
kinds of entities can natural selection act on, what are
the properties that deﬁne an individual, and how can
new levels of heredity arise? In this workshop we aim
to provide a forum to discuss and debate these issues,
drawing on the philosophical and modelling expertise
of artiﬁcial life researchers in areas such as autonomy,
emergence and self organisation.
Conﬁrmed Invited Speaker: Prof. Eors Szathmary
(Collegium Budapest)
The main focus of this workshop will be on discussion of
important conceptual issues and the application of tech-
niques and philosophy from artiﬁcial life in addressing
these. Submissions are invited that discuss any aspect
of levels of selection, organisation, and individuality in
evolution, including:
* Multi-level selection * Evolution of cooperative be-
haviour * Prebiotic evolution and the origins of life *
Philosophical issues in levels of selection and the ma-
jor transitions * Comparisons of the utility of diﬀer-
ent types of model * Cultural evolution and other non-
genetic sources of heredity * Inclusive ﬁtness / kin se-
lection * Species-level selection; ecosystem selection *
How to recognise genuine higher-level selection * Niche
construction * Self-organisation as a support for higher-
level selection
Submission Process
Extended abstracts of up to 1000 words (optional:
up to 2 ﬁgures) should be submitted in the ECAL
2009 format (10pt minimum, single space, wide mar-
gins). Please email submissions to Simon Powers
(stp05r@ecs.soton.ac.uk).
All suitable submissions will undergo peer review by 3
members of the program committee for relevance, qual-
ity, and ability to generate discussion. Accepted sub-
missions will be allocated either a brief oral presenta-
tion or a poster. Submissions to this workshop may be
based on papers submitted to ECAL 2009 or elsewhere,
but must focus on raising issues for discussion.
Important dates
Submission : Monday 22 June 2009 Notiﬁcation of ac-
ceptance : Monday 13 July 2009 Workshop: During
ECAL 2009 (13th-16th September 2009)
Organising Committee
Simon Powers Rob Mills Richard A. Watson Alexandra
Penn Hywel WilliamsProgram committee TBA.
Workshop website: http://www.sense.ecs.soton.ac.uk/-
levels-of-selection-workshop-2009/ ECAL 2009 web-
site: http://www.ecal2009.org/ – Simon T. Powers
Natural Systems Group University of Southamp-
ton http://www.ecs.soton.ac.uk/people/stp05r
stp05r@ecs.soton.ac.uk
Bydgoszcz Poland ForestGeneFlow
Jun15-19
Workshop on Estimating Gene Flow in Forest Trees
Bydgoszcz, Poland, June 15-19, 2009
Organized by Institute of Experimental Biology, De-
partment of Genetics, Kazimierz Wielki University of
Bydgoszcz and Evoltree Network of Excellence
The intention of the workshop is to cover the state-of-
the art of current methods for estimating gene ﬂow -
with special emphasis to forest trees. The lectures will
be given by a number of highly qualiﬁed scientists with
strong scientiﬁc background in this ﬁeld.
Topics will include (among others): introduction to
gene ﬂow issues; genetic markers for gene ﬂow studies -
beneﬁts and problems; parentage exclusion and parent-
age assignments; TwoGener method and its deriva-
tives; gene ﬂow based on population structure; mating
models for pollen mediated gene ﬂow; modeling seed
and pollen dispersal based on established seedlings -
seedling model; inverse modeling of seed dispersal, di-
rect vs. indirect methods, covariates of mating success
aﬀecting estimation of gene ﬂow. Course will consist
of lectures by teachers (morning session) and practi-
cals (with hands-on-computer) where speciﬁc software
for estimating gene ﬂow will be presented and training
provided. There will also be a ﬁeld trip to one or two
local experimental sites where gene ﬂow studies have
been done recently.
Registrations will be treated on a ﬁrst-come ﬁrst-served
basis. The number of attendants is limited to 20 per-
sons. No registration fees are planned at the mo-
ment. EVOLTREE members have support through
their group project budgets.
Conﬁrmed teachers include: Sylvie Oddou (INRA-
Avignon), Olivier Hardy (University of Brussels),
Frederick Austerlitz (CRNS), Etienne Klein (INRA-
Avignon), Juan Jose Robledo-Arnuncio (CIFOR-INIA84 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Madrid), (Local organizers/teachers: Jaroslaw Bur-
czyk, Igor Chybicki, Elzbieta Koralewska, Magdalena
Trojankiewicz)
For more information:
http://members.upcpoczta.pl/j.burczyk1/index.htm
jjrobledo@gmail.com
Colombia Bioinformatics Aug23-30
DeadlineMay1 2
Tomorrow (Friday 1st May) is the last day for appli-
cations for the EMBO course “Advanced bioinformatic
methods in the study of gene and genome evolution”
which will be held in Medellin, Colombia, 23 - 30 Au-
gust, 2009.
In response to a number of questions: The course is
open to anybody, anywhere in the world at any level of
their career. Acceptance on the course will be based on
whether you are most deserving of a place.
You can ﬁnd out more here:
http://cwp.embo.org/wpc09-04/ James
– Dr. James O. McInerney, Bioinformatics Laboratory,
Department of Biology, National University of Ireland,
Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland. P: +353 1 708 3860
F: +353 1 708 3845 E: james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie –
Work — http://bioinf.nuim.ie/
James McInerney <james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie >
Iceland ArabidopsisEvolution
Aug14-17
Iceland ˆ a Arabidopsis Molecular Ecology Group
(AMEGO) 14-17 August 2009
The Arabidopsis Molecular Ecology Group (AMEGO)
is a network ﬁnancially supported by NordForsk, in-
cluding research groups from Denmark, Finland, Nor-
way and Sweden. AMEGO will be hosting international
workshops and Ph.D. courses on Arabidopsis molecular
ecology and evolution in the period 2007-2009. The last
Arabidopsis molecular evolution workshop and Ph.D.course will be held 14-17 August 2009 in Reykjavik,
Iceland.
Preliminary program: 14 August Arrival and registra-
tion 15 August Workshop with talks and posters 16
August Excursion to Arabidopsis lyrata sites. Partici-
pants will also get the opportunity to experience some
of the natural wonders of Iceland. 17 August Ph.D.
course: ˆ aNatural selection in the wild: exploring the
magnitude and mechanisms of selection in the ﬁeldˆ a.
Participants should bring their own laptop. Responsi-
ble: Professor Jon ˜Agren, Uppsala University.
Deadline for registration is 7 June 2009
- invited speaker will be Rodney Mauricio, University
of Georgia
For more information about AMEGO 2009 work-
shop and Ph.D. course, please see our home page at
http://www.molecol.net . The registration page can be
found at http://www.bio.ntnu.no/amego/pomelding/-
skjema.php . Best regards, Sverre Lundemo
Sverre Lundemo Department of Biology Norwegian
University of Science and Technology N-7491 Trond-
heim Norway
lundemo@bio.ntnu.no
Sverre Lundemo <lundemo@bio.ntnu.no >
Lisbon
ComputationalPhyloinformatics
Jul9-19
Computational Phyloinformatics: A GTPB-NESCent
Course 9 July - 19 July 2009
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/-
PHYLOINF09/ http://www.nescent.org/courses/-
2009/comphy/ Course Contacts: Pedro Fernan-
des (pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt) and William Piel
(piel@treebase.org) Organizing Committee: Pedro
Fernandes, Hilmar Lapp, William Piel, Todd Vision
Computational Phyloinformatics is a 10-day summer
course co-sponsored by the Gulbenkian Training Pro-
gramme in Bioinformatics and the U.S. National Evo-
lutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent), and will take
place at the Oeiras campus of the Instituto Gulbenkian
de Ciˆ encia near Lisbon, Portugal. This course aims to
give students practical knowledge and hands-on skills
in phyloinformatics.June 1, 2009 EvolDir 85
SYNOPSIS Biologists are faced with ever-larger
datasets, more complex evolutionary models, and in-
creasingly elaborate analytical methods. Seldom is it
suﬃcient to run a dataset with an oﬀ-the-shelf pro-
gram on a desktop PC; increasingly, biologists need
to write scripts to interface with internet services and
databases, build analytical pipelines, customize analy-
ses, and distribute computation over multiple proces-
sors. This course is designed for graduate students,
postdocs, and researchers in phylogenetics interested in
receiving practical, hands-on training in the use of Perl
and SQL for phyloinformatics applications.
The course is divided into three parts:
- Part I: A tutorial review of of Perl, including ob-
ject oriented programming and building packages -
Part II: Introduction and practical use of BioPerl and
Bio::Phylo, (e.g. scripting for large tree inference en-
gines, automating model testing, supertree assembly,
rate smoothing and branch calibration, tree traversal,
etc). - Part III: Introduction to database design; com-
puting and querying nested sets and transitive closure;
BioSQL; BioPerl-BioSQL bindings.
Students will learn how to write basic phylogenetic or
comparative analysis scripts, parse NEXUS ﬁles, tra-
verse and compute over trees, and make practical use
of phylogenetic software libraries. These skills will be
learned in a biological context, touching on a diverse
array of topics such as analysis of large datasets, au-
tomation of supertree assembly, querying for topologi-
cal patterns in large collections of trees, etc.
INSTRUCTORS Hilmar Lapp, Darin London, William
Piel, Rutger Vos
PREREQUISITES Biology: A solid understand-
ing of phylogenetics - for example, having already
taken the Workshop on Molecular Evolution ( http:/-
/www.molecularevolution.org/ ), the GTPB Molecu-
lar Evolution, Phylogenetics and Adaptation course
(Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics and Adaptation),
or equivalent coursework or experience.
Computing: Prior experience with Perl or careful study
of the suggested reading materials (see web site). Stu-
dents should have experience with basic Unix shell com-
mands. All students are expected to bring either their
own Mac OSX computer or a LINUX computer; other-
wise computers will be rented for them and the fee will
be included in their tuition.
FEES Full tuition is 650 ( ~$878), and includes housing,
lunches, coﬀee, and computer rental. Participants who
bring their own computers receive a discount of 150 ( ~
$203) oﬀ of their tuition. Participants who ﬁnd their
own housing receive a discount of 200 ( ~$270) oﬀ oftheir tuition.
HOW TO APPLY Apply through the course
website ( http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/-
PHYLOINF09/application.html ). You will be asked
to provide a resume and a motivation statement
(including a self-assessment of your skills, experience,
and knowledge of both phylogenetics and computing).
Applications are due by June 8 2009.
piel@treebase.org
Montana PopulationGenetics
DataAnalysisCourse Aug31-Sep4
4th ConGen- Population Genetics Data Analysis
Course Recent Approaches for Estimation of Popula-
tion Size, Structure, Gene ﬂow, Selection Detection fo-
cusing on conservation and beyond
31-Aug/4-Sep 2009, Flathead Lake Biological Station,
Montana, USA
APPLICATIONS FOR 2009 ARE OPEN!
Objective: To provide training in conceptual and prac-
tical aspects of data analysis for the conservation ge-
netics of natural and managed populations. Empha-
sis will be on interpretation of output from recent
novel statistical approaches and software programs.
The course also will allow daily discussions among
young researchers and top-researchers to help develop
the next generation of conservation geneticists, and to
identify developments needed to improve data analy-
sis approaches. This course will cover analysis meth-
ods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate
Bayesian, and likelihood-based approaches.
Who should apply: Ph.D. students, post-docs, and pop-
ulation biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics
and a course in population ecology. Applicants must
have a basic background in population genetic data
analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg propor-
tions and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be
limited to 20 people allowing eﬃcient instruction with
hands-on computer exercises during the course. Pri-
ority will be given to persons with their own data to
analyze (for example graduate students at the end of
their degree program).
Deadline for application is 30 June, 2009
Course/Workshop Format: For each subject, we pro-86 EvolDir June 1, 2009
vide 30-45 minutes of background, theory, discussion
and introduction to concepts. Immediately following,
we will conduct data analyses together for 30-60 min-
utes using relevant software programs and real data
sets. Evening hands-on computer sessions and hous-
ing together of instructors and students in the same
location will allow for extensive exchange and facilitate
learning.
For detailed information see http://popgen.eu/-
congen2009/ Instructors: Fred Allendorf, University
of Montana, USA Sam Cushman, US Forest Service,
Missoula, USA Jonathan Pritchard, The University of
Chicago, USA Robert Lacy, Chicago Zoological Soci-
ety, USA Oscar Gaggiotti, University Joseph Fourier
in Grenoble, France Gordon Luikart, CIBIO, Portugal
& University of Montana Albano Beja-Pereira, CIBIO,
Portugal Tiago Antao, Liverpool School of Tropi-
cal Medicine, UK Mike Schwartz, US Forest Service,
Missoula, USA David Tallmon, University of Alaska,
Juneau, USA Robin Waples, Northwest Fisheries Sci-
ence Center of the National Marine Fisheries Service,
USA
congen@popgen.eu
conservation genetics course
<congen@mail.icav.up.pt >
Albano Beja-Pereira <albanobp@fc.up.pt >
Munich HostParasiteCoevolution
Sep20-25
Subject: conference, summer school
**Last Call for applications for summer school on Host-
Parasite Coevolution**
The Munich Graduate Program for Evolution, Ecology
and Systematics (EES) invites applications for the in-
ternational EES summer school on Host-Parasite Co-
evolution held at Frauenchiemsee (80 km east of Mu-
nich) from September 20th to September 25th, 2009.
The 5-day summer school will consist of lectures, dis-
cussions and exercises organized by the local and in-
vited instructors, as well as oral and/or poster con-
tributions by the students. We will cover theoretical
aspects of host-parasite evolution and discuss empiri-
cal approaches for studying coevolution. Speciﬁc topics
will include the evolution of virulence and resistance, lo-
cal adaptation and spatial structuring in host-parasitesystems, and the molecular signature of coevolution.
Instructors (conﬁrmed): Mike Boots, University of
Sheﬃeld, UK (theoretical analysis of disease dy-
namics in humans and wildlife) Jukka Jokela, ETH
Zurich, Switzerland (maintenance of sex driven by
host-pathogen coevolution) David Nash, University of
Copenhagen, Denmark (coevolution on geographical
scales) Peter Tiﬃn, University of Minnesota, USA
(molecular coevolution between plants and parasites)
Local Instructors/Organizers at Ludwig-Maximilians-
University Munich: Susanne Foitzik, Pleuni Pennings,
Laura Rose, Aurelien Tellier, Volker Witte, and Justyna
Wolinska.
The summer school is open to all graduate students
(PhD, Masters, Diplom biologists). The summer school
will be taught in English. Participants should plan to
arrive Sunday, Sept. 20th. The summer school will
wrap up on Friday, Sept. 25th in the early afternoon.
Costs: Thanks to support from the Volkswagen Foun-
dation, the University of Munich’s EES program will
cover housing and meals during the Summer School.
Participants are required to cover their own travel ex-
penses and pay a 50 Euro registration fee. A small
amount of funding is available to subsidize travel costs
for students from the most distant locations.
The Application Procedure: Applicants should submit
a single pdf ﬁle containing the following: a) a one
page CV b) a one page motivation letter for attend-
ing the summer school c) a short abstract of your re-
search project (maximum 200 words) Email applica-
tions to Dr. Elisabeth Brunner (brunner@biologie.uni-
muenchen.de). Application Deadline: June 1st, 2009.
Further information is available at: http://-
www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/Summer school 2009 –
Justyna Wolinska Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at,
M¨ unchen Department Biologie II Evolutions¨ okologie
Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried,
Germany
Phone: +49 (0)89 2180 74201 Fax: +49 (0)89
2180 74204 email: wolinska@bio.lmu.de http:/-
/www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/ou/ecology/-
evole/people wolinska e.html Justyna Wolinska
<wolinska@bio.lmu.de >
Portugal PopulationGenetics
Jun15-19June 1, 2009 EvolDir 87
Applications are now open for
MMPG09 Molecular Markers and Population Genetics
June 15th - June 19th 2009
Course description: Genetic data are increasingly used
by ecologists and evolutionary biologists in general. It
has thus become important for many biologists with
diﬀerent levels of experience to produce and analyse
genetic data. In this course we shall take a practical ap-
proach to the analysis of genetic data, but we will also
provide some of the theoretical background required to
understand the outputs of the software used. Mornings
will usually be devoted to introduce notions that will
be applied in the afternoon using freely available soft-
ware. In particular the following software will be used:
ARLEQUIN and GENETIX to analyse classical popu-
lation genetic data, STRUCTURE and GENECLASS2
to look for hidden structure and assign multilocus geno-
types, Bottleneck and msvar to detect and quantify
population size changes, IM to estimate gene ﬂow and
divergence times, Fdist and/or BayesFst to detect se-
lection. The R statistical package will also be intro-
duced and used to analyse genetic data and outputs
of the software, and to simulate simple processes. The
software ms that allows to simulate genetic data will
also be introduced together with a user-friendly version
called Gms.
All the necessary info, important dates, instructions for
applicants at the GTPB website, as usual
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Best wishes
Pedro Fernandes GTPB Coordinator Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ciˆ encia Apartado 14 2781 OEIRAS POR-
TUGAL
Pedro Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
Regensburg EvoDevo Sep24-25
Dear colleagues,
together with Matthias Gerberding and Gregor Bucher,
we are organizing a workshop with the question: “What
we can learn about evolutionary changes by studying
development at diﬀerent levels of organismic diversity?”
we think that some members of your lab might be in-
terested in the topic and we would like to invite your
students to join the workshop. Keynote talks given by
Martin Klingler (Erlangen, comparison of Drosophila
and Tribolium segmentation) and Alistair McGregor(Vienna, comparing Drosophila sister species). Besides,
the students will practice the presentation of their data
in a short talk. Finally, we hope that the workshop will
also help to give the students an overview on current
work and to network with other students in the ﬁeld.
The workshop takes place immediately before the an-
nual meeting of the DZG (German Zoological Society)
at Regensburg ( www.dzg2009.de ) which this year is de-
voted to evolution.
The oﬃcial website of the workshop is http://-
m.gerberding.googlepages.com/dzgevo-devomtg .
Please forward this information to students (focus on
PhD students) and young postdocs in your lab. We
hope to see them in Regensburg!
Louis Boell
Regensburg 24./25. Sept. 2009
Evo-Devo tries to infer mechanisms of evolutionary in-
novation by identifying similarities and dissimilarities
of developmental processes and mapping them onto
the phylogenetic tree of life. Starting from the clas-
sical model systems, comparisons have been extended
towards other species being closely related (“satel-
lite organisms”) or more distantly related to the well-
established developmental models. The choice depends
on which evolutionary transitions are to be elucidated.
Comparisons are now applied at widely diﬀerent levels
of organismic divergence, ranging for instance from sis-
ter species in Drosophila to phylum level comparisons
between insects and annelids or deuterostomes.
The aim of this workshop is to discuss the respective
potential and drawbacks of the diﬀerent levels of com-
parison and consequences for evolutionary inferences.
For example, is there a fundamental diﬀerence between
“microevolutionary” modiﬁcation of existing structures
and the generation of “evolutionary novelties”, or is
this distinction an artefact resulting from the use of
diﬀerent comparative approaches? If we study how dis-
tantly related organisms develop the same structures -
will we learn how these diﬀerent modes of development
evolved? This topic lies at the heart of any attempts at
generalization in evolutionary developmental biology.
In this context, Dr. Alistair McGregor will present
results on the molecular dissection of small mor-
phological diﬀerences between closely related species
of Drosophila, and Prof. Martin Klingler will talk
about diﬀerences in the segmentation cascade between
Drosophila and the ﬂour beetle Tribolium and their rel-
evance for evolution.
The workshop takes place immediately before the an-
nual meeting of the DZG at Regensburg which this88 EvolDir June 1, 2009
year focuses on evolution. PhD students but also Mas-
ter/Diploma students or young postdocs are welcome
to join the discussion.
Louis Boell MPI f¨ ur Evolutionsbiologie, Pl¨ on August-
Thienemannstr.2 D-24306 Pl¨ on Tel.: 0049 4522 763 280
lboell@evolbio.mpg.de
Roscoﬀ France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
Summer Course - Marine Genomics Europe Marine
Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics May 25th ˆ a June
5th, 2009 Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ, France
Aims to give an introduction on genetic and genomic
approaches to analyze biological diversity, evolution
and adaptation at the species and population level in
the ocean
Conﬁrmed teachers
Sandie Baldauf, Univ of York, UK
Erik Bonivard, Univ. Paris 6, FR
Galice Hoarau, Univ of Groningen, NL
Wiebe Kooistra, SZN, IT
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtric Partensky, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR?
Klaus Valentin, AWI-Bremerhaven, DE
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Cl˜Ac/circlecopyrtmentine Vitte, Univ. Paris 6, FR
Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE
Organizing committee
H˜Ac/circlecopyrtl˜Ane Huelvan, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Jeanine Olsen, Univ of Groningen, NL
Anne Saisi, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Arnaud Tanguy, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE
Target group
PhD students (at least in their second year) and post
docs with a solid knowledge in phylo- and/or popula-
tion genetics. This course is open to MGE members as
well as non-members.Topics
The course will consist of lectures, tutorials and com-
puter based exercises in the following subjects.
* Phylogeny - sequence analyses, phylogenetic tech-
niques (clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular clock,
case studies * Population genetics ˆ a allele and genotype
analyses, population genetic structure and gene ﬂow,
assignment tests, eﬀective size and population dynam-
ics, case studies * Phylogeography - molecular evolu-
tion through networks, phylogeographical techniques,
coalescence, population dynamics, case studies * Envi-
ronmental, functional and comparative genomics - 1.
Genome structure and architecture. 2. Markers in
the genomics realm. 3. Methods for detecting struc-
ture. 4. Introduction to functional genomics. 5. Meth-
ods for detecting adaptive variation (including selective
sweeps) within and among populations; linking hydro-
graphical/environmental and demographic data to pop-
ulation structure and local adaptation. 6 Quantitative
genetics: evolution of traits. 7. EST libraries: why and
how. 8. Introduction to comparative genomics (whole
genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny, genome
organization, annotating genomic information, trans-
posable elements in marine species) 9. Case studies
* Phylogenomics - 1. What is comparative genomics?
2. Genomics and genetics of speciation/ what makes a
species from a genome point of view? 3. Comparative
marine genomics. 4. Case studies
Costs; course, accommodation and meals
* The course fee is paid by the MGE Network for all
academics (pre and post doc). Welcome reception, ex-
cursion (incl lunch) and farewell dinner are included.
* All participants pay their own travel, accommoda-
tion and board (self catering is possible) * Participants
are oﬀered to be accommodated at the SBR guesthouse
which is situated directly at the institute. The cost for
this is 13 per night in double room incl. breakfast. The
guesthouse can also oﬀer lunch and supper for a cost of
5.50 per person and meal.
Application and contact
To apply please ﬁll in the application form and send
to Anne Saisi (saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr) together with a 2-
paged CV before April 10, 2009. This information +
application form can also be found on the MGE web-
site: www.marine-genomics-europe.org under Training
& Education.
16 participants will be selected by the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project
2. Background and experience of applicantJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 89
3. We will aim at mixing people from diﬀerent research
areas and therefore probably no more then one person
per institute will be considered. We will also aim at an
equal distribution of women and men.
The selected persons will receive a notiﬁcation at the
end of April that has to be conﬁrmed within 7 days.
We will have a waiting list in case of non-conﬁrmations
and cancellations.
Contact
Anne Saisi
European Project Manager
Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ
BP 74, 29680 ROSCOFF CEDEX
France
Email: saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr
Phone: (33)2 98 29 23 45
Fax: (33)2 98 29 23 80
Disclaimer: http://www.kuleuven.be/-
cwis/email disclaimer.htm Filip Volckaert
<Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Roscoﬀ France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
May25-Jun5
MGE Summer Course
Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics May 25th
ˆ a June 5th, 2009 Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ, France
Conﬁrmed teachers Sandie Baldauf, Univ of York,
UK Erik Bonivard, Univ. Paris 6, FR Galice Hoa-
rau, Univ of Groningen, NL Wiebe Kooistra, SZN,
IT Fr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtric Partensky, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Klaus
Valentin, AWI-Bremerhaven, DE Fr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique
Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Cl ˜Ac/circlecopyrtmentine Vitte, Univ.
Paris 6, FR Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE Simon
Creer, UBangon, UK Mathias Wegner, UZurich, CH
Organizing committee H ˜Ac/circlecopyrtl˜Ane Huelvan, SB-Roscoﬀ,
FR Jeanine Olsen, Univ of Groningen, NL Anne
Saisi, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Arnaud Tanguy, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Filip Volck-
aert, KULeuven, BE
Aims to give an introduction on genetic and genomic
approaches to analyze biological diversity, evolutionand adaptation at the species and population level in
the ocean
Target group
PhD students (at least in their second year) and post
docs with a solid knowledge in phylo- and/or popula-
tion genetics. This course is open to MGE members as
well as non-members.
Topics
The course will consist of lectures, tutorials and com-
puter based exercises in the following subjects.
* Phylogeny - sequence analyses, phylogenetic tech-
niques (clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular clock,
case studies * Population genetics ˆ a allele and genotype
analyses, population genetic structure and gene ﬂow,
assignment tests, eﬀective size and population dynam-
ics, case studies * Phylogeography - molecular evolu-
tion through networks, phylogeographical techniques,
coalescence, population dynamics, case studies * Envi-
ronmental, functional and comparative genomics - 1.
Genome structure and architecture. 2. Markers in
the genomics realm. 3. Methods for detecting struc-
ture. 4. Introduction to functional genomics. 5. Meth-
ods for detecting adaptive variation (including selective
sweeps) within and among populations; linking hydro-
graphical/environmental and demographic data to pop-
ulation structure and local adaptation. 6 Quantitative
genetics: evolution of traits. 7. EST libraries: why and
how. 8. Introduction to comparative genomics (whole
genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny, genome
organization, annotating genomic information, trans-
posable elements in marine species) 9. Case studies
* Phylogenomics - 1. What is comparative genomics?
2. Genomics and genetics of speciation/ what makes a
species from a genome point of view? 3. Comparative
marine genomics. 4. Case studies
Costs; course, accommodation and meals
* The course fee is paid by the MGE Network for all
academics (pre and post doc). Welcome reception, ex-
cursion (incl lunch) and farewell dinner are included.
* All participants pay their own travel, accommoda-
tion and board (self catering is possible) * Participants
are oﬀered to be accommodated at the SBR guesthouse
which is situated directly at the institute. The cost for
this is 13 per night in double room incl. breakfast. The
guesthouse can also oﬀer lunch and supper for a cost of
5.50 per person and meal.
Application and contact
To apply please ﬁll in the application form and send
to Anne Saisi ( saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr ) together with a 2-
paged CV before April 10, 2009. This information90 EvolDir June 1, 2009
+ application form can also be found on the MGE
website: <http://www.marine-genomics-europe.org/-
>www.marine-genomics-europe.org under Training &
Education.
16 participants will be selected by the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project 2. Background and experience of applicant 3.
We will aim at mixing people from diﬀerent research
areas and therefore probably no more then one person
per institute will be considered. We will also aim at an
equal distribution of women and men.
The selected persons will receive a notiﬁcation at the
end of April that has to be conﬁrmed within 7 days.
We will have a waiting list in case of non-conﬁrmations
and cancellations.
Contact
Anne Saisi European Project Manager Station Bi-
ologique de Roscoﬀ BP 74, 29680 ROSCOFF CEDEX
France Email: saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr Phone: (33)2 98 29 23
45 Fax: (33)2 98 29 23 80
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Trento Italy PopulationGenomics
Jul22-24
Dear Colleagues, * INTERNATIONAL WORK-
SHOP*: “Population and Ecological Genomics in
Changing Forest Environments” *LOCATION*: Cen-
tro di Ecologia Alpina (CEA; http: www.cealp.it),
Fondazione Edmund Mach, on Monte Bondone, near
Trento, Italy *DATES:* July 22-24, 2009. * HOW TO
APPLY*: Potential participants are kindly requested
to submit an e-mail (events@iasma.it) along with a
one-page cv and 1-page statement describing why they
would like to attend the workshop.
*Deadline for registration is May 21, 2009. *
*FEE: *200 includes lunches and dinners (from July
22-24) and the course manual. * CONTACTS:* Flo-
riana Marin, Research and Innovation Centre, Fon-
dazione Edmund Mach, (events@iasma.it), phone: +39
0461 615543 - Fax + 39 0461 615183
DESCRIPTION: This workshop will be hosted by
CEA, in collaboration with the University of Califor-
nia, Davis, USA (Department of Plant Sciences).
The aim of the workshop is to provide up-to-date knowl-edge of theoretical and computational approaches to
studying adaptation in changing forest environments.
The workshop will emphasize the use bioinformatics
tools and software packages. Participants must have
their own laptop computer and have software applica-
tions installed before arriving at the CEA. Information
regarding obtaining software and computer hardware
requirements will be provided by the organizers in ad-
vance of the workshop.
The workshop is primarily intended for young re-
searchers at the doctoral and post-doctoral stages, but
is also open to people working outside academic insti-
tutions seeking to acquire basic knowledge useful for
implementing practical management and conservation
plans.
ORGANIZERS: David Neale (Dept. of Plant Sci-
ences, UC Davis) Cristiano Vernesi (Centro di Ecologia
Alpina, Research and Innovation Centre, Fondazione
Edmund Mach) Claudio Varotto (IASMA Research and
Innovation Centre, Fondazione Edmund Mach)
INSTRUCTORS: David Neale (UC Davis, USA) , Jill
Wegrzyn (UC Davis, USA), Andrew Eckert (UC Davis,
USA) and Elena Mosca (UC Davis, USA). Invited
speakers: Sally Aitken (University of British Columbia,
Canada) and Brad St. Clair (USDA Forest Service,
Corvallis, Oregon, USA)
LOCAL COMMITTEE: Cristiano Vernesi and Floriana
Marin (secretary), Fondazione Edmund Mach.
Cristiano Vernesi Centro di Ecologia Alpina Centro
Ricerca e Innovazione - Fondazione Edmund Mach
postal address: Viote del Monte Bondone - 38040
Trento - Italy tel +390461939523 - fax +390461948190
- skypename: cvernesi
jillylee@gmail.com
UAzores PhylogeneticComputing
Jul20-25
INTRODUCTION TO PHYLOGENETIC COMPUT-
ING AND ANALYSIS
20-25 July 2009 University of the Azores, Ponta Del-
gada, S˜ ao Miguel I., Azores
Instructors: Endre Willassen and Manuel Malaquias
(Bergen Museum of Natural History, University of
Bergen, Norway)June 1, 2009 EvolDir 91
Overview: Phylogenetic methods have become an es-
sential tool across several ﬁelds of biology with particu-
larly emphasis on systematics, biogeography and evolu-
tion. This practical course addresses the fundamentals
but also the latest advances in phylogenetic computing
methods with a focus on the analysis of molecular se-
quence data. It is designed to fulﬁl the needs of those
looking to have a ﬁrst grasp into the science and of those
looking to develop further competences in phylogenetic
analysis. Therefore, undergraduate, graduate, and aca-
demics/researchers are welcome to attend. The course
will cover topics such as: phylogenetic principles and
concepts; use of DNA web-based databases; edit, as-
sembling, and alignment of DNA sequences; distance,
parsimony and Bayesian methods of tree reconstruc-
tion; models of molecular evolution; tree optimization;
interpretation of phylogenetic trees; single and com-
bined gene-trees; molecular-clocks, relaxed phylogenet-
ics, and age estimate of tree-nodes; tree drawing.
Language: English (with supportive Portuguese when
required)
Structure of the course: 6 days; 8.30h /day (Lectures:
2.30h + Practicals: 6h). Total number of hours: 51h
(15h lectures + 36h computational practical).
Pre-requisites: Attendees should have some background
knowledge in evolutionary biology and phylogenetic
thinking, but previous experience with programs for
phylogeny reconstruction is not expected.
Further queries should be addressed to: S´ ergio ´Avila
(avila@notes.uac.pt).
Manuel Malaquias <Manuel.Malaquias@bm.uib.no >
UBern PlantMicrevolution Jul7-10
Dear all,
on 7-10 July 2009 several colleagues at the University of
Bern (Markus Fischer, Mark van Kleunen and Daniel
Prati) and I are organising a
WORKSHOP ON GLOBAL CHANGE AND
PLANT MICROEVOLUTION (Website: http://-
www.staﬀ.unibe.ch/bossdorf/workshop.html )
Global environmental change does not only aﬀect the
ecology but also the evolution of plants. Climate
change, land use and biological invasions aﬀect the di-
rection and strength of natural selection, as well as
the amount and distribution of plant genetic diversity.The resulting microevolution could buﬀer or acceler-
ate environmental change. Understanding this anthro-
pogenic evolution might be important for our ability to
predict global change impacts. However, evolutionary
processes are still a very understudied aspect of global
change biology. While there has been quite some re-
cent research on evolutionary consequences of biolog-
ical invasions, much less is known about evolution in
response to climate change, and even less about evolu-
tionary consequences of land use. The purpose of our
workshop is to bring these questions together under a
common conceptual framework, discuss the current re-
search in this ﬁeld, and develop an agenda for future re-
search. The scale of the workshop will be rather small,
with a total of about 40 participants. The workshop
will thus have a pleasant retreat character. It will be
divided into two parts: a symposium part where the
invited speakers and some of the participants will give
lectures, and a workshop part where participants, as-
sisted by the invited experts, will form small discussion
groups and jointly develop ideas for future research.
The workshop venue will be on 7-10 July in M¨ urren,
a beautiful and car-free mountain village in the Swiss
Alps, about 75 km south of Bern. M¨ urren can be
reached only by foot or cable-car. Hotel Regina is a
100 year old mountain hotel with a special charme and
a breathtaking view of the famous Eiger, M¨ onch and
Jungfrau mountain panorama.
Invited speakers: Rob Colautti, University of Toronto,
Canada Julie Etterson, University of Minnesota, USA
Markus Fischer, University of Bern, Switzerland Steven
Franks, Fordham University, USA Alistair Jump, Uni-
versity of Stirling, UK Jennifer Lau, Michigan State
University, USA
If you are interested in participating in the work-
shop, please visit the workshop website ( http://-
www.staﬀ.unibe.ch/bossdorf/workshop.html ) and fol-
low the instructions. Please register as early as possible,
as the total number of participants is limited.
See you in M¨ urren, Oliver
– Dr. Oliver Bossdorf University of Bern Institute
of Plant Sciences Altenbergrain 21 CH-3013 Bern,
Switzerland
bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch Phone: +41 31 631-4923 (Fax
-4942) http://www.staﬀ.unibe.ch/bossdorf/ Oliver
Bossdorf <bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch >92 EvolDir June 1, 2009
Uganda BiodiversityConservation
Jun21-25
Dear all,
The Network for Conservation Educators and Practi-
tioners of the Albertine Rift Region (NCEPARR), in
conjunction with the Institute of Environment and Nat-
ural Resources, Makerere University (MUIENR) and
the National University of Rwanda (NUR) are organiz-
ing a workshop on the theme: BIODIVERSITY CON-
SERVATION IN THE ALBERTINE RIFT REGION.
The workshop will take place between the 21st - 25th
June 2009 in Uganda.
The workshop is aimed at promoting collaborations
in teaching and research among Conservation Educa-
tors and Practitioners in the Albertine Rift Countries,
government and non-government organizations, policy-
makers, and decision makers; and also to create op-
portunities and approaches for conservation scientists
at universities and research institutes in the Albertine
Rift to interact.
The workshop sub-themes are:
1. Climate change and biodiversity conservation 2. Re-
search and Monitoring as a conservation tool in the
Albertine Rift 3. Ethnobotany and value addition 4.
The status of biodiversity resources within the Alber-
tine Rift and implications for their conservation 5. Role
of conservation educators and practitioners in attaining
MDG 7 in the Albertine Rift : opportunities and chal-
lenges
If you are interested to participate in this workshop,
please submit an abstract. I wish to inform all that
only a limited number of participants will be hosted
and that the selection of participants to be hosted will
be based on submission of a good abstract.
THE DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACTS SUBMISSION
IS 5TH JUNE 2009.
Yours sincerely,
John R.S. Tabuti
Chairperson, Organizing committee
John R.S. Tabuti (Ph.D.), Associate Profes-
sor/Ethnobotanist Institute of Environment and
Natural Resources, Makerere University. P.O.
Box 7062 Kampala, Uganda. Alternative e-mail:jrstabuti@yahoo.com Tel: +256 (0) 414 530 135;
Mobile: +256 (0) 772 960 880 Fax: +256 (0) 414 530
134 Africa Regional representative for the International
Society of Ethnobiology
“John R.S. Tabuti” <jtabuti@muienr.mak.ac.ug >
ULisbon BioinformaticsCompBiol
Dear all
I am pleased to announce the new edition of the Bioin-
formatics and Computational Biology Master Course
at the University of Lisbon, Portugal. For this edi-
tion (2009-2010) the courses are Lectured in Portuguese
only, in due time some courses will be lectured in En-
glish again. For further information check our webpage
http://bbc.fc.ul.pt Oct´ avio S. Paulo Ph.D. Assistant
Professor Centro de Biologia Ambiental Departamento
de Biologia Animal Faculdade de Ciˆ encias da Universi-
dade de Lisboa P-1749-016 Lisboa Portugal
ofpaulo@fc.ul.pt
UMichigan
EvolutionaryEpidemiology Jul27-31
The University of Michigan School of Public Health
is oﬀering a one-week, one credit course from July
27-31 on *Evolutionary Epidemiology ( <http://-
www.sph.umich.edu/epid/GSS/courses/1week.html >
**EPID 788) <http://www.sph.umich.edu/epid/-
GSS/courses/1week.html >** *taught by Betsy Fox-
man and Randolph Nesse. For details and an applica-
tion, click above.
Description: New applications of evolutionary the-
ory to medicine are growing and helping to ex-
plain apparent paradoxes, such as rapidly increas-
ing rates of breast cancer, increased asthma vulner-
ability in certain populations and the metabolic syn-
drome (For details see The Evolution and Medicine
Review at http://evmedreview.com . Epidemiologists
have begun to apply these principles and ask new
questions, such as do genes that vary by latitude
explain hypertension, and how might public healthJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 93
interventions for infectious disease be “evolution-
proofed” (see discussion of the American College of
Epidemiology 2008 meeting: Dawn of Evolutionary
Epidemiology ( http://acepidemiology.org/meetings/-
2008Tuscon/08AMSpeakerHandouts.asp ). This course
will explore how epidemiologists and other public
health workers can make use of these advances in
their own work. Applying evolutionary theory can
sharpen research questions, raise new possible explana-
tions for observed phenomena and identify new types
of exposure and outcome measures. Pre-requisite:
No prior training in evolutionary biology is assumed.
Full info at http://www.sph.umich.edu/epid/GSS/-
courses/1week.html rmnesse@gmail.com
UWashington
SummerInstStatGenetics
EarlyRegistration
The early-bird registration fee for the Summer Institute
in Statistical Genetics will not be available after May
18. Some modules have now closed and other modules
are close to being full. Details about the Institute are
athttp://www.biostat.washington.edu Bruce S Weir
Professor and Chair Department of Biostatistics Uni-
versity of Washington Seattle, WA 98195-7232
Phone: (206) 221-7947 Email:
bsweir@u.washington.edu
Bruce Weir <bsweir@u.washington.edu >
Valencia MolEvol Jun15-19
Fourth Course on Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics,
Phylogenomics and Adaptation
15 - 19 June 2009, Valencia. Spain
Hern´ an Dopazo, Co-ordination
The course aims to provide the necessary background
to understand the basic concepts from comparative and
evolutionary biology that are frequently used in molec-
ular biology and bioinformatics analyses. The course
consists in ﬁve full-day sessions with an adequate bal-
ance between theory and computer practice, orientedto solve frequent problems and hypothesis testing. The
course includes a session of phylogenomic analysis and
functional annotation including the most recent devel-
opments in this area. Among other tools, attendees will
become familiar with Phylip, Phyml, PAML, TreeP-
uzzle, MrBayes, Modeltest, ProTest, JModelTest pro-
grams and tools developed in our department such as
Phylemon, FatiGO and FatiScan. The course is mainly
intended for professionals in the ﬁeld of biology and
chemistry who work on areas related to biological se-
quence analysis.
Course fee is 300 euros
Application Deadline: 18th May 2009
More information at: http://bioinfo.cipf.es/courses/-
molevolphylo 4ed/ Language: the oﬃcial language
of the course will be english unless all attendees speak
spanish.
Phylemon web server: http://phylemon.bioinfo.cipf.es
Comparative Genomics Unit Bioinformatics and Ge-
nomics Department Centro de Investigaci´ on Pr´ ıncipe
Felipe (CIPF) Valencia, Spain.
H
Hern´ an J. Dopazo, PhD Comparative Genomics
Unit, Bioinformatics & Genomics Department, Cen-
tro de Investigaci´ on Pr´ ıncipe Felipe c/ ep Avda.
Autopista del Saler 16 (Junto al Oceanogr´ aﬁco),
46012, Valencia, Espa˜ na. Tfn: (34) 96 328
96 80 ext: 1008 Fax: (34) 96 328 97 01
hdopazo@cipf.es http://hdopazo.bioinfo.cipf.es/ her-
nan dopazo <dopazoh@gmail.com >
Venice EvoDevo Sep14-17
Summer School on Evolutionary Developmental Biol-
ogy Venice, September 14th-17th 2009
Organizers Alessandro Minelli, Michael Akam, Gerd B.
M¨ uller and Giuseppe Fusco
A summer school on Evolutionary Developmental Bi-
ology will be held at the Istituto Veneto di Scienze,
Lettere ed Arti (Venice, Italy) from September 14th to
September 17th 2009.
The school will be articulated into eight theoreti-
cal/practical units introducing the students to a diver-
sity of resources and working tools in evo-devo, and to
likely pitfalls in their use.94 EvolDir June 1, 2009
The School is sponsored by the Istituto Veneto di
Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, the Konrad Lorenz Institute
for Evolution and Cognition Research, Vienna, and the
University Museum of Zoology, Cambridge.
The teaching panel includes M. Akam (Cambridge),
M. Babu (Cambridge), G. Fusco (Padova), J. Jaeger
(Barcelona), R. Jenner (London), J. Jernvall (Helsinki),
A. Minelli, (Padova), G.B. M¨ uller (Vienna), S.A. New-
man (New York), I. Salazar-Ciudad (Barcelona), E.
Schierenberg (K¨ oln).
The school is hosted in Palazzo Franchetti, a splendid,
recently restored building, located in the very centre of
Venice and facing the Grand Canal.Participants will be asked to pay a fee of 300 Euros, to
contribute to their living expenses in Venice.
Deadline for applications: May 30th 2009.
For details, visit <http://www.istitutoveneto.it/-
EDB/ >http://www.istitutoveneto.it/EDB/
Giuseppe Fusco Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-35131 Padova
Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax +39.049.827.6230
e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it webpage http://-
dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. AlthoughJune 1, 2009 EvolDir 95
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.