E v o l D i r
September 1, 2008
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Conferences
BrownU GenomicsEnvChange June8-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Christchurch BioEd2009 Feb12-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
London e-Bioshpere Jun1-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Melbourne DarwinAnniversary Feb12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Minnesota TheFirstHumans Oct7-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Munich SocialInsectEvolution Oct9-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Paris Recomb ComparativeGenomics Oct13-15 Posters
5Tucson EvolutionaryEpidemiology Sep14-16 . . . . . . . . 6
UBath Sex and asex Sep5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
UBath Sex and asex Sep5 posters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
UCIrvine MEEGID IX Oct30-Nov1 DNABarcoding . 8
UMass GeneticBasisPlantAdaptation Oct18 . . . . . . . . 9
UZurich PaulWardSpermCompetition Oct25 . . . . . . 10
BrownU GenomicsEnvChange
June8-11
Mark your calendar for the 2009 American Genetic As-
sociation Symposium:
“The Genetics and Genomics of Environmental
Change” June 8 - 11, 2009 Brown University Provi-
dence, RI
Topics include –
Environmental Genomics Clinal Variation Evolutionary
Genetics of Climate Change Genetic Polymorphisms
and Environmental Stress Genotype, Environment and
Epistasis: GxGxE
Further details and a link to the Symposium website
will be announced soon.
agajoh@oregonstate.edu agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Christchurch BioEd2009 Feb12-15
The 2009 BioEd Conference will be held in
Christchurch, New Zealand from 12-15 February 2009.
The Allan Wilson Centre for Molecular Ecology and
Evolution, a New Zealand Centre of Research Excel-lence, is pleased to host BioEd2009 - one of six co-
ordinated international events celebrating the birth of
Charles Darwin. These meetings are being run under
the auspices of the International Union of Biological
Sciences (IUBS) and the United Nations Educational
Scientiﬁc and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Our
aim is to celebrate the impact of Darwin’s ideas on cur-
rent scientiﬁc knowledge, and in so doing bring together
an international community of individuals interested in
science, secondary and tertiary education.
Symposia themes are: * On the origins of life and
species * Lessons from Darwin’s laboratory * The de-
scent of man: what we have learnt about ourselves 200
years on * Towards Biology 2020: addressing calls for
mathematics and computer science in educating biol-
ogists * Informal public education: museums, media,
marine sanctuaries and national parks * Conservation
education in a time of global climate change * Emerging
infectious diseases and public health * Sustainability,
bioprotection and agricultural education * Darwinian
medicine * Preparing teachers for evolution education
* The future of biological education
Conﬁrmed speakers can be found on the BioED2009
web site. We invite you to register for BioEd 2009
at http://awcmee.massey.ac.nz/IUBS BioEd 2009/-
index.htm . Expressions of interest for those who wish
to present a paper or a poster are open until 24 October
2008. Abstracts will be considered by 14 November
2008 and you will be advised soon thereafter whether
your paper/poster has been accepted. Earlybird
registration rates apply until 30 November 2008.
Thank you Susan Adams –September 1, 2008 EvolDir 3
Susan Adams Executive Oﬃcer/Business Manager Al-
lan Wilson Centre for Molecular Ecology and Evolu-
tion Massey University Private Bag 11-222 Palmerston
North New Zealand
Tel: +64 6 350 5448 Fax: +64 6 350 5626 Mobile: 021
379 427
Susan Adams <s.i.adams@massey.ac.nz >
London e-Bioshpere Jun1-5
The e-Biosphere 09: International Conference on Bio-
diversity Informatics will be held on 1-5 June 2009 in
London.
The Conference website is now open at www.e-
biosphere09.org . There you will ﬁnd:
* The Second Conference Announcement
(http://www.e-biosphere09.org/assets/ﬁles/-
2ndAnnouncement07.09.08.pdf ) * The Scientiﬁc
Programme of the Conference * Calls for Participation
by co-sponsors, software/database demonstrators, ex-
hibitors, break-out discussion organizers, and sponsors
of side-events * Information for software/database
demonstration booths and exhibits ( http://www.e-
biosphere09.org/assets/ﬁles/Exhibitors07Jul08.pdf )
The Call for Abstracts and Applications for Travel Bur-
saries will be released on the Conference website in the
coming weeks. The deadline for submission of abstracts
and applications is 15 December 2008.
We hope you’ll be interested in participating and we
look forward to seeing you in London.
On behalf of the Conference Steering Committee,
David E. Schindel, Executive Secretary
Consortium for the Barcode of Life
202/633-0812; fax 202/633-2938; portable 202/557-
1149
Email: SchindelD@si.edu
<blocked::mailto:SchindelD@si.edu >
CBOL WEBSITE: http://www.barcoding.si.edu
<blocked:: http://www.barcoding.si.edu/ >
Oﬃce and overnight delivery address:
National Museum of Natural History Room CE-119
10th & Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC
20560 Postal mailing address National Museum of Nat-ural History Smithsonian Institution P.O. Box 37012,
MRC-105 Washington, DC 20013-7012
“Schindel, David” <schindeld@si.edu >
Melbourne DarwinAnniversary
Feb12
Come Share in a Unique Experience
You are invited to come to Melbourne, Australia to
share in a unique conference experience, celebrating
the 200th anniversary of Darwin’s birth (February 12,
1809) and the 150th anniversary of the publication of
the Origin of the Species
When Charles Darwin came to Australia on the voy-
age of HMS Beagle in 1836 he was an obscure English
naturalist.
23 years later the publication of Darwin’s book, Ori-
gin of the Species, sparked an intellectual, social and
spiritual revolution. “It radically transformed our un-
derstanding of life on this planet” the origins of life, our
relationship to other species and the way life can adapt
or fail to do so in the face of environmental change.
Evolution - the Experience will explore the breadth and
depth of Darwin’s ongoing impact in basic biology, agri-
culture, medicine, psychology, sociology, politics, his-
tory and religion.
Evolution - the Experience will be embedded in rich
menu of public events, each in their own way touch-
ing the Darwinian theme - theatre, ﬁlm, forums, de-
bates and exhibitions involving theatre companies, or-
chestras, cinemas, museums, art galleries, libraries,
botanic gardens, zoos, herbaria, schools, universi-
ties and the media. And on February 12, 2009
there will be a unique birthday celebration <http://-
www.evolution09.com.au/social.php >for Charles Dar-
win.
Register your interest in being part of this extraordi-
nary experience so that we can keep you updated of all
key information - www.evolution09.com.au Regards
Kim
Kim Stevenson
Think Business Events Suite 6, 19-23 Hoddle Street
Richmond, VIC 3121
Ph: +61 3 9417 1350 Fax: +61 3 8610 2170 Email:
kims@thinkbusinessevents.com.au4 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Kim Stevenson <kims@thinkbusinessevents.com.au >
Minnesota TheFirstHumans Oct7-8
Each fall since the 1960’s, Gustavus has hosted the No-
bel Conference which has a twofold vision, to bring
cutting-edge science issues to the attention of an au-
dience of students and interested adults; and to engage
the panelists and the audience in a discussion of the
moral and societal impact of these issues. The topic
for the conference is always based in science and we
endeavor to bring world-class speakers to campus for
this two-day event. At least sixty Nobel laureates have
served as speakers, ﬁve of whom were awarded the prize
after speaking at our conference, attesting to its timeli-
ness. True to the second part of our mission, these con-
ferences have also asked questions like: What does it
mean? What good is it? Could it be potentially harm-
ful? In some cases, the questions of impact on society
are very obvious, as at the 2007 conference whose theme
was title was /Heating Up: The Energy Debate./ Even
though the audience can be quite large 5,000 or more,
there are a number of opportunities for the audience to
interact with the speakers, including the question and
answer period following each of the talks.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, October 7 and 8, we will
convene Nobel Conference XLIV, /The First Humans/,
featuring Robin I. M. Dunbar, Marcus W. Feldman,
J. Wentzel van Huyssteen, Curtis W. Marean, Svante
P¨ a¨ abo, and Dennis Stanford. This panel hopes to ad-
dress questions such as: Who were the ﬁrst humans?
Where did they come from? How did they live? Ques-
tions that have traditionally been the domain of an-
thropologists and paleontologists, but have more re-
cently received input from molecular biologists, popula-
tion geneticists, cognitive archaeologists, and even pale-
oclimatologists. Using new techniques and state-of-the-
art technologies, they have both aided the painstaking
work of extracting skeletal remains and artifacts from
ancient sites around the world and bolstered the physi-
cal ﬁndings. Together, these scientists have produced a
host of exciting, far-reaching discoveries. While they
are still debating the exact relationships among the
species of hominids, the genus from which modern hu-
mans arose, they are getting closer and closer to ﬁnding
the very ﬁrst of our kind with research that is rewriting
our history and informing us in dramatic ways.
For more information on the fall’s conference, past
conferences, and our link the Nobel Foundation,please visit our website: http://gustavus.edu/events/-
nobelconference/2008/ We hope that you, your col-
leagues, and your students will be able to join us for
this year’s conference and the unique opportunity it
aﬀords. Please share this invitation with others who
might be interested.
Thank you for your consideration.
Chuck
– Chuck Niederriter Internet: chuck@gustavus.edu Pro-
fessor of Physics and http://physics.gac.edu/ ˜ chuck/
Director of the Nobel Conference Telephone: (507)933-
7315 Gustavus Adolphus College FAX: (507)933-6104
St. Peter, MN 56082
Chuck Niederriter <chuck@gac.edu >
Munich SocialInsectEvolution
Oct9-11
Invitation to the 1 ^st Central European Meeting*
*of the IUSSI (International Union for the Study of So-
cial Insects)*
*from 9.10.2009 ˆ a 11.10.2009*
*Abbey Frauenw¨ orth, Fraueninsel Chiemsee*
* *
* AG Behavioral Ecology*
*LMU Munich*
*Großhaderner Str. 2*
*82152 Planegg-Martinsried*
*foitzik@biologie.uni-muenchen.de
<mailto:foitzik@biologie.uni-muenchen.de >*
* *
The Organizing Committee is happy to invite all social
insect researchers to participate in the *1 ^st Central
European Meeting of the IUSSI*, which will be held at
the Abbey Frauenw¨ orth on the Fraueninsel at the Lake
Chiemsee, Bavaria, Germany, from the 9 ^th to 11 ^th
of October, 2009. The 3 ^rd Myrmecological meeting
will be held at the same location from October 8 ^th
to 10 ^th and participants are invited to attend both
meetings.
*Program*
The scientiﬁc program for the Myrmecological MeetingSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 5
will start on Thursday afternoon and end on Saturday,
the IUSSI Meeting will commence on Friday afternoon
and will end Sunday afternoon. Planned arrival days
are October 8 ^th or 9 ^th , departure can take place
October 10 ^th to 12 ^th . However, early arrival / late
departure is possible. We will oﬀer the possibility to
visit the palace Herrenchiemsee on Sunday afternoon.
* *
*Main Speakers*
ˆA Abraham Hefetz, Tel Aviv, Israel
ˆA Tom Wenseleers, Leuven, Belgium
* *
*Meeting place*
The idyllic Abbey Frauenw¨ orth is located on the island
Fraueninsel in Lake Chiemsee, 70 km southeast of Mu-
nich. Beside its prime location, the Abbey Frauenw¨ orth
maintains a state-of-the art convention centre, which
oﬀers excellent, but inexpensive meeting facilities, in-
cluding a lecture hall, the restaurant ˆ aKlosterwirt“ and
single and double rooms starting from 22 per night. The
island can be reached easily by ship (every 30min-1h, 25
min ride). We plan to organize a bus to facilitate trans-
port from Munich airport / Central railway station to
Prien, where the ships start.**
*Participation*
We would appreciate early registration per e-mail with-
out obligation. You will receive additional information
by e-mail or mail. For provisional registration, please
send us the following information:
Name, address, email, IUSSI-Member/Non-
Member/Student, length of stay and whether or
not you plan to present results in an oral, poster or
ﬁlm presentation
To facilitate the participation of Eastern European and
student researchers, we will oﬀer reduced registration
fees for these groups. **
**
– Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Department Biologie
II Verhaltens¨ okologie Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at
M¨ unchen Großhaderner Str. 2 D - 82152 Planegg /
Martinsried Germany
Phone: + 49 89 / 2180 74 209 Fax: + 49 89 / 2180 74
221 e-mail: foitzik@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Susanne Foitzik <foitzik@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de >Paris Recomb
ComparativeGenomics Oct13-15
Posters
CALL FOR POSTERS AND REGISTRATION
—–
UPDATES:
- Registration is open
https://igm.univ-mlv.fr/RCG08/?lang=en&cat=-
registration - The list of accepted papers is available
here
http://igm.univ-mlv.fr/RCG08/?lang=en&cat=-
program —–
Sixth Annual RECOMB Satellite Meeting on Compar-
ative Genomics
October 13-15, 2008
Ecole Normale Sup´ erieure, Paris, France
http://igm.univ-mlv.fr/RCG08 THEME AND
SCOPE
Rapid DNA sequencing technologies have fueled an ex-
plosion in genome level data. RECOMB-CG is devoted
to the development and utilization of computational
methods for the comparative exploration of genome
structure, function, and evolution. Both theoretical
and applied contributions are welcome, and papers that
combine new techniques with new knowledge derived
from their application are highly encouraged.
Submissions should include genome wide analyses in-
formed by comparative data. Topics of interest include
but are not limited to:
Algorithms for comparative genomics Genome rear-
rangements Ancestral genome reconstruction Multi-
ple genome alignment Genome sequence comparison
Modeling genome evolution Identiﬁcation, classiﬁca-
tion, and evolution of non-coding motifs Comparative
genomics for genome annotation Gene and genome du-
plication Evolution of gene families Identiﬁcation of
highly conserved and rapidly evolving sequences Gene
tree reconciliation Comparative genomics and epigenet-
ics Comparative genomics and proteomics Comparative
genomics and gene expression Comparative genomics
and adaptation
CALL FOR POSTER PRESENTATIONS6 EvolDir September 1, 2008
We invite you to apply for poster presentations on top-
ics of relevance to the workshop. Each poster presen-
tation should be described in a 1 page summary and
be submitted by September 22, 2008 via the Easy-
chair submission system: http://www.easychair.org/-
conferences/?conf=recombcg08 PROGRAM
The lists of invited speakers and accepted papers are
available here
https://igm.univ-mlv.fr/RCG08/?lang=en&cat=-
program KEY DATES
June 18, 2008 Paper submission deadline
July 14, 2008 Notiﬁcation of paper acceptance
July 24, 2008 Final manuscript due
Early registration is through September 15, 2008
Late registration will begin September 16, 2008
September 22, 2008 Poster submission deadline
October 13-15, 2008 Workshop
INVITED SPEAKERS
Olga Troyanskaya (Princeton University) Aviv Regev
(Broad Institute) Trisha Wittkop (University of Michi-
gan) Chris Ponting (University of Oxford) Laurent
Duret (Universit´ e Claude Bernard)
CONFERENCE CHAIRS
Craig E. Nelson (Molecular & Cell Biology - Univ. of
Connecticut, USA) Stephane Vialette (IGM - Univ.
Paris-Est, France)
STEERING COMMITTEE
Jens Lagergren (Stockholm Bioinformatics Centre and
CSC, KTH, Sweden) Aoife McLysaght (University of
Dublin, Ireland) David Sankoﬀ (University of Ottawa,
Canada)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Lars Arvestad (Royal Institute of Technology, Swe-
den) Veronique Barriel (Museum national d’histoire na-
turelle, France) Anne Bergeron (Universite du Que-
bec a Montreal, Canada) Guillaume Blin (Universite
Paris-Est, France) Guillaume Bourque (Genome Insti-
tute of Singapore, Singapore) Jeremy Buhler (Wash-
ington University in Saint Louis, USA) Pierre Capy
(Universite Paris-Sud, France) Cedric Chauve (Simon
Fraser University, Canada) Avril Coghlan (Sanger In-
stitute, UK) Miklos Csuros (Universite de Montreal,
Canada) Aaron Darling (University of Queensland,
Australia) Bernard Dujon (Institut Pasteur, France)
Dannie Durand (Carnegie Mellon University, USA)
Nadia El-Mabrouk (Universite de Montreal, Canada)
Niklas Eriksen (Goteborg University, Sweden) Guil-laume Fertin (Universite de Nantes, France) Olivier
Gascuel (Universite de Montpellier II, France) Henri
Grosjean (Universite Paris-Sud, France) Matthew Hahn
(Indiana University, USA) Tao Jiang (University of
California - Riverside, USA) Jens Lagergren (Stock-
holm Bioinformatics Centre and CSC, KTH, Swe-
den) Emmanuelle Lerat (Universite Claude Bernard,
France) Aoife McLysaght (University of Dublin, Ire-
land) Bernard Moret (Ecole Polytechnique Federale de
Lausanne, Switzerland) Craig Nelson (Co-Chair, Uni-
versity of Connecticut, USA) Michal Ozery-Flato (Uni-
versity of Tel-Aviv, Israel) Pierre Pontarotti (Universite
de Provence, France) Eduardo Rocha (Universite Paris
6 et Institut Pasteur, France) Hugues Roest-Crollius
(Ecole Normale Superieure, France) Antonis Rokas
(Vanderbilt University, USA) Marie-France Sagot (IN-
RIA Rhˆ one-Alpes, France) David Sankoﬀ (University
of Ottawa, Canada)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Tucson EvolutionaryEpidemiology
Sep14-16
2008 American College of Epidemiology Meeting Pro-
gram “The Dawn of Evolutionary Epidemiology: Ap-
plying Evolutionary Theory in an Epidemiologic Con-
text” September 14-16, 2008 The meeting is at The
Westin LaPaloma Resort & Spa 3800 East Sunrise
Drive, Tucson, AZ 85718
Full meeting info is at: http://-
www.acepidemiology2.org/meetings/2008Tuscon/-
08Tusconamprogram.html The main hotel is full, but
housing is available at:
Embassy Suites Paloma Village - 6350 North Campbell
Avenue, Tucson, AZ 85718 (2 miles about 5 minutes)
Hacienda Del Sol Guest Ranch Resort -
www.haciendadelsol.com - 5601 North Hacienda
del Sol Road, Tucson, AZ 85718 (520) 299-1501 (0.7
miles about 2 minutes)
Loews Ventana Canyon Resort - www.loewshotels.com
- 7000 North Resort Drive, Tucson, AZ 85750 (520)
299-2020 (5.9 miles about 10 minutes)September 1, 2008 EvolDir 7
Canyon Ranch - 8600 East Rockcliﬀ Road, Tucson, AZ
85750 (7.8 miles about 14 minutes)
Lodge at Ventana Canyon - 6200 North Club House,
Tucson, AZ 85750 Phone: 520-577-1400; (5.3 miles
about 9 minutes)
Windmill Suites at St Philips Plaza - 4250 North Camp-
bell Avenue, Tucson, AZ 85718 (3.6 miles about 9 min-
utes)
Westward Look Resort - 245 East Ina Road, Tucson,
AZ 85704 (4.3 miles about 7 minutes)
La Posada Lodge & Casitas - 5900 North Oracle Road,
Tucson, AZ 85704 (6.7 miles about 12 minutes)
Hampton Inn & Suites - 5950 North Oracle Road, Tuc-
son, AZ 85704 (6.8 miles about 12 minutes)
rmnesse@gmail.com
UBath Sex and asex Sep5
THE EVOLUTION OF SEX AND ASEXUAL RE-
PRODUCTION
Genetics Society Autumn Meeting, University of Bath,
UK, Sept. 5th 2008
Scientiﬁc organisers: Laurence Hurst (Bath) and Roger
Butlin (Sheﬃeld)
To accompany the presentation of 2008 Mendel Lec-
ture by Professor Matthew Meselson and the 2008 Bal-
four Lecture by Daven Presgraves, The Genetics Soci-
ety is organizing a one day conference on THE EVOLU-
TION OF SEX AND ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION.
This will be held at the University of Bath, UK on Fri-
day 5th September.
While the maintenance of sex and recombination re-
mains an intellectual challenge, the long term persis-
tence of some asexuals is equally puzzling. What if any-
thing can be learnt about the former issues by studying
the latter and vice versa? There are multiple contrast-
ing approaches to these problems: theoretical versus
empirical approaches, genetical verses ecological expla-
nations, ﬁeld versus laboratory systems. This meeting
will bring together all of these strands in current re-
search.
For more details and registration go to: http://-
www.genetics.org.uk/ autumn 2008, onedaymeeting
Speakers:Christina Burch (North Carolina, USA)
Jukka Jokela (Zurich, Switzerland)
Peter Keightley (Edinburgh, UK)
Ryszard Korona (Krakow, Poland)
Dunja Lamatsch (Mondsee, Austria)
Thomas Lenormand (Montpellier, France)
Mike Lynch (Indiana, USA)
Stefan Scheu (Darmstadt, Germany)
Featuring:
2008 Mendel Medal winner, Matthew Meselson (Har-
vard, USA)
2008 Balfour Lecture by Daven Presgraves (Rochester,
New York)
Laurence D. Hurst Royal Society Wolfson Research
Merit Award Holder Professor of Evolutionary Genet-
ics Department of Biology and Biochemistry University
of Bath Bath Somerset, UK BA2 7AY
tel: +44 (0)1225 386424 fax: +44 (0)1225 386779 email:
l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk
Laurence Hurst <l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk >
UBath Sex and asex Sep5 posters
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
THERE WILL BE A POSTER SESSION, SO ANY-
ONE WISHING TO PRESENT A POSTER IS WEL-
COME TO BRING IT ALONE. THERE IS NO NEED
TO CONTACT THE ORGANISERS IN ADVANCE.
THE EVOLUTION OF SEX AND ASEXUAL RE-
PRODUCTION
Genetics Society Autumn Meeting, University of Bath,
UK, Sept. 5th 2008
Scientiﬁc organisers: Laurence Hurst (Bath) and Roger
Butlin (Sheﬃeld)
To accompany the presentation of 2008 Mendel Lec-
ture by Professor Matthew Meselson and the 2008 Bal-
four Lecture by Daven Presgraves, The Genetics Soci-
ety is organizing a one day conference on THE EVOLU-
TION OF SEX AND ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION.
This will be held at the University of Bath, UK on Fri-
day 5th September.8 EvolDir September 1, 2008
While the maintenance of sex and recombination re-
mains an intellectual challenge, the long term persis-
tence of some asexuals is equally puzzling. What if any-
thing can be learnt about the former issues by studying
the latter and vice versa? There are multiple contrast-
ing approaches to these problems: theoretical versus
empirical approaches, genetical verses ecological expla-
nations, ﬁeld versus laboratory systems. This meeting
will bring together all of these strands in current re-
search.
For more details and registration go to: http://-
www.genetics.org.uk/ autumn 2008, onedaymeeting
Speakers:
Christina Burch (North Carolina, USA)
Jukka Jokela (Zurich, Switzerland)
Peter Keightley (Edinburgh, UK)
Ryszard Korona (Krakow, Poland)
Dunja Lamatsch (Mondsee, Austria)
Thomas Lenormand (Montpellier, France)
Mike Lynch (Indiana, USA)
Stefan Scheu (Darmstadt, Germany)
Featuring:
2008 Mendel Medal winner, Matthew Meselson (Har-
vard, USA)
2008 Balfour Lecture by Daven Presgraves (Rochester,
New York)
Laurence D. Hurst Royal Society Wolfson Research
Merit Award Holder Professor of Evolutionary Genet-
ics Department of Biology and Biochemistry University
of Bath Bath Somerset, UK BA2 7AY
tel: +44 (0)1225 386424 fax: +44 (0)1225 386779 email:
l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk
Laurence Hurst <l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk >
UCIrvine MEEGID IX Oct30-Nov1
DNABarcoding
MEEGID IX, University of California at Irvine, 30
October - 1 November 2008 http://www.th.ird.fr/-
sitemeegid/menu.htm SYMPOSIUM ON DNA BAR-
CODING
Speakers interested in presenting on applications ofDNA barcoding (hosts, pathogens, vectors) in molec-
ular epidemiology and infectious disease research at
the 9th International Meeting “Molecular Epidemi-
ology and Evolutionary Genetics of Infectious Dis-
eases” (MEEGID IX), held at UC Irvine, California,
should contact the convenor, Sergios-Orestis Kolokotro-
nis (koloko@amnh.org) with a CC to the principal orga-
nizer, Michel Tibayrenc (Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr) by
15 September.
Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis, PhD Coordinator, DNA
Barcoding Initiative for Conservation Sackler Insti-
tute for Comparative Genomics American Museum of
Natural History Central Park West at 79th Street
New York, NY 10024 -USA- tel +1 212 313 7648
koloko@amnh.org http://softlinks.amnh.org http://-
koloko.net — MEEGID IX is co-organized by the Uni-
versity of California at Irvine ( http://www.uci.edu )
and the Institut de Recherche pour le Developpement
(IRD; http://www.ird.fr ) in France. Principal organiz-
ers are Francisco J. Ayala (Dept of Ecology and Evolu-
tion, UC Irvine) and Michel Tibayrenc (IRD).
Communications on genetics, genomics, proteomics,
phylogenetics, population biology, mathematical mod-
eling, and bioinformatics are welcome. They can report
on the host, the pathogen, or the vector for vector-
borne diseases. Papers considering host + pathogen
or pathogen + vector (co-evolution) are particularly
encouraged. All pathogens are within the scope of
MEEGID: viruses, parasitic protozoa, helminths, fun-
gal organisms, and prions. All infectious models can be
explored, including those of veterinary or agronomical
relevance.
Conﬁrmed Speakers
Francisco J. Ayala (Dept Ecology and Evolution, UC
Irvine): (i) Evolution of malaria; (ii) Darwin’s Revolu-
tion
Robin Bush (Dept Ecology and Evolution, UC Irvine,
California): Inﬂuenza Evolution
Koussay Dellagi (Centre for Research and Surveillance
of Emerging Diseases in the Indian Ocean). Chikun-
gunya epidemics
Appolinaire Djikeng (J. Craig Venter Institute,
Rockville, Maryland, USA) Viral genomics
Sunetra Gupta (University of Oxford, UK) The role of
immune selection on pathogen population structure
Henry Harpending (University of Salt Lake City): In-
fectious Diseases and Human Evolution
Austin Hugues (University of South Carolina,
Columbia) The Importance of Purifying Selection
in Pathogen EvolutionSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 9
Tovi Lehmann (NIAID, NIH). Vector population genet-
ics and genomics
James Musser (Cornell University, New York) Molecu-
lar Genetic Basis of Group A Streptococcus Epidemics
Martine Peeters (IRD Montpellier, France). HIV
molecular evolution
Anne Rimoin (UC Los Angeles) : implementing active
surveillance of human monkeypox in the democratic re-
public of Congo
Michel Tibayrenc (IRD, Bangkok, Thailand): Inte-
grated evolutionary epidemiology: where are we now?
Nathan Wolfe (UC Los Angeles): Viral forecasting
The MEEGID meetings are organized in synergy with
the new journal Infection, Genetics and Evolution (El-
sevier; http://www.elsevier.com/locate/meegid ) , cov-
ering the same scientiﬁc topic. Launched only 6 years
ago, Infection, Genetics and Evolution is now published
with six issues per year, and has been indexed by Med-
line and Index Medicus, starting from the ﬁrst issue. It
has been quoted 3.5/5.0 (“very good”) by the US Na-
tional Library of Medicine. It is now covered by ISI and
the oﬃcial impact factor for 2007 is 2.407 (ISI Web of
knowledge).
The papers communicated for MEEGID IX will be pub-
lished in a special issue of Infection, Genetics and Evo-
lution, as already done for MEEGID VI (Paris, July
2002) and MEEGID VIII (Bangkok, Thailand, Novem-
ber 2006). MEEGID IX will include 10-15 plenary lec-
tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “express-
debates” (a 20-min presentation by a single speaker fol-
lowed by 40 min of free discussion) and several poster
sessions.
Special emphasis through plenary lectures and sym-
posia will be given to health problems of particular in-
terest to mediterranean and tropical countries: AIDS,
malaria, tuberculosis (especially multidrug resistant
TB), sleeping sickness, leishmanioses, Chagas disease,
ebola, bird ﬂu, Chikungunya, as well as cattle and crop
pathogens. Plenary lectures and symposia will also deal
with transversal topics such as population genetics or
species concepts. The congress is open to proposals for
conferences and symposia.
Awards will be attributed to the best oral communica-
tion, the best
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlUMass
GeneticBasisPlantAdaptation Oct18
Dear colleagues:
We hope you can join us for our 6th Annual Symposium
in Plant Biology at the University of Massachusetts
Amherst:
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS: THE GENETIC BASIS
OF PLANT ADAPTATION
Saturday, October 18, 2008, 9 am to 6 pm, at the UMass
Campus Center and Engineering Lab II auditorium.
The symposium is an initiative of the Plant Biology
graduate program designed to highlight an exciting area
of plant biology by featuring a daylong program of
speakers, along with a poster session with contributions
from attendees. The symposium is FREE and includes
lunch, breaks and a ﬁnal reception. We strongly encour-
age interested graduate and undergraduate students to
attend and present posters.
Please register by Friday, October 4, 2008 for the
symposium and poster session. Online registration is
available through the symposium webpage: http://-
www.bio.umass.edu/plantbio/symposium08.html For
more information or questions, send an email to:
pb@bio.umass.edu
Best Regards,
Ana Caicedo (caicedo@bio.umass.edu) Lynn Adler
(lsadler@ent.umass.edu)
2008 PB SYMPOSIUM PRESENTERS:
EDWARD BUCKLER USDA-ARS Research Geneti-
cist and Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics
Cornell University “Complex Trait Genetics in Diverse
Maize”
SCOTT HODGES Ecology, Evolution & Marine Bi-
ology University of California, Santa Barbara “Specia-
tion and adaptation in Aquilegia: from ﬁeld to genomic
studies.”
THOMAS MITCHELL-OLDS Department of Biology,
Duke University “Nucleotide polymorphisms and their
ecological consequences in natural plant populations”
ROBERT THORNBURG Department of Biochemistry,
Biophysics and Molecular Biology Iowa State Univer-
sity “Molecules of nectar: The food of the gods and the10 EvolDir September 1, 2008
pilfering pollinators”
CYNTHIA WEINIG Department of Botany & Program
in Ecology University of Wyoming “Quantitative varia-
tion in circadian rhythms and plant adaptation to het-
erogeneous environments”
STEPHEN WRIGHT Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology University of Toronto “Popula-
tion genomics of plant adaptation in Arabidopsis and
Capsella”
–
Ana L. Caicedo, Ph.D. Assistant Professor 221 Mor-
rill Science Center phone: (413) 545-0975 Biology
Department fax: (413) 545-3243 University of Mas-
sachusetts email: caicedo@bio.umass.edu Amherst,
MA 01003 http://www.bio.umass.edu/biology/caicedo
Ana Caicedo <caicedo@bio.umass.edu >
UZurich
PaulWardSpermCompetition Oct25
Dear colleagues interested in sexual selection and sperm
competition
This is the 2nd announcement of our
Symposium on sexual selection, sperm competition &
cryptic female choice
in honor of our friend and colleague Paul Ward, who
died prematurely of cancer earlier this year,
Saturday 25 October 2008 (the day of his 50th birth-
day) at the University of Zurich-Irchel, Switzerland.
The symposium will be a whole-day aﬀair, with talks
approximately from 9:00 - ca. 18:00 h. In the evening
we are planning dinner together in a local restaurant.
There will be no registration fee, but attendants other
than the invitees will have to pay for their travel, lodg-
ing and dinner themselves. Please arrange this yourself
via the available web sites ( http://www.zuerich.com/-
en/welcome.cfm ). (Invited speakers will stay at the Ho-
tel Coronado close to the Irchel campus.)
Everybody is welcome to attend, and more informa-
tion will follow in due time. If you plan to attend, wewould appreciate a brief e-mail to the address given be-
low (Wolf Blanckenhorn), so we can judge attendance.
Please include whether you want to have dinner with
us for reservation purposes.
A tentative list of speakers with tentative titles include:
8.30 - 9.00 h Zurich people etc. INTRODUCTION 9 -
9.30 h Geoﬀ Parker, Liverpool, UK Sperm competition
in dung ﬂies 9.30 - 10 h Tim Birkhead, Sheﬃeld, UK
Cryptic Female Choice 10 - 10.30 h David Hosken, Ex-
eter, UK Aspects of sperm competition in yellow dung
ﬂies 10.30 - 11 h Coﬀee Break 11 - 11.30 h Leigh Sim-
mons, Perth, AUS Sexually selected sperm and com-
petitive fertilization success in dung beetles 11.30 - 12
h Matt Gage, Norwich, UK Some things insects have
taught us about sperm competition 12 - 12.30 h Luc
Bussi` ere, Stirling, UK The complexity of male-female
interactions during mating 12.30 - 14 h Lunch Break 14
- 14.30 h Rhonda Snook, Sheﬃeld, UK The evolution-
ary signiﬁcance of dud sperm: sperm competition and
female spermicide 14.30 - 15 h Nina Wedell, Exeter,
UK Selﬁsh genes and sperm competition 15 - 15.30 h
Scott Pitnick, Syacuse, USA Ejaculate-female interac-
tions 15.30 - 16 h Tim Karr, Bath, UK The molecular
side of Paul: Big ideas from the big guy 16 - 16.30 h
Tea Break 16.30 - 17 h Scott Sakaluk, Illinois, USA
Cryptic female choice in crickets 17 - 17.20 h Introduc-
tion of Paul Ward’s last PhD students 17.10 - 17.30
h Marco Demont TBA 17.30 - 17.50 h Karin Thueler
Genetic and Condition-Dependent Variation in Sperm
Storage Organ Investment of Female Yellow Dung Flies
17.50 - 18.10 h Sonja Sbilordo Sperm Use at Fertiliza-
tion by Yellow Dung Fly Females 18.10 - 18.30 h Chris-
tian W¨ ust TBA
20 h - 24 h Symposium Dinner
Please forward this message to anybody interested, and
reserve the date.
Best regards,
Dr. Wolf Blanckenhorn Zoological Museum Univer-
sity of Zurich-Irchel Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057
Zurich
Phone: +41 44 635.47.55 Fax: +41 44
635.47.80 E-mail: wolf.blanckenhorn@zm.uzh.ch
http://www.zm.uzh.ch/zmneu/forschung/-
blanckenhorn wolf.html http://www.esf.org/-
thermadapt wolfman@zm.uzh.chSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 11
GradStudentPositions
ArizonaStateU ParasiteMolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Bremerhaven CrustaceanPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . 12
Frankfurt PlantSystematicsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
GoetheU Barcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
GoetheU ChironomusGeneAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
NorthwesternU PlantConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
OhioStateU PopGenSoybeanAphid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
StellenboschU CoevolvedPollination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UAdelaide AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UAmsterdam CropPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UBasel EvoDevo EvoltuionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 18
UBergen FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19UDuesseldorf Linguisitcs and Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UGottingen EvolutionSymbioses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UGottingen MetazoanEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UKonstanz Speciation Neotropical Cichlids . . . . . . . . 21
ULethbridge AvianPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
ULiverpool MalariaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UMunich EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UOttawa EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UZurich PlantHybridization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
YaleU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
ArizonaStateU
ParasiteMolEvolution
Graduate student position in molecular evolu-
tion/ecology of parasites
I have a position for a highly motivated PhD student
interested in molecular evolution or molecular ecology
of parasites. I am studying host switches as they may
lead to molecular adaptations in parasites/pathogens
and how the demographic history of parasite/pathogen
populations aﬀects the dynamic of adaptive variation.
My ongoing research focuses on parasitic protozoa be-
longing to the genus Plasmodium, the causative agent
of malaria. These parasites infect a variety of verte-
brate hosts, including reptiles, birds, and mammals, in-
cluding humans. Human malaria is a parasitic disease
endemic in most of the tropical and subtropical ecosys-
tems worldwide and exhibits great geographic diversity.
I am currently investigating: (i) the evolution of speciﬁc
proteins in the parasite that are involved in the inva-
sion of the host red blood cell, (ii) the phylogeography
of human and macaque malarias, and (iii) the origin
and dispersion of malaria drug resistance. I am also in-
volved in a project on the dynamic of viruses between
human populations and synantropic primates.
The PhD student is expected to learn both labora-
tory and computational/quantitative skills. Knowledge
in evolutionary biology at the level of undergraduatecourses and research experience are desirable. The spe-
ciﬁc subject of the research, however, is a matter that
will be discussed with the candidate based on his/her
own interests and skills. Please notice that a real in-
terest in molecular evolution or molecular ecology of
parasites/pathogens is absolutely required.
Applicants should comply with all ASU requirements.
The school of Life Sciences in Arizona State University
oﬀers several graduate programs. Please check http:/-
/sols.asu.edu/grad/research opp.php . I could provide
speciﬁc information to those interested. Support in the
form of assistantships is available.
The graduate students at ASU have the opportunity of
interacting with faculties from several disciplines. In
addition to our diverse community at the School of
Life Sciences ( http://sols.asu.edu/index.php ), I main-
tain active collaborations with the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (Atlanta, Georgia), the Na-
tional Primate Research Center at the University of
Washington, the U. of Maryland, other US institu-
tions, as well as colleagues working in endemic coun-
tries worldwide. The student is expected to develop a
real sense of how to build collaborative research in both
domestic and international settings so good social skills
are important.
Prospective Students please contact:
Ananias A. Escalante, PhD
Associate Professor School of Life Sciences Arizona
State University PO Box 874501, Tempe AZ 85287-
4501 E-mail: Ananias.Escalante@asu.edu http://-
sols.asu.edu/faculty/aescalante.php12 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Ananias Escalante <Ananias.Escalante@asu.edu >
Bremerhaven
CrustaceanPopulationGenetics
PhD position:
Population genetics and evolution of crustacean diver-
sity in Antarctic waters
A three year PhD position is available within the col-
laborative framework of a recently granted project by
the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) on crus-
tacean diversity in Antarctic waters. This project
is associated with the ANTFLOCKS initiative coor-
dinated by the Mus??um Nationale d???Histoire Na-
turelle (NMHN) in Paris, France. Freshly dredged spec-
imens from diﬀerent areas of the Antarctic shelf will be
analysed with diﬀerent genetic methods as well as mor-
phologically. The goal is to reconstruct and understand
evolutionary species radiations of diﬀerent crustacean
taxa on the Antarctic shelf. Genetic barcoding with
mitochondrial DNA and microsatellite analyses, includ-
ing the establishment of enriched genomic libraries us-
ing state of the art methodology, will be carried out at
three diﬀerent institutes involved in this project. Dis-
covery and description of new species (morphospecies as
well as genetically detected cryptic species) is expected.
The candidate will be primarily based at the Alfred We-
gener Institute for Polar and Marine Research (AWI)
in Bremerhaven, where he will work under the guid-
ance of Dr. Christoph Held. Furthermore he/she will
carry out research for several months at the laboratories
of Dr. Christoph Schubart at the University of Regens-
burg and of Dr. Florian Leese and Dr. Christoph Mayer
at the Ruhr University of Bochum. It is planned to se-
cure the opportunity for the candidate to participate
in a research trip to Antarctica. In addition, visits to
European zoological collections to study comparative
material may be possible.
Currently, two years of Ph.D. salary according to
BATIIa/E13 have been granted. An extension for a
third year is likely, provided that ﬁrst results will be
evaluated favourably. The position should be ﬁlled by
1 October, 2008, but will remain open until a suitable
candidate is found.
We are seeking a student with an MSc or equiva-
lent degree (Diplom) in biology. The successful candi-
date should have experience with techniques in molecu-lar systematics and/or population genetics and should
have a strong interest in biogeography and evolutionary
biology. Good communication skills, the ability to work
independently are prerequisites. We oﬀer an intellectu-
ally stimulating research environment and the possibil-
ity to gain experience in three well-equipped molecular
laboratories with slightly diﬀerent research focus.
To apply, please send an e-mail application in English
or German including CV, personal scientiﬁc goals and
a brief letter explaining why you are interested in
this PhD position by September 1st to Dr. Christoph
Held at <Christoph.Held@awi.de >and CC to
<Christoph.Schubart@biologie.uni-regensburg.de >
<Florian.Leese@rub.de > < cm@tp4.ruhr-uni-
bochum.de >
Dr. Christoph Held Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar
and Marine Research Marine Animal Ecology Building
D, room D-2200 Am alten Hafen 26D-27568 Bremer-
haven
Christoph Held <Christoph.Held@awi.de >
Frankfurt
PlantSystematicsEvolution
The Department of Botany and Molecular Evolution at
the Senckenberg Research Institute in Frankfurt/Main
(Germany) invites applications for a
PhD-Position in Phylogeny and Evolution (Ref. DGF
ZI 557/7-1)
within the project “Cenozoic diversiﬁcation in the
Bromelioideae (Bromeliacae): character evolution and
climate change”, funded by the German Science Foun-
dation (DFG).
The candidate will investigate the phylogeny of Brome-
lioideae (Bromeliaceae) with molecular methods, specif-
ically DNA-sequencing of nuclear markers. The phylo-
genies are intended to reconstruct 1) character evolu-
tion within the subfamily, 2) historical biogeography,
3) date evolutionary processes, and 4) analyse the data
in relation to climate change.
The applicant must have a diploma or master degree
in biology/botany and have experience with the stan-
dard methods of molecular systematics and reconstruc-
tion of phylogenies. Experience in the reconstruction
of character evolution and in biogeographic analysis
are highly desirable. In addition, the applicant shouldSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 13
be competent in written and spoken English and enjoy
working in an international and interdisciplinary team.
The applicant will also work together with the research
ﬁeld ˆ aEvolution and Climateˆ a of the research center
ˆ aBiodiversity and climateˆ a. A participation in univer-
sity teaching (max. 2 SWS) is expected.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (BAT IIa/2).
The Research Institute Senckenberg advocates gender
equality. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to
apply. Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped appli-
cants will be given preference.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and will
initially be restricted to 2 years. A prolongation for 1
year is possible. The duty station will be Frankfurt am
Main, Germany.
Please apply by sending your application preferably
digitally by e-mail or by mail, including a letter out-
lining your suitability for the post, and detailed CV,
contact details of 2 referees, and a copy of your diploma-
thesis and/or other exams until September 15, 2008 to
Prof. Dr. G. Zizka, Head of the Department Botany
and Molecular Evolution, Research Institute Sencken-
berg and Goethe-University Frankfurt/Main Sencken-
berganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
E-mail: georg.zizka@senckenberg.de
For further enquiries please contact Dr. Katharina
Schulte E-mail: Katharina.Schulte@senckenberg.de,
phone: ++49 +69 970751184
–
Dr. Katharina Schulte
Abt. Botanik & molekulare Evolutionsforschung
Forschungsinstitut Senckenberg und J.W. Goethe-
Universit¨ at Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frank-
furt/Main
Tel: 0049-(0)69-97075-1184 Fax: 0049-(0)69-97075-
1137 Mail: katharina.schulte@senckenberg.de http://-
www.senckenberg.de
Katharina Schulte <katharina.schulte@senckenberg.de >
GoetheU Barcoding
*Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Project
Area D “Laboratory Centre”*Job Title: PhD Position [#D07] Reference Code: Ref.
PG D 5.2 [#D07] Job Location: Frankfurt/Main Ger-
many Status: Part-Time/Adjunct/Substitute Job Cat-
egory: Biology/biotechnology/life sciences Application
Closing Date: 8/19/2008
Job Description
* / Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre / *
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre has re-
cently been founded by the Senckenbergische Natur-
forschende Gesellschaft, the Goethe-Universit¨ at Frank-
furt am Main, and additional partners. It is funded by
the Hessian State Initiative for the Development of Sci-
entiﬁc and Economic Excellence (LOEWE). The mis-
sion of the Centre is to carry out internationally out-
standing research on the interactions of biodiversity and
climate change at the organism level. The Project Area
D “Laboratory Centre” invites applications for a
*PhD Position - Ref. PG D 5.2 [#D07] BAT II a / 2 *
The applicant will develop a technique for the auto-
mated molecular identiﬁcation (barcoding) of scientiﬁ-
cally and economically important freshwater communi-
ties. To this end, a data bank with nuclear and mito-
chondrial DNA sequences has to be established based
on specimens which have been identiﬁed taxonomically
by experts in advance. With their aid quantitative and
qualitative analyses of species compositions in mixed
samples will be established using second generation se-
quencing techniques (pyro-sequencing).
Job Requirements
The applicant should hold an earned Diploma or Mas-
ter degree in biology, preferably with a strong focus
on transcriptome analysis using high throughput tech-
nologies. She or he should already have experiences
with taxonomic concepts, data banks and should be in-
terested to cooperate with taxonomists of the Research
Institute and Natural Museum Senckenberg. Very good
written and oral English language skills and an inter-
est in joining a multidisciplinary research team are re-
quired. Knowledge of German would be an advantage,
and at least the willingness to learn basic German is
required.
Information and Application Process Instructions
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (BAT IIa/2).
The Research Centre advocates gender equality.
Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and will ini-14 EvolDir September 1, 2008
tially be restricted to 2 years with a possible extension
being subject to personal performance and availability
of funds. The duty station will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. Oﬃcial employer is SENCKENBERGISCHE
NATURFORSCHENDE GESELLSCHAFT.
Please send your application by mail or e-mail, includ-
ing a detailed CV, 3 references and a list of publications,
until August 19, 2008 to
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scien-
tiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. E-mail to Personal & Service:
bernd.schleich@senckenberg.de
For enquiries about the position and the contract con-
ditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny (E-
mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de) and for sci-
entiﬁc enquiries to PD Dr. M. Pfenninger (E-mail:
pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de) or Prof. Dr. J.
Oehlmann (E-mail: oehlmann@bio.uni-frankfurt.de)
When inquiring or applying for this position, please also
reference /Academic Careers Online. /
To obtain more information or to submit your resume
you can contact Bernd Schleich as shown below. If you
apply for this position, please say you saw it ﬁrst on
www.AcademicCareers.com . Thank you.
Bernd Schleich
E-Mail: bernd.schleich@senckenberg.de
<mailto:bernd.schleich@senckenberg.de >
– PD Dr. Markus Pfenninger Abt. ¨Okologie & Evo-
lution J.W.Goethe-Universit¨ at BioCampus Siesmayer-
straße D 60054 Frankfurt am Main Germany
Tel.: ++ 49 69 798 24714 Fax : ++ 49 69 798
24910 eMail: Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de http:/-
/user.uni-frankfurt.de/ ˜ markusp Markus Pfenninger
<Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de >
GoetheU
ChironomusGeneAdaptation
*Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Project
Area D “Laboratory Centre”*
Job Title: PhD Position [#D06] Reference Code: Ref.
PG D 5.1 [#D06] Job Location: Frankfurt/Main Ger-
many Status: Part-Time/Adjunct/Substitute Job Cat-
egory: Biology/biotechnology/life sciences ApplicationClosing Date: 8/19/2008
Job Description
* / Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre / *
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre has re-
cently been founded by the Senckenbergische Natur-
forschende Gesellschaft, the Goethe-Universit¨ at Frank-
furt am Main, and additional partners. It is funded by
the Hessian State Initiative for the Development of Sci-
entiﬁc and Economic Excellence (LOEWE). The mis-
sion of the Centre is to carry out internationally out-
standing research on the interactions of biodiversity and
climate change at the organism level. The Project Area
D “Laboratory Centre” invites applications for a
*PhD Position – Ref. PG D 5.1 [#D06] BAT II a / 2 *
The applicant will be responsible for the identiﬁcation
of key genes for the ecological adaptation to climate
change in the non-biting midge Chironomus riparius.
In common garden experiments populations will be ex-
posed to conditions along a climate gradient. Further-
more, genes have to be identiﬁed which play a role in
the climate-driven niche partitioning of C. riparius and
C. piger. These investigations will be conducted in co-
operation with Profs. Hankeln and Schmidt (University
Mainz).
Job Requirements
The applicant should hold an earned Diploma or Mas-
ter degree in biology. She or he should already have ex-
periences with modern molecular biological techniques,
preferably transcriptome analyses, and should be famil-
iar with experimental approaches in ecology. Very good
written and oral English language skills and an inter-
est in joining a multidisciplinary research team are re-
quired. Knowledge of German would be an advantage,
and at least the willingness to learn basic German is
required.
Information and Application Process Instructions
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (BAT IIa/2).
The Research Centre advocates gender equality.
Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and will ini-
tially be restricted to 2 years with a possible extension
being subject to personal performance and availability
of funds. The duty station will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany.
Please send your application by mail or e-mail, includ-
ing a detailed CV, 3 references and a list of publications,September 1, 2008 EvolDir 15
until August 19, 2008 to
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scien-
tiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. E-mail to Personal & Service:
bernd.schleich@senckenberg.de
For enquiries about the position and the contract con-
ditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny (E-
mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de) and for sci-
entiﬁc enquiries to PD Dr. M. Pfenninger (E-mail:
pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de) or Prof. Dr. J.
Oehlmann (E-mail: oehlmann@bio.uni-frankfurt.de)
When inquiring or applying for this position, please also
reference /Academic Careers Online. /
To obtain more information or to submit your resume
you can contact Bernd Schleich as shown below. If you
apply for this position, please say you saw it ﬁrst on
www.AcademicCareers.com . Thank you.
Bernd Schleich
E-Mail: bernd.schleich@senckenberg.de
<mailto:bernd.schleich@senckenberg.de >
Send your resume for this job...
<http://www.academiccareers.com/cgi-win/jobsite/-
$sendresume.exe/ACO/?21007 >
– PD Dr. Markus Pfenninger Abt. ¨Okologie & Evo-
lution J.W.Goethe-Universit¨ at BioCampus Siesmayer-
straße D 60054 Frankfurt am Main Germany
Tel.: ++ 49 69 798 24714 Fax : ++ 49 69 798
24910 eMail: Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de http:/-
/user.uni-frankfurt.de/ ˜ markusp Markus Pfenninger
<Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de >
NorthwesternU PlantConservation
Addressing a growing need for expertise in plant sci-
ence and conservation, Northwestern University and
the Chicago Botanic Garden continue to jointly oﬀer
a Master’s program in Plant Biology and Conservation
and now also oﬀer a doctoral degree! The graduate
program provides students advanced training in plant
ecology, evolution, and biology, and in applied plant
conservation theory and methods. For more informa-
tion, visit
http://www.plantbiology.northwestern.edu or con-
tact Nyree Zerega Director of Graduate Programin Plant Biology and Conservation Northwestern
University and the Chicago Botanic Garden n-
zerega@northwestern.edu
nzerega@chicagobotanic.org
OhioStateU PopGenSoybeanAphid
Ph.D. Position–Population Genetics of the Soybean
Aphid
A Ph.D. position is open in the insect population ge-
netics lab of Andrew Michel. Research will focus on
the population genetic structure and migration of the
soybean aphid across North America, genetic diﬀeren-
tiation of soybean aphid biotypes and other ongoing
projects. The successful candidate will be responsible
for ﬁeld collections, colony maintenance and molecular
marker genotyping. Outstanding students in entomol-
ogy, genetics/genomics, biology or insect evolution are
encouraged to apply. A Master’s degree in entomology,
genetics, evolution or general biology is required. This
position includes a yearly stipend of $23,724, includ-
ing tuition waivers and beneﬁts. This position has an
immediate start date.
For further information please contact:
Andrew Michel Assistant Professor Dept. of En-
tomology Ohio Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment Center The Ohio State University 1680 Madi-
son Ave. Wooster, OH 44691 Ph: 330-263-3730
michel.70@osu.edu
michel.70@osu.edu michel.70@osu.edu
StellenboschU CoevolvedPollination
A Master’s or Doctoral position is available for a stu-
dent interested in studying coevolution.
Coevolution - reciprocal evolutionary change in inter-
acting species driven by natural selection - is one of the
most important processes organizing the earth’s bio-
diversity: most species survive and reproduce only by
using a combination of their own genome and that of
at least one other species. The idea of coevolution orig-
inated with Darwin’s proposal that long-proboscid pol-
linators and long-tubed nectar plants are engaged in16 EvolDir September 1, 2008
a race for elongation. The interaction between plants
and long-proboscid pollinators continues to be an ideal
study system for advancing our understanding of co-
evolution. Such advances are important for the control
of human infectious diseases, for agriculture and bio-
control.
The long-proboscid ﬂy Moegistorhynchus longirostris
has the longest proboscis relative to its body length of
any know pollinator. It uses it to sip nectar from a guild
of about twenty long-tubed nectar plants that grow in
Fynbos vegetation along the West Coast of the Cape
Region of South Africa, a global biodiversity hotspot.
Proboscis and tube length varies two fold among pop-
ulation, and variability in the degree of trait match-
ing suggests a Geographic Mosaic of Coevolution with
hotspots and cold spots of reciprocal selection.
The successful applicant will be encouraged to develop
a research proposal aimed at testing fundamental as-
pects of coevolutionary theory. An additional goal is
to inform an action plan aimed at conserving the con-
temporary evolutionary processes. Ideally, the study
will have a strong genetic and glasshouse component
coupled with selection experiments in the ﬁeld (Sept-
Nov). Genetic analyses can be conducted in our new
Plant Molecular Laboratory with co-supervision from
Dr. Jaco Le Roux.
Project running expenses are covered and a NRF bur-
sary is available, with priority given to South African
students (R 30 000 p.a. for M. Sc., or R 45 000 p.a. for
Ph.D.). There are avenues for obtaining supplementary
funding, and funding for foreign students.
Requirements: Bachelor’s (Honours) or, preferably,
Master’s degree in biology. Experience in the use and
development of molecular markers and/or pollination
biology preferred. Good quantitative skills necessary.
For primary consideration, applicants should apply by
15 September 2008. The starting date is ﬂexible. Infor-
mal inquiries are welcomed, prior to formal application.
To apply, please send the following by email: 1) a one-
page letter explaining why you are interested in this
position and why you are qualiﬁed for it; 2) your Uni-
versity transcripts; 3) your Curriculum Vitae; 4) the
names and email addresses of three referees. The suc-
cessful applicant will be informed by 30 September.
Anton Pauw Department of Botany and Zoology
Stellenbosch University Private Bag 1X Matieland
7602 South Africa Tel +27 21 808 3314 Cell +27 83 682
4177 Fax +27 21 808 2405 http://academic.sun.ac.za/-
botzoo/pauw/index.htm#cv “Pauw, Anton
<apauw@sun.ac.za >”<apauw@sun.ac.za >UAdelaide AncientDNA
Developing new methods to retrieve and analyse pre-
served genetic information for forensics, archaeology
and ancient DNA.
Technical Oﬃcer Australian Centre for Ancient DNA
(ACAD) School of Earth and Environmental Sciences
Job Reference Number: 14105
For an Australian Research Council (ARC) funded
project to research and develop revolutionary new
methods to extract and characterise DNA from a range
of unusual ancient samples including ancient bones and
teeth, sunken ship timbers, stone tools, and sediments.
The project is an ARC LINKAGE collaboration with
the National Geographic Society, Australian Federal
Police, and Forensics South Australia. The main aim of
the project is to completely re-assess and re-design cur-
rent approaches to ancient/damaged DNA characteri-
sation from the ground up, and to develop and extend
recent new approaches to PCR such as SPEX (Broth-
erton et al. NAR 2007), and genomic library construc-
tion.
We are looking for an experienced and eﬃcient Tech-
nical Oﬃcer to provide support to the Senior Research
Fellow working on this project. Your role will involve
molecular biological work with ancient DNA from ar-
chaeological and forensic specimens, primarily using
PCR, cloning, and sequencing. You will make use of
the international quality ACAD facilities, and an ex-
tensive collection of >4,000 ancient samples from loca-
tions around the world covering the past 200,000 years.
The research requires exacting standards of laboratory
practice in order to minimise contamination, and work
with irreplaceable samples.
You should have: o a PhD or equivalent work experi-
ence in general molecular biology o a strong background
in nucleic acids research o the ability to work eﬀectively
as part of a multi-disciplinary team o experience with
computer based analyses of DNA sequences
Salary: (HEO5) $50,070 - $55,874 per annum.
Plus an employer superannuation contribution of 17%
applies.
This ﬁxed-term position is available immediately for a
period of 2 years in the ﬁrst instance with a possible
extension. Adelaide University is one of the ’Group ofSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 17
8’ leading Universities in Australia, in a cosmopolitan
city oﬀering an outstanding quality of life, with excel-
lent food and wine and a low cost of living.
Further information may be obtained from Dr Jeremy
Austin jeremy.austin@adelaide.edu.au, Prof. Alan
Cooper, alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au, Dr Wolfgang
Haak (wolfgang.haak@adelaide.edu.au), or Dr Kefei
Chen (kefei.Chen@adelaide.edu.au).
Deadline: 15 August 2008
Your application must o include your
r´ esum´ e/Curriculum Vitae o address the selection
criteria o quote the relevant reference number o include
the names, addresses and/or email details of three
referees
Email applications to alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au >or
forward in duplicate to:
Maria Lekis School of Earth and Environmental Sci-
ences The University of Adelaide South Australia 5005
–
Prof. Alan Cooper, Federation Fellow
Darling Blg (DP 418), Rm 209b University of Adelaide
North Terrace Campus South Australia 5005 Australia
Email: alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au Ph: 61-8 -8303-
5950/3952 Fax: 61-8-8303 4364
http://www.ees.adelaide.edu.au/acad/
alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au
UAmsterdam
CropPopulationGenetics
Within the ERGO program of the Netherlands Orga-
nization for Scientiﬁc Research (NWO), we are looking
for an enthusiastic
PhD student in crop population genetics (vacancy num-
ber 08-1036).
to work on the project
Potential ecosystem eﬀects of future GM crop intro-
ductions through establishment of crop/wild hybrids or
feral populations.
One aspect of Environmental Risk Assessments (ERA)
of transgenic crops involves the introduction of the
transgene in natural environments through outcross-
ing with a wild relative or through the establishmentof feral populations. In the current project the like-
lihood of an expansion of hybrid/feral plants as well
as the associated and potentially adverse eﬀects on the
ecosystem will be studied. The experimental systems
are (i) hybrids between crop and wild lettuce (Lactuca
sativa and L. serriola, resp.) as a model for crop/wild
hybridisation, and (ii) Brassica napus as a model feral
system. We speciﬁcally focus on abiotic stress related
to salinity and drought.
Tasks The project focuses on experiments using diﬀer-
ent types of manipulations: changes to the local densi-
ties of plants, establishing new populations within and
outside the current range, and creating experimental
populations in ˆ aoasesˆ a where they are not exposed to
the stress of the surrounding environment (no trans-
genic plants will be introduced to the ﬁeld). The work
involves designing experiments, selecting and creating
experimental plots, collecting data, speciﬁcally on the
impact of the experiment on other species (pollinators,
herbivores) and statistical analyses of the results. Re-
sults will be published in peer-reviewed journals.
Requirements - Master in biology, with emphasis on
population genetics, evolutionary biology or plant phys-
iology - Good training in the planning, execution and
statistical analysis of (ﬁeld) experiments - Ability to
work together in a research team - Driving license is
recommended
Further information For additional information and
project description, please contact: Dr. Danny
Hooftman, d.a.p.hooftman@.uva.nl, tel. +31 20
5257817, or Prof. dr. Peter van Tienderen,
ph.vantienderen@uva.nl, tel. +31 20 5257896.
Appointment The appointment will be on a temporary
basis for a maximum period of four years (18 months
plus a further 30 months after a positive evaluation)
and should lead to a dissertation (PhD thesis).
An educational plan will be drafted that includes at-
tendance of courses and (international) meetings. PhD
students are also expected to assist in teaching under-
graduates. The salary is in accordance with the uni-
versity regulations for academic personnel (Collective
Labour Agreement) and will range from 2,000.- (ﬁrst
year) up to a maximum of 2,558.- (last year) gross per
month (scale P).
Job application Applications should include a detailed
CV including a list of publications, a motivation letter,
and the names and contact addresses of two references
from which information can be obtained. Please mark
“strictly conﬁdential” and quote the vacancy number
(08-1036) in the upper left-hand corner of the envelope.
Applications should be sent before August 25th 2008 to:18 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Universiteit van Amsterdam, Faculty of Science dept.
PZ, attn: Drs. S.H.M. Jongerius, Kruislaan 404, 1098
SM Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
Applications can also be e-mailed to: application-
science@uva.nl. Please quote the vacancy number (08-
1036) in the subject ﬁeld.
Universiteit van Amsterdam
The Universiteit van Amsterdam (UvA) is a university
with an internationally acclaimed proﬁle, located at the
heart of the Dutch capital. As well as a world centre for
business and research, Amsterdam is a hub of cultural
and media activities. The Universiteit van Amsterdam
is a member of the League of European Research Uni-
versities.
The Faculty of Science at the UvA is one of Europe’s
foremost institutions of higher education and research
in its chosen ﬁelds of specialization. It plays an active
role in international science networks and collaborates
with universities and industry. The Faculty has approx-
imately 2,000 students and 1,500 staﬀ members spread
over four departments and ten research institutes. Each
institute has its own research programme, a substantial
part of which is externally funded by the Netherlands
Organization for Scientiﬁc Research (NWO), the Dutch
government, the EU and various private enterprises.
The Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynam-
ics (IBED) is one of the ten research institutes of the
Faculty of Science. IBED covers a wide range of sub-
jects, in both fundamental and applied research. Our
scientiﬁc studies aim at a better understanding of the
dynamics of ecosystems at all relevant levels, from genes
to climate change, using a truly multidisciplinary ap-
proach.
– D.A.P. Hooftman, Ph.D. Institute for Biodiversity
and Ecosystem Dynamics, Universiteit van Amsterdam
D.A.P.Hooftman@uva.nl
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UBasel EvoDevo
EvoltuionaryGenomics
GRADUATE POSITION IN CICHLID EVOLUTION-ARY GENOMICS/EVO-DEVO
A PhD position in evo-devo/evolutionary genomics
is available in the group of Dr. Walter Salzburger
at the University of Basel, Switzerland ( http://-
www.evolution.unibas.ch/salzburger/ ). The position is
funded by a Starting Grant of the European Research
Council (ERC), a new European funding body set up to
support excellent investigator-driven research ( http://-
erc.europa.eu ).
The ERC Starting Grant ’INTERGENADAPT’ will
run for a period of ﬁve years. It will focus on the identi-
ﬁcation of the molecular basis of adaptation, evolution-
ary innovation and diversiﬁcation in one of the most
exciting model systems for evolutionary research, the
adaptive radiations of cichlid ﬁshes in the East African
Great Lakes Tanganyika, Malawi and Victoria. These
lakes harbor ecologically and morphologically highly di-
verse species ﬂocks counting hundreds of endemic cich-
lid species each. We are interested in the genetic and
developmental basis of the morphogenesis of sexually
and naturally selected traits that might be crucial to
the cichlid’s evolutionary success.
We are looking for a highly motivated, open-minded,
creative and socially skilled young researcher that
shares our enthusiasm in the study of evolution. Ide-
ally, the candidate should have some background in
evolutionary biology, developmental biology, evo-devo,
molecular biology and/or bio-informatics.
The position is for three years, the salary is about CHF
35,000 (per year; after tax). The position is available
from October 2008; the starting date is negotiable.
To apply, please send
(1) your CV, (2) a list of your publications, (3) a state-
ment of your research interests, (4) a statement why
you would like to join our team, and (5) the names of
two persons who can be contacted for a reference letter
to the following email address:
salzburgerlab-dib@unibas.ch
Please also use this email address for informal enquiries.
Deadline for submission is September 17th, 2008.
—–
Note, that there is also a position open for a post-
doctoral fellow.
—–
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
The Salzburger Lab ( http://www.evolution.unibas.ch/-
salzburger/ ) is a young, multinational, open-minded,
enthusiastic and creative team. We are, at present,September 1, 2008 EvolDir 19
about ten people. Our main model systems are East
African cichlid ﬁshes, although we also study the adap-
tive radiation of Antarctic notothenioid ﬁshes and the
diversiﬁcation of Alpine taxa. We also develop our own
software. Core of the Salzburger Lab is an excellently
equipped molecular laboratory with an AB 3130xl ge-
netic analyzer, an epMotion pipetting workstation, Ver-
iti gradient PCR machines, research microscopes, etc.
The Salzburger group is based within the evolution-
ary biology group of the University of Basel’s Zoolog-
ical Institute ( http://www.evolution.unibas.ch ). The
evolutionary biology group promotes higher education
and up-to- date research in organismic and evolution-
ary biology, thereby complementing existing strengths
in life-sciences at the University of Basel. The evolu-
tionary biology group is located in the Vesalianum in
the historical part of Basel, in close proximity to other
University institutes, the University hospital and the
Biozentrum of the University of Basel.
The University of Basel ( http://www.unibas.ch/ ) is
Switzerland’s oldest University with a strong focus on
“Culture” and “Life Sciences”. About 9’000 undergrad-
uates and 2’000 postgraduate and doctoral students are
enrolled in Basel. The University is regularly ranked
among the best 100 Universities worldwide and top-ten
in the German speaking countries.
Basel ( http://www.basel.ch ) is located in north-
western Switzerland on the river Rhine and borders
Germany (Baden-W¨ urttemberg) and France (Alsace).
Basel is an open and international cultural, educa-
tional, and economic metropolis and a major centre for
the chemical and pharmaceutical industry. It is well
connected by air transport (through the EuroAirport
Basel), by train (through Swiss, German and French
train stations) and by highway. Basel has nearly forty
museums and a dozen of theaters and was host city of
this years UEFA Euro tournament.
salzburgerlab-dib@unibas.ch salzburgerlab-
dib@unibas.ch
UBergen FishEvolution
A PhD position is available in research group “Evo-
lutionary Fisheries Ecology” (EvoFish) at the Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Bergen, Norway. The
position is for 4 years, with the start preferably be-
fore the end of the year. We are a young and dy-
namic group, applying a broad range of tools (experi-ments, theory/ modelling, statistical methods) to study
ﬁsheries-induced evolution. The new position is ﬂexibly
deﬁned, and we welcome applications from candidates
keen on applying any of the aforementioned tools, ide-
ally complementing the ongoing work in the group.
For more information on the research group EvoFish,
see http://bio.uib.no/evoﬁsh/ . For information
on how to apply, see https://secure.jobbnorge.no/-
visstilling2.aspx?stillid=3D50454&lang=3DEN Mikko
Heino
EvoFish - Evolutionary Fisheries Ecology University of
Bergen Institute of Marine Research
Department of Biology Population Genetics and Ecol-
ogy Box 7800, N-5020 Bergen, Norway tel. +47-
55584544 http://bio.uib.no/evoﬁsh/ fax +47-55584450
mikko.heino@imr.no mikko.heino@imr.no
UDuesseldorf Linguisitcs and
Evolution
We are seeking to ﬁll ﬁve positions in an interdisci-
plinary research project
“Evolution and Classiﬁcation in the History of Science,
Linguistics and Biology”
at the Heinrich-Heine-University Duesseldorf
(funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education
and Research (BMBF) as part of the focus “Interaction
between natural sciences and the humanities”)
1.5 PhD positions in History and Theory of Science
/ Medicine (1 TV-L 13; 0,5 TV-L 13) 2 PhD posi-
tions in Comparative Linguistics / Linguistic typology
/ Theory of language change (2 * 0.5 TV-L 13) 2 PhD
positions in Computational Linguistics / Bioinformat-
ics / Molecular Evolution Genome evolution, language
evolution and the evolution of knowledge have much in
common. They entail evolving elements - genes, words,
ideas - that are mostly inherited in a vertical manner
from ancestors to descendants, but sometimes are in-
herited laterally. The present transdisciplinary project
aims to study the evolutionary dynamics of science, lan-
guages and genomes using methods from the ﬁeld of
molecular evolution and incorporating network meth-
ods. Current applications for phylogenetic reconstruc-
tion operate mostly in the realm of bifurcating phylo-
genetic trees, which are used to model acquisition by
inheritance only. However, genes in microbial genomes20 EvolDir September 1, 2008
can also be acquired laterally, while words can be bor-
rowed between diﬀerent languages and knowledge can
be transferred across disciplinary or cultural bound-
aries. Phylogenetic trees cannot easily be used to model
such lateral transfers, but network approaches can.
The project includes 1) the clariﬁcation of evolution-
ary concepts in the history of science, biology and lin-
guistics, 2) the development of methods for coding and
modelling lateral transfer in science, linguistics and bi-
ology, and 3) the analysis and characterization of evo-
lution by lateral acquisition in general. The project is
an interdisciplinary collaboration at the intersection of
history of medicine, linguistics, and biology.
Applicants should have good English communication
and writing skills. Basic computing skills and aptitude
in interdisciplinary research are required. Payment will
be according to German public service pay scale. The
positions are funded by the BMBF for a minimum of
two years and expected to be ﬁlled by the end of 2008,
but the positions remain open until ﬁlled; reviewing of
applications begins immediately.
Applicants should hold (either-or)
A. a doctoral degree in the history of science, medicine
or biology (with an emphasis on the development of sci-
entiﬁc theories or on network studies) or B. a master’s
degree or equivalent in Comparative Linguistics (with
an emphasis on historical linguistics, preferred Indo-
European and Romance languages) or C. a master’s de-
gree or equivalent in biology (with emphasis on Compu-
tational Linguistics, Bioinformatics, or Molecular Evo-
lution. Basic computing skills in PERL/Matlab/C or
other scripting language are required.) Interested can-
didates should send a CV and contact information of
one potential referee as a single PDF ﬁle to
A. PD Dr. Heiner Fangerau, history of science
(heiner.fangerau@uni-duesseldorf.de ) B. Prof. Dr.
Hans Geisler, comparative linguistics (geisler@phil-
fak.uni-duesseldorf.de ) C. Dr. Tal Dagan, molecular
evolution (tal.dagan@uni-duesseldorf.de).
tal.dagan@uni-duesseldorf.de tal.dagan@uni-
duesseldorf.de
UGottingen EvolutionSymbioses
Ph.D.
The newly formed junior research group “Geomicrobi-
ology and Biosignatures in the Deep Biosphere” in theCourant Research Centre Geobiology at the University
of G¨ ottingen invites applications for one Ph.D. posi-
tion. The position is immediately available pending
formal administrative approval.
Topic: Our research group focuses on the micro-
bial ecology and evolution of chemoautotrophic ecosys-
tems, with emphasis on symbioses between animals
and chemoautotrophic microbes. Ecosystems sustained
by chemoautotrophy are found at deep-sea hydrother-
mal vents, cold seeps and some sulﬁde-rich limestone
caves. Terrestrial sulﬁde-rich caves are easier to ac-
cess than deep-sea habitats and oﬀer an excellent op-
portunity to study the interplay between geochemistry,
microbes and macrofauna in chemoautotrophic ecosys-
tems. Our primary research ﬁeld site is the actively
forming sulﬁde-rich Frasassi cave complex of central
Italy that hosts an ecosystem sustained entirely by
chemoautotrophy. We have recently discovered the ﬁrst
example of a terrestrial chemoautotrophic symbiosis be-
tween a Frasassi-endemic amphipod and ﬁlamentous
sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. Future projects will address
the potential beneﬁts of the bacterial symbionts to the
amphipod host, and examine the evolution of this sym-
biosis. We also plan to expand our research to other
sulﬁde rich caves, such as Movile cave in Romania and
Villa Luz caves in Mexico. For more information, please
contact Dr. Sharmishtha Dattagupta (see below).
Requirements: Candidates should have a strong back-
ground in Molecular Biology and/ or Geomicrobiology
(A Masters is required). Candidates should have ﬁeld-
work experience, an interest in cave exploration, and be
ﬂuent in English. International applicants are welcome.
The University of G¨ ottingen seeks to increase the par-
ticipation of women in areas in which they are currently
underrepresented and therefore explicitly urges women
to apply. Disabled persons with equivalent aptitude
will be favoured.
Employment: We oﬀer two-year Ph.D. positions with
the possibility of extension to three years. Ph.D. salary
is approximately 50% of the German TV-L system,
level 13.
Environment: G¨ ottingen is a quaint and traditional
German university town with an international student-
based community. The Courant Research Centre is
one of ﬁve interdisciplinary research centres ( www.uni-
goettingen.de/crc ) recently established by the Univer-
sity of G¨ ottingen as part of its institutional strategy
“Tradition - Innovation - Autonomy”. The Centre of-
fers a wide range of state-of-the-art analytical facilities
and an excellent environment for interdisciplinary re-
search.
Application: Candidates should upload a curriculumSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 21
vita, a statement of research interests and a list of pub-
lications (if applicable) via the online form located at
www.uni-goettingen.de/positions-exini by August 31,
2008. They should also arrange for two reference let-
ters to be sent directly by email to Dr. Sharmishtha
Dattagupta (sdattag@uni-goettingen.de) by the same
date. Full contact information can be found within the
portal link.
Sharmishtha Dattagupta Georg-August-Universit¨ at
G¨ ottingen Courant Research Centre Geobiology Gold-
schmidtstr. 3 37077 G¨ ottingen, Gemany Phone (oﬃce):
+49 551 39 12910 Mobile: +49 01577 5823206 Email:
sdattag@uni-goettingen.de
Sharmishtha Dattagupta <sdattag@uni-
goettingen.de >
UGottingen MetazoanEvolution
The Courant Research Centre Geobiology at the Uni-
versity of G¨ ottingen (Germany) oﬀers:
1 post-doctoral position 1 PhD position
The Courant Research Centre Geobiology is one
of ﬁve interdisciplinary research centres ( www.uni-
goettingen.de/crc ) recently established by the Univer-
sity of G¨ ottingen as part of its institutional strategy
“Tradition - Innovation - Autonomy”.
These positions will form part of the independent
Junior Research Group “Evolution of the Metazoa”
headed by Daniel Jackson.
The main focus of the Courant Research Centre is
the development of early life and organic-matter-
controlled rock- and mineral-forming processes (Coor-
dinator: Prof. Reitner, Department of Geobiology,
www.uni-goettingen.de/crc c) .
Many details of the molecular events that drove the di-
versiﬁcation of the Metazoa during the pre- and early
Cambrian remain undiscovered. The relatively syn-
chronous inception and subsequent radiation of body
plans during this time are reﬂected in the fossil record
by the ability of disparate taxa to secrete mineralized
structures. By examining the way in which extant
metazoan taxa biomineralize, we hope to better under-
stand the evolutionary forces that nurtured the diver-
siﬁcation of multi-cellular animal life. We are currently
focusing on these processes in sponges and molluscs,
but plan to expand this comparative dataset.The positions require individuals with strong molecular
biology skills and familiarity with the analysis of large
computational datasets such as EST collections and un-
annotated whole genomes. Lab skills such as cDNA
library construction, whole mount in situ hybridiza-
tion, micro- injection and experience with spawning and
rearing marine invertebrates are highly desirable.
Candidates for the post-doctoral position should hold
a doctorate in evolution, developmental biology, molec-
ular biology, or a related ﬁeld. Candidates for the doc-
toral position should hold an excellent ﬁrst degree in
the same ﬁelds. In addition to their academic qualiﬁca-
tions, candidates should have excellent communication
and team-working skills, be committed to the topic and
to working in a dedicated, interdisciplinary research en-
vironment. The working language of the group is En-
glish, and applicants from abroad are encouraged to ap-
ply. The University of G¨ ottingen seeks to increase the
participation of women in areas in which they are cur-
rently underrepresented and therefore explicitly urges
women to apply. Disabled persons with equivalent ap-
titude will be favoured.
The positions are initially available for two years start-
ing immediately, and can be extended following fa-
vorable reviews. Salaries are in accordance with the
German state regulated public service salary scale
(E 13 TV-L). For informal enquiries please contact
djackso@uni-goettingen.de
Applications, in English, should include: a full aca-
demic CV, examples of published or unpublished aca-
demic work, a 1-2 page summary outlining the candi-
date’s particular qualiﬁcation for this position. Candi-
dates should also arrange for two reference letters to be
sent directly by email to Daniel Jackson (djackso@uni-
goettingen.de). Application deadline is 31st August
2008. Please submit your application online under the
given link: www.uni-goettingen.de/positions-exini
djackso@gwdg.de
UKonstanz Speciation Neotropical
Cichlids
PhD position in the Molecular Basis of Speciation in
Neotropical Cichlids
Evolutionary Biology, Dept. of Biology, University of
Konstanz, Germany
—-22 EvolDir September 1, 2008
A position is available for a PhD student to work on the
molecular basis of speciation with KR Elmer in Axel
Meyer’s Evolutionary Biology working group, Univer-
sity of Konstanz. This position is funded for the ﬁrst
year by a Young Scholar’s award from Univ. Konstanz
and funding for future years is anticipated from other
sources.
A variety of research topics are available relating to
biodiversity and speciation in Nicaraguan cichlids us-
ing genetic and ecological approaches. At least one
project will involve transcriptomic or genomic meth-
ods, facilitated by the up-coming release of four cichlid
genomes. The cichlid ﬁsh species complex Amphilophus
citrinellus oﬀers unparalleled opportunities for evolu-
tionary and ecological research because they are part
of a system of young, isolated volcanic crater lakes and
have demonstrated rapid ecological speciation in situ
(e.g. see Barluenga et al. 2006 Sympatric speciation
in Nicaragua crater lake cichlid ﬁsh. Nature 439: 719-
723). Research will involve the extensive collections
currently existing in our laboratory and may include
opportunities for ﬁeld research in Nicaragua.
Start date is ﬂexible but ideally would begin autumn
2008 or January 2009. An aptitude for independent
research, an excitement about biology, and some expe-
rience with bioinformatics are a must. Experience in
laboratory work and/or ﬁeld work would be a beneﬁt
but are not required.
University of Konstanz is one of nine excellent univer-
sities in Germany and has a strong focus in biology.
The working group of Axel Meyer is a dynamic inter-
national laboratory with an impressive record in an ar-
ray of evolutionary biology research. We have a well-
equipped molecular laboratory, extensive ﬁsh aquaria
facilities, and a genomics and proteomics facility (com-
ing fall 2008). Konstanz is a scenic and historical small
city located on the shores of Lake Constance and at the
foot of the Swiss Alps.
Interested applicants should have a Bachelors and Mas-
ter’s in biology/ zoology. Under exceptional circum-
stances (i.e. extensive experience in bioinformatics) the
position could be available as a 2-year Master’s project.
The working language of the lab is English. Please send
a letter of interest, CV, and contact information for
three references as a single PDF to kathryn.elmer@uni-
konstanz.de. Review of applications will begin Au-
gust 30 and continue until a suitable candidate is
found. Please see our lab webpage for more infor-
mation, current researchers, and publications: http:/-
/www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de/ Other stu-
dent positions are also available in our lab, par-
ticularly in the ﬁeld of Phylogenomics/Evo-Devo.For details, see http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-
konstanz.de/index.php?section=116 Kathryn Elmer
<kathryn.elmer@uni-konstanz.de >
ULethbridge AvianPopGenet
Population Genetics of North American Forest Birds
A graduate assistantship (M.Sc.) is available in the
laboratory of Dr. Theresa Burg at the University of
Lethbridge in molecular ecology starting Jan 2009 or
May 2009.
I am looking for a highly motivated graduate student
to work with me on the study of large-scale population
divergence of resident bird species. Projects involve
both laboratory and ﬁeld-based research and the use
of high-throughput DNA-based methodologies. Stu-
dents must be able to work independently and as part
of a group. Please visit my website for further de-
tails: http://people.uleth.ca/ ˜ theresa.burg . Candi-
dates should have a strong undergraduate background
in evolution, ecology and genetics. Prior research ex-
perience with molecular techniques and mistnetting are
desirable but not required. For more information please
contact Theresa Burg at theresa.burg@uleth.ca. The
application deadline is Sept 15 or until positions are
ﬁlled.
The Biology Graduate Program at the University of
Lethbridge oﬀers research-based M.Sc. and Ph.D. de-
grees in a collegial setting. Our faculty and students
are engaged in a variety of research projects, many in
collaboration with partners in government, non-proﬁt
agencies, or industry. Our mission is to train students
to be leaders in identifying and addressing biological
questions at multiple levels of investigation from the
molecular to the ecosystem.
Lethbridge is an attractive city of 70,000 situated in
Southern Alberta, close to National Parks and Wilder-
ness areas of the Rocky Mountains and Cypress Hills.
Theresa Burg Biological Sciences University of Leth-
bridge 403 332 5299
“Burg, Theresa” <theresa.burg@uleth.ca >September 1, 2008 EvolDir 23
ULiverpool MalariaEvolution
A Ph.D. project “Understanding and predicting anti-
malarial drug eﬀectiveness” is available for three years
starting around September/October/November 2008
depending on the funding stream. It will be held in
the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine under the su-
pervision of Dr Ian Hastings and another co-supervisor
who will be chosen on the basis of the successful candi-
date’s strengths and interests.
The ultimate goal is to understand how antimalarial
drug resistance evolves and spreads through malaria
populations. It has become clear that to achieve this we
have to model and understand the eﬀect on antimalarial
drugs on parasites under a variety of real-life conditions
such as people failing to take their whole drug course;
this determines the ability of drug-resistant mutations
to survive treatment and hence determines their selec-
tive advantage.
This would be an ideal opportunity for a numerate per-
son wishing to train in infectious disease epidemiology.
The stipend will be at the British Research Councils
standard rate (currently around 15,000 BGP per an-
num). Applicants should have a ﬁrst degree in one of
the Biological sciences, pharmacology or medicine.
NB>>>>>> Due to the PhD fee structure this posi-
tion is only appropriate for UK and EU nationals.
**** Project summary ****
Antimalarial drugs are highly potent, killing >99.9%
of parasites in each two-day disease cycle. However, a
typical infection may contain several billion individual
parasites so it takes several cycles to kill all the para-
sites and achieve a cure. The problem is that the human
body eliminates the drugs at a rate given by the drug
half-life so that, essentially, the outcome of therapy is a
race: the drug must eliminate the parasites before the
human body eliminates the drug.
Antimalarial drugs are generally tested on adults with
’mild’ (i.e. non life-threatening) malaria and drug
dosages are based on data from these trials. However:
People with severe (i.e. life-threatening) malaria, chil-
dren and pregnant women all have very diﬀerent drug
elimination rates and parasite loads.
* Children’s dosages are often based on age bands and
their body weights will vary substantially: lighter chil-dren will get high concentrations of drugs (with associ-
ated concerns over toxicity) and larger children will get
low, possibly ineﬀective, concentrations.
* It is known that people often fail to take the full
course of drugs.
We need to know how eﬀective drugs will be under these
’real life’ circumstances but it would obviously be un-
ethical to do the appropriate experiments e.g. to give
an incomplete drug course to severely ill children and
then measure drug failure (and probably death) rates.
An obvious way forward is to assemble all the data we
have available and use computer models and simula-
tions to try and predict drug eﬀectiveness in a range of
scenarios.
Further details are available on
http://pcwww.liv.ac.uk/hastings/-
Antimalarial drug eﬀectiveness PhD Project.pdf
Ian Hastings Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine
Pembroke Place, Liverpool L3 5QA 0151 705 3183 (of-
ﬁce) 0151 705 3147 (group secretary) Email: hast-
ings@liverpool.ac.uk
“Hastings, Ian” <hastings@liverpool.ac.uk >
UMunich EvolutionaryGenetics
Graduate positions: Evolutionary Genetics
Several PhD student positions in Evolutionary and
Population Genetics are available to study natural se-
lection in structured populations. The students will
join a collaborative Research Center located at the Uni-
versity of Munich, the University of Freiburg and the
University of Vienna. The speciﬁc (experimental and
theoretical) projects are:
1) Selection on expression variation at the B4galnt2
gene in natural populations of house mice (John Baines,
Munich; baines@bio.lmu.de)
2) Selection and the evolution of resistance in
structured host populations (Susanne Foitzik and
Pleuni Pennings, Munich; foitzik@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de; pennings@lmu.de)
3) The signature of selection in structured popula-
tions (Joachim Hermisson, Vienna, and Peter Pfaf-
felhuber, Freiburg; joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at;
peter.pfaﬀelhuber@stochastik.uni- freiburg.de)24 EvolDir September 1, 2008
4) Population genetic methods for inferring adaptation
in populations with complex demography (Dirk Metzler
and Laura Rose, Munich; metzler@cs.uni-frankfurt.de;
rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de)
5) The evolutionary basis of alphaproteobacterial diver-
sity (J¨ org Overmann, Munich; j.overmann@LRZ.uni-
muenchen.de)
6) Gene expression variation in natural popu-
lations of Drosophila (John Parsch, Munich;
parsch@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de)
7) Selective sweeps in Drosophila melanogaster (Wolf-
gang Stephan, Munich; stephan@bio.lmu.de)
PhD positions are available in projects 1, 2, 3, 6, and
7.
PhD students will receive a salary according to the Ger-
man pay scale (E13/2 TV-L). Applicants should have
a master’s degree or equivalent in biology or a related
ﬁeld. Interested candidates should send a CV, state-
ment of interest, and contact information of two poten-
tial referees as a single PDF ﬁle to the principal investi-
gators of the individual projects (mentioned above) or
to stephan@bio.lmu.de
Applications will be reviewed beginning September 1,
2008. The positions are expected to start on November
1, 2008.
rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de rose@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de
UOttawa EvolutionaryGenomics
Graduate positions: Evolutionary and Functional Ge-
nomics
Multiple PhD and MSc student positions are available
in Evolutionary and Functional Genomics at my labo-
ratory in Department of Biology, University of Ottawa,
Canada. Minimum support is $18,500/year, but stu-
dents with grade point average above A will get sub-
stantially more. The research areas covered include,
but not limited to:
1. Short-term and long-term changes of gene expres-
sion and gene regulation in response to envirornmen-
tal hormone-like chemicals. The student will focus
on developing statistical methods for microarray data
analysis, e.g., Xiong, H., Zhang D., Martyniuk, C.J.,
Trudeau, V.L. Xia, X.. 2008. Using Generalized Pro-
crustes Analysis (GPA) for normalization of cDNA mi-croarray data. BMC Bioinformatics, 9(2008) 25
2. Molecular evolution and phylogenetics (see rel-
evant publications at http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/-
publications.asp ). You may participate in the devleop-
ment of DAMBE software:
(1) for building guide tree for mulptle alignment: I
am currently replace the pair-wise global alignment by
a FASTA-like algorithm which appears to work faster
and obtain better guide trees. (2) for estimating syn-
onymous and nonsynonymous substitutions: the con-
ventional LPB (or PBL) method is not quite suitable
for sliding window analysis because of the stochastic
ﬂuctuation of observed window-speciﬁc transitions and
transversions. I am adding a simultaneous estimation
method for all windows with a ﬁxed substitution matrix
for correcting multiple hits. (3) strand-biased substitu-
tion patterns and their impact on phylognetic recon-
struction.
3. Evolutionary genomics of microbial pathogens, e.g.,
Xia, X. and G. Palidwor. 2005. Genomic Adapta-
tion to Acidic Environment: Evidence from Helicobac-
ter pylori. American Naturalist 166:776-784 4. Com-
parative genomics (see relevant publications at http:/-
/dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/publications.asp )
5. Selection at the initiation, elongation and ter-
mination of transcription and translation (see rel-
evant publications at http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/-
publications.asp )
The positions are available immediately. The applica-
tion procedures can be found by following the link at
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/grad.asp (or contact me
directly if you found anything unclear).
Xuhua Xia University of Ottawa http://-
dambe.bio.uottawa.ca Best Xuhua
Dr. Xuhua Xia CAREG and Biology Department
University of Ottawa 30 Marie Curie, P.O. Box 450,
Station A Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N 6N5 Tel:
(613) 562-5800 ext 6886 Fax: (613) 562-5486 URL:
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca
Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca
UZurich PlantHybridization
Ph.D. POSITION IN PLANT HYBRIDIZATION
(posted 21 August 2008)
DESCRIPTION: A Ph.D. position is available to joinSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 25
an on-going study on hybridization between distylous
species of primroses (Primula L.). The study focuses on
how the variation of ﬂoral traits typical of distyly af-
fects the formation and establishment of hybrids. The
funded position is available for a minimum of three
years, extendable to a fourth year upon satisfactory
performance.
DEADLINE: Applications will be reviewed until a suit-
able candidate is selected. Candidates are invited to
send in their application as soon as possible.
REQUIREMENTS: Bachelor’s or, preferably, Master’s
degree in biology. Experience in the use and develop-
ment of molecular markers and/or pollination biology
strongly preferred. Good quantitative skills necessary.
LOCATION: The Ph.D. position is available at the
Institute of Systematic Botany of the University of
Zurich, Switzerland. Zurich is located on a lake within
striking distance from the Alps, easily reachable by
public transportation.
HOW TO APPLY: Send in the following documents:
1) a two-page letter explaining why you are interested
in this position and why you are qualiﬁed for it; 2)
your University transcripts; 3) your Curriculum Vitae;
4) the names and email addresses of three people who
can comment on your qualiﬁcations for the position. If
you apply by email, please (a) include the title “Ph.D.
position Zurich 08” in the Subject line; (b) send in your
application as a single pdf ﬁle.
CONTACT: Prof. Elena Conti, University of Zuerich,
Institute for Systematic Botany, Zollikerstrasse 107,
8008 Zuerich, SWITZERLAND
Ph: 0041 44 634 8424; Fax: 0041 44 634 84 03
email: ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
Prof. Elena Conti, Ph.D. University of Zuerich,
Institute for Systematic Botany Zollikerstrasse
107, 8008 Zuerich, SWITZERLAND Ph: 0041 44
634 8424 Fax: 0041 44 634 84 03 email: ContiE-
lena@access.unizh.ch http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/-institut/personen/person.php?l=3Dd&id=3D24
http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/mediterranean/-
index.htm ContiElena@access.uzh.ch
YaleU EvoDevo
I am looking forward to recruiting a graduate student
next academic year who has an interest in pursuing
evo-devo research on butterﬂy wing pattern evolution.
Unanswered questions in the ﬁeld include the origin and
evolution of the eyespot developmental network, the
evolution of eyespot number, whether eyespots evolved
from the co- option of a network deployed in basal moth
lineages, the plastic control of eyespot size, and many
others...
My group at Yale uses multidisciplinary approaches
that complement each other and provide for an ex-
citing integrative intellectual environment. We tackle
the ecological function of butterﬂy wings patterns
as well as their origins and evolutionary diversiﬁca-
tion. See some ongoing research projects at: http:/-
/www.arachnology.org/monteiro/ The Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Yale is a small,
interactive, and very dynamic department, and New
Haven is a pleasant town at the human scale, where
one can walk to work. Interested applicants should
contact me directly, or apply to our graduate program
at:http://www.eeb.yale.edu/ Antonia Monteiro Assis-
tant Professor OML 326A Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Yale University P.O. Box 208106,
New Haven, CT 06520-8106, USA
tel: +1 (203) 432-3109 fax +1 (203) 432-5176 e-
mail: antonia.monteiro@yale.edu web page: http:/-
/www.arachnology.org/monteiro/ Ant´ onia Monteiro
<antonia.monteiro@yale.edu >
Jobs26 EvolDir September 1, 2008
BrownU ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
CostaRica ConservationBiology ProgramCoordinator
27
Edinburgh ResAssist Drosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
FiS-Dresden Palaeozoologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
FiS-Dresden PopulationGeneticist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
FloridaStateU IntegratingGenotypePhenotype . . . . . 29
HarvardU DiseaseEvolutionEpidemiology . . . . . . . . . . 29
HarvardU LabServices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
LundU EvolutionaryMolecularEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Muenster PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
NewMexicoStateU DepartmentHead . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
NorthCarolinaStateU PestEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
NorthCarolinaStateU PestEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Pennsylvania ResTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33Portugal 7 CIBIO ResearchContracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Portugal 7more CCHAR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Portugal Borneo ConsGenetics Tech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
SmithCollege PlantSystematist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
TrinityU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UKansas ResAssist DrosophilaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UMexico EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UNorthCarolinaAsheville EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . 38
USouthCarolina PathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UStAndrews YeastGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UToronto ComparativeVertebratePhysiology . . . . . . . 39
UWyoming AvianSystematist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UWyoming EvolutionaryMolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
WashingtonStateU PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . 41
BrownU ComputationalBiol
Brown University seeks highly qualiﬁed candidates for
one open rank, tenure-track or tenured faculty posi-
tion with a preference for assistant professor in the
Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB).
The growing CCMB currently has four full-time fac-
ulty members, two in Computer Science, one in Ap-
plied Mathematics and one in Biology. Candidates are
sought in all areas of computational biology and bioin-
formatics, particularly those who specialize in research
areas complementary to and synergistic with those of
current faculty. The research areas of the current center
faculty are: algorithmic methods and statistical infer-
ence in genomics, comparative genomics and evolution,
gene regulatory networks, regulatory genomics, math-
ematical models of genetic variation, and cancer ge-
nomics.
The successful applicant will be expected to have a
demonstrated potential for excellence in research and
have outstanding teaching skills. Junior faculty ap-
plicants should show the potential to establish an ex-
ternally funded research program; senior faculty appli-
cants should have established such a program. The
appointee will participate in the continuing develop-
ment of Brown’s established undergraduate Computa-
tional Biology curriculum and a newer graduate cur-
riculum built upon the foundation of Brown’s widely
recognized record in teaching innovation and academic
excellence. The appointee will have the opportunity
to participate in several interdisciplinary projects, in-
cluding collaborations with faculty in the Center forGenomics and Proteomics, the Center for Cardiovascu-
lar Research and other multidisciplinary programs at
Brown and aﬃliated hospitals. The appointment will
be in one of the following top-ranked departments: Di-
vision of Applied Mathematics, Department of Com-
puter Science, or Division of Biology and Medicine.
Applicants should submit curriculum vitae, representa-
tive preprints or reprints, their research plan and teach-
ing plan with emphasis on their interdisciplinary exper-
tise. Additionally, candidates for Assistant Professor-
ship should arrange to have at least three letters of
recommendation sent directly to the contact address.
Candidates for Associate or Full Professor should pro-
vide names and contact information for at least ﬁve ref-
erences, who will be contacted for letters of recommen-
dation by the search committee at an appropriate time.
All applications will be treated conﬁdentially. Applica-
tion review will commence on November 1, 2008 and
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
All documents should be sent electronically in PDF to:
ccmbfs@cs.brown.edu <mailto:ccmbfs@cs.brown.edu >
In addition, please send the cover letter and letters of
recommendation to:
Sorin Istrail ~Chair, CCMB Search Committee Center
for Computational Molecular Biology Brown Univer-
sity, Box 1910
115 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912
Brown University is an aﬃrmative action/equal oppor-
tunity employer.
Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.
For further information, see http://www.brown.edu/-
Research/CCMB < http://www.brown.edu/-
Research/CCMB/ >September 1, 2008 EvolDir 27
Daniel Weinreich@brown.edu
Daniel Weinreich@brown.edu
CostaRica ConservationBiology
ProgramCoordinator
Position: The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS)
is currently seeking applicants for two Faculty Coor-
dinator positions with the Native American and Pa-
ciﬁc Islander Research Experiences for Undergraduates
(NAPIRE) Program at the Las Cruces Biological Sta-
tion in Costa Rica. The NAPIRE Program provides
research opportunities for 18 students from the colleges
and universities that are part of the Louis Stokes Al-
liances for Minority Participation. Each student works
under the close supervision of an individual research
mentor. Successful applicants will work closely with
each other, as well as with research mentors, the Direc-
tor of the Undergraduate Programs, and other OTS
staﬀ in the design and implementation of the 2009
NAPIRE Program. NAPIRE Coordinators will oversee
student recruitment and selection, and will be responsi-
ble for on-site supervision and coordination of program
activities.
Qualiﬁcations:
* Ph.D. or M.Sc. in biology, ecology, conservation bi-
ology or a related ﬁeld. * Professional experience in
teaching ﬁeld biology * Professional experience in su-
pervision of undergraduate ﬁeld research. * Excellent
communication and organizational skills. * Experience
in teaching Native American and Paciﬁc Island students
a plus * Bilingual (Spanish/English) desirable * Native
American and Paciﬁc Island faculty are strongly en-
couraged to apply
The position is a 9-month contract with an anticipated
start date of November 8, 2008, and an anticipated end
date of August 8, 2009. The position is based in Costa
Rica at the OTS Las Cruces Biological Station from
June 8, 2009 through August 3, 2009. The contract is
renewable for up to two years, depending on funding
and performance.
Application deadline: October 1, 2008
To apply: send r´ esum´ e or CV with cover letter, state-
ment of teaching philosophy, mentoring philosophy, and
research interests, and list of references to the Coor-
dinator of Undergraduate Programs, Organization for
Tropical Studies, Box 90630, Durham, NC 27708-0630.Applications may also be sent electronically to vmendez
@ ots.ac.cr
OTS is an equal opportunity employer.
Regards
vivian
M.Sc. Vivian M´ endez ´Alvarez Coordinator Undergrad-
uate Study Abroad Program in Costa Rica Organi-
zaci´ on para Estudios Tropicales Apartado 676-2050 San
Pedro, Costa Rica Tel: (506) 5240607 (ext. 1520) Fax:
(506) 5240608 vmendez@ots.ac.cr
Vivian Mendez <vmendez@ots.ac.cr >
Edinburgh ResAssist Drosophila
— Job: Research assistant, Institute of Evolutionary
Biology, Edinburgh —
I am looking for a Research Assistant to work on the
evolution of Drosophila viruses
The work will involve maintaining Drosophila stocks
and cell culture, with responsibility for routine viral iso-
lation, RNA extraction, RT-PCR and DNA sequencing
(training will be provided as required). However, de-
pending on the candidate’s interests and skills there
will be the opportunity for ﬁeldwork, both in the UK
and elsewhere.
An undergraduate degree in an appropriate discipline
is required, along with relevant laboratory experience,
either through a previously held post or a good un-
dergraduate project. Any experience of insect cell
culture, insect virology, or basic molecular biology
(PCR/sequencing) would be a strong advantage. For
anyone interested in undertaking ﬁeldwork, a driver’s
license or access to independent means of transport is
essential, and some experience of ﬁeldwork outside of
the UK would be advantageous.
The role is grade UE06 and attracts an annual salary
of GBP 23692 to 27466 per annum for full-time hours
(35 hours per week), dependent on age and experience,
and is oﬀered for 1 year in the ﬁrst instance, extendable
up to ﬁve years.
Informal inquiries should be made to dar-
ren.obbard@ed.ac.uk
Formal applications should be made through the
University Of Edinburgh jobs website: http://-
www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/index.cfm?fuseaction=-28 EvolDir September 1, 2008
vacancies.index (job reference 3009662) http://-
www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/index.cfm?fuseaction=-
vacancies.detail&vacancy ref=3009662&go=GO —-
Further information About Edinburgh —-
Edinburgh http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edinburgh
University of Edinburgh http://www.ed.ac.uk/-
about/ School of Biological Sciences http://-
www.biology.ed.ac.uk Institute of Evolutionary Biology
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/institutes/-
evolution/ The School of Biological Sciences (SBS) is
located at The King’s Buildings campus. It includes
about 110 academic staﬀ and independently-funded
senior research fellows, around 200 research assistants,
most of whom are postdoctoral, 170 technicians
and more than 200 PhD students. Research grant
expenditure is currently about £17m per year. The
School comprises six research-focused Institutes with a
strong inter-disciplinary remit: Structural and Molec-
ular Biology, Cell Biology, including the Wellcome
Trust Centre for Cell Biology, Stem Cell Research
, Immunology and Infection Research, Evolutionary
Biology, and Molecular Plant Science. Research of
the highest international standard is conducted over a
wide range of pure and applied biological science
–
Darren Obbard Institute of Evolutionary Biology Ash-
worth Labs Kings Buildings University of Edinburgh,
UK darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, regis-
tered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk
FiS-Dresden Palaeozoologist
Position available at the Forschungsinstitut Sencken-
berg (Senckenberg Research Institute), Museum of
Mineralogy and Geology Dresden, pending appropri-
ation of governmental funding:
1 Palaeozoologist (Salary TV-L Ost E 13), beginning
1st January 2009
We are looking for a man or woman with a doctor-
ate and extensive knowledge about the macrofauna
throughout the Phanerozoic eon. The appointee is ex-
pected to assume professional custodial responsibility
for the large collections of the Museum of Mineralogy
and Geology Dresden, focused on Upper Palaeozoic to
Cretaceous specimens. A prerequisite is the integra-tive interlinking of palaeozoological research along sev-
eral lines, including questions regarding palaeoecology,
palaeofacies analysis and the palaeozoological environ-
ment. Applicants should be receptive to research ap-
proaches involving isotope geochemistry. International
publication activity and very good command of the En-
glish language are essential.
A capacity for teamwork and willingness to collaborate
with the geoscientists in various ﬁelds as part of the
overall arrangement are also required. The raising of
third-party funds is expected.
The position will initially be assigned for a term of 5
years.
Senckenberg aims to increase the proportion of women
on its staﬀ. Therefore qualiﬁed female candidates
are particularly encouraged to apply. Assuming that
they have the necessary qualiﬁcations, seriously dis-
abled candidates (male or female) will be given pref-
erence. Written applications, including the customary
documentation (in addition also as electronic version
on CD), are to be sent by 20 September 2008 to:
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger Director
Senckenberg Research Institute c/o Dr. Ulf Linne-
mann Museum f¨ ur Mineralogie und Geologie (Dresden),
K¨ onigsbr¨ ucker Landstr. 159 D-01109 Dresden, Ger-
many
“Fritz, Uwe - SNSD”
<uwe.fritz@snsd.smwk.sachsen.de >
FiS-Dresden PopulationGeneticist
Position available at the Forschungsinstitut Sencken-
berg (Senckenberg Research Institute), Museum of Zo-
ology Dresden, pending appropriation of governmental
funding:
1 Population Geneticist (Salary TV-L Ost E 13), start-
ing 1st January 2009
We are seeking a graduated researcher (PhD or equiv-
alent) with extensive knowledge of computer-assisted
evaluation of population genetic data of natural pop-
ulations for the Museum of Zoology Dresden. The
appointee is expected to have experience of a broad
spectrum of approaches to the analysis of evolution-
ary factors and processes at the population level, and
have expertise in the application of relevant computer
programs (e.g., Arlequin, DnaSP, Migrate, ms, Pop-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 29
gene, Structure, SAMOVA). An interest in questions
related to the interface between phylogeny, phylogeog-
raphy and population genetics, as well as a background
in organismic biology, is also expected, together with
capacity for teamwork and willingness to collaborate
with biologists in diverse ﬁelds at Senckenberg. In-
ternational publication activity in high quality, peer-
reviewed journals and an excellent command of the En-
glish language are essential. The raising of third-party
funds is expected.
The appointment will initially be made for a term of
ﬁve years.
As an Equal Opportunity Employer, we positively en-
courage applications from women, people of minorities,
diﬀerence races and those with disabilities that will be
given preference at equal qualiﬁcation.
Written as well as electronic applications (CD), includ-
ing full curriculum vitae and other supporting docu-
mentation, are to be sent by 20 September 2008 to
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger Director Research
Institute Senckenberg c/o PD Dr. Uwe Fritz Museum of
Zoology (Museum f¨ ur Tierkunde) K¨ onigsbr¨ ucker Land-
str. 159 D-01109 Dresden, Germany
“Fritz, Uwe - SNSD”
<uwe.fritz@snsd.smwk.sachsen.de >
FloridaStateU
IntegratingGenotypePhenotype
The Department of Biological Science invites appli-
cations for tenure-track faculty positions at any rank
in our cluster hiring initiative Integrating Genotype
and Phenotype. We are seeking faculty with interests
complementary to those already hired into the cluster.
For more information see http://www.bio.fsu.edu/-
genphensearch/ .
Evolutionary Genetics: Researchers using experimen-
tal, computational, or theoretical approaches to study
the genotype-phenotype map, including, but not lim-
ited to, evolution of development, epigenetic systems,
genetic regulatory networks, comparative genomics, or
quantitative genetics.
Epigenetics: Researchers investigating fundamental as-
pects of chromatin or RNAVmediated regulation of
phenotypic variation, epigenetic mechanisms in devel-
opment and evolution, chromosome structure and dy-namics and those using genomics or computational ap-
proaches to study chromatin landscapes or regulatory
networks.
Please submit one electronic application (PDF ﬁles
preferred) consisting of a cover letter, curriculum
vitae, statements of research and teaching inter-
ests, and have four letters of reference sent to gen-
phensearch@bio.fsu.edu. Review of applications will
begin September 15, 2008, but will continue until the
positions are ﬁlled. FSU is an AA/EO employer. Ap-
plications from minority and female candidates are es-
pecially encouraged.
–
Dr. Kimberly Hughes
Mailing Address: Department of Biological Science
Florida State University 319 Stadium Drive Tallahas-
see, Florida 32306-4295
Ph: 850-645-8553 FAX: 850-645-8447 Oﬃce:
4062 King Life Sciences Building http://-
www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-hughes.php Kimberly
Hughes <kahughes@bio.fsu.edu >
HarvardU
DiseaseEvolutionEpidemiology
Assistant or Associate Professor of Infectious Disease
Evolution and Epidemiology
The Department of Epidemiology at the Harvard
School of Public Health (HSPH) seeks candidates for
the position of assistant or associate professor of in-
fectious disease evolution and epidemiology. This is
a tenure-ladder position, with the academic rank to
be determined in accordance with the successful can-
didates experience and productivity. The successful
candidate will play a central role in the departments
program of teaching and research.
Candidates are sought with expertise in one or more
of the following areas: infectious disease ﬁeld epidemi-
ology in developing countries, especially sub-Saharan
Africa; biological aspects of infectious disease evolution
and epidemiology; population biology and population
genetics of infectious agents; and theoretical and empir-
ical studies of infectious disease transmission dynamics.
Applications from individuals studying malaria or other
major infectious diseases not currently under study in
the department are especially encouraged, but applica-30 EvolDir September 1, 2008
tions from excellent researchers in any area of infectious
disease epidemiology are welcomed. The successful can-
didate will be expected to develop an independent re-
search program and to participate in collaborative re-
search activities within the department. The successful
candidate will participate in the Interdisciplinary Pro-
gram in the Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases and
will be responsible for teaching and for student super-
vision, which will encompass the direction of doctoral
students in dissertation research and student advising
at the masters and doctoral levels.
The successful applicant will hold a doctoral degree
in epidemiology, ecology, mathematical biology, or an-
other relevant area of biology or public health, or will
have a medical degree and formal training in epidemi-
ology.
Please send a letter of application, including a state-
ment of current and future research interests, curricu-
lum vitae, sample publications, and the names of four
referees to the following address. Applicants should
ask their four referees to write independently to this
address.
Chair, Search Committee for Asst/Assoc Professor of
Infectious Disease Epidemiology c/o Rebecca Cantor
Department of Epidemiology Harvard School of Public
Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115
Harvard University is committed to increasing repre-
sentation of women and minority members among its
faculty and particularly encourages applications from
such candidates.
Rebecca Cantor <RCANTOR@hsph.harvard.edu >
HarvardU LabServices
The FAS Center for System Biology, located on the
Cambridge Campus of Harvard University, is seek-
ing a Lab Services Team Leader (Requisition Number
34658). The duties and the responsibilities of the posi-
tion are as follows:
Leads the on site management of daily operation of
the glass washing, autoclave, media prep facility in the
Northwest Building. Coordinates service calls for the
dishwashers and autoclaves. Ensures that all staﬀ us-
ing the facility have received the proper training in the
use of the equipment. Performs a variety of moderately
complex support duties for the FAS Center for Systems
Biology. Responsible for: preparation of a wide varietyof stock solutions and media; washing and drying labo-
ratory glassware and small laboratory implements; ster-
ilizing glassware, plastic ware, and solutions as needed;
organizing and maintaining laboratory supplies, includ-
ing distribution and some ordering. Management of the
media support ﬁnancial operations including ordering
of raw materials, calculation of media costs and pro-
viding monthly billing information for the media used
by the research groups. Responsible for all hazardous
materials shipments for the center, shipping packages
containing diagnostic samples, genetically modiﬁed or-
ganisms, and dry ice. Appropriate record-keeping to
ensure compliance with federal guidelines. Responsible
for weekly inspections of the center’s hazardous waste
satellite accumulation areas (SAAs).
The basic qualiﬁcations include a high school diploma
and three years related laboratory experience. Addi-
tionally, the successful candidate will have superior or-
ganizational skills, learn rapidly, take initiative, pay at-
tention to detail, and have a service-oriented attitude.
Experience working in an academic environment would
be helpful.
Interested parties can apply online through the Har-
vard Jobs Web Site: http://jobs.harvard.edu/jobs/-
summ req?in post id=3D38569 .
Sarah Lyn Elwell Assistant Director of Operations De-
partment of Molecular and Cellular Biology FAS Center
for Systems Biology Harvard University |Bauer Labo-
ratory 7 Divinity Ave, Cambridge, MA 02138 Oﬃce
(617) 496-5649 |Fax (617) 495-2196
selwell@cgr.harvard.edu <mailto:selwell@cgr.harvard.edu >
LundU EvolutionaryMolecularEcol
Ref no: 1586
ASSOCIATE SENIOR LECTURER IN ANIMAL
ECOLOGY, with an emphasis on evolutionary molecu-
lar ecology or animal migration ecology At the section
of Animal Ecology, Department of Ecology, Lund Uni-
versity.
N.B. Application no later than September 10 2008.
For more information see:
http://www.science.lu.se/the-faculty/vacant-positions
Document to download with application instructions:
http://www.science.lu.se/upload/LUPDF/natvet/-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 31
Utlysningar/080910 1586E.pdf Erik Svensson
<Erik.Svensson@zooekol.lu.se >
Muenster PlantEvolution
The University of M¨ unster, School of Biological Sci-
ences invites applications for a
Professor of Botany - Evolution and Biodiversity of
Plants
(W2 salary scale, starting date: April 2009)
The University of M¨ unster seeks to appoint an out-
standing botanist to ﬁll a Professorship in the School
of Biological Sciences. Candidates should have an ex-
cellent track record of research in the evolution and
biodiversity of plants. The successful candidate’s exper-
tise will complement that of the other professors in the
recently established Institute for Evolution and Biodi-
versity ( http://www.uni-muenster.de/ Evolution/) and
will broaden the corresponding research focus. The re-
sponsibilities of the professorship include the manage-
ment of the university’s botanical garden ( www.uni-
muenster.de/ BotanischerGarten/), and teaching at
both the BSc and MSc levels.
Applicants must hold a doctorate and have a postdoc-
toral track record of independent research and teach-
ing (German Habilitation, Juniorprofessor or equiva-
lent scientiﬁc experience at home and abroad). Inter-
national applicants are encouraged to apply but will be
expected to acquire suﬃcient language proﬁciency to
teach in German within 2 years after taking up the po-
sition. In addition, the candidate will contribute to on-
going and planned research initiatives in the University
of M¨ unster, in particular in collaboration with other
researchers working on processes of adaptive evolution,
e.g. stress and adaptation.
The position comes with substantial funding, including
an annual budget and core dedicated funds for scientiﬁc
postdoctoral and technical posts.
The University of M¨ unster seeks to increase the propor-
tion of female staﬀ members in the faculty and therefore
strongly encourages interested female candidates to ap-
ply. In addition, preference will be given to qualiﬁed
disabled applicants.
Applicants should send their CV with details of grants
received, copies of transcripts and degree certiﬁcates,
and a research plan by 30th Sept. 2008 as a hard copy
and in electronic form (pdf) to the Dean of the School ofBiological Sciences, University M¨ unster, Hindenburg-
platz 55, 48143 M¨ unster, Germany; dekanat.bio@uni-
muenster.de
The legally binding German-language version of this
announcement is published in “DIE ZEIT” from 24th
July 2008.
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Bio-
diversity, Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueﬀer-
str. 1, D-48149 Muenster, Germany Phone: + 49 251
83 24661 Fax: + 49 251 83 24668 joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de
NewMexicoStateU DepartmentHead
BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT HEAD – NEW MEXICO
STATE UNIVERSITY
The Biology Department at New Mexico State Uni-
versity seeks applicants for a 12-month tenured ap-
pointment as professor and department head. Can-
didates must have a Ph.D. in a biological science.
Preferred qualiﬁcations include an outstanding record
of internationally recognized, externally funded bio-
logical research; an excellent record of undergraduate
and graduate teaching and advising; and demonstrated
leadership and administrative skills. Responsibilities
will include long-term departmental planning and de-
velopment in teaching, research, and service; day-to-
day management of the department including faculty,
staﬀ, students, and departmental resources; represent-
ing the department to the administration and pub-
lic; and contributing to the department’s teaching.
Strong candidates will be able to continue a produc-
tive research program. Send a signed application let-
ter; a current curriculum vitae; a summary of lead-
ership accomplishments; a statement of teaching, re-
search, and leadership philosophy and expertise; and
contact information for at least ﬁve references. Indi-
viduals selected for interview must submit transcripts
from their highest degree-granting institution at the
time of interview. Application materials should be
sent to: Department Head Search, P.O. Box 30001,
MSC 3AF, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces,
NM 88003. Application review will begin 30 August
2008 and continue until the position is ﬁlled. For
further departmental information see http://biology-32 EvolDir September 1, 2008
web.nmsu.edu . For further information on this posi-
tion (Req. #2008005674) see http://www.nmsu.edu/-
˜ personel/postings/faculty/16314666.html . NMSU IS
AN EEO/AA EMPLOYER. Oﬀer of employment is
contingent upon veriﬁcation of individual’s eligibility
for employment in the United States and upon comple-
tion of applicable background review.
brook@biology.nmsu.edu
NorthCarolinaStateU PestEvolution
North Carolina State University - Assistant Professor -
Molecular-Genetic Manipulation and Evolution of Pest
species.
POSITION: Assistant Professor: 85% Research, 15%
Teaching. Tenure track position. Home department
will be Entomology, Genetics, or Zoology depending on
academic background and research concentration.
SALARY: Twelve month university salary commensu-
rate with training and experience.
QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. in Molecular Biology or re-
lated ﬁeld. Experience with transgenic methods for
genetic manipulation of arthropods and/or mammals.
Skills in genomics and bioinformatics. Must have ex-
cellent academic record for stage in career.
RESPONSIBILITIES: This position is designed to be
an integral part of a new interdisciplinary NCSU pro-
gram in Genetic Pest Management. The incumbent
will be expected to collaborate with other molecular bi-
ologists, ecologist, and pest management specialists in
developing genetic strategies for control of agricultural
pests, and vectors of human and animal diseases. The
major research eﬀort in this position must be focused
on developing transgenic strains that could be used in
the future to decrease pest severity and/or disease in-
cidence. Work on model organisms can constitute a
portion of the research program. Excellent extramural
grant support and high quality research publications
are expected. The individual in this position will de-
velop graduate courses in her/his areas of expertise and
will also co-teach courses in NCSU’s interdisciplinary
graduate concentration in Genetic Pest Management (
refer to the following URL —- http://www.ncsu.edu/-
project/gpm/ ) .
APPLICATIONS: Applications will be accepted until
September 15, 2008, or until a suitable candidate isselected. Applicants must apply online. See http://-
jobs.ncsu.edu for instructions and required documenta-
tion. Proper documentation of identity and employa-
bility will be required before the hiring process can be
ﬁnalized.
AA/EOE. ADA Accommodations: please call 919-515-
3148. NC State welcomes all persons without regard to
sexual orientation.
NorthCarolinaStateU PestEvolution
2
North Carolina State University - Associate/Full Pro-
fessor -
Molecular-Genetic Manipulation and Evolution of Pest
species.
POSITION: Associate or Full Professor: 85% Research,
15% Teaching. Home department will be Entomol-
ogy, Genetics, or Zoology depending on academic back-
ground and research concentration.
SALARY: Twelve month university salary commensu-
rate with training and experience.
QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. in Molecular Biology or re-
lated ﬁeld. Experience with transgenic methods for
genetic manipulation of arthropods and/or mammals.
Skills in genomics and bioinformatics. Must have ex-
cellent academic record for stage in career and proven
leadership record.
RESPONSIBILITIES: This position is designed to be
an integral part of a new interdisciplinary NCSU pro-
gram in Genetic Pest Management. The incumbent will
provide leadership to the program in the area of molec-
ular biology. She or he will be expected to collabo-
rate with other molecular biologists, ecologist, and pest
management specialists in developing genetic strate-
gies for control of agricultural pests, and vectors of hu-
man and animal diseases. The major research eﬀort in
this position must be focused on developing transgenic
strains that could be used in the future to decrease
pest severity and/or disease incidence. Work on model
organisms can constitute a portion of the research pro-
gram. Excellent extramural grant support and high
quality research publications are expected. The indi-
vidual in this position will develop graduate courses in
his/her areas of expertise and will also co-teach courses
in NCSU’s interdisciplinary graduate concentration in
Genetic Pest Management ( refer to the following URLSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 33
—-http://www.ncsu.edu/project/gpm/ ).
APPLICATIONS: Applications will be accepted until
September 15, 2008, or until a suitable candidate is
selected. Applicants must apply online. See http://-
jobs.ncsu.edu for instructions and required documenta-
tion. Proper documentation of identity and employa-
bility will be required before the hiring process can be
ﬁnalized.
AA/EOE. ADA Accommodations: please call 919-515-
3148. NC State welcomes all persons without regard to
sexual orientation.
Pennsylvania ResTech
Research Technician Position The Stroud Water Re-
search Center, Fish Molecular Ecology Group is search-
ing for a Research Technician. The primary duties of
this position are: 1) to maintain day to day operations
of the new Fish Molecular Ecology lab and 2) perform
sample analysis for ongoing and proposed studies in
areas of ﬁsh physiology, population genetics, and ﬁsh
monitoring surveys. The ﬁrst duty includes purchasing
supplies and organizing the new Fish Molecular Ecol-
ogy lab. This duty may also include coordinating sea-
sonal interns and volunteers. The second duty includes
sample analysis using established protocols to investi-
gate questions in ﬁsh physiology and population genet-
ics, and assisting or leading ﬁsh surveys. A currently
funded project will use enzymatic assays to detect lev-
els of cortisol, glucose and triglycerides in whole ﬁsh
homogenates.
Requirements A Bachelors degree in ﬁsheries, ecology,
biology, or related ﬁeld and three years of experience,
and good written and oral communication and organi-
zational skills are required. A Masters degree in ﬁsh-
eries or related ﬁeld may be substituted for two of the
three years of experience. Experience in the following
is desired: 1) population or quantitative genetics, 2)
ﬁsh physiology, 3) ﬁsh ﬁeld surveys and knowledge of
East Coast fresh water and diadromous ﬁsh species, 4)
population dynamics, 5) ﬁsh culture, 6) other areas of
ﬁsh ecology.
Salary commensurate with experience. The appoint-
ment is for two years and may be extended.
How to Apply To apply for this position mail
or email a cover letter describing your qualiﬁca-
tions, CV and three references to Willy Eldridge(weldridge@stroudcenter.org) and indicate Research
Technician Position in the subject heading. Applica-
tions will be accepted through September 12, 2008.
Please contact Dr. Eldridge if you have questions.
About Stroud Water Research Center The Stroud Wa-
ter Research Center seeks to advance the global knowl-
edge of fresh water streams, rivers and lakes through re-
search, education and public outreach, and to promote
stewardship of fresh water among businesses, landown-
ers, policy makers and individuals, around the world.
The SWRC is an independent, 501(c)(3) not-for-proﬁt
organization. More information on the SWRC is avail-
able at http://www.stroudcenter.org .
William Eldridge, PhD Assitant Research Scientist Fish
Molecular Ecology Group Stroud Water Research Cen-
ter 970 Spencer Rd. Avondale, PA 19311 610-268-
2153x272
weldridge@stroudcenter.org
weldridge@stroudcenter.org
Portugal 7 CIBIO
ResearchContracts
CIBIO is a young and highly dynamic Research Centre
located close to Porto, in the north of Portugal, which
aims to be an international Centre of Excellence in the
ﬁelds of Biodiversity and Evolution, oﬀering great op-
portunities for multidisciplinary research. The Centre
occupies recently-built facilities, and now has approxi-
mately 55 researchers holding a PhD degree and more
than 50 MSc and PhD students, as well as people from
many diﬀerent countries. The working atmosphere is
vibrant and enthusiastic, and the CIBIO is regularly
visited by many scientists from abroad. The Cen-
tre has fully equipped molecular laboratories (multiple
PCR rooms, automated sequencers, real-time PCR ma-
chines, etc), as well as technicians, and the necessary
equipment for ﬁeldwork. In 2007, we were able to get
7 research positions, and successful research scientists
came from places as diﬀerent as Colorado, Alaska, Utah
and Montpellier, among others, to work in molecular
phylogenetics, biodiversity and conservation, theoreti-
cal population genetics and plant evolution. For 2008,
we are now advertising seven 5-years full research con-
tracts ( www.eracareers.pt ), and expect to recruit en-
thusiastic and highly motivated researchers in the areas
indicated below. The positions are expected to start by
the end of 2007.34 EvolDir September 1, 2008
1. Genetics of host-parasite interactions
A 5-year research position, renewed yearly, is available
at CIBIO ( http://cibio.up.pt ), Portugal, in the area of
genetics of host-parasite interactions. Although the ex-
act ﬁeld of research is open, the researcher is likely to
work on the study of genetic variation at host candidate
genes that confer resistance against diseases, possibly
using the European rabbit as a model species, because
these are prime candidates for undergoing adaptive evo-
lutionary change. It would be desirable if the candi-
date had previous experience working with immuno-
genetic markers (namely MHC, immunoglobulin genes,
cytokine and chemokine receptors), with particular fo-
cus on the molecular evolution of such genes as well as
detection of natural selection and recombination events.
The candidate must have a PhD and a minimum of 3
years postdoctoral experience. A sound knowledge of
molecular evolution will be reﬂected in the candidate?s
Curriculum Vitae, that evidences a signiﬁcant publi-
cation record in SCI journals for the above-mentioned
topics. Experience is expected in the supervision of
postgraduate students (both MSc and PhD theses) and
on the preparation, development and coordination of
scientiﬁc projects. The candidate is expected to estab-
lish solid international collaborations, and be able to
attract national and international funding. The candi-
date should also be a good communicator (speaking and
writing ﬂuent English) and may participate in teaching
at MSc and PhD levels. Candidates will be assessed ini-
tially on their CV, followed by a job interview. Salary
corresponds to a gross annual income of 43000 euros
(before taxes).
2. Sexual selection and mating systems
A 5-year research position, renewed yearly, is available
at CIBIO ( http://cibio.up.pt ), Portugal, in the area of
behavioural ecology and evolution. Applicants should
have a PhD Degree in Biology and a minimum of 3
years of research experience at post-doc level, prefer-
ably in the ﬁelds of ecology and animal behaviour. The
researcher is expected to integrate a Behavioural Ecol-
ogy & Evolution research group and will study animal
behaviour from a multidisciplinary perspective, com-
bining experimental analysis of behaviour with ecolog-
ical and evolutionary work. Among the main research
topics to be covered, special attention will be given
to the evolution of mating systems, sexual selection
and other reproduction related topics. Given the on-
going environmental alterations, a clear focus will be
devoted to the analysis of some of the above-mentioned
subjects in populations that inhabit the extremes of
a species geographical distribution. As such, the can-
didate is expected to have experience in studying an-
imal behaviour, both in the laboratory as well as inthe ﬁeld, and show solid knowledge in experimental de-
sign and biostatistics. Since some of the model organ-
isms expected to be used are mainly marine, a diver?s
certiﬁcate may be considered useful. Additional key
requirements involve excellence in research, translated
into a signiﬁcant publication record in SCI journals on
the above stated topics, proven ability to build up in-
dependent research initiatives, such as established in-
volvement in the development, preparation and coor-
dination of research projects, PhD student supervising
experience and a clear vision on national and interna-
tional research priorities. A history of conference at-
tendance
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Portugal 7more CCHAR
Several researcher positions now open to develop new
research lines at CCMAR, Portugal, funded by the Por-
tuguese Science Foundation (FCT, Portugal): http:/-
/alfa.fct.mctes.pt/apoios/contratacaodoutorados/ edi-
tal2008.phtml.pt
The center of Marine Sciences (CCMAR) is an indepen-
dent research centre located in the University of the Al-
garve, Portugal, dedicated to research in areas related
to Marine Sciences, including Ecology, Evolutionary Bi-
ology, Biotechnology, Biodiversity and Management of
Aquatic Ecosystems. CCMAR, together with the Cen-
tre of Marine and Environmental Research of the Uni-
versity of Porto (CIIMAR), constitute the Associate
Laboratory, CIMAR, created in March 2002. As an
Associate Laboratory, CIMAR is recognized as a cen-
tre of excellence in Marine Sciences, receiving special
funding directly from the Ministry of Science.
These 7 speciﬁc positions are now open, and in addi-
tion independent researchers may apply in any ﬁelds if
they meet the criteria listed below. These are initial
contracts for 5 years (possibility of unlimited renewal).
Gross annual income: 43000 euros.
Metagenomics http://www.eracareers.pt/-
opportunities/index.aspx?task=global&jobId990
http://tiny.cc/l3cuE Environmental Genomics http:/-
/www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 35
global&jobId027 http://tiny.cc/wXmZm Bioeco-
nomics http://www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/-
index.aspx?task=global&jobId049 http://tiny.cc/-
3cUB4 Biofuels http://www.eracareers.pt/-
opportunities/index.aspx?task=global&jobId065
http://tiny.cc/rGr2g Chemical Ecology http://-
www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-
global&jobId072 http://tiny.cc/gfcN3 Algal
Blooms http://www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/-
index.aspx?task=global&jobId071 http://tiny.cc/-
4Ga8D Gelatinous zooplankton http://-
www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-
global&jobId037 http://tiny.cc/w5TIs Besides these
speciﬁc topics, in any other research themes related
to marine sciences, scientists that meet the following
criteria, can apply for independent researcher positions
:
- must have ﬁnished the PhD at least 3 years ago. (in
well justiﬁed cases of exceptional candidates this may
not be necessary)
- must have published at least 1.5 international in-
dexed papers per year, since the year when the PhD
was started.
- 20 % of all the papers must be published in the top
10 best ranked journals (counting the best rank of the
journal, in all the listed scientiﬁc areas of the journals)
The candidates should be willing to develop a new
research line, supervise students and postdoctoral re-
searchers, and obtain independent funding for their re-
search.
In order to verify if you would be eligible for an inde-
pendent research line application, please send (ASAP,
no later than September 8, 2008) an e-mail to cc-
mar@ualg.pt, describing how you expect to develop
your new research line in CCMAR, send your CV; and
e-mail contacts of at least 3 referees. Appointment of
successful candidates is dependent on ﬁnal approval by
FCT.
Final (FCT) deadline for applications: September 30,
2008.
eserrao@ualg.pt
Portugal Borneo ConsGenetics Tech
***** Technician job in conservation genetics: habitat
fragmentation and large mammals of Borneo*****
The Population and Conservation Genetics group
(http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/research/unit/88 ) is
looking for a technician to work on the impact of
fragmentation on large mammals from Borneo. The
project will involve both lab, ﬁeld and simulation work
in collaboration with L. Chikhi (in Portugal) and B.
Goossens (in Malaysia).
The candidate is expected to work in close collabora-
tion with a post-doctoral researcher who will be hired
on the same project. Since the post-doc and techni-
cian are expected to be complementary, we are open
regarding the proﬁle that the technician should have.
S/he could thus be a biologist with a strong interest for
modelling, a biologist working in the laboratory or a
theoretician/computer scientist with an equally strong
interest in biological problems, and software develop-
ment. Excellence and adaptability are the main selec-
tion criteria.
The Month Stipend follows the regulations of the FCT
Scientiﬁc Fellowships in Portugal (745.00/month) and
will initially be for 24 months.
The post-doc will be based at the Instituto Gulbenkian
de Ciencia (IGC, http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/ )
which is a leading Research Institute in Portugal and in
Europe. Researchers at the IGC work on a wide range
of subjects from epidemiology, to genetics, evolution-
ary biology, bioinformatics and theoretical immunology.
The IGC is located in Oeiras, a small sea-side town 20
min. by train from downtown Lisbon, along the Tagus.
It is only 10-15 min. walking distance from the beaches
and the quality of life is excellent. The IGC provides
excellent research conditions and English is the commu-
nication language among and within groups. Several
other research institutions are located near-by address-
ing both fundamental and applied questions in biomed-
ical sciences using interdisciplinary approaches.
Applications in PDF format will be accepted by email
only (to chikhi at igc.gulbenkian.pt) until September
15th, 2008, and will include: -a short CV -a motivation
letter -two recommendation letters (sent independently
by referees) or contacts of two referees.
– ##### Loun` es Chikhi Charg´ e de Recherche
CNRS UMR CNRS Evolution et Diversit´ e Biologique,
Toulouse chikhi@cict.fr
—– NOUVELLE ADRESSE (01/10/2007 AU
30/09/2008): —– Population and Conservation
Genetics Group Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia Rua
da Quinta Grande, 6 P-2780-156 Oeiras, Portugal
Tel: +351 21 446 46 71 Fax: +351 21 440 79 70
chikhi@igc.gulbenkian.pt #####36 EvolDir September 1, 2008
chikhi@cict.fr chikhi@cict.fr
SmithCollege PlantSystematist
PLANT ECOLOGIST/SYSTEMATIST
The Smith College Department of Biological Sci-
ences invites applications for a full-time, tenure-
track Assistant Professorship in terrestrial plant ecol-
ogy/systematics beginning July 1, 2009. A commit-
ment to undergraduate education and a strong research
program including ﬁeld research opportunities for un-
dergraduates are essential. Teaching responsibilities
will include courses in plant ecology and plant diver-
sity/systematics (each with a ﬁeld component), and
participation in the department’s core course on biodi-
versity, ecology and conservation. A Ph.D. is required;
teaching and/or postdoctoral experience is preferred.
Smith College is a leader in education of women and has
a vibrant Biological Sciences Department. Exceptional
resources in the plant sciences include a botanic gar-
den, greenhouse, herbarium, and ﬁeld station. State-
of-the-art facilities include a GIS lab and centers for
molecular genetics, biochemistry, and microscopy. Pro-
grams in Environmental Science and Policy and Land-
scape Studies facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration.
The Five College Consortium, comprised of Smith,
Amherst, Mount Holyoke, and Hampshire Colleges and
the University of Massachusetts, provides a rich intel-
lectual and cultural life for faculty and students, as well
as collegial opportunities for teaching and research.
A curriculum vitae, statements of teaching philosophy
and research interests, and three letters of recommen-
dation should be sent by October 31, 2008 to: Plant
Ecology Search Committee, Dept. of Biological Sci-
ences, Clark Science Center, Smith College, Northamp-
ton, MA 01063. Smith College is an equal opportunity
employer committed to excellence through diversity.
In addition, please email me if I can answer
any questions about this position. Laura Katz –
lkatz@smith.edu
lkatz@smith.edu lkatz@smith.edu
TrinityU EvolutionaryBiolfrom the ad to appear in Science:
The Department of Biology is seeking two Assistant
Professors to begin appointments in August 2009. This
is a search for one animal behaviorist and one evolu-
tionary biologist. Applications will be accepted from
qualiﬁed candidates across the full range of these dis-
ciplines, and the Department especially encourages ap-
plications from individuals who use invertebrate model
systems. We seek to hire two candidates who will create
exciting synergies within the Department and who will
participate in our active undergraduate research pro-
gram. The Department is well equipped, and start-up
funds are available to meet the individual needs of new
faculty.
Candidates are expected to (1) possess a Ph.D. Degree,
preferably with postdoctoral research experience, (2)
teach an upper division course in their area of expertise,
(3) contribute to the introductory and/or non-majors
curriculum, (4) be involved in academic advising, and
(5) develop a research program involving signiﬁcant un-
dergraduate participation. Applicants should send cur-
riculum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, sum-
mary of research interests, and three letters of reference
to Prof. David Ribble, Chair of Search Committee,
Department of Biology, Trinity University, One Trinity
Place, San Antonio, TX 78212. Digital applications and
references are welcome at dribble@trinity.edu. Review
of applications will begin 10 October 2008. Women and
minority candidates are strongly encouraged to apply.
Trinity University is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
In addition, I can answer any questions about these
positions.
cheers -Kevin Livingstone
Department of Biology One Trinity Place San Antonio,
TX 78212 (210) 999-7236 klivings@trinity.edu
Kevin.Livingstone@Trinity.edu
Kevin.Livingstone@Trinity.edu
UKansas ResAssist
DrosophilaGenomics
Research Assistant, University of Kansas
Quantitative Genetics and Genomics in Drosophila
An NIH-funded Research Assistant position is avail-
able in Stuart Macdonald’s lab in the Department of
Molecular Biosciences at the University of Kansas. TheSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 37
Macdonald lab explores the genetic basis of complex
phenotypic variation within and between species us-
ing Drosophila as a model system (web.ku.edu/sjmac/).
We seek an enthusiastic individual to supervise and
carry out large-scale quantitative genetics projects and
to oversee various lab activities. Most of the duties will
be related to the care, maintenance, and use of a large
number of Drosophila strains. The successful candidate
should be motivated, organized and careful, and have
excellent oral and written communication skills. Salary
will be commensurate with experience and will include
beneﬁts.
Job Responsibilities:
Generate, maintain and use Drosophila strains: Our
NIH-funded project seeks to create a large panel of Re-
combinant Inbred Lines by inbreeding. Once the lines
are constructed we will use them to carry out a series of
large quantitative genetics experiments. The Research
Assistant will be responsible for carrying out much of
the line creation and maintenance, coordinating with
undergraduate assistants, a postdoctoral research fel-
low, and the PI.
Test the strains for contamination: The Re-
search Assistant will periodically test the strains via
PCR/genotyping assays.
Keep accurate and detailed records: These duties in-
clude maintaining an up-to-date digital record for each
strain, allowing us to track progress of the panel.
Routine lab management: The Research Assistant will
be responsible for ordering all supplies and reagents
used in ﬂy maintenance.
Qualiﬁcations:
Required qualiﬁcations are a Bachelors degree in biol-
ogy or a related ﬁeld, demonstrable experience conduct-
ing research in a (broadly- deﬁned) genetics or molec-
ular biology laboratory, and strong written communi-
cation skills as evidenced by the application materials.
Preference will be given to those candidates with signif-
icant laboratory experience that includes troubleshoot-
ing and optimizing protocols, those who have previously
worked with Drosophila, and those with prior experi-
ence managing large scientiﬁc projects.
The University of Kansas ( www.ku.edu ) has an active
academic community in the life sciences, and the Mac-
donald lab is aﬃliated with the Department of Molec-
ular Biosciences (molecularbiosciences.ku.edu), and
works closely will members of the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology (www2.ku.edu/ ~eeb).
The range and number of research groups presents
many opportunities for fostering academic andsocial interactions. The University of Kansas is
in the city of Lawrence ( www.visitlawrence.com,
www.ci.lawrence.ks.us, www.lawrence.com,
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence, Kansas) situated
45 minutes West of Kansas City.
Review of applications will begin September 8, 2008
and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Informal in-
quires about the position are welcome and can be di-
rected to Stuart Macdonald (sjmac@ku.edu). To apply,
complete an online application at https://jobs.ku.edu
(position number 00206282). Attach a cover letter (de-
scribing your interest in the position and any relevant
expertise), a full CV, and complete contact information
for 3 referees. EO/AA Employer.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Department of Molecular
Biosciences 1030 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
University of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
tel: 785-864-5362 fax: 785-864-5321 email: sj-
mac@ku.edu web: http://web.ku.edu/sjmac/ sj-
mac@ku.edu sjmac@ku.edu
UMexico EvolutionaryBiol
POSITION AVAILABLE FOR AN ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSOR, DEPENDING ON QUALIFICA-
TIONS, TO WORK AT THE INSTITUTE OF ECOL-
OGY, NATIONAL AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITY
OF MEXICO (UNAM), MEXICO CITY. STARTING
DATE: AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
Minimum requirements: PhD and postdoctoral experi-
ence of 1 year. Publications in international journals
of relatively high impact. Experience in ecological re-
search with an evolutionary emphasis.
Acceptable areas of interest: evolutionary epidemiol-
ogy, molecular evolution, comparative methods, demog-
raphy/ life histories OR other areas of evolutionary
ecology.
Language: Should speak Spanish or acquire suﬃcient
competence to teach in Spanish within two years of
starting work. Able and willing to collaborate with
other researchers, particularly within the Department
of Evolutionary Ecology. Interested in participating in
applied projects related to national ecological problems.
Teaching experience and willingness to teach. Experi-
ence seeking funding for research.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae to: Dra. Ella38 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Vazquez, Secretario Acad´ emico, Instituto de Ecolog´ ıa,
UNAM, A.P. 70-275, 04510 D.F., M´ exico
Hugh Drummond Instituto de Ecolog´ ıa Universidad
Nacional Aut´ onoma de M´ exico AP 70-275 04510 D.F.
M´ exico
Tel´ efono, oﬁcina: (Mexico, Mexico City) 52 55 -
56229007 Fax, oﬁcina: (Mexico, Mexico City) 52 55
- 56161976, 52 55 - 56228995
Hugh Drummond <hugh@servidor.unam.mx >
UNorthCarolinaAsheville
EvolutionaryBiol
The Department of Biology at the University of North
Carolina Asheville invites applications for a tenure-
track, full-time position at the Assistant Professor level.
Candidates must possess a Ph.D. and an established
record of scholarship, a broad background in biology,
and a strong commitment to teaching and scholarship
at the undergraduate level. The successful candidate
will (1) teach undergraduate courses in zoology, ecol-
ogy and evolution, and introductory biology, (2) de-
velop and oﬀer advanced courses in his/her area of ex-
pertise, and (3) develop an active research program in-
volving undergraduates that addresses issues in animal
ecology, evolution, systematics, or behavior. Review
of applicants begins 15 Oct. and continues until the
position is ﬁlled.
Visit www.unca.edu/biology for details.
Thanks, Jennifer Rhode
Jennifer Rhode, Ph.D. UNC Asheville Department
of Biology One University Heights CPO #2040
Asheville, NC 28804 Phone: 828-251-6232 Fax: 828-
251-6892 jrhode@unca.edu http://facstaﬀ.unca.edu/-
jrhode/ jrhode@unca.edu jrhode@unca.edu
USouthCarolina PathogenEvolution
The following ad will be released soon. Note that we are
particularly interested in candidates using evolutionary
approaches, and do not specify a host organism. Direct
inquiries to Jay Pinckney, jpinckney [at] biol.sc.edu.Assistant Professor - Biological Sciences
As part of the Faculty Excellence Initiative at the Uni-
versity of South Carolina, the Department of Biological
Sciences invites applications for a Microbial Ecologist
specializing in waterborne pathogens for a tenure track
assistant professor position to begin August 2009. This
position is one of several in a university-funded fac-
ulty cluster, which was established to build strategic re-
search capabilities in Environmental Microbiology with
a focus in the emerging research area of Environmen-
tal Stresses and Microbial Stress Responses. Research
interests should include, but are not limited to, pro-
cesses contributing to resilience or adaptive changes of
microorganisms, especially pathogenic microbes, in re-
sponse to stress in natural aquatic systems. Topics of
particular interest are the roles of natural selection and
horizontal gene transfer in the adaptation to stressed
environments and/or the role of phenotypic plasticity
in survival and functionality under stressful conditions.
The position is a 9-month academic year tenure-track
appointment. For more information about the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences, visit www.biol.sc.edu . Ap-
plicants should include with their application a vita,
statement of research and teaching interests and goals,
and the names, addresses, and phone numbers of at
least three references. This information should be sent
to: James L. Pinckney, Chair, FEI Environmental Mi-
crobiology Search, Department of Biological Sciences,
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208. To
ensure full consideration, applications must be submit-
ted by October 15, 2008.
The University of South Carolina is an aﬃrmative ac-
tion, equal opportunity employer. Women and minori-
ties are encouraged to apply. The University of South
Carolina does not discriminate in educational or em-
ployment opportunities or decisions for qualiﬁed per-
sons on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age, disability, sexual orientation or veteran sta-
tus.
–
Jeﬀry L. Dudycha Assistant Professor Dept. of
Biological Sciences & School of the Environment
University of South Carolina Columbia, SC 29208
dudycha [at] biol.sc.edu http://www.biol.sc.edu/-
faculty/dudycha.html dudycha@biol.sc.edu dudy-
cha@biol.sc.edu
UStAndrews YeastGeneticsSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 39
Dear EvolDir Members,
Please share this job advert with anyone appropriate!
Best wishes, Anne Smith
—–
University of St Andrews Laboratory Research Assis-
tant School of Biology Salary: £23,002 per annum
This position has become available in the laboratory
of Dr V Anne Smith to perform experimental work
in yeast, S. cerevisiae, in support of an integrated
computational-experimental research program to reveal
gene regulatory networks.
You should have an undergraduate honours degree or
the equivalent in Biology, Bioinformatics, or related
ﬁeld, and experience in laboratory techniques. We are
looking for an adventurous person who will enjoy ex-
ploring and troubleshooting new protocols. Prior expe-
rience with yeast is desirable, but not required.
The post is ﬁxed term for a period of 29 - 35 months,
available from 1 October 2008 or as soon as possible
thereafter.
Informal enquiries to Dr V Anne Smith, email:
anne.smith@st-andrews.ac.uk and for further infor-
mation about the lab please visit http://biology.st-
andrews.ac.uk/vannesmithlab/ . Please make ap-
plications to HR (information at http://www.st-
andrews.ac.uk/employment/Code,22772,en.html ), in-
cluding application form, CV, and covering letter.
Please quote ref: CD214/08 Closing Date: 29 August
2008
Application forms and further particulars are avail-
able from Human Resources, University of St Andrews,
College Gate, North Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16
9AJ, (tel: 01334 462571, by fax 01334 462570 or by
e-mail Jobline@st-andrews.ac.uk. The advertisement,
further particulars and a downloadable application
form can be found at http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
employment/ . The University is committed to equal-
ity of opportunity. – Dr V Anne Smith School of
Biology Sir Harold Mitchell Building University of St
Andrews St Andrews, Fife KY16 9TH United King-
dom +44 (0)1334-463368 anne.smith@st-andrews.ac.uk
biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/vannesmithlab/
anne.smith@st-andrews.ac.uk anne.smith@st-
andrews.ac.ukUToronto
ComparativeVertebratePhysiology
*Assistant Professor in Comparative Vertebrate Physi-
ology*
*University** of **Toronto** **Scarborough***
The Department of Biological Sciences invites applica-
tions for a tenure stream position in Comparative Ver-
tebrate Physiology. The position will be at the rank
of Assistant Professor and will begin on July 1, 2009.
The ideal candidate will have demonstrated expertise in
examining physiological adaptations of tetrapod verte-
brates to their environment and placing these adapta-
tions into an evolutionary and ecological context. Ap-
plicants must have a PhD and at least one year of
postdoctoral experience. The successful candidate will
be expected to establish a strong, externally funded
research program and to supervise graduate students.
The Department of Biological Sciences has signiﬁcant
strength in ecology, behavior and neuroscience and the
successful candidate will ideally be able to interact with
faculty within these disciplines and facilitate the en-
hancement of animal physiology within the department.
The successful candidate will have a strong commit-
ment to excellence in teaching and be expected to con-
tribute to undergraduate teaching of animal physiology
(human or other), pathophysiology and/or anatomy.
Salary to be commensurate with qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience. Further information on the research and
teaching activities of the Department may be found
by consulting the departmental web site at http://-
www.utsc.utoronto.ca/ ˜ biosci/index.html <http://-
www.utsc.utoronto.ca/%7Ebiosci/index.html >.
Applicants should submit a complete vita, a state-
ment of research interests, a statement of teaching
philosophy / interests and copies of recent reprints.
Three letters of recommendation (including comments
on research, publications and teaching) should be pro-
vided. Applicants are also asked to provide a brief
description of the anticipated animal holding facil-
ity needs of their research program. All materials
should be addressed to: The Chair, Comparative Ver-
tebrate Physiology Search Committee, Department of
Biological Sciences, University of Toronto Scarbor-
ough, 1265 Military Trail, Toronto, Ontario, Canada,
M1C 1A4 or to biologicalsciences@utsc.utoronto.ca
<mailto:biologicalsciences@utsc.utoronto.ca >. The40 EvolDir September 1, 2008
closing date for applications is October 17 ^th , 2008.
/The //University// of //Toronto// is strongly com-
mitted to diversity within its community and es-
pecially welcomes applications from visible minority
group members, women, Aboriginal persons, persons
with disabilities, members of sexual minority groups,
and others who may contribute to the further diversi-
ﬁcation of ideas. The University is responsive to the
needs of dual career couples. The //University// of
//Toronto// oﬀers the opportunity to conduct research,
teach, and live in one of the most diverse cities in the
world. All qualiﬁed candidates are encouraged to ap-
ply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will
be given priority./
Greg Vanlerberghe <gregv@utsc.utoronto.ca >
UWyoming AvianSystematist
Evolutionary Biologist/Avian Systematist University of
Wyoming
The Department of Zoology and Physiology at the Uni-
versity of Wyoming invites applications for a full-time,
nine-month, tenure-track FACULTY POSITION at
open rank, starting August 2010. We seek an evolution-
ary biologist with a proven track record in avian biology
and curation of museum collections. The main respon-
sibilities include research, teaching in the University1s
life sciences program, outreach, and curation of the
Department1s research and teaching collection within
the recently endowed Robert and Carol Berry Center
for Natural History and Conservation. The success-
ful candidate will have a PhD and evidence of research
productivity. Departmental research strengths include
ecology, wildlife/ﬁsheries biology, comparative physiol-
ogy, cell biology/physiology, and neuroscience. The de-
partment has access to outstanding microscopy, macro-
molecular, stable isotope, and nucleic acid facilities,
and the Red Buttes Environmental Research Labora-
tory. The Center will provide additional resources for
research, outreach, and conservation.
Interested applicants should email pdf ﬁles of their
curriculum vitae, a statement of research and
teaching interests, three publications that repre-
sent their best work, and three letters of recom-
mendation to: Evolutionary Biologist Search Com-
mittee <zprequest@uwyo.edu >. Website: http://-
uwadmnweb.uwyo.edu/Zoology . Review of applica-tions will begin 1 October 2008. The University of
Wyoming is a Carnegie Foundation Research/Doctoral
Extensive Institution, and is an AA/EEO employer.
For inquiries contact:
Dr. Craig Benkman Department of Zoology and Phys-
iology University of Wyoming Laramie, WY 82071
cbenkman@uwyo.edu
Tom Parchman <tparchma@uwyo.edu >
UWyoming EvolutionaryMolBiology
The Molecular Biology Department at University of
Wyoming is searching for an Assistant Professor.
While the search is intended to be broad, the depart-
ment has recently made two hires in molecular evo-
lution/comparative genomics. Candidates with a re-
search interest in this direction or other evolutionary
directions that have a functional molecular component
(including, but not limited to in-vitro evolution) will be
seriously considered. As the search is indeed intended
to be broad, if you are in doubt, please do apply and
your application will be considered.
Assistant Professor - Molecular Biology
The Department of Molecular Biology at the Univer-
sity of Wyoming seeks an outstanding scientist for a
tenure-track position at the Assistant Professor level.
The successful candidate will be expected to estab-
lish an extramurally funded research program, partic-
ipate in undergraduate teaching in the core molecu-
lar biology curriculum, and contribute to the Grad-
uate Program in Molecular and Cellular Life Sci-
ences ( http://www.uwyo.edu/mcls/ ). Salary and start-
up package will be competitive. Candidates must
have a Ph.D. degree or equivalent, postdoctoral re-
search experience, and clear evidence of research pro-
ductivity. Applications should be sent via email to
molecularbiology@uwyo.edu as a single pdf ﬁle (la-
beled with your last name) that includes a cover
letter, CV, research interests, and teaching interests
and philosophy. In addition, three letters of recom-
mendation should be sent by e-mail to molecularbiol-
ogy@uwyo.edu or by regular mail to Search Commit-
tee Chair, Department of Molecular Biology, Univer-
sity of Wyoming, 1000 E. University Ave., Dept. 3944,
Laramie, WY 82071. The Department of Molecular
Biology consists of 15 faculty with diverse researchSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 41
interests and signiﬁcant extramural support ( http:/-
/uwacadweb.uwyo.edu/UWmolecbio/ ).The University
of Wyoming enrolls ~12,000 students, including ~2,500
graduate students. Laramie is located in the Rocky
Mountain region of southeastern Wyoming, about 120
miles from Denver. In addition to opportunities for
academic excellence, the University of Wyoming oﬀers a
college-town environment, extraordinary outdoor recre-
ation, and daily conveniences that contribute to our
quality of life. Screening of applications will begin on
October 15, 2008 and continue until a suitable candi-
date is identiﬁed.
The University of Wyoming is an EO/AA employer.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
WashingtonStateU
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Research Assistant in Plant Evolutionary Genetics
A research assistant is needed to conduct experiments
in the Busch laboratory at Washington State University
(WSU). The Busch laboratory conducts experiments in
plant evolutionary genetics, with a particular empha-
sis on the evolution of mating systems and their ge-
netic consequences. Experiments are currently focus-
ing on species of Leavenworthia, a genus of mustards
that are endemic to the southeastern United States. An
independent and highly motivated individual is being
sought to conduct independent research in the follow-
ing two areas: 1) an examination of genetic incompati-
bilities contributing to reproductive isolation in hybrid
oﬀspring produced in crosses between populations of a
self-fertilizing species; and 2) PCR ampliﬁcation of mi-
crosatellite loci to study the eﬀects of mating system onpopulation structure in several Leavenworthia species.
Field trips to collect natural material may also be re-
quired, so the candidate should be comfortable collect-
ing plant material in the ﬁeld. The ideal candidate will
have recently graduated from University with a B.A. or
B.S. in biology, in addition to having experience con-
ducting independent research in a laboratory. Experi-
ence with molecular techniques (PCR, electrophoresis,
cloning, etc.) is an asset but not a requirement for em-
ployment. Responsibilities of the position include main-
tenance and oversight of the laboratory (25%), growth
of plant material, experimental crosses, and measure-
ment of plant traits in a greenhouse (35%), in addition
to PCR ampliﬁcation and analysis of polymorphic DNA
(40%).
Interested individuals should submit a one-page letter
outlining why the position is being sought to Jeremiah
Busch at jwbusch@wsu.edu. Applicants must also pro-
vide the email addresses and phone numbers of three
references in their letter. The position is to be ﬁlled
for one year, although employment for a second year
may be oﬀered upon satisfactory performance. Appli-
cations will be accepted and screened until September
1st, 2008. The starting salary is $25,000, although this
amount is negotiable based upon prior experience. The
position is expected to start on January 5th, 2009.
Washington State University is housed in Pullman,
Washington, a small town with strong school systems
and many opportunities for outdoor recreation. The bi-
ology department at WSU has many faculty and grad-
uate students with interests in ecology and evolution
(http://www.sbs.wsu.edu ), and we enjoy very strong
interactions with biologists on the nearby campus of
the University of Idaho.
Jeremiah Busch Assistant Professor Washington State
University School of Biological Sciences PO Box 644236
Pullman, WA 99164
jwbusch@wsu.edu jwbusch@wsu.edu
Other42 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Adonis samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Ancestral haplotype sequence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Arlequin coding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Crab larva samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Eppendorf Realplex 4 and SNPs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ESF ThermAdapt call for grants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
FishEgg DNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
How to teach evolution for kids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
How to teach evolution for kids 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Informative AFLP markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
MacVector ﬁles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45Marine invert microsats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Marine invert microsats answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Museum DNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Mussels Collaboration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Portugal OtterEvolution VolFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Software LOSITAN SelectionDetection . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Software PhaseEstimation with ploidy . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Software SAM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Software SLOUCH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
SouthAfrica FieldVol MouseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Adonis samples
Dear Evoldir-ers,
We are currently seeking any Adonis spp. samples you
may be willing to share, preferably viable seed, but
freeze-dried leaf tissue would also do. In particular,
Adonis palestina samples would be most welcome.
Thanks,
Dan
Dan Milbourne, PhD Research Oﬃcer Crops Research
Centre Teagasc Oak Park Carlow Ireland
Dan.Milbourne@teagasc.ie
Tomas Murray <tomas.murray@teagasc.ie >
Ancestral haplotype sequence
Hi, All,
Does anyone know how to determine the ancestral hap-
lotype/sequence from a set DNA sequences (I’m us-
ing mtDNA)? Are there any softewares to perform this
task? and the idea to determine that?
Thanks in advance, Best regards, Ai-bing
Ai-bing Zhang, Ph.D. Gene Technology Al-
banova University Center Royal Institute of
Biotechnology SE-106 91 Stockholm Sweden
Email:zhangab2008[at]yahoo.com.cn Tel: int+46-
7040 36 208
ZhangAB <zhangab2008@yahoo.com.cn >Arlequin coding
Dear friends, I have used a few haplotype data to do
AMOVA in Arlequin, but here I meet a problem, be-
cause Arlequin needs the length of every haplotype to
be the same , but some of the haplotypes I got has an
Alu in some loci, but I don’t know how to coding the
Alu in Arlequin, has anyone met this problem before?
and has anyone know how to coding in this condition?
Thanks!!!
An Fan, postgraduate from China.
Phone:020-87332513 Fax:020-87332513
Email:fanan@mail2.sysu.edu.cn
“An Fan <fanan@mail2.sysu.edu.cn >”
Fan An <fanan@mail2.sysu.edu.cn >
Crab larva samples
Dear EvolDir members,
I have initiated a comparative morphological study on
the four extant horseshoe crabs, but miss one species.
The missing material is ﬁrst- and second-instar larvae
from the Asian horseshoe crabs of Tachypleus triden-
tatus. I need the larvae for SEM studies and can use
either live or ﬁxed larvae ? even exuviae. I can also use
fertilized eggs and hatch them in the lab.
Does anyone know where I can get such specimens? I
would appreciate any help very muchSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 43
Best wishes,
Ariel D. Conradsen, graduate student
ariel@biology.au.dk
– Ariel D. Conradsen, Graduate Student Dept. of Ecol-
ogy & Genetics Inst. of Biology University of Aarhus
Ny Munkegade, Buildg. 1540-218 DK-8000 Aarhus C.
Denmark Tel.: +45 8942 3334 Cell.: +45 2061 3746
ariel.conradsen@biology.au.dk
Eppendorf Realplex 4 and SNPs
Dear Evoldir,
I’m about to start working with SNPs on an Eppendorf
Realplex 4 system. I’ve never used this platform and
I’m curious to hear about other peoples experience of
running SNPs on it (like which dye system people have
been using, pitfalls etc.).
Thanks
Jens
Dr. Jens Carlsson Population Geneticist
Duke University Marine Laboratory Nicholas School of
the Environment 135 Duke Marine Lab Road Beaufort,
NC 28516-9721, USA Oﬃce: +1 252 504 7615 Fax: +1
252 504 7615 (wait 7 rings) Email: jens.carlsson (at)
duke.edu
jac61@duke.edu jac61@duke.edu
ESF ThermAdapt call for grants
**** PERMANENT CALL FOR WORKSHOP
GRANT APPLICATIONS ****
In 2006 we launched a new ESF Programme on “Ther-
mal adaptation in ectotherms: Linking life history,
physiology, behaviour and genetics” (ThermAdapt); see
http://www.esf.org/thermadapt . The Objective of
this ESF Programme is to foster a multidisciplinary
European network of scientists working on thermal
adaptation. We particularly aim to integrate research
at multiple levels of investigation, including genetics,
physiology, ecology, behaviour or theory. Interestedpersons or groups are encouraged to join our activities.
These include advertising their expertise via our web
site, and participation in various activities to be an-
nounced separately and regularly over the next 5 years
such as workshops, training courses, short and long ex-
change grants, exchange of specimens and expertise,
sharing of facilities, and scientiﬁc collaboration of any
kind.
We PERMANENTLY call for applications for local or-
ganization of
==>WORKSHOPS, SCIENCE MEETINGS or
TRAINING COURSES on speciﬁc topics within the
realm of the ThermAdapt Programme
There is no particular deadline. Instead, submis-
sion of workshop proposals is now PERMANENTLY
OPENED, as explained on our web site http://-
www.esf.org/thermadapt under >Science Meetings,
where the application procedure is also outlined. We
shall periodically review submissions about every 3 to
6 months.
Such workshops, ﬁnanced by our ESF programme if
approved, bring together between 10 and 50 partici-
pants for 2 to 4 days to focus on a speciﬁc issue and are
planned to occur on an annual basis over the coming
years.
Workshop grant applications will be chosen based on
scientiﬁc quality, and priority will be given to appli-
cants who come from or intend to visit countries sup-
porting the programme (Austria, Belgium, Czech Re-
public, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Hungary,
Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland),
but other European nations can be involved.
For further inquiries, or if you wish to be included in
the ThermAdapt e-mail list to receive regular updates
on Programme activities, please contact:
Ellen Degott (ESF oﬃce liaison; Email: ede-
gott@esf.org) Wolf Blanckenhorn (chair; Email:
wolf.blanckenhorn@zm.uzh.ch) Mauro Santos (co-chair;
Email: mauro.santos@uab.es)
Dr. Wolf Blanckenhorn Chairman ESF ThermAdapt
Programme Zoological Museum University of Zurich-
Irchel 34 (building)-J (ﬂoor) -98 (oﬃce) Winterthur-
erstrasse 190 CH-8057 Zurich
Phone: +41 44 635.47.55 Fax: +41 44 635.47.80 e-mail:
wolf.blanckenhorn@zm.uzh.ch http://www.esf.org/-
thermadapt wolfman@zm.uzh.ch44 EvolDir September 1, 2008
FishEgg DNA
Dear All,
We are working on the mapping of ﬁsh spawning areas
in the south of the North Sea and the English Chan-
nel. To map these areas, we wanted to identify by DNA
markers the species of the collected eggs (mainly gadoid
species and some ﬂat ﬁsh).
Eggs are sampled during research cruises and are pre-
liminary ﬁxed in a formalin solution (less than 1%) dur-
ing 3 weeks before to be washed and stored in a solution
without formalin.
We are using mitochondrial gene (cytochrome b)as the
molecular marker. But since now, we have problems to
extract DNA from individual egg. Sometimes it works,
sometimes not. It seems to be dependent on the ﬁsh
species. We have used diﬀerent DNA extraction meth-
ods: (1) phenol/chloroform/isoamyle, (2)DNeasy Tis-
sue Kit (from Qiagen), (3) magnetic bead-based tech-
nology (ChargeSwitch Forensic DNA puriﬁcation kits
from invitrogen), (4)Whatman FTA cards and (5)5%
Chelex extraction.
Does someone have already encountered this DNA ex-
traction problem? All ideas will be useful for us.
Thank you very much in advance for your answers,
V´ eronique Verrez-Bagnis
Ifremer D´ epartement Sciences & Techniques Alimen-
taires Marines Rue de l’Ile d’Yeu, B.P. 22105 44311
Nantes Cedex 3 - France
T´ el.: +33 (0)2 40 37 40 81 Fax: +33 (0)2 40 37 40 71
E-mail : vverrez@ifremer.fr
Website Ifremer: htpp:// www.ifremer.fr Web-
site FishTrace: htpp:// www.ﬁshtrace.org
Veronique.Verrez@ifremer.fr
Veronique.Verrez@ifremer.fr
How to teach evolution for kids
Dear friends,
Several of my Biology students are starting teaching inschools for kids and teenagers and they are interested in
to organize some activities about evolutionary biology,
explaning natural selection for example.
I would like to help these students here and if anyone
have some material please share with me the internet
links, games, applets, PDF articles, peoples addresses!
Thanks for any help !!!
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Grupo de
Estudos em Ecologia de Mamiferos (ECOMAM)
Universidade de Taubate - Departamento de Bi-
ologia Taubate, SP. 12030-010. E-Mail: jc-
voltol@uol.com.br Website do grupo de pesquisa ECO-
MAM: http://jcvoltol.sites.uol.com.br/ Fotos de Pro-
jetos e Cursos: http://jcvoltol.fotoblog.uol.com.br/-
Amostra de um Curso de Campo de Ecologia:
http://trabiju.blogspot.com/ Curr´ ıculo Lattes: http:/-
/lattes.cnpq.br/8137155809735635 Fotos Art´ ısticas:
http://voltolini.fotos.net.br/texturas “Siamo tutti an-
geli con un’ala e possiamo volare soltanto se ciabbrac-
ciamo”
jcvoltol@uol.com.br
How to teach evolution for kids 2
Dear Professor Voltolini and interested others,
I have a very simple “experimental” simulation of nat-
ural selection that uses dice (I call it “Natural Selec-
tion Craps” or “NSCraps”). It is meant to demon-
strate that natural selection is not a random pro-
cess (as it is mischaracterized by the intelligent design
people–see IDnet sites). I wrote a simple program in C
and am willing to share the source code and/or com-
piled version (the latter for Mac OS X)–just e-mail me
(david.ﬁtch@nyu.edu). But the dice simulation is also
very amenable to experimentation with a class of stu-
dents of virtually any size.
Each die represents a gene; each face of the die repre-
sents a diﬀerent allele. So there are six possible alleles
per gene. One can use as many dice as one likes. I
use 3 dice, each with a diﬀerent color. The object is
to determine how many “generations” (= rolls of the
dice) it takes to achieve some pre- determined optimal
“genotype” (= particular sequence of numbers on the
dice faces; e.g. “1 2 3”). To simulate “random chance
alone”, a student simply rolls all three dice each genera-
tion. Of course, the chance of getting any such “optimal
genotype” will be 1/(6 ^3) = 1/216. To simulate an ide-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 45
alized stepwise process of “natural selection” in which
each genotype with an optimal allele is ﬁtter than the
previous genotype, a student only rolls the dice that do
not have the optimal alleles. The chance is signiﬁcantly
enhanced by selection to 1/36.
The results are pretty fascinating. Natural selection
is a surprisingly eﬃcient mechanism to achieve an op-
timum solution. And the more dice (genes; i.e., the
higher the genomic complexity), the more eﬃcient it is
over random chance.
Of course, there are several simplifying (and thus in-
structive) assumptions underlying the model used here.
For example, the “organism” is haploid and there is a
direct mapping between genotype and phenotype. Also,
there is no epistasis, no interaction between the genes.
And of course each gene is a mendelian factor that mu-
tates and segregates independently of any other gene.
There is a single peak in the “adaptive landscape”; etc.
Nevertheless, this is a great simulation for a class. The
class can be divided into two parts–Randomists vs. Se-
lectionists; each part can then be divided into pairs of
students: one student rolling the dice while the other
student does the counting. Thus, the experiment is
replicated in parallel. I then show the computer simu-
lation using 9- or 10-gene genotypes.
After such a demonstration, most students are pretty
impressed by the power of selection to reduce improba-
bility, thus overcoming a major hurdle for many of the
more skeptical students. In any case, such hands-on
activity has more teaching power than just a lecture.
David Fitch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ - -~David
H. A. Fitch ~ \/ / / ~Associate Professor ~ \/ / / ~
Department of Biology ~ \/ /~New York University
~[] / / ~Main Building, Room 1009 ~ \/ /~100
Washington Square East ~ \/ /~New York, NY 10003
~ \/~U S A ~ \/~Tel.: (212) 998-8254 ~ \ ~ Fax:
(212) 995-4015 ~ \ ~ e-mail: david.ﬁtch@nyu.edu ~ \
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
http://www.nyu.edu/projects/ﬁtch/
david.ﬁtch@nyu.edu david.ﬁtch@nyu.edu
Informative AFLP markers
Dear EvolDir Members,
I work on a large-scale population-level project withover 2000 samples, using AFLP. In order to reduce the
laborious scoring of AFLP proﬁles I’d like to select the
most informative AFLP markers. I was wandering if
any of you have experience with this and can recom-
mend an approach/software/procedure etc.
I have already scored selected panel of about 150 sam-
ples in 9 primer combinations used and this gener-
ated over 400 AFLP markers. I was hoping that if
we could select less markers/primer combinations that
would give us nearly the same results I could substan-
tially reduce time spent by scoring and use it for sub-
sequent data analysis. Please note that most of the
samples are already lab-analysed in all 9 primer com-
binations so I’m not looking for cutting down the cost
of lab-work.
Any suggestions will be greatly appreciated!
Best wishes, Sarka
– Sarka Jahodova
Department of Ecology Charles University Vinicna 7
CZ-128 44 Prague 2 Czech Republic
Tel. +420 221951805 E-mail: jahodova@natur.cuni.cz
And
Department of Invasion Ecology Institute of Botany
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic CZ-252 43
Pruhonice Czech Republic
http://www.ibot.cas.cz/invasions ja-
hodova@natur.cuni.cz
MacVector ﬁles
Dear EvolDir,
I’ve got a bunch of MacVector ﬁles that I need to im-
port to Vector NTI. However, I no longer have access to
MacVector. Does anyone know of a third party (free)
software that could allow for converting the MacVector
ﬁles to a format that Vector NTI can handle?
Thanks
Jens
jens.carlsson@duke.edu jens.carlsson@duke.edu46 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Marine invert microsats
Dear Evoldir members,
I am currently isolating microsatellites for a marine
arthropod, and have encountered a curious pattern.
From a total of 300 clones sequenced so far, over 95%
contain ’beautiful’, long microsat regions, but in more
than half of them, there is virtually zero (or very near
zero) ﬂanking sequence (i.e. the linkers/adapters used
in the isolation protocol are followed immediately by
the repeat region).
I have anecdotally heard of this pattern in marine in-
vertebrates, but have not found any clear literature on
this. Has anyone experienced this issue to the same
extent? Is this pattern real? Or am I possibly doing
something wrong at some step (e.g. too much PCR
product going into the sequencing reactions)?
Thanks for any input!!
Felipe Barreto Dept. of Ecology and Evolution Univer-
sity of California Irvine, CA
felipesbarreto@gmail.com
Marine invert microsats answers
Hi, I received a variety of responses to my post, and I
really thank all that responded. Copied below are my
original post followed by the responses. If you are in-
terested in this topic, there are some great suggestions
here!
To give you a bit more detail on my conclusions: -it
seems the pattern is relatively common in at least some
marine invertebrate groups. -I encountered this pattern
in the last two pycnogonid species I have developed mi-
crosats for, using the Hamilton et al. protocol. With
enough sequencing eﬀort ( ~400 clones), I have success-
fully developed polymorphic microsats for them. So
my query was intended to learn ways to minimize these
problems in the future. -So in developing loci for future
study species, I will be interested in incorporating some
of the suggestions below, particularly with regard to de-
creasing the amount initial gDNA, using less-frequentcutters in the restriction step, and making sure to use
probes tagged at the 3’ end.
Again, thanks a lot for the help!
Felipe Barreto
ORIGINAL QUESTION:
Dear Evoldir members,
I am currently isolating microsatellites for a marine
arthropod, and have encountered a curious pattern.
From a total of 300 clones sequenced so far, over 95%
contain ’beautiful’, long microsat regions, but in more
than half of them, there is virtually zero (or very near
zero) ﬂanking sequence (i.e. the linkers/adapters used
in the isolation protocol are followed immediately by
the repeat region).
I have anecdotally heard of this pattern in marine in-
vertebrates, but have not found any clear literature on
this. Has anyone experienced this issue to the same
extent? Is this pattern real? Or am I possibly doing
something wrong at some step (e.g. too much PCR
product going into the sequencing reactions)?
Thanks for any input!!
Felipe Barreto Dept. of Ecology and Evolution Univer-
sity of California Irvine, CA
—– RESPONSES: Hi Felipe
We made a microsatellite library a few years ago that
had the same problem, and we realized it was because
the initial restriction cutter we used had a recognition
site that included GT, which happened to be the re-
peat we were trying to isolate. Maybe you’ve done the
same?
Cheers,
Andrew
—–
Dear Felipe,
This is interesting question. I’ve recently encountered
a similar problem with plant DNA during development
of the microsats. We didn’t really have ’zero’ ﬂanking
sequences, nevertheless still so short that designing the
primers was impossible or only possible with including
a part of the microsat. therefore, I would be interested
in the responses you get. Can you please summarize
them and forward to me?
good luck,
Monika
—-
Hi Felipe,September 1, 2008 EvolDir 47
You will probably get a load of answers about this,
but I can tell you what we found in our lab. We
had the same problem where we had beautiful repeats
but the linkers were jammed right up against them.
We thought it could be because there was too much
DNA going into the initial enrichment procedure with
the probe. The reason for this is that if there is too
much DNA, the fragments that were lacking ﬂanking se-
quence (just by chance) would be preferentially bound
to the probe because the repeat region would be more
exposed (i.e. there is no ﬂanking region to “get in the
way”). We quantiﬁed our DNA right before the enrich-
ment procedure and started putting much less into the
enrichment (unfortunately, I can’t remember the exact
amount right now and I don’t have my notes with me,
but I think it was around 100ng). This seemed to do
the trick. We would still get the occasional sequence
with no ﬂanking region, but overall most of them were
good. We had this problem across a wide variety of
species (frogs, carnivores, birds, shrimp) and found that
putting in less DNA worked for all of them.
Another factor that could be contributing to it is the
type of repeat you are enriching for and the restriction
enzyme. We were enriching for GATA repeats, and us-
ing Sau3AI to initially digest the DNA, which has a
cut site of GATC. So if one repeat had experienced
a substitution from A to C, you could end up with a
cut site right in the middle of your repeat. This might
increase the number of fragments with no ﬂanking se-
quence. We switched to HaeIII to digest the DNA (cut
site GGCC). I don’t know what your total protocol is,
the only problem with this is that it’s not recommended
for use with SNX linkers (which we were using). I think
there is a HaeIII cut site within the linkers, so if you
have any residual enzyme it could cut oﬀ the linkers.
To get around this, we did a single phenol-chloroform
step after digestion to get rid of any residual enzyme.
When we ﬁnally got good ﬂanking sequences, we did
see that sometimes there would be a GATC site within
a GATA repeat, so I think it was deﬁnitely contributing
to the problem.
>From what I remember (this was several years ago!),
the ﬁrst thing we tried was switching the enzyme from
Sau to Hae. I think it may have
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlMuseum DNA
Dear group: Could someone please respond to my stu-
dent, Daniel Contreras (email = contrerd@uregina.ca)
regarding the possibility that there may be some-
thing in the museum specimens inhibiting ampliﬁca-
tion. Many thanks, Bill Chapco.
I extracted the DNA from two museum specimens
(grasshoppers: M.Sang and Band Wing), along with
a positive control(a fresh specimen of M. sang) and a
negative control, using the QIAGEN DNeasy tissue kit.
When I attempted to perform PCR ampliﬁcation of the
extracted DNA, I did not get any ampliﬁcation of either
M. sang or BW. The positive control worked ﬁne, and
the negative control was clean. I ran several PCRs, us-
ing several primers, and attempting to amplify DNA of
diﬀerent lengths. None of them worked. I assumed that
there is some DNA in the sample, since the specimens
I extracted the DNA from were in good shape. I have
to admit I didn’t bother checking the concentration of
the DNA using a spec since I have a very small amount
of sample in this case (and I ﬁnd that the concentra-
tions for ampliﬁcation are usually in the right range for
PCR after extraction anyways).
I started to suspect that there was something in the
original insects that was contaminating my PCRs and
preventing ampliﬁcation of these samples. So I ran the
following PCR experiment (50 ul total volume):
tube 1)M.sang alone (3 ul)
tube 2)BW alone (3 ul)
tube 3)+ control alone (3ul)
tube 4)+ control diluted (3 ul + 3ul water) - control
for dilution of a positive sample with one that doesn’t
work
tube 5)M. sang combined with + control (3 ul each)
tube 6)BW combined with + control (3 ul each)
tube 7)+ control (1) combined with + control(2) - con-
trol for the combination of two working samples.
tube 8-10)Several negative controls (no primers, no taq,
no dna).
(note: the positive control is a sample of M.sang that
has previously been succesfully ampliﬁed using the
primers I used for this experiment)
I ran these on a 1.3% agarose gel and stained with ethid-
ium bromide. I48 EvolDir September 1, 2008
got the following results:
Tubes 1 and 2 were unsuccessful and showed no bands.
Tubes 3 and 4 both had bright bands. Tube 5 had no
bands and tube 6 had a VERY light
band (almost non-existant). Tube 7 had a VERY bright
band. All negative controls were clean.
So basically, when the DNA extracted from the mu-
seum specimens is combined with DNA that has been
successfully ampliﬁed previously, I get no ampliﬁcation
or very weak ampliﬁcation. Can I conclude that the
some sort of contaminant got through in my extrac-
tion? If so, what
can I do about it? Any ideas?
Dr. William Chapco Department of Biology University
of Regina Regina, SK, S4S 0A2 Canada 306-585-4478
306-337-2410 (FAX) chapco@uregina.ca
William.Chapco@uregina.ca
Mussels Collaboration
Good morning,
I am a moroccan Biologist working on avian and mamal
genetics and doing a Master in Fisheries.
I am specializing in Mussels ( Mytilus galloprovincialis
and Perna perna ) genetics (gene ﬂow, genetic struc-
tures studies...).
As I am about starting my PhD soon, I would be very
delightful to know if there is any chance of collaboration
between our laboratory in Morocco and any laboratory
around the world.
Thank you in advance.
Best regards.
KA
amalkorrida1@aol.co.uk
Portugal OtterEvolution
VolFieldAssist
Iˆ am seeking enthusiastic undergraduates and recent col-
lege graduates who are interested in a ﬁeld research onthe European Otter (Lutra lutra) in Portugal.
The overall objective of my research program is to study
the behavioural evolution of the otters. More in detail,
Iˆ am trying to understand the relationships between the
use of space of this species and the availability and dis-
persion of the resources, namely freshwater and food.
This could be of particular interest in an ecosystem,
like the Portuguese one, which is strongly inﬂuenced
by summer droughts and heavily altered by humans
(by creating many reservoirs).
Iˆ am carrying out a PhD of the University of
Rome (Italy) with Prof Luigi Boitani ( http://-
dipbau.bio.uniroma1.it/web/Docenti/Docente364/-
index.htm ) as advisor, and Iˆ am collaborating with
the Prof Ant ¨Inio Mira, the head of the Conservation
Biology Unit of the University of ˜Avora ( http://-
www.ubc.uevora.pt/ ). The ﬁeld work started at the
end of June 2007, at present we caught 15 otters (in-
cluding escapes and recaptures), marked and followed
7 of them (of which 2 died), and many others will be
hopefully caught and followed soon.
Successful applicants will assist with ﬁeldwork (consist-
ing of trapping sessions, radiotracking, prey sampling
and collection of environmental data) in our Study Area
(Alentejo, South of Portugal), and with data entry. In
addition, successful applicants could develop their own
individual research projects on a topic related to the
program and their own interests, with the opportunity
to carry out their Final Degree/Master Thesis, and, if
particularly motivated, to be involved in the publica-
tions.
The position is unpaid. This means that successful ap-
plicants should provide by theirself for the logistic (ac-
commodations and living expenses), with the only luck
that here the cost of life it is not prohibitive.
Strong motivation to work in extreme environmental
conditions, during both nights (mainly) and days; En-
glish/Italian/Portuguese speaking skills and a valid Eu-
ropean Driverˆ as license are required. Class background
in animal evolution, zoology, statistics, and experience
in radiotelemetry techniques would be an advantage.
Competent, enthusiastic, and emotionally mature peo-
ple desired!
Students could apply starting from now and until July
2009, starting to work as soon as they could or as will
be planned together with me.
For more information, contact Lorenzo Quagli-
etta (PhD student): lorenzo.quaglietta@uniroma1.it
Lorenzo Quaglietta
Lorenzo Quaglietta PhD student Department of An-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 49
imal and Human Biology University of Rome La
Sapienza Viale dell’Universit ˜A, 32 00185, Roma, Italy
(0039) 06-49914763 phone (0039) 06-49914763 fax
lorenzo.quaglietta@uniroma1.it
giaguarenzo@yahoo.it
Software LOSITAN
SelectionDetection
Dear Colleagues,
I would like to announce version 1 of LOSITAN, A easy
to use graphical interface to the fdist (Beaumont and
Nichols, 1996) Fst-outlier method.
LOSITAN tries to make selection detection feasible to a
much wider range of users, even for large population ge-
nomic datasets, by both providing an easy to use inter-
face and essential functionality to complete the whole
selection detection process.
The application runs directly from the web on Win-
dows, Mac and Linux (only a recent Java installation
is required).
The current stable version is an enhancement of a an
early release beta and incorporates the feedback of both
evoldir readers and reviewers comments.
Web address: http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-
2105/9/323 Best regards, Tiago Antao
tiagoantao@gmail.com
Software PhaseEstimation with
ploidy
We have developed a maximum likelihood programme
that estimates allele frequencies and linkage phase at
up to three loci in samples which vary in their ploidy
level.
It is explicitly designed for malaria because when we
genotype malaria parasites from human blood, the
blood may contain 1,2,3.... malaria infections. Malaria
are haploid in the blood stage so this is equivalent to
analysing samples with ploidy levels of 1,2,3....
A referee pointed out that this may have more generalapplication, for example in plants where ploidy may
vary, or where diploids have a gene duplication result-
ing in 4 gene copies in an individual.
So I’ll point you towards the work in the hope that it
will save someone a bit of time.
The work is published in the Malaria Journal at
http://www.malariajournal.com/content/7/1/130 <
http://www.malariajournal.com/content/7/1/130 >
and/or you can ﬁnd the users’ manual at
http://pcwww.liv.ac.uk/hastings/MalHaploFreq <
http://pcwww.liv.ac.uk/hastings/MalHaploFreq >
Regards,
Ian Hastings
Ian Hastings, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine,
Liverpool L19 3PR. tel: 0151 705 3183 (direct) 0151
705 3371 (Dept. secretary)
“Hastings, Ian” <hastings@liverpool.ac.uk >
Software SAM
Dear Colleagues,
SAM is a Windows program designed to detect candi-
date loci for selection in whole-genome scans. It also
gives valuable clues as regards the ecological factors
at stake in the selection process. The method used
is based on multiple univariate logistic regression mod-
els to test for association between allelic frequencies
at marker loci and environmental variables. The soft-
ware reads matrices constituted of presence/absence of
molecular markers, and of the corresponding environ-
mental parameters at sampling locations. It provides
dynamic analysis tables to process the results.
Two papers were published about SAM. The ﬁrst one
describes the method and was published in Molecular
Ecology :
- Joost, S., Bonin, A., Bruford, M.W., Despr ˜Ac/circlecopyrts, L.,
Conord, C., Erhardt, G., Taberlet, P., (2007) A Spa-
tial Analysis Method (SAM) to detect candidate loci
for selection: towards a landscape genomics approach
to adaptation, Molecular Ecology, 18:3955ˆ a3969.
The other one presents the software and was published
in Molecular Ecology Resources :
- Joost, S., Kalbermatten, M., Bonin, A. (2008) Spa-
tial Analysis Method (SAM): a software tool combining50 EvolDir September 1, 2008
molecular and environmental data to identify candidate
loci for selection, Molecular Ecology Resources, Vol. 8,
issue 5, start page 957
The tool is freely available for download at : http://-
www.econogene.eu/software/sam/ Best regards,
Stephane
–
Dr Stephane Joost GIS Research Laboratory (LASIG)
Ecole Polytechnique F ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrale de Lausanne
(EPFL) School of Architecture, Civil, and Environ-
mental Engineering (ENAC) B ˜Atiment GC, Station 18,
1015 Lausanne, Switzerland Telephone: +41 21 693
57 82 - Fax: +41 21 693 57 90 http://lasig.epﬂ.ch/
Stephane Joost <stephane.joost@epﬂ.ch >
Software SLOUCH
SLOUCH Stochastic Linear Ornstein-Uhlenbeck Mod-
els for Comparative Hypotheses
Most phylogenetic comparative methods used for test-
ing adaptive hypotheses make evolutionary assump-
tions that are not compatible with evolution of a trait
towards an optimum. SLOUCH allows the user to es-
timate 1) the evolutionary and optimal regressions be-
tween a predictor and a response trait, and 2) phylo-
genetic inertia. These quantities are estimated jointly
by a comparative method based upon an Ornstein-
Uhlenbeck model of adaptive evolution in which a single
trait adapts to an optimum that is inﬂuenced by one
or more continuous, randomly changing predictor vari-
ables.
Please register for a free download of the SLOUCH
program and the accompanying manual at http:/-
/freshpond.org/software/SLOUCH/ or http://-
folk.uio.no/thomasha/Programs/ The biological,
conceptual, and mathematical basis for SLOUCH is
presented in
A Comparative Method for Studying Adaptation to
a Randomly Evolving Environment by Thomas F.
Hansen, Jason Pienaar, and Steven Hecht Orzack, Evo-
lution 62: 1965-1977 2008.
– Steven Orzack
The Fresh Pond Research Institute 173 Harvey Street
Cambridge, MA. 02140 617 864-4307
www.freshpond.org orzack <orzack@freshpond.org >SouthAfrica FieldVol
MouseEvolution
Volunteers needed as ﬁeld assistants for the project:
Socio-Ecology of small Mammals in the Succulent Ka-
roo of South Africa
>From October onwards
Project: We study the reasons of group living, pater-
nal care, communal nesting and social ﬂexibility in the
striped mouse. As this species is diurnal and the habi-
tat is open, direct behavioral observations in the ﬁeld
are possible.
What kind of people are needed? Biol-
ogy/zoology/veterinary students with a BSC or
equivalent are preferred as candidates. Applicants
must have an interest in working in the ﬁeld and
with animals. Hard working conditions will await
applicants, as the study species gets up with sunrise
(between 5 and 6 o‘ clock), and stops its activity with
dusk (19 o‘ clock). Work during nights might also be
necessary. Work in the ﬁeld will be done for 5 days
a week. Applicants must be able to manage extreme
temperatures (below 0 at night, sometimes over 40C
during days). Applicants must both be prepared to
live for long periods in the loneliness of the ﬁeld and
to be part of a small group.
Work of ﬁeld assistants: Trapping and marking of mice;
radio-tracking to determine home ranges and nest sites;
direct behavioral observations in the ﬁeld; experiments
and observations with captive specimen under natural
weather conditions; maintenance and cleaning of the
research station.
Conﬁrmation letter: Students get a letter of conﬁrma-
tion about their work and can prepare a report of their
own small project to get credit points from their uni-
versity for their bachelor or masters studies.
Costs: Students have to arrange their transport to the
ﬁeld site themselves. Per month, an amount of Rand
750 (around 70 Euro) must be paid for accommodation
at the research station. Students must buy their own
food etc in Springbok (costs of about R 2000 or 180
Euro/month). Students get an invitation letter which
they can use to apply for funding in their home country
(eg. DAAD in Germany, SANW in Switzerland).
Place: The ﬁeld site is in the Goegap Nature ReserveSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 51
near Springbok in the North-West of South Africa. The
vegetation consists of Succulent Karoo, which has been
recognized as one of 25 hotspots of biodiversity. It is a
desert to semi-desert with rain mainly in winter (June
to September).
When and how long: Currently we are looking for one
volunteer to start in September and two volunteers to
start in October. Applications for later periods are also
possible. Volunteers are expected to stay at least 2
months, but longer periods of up to 6months are pre-
ferred.
How to apply? Send a short motivation letter stating
why and for which period you are interested and your
CV via email to carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch.
More information under www.stripedmouse.com Con-
tact via e-mail: carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch
Dr. Carsten Schradin Research Assistant, Zoologi-
cal Institute, Department of Animal Behavior, Univer-
sity of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich,Switzerland. Tel: +41 - (0)44 635 5486
Honorary Researcher at the School of Animal, Plant
and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwa-
tersrand, South Africa.
Best regards, Carsten
Dr. Carsten Schradin Research Associate, Zoologi-
cal Institute, Department of Animal Behavior, Univer-
sity of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich,
Switzerland. Tel; +41 - (0)44 635 5486 Fax: +41 -
(0)44 635 5490
(Tel. secretary: +41 - (0)44 635 5271)
Honorary Researcher at the School of Animal, Plant
and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwa-
tersrand, South Africa.
Succulent Karoo Research Station, Goegap Nature Re-
serve, Private Bag X1, 8240 Springbok, South Africa.
visit http://www.stripedmouse.com Carsten Schradin
<carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch >
PostDocs
ArizonaStateU TheoreticalPopGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Belgium PlantPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
BiK-Frankfurt CrustaceanPopulationGenetics . . . . . 53
BiK-Frankfurt CrustaceanPopulationGenetics 2 . . . 54
BiK-Frankfurt GeneAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Chile Microevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
DalhousieU MarinePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Detroit Molecular Evolution Encephalization . . . . . . 56
EmoryU VisionMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
ESF ThermAdapt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Grenoble France BacterialAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
ImperialCollegeLondon EcolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
INRA France PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
INRA-Versailles PlantTEs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Israel OliveTreeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Leipzig Rwanda MountainGorillas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
NewYorkU PlantPhylogenies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
NHM London FlatwormEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
NorthCarolinaStateU PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . 62
Portugal Borneo ConsGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63Portugal PolarPhytoplanktonTranscriptomics . . . . . . 64
PurdueU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
QueensU FishPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
RiceU BacterialGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UAdelaide AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UArizona EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UBasel EvoltuionaryGenomics EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UBerne EvolutionTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UCaliforniaSanDiego ModelingViralEvolution . . . . . 69
UChicago EvolutionTranscriptionNetworks . . . . . . . . 70
UColorado PlantEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UCopenhagen Macroecology and Evolution . . . . . . . . 70
UdoAlgarve MarinePopBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UGottingen EvolutionSymbioses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UGottingen MetazoanEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UIdaho PlantAnimalCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UIllinoisUC RiskGenes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
ULausanne Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
ULausanne PlantSpeciesDistribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
ULisbon GenomeDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7552 EvolDir September 1, 2008
UManchester ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill PseudomonasGenomics 76
UNottingham SnailChirality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UNSW Linking Genotype and Phenotype . . . . . . . . . 77
UOulu Evolution of social information use . . . . . . . . . 77
URochester PopGenomicsEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
USouthDakota EvolutionaryPhysiology of Stalk-EyedFlies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UWashington Bioinformatics PopGenet extended . . 79
UWisconsinMadison PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UWisconsin MonocotPhyloGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
VanderbiltU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
YaleU MicrobPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
ArizonaStateU TheoreticalPopGen
A postdoctoral position is available for research in the-
oretical population/evolutionary genetics of infectious
disease in Arizona State University. The funding is
available for two years, with good possibility of ex-
tension. The successful applicant is expected to de-
velop quantitative models of drug resistance evolution
in pathogen population using either computer simula-
tion or mathematical analyses. The project also in-
volves the analysis of malaria parasite (Plasmodium
falciparum and/or P. vivax) genomic data for inferring
parasite demographic structure and evolutionary events
involving antimalarial drug resistance. The project
speciﬁcally aims to elucidate whether or how rapidly
the resistance to antimalarial drugs would emerge, be-
come prevalent, or disappear under various parasite
demographic structures and drug deployment policies.
However, this problem will be addressed in the broad
context of adaptive multi-locus evolutionary dynamics
under temporally and spatially heterogeneous selection.
He or she in this position will collaborate closely with
both Dr. Yuseob Kim (theoretical population genet-
ics) and Dr. Ananias Escalante (evolutionary ecology
of malaria parasites) of the School of Life Sciences in
ASU. The applicant should have advanced knowledge
and skill in population genetics theory, computer pro-
gramming and, preferably, experience in the statistical
data analysis DNA sequence variation. Knowledge in
malaria biology is not required. Candidates must have
earned a Ph.D. in biology or a related ﬁeld at the time
of appointment.
To apply send a CV, a personal statement and selected
publication by email to yuseob.kim@asu.edu or by mail:
Yuseob Kim, Biodesign/EFG, Arizona State Univer-
sity, PO Box 875301, Tempe, AZ 875301. Informal
inquiry is encouraged. The initial deadline for receipt
of applications is 30 September, 2008, with application
reviewed weekly thereafter until the search is closed.
Arizona State University is an aﬃrmative action, equalopportunity employer committed to excellence through
diversity.
Yuseob Kim <Yuseob.Kim@asu.edu >
Belgium PlantPopulationGenetics
POSTDOC GRANT APPLICATIONS - CONSERVA-
TION
As part of a new project funded by the Belgian National
Fund for Scientiﬁc Research (FNRS), it is possible for
non-Belgian young postdoc researchers to APPLY for
a three-year FNRS postdoc grant in the laboratories
collaborating to the project (Univ. Mons-Hainaut,
UCLouvain-la-Neuve, National Botanical Garden, all
located in Belgium). The topic is “Key factors for
the persistence of fragmented populations of rare or
declining plant species and their preferential pollina-
tors: pollination patterns, inbreeding depression, gene
ﬂow and available resources”. Four insect-pollinated
plant species from fens are studied: Comarum palus-
tre, Menyanthes trifoliata, Vaccinium oxycoccos and
V. uliginosum, as well as the diversity and eﬃciency
of their pollinators. In particular we will study the fol-
lowing aspects: 1. Study of the pollinator guilds: diver-
sity, behaviour and diet 2. Reproductive biology: ﬂoral
biology, pollen transfer limitation, mating system, and
inbreeding depression. 3. Population genetics: out-
crossing rates and realized pollen ﬂow using DNA mi-
crosatellite markers.
The study sites are located in two regions in south-
ern Belgium (High Ardenne and Lorraine). They are
protected areas (EU Natura 2000 zones and natural re-
serves) and ecologically managed fens. This project is
realized in collaboration with the local nature managers
and aims to contribute to the long-term preservation of
viable populations of fen species in these highly threat-
ened habitats.
The grant is for a full-time position, salary up to 37000
euros/year, depending upon experience, with social se-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 53
curity cover. To be qualiﬁed to apply to this grant,
the candidate must have obtained his /her PhD after
1 January 2003 (= max. 6 years at 1 January 2009),
have a good CV (several publications in ecological, con-
servation or evolutionary journals) and did not stay in
Belgium for more than 24 months during the last 3
years.
Three diﬀerent proﬁles are sought: 1. A plant popula-
tion geneticist (training and experience in development
and use of microsatellite markers and in genetic data
analysis is a requirement, experience in spatial analy-
ses would be an advantage), to be based at the National
Botanical Garden of Belgium (Meise; Olivier Raspe,
Fabienne Van Rossum; see http://www.br.fgov.be/-
RESEARCH/PROJECTS/ﬂoraofbelgium.php ).
2. A plant population biologist (experience in repro-
ductive biology, pollination and mating systems; ento-
mological skills would be advantageous), to be based
in UCL (Universit´ e Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-
la-Neuve), in the research group genetics, populations,
reproduction (Anne-Laure Jacquemart; see http://-
www.uclouvain.be/gena-pops.html ).
3. An entomologist (experience in insect obser-
vation, ecology and systematics, especially for Ap-
idae, and in plant/pollinator interactions; botani-
cal skills would be advantageous), to be based in
University of Mons-Hainaut (Mons), in the labo-
ratory of Zoology (Denis Michez & Pierre Ras-
mont; see http://www.zoologie.umh.ac.be, http://-
www.zoologie.umh.ac.be/hymenoptera/ ).
If you are interested, please send an e-mail message and
attach a cover letter outlining your interest and moti-
vation to join us with your Curriculum vitae (includ-
ing a publication list and contact information for two
reference scientists) as a separate document, to Fabi-
enne Van Rossum, fabienne.vanrossum@br.fgov.be BE-
FORE 24 AUGUST 2008. Please indicate which proﬁle
you are interested in. The selected candidates will be
informed beginning of September. The deadline of the
application to the FNRS grant (done by the promoter
of the project) is 15 September. IF GRANTED, the
starting date is 1 January 2009.
Best regards
Fabienne Van Rossum Department of Vascular Plants,
National Botanic Garden of Belgium, Belgium Tel (di-
rect line): +32 2 2600932 Fax: +32 22600945 e-mail:
fabienne.vanrossum@br.fgov.be
fabienne.vanrossum@br.fgov.be fabi-
enne.vanrossum@br.fgov.beBiK-Frankfurt
CrustaceanPopulationGenetics
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre has re-
cently been founded by the Senckenbergische Natur-
forschende Gesellschaft, the Goethe-Universit¨ at Frank-
furt am Main, and additional partners. It is funded
by the Hessian State Initiative for the Development
of Scientiﬁc and Economic Excellence (LOEWE). The
mission of the Centre is to carry out internationally
outstanding research on the interactions of biodiversity
and climate change at the organism level. The Project
Area C ¿Adaptation and Climate¿ invites applications
for the position of a Postdoctoral Researcher (Ref. TP
C 5.2) [#C03] BAT II a
The applicant is expected to have expertise in the fol-
lowing areas: molecular genetics, population genetics
and ecology. The successful applicant will cooperate
with various groups of biologists and palaeontologists
working on the reconstruction of evolutionary processes
using resting eggs of crustaceans which will be iso-
lated from lake sediments. Classical ecological, ge-
netic and genomic methods will be used to identify
the long term consequences of climate change. Fur-
thermore, the researcher will be responsible for the or-
ganisation of advanced training courses, participation
in university teaching and in the acquisition of exter-
nal research funding. The applicant should hold an
earned Ph.D. in biology and have a strong publication
record. Very good written and oral English language
skills, ﬂuency in German and interest in joining a mul-
tidisciplinary research team are required. The Bio+C
Research Centre advocates gender equality. Women
are therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally
qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will be given
preference. The contract shall start as soon as pos-
sible and will initially be restricted to a period of
two years with a possible extension being subject to
personal performance and availability of funds. The
duty station will be Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Oﬃcial employer is SENCKENBERGISCHE NATUR-
FORSCHENDE GESELLSCHAFT. Please send your
application by mail or e-mail, including a detailed CV,
3 references, a list of publications and ﬁve selected
reprints, until July 31 [ext. to August 14], 2008 to:
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scien-
tiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research54 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. E-mail to Personal & Service:
bernd.schleich@senckenberg.de
For enquiries about the position and the contract
conditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny.
E-mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de. For en-
quiries about the scientiﬁc framework and practical
work please write to PD Dr. K. Schwenk. E-mail:
k.schwenk@bio.uni-frankfurt.de
Marie Buscail <mbuscail@senckenberg.de >
BiK-Frankfurt
CrustaceanPopulationGenetics 2
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(Bio+C) has recently been founded by the Sencken-
bergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, the Goethe-
Universit¨ at Frankfurt am Main, and additional part-
ners. It is funded by the Hessian State Initiative for
the Development of Scientiﬁc and Economic Excellence
(LOEWE). The mission of the Centre is to carry out
internationally outstanding research on the interactions
of biodiversity and climate change at the organism level.
The Project Area C Adaptation and Climate invites ap-
plications for the position of a
Postdoctoral Researcher (Ref. TP C 5.2)
BAT II a
The applicant is expected to have expertise in the fol-
lowing areas: molecular genetics, population genetics
and ecology. The successful applicant will cooperate
with various groups of biologists and palaeontologists
working on the reconstruction of evolutionary processes
using resting eggs of crustaceans which will be iso-
lated from lake sediments. Classical ecological, genetic
and genomic methods will be used to identify the long
term consequences of climate change. Furthermore,
the researcher will be responsible for the organisation
of advanced training courses, participation in univer-
sity teaching and in the acquisition of external research
funding.
The applicant should hold an earned Ph.D. in biology
and have a strong publication record. Very good writ-
ten and oral English language skills, ﬂuency in German
and interest in joining a multidisciplinary research team
are required.
The Bio+C Research Centre advocates gender equality.Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and
will initially be restricted to a period of two years
with possible extension being subject to personal per-
formance and availability of funds. The duty sta-
tion will be Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Of-
ﬁcial employer is SENKENBERGISCHE NATUR-
FORSCHENDE GESELLSCHAFT.
Please send your application by mail or e-mail, in-
cluding a detailed CV, 3 references, a list of pub-
lications and ﬁve selected reprints, until August 29,
2008 to Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Sci-
entiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. E-mai to Personal and Service:
bernd.schleich@senkenberg.de.
For enquiries about the position and the contract
conditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny.
E-mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de. For en-
quiries about the scientiﬁc framework and practical
work please write to PD Dr. K. Schwenk. E-mail:
k.schwenk@bio.uni-frankfurt.de.
PD Dr. Klaus Schwenk Ecology and Evolution Insti-
tut for Ecology, Evolution and Diversity Johann Wolf-
gang Goethe-Universit¨ at Frankfurt Siesmayerstraße 70
(Geb¨ aude A) 60323 Frankfurt am Main
Tel.: ++49 (0)69 7982 47775 E-Mail:
k.schwenk@bio.uni-frankfurt.de homepage: www.uni-
frankfurt.de/˜kschwenk/
kschwenk <k.schwenk@bio.uni-frankfurt.de >
BiK-Frankfurt GeneAdaptation
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(Bio+C) has recently been founded by the Sencken-
bergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, the Goethe-
Universit¨ at Frankfurt am Main, and additional part-
ners. It is funded by the Hessian State Initiative for
the Development of Scientiﬁc and Economic Excellence
(LOEWE). The mission of the Centre is to carry out
internationally outstanding research on the interactions
of biodiversity and climate change at the organism level.
The Project Area D “Laboratory Centre” invites appli-
cations for the position of aSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 55
Postdoctoral Researcher (Ref. TP D 5.1)
* *
The applicant will be responsible for a project aiming
to identify candidate genes playing key roles for cli-
mate adaptation in various invertebrate taxa (/Daph-
nia/, /Chironomus/, /Radix/). The project investi-
gates genes which are positively selected along a cli-
mate gradient, including cross-taxon similarities. To
this end, genomic resources (EST bank, micro-array)
for /Radix /have to be established; for the other taxa,
these resources are already available. Furthermore, the
technical implementation of the high throughput lab-
oratory is part of the responsibilities. The incumbent
will also be responsible for the organisation of advanced
training courses. Participation in university teaching
and in the acquisition of external research funding is
highly desired.
The applicant should hold an earned Ph.D. in molecu-
lar biology, preferably with a strong focus on transcrip-
tome analysis. She or he should already have experi-
ence with high throughput technologies and should be
interested in ecological and climate change issues. Ap-
plicants should have a strong publication record. Very
good written and oral English language skills, ﬂuency in
German and interest in joining a multidisciplinary re-
search team are required, as well as proven organising
abilities.
The Bio+C Research Centre advocates gender equal-
ity. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and will
initially be restricted until December 31, 2010 with
a possible extension being subject to personal perfor-
mance and availability of funds. The duty station will
be Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Please send your application by mail or e-mail, includ-
ing a detailed CV, 3 references, a list of publications
and ﬁve selected re/´ e-prints, until July 31, 2008 to
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scien-
tiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. E-mail: vmosbrugger@senckenberg.de
<mailto:vmosbrugger@senckenberg.de >
For enquiries about the position and the contract
conditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stri-
brny (E-mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de
<mailto:bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de >) and
for scientiﬁc enquiries to PD Dr. M. Pfen-
ninger (E-mail: pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de<mailto:pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de >) or Prof.
Dr. J. Oehlmann (E-mail: oehlmann@bio.uni-
frankfurt.de <mailto:oehlmann@bio.uni-
frankfurt.de >).
PD Dr. Markus Pfenninger Abt. ¨Okologie & Evolution
J.W.Goethe-Universit¨ at BioCampus Siesmayerstraße D
60054 Frankfurt am Main Germany
Tel.: ++ 49 69 798 24714 Fax : ++ 49 69 798
24910 eMail: Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de http:/-
/user.uni-frankfurt.de/ ˜ markusp Markus Pfenninger
<Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de >
Chile Microevolution
POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AT
THE INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND BIODIVER-
SITY (IEB), CHILE
CLOSING DATE FOR RECEPTION OF APPLICA-
TIONS 30 SEPTEMBER, 2008 www.ieb-chile.cl The
Institute of Ecology and Biodiversity (IEB) in Chile is
oﬀering a number of two-year postdoctoral positions for
carrying out research in Chile related to the main re-
search Foci and Cross-cutting themes of the Institute.
Fellowships include a monthly stipend and an allowance
for research expenses. Interested applicants should al-
ready be in possession of a Ph.D. degree or equivalent
by 30 September, 2008. The two-year positions are
open to Chilean citizens and foreigners living in and
outside Chile, and may be held at any of the academic
institutions associated with IEB. Fellows may use their
stipends to support up to two months stay in a foreign
country if this is considered desirable to carry out part
of the proposed research. Knowledge of Spanish is not
a requirement.
The main research Foci and Cross cutting themes are:
1) Palaeoecology and Biogeography 2) Ecosystems
Ecology 3) Microevolutionary Processes 4) Conserva-
tion and Society / Global Change Impacts
IEB functions in a network mode and encourages col-
laborative and comparative research. Its lead scien-
tists are academics at the Universidad de Chile (San-
tiago), Pontiﬁcia Universidad Cat´ olica de Chile (San-
tiago), Universidad de La Serena (La Serena), Uni-
versidad de Concepci´ on (Concepci´ on) and Universidad
de Magallanes (Punta Arenas). More detailed infor-
mation on the current speciﬁc research themes of the
lead researchers of IEB and full listings of their sci-56 EvolDir September 1, 2008
entiﬁc publications can be found at www.ieb-chile.cl .
Dr. Elie POULIN Laboratorio de Ecolog´ ıa Molecular
(LEM) Instituto de Ecolog´ ıa y Biodiversidad (IEB) De-
partamento de Ciencias Ecol´ ogicas Facultad de Cien-
cias, Universidad de Chile Las Palmeras 3425, Casilla
653 CP 780-0024, ˜Nu˜ noa, Santiago, Chile
http://lem.dm.cl/ http://www.ieb-chile.cl/ Phone:
(56)-2-9787298 Fax: (56)-2-2727363 E-mail:
epoulin@uchile.cl
Elie Poulin <epoulin@uchile.cl >
DalhousieU
MarinePopulationGenetics
Support for a post-doctoral position is available in the
laboratory of Daniel Ruzzante (Biology, Dalhousie Uni-
versity) in the area of population and conservation ge-
netics of marine ﬁsh. The successful applicant will
have experience with molecular techniques and a strong
record of relevant publications in evolutionary or con-
servation genetics. The Department of Biology at Dal-
housie has strengths in evolutionary/population and
conservation genetics and the successful candidate will
conduct the molecular aspects of his/her research in the
Gene Probe Laboratory, a centralized molecular facility
with ample opportunities for interaction with faculty,
postdocs and students. Starting date winter - spring
2009.
If interested please send an e-mail application including
CV, names and addresses of two to three referees and
a statement describing the reason(s) for your interest
in this research to: Daniel E Ruzzante, Associate Pro-
fessor and Canada Research Chair in Marine Conserva-
tion Genetics, Department of Biology, Dalhousie Uni-
versity, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, B3H 4J1.(email:
daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca, http://myweb.dal.ca/ruzzante
)
Daniel Ruzzante, Associate Professor Canada Research
Chair in Marine Conservation Genetics Department of
Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia,
Canada, B3H 4J1 phone: (902) 494-1688 fax: (902)
494-3736 e-mail: daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca
http://myweb.dal.ca/ruzzante http://-
patagonia.byu.edu Canada Research Chairs http://-
www.chairs.gc.ca Daniel.Ruzzante@Dal.CaDetroit Molecular Evolution
Encephalization
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral fel-
low/research associate with Morris Goodman and
Derek Wildman in the Molecular Evolution Laboratory
at the Wayne State University School of Medicine, De-
troit, Michigan, USA.
The project will involve a strong collaboration with
Chet Sherwood (George Washington University).
The primary goal of this NSF funded project is to elu-
cidate the genetic changes that orchestrated the ex-
pansion of the brain’s neocortex during humankinds
evolutionary history. The ideal candidate will have fa-
miliarity with phylogenetic reconstruction and a Ph.D.
In Biology, Computer Science, Anthropology, or any
Biomedical Science. In addition to conducting research,
the candidate will be expected to participate in writing
reports and manuscripts.
To apply, please submit applications (by e-mail to Mor-
ris Goodman or Derek Wildman), including (1) a CV,
(2) brief statement of past accomplishments and PDFs
of most relevant publications, (3) research interests and
(4) names and contact information of three referees.
Morris Goodman (mgoodwayne@aol.com) Derek
Wildman (dwildman@wayne.edu) http://-
homopan.wayne.edu – Derek E. Wildman, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor Center for Molecular Medicine and
Genetics Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Perinatology Research Branch/NICHD/NIH/DHHS
Wayne State University School of Medicine 540 E. Can-
ﬁeld Ave. 3218 Scott Hall Detroit, MI 48201 USA Voice
313.577.8234 or 313.577.1253 Fax 313.577.5218 Web
http://homopan.wayne.edu dwildman@wayne.edu
dwildman@wayne.edu
EmoryU VisionMolecularEvolution
Postdoctoral Positions available at Emory University
Molecular Genetics and Evolution of Dim-Light and
Color VisionSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 57
For the last 20 years, we have been studying the molec-
ular genetics and evolution of color vision in a diverse
range of species, from ﬁsh to human. We are currently
cloning the opsin genes of ﬁve deep- sea ﬁshes lamp-
ﬁsh (S. leucepsarus), loosejaw (A. scintillans), scab-
bardﬁsh (L. ﬁtchi), thornyhead (S. altivelis), and viper-
ﬁsh (C. macouni), which live at diﬀerent depths, rang-
ing from 200 to 4,000 m. Among these, the lamp-
ﬁsh and viperﬁsh emit bioluminescence at ~480 and
the loosejaw at ~480 and ~700 nm. We plan to ex-
plore three features of visual pigments: 1) the molecu-
lar and chemical bases of the spectral tuning of visual
pigments; 2) exploration of adaptive evolution by engi-
neering ancestral pigments and performing mutagenesis
analyses; and 3) co-evolution of paralogous pigments
in each of the ﬁve deep-sea ﬁsh species. In experi-
ments, molecular/cellular methods, such as construc-
tion and screening of DNA and cDNA libraries, DNA
sequencing, mutagenesis, and transfection of cultured
cells will be heavily used. In theoretical analyses, quan-
tum chemical computations are performed in the Prof.
Keiji Morokuma’s (Co-PI) laboratory in Chemistry De-
partment.
Currently, we are looking for recent graduates who are
well versed in experimental molecular biology/genetics
and are interested in evolution. If you are interested,
please send CV to:
Shozo Yokoyama, Ph. D. Asa G. Candler Profes-
sor of Biology Department of Biology Emory Univer-
sity 1510 Clifton Road Rollins Research Center At-
lanta, GA 30322 Tel:404-727-5379 FAX:404-727-2880
Email:syokoya@emory.edu
syokoya@emory.edu
ESF ThermAdapt
***** PERMANENT CALL FOR SHORT-VISIT &
EXCHANGE GRANT APPLICATIONS *****
In 2006 we launched a new ESF Programme on “Ther-
mal adaptation in ectotherms: Linking life history,
physiology, behaviour and genetics” (ThermAdapt); see
http://www.esf.org/thermadapt . The Objective of
this ESF Programme is to foster a multidisciplinary
European network of scientists working on thermal
adaptation. We particularly aim to integrate research
at multiple levels of investigation, including genetics,
physiology, ecology, behaviour or theory. Interestedpersons or groups are encouraged to join our activities.
These include advertising their expertise via our web
site, and participation in various activities to be an-
nounced separately and regularly over the next 5 years
such as workshops, training courses, short and long ex-
change grants, exchange of specimens and expertise,
sharing of facilities, and scientiﬁc collaboration of any
kind.
We PERMANENTLY call for applications for
==>Short Visit ( <15 days) and Exchange Grants (15
days - 3 months)
There is no particular deadline. Instead, submission of
grant proposals is now PERMANENTLY OPENED,
as explained on our web site http://www.esf.org/-
thermadapt under>Grants, where the application pro-
cedure is also outlined. These grants are competitive
and open for all ranks (including MSc/PhD students).
We shall periodically review submissions about every 3
to 4 months.
Proposals should be broadly related to the scientiﬁc
objectives of the Programme. Short Visits may serve
for planning collaborative research projects, brief data
gathering or data analysis. The longer-term Exchange
Grants typically involve planning and execution of a
larger collaborative research project (under special cir-
cumstances stays longer than 3 months may be possi-
ble).
Grant applications will be chosen based on scientiﬁc
quality, and priority will be given to applicants who
come from or intend to visit countries supporting the
programme (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Den-
mark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Nether-
lands, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland), but
other European nations can be involved.
For further inquiries, or if you wish to be included in
the ThermAdapt e-mail list to receive regular updates
on Programme activities, please contact:
Ellen Degott (ESF oﬃce liaison; Email: ede-
gott@esf.org) Wolf Blanckenhorn (chair; Email:
wolf.blanckenhorn@zm.uzh.ch) Mauro Santos (co-chair;
Email: mauro.santos@uab.es)
Dr. Wolf Blanckenhorn Chairman ESF ThermAdapt
Programme Zoological Museum University of Zurich-
Irchel 34 (building)-J (ﬂoor) -98 (oﬃce) Winterthur-
erstrasse 190 CH-8057 Zurich
Phone: +41 44 635.47.55 Fax: +41 44 635.47.80 e-mail:
wolf.blanckenhorn@zm.uzh.ch http://www.esf.org/-
thermadapt wolfman@zm.uzh.ch58 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Grenoble France
BacterialAdaptation
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research as-
sociate with Dominique Schneider in the Laboratory
“Adaptation et Pathog´ enie des Microorganismes”, Uni-
versity Joseph Fourier, Grenoble, France.
The project will involve a strong collaboration with
Richard Lenski (Michigan State University).
The sequence of hundreds of bacterial genomes un-
covered the extraordinary diversity and plasticity of
metabolic and regulatory networks. However, the dy-
namics of evolution of such a wide range of functions,
and especially the link between genomic modiﬁcations,
diversity and overall performance of a living organism
remains a challenging yet fascinating task. For most
microbiologists, “mechanism” refers to the biochem-
ical or regulatory interactions among genes, proteins
and metabolites in a cell. All these interactions have
however to be related to ﬁtness, the measure of the
reproductive ability of a genotype which is the ulti-
mate parameter of ecological success. Dynamics of en-
tire genomes is one key of ﬁtness changes, ultimately
driving the interactions among genotypes and between
genotypes and their environment. By linking changes
in genomes to changes in ﬁtness, it is possible to in-
vestigate how natural selection is able to re-shape and
improve entire genomes, and which functions are more
plastic over evolutionary time. Using such an evolution-
ary perspective is fully complementary to most “Sys-
tems Biology ” approaches, which try to understand the
global functioning of an organism by the precise anal-
ysis of a reference clone and therefore provide a static
description of metabolic or regulatory networks. Using
an evolutionary perspective is however diﬃcult mainly
because the relevant adaptive events that allowed the
emergence of the present genomic structure of the or-
ganism occurred some unknown time in the past, in un-
known conditions, with unknown genomic constraints.
To overcome these limitations, we can reproduce evo-
lution in controlled conditions in the laboratory.
In this project, we will use the longest-running evolu-
tion experiment, where an ancestral cell of /Escherichia
coli/ has been used to propagate twelve populations
in a deﬁned environment for 40,000 generations. The
evolutionary dynamics of genomes will be investigated
by performing Solexa-sequencing of genomes from 135evolved clones sampled from the diﬀerent populations
at each of ten diﬀerent time points during evolution.
Among many questions that will be addressed, this
project will enable us to understand the successive ge-
netic events leading to the increased performance of
bacteria in their environment. Rigorous genetic and
functional phenotypic analyses will be combined to dis-
sect the complete adaptive diversiﬁcation paths that
will be uncovered in key populations. We will study
how adaptive mutation appearance is constrained by
the presence of other mutations and how they aﬀect
the metabolic or regulatory networks. We will there-
fore address for the ﬁrst time how evolvable are genomic
features and what are the molecular bases of such evolv-
ability.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Molecular
and Evolutionary
Biology or related ﬁeld. Expertise in sequence analy-
ses is requested. All candidates are expected to have a
background or interest in molecular evolutionary genet-
ics. In addition, the candidates should have expertise in
molecular biology, and computational skills for genome
sequence analyses.
To apply, please submit applications (by e-mail to Do-
minique Schneider), including (1) a CV, (2) brief state-
ment of past accomplishments and PDFs of most rele-
vant publications, (3) research interests and (4) names
and contact information of three referees.
Dominique Schneider
Laboratoire Adaptation et Pathog´ enie des Microorgan-
ismes
CNRS UMR5163
Universit´ e Joseph Fourier
Institut Jean Roget
Domaine de la Merci
BP170
38042 Grenoble Cedex 9
France
Phone: +33 (0) 4 76 63 74 90
Fax: +33 (0) 4 76 63 74 97
E-mail: dominique.schneider@ujf-grenoble.fr
http://www-ijr.ujf-grenoble.fr/ – Dom Schneider Lab-
oratoire Adaptation et Pathog´ enie des Microorganismes
CNRS UMR5163 Universit´ e Joseph Fourier Institut
Jean Roget Domaine de la Merci BP170 38042 Greno-
ble Cedex 9 France Phone: +33 (0) 4 76 63 74 90 Fax:
+33 (0) 4 76 63 74 97 E-mail: dominique.schneider@ujf-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 59
grenoble.fr http://www-ijr.ujf-grenoble.fr/ Dominique
Schneider <dominique.schneider@ujf-grenoble.fr >
ImperialCollegeLondon EcolEvol
Imperial College London
Division of Biology
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Research Associate ˆ a Ecology and Evolution
Salary: ˆA£25,310 - ˆA£28,910 per annum
Imperial College London is ranked in the top ﬁve uni-
versities of the world, according to the 2007 Times
Higher Education Supplement league tables.
We are seeking a highly analytical candidate to ﬁll
the post of Research Associate within the Depart-
ment of Life Sciences at the Silwood Park Campus
of Imperial College London. The successful candi-
date will work with Dr Tim Barraclough and his
research group ( http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/-
t.barraclough ). You will conduct scientiﬁc research on
the ecological and evolutionary responses to changing
environments in a laboratory assemblage of bacterial
species. You will be required to apply a number of tech-
niques within the laboratory including isolation, cultur-
ing, cell density estimation and ﬁtness assays of bacte-
ria in monoculture and mixtures, plus some molecular
techniques. You will perform independent and original
research and prepare results for publication to refereed
journals.
To be considered for this position, you will hold a PhD
or equivalent level of professional qualiﬁcation in evo-
lutionary biology, ecology or microbiology; have expe-
rience in isolating and culturing bacteria or other mi-
crobes and a strong interest in evolutionary ecology.
You will also have experience of experimental design
and statistical analysis. Ideally you will have experi-
ence of laboratory evolution experiments.
The post is funded by the Natural Environment Re-
search Council (NERC) for a period of 3 years in col-
laboration with Dr Thomas Bell at the University of
Oxford.
For informal enquiries please contact Dr Tim Barra-
clough: t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk
Further details and an application form can be ob-
tained from the College employment website: http:/-/www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment/research Com-
pleted application forms accompanied by a curricu-
lum vitae and the name and contact details of two
referees should be sent to: Dr Tim Barraclough,
Imperial College, Silwood Park Campus, Buckhurst
Road, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5 7PY or by email to:
t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk
Closing date: 28 August 2008
Valuing diversity and committed to equality of oppor-
tunity
Timothy Barraclough <t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk >
INRA France PopulationGenetics
A postdoctoral position in population genetics is avail-
able as part of a program on evolutionary history of
Prunus species. The position is for a year, will start in
the fall of 2008, and will be located at INRA, Bordeaux,
France.
The postdoctoral project aims at studying the impact
of the reproduction system and genetic structure on
the extent of linkage disequilibrium in two cultivated
Prunus species.
Candidates must have a PhD in biology, genetics, evo-
lutionary bology or in a related ﬁeld. Review of appli-
cations will begin immediately and continue until the
position is ﬁlled.
For any question on the position, write to Stephanie
Mariette (smariett@bordeaux.inra.fr). Application
documents should include a C.V. and a publication list,
a summary of past research interests and PDFs of most
relevant publications, and the names and email ad-
dresses of two potential referees. Applicants are invited
to send their documents electronically to Stephanie Ma-
riette (smariett@bordeaux.inra.fr).
Dr. Stephanie Mariette INRA UREF 71, avenue
Edouard Bourlaux BP 81 - 33883 Villenave d’Ornon
Cedex France Tel: 33 557 122 450 Fax: 33 557 122 439
Email : smariett@bordeaux.inra.fr
smariett@bordeaux.inra.fr
INRA-Versailles PlantTEs60 EvolDir September 1, 2008
I would like to post the following annoncement on the
EvolDir web site. The topic is not directly related to
the study of evolutionary issues, but the functional im-
pact of transposable elements may eventually play a
role in the evolution of host genomes and in their adap-
tation to environmental changes. I have therefore the
feeling that some EvolDir readers may be interested in
this announcement.
Sincerely Yours
Marie-Ang ˜Ale Grandbastien
—–
LTR-Stress: Retroviral-type LTRs as intermediate of
the stress response in plants
A three-year postdoctoral position is available in the
team “Host-Transposons Interactions and Plant Bio-
diversity” ( http://www-ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/en/bc/-
equipes/Transposons/index.html ), at the Institut Jean-
Pierre Bourgin, Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire,
INRA-Versailles, France.
The project will focus on testing how the transcrip-
tional activation of the tobacco Tnt1 retrotransposon
may impact the expression of cellular genes in response
to stress or at developmental stages such as senescence.
The work is based on our previous expertise on Tnt1
expression and on observations that LTRs of retro-
transposons can drive the expression of chimeric co-
transcripts with adjacent genic regions, and may play
a role in host phenotypic plasticity.
Good experience in gene expression analysis (North-
erns, RT-PCR, analysis of transcriptional features) is
required. Expertise in retroelements (in animal or in
plant systems) will also be appreciated.
The starting date will be beginning of 2009.
Requirement: the candidate must not have held a pre-
vious CDD position at INRA for more than 6 months
Send a curriculum vitae, research interests, long term
goals, and two recommandations contacts to:
Dr Marie-Ang ˜Ale GRANDBASTIEN
(gbastien@versailles.inra.fr) Laboratoire de Biolo-
gie Cellulaire Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin INRA-
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles cedex, France
gbastien@versailles.inra.fr tel: 33 1 30 83 30 24 fax: 33
1 30 83 30 99
—–
Marie-Ang ˜Ale GRANDBASTIEN Laboratoire de Bi-
ologie Cellulaire Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin INRA -
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles, France Tel: 33
(1) 30 83 30 24 Fax: 33 (1) 30 83 30 99 Email:gbastien@versailles.inra.fr
Marie Ang¨ ı¿1
2le Grandbastien <Marie-
Angele.Grandbastien@versailles.inra.fr >
Israel OliveTreeGenetics
POST-DOC POSITION
A post-doctoral position is available in an interdisci-
plinary research team studying phenotypic and genetic
variation of East Mediterranean old olive trees in rela-
tion to environmental parameters. We look for a Ph.D.
highly skilled in molecular biology and genetic marker
techniques and in population genetic data analysis. The
position requires working in two collaborating laborato-
ries in Germany (Mainz University) and Israel (Agricul-
tural Research Organization), and in cooperation with
several research groups involved in the project.
We will combine diﬀerent methodologies to evaluate the
genetic and phenotypic variation of old grafted olive
trees to assess environment x genotype interactions.
The research will address evolutionary aspects of the
domestication process that led to East Mediterranean
cultivars, and to try and understand the genetic basis of
adaptation in olive trees. For more information please
contact Dr. Oz Barazani (barazani@agri.gov.il).
Applications together with names and addresses of
three referees should be sent to:
Prof. Joachim W. Kadereit (kadereit@uni-mainz.de),
or Dr. Oz Barazani (barazani@agri.gov.il).
Oz Barazani <barazani@volcani.agri.gov.il >
Leipzig Rwanda MountainGorillas
Postdoctoral Researcher: Population biology and Feed-
ing Ecology of Virunga Mountain Gorillas
We are seeking a postdoctoral scientist to conduct
an in-depth investigation of the population biology
and feeding ecology of the Virunga mountain gorillas
in Rwanda. Despite numerous, detailed studies con-
ducted on the feeding ecology of mountain gorillas at
Karisoke Research Center, Rwanda and other areas of
the Virunga Volcanoes, many questions remain. In par-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 61
ticular, additional ecological studies can contribute to
our understanding of trends in population dynamics
over the past decades and assist in conservation eﬀorts
of this critically endangered population.
In particular, we are interested in examining the fol-
lowing questions: -how has the availability of food re-
sources for the gorillas changed over time (area last sur-
veyed 15-30 years ago)? -how does the availability of
food resources vary in diﬀerent regions of the Virunga
Volcanoes? -what is the energy intake and energy ex-
penditure of the gorillas and does it change depending
on season, group size, etc? -what is the relationship
between group size and within-group feeding competi-
tion?
To address these questions, the person will conduct veg-
etation surveys in the area of the Karisoke research cen-
ter as well as other regions of the Virunga Volcanoes.
Behavioral observations will be made on the habitu-
ated gorillas at the Karisoke Research Center to mea-
sure food intake as well as measures of feeding compe-
tition. Additionally, the person will assist with super-
vising Rwandan undergraduate and MSc students with
their ﬁeld work projects.
The position will be jointly funded by the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology and
the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund International. For more
information about MPI-EVAN, please see: http://-
www.eva.mpg.de/primat/ . The person will spend the
ﬁrst few months in Leipzig, Germany developing the
project, then the next year in Rwanda conducting ﬁeld
work, followed by additional time in Leipzig for analy-
sis and write-up. The position will start approximately
November 1, 2008 and run for 1-2 years.
Qualiﬁcations
The successful candidate:
-must have completed a PhD in biology, zoology, an-
thropology, or related ﬁeld. -must have prior ﬁeld
work experience, preferably with ecological studies. -
must have experience working in a developing country,
preferably in Africa. -must be ﬂuent in English and
have basic knowledge of French. -must be able to work
independently, responsibly, and show evidence of ability
to help supervise student projects. -have excellent ver-
bal and written skills. -must have knowledge of statis-
tics. -must be prepared to write grants to help fund the
project.
Please send the following to to Dr. Martha Robbins:
- CV (resume) - letter of interest, that includes a de-
scription of your ﬁeld research experience - names and
email addresses of 3 refereesSalary: 2, 100 euros per month. Airfare from Germany
to Rwanda provided.
Deadline: September 15, 2008
Martha Robbins <robbins@eva.mpg.de >
NewYorkU PlantPhylogenies
A postdoctoral position is available immediately for an
NSF-funded project (contingent on ﬁnal approval) to
reconstruct the phylogenies and examine the molecu-
lar evolution of all gene families in Arabidopsis and
rice. The position is for one year, renewable annu-
ally for up to three years depending on satisfactory
performance. The postdoctoral fellow will work di-
rectly with Michael Purugganan (NYU) and Rob De-
Salle (AMNH), and is part of a larger project titled
“The Arabidopsis Proteome Folding Project” (Richard
Bonneau, NYU, PI). There are opportunities in this
project to work with computational biologists on evo-
lution of protein structure and function. The ideal
candidate will have experience in phylogenetic and
molecular evolutionary methods. The Center for Ge-
nomics and Systems Biology at NYU, where the post-
doc will be based, is a dynamic group ( http:// bi-
ology.as.nyu.edu/object/facilities.gsb.html) and is lo-
cated in the Greenwich Village campus in downtown
Manhattan, and together with the Department of Biol-
ogy ( http://www.nyu.edu/fas/dept/biology ), oﬀers an
outstanding and collegial research environment.
The deadline for applications is August 15, 2008. Please
send your CV and contact information for at least three
individuals who can act as references to: Michael Pu-
rugganan at mp132@nyu.edu. NYU is an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Michael Purugganan Dorothy Schiﬀ Professor of Ge-
nomics
Department of Biology Center for Genomics and Sys-
tems Biology 100 Washington Square East New York
University New York, NY 10003
Tel. (212) 992 9628 Web: http://biology.as.nyu.edu/-
object/MichaelPurugganan.html mp132@nyu.edu
mp132@nyu.edu62 EvolDir September 1, 2008
NHM London FlatwormEvoDevo
Postdoctoral Research Associate
The Natural History Museum, Department of Zoology
We are seeking to appoint a highly motivated and pro-
ductive Postdoctoral Research Associate to join a new
programme of research entitled “Developmental genes
in the life cycle of a parasitic ﬂatworm”. This work
seeks to characterize the roles of key homeotic genes
in the processes of metamorphosis and segmentation in
tapeworms and represents a major component in under-
standing the genetic processes underlying the evolution
of parasitism in ﬂatworms (see Olson. 2008. Parasitol
Int 57:8-17). The successful candidate will use gene
expression and suppression techniques in a beetle and
mouse- hosted tapeworm model to explore the roles of
Hox, ParaHox and other relevant genes (eg. -catenin).
Techniques including whole-mount and genomic ISH,
PCR-RACE, and Q-PCR will be employed, and meth-
ods for RNA interference will need to be adapted to a
cestode model.
The post is funded by the BBSRC for up to three years
and will be undertaken within the well-equipped labo-
ratories of the Natural History Museum in South Kens-
ington under the supervision of Dr Peter Olson. The
appointment will be on a Band 5 pay scale starting at
29,000 pa.
Applicants should possess a background in molecular
biology, parasitology or evolutionary developmental bi-
ology, with a Ph.D. in a related subject area. Sig-
niﬁcant experience in genetic manipulation including
RNA-based techniques and a willingness to work with
live animal cultures are prerequisites, and experience
with gene expression and functional genomic techniques
such as ISH and RNAi is highly desirable. The suc-
cessful applicant will have a strong publication record
and proven experience in applying one of more of these
multidisciplinary skills to a singular research question
within or outside the ﬁeld of parasitology.
Applications including a short CV, list of publica-
tions, names of three referees willing to provide a let-
ter of recommendation upon request, and a brief state-
ment on interest and qualiﬁcations should be sent to
p.olson@nhm.ac.uk.
Closing date for applications: Oct 15, 2008.
Dr Peter D Olson Department of Zoology 709 DarwinCentre The Natural History Museum Cromwell Road,
London SW7 5BD United Kingdom
+44 (0)207 942 5568 (Oﬃce) +44 (0)207 942 5151
(Fax) +44 (0)207 942 5427 (Molecular Biology
Unit) http://www.nhm.ac.uk//research-curation/staﬀ-
directory/zoology/ cv-6456.html
Interested in utilizing museum resources for systematic
research? See funding opportunities via SYNTHESYS
http://www.synthesys.info/ NEW Open Access Jour-
nal!
BMC Parasites & Vectors http://-
www.parasitesandvectors.com “Dr. PD Olson”
<P.Olson@nhm.ac.uk >
NorthCarolinaStateU
PopulationBiology
NC State University —– Population Biol-
ogy/Epidemiology/Modeling
Postdoctoral Fellowship
POPULATION BIOLOGY / EPIDEMIOLOGY /
MODELING: We are searching for a postdoc who has
a strong theoretical or empirical background in popula-
tion ecology/genetics to work on an NIH- and Gates
Foundation- funded project aimed at decreasing the
mosquito-vectored human disease, dengue fever.
QUALIFICATIONS: Although substantial experience
with building simulation models is desirable, we will
consider applicants who have little experience with
model building, but have a strong record of picking up
new quantitative skills. In depth knowledge of statisti-
cal methods is a plus.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The project is aimed at
building and testing stochastic, spatially explicit, sim-
ulation models that link insect population dynamics,
disease epidemiology, and population genetics in a way
that can contribute to improving strategies for releasing
transgenic mosquitoes to reduce the incidence of human
disease. Sensitivity analysis and uncertainty analysis of
model outputs will be critical in assessing reliability.
The fellowship is for 2 years (starting as soon as pos-
sible) but could be extended for a third year pending
additional funding. In addition to working on model
development and analysis, the person in this position
will collaborate in an interdisciplinary group composed
of mosquito ecologists, disease epidemiologists, molecu-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 63
lar biologists, biomathematicians, ethicists, and scien-
tists from disease-endemic countries, in eﬀorts to de-
velop novel transgenic strategies for disease reduction.
The person in this position will work with the PIs (Fred
Gould & Alun Lloyd) and another postdoc in organiz-
ing a workshop to teach other researchers how to use
the models.
There are opportunities for some empirical research (if
desired), and for interactions with other members of the
lab who are working on other ecological and evolution-
ary research projects. NCSU is developing an interdis-
ciplinary graduate program in Genetic Pest Manage-
ment, so there are likely to be teaching opportunities
(if desired). http://www.ncsu.edu/project/gpm/ An
overview of the area of research and an entry point to
relevant literature can be found in:
Gould, F. K. Magori, and Y. Huang. 2006. Genetic
strategies for controlling mosquito-borne diseases. Am.
Sci. 94:238-246.
Sinkins, S. P., and F. Gould. 2006. Gene-drive systems
for insect disease vectors. Nat. Rev. 7:427-435.
North Carolina State University is a leading research
institution with a strong commitment to the study of
quantitative and population genetics. The University is
situated in Raleigh, NC and is within 30 miles of Duke
University, UNC-Chapel Hill, NIEHS, an EPA research
unit, and the Research Triangle Park. NC State Uni-
versity is an equal opportunity and aﬃrmative action
employer.
To apply: Send to Fred Gould@NCSU.edu 1) A one or
two page letter of intent. 2) CV, and 3) Names of 3-4
references. The closing date for applications is October
15, 2008, or until a suitable candidate is found.
For further information call Fred Gould at 919-515-1647
or email to above email address.
fredgould@ncsu.edu
Fred Gould <fredgould@ncsu.edu >
Portugal Borneo ConsGenetics
*****
Post-doc job in conservation genetics: habitat fragmen-
tation and large mammals of Borneo
*****
The Population and Conservation Genetics group(http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/research/unit/88 ) is
looking for a post-doctoral researcher to work on the
impact of fragmentation on large mammals from Bor-
neo. The project will involve lab, ﬁeld and simulation
work in collaboration with L. Chikhi (in Portugal) and
B. Goossens (in Malaysia).
The post-doctoral candidate is expected to work in
close collaboration with a technician who will be hired
on the same project. Since the post-doc and technician
are expected to be complementary, we are open regard-
ing the proﬁle that the post-doctoral should have. S/he
could thus be a biologist with a strong interest for mod-
elling, a biologist working in the laboratory or a the-
oretician with an equally strong interest in biological
problems. Excellence and adaptability are the main
selection criteria.
The Month Stipend follows the regulations of the FCT
Scientiﬁc Fellowships in Portugal (1495.00/month) and
will initially be for 18 months but the successful candi-
date will be encouraged to apply for independent fund-
ing from international or Portuguese funding bodies.
The post-doc will be based at the Instituto Gulbenkian
de Ciencia (IGC, http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/ )
which is a leading Research Institute in Portugal and in
Europe. Researchers at the IGC work on a wide range
of subjects from epidemiology, to genetics, evolution-
ary biology, bioinformatics and theoretical immunology.
The IGC is located in Oeiras, a small sea-side town 20
min. by train from downtown Lisbon, along the Tagus.
It is only 10-15 min. walking distance from the beaches
and the quality of life is excellent. The IGC provides
excellent research conditions and English is the commu-
nication language among and within groups. Several
other research institutions are located near-by address-
ing both fundamental and applied questions in biomed-
ical sciences using interdisciplinary approaches.
Applications in PDF format will be accepted by email
only (to chikhi at igc.gulbenkian.pt) until September
15th, 2008, and will include: -a short CV -a motivation
letter -two recommendation letters (sent independently
by referees) or contacts of two referees
– ##### Loun` es Chikhi Charg´ e de Recherche
CNRS UMR CNRS Evolution et Diversit´ e Biologique,
Toulouse chikhi@cict.fr
—– NOUVELLE ADRESSE (01/10/2007 AU
30/09/2008): —– Population and Conservation
Genetics Group Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia Rua
da Quinta Grande, 6 P-2780-156 Oeiras, Portugal
Tel: +351 21 446 46 71 Fax: +351 21 440 79 70
chikhi@igc.gulbenkian.pt #####
chikhi@cict.fr chikhi@cict.fr64 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Portugal
PolarPhytoplanktonTranscriptomics
Applications are invited for postdoctoral researchers to
work in the emerging and exciting ﬁeld of environmen-
tal community transcriptomics. The project is con-
cerned with the study of Antarctic and Arctic phyto-
plankton assemblages, focusing on diatom- dominated
communities. The applicant will work as part of a
multinational and multidisciplinary team studying cli-
mate forcing and tipping points in Polar ecosystems in
response to climate forcing factors. The speciﬁc area
of research will involve the assessment of early gene ex-
pression responses at the community level using high-
throughput pyrosequencing of the “community tran-
scriptome”. The collection and analysis of these data
from community samples will be the major challenge
and responsibility of the successful candidate, to be
supplemented with traditional molecular and gene ex-
pression approaches (e.g., quantitative real-time PCR),
to assign particular genes of interest to community com-
ponents, and investigate these in laboratory cultures.
The successful candidate will have a strong background
and expertise in one or more of the following areas; envi-
ronmental genomics, high throughput sequencing, and
bioinformatics.
Applications will be submitted to FCT (Portuguese Sci-
ence Foundation) for funding, and will be dependent
on their approval by FCT. The post also allows the
opportunity for independent-minded researchers to de-
velop their own research themes within the group. The
work will be mainly conducted at CCMAR, Algarve,
Portugal, in the team MAREE ( http://ccmar.ualg.pt/-
maree/ ), in collaboration with Gareth Pearson (CC-
MAR), Carlos Duarte and Susana Augusti (IMEDEA,
CSIC, Spain).
(Net income is 1495 euros/month, tax free, duration
maximum 6 years, start date January 2008 or later)
Interested applicants should send a CV and e-mail con-
tacts of 3 referees to eserrao@ualg.pt by August 31.
eserrao@ualg.ptPurdueU EvolutionaryBiol
NSF-funded postdoc opportunity with Peter Waser and
Andrew DeWoody at Purdue University
A postdoc position in evolutionary biology/genetics
is available at Purdue University. Strong molec-
ular and/or bioinformatic skills are essential, as
this project may involve microsatellite genotyp-
ing, sequencing MHC genes, or genomic analyses
of the kangaroo rat genome sequence. For more
information, contact Andrew DeWoody or see http:/-
/www.agriculture.purdue.edu/fnr/html/faculty/-
DeWoody/index.html .The cost of living in West
Lafayette is low, and we are only an hour from
Indianapolis and two hours from Chicago. Motivated
applicants should submit (as PDFs) a short letter of
interest, a curriculum vitae, relevant reprints, and
contact information for three references.
For more about our kangaroo rat research, see:
Skvarla J., Nichols J.D., Hines J.E. & Waser P.M.
(2004). Modeling interpopulation dispersal by banner-
tailed kangaroo rats. Ecology 85:2737-2746.
Waser P.M., Busch J., McCormick C.R. & DeWoody
J.A. (2006) Parentage analysis detects cryptic pre-
capture dispersal in a philopatric rodent. Molecular
Ecology 15:1929-1937.
Waser P.M. & DeWoody J.A. (2006) Multiple paternity
in a philopatric rodent: the interaction of competition
and choice. Behavioral Ecology 17:971-978.
Busch J.D., Waser P.M. & DeWoody J.A. (2007) Re-
cent demographic bottlenecks are not accompanied
by a genetic signature in two populations of banner-
tailed kangaroo rats (Dipodomys spectabilis). Molecu-
lar Ecology 16:2450-2462.
Busch J.D., Waser P.M. & DeWoody J.A. (2008) Char-
acterization of expressed class II MHC loci in the
banner-tailed kangaroo rat (Dipodomys spectabilis) re-
veals multiple DRB loci. Immunogenetics (in press).
dewoody@purdue.edu dewoody@purdue.eduSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 65
QueensU FishPopulationGenetics
Dear all,
We would be very grateful if you could pass details onto
any of your colleagues whom you think might be inter-
ested in the following positions in Fish Genetics Re-
search available at Queen’s University Belfast:
1- Senior Researcher in Fish Population Genetics: -
The School of Biological Sciences, Queen’s University
Belfast, Northern Ireland - UK, is seeking to employ
ONE Postdoctoral Senior Research Fellow in Fish Pop-
ulation Genetics under the Beaufort Marine Science
Awards. The successful applicant will join the Beaufort
Fish Population Genetics Research Centre, which also
involves researchers from University College Cork and
the Marine Institute, Ireland. This position is available
for up to 7-years, from the date of appointment.
The Senior Researcher will participate in the practi-
cal implementation of an all-Ireland programme in Fish
Genetics, aiming to generate high-level of research ac-
tivity and to produce publications in the area of popu-
lation and evolutionary genetics initially of brown trout
and European lobster, and in conjunction with Univer-
sity College Cork, Atlantic salmon and Atlantic cod.
Research on these species will be primarily focused on
questions related to: local adaptation; stock manage-
ment; phylogeography; identiﬁcation of conservation
units; the genetic impact of ﬁshing; farm escapes; stock
enhancement and commercial ranching on local popula-
tions; the eﬀects of habitat fragmentation and climate
change on local populations. The successful candidate
will be expected to produce a regular output of ﬁrst au-
thor publications in ranking journals, and collaborate
on those of the rest of the research group.
There will be good opportunity for the development
and implementation of independent research projects
within the remit of the programme of the Beaufort Fish
Population Genetics Research Centre (Salary range:
£28,290 - £36,912 per annum, including contribution
points - see www.qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBJobVacancies/-
ResearchJobs/ for further details on the position and
how to apply).
2- One PhD Studentship. The holder of this four year
PhD studentship, based at Queen’s University Belfast,
will undertake a research project in line with the re-
search programme of the Beaufort Fish Population Ge-netics Research Centre. Depending on the student’s ap-
titudes, research will be focused either on brown trout
or European lobster population genetics. Research
topic will address a number of issues including: local
adaptation; stock management; phylogeography; iden-
tiﬁcation of conservation units; the genetic impact of
ﬁshing; farm escapes; stock enhancement and commer-
cial ranching on local populations; the eﬀects of habitat
fragmentation and climate change on local populations.
Highly motivated and interested applicants should have
a good degree or equivalent in Biological Sciences, or
related subject. They are also expected to have good
theoretical background and interest in population and
evolutionary genetics; good writing skills, and practi-
cal experience generating and analyzing molecular data.
This position is particular suited for students with an
aptitude/interest in developing skills in statistical ge-
netics. The successful applicant will receive a stipend
of approximately £13,771 - 14,610 per annum plus tu-
ition fees ( £3,541 -3,757 per annum). As part of the
PhD studentship, limited funding is available for stays
in international centres of excellence. It is envisaged
that this PhD will begin in September/October 2008.
Applications should be made preferably through
the University admissions portal at https://-
pg.apply.qub.ac.uk/home or via submission of a
short cover letter (max 500 words) outlining the
reasons why they are particularly suited for a PhD and
C.V. (less than 2 pages), via e-mail email, to Paulo A.
Prodohl (email: p.prodohl@qub.ac.uk). A one page
abstract describing ﬁnal year undergraduate project or
MSc Project should also be included if available.
Many thanks
Paulo
Paulo A Prod¨ ohl Reader in Population & Evolutionary
Genetics School of Biological Sciences Queen’s Univer-
sity Belfast Medical Biology Centre, 97 Lisburn Road
Belfast BT9 7BL Northern Ireland - UK
P.Prodohl@qub.ac.uk P.Prodohl@qub.ac.uk
RiceU BacterialGenomeEvolution
We are seeking applications for postdoctoral positions
with our group, focusing on developing computational
tools for evolutionary analysis of bacterial genomes
(with emphasis on the detection of horizontal gene
transfer, and other events that lead to gene tree incon-66 EvolDir September 1, 2008
gruence). The project is an ongoing collaboration be-
tween Prof. Luay Nakhleh at Rice University in Hous-
ton, TX, and Prof. Hideki Innan at the Graduate Uni-
versity for Advanced Studies, in Japan. Openings are
available both in Houston and Japan. The duties in-
clude developing computational phylogenomics tools as
well as data analysis. The candidate should have a solid
background in evolutionary biology and computational
phylogenetics, with experience in algorithm design and
software implementation. Applicants should submit a
CV, 1-2 representative publications in PDF format, and
a list of at least three potential recommendations with
contact information by email to nakhleh@cs.rice.edu.
For more details, please see our group’s website at
http://bioinfo.cs.rice.edu/ . Thank you. Luay
Luay Nakhleh http://www.cs.rice.edu/ ˜ nakhleh
nakhleh@cs.rice.edu
Luay Nakhleh <nakhleh@rice.edu >
UAdelaide AncientDNA
Developing new methods to retrieve and analyse pre-
served genetic information for forensics, archaeology
and ancient DNA.
ARC Senior Research Associate Australian Centre for
Ancient DNA (ACAD) School of Earth and Environ-
mental Sciences
Job Reference Number: 15126
A three year Australian Research Council (ARC)-
funded Postdoctoral position is available at the Aus-
tralian Centre for Ancient DNA in Adelaide ( http://-
www.ees.adelaide.edu.au/acad/ ). The project is to re-
search and develop revolutionary new methods to ex-
tract and characterise DNA from a range of unusual an-
cient samples including ancient bones and teeth, sunken
ship timbers, stone tools, sediments and other ancient
materials. The project is an ARC LINKAGE collabora-
tion with the National Geographic Society, Australian
Federal Police, and Forensics South Australia. The
main aim of the project is to comprehensively re-assess
and re-design current approaches to ancient/damaged
DNA characterisation from the ground up, and to de-
velop and extend recent new molecular approaches to
DNA recovery and detection such as SPEX (Brotherton
et al. NAR 2007), paleogenomic library construction
and new approaches to sequencing.
You will need a ﬁrst-rate knowledge and experience ofpractical molecular biology, and expertise in nucleic
acids biochemistry. You should have a demonstrated
ability to work from a ﬁrst principles basis, with min-
imal reliance on kits and pre-designed systems. The
work will be experimentally challenging due to the dif-
ﬁcult nature of the genetic templates, but this is a re-
warding opportunity to undertake a complete overhaul
of current ancient DNA and molecular archaeological
practice. An interest in ancient DNA, archaeology or
natural history would be very useful.
The position will be supported by a full time Tech-
nician, and will make use of the international quality
ACAD facilities, and an extensive collection of >4,000
ancient samples from locations around the world cov-
ering the past 200,000 years.
You should have: o a PhD or equivalent in Molecu-
lar Biology, Nucleic Acids Biochemistry or equivalent
o demonstrated knowledge and experience of molecular
biology laboratory methods at the most fundamental
levels o excellent written and oral communication skills
with the ability to liaise collaborate and interact with
a wide range of international scientiﬁc researchers o ex-
perience with advanced computational packages
Salary: (Level B) $70,075 - $83,215 per annum.
Plus an employer superannuation contribution of 17%
may apply.
This ﬁxed-term position is available immediately for a
period of 3 years. Adelaide University is one of the
’Group of 8’ leading Universities in Australia, in a cos-
mopolitan city oﬀering an outstanding quality of life,
with excellent food and wine and a low cost of living.
Further information may be obtained from Dr Jeremy
Austin jeremy.austin@adelaide.edu.au, Prof. Alan
Cooper, alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au, Dr Wolfgang
Haak (wolfgang.haak@adelaide.edu.au), or Dr Kefei
Chen (kefei.Chen@adelaide.edu.au).
Deadline: 15 August 2008
Your application must o include your
r´ esum´ e/Curriculum Vitae o address the selection
criteria o quote the relevant reference number o include
the names, addresses and/or email details of three
referees
Email applications to Maria Lekis
<maria.lekis@adelaide.edu.au >or forward in du-
plicate to:
Maria Lekis School of Earth and Environmental Sci-
ences The University of Adelaide South Australia 5005
–
Prof. Alan Cooper, Federation FellowSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 67
Darling Blg (DP 418), Rm 209b University of Adelaide
North Terrace Campus South Australia 5005 Australia
Email: alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au Ph: 61-8 -8303-
5950/3952 Fax: 61-8-8303 4364
http://www.ees.adelaide.edu.au/acad/
alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au
UArizona EvolBiology
Positions Available: Research Associate Arizona Re-
search Laboratories, University of Arizona NIH-
IRACDA Program in Postdoctoral Excellence in Re-
search and Teaching (PERT)
The Postdoctoral Excellence in Research and Teaching
(PERT) Program is a comprehensive program which
oﬀers up to three years of support to outstanding can-
didates seeking advanced post doctorate research train-
ing, teacher training and student mentorship in prepa-
ration for an academic career. Another desired long-
term outcome is to increase the number of well-qualiﬁed
underrepresented minority students entering competi-
tive careers in biomedical research.
PERT trainees may select from over forty-two faculty
research mentors representing a broad range of dis-
ciplines in biomedicine, bioengineering, genetics, bio-
chemistry, neurobiology, evolutionary biology, molec-
ular/cellular biology, physiology and behavior. The
program stresses the use of non-vertebrate models for
Biomedical and Life Sciences research. The program
is administered through the Arizona Research Labora-
tories Division of the Center for Insect Science and is
partnered with a Minority Serving Institution, Pima
Community College.
Starting salary, based on the NIH NRSA scale, will be
$36,996 for program participants with less than one
year of postdoctoral experience, and includes an an-
nual allowance for research supplies and travel. Po-
sitions are dependent upon continued funding. Ad-
ditional information about the Center for Insect Sci-
ence and the PERT program is available at http:/-
/cis.arl.arizona.edu/PERT .Qualiﬁcations: Applicants
must have, as of the beginning date of the appointment,
a Ph.D. in a related ﬁeld from an accredited institution
and must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Ap-
plicants should have no more than two previous years
of postdoctoral experience at the time of application.
Application: All applicants must apply electronicallythrough the University of Arizona’s Career Track web-
site at: https://www.uacareertrack.com, citing job
#41586. All applications are to include: –a letter of in-
terest with a statement explaining how the PERT pro-
gram will assist the applicant in his/her goals. –a CV
–a three to six page research proposal developed with
the intended PERT faculty research mentor describing
the project to be undertaken during the training period
–three letters of reference –a letter of support from the
intended faculty research mentor
Original letters of reference and the letter from the
proposed faculty research mentor should be mailed
to: PERT, Center for Insect Science, 1007 E. Low-
ell Street, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721-
0106. The letter of interest, CV and research pro-
posal should be submitted online through the UA Ca-
reer Track website listed above. Review of applica-
tions begins Monday, October 20, 2008 at 8:00 a.m. As
an equal opportunity and aﬃrmative action employer,
the University of Arizona recognizes the power of a
diverse community and encourages applications from
individuals with varied experiences and backgrounds.
Please contact Teresa Kudrna for more information,
tkudrna@email.arizona.edu, 520-621-4923.
– Teresa Kudrna Program Coordinator PERT Pro-
gram Email: tkudrna@email.arizona Telephone: 520-
621-4923 Fax: 520-621-2590
Teresa Kudrna <tkudrna@email.arizona.edu >
UBasel EvoltuionaryGenomics
EvoDevo
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN CICHLID EVOLU-
TIONARY GENOMICS/EVO-DEVO
A postdoctoral position in evolutionary genomics/evo-
devo is available in the group of Dr. Walter Salzburger
at the University of Basel, Switzerland ( http://-
www.evolution.unibas.ch/salzburger/ ). The position is
funded by a Starting Grant of the European Research
Council (ERC), a new European funding body set up to
support excellent investigator- driven research ( http:/-
/erc.europa.eu ).
The ERC Starting Grant ’INTERGENADAPT’ will
run for a period of ﬁve years. It will focus on the identi-
ﬁcation of the molecular basis of adaptation, evolution-
ary innovation and diversiﬁcation in one of the most
exciting model systems for evolutionary research, the68 EvolDir September 1, 2008
adaptive radiations of cichlid ﬁshes in the East African
Great Lakes Tanganyika, Malawi and Victoria. These
lakes harbor ecologically and morphologically highly di-
verse species ﬂocks counting hundreds of endemic cich-
lid species each. We are interested in the genetic and
developmental basis of the morphogenesis of sexually
and naturally selected traits that might be crucial to the
cichlid’s evolutionary success (e.g. mouth morphology,
pharyngeal jaw apparatus, color and pigmentation pat-
terns). To do so, we will apply cutting edge technolo-
gies. The forthcoming genomes of four cichlid species
will certainly facilitate these eﬀorts.
We are looking for a highly motivated, open-minded,
creative and socially skilled young researcher that
shares our enthusiasm in the study of evolution. Ideally,
the candidate has some background in one or several
of the following ﬁelds: bio-informatics, developmen-
tal biology, (cichlid) ﬁsh biology, evolutionary biology,
evo-devo, evolutionary genomics, molecular evolution,
and/or transcriptomics.
The initial appointment will be made for one year, with
a possible extension to up to three years. The salary
ranges between CHF 55’000 and CHF 70’000 (per year;
after tax), depending on experience. The position is
available from October 2008, the starting date is nego-
tiable though.
To apply, please send
(1) your CV, (2) a list of your publications, (3) a state-
ment of your research interests, (4) a statement why
you would like to join our team, and (5) the names of
two persons who can be contacted for a reference letter
to the following email address:
salzburgerlab-dib@unibas.ch
Please also use this email address for informal enquiries.
Deadline for submission is September 17th, 2008.
—–
Note, that there is also a position open for a PhD stu-
dent (3 years). Further positions will be advertised at
a later stage of the grant period.
—–
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
The Salzburger Lab ( http://www.evolution.unibas.ch/-
salzburger/ ) is a young, multinational, open-minded,
enthusiastic and creative team. We are, at present,
about ten people. Our main model systems are East
African cichlid ﬁshes, although we also study the adap-
tive radiation of Antarctic notothenioid ﬁshes and the
diversiﬁcation of Alpine taxa. We also develop our ownsoftware. Core of the Salzburger Lab is an excellently
equipped molecular laboratory with an AB 3130xl ge-
netic analyzer, an epMotion pipetting workstation, Ver-
iti gradient PCR machines, research microscopes, etc.
The Salzburger group is based within the evolution-
ary biology group of the University of Basel’s Zoolog-
ical Institute ( http://www.evolution.unibas.ch ). The
evolutionary biology group promotes higher education
and up-to- date research in organismic and evolution-
ary biology, thereby complementing existing strengths
in life-sciences at the University of Basel. The evolu-
tionary biology group is located in the Vesalianum in
the historical part of Basel, in close proximity to other
University institutes, the University hospital and the
Biozentrum of the University of Basel.
The University of Basel ( http://www.unibas.ch/ ) is
Switzerland’s oldest University with a strong focus on
“Culture” and “Life Sciences”. About 9’000 undergrad-
uates and 2’000 postgraduate and doctoral students are
enrolled in Basel. The University is regularly ranked
among the best 100 Universities worldwide and top-ten
in the German speaking countries.
Basel ( http://www.basel.ch ) is located in north-
western Switzerland on the river Rhine and borders
Germany (Baden-W¨ urttemberg) and France (Alsace).
Basel is an open and international cultural, educa-
tional, and economic metropolis and a major centre for
the chemical and pharmaceutical industry. It is well
connected by air transport (through the EuroAirport
Basel), by train (through Swiss, German and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UBerne EvolutionTheory
Postdoc Position in Theoretical Evolutionary Ecology
The Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Div. Be-
havioural Ecology, University of Berne (chair: Michael
Taborsky) seeks for a theoretician with a strong com-
mitment to evolutionary biology.
RESEARCH FOCUS: Evolutionary mechanisms of
conﬂict and cooperation, with particular emphasis
on reciprocity and the coexistence of alternative be-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 69
havioural tactics. In our group we aim for an integra-
tion of theoretical and empirical studies of evolutionary
mechanisms of behaviour. Other groups in the Insti-
tute of Ecology and Evolution focus on Aquatic Ecology
(Ole Seehausen), Community Ecology (Wolfgang Nen-
twig), Conservation Biology (Raphael Arlettaz), Evolu-
tionary Ecology (Heinz Richner), and Population Ge-
netics (Laurent Excoﬃer).
Ideal candidates will have a PhD in theoretical biol-
ogy (or mathematics/economy) and should be expe-
rienced in modelling (e.g. analytical approach, game
theory, agent-based simulation models, dynamic pro-
gramming), preferably with a sound background in the-
oretical issues in evolutionary biology. The position is
initially for three years and can be prolonged. Candi-
dates will be encouraged to apply for funding in order
to establish their own junior research group.
CLOSING DATE: Open until ﬁlled, but all application
materials, including CV, a summary of research expe-
rience, copies of relevant published or in-press papers,
and two letters of recommendation should be received
by 31 August 2008 to ensure full consideration. The
position will start at the earliest possible date. Candi-
dates should indicate in a cover letter when they could
take up the position.
Please send all application material to the secre-
tary’s oﬃce, c/o Marlis Gerteis, Dept. Behavioural
Ecology, University of Bern, Wohlenstrasse 50A, CH-
3032 Bern, Switzerland; or as e-mail attachments
to marlis.gerteis@esh.unibe.ch. For inquiries please
contact michael.taborsky@esh.unibe.ch. Please see
alsohttp://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/ Michael Taborsky
<michael.taborsky@esh.unibe.ch >
UCaliforniaSanDiego
ModelingViralEvolution
Postdoctoral position
MODELING VIRAL EVOLUTION
School of Medicine
University of California San Diego
DESCRIPTION: A fully funded postdoctoral position
is available starting immediately to work on the analysis
of sequence evolution, statistical models and software
development, speciﬁcally targeted at viral organisms,
such as HIV-1 and Inﬂuenza A virus.Speciﬁc goals include (but are not limited to):
(1) Development and improvement of statistical meth-
ods and algorithms that estimate properties of evolu-
tionary processes from coding sequence alignments, es-
pecially very large data sets.
(2) Design of new procedures and algorithms to in-
fer and compare evolutionary properties (such as selec-
tive forces, co-evolutionary dependancies between sites,
rates of mutation and recombination, population struc-
ture) from diﬀerent genes in order to develop the con-
cept of evolutionary BLAST.
(3) Analysis of evolutionary patterns in large collections
of viral sequence alignments using machine learning,
data mining and other statistical techniques.
(4) Developing statistical methods, methods and algo-
rithms to analyze the output of next-generation (e.g.
Roche 454, Solexa) sequencers.
The position will be for one year, with the possibility of
extension to up to three years, dependent on progress
and funding. Salary will be according to recommended
payscales, and commensurate with experience.
RESEARCH GROUP: The position is based in the
research group of Drs. Simon DW Frost and Sergei
L Kosakovsky Pond ( http://www.hyphy.org/sergei/ ).
The successful candidate will also work closely with Dr.
Art Poon ( http://www.datamonkeys.org/arts cv.pdf ).
There is a potential to develop and co-supervise under-
graduate and graduate research projects.
LOCATION: School of Medicine, University of Califor-
nia, San Diego. The position is based at the Antiviral
Research Center ( http://www.avrctrials.org ), situated
in the Hillcrest area ( http://www.hillquest.com ) near
downtown San Diego.
REQUIREMENTS: Applicants must:
- hold a Ph.D. in one of the following disciplines: evolu-
tionary, mathematical or computational biology, statis-
tics, population genetics (candidates with doctorates in
related ﬁelds are encouraged to apply as well); - have
programming experience in a high-level programming
language (C/C++ preferred) and scripting language
such as Python.
A successful applicant should:
- display evidence of research productivity as indi-
cated by peer- reviewed publications and conference
presentations; - be acquainted with programming in
a UNIX/Mac OS X environment; familiarity with dis-
tributed computing is a plus; - have a strong interest in
and understanding of molecular evolution; - have strong
communication and teamwork skills.70 EvolDir September 1, 2008
APPLICATION: Please send letter of interest, C.V.,
and the names and contact details of three referees to:
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Modeling of Se-
quence Data, Drs. Simon Frost and Sergei Kosakovsky
Pond, UCSD Antiviral Research Center, 150 W. Wash-
ington St., San Diego CA 92103, USA. Electronic ap-
plication materials (PDF, Word) are preferred - please
email to sdfrost at ucsd dot edu and spond at ucsd dot
edu. You can also direct information requests to ei-
ther e-mail address. Review of applications will begin
immediately, and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
spond@ucsd.edu spond@ucsd.edu
UChicago
EvolutionTranscriptionNetworks
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research as-
sociate with Ilya Ruvinsky in the Department of Ecol-
ogy & Evolution and the Institute for Genomics and
Systems Biology at the University of Chicago.
The project will focus on understanding the mecha-
nisms responsible for evolutionary and physiological
robustness of transcriptional networks. We are using
C. elegans as a primary model system. The project
will provide ample opportunities for collaboration with
other groups both within and outside the University of
Chicago.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Molecu-
lar or Evolutionary Biology or related ﬁeld. The ideal
candidate will be creative, energetic and have excellent
communication skills. All candidates are expected to
have a background or interest in molecular evolution-
ary genetics. In addition, the candidates should have
expertise in molecular biology, particularly using genet-
ics in model organisms, and computational skills.
To apply, please submit applications (by e-mail to I. Ru-
vinsky), including (1) a CV, (2) brief statement of past
accomplishments and PDFs of most relevant publica-
tions, (3) research interests and (4) names and contact
information of three referees. Review of applications
will begin immediately and will continue until the po-
sition is ﬁlled.
Ilya Ruvinsky Department of Ecology & Evolu-
tion The University of Chicago e-mail - ruvin-
sky@uchicago.edu http://pondside.uchicago.edu/-
ecol-evol/faculty/ruvinsky i.html Ilya Ruvinsky
<ruvinsky@uchicago.edu >UColorado PlantEvoDevo
Postdoctoral position in plant evolution and develop-
ment
A one year post doctoral position is available at the Uni-
versity of Colorado, Boulder, in the laboratory of Pro-
fessor Pamela Diggle. The post doc will participate in
several ongoing projects including the evolutionary dy-
namics of fruit size and structure among species of the
genus Solanum and the role of architectural variation in
the expression of sexual dimorphism among members of
the Apiaceae. See http://spot.colorado.edu/ ˜ diggle/-
for additional information.
The position is available September 1, 2008, but start
date is ﬂexible. Please send a letter of interest and CV
to Pamela.Diggle@colorado.edu . Review of applica-
tions will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Pamela K. Diggle Professor Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology University of Colorado Boulder,
CO 80309
303-492-4860
Pamela.Diggle@Colorado.EDU
Pamela.Diggle@Colorado.EDU
UCopenhagen Macroecology and
Evolution
University of Copenhagen Programme of Excellence in
’Macroecology and Evolution’
Postdoctoral positions in Macroecology, Biogeography,
Evolution, Ancient DNA, Geology, and Human Dis-
eases
Positions are available within a cross-disciplinary re-
search program aiming at ’explaining distribution of
life on Earth’. Candidates should have a strong pub-
lication record, relevant analytical and data handling
skills, and an ability to communicate within a research
team. Competitive salary oﬀered. Themes where we
seek postdoctoral applications:
THEME 1 - VERTEBRATE MACROECOLO-
GIST/BIOGEOGRAPHER to work on questionsSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 71
related to species distributions and diversity patterns
using information on species evolutionary history
derived from phylogenetic trees.
THEME 2 - CLIMATE CHANGE ECOLOGIST to
work on questions related to prediction of potential ef-
fects of climate change on future patterns of species
distributions and diversity.
THEME 3 - INVERTEBRATE BIOGEOGRA-
PHER/MACROECOLOGIST to work on questions
related to species distributions and diversity patterns
using information on species evolutionary history
derived from phylogenetic trees.
THEME 4 - SYSTEMATIC ENTOMOLO-
GIST/ARACHNOLOGIST to work on the phylogeny
of spiders.
THEME 5 - ANCIENT DNA - PAST POPULA-
TION GENETICS to work with questions relating to
past population genetics of humans in the New World
and/or past population genetics of marine animals
and/or ice age megafauna.
THEME 6 - GEOLOGY to work on Paleogeography in
close collaboration with the research groups in macroe-
cology and biogeography.
THEME 7 - GEOLOGY to work on low temperature
geochemistry in close collaboration with the research
groups in macroecology and biogeography.
THEME 8 - HUMAN DISEASES - EVOLUTIONARY
MEDICINE to work on questions related to the geo-
graphical distribution of vector born diseases, with par-
ticular emphasis on the climatic parameters that aﬀect
vector and host distributions and thus the geographic
mosaic of their co-evolutionary history.
Full description on the individual postdoctoral po-
sitions within eight themes are given at http://-
www1.bio.ku.dk/om/jobs/macroecology/ Applications
must be based on the full description of the positions
and submitted before Wednesday 1 October 2008. For
enquiry about the program please contact Professor
Carsten Rahbek, Center for Macroecology and Evolu-
tion, Dept. of Biology, University of Copenhagen, crah-
bek@bio.ku.dk
The programme includes research groups at the De-
partment of Biology (PIs Carsten Rahbek, Eske Willer-
slev), the Natural History Museum of Denmark (PIs
Jon Fjelds˚ a, Minik Rosing, Nikolaj Scharﬀ), and the
Department of Veterinary Pathobiology (PI Thomas
Kristensen), several NSF-funded research centers, and
an international network of partners.
Elisabeth Houe Hansen <EHHansen@bio.ku.dk >UdoAlgarve MarinePopBiology
We accept 1 or 2 applicants for postdoctoral fellow-
ships in our team at CCMAR, located at the University
of Algarve, Portugal (to be funded by the Portuguese
Science Foundation FCT, application deadline Septem-
ber 15) in the ﬁelds of population ecology and evolu-
tion, and biogeography of marine organisms. Success-
ful candidates are expected to start working in ongoing
projects but may also submit their own independent
research proposals.
For further information and other inquiries please con-
tact eserrao@ualg.pt and send your CV, preferably by
September 1, 2008.
(Net income is 1495 euros/month, tax free, duration
maximum 6 years, start date January 2008 or later)
Ester Serrao http://www.ccmar.ualg.pt/maree/ CC-
MAR, CIMAR-Lab. Assoc. FCMA, Universidade
do Algarve Gambelas, 8005-139 Faro, Portugal telef:
(+351) 289 800 928 fax: (+351) 289 800 069
eserrao@ualg.pt
UGottingen EvolutionSymbioses
Postdoc
The newly formed junior research group “Geomicrobi-
ology and Biosignatures in the Deep Biosphere” in the
Courant Research Centre Geobiology at the University
of G¨ ottingen invites applications for one Postdoctoral
position. The position is immediately available pending
formal administrative approval.
Topic: Our research group focuses on the micro-
bial ecology and evolution of chemoautotrophic ecosys-
tems, with emphasis on symbioses between animals
and chemoautotrophic microbes. Ecosystems sustained
by chemoautotrophy are found at deep-sea hydrother-
mal vents, cold seeps and some sulﬁde-rich limestone
caves. Terrestrial sulﬁde-rich caves are easier to ac-
cess than deep-sea habitats and oﬀer an excellent op-
portunity to study the interplay between geochemistry,
microbes and macrofauna in chemoautotrophic ecosys-72 EvolDir September 1, 2008
tems. Our primary research ﬁeld site is the actively
forming sulﬁde-rich Frasassi cave complex of central
Italy that hosts an ecosystem sustained entirely by
chemoautotrophy. We have recently discovered the ﬁrst
example of a terrestrial chemoautotrophic symbiosis be-
tween a Frasassi-endemic amphipod and ﬁlamentous
sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. Future projects will address
the potential beneﬁts of the bacterial symbionts to the
amphipod host, and examine the evolution of this sym-
biosis. We also plan to expand our research to other
sulﬁde rich caves, such as Movile cave in Romania and
Villa Luz caves in Mexico. For more information, please
contact Dr. Sharmishtha Dattagupta (see below).
Requirements: Candidates should have a strong back-
ground in Molecular Biology and/ or Geomicrobiology
(A PhD. is required for the Postdoc position). Can-
didates should have ﬁeldwork experience, an interest
in cave exploration, and be ﬂuent in English. Inter-
national applicants are welcome. The University of
G¨ ottingen seeks to increase the participation of women
in areas in which they are currently underrepresented
and therefore explicitly urges women to apply. Disabled
persons with equivalent aptitude will be favoured.
Employment: We oﬀer two-year Postdoc positions with
the possibility of extension to three years. Postdoc
salary is based on the German TV-L system, level 13.
Environment: G¨ ottingen is a quaint and traditional
German university town with an international student-
based community. The Courant Research Centre is
one of ﬁve interdisciplinary research centres ( www.uni-
goettingen.de/crc ) recently established by the Univer-
sity of G¨ ottingen as part of its institutional strategy
“Tradition - Innovation - Autonomy”. The Centre of-
fers a wide range of state-of-the-art analytical facilities
and an excellent environment for interdisciplinary re-
search.
Application: Candidates should upload a curriculum
vita, a statement of research interests and a list of pub-
lications (if applicable) via the online form located at
www.uni-goettingen.de/positions-exini by August 31,
2008. They should also arrange for two reference let-
ters to be sent directly by email to Dr. Sharmishtha
Dattagupta (sdattag@uni-goettingen.de) by the same
date. Full contact information can be found within the
portal link.
Sharmishtha Dattagupta Georg-August-Universit¨ at
G¨ ottingen Courant Research Centre Geobiology Gold-
schmidtstr. 3 37077 G¨ ottingen, Gemany Phone (oﬃce):
+49 551 39 12910 Mobile: +49 01577 5823206 Email:
sdattag@uni-goettingen.de
Sharmishtha Dattagupta <sdattag@uni-goettingen.de >
UGottingen MetazoanEvolution
The Courant Research Centre Geobiology at the Uni-
versity of G¨ ottingen (Germany) oﬀers:
1 post-doctoral position 1 PhD position
The Courant Research Centre Geobiology is one
of ﬁve interdisciplinary research centres ( www.uni-
goettingen.de/crc ) recently established by the Univer-
sity of G¨ ottingen as part of its institutional strategy
“Tradition - Innovation - Autonomy”.
These positions will form part of the independent
Junior Research Group “Evolution of the Metazoa”
headed by Daniel Jackson.
The main focus of the Courant Research Centre is
the development of early life and organic-matter-
controlled rock- and mineral-forming processes (Coor-
dinator: Prof. Reitner, Department of Geobiology,
www.uni-goettingen.de/crc c) .
Many details of the molecular events that drove the di-
versiﬁcation of the Metazoa during the pre- and early
Cambrian remain undiscovered. The relatively syn-
chronous inception and subsequent radiation of body
plans during this time are reﬂected in the fossil record
by the ability of disparate taxa to secrete mineralized
structures. By examining the way in which extant
metazoan taxa biomineralize, we hope to better under-
stand the evolutionary forces that nurtured the diver-
siﬁcation of multi-cellular animal life. We are currently
focusing on these processes in sponges and molluscs,
but plan to expand this comparative dataset.
The positions require individuals with strong molecular
biology skills and familiarity with the analysis of large
computational datasets such as EST collections and un-
annotated whole genomes. Lab skills such as cDNA
library construction, whole mount in situ hybridiza-
tion, micro- injection and experience with spawning and
rearing marine invertebrates are highly desirable.
Candidates for the post-doctoral position should hold
a doctorate in evolution, developmental biology, molec-
ular biology, or a related ﬁeld. Candidates for the doc-
toral position should hold an excellent ﬁrst degree in
the same ﬁelds. In addition to their academic qualiﬁca-
tions, candidates should have excellent communication
and team-working skills, be committed to the topic andSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 73
to working in a dedicated, interdisciplinary research en-
vironment. The working language of the group is En-
glish, and applicants from abroad are encouraged to ap-
ply. The University of G¨ ottingen seeks to increase the
participation of women in areas in which they are cur-
rently underrepresented and therefore explicitly urges
women to apply. Disabled persons with equivalent ap-
titude will be favoured.
The positions are initially available for two years start-
ing immediately, and can be extended following fa-
vorable reviews. Salaries are in accordance with the
German state regulated public service salary scale
(E 13 TV-L). For informal enquiries please contact
djackso@uni-goettingen.de
Applications, in English, should include: a full aca-
demic CV, examples of published or unpublished aca-
demic work, a 1-2 page summary outlining the candi-
date’s particular qualiﬁcation for this position. Candi-
dates should also arrange for two reference letters to be
sent directly by email to Daniel Jackson (djackso@uni-
goettingen.de). Application deadline is 31st August
2008. Please submit your application online under the
given link: www.uni-goettingen.de/positions-exini
djackso@gwdg.de
UIdaho PlantAnimalCoevolution
Postdoc: Postdoctoral Position in Plant-Animal Coevo-
lution
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Olle
Pellmyr to study coevolutionary dynamics and diver-
siﬁcation in the mutualism between yuccas and yucca
moths. The project combines ﬁeld work on joshua trees
in the Mojave desert with lab work, using a range of
genetic tools to explore how coevolutionary and abiotic
forces interact in driving evolutionary trajectories.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree
in evolutionary biology, ecology, plant biology, or re-
lated ﬁeld. Essential qualiﬁcations include experience
in managing a lab using PCR-based molecular genetic
methods, incl. microsatellite-based analyses, and a will-
ingness to travel and work out of a ﬁeld camp for sev-
eral days at a time. Experience in experimental de-
sign, behavioral assays, and quantitative phylogenetic
methodology would be useful. This position can begin
immediately. Review of applications will begin Sept 9
and continue until a candidate is selected.Initial duration of the position is 10 months, and could
be extended by three years contingent on continuation
of funding.
To apply, please submit your application through
http:// www.hr.uidaho.edu . Direct questions directly
to me at pellmyr@uidaho.edu.
Dr. Olle Pellmyr Dept of Biological Sciences University
of Idaho P.O. Box 443051 Moscow, ID 83844-3051 USA
phone 208.885.6807 (oﬀ) 885.8860 (lab) http://-
www.sci.uidaho.edu/biosci/faculty/pellmyr.html Olle
Pellmyr <pellmyr@uidaho.edu >
UIllinoisUC RiskGenes
Behavioral genomics at the University of Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign
A post-doctoral position is available to work on an NIH-
funded project to identify genes associated with risk-
taking behaviors such as boldness under predation risk
and aggression in threespined sticklebacks (Gasteros-
teus aculeatus). The project is a collaboration between
Alison Bell in the School of Integrative Biology and
Mark Band at the W.M. Keck Center for Comparative
and Functional Genomics at the University of Illinois.
Edelyn Verona (Department of Psychology) is a consul-
tant on the project.
A Ph.D. and experience in the design and analysis of
expression microarray experiments is required. There
will be opportunities to collaborate with other ongoing
projects in the lab and a chance to learn a variety of dif-
ferent skills and techniques in behavior, evolution and
genomics. Preference will be given to applicants with
experience studying animal behavior, evolution and/or
ﬁshes. The position is for up to ﬁve years, subject to re-
view after one year and can begin as early as September
1, 2008. Salary is $35,000/year.
The University of Illinois provides a highly collabo-
rative and supportive academic environment for be-
havioral genomics, with opportunities for interactions
with other members of the Neural and Behavioral
Plasticity theme at the Institute of Genomic Biology
(www.igb.uiuc.edu/ ). Minorities, women, and mem-
bers of other designated classes are encouraged to ap-
ply. Applicants should include a brief cover letter out-
lining their qualiﬁcations and interests, curriculum vi-
tae, and names, phone numbers, and email addresses
of three references via email to Dr. Alison Bell, al-74 EvolDir September 1, 2008
isonmb@life.uiuc.edu. Review of applications will begin
on August 1, 2008 and will continue until the position
has been ﬁlled.
The University of Illinois is an Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer Alison M. Bell,
Assistant Professor, Integrative Biology, Univer-
sity of Illinois, Urbana, 505 S. Goodwin Ave.,
Urbana, IL 61801, Ph: 217-265-5469; Fax: 217-
244-4565; email: alisonmb@life.uiuc.edu, web-
site: http://www.life.uiuc.edu/bell/ Alison Bell
<alisonmb@life.uiuc.edu >
ULausanne Bioinformatics
BIOINFORMATICS POSTDOC IN FUNCTIONAL
EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
Center for Integrative Genomics (CIG), University of
Lausanne, Switzerland
A research associate/postdoctoral position (2 years
with possible extensions up to 5 years) is available in
the evolutionary genomics group of Henrik Kaessmann.
We are seeking highly qualiﬁed and motivated ap-
plicants with strong skills in computational biol-
ogy/bioinformatics, preferably also with experience in
data mining and comparative or evolutionary genome
analysis. Statisticians and/or population geneticists
with strong programming skills and an interest in evo-
lutionary genomics are also encouraged to apply.
Our group is interested in a range of topics related
to the functional evolution of genomes from primates
and other mammals, including the origin and evolu-
tion of new genes by gene duplication. The speciﬁc
project will be developed together with the candidate.
It will be possible to complement data available from
genomic databases with experimental data (large- and
small-scale) in collaboration with the wet lab unit of
the group as well as the state-of-the-art core facilities
at the Center for Integrative Genomics.
For more information on the group and our institute
more generally, please refer to our website: http://-
www.unil.ch/cig/page7858 en.html The salary is in the
order of 45.000 Euros per year.
The language of the institute is English, and its mem-
bers form an international group that is rapidly expand-
ing. The institute is located in Lausanne, a beautiful
city at Lake Geneva.Informal inquiries may be addressed to: Hen-
rik.Kaessmann@unil.ch
Please submit a CV, statement of research interest, and
names of three references to:
Henrik Kaessmann, Ph.D. Associate Professor Cen-
ter for Integrative Genomics Genopode University
of Lausanne CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland E-mail:
Henrik.Kaessmann@unil.ch Phone: +41-(0)21-692-
3960 Fax: +41-(0)21-692-3965 http://www.unil.ch/-
cig/page7858 en.html Some recent publications from
the lab:
Potrzebowski, L., Vinckenbosch, N., Marques, A. C.,
Chalmel, F., Jegou, B., Kaessmann, H. (2008) Chro-
mosomal Gene Movements Reﬂect the Recent Origin
and Biology of Therian Sex Chromosomes. PLoS Biol.,
6:e80.
Rosso, L., Marques, A. C., Weier, M., Lambert, N.,
Lambot, M.-A., Vanderhaeghen, P., Kaessmann, H.
(2008) Birth and Rapid Subcellular Adaptation of a
Hominoid-Speciﬁc CDC14 Protein. PLoS Biol., 6:e140.
Brawand, D., Wahli, W., Kaessmann, H. (2008) Loss of
egg yolk genes in mammals and the origin of lactation
and placentation. PLoS Biol., 6:e63.
Vinckenbosch, N., Dupanloup, I. & Kaessmann, H.
(2006) Evolutionary fate of retroposed gene copies in
the human genome. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103,
3220-3225.
Marques, A., Dupanloup, I., Vinckenbosch, N., Rey-
mond, A. & Kaessmann, H. (2005) Emergence of young
human genes after a burst of retroposition in primates.
PLoS Biol., 3:e357.
Burki, F. & Kaessmann, H. (2004) Birth and adaptive
evolution of a hominoid gene supporting high neuro-
transmitter ﬂux. Nature Genet. 10, 1061-1063.
Henrik.Kaessmann@unil.ch Hen-
rik.Kaessmann@unil.ch
ULausanne PlantSpeciesDistribution
Postdoc Position on
Predicting the impact of climate change on plant
species distribution in Europe
The ECOSPAT lab ( http://www.unil.ch/ecospat ) is
looking for a motivated young scientist to work
on the European ECOCHANGE project ( http://-September 1, 2008 EvolDir 75
www.ecochange-project.eu ). The candidate will work
on improving predictions of climate change impact on
plant species distribution in Europe but also at more
local scale in the Alps and the Arctic. Species data
have already been or are currently sampled and a large
set of environmental predictor is also already available.
The candidate will additionally have to interact with
graduate students on improving modelling tools and
methodological aspects.
The candidate should have expertise in spatial mod-
elling of species distribution, and feel comfortable work-
ing with ArcGIS and the R statistical package. Good
knowledge of botany and plant ecology, and particu-
larly of the ﬂora of the Alps and/or the arctic will be
highly appreciated.
Position available since: immediately Duration: 2 years
Location: Spatial Ecology group, University of Lau-
sanne URL: http://ecospat.unil.ch Applications, in-
cluding CV + motivation letter, should be sent by email
to: Dr. Antoine Guisan, Department of Ecology and
Evolution, University of Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland Email: antoine.guisan@unil.ch Contact for
more information: +41 21 692 42 54
Loic.Pellissier@unil.ch
ULisbon GenomeDynamics
POSTDOC POSITION available at the Cytogenetic
Unit of the Freshwater Fish Group of the University
of Lisbon (Portugal)
Project title:
Genome dynamics in diploid and polyploid cyprinid
ﬁshes of hybrid origin: a molecular cytogenetic ap-
proach
We seek a highly motivated and enthusiastic can-
didate to pursue studies on the evolutionary conse-
quences of hybridization and polyploidy in cyprinid
ﬁshes. In particular, the hybridogenetic minnow Squal-
ius alburnoides has been studied by our team for sev-
eral years and may be used as a model system to study
the earliest stages of genome evolution in polyploids
as well as genome reshaping mechanisms (for detailed
information about the research team please visit http:/-
/ﬃshgul.fc.ul.pt ).
We are looking for someone whose research interests
focus on ﬁsh cytogenetics, molecular biology and re-productive genetics under an evolutionary perspec-
tive. The successful applicant will be responsible, with
under- and post-graduate students, for maintaining ex-
perimental crosses and for conducting molecular cyto-
genetic work (FISH and GISH in the frame of a speciﬁc
international collaboration) and test among others the
hypothesis that hybridization may trigger undermethy-
lation of the genome, resulting in high activity of TEs
and subsequent chromosomal rearrangements.
A speciﬁc proposal already prepared, will be discussed
with the candidate who must have obtained his/her
PhD after 2004-2005 and have experience on molecu-
lar cytogenetics. The application is for a maximum of
6 years, being renewed each annual period, and will be
submitted to the Portuguese Funding Agency (FCT -
http://www.fct.mctes.pt/ bolsas/concurso2007/).
Next Deadline for grant applications is the 17th
September 2008 (to start in January 2009).
Applicants should send a CV and names of three
references via email to Prof. MJ Collares-Pereira
(mjpereira@fc.ul.pt), Department of Animal Biology,
Faculty of Sciences, University of Lisbon. Replies will
be sent only the 1st of September.
Maria Jo˜ ao Pereira <mjpereira@fc.ul.pt >
UManchester ComputationalBiology
UNIVERSITY OF MANCHESTER FACULTY OF
LIFE SCIENCES
Post Doctoral Research Associate - A rational in silico
approach to mapping protein-protein interaction net-
works (Ref LS/80102)
Based in the research laboratories of Drs Simon Lovell
and David Robertson, we seek a computational or
structural biologist to study protein-protein interac-
tions networks, speciﬁcally to develop evolutionary and
structure-based methods to infer interaction networks
between species. The post forms part of an interdis-
ciplinary project in collaboration with Prof Michael
Stumpf and Dr Ken Haynes at Imperial College Lon-
don. Our combined aim is to predict protein interac-
tions using sophisticated bioinformatics, statistical and
comparative approaches. The salary will be £27,466 -
£29,138 per annum.
You should have (or expect to hold) a relevant PhD.
Experience of computer-based research is required and76 EvolDir September 1, 2008
experience in protein structure analysis, network anal-
ysis and/or molecular evolution an advantage.
Informal enquiries may be addressed to: Si-
mon Lovell, tel.: +44 (0) 161 275 5748, e-
mail: simon.lovell@manchester.ac.uk or David
Robertson, tel.: +44 (0)161 275 5089, e-mail:
david.robertson@manchester.ac.uk.
Information on Manchester computational bi-
ology research can be found at: http://-
www.manchester.ac.uk/bioinformatics . Applica-
tion forms and further particulars can be obtained
at http:// www.manchester.ac.uk/aboutus/jobs/-
research or from The Directorate of Human Resources
Tel: ++44 (0) 161 275 8836 Email: Lifesciences-
hr@manchester.ac.uk
***The closing date for applications is Friday 5th Sept
2008. Please quote appropriate reference.***
david.robertson@manchester.ac.uk
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill
PseudomonasGenomics
Subject heading: Post-doc position in comparative ge-
nomics and evolution of host specialization and viru-
lence at UNC-Chapel Hill
We are using new whole genome sequencing technolo-
gies to study the evolution of host-specialization and
virulence in Pseudomonas syringae pathovars. This is
a NIH funded collaboration between Dr. Jeﬀ Dangl
and Dr. Corbin D. Jones. We seek a highly motivated
post-doc interested in merging computational and ex-
perimental biology. Ideal candidates will have a strong
evolutionary background and experience bioinformat-
ics, programming, or genome assembly.
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is a di-
verse campus located in the Research Triangle of North
Carolina. Both North Carolina State University and
Duke University are close by. UNC-CH is repeatedly
ranked one of the best public Universities and a great
place to post-doc.
Candidates should contact Corbin Jones at cdjones@
email.unc.edu
Websites: http://www.bio.unc.edu/Faculty/-
CDJones/Lab/ http://www.bio.unc.edu/dangl/lab/
Related publications:
Jeck WR, Reinhardt JA, Baltrus DA, HickenbothamMT, Magrini V, Mardis ER, Dangl JL, Jones CD. 2007.
Extending assembly of short DNA sequences to handle
error. Bioinformatics. 2007 Sep 24;
Grant SR, Fisher EJ, Chang JH, Mole BM, Dangl JL.
2006. Subterfuge and manipulation: type III eﬀec-
tor proteins of phytopathogenic bacteria. Annu Rev
Microbiol.60:425-49.
Jones JD, Dangl JL. 2006. The plant immune system.
Nature. Nov 16;444(7117):323-9.
Corbin D. Jones, Ph.D. Department of Biology Car-
olina Center for Genome Sciences Campus Box 3280,
Coker Hall UNC-Chapel Hill Chapel Hill, NC 27599-
3280
“Corbin D. Jones” <cdjones@email.unc.edu >
UNottingham SnailChirality
Apologies if you have seen this advert previously, but I
am reposting, because the application details were in-
complete last time – Postdoctoral Research Fellow
Institute of Genetics / School of Biology, University of
Nottingham
Unwinding snail chirality
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research fel-
low to work on a three-year project, funded by the BB-
SRC, on “Unwinding snail chirality”.
Although multiple lines of enquiry remain, a deep-
seated theoretical problem has stoked a burning interest
in understanding the symmetry-breaking event during
development - how is one side of an organism consis-
tently distinguished from the other, given that the side
that is called ’right’ is essentially arbitrary? Although
most prior research has concentrated on models such
as the mouse, chick and frog, we believe that the pond
Lymnaea may be a crucial organism in coming to under-
stand asymmetry, because their chirality is determined
very early in development.
The objective of this project is to take advantage of
the latest advances in DNA sequencing technology to
clone and characterize the determinant of chirality in
snails, by a novel method that we term “massive sub-
tractive linkage analysis” (MSLA). A parallel PDRA in
Professor Mark Blaxter’s lab at the University of Edin-
burgh (to be advertised separately) will lead the bioin-
formatic analyses, and there will also be collaborationSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 77
with David Lambert’s lab in Rochester, New York.
Candidates must possess a PhD in molecular genet-
ics or equivalent qualiﬁcation in a related discipline.
Experience of working with RNA and cDNA libraries
is essential, as is a meticulous approach to lab work
and note-keeping. Experience of high-precision PCR
work, genotyping, and micromanipulation of embryos
(e.g. microinjection) would also be highly desirable.
Salary range £25888 - £33780 per annum, depending
on qualiﬁcations and experience (salary can progress to
£36912 per annum subject to performance). This post
is funded by the BBSRC for a ﬁxed-term of three years,
with a provisional start date of October 1st, but with
ﬂexibility on the precise start date.
Informal enquiries are encouraged and should be ad-
dressed to Dr. Angus Davison, tel: 0115 823
0322 Email: angus.davison@nott.ac.uk, or Dr. Aziz
Aboobaker Email: aziz.aboobaker@nott.ac.uk. For the
bioinformatic post, a separate enquiry should be made
to Prof. Mark Blaxter Email mark.blaxter@ed.ac.uk
Additional information on Dr. Davison’s research
is available at http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/biology/-
contacts/davison/research.php Additional information
on Prof. Blaxter’s research is available at http://-
www.nematodes.org/ For more details and/or to apply
on-line please access: http://jobs.nottingham.ac.uk/-
MED334X1 or send a detailed CV and covering letter,
together with the names and addresses of two referees,
to Dr A Davison, School of Biology, The University of
Nottingham, Medical School, Queen’s Medical Centre,
Nottingham, NG7 2UH. Please quote ref. MED/334X1.
Closing date: 22 August 2008.
– Dr. Angus Davison
Institute of Genetics The University of Nottingham
Queen’s Medical Centre Nottingham NG7 2UH an-
gus.davison@nott.ac.uk www.molluscs.org tel 0115 823
0322 (int. 30322) fax 0115 823 0338
This message has been checked for viruses but the
contents of an attachment may still contain software
viruses, which could damage your computer system:
you are advised to perform your own checks. Email
communications with the University of Nottingham
may be monitored as permitted by UK legislation.
UNSW Linking Genotype and
PhenotypePost doctoral Position available at University of New
South Wales, Sydney Australia
Duties: to research in the area of the link between
the genotype and the phenotype, to oversee research
projects and students in the lab, and to manage the
laboratory of Prof J. William O. Ballard (while he is
Head of School) The position is available for a period
of up to 5 years.
The research goal of the lab. is to link the genotype
with the phenotype using comparative genomics, pop-
ulation genetics, biochemical analyses, and life-history
trait analyses. Our system of choice is the mitochon-
drial genome in Drosophila, however, we plan to extend
beyond this system over the next few years (so consid-
erable research ﬂexibility exists).
The successful applicant will have the opportunity to
give some lectures in Genetics/ Biochemistry as well
as supervise their own students researching mutually
agreed upon projects.
For further information contact Prof Ballard.
Closing date for applications 10th September 2008
Professor Bill Ballard Head of School School of Biotech-
nology and Biomolecular Science Faculty of Science
University of New South Wales NSW 2052 Australia
Tel: +61 2 9385 2029 FAX: +61 2 9385
1483 email w.ballard@unsw.edu.au http://-
www.babs.unsw.edu.au/staﬀ directory/ballardw.html
a.wilton@unsw.edu.au a.wilton@unsw.edu.au
UOulu Evolution of social
information use
A postdoctoral position, funded by the Academy of Fin-
land, available at the Department of Biology, University
of Oulu, Finland.
Recent studies suggest that Sir Francis Bacon?s 400
years old maxim ?Knowledge is power? holds true
also in the rest of the animal kingdom. Many ani-
mals, such as insects, birds and mammals, have been
shown to gather information in order to better antic-
ipate future environmental conditions and to optimise
own behaviour. However, very little is still known how
animals gather and use information, how prevalent it
is among animals, and what implications it has to in-
dividuals, populations and communities. Further, our
recent studies indicate that information transfer can oc-78 EvolDir September 1, 2008
cur also between species. Behavioral traits can trans-
mitted across species through social learning (Seppanen
& Forsman 2007, Current Biology 17: 1248-1252) and
this novel theme is just awaiting further exploration.
Research project: Depending on the skills and inter-
ests of the candidates, project can be build on diﬀerent
themes or combination of them. 1) One important part
of the project is to examine examine how birds acquire
and use information derived from competing species.
We have recently developed a novel experimental (Cur-
rent Biology 17) method to examine interspeciﬁc social
learning among cavity nesting birds. We will apply this
method and examine whether the non-genetic transmis-
sion of information via social learning shares the same
attributes as genetic evolution. 2) In addition to ex-
perimental studies, it is also possible to use long-term
data to study how interspeciﬁc information provided by
resident titmice aﬀects dispersal and nest-site selection
decisions of the collared ﬂycatcher. 3) The results of in-
terspeciﬁc information use challenges many predictions
of the traditional theory species coexistence. This pro-
vides many exciting and novel questions for theoretical
studies. 4) Nest predation is an important factor aﬀect-
ing the ﬁtness of birds, and one can assume that the
information value of nest predation risk is high. Our
aim is to examine which cues (olfactory, UV vision)
birds use to assess local predation risk during habitat
selection.
Field work will take place either in Oulu, or on the is-
land of Gotland, in Sweden. Part of the studies will
be done in collaboration with Dr. B. Doligez (Lyon,
France) and Prof. L. Gustafsson (Uppsala University,
Sweden).
Applications and requirements: Successful candidate
has a PhD in ecology, evolutionary ecology or related
ﬁeld and is interested in social information use and so-
cial learning, habitat selection, and species interactions.
An interest and skills for theoretical studies would be
beneﬁcial, but not necessary. The start of the posi-
tion is ﬂexible, but should preferably not be later than
October 2008. Funding is available for 15-17 months.
Salary will be 2800-3200 euros/month, depending on
the experience.
Interested applicants should mail or email a statement
of research interest, a full CV, and names and contact
information of three academic referees no later than
August 27, 2008 to Jukka Forsman, Department of Bi-
ology, University of Oulu, POB 3000, 90014 University
of Oulu, Finland.
Informal enquiries are welcome (jukka.forsman@oulu.ﬁ,
phone: +358-(0)8-5531951. I will be at the ISBE
congress at Cornell University in August (poster 154C),and I am happy to meet potential candidates during the
meeting.
Jukka Forsman <jukka.forsman@oulu.ﬁ >
URochester
PopGenomicsEvolGenetics
TWO POSTDOC POSITIONS at the UNIVERSITY
OF ROCHESTER
1. Population Genomics- A Postdoctoral position is
available immediately in the laboratory of Daniel Gar-
rigan. Research themes of the lab include (1) evolu-
tionary analysis of whole-genome polymorphism data,
(2) modeling of population structure, divergence and
speciation and (3) coalescent theory. Qualiﬁed can-
didates will have a strong background in population
genetics and computational biology. There will be an
excellent opportunity to develop strong computer pro-
gramming and statistical skills with direct applications
to the analysis of genome-wide datasets from both hu-
mans and Drosophila. Start date is ﬂexible.
For more information, please visit http://-
www.rochester.edu/College/BIO/professors/-
garrigan.html 2. Evolutionary genetics- A Post-
doctoral position is available with a July 2009 start
date in the laboratory of Daven Presgraves. Research
in the lab combines functional, molecular, and pop-
ulation genetic approaches in Drosophila to address
questions focused on (1) the genetics of speciation,
(2) the interaction between recombination and natural
selection, and (3) the evolution and genetics of segre-
gation distortion. Funds are available to support this
position for up to three years.
For more information, visit http://-
www.rochester.edu/College/BIO/professors/-
presgraves.html To apply, send by e-mail a CV,
a brief statement of research interests and contact in-
formation for 2-3 academic references to Dan Garrigan
(dgarriga@mail.rochester.edu) or Daven Presgraves
(dvnp@mail.rochester.edu).
Daven Presgraves Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Rochester Rochester, NY 14627
U.S.A.
oﬃce: (585) 275-8946 FAX: (585) 275-2070 email:
dvnp@mail.rochester.edu
dvnp@mail.rochester.eduSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 79
USouthDakota
EvolutionaryPhysiology of
Stalk-Eyed Flies
University of South Dakota: Post-Doctoral Research in
Evolutionary Physiology of Stalk-Eyed Flies
A postdoctoral position is available to study perfor-
mance and ﬁtness consequences of insect ornaments in
stalk-eyed ﬂies. The position is part of an NSF-funded
CAREER project in the laboratory of John Swallow
(http://www.usd.edu/ ˜ jswallow/index.html ), Biology
Department, University of South Dakota. The position
calls for quantitative analyses of eye span and ﬂight per-
formance to test for trade-oﬀs between secondary sexual
traits and aerodynamic and physiological adaptations
for ﬂight via direct measurements of ﬂight performance,
load lifting capacity, and ﬂight energetics. Primary re-
sponsibilities for this position include: 1) conducting
laboratory research on ﬂight biomechanics and perfor-
mance, 2) analyzing data and writing manuscripts, and
3) helping to coordinate projects of undergraduate and
graduate students involved in the project.
Successful applicants should have a Ph.D. in compar-
ative physiology, evolution, biomechanics or a related
ﬁeld. Preference given to candidates with experience in
measuring ﬂight biomechanics or performance. Salary
is $34,000 plus beneﬁts, and funds are available for 2
years pending satisfactory progress. The position can
begin as early as Jan 1 2009. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until a candidate
is selected.
To apply, please send a cover letter, a statement of re-
search interests, CV, and names and e-mail addresses of
three references to John Swallow (jswallow@usd.edu),
Biology Department, University of South Dakota, Ver-
million, SD 57069, USA.
USD is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative action em-
ployer.
John G. Swallow Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ology University of South Dakota 414 E. Clark Street
Vermillion, SD 57069 USA
Phone (605) 677-6176 Fax (605) 677-
6557 http://www.usd.edu/ ˜ jswallow/ <
http://www.usd.edu/ ~jswallow/ >
“Swallow, John G.” <John.Swallow@usd.edu >UWashington Bioinformatics
PopGenet extended
Deadline extended to August 15:
Organization*: School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences,
College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences, University of
Washington
*Title*: 2 Research Associates: 1 bioinformatics and 1
population genetics
*Position details*:
The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (SAFS
<http://ﬁsh.washington.edu/ >) at the University of
Washington has openings for two postdoctoral *Re-
search Associates (100% time) *to conduct research on
SNP discovery using next generation sequencing or pos-
sibly SNP applications in Paciﬁc salmon. These are 2-
year positions with the possibility to extend depending
upon funding. The positions are not eligible for tenure.
The general scope of the appointments may include but
is not limited to:
Development SNPs using next generation sequencing
and resequencing.
Bioinformatics.
Original research on salmon population genetics and
conservation.
Work with regional ﬁsheries managers to apply SNP
research to contemporary problems.
Formulation of problems, analysis of data, production
of scientiﬁc papers, and presentation at scientiﬁc meet-
ings.
Mentor and otherwise assist graduate students who are
doing projects in salmon genetics and supervise hourly
help involved in data analysis.
Mentor visiting scientists from Russia and Japan who
are cooperating on international SNP data bases.
/ /
Requirements:
* Ph.D. in genetics, biology, or a related ﬁeld**
The following experience is desired:
Expertise in DNA sequencing
Expertise in bioinformatics80 EvolDir September 1, 2008
*Positions are located* at the University of Washing-
ton, Seattle, WA. The University of Washington is an
aﬃrmative action, equal opportunity employer. The
University is building a culturally diverse faculty and
staﬀ and strongly encourages applications from women,
minorities, individuals with disabilities and covered vet-
erans.
“University of Washington faculty engage in teaching,
research and service.”
Interested persons should/ send/ CV, letter of
intent including names and contact information
for three references via email to /Dr. Jim Seeb,
School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences/, Uni-
versity of Washington (/jseeb@u.washington.edu
<mailto:rayh@u.washington.edu >/). Application
deadline is August 15, 2008./ /For successful can-
didates, a background check for criminal history is
required.
Jim Seeb <jseeb@u.washington.edu >
UWisconsinMadison
PopulationGenetics
Postdoctoral Position in Population Genetics at the
University of Wisconsin at Madison
A NIH-funded POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is avail-
able in the laboratory of Bret Payseur in the Labora-
tory of Genetics at the University of Wisconsin (Madi-
son, WI). The research focus will be the inference of
evolutionary processes from genome-wide patterns of
DNA polymorphism. Potential topics include (but are
not limited to): the detection and characterization of
natural selection operating on diﬀerent timescales, the
measurement of population structure and demographic
history, and genome-wide association mapping of com-
plex traits.
The position oﬀers several notable advantages. The
postdoctoral researcher will work at the inter-
face between genomics and population genetics, an
exciting and rapidly expanding area with wide-
ranging applications. The Payseur lab ( http://-
payseur.genetics.wisc.edu/ ), whose members conduct
research on a broad array of interesting topics in evo-
lutionary genetics, provides a stimulating and interac-
tive environment conducive to inter-disciplinary train-
ing. The postdoctoral researcher will have the opportu-
nity to collaborate closely with Professor Payseur, whois actively engaged with each project in the lab. Salary
and beneﬁts are competitive. The term of the position
is ﬂexible.
The Laboratory of Genetics features a strong histori-
cal tradition in population genetics, which includes Se-
wall Wright, Motoo Kimura, and James Crow. UW-
Madison has a thriving community of evolutionary
biologists from departments across campus ( http://-
evolution.wisc.edu/ ). The university is also very strong
in related ﬁelds, such as statistical genetics. Madison
is consistently ranked as one of the best U. S. cities in
which to live.
The primary qualiﬁcation for the position is a Ph.D. in
population genetics, evolutionary biology, bioinformat-
ics, computer science, statistics, genetics, applied math-
ematics, or a related ﬁeld. Proﬁciency in programming
and/or statistics is highly desirable.
Applicants should send a cover letter summarizing their
research background and interest in the position, a re-
cent CV, and contact information for three references
(all as pdfs) to Bret Payseur at payseur@wisc.edu. Re-
view of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled.
Bret Payseur Assistant Professor Laboratory of Genet-
ics
Genetics/Biotechnology 2428 425-G Henry Mall Uni-
versity of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706
Oﬃce phone: 608-890-0867 Lab phone: 608-262-6856
Fax: 608-262-2976 Email: payseur@wisc.edu http:/-
/www.genetics.wisc.edu/faculty/proﬁle.php?id=471
Bret Payseur <payseur@wisc.edu >
UWisconsin
MonocotPhyloGenomics
Post-doctoral positions, monocot phylogenomics and
evolution
Two post-doctoral positions in monocot molecular phy-
logenetics and compar ative biology are now avail-
able in the Department of Botany at the University
of Wisconsin-Madison. Annual salaries are $36,000
based on 22-month terms. These positions provide
exciting opportunities for research on broad-scale pat-
terns of monocot phylo geny, biogeography, and ecology.
The successful candidates will work closely with T. J.
Givnish in Madison, as part of a $2.9M project fundedSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 81
by NSF and involving six campuses in the United States
and colleagues in Canada, Europe, Japan, and Aus-
tralia. Research will include (1) sequencing, annotat-
ing, and comparing whole chloroplast genomes, and
(2) identifying and sequencing several nuclear genes for
taxa represent ing all major groups of monocots. Both
positions will involve extensive phylogenetic analyses,
calibration of molecular trees against fossil dates, and
overlays of morpho ˆA’logical, ecological, and distribu-
tional data. Opportunities will be provided for close
collabora tion with other post-docs and PIs involved
in the project, including studies of transcrip tomes,
whole-plastid genomes, a wide array of morphological
and anatomical characters, and fossil monocots. Appli-
cants should have extensive hands-on experience with
DNA sequencing, informatics, and phylogenetic recon
struc tion, broad evolu tionary interests, and excellent
skills in written and oral expression.
Applicants should contact Professor Givnish at
givnish@wisc.edu. Please provide a letter summariz-
ing your research interests and experience, why this
opportunity is exciting for you, and contact informa-
tion for two professional references. Preferred starting
dates are September 15 2008 for the plastome position,
and February 1 2009 for the nuclear-gene position, but
some ﬂexibility is available to permit recruitment of the
strongest possible candidates.
Madison is a vibrant community of 200,000 set amid
four large lakes, with a rich mix of cultural oﬀerings
and outdoor activities, and an excellent quality of life.
The University of Wisconsin-Madison is a world-class
research center, with 42,000 students and 2000 faculty;
federal research funding ranks third nationally among
public institutions. Excellent sequencing facilities are
available through the UW Biotechnology Center. The
Department of Botany perennially ranks in the top ﬁve
among its peers nationally, and includes six labs with a
strong focus on plant evolution and systematics. Infor-
mation on research in Professor Givnishˆ as lab can be
seen at http://www.botany.wisc.edu/ givnish.
Unless conﬁdentiality is requested in writing, informa-
tion regarding applicants and nominees must be re-
leased upon request. Finalists cannot be guaranteed
conﬁ denti ality.
The University of Wisconsin-Madison is an Equal Op-
portunity and Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
carollee@wisc.edu carollee@wisc.eduVanderbiltU EvolutionaryGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN BACTERIO-
PHAGE GENOMICS AND FUNCTION
A postdoctoral position in phage genomics and func-
tion is available in the Bordenstein laboratory in the
Department of Biological Sciences at Vanderbilt Uni-
versity.
The Bordenstein lab is interested in the patterns that
characterize the evolution and function of bacterio-
phage in intracellular bacteria. This work involves three
components: the application of theory and data from
bacteriophage in free-living bacteria to bacteriophage
in intracellular bacteria, the comparative genomics of
bacteriophages in endosymbionts, and the relevance of
phage to bacterial functions. Wolbachia endosymbionts
are an excellent bacterial system to study these biologi-
cal phenomena. The spread of this germline bacterium
through the majority of animal species over the last 100
million years represents one of life’s great pandemics.
Studying the molecular evolution and function of bac-
teriophage in this symbiont will contribute to a fuller
understanding of mobile elements in intracellular bac-
teria, the evolution of a widespread, animal-microbe as-
sociation, and forge applications to human health and
agriculture.
Applicants soon to acquire their Ph.D. or with previ-
ous postgraduate experience are welcomed. Candidates
should be skilled in genome sequencing, molecular evo-
lution, and/or molecular biology of mobile elements.
Vanderbilt is located in the cultural and educational
center of Nashville, TN.
To apply, please send a CV, a cover letter stat-
ing research interests and anticipated start date,
and contact information for three references to
s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu.
Lab: https://medschool.mc.vanderbilt.edu/biosci/-
biofac.php?id3=17392 Vanderbilt EEB group:
http://www.vanderbilt.edu/evolution Department of
Biological Sciences: http://sitemason.vanderbilt.edu/-
biosci –
Seth Bordenstein Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ological Sciences Vanderbilt University VU Station B,
Box 35-1634 Nashville, TN 37235
email: s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu82 EvolDir September 1, 2008
phone: 1-615-322-9087 fax: 1-615-343-
6707 http://bordensteinlab.vanderbilt.edu
s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu
s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu
YaleU MicrobPopGenetics
Postdoctoral opening in the Townsend laboratory and
the Galvani group
A post-doctoral position in microbial population genet-
ics is available, located jointly in the Townsend labo-
ratory in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology and the Galvani Group in the Division of Epi-
demiology of Microbial Diseases, at Yale University.
The Townsend laboratory integrates theory, computa-
tion, and experiment to study functional genomics and
evolutionary biology. Theoretical work includes mod-
eling of the evolution of gene expression, bioinformat-
ics and statistics for the analysis of DNA microarrays,
phylogenetics and evolutionary biology, and novel theo-
retical approaches for the analysis of microbial commu-
nities when horizontal gene transfer belies traditional
species concepts.
The Galvani group focuses on theoretical approaches to
integrating epidemiology and evolutionary ecology or
economics in order to generate predictions that could
not be made by these disciplines alone. This interdisci-
plinary approach has widespread potential for answer-
ing evolutionary questions, explaining empirical obser-vations and informing public health policy.
This position provides an opportunity to integrate mi-
crobial population genetics and phylogenetics with epi-
demiological modeling and analysis. Although a project
requiring skills in bioinformatics and microbial popula-
tion genetics in this area is currently envisioned, candi-
dates interested in any of the above topics should feel
encouraged to inquire further. This position will re-
quire an independent and motivated individual.
Applicants soon to acquire their Ph.D. or with previous
postdoctoral experience are welcomed. All applicants
should have received their Ph.D. prior to takingup the
appointment.
Funding is available for multiple years, depending on
performance. The salary will be greater than the NIH
guidelines, and commensurate with experience and ex-
pertise. Yale is located in New Haven in the heart of
New England, close to New York, Hartford, Providence,
and Boston.
Starting date is ﬂexible.
To apply, please send a CV, a brief statement of re-
search interests and contact information for three aca-
demic references to
Jeﬀrey.Townsend@Yale.edu
or
Alison.Galvani@Yale.edu
Lab web sites:
http://www.yale.edu/townsend/ http://-
www.med.yale.edu/eph/faculty/labs/galvani/ jef-
frey.townsend@yale.edu jeﬀrey.townsend@yale.edu
WorkshopsCourses
Auckland StatGenetics Dec9-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
ETH Zurich DetectingSelection Sep23-24 . . . . . . . . . . 83
Panama ConsGenetics Jan18-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83Smithsonian Panama ConsGenetics Jan18-31 . . . . . . 83
Tucson Microarray Jan4-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84September 1, 2008 EvolDir 83
Auckland StatGenetics Dec9-16
A subset of the Summer Institute in Statistical Ge-
netics will be oﬀered at the University of Auck-
land, New Zealand during December 9-16, 2008. Six
modules will be available: Population Genetic Data
Analysis, Quantitative Genetics, QTL Mapping, As-
sociation Mapping, DNA Evidence, and Computing
for Statistical Genetics. Details are available at
http://www.stat.auckland.ac.nz/sisg2008/ Bruce Weir
bsweir@u.washington.edu
Sharon Browing s.browning@auckland.ac.nz
ETH Zurich DetectingSelection
Sep23-24
Compact-course, Informatics department, Swiss Fed-
eral Institute of Technology Zurich (ETHZ)
23-24 september 2008 (1 or 2 day options) Title: “From
dinosaurs to virology: detecting natural selection in
comparative genomics” Prof. G. Gonnet, Dr. M. Anisi-
mova
The course is designed for researchers in biomedi-
cal sciences, computing sciences and bioinformatics.
Academic participants are oﬀered a 50% discount.
Places are limited, so early registration is recom-
mended. For more information and registration visit
the course website: http://www.inf.ethz.ch/kurs54 or
contact Madeleine Bernard: bernard@inf.ethz.ch
manisimova@hotmail.com
Panama ConsGenetics Jan18-31
Recent Advances in Conservation Genetics
January 18th through January 31st, 2009
The American Genetic Association ( http://-
www.theaga.org/ overview.html) in conjunction
with the National Cancer, Institute, The Laboratoryof Genomic Diversity, Frederick, Maryland ( http:/-
/home.ncifcrf.gov/ccr/lgd ), NOAHS-Smithsonian
Institute and the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute ( http://stri.org/ ) is presenting a 13 day
intensive course January 18th through January 31st,
2009, at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
in the Republic of Panama. The course will be directed
by Dr. Stephen J. O’Brien, and taught by renowned
scientists in methods, interpretation, and applications
of molecular genetic analyses for conservation of en-
dangered species, who will also share a variety of their
personal experiences in this important ﬁeld. Applicants
should be conservation-minded scientists (advanced
graduate students, post-docs, teachers, and researchers
with advanced degrees) from academia, government,
non-government organizations, or industry who are
studying the genetics of endangered species and who
will apply the knowledge gained from this course to
the conservation of such species.
Interested individuals can contact us at con-
gen@ncifcrf.gov or visit the website at http://-
home.ncifcrf.gov/ccr/lgd/congen2009/index.asp for
course details.
Sher Hendrickson, PhD
Laboratory of Genomic Diversity National Cancer In-
stitute Bldg 560, Room 11-26 Frederick, MD 21702
(301)846-7244 hendricksons@mail.nih.gov
Smithsonian Panama ConsGenetics
Jan18-31
“Recent Advances in Conservation Genetics” January
18th through January 31st, 2009
The American Genetic Association ( http://-
www.theaga.org/overview.html ) in conjunction
with the National Cancer, Institute, The Laboratory
of Genomic Diversity, Frederick, Maryland ( http:/-
/home.ncifcrf.gov/ccr/lgd ), NOAHS-Smithsonian
Institute and the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute ( http://stri.org/ ) is presenting a 13 day
intensive course January 18th through January 31st,
2009, at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
in the Republic of Panama. The course will be directed
by Dr. Stephen J. O’Brien, and taught by renowned
scientists in methods, interpretation, and applications
of molecular genetic analyses for conservation of
endangered species, who will also share a variety of
their personal experiences in this important ﬁeld.84 EvolDir September 1, 2008
Applicants should be conservation-minded scientists
(advanced graduate students, post-docs, teachers, and
researchers with advanced degrees) from academia,
government, non-government organizations, or indus-
try who are studying the genetics of endangered species
and who will apply the knowledge gained from this
course to the conservation of such species. Interested
individuals can contact us at congen@ncifcrf.gov or
visit the website at http://home.ncifcrf.gov/ccr/lgd/-
congen2009/index.asp for course details.
– Dr. Warren E. Johnson Laboratory of Genomic Di-
versity National Cancer Institute Frederick MD 21702-
1201
TEL: 301-846-7483 FAX: 301-846-6327
johnsonw@mail.ncifcrf.gov johnsonw@mail.ncifcrf.gov
Tucson Microarray Jan4-9
NINTH INTERNATIONAL LONG-
OLIGONUCLEOTIDE MICROARRAY WORKSHOP
January 4-9, 2009 The University of Arizona Tucson,
Arizona
This workshop will comprise a combination of lectures
and hand-on laboratory sessions. The participants
will primarily employ Arabidopsis and maize (plant
side) and human, bovine and porcine (animal side)
whole genome 70-mer oligonucleotide microarrays in
their laboratory work (for details of the plant arrays
seehttp://www.ag.arizona.edu/microarray andhttp:/-
/www.maizearray.org/ . The workshop will be divided
into two parts: Part I (Sunday 4PM to Wednesday
5PM) will cover wet-lab aspects of microarray targetproduction and ampliﬁcation, microarray hybridiza-
tion, and scanning. Part II (all day, Thursday and
Friday) will concentrate on data extraction, statisti-
cal analysis, and experimental design. Together these
topics are aimed at the goal of the participants obtain-
ing optimal results using oligonucleotide-based microar-
rays. Part II may be taken separately.
Speciﬁc topics to be covered include:
* Experimental design. * Probe preparation and mi-
croarray printing. * Microarray rehydration and probe
immobilization. * Target preparation, including RNA
extraction, direct and indirect labeling, and ampliﬁca-
tion techniques. * Microarray hybridization. * Array
scanning and data extraction. * Data analysis and
archiving.
Registration (Part I plus Part II) is $700, which in-
cludes costs of the microarrays and other supplies that
you will use. Part II registration only is $300. Part I
participants will be limited to 40 on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-
serve basis. Overall participation will be limited to 60
individuals.
Note: There are a number of airline connections from
Tucson to San Diego on Friday evening, allowing work-
shop participants convenient access to the Plant and
Animal Genome XVII Meeting (January 10-14).
For further details and to register, please contact David
Galbraith (galbraith@arizona.edu)
David W. Galbraith Professor of Plant Sciences & Pro-
fessor, Bio5 Institute University of Arizona Oﬃce: 341
Keating Building
Mailing address: BIO5 Institute The University of Ari-
zona 1657 E. Helen St. Tucson, AZ 85721-0240
Tel: (520) 621-9153 Fax: (520) 626-4824 Email: gal-
braith@arizona.edu http://cals.arizona.edu/galbraith
taylorjerr@missouri.edu
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if itSeptember 1, 2008 EvolDir 85
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.