E v o l D i r
March 1, 2016
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1302 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Conferences
Aber UK Genetics Apr5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Asilomar California LocalAdaptation Jul14-17 . . . . . . 3
AsilomarCA LocalAdaptation Jul14-17 Registration 3
Austin Evolution Jun17-21 SpotlightPhylogenetics . . 4
Austin Evolution Jun17-21 Spotlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Austin PlantSpeciation June16-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Austin Texas SocStudyEvolution Jun17-21 . . . . . . . . . 6
AustinTX UndergradTravelAward Jun17-21 . . . . . . . . 7
Boise Idaho InvasivePlants Oct17-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Bournemouth UK ProtistEvolution Apr6-8 . . . . . . . . . 7
Edinburgh QuantGenetics Mar9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Exeter BehaviourEvolution Jul28-Aug3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Helsinki WildPlantPathosystems Aug29-31 . . . . . . . . . 8
Lyon BehaviourEvolution Jun27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Lyon EvolutionaryBehaviour Jun27-Jul1 . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Orlando PopEvolQuantGenetics Jul13-17 . . . . . . . . . . . 9
OxfordUK InsectSymbionts Mar15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
OxfordUK ProbGen2016 Sep12-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Rosco France 50yrsMolecularHistory May9-13 Re-minder3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
SanAntonio TX SMBESatelliteGeneticsAdmixedPop
May18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Savannah Georgia PlantEvol Jul29-Aug3 Undergrad-
Travel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Seville EvolEcol Jan31-Feb4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Smithsonian Biodiversity Nov9-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Switzerland GenomicBasisEcoEvolutionaryChange
Jun5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
TexasAMU EvolutionaryBiology Mar31-Apr1 . . . . . .15
Tuscany Speciation Feb19-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics Mar15 Deadline 16
UMichigan CommunityEvolution Mar12 . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Vairao Portugal Congenomics2016 May3-6 . . . . . . . . .17
Vairao Portugal ConservationGenetics May3-6 . . . . .18
Valencia RNAmodicationEvolution Mar1 LastCall 19
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May6-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Aber UK Genetics Apr5-7
Of course you are planning on coming to the 60th annual
meeting of the Ecological Genetics Group, a special inter-
est group of the Genetics Society and the British Ecologi-
cal Society. The meeting is 5 - 7 April 2016. The meeting
is preceded by a workshop on phenomics and genomics
on the 4th of April, with a programme now available:
http://www.aber.ac.uk/en/ibers/events/egg2016/ The
EGG meeting itself is an excellent and informal forum
for presenting novel data. Talks from young scientists
and PhD students are particularly welcome. There is
also a poster session and opportunities to present a
discussion topic.Accommodation is in the old college and sea front halls
in Aber, a smashing location.
Conference dinner will also be there and our now tra-
ditional EGG heads Pub Quiz. There will be also be a
eld visit to our nearby Upland research centre. Overall
plenty of time for informal chats with all participants.
Please keep those oers of papers, posters and discussion
topics coming in. http://www.aber.ac.uk/en/ibers/-
events/egg2016/ Hope to see you all in Aber in April.
Regards
John
Professor John Warren
Institute of Biological, Environmental & Rural Sciences
(IBERS) Edward Llwyd Building Aberystwyth Univer-
sity Penglais Campus Aberystwyth Ceredigion SY23March 1, 2016 EvolDir 3
3DA
Tel: 01970 621637
Sent by Kirsten Wol
Newcastle University
Kirsten Wol <kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.uk >
Asilomar California
LocalAdaptation Jul14-17
EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION NOW! The American
Genetic Association President ^As Symposium, \Local
adaptation: from phenotype to genotype to tness",
will be held July 14-17, 2016, at beautiful Asilomar, CA
(http://www.visitasilomar.com/). In the past, many
studies dealt only with phenotypes/traits, but today
the connection to genotype is becoming feasible for more
and more organisms. Our speakers are a blend of es-
tablished and new investigators, working on a variety
of organisms, and who are taking diverse approaches
to the question. The AGA will provide several travel
awards to cover registration for graduate students who
would like to attend and present posters. Six abstracts
will be selected for oral presentations, and the students
will receive $500 awards. Details and registration are
available at the AGA website: http://www.theaga.org
Invited speakers: Key Distinguished Lecture by Vic-
toria Sork (Dean of Life Sciences, UCLA) Sally Aitken
University of British Columbia Jill Anderson Univer-
sity of Georgia Zach Cheviron University of Illinois
Emily Dittmar Michigan State University Suzanne Ed-
mands University of Southern California David Field
Inst. Science and Tech, Austria Lila Fishman University
of Montana Jannice Freidman Syracuse University Steve
Keller University of Vermont John Kelly University of
Kansas Brian Langerhans North Carolina State Uni-
versity Curtis Lively Indiana University Robert Reed
Cornell University Douglas Schemske Michigan State
University Rena Schweizer UCLA Kerry Shaw Cornell
University Peter Tin University of Minnesota
Lynda Delph, AGA President
AGAJOH<AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu >AsilomarCA LocalAdaptation
Jul14-17 Registration
EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION NOW!
The American Genetic Association President's Sympo-
sium, 'Local adaptation: from phenotype to genotype
to tness', will be held July 14-17, 2016, at beautiful
Asilomar, CA (http://www.visitasilomar.com/).
In the past, many studies dealt only with pheno-
types/traits, but today the connection to genotype is
becoming feasible for more and more organisms. Our
speakers are a blend of established and new investiga-
tors, working on a variety of organisms, and who are
taking diverse approaches to the question.
The AGA will provide several travel awards to cover
registration for graduate students who would like to at-
tend and present posters. Six abstracts will be selected
for oral presentations, and the students will receive $500
awards. Details and registration are available at the
AGA website: http://www.theaga.org Invited speakers:
Key Distinguished Lecture by Victoria Sork (Dean of
Life Sciences, UCLA)
Sally Aitken University of British Columbia Jill An-
derson University of Georgia Zach Cheviron University
of Illinois Emily Dittmar Michigan State University
Suzanne Edmands University of Southern California
David Field Inst. Science and Tech, Austria Lila Fish-
man University of Montana Jannice Freidman Syracuse
University Steve Keller University of Vermont John
Kelly University of Kansas Brian Langerhans North
Carolina State University Curtis Lively Indiana Univer-
sity Robert Reed Cornell University Douglas Schemske
Michigan State University Rena Schweizer UCLA Kerry
Shaw Cornell University Peter Tin University of Min-
nesota
Lynda Delph, AGA President
AGAJOH<AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu >4 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Austin Evolution Jun17-21
SpotlightPhylogenetics
We've extended the deadline for our spotlight session to
March 19th, 2016.
Please send on your ideas!
|||- Forwarded message |||- From: Erick Matsen
<matsen@fredhutch.org >Date: Tue, Jan 26, 2016 at
10:13 AM Subject: Conference: Evolution 2016 Spot-
light session on Next-generation phylogenetic inference
To: evoldir <evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca >
This is a call for speakers for a $B!F(BSpotlight
session$B!G(B devoted to next-generation phyloge-
netic inference at the 2016 Evolution Meetings in
Austin. $B!F(BSpotlight sessions$B!G(B are a new
type of session that dier from the traditional sym-
posia at these meetings. For more information
visit: http://www.evolutionmeetings.org/instructions-
for-presenters.html Topic: Statistical phylogenetic in-
ference methods, and in particular Bayesian methods,
are reaching a hard limit on the number of taxa that
can be used in an analysis. Although many interest-
ing and worthwhile eorts have been made to increase
the computational eciency of these methods, it ap-
pears that existing inference strategies will simply not
scale to orders of magnitude more taxa. In this session
we will explore alternate strategies and algorithms for
phylogenetic inference.
Organizer(s): Frederick $B!H(BErick$B!I(B Mat-
sen (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
matsen@fredhutch.org), Tracy Heath (Iowa State,
phylo@iastate.edu), and Felipe Zapata (San Francisco
State, felipe zapata@brown.edu)
The spotlight session consists of one 28 min, four 13 min,
and twelve 5 min ($B!H(Blightning$B!I(B) talks. If you
are interested in speaking in this session please submit
an application to Erick Matsen at matsen@fredhutch.org.
The application must include your: (1) Name; (2) In-
stitution; (3) rank (e.g., student, postdoc, faculty); (4)
names & institutions of co-authors on your talk; (5) a
short abstract (max: 300 words); and (6) which talk
type(s) you are willing to give (28, 13, or 5; the more
exible you are the more likely you are to be selected).
Applications must be received by Feb. 21, 2016. No
nancial support is provided to selected speakers (i.e.,
speakers must pay their own travel, accommodation,registration, etc.).
You may still register to give a standard 13 min. talk
in a regular contributed session at the meeting even if
you apply to participate in a Spotlight session. How-
ever, if you are selected to speak in the spotlight session,
you will have to choose which talk slot to use as each
conference attendee is allowed to give only one oral
presentation. Applicants will be informed about the
outcome of their application by late March.
Organized sessions are committed to representing di-
versity. All interested individuals are encouraged to
apply.
Useful links: Evolution 2016 conference website:
http://www.evolutionmeetings.org/evolution-2016|
austin-texas.html Information for presenters, including
Spotlight sessions: http://www.evolutionmeetings.org/-
instructions-for-presenters.html Frederick \Erick"
Matsen, Associate Member Fred Hutchinson Cancer
Research Center http://matsen.fredhutch.org/ Erick
Matsen<matsen@fredhutch.org >
Austin Evolution Jun17-21
Spotlights
EVOLUTION2016 SPOTLIGHT SESSIONS
This year we are introducing a new way to give an oral
presentation at the Evolution meetings: SPOTLIGHT
SESSIONS.
Each Spotlight Session will focus on an intellectually
cohesive theme (see below), providing an excellent venue
to present your research to a highly engaged audience.
If your work falls within one of the themes, we strongly
encourage you to apply to participate in the appropriate
spotlight session as this session will include other speak-
ers and audience members that are most interested in
your work. Session organizers are now accepting appli-
cations. Session organizers are leaders in the eld and
have been asked to select presentations to create an in-
tellectually stimulating session while ensuring speakers
reect diversity (including gender and career stage, i.e.,
grads + pdfs please apply). There is no cost/risk to
applying as individuals can (and should) also register
to give a standard talk in case they are not selected to
participate in the Spotlight Session.
The deadline for applications to all 3 Spotlight Sessions
has been extended to Apr. 30 (coinciding with the end
of early meeting registration).March 1, 2016 EvolDir 5
This years Spotlight Sessions are:
1)The evolution of species interactions Organiz-
ers:M.C. Stoddard (Harvard), Marjorie Weber (UC
Davis/Michigan State) and Jesse R. Lasky (Penn State)
Applications to: jrl35@psu.edu
2)Next generation phylogenetic inference Organiz-
ers:Erick Matsen (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center), Tracey Heath (Iowa State), and Felipe Za-
pata (San Francisco State) Applications to: mat-
sen@fredhutch.org
3)Understanding history and process in rapid diversi-
cation with genomic data Organizer:KatieWagner (U
Wyoming) Applications to: cwagne22@uwyo.edu
Learn more about the themes of the Spotlight Sessions:
http://www.evolutionmeetings.org/special-talks.html
APPLICATION INFORMATION A Spotlight Session
consists of one 28 min, ve 13 min, and twelve5 min
('lightning') talks. If you are interested in speaking in
this series please submit an application to the appro-
priate Spotlight Session organizer (emails above). The
application must include: (1) Name, (2) institution, (3)
rank (e.g., student, pdf, faculty), (4) names & insti-
tutions of co-authors, (5) a short abstract (max: 300
words), and (6) which talk types you are willing to give
(28, 13, or 5; the more exible you are the more likely
you are to be selected). Applications must be received
by April 30, 2016. No nancial support is provided
to selected speakers (i.e., speakers must pay their own
travel, accommodation, registration, etc.).
You may still register to give a standard or lightning talk
in an 'open session' atthe meetings even if you apply to
participate in a Spotlight Session, and you should do
so if you want to ensure that you can give a talk at the
meeting. However, if you are selected to speak in the
spotlight session, you will have to choose which talk slot
to use as each attendee is allowed to give only one oral
presentation.
Organized sessions are committed to representing diver-
sity. All interestedindividuals are encouraged to apply.
howard.rundle@uottawa.caAustin PlantSpeciation June16-17
Weare excited to announce that a Plant Speciation Mini-
Conference will beheld on June 16-17, 2016 at the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin. This isan informal meeting
with the goal of bringing together scientists interestedin
the process of Plant Speciation for discussions, sharing
odeas, and community building. The meeting will oc-
cur just prior to theInternational Evolution Meeting,
which begins the evening of June 17that the Palmer Con-
vention Center in downtown Austin. The conference
willbe free of charge, but requires prior registration.
Themeeting is open to students, postdocs, and
faculty members who are interestedin topics re-
lated to Plant Speciation. For more information
andregistration, see the conference link: https:/-
/plantspeciation.wordpress.com Rationale:Our
understanding of plant speciation has greatly
expanded eversince University of Texas Pro-
fessor Verne Grant published his magnumopus
~A^ a:APlantSpeciation ~A^a: ?`1245 years ago. From
the quanticationof reproductive isolating barriers, and
the order in whichthey establish, to determining the
genetic mechanisms underlying thosebarriers, major
advance have been made in how new plant species
originate.Simultaneously, the advances in molecular
biology and phylogeneticmethods have allowed the
study of adaptive radiations, the identicationof key
innovations driving diversication, and the discoveryof
unsuspected links between geography and diversity.
Despite thisprogress, a synthesis between the processes
driving the evolution ofplant populations with those
contributing to patterns of biodiversityremains elusive.
The time is ripe for a synthesis to integratestud-
ies of reproductive isolation in plants with those
revealingphylogenetic patterns of plant diversication.
Theprimary aim of the Plant Speciation Mini-
Conference is to bring togetherresearchers that work
at the cutting edge of plant speciation atboth the pop-
ulation and phylogenetic level. Of particular interest
willbe addressing the following fundamental questions
about plant speciation:1) Does ecology drive postzy-
gotic isolation and if so, how? 2)How does geography
interact with ecology to facilitate speciation? 3)What is
the role of chromosomal rearrangements in reproductive
isolationand how do those rearrangements become estab-
lished? 4) How do abioticand biotic factors contribute6 EvolDir March 1, 2016
independently and interactively toplant speciation? 5)
Do hybrid incompatibilities snowball over time?6) How
does sexual selection contribute to plant speciation? 7)
Whatis the role of genetic drift in plant speciation? 8)
What reproductivebarriers are most important early in
plant speciation and whatbarriers evolve later to forever
prevent hybridization between phylogeneticlineages into
the future? Can these processes determine phylogenetic-
patterns of plant diversity? Answers to these and similar
questionswill pave the way for a new understanding of
how processes responsiblefor population level divergence
shape the tree of life.
Thankyou for your interest,
TheOrganizers: David Lowry, Daniel Ortiz-Barrientos,
Yaniv Brandvain
DavidB. Lowry AssistantProfessor PlantBiology
Department MichiganState University PlantBiology
Laboratories Room 268 517-432-4882 http://-
davidbryantlowry.wordpress.com/ DavidLowry
<dlowry@msu.edu >
Austin Texas SocStudyEvolution
Jun17-21
SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF EVOLUTION
Get Ready for EVOLUTION 2016! Our annual meeting
with SSB & ASN will be June 17-21, 2016 in Austin, TX.
Registration will open in late Feb. or early March. In
addition to the standard sessions and symposia, this year
will see the introduction of spotlight sessions, organized
by young leaders in the eld. SSE's spotlight session,
\Understanding history and process in rapid diversi-
cation with genomic data", is organized by Catherine
Wagner (UWyo). The spotlight series consists of one
30 min, ve 15 min, and twelve 5 min (lightning) talks.
If you are interested in speaking in this series please
submit an application to Catherine Wagner (cather-
ine.wagner@uwyo.edu).
The application must include: (1) Name, (2) Institution,
(3) rank (e.g., student, pdf, faculty), (4) names & insti-
tutions of collaborators (5) a short abstract (max: 300
words), and (6) which talk types you are willing to give
(30, 15, or 5; the more exible you are the more likely
you are to be selected). Applications must be received
by February 28, 2016. No nancial support is provided
to selected speakers (i.e., speakers must pay their own
travel, accommodation, registration, etc.). You may stillregister to give a standard talk in an open session at
the Evolution Meetings even if you apply to participate
in a spotlight session. However, if you are selected to
speak in the spotlight series, you will have to choose
which talk slot to use as each attendee is allowed to give
only one oral presentation.
LIFE DISCOVERY CONFERENCE The dynamic and
changing worlds of biology and education are converg-
ing in the discovery, learning and practice of science.
The Life Discovery - Doing Science Conference seeks
to create connections that inspire Biology in Action.
Now in its third year, the conference (sponsored by
SSE and other scientic societies) oers more than 30
hands-on workshops and presentations, networking ses-
sions and two keynotes by Andrew Martin from UC
Boulder and Kevin Coyle from the National Wildlife
Federation that share ideas and strategies to engage
your students in discovering life on earth. Register by
March 4th. Colleagues from all disciplines seeking to
connect educational approaches with the rich advances
of Biology are encouraged to attend.
We're anticipating 2000+ attendees, over 1000 talks,
hundreds of posters, and a variety of workshops and
other special events! Please visit the EVOLUTION
2016 site for further information about the meeting,
eld trips, and more.
AWARD DEADLINES The Theodosius Dobzhansky
Prize is awarded annually by the Society for the Study of
Evolution to recognize the accomplishments and future
promise of an outstanding young evolutionary biologist.
The Dobzhansky Prize is accompanied by a check for
U.S. $5000. The candidate must have a Ph.D. (or equiv-
alent) awarded no earlier than May 2012 and no later
than 1st February 2016, and must be actively involved
in research in the eld of evolutionary biology. Candi-
dates may apply directly or may be nominated. The
application/nomination materials must be sent as PDF
e-mail attachments is 15 February 2016. All materials
should be sent to the SSE Secretary (Cynthia Weinig)
at cweinig@uwyo.edu.
The W.D. Hamilton Award for Outstanding Student Pre-
sentation will be given to a student who has presented
an outstanding talk at the annual meeting. Finalists
will present their papers during a day-long symposium
of Hamilton Award candidate talks. This year, nalists
will receive a $500 travel stipend from the SSE to at-
tend the Evolution meeting. Graduate students must
indicate their interest to compete by checking a box
for the Hamilton Award during meeting registration.
Submit a 400-word abstract and talk title as part of the
meeting registration process by 11:59 p.m. on APRIL
30. Finalists will be notied by May 15.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 7
Thank you for your continued work and support of our
mission. Best wishes, Kimberly Hughes, SSE President
[3c37ac39-671f-40fb-aa19-f895fab2b20c.jpg] SSE Busi-
ness Oce PO Box 299 jSt. Louis Missouri, 63166
314-577-9566 www.evolutionsociety.org friend on Face-
bookjforward to a friend Copyright ~A^Ac2016 Society
for the Study of Evolution, All rights reserved. You are
receiving this communication as a member of the Soci-
ety for the Study of Evolution. Our mailing address is:
Society for the Study of Evolution PO Box 299 St Louis,
MO 63166 Add us to your address book unsubscribe
from this listjupdate subscription preferences
Society for the Study of Evolution
hcacanindin@evolutionsociety.org >
AustinTX UndergradTravelAward
Jun17-21
Travel Award - Undergraduate Diversity at Evolution
2016
We are pleased to announce an undergraduate travel
award to bring talented and diverse undergraduates to
the Evolution meetings this June 17-21 in Austin, TX
(www.evolutionmeetings.org).
For the 13th year we will fund a cohort of undergradu-
ates from throughout the U.S. and Puerto Rico to (1)
present a poster at the meetings, (2) receive mentoring
from graduate students, postdocs and faculty, and (3)
participate in a career-oriented 'Undergraduate Futures
in Evolutionary Biology' panel and discussion. The pro-
gram is sponsored by SSE/BEACON and covers the
costs of travel, registration, food and accommodation
at the meetings. The application deadline is Monday,
April 18th, and decisions will be announced by Tuesday,
April 26th.
Applications are welcomed from all undergraduates, and
the admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of students.
An overview of the program and the online application
can be found at: http://beacon-center.org/ude/. Appli-
cations consist of a short statement of interest, a letter
of recommendation, and the title and abstract of the
poster to be presented.
For inquires, please contact one of the organizers:
Alexa Warwick - awarwick@msu.edu Richard Kli-
man - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu Scott Edwards - sed-
wards@fas.harvard.edu
\awarwick@msu.edu" <awarwick@msu.edu >Boise Idaho InvasivePlants Oct17-20
Plan to join us October 17-20, 2016 at the Boise Centre
in Boise, ID for the 4th Conference - Invasive Plants in
Natural Areas. This four day conference will feature pre-
sentations on the latest developments in invasive plant
research and provide ample opportunity for managers
and researchers to engage and identify creative new ap-
proaches to managing invasions. Join the discussion of
possibilities and problems specic to the management
of invasive plants in natural areas, and perhaps more
importantly, contribute to solutions! More information
about symposia topics (hopefully one about evolution
in invasions!) will be provided soon! See www.nripc.org
for more information
\Gaskin, John" <John.Gaskin@ARS.USDA.GOV >
Bournemouth UK ProtistEvolution
Apr6-8
Early Bird Registration Deadline 20th March 2016
The Protistology-UK Spring Meeting 2016 will take
place at Bournemouth University (Dorset), UK. Regis-
tration opens on the 10th February.
The meeting will incorporate three symposia:
Eukaryote taxonomy and diversity studies in an HTS
era
The eukaryote genome
Protist ecology
The meeting will also host a half-day applied phy-
cology session, sponsored by PHYCONET <http:/-
/www.phyconet.org.uk/ >with 1-2 key-note speakers,
as well as contributed talks and posters.
Invited speakers include John Day (SAMS), David Mon-
tagnes (Liverpool University), Saul Purton (UCL), Ross
Waller (Cambridge University), Bryony Williams (Ex-
eter University) and Tom Williams (Bristol University).
As in previous years, the Conference will oer sessions
for posters, student talks and contributed talks. Bur-
saries are available for presenting students. Prizes for8 EvolDir March 1, 2016
best student talks and posters will be awarded, including
the Humphrey Smith Prize for best talk.
Martin Carr
Dr. Martin Carr http://www.protistology.org.uk mart-
carr74@gmail.com
Edinburgh QuantGenetics Mar9
The 10th meeting of the Edinburgh Alliance for Com-
plex Trait Genetics, sponsored by the Genetics Society,
will take place on Wednesday 9th March 2016 from 13.00
to 18.30 at the Royal College of Physicians, 9 Queen
Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ.
All welcome.
If you want to attend, please sign up at http://-
tinyurl.com/hwvc9gx by Friday 4th March.
Josephine Pemberton & Chris Haley
PROGRAMME
13.00 Arrival and registration
13.30 Session 1
13.30 Sophie Marion de Proce (Institute of Genetics and
Molecular Medicine) Locally elevated mutation rates in
mammalian promoters.
14.00 Charley Xia (Institute of Genetics and Molecular
Medicine) Genetic analysis of obesity traits in Scotland.
14.30 Brian Charlesworth (Institute of Evolutionary
Biology) Associative overdominance.
15.00 Michael Morgan (Department of Physiology,
Anatomy and Genetics, Oxford)Teasing apart the ge-
netic complexity of hair pigmentation in humans.
15.30 Tea
16.00 Session 2
16.00 Georgios Banos (SRUC Edinburgh)Genetic evalu-
ations for bovine tuberculosis resistance in dairy cattle.
16.30 Jacob Moorad (Institute of Evolutionary Biology)
Why are humans so longed-lived? Selection for genes
that promote late-life human lifespan.
17.00 Peter Joshi (Usher Institute for Population Health
Sciences and Informatics) Genetic Architecture of Hu-
man Lifespan - UKBiobank GWAS results.
17.30 Discussion and refreshments{ The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, reg-
istered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
Josephine Pemberton <j.pemberton@ed.ac.uk >
Exeter BehaviourEvolution
Jul28-Aug3
International Society for Behavioural Ecology Congress,
Exeter, UK, 28 July - 3 August 2016
Abstract submission is now open. Go to
www.isbe2016.com to submit an abstract for a
poster or oral presentation. Deadline for consideration
as an oral presentation is 31st March. Standard regis-
tration remains open until early June with discounts of
over 30% still available for students and delegates from
developing world countries
\alex.thornton@exeter.ac.uk"
<alex.thornton@exeter.ac.uk >
Helsinki WildPlantPathosystems
Aug29-31
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to announce the 2nd international meet-
ing on
WILD PLANT PATHOSYSTEMS
29-31 August 2016, Helsinki
Conference registration & welcome reception take place
on Sunday evening 28 August. For those interested, we
will organize a post-conference excursion to the ~Aland
Islands to visit the classic metapopulation study system
1-3 September.
Research carried out on plant-pathogen interactions has
provided breakthroughs in how ecological, molecular
and evolutionary dynamics are coupled to produce the
patterns on infection we observe in nature. This confer-
ence brings together scientists working in cutting edge
areas of plant-pathogen interactions including coevo-
lution, epidemiology, evolutionary genomics, pathogen
movement across the agro-ecological interface and com-
munity level processes.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 9
Conrmed speakers include Janis Antonovics (Univer-
sity of Virginia) Joy Bergelson (University of Chicago)
Jeremy Burdon (CSIRO Canberra) Pascal Frey (INRA,
University of Lorraine) Greg Gilbert (University of
California, Santa Cruz) Michael Hood (Amherst Col-
lege) Anna-Liisa Laine (University of Helsinki) Marie-
Laure Desprez-Loustau (INRA) Bruce McDonald (ETH
Zurich) Erin Mordecai (Stanford University) Laura
Rose (Heinrich-Heine-Universit at) Samuel Soubeyrand
(INRA) Eva Stukenbrock (Kiel University & MPI for
Evolutionary Biology) Peter Thrall (CSIRO Canberra)
John Walsh (University of Warwick)
Registration opens on 14 March and closes on 31 May
2016. Please note that number of participants is limited
and slots will be allocated on a rst-come rst-served
basis. The registration fee is 250 euros (150 euros MSc
and PhD students).
Conference website: http://allaine.it.helsinki./?p=-
244 Contact: krista.raveala@helsinki. and anna-
liisa.laine@helsinki.
{ Professor Anna-Liisa Laine
Center-of-Excellence in Metapopulation Biology Depart-
ment of Biosciences PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1) FI-00014
University of Helsinki, Finland
tel. +358 2 941 57750 allaine.it.helsinki.
helsinki./science/metapop/ twitter: @annaliisalaine
\anna-liisa.laine@helsinki." <anna-
liisa.laine@helsinki. >
Lyon BehaviourEvolution Jun27
We inform you that the twelfth edition of the \ECOL-
OGY & BEHAVIOUR" meetings will occur this year in
Lyon (France) between June 27th and July 1st 2016.
The \Ecology & Behaviour" conference is an interna-
tional scientic congress in the themes of ecology, evolu-
tionary biology, and animal behaviour that distinguishes
itself by the will clearly displayed to favour the partici-
pation of PhD and Post-doctoral students.
Unlike most congresses and symposium, NO CHARGE
is asked to PhD students and post-doctoral students
(including accommodation and lunches) if they partic-
ipate through the presentation of a poster or an oral
communication (in English).
We are now accepting abstracts for graduate students
and post-docs presentations in talk and poster formats.Please visit our presentation registration page for more
information on submission requirements and procedures:
eb2016.sciencesconf.org
*The deadline for abstract submissions is March 20th,
2016*.
The E&B organization committee
eb2016.sciencesconf.org
Christophe Plantamp <cplantamp@gmail.com >
Lyon EvolutionaryBehaviour
Jun27-Jul1
Conference : Ecology and Behaviour meeting
Lyon(France) June 27thJuly 1st
>From the 27th of June to the 1st of July 2016, Lyon
will host the twelfth edition of Ecology and Behaviour
meetings. Since 2005, this scientic meeting about ani-
mal behavior, ecology and evolution is organized every
year in a dierent French city. This year, for the second
time in the history, this conference takes place in Lyon.
The Ecology and Behaviour meetings propose an uncom-
mon format in the landscape of scientic conferences.
They oer to young researchers a convivial atmosphere
to present and exchange about their work in the presence
of renowned specialists. Plus, no registration fee is asked
for participants presenting either an oral communication
or a poster.
Submissions are already possible and will run un-
til March 20th on the website of the meeting
eb2016.sciencesconf.org, on the submit page.
^A
The organization committee
eb2016@sciencesconf.org
Orlando PopEvolQuantGenetics
Jul13-17
The Allied Genetics Conference (TAGC) will include a
new meeting on Population, Evolutionary and Quanti-
tative Genetics organized by Mike Lynch10 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Although most of the central venues of TAGC revolve
around the long-standing model-organism meetings, the
broad and overlapping elds of population, evolutionary,
and quantitative (PEQ) genetics span these systems
and more. Thus, in the interest of developing a fully
comprehensive genetics conference, the Genetics Society
of America (GSA) will also convene the rst joint meet-
ing for researchers in the latter elds. Topics will range
from population genomics to molecular evolution to the
dissection of the determinants of quantitative-trait vari-
ation, with equal emphasis placed on both model and
non-model organisms across the Tree of Life. PEQ has
a long history of both applied and theoretical research,
and both will be an integral part of this meeting.
The intention here is to promote a strong cross-
disciplinary network of colleagues performing both the-
oretical and empirical work. The meeting will consist of
a series of short talks, poster sessions, and plenary talks,
and will be dovetailed with the model-organism venues
to facilitate maximum interaction among those with sim-
ilar conceptual interests. As many as 90 oral presenta-
tions will be delivered directly in the PEQ meeting, with
dozens to hundreds of others with direct connections
being given in the other model-organism sub-meetings.
Time in the schedule will be set aside for the usual
GSA-sponsored career-development workshops, includ-
ing education-oriented, grant-writing, and networking
sessions focused on strategies for building successful
teaching methodologies and lasting collaborations.
GSA plans for PEQ to become the premier, regular
gathering of graduate students, postdoctoral scholars,
and established scientists in these central areas of genet-
ics, ideally being established as another of the several
periodic meetings sponsored and managed by the GSA.
After nearly 100 years of research in population, evolu-
tionary, and quantitative genetics, the time for holding
such an exciting meeting is long overdue.
These topics will be featured at the conference and
speakers will be selected from submitted abstracts in
the following areas:
Population Genomics Experimental Evolution Genome
Evolution Quantitative Traits Ecological Evolution
Adaptation and Speciation Molecular Evolution
Abstract Submission and Registration Deadline March
23, 2016
www.genetics2016.org/communities/peqg CONFER-
ENCE ORGANIZERS
Kirsten Bomblies, Harvard University
Michael Lynch, Indiana University
Lauren McIntyre, University of FloridaBret Payseur, University of Wisconsin
Dmitri Petrov, Stanford University
Suzy Brown, CMP Senior Director Genetics Soci-
ety of America 9650 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD ^A
20814 301/634-7341 301/634-7079 Fax sbrown@genetics-
gsa.org
\Brown, Suzy" <sbrown@genetics-gsa.org >
OxfordUK InsectSymbionts Mar15
Royal Entomological Society Special Interest Group on
Insect Symbionts
15th March 2016 in Oxford, UK
Invited speaker: Prof Christoph Vorburger, EAWAG,
Switzerland
This meeting is open to researchers studying any aspect
of insect endosymbiosis.
Registration costs $10 (including lunch and refresh-
ments). Further details and registration information
are here: http://www.royensoc.co.uk/content/-
endosymbiont-special-interest-group-meeting-15th-
march-2016 Oers for contributed talks (15 minutes)
or posters are welcome (deadline 20th February).
Please email abstracts (250 words) and meeting
queries to ailsa.mclean@zoo.ox.ac.uk; registration to
kirsty@royensoc.org.
ailsa.mclean@gmail.com
OxfordUK ProbGen2016 Sep12-14
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce that the 2nd Probabilistic
Modeling in Genomics Conference (ProbGen16), will be
held at the Department of Statistics, University of Ox-
ford, UK, from 12-14 Sept 2016. We would appreciate
if you could circulate this announcement to your local
colleagues and collaborators.
The conference will cover probabilistic models, algo-
rithms, and statistical methods across a broad range
of applications in genetics and genomics. We inviteMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 11
abstract submissions on a range of topics including Pop-
ulation Genetics, Functional Genomics, Systems and
Structural Biology, Methods for Genome-wide Associa-
tion Studies, Causal inference in genetic studies, Assem-
bly and Variant Identication, Phylogenetics, Natural
Selection and Quantitative Genetics.
Alongside invited speakers, oral presentations will be
selected from submitted abstracts. We particularly en-
courage abstract submissions for oral and/or poster
presentations from junior investigators, including post-
doctoral fellows and graduate students.
This is an annual meeting, held at Cold Spring Harbor
in 2015 and which evolved from the success of previous
similarly-themed workshops held at the HHMI Janelia
Farm Research Campus (2013) and Merton College,
Oxford (2014).
The conference talks will be held in the new Department
of Statistics building in central Oxford, with accommoda-
tion across the road at Somerville College. The meeting
will begin with an informal dinner on the evening of
Sunday 11 September 2016. Talks will take place from
Monday 12 September until lunchtime on Wednesday
14 September.
Registration will open soon. We have provisional ca-
pacity for ~130 participants; due to space limitations,
registration will proceed on a rst-come-rst-served ba-
sis.
The registration and abstract submission deadline will
be Friday 15 July 2016.
The conference webpage can be found at http://-
www.stats.ox.ac.uk/events/probgen16 Please send en-
quiries to probgen16@stats.ox.ac.uk
Organizers: Jonathan Marchini, University of Oxford,
UK Simon Myers, University of Oxford, UK Jotun Hein,
University of Oxford, UK Peter Ralph, University of
Southern California, USA
\myers@stats.ox.ac.uk" <myers@stats.ox.ac.uk >
Rosco France
50yrsMolecularHistory May9-13
Reminder3
DearColleagues,
Thisis the last day for applying. In particular, we have
a number of reserved places for PhD students.V
Thereis only one month left to apply to the Jacques
Monod conference on molecularevolution in May 2016.
We particularly encourage the application ofPhD stu-
dents. Note that the inscription fees listed below include
board andlodging. Selected applicants will be expected
to present a poster.
Moleculesas documents of evolutionary history: 50 years
after - Rosco, Brittany,France.
May9-13 2016
Itis with the popularization of molecular tools and the
disclosure ofgenome sequences that evolutionary models
have become decisive in biology,in part because this
information is simply so abundant and socomplex that
only a comparative method could reveal its meaning.
In2016, it will be 50 years that Emile Zuckerkandl and
Linus Pauling havelaid the foundation of molecular phy-
logeny, and molecular evolution ingeneral, in their sem-
inal article entitled \Molecules as documents ofevolu-
tionary history". The fundamental realization of this
article wasthat DNA does not only encode the elemen-
tary functional elements of anorganisms, it also harbours
abundant information on the evolutionary historyand
life history traits of its ancestors.
Themodelling of the evolutionary processes that gener-
ated extent genomesshould reveal together the patterns
of the diversication oife, the processes by which evo-
lution proceeds at the molecular level,and how both are
aected by external conditions. Our challenge today,as
evolutionary biologists, is to bridge the gap between
species ecology,life history traits, population dynam-
ics, species phylogeny, genephylogeny, genome structure,
gene network and molecular mechanisms.
Therecent years have seen tremendous developments in
this direction, whichwe will attempt to review in this
conference.
Invitedspeakers (provisionaltitles)
ABBYSophie (Paris, France) Evolutionplaying a molec-
ular building set: origins and distribution of bacterialse-
cretion systems
ACHTMANMark (Warwick, United Kingdom) Agesof
bacterial pathogenes
ALMEric (Cambridge, USA) Drivingforces of micro-
biome evolution
DURETLaurent (Lyon, France) Biasedgene conversion
as a 4rth evolutionary force
FARIANuno (Oxford, United Kingdom) Viralevolution
GALTIERNicolas (Montpellier, France) Populationge-12 EvolDir March 1, 2016
nomics of non model animals: genetic diversity, adaptive
rateand eective population size
GILBERTThomas (Copenhaguen, Denmark) An-
cientDNA, ancient genomes, and the hype of de-
extinction
GOGARTENPeter (Storrs, USA) Horizontalgene trans-
fer: the pan-genome as shared genetic resource of alin-
eage
GRAURDan (Houston, USA) Thevocabulary of molec-
ular evolution and the transgressions of functional ge-
nomics:a rose by any other name would be misleading
GRIBALDOSimonetta (Paris, France) Phylogenomic-
sand the tree of life
HEATHTracy (Ames, USA) Molecular,morphological,
and macroevolutionary models for dating species diver-
gencetimes
KATZLaura (Northampton, USA) Theeukaryotic phy-
logeny
KOSIOLCarolin (Vienna, Austria) Polymorphism-
awarephylogenetic models for species trees
LAGERGRENJens (Stockholm, Sweden) Generative-
models of gene family evolution
L aPEZ-GARCIAPuricaci on (Orsay, France) Diversi-
tyof microbial life
McLYSAGHT Aoife (Dublin, Ireland) Wholegenome
duplication
MORANNancy (Austin, USA) Symbiosisin evolution
PAGELMark (Reading, United Kingdom) Beyondmolec-
ular data: information and evolution in the cultural
realm
PHILIPPEHerv e (Moulis, France) Modelsof sequence
evolution
SANMARTINIsabel (Madrid, Spain) Spatiotempo-
ralevolution of lineages and biotas using Bayesian ap-
proaches
SEMONMarie (Lyon, France) Insightsinto making dif-
ferent types of the same organ using developmental
transcriptomesas molecular microscopes
STADLERTanja (Z urich, Switzerland) Modellingand
inference of species diversication
SZ~ALL ~ASIGergely (Budapest, Hungary) Genomescale
reconstruction of phylogenies
TELFORDMaximilian J. (London, United Kingdom)
Thenew animal phylogeny
WARNOWTandy (Urbana, USA) Newcoalescent-based
species tree estimation methodsDeadlinefor application: February 1rst, 2016
Registrationfee (including board and lodging)
430^ a:forPhDstudents 625^a:forotherparticipants
Applicationfor registration Thetotal number of partici-
pants is limited to 115 and all participants areexpected
to attend for the whole duration of the conference. Se-
lection ismade on the basis of the anity of potential
participants with the topicsof the conference. Scientists
and PhD Students interested in the meetingshould send:
-their curriculum vitae -the list of their main publications
for the 3 last years -the abstract of their presentation
tothe Chairperson of the conference
(vincent.daubin@univ-lyon1.fr) before the dead-
line. After it, theorganizers will select the participants.
Except in some particular casesapproved by the
Chairperson, it is recommended that all selected
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SanAntonio TX
SMBESatelliteGeneticsAdmixedPop
May18-20
Conference Announcement: SMBE Satellite Meeting on
the Genetics of Admixed Populations May 18-20, 2016
San Antonio TX
Early Registration deadline: February 15, 2016 Final
Registration deadline: March 15, 2016
Studies of admixed populations and the admixture pro-
cess touch on topics central to evolutionary and molec-
ular biology, including the dynamics of gene ow and
hybridization, population expansions, and adaptation.
Admixed populations have been leveraged to detect dis-
ease and phenotypic associations, elucidate mechanisms
and timescales of speciation, and infer regions under
selection. Acting as a natural experiment, admixed
populations provide insight into unique adaptations of
their parental populations, and evolutionary processes
in related populations more generally. Admixture is also
intimately linked with the recombination process, which
shues segments of dierent ancestry, and is proven to
vary in rate and location based on ancestry.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 13
The primary goal of this satellite meeting is to emphasize
the common theoretical and empirical underpinnings
of the study of admixed human populations with the
study of hybridization in other animals and even plants,
opening up methods and study design from a specic
organism to a wider audience. We hope to bridge theo-
retical and data-driven approaches, starting a discussion
on the suitability of methods to various systems and
open questions that may be better resolved using an
interdisciplinary approach, as well as considering ethical
concerns associated with these studies.
Workshop sessions include: Admixture as a dynamic
process Novel Methods to Untangle Admixture Em-
pirical Studies of Population History Admixture as
a Mechanism for and Against Speciation Admixture
and Selection: Phenotypic and Medical Implications
Panel Discussion: Ethical considerations and Sampling
Schemes
For a full list of conrmed speakers and information on
local arrangements, please visit: http://anthgen.org/-
smbe2016 Please direct all questions to the conference
organizers at smbe2016admix@gmail.com
Conference Organizers:
Amy Goldberg: agoldb@standford.edu Ellen
Quillen: EQuillen@txbiomed.org Heather Nor-
ton: heather.norton@uc.edu Abigail Bigham
awbigham@umich.edu Joanna Malukiewicz:
jmalukie@gmail.com Anne Stone: acstone@asu.edu
Heather L. Norton Assistant Professor Department
of Anthropology 446 Braunstein Hall PO Box 210380
University of Cincinnati Cincinnati, OH 45221-
0380 Oce: 513-556-3594 heather.norton@uc.edu
http://homepages.uc.edu/ ~nortonhr/MoCHA/-
Home.html \Norton, Heather (nortonhr)"
<nortonhr@UCMAIL.UC.EDU >
Savannah Georgia PlantEvol
Jul29-Aug3 UndergradTravel
We are pleased to announce the PLANTS program
funded by the National Science Foundation and Botan-
ical Society of America to bring talented and diverse
undergraduates to the BOTANY 2016 meeting on July
29 - Aug 3, 2016 in Savannah, Georgia.
Why PLANTS? The PLANTS program (Preparing
Leaders and Nurturing Tomorrow's Scientists: Increas-
ing the diversity of plant scientists) will fund up to12 undergraduates from throughout the US and Puerto
Rico to attend the meeting, receive mentoring from grad-
uate students, postdocs and faculty, attend scientic
sessions, and participate in networking events including
the Diversity Luncheon and career-oriented activities.
The program covers the normal costs of travel, regis-
tration, and food and accommodation at the meeting.
An overview of the scientic conference is available at:
www.botanyconference.org Why BOTANY 2016? The
annual Botany Conference is a meeting of several sci-
entic societies serving over 7,000 plant scientists and
students whose research and practice span the globe.
The conference encompasses the diverse scope of botan-
ical study, including areas such as systematics, ecology,
evolution, physiology, genetics, development, paleob-
otany, and economic botany. Workshops cover topics as
diverse as genomics, conservation assessments, teaching
science, applying to grad school, and unconventional
science and technology careers.
APPLICATIONS: Applications are accepted through
MARCH 15, 2016 at http://www.botany.org/Awards/-
FPLANTS.php .Applications include completion of the
online form providing your statement of interest, a letter
of recommendation, and unocial transcripts. Appli-
cations are welcome from all undergraduates who have
an interest in the plant sciences; the admissions goal
is to create a diverse pool of students. The applica-
tion form is located online at http://www.botany.org/-
Awards/F PLANTS.php. We encourage you to review
the online form thoroughly before lling it out. Please
have letters of recommendation and unocial tran-
scripts sent directly to Heather Cacanindin at HCa-
canindin@Botany.org. Students must be able to attend
the entire Botanical Society of America meetings in
Savannah, July 30- Aug 3, 2016.
Applicants must be domestic undergraduate students
registered or very recently graduated (i.e., within the last
12 months). Students demonstrating a need for funds to
attend BSA will be given preference, and will be selected
so that as a group, they will help to diversify the pool
of undergraduates attending the meetings. More infor-
mation is available from Ann Sakai (aksakai@uci.edu),
Anna Monls (mon1ak@cmich.edu), or Heather Ca-
canindin (hcacanindin@botany.org).
\aksakai@uci.edu" <aksakai@uci.edu >14 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Seville EvolEcol Jan31-Feb4
Dear colleagues,
Please nd included the second circular and call for sym-
posium proposals of the XIV MEDECOS & XIII AEET
meeting (deadline: March 31th, 2016). All information
can be found at the following link: http://www.medecos-
aeet-meeting2017.es/ We would appreciate if you can
circulate this announcement to your colleagues and net-
works. Apologies for cross-posting.
Looking forward to meet you in Seville next year,
Leyre Jim enez-Eguiz abal Administraci on AEET tel.: 34
91 4887329 http://www.aeet.org Twitter: @ AEET
Facebook: Asociaci on Espa nola de Ecolog a Terrestre
Dr. Juan Arroyo arroyo@us.es Departamento de Bi-
ologia Vegetal y Ecologia. Dept. of Plant Biology
and Ecology Universidad de Sevilla Apartado 1095 -
E41080 Sevilla, Spain phone: desk oce: +34 954 557
058 lab: +34 955 420 845 fax: +34 954 557 059 Re-
search group: http://grupo.us.es/grnm210/ https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Juan Arroyo3/ Juan Ar-
royo<arroyo@us.es >
Smithsonian Biodiversity Nov9-11
The Smithsonian Institute for Biodiversity Genomics
(SIBG) and BGI are co-organizing the inaugural Global
Biodiversity Genomics Conference to be held in Wash-
ington, D.C. USA from November 9-11, 2016 at the
Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural
History. The conference will have sessions focusing on a
broad array of relevant topics, including presentations
and discussions of critical technological and analytical
tools and sessions oriented around broad taxonomic
groups (e.g. plants, vertebrates, invertebrates, and mi-
crobes) planned in conjunction with groups such as
G10K (genome10k.soe.ucsc.edu), GIGA (giga-cos.org),
and i5K (arthropodgenomes.org/wiki/i5K). Sessions are
planned to include invited speakers as well as selected
talks and posters from applicants, including students.
Attendees will be limited to 450 people. Further an-
nouncements providing details of additional sponsors,activities, and registration procedures will be forthcom-
ing. Please hold the dates and address questions to
Warren Johnson at: contactbiogenomics@si.edu
\JohnsonWE@si.edu" <JohnsonWE@si.edu >
Switzerland GenomicBasisEcoEvolu-
tionaryChange
Jun5-9
Conference reminder: Genomic basis of eco-evolutionary
change, Location: Ascona, Switzerland. Date: June 5th-
9th 2016 Deadline for applications: 21st February 2016
Dear all,
In association with ETH Zurich's Center for Adaptation
to a Changing Environment (ACE), we are writing to
announce a conference on the 'Genomic basis of eco-
evolutionary change.' The conference will take place
this summer from June 5th - June 9th 2016 at the
Monte Verit a conference centre, located near Ascona in
Switzerland.
The aim of this conference is to connect burgeoning in-
formation on the genomic basis of ecologically relevant
traits to better understand and predict the dynamics of
eco-evolutionary feedbacks.
The conference will bring together speakers from around
the world to discuss recent developments in the genomics
of ecologically relevant traits, the eco-evolutionary dy-
namics of species interactions and species responses to
environmental change. Through talks, break-out ses-
sions, and informal interactions, the participants will
develop a research agenda for a genomics-based, predic-
tive understanding of eco-evolutionary change.
Conrmed speakers:
Fr ed eric Guillaume Andrew Hendry Nelson Hairston
Hannah Kokko Tom Mitchell-Olds Patrik Nosil Ole See-
hausen Daniel Wegmann Yvonne Willi
As the number of participants is limited to 73 scientists,
we ask all applicants interested in the conference to send
their curriculum vitae (max. 2 pages) and a motivation
letter (max. one page) containing a description of their
specic eld of research, motivation to participate in the
conference and an abstract of a poster to be presented
at the meeting. We especially encourage early career
scientists (PhDs and Postdocs) to apply.
Please send your application, all in one PDF, by theMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 15
21st of February to monte-verita@env.ethz.ch.
The costs, including the conference fee, accommoda-
tion and full board will be 1200 Swiss francs (CHF). In
addition, participants must pay their travel costs.
For more information, please visit: http://-
www.adaptation.ethz.ch/education/monte-verita-
conference2016.html Best wishes,
The organising committee
James Buckley Katalin Csillery Robert Dunner
Jonathan Levine Martin Turcotte Alex Widmer
Dr. James Buckley Adaptation to Changing En-
vironments (ACE) postdoctoral fellow Institute of
Integrative Biology, ETH Universit atstrasse 16 CHN
G 35.2 8092 Z urich james.buckley@env.ethz.ch Tel:
+41-44-633 8109 http://www.adaptation.ethz.ch/-
center.html \james.buckley@env.ethz.ch"
<james.buckley@env.ethz.ch >
TexasAMU EvolutionaryBiology
Mar31-Apr1
The 2016 Ecological Integration Symposium Committee
invites you to attend the* 17th Annual Texas A&M Uni-
versity Ecological Integration Symposium *on *March
31-April 1 at Rudder Tower and Theater at Texas A&M
University - College Station*. The Ecological Integra-
tion Symposium is an interdisciplinary, graduate student
led and organized event that unites students with world
renowned researchers in the themes of ecology, conser-
vation, evolutionary biology, geography, and more.
During this free, two day event we will explore the eco-
logical and social challenges we face towards achieving
sustainability in a human dominated landscape through
the theme of *Ecological Perspectives in Sustainability*
*.* This year, we will be hosting a day of speaker pre-
sentations at Rudder Theater on March 31, and student
presentations on the 4th oor of Rudder Tower on April
1, 2016.
The 2016 plenary speakers include *Dr.* *Jayne Bel-
nap*, research ecologist with the USGS; *Dr. Ruth
DeFries*, professor at Columbia University; *Dr. Lisa
Naughton-Treves*, professor at University of Wisconsin-
Madison; *Dr. Stuart Pimm*, professor at Duke Uni-
versity; and *Dr. Peter Vitousek*, professor at Stanford
University.
We are now accepting *abstracts for student presenta-tions in talk and poster formats*. Both graduate and
undergraduate students are encouraged to present origi-
nal research during the student research symposium on
Friday, April 1. Please visit our presentation registration
page for more information on submission requirements
and procedures:
http://eeb.tamu.edu/eis/2016-eis/2016-eis-student-
presentation-registration/ *The deadline for abstract
submissions is February 26, 2016*.
We are accepting *volunteer sign-ups* to help as-
sist with the event on March 31 and April 1.
Please visit http://eeb.tamu.edu/eis/2016-eis/2016-eis-
volunteer-registration/ for more information and to reg-
ister as a volunteer.
If you have any questions please feel free to contact the
2016 EIS Committee at theeis.tamu@gmail.com. Please
visit our website http://eeb.tamu.edu/eis/2016-eis/ and
Facebook page for more information and updates
We are looking forward to seeing you all this year during
the 2016 Ecological Integration Symposium!
Regards,
2016 Ecological Integration Symposium Committee
*Facebook:* https://www.facebook.com/TAMUEIS/-
?fref=3Dnf *Website:* http://eeb.tamu.edu/eis/2016-
eis/ *Presentation Registration:* http://eeb.tamu.edu/-
eis/2016-eis/2016-eis-student-presentation-registration/
*Judge Registration:* http://eeb.tamu.edu/eis/-
2016-eis/2016-eis-judges-registration/ *Volunteer
Registration:* http://eeb.tamu.edu/eis/2016-eis/-
2016-eis-volunteer-registration/ *We thank all of our
sponsors from Texas A&M University for making this
event possible, including the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology, the Association of Former
Students, the Oce of Graduate and Professional
Studies, the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences,
the Department of Geography, the Department of
Entomology, the Department of Wildlife and Fisheries
Sciences, the Department of Ecosystem Science and
Management, the Department of Animal Sciences, the
Department of Agricultural Economics, the Department
of Soil and Crop Sciences, and the Department of
Oceanography.*
Danielle Macedo <dcdmacedo@gmail.com >16 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Tuscany Speciation Feb19-24
We are pleased to announce SPECIATION 2017, a Gor-
don Research Conference (GRC) dedicated exclusively
to speciation research. The conference | the world's
largest of its kind | will be held at the Renaissance
Tuscany Il Ciocco Resort & Spa in Italy during the
week of February 19-24, 2017. Invited presentations and
discussion sessions will cover a broad array of timely
topics in speciation research.
The conference will be directly preceded by a two-
day Gordon Research Seminar (GRS), co-chaired by
Amanda Hund and Laurel Symes, that oers opportu-
nities for early-career scientists to get involved at the
forefronts of modern speciation research. Participants
will engage in scientic discussions on salient topics of
interest, thereby gaining knowledge and condence for
their participation in SPECIATION 2017.
The GRC conferences on speciation raise to a trans-
Atlantic level a tradition of international conferences on
speciation research that was initiated by the European
Research Networking Programme 'Frontiers of Speci-
ation Research'. The three conferences held thus far,
in 2010, 2013, and 2015, have helped facilitate bridge-
building between disparate approaches to speciation
research and have attracted hundreds of participants
from all facets of speciation research.
Registration for SPECIATION 2017 is open at
https://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=16903 and will
continue until the venue's capacity is lled.
A preliminary conference program with list of session
titles will be available on April 1 and the full conference
program will be nalized by early autumn.
With many thanks and best wishes,
Ake Br annstr om & Rebecca Safran
Rebecca J Safran <rebecca.safran@colorado.edu >UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics
Mar15 Deadline
Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Symposium (Ab-
stract Submission Deadline Approaching)
Please note that the deadline for the abstract submission
for Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Symposium
2016 is approaching (February 22).
The annual Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Sym-
posium (EGGS) will take place on Tuesday 15th March
2016 at the University of Cambridge.
This international one-day meeting is free to attend and
no registration is required. Talks will cover all areas
of evolutionary genetics from comparative genomics to
evo-devo, and pathogen evolution to speciation.
Abstract submission is now open. If you would be
interested in presenting a talk please submit your ab-
stract via this link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1W2BMTt268 q4XEYv0IVwSiwnVmVlPs2KRYsXd lJrNk/-
viewform We will also have talks by four invited
speakers:
- Mary J. OConnell, University of Leeds
- Magnus Nordborg, Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecu-
lar Plant Biology, Vienna
- Federica Di Palma, TGAC
- Eric Miska, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Univer-
sity of Cambridge
For more information, please visit http://-
www.evolutionarygenetics.group.cam.ac.uk/eggs/
or email eggs.symp@gmail.com
With best wishes,
The organising committee
cc625@cam.ac.uk
UMichigan CommunityEvolution
Mar12
REGISTER NOW: http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/ecss/-
register/ We are pleased to announce this year's EarlyMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 17
Career Scientist Symposium,* Frontiers in Community
Assembly*, to be held Saturday, March 12, 2016 in the
Chemistry Building on the campus of the University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor. The symposium will focus on the
integration of evolutionary and ecological perspectives
to understand community assembly.
Our outstanding lineup of keynote speakers and emerg-
ing leaders will present a diverse array of integrative
advances in our understanding of community assem-
bly. These topics include new conceptualizations of
the species pool for community ecology, the genomic
processes underlying species coexistence, phylogenetic
models of community composition, insights from paleo-
communities, and coevolutionary networks.
We are delighted to announce our keynote speakers:
Rosemary Gillespie, professor and Schlinger Chair in
Systematic Entomology, Department of Environmental
Science and Essig Museum of Entomology, University
of California, Berkeley, and Tadashi Fukami, associate
professor, Department of Biology, Stanford University.
You can read more about them and our early career
speakers and their presentations under the speakers tab
on our website. Early career scientists are considered
senior graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and
rst- or second-year faculty.
Registration is free of charge but we strongly encourage
you to register so we may provide adequate food and
refreshment.
Graduate students from all universities and all
disciplines are invited to present their work dur-
ing a lunchtime poster session, and can indi-
cate so when they register. Poster specica-
tions: http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/ecss/promotional-
materials/grad-student-posters/ Lunch will be provided
at the poster session and a reception will follow the sym-
posium.
Looking forward to your participation,
2016 Early Career Scientists Symposium organizing com-
mittee
\marschmi@umich.edu" <marschmi@umich.edu >Vairao Portugal Congenomics2016
May3-6
Congenomics2016 - Conference on Conservation Ge-
nomics http://congenomics2016.com Vairao, Portugal
3-6 May 2016
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE APPROACH-
ING! - 21 February
TRAVEL GRANTS AVAILABLE FOR STUDENTS:
We encourage student participation by providing travel
grants (priority will be given to students from member
countries of the ConGenOmics network*). Check condi-
tions for application at http://congenomics2016.com/-
submissions/ .Any kind of presentation may be eligible,
including early stage of scientic or academic projects.
These travel grants will cover registration fee, lodge-
ment at selected hostels and travel expenses up to 500
EUR. Decisions will be made on time before the early
registration fee deadline.
CONFIRMED INVITED SPEAKERS: Fred Allendorf
(University of Montana) Mike Bruford (Cardi Univer-
sity) Lisette Waits (University of Idaho) Natasha de
Vere (National Botanic Garden of Wales) Emma Teel-
ing (University College Dublin) Kerry Naish (University
of Washington)
IMPORTANT DATES: Early registration fees (deadline
31 March): 250 EUR (standard), 100 EUR (students)
Submit your abstract online (deadline 21 February)
ABOUT: This conference aims to gather the best re-
search currently being performed on Genomics and its
applications to Conservation. The program includes six
invited plenary lectures, submitted oral communications
(regular and ash) and poster sessions, covering the state
of art on conservation genomics. The following main
subjects will be addressed, emphasizing their applied
nature: - Demographic inference and population history;
^A'- Adaptive genetic variation (including quantitative
traits and epigenetics); ^A'- Population viability; ^A'- Tax-
onomic identication (using whole genome, mitogenome,
metabarcoding); ^A'- Environmental DNA.
The conference is organized by ConGen (Conservation
genetics and wildlife management) research group and
hosted in CIBIO/InBIO Associate Laboratory (http:/-
/cibio.up.pt/) and the University of Porto facilities in
Vairao, Portugal, and the ConGenOmics Research Net-
working Programme*.18 EvolDir March 1, 2016
(*) ConGenOmics is an ESF Research Networking Pro-
gramme that aims to bring together European and
pan^A' European specialists on conservation genomics,
to develop and improve the knowledge transfer of the
technical advances and challenges in conservation ge-
nomics, focusing specically on the application of ge-
nomic techniques. ConGenOmics programme organizes
workshops, summer schools, collaborative expert meet-
ings and an exchange program at pan ^A'European level,
to further develop the eld of conservation genomics
and to aid in the knowledge transfer of the technologi-
cal advances and challenges among European research
groups focusing specically on applications of genomic
technologies in conservation biology. More details in
http://www.ru.nl/congenomics ORGANIZING AND
SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE: Paulo C elio Alves (Uni-
versity of Porto) Ricardo Jorge Lopes (University of
Porto) Jos e Melo-Ferreira (University of Porto) Raquel
Godinho (University of Porto)
Joop Ouborg (Radboud University) Philippine Vergeer
(Wageningen University) Jacob H oglund (Uppsala Uni-
versity) Gernot Segelbacher (University of Freiburg)
Craig Primmer (University of Turku)
Questions? Contact us by email
(info@congenomics2016.com) or on Facebook/twitter
jmeloferreira@cibio.up.pt
Vairao Portugal
ConservationGenetics May3-6
Congenomics2016 - Conference on Conservation Ge-
nomics http://congenomics2016.com Vairao, Portugal
3-6 May 2016
NEW ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE! - 1
MARCH
TRAVEL GRANTS AVAILABLE: ConGenOmics* will
fund the participation of early career researchers with
travel grants. These grants are available for graduate
students (priority to PhD students) and post ^A'docs
(maximum 2 years after PhD) that will present their
work. We encourage any kind of presentation, including
early stages of scientic or academic projects. Priority
will also be given to students and post-docs from ConGe-
nOmics member countries. Check conditions for appli-
cation at http://congenomics2016.com/submissions/ .
INVITED SPEAKERS: Fred Allendorf (University of
Montana) Mike Bruford (Cardi University) LisetteWaits (University of Idaho) Natasha de Vere (National
Botanic Garden of Wales) Emma Teeling (University
College Dublin) Kerry Naish (University of Washington)
IMPORTANT DATES: 1 March: Submit your abstract
online. 18 March. Abstract acceptance notication.
Decision on travel grant applications. 31 March: Early
registration fees: 250 EUR (standard), 100 EUR (stu-
dents).
ABOUT: This conference aims to gather the best re-
search currently being performed on Genomics and its
applications to Conservation. The program includes
six invited plenary lectures, submitted oral communica-
tions (regular and ash) and poster sessions, covering
the state of art on conservation genomics. The follow-
ing main subjects will be addressed, emphasizing their
applied nature: - Demographic inference and popula-
tion history; - Adaptive genetic variation (including
quantitative traits and epigenetics); - Population via-
bility; - Taxonomic identication (using whole genome,
mitogenome, metabarcoding); - Environmental DNA.
The conference is organized by ConGen (Conservation
genetics and wildlife management) research group and
hosted in CIBIO/InBIO Associate Laboratory (http:/-
/cibio.up.pt/) and the University of Porto facilities in
Vairao, Portugal, and the ConGenOmics Research Net-
working Programme*.
(*) ConGenOmics is an ESF Research Networking Pro-
gramme that aims to bring together European and
pan^A' European specialists on conservation genomics,
to develop and improve the knowledge transfer of the
technical advances and challenges in conservation ge-
nomics, focusing specically on the application of ge-
nomic techniques. ConGenOmics programme organizes
workshops, summer schools, collaborative expert meet-
ings and an exchange program at pan ^A'European level,
to further develop the eld of conservation genomics
and to aid in the knowledge transfer of the technologi-
cal advances and challenges among European research
groups focusing specically on applications of genomic
technologies in conservation biology. More details in
http://www.ru.nl/congenomics ORGANIZING AND
SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE: Paulo Celio Alves (Uni-
versity of Porto) Ricardo Jorge Lopes (University of
Porto) Jose Melo-Ferreira (University of Porto) Raquel
Godinho (University of Porto)
Joop Ouborg (Radboud University) Philippine Vergeer
(Wageningen University) Jacob Hoglund (Uppsala Uni-
versity) Gernot Segelbacher (University of Freiburg)
Craig Primmer (University of Turku)
Questions? Contact us by email
(info@congenomics2016.com) or on Facebook/twitter.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 19
jmeloferreira@cibio.up.pt
Valencia RNAmodicationEvolution
Mar1 LastCall
*SMBE Satellite Meeting. Valencia, Spain - Last Call*
This is the last call to submit your abstract to the
SMBE Satellite Meeting on RNA modication and its
implication on adaptation and evolution.
Abstract deadline: March 1, 2016. More informa-
tion about the meeting can be found at: http:/-
/smbeed2016.cibiv.univie.ac.at/ Conrmed invited
speakers: Jianzhi Zhang. University of Michigan,
USA Jin Billy Li. Stanford University, USA Gideon
Rechavi. Tel Aviv University, Israel Josh Rosenthal. In-
stitute of Neurobiology, University of Puerto Rico Ann
Ehrenhofer-Murray. Humboldt University, Berlin, Ger-
many Ayelet Lamm. Technion - Israel Institute of Tech-
nology, Israel Yi Tao Yu. University of Rochester, USA
Susana Rodriguez. Centro de Investigacion Principe
Felipe, Spain Thorsten Staorst. Tubingen University,
Germany Nina Papavasiliou. The Rockefeller Univer-
sity, USA Pablo Vera. Instituto de Biologia Molecular y
Celular de Plantas - IBMCP/CSIC, Spain Miguel Gal-
lach<miguel.gallach@univie.ac.at >Arndt von Haeseler
<arndt.von.haeseler@univie.ac.at >Michael Jantsch
<Michael.Jantsch@univie.ac.at >
Miguel Gallach Center for Integrative Bioinformatics
Vienna (CIBIV) Max F. Perutz Laboratories(MFPL)
Telf: +43 1 4277 74330 Postal Address: Ebene 1
Campus Vienna Biocenter 5 CIBIV, MFPL 1030 Vi-
enna Austria e-mail: miguel.gallach@univie.ac.at
migaca2001@gmail.com http://www.cibiv.at/-
~mgallach/ https://scholar.google.at/citations?user=-
3DRNeDl2AAAAAJ&hl=3Den SMBE Satellite Meeting
in VALENCIA http://smbeed2016.cibiv.univie.ac.at/
Miguel Gallach <miguel.gallach@univie.ac.at >
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis
May6-8
ADVANCED REGISTRATION EXTENDED TO
MARCH 8thDear Colleagues,
The Sixth annual Symbiosis Workshop will take place
on May 6th-8th, 2016 at the Sierra Nevada Research
Station, Yosemite National Park. This has become a
great venue for a diversity of symbiosis researchers,so
we hope to continue to attract a diverse group:
Keynote speaker 2016: Dr. Betsy Arnold from the
University of Arizona.
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our goal is to better integrate scientists that fo-
cus on symbiosis research. We plan to continue annual
workshops at Yosemite as this site is both beautiful and
secluded. This will be our 6th annual meeting and we
have been attracting scientists from all over the country
and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in both
cooperation and symbiosis. In the past we have covered
a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and evolution
to molecular mechanisms in dierent model and non-
model systems. We would like to make room for a
diverse group of people so we will initially accept up to
3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a rst
come rst served basis.
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held May 7-
8, 2016, though we make accommodation arrangements
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 6th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Abstract and early bird registration are due on March
8th, 2016.
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room. Costs: See
details in the registration page. We will only be able to
accept credit card payments this year.
Link to meeting information: http://-
www.sachslab.com/symbiosis-2015.php The reg-
istration form for the 2016 Symbiosis Workshop is
active: http://snri.ucmerced.edu/symbiosis Payments
should be made at: https://intelforms.ucmerced.edu/-
Form/Symbiosis Please direct any questions to the
organizers:
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
Joel Lawrence Sachs <joel.sachs@ucr.edu >20 EvolDir March 1, 2016
GradStudentPositions
Barcelona 15 SingleCellGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
BielefeldU MarineMammal EvolutionaryGenomics . 21
CharlesU Prague SexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . 22
Essen Metabarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
GermanCanadian 6 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Ghent GenomeAnnotation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
IBDM Marseille EvolutionWingPigmentation . . . . . .24
IowaStateU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
KielU 3 Celegans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
LinkopingU Sweden EvolutionaryGeneticsAgeing . . 26
LinkopingU Sweden EvolutionAvianCognition . . . . . 26
Lund CyanobacteriaPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 27
MaxPlanckEvolBio HostMicrobiomeEvolution . . . . . 28
MPIO Seewiesen EvolutionCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
OklahomaStateU GrassGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
PortlandStateU REUinPlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
QueenMaryULondon BayesianPhylogenetics . . . . . . . 30
RoyalBotanicGardens AlpinePlantEvolution . . . . . . . 31
SimonFraserU SocialEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . 32
Southampton UK Empathy Cooperation Evolution 33
UAkron Ohio WetlandEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
UAuckland VineyardStatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34UBayreuth Germany SpermMicrobeInteractions . . . 34
UDuisburgEssen DNAmetabarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
UEastAnglia PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UEssex 4 GenomicsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
UEssex EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UGroningen Drosophila suzukii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UKentucky Lexington Insects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ULausanne 2 FungalGenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . 40
ULincoln UK CanineGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
ULincoln YeastPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UMaine Orono EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . .42
UPortsmouth EvolutionPollination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UppsalaU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
USouthBohemia CzechRepublic AntPlantInteractions
43
USouthDakota 2 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UTorontoMississauga EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 44
UVienna EcolEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
WageningenU PelargoniumGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
WesternUCanada Sociogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
WestVirginiaU ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Barcelona 15 SingleCellGenomics
15 PhD/Research positions on Promoting Single Cell
Genomics to explore the ecology and evolution of hidden
microeukaryotes (H2020-MSCA-ITN SINGEK)
Microbial eukaryotes cover the widest phylogenetic di-
versity in the eukaryotic tree of life and are essential
components of all Earth's ecosystems. Paradoxically,
they remain largely unknown, hiding a wealth of genes
and genomes that are key to understand the ecology
and evolution of microbial ecosystems. SINGEK is a
H2020 Marie-Sk Aodowska-Curie Innovative Training
Network (MSCA-ITN) project aimed at providing a
unique and structured training programme to 15 Early
Stage Researchers (ESRs) to study microeukaryotes at
the single-cell level. ESRs will be trained in the use of an
array of laboratory methods (cell sorting and molecular
tools for nucleic acid amplication and high throughput
sequencing), bioinformatic techniques (genome and tran-scriptome assembly and functional gene annotations),
and will work on scientic questions in the elds of
microbial ecology and evolution in order to investigate
microeukaryotes in unparalleled detail. The training
structure is a central part of SINGEK project and will
include: local and network-wide activities, secondments
to other network laboratories and workshops in trans-
ferable skills essential for successful career development.
All positions are for 3-years contracts starting in Octo-
ber 1st, 2016, most of them leading to a PhD degree.
Specic conditions may apply to individual positions
depending on local regulations.
Top-level graduates in biology, bioinformatics, microbial
ecology, molecular biology, evolutionary biology, biodi-
versity, biotechnology, physics, nanoscience, engineering
or computer science are encouraged to apply. No dis-
crimination will be made on the basis of nationality,
gender, race, religion or disability.
H2020 EU funding imposes strict eligibility criteria: At
the time of recruitment the researcher must not have
resided or carried out his/her main activity (work, stud-
ies, etc^ a) in the country of the host institute for moreMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 21
than 12 months in the 3 years immediately prior to
his/her recruitment under the project. The researcher
should also be in the rst four years of their research ca-
reers at the time of recruitment by the host organisation
and have not been awarded a doctoral degree.
Candidates may apply through the SINGEK applica-
tions system (www.singek.eu/call-for-positions/), which
will request the following information: 1. An applica-
tion form, including a CV overview, ESRs' positions
of interest (up to 3), and a statement of their moti-
vation for applying. 2. A full CV. 3. An academic
record, with a scan of the degree qualications. 4. Two
recommendation letters.
Each project supervisor will revise the candidates' doc-
umentation and, on the basis of the completeness and
adequacy of the requested material and quick eligibility
check, will score candidates based on: (1) academic pro-
le; (2) personal motivation; (3) scientic skills and rele-
vant experience; and (4) English prociency. Shortlisted
candidates will be invited to teleconference interviews
with the relevant project supervisor(s).
Application deadline: 17:00 GMT on the 15th April
2016
More information: www.singek.eu Candidates are in-
vited to contact potential supervisors to get more details.
List of 15 ESR projects
ESR 1 - Genome basis for ecological dierentiation
among related uncultured lineages Supervisor: Ramon
Massana Host institution: Institute of Marine Sciences
(ICM-CSIC), Barcelona, Spain
ESR 2 - Next steps towards systems biology: disentan-
gling complex ecological networks in marine microbes
Supervisor: Ramiro Logares Host institution: Institute
of Marine Sciences (ICM-CSIC), Barcelona, Spain
ESR 3 - Uncultured opisthokonts and the origin of meta-
zoan multicellularity Supervisor: I naki Ruiz-Trillo Host
institution: Institute of Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-
UPF), Barcelona, Spain
ESR 4 - Single cell transcriptomics for ecological and
metabolic niche-mapping of uncultured microeukaryotes
Supervisor: Stefan Bertilsson Host institution: Uppsala
University (UU), Uppsala, Sweden
ESR 5 - Disentangling the origin of eukaryotes using
phylogenomics and comparative genomics approaches
Supervisor: Thijs Ettema Host institution: Uppsala
University (UU), Uppsala, Sweden
ESR 6 - Development of methodology for single cell or-
ganism genome analysis Supervisor: Ivo Gut Host insti-
tution: National Centre for Genomic Analysis (CNAG-CRG), Barcelona, Spain
ESR 7 - Deep eukaryotic phylogenomics Supervisor: Pu-
ricaci on L opez-Garc a Host institution: Unit e Ecolo-
gie Systematique Evolution (Univ. Paris-Sud-CNRS-
AgroParisTech), Paris, France
ESR 8 - From single-cells to global oceans: using single-
cell genomes/transcriptomes to reconstruct and inter-
pret worldwide meta-omics
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BielefeldU MarineMammal
EvolutionaryGenomics
Graduate position: Early stage fellowship in Marine pop-
ulation genomics PhD studentship in marine mammal
evolutionary genomics
Funding is available for an early stage researcher (ESR)
as part of a Marie Curie Initial Training Network. The
researcher will be based in the Homan lab at Bielefeld
University (www.thehomanlab.com) and will also go on
secondment to the Harper Lab at Cambridge University
(www.cai.cam.ac.uk/people/liz-harper). This position
provides an excellent opportunity for the candidate to
obtain experience of diverse methodologies, from next
generation sequencing to geometric morphometrics and
scanning electron microscopy.
There is mounting concern over the acidication of the
Worlds oceans. In the 250 years since the onset of the
industrial revolution, atmospheric CO2 levels have risen
from 280 to 381 parts per million and average ocean pH
has fallen from 8.16 to 8.05. Human-driven emissions of
CO2 continue to rise and have begun to outstrip even the
most pessimistic of IPCC model scenarios. How will life
in the oceans adapt to this changing environment? Par-
ticular concern has been expressed over organisms with
heavily calcied shells such as molluscs, as their ability
to extract carbonate ions from seawater and incorporate
these into their skeletons may be compromised.
This position forms part of a Marie Curie Initial Train-
ing Network entitled CACHE: Calcium in a Changing
Environment, funded by the EU (ref: 605051) and co-
ordinated by the British Antarctic Survey. The aim22 EvolDir March 1, 2016
of this network is to take a coordinated multidisci-
plinary approach to understanding calcium regulation
and shell production in four commercially important
shellsh species, the king scallop (Pecten maximus),
the Pacic oyster, (Crassostrea gigas), the blue mussel
(Mytilus edulis) and the soft shell clam (Mya arenaria).
The network comprises 10 partners from 6 European
countries, including research institutes, universities and
commercial enterprises. Full details of the network can
be found at www.cache-ITN.eu . The ESR will be ex-
pected to work with two other ESRs based in Bielefeld
and Cambridge respectively. He or she will be involved
in projects using population genomic approaches to (i)
conduct a comparative analysis of the population struc-
ture of the four species along a European latitudinal
cline; (ii) explore how stocking practices, hybridization,
oceanographic barriers and life-history interact to shape
population structure; (iii) determine the relative contri-
butions of genotype and phenotypic plasticity to shell
morphology and ultrastructure; (iv) test for signatures
of selection at candidate genes involved in calcium regu-
lation and deposition. There will also be scope for the
ESR to explore their own related interests within the
framework of this project.
We seek a bright and highly motivated candidate who
holds a B.Sc. or equivalent in a relevant topic (e.g.
marine biology, population or evolutionary genetics,
bioinformatics). An M.Sc. would also be advantageous
but is not necessary. The ideal candidate will have some
practical experience of working in a genetics lab and
/ or strong quantitative skills including experience of
working in R. Experience of next generation sequenc-
ing approaches is desirable although training can be
provided. The candidate should also be able to work
both independently and as part of a multidisciplinary
team. A high standard of spoken and written English
is required.
The ESR will join the Homan lab, a young and dy-
namic group comprising ve PhD students and a post-
doc. They will be based at the Department of Animal Be-
haviour at Bielefeld University (www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/animalbehaviour/home.html). The department
currently hosts six principal investigators, seven post-
docs and over thirty PhD students. It oers a stimulat-
ing international environment and an excellent research
infrastructure including brand new molecular laborato-
ries and computing facilities. The working language of
the Department is English. Bielefeld is a city of 325,000
inhabitants with an attractive historical centre and easy
access to the Teutoberger Wald for hiking and other
outdoor pursuits. It oers a very high standard of living
and is well connected to most major European cities.
This position oers a generous stipend of at leasteuro3700 per month, including a mobility allowance,
for a period of up to 18 months. Funding is also avail-
able for the fellow to attend at least one meeting in
Portugal, and there may be opportunities for eldwork
in other European countries.
To apply for the position, please provide: (i) a letter of
motivation including a maximum 2-page statement of
your research interests,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU Prague
SexChromosomeEvolution
CharlesU Prague.SexChromosomeEvolution
PhD position in Evolution of sex chromosomes in squa-
mate reptiles
A position for a PhD candidate is currently open in
the laboratory of Dr. Lukas Kratochvil, Department
of Ecology, Charles University in Prague, Czech Re-
public. The successful PhD candidate will join our
current projects on the study of the evolution of sex
chromosomes in squamate reptiles with molecular and
cytogenetic methods.
Project description: The aim of the project is to ex-
amine the evolution of sex chromosome and their ho-
mology based on gene content in selected lineages of
squamate reptiles (eg. lizards and snakes). Squamate
reptiles possess lineages with either XX/XY, ZZ/ZW or
temperature-dependent sex determination systems. De-
spite the recent advantages in the eld, our knowledge
about the sex determination systems and sex chromo-
some homology is limited only to few groups of reptiles
(eg. iguanas, advanced snakes), while the majority of
reptilian lineages remain unstudied. The successful can-
didate will collaborate with the other team members
and will study the evolution of sex chromosomes in a
multidirectional approach, involving cytogenetics (eg.
FISH, chromosome painting), molecular genetics (eg.
qPCR) and bioinformatics (eg. transcriptomics). More
information about our current research activity can be
found in the following publications:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26702042
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25424152March 1, 2016 EvolDir 23
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24433436
Qualications: The applicant should possess Master
degree (or equivalent title) and has a proven expertise
in a related eld of biology: evolutionary biology, cyto-
genetics, phylogenetics, genomics and/or bioinformatics.
Previous experience in herpetology is not necessary.
The ideal candidate should be scientically motivated,
able to work both independently and as a part of
the team and should have a publication record. High
standard of spoken and written English is required.
Application: The applicant should send a let-
ter explaining your background and motiva-
tion, a full CV and contact information for
two references to: lukas.kratochvil@natur.cuni.cz;
michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz.
The deadline for submission of applications is March 31,
2016.
Lukas Kratochvil
Associate Professor Department of Ecology Charles Uni-
versity in Prague Faculty of Science Vinicn?? 7, 128 43
Praha 2 www.natur.cuni.cz/en Tel.: +420 221 95 1745
e-mail: lukas.kratochvil@natur.cuni.cz
\Michail Rovatsos, Ph.D."
<michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz >
Essen Metabarcoding
The University of Duisburg-Essen (Campus Essen) Cen-
tre for Water and Environmental Research (ZWU)
Aquatic Ecosystem Research Group (Leese-Lab) oers
1 PhD position (Part-time 55%; salary equivalent TV-L
13) in Genetic Monitoring / Metabarcoding (BMBF
German Barcode of Life 2 subproject)
The group of Prof. Florian Leese is interested in devel-
oping new molecular approaches to assess the ecological
status of aquatic ecosystems. Specically, we develop
and apply DNA metabarcoding to monitor changes in
stream communities under environmental stressors. Fur-
thermore, we utilize genome- wide markers and perform
transcriptional proling to understand population and
organismal responses to multiple stressors. As part of a
recently granted subproject within the large collabora-
tive German Barcode of Life Project (GBOL2, funded
by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research,
BMBF), we want to bring DNA metabarcoding of fresh-
water invertebrates to the application stage. In cooper-ation with our collaborators at the Zoological Research
Museum Alexander Koenig (Bonn, Germany), the candi-
date will collect samples, perform experiments, generate
and analyse next-generation sequencing data on whole
communities (amplicon sequencing). Further reading:
Elbrecht & Leese, PLoS ONE 2015, DOI: 10.1371/jour-
nal.pone.0130324; Macher, Salis et al., Ecological Indi-
cators, 2016.
The successful candidate (f/m) will hold a Master in
Biology, Chemistry or Bioinformatics and has good ex-
perience in molecular lab work. Furthermore, he/she
has experience and strong interest in a programming
or scripting language (e.g. R, C, Python). Candidates
will benet from the international and interdisciplinary
research environment at the research group, the GBOL2
project and the ZWU. Excellent high-throughput ge-
nomics and bioinformatics equipment are available in
the newly equipped labs.
The position will start as soon as possible initially for
2,5 years (will be extended). Deadline: 29. February
2016
For more information please visit: http://udue.de/-
leeselab https://www.uni-due.de/zwu/ https:/-
/www.bolgermany.de Please send applications
as a single pdf le with reference code 42-16 to
miriam.schmidt@uni-due.de. For questions please
contact orian.leese@uni-due.de.
We are one of the youngest universities in Germany
and think in terms of possibilities, not limitations. In
the heart of the Ruhrregion, we develop ideas of the
future at our 11 faculties. We are strong in research
and teaching, live diversity, support potential and are
highly committed to an educational equality that has
earned this name.
The University Duisburg-Essen aims at promoting
the diversity of its members (see http://www.uni-
due.de/diversity/international.shtml). Applications
from disabled persons or equivalents according to ^Ax2
Abs. 3 SGB IX are encouraged.
The University Duisburg-Essen has been awarded for
its eort to promote gender equality with the \Total-
E- Quality-Award". It aims at increasing the share of
women in the scientic personnel and therefore explicitly
encourages women to apply. Women will be preferen-
tially considered when equally qualied according to the
state equality law.
Link to original job oer: URL: http://tinyurl.com/-
jd8ta6x Prof. Dr. Florian Leese University of Duisburg-
Essen Faculty of Biology Aquatic Ecosystem Research
Universitaetsstrasse 5 D-45141 Essen, Germany24 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Email: orian.leese@uni-due.de +49 201.183-4053 j
@leeselab http://udue.de/leeselab orian.leese@uni-
due.de
GermanCanadian 6 Bioinformatics
The International DFG Research Training Group
\Computational Methods for the Analysis of the Diversity
and Dynamics of Genomes"
at Bielefeld University, Germany, oers 6 PhD positions
starting October 2016.
Research will focus on the development of methods of
high importance for the practical comparative analysis
of genomes, in particular in view of both the varia-
tion between individuals (diversity) and the change in
populations over time (dynamics). Our program aims
at training specialists in handling big data related to
genomics and molecular biology.
PhD students will hold 3-year positions, payed according
to German TV-L 13 table, i.e., a monthly gross salary
of approximately 3200 Euros. This international gradu-
ate program is a close cooperation with Simon Fraser
University (SFU), Vancouver, Canada (www.sfu.ca/-
madd-gen). It involves a six-months research stay at
SFU or one of the other partner institutions in Van-
couver. (Funds to support parents and handicapped
persons are available.)
Candidates should hold an excellent Master degree (or
equivalent) in bioinformatics, computer science, math-
ematics, or a related area. They have to demonstrate
broad background in the interdisciplinary eld of bioin-
formatics in general, with a focus on computer science
and deep knowledge in the area they apply for. As
students must be able to communicate their work in the
research training group, and have to quickly integrate
into both the Bielefeld and Vancouver environment,
good communication skills are demanded. Knowledge
of the English language is required, whereas German is
not necessary.
Application deadline: May 8, 2016
For further information and application instructions, see
our website:
www.didy.uni-bielefeld.de DiDy-students mailing
list DiDy-students@cebitec.uni-bielefeld.de https://-
mail.cebitec.uni-bielefeld.de/mailman/listinfo/didy-
students Georges Hattab <ghattab@CeBiTec.Uni-Bielefeld.DE >
Ghent GenomeAnnotation
PhD student - New tools for genome annotation in
unknown microeukaryote lineages
In the framework of a H2020 Marie-Sk?odowska-Curie
Innovative Training Network on Promoting Single Cell
Genomics to explore the ecology and evolution of hidden
microeukaryotes (SINGEK), we have a position open
for a *PhD student in Bioinformatics*, with a strong
focus on tool development and data visualization.
Specically, we are looking for: -Master in compu-
tational sciences, preferably with some experience in
biological data analysis -Experience with Unix and
command-line usage -Good programming skills (Python,
or Java/C++) -Experience with relational databases
(mySQL), PHP and webdesign/JavaScript is a plus -
Excellent English communication skills -A passion for
science and driven to decode the mysteries of life.
Need more info? Contact Prof. K. Vandepoele
(klaas.vandepoele AT psb.vib-ugent.be).
Want to apply? Find the application form here:
http://www.singek.eu/esr-10-new-tools-for-genome-
annotation-in-unknown-microeukaryote-lineages/ .
\klaas.vandepoele@psb.vib-ugent.be"
IBDM Marseille
EvolutionWingPigmentation
PhD position available in the Prud'homme lab (Mar-
seille, France)
Evolution of the gene network controlling wing pigmen-
tation in Drosophila
We are looking for a PhD student to study the evolution
of the gene regulatory network controlling the formation
of a wing pigmentation pattern in Drosophila species.
This wing spot has emerged from a spot-less ancestor,
around 15 millions years ago, and then diversied in
shape, color and intensity between species.
The goal of the project is to peer into the genomic
changes responsible for these dierent evolutionary tran-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 25
sitions. The student will use comparative functional
genomics across species to identify candidate genes and
cis-regulatory sequences associated with these transi-
tions. These candidates will be further validated in
vivo by functional manipulations using genome editing
approaches.
Ultimately, these results will help to better understand
how a gene regulatory network emerge during evolu-
tion and give rise to a novel morphological trait, and
how alterations of this network underlie morphological
diversication of a morphological trait.
Candidates (from any nationality, with no requirement
to understand French) are expected to have a back-
ground in developmental biology, genetics, and a strong
interest in evolution.
Please send a CV, a motivation letter, a description of
research experience and interests and e-mail contact for
2-3 references to benjamin.prudhomme@univ-amu.fr
The position is funded for 3 years by an ERC grant and
must start before July 1st 2016.
Our lab is part of the Institute of Developmental Biol-
ogy of Marseille (IBDM), an interdisciplinary research
center studying developmental biology and neurobi-
ology. More information about the lab and the in-
stitute can be found here: www.prudhommelab.com
& www.ibdm.univ-mrs.fr Benjamin Prud'homme
<benjamin.prudhomme@univ-amu.fr >
IowaStateU ConservationGenetics
M.S.Graduate Assistantship V Conservation/Population
genetics at Iowa State University. STARTING DATE:
Fall 2016 (option to start earlier in the summer) CLOS-
ING DATE: Position is open until lled. DESCRIP-
TION: The Roe Lab at Iowa State University (http:/-
/www.nrem.iastate.edu/research/roe/) is searching for
an MS student to study conservation/populations ge-
netics of one of a variety of freshwater organisms in-
cluding mussels, shes and shrimps. The position can
involve a combination of laboratory, and eldwork. The
student will work with the PI to develop an original
thesis project or build o of existing research tracks in
the lab. QUALIFICATIONS: B.S. in biology, genetics,
sheries, wildlife, biology, or related eld. Minimum
GPA of 3.25 and combined quantitative/verbal GRE
scores of 300. Previous laboratory experience with PCR
and computer and/or bioinformatics skills is preferred.STIPEND: $19,848/year. CONTACT: Interested indi-
viduals should send a letter of interest, CV, unocial
copy of transcripts and GRE scores to Dr. Kevin J. Roe
(kjroe@iastate.edu).
KevinJ. Roe NaturalResource Ecology & Management
339Science II IowaState University Ames,IA 50014
kjroe@iastate.edu
KielU 3 Celegans
Kiel University, Germany
1 Postdoc + 3 PhD positions on the evolution and ge-
netics of C. elegans-microbiota interactions
The positions are funded within a larger research initia-
tive on host-microbiota interactions at Kiel University
(Collaborative Research Center CRC1182 \Origin and
function of metaorganisms").
The postdoc and one PhD position are supervised by
Hinrich Schulenburg (projects A1.1 and A4.3) and ad-
dress the evolutionary dynamics and genomics of C.
elegans microbiota interactions, based on evolution ex-
periments and genome sequencing (Schulenburg group).
The second PhD project (project A1.2) is supervised
by Katja Dierking (Schulenburg lab) and looks at the
transcriptomic and also genetic basis of the interaction,
using RNASeq and functional genetic analysis.
The third PhD project (project A1.3) is supervised by
Matthias Leippe and assesses the involvement of an-
timicrobial peptides and proteins in shaping C. elegans-
bacteria interactions using biochemical and functional
genetic approaches (Leippe group).
For further information, please check the web-
page of the Collaborative Research Center (http://-
www.metaorganism-research.com/) or the Schulenburg
group (which includes Katja Dierking; http://www.uni-
kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/) or the Leippe group
(http://www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/zoophysiologie/).
Application procedures are described on the web-
page of the Collaborative Research Center (see
above link; then under Jobs). Deadline for appli-
cations is 29 February 2016. If you have ques-
tions, then please contact either Hinrich Schulen-
burg (hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de), Katja Dierk-
ing (kdierking@zoologie.uni-kiel.de), or Matthias Leippe
(mleippe@zoologie.uni-kiel.de).26 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Link: themeData Link: colorSchemeMapping
Hinrich Schulenburg
Zoological Institute Christian-Albrechts-Universitaet
zu Kiel Am Botanischen Garten 1-9 24118 Kiel Ger-
many Tel: +49-431-880-4143/4141 Fax: +49-431-880-
2403 Email: hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de Web:
www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/ Hinrich Schulen-
burg<hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de >
LinkopingU Sweden
EvolutionaryGeneticsAgeing
PhD-position available on the evolutionary genetics of
ageing at Linkoping University, Sweden.
Ageing, the gradual deterioration of bodily functions
that results in reduced reproductive capacity and in-
creased probability of death, is something virtually all
organisms experience. Already many decades ago evolu-
tionary theory provided a robust general explanation for
this phenomenon, yet most aspects of ageing are still far
from understood today and many exciting discoveries lie
ahead. The aim of the current project is to improve our
understanding of the type of mutations that contribute
to ageing, how genetic quality inuences ageing and how
this relates to the commonly observed sex dierences in
lifespan.
The project entails work on experimentally evolved pop-
ulations (already established one year ago), assays of
genetic variation in life history traits and, most likely,
transcriptome analyses. All work will be conducted us-
ing the model organism Drosophila melanogaster. The
successful candidate is expected to work closely with
other members of the lab, whose work largely revolves
around similar questions while taking a wider view of
the genetics of sex dierences in general (see postdoc
position advertised at EvolDir).
We seek a bright, highly motivated, and enthusiastic
person who is able to work both as part of a team
and independently. The ideal candidate has a Mas-
ter's degree in evolutionary biology or genetics, with a
good background in bioinformatics and a documented
interest in statistics. Experience in laboratory work
with Drosophila, or another lab model insect, is ben-
ecial. The working language at the department and
lab is English. A high standard of spoken and writ-
ten English is required. The successful candidate will
join a research group led by Urban Friberg (see https:/-/www.liu.se/forskning/foass/urban-friberg?l=en) and
will receive her/his postgraduate training within IFM
Biology at Link oping University. This position is -
nanced for four full years, and may involve teaching to
up 20% (which will then prolong the position accord-
ingly). For a very promising candidate, who does not
fully meet the above criteria, a short term position may
be oered aimed to help acquire the r equired experience
needed to start the PhD position.
Applications should be written in English and include
i) a cover letter with information on your background,
research interests and experiences, and your motivation
to work on this project (max 3 pages), ii) complete
CV, iii) a description of undergraduate training and
a copy of your transcripts, iv) the names and email
addresses of 2-3 referees. Applications should be sent as
one PDF to urban.friberg@liu.se. The position is open
until lled, and applications will be reviewed continu-
ously, but for full consideration please apply by March
1. The preliminary starting date is May 1 2016, but is
exible.
\urban.friberg@liu.se" <urban.friberg@liu.se >
LinkopingU Sweden
EvolutionAvianCognition
PhD-position available on the evolution of individual
variation in animal cognition at Link oping University,
Sweden.
Job description A fully funded 4-year PhD position is
oered in the subject of ethology, in the research group
of Hanne L ~Avlie, Link oping University (IFM Biology).
The job description entails to conduct research on the
causes and consequences of variation in animal cognition,
and we are particularly interested in links with animal
personality. Cognitive processes are fundamental, but
explanations to individual variation are still poorly ex-
plored. Animal personality (i.e. consistent individual
behavioural responses), has recently experienced con-
siderable research attention. Despite so, fundamental
questions remain unanswered, such as why does vari-
ation in personality arise, and how is polymorphism
maintained? Personality and cognition are predicted to
be linked, but the causality and consequences of this
relationship are still unknown. We have demonstrated
individual variation in various cognitive tasks and ob-
serve links between learning speed and personality, in
our model species the red junglefowl (Gallus gallus).March 1, 2016 EvolDir 27
The aim of the proposed project is to improve our un-
derstanding of individual variation in animal cognition,
by using the red junglefowl as model. The fowl is a
particularly suitable species for research on this due to
the possibility of combining our extensive understand-
ing of behaviour, physiology and genetics in chickens,
to apply a strong experimental design while examin-
ing behaviours under natural conditions or in the lab.
The advertised position can be combined with a teach-
ing assistantship of up to 20% within the biology un-
dergraduate program, which will extend the position
accordingly.
Requirements The successful applicant will be a highly
motivated and talented candidate with a MSc-degree in
biology (or equivalent), with a specialization in ethology,
behavioural ecology, evolutionary biology, neurobiology
or similar. Research experience in experimental animal
behaviour, sound statistical knowledge and analytical
abilities are merits, as is experience in scientic writing.
Very good knowledge of written and oral English is re-
quired. Both good cooperation skills and the ability to
work independently are emphasised. The successful can-
didate should be enthusiastic about animal behaviour
and handling birds.
What we oer Link oping University is a modern, in-
novative university with over 27000 students and 3900
employees. Biology at Link oping University oers ex-
cellent molecular facilities and exceptional avian hous-
ing facilities. The successful candidate will be part
of the AVIAN behavioural genomics and physiology
group (which currently has around 25 group members,
including 10 PhD students), and part of the Centre of
Excellence for Animal Welfare Science (in collaboration
with SLU Uppsala).
Link oping is a popular university city, and is the fth
largest city in Sweden. It is located in central Swe-
den, just two hours by train from Stockholm, and oers
proximity to the beautiful nature of ~Asterg otland, in-
cluding the great lake V attern, as well as both recent
and pre-historic history, and cultural attractions.
Equal opportunity Link oping University continues to
develop as an attractive and creative work place charac-
terized by equal opportunities, which works actively to
promote diversity and gender equality.
Starting date The position is available immediately, and
will be set according to agreement.
Salary According to present rates at the university (start-
ing at 25 000 SEK per month), including health insur-
ance and other benets, for 4 full years. A short-term
position may be oered to a very promising candidate to
ensure that the required experiences are acquired priorto start.
More information Contact Hanne L ~Avlie
(hanne.lovlie@liu.se), tel +46 (0) 13-286681.
Application procedure The application should include
a 1-2 page cover letter describing your research expe-
rience and interests, and your interest in this project,
and a full CV (including name and contact details of 2
references who are willing to provide letters of support).
Transcript of grades and copy of a relevant publication
may be required at a later stage. Application should be
sent as one PDF to hanne.lovlie@liu.se. The position
is open until lled, and applications will be reviewed
continuously, but for full consideration please apply by
31st of March 2016.
Hanne Lovlie <hanne.lovlie@liu.se >
Lund
CyanobacteriaPopulationGenomics
PhD position at Lund University, Sweden
A 4-year doctoral position on cyanobacterial population
genomics
Project description
Aquatic environments are of enormous importance as
natural resources of drinking water, sh production,
and recreation. However, surface waters worldwide are
threatened by toxic cyanobacterial algal blooms, which
have detrimental eects on human health and aquatic
biota. One of the most important toxic cyanobacteria in
Swedish freshwater is the genus Microcystis. We know
which species may be harmful, but cannot predict where
and when blooms will be toxic due to inter-population
and strain variation. The aim of the project is to under-
stand temporal and spatial prevalence, and the under-
lying function of toxicity. The overarching hypothesis
is that toxic and non-toxic populations have emerged
as a result of ecological dierentiation. The approach is
whole genome sequencing followed by population genetic
analyses of toxic and non-toxic strains. The PhD stu-
dents project will consist of designing and performing
eld sampling, formulating hypotheses, laboratory work,
genome sequencing, genome analyses, and population
genetic analyses.
Required qualications
The successful candidate is required to hold a Masters
degree or equivalent in biology with a specialization on28 EvolDir March 1, 2016
evolution and ecology. The candidate should have good
knowledge and practical experience of laboratory work,
especially molecular techniques. A basic understanding
of aquatic ecosystems and microbial ecology are desired
qualications, and experience of work with microal-
gal culture, DNA sequence analysis and programming
(within bioinformatics) are an additional merit. It is a re-
quirement that the candidate should be able to read and
write in English on a daily basis. Important personal
qualities are to be creative, good at problem-solving, a
team-worker, independent, resilient, and structured. At
times the studies will require long workdays during eld
sampling, as well as trips with overnight stays within
and outside Sweden. A drivers license is required. The
application should include a curriculum vitae, copies
of degrees and transcripts of academic letters, a per-
sonal letter stating your interest for the project and
doctoral studies as well as any relevant experience for
the project, contact information (phone, email) of two
personal references. Relevant publications, including
accepted academic papers or research thesis can also be
enclosed.
Eligibility
Students with basic eligibility for third-cycle studies are
those who: have completed a second-cycle degree. Have
completed courses of at least 240 credits V of wih at
least 60 credits are from second-cycle courses, or have
acquired largely equivalent knowledge in some other
way, in Sweden or abroad.
The employment of doctoral students is regulated in the
Swdish Code of Statues 1998:80. Only those who are or
have been admitted to PhD-studies may be appointed
to doctoral studentships. When an appointment to a
doctoral studentship is made, the ability of the student
to benet from PhD-studies shall primarily be taken
into account. In addition to devoting themselves to their
studies, those appointed to doctoral studentships may
be required to work with educational tasks, research and
administration, in accordance with specic regulations
in the ordinance.
Last application date 07.Mar.2016 11:59 PM CET
Apply on: https://lu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/-
what:job/jobID:89904/ Contact person: Karin
Rengefors, karin.rengefors@biol.lu.se
Karin Rengefors, PhD Professor in Limnology
Aquatic Ecology, Department of Biology Lund Uni-
versity Ecology Building 22362 Lund, Sweden e-mail:
karin.rengefors@biol.lu.se phone: + 46462228427
URL: http://biology.lu.se/karin-rengefors Lab website:
http://rengeforslab.org/ See our EMBO-EMBL
Symposium 2016 on aquatic microeukaryotes!http://www.embo-embl-symposia.org/symposia/-
2016/EES16-01/index.html Karin Rengefors
<karin.rengefors@biol.lu.se >
MaxPlanckEvolBio
HostMicrobiomeEvolution
Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen,
Germany
2 PhD positions on the evolutionary genetics of host-
microbiota interactions in mice and humans
The positions are available in the lab of John Baines as
part of a new Collaborative Research Center, \Origin
and Function of Metaorganisms", funded by the German
Science Foundation (DFG):
http://www.metaorganism-research.com The rst
project will apply a \systems genetic" approach (QTL
mapping, transcriptomics, metagenomics) to under-
standing the evolution of host-microbial homeostasis
in the intestine using the house mouse system (for back-
ground see Wang et al. 2015, Nat Commun 6: 6440).
The second project will focus on ne-scale analysis of
intestinal bacteria (cultivation, single-cell genomics and
metagenomics) that display host genetic associations in
mice and humans.
For more information about the Max-Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Biology and ongoing projects in the
Baines lab, see:
http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/2169/en http://-
web.evolbio.mpg.de/evolgenomics/ The application
deadline is February 29, 2016. For further details and
instructions for the application procedure, please see:
http://www.metaorganism-research.com/jobs/ John
Baines
Institute for Experimental Medicine Christian-
Albrechts-University of Kiel Arnold-Heller-Str. 3 24105
Kiel Germany & Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary
Biology August-Thienemann-Str. 2 24306 Ploen
Germany Tel: +49-431-597-1921, +49-4522-763-367
Fax: +49-4522-763-281 Email: baines@evolbio.mpg.de
Web: http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/evolgenomics/
\baines@evolbio.mpg.de" <baines@evolbio.mpg.de >March 1, 2016 EvolDir 29
MPIO Seewiesen
EvolutionCognition
MASTER PROJECT/INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNI-
TIES - PARROT COGNITION (TENERIFE)
Comparative Cognition Research Group, Max-Planck
Institute for Ornithology, Tenerife, Spain
The Max-Planck Comparative Cognition Research
Group, a part of collaboration between the Max-Planck
Institute for Ornithology, Seewiesen, Germany, and the
Loro Parque Fundaci&oacute;n (LPF), Tenerife, Spain
is currently accepting applications for Spring/Summer
term 2016 as part of research projects on social cognition
in parrots (social learning capacity and cooperation) and
a comparative study on physical cognition and problem
solving abilities of parrots. CCRG invites applications
for master thesis projects in a dynamic, international
research environment. Successful applicants can expect
to gain a solid insight in the eld of Animal Cogni-
tion/Experimental Psychology and gain experience with
working on parrots. The research is carried out on
captive parrots of the LPF, which holds the largest par-
rot collection and gene reserve in the world (ca. 350
subspecies) for conservation and research purposes.
Possible research topics:
The social learning project is to study the social learning
capacity of young individuals of slowly maturing, long-
lived and large-brained psittacid species, as well as re-
vealing potential underlying social learning mechanisms,
with particular focus on imitation ability. Parrots, as
plastic vocal learners, good vocal imitators and exible,
innovative species that probably exhibit life-long learn-
ing, represent interesting study candidates for testing
their ability to copy novel behaviour from others. The
aim of the cooperation project is to study prosocial ten-
dencies and perspective taking in a cooperative context
in parrots of dierent social and mating systems. The
physical cognition project focuses on exibility and inno-
vative problems solving skills and underlying cognitive
mechanisms across dierent parrots species.
Logistics:
Internship start and end dates are exible but prefer-
ence will be given to students that can start in Febru-
ary/March 2016. The position requires a minimum of
3-4 months, but ideally 6 months, continuous commit-
ment at the research station in Tenerife, Spain. Theposition is not paid but free accommodation in a shared
student apartment can be provided. It requires a con-
tribution to the running costs (electricity, water and
internet) of ca. 50 Euro per month. Successful appli-
cants will be responsible for their own transportation
expenses to and from the research centre (Puerto de la
Cruz, Tenerife, Spain).
Important skills/qualications:
Applicants should be registered at a European Univer-
sity and look for a Master project or for an internship
that counts towards their degree. Previous research
experience is advantageous. Successful candidates will
have:
a strong interest in comparative cognition and ambi-
tion to pursue a scientic career high motivation and
commitment to the project reliability and an ability to
work independently condence to interact with animals
good verbal and writing English skills an ability to work
in an organised and reliable manner and to manage
avariable and demanding workload initiative to develop
the project good team work attitude and social skills
(shared accommodation between 3 students)
To apply:
Please send your CV and a cover letter reporting any
relevant experienceyou have and motivation to partici-
pate in the project to Dr. Auguste von Bayern (avbay-
ern@orn.mpg.de ) or Dr. Anastasia Krasheninnikova
(anastacia.k@web.de ). Contact details of 2 referees may
be requested.
\anastacia.k@web.de" <anastacia.k@web.de >
OklahomaStateU GrassGenetics
Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, Oklahoma
Ph.D. or masters positions in the genetic regulation of
tillering in grasses, combining phenotypic, genetic, and
molecular approaches
Research focus:We are seeking highly motivated doctoral
or masters students to conduct research on image analy-
sis and genetics of branching in the grass Setaria (foxtail
millet/green foxtail), as part of an NSF Plant Genome
grant focused on tillering in panicoid grasses. The pri-
mary objective of this research is to identify components
of the gene regulatory network controlling branching
in Setaria and their responses to environmental stimuli
such as shading; combining QTL mapping with expres-30 EvolDir March 1, 2016
sion QTL studies, mutant analysis, and image analysis.
There is considerable exibility for graduate projects
within this broad theme, and results will be of broad
interest to maize, sorghum, and other grass researchers.
Essential qualications include masters degree (for PhD)
or experience in plant biology, genetics and/or molecu-
lar biology, and writing skills. Desirable qualications
include experience in growing plants, molecular lab tech-
niques including working with RNA, quantitative genet-
ics or statistics, and programming.
Salary: Stipend will be $21,504 per calendar year plus
tuition and health benets.
Application deadline: As soon as possible, although
positions will remain open until lled.
Application materials: Please send a brief cover letter,
resume, transcripts, GRE scores, and contact informa-
tion for two references to andrew.doust@okstate.edu to
be considered for these positions.
Andrew Doust Department of Plant Biology, Ecology,
and Evolution (formerly Botany) Oklahoma State Uni-
versity Physical Sciences 301 Stillwater, OK 74078
Phone: 405-744-9559 Email: andrew.doust@okstate.edu
Websites: http://botany.okstate.edu/people research/-
Doust/index.html http://tillering.okstate.edu/
http://osubioret.okstate.edu/ \Doust, Andrew"
<andrew.doust@okstate.edu >
PortlandStateU
REUinPlantGenomics
NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
in Plant Ecology and Genomics
We are looking for two enthusiastic students interested
in enhancing their research skills and experience in plant
ecology, genomics, and bioinformatics in the Cruzan lab
at Portland State University in Portland, Oregon.
Successful applicants will become part of a research team
working on dispersal and gene ow in upland prairie
plants in Oregon and Washington under pressure from
climate change. Dispersal is critical for colonization,
gene ow, and range expansion, and it is one of the most
important but least understood aspects of the ecology
of plants. Our research utilizes genomic techniques to
detect the eects of dispersal over dierent spatial scales.
This is an integrative research program that includes
eld work, wet lab preparation of genomic DNA fornext-generation sequencing, bioinformatics processing
of sequence data, and analysis of patterns of gene ow
using GIS and landscape genetic methods. Students will
be exposed to a wide range of methods and are expected
to develop an independent research project within the
scope of the larger research program. More information
on our research is posted on our lab web site: http:/-
/web.pdx.edu/ ~cruzan/index.html . Students will be
fully supported for 10 to 12 weeks during the summer of
2016. Funding is provided from an REU supplement to
our National Science Foundation Macrosystems Biology
grant. Housing will be provided on campus along with
a daily allowance for food and a $500 weekly stipend.
The start of the REU is negotiable with optimal start
dates between May 1 and June 17. To apply please email
us an updated copy of your CV (including GPA) and
a short (one page) statement of your research interests
and experience, as well as goals for your education and
career. Students with experience in computer program-
ming and/or bioinformatics are encouraged to apply.
Application deadline is 29 February 2016. Feel free to
email us with questions.
Send complete applications to: Pam Thompson, Post-
doctoral Research Associate: thompson@pdx.edu Mitch
Cruzan, Principle Investigator: cruzan@pdx.edu
Mitch Cruzan Professor of Biology Portland State Uni-
versity PO Box 751 Portland, OR 97207 USA Web:
http://web.pdx.edu/ ~cruzan/ Pamela G. Thompson
Postdoctoral Researcher Portland State University De-
partment of Biology, SRTC rm 246 Portland, OR 97201
503-725-9503
Pamela Thompson <thompson@pdx.edu >
QueenMaryULondon
BayesianPhylogenetics
PhD position available in Mario dos Reis lab, Queen
Mary University of London, UK.
Integrating fossils and genomes to elucidate the evolu-
tionary history of species through time
The genomes of organisms bear the footprint of their
evolutionary history. By combining information from
molecular sequences (genomes) with information from
the fossil record, inferences about this evolutionary his-
tory can be obtained and placed in the right geological
context. However, the fossil record is notoriously incom-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 31
plete, and patterns of genome evolution vary substan-
tially among species, providing important challenges
to the study of ancient evolutionary events. Recent
advances in Bayesian statistics allow probabilistic mod-
elling of the uncertainties in fossils and genomic evolu-
tionary rates, so that robust inferences about species
divergence times, that integrate these sources of uncer-
tainty, can now be made. The Bayesian method is now
being used to study controversial topics such as the pat-
tern of diversication of birds and mammals relative to
the End-Cretaceous mass extinction, or the elucidation
of the time of origin of animals over 540 million years
ago in the pre-Cambrian. In this project the student will
work in the application and/or development of Bayesian
MCMC statistical methods to study species divergences
through time. The project will include the collection
of genomic and fossil data from online databases, and
the use of computer software for analysis. Experience in
the use of statistical packages (such as R) and computer
programming would be an advantage. The project is
suitable for students interested in genomics, palaeontol-
ogy and Bayesian statistics. Students with backgrounds
in the life sciences, earth sciences, physics, computing
or maths are welcomed to apply.
Deadline: 31st of March 2016. Interviews are expected
to take place at the end of April or beginning of May.
Eligibility: open to UK and European students.
Funding: The studentship will cover tuition fees and
provide an annual tax-free maintenance allowance for 3
years at Research Councils UK rates (pounds 16,057 in
2015/16).
Reference: dos Reis et al. (2016) Bayesian molecular
clock dating of species divergences in the genomics era.
Nature Reviews Genetics, 17: 71-80.
More info and application form: bit.ly/dosreislab-phd
Enquiries: m.dosreisbarros@qmul.ac.uk.
Mario dos Reis
School of Biological and Chemical Sciences Queen Mary
University of London London E1 4NS
mariodosreis.wordpress.com
mariodosreis@gmail.comRoyalBotanicGardens
AlpinePlantEvolution
Harding Alpine Plant and Fungal Research Programme
PhD Fellowships The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
seeks applications from promising and enthusiastic grad-
uated students to join Kew's science and conduct a
PhD project focusing on the evolution and ecology of
alpine plants and fungi. The fellowship will provide you
with the opportunity to gain essential research skills
to successfully complete a PhD project. At the end of
the fellowship you will be a fully minted PhD, hence
enabling you to secure postdoctoral employment, and
establish yourself as future researcher in science.
Hours of work : Full time Number of posts : 2 Con-
tract Type : Fixed Term, 3 years Contract start date :
01/05/2016 (negotiable) Salary : GBP 16,057 Location
: Kew Gardens, Richmond, United Kingdom Other Lo-
cation : Queen Mary University of London / Reading
University Closing Date : 21/03/2016
Two research fellowships are available, one in each of
the following research projects:
1. Integrated monography of the genus Saxifraga L. as
a window on the evolution of the European Alpine ora
This project aims to use the species-rich, predominantly
alpine genus Saxifraga (ca. 440 spp.) as a model to
elucidate the eco-evolutionary assembly of mountain
oras, with emphasis on the European Alps. We will
conduct an extensive eld campaign covering all parts
of the Alps in order to comprehensively sample the di-
versity of European Alpine Saxifraga. Together with
RBG Kew's outstanding collections and material ob-
tained from collaborators, those samples will allow us
to generate a densely sampled species-level phylogeny
of the genus using state-of-the-art phylogenomics. This
phylogenetic tree will serve as an essential framework
for understanding the geographic and ecological origins
of alpine Saxifraga diversity, in Europe and globally. We
will gather complementary datasets on the geographic
occurrence and traits of Saxifraga species, and integrate
all three sources of information using niche modelling
and phylogenetic, comparative approaches. This will
allow us to test specic hypotheses regarding the evo-
lution of alpine Saxifraga diversity, addressing the fre-
quency of fundamental processes, and the role of traits
in causing or inhibiting these processes. We will also
use our data to gauge the future of Saxifraga diversity32 EvolDir March 1, 2016
worldwide and in the Alps, by assessing Global Change-
related threats and quantifying to what extent species
diversity, functional diversity and evolutionary heritage
are at risk. Finally, we will also use the newly pro-
duced phylogenetic evidence to re-evaluate the higher
level systematics of the genus. Taken together, those
studies will form a modern integrated monographic ac-
count of Saxifraga. Contact person: Wolf Eiserhardt,
W.Eiserhardt\at"kew.org
2. Evolution of Asteraceae in the European Alps:
This project is aimed at better understanding the
role of polyploidy and chromosomal rearrangements
as evolutionary drivers in alpine ecosystems. We seek
delivering critical knowledge on plant speciation in high
mountain ecosystems, bringing robust evidence and new
insights on the pivotal role that genomic mechanisms
play in enabling adaptation to environmental stress.
Taking the Asteraceae as a model system, the project
research is summarised in three main work packages:
(i) Assembly of a new phylogenetic backbone of alpine
Asteraceae ora using NGS and complemented with
loci-based phylogenies through a supertree approach.
Chromosome and cytogenetic data, ecological variables
and phenotypic traits will be gathered and integrated
with the phylogenomic approach to enable detection of
key factors and interactions involved in diversication
processes in the Alps. (ii) The spatial distribution of
dierent ploidies will be assessed in selected genera
through a population-based approach. Those popula-
tions where multiple cytotypes coexist will be invaluable
as they will provide the opportunity to model and
predict how climate change will aect community as-
semblages, identifying which cytotypes will be favoured
and those that will be at higher risk in the face of
global warming. (iii) Pollinator communities and ower
visit frequency will be assessed in relation to variation
in ploidy levels and accounting for altitude. Pollinator
monitoring will be carried out using motion detection
devices. This will provide insights into whether dierent
cytotypes are characterized by dierent pollinators
and its potential link to shifts nectar chemistry.
Contact person: Jaume Pellicer, J.Pellicer\at"kew.org
Further information, including instructions on how
to apply, is available from https://careers.kew.org/-
vacancy/harding-alpine-plant-and-fungal-research-
programme-phd-fellowships-254393.html Jurriaan de
Vos<J.deVos@kew.org >SimonFraserU
SocialEvolutionaryGenetics
MSc or PhD positions in social-evolutionary genetics at
Simon Fraser University
One or more graduate student positions are now avail-
able for study of the roles of intragenomic conict in
human cognition and behavior. Research will focus on
the genetics and epigenetics of human brain-expressed
genomically-imprinted genes, to ascertain their roles in
mediating variation in human psychological phenotypes.
Imprinted genes are expressed from either the copy from
the mother, or the copy from the father, in every individ-
ual. These genes are subject to within-genome conict
between the mother's and father's copies, which inu-
ences brain development, psychological and psychiatric
variation, and behavior. However, the roles of brain-
expressed imprinted genes in normal human populations
are virtually unstudied.
See http://www.sfu.ca/biology/faculty/crespi/-
publicationsrr.html (especially paper #s 115, 117,
135, 144, 155, 169, 173, and/or 177) for examples of
representative publications in this general area from
the Crespi lab.
The successful candidate will have interests and/or
background in evolutionary biology, genetics, and psy-
chology. They will join the Crespi lab (http://-
www.sfu.ca/biology/faculty/crespi/), the Evolutionary
Biology group (www.sfu.ca/ ~fabstar/) and the Human
Evolutionary Studies Program (hesp.irmacs.sfu.ca/)
at Simon Fraser University, in beautiful Vancouver,
Canada.
Application information:
Funding is available for Canadian students, though
preference may be given to students with sources
of external support such as NSERC Postgradu-
ate Scholarships. International students are also
very welcome to apply, but may be considered
subject to access to funding from their home
country. Formal application information is avail-
able at http://www.sfu.ca/dean-gradstudies/future/-
academicprograms/faculty ofscience/biology.html If
you wish to apply, please send a Curriculum Vitae,
a copy of your academic transcripts (unocial is ac-
ceptable), contact names and emails for two letters of
reference, and a one-paragraph cover letter describingMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 33
your background and interests, to:
crespi@sfu.ca
Dr. Bernard Crespi, FRSC Professor, Department of Bi-
ological Sciences 8888 University Drive Burnaby, British
Columbia, Canada V5A 1S6
Review of applications will begin March 28, 2016.
Informal inquiries are also welcome.
Possible start dates would include September 2016, Jan-
uary 2017, or May 2017.
Bernard Crespi <crespi@sfu.ca >
Southampton UK Empathy
Cooperation Evolution
Modelling the eect of empathy and emotion on the
evolution of strategies in two-player games
PhD position at the University of Southampton, UK
*Deadline: February 18 2016*
Project Description
This project involves mathematical modelling of exper-
imental psychology data in order to explore the role
of emotional states in the development of cooperation
strategies in two-player social dilemma games. The aim
is to understand better the role of empathy and emo-
tional states in the evolution of cooperation in social
groups.
A social dilemma arises when an individual ^As selsh
interest diverges from that of the social group of which
they are a part and on which they rely. A key question
is why people seem to have evolved to cooperate in
such situations when it appears to be to their individual
disadvantage. A social dilemma game, such as the fa-
mous Prisoner ^As Dilemma, is a mathematical construct
in economic game theory that aims to model social
dilemmas. Social dilemma games can also literally be
played as games, for example in psychology experiments
that aim to discover how people really behave when
presented with these stylised dilemmas. We aim to shed
light on why people are typically more cooperative when
playing such games than would be expected on purely
rational grounds by investigating how the communica-
tion of emotional states between players might inuence
their behaviour. The PhD student on this project will
analyse data from social dilemma game experimentswhere players receive facial feedback that gives an im-
pression of their opponent ^As emotional state. There
may be also be the opportunity to help run additional
experiments. The student will further use the data and
insight from the experiments to construct mathematical
models of the evolution of player strategies in response
to emotional feedback.
Applicants should have a rst class degree in mathe-
matics or a related discipline with a large quantitative
component such as physics or statistics. An interest in
psychology is essential and previous study of it will be an
advantage. The project will be co-supervised between
the Departments of Mathematical Sciences and Psychol-
ogy and so applicants must have strong interest in and
motivation for interdisciplinary research. The ability to
communicate eectively across discipline boundaries is
essential.
Funding Notes
Prospective candidates are required to apply for this
studentship by applying for the MPhil/PhD in Mathe-
matics using the University of Southampton on-line ap-
plication system. A copy of the on-line application form
and guidance notes can be found at the following web-
site: http://www.southampton.ac.uk/courses/how-to-
apply/postgraduate-applications.page The studentship
will cover tuition fees and stipend for UK/EU applicants.
Partial funding may be available for overseas applicants.
Links to supervisor webpages:
http://www.southampton.ac.uk/maths/about/-
sta/rbh2c14.page http://www.southampton.ac.uk/-
psychology/about/sta/he4g14.page
Further information
https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=690 R.B.Hoyle@soton.ac.uk
UAkron Ohio WetlandEvolution
MS STUDENT POSITION with TA support at the Uni-
versity of Akron for student to study ecology/evolution
of organisms in temporary wetlands with Dr. Stephen
Weeks and Dr. Randy Mitchell. TA accompanied
with $14,550 nine month stipend and full tuition re-
mission. Applications and further information are avail-
able at http://www.uakron.edu/biology/academics/ms-
program/index.dot The University of Akron is a state
university located in the heart of Akron, Ohio, next34 EvolDir March 1, 2016
to the scenic Cuyahoga Valley National Park (CVNP).
The Biology Department emphasizes collaborative and
integrative research, including a PhD program in In-
tegrated Bioscience. Facilities include a live animal
research center, 400 acre eld station, and greenhouse.
We have excellent relations with the CVNP and local
metroparks, which provide access to over 40,000 acres
of potential eld sites within 40 miles. Our graduate
students have been successful in nding employment in
their specialties, including work as professors, consul-
tants, eld technicians, government agents (e.g., EPA,
department of natural resources), park naturalists, and
many others.
The Department has a strong program in Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology. Areas of interest for graduate
research include: life history evolution, mating systems,
aquatic ecology, pollination biology, wetland ecology,
conservation biology, physiological ecology, isotope ecol-
ogy, behavioral evolution, spider biology, and evolution-
ary biomechanics.
Akron is a great place to live, with a high quality of life.
There are abundant natural amenities, including nearby
metroparks and the CVNP, and ready access to many
diverse cultural events in Akron and nearby Cleveland,
including sports, several symphony orchestras, excellent
museums, and the Blossom outdoor auditorium.
For more information, contact Steve Weeks
(scw@uakron.edu) and Randy Mitchell
(rjm2@uakron.edu)
\Mitchell,Randall J" <rjm2@uakron.edu >
UAuckland VineyardStatistics
I do understand that the position does not seem to have
a lot of evolutionary relevance on the surface, but the
shape of the data and the design make it advantageous
to get a student who has skills in evolutionary biology,
and is interested in working with molecular data from a
wide variety of organisms. Since our project will sam-
ple over six years, three times each year, and we are
also investigating microorganisms, there is a distinct
evolutionary/developmental note in the project.
|{
PhD Scholarship in Modelling and Inference of a resilient
vineyard ecology Applications are invited for a three
year (full-time) PhD scholarship at the University of
Auckland within an interdisciplinary project across theDepartment of Statistics, School of Biological Sciences,
the School of Chemical Sciences, and Plant and Food
Crown Research Institute. The scholarship is funded by
an MBIE Partnership programme with the NZ Wine-
growers.
Project Summary: In our 7-year project we will inves-
tigate the ecosystem of several vineyards across New
Zealand to study the impact of organic management
techniques on longevity and sustainability of NZ vine-
yards. Data generated within the project will come
from several sources, including microbiology and chem-
istry over multiple vintages. To get control of the data
and identify interesting, evolutionary and functional,
relationships within organisms, between organisms and
chemistry, and the impact of vineyard management on
these relationships, and ultimately the health and pro-
ductivity of the vineyard, many challenges need to be
addressed: How to reliably explore the data for causal
relationships? How to model the interactions between
organisms and environment? What statistical method
best accommodates the complexity of this experiment?
We are looking for a motivated PhD student interested
in undertaking research into data-driven model and
method development to answer these questions. Ideally,
the student has fundamental knowledge in multivariate
data analysis, and a basic knowledge of statistical com-
puting and database management. The student will be
part of an interdisciplinary group of statisticians, biol-
ogists, and chemists, so the ability and willingness to
communicate results across disciplines will be essential.
Funding: The scholarship includes a tax-free stipend of
NZ$25,000 per year for three years.
How to Apply: Applicants should have an Honours
in Statistics, Bioinformatics (or equivalent), strong re-
search potential, and able to commence by June 2016.
Applications, including a curriculum vitae, academic
transcripts, covering letter and contact details of two
referees should be sent to Dr Steen Klaere, by email
to s.klaere@auckland.ac.nz. All applications received by
29 Feb 2016 will be considered.
Steen Klaere <s.klaere@auckland.ac.nz >
UBayreuth Germany
SpermMicrobeInteractions
***DISENTANGLING HOST-PARASITE AND MALE-
FEMALE COEVOLUTIONARY EFFECTS ON HOSTMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 35
FITNESS***
I am looking for an ambitious PhD-candidate inter-
ested evolutionary biology and reproductive physiology.
The project aims to disentangle host-parasite and male-
female coevolutionary eects on host tness in the com-
mon bedbug, Cimex lectularius. The project is funded
for 3 years by the German research foundation (DFG). It
involves genomics, metagenomics, and amplicon sequenc-
ing of microbes associated with bedbug reproduction,
including sexually transmitted microbes, and experimen-
tal manipulation as well as immunoassays, molecular
analysis of paternity and life-history trait analyses. The
project aims to quantify sperm-microbe interactions and
their consequences for male and female tness. There-
fore, I am looking for a candidate with an open mind to
new research ideas, a solid background in experimental
design and statistics. A plus would be if the candidate
has some knowledge of either microbial ecology, bioin-
formatics (experience with a unix environment, the R
programming language, especially the vegan package) or
skills in any of the above-mentioned areas. The starting
date is 1st May 2016.
Within the Department of Animal Ecology I (http://-
www.bayceer.uni-bayreuth.de/toek1/index.php?lang=-
en) the successful candidate will join the group of
Animal Population Ecology, which is working the elds
of ecological immunology, host-parasite interactions,
population ecology and biodiversity by studying various
insect species in the lab and in the eld.
If you are interested please send me an e-mail until Fri-
day 18th March 2016 with your application consisting
of one pdf containing a CV (incl. the names and phone
numbers of two references and a list of publications)
and a letter of motivation (max. one page DIN A4),
in which you describe how your background and your
personal interests will contribute to the project. Please
submit the application without a picture of you and
without your date of birth.
All the best,
Oliver
Dr. Oliver Otti
Animal Population Ecology
Animal Ecology I
University of Bayreuth
Universit atsstrasse 30
95440 Bayreuth
Germany
phone: +49921552646e-mail: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de
web: https://www.bayceer.uni-bayreuth.de/toek1/en/-
mitarbeiter/mit/mitarbeiter detail.php?id obj=106154
Oliver Otti <oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de >
UDuisburgEssen
DNAmetabarcoding
We are one of the youngest universities in Germany
and think in terms of possibilities, not limitations. In
the heart of the Ruhrregion, we develop ideas of the
future at our 11 faculties. We are strong in research and
teaching, live diversity, support potential and are highly
committed to an educational equality that has earned
this name. The University of Duisburg-Essen (Campus
Essen) Centre for Water and Environmental Research
(ZWU) Aquatic Ecosystem Research Group (AG Leese)
oers
1 PhD position, Doktorandenstelle (f/m) (Part-time
55%; salary equivalent TV-L 13) in Genetic Monitoring
/ Metabarcoding (BMBF German Barcode of Life 2
subproject)
The group of Prof. Florian Leese is interested in devel-
oping new molecular approaches to assess the ecological
status of aquatic ecosystems. Specically, we develop
and apply DNA metabarcoding to monitor changes in
stream communities under environmental stressors. Fur-
thermore, we utilize genomewide markers and perform
transcriptional proling to understand population and
organismal responses to multiple stressors. As part of a
recently granted subproject within the large collabora-
tive German Barcode of Life Project (GBOL2, funded
by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research,
BMBF), we want to bring DNA metabarcoding of fresh-
water invertebrates to the application stage. In cooper-
ation with our collaborators at the Zoological Research
Museum Alexander Koenig (Bonn, Germany), the candi-
date will conduct collect samples, perform experiments,
generate and analyse next-generation sequencing data
on whole communities (amplicon sequencing). Further
reading: Elbrecht & Leese, PLoS ONE 2015; Macher et
al., Ecological Indicators, 2016.
The successful candidate (f/m) will hold a Master in
Biology, Chemistry or Bioinformatics and has good ex-
perience in molecular lab work. Furthermore, he/she
has experience and strong interest in a programming
or scripting language (e.g. R, C, Python). Candidates36 EvolDir March 1, 2016
will benet from the international and interdisciplinary
research environment at the research group, the GBOL2
project and the ZWU. Excellent high-throughput ge-
nomics and bioinformatics equipment are available in
the newly equipped labs.
The position will start as soon as possible initially for
2,5 years. Deadline: 29. February 2016 Please send
applications as a single pdf le with reference code 42-
16 to miriam.schmidt@uni-due.de. For questions please
contact orian.leese@uni-due.de.
The University Duisburg-Essen aims at promoting the
diversity of its members. Applications from disabled
or equivalents according to ^Ax2 Abs. 3 SGB IX are
encouraged. The University Duisburg-Essen has been
awarded for its eort to promote gender equality with
the \Total-EQuality-Award". It aims at increasing the
share of women in the scientic personnel and therefore
explicitly encourages women to apply. Women will be
preferentially considered when equally qualied accord-
ing to the state equality law.
Vasco Elbrecht <luckylion07@googlemail.com >
UEastAnglia PopulationGenomics
What: FULLY FUNDED PHD STUDENTSHIP - Pop-
ulation demography and thermal adaptation in a model
pest insect, supervised by Dr Lewis Spurgin and Profes-
sor Matt Gage
Where: University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK
Details:
Whats the project and why is it important?
Climate change is causing substantial shifts in the range
and abundance of crop pests and pathogens, with poten-
tially disastrous consequences for food security. Study-
ing adaptation to climate in an evolutionary framework
is a powerful way for identifying how, when and where
pests will respond to climate change. However, our un-
derstanding of how natural selection enables individuals
and populations to adapt to climate change, and the
specic traits or genes responsible, is limited.
This PhD studentship will use experimental evolution
and novel genomic approaches to understand how insect
pests adapt to challenging environments. Specically,
we will use ongoing and new experiments of the pest
beetle Tribolium castaneum to test how changes in de-
mography (e.g. population size and migration) aectadaptation to changing temperatures. There will also
be an opportunity to use genome sequencing to identify
the genetic basis of adaptation to climate. We expect
the project to signicantly advance our understanding
of how populations, individuals and genomes adapt to
novel climates, and identify the impacts of demography
and adaptation on natural and pest populations. The
project therefore addresses both a fundamental question
in biology and a key societal challenge.
What other training is involved?
The student will receive training in ecology, evolution-
ary genetics and bioinformatics. UEA has an excellent
training service for PhD students, equipping them for
a wide range of careers within or outside of academia.
Just round the corner, The Genome Analysis Centre
has an excellent training programme for genomics and
bioinformatics. The student will also be encouraged
to attend external training courses, and national and
international conferences.
Why work with us?
1. Great supervision. The student will be supervised
by Dr Lewis Spurgin and Prof Matt Gage. Together,
we have broad expertise in evolutionary biology, popula-
tion genetics, genomics, ecology, animal behaviour and
molecular biology. We aim to provide the right balance
of being supportive and inclusive, while also giving you
the freedom to develop your own ideas.
2. Great Research Environment. Norwich is ranked
4th in the UK for the number of highly cited scientists,
after Cambridge, Oxford and London. Within UEA, the
School of Biological Sciences at UEA is a world- leading
research department with a dynamic community of PhD
students and researchers.
3. Great city. In a recent survey in the Guardian, Nor-
wich was voted the 'happiest' place to work in the UK.
The stunning Norfolk Broads and North Norfolk Coast
are also right on your doorstep.
About you
Applicants should: - Be creative - Be passionate about
research, and about using research to address big so-
cietal challenges - Have excellent analytical skills - Be
willing to learn how to code (e.g. in R or python) - Be
willing to actively contribute to the research group and
wider research community
Apply
Interested applicants can get in touch with me
(l.spurgin[at]uea.ac.uk) or Matt (m.gage[at]uea.ac.uk).
You can apply online, and view funding details, via the
UEA website:March 1, 2016 EvolDir 37
https://www.uea.ac.uk/study/-/population-
demography-and-thermal-adaptation-in-a-model-
pest-insect-spurgin u16sci- The application deadline is
15th April.
lewisspurgin@gmail.com
UEssex 4 GenomicsEvolution
4 PhD studentships in Genomics, Epigenetics or Evolu-
tion
A newly established Genomics section of the School of
Biological Sciences (University of Essex) is oering 4
PhD studentships, starting October 2016. The section
(http://genomics.essex.ac.uk/) is led by Prof. Leonard
C. Schalkwyk (Psychiatric and Environmental Epige-
nomics) and includes groups of Prof. Meena Kumari (Bi-
ological and Social Epidemiology), Dr. Antonio Marco
(Evolutionary Genetics), Dr. Vladimir B. Teif (Bio-
physics of Chromatin and Computational Epigenetics),
Dr. Jordi Paps (Evolutionary Genomics), Dr. Radu
N. Zabet (Computational and Theoretical Models of
Gene Regulation), and Dr. Pradeepa M. Madapura
(Chromatin and Gene-regulation).
The Genomics section was created as a result of a strate-
gic initiative to strengthen the area of genomics in the
University of Essex by hiring leading experts in genome
biology. Related research areas of the School of Bio-
logical Sciences include Cancer Biology, Immunology,
Protein Biophysics, Environmental Sciences, Plant Bi-
ology, etc, and can be found on the web site https://-
www.essex.ac.uk/bs/. The candidate will benet from
this rich and fresh intellectual environment and the novel
infrastructures. On top of the state-of-the art facilities
available in the School, the Genomics section also has
access to a new large computer cluster, a MiSeq DNA
sequencer, as well as other major molecular biology
equipment.
Applicants should have, or expect to receive, a rst or
upper second class degree or equivalent in a relevant sub-
ject. The research topics for the four PhD studentships
are the following:
o Deciphering the function of histone modica-
tions and noncoding transcription at distal cis-
regulatory elements with Dr. Pradeepa Madapura
( http://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/sta/prole.aspx?ID=-
4967; pmadap@essex.ac.uk).
o Using comparative genomics to study dierent as-pects of the evolution of the Animal Kingdom with
Dr Jordi Paps ( http://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/sta/-
prole.aspx?ID=4561; jpapsm@essex.ac.uk).
o Modelling of epigenetic regulation in chro-
matin using approaches of computational biology,
biophysics and next generation sequencing with
Dr. Vladimir Teif (https://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/sta/-
prole.aspx?ID=4511; vteif@essex.ac.uk).
o Building mechanistic models of transcription factor ac-
tivity and transcription regulation in eukaryotic systems
with Dr Radu Zabet ( https://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/-
sta/prole.aspx?ID=4580).
Applications should be submitted electronically by
Tuesday 29 March 2016, more details can be found
in the following link: http://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/pg/-
studentships/default.aspx. The target start date for this
3-year, fully-funded PhD studentship is 6th October
2016. This scholarship will be to the value of ^A$12,500
per annum plus UK tuition fees. Additional questions
and queries about the studentship and projects can be
addressed to the respective supervisors.
Entry requirements and application procedures Appli-
cations should be submitted electronically by Tues-
day 29 March 2016, see here for details https://-
www.essex.ac.uk/pgapply/enter.aspx .After lling your
personal and academic details, select \Apply for a post-
graduate research study", under Section 1 select \Biolog-
ical Sciences", \Full time", \PhD in Biological Sciences
" min 36 months \ Colchester campus", \6th October
2016" under date commencing, and the research topics
(see above) in the \Proposed research topic or area of re-
search" box. For general information about the School of
Biological Sciences at the University please visit our web-
pages http://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/. \ Colchester cam-
pus", \6th October 2016" under date commencing, and
the research topics (see above) in the \Proposed research
topic or area of research" box. For general information
about the School of Biological Sciences at the University
please visit our webpages http://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/ .
The University of Essex For general information about
the School of Biological Sciences at the University please
visit our webpages http://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/.In the
recent Research Excellence Framework 77% of research
at the University of Essex research is 'world leading' or
'internationally excellent' (REF
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html38 EvolDir March 1, 2016
UEssex EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD scholarship: Unravelling the origins and evolution
of the Animal Kingdom using genomics - October 2016
The Animal Kingdom comprises some of the major
transitions in the evolution of life, embracing a spectac-
ular diversity product of hundreds of millions of years.
Intriguing questions on its beginnings and major tran-
sitions are still a mystery: which genomic events are
related to the advent multicellular animals from single
cell organisms? What are the causes of the major tran-
sitions such as the emergence from animals with radial
symmetry (as sponges or jellysh) of creatures with a
bilateral architecture like ourselves? How the content
of metazoan genomes is related to the animals' main
body plans and adaptations such as parasitism, sessility,
or body size reduction? The revolution introduced by
Next Generation Sequencing provides a timely chance to
approach those questions using comparative genomics.
The new Genomics section of the School of Biologi-
cal Sciences (University of Essex) is oering 4 PhD
studentships, starting October 2016. The section
(http://genomics.essex.ac.uk/) is led by Prof. Leonard
C. Schalkwyk (Psychiatric and Environmental Epige-
nomics) and includes the labs of Prof. Meena Ku-
mari (Biological and Social Epidemiology), Dr. An-
tonio Marco (Evolutionary Genetics), Dr. Vladimir
Teif (Chromatin and Epigenetics), Dr. Radu N. Zabet
(Computational and Theoretical Models of Gene Reg-
ulation), Dr. Pradeepa M. Madapura (Chromatin and
Gene-regulation), and Dr. Jordi Paps (Evolutionary
Genomics). This section is the result of an initiative
to strengthen the area of genomics in the School by
hiring young and successful experts on dierent areas of
genome biology. On top of the state-of-the art facilities
available in the School, the section also has access to
new labs, a cluster of servers, a MiSeq machine, as well
as other major molecular biology equipment. The can-
didate will benet from this rich and fresh intellectual
environment and the novel infrastructures.
The PhD student will join the group of Dr Jordi Paps
to investigate dierent aspects of the evolution of
the Animal Kingdom using genomic data (http://-
www.essex.ac.uk/bs/sta/prole.aspx?ID=3D3D4561).
The applicants should show keen interest in evolu-
tionary biology, genomics, bioinformatics, and animaldiversity; previous knowledge of Unix/Linux systems
and programming languages is desired, but not required.
The candidate should have a good understanding of
the research eld and demonstrate the ability to think
independently.
Entry requirements and application procedures Appli-
cations should be submitted electronically by Tues-
day 29 March 2016 see here for details https://-
www.essex.ac.uk/pgapply/enter.aspx Please ensure that
for this scholarship a project proposal is submitted. Ad-
ditional questions and queries about the studentship can
be addressed to Dr Jordi Paps (jpapsm@essex.ac.uk).
The target start date for this 3-year, fully-funded PhD
studentship is 6th October 2016. This scholarship will
be to the value of $12,500 per annum plus UK tuition
fees.
The University of Essex For general information about
the School of Biological Sciences at the University please
visit our webpages http://www.essex.ac.uk/bs/.In the
recent Research Excellence Framework 77% of research
at the University of Essex research is 'world leading' or
'internationally excellent' (REF 2014).We oer world-
class supervision and training opportunities and our
research students work at the heart of an internationally-
acknowledged and well-connected research community.
In the 2013 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey,
84% of respondents said that they were satised with
the quality of their research degree. At Essex we win
awards for our pioneering student support schemes. We
are the most recent winners of the prestigious Times
Higher Education award for Outstanding Support for
Students. Essex is a genuine global community. With
more than 130 countries represented within our student
body, and 40% of our students from overseas, we are
one of the most internationally-diverse universities in
the UK.
jordipaps@gmail.com
UGroningen Drosophila suzukii
3 PhD positions Biological control of Drosophila suzukii,
a new invasive pest species.
Project description A new invasive pest species,
Drosophila suzukii or Spotted Wing Drosophila (SWD),
has invaded Europe and already caused millions of eu-
ros of damage in the European fruit industry. There
is an urgent need to develop new strategies to control
the SWD in the Netherlands, as the current practicesMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 39
of control with chemical pesticides are neither eec-
tive nor sustainable. We aim to develop an integrated
pest management strategy of combined biocontrol ap-
proaches. We still know relatively little about the basic
biology of this new pest species in the context of the
temperate climate in the Netherlands. Therefore, we
will 1) investigate the factors that control population
growth, reproductive success and survival of SWD in the
Netherlands. With this knowledge, we will develop an
integrated pest management strategy to 2) protect fruit
crops from SWD and 3) to biologically control SWD
populations.
Three PhD students will be appointed, each working
on a subset of the aspects of this project, which are
interrelated and complementing each other. These stud-
ies will be performed and supervised in a consortium
of the University of Groningen, Wageningen University,
WUR-PPO-Fruit and Koppert Biological Systems.
PhD project 1: Fundamentals of SWD biology in the
Netherlands (RUG & WUR) We need to increase our
fundamental knowledge of the factors that control pop-
ulation growth, reproductive success and survival of
SWD in the Netherlands. This includes the population
genetic structure, seasonal periods of activity, mortality
factors and population dynamics. We will monitor the
infestation dynamics of SWD in the Netherlands, and
identify those factors that control pest outbreaks, using
a combination of eld observations, eld and laboratory
experiments and population genetic techniques.
PhD project 2: Crop protection strategies: a \push-pull"
approach (WUR) To protect the fruit crops from SWD,
we will develop an integrated set of tools for pest manage-
ment. In this PhD project, we will develop pheromone
lure traps for monitoring and controlling SWD density,
and powerful repellents to avoid oviposition by SWD
in fruit crops. We will assess the responses of SWD
to chemicals that can be developed for lure traps or
as oviposition deterrents, using a combination of be-
havioural and sensory assays in the laboratory, and test
these chemicals in eld trials.
PhD project 3: Biological control strategies: selective
breeding of natural enemies (RUG) To biologically con-
trol SWD populations, we will select a potent natu-
ral enemy (e.g. predators, parasitoids and/or micro-
organisms) that can curtail the population growth of
SWD over the growing season. The potential of several
natural enemies as biological control agents will be inves-
tigated in laboratory and eld experiments, followed by
a \selective breeding" approach to increase the virulence
of the most promising natural enemies.
Research environment Within the project, the 3 PhD
candidates will be closely collaborating with each other,and with the academic and private partners in the con-
sortium. Project 1 will be partially based in Gronin-
gen and partially in Wageningen (ca ~4 months/year),
project 2 will be fully based in Wageningen, and project
3 will be fully based in Groningen.
The PhD projects are embedded in the research teams
of Prof. Marcel Dicke (Laboratory of Entomology, Wa-
geningen University), Dr Bart Pannebakker (Labora-
tory of Genetics, Wageningen University), Prof. Bregje
Wertheim and Prof. Leo Beukeboom (Groningen In-
stitute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of
Groningen). Our teams consist of ecologists, geneticists,
entomologists, molecular biologists and evolutionary bi-
ologists. The research will be done in close collaboration
with the biological control company Koppert Biological
Systems and with the Applied Plant Research Institute
WUR-PPO-Fruit.
Qualications The successful candidate will have an MSc
degree in Biology or Plant Sciences with a specializa-
tion in Ecology, Evolution, Entomology or similar, with
experience in insect ecology and behavioural studies on
insects. The candidate will be open and communica-
tive, procient in the English language and have good
statistical skills. We are looking for highly motivated
candidates who can work in a multidisciplinary team in
a collaborative spirit. Within the 3 projects, PhD stu-
dents are encouraged to supervise MSc thesis students
when such opportunities arise.
Specic requirements: Project 1: A eld / insect evo-
lutionary ecologist with experience and anity with
molecular techniques and population genetics. A driver's
license and strong interpersonal skills are required for
conducting the research at commercial fruit farms. Dur-
ing the eld seasons (June - September) the candidate
will be based at Wageningen University, and in the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UKentucky Lexington Insects
PhD Assistantship in Insect Overwintering Biology De-
partment of Entomology University of Kentucky, Lex-
ington, KY40 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Contact: Nicholas Teets Assistant Professor Email:
n.teets@uky.edu Phone: (859)-257-7459 Lab website:
www.teetslab.weebly.com Description: The Insect
Stress Biology Lab at University of Kentucky is seek-
ing a highly motivated individual for a PhD in insect
evolutionary physiology and functional genomics. The
successful applicant will conduct research on the cell
and molecular adaptations that drive the evolution of
cold tolerance insects. We are particularly interested
in the mechanism of rapid phenotypic plasticity at low
temperature. Research is conducted on both model
insects like Drosophila melanogaster, and non-model
stress-adapted species like Antarctic arthropods. For
more information on the Insect Stress Biology Lab, visit
the lab website (www.teetslab.weeebly.com).
Department: The Department of Entomology at Uni-
versity of Kentucky oers excellent graduate training in
diverse areas of entomology. The Entomology graduate
program is ranked in the top 10 nationally, and it is
consistently rated as one of the most productive pro-
grams at the University of Kentucky, measured by the
total number of student publications and presentations.
Students from our department go on to have successful
careers in a variety of sectors, including academia, in-
dustry, government science, and extension, to name a
few.
Qualications: Qualied candidates should possess
at least a bachelor ^As degree in entomology, biology,
or a related eld. Preference will be given to stu-
dents with previous research experience, either through
completion of a Master ^As degree or undergraduate
research. Desired qualities include the ability to
work well in a team, excellent written and oral com-
munication skills, and attention to detail. Informa-
tion on graduate admissions at University of Ken-
tucky can be found at: www.research.uky.edu/gs/-
prospectivestudents/admission.html Start Date: The
successful applicant will ideally start either summer or
fall, 2016.
Application Procedures: Interested applicants should
submit 1) a CV (including GPA and GRE scores), 2)
a cover letter detailing research experience, interests,
and career goals, and 3) the name and contact informa-
tion for three professional references to n.teets@uky.edu.
Screening will begin immediately and continue until the
position is lled.
\Teets, Nicholas M" <n.teets@uky.edu >ULausanne 2
FungalGenomicsBioinformatics
2 PhD student positions - Linking the Genomics of Sym-
biotic Fungi to the Growth of Globally Important Plants
(Uni. Lausanne, Switzerland) 2 PhD student positions
are available in the Sanders' group to study the rela-
tionship between the genotype of symbiotic mycorrhizal
fungi and the growth of cassava. Cassava feeds almost
one billion people in the world. Our research in the
laboratory, and in the eld, shows that genetic variation
in mycorrhizal fungi is associated with large dierences
in cassava growth. We will study this in more detail
to nd out which aspects of genetic variation in these
fungi causes high growth rates in cassava. The two PhD
student positions will involve genomics techniques and
advanced bioinformatics to understand genetic variation
in the genomes of these fungi. Secondly, this informa-
tion will be coupled with eld experiments conducted in
Colombia where genomic and transcriptomic data from
both the plant and the fungus will be put together.
It is intended that the results of this project will lead to
real practical applications in the future to increase pro-
duction of food in areas of the world where starvation
is a major problem.
Candidates must be highly motivated and have knowl-
edge in at least one of the following elds: molecular
biology; quantitative genetics; bioinformatics The two
successful candidates will not do the same project but
should be complimentary to each other.
More information about our work can be found at http:/-
/people.unil.ch/iansanders/ The project is a collabora-
tion between the University of Lausanne, Dr Marco
Pagni at the Vital-IT center of the SIB Swiss Insti-
tute of Bioinformatics and Prof. Alia Rodriguez at the
National University of Colombia.
The PhD positions are each for a three year period and
are funded by the Swiss National Science Fondation.
Salary follows the regulations of the SNSF. Our PhD
program requires that applicants already have a masters
degree.
To apply send a CV and motivation letter in English
by email to ian.sanders@unil.ch by not later than 10th
March 2016.
Prof. Ian R. Sanders Dept. of Ecology & Evo-
lution University of Lausanne Biophore BuildingMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 41
1015 Lausanne Switzerland Tel (direct): +41 21
692 4261 Tel (Secretary): +41 21 692 4260 Fax:
+41 21 692 4265 Email: ian.sanders@unil.ch http:/-
/www.unil.ch/dee/page7238 en.html **See my new web-
site** http://people.unil.ch/iansanders/ Ian Sanders
<Ian.Sanders@unil.ch >
ULincoln UK CanineGenetics
Fully funded PhD studentship in canine genetics: Link-
ing phenotypes with genotypes for canine chemosensory
perception
School of Life Sciences, University of Lincoln, UK
We are seeking to recruit a Science graduate with MSc
or a good BSc degree (or equivalent) for a project on
genetics of canine chemosensory perception, starting in
October 2016. Experience in molecular genetics, bioin-
formatics and/or behavioural research methods will be
seen as an advantage. This is a fully-funded position
with a stipend of $14,124 per annum for three years for
both home and international students. The project will
be supervised by a team of researchers with complemen-
tary expertise in evolutionary genetics (Malgorzata Pilot,
primary supervisor), veterinary behavioural medicine
(Daniel Mills) and molecular neurobiology (Humberto
Gutierrez).
This project will address a fundamental question in
chemosensory system evolution concerning the trade-
o between olfaction (sense of smell) and vomeronasal
sensing (detection of emotionally salient chemosignals),
and at the same time contribute to improving eciency
of selection of dogs for detection work (e.g. explosives,
drugs). Olfactory receptors (OR) and vomeronasal re-
ceptors (V1R) provide systems to detect molecules of
odorants and chemicals that mediate pheromone per-
ception, respectively. There is growing evidence on
functional and evolutionary interactions between these
two systems, but this has not been assessed yet at an
intra-specic level. The aim of this PhD project is to
compare OR and V1R repertoires and chemosensory
perception abilities in dierent groups of dogs, including
breeds currently used for scent detection and breeds
considered as poor sniers, and in dogs' wild ances-
tors, grey wolves. The project will involve the analysis
of the complete set of OR and V1R genes using NGS
methods, behavioural experiments to test odour and
pheromone perception performance, and the analysis of
genotype-phenotype interactions.The student will be supervised by an interdisciplinary
team with complementary expertise in evolutionary ge-
netics and genomics, molecular neurobiology, neuronal
cell signalling, olfaction and pheromone detection, vet-
erinary behavioural medicine, and behaviour of domestic
and wild canids. Therefore, the student will have an
opportunity to obtain a broad range of research skills,
and develop a unique interdisciplinary research prole.
The student will be also given opportunities to attend
external courses and workshops, and international con-
ferences. The School of Life Sciences provides a great
research environment and has a large international com-
munity of postgraduate students.
To apply, send a CV and cover letter to Malgorzata
Pilot (mpilot@lincoln.ac.uk) by 17 April 2016, 11 pm
of UK time. You may also contact Malgorzata Pilot for
informal enquiries. Shortlisted applicants will be invited
for interview.
Malgorzata Pilot School of Life Sciences University of
Lincoln Joseph Banks Laboratories Lincoln, LN6 7DL
United Kingdom mpilot@lincoln.ac.uk
Malgorzata Pilot <MPilot@lincoln.ac.uk >
ULincoln YeastPopGenomics
YeastPopulationGenomics
Next generation analyses using next-generation DNA
sequencing: testing theory for the population genomics
of microbes
This is a computer based project. We are looking for
a student who is strong in bioinformatics and theory,
ideally with experience with whole genome data, and
ideally some experience with microbes.
This is a fully-funded position with stipend and fees
covering three years.
Main supervisor: Associate Professor Matthew God-
dard, University of Lincoln, UK and University of Auck-
land, New Zealand; http://goddardlab.auckland.ac.nz
Co-supervisors: Prof Stuart Humphries, University of
Lincoln
Collaborator: Assistant Professor Chris Hittinger, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison, USA,
Please contact Mat Goddard - mgoddard@lincoln.ac.uk
- for all enquiries, and include a CV and covering letter.
Background42 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Microbes are key component of natural, agricultural and
commercial ecosystems due to their metabolic actions
and ecological functions[1]. For example, bacteria and
fungi are key components of soil that at least provide
and recycle nutrients for plant growth, and perform
many other ecological roles[2]. An array of microbes
transform crops to higher value commodities (cheese,
coee, cocoa, beer, wine etc)[3]. Pathogenic microbes
potentially cause disease, for example Campylobacter is
responsible for >280,000 food poisoning cases in the UK
per year and c. 100 deaths, costing the UK economy
>$580m per year, much of this imposed on the NHS[4].
If it were not for microbes modern day sewage treatment
plants would cease to function.
If we are to understand ecosystems in their totality, let
alone reliably harness and manipulate such ecosystems
to render them safe or productive, we need to know how
the microbial components work. Unfortunately, while
a few species of microbes have been very well geneti-
cally and molecularly described, the population biology
and ecology of even the most-well studied of microbes
remains cryptic[5-7]. This is simply because the ecology
and population biology of microbes is hard to study.
Recent step-changes in DNA sequencing technology have
opened up unparalleled opportunities in this area[8,9].
This technology provides three crucial aspects that were
not attainable before: 1, it can access and analyse mi-
crobes that are not easily cultured in the laboratory as
DNA may be extracted directly from the environment;
2, billions of cells may be analysed rather than hundreds
due to the constrains of individual analyses of colonies
on agar plates; and 3, whole genome sequence data from
individual isolates may now be gathered at a reasonable
cost.
This project will primarily use the whole genomes of
multiple individual from natural population of closely re-
lated commercially and academically important species
of microbes Saccharomyces cerevisiae and S. uvarum
- to analyse these populations and test the applicabil-
ity of current theory, and develop new theory specic
for microbial population biology and ecology. These
two species are research super-models and important
in wine, bread and beer production. We will analyse
populations that derive from New Zealand and the im-
portant and powerful dierence is that S. cerevisiae is a
recently introduced species, but that S. uvarum is an
ancient endemic species[13-15]. This crucially will allow
us to compare and contrast patterns and processes in
microbial populations that have very dierent recent
evolutionary histories and potential ecologies. There will
be the opportunity for the successful student to work
with other types of data as well, specically microbial
community data.We will:
1 analyse and develop theory for the analyses of popula-
tion structure, as Goddard has done previously[16,17],
but here with the power of whole genome data that will
also account for gene-ow and recombination between
sub-populations.
2 Following the rst and only study to estimate the life-
history parameters of microbes[18], use whole genome
data to quantify the extent of meiosis, mitosis and modes
of inbreeding.
3 use the above data to parameterise and then develop
new theory to analyse populations that are part clonal,
part sexual, as microbial eukaryotes are.
4 estimate signals of selection in genomes and compare
and contrast the two species to evaluate if this recovers
insights into their histories of invasion and endemism.
1. Hanson, C. A., Fuhrman, J. A., Horner-Devine, M.
C. & Martiny, J. B. H. Beyond biogeographic patterns:
processes shaping the microbial landscape. Nat Rev
Micro (2012). doi:10.1038/nrmicro2795
2. Hughes Martiny, J. B. et al. Microbial biogeography:
putting microorganisms on the map. Nat Rev Micro 4,
102112 (2006).
3. Chambers, P. J. & Pretorius, I. S. Fermenting knowl-
edge: the history of winemaking, science and yeast
research. EMBO Rep 11, 914920 (2010).
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMaine Orono
EvolutionaryPhysiology
I am seeking a highly motivated MS graduate student
to join my research group at the University of Maine
(Orono, ME). My lab studies the evolutionary and eco-
logical physiology of mammals in relation to climate.
The project will involve a combined lab/eld approach
to characterize the energetics and physiology of a small
mammal species in relation to ambient temperatures
and humidity. The exact species will be decided in con-
sultation with the candidate, potential species include
chipmunks, ying squirrels, hares or small mustelids.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 43
Location: Orono, ME
Salary: $15,000/yr +tuition
Qualications
Applicants must meet the requirements of the
Graduate School (http://sbe.umaine.edu/graduate/-
program-requirements/degree-oerings/a pplication-to-
the-program/) and possess a BSc in Biological Sciences
or equivalent. Experience working with small mammals,
and working in eld conditions is preferable. Knowledge
of the collection of physiological data (respirometry) is
a plus
Please send an email to Dr. Danielle Levesque
(danielle.l.levesque@gmail.com)
(1) a cover letter discussing your interest in the project
and applicable experience;
(2) a CV
(3) transcripts (unocial is ok)
(4) GRE scores (unocial is ok)
The position is funded for two years and includes a
stipend, tuition waiver and partial health insurance.
Closing Date: 14 April 2016 Start Date:1 Sept 2016
Danielle Levesque, PhD Assistant Professor of Mam-
malogy and Mammalian Health School of Biology &
Ecology 347 Hitchner Hall, University of Maine Orono,
ME 04469 Phone: +1 (207) 581-2511 Fax: +1 (207)
581-2537
Danielle Levesque <danielle.l.levesque@maine.edu >
UPortsmouth EvolutionPollination
The University of Portsmouth, UK, is oering support
for one PhD student to work with Scott Armbruster in-
vestigating: \Mechanisms of major evolutionary transi-
tions between pollination mutualisms in *Dalechampia*
vines" (Research Project Code: BIOL2231016)
{Support is available only to UK and EU/EEA students.
Project detail: Although evolutionary shifts between
ecological relationships among organisms contribute sig-
nicantly to the origin and maintenance of biodiversity,
how such transitions occur remains poorly understood.
As a result of rapid environmental change worldwide (e.g.
changing climate, widespread deforestation), important
plant-animal mutualisms are being lost or degraded. Un-
derstanding how transitions between mutualisms haveoccurred in the past may help in mitigating future bio-
diversity loss. Application of modern methods of molec-
ular phylogenetics, combined with phenotypic selection
analysis, population genetics, natural product chemistry,
SEM studies of development, and biosynthetic and de-
velopmental genetics, to species of Dalechampia vines
(Euphorbiaceae) with divergent pollination mutualisms
should generate insights of unprecedented resolution into
the mechanisms of major shifts in pollination ecology.
Further information and application instructions are
available at:
http://www.port.ac.uk/postgraduate-research/-
funding/phd-biology/ Questions can be addressed to
scott.armbruster@port.ac.uk
\wsarmbruster@alaska.edu"
<wsarmbruster@alaska.edu >
UppsalaU PlantEvolution
PhD POSITION IN PLANT EVOLUTIONARY ECOL-
OGY AT UPPSALA UNIVERSITY
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student with
interests in plant ecological genetics, conservation and
evolution. The candidate will be working in a collabora-
tive project between the labs of Drs. Nina Sletvold and
Sophie Karrenberg, studying the eects of population
size on genetic and ecological processes using the or-
chid Gymnadenia conopsea as the study system. More
detailed information on the project and how to apply
can be found at http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-
us/details/?positionId=3D3D91488 For more details
regarding the position please contact Assoc. Prof. Nina
Sletvold (nina.sletvold@ebc.uu.se)
\nina.sletvold@ebc.uu.se" <nina.sletvold@ebc.uu.se >
USouthBohemia CzechRepublic
AntPlantInteractions
A highly motivated postgraduate student is sought to
join a project exploring the shifts that occur in a mu-
tualistic ant-plant network when tropical rain forest is
logged, fragmented, and converted to oil palm planta-
tion in Malaysian Borneo. The student will conduct44 EvolDir March 1, 2016
eld surveys for ant-inhabited trees, measure ant and
plant tness correlates, and perform experimental ma-
nipulations of the mutualistic communities, in particu-
lar in relation to forest regeneration. The studentship
will provide the opportunity to collaborate with two
cutting-edge large-scale manipulations of tropical forests:
1. The Stability of Altered Forest Ecosystems project
(SAFE), the world's largest rain forest fragmentation
experiment. 2. The Sabah Biodiversity Experiment
(SBE), a project assessing the impacts of dierent diver-
sities of tree planting on ecosystem functioning. There
will also be opportunities to develop the project in a
direction of the student's own choosing. Duties will
include spending extensive periods of time in the eld
in Malaysian Borneo.
The successful applicant will join the Ant Research
Group (http://antscience.com/) at the Institute of En-
tomology, Biology Centre Academy of Sciences, Ceske
Budejovice, Czech Republic, under the supervision of
Tom Fayle (http://www.tomfayle.com/index.htm). The
laboratory is a dynamic, multinational group studying
ant ecology, evolution and biogeography, and is embed-
ded within the Department of Ecology and Conservation
Biology, a world-class centre for interaction network re-
search with regular publications in Science, Nature and
other leading journals. The deadline for applications is
February 29th 2016, with a start date of May 1st 2016.
The student will receive a scholarship from the Univer-
sity of South Bohemia and employment on an ongoing
grant for three years, sucient to cover living expenses
in Czech Republic. Applicants from all countries are
eligible.
Required - A master's degree (non-negotiable require-
ment for PhD study in Czech Republic). - Interest in the
ecology of insects or plants. - 1st or 2.1 undergraduate
degree in ecology or related subject (or equivalent). -
Enthusiasm for working in the eld for extended periods
of time in challenging conditions in tropical rain forest.
- Ability to work independently. - Experience in the use
of ecological statistical analyses.
Desirable - Previous experience of tropical eld work.
- Research experience with plant or insect ecology. -
Experience of molecular laboratory work, specically
DNA barcoding for species identications.
To apply please send a CV, contact details for
three references, and cover letter stating qualica-
tions, previous work and motivation to Tom Fayle (tm-
fayle@gmail.com).
Tom Fayle <tmfayle@gmail.com >USouthDakota 2 Bioinformatics
Graduate Student Opportunity in a New Lab at the
University of South Dakota
I will be starting a lab group in the Department of Biol-
ogy at the University of South Fall, 2016. I am looking
for graduate students (MS or PhD) interested in molec-
ular ecology. Specically, in collaboration with Andrew
Russell at the University of Exeter, we have collected
10+ years of genetic data in the cooperatively breeding
species, the chestnut-crowned babbler. I am looking to
recruit one or two students interested in bioinformat-
ics to work with me and Dr. Erliang Zeng answering
questions about heritability of traits (e.g. helping), pop-
ulation structuring, and the like (this is relatively open
depending on the interests of the student(s)). Although
considerable data is already available for use, some op-
portunity may exist to gain lab experience if desired.
Some statistical background would be useful and atten-
tion to detail is a requirement.
If interested, please contact Andrea Liebl
(a.l.liebl@exeter.ac.uk).
Andrea L. Liebl, PhD Postdoctoral Re-
search Fellow University of Exeter, Cornwall
http://www.andrealliebl.com/ Andrea Liebl
<A.L.Liebl@exeter.ac.uk >
UTorontoMississauga
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Ness lab is recruiting multiple funded graduate
positions (M.Sc. or Ph.D.) to explore evolution in the
genome. In our lab you'll have the chance to com-
bine eld work, experimental evolution, and molecular
biology with genomics to study how the genome inu-
ences patterns of biological diversity. Students will be
able to develop their own interests and/or join ongo-
ing projects including the eects of de novo mutations,
variation in recombination rates and how mutation and
recombination inuence adaptation and genetic drift
to shape evolution. For more information about ongo-
ing research and opportunities check out the lab pageMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 45
(http://sites.utm.utoronto.ca/ness).
The graduate program in Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology at the University of Toronto is across all three cam-
puses and oers incredible opportunity for broad intel-
lectual and professional training (www.eeb.utoronto.ca/-
grad.htm). In the Department of Biology at Uni-
versity of Toronto @ Mississauga there are ~30 re-
search labs providing a stimulating research environment
(www.utm.utoronto.ca/biology/home) and graduate stu-
dents in the lab will be encouraged to travel to national
and international conferences.
We encourage applicants from a wide diversity of back-
grounds including Biology, Computer Science or Math-
ematics. Expertise in evolutionary biology, genomics,
population genetics, bioinformatics and computer pro-
gramming will be considered an asset.
Applications and queries should be sent to
rob.ness@utoronto.ca. Please include a short statement
of interest ( <1 page), with a CV (including 2-3
references) and a copy of your transcript. You can nd
more information at http://sites.utm.utoronto.ca/ness
Dr. Rob W. Ness Assistant Professor Department of
Biology, University of Toronto @ Mississauga Missis-
sauga, ON, Canada http://sites.utm.utoronto.ca/ness
\rob.ness@utoronto.ca" <rob.ness@utoronto.ca >
UVienna EcolEvolGenomics
Graduate position: UVienna.EcolEvolGenomics
A PhD position is available in the Department of Botany
and Biodiversity Research, Faculty of Life Sciences, Uni-
versity of Vienna. The project will investigate the mech-
anisms of diversication in bromeliads (Bromeliaceae;
the Ananas / pineapple family), a 'textbook' adaptive
radiation in the tropical plant diversity hotspots of
Meso- and South America. Integrated within an interna-
tional research consortium, you will study the ecological
& evolutionary genomics of speciation in tillandsioid
bromeliads (Tillandsia and related genera) using 'target
capture' resequencing of candidate genes and pathways
for key adaptive traits and neutral reference genome
regions. You will analyze these data jointly with eco-
logical and spatial information, using the latest tools
from population genomics, phylogenomics, and niche
modelling. The results will provide a strong basis for
identifying the drivers of speciation in this highly diverse
and ecologically important group of owering plants, and
potentially in species radiations more generally.Work place: The Department of Botany and Biodiver-
sity Research houses several research groups active in
ecological & evolutionary genomics, plant systematics,
niche modelling, conservation biology, structural & func-
tional botany, and plant-animal interactions. Molecular
laboratories and extensive computing resources are avail-
able locally and at the Vienna Scientic Cluster, and
second generation sequencing (NGS) facilities are avail-
able in the nearby Vienna Biocenter Core Facilities. The
project is integrated within an international consortium
involving three Universities in Switzerland and several
research groups in Mexico and other Meso- and South
American countries. The position is initially for 3 years,
with the possibility of a 4th year extension. University
of Vienna oers an attractive and dynamic research
environment, embedded within a city with exceptionally
high quality of life and with numerous outdoor activities
within easy reach.
Start date: Anytime, but ideally before June 2016 for
optimal match with the consortium's eld work plans.
Requirements: Experience in the use of molecular ge-
netic markers in ecology or evolutionary biology; prior
experience with / exposure to the analysis of second
generation sequencing data would be benecial; good
knowledge of English, written and oral; willingness to
acquire basic knowledge of Spanish to facilitate partici-
pation in a (moderate) amount of eld work.
To apply: Applications must include a motivation letter
(<1 page), CV, list of publications if applicable, and
contact details of two references. Please submit your
application via the website of the Job Center at the
University of Vienna (http://jobcenter.univie.ac.at/en/-
home/; email: jobcenter@univie.ac.at) no later than
20.03.2016, mentioning job reference no. 6472. For
more information please contact: Christian Lexer,
christian.lexer@univie.ac.at.
christian.lexer@univie.ac.at
WageningenU PelargoniumGenomics
Vacancy for a PhD position 'Pelargonium genomics for
overcoming cytonuclear incompatibility and bridging
species barriers.'
Wageningen University, The Netherlands. Research in
this project focusses on the occurrence of cyto-nuclear
incompatibilities in the horticulturally important sect.
Ciconium clade within the popular ornamental crop lin-46 EvolDir March 1, 2016
eage Pelargonium (Geraniaceae). One of the obstacles to
producing better and more varieties of Pelargonium cul-
tivars is overcoming potential (and actual) species cross-
ing barriers. The Pelargonium clade is characterised by
the occurrence of widespread genome instability, and at
the species-level by the occurrence of both cytonuclear
incompatibility (CNI) and bi-parental cytoplasmic in-
heritance. You will apply genotyping-by-sequencing of
plastomes and mitomes of all 18 species known from the
Ciconium clade, in order to i) accurately trace cytotypes
(plastome + mitome) in Pelargonium breeding, and ii)
to better understand the organelle genomic basis for
CNI's known to occur in this group. In addition to
organelle genomics, you will characterise structure, di-
versity and relative abundance of transposable elements
quantitatively for all species and cultivars involved, en-
abling accurately proling and monitoring of nuclear
genomic backgrounds in Pelargonium crossings.
Using this genomic reference library you will explore
cases of CNI and also cytoplasmic male-sterility among
Ciconium species by genotyping progeny from their re-
ciprocal crosses. You will investigate whether plastomes
and mitomes are altered in these cases and how these
alterations aect the fertility of respective hybrid geno-
types.
We seek a bright, highly motivated, and enthusiastic
person able to work both as part of a team and inde-
pendently. The ideal candidate has a master degree in
evolutionary biology, plant sciences or genetics, with
good background in bioinformatics, genomics and com-
putational biology. Candidates from other programs
such as ecology or bioinformatics, with a strong interest
in evolution and genetics are also invited to apply. Expe-
rience with NGS technologies and genomic data analysis
is a plus, but training will be provided. The language
in the lab is English. A high standard of spoken and
written English is required.
Further information can be obtained from Freek Bakker
(freek.bakker@wur.nl) and applications should be sent to
http://www.wageningenur.nl/en/Jobs/Vacancies.htm
\Bakker, Freek" <freek.bakker@wur.nl >
WesternUCanada Sociogenomics
PhD positions in sociogenomics at Western University,
Canada.
The Social Biology Group (http://www.uwo.ca/-
biology/faculty/thompson/) in the Department of Biol-ogy at Western University (London, Canada) is recruit-
ing two doctoral candidates in 2016 to advance any of
the following four projects. We will match the precise
project to the skill, aptitude and experience of successful
candidates.
1) Molecular coordination of social traits in honeybees
Discover how genes and gene networks inuence the
evolution and expression of social traits. We need
an evolutionary-minded student with an aptitude for
molecular genetic or bioinformatics analyses, or both, to
identify genes and gene networks that regulate worker
sterility in response to queen pheromone. There are
opportunities to work with live bees, but experience
with beekeeping is not a requirement.
Some background information is available in:
Sobotka et al 2016. Structure and function of gene regu-
latory networks associated with worker sterility in hon-
eybees. Ecology and Evolution doi: 10.1002/ece3.1997.
Mullen et al. 2014. Gene co-citation networks associ-
ated with worker sterility in honey bees. BMC Systems
Biology 8: 38
2) Comparative biology of social and non-social insects
Discover the genetic and neural circuits that coordinate
reproduction in social versus non-social insects. We
need a student with experience in Drosophila biology
and genetics to help identify genes and neurons essential
for pheromone responsiveness and ovary de-activation -
rst in ies, then in other insects!
Some background information is available in:
Camiletti et al 2014. How ies respond to honey bee
pheromone:The role of the foraging gene on reproductive
response to queen mandibular pheromone. Naturwis-
senschaften 101: 25-31.
Camiletti et al 2013. Honey bee queen mandibular
pheromone inhibits ovary development and fecundity
in a fruit y. Entomologia Experimentalis et Applicata
147: 262-268.
3) Molecular coordination of social traits in termites
Discover the molecular basis of termite social life! We
are probing the Eastern subterranean termite genome
for genes associated with caste, sociality and invasive-
ness. We seek a candidate with interest or expertise in
next-generation sequence analysis, gene network analy-
sis, or in the general social and evolutionary biology of
insects.
Some background information is available in:
Wu et al. 2015. Subterranean termites: the
evolution of a pest. PCT Canada 3: 34-42. http:/-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 47
/www.pctonline.com/Digital/pcc/pccanada201503/-
index.html Gao and Thompson 2015. Social context
aects immune gene expression in a subterranean
termite. Insectes Sociaux. 62: 167-179.
Scaduto et al 2012. Genetic evidence for multiple inva-
sions of the Eastern subterranean termite into Canada.
Environmental Entomology. 41: 1680-1686.
4) Developing and testing sociobiological ideas
Bridge the gap between selsh gene theory and real gene
discovery. We have developed a conceptual roadmap
for social gene discovery, and we seek a free-thinking
student with an interest in population genetic modeling
or comparative sequence analysis, or both. The suc-
cessful candidate would help develop a conceptual and
empirical framework for predicting the type, location
and qualities of genes that underlay social traits - rst
in honey bees, but ultimately in any social genome.
Some background information is available in:
Mullen and Thompson 2015. Understanding honey bee
worker self-sacrice: a conceptual-empirical framework.
Advances in Insect Physiology 48: 325-354.
Thompson GJ et al 2013. Genes underlying altruism.
Biology Letters 9: 20130395.
How to apply
Western University is located in the City of London (pop.
400 000) and has a large and vibrant Department of Bi-
ology http://www.uwo.ca/biology/index.html. We have
strong links to the London Regional Genomics Centre
(LRGC) and SHARCNET super-computing facilities.
In addition, we run an active research group, with a
well-equipped molecular laboratory. We have access to
live termites and maintain a small apiary. Funding is
available for Canadian students. International students
are welcome to apply provided they have access to schol-
arships from their home country http://www.uwo.ca/-
biology/graduate/prospective/index.html. If interested
in applying, please send your c.v., contacts for references,
and a one page cover letter to Graham J Thompson
(graham.thompson@uwo.ca). The anticipated start date
for all positions is from September 2016, with alternate
starts in January 2017 and May 2017. Informal inquires
are welcome :)
Graham J. Thompson
Associate Professor Department of Biology, Faculty of
Science Western University
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WestVirginiaU
ConservationGenomics
Ph.D. Graduate Research Assistantship - Conservation
Genomics, School of Natural Resources, Wildlife and
Fisheries Resources Program, West Virginia University
STARTING DATE: August 2016 (option to start earlier
in the summer)
CLOSING DATE: Position is open until lled. Review
of applicants will begin on February 29.
DESCRIPTION: The School of Natural Resources at
West Virginia University is searching for a Ph.D. stu-
dent to study conservation genomics of lake sturgeon in
the Great Lakes. The student will use genotyping-by-
sequencing (GBS) to analyze DNA from lake sturgeon
populations throughout the Great Lakes in an eort
to determine evolutionary relationships and to identify
management units. The position will involve labora-
tory work, bioinformatics, and frequent interactions
with Great Lakes management agencies. The student
will be working towards a Ph.D. in Forest Resources
Science with an emphasis in Wildlife and Fisheries Re-
sources with Dr. Amy Welsh at West Virginia University
(http://wildgenomics.forestry.wvu.edu/). The project
is in collaboration with Dr. Louis Bernatchez at Univer-
sit e Laval and Dr. Tim King at USGS-Leetown Science
Center.
QUALIFICATIONS: B.S. and M.S. in genetics, evolu-
tionary biology, sheries, wildlife, biology, or related
eld. Minimum GPA of 3.25 and combined quantita-
tive/verbal GRE scores of 300. Experience in population
genetics is required. Computer and/or bioinformatics
skills preferred.
STIPEND: $19,848/year plus health insurance and tu-
ition waiver.
CONTACT: Interested individuals should send a letter
of interest, CV, unocial copy of transcripts and GRE
scores to Dr. Amy Welsh (amy.welsh@mail.wvu.edu).
Amy Welsh <Amy.Welsh@mail.wvu.edu >48 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Jobs
Alberta GroundSquirrelHeadTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
AMNH NewYork InvertZool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
AustralianNatlU ComputationalBiologist . . . . . . . . . . 49
BajaCalifornia Mexico Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . 49
BethuneCookmanU Florida PlantEvolution . . . . . . . .50
Frankfurt CuratorIchthyology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Hungary Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
ImperialCollege MicrobeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
LasCrucesResearchStation CostaRica StationDirector
53
MichiganStateU ResTech SwitchgrassAdaptation . . 54
MonashU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
PrincetonU ResTech EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . 55
QueensU Tier I CRC Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
RBGKew PlantFungalTreeOfLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
SanDiegoZoo ConservationResearch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57SUNY OswegoNY SystematicsBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UCambridge CharlesDarwinProfessorship EvoDevo 59
UCorua Spain 9mnth Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UHelsinki Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
UMassachusetts Lowell Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
UNAB Chile Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UPittsburgh SummerFellowship EvolutionaryEcol Dead-
lineExtended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UppsalaU BioinformaticsEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . 62
URochester EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UStAndrews Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UTexas Tyler InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
ViriginiaTechU PollinatorBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
WillametteU 1yrVisiting EvolBiolgy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Alberta GroundSquirrelHeadTech
Head Field Technician Required - Columbian ground
squirrels Kananaskis, Alberta, Canada
We are looking for a head eld technician to assist
with, and coordinate, eldwork on the ecology of a wild
population of Columbian ground squirrels. The head
technician will supervise 3 volunteers for the period of
Apr 9 to Aug 31, 2016. Duties will include monitoring
the phenology (when animals emerge from hibernation),
reproduction and survival of individuals, data entry and
data verication. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping
and handling of animals, behavioural observation, radio-
telemetry (to locate natal burrows) and assistance with
the measurement of physiological (metabolism) traits
on free-ranging animals. The successful candidate will
have previous eldwork experience, ideally in a eld
camp/station setting, have experience in data entry
and management and show a high level of responsibil-
ity. Good organizational, multi-tasking and supervisory
abilities are essential. Applicants who have experience
working with terrestrial vertebrates will be given pri-
ority. Additionally, you should have an interest in a
number of the following (the more the better!): ecology,
evolutionary biology, wildlife, eld biology, and animalbehaviour. Periods of time will be spent camping and,
as such, successful applicants need to enjoy the out-
doors, be up-beat, positive, responsible and work well
as a member of a team.
All eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky
Mountains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to
some of the most majestic wildlife in North Amer-
ica. You will be staying at the University of Calgary's
R.B. Miller research station in Sheep River Provin-
cial Park, Alberta (http://bgs.ucalgary.ca/facilities/-
facilities). You will interact with other researchers work-
ing with ground squirrels on a diversity of projects in
behavioural and population ecology. Additionally, the
eld station is home to a number of other researchers
working on a variety of projects, ranging from insects
to large mammals.
Salary is $1800/month. Food and accommodation are
provided. The successful candidate will be required to
provide for their own travel to Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
Travel between the eld station and Saskatoon is pro-
vided. If you wish to apply for this position, please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details of
three references (with e-mail address), by email to Je
Lane (contact info below), by February 28, 2016. Please
indicate in your application that you are applying for
the head technician position (we are also posting for
volunteers). Note that only those eligible to work in
Canada (Canadian citizens or landed immigrants, Amer-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 49
ican citizens eligible for TN status or foreign nationals
with work permits or working holiday visas) will be
considered.
We thank everyone for applying, but only those selected
for interview will be contacted. Only applicants avail-
able for the entire period will be considered.
Contact: Dr. Je Lane Department of
Biology University of Saskatchewan jef-
frey.lane@usask.ca www.lanelab.ca \Lane, Jerey"
<jerey.lane@usask.ca >
AMNH NewYork InvertZool
The Division of Invertebrate Zoology at the American
Museum of Natural History has the following position
open: Scientic Assistant - Full Time.
The American Museum of Natural History (AMNH)
houses one of the world's largest collections of biodiver-
sity, including over 32 million biological specimens and
4 million fossils. The Division of Invertebrate Zoology
is searching for a Scientic Assistant to assist the con-
tinued growth and management of the collections and
associated resources (archives, databases, and tissues)
of Arachnida and Myriapoda. The Division contains the
world's largest collection of spiders and second-largest
collection of scorpions, as well as the largest collection of
minor arachnid orders and one of the largest collections
of myriapods in North America, with worldwide rep-
resentation of taxa, emphasizing material from Africa,
North America and elsewhere in the New World. The
majority of specimens are preserved in ethanol, although
large slide-mounted and frozen tissue collections are also
represented.
Duties: The successful applicant will assist the curator
in management of the collections including specimen
sorting, labeling, preparation, accessioning and databas-
ing new acquisitions; systematic arrangement, storage
and organization of the collection; conservation (ethanol
levels, pH, rehydration, label integrity, rehousing into
better containers, etc.); routine collections tasks (as-
sistance to visitors, response to requests for informa-
tion, retrieving, packing and shipping loans to other
institutions, unpacking and curating loan returns and
donations to AMNH, databasing accessions, loan and
visitor activity); museum and local community service
(collection tours and related activities); training and
supervision of students and volunteers; management of
frozen tissues and associated data.Qualications: BS in Biology, Zoology or Entomol-
ogy. Candidates with general knowledge of terres-
trial arthropod (preferably arachnid and/or myria-
pod) morphology and systematics, good organiza-
tional skills and attention to details, and a good com-
mand of MS Word and Excel are preferred, with
more experienced databasing ability desirable. For
more information and to apply please visit: ca-
reers.amnh.org/applicants/Central?quickFindQ947 All
applicants must apply electronically through the AMNH
Careers Website.
egaughan@amnh.org
AustralianNatlU
ComputationalBiologist
Dear colleagues
I have funds to employ a computational biolo-
gist/bioinformatician for up to 2.5 years to work on
next generation sequence analysis and phylogenetics.
The successful candidate will be employed at the Aus-
tralian National University. If you are interested to
learn more, please email me (allen.rodrigo@anu.edu.au).
Allen Rodrigo
Prof Allen Rodrigo PhD DSc FRSNZ Director Research
School of Biology ANU College of Medicine, Biology
and Environment RN Robertson Building 46 Sullivans
Creek Road The Australian National University Acton
ACT 2601 Australia
allen.rodrigo@anu.edu.au
BajaCalifornia Mexico
Bioinformatician
BIOINFORMATICIAN POSITION
We are looking for a bioinformatician or computational
biologist to join the group of Dr. Lago-Lest on in the
Department of Biomedical Innovation at CICESE, Baja
California, Mexico. The project aims to study the di-
versity and the function of the microbial communities
present in Southern Gulf of Mexico. The successful
applicant will work with other members of the team50 EvolDir March 1, 2016
and other colleagues in order to analyze large-scale ge-
nomic datasets predominantly obtained by NGS based
approaches such as amplicon and shotgun metagenomes
and metatranscriptomes data generated on the Illumina
platforms including HiSeq 2500 and MiSeq. Activities
include taxonomic and functional assessments, genome
assembling, transcriptomes characterization, gene nd-
ing and annotation and establishment, maintenance and
optimization of analysis pipelines and procedures for
new collected data and their integration with public and
commercial data sources.
The successful applicant should have Computer Science,
Statistics or Bioinformatics background and experience
in genomic data analysis and data mining is desirable
but not essential. This experience should include any
of the following:
- Expertise in high throughput sequence analysis includ-
ing microbial comparative genomics, 16S diversity and
metagenomics - Coding experience in Python and R
would be desirable - Practical experience with creation
and maintenance of biological databases - Skilled in
statistical analysis of sequence data - Experience with
establishing online bioinformatics tools is favored
Salary will be commensurate with experience. Position
will be open until lled. CV and any question can be
addressed to Dr. Lago-Lest on (alago@cicese.mx)
Dra. Asunci on Lago Lest on Investigadora Titular Depar-
tamento de Innovaci on Biom edica CICESE Ensenada,
Baja California, M exico Tel. +52 646 1750500 Ext.
27264
Asuncion<alago@cicese.mx >
BethuneCookmanU Florida
PlantEvolution
Hello,
I'd like to share with you an opening in my department
for a plant biology position. We would be glad to receive
candidates with a specialization in evolutionary plant
Genetics/Genomics, complementing existing strengths
of the department, as long as the candidate is able to
teach senior level plant physiology.
Contact valerok@cookman.edu
TENURE-TRACK POSITION ASSISTANT/ ASSO-
CIATE PROFESSOR of Biology - Plant Biology
Bethune-Cookman University, a private HistoricallyBlack University, seeks a suitable applicant dedicated
to excellence in teaching and research, and also to the
continued enhancement of the academic environment
for students and colleagues.
Job Description The Department of Natural Sciences in
the College of Science, Engineering and Mathematics at
Bethune-Cookman University is currently seeking a can-
didate for a 9-month tenure-track position to begin in
the Fall of 2016. Applicants should hold a Ph.D. in Plant
Biology, Botany or a related eld, have postdoctoral
experience, and be able to teach an upper level course in
Plant Physiology as well as introductory biology courses
and courses in their area of expertise. The successful
candidate will be expected to establish and maintain
an active research program, including participation of
undergraduate students in their research. Research ar-
eas that will complement current eorts may include,
but are not limited to, Evolutionary Genetics, Molec-
ular Biology, Cell Biology, Environmental Toxicology,
Environmental Chemistry, Plant-Microbe interactions,
and Plant Ecology. The ideal applicant will show strong
potential for collaboration across disciplines within the
College and University and demonstrate experience in
pedagogy, curriculum development and/or assessment.
Essential Functions The person appointed will have
the following responsibilities: Development and mainte-
nance of a distinguished and interdisciplinary research
program Development of her/his own scholarly activ-
ities and professional capabilities Active and eective
participation in undergraduate instruction including
student advising and mentoring Active and eective
participation in departmental, college, and university
administrative governance
To apply for the position, please submit the following:
an online application form*, a cover letter, a current
CV (with contact information), a list of three to ve
professional references, a statement of teaching philoso-
phy (max. one page), a research statement (max. three
pages), and copies of graduate transcripts (ocial tran-
scripts required only if hired).
*Select the appropriate position from the BCU HR
Web-site: http://www.cookman.edu/facultySta/hr/-
index.html Send all Information to both Human Re-
sources and the Faculty Search Committee Chair Hu-
man Resources email address: hr@cookman.edu Fac-
ulty Search Committee Chair, Dr. Katharina Valero:
valerok@cookman.edu
Katharina Valero <valerok@cookman.edu >March 1, 2016 EvolDir 51
Frankfurt CuratorIchthyology
Jobposting - Ref. #01-16006
TheSenckenberg Society for Nature Research (SGN),
an institution of theLeibniz Association with almost
800 employees, conducts state-of-the-artnatural science
research at leading research institutionslocated in seven
of Germany's federal states. The SGN is incharge of the
UNESCO natural World Heritage Site \Grube Messel".
TheSenckenberg Society for Nature Research, headquar-
tered in Frankfurt amMain, Germany, intends to ll
at the Department of Marine Zoology theposition of a
-Curator of Ichthyology - (Full time)
Yourtasks: ^ a Assumeresponsibility for the management
and curatorship of Senckenberg'sextensive collection of
marine and freshwater shes ^ a Overseethe rearrange-
ment of the sh collections and their relocationto a
new building ^ a Overseethe transfer of oces, laborato-
ries, and an ichthyologicallibrary to the new premises,
which are currently being rebuilt,meeting highest cu-
ratorial standards ^ a Supervisetechnical assistants ^ a
Conductcollection-based research on the taxonomy, sys-
tematics, andphylogeny of marine shes ^ a Participatein
joint marine research with other scientists at theDepart-
ment of Marine Zoology and beyond
Yourprole: ^ a Advanceddegree in biology/zoology or
related eld (preferably doctoraldegree) ^ a Atleast ve
years of work experience in curatorship and manage-
mentof zoological (preferably ichthyological) collections
^ a Familiaritywith systematics of shes ^ a Outstandingre-
search record in systematic ichthyology, documentedby
publications in peer-reviewed scientic journals ^ a Fluen-
cyin English, both spoken and written; good knowledge
of Germanwill be an asset ^ a Firmcommitment to your
work and sense of responsibility
Weoer: ^ a Anattractive and challenging position in
a research institute onternational standing. Employ-
mentshould start as soon as possible and is initially
limited to 28February 2018 ^ a Asalary that reects the
tasks and responsibilities of the positionbased on the
collective agreement for public service in the stateof
Hesse (TV-H) ^ a Adiscounted ^ ajob ticket' for public
transportation in the Rhine-Mainarea
Senckenbergis an equal opportunities employer and
places an emphasis onfostering career opportunities for
women. Qualied women are stronglyencouraged toapply. Senckenberg is certied by \audit berufundfam-
ilie".We guarantee adherence to the severely disabled
directivesand the law on part-time employment. The
duty station will be Frankfurtam Main.
Interested?Please send your complete application docu-
ments (CV, certicatesand references, letter of motiva-
tion), preferably in electronicform (as a single PDF le)
quoting reference #01-16006 by 22 March2016 to:
Dr.Tobias Schneck c/oSenckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung Senckenberganlage25 60325Frankfurt
am Main E-Mail:recruiting@senckenberg.de
Formore information, please contact Dr. Dieter Fiege,
dieter.ege@senckenberg.de, phone:+49-69-7542-1265.
{ Mitfreundlichen Gr uen /Best Regards
IsabelGajcevic, M.A. Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaftf ur Naturforschung Zen-
tralabteilungVerwaltung (ZAV) - Gruppe Personal &
Soziales Senckenberganlage25 60325Frankfurt/Main
Telefon/Phone:0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
LeiterinPersonal & Soziales -1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv.Leiterin Gruppe Personal & Soziales -1319 Elsen,
Carina
Mitarbeiter/inPersonalbeschaung (Recruiting) -1313 di
Biase, Maria -1313 Bast, Isabell -1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
Fax:0049 (0)69 / 7542-1467
Mail:recruiting@senckenberg.de Home-
page:www.senckenberg.de SENCKENBERGGe-
sellschaft f ur Naturforschung (Rechtsf ahigerVerein
gem a ^Ax22 BGB) Senckenberganlage25 60325Frank-
furt am Main Direktorium:Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Volker
Mosbrugger, Prof. Dr. Andreas Mulch,Stephanie
Schwedhelm, Prof. Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese, Prof.
Dr. UweFritz, PD Dr. Ingrid Kr oncke Pr asidentin:Dr.
h. c. Beate Heraeus Aufsichtsbeh orde:Magistrat der
Stadt Frankfurt am Main (Ordnungsamt) PBefore
printing, think about the environment
recruiting<recruiting@senckenberg.de >
Hungary Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics research assistant position in Szeged,
Hungary
The Csaba P al & Bal azs Papp labs within the Synthetic
and Systems Biology Unit of the Biological Research52 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Center of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences are seek-
ing a talented and motivated BIOINFORMATICIAN to
join systems and synthetic biology projects as a Research
Associate.
We are looking for a highly motivated bioinformatician
to develop and run data analysis pipelines for next gen-
eration sequencing experiments in the eld of genome
engineering, human microbiome analysis and evolution-
ary systems biology. Our experiments have a specic
focus on prokaryotic de novo metagenomic and whole
genome sequencing, whole genome re-sequencing and
amplicon sequencing, such as 16S rRNA applications
for the analysis of microbial composition.
Requirements:
Previous experience with NGS data analysis (e.g. Illu-
mina) and solid knowledge of scripting languages (R,
Perl) is required, as well as good communication and
teamwork skills. Strong biological insight and experience
in statistical analysis is a plus. We oer a competitive
salary and the possibility of a exible working schedule.
For further information please contact:
kintses.balint@brc.mta.hu
Applications should be submitted via e-mail before 16
March 2016 along with the following documents:
1. A cover letter in English - brief explanation of the
applicant's background and reasons for applying
2. Curriculum vitae in English
3. List of publications (if applicable)
www.brc.hu/sysbiol facebook.com/sysbiol
References:
1) P al, Csaba, Bal azs Papp, and Gy orgy P osfai. 2014.
\The Dawn of Evolutionary Genome Engineering." Na-
ture Reviews Genetics
2) L az ar, Vikt oria, Istv an Nagy, R eka Spohn, B alint
Cs org ~A,~Ad am Gy orkei, ~Akos Nyerges, Bal azs Horv ath,
et al. 2014. \Genome-Wide Analysis Captures the D
Papp Bal azs <pappb@brc.hu >
ImperialCollege MicrobeGenomics
The MRC Centre for Outbreak Analysis and Modelling
is looking for a Research Assistant/Associate to develop
novel statistical and computational methods to track
the transmission of bacterial pathogens using genomicdata. The MRC Centre has built upon a world-leading
research group in the Department of Infectious Disease
Epidemiology at Imperial College London to undertake
applied collaborative work with national and interna-
tional agencies in support of policy planning for emerg-
ing and endemic infectious diseases.
Bacterial pathogens are responsible for some of the
deadliest human diseases such as tuberculosis, tetanus,
meningitis, pneumonia or even stomach cancer. Un-
derstanding the evolution and epidemiology of these
bacterial pathogens is therefore of major biomedical
importance. In particular, a good understanding of
transmission routes is necessary to design control mea-
sures that can eectively limit the number of individuals
becoming infected. Genomic data is increasingly being
gathered in clinical microbiology, and can be used to
answer ne epidemiological questions, even at the level
of direct transmission between hosts.
However, there is currently a lack of analytical methods
to take full advantage of this new wealth of information.
Working closely with Dr Xavier Didelot, the post-holder
will develop the methodology required to perform such
analysis and create new software tools which will be
applicable by microbial researchers around the world.
To be valid, the new methods will need to account for
both between-host epidemiology and within-host evo-
lution. Thorough testing of the methods and software
will be performed using simulated datasets, as well as
real datasets from outbreaks of Staphylococcus aureus,
Clostridium dicile, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and
Neisseria gonorrhoeae.
The successful candidate will be members of both the
MRC Centre and the Department, and will be based at
the St Mary's Campus, Paddington.
The role requires being close to completing a PhD or
equivalent (for appointment as Research Assistant) and
holding a PhD or equivalent (for appointment as Re-
search Associate) in one of the following areas: mathe-
matics, statistics, computer science, infectious disease
epidemiology or population biology. You will also need
to be able to demonstrate experience of developing math-
ematical models, performing statistical inference and
programming in at least one high level language.
The post is full time for a xed-term of up to 36 months
with a starting date between 1st April 2016 and 1st July
2016.
For informal enquiries please contact Dr Xavier Didelot
(x.didelot@imperial.ac.uk).
Our preferred method of application is online via our
website http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment (job
reference: SM026-16KO). Please complete and uploadMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 53
an application form as directed.
\x.didelot@imperial.ac.uk" <x.didelot@imperial.ac.uk >
LasCrucesResearchStation
CostaRica StationDirector
The position is not directly stated as such. However, the
director position is open to any who qualify regardless
of research interest. The past Director Zak Zahawi was
focused on restoration research. As such, the station ^As
focus was geared towards restoration projects and re-
searchers in this area. Nevertheless, we do you have
EEB researchers use our stations.
As you can see in the description a Ph. D Evolutionary
Biology is one of the preferred education backgrounds.
Based on this I sent it to EvolDir.
Best,
Andres Santana, M.Sc. Graduate Program Coordina-
tor - Costa Rican Oce (506) 25240607 ext. 1511 -
www.tropicalstudies.org Skype: andres.santana otscro /
twitter: @ots tropicaledu
The Organization for Tropical Studies is currently seek-
ing a:
Station Director
for the Las Cruces Research Station & Wilson Botanical
Garden.
The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) is seek-
ing applicants for the position of Station Director for
the Las Cruces Research Station and Wilson Botanical
Garden. The position is based in San Vito - Coto Brus,
Costa Rica.
Application deadline: March 15, 2016
1. Denition of job position:
The main responsibility of the Station Director is to
supervise station operations and activities, including
scientic and educational programs as well as long-term
projects. The Station Director coordinates and man-
ages the station following OTS policies and guidelines.
The Station Director also oversees management of the
Wilson Botanical Garden and the satellite Las Alturas
Research Station.
2. Required Qualications: Ideally, candidates for the
Las Cruces Station Director position should possess the
following qualications:a. Education
xPh.D. in Biology, Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Envi-
ronmental Science, Conservation, Botany, Horticulture,
Science Education, or related discipline.
xResearch and eld experience preferably in Costa Rica
or Central America.
xBilingual Spanish/English required.
b. Experience
xFive years of demonstrated management experience,
preferably at eld- based research facility or botanical
garden.
xExperience with budget management, project manage-
ment, legal compliance, risk management, and conduct-
ing or overseeing the successful completion of academic
and/or research programs.
xActive eld research program; eld experience in a
tropical environment or at a tropical botanical garden.
xDemonstrated success in grant-writing.
xAbility to promote the involvement of local and inter-
national scientists and NGOs.
xKnowledge of international environmental research pro-
grams and/or organization(s).
xExtensive knowledge of Costa Rica or Latin America,
including culture, politics and governmental operations,
and research community.
xKnowledge of the U.S. higher education-system and
direct experience with U.S. college students.
xDemonstrated ability to coordinate and be part of an
interdisciplinary teaching and research team.
xExperience in facilitating organization-wide teamwork
among diverse individuals.
c. Demonstration of academic achievement and contin-
uing involvement in professional activity, which might
include
xOngoing research program in science or science peda-
gogy.
xPublication of results or outreach.
xProfessional society engagement.
3. The duties and responsibilities of the Stations Di-
rector include: a. Administration: Responsible for the
oversight of the administrative functions of the Research
Station and Botanical Garden including sta manage-
ment, operations, nancial and physical plant manage-
ment, risk management, and other administrative duties
related to the operation of the facility. Specically:54 EvolDir March 1, 2016
xProvide direction and supervise growth of Las Cruces
Research Station.
xOversee management, growth, and accessions for the
Wilson Botanical Garden in conjunction with on-sta
horticulturist and gardeners.
xOversee management of the Las Alturas Research Sta-
tion, a rustic, satellite eld station administered by Las
Cruces.
xSupervise the Station Administrator and other senior
and scientic sta.
xWorking closely with Station Administrator, oversee
facility resources and budget.
xEstablish and supervise facility and asset maintenance,
repair, and replacement schedules in conjunction with
Station Administrator and central OTS administration.
xPrepare and oversee grants and contracts related to
the facility.
xWork together with HR Department to recruit and
retain qualied sta.
xBuild and support a strong commitment to team work
at the Station and with the two sister stations run by
OTS.
xWork with colleagues in central oces in San Jose
(CRO) and North America (NAO) build and maintain
collaborative relationships
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MichiganStateU ResTech
SwitchgrassAdaptation
Laboratory/Field Research Technician position is avail-
able to work on a large collaborative project studying
adaptation in the bioenergy feedstock switchgrass. The
research will utilize new genetic mapping populations
to identify genomic regions responsible for adaptation
between northern upland and southern lowland ecotypes
of switchgrass. These mapping populations have been
planted at an unprecedented geographical scale, span-
ning ten common garden eld sites distributed over 17
degrees of latitude, making them ideal for studies ofregional adaptations. The technician will be primarily
responsible for maintaining and gathering data from the
switchgrass common garden located at MSU's Kellogg
Biological Station (KBS). The technician will also work
in the laboratory of David Lowry on MSU's main cam-
pus, especially during winter months. The research will
often involve all-day physical activity outdoors. The
technician will be expected to organize data collection
eorts and coordinate these eorts with the larger team
across the central United States. For more information
please contact David Lowry at dlowry@msu.edu and
visit the following website: https://utdirect.utexas.edu/-
apps/hr/jobs/nlogon/160127014481 . Additional Infor-
mation: * A Resume is required in order to apply * A
Letter of Interest is required in order to apply. * A List
of 2 References is required in order to apply.
Purpose: The research assistant will work on exper-
iments studying switchgrass ecology, physiology and
genomics.
Essential Functions: Assist in the establishment, mainte-
nance, and completion of switchgrass eld experiments.
Assist in the collection, processing, and analysis of plant
samples harvested from eld experiments. Utilize a
variety of scientic instruments to collect data from
eld experiments. Lab processing of elds samples and
greenhouse work.
Marginal/Incidental functions: Other related functions
as assigned, including assisting in other experiments
conducted by collaborating researchers. General lab
tasks and routine equipment maintenance.
Required qualications: High school graduation or GED.
This position requires an independent, organized, and
motivated individual with demonstrated research skills.
Six months to a year of experience in a related eld.
Drivers License. Applicant selected must provide a cur-
rent three-year Driving Record from their current state
of residence. If not currently a resident of Michigan,
must obtain a Michigan State Drivers License within 30
days after entering Michigan as a new resident. Equiva-
lent combination of relevant education and experience
may be substituted as appropriate.
Preferred Qualications: BA or BS in ecology, biology,
agronomy, or other related eld and previous experience
with eld research. Experience in plant propagation,
eld plot establishment and maintenance, plant physio-
logical measurements, such as leaf gas exchange, light
interception, tissue characterization, and sample prepa-
ration for nutrient analysis are preferred skills. Famil-
iarity with data logger programming and operation is
also desirable.
Working conditions: May work in all weather conditionsMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 55
May work in extreme temperatures May work around
standard oce conditions May work around chemicals
Repetitive use of a keyboard at a workstation Use of
manual dexterity Climbing of stairs Climbing of ladders
Lifting and moving Must be able and willing to com-
mute between Michigan State University and Kellogg
Biological Research Station on a semi-regular basis.
David B. Lowry Assistant Professor Plant Biology
Department Michigan State University Plant Biol-
ogy Laboratories Room 268 517-432-4882 http:/-
/davidbryantlowry.wordpress.com/ David Lowry
<dlowry@msu.edu >
MonashU EvolutionaryBiol
Dear Evoldir community,
The School of Biological Sciences at Monash University
(Melbourne, Australia) is advertising for a Lecturer (=
Assistant Professor) in Ecology, broadly dened, and
they will consider applications from researchers working
on evolutionary questions.
The department houses an interactive community of
academics, with research strengths in ecology and evo-
lution, and it is a great environment for collaboration.
For information about our school, see:
http://www.monash.edu/science/schools/biological-
sciences Instructions on how to apply can be found at
the link:
http://www.jobs-monash.jxt.net.au/academic-jobs/-
lecturer-biological-sci ences/575340
The closing date for applications is:
Tuesday, March 22 2016 (11:55 pm AEST)
Timothy Connallon <tim.connallon@monash.edu >
PrincetonU ResTech
EvolutionaryGenetics
The Ayroles laboratory at the Lewis-Sigler Institute
for Integrative Genomics seeks applicants for a research
specialist and/or lab manager position. Our group takes
a multi-disciplinary approach to investigate the geneticbasis for variation in complex traits addressing broad
questions in evolutionary and medical genetics. We work
with various Drosophila species as well as humans. We
are looking for a highly motivated individual to carry
out large-scale genomics projects and to support various
lab activities. In addition to research, this technician
will also assist in training undergraduate students and
will be responsible for the day-to-day management of
the lab, including maintaining equipment and the inven-
tory of laboratory materials and supplies. The research
technician may be responsible for the development and
execution of research projects (which can lead to au-
thorship on scientic publications). The ideal candidate
is one who seeks professional development as a scientist
and is therefore interested in reading the current scien-
tic literature and conducting an independent research
project. She/he will take ownership of her/his project.
The position is open and review of applications will
begin immediately. The position will start as soon as
possible. Salary will be commensurate with experience
and will include the full Princeton benets package.
Responsibilities will include:
- Drosophila maintenance, crossing, and screening
- Molecular biology including DNA/RNA preparation,
PCR, qRT-PCR, next generation sequencing.
- Lab organization, maintenance, and purchasing
- Participation in group meetings
Essential Qualications/Skills: - Bachelors degree in
biology or related eld
- One to three years of experience in a research labora-
tory working with a (broadly-dened) \model" genetic
system such as Drosophila, C. elegans, mouse, Arabidop-
sis.
- Experience with executing molecular biology proto-
cols (ideally with a focus on next generation sequencing
techniques)
- Capacity to work both independently and collabora-
tively
- Strong attention to detail and meticulous lab notebook
keeping
- Excellent communication skills
- Enthusiasm for evolutionary biology and/or genet-
ics To apply, submit a cover letter and resume via
jobs.princeton.edu, requisition 1600041
Princeton University is an equal opportunity employer
and all qualied applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,56 EvolDir March 1, 2016
disability status, protected veteran status, or any other
characteristic protected by law.
\Kara J. Dolinski" <dolinski@Princeton.EDU >
QueensU Tier I CRC Bioinformatics
Tier I Canada Research Chair in Bioinformatics Fac-
ulty of Health Sciences and Department of Pathology
and Molecular Medicine Queen's University, Kingston,
Ontario, Canada
The Faculty of Health Sciences and the Department
of Pathology and Molecular Medicine at Queen ^As
University are seeking an international leader and in-
novator in the area of bioinformatics. Applicants
should have an established research program focused
on precision medicine, particularly in relation to
the identication of cancer diagnostic and prognos-
tic/predictive markers and potential therapeutic tar-
gets. The successful candidate will become the des-
ignated nominee for an approved Tier I Canada Re-
search Chair (http://www.chairs-chaires.gc.ca/program-
programme/index-eng.aspx). This is a tenured appoint-
ment at the level of Professor.
Position Overview
Candidates must hold a PhD or MD/PhD (or equiva-
lent). The main criteria for selection are an established
record of global leadership and innovation in bioinfor-
matics, and a track record of mentorship and training
of high-quality personnel in various emerging areas in
the eld. Queen ^As University is committed to estab-
lishing an international reputation in health related
informatics, building on existing assets that include:
the High Performance Computing Virtual Laboratory
(HPCVL), a cluster of computer systems and storage
resources shared by ve universities and three colleges;
the biobank resources and ongoing capabilities of the
Canadian Cancer Trials Group (formerly known as the
NCIC Clinical Trials Group), which is a major national
and international cooperative oncology clinical trials
organization; and, the national database of chronic dis-
ease management developed by the Canadian Primary
Care Sentinel Surveillance Network (CPCSSN), a trans-
Canadian network of 11 primary care networks. In
addition, robust linkages exist between HPCVL and
the NCIC CTG with the informatics programs of the
Ontario Brain Institute (http://www.braininstitute.ca)
and the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research (http://-
oicr.on.ca), respectively.The successful candidate will be expected to play a lead-
ership role in developing additional strength in bioin-
formatics at the University through recruitment of new
faculty, and by establishing collaborative links between
existing researchers in the School of Computing and the
Departments of Biomedical & Molecular Sciences and
Pathology & Molecular Medicine, as well as scholars
in other disciplines. Queen ^As has excellent undergrad-
uate and graduate programs and the chairholder will
have abundant opportunities to participate in education
through teaching, training and supervision. Salary is
commensurate with qualications and experience.
Application Process
The University invites applications from all qualied in-
dividuals. Queen's is committed to employment equity
and diversity in the workplace and welcomes applica-
tions from women, visible minorities, Aboriginal peoples,
persons with disabilities, and LGBTQ persons. All qual-
ied candidates are encouraged to apply; however, in
accordance with Canadian Immigration requirements,
Canadian citizens and Permanent Residents of Canada
will be given priority.
To comply with Federal laws, the University is obliged
to gather statistical information about how many ap-
plicants for each job vacancy are Canadian citizens /
permanent residents of Canada. Applicants need not
identify their country of origin or citizenship, however,
all applications must include one of the following state-
ments: \I am a Canadian citizen / permanent resident
of Canada"; OR, \I am not a Canadian citizen / per-
manent resident of Canada". Applications that do not
include this information will be deemed incomplete.
A complete application consists of: (i) a cover letter (in-
cluding one of the two statements regarding Canadian
citizenship / permanent resident status specied in the
previous paragraph), (ii) a full and current curriculum
vitae (including a list of publications, awards and grants
received), and (iii) a summary of the proposed plan of
research. Please send your application electronically to
Dr. Roger Deeley, Chair of the search committee (c/o
Ms. Barbara Latimer: bal@queensu.ca).
The University will provide support in its recruitment
processes to applicants with disabilities, including ac-
commodation that takes into account an applicant's
accessibility needs. If you require accommodation dur-
ing the interview process, please contact Ms. Barbara
Latimer: bal@queensu.ca.
Academic sta at Queen's are governed by a Collective
Agreement between the Queen ^As University Faculty
Association (QUFA) and the University, which is posted
at:March 1, 2016 EvolDir 57
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
RBGKew PlantFungalTreeOfLife
Three positions open The Plant and Fungal Trees of
Life project (PAFTOL) Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
1. Senior Researcher (PAFTOL Sampling & Project
Co-ordination) 2. Senior Researcher (PAFTOL Phyloge-
nomics) 3. Lead Developer-Bioinformatician (PAFTOL)
Kew is a global resource for plant and fungal knowledge.
We are seeking talented, creative individuals with out-
standing track records to help us build the Plant and
Fungal Trees of Life, a major piece of global science
infrastructure that is central to RBG Kew's Science
Strategy 2015-2020. This is a unique opportunity to be
part of a team addressing a critical challenge in the life
sciences. Are you up to the task? If so, read on to nd
out more.
The project: There are few grander challenges in science
than the tree of life - uncovering the complete evolu-
tionary history linking all life on Earth. As part of
RBG Kew's Science Strategy 2015-2020, we are initi-
ating a ve-year multimillion-pound project, the Plant
and Fungal Trees of Life (or PAFTOL, for short), to
complete the tree of life for all genera of plants and
fungi, drawing on our outstanding collections, our broad
collaborative networks and the latest high-throughput
sequencing technologies. This ambitious project will
create a unifying framework for comparative plant and
fungal research and takes us a step closer to building
the tree of life for all known species. We will generate
high impact ndings publishable in top science journals,
but we want the results to reach beyond the science
community. To achieve this we will build innovative big-
data and visualization tools accessible to a scientist or
a school child. PAFTOL has recently secured generous
funding from the Calleva and Sackler Foundations, and
we are now ready to get the work underway. This is a
truly exciting time to join Kew and become an integral
part of a high-prole, cutting edge global endeavour.
The team: At Kew, you'll be joining a truly multidisci-
plinary team comprising experts from across a range of
elds including systematics, evolution, genomics, bioin-formatics, spatial analysis, data architecture and soft-
ware development. At this time, we are recruiting into
three senior positions in phylogenomics, sampling/co-
ordination and software development/bioinformatics.
We expect to hire three further support positions later
this year. You'll work alongside a highly supportive
team of Kew sta who have actively developed the
PAFTOL concept.
The roles: We are currently recruiting into the following
three roles:
Senior Researcher (PAFTOL Sampling &
Project Co-ordination) https://careers.kew.org/-
vacancy/senior-researcher-paftol-sampling-project-
coordination-254748.html Senior Researcher
(PAFTOL Phylogenomics) https://careers.kew.org/-
vacancy/senior-researcher-paftol-phylogenomics-
254749.html Lead Developer-Bioinformatician
(PAFTOL) https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/lead-
developerbioinformatician-paftol-254750.html For
further info: http://science.kew.org/strategic-output/-
plant-and-fungal-trees-life http://www.kew.org/kew-
science/kews-science-strategy Closing date: 15 March
2016 Interview dates: 21-23 March 2016
W.Baker@kew.org
SanDiegoZoo ConservationResearch
The Genetics Division of the San Diego Zoo Institute
for Conservation Research has two open positions for
Research Associates to work in our cell culture labo-
ratory and assist with development and utilization of
our Frozen Zoo. This collection includes approximately
10,000 accessions of early passage diploid broblast cul-
tures that represent a crucial resource for research and
recovery of endangered species.
We are seeking applicants with excellent skills in sterile
technique and experience in cell culture methodologies,
including establishing and maintaining primary cell cul-
tures. One position will also involve assisting with
production of induced pluripotent stem cells to support
programs in genetic rescue of endangered species.
A job description and application instructions can
be found at: https://www.hrapply.com/sandiegozoo/-
Setup.app Applicants will be selected for interviews
from the submissions through this site.
Applicants should also send a letter of interest and a
CV to kbade@sandiegozoo.org attn: Genetics Division58 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Positions
We are excited to be oering these challenging positions
that will continue our record of accomplishments in
banking viable cell cultures from over 1000 vertebrate
taxa to date and take our conservation eorts into new
directions.
Thank you for sharing this information with your col-
leagues and any individuals potentially interested in
applying.
Oliver Ryder
\Ryder, Oliver" <oryder@ucsd.edu >
SUNY OswegoNY
SystematicsBotany
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR-BOTANIST
The Department of Biological Sciences at the State Uni-
versity of New York at Oswego invites applications for a
full-time tenure track botanist at the Assistant Professor
level with preference given to candidates specializing
in plant structure or development and in advanced mi-
croscopy.
We hope to identify candidates who can use our mi-
croscopy resources on campus (confocal and SEM) to
investigate aspects of plant structure, anatomy, and de-
velopment to elucidate evolutionary relationships across
plant lineages. A focus of this position would be teach-
ing Plant Kingdom, an evolutionary survey of plant
lineages. In addition, the candidate would teach one
or more sections of a senior level, capstone Evolution
course. This course is a required seminar that relies
heavily on peer-reviewed literature to discuss historical
and current investigations into evolutionary mechanisms
and processes.
DATE POSTED: February 18, 2016
REVIEW DATE: Review of applications will begin
March 18, 2016 and will continue until the position
is lled.
The Department of Biological Sciences oers B.A. and
B.S. degrees in Biology and Zoology to approximately
550 majors. Faculty and students have access to Rice
Creek, a 400+ acre eld station with a new build-
ing of labs and classrooms; the Molecular Biology and
Biochemistry Center; the Mass Spectrometry and Pro-
teomics Center; The Environmental Research Center;and microscopy, greenhouse, and live animal facilities.
Classes in our new building, the Richard S. Shineman
Center for Science, Engineering, and Innovation, started
in Fall 2013. Links to more information can be found at:
www.oswego.edu/biology . SALARY: Commensurate
with qualications and experience.
DATE OF APPOINTMENT: August 2016.
DESCRIPTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES: Candidates
will be expected to teach Plant Kingdom, Evolution,
and to oer courses in area of specialty, and contribute
additionally to the core curriculum. Research suitable
for undergraduate student involvement and service to
the department and university are expected.
In addition, this position will be expected to display a
demonstrated potential for excellence in teaching and
scholarship, commitment to undergraduate and/or grad-
uate education, and possess communication and inter-
personal skills sucient to work eectively with an
increasingly diverse array of students and colleagues.
REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. by the time
of appointment. Commitment to excellence in teach-
ing and providing meaningful learning experiences to
students from diverse backgrounds is required.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Post-doctoral re-
search experience, teaching experience, and/or grants-
manship.
Preference will be given to candidates specializing in
plant structure or development and in advanced mi-
croscopy (i.e., CLSM and/or SEM).
QUESTIONS: Inquiries can be directed to the Chair
of the Search Committee, Dr. C. Eric Hellquist,
eric.hellquist@oswego.edu
APPLICATIONS: Submit a cover letter, curriculum
vitae, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a
statement of research interests, unocial copies of aca-
demic transcripts (ocial transcripts will be required
prior to appointment), and names and email addresses
of three references electronically at:
https://oswego.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=3D68788 C. Eric Hellquist
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sciences
324 Shineman State University of New York Oswego
7060 State Route 104 Oswego NY 13126 315-312-2523
Spring 2016 oce hours: Monday 9:00-10:30, Tuesday
11:00-12:30, and by appointment
\eric.hellquist@oswego.edu"
<eric.hellquist@oswego.edu >March 1, 2016 EvolDir 59
UCambridge
CharlesDarwinProfessorship
EvoDevo
Dear Colleagues
The University of Cambridge has just opened a search
for the Charles Darwin Professorship of Animal Embry-
ology, a prestigious endowed chair.
The Chair is endowed by the Bles Fund, which states
that it is for \the promotion and furtherance of biology
as a pure science". Previous holders of the chair have
done work of fundamental signicance in embryology
and developmental biology. The most recent holder of
the chair was Professor Ron Laskey.
The prime criterion for selection will be \an outstanding
research record of international stature in some aspect
of animal embryology". Clearly this could include evo-
lutionary developmental biology. The chair may be held
in any Department or Institute of the School of Biology
in Cambridge.
The advertisement has just appeared online on the Cam-
bridge University website http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/-
job/9519/, and will shortly appear in Nature
and Science. The link for the further particu-
lars is http://www.admin.cam.ac.uk/oces/academic/-
secretary/professorships/index.html The deadline for
applications is March 17th.
Please dont hesitate to contact me if you have any ques-
tions
Chris Jiggins
Professor of Evolutionary Biology Department of Zool-
ogy University of Cambridge Tel: (+44)(0)1223
769021 Mob: (+44)(0) 7549-524-481 http://-
www.heliconius.org/ http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/
@mel rosina
Fellow of St John's College, Cambridge, UK. CB2 1TP
Chris Jiggins <c.jiggins@zoo.cam.ac.uk >UCorua Spain 9mnth Bioinformatics
UCoru~ na (Spain) NGS - Bioinformatics
Bioinformatic (Next Generation Sequencing) position is
available at the University of A Coru~ na, Spain. The job
consist on the implementation and use of the appropriate
software for the de novo transcriptome assembly, anno-
tation and analysis. Candidates should have a strong
NGS background, particularly with RNA-seq data of
non-model organisms.
APPLICATION: Please send a detailed C.V. (includ-
ing a list of publications, awards and grants received),
to the following e-mail address: sergio.roiloa@udc.es.
Questions and requests for more information should be
directed at the same address. The deadline for applica-
tions is February 29th, 2016. The position will be for 9
months (starting date approx.: 1st April 2016).
(more information: https://sede.udc.gal/services/-
electronic board/EXP2016/000 116)
Dr. Sergio R. Roiloa Assistant Professor Unit of Ecology
- Faculty of Science University of A Coru~ na 15071 A
Coru~ na Spain http://ciencias.udc.es/profesorado-bave/-
bioloxia-animal-bioloxia-vexeta l-e-ecoloxia/rodriguez-
roiloa-sergio Scholar prole: http://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=89yOVjkAAAAJ&hl=en SERGIO
ROILOA<sergio.roiloa@udc.es >
UHelsinki Genomics
Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in
Genetics, with speciality in genomics
The position is shared between the Department of Bio-
sciences and the Institute of Biotechnology and may
be lled as assistant professor, associate professor or
professor, depending on the candidates' merits and
career stage.Duties of the professor/associate profes-
sor/assistant professor include conducting internation-
ally competitive research on any aspect of genomics.
She/he should also have appropriate competence in
overlapping areas of genetics, bioinformatics and/or
other relevant elds. The professor/associate profes-
sor/assistant professor will play a central role as an60 EvolDir March 1, 2016
educator, spearheading masters- level training in ge-
nomics, organized jointly between the Department of
Biosciences and the Institute of Biotechnology and will
also participate in doctoral education via appropriate
graduate programmes. In addition, he/she will facili-
tate public understanding and applications of genomic
knowledge.
The professor/associate professor/assistant professor
shall carry out and supervise scientic work, provide
education based on it, follow developments in research,
and participate in societal interaction and international
cooperation in his or her eld.According to the Regu-
lations of the University of Helsinki, an appointee to
a professorship shall hold a doctoral degree and have
top-level scholarly qualications, including the supervi-
sion of scientic research. The appointee shall have the
ability to provide top-level teaching based on research,
as well as to supervise theses and dissertations. The
appointee shall also have documentation of international
cooperation in the research eld that he/she represents.
Furthermore, the position also calls for academic lead-
ership skills.
An appointee to the position of assistant/associate pro-
fessor in the tenure track system shall hold a doctoral
degree, have the ability to conduct independent schol-
arly work and have the teaching skills necessary for the
position. In addition, applicants for assistant profes-
sorships shall demonstrate their ability and motivation
for an academic career through publications and other
means.
When assessing the qualications of the applicants, at-
tention shall be paid to scientic publications and other
research results of scientic value, teaching experience
and pedagogical training, the ability to produce learn-
ing material, other teaching merits, and, if necessary,
a teaching demonstration as well as participation in
doctoral education. Account shall also be taken of the
applicant's activity in the scientic community, success
in obtaining external research funding, international
research experience and international elected positions
as well as leadership and interaction skills.
To successfully attend to the duties of the position, ap-
pointees must have good English skills. A knowledge of
Finnish and or Swedish may also be useful for under-
graduate instruction, but is not essential.
The position overview is available on the Faculty web-
site http://www.helsinki./bio/faculty/administration/-
open/index.html The salary for the position will be
based on the demands level chart for teaching and re-
search personnel in the salary system of Finnish universi-
ties. The demands level for professors is 8-10 and for as-
sistant/associate professors 7. In addition, the appointeewill be paid a salary component based on personal per-
formance. The salary for a professor is 5,000-8,000 euros
per month and for an assistant/associate professor 4,200-
5,000, depending on the appointee's qualications and
experience.The closing date for applications is April 10,
2016.
Please submit your application using the University of
Helsinki Recruitment System via the Apply link. Appli-
cants who are employees of the University of Helsinki
are requested to leave their application via the SAP
HR portal. The English-language application must be
accompanied by: - a CV - a list of publications - a brief
report of the following qualications: research and sci-
entic activities, research plan, description of teaching
qualications, participation in administrative duties - a
report on other activities of which the applicant wishes
to inform the Faculty
or, alternatively, an academic portfolio containing the
above documents (see instructions at www.helsinki./-
bio/faculty/materials/portfolio-ohjeet eng.pdf) The at-
tachments are asked to be submitted as a single PDF
le.
Candidates should be prepared to submit ten publica-
tions and/or manuscripts approved for publication of
their choosing to expert assessors after the closing of
the application period, if so requested by the Faculty.
The publications are submitted as PDF les. More
information
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMassachusetts Lowell
Bioinformatics
Tenure-Track Faculty Position in Bioinformatics at the
University of Massachusetts Lowell
The University of Massachusetts Lowell Department of
Biological Sciences invites applications to ll a full-time
tenure-track faculty position, rank negotiable, to start
September 2016. We seek an individual experienced
in bioinformatics and quantitative biology, who would
apply computational, mathematical and other quanti-
tative tools to analyze complex, high-throughput data.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 61
Examples would include the development of new com-
putational tools to analyze whole genomes or transcrip-
tomes, model intra- and extracellular signaling networks,
and to model systems-level processes within populations
and ecosystems. This area would leverage our campus
strengths in computer science to develop and apply new
tools to understanding living processes. In addition to
the broad range of research interests within the Biologi-
cal Sciences Department, UMass Lowell has a diverse
group of science and engineering faculty who use mul-
tiple model systems to evaluate new technologies (e.g.
nanomedicine, biomaterials, robotics and tissue engi-
neering), therefore candidates interested in establishing
collaborations with faculty in these elds are strongly
encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will
be expected to establish a vigorous, externally funded
research program, and contribute to the departments
teaching mission. Teaching responsibilities may include
the development of an undergraduate Bioinformatics
course, in addition to upper-level courses in areas of
interest to the candidate.
The University of Massachusetts Lowell is committed to
increasing diversity in its faculty, sta, and student pop-
ulations, as well as curriculum and support programs,
while promoting an inclusive environment. We seek can-
didates who can contribute to that goal and encourage
you to apply and to identify your strengths in this area.
To be considered for this position, please submit all
required application materials to the UMass Lowell
Human Resources website: https://jobs.uml.edu/-
applicants/jsp/shared/frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=-
3D1456428954304 Review of applications will begin
immediately and continue until the position is lled.
However, the position may close once an adequate
number of qualied applications are received.
\Garb, Jessica" <Jessica Garb@uml.edu >UNAB Chile Bioinformatics
Faculty Position in Computational Biology with Em-
phasis on Metabolomics and Proteomics
The recently established Center for Bioinformatics and
Integrative Biology (CBIB) at Universidad Andres Bello
(UNAB), Santiago Chile seeks a faculty member to es-
tablish externally funded, internationally recognized,
and interdisciplinary research programs in bioinformat-
ics and/or computational biology.
The CBIB hosts a group of six young faculty members
focused on basic science and its applications. Current
areas of research include nanotechnology, microbial ge-
nomics, metagenomics, extremophile biology, biotech-
nology, protein dynamics and simulation, and protein
engineering and metabolism. The CBIB has strong
bonds with national and international collaborations
including UCDavis Chile, US Air Force, and universities
throughout Europe and the USA.
There is one open tenure-track faculty position at the
assistant professor academic level, aimed at complement-
ing our current expertise. We seek applicants concentrat-
ing in the areas of genomics and systems biology, partic-
ularly with expertise in metabolomics and proteomics
(molecular biology experience is a plus). Successful ap-
plicants will join the CBIB team and are expected to
perform research and teaching duties. Applicants must
have a PhD in Bioinformatics, Computational Biology,
Computer Science, Mathematics, Genomics, or related
discipline, with postdoctoral research experience, evi-
dence of success in obtaining extramural funding, and a
solid publication track record.
Application Procedure: Applicants should submit an
electronic application, upload a cover letter emphasizing
specic qualications, curriculum vitae, a description of
research interests, and names and contact information
of 3 references at: eduardo.castro@unab.cl
Review of applications will begin on March 25, 2016 and
will continue until positions are lled. Only complete
applications will be considered. For further information
about the Center for Bioinformatics and Integrative Bi-
ology, please visit www.cbib.cl . For questions relating
to this opportunity, please contact Eduardo Castro-
Nallar, Principal Investigator, Center for Bioinformatics
and Integrative Biology, Universidad Andres Bello at
eduardo.castro@unab.cl62 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Eduardo Castro-Nallar, PhD Center for Bioinformat-
ics and Integrative Biology Universidad Andr es Bello
Rep ublica 239, 8370146, Santiago www.castrolab.org
+56 2 2770 3520 +56 9 5644 2354
castronallar@gmail.com
UPittsburgh SummerFellowship
EvolutionaryEcol DeadlineExtended
PLE Early Career Fellowship
Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology
Summer 2016
The University of Pittsburgh's Pymatuning Laboratory
of Ecology (PLE) is pleased to oer a summer research
fellowship of $10,000 plus up to three months of station
fees and residency costs for the primary investigator
(PI). PLE is a vibrant research and education facility
located on Lake Pymatuning in Northwest Pennsylvania.
PLE's research facilities are spread across 350 acres and
include access to a variety of aquatic and terrestrial
ecosystems. Its 10,000+ square feet of laboratory facili-
ties include a eld laboratory adjacent to an open eld
that can be used for large-scale replicated experiments,
a modern molecular laboratory, and facilities for animal,
plant and aquatic studies. While the station is open to
hosting projects in a variety of disciplines, past work
has largely focused on ecology and evolutionary biology.
This opportunity is open to researchers holding PhD
degrees in any science discipline that can benet
from PLE's resources (http://www.biology.pitt.edu/-
facilities/pymatuning). The purpose of the fellowship is
to permit researchers to explore new projects or collect
preliminary data. Fellowship funds can be used at the
PI's discretion to facilitate the research but not for com-
pensation. Preference will be given to individuals and
projects with the potential to develop into long-term
research activities at PLE. We especially encourage ap-
plications from individuals in the postdoctoral or early
faculty phases of their careers but researchers holding
PhD degrees at all stages of their careers are encouraged
to apply.
For more information about the fellowship program or re-
search opportunities at PLE, please contact the Director,
Dr. Cori Richards-Zawacki ( cori.zawacki@pitt.edu).
Applicants should submit a single .pdf le including their
CV, a 2-3 page proposal outlining the proposed research,a budget detailing how the fellowship funds will be spent,
and planned dates of residence to cori.zawacki@pitt.edu,
placing the words \PLE Early Career Fellowship" in
the subject line of the email. Review of proposals will
begin *February 15, 2015*.
{
Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D.
cori.zawacki@pitt.edu Associate Professor, Department
of Biological Sciences and Director, Pymatuning
Laboratory of Ecology University of Pittsburgh
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
Cori Zawacki <cori.zawacki@pitt.edu >
UppsalaU
BioinformaticsEvolutionaryGenetics
Position in Bioinformatics / Evolutionary Genetics, Up-
psala University
A bioinformatics position is available in the research
group of Jochen Wolf at the Evolutionary Biology Cen-
tre in Uppsala, Sweden. The position is initially limited
to 1-year and after evaluation can be extended.
The research group environment. We take an integrative
approach to the study of evolutionary processes apply-
ing a large range of methodology ranging from eld work
to population genetic modeling of large genome-scale
data sets to functional characterization at the single cell
level. One of the main questions in the group is to un-
derstand the micro-evolutionary processes and genetic
mechanisms underlying species divergence. In addition,
we engage in comparative approaches to study genome
evolution across larger timescales. Empirical systems
currently include birds (swallows and corvids), marine
mammals (pinnipeds and killer whales), the European
hemiclonal water frog system, and experimental evolu-
tion in ssion yeast. Find below a selection of recent
publications illustrating recent research activities or
consult the current lab website (http://www.ieg.uu.se/-
evolutionary-biology/wolf/).
The position. The successful applicant will be responsi-
ble for management of large transcriptome and genome
sequencing data sets, help with administration and com-
pilation of source code, and for the most part, will engage
actively in ongoing research projects. The applicant isMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 63
expected to be familiar with UNIX environments and
has experience in standard bioinformatic approaches
using high throughput DNA and RNA sequencing data
from platforms such as Illumina or Pacic Biosciences.
Common tasks will involve data management, genome
assembly and annotation (Birds ca. 1.2 Gb, marine
mammals: ca. 3Gb), multiple sequence alignments,
short-read mapping and genotyping. Prociency in rel-
evant programming languages (e.g. awk, bash, Perl,
Python, C) is naturally assumed. A background in
population genomics or comparative genomics is a clear
asset. Depending on the applicant's background there
will be some autonomy in that he or she can develop own
research questions or participate in teaching activities.
The environment. The Evolutionary Biology Centre
(http://www.ebc.uu.se/) is one of the world's leading
research institutions in evolutionary biology. It is part of
Uppsala University which is considered one of Europe's
leading universities in the subject of biology bridging
a broad variety of disciplines. The scientic environ-
ment with numerous seminars, journal clubs and social
activities oer excellent possibilities for contacts and
collaborations. Our lab is part of the Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology (http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-
biology/?languageId=1/), an active environment ad-
dressing fundamental evolutionary questions with a wide
range of dierent approaches. As a member of the
Science for Life Laboratory (http://www.scilifelab.se/-
) we make extensive use of high performance com-
puting resources (https://www.uppmax.uu.se/uppnex)
and extended bioinformatic infrastructure (http://-
www.scilifelab.se/platforms/bioinformatics/). We also
actively interact with research groups of the nearby
BioMedicalCentre (http://www.imbim.uu.se/Research).
The lab is situated in the student town of Uppsala that
oers rich opportunities in cultural and outdoor activi-
ties. Sweden's capital Stockholm is less than an hour's
train ride away.
By the end of 2016 the research group will transition to
the Department of Evolutionary Biology at the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit at (LMU) in Munich, Germany.
Munich University is consistently ranked among the
top Universities worldwide, in particular the life sci-
ence branch with its newly inaugurated campus oer-
ing excellent technical facilities and many interaction
possibilities including the gene center, several Max-
Planck-Institutes and the Helmholtz Centre (http:/-
/www.campusmartinsried.de/en/336-2/#). With the
highest concentration of supercomputing in Germany
the Leibniz Supercomputing Centre and its local part-
ners provide access to state-of-the art computing facili-
ties (https://www.lrz.de/english/). Munich is Bavaria's
capital, a vibrant, yet relaxed city with many traditionsstill alive considered by many to have a high quality of
living
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
URochester EvolutionaryGenomics
Faculty Position in Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
University of Rochester
The Department of Biology at the University of
Rochester (http://www.rochester.edu/College/BIO/-
index) invites applications for an open rank faculty
position in ecology and evolutionary biology. We are
seeking candidates working in evolutionary and eco-
logical genomics, broadly dened, who have a strong
computational component to their research.
The successful candidate will contribute to the
Departments existing strengths in evolutionary
genetics and genomics (http://www.rochester.edu/-
college/BIO/people/faculty/ecology-evolutionary-
biology/index.html) and benet from state of the art
infrastructure and core facilities at the University, as
well as the newly established Goergen Institute for Data
Science (http://www.rochester.edu/data-science/).
Candidates with a strong record of accomplishment
should upload application materials to our online ap-
plication system (https://www.rochester.edu/faculty-
recruiting/login). Complete applications include: a CV;
a statement of research interests/plans; pdfs of three
publications; and a statement of teaching experiences
and interests. We anticipate the individual will be active
in both research and teaching in computational biology.
Instructions for supplying three letters of recommenda-
tion are provided on the application website. Review of
applications will begin March 9 and continue until the
position is lled.
The University of Rochester is an Equal Opportunity
Employer, has a strong commitment to diversity, and
actively encourages applications from candidates from
groups underrepresented in higher education.
EOE Minorities / Females / Protected Veterans / Dis-
abled
jbrisso3@UR.Rochester.edu64 EvolDir March 1, 2016
UStAndrews Bioinformatics
Dear EvolDir Community:
The School of Biology at the University of St Andrews is
inviting applications to ll a Lectureship or Readership
position. We seek to appoint someone with interests in
bioinformatics, evolutionary 'omics or quantitative biol-
ogy, broadly speaking. Details and contact information
are below, and informal enquiries are welcomed.
Kind regards, Nathan Bailey
Lectureship or Readership in Bioinformatics { University
of St Andrews, School of Biology
Appointment: The School of Biology at the University of
St Andrews seeks to appoint a Lecturer or Reader (scale
dependent on experience) whose research and teaching
interests fall within the broad area of bioinformatics,
evolutionary 'omics and quantitative biology.
Role: We seek an individual who will cultivate a funded
research programme, develop collaborations with other
research groups in St Andrews and deliver excellent sci-
ence. They will play a leading role in the St Andrews
Bioinformatics Unit and the Institute for Data Intensive
Research, both of which are cross-school units dedi-
cated to developing modern computational resources for
analysing large NGS and other 'big data' datasets. Re-
search collaborations with groups in other schools and
centres at the University of St Andrews, the James Hut-
ton Institute and beyond present excellent opportunities
for developing integrative research programmes.
The appointee will also play a principal role in develop-
ing and teaching bioinformatics, evolutionary genomics
and similar coursework in quantitative biology at the un-
dergraduate and masters level. Quantitative skills and
informatics are increasingly relevant in modern biologi-
cal research, and the appointee should have the capacity
to enhance our teaching prole in these areas, as well
as mentoring postgraduate students at the Masters and
PhD levels.
Qualications: Applicants must have a PhD in a relevant
eld and be able to demonstrate evidence of high-quality
publications and appropriate teaching experience. For
the Lecturer post, evidence of an independent research
programme and external funding success are desirable;
for the Reader post they are essential. The School of
Biology at St Andrews has recently earned an Athena
SWAN Bronze award and is committed to equality ofopportunity.
Informal enquiries can be made to Prof Malcolm White
(mfw2@st-andrews.ac.uk), tel: +44(0) 1334 463432) or
Dr Nathan Bailey (nwb3@st-andrews.ac.uk, tel: +44(0)
1334 463367). Applications are particularly welcome
from women who are under-represented in Science posts
at the University. You can nd out more about Equality
and Diversity at https://www.st-andrews.ac.uk.hr.edi/
. The University of St Andrews is committed to pro-
moting equality of opportunity for all, which is further
demonstrated through its working on the Gender and
Race Equality Charters and being awarded the Athena
SWAN award for women in science, HR Excellence in
Research Award and the LGBT Charter; http://www.st-
andrews.ac.uk/hr/edi/diversityawards/ . Please quote
ref: AC5751MR
Closing Date: 22 March 2016
Link: https://www.vacancies.st-andrews.ac.uk/
ViewVacancy.aspx?enc=mEgrBL4XQK0+ld8aNkwYmH6Ecv/
iBYfQg2TdCBgk3LJo69yXVOu1VwMTzsFLEtUsXwrY9671VH
6R2L9VeBxnJlecyDjyfq0MB985kjRwj33IQk9RDSmutVLBc
FifLTyNhI6WnRXtQdNQzRzvTORlyw School of Bi-
ology Salary: Lecturer ^A$38,896 - ^A$47,801 Reader
^A$49,230 - ^A$55,389 per annum Start: As soon as
possible
Nathan Bailey <nwb3@st-andrews.ac.uk >
UTexas Tyler InsectEvolution
POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, INSECT EVOLUTION-
ARY ECOLOGY DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY THE
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT TYLER
The Position: The Department of Biology at The Uni-
versity of Texas in Tyler is seeking to ll a 9-month,
tenure-track position in insect evolutionary ecology. Any
area of evolutionary ecology will be considered but pref-
erence will be given to candidates using integrative ap-
proaches and cutting-edge technologies, and addressing
broad questions in evolution. The incumbent is required
to establish a strong, extramurally funded research pro-
gram in his/her area of expertise. S/he is also expected
to have a strong commitment to undergraduate and
graduate education and mentoring. Participation in
departmental, college, and university committees and
outreach programs is expected. Preference will be given
to candidates with a demonstrated record of collabora-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 65
tive research.
Qualications: Ph.D. in a relevant eld (entomology,
evolution, ecology, population genetics, etc.) with a
minimum of two years of postdoctoral experience. (ii)
Demonstrated research creativity, productivity, and
grantsmanship. (iii) Ability to develop a strong,
extramurally-funded research program. (iv) Demon-
strated record of collaborative research (v) Evidence of
eective teaching and other communication skills. (vi)
Teaching experience at undergraduate or graduate levels
is highly desirable.
Available resources: The Department of Biology oers
a stimulating intellectual environment and has an excel-
lent reputation in research and teaching. Twelve faculty
members undertake research in diverse sub-disciplines,
including genomics, bioinformatics, population genetics,
evolution, ecology, neurobiology, microbiology, molec-
ular biology, and physiology. Research seminars by
invited speakers are held weekly. The multidisciplinary
Center for Environment, Biodiversity, and Conservation
is housed in the Department of Biology. A new expan-
sion with state-of-the-art research and teaching labs has
just been completed along with renovation of all existing
teaching labs. Three large and sophisticated walk-in
environmental chambers are available for research as is
a confocal microscope. A computer lab connects UT
Tyler to the Texas Advanced Computer Center via a
10 Gb internet connection. The School of Pharmacy
opened its doors in August 2015. Shared equipment
and facilities, including a brand new vivarium, are avail-
able at UT Tylers sister institution, the University of
Texas Health Northeast. For additional information,
please visit www.uttyler.edu/biology . Location: Tyler
is located 90 miles east of Dallas in the scenic Piney
Woods area of East Texas. Tyler is the cultural center of
East Texas, a region with over one million people, and
boasts many amenities such as museums, a planetarium,
a ballet, a symphony orchestra, and a renowned per-
forming arts center. One of the 14 campuses of the UT
System, UT Tyler oers excellence in teaching, research,
artistic performance and community service. More than
80 undergraduate and graduate degrees are available at
UT Tyler, which has an enrollment of more than 8,000
high-ability students at its campuses in Tyler, Longview,
and Palestine.
Applications: Please include (as a single PDF le) a)
cover letter; b) detailed curriculum vitae; c) statement
of research interests and professional goals, d) statement
of teaching interests and philosophy; e) reprints of 3
relevant publications and email to. Dr. John Placyk,
Chair, Evolutionary Ecology Search Committee, De-
partment of Biology, The University of Texas at Tyler,
3900 University Blvd., Tyler, TX 75799. E-mail: jpla-cyk@uttyler.edu. Additionally, please arrange to have 3
reference letters sent to the same address.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until a suitable candidate is found. Start date is
negotiable.
The University of Texas is an Armative Action/Equal
Opportunity Employer. Women and minorities are
strongly encouraged to apply. The successful applicant
must be able to demonstrate eligibility to legally work
in the United States. This position is security-sensitive
and subject to Texas Education Code Section 51.215
which authorizes employer to obtain criminal history
record information. The position is contingent upon
availability of funding.
John S. Placyk, Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology University of Texas at Tyler 3900 Uni-
versity Blvd. Tyler, Texas 75799 Oce: 903-566-7147
Fax: 903-566-7189
http://www.uttyler.edu/biology/biology research/-
placyk/index.php \A well-known scientist (some say
it was Bertrand Russell) once gave a public lecture on
astronomy. He described how the earth orbits around
the sun and how the sun, in turn, orbits around the
center of a vast collection of stars called our galaxy. At
the end of the lecture a little
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ViriginiaTechU
PollinatorBiodiversity
Virginia Tech is looking for an Assistant Professor in Pol-
linator Biology & Ecology http://listings.jobs.vt.edu/-
postings/63916 Virginia Techs Department of Entomol-
ogy invites applications for a tenure-track position at
the level of Assistant Professor in the area of Pollinator
Biology & Ecology starting in the Fall 2016 semester.
This is a nine-month, 70% research and 30% teach-
ing appointment based on campus at Virginia Tech, a
land-grant university in the scenic New River Valley of
Virginia.
The successful candidate will be expected to develop
an extramurally funded research program focused on66 EvolDir March 1, 2016
pollinating insects with emphasis on regional and na-
tional concerns related to pollinator declines, species
biodiversity losses, ecosystem services, and/or conser-
vation biology. Knowledge of apicultural practices is
desirable but not required. Preference will be given to
individuals with post-doctoral experience and a demon-
strated ability to secure extramural funding and publish
in high quality, peer-reviewed journals. The incum-
bent is expected to teach courses at the undergraduate-
and graduate-level, contribute to innovative curricula in
entomology and related disciplines, and mentor under-
graduate and graduate students. The incumbent will
also support the mission of the land-grant university
by participating in outreach and engaging local, state,
and regional stakeholders. The successful candidate will
have access to existing honey bee colonies, apiculture
facilities, and land for eld research, including diverse
native habitats, as well as agronomic, vegetable, and
orchard eld plots.
Applicants are required to hold a Ph.D. in entomology,
zoology, or a closely related eld. Applicants with expe-
rience in pollinator biology including, but not limited
to, the ecology, physiology, molecular biology, genet-
ics, pathology, or behavior of honey bees and/or other
pollinating insects are strongly encouraged to apply.
Paul Marek <pmarek@vt.edu >
WillametteU 1yrVisiting EvolBiolgy
Dear Colleagues,
The Department of Biology at Willamette University
welcomes applications for a non-tenure-track, visiting
assistant professor position to begin August 2016. The
appointment will be for one year, with potential for re-
newal up to three years depending on the department ^As
teaching needs and satisfactory progress towards mutu-
ally agreed upon teaching outcomes.
We are seeking a broadly trained biologist who could
teach courses in one or more of the following areas:
Physiology, Evolution and Ecology, and/or Molecular
Cellular Biology. Teaching ability and adaptability are
more important than expertise in a particular discipline.
The successful applicant will be strongly committed to
excellence in both teaching and research at the under-
graduate level, and will be expected to teach 6 course
units a year (1.0 unit/lecture, 0.5 unit/lab). The teach-
ing assignments will include an introductory non-majors
biology course (BIOL 110 Principles of Biology), a coursein the Biology Major ^As Core Curriculum (either Biology
244, Biology 125, or Biology 130), and upper-division
courses in the candidate ^As area of expertise. Course
sizes range from 12 to 48 students.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Biology or a related
eld; prior teaching and/or postdoctoral experience is
preferred but not required. A.B.D candidates will be
considered, but the Ph.D. must be completed before
beginning the appointment. This position is eligible for
medical and dental benets. This position is not eligible
for any Visa or employment sponsorship.
About Biology at Willamette: Our faculty view them-
selves as teacher-scholars; teaching in our department
is inspired by Vision and Change (NSF, AAC&U, 2011)
and research training is deeply imbedded in the curricu-
lum at all levels. 60% of our graduates enter careers
in science and technology. The Department is commit-
ted to mentoring and career development for visiting
faculty, and we have a strong track record of placing
visiting faculty in tenure-track positions at both research-
intensive and teaching-focused institutions. Shared re-
search space is available for use by visiting faculty, and
signicant department funding is available to support
teaching and scholarship. Visiting faculty are strongly
encouraged to apply for these department funds and to
seek extramural funding for research and pedagogical
projects. Willamette ^As Oce for Faculty Research and
Resources has an outstanding record of helping faculty
to nd and win grant funding. For more information
about the Department of Biology, please visithttp://-
www.willamette.edu/cla/biology . Willamette Univer-
sity, founded in 1842, is the oldest institution of higher
education in the Far West. Willamette University is
a selective residential liberal arts college in the heart
of the Willamette Valley. Situated in Oregon's capital
city, Willamette includes the College of Liberal Arts
(approximately 2000 students), and graduate programs
in Law and Management. The academic year is divided
into two semesters, beginning in late August and ending
in May. The academic undergraduate prole is compet-
itive. Recent students have received prestigious NSF,
Watson, Truman, Fulbright, and Goldwater fellowships.
Salem is located in the center of the Willamette Valley,
approximately an hour ^As drive from the Pacic Coast,
the Cascade Mountains, and the cities of Portland and
Eugene. To learn more about Willamette University,
please visit http://www.willamette.edu . Believing that
diversity contributes to academic excellence and to rich
and rewarding communities, Willamette University is
committed to recruiting and retaining a diverse faculty,
sta and student body. We seek candidates, particularly
those from historically under-represented groups, whose
work furthers diversity and who bring to campus variedMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 67
experiences, perspectives and backgrounds.
All applicants for this position are asked to provide
a statement describing their experience working with
students from diverse backgrounds. The successful ap-
plicant must have demonstrated experience working in
diverse, multicultural environments.
Apply at: https://jobs.willamette.edu/postings/1906
The following materials will need to be uploaded as part
of your online application:
1. A cover letter describing your interest in the posi-
tion. 2. A copy of your CV 3. A statement of teaching
philosophy 4. A research statement 5. A diversity state-ment describing your experience working with students
from diverse backgrounds. 6. Copies of your graduate
transcripts. 7. Three reference letters*
*As part of the online application, please include three
references and notify them that they will be contacted
electronically. The email from Human Resources will
include a link where they will be able to submit a
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Other
Alberta Internship GroundSquirrel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
ConservationGeneticsCourse Scholarships . . . . . . . . . .68
Draba verna samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Evolution Phasic Tonic Receptors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
FacultyMentoringNetwork applications . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Melbourne VolFieldAssist Mistnetting . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
NHGR Institute GenomeAnalysisLectures . . . . . . . . . 70
NSW Australia VolFieldAssist Birds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
Passing RichardLevins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
PennStateU SummerInternship InsectDiversityEvol 72
PortlandStateU NSFREU PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . 72
Pyrenees VolFieldTech PlantSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
SMBE nominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73TravelAwards to BotanyMeeting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UColoradoBoulder REU Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UColorado Boulder SummerREU PlantPhylogenetics
75
UHawaii SummerREU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
UMinnesota UndergradResearch PlantAdaptation . 76
UNSW Sydney Internship EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
USussex VolFieldAssist SpainWasps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UTexas Austin SummerUndergradRes . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UTexas ElPaso REU DesertBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 78
ViewsOfScienceReligion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Washington DC BioBlitz May20-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
Alberta Internship GroundSquirrel
Field Assistants Required-Columbian ground squirrels
Kananaskis, Alberta, CanadaWe are looking for 3 volunteers to assist with eldwork
for the period of April 9 to Aug 31, 2016 and an addi-
tional 3 volunteers for the period of May 1 to Aug 31,
2016. The project investigates the ecology of Columbian
ground squirrels. As a member of the study, assistants
will be involved with monitoring the phenology (when
animals emerge from hibernation), reproduction and sur-
vival of individuals. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping68 EvolDir March 1, 2016
and handling of animals, radio-telemetry, behavioural
observation and assistance with the measurement of
physiological (metabolism) traits on free-ranging ani-
mals. This is an excellent opportunity to gain experience
working with a collaborative research team on a long-
term study of a wild mammal.
All eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky
Mountains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to
some of the most majestic wildlife in North America. We
will be staying at the University of Calgary's R.B. Miller
and Barrier Lake research stations in Kananaskis, Al-
berta (http://bgs.ucalgary.ca/facilities/facilities). You
will interact with other researchers working with ground
squirrels on a diversity of projects in behavioural and
population ecology. Additionally, the eld stations are
home to a number of other researchers working on a
variety of projects, ranging from insects to large mam-
mals.
Food and accommodation are provided. Volunteers are
required to provide for their own travel to Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan. Travel between the eld station and
Saskatoon provided. Training will be provided and no
experience is necessary, but candidates should have an
interest in a number of the following (the more the
better!): ecology, evolutionary biology, wildlife, eld
biology, and animal behaviour. Periods of time will be
spent camping and, as such, successful applicants need
to enjoy the outdoors, be up-beat, positive, responsible
and work well as a member of a team.
If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details for
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email to Je
Lane (contact info below), by Feb 28, 2016.
Contact: Dr. Je Lane Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Saskatchewan Email: jerey.lane@usask.ca Web:
www.lanelab.ca Lane, Jerey\ <jerey.lane@usask.ca >
ConservationGeneticsCourse
Scholarships
Scholarships Available for Recent Advances in Conser-
vation Genetics Course (ConGen2016) lake Balaton,
May30-June10, 2016
The course will be directed by Dr. Stephen J. O'Brien,
and taught by renowned scientists in methods, interpre-
tation, and applications of molecular genetic analyses for
conservation of endangered species, who will also sharea variety of their personal experiences in this important
eld. ConGen2016 faculty is an amazing group of people
who come from all around the world and will be teach-
ing, sharing their conservation stories and interacting
with students during the course.
Scholarship will include full (or half) tuition for
the course, transportation to and from Budapest In-
ternational Airport, lodging and food at the Bal-
aton Limnological Institute. For the details see
www.congen2016.com . Partial or full scholarships
may be awarded to registered students, subject to
availability. The scholarship application is a sepa-
rate process and will be coordinated with our spon-
sors. To be eligible for a scholarship, please apply on
this page http://congen2016.com/home/registration/-
scholarship-application/ . Please note: Scholarships
will be allocated based on need, scholastic potential,
likelihood of conservation translation, the applicant's
CV, and other information contained in the application
form. Scholarships will be awarded as a complete or
partial refund of the tuition for those applicants who
have already submitted their deposit.
The scholarship will not be considered if you have not
already submitted your registration. If you haven't
submitted your registration, please go to http://-
congen2016.com/home/registration/ Dr. Taras K
Oleksyk Associate Professor of Biology Director of the
Caribbean Genome Center University of Puerto Rico at
Mayaguez Mayaguez, PR 00680 Dna.lab@upr.edu
Taras K Oleksyk <taras.oleksyk@upr.edu >
Draba verna samples
We are starting a research project on the ploidy and
ecological characteristics of this small spring (or win-
ter) annual, known as 'whitlow grass', Draba verna, or
Erophila verna and hoping to get seed from as many sites
globally as possible. If you are able to nd plants and
can send samples, here are some guidelines as to what
we are looking for, below. PLEASE FORWARD this
request to botanists and naturalists in other places, in-
cluding outside of the U.S. (so instructions are included
for collections made outside of the U.S.).
Please wait until the plant is nished owering and seeds
are ripe (but before dispersal, of course). Please note the
exact latitude, longitude and if possible elevation of the
site, with photos of the plants and location if possible.
Please include your own name, email or other contactMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 69
information, and institution or address. FROM THE
U.S.: If you can send whole, pressed, air dried plants,
please send 12-15 whole pressed plants with seeds, or,
save seeds only from the plants and send dried seeds
packaged separately from each plant. FROM OUTSIDE
OF THE U.S.: The USDA does not allow whole plants,
so please send seeds only. Their requirements are at the
bottom of this note.
If you have seeds from fewer plants, that is also useful,
please send what you can collect. If you have seeds from
other species of Draba or Erophila, please identify the
species and send those, they may also be useful for our
research project. Our contact information is: Jessica
Gurevitch jessica.gurevitch@stonybrook.edu AND Jesse
Hollister jesse.hollister@stonybrook.edu
Mailing address: Jessica Gurevitch, Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook
NY 11794-5245 USA
Thanks very much in advance! Here is the USDA re-
quirements for seeds sent to us from outside the U.S. (i)
A typed or legibly printed seed list/invoice accompanies
each shipment with the name of the collector/shipper,
the botanical names (at least to genus, preferably to
species level) listed alphabetically, as well as the coun-
try of origin, and country shipped from, for each taxon.
Each seed packet is clearly labeled with the name of the
collector/shipper, the country of origin, and the scien-
tic name at least to the genus, and preferably to the
species, level. The invoice/seed list may provide a code
for each lot, which may be used on the seed packets in
lieu of the full list of required information. In this case,
each packet must at least include the appropriate code,
which is referenced to the entry for that packet on the
seed list/invoice. (ii) There are a maximum of 50 seeds
of 1 taxon (taxonomic category such as genus, species,
cultivar, etc.) per packet; or a maximum weight not
to exceed 10 grams of seed of 1 taxon per packet; (iii)
There are a maximum of 50 seed packets per shipment;
(iv) The seeds are free from pesticides; (v) The seeds
are securely packaged in packets or envelopes and sealed
to prevent spillage [Note: we recommend that seeds are
packed in resealable, clear plastic envelopes to facilitate
inspection]
Jessica Gurevitch Professor Department of Ecology and
Evolution Stony Brook University Stony Brook, NY
11794-5245 USA +1-631-632-8567
Jessica Gurevitch <jessica.gurevitch@stonybrook.edu >Evolution Phasic Tonic Receptors
Dear Colleagues:
Could someone recommend me an introductory paper
on the evolution of tonic vs phasic receptors? I have
been looking since yesterday early afternoon and have
not found appropriate references. If \yes", please send
me the paper (or link) to blayjorge@gmail.com
Gratefully,
Jorge
Jorge A. Santiago-Blay, PhD http://-
paleobiology.si.edu/sta/individuals/santiagoblay.cfm
\Santiago-Blay, Jorge" <BLAYJ@si.edu >
FacultyMentoringNetwork
applications
HHMI's BioInteractive (http://www.hhmi.org/-
biointeractive) and the Quantitative Undergraduate Bi-
ology Education and Synthesis (QUBES: qubeshub.org)
project invite applications for a Faculty Mentoring
Network (FMN) focused on adapting quantitative
BioInteractive modules for undergraduate introductory
biology courses. BioInteractive has a growing collection
of quantitative and data based modules on statistics,
graphing, and data manipulation, however these were
initially designed for high school and AP biology.
Participants in this FMN will work together and with
the HHMI BioInteractive sta to adapt and implement
these modules in their own introductory biology courses.
The Faculty Mentoring Network combines a face to face
workshop experience with a mentored, long term com-
munity interaction on the QUBES site. The group will
begin working at the National Academies Special Top-
ics Summer Institute on Quantitative Biology (http:/-
/qubeshub.org/groups/summer2016), June 19-24 2016.
After the meeting participants will continue to work
online with a group of peers and mentors to adapt and
implement quantitative modules in their courses during
the Fall 2016 semester. This work will take advantage of
the QUBESHub infrastructure and include short online70 EvolDir March 1, 2016
meetings every other week. Upon completion of the
Faculty Mentoring Network participants will post their
materials and teaching guidelines on the BioInteractive
partner page on QUBES.
Applicants must be teaching introductory biology or an
equivalent course in Fall 2016, and be able to attend the
Quantitative Biology Summer Institute June 19-24. For
more information, visit: https://qubeshub.org/groups/-
hhmibiointeractivefmn Questions? Contact Melissa
Csikari (csikarim 'at' hhmi 'dot' org) or Kristin Jenkins
(kristin.jenkins 'at' bioquest'dot' org).
Kristin P. Jenkins, PhD Director
BioQUEST Curriculum Consortium bioquest.org (608)
622.9394 POBox 126 Boyds, MD 20874-0126
Kristin Jenkins <kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org >
Melbourne VolFieldAssist
Mistnetting
We are looking for a volunteer eld assistant to help with
research on sexual selection and seasonal colour change
in superb fairy-wrens. We need an experienced mistnet-
ter, who is organised, respectful of animals and enjoys be-
ing outdoors. The work involves mistnetting for superb
fairy-wrens (banding, blood samples, photography and
spectral measurements) and behavioural observations
of free-living birds. Work will be conducted from May-
September, in an open woodland approximately 1 hour
east of Melbourne CBD. Our eld site is in a beautiful
location, with many opportunities to see native wildlife,
including kangaroos, wallabys and echidnas. The park
has many beautiful birds, such as crested shrike-tits,
sacred kingshers, spotted pardalotes and red-browed
nches. Food and local travel expenses are compensated.
Accommodation may also be provided (to be discussed
with the applicant). For more information please contact
Alex McQueen: alex.mcqueen@monash.edu
\alexandra.mcqueen@monash.edu"
<alexandra.mcqueen@monash.edu >NHGR Institute
GenomeAnalysisLectures
Dear Colleague:
We are pleased to announce that the National Human
Genome Research Institute will once again be presenting
its Current Topics in Genome Analysis lecture series.
Given the rapid advances in genomics and bioinformat-
ics that have taken place in the past few years, we feel
that an intensive review of the major areas of ongoing
genome research would be of great value to students,
fellows, and our colleagues. A mixture of NHGRI and
outside speakers will present the lectures and, as you
will see from the schedule below, we have designed the
series to cover the major areas of genomics. The lectures
are geared at the level of rst-year graduate students,
are practical in nature, and are intended for a diverse
audience.
The 14 lectures will be held in the Lipsett Amphithe-
ater, NIH Clinical Center (Building 10) on Wednesday
mornings from 9:30 am to 11:00 am each Wednesday,
beginning on February 17, 2016. For those of you at
a distance, archives of all lectures will also be avail-
able through the series Web site (http://genome.gov/-
CTGA2016) on a delayed basis.
A mailing list has been set up for this series, and we ask
all participants to subscribe to this list. The series orga-
nizers will be using this mailing list to remind everyone
of upcoming lectures, as well as to notify participants of
any announcements or changes to the lecture schedule.
To subscribe to this mailing list, please point your Web
browser to:
https://list.nih.gov/archives/nhgri-ctga2016-l.html
Click the link marked 'Subscribe or Unsubscribe' and
follow the instructions on the subsequent page to
subscribe.
This activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category
1 Credits ^A~A.
We look forward to your participation, and please feel
free to get in touch if you have any questions.
Best regards,
Andy Baxevanis and Tyra Wolfsberg
|{
February 17 Biological Sequence Analysis I Andy Baxe-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 71
vanis, NHGRI
February 24 The Genomic Landscape circa 2016 Eric
Green, NHGRI
March 2 Genome-Scale Sequence Analysis Tyra Wolfs-
berg, NHGRI
March 9 Biological Sequence Analysis II Andy Baxeva-
nis, NHGRI
March 16 Regulatory and Epigenetic Landscapes of
Mammalian Genomes Laura Elnitski, NHGRI
March 23 Applications of Genomics to Improve Public
Health Colleen McBride, Emory University
March 30 Spring Break (No Lecture)
April 6 Introduction to Population Genetics Lynn Jorde,
University of Utah
April 13 Identifying the Genomic Basis of Rare Diseases
David Valle, The Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine
April 20 Genomic Approaches to the Study of Complex
Genetic Diseases Karen Mohlke, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill
April 27 Expression Analysis, Functional Enrichment,
and Network Inference John Quackenbush, Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute
May 4 Pharmacogenomics Howard McLeod, Mott Can-
cer Center
May 11 Genomic Medicine Bruce Korf, University of
Alabama at Birmingham
May 18 Genomics of Microbes and Microbiomes Julie
Segre, NHGRI
May 25 Next-Generation Sequencing Technologies
Elaine Mardis, Washington University in St. Louis
\Baxevanis, Andy (NIH/NHGRI) [E]"
<andy@mail.nih.gov >
NSW Australia VolFieldAssist Birds
**I'm actually not sure this is most appropriate for the
job section as it is a volunteer job...**
Seeking Volunteer Field Assistant for Avian Project in
NSW, Australia Outback Opportunity Type: Volunteer
Closing Date: 31 March, 2016
We are looking for volunteers to assist in an on-going research project studying the cooperatively
breeding chestnut-crowned babbler in the outback
in Australia. We have been studying this sys-
tem since 2004 and information on the system can
be found here: http://biosciences.exeter.ac.uk/sta/-
index.php?web id=3Dandy russell&tab =reseach or an-
drealliebl.com (check out the video on this page made by
a previous eld assistant!) We are hoping to nd some-
one who can start in early July and continue through the
end of the breeding season (October/November). We
are not able to pay for travel expenses to Australia,
but accommodation at a research station (https://-
www.fowlersgap.unsw.edu.au/) will be provided as well
as a contribution towards food.
Required: Ability to work both individually and as
a team Willingness to work early mornings and long
days Relatively t (there will be a lot of walking on
uneven surfaces) Interest in ecology (our interests in
ecology span a relatively large niche and we do work in
physiology, metabolism, call variation, etc as well)
Desired: Bush experience Technologically inclined
4WD/o road driving experience Knowledge of Aus-
tralian birds Ringing experience This is a great opportu-
nity to gain eldwork experience in an amazing location.
If you're interested (or have any questions), please con-
tact Andrea Liebl (a.l.liebl@exeter.ac.uk).
Andrea L. Liebl, PhD Postdoctoral Re-
search Fellow University of Exeter, Cornwall
http://www.andrealliebl.com/ Andrea Liebl
<A.L.Liebl@exeter.ac.uk >
Passing RichardLevins
Richard Levins died on January 19, 2016. The following
announcement was sent out by his children. There is a
remembrance for him on March 6
Dear friends, colleagues, comrades and broader commu-
nity of Richard Levins,
As some of you know, our father, Dick Levins, died on
January 19 after a slow decline related to his congestive
heart failure. He spent his last days and nights not in the
hospital but at home in his comfortable assisted-living
apartment, surrounded by his family and friends. We
buried him the next day in Mount Auburn Cemetery.
We will host a memorial event at 1:30pm, on Sunday,
March 6 at Harvard's Knafel Center, Radclie Yard,72 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Harvard Square, Cambridge to mourn, celebrate and
reect on his remarkable life and our shared loss. We
will gather between 1:30 and 2pm. At 2pm, a few family
members and friends will speak, followed by an oppor-
tunity for anyone in attendance to share remembrances
and tributes. Light refreshments will be served after-
wards.
The Knafel Center (the old Radclie gym) is an easy
walk from the Harvard Square T stop. Although its
formal address is 10 Garden St., the Knafel Center is
actually on Mason St., mid-way between Garden St.
and James St./Phillips Place.
Please feel free to forward this message to others who
knew Dick or his work - the mailing list we are using is
sure to be incomplete.
Alejandro, Ricardo and Aurora Levins Morales
Steven Orzack <orzack@freshpond.org >
PennStateU SummerInternship
InsectDiversityEvol
The research team at the Frost Entomological Museum
seeks four undergraduate summer interns to assist with
projects related to insect biodiversity and evolution.
Interns will receive training in eldwork, curation, bio-
diversity informatics, specimen collection and prepara-
tion, microscopy, diagnostics, and, depending on his/her
project: taxonomy, rearing, dissection, GC-MS, tran-
scriptomics, niche modeling, 3D reconstruction, histol-
ogy, and novel approaches to visualizing insect anatomy.
Announcement here: https://wp.me/p4sOIf-FH To
apply, please see the Penn State jobs website: https://-
psu.jobs/job/61792 Applicants must submit the follow-
ing materials by March 31, 2016:
(1) resume, including relevant courses (2) a list of three
references (3) cover letter describing research experience,
interests, and career goals
The internships last 8 weeks and can be extended up
to 10 weeks, depending on the project. The stipend
in approximately $550 per week, and incumbents are
responsible for their own housing.
Contact info:
Andrew R. Deans, director Frost Entomological Museum
Department of Entomology 501 ASI Building Pennsyl-
vania State University University Park, PA 16802 USA
adeans@psu.eduPenn State is an equal opportunity, armative action
employer, and is committed to providing employment op-
portunities to all qualied applicants without regard to
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran
status.
\adeans@psu.edu" <adeans@psu.edu >
PortlandStateU NSFREU
PlantGenomics
NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
in Plant Ecology and Genomics
We are looking for two enthusiastic students interested
in enhancing their research skills and experience in plant
ecology, genomics, and bioinformatics in the Cruzan lab
at Portland State University in Portland, Oregon.
Successful applicants will become part of a research team
working on dispersal and gene ow in upland prairie
plants in Oregon and Washington under pressure from
climate change. Dispersal is critical for colonization,
gene ow, and range expansion ^AV it is one of the most
important but least understood aspects of the ecology
of plants. Our research utilizes genomic techniques to
detect the eects of dispersal over dierent spatial scales.
This is an integrative research program that includes
eld work, wet lab preparation of genomic DNA for
next-generation sequencing, bioinformatics processing
of sequence data, and analysis of patterns of gene ow
using GIS and landscape genetic methods. Students
will be exposed to a wide range of methods and are
expected to develop an independent research project
within the scope of the larger research program. More
information on our research is posted on our lab web
site: http://web.pdx.edu/~cruzan/index.html
Students will be fully supported for 10 to 12 weeks dur-
ing the summer of 2016. Funding is provided from an
REU supplement to our National Science Foundation
Macrosystems Biology grant. Housing will be provided
on campus along with a daily allowance for food and a
$500 weekly stipend. The start of the REU is negotiable
with optimal start dates between May 1 and June 17.
To apply please email us an updated copy of your CV
(including GPA) and a short (one page) statement of
your research interests and experience, as well as goals
for your education and career. Students with experience
in computer programming and/or bioinformatics are en-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 73
couraged to apply. Application deadline is 29 February
2016. Feel free to email us with questions.
Pam Thompson, Postdoctoral Research Associate:
thompson@pdx.edu
Mitch Cruzan, Principle Investigator: cruzan@pdx.edu
Mitch Cruzan Professor of Biology Portland State
University PO Box 751 Portland, OR 97207
USA Web: http://web.pdx.edu/ ~cruzan/ cruzan
<cruzan@pdx.edu >
Pyrenees VolFieldTech
PlantSpeciation
Field assistants summer 2016: Volunteer positions in
evolutionary biology
Nick Barton's group at the Institute of Science and Tech-
nology (IST) Austria requires volunteers to assist with
eld work on plant speciation in the Pyrenees (Spain)
this coming summer (late May - early August).
The project: We are studying the evolutionary dynam-
ics underlying species diversication in the genus Antir-
rhinum (snapdragons). A major focus of this research
involves eld work on natural hybrid zones between two
subspecies with dierent ower colours. Most of the
eld work is contributing to a long-term pedigree project
aimed at establishing a direct link from genotype to phe-
notype to tness. With 20,000 samples collected over six
generations (so far), this provides an exciting and pow-
erful system to examine many outstanding questions in
speciation and quantitative genetics in wild populations.
We are seeking volunteers to assist with the eld work,
which involves working in teams mapping the location of
individual plants (GPS), tagging and sampling them for
leaves and owers, measuring quantitative traits, phe-
notyping them for ower pigmentation and processing
material for later DNA extraction. There may also be
opportunities to be involved in other projects we are
doing on plant-pollinator interactions, pollen fertility
and community ecology surveys. Most of the work is
outdoors, however we do spend some time indoors pro-
cessing samples. The work is highly team orientated,
typically in groups of 2-3 in the eld and larger groups
processing samples back at the research station. This
is a great opportunity for anybody looking to obtain
experience in eld work relating to evolutionary biology,
plant ecology and plant-animal interactions. You will
also be part of a large multidisciplinary team includ-ing researchers from IST Austria (Vienna), John Innes
Centre (Norwich, UK) and the University of Toulouse.
The eld site is located near Ripoll in a beautiful part
of the Pyrenees of North Eastern Spain (Catalonia).
We stay in comfortable apartments overlooking a pic-
turesque valley, with close access to hiking trails and
small villages. All food, accommodation and travel
(within Europe) are covered. However, we cannot oer
any further stipend.
For these positions we are looking for hard working and
enthusiastic biology students with a strong interest in
working outdoors with plants. You must be meticulous
with recording data and also be comfortable working
as part of a team. Experience with eld-based projects
and plants is preferred but not essential.
We require assistance between late May and late July.
Depending on the year and the plants, we may extend
our time into August. Length of stay is exible but a
minimum stay of 3 weeks is required.
Please send any questions to the email address below.
How to apply? By the closing date of March 31st, please
send a statement of your background, CV, why you are
interested and the length of time you would be available
via email to maria.clara.melo@ist.ac.at
Maria Clara MELO HURTADO
<maria.clara.melo@ist.ac.at >
SMBE nominations
Dear EvolDir,
*Nominations for President-elect and 2 Councillors due
by Tuesday, March 15, 2016
I am writing to solicit nominations for SMBE President-
Elect and 2 Councillors whose terms will begin on Jan-
uary 1, 2016. All of these positions are for a duration
of three years. As the society grows and thrives, mem-
bers of council play very important roles in guiding its
development and in soliciting and implementing pro-
grams that support our members, enrich opportunities
for young scientists from around the world, oversee our
two excellent journals (MBE and GBE) as well as our
annual meeting and satellite meetings.
Nominations will be reviewed by the nomination commit-
tee who will then put forward a slate of two candidates
for each position for membership vote. Past council
members are listed at74 EvolDir March 1, 2016
https://www.smbe.org/smbe/ABOUT/Council.aspx
Please send nominations with a brief statement in sup-
port of your suggestion (self nominations are accepted)
to:
Soojin Yi (soojinyi@gatech.edu) and James McInerney
(secretary.smbe@gmail.com)
NB: we ask the nominators to conrm *explicitly* that
the person they are nominating has already conrmed
their willingness to run for oce. In addition, please
keep in mind that the candidates have to be an active
member of SMBE in the time of election.
Please send your nominations by Tuesday March 15,
2016.
We look forward to hearing from you.
Sincerely yours,
James McInerney Secretary of SMBE, on behalf of the
Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee: Soojin Yi, Chair (Georgia Tech,
soojinyi@gatech.edu)
Belinda Chang (University of Toronto, be-
linda.chang@utoronto.ca)
Arndt von Haeseler (Center for Integrative Bioinformat-
ics Vienna, arndt.von.haeseler@univie.ac.at)
Bing Su (Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming Insti-
tute of Zoology, sub@mail.kiz.ac.cn)
Mike Steel (University of Canterbury,
mike.steel@canterbury.ac.nz)
and
James McInerney, SMBE Secretary (University
of Manchester), ex ocio per by-laws (secre-
tary.smbe@gmail.com)
Secretary SMBE <secretary.smbe@gmail.com >
TravelAwards to BotanyMeeting
We are pleased to announce the PLANTS program,
funded by the National Science Foundation and Botani-
cal Society of America, that brings talented and diverse
undergraduates to the BOTANY 2016 meeting on July
29 - Aug 3, 2016 in Savannah, Georgia.
Why PLANTS? The PLANTS program (Preparing
Leaders and Nurturing Tomorrow's Scientists: Increas-
ing the diversity of plant scientists) will fund up to12 undergraduates from throughout the US and Puerto
Rico to attend the meeting, receive mentoring from grad-
uate students, postdocs and faculty, attend scientic
sessions, and participate in networking events including
the Diversity Luncheon and career-oriented activities.
The program covers the normal costs of travel, regis-
tration, and food and accommodation at the meeting.
An overview of the scientic conference is available at:
www.botanyconference.org Why BOTANY 2016? The
annual Botany Conference is a meeting of several sci-
entic societies serving over 7,000 plant scientists and
students whose research and practice span the globe.
The conference encompasses the diverse scope of botan-
ical study, including areas such as systematics, ecology,
evolution, physiology, genetics, development, paleob-
otany, and economic botany. Workshops cover topics as
diverse as genomics, conservation assessments, teaching
science, applying to grad school, and unconventional
science and technology careers.
APPLICATIONS: Applications are accepted through
MARCH 15, 2016 at http://www.botany.org/Awards/-
FPLANTS.php .Applications include completion of the
online form providing your statement of interest, a letter
of recommendation, and unocial transcripts. Appli-
cations are welcome from all undergraduates who have
an interest in the plant sciences; the admissions goal
is to create a diverse pool of students. The applica-
tion form is located online at http://www.botany.org/-
Awards/F PLANTS.php. We encourage you to review
the online form thoroughly before lling it out. Please
have letters of recommendation and unocial tran-
scripts sent directly to Heather Cacanindin at HCa-
canindin@Botany.org. Students must be able to attend
the entire Botanical Society of America meetings in
Savannah, July 30-Aug 3, 2016.
Applicants must be domestic undergraduate students
registered or very recently graduated (i.e., within the
last 12 months). Students demonstrating a need for
funds to attend BSA will be given preference, and will
be selected so that as a group, they will help to diversify
the pool of undergraduates attending the meetings.
More information is available from Ann Sakai (ak-
sakai@uci.edu), Anna Monls (mon1ak@cmich.edu),
or Heather Cacanindin (hcacanindin@botany.org).
\aksakai@uci.edu" <aksakai@uci.edu >March 1, 2016 EvolDir 75
UColoradoBoulder REU
Phylogenetics
This is a reminder that the deadline for the following
REU is this Friday!
We are recruiting two undergraduate students to con-
duct independent research over 10 weeks this summer
(23 May - 29 July) at the University of Colorado Boulder
as part of an NSF-funded REU. The project will involve
investigating the ecological and evolutionary processes
inuencing the phylogenetic structure of plant commu-
nities across the United States. Students will work
in the Smith lab (www.colorado.edu/smithlab) under
the guidance of Dr. Julienne Ng and Dr. Robert La-
port, primarily generating DNA sequence data, conduct-
ing phylogenetic analyses, and accessing and managing
large amounts of plant trait data from public databases.
More information about the project can be found at the
following website: http://julienneng.weebly.com/reu-
summer-2016.html Students will be provided a stipend
of $500/week, dormitory housing and return ight (up
to $500).
Participants must be U.S. citizens or permanent resi-
dents, and an undergraduate during the entire period.
We especially encourage students from groups tradition-
ally underrepresented in science to apply.
To apply, please send a personal statement that de-
scribes your research interests and how this REU will
support your professional goals (no more than half a
page), a resume or CV, unocial transcripts, and the
contact details of two professional references (including
title, how you know them, phone number and email
address) to Dr. Julienne Ng (julienne.ng@colorado.edu).
Applications close 4th March, 2016.
Please direct any questions to Dr. Julienne Ng (juli-
enne.ng@colorado.edu).
julienne.ng@gmail.comUColorado Boulder SummerREU
PlantPhylogenetics
We are recruiting two undergraduate students to con-
duct independent research over 10 weeks this summer
(23 May - 29 July) at the University of Colorado Boulder
as part of an NSF-funded REU. The project will involve
investigating the ecological and evolutionary processes
inuencing the phylogenetic structure of plant commu-
nities across the United States. Students will work in
the Smith lab (www.colorado.edu/smithlab) under the
guidance of Dr. Julienne Ng and Dr. Robert Laport,
primarily generating DNA sequence data, conducting
phylogenetic analyses, and accessing and managing large
amounts of plant trait data from public databases.
Students will be provided a stipend of $500/week, dor-
mitory housing and transportation.
Participants must be U.S. citizens or permanent resi-
dents, and an undergraduate during the entire period.
We especially encourage students from groups tradition-
ally underrepresented in science to apply.
To apply, please send a personal statement that de-
scribes your research interests and how this REU will
support your professional goals (no more than half a
page), a CV, unocial transcripts, and the contact de-
tails of two professional references (including title, how
you know them, phone number and email address) to Dr.
Julienne Ng (julienne.ng@colorado.edu). Applications
close 4th March, 2016.
Please direct any questions to Dr. Julienne Ng (juli-
enne.ng@colorado.edu).
julienne.ng@gmail.com
UHawaii SummerREU Biodiversity
Summer 2016 Research Experiences for Undergraduates
at the University of Hawaii
Participants in the Summer 2016 Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) program will take advantage
of high-throughput DNA sequencing and phylogenetic
methods to study the identity and origins of Hawai ^Ei's76 EvolDir March 1, 2016
native, endemic and invasive organisms. REU partic-
ipants will be mentored by a diverse faculty from the
departments of Biology, Botany, and Microbiology, the
Hawai^ ai Natural Energy Institute at the University of
Hawai ^Ei at M Anoa, and Kapi^ aolani Community Col-
lege in Honolulu, Hawaii.
The 10-week REU summer program provides partic-
ipants with stipends of $5,250, and covers the costs
of accommodations, food and travel to Hawaii. This
unique experience allows participants to gain hands-
on research experience, providing an excellent stepping
stone for future graduate studies.
Applications for Summer 2016 are due March 15, 2016.
Please visit the program website for further information
and to apply. http://manoa.hawaii.edu/biodiversity-
REU/ Questions can be addressed to program coordi-
nators Dr. Stuart Donachie (donchie@hawaii.edu) and
Dr. Stephanie Kraft-Terry (kraft2@hawaii.edu).
Robert C. Thomson Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Hawaii at Manoa Honolulu, HI
96822 thomsonr@hawaii.edu http://thomsonlab.org/-
\thomsonr@hawaii.edu" <thomsonr@hawaii.edu >
\thomsonr@hawaii.edu" <thomsonr@hawaii.edu >
UMinnesota UndergradResearch
PlantAdaptation
Summer 2016 REU. Plant Evolutionary Genetics. Uni-
versity of Minnesota. St. Paul, MN
Ruth Shaw$B!G(Bs Research Group in the Dept. of
Ecology, Evolution & Behavior at the University of Min-
nesota is seeking applicants for an NSF Research Expe-
rience for Undergraduates (REU) position in summer
2016 to study the process of ongoing adaptation in ex-
perimental populations of partridge pea (*Chamaecrista
fasciculata*) in prairie habitat. The student will work
closely with Dr. Ruth Shaw to develop an independent
project in the area of plant evolutionary genetics, with
possibilities including estimation of heritability and phe-
notypic selection on various plant traits and studies of
population dynamics. The student will gain invaluable
experience in performing eld work and in conduct-
ing an independent research project, from hypothesis
formulation through oral and written dissemination of
results, as grounding for future work in inquiry-based
scientic research. The student must be a U.S. citi-
zen or permanent resident and should be enrolled asan undergraduate in Fall 2016. The ideal candidate
should enjoy working outdoors and have an interest in
learning about the evolution and ecology of plants in
the Midwest prairies, and candidates planning to pursue
a graduate career in evolution, ecology, or conserva-
tion biology are particularly well-suited for this position.
The REU intern will receive a stipend of $5,000 and
room and board in the Twin Cities (with occasional
overnight travel to eld sites). Costs of travel to and
from the Twin Cities will also be provided. The dead-
line to apply for this position is March 11, 2016, and
the 10-week internship is expected to begin on Monday,
June 13 and end on Friday, August 19. Please contact
Ruth Shaw ( shawx016@umn.edu) for more informa-
tion. The University of Minnesota provides equal access
to and opportunity in its programs, facilities, and em-
ployment without regard to race, color, creed, religion,
national origin, gender, age, marital status, disability,
public assistance status, veteran status, sexual orienta-
tion, gender identity, or gender expression. Individuals
of underrepresented groups are especially encouraged
to apply. Please spread the word to any interested and
qualied undergraduates.
To apply, please e-mail the following application ma-
terials to Ruth Shaw (shawx016@@umn.edu) with the
subject line $B!H(BREU$B!I(B no later than March 11,
2016:
1) a statement explaining the following:
- Why you are interested in this position?
- What previous experience do you have that is relevant
for this position?
- What are your future plans?
Please call this opportunity to the attention of under-
graduates likely to be interested:
Ruth G. Shaw Professor and Editor in Chief, *Evo-
lution*Dept of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior 100
Ecology1987 Upper Buford Circle University of Min-
nesota St. Paul MN 55108
shawx016@umn.eduMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 77
UNSW Sydney Internship EvolBiol
Job: UNSW Sydney.Internship.EvolBiol
Scientic Internship/Apprenticeship in Evolutionary Bi-
ology at i-deel, E&ERC, UNSW, Australia
Our lab (www.i-deel.org) is oering one scientic intern-
ship/apprenticeship (or volunteer position) for up to 6
months to help set up our lab. We are located at the
Evolution & Ecology Research Centre (E&ERC) within
the School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sci-
ences (BEES) at the University of New South Wales
(UNSW), Sydney, Australia. The intern will be engaged
in variety of scientic work (mainly, setting up zebrash
behavioural and physiological experiments, helping con-
duct comparative or meta-analyses and database man-
agement). We expect the apprentice will learn essential
skills as well as gain experience necessary for conducting
their own projects. This is why an ideal candidate will
be someone who plans to undertake a PhD in the future,
within the elds of Evolutionary Biology, Ecology and
Behavioural Sciences (i.e. someone with BSc or MSc).
We will provide an allowance to cover accommodation
and food ( ~up to AU$2000 per month). The intern needs
to hold a working holiday visa or be an Australian or
New Zealand resident. Please read our webpage to see
what kind of research we conduct (www.i-deel.org). If
you are passionate about our science and would like
to join our team, please contact Shinichi Nakagawa
(s.nakagawa@unsw.edu.au) with your CV and one page
letter of motivation.
Best regards
Shinichi
Dr Shinichi Nakagawa (Associate Professor) Room 568,
Biological Sciences Building (D26) School of Biological,
Earth and Environmental Sciences (BEES) The Univer-
sity of New South Wales Randwick NSW 2052, Sydney,
Australia Mobile: 0422 655 854 Oce : 0293 859 138
Website: http://www.i-deel.org/ Shinichi Nakagawa
<s.nakagawa@unsw.edu.au >USussex VolFieldAssist SpainWasps
VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANT sought for 8 weeks
starting early/mid-April 2016, to help with a study of
paper wasp (Polistes) behavioural ecology in southern
Spain. The work will involve helping a PhD student to
census and observe colonies as part of experiments to
elucidate the basis of helping behaviour in these wasps,
which live in small colonies of <20 individuals. The
successful applicant must be prepared to work hard
and have an interest in behavioural/evolutionary biol-
ogy, and have enthusiasm and tness level suitable for
eldwork. Successful applicants will obtain excellent
experience of cutting-edge insect behavioural ecology. A
driving licence and any ability to speak Spanish would
be an advantage, but are not essential. Because the
work involves recording colour marks on individual ani-
mals, the job would not be suitable for someone who is
colour-blind. See our research group website for more
information about the kind of work we do (http://-
www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/eldlab/).
Air fare (from the UK or mainland Europe) and accom-
modation expenses will be provided, with the applicant
needing to pay for only their own food/personal ex-
penses, which are relatively cheap in Spain (a successful
applicant will also receive a ^A$500 contribution towards
their expenses). Accommodation will be a room in a
at shared with the PhD student/ other members of the
research group ^ a\ including shower, cooking facilities,
TV etc. Accommodation is in a medium-sized coastal
town with nice beach.
Send a covering letter and CV, including contact details
(including e-mail addresses/tel nos.) for the applicant
and 2-3 referees who would be available to provide ref-
erences during March 2016. Include a clear sentence
in your cover letter stating whether you hold a clean
driving licence and would be prepared to drive in Spain
if need be (a driving licence is not essential, but we need
to know whether you have one). Email as a single Word
document to: j.eld@sussex.ac.uk.
Or post a hard copy to: Prof Jeremy Field, School of
Life Sciences, John Maynard Smith Building, University
of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QG, UK.
Applicants must be available for an informal interview
at Sussex University, and review of applications will
begin on 19 March with interviews the following week.78 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Informal enquiries: j.eld@sussex.ac.uk
Professor Jeremy Field School of Life Sciences, John
Maynard Smith Building, University of Sussex, Falmer,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK
j.eld@sussex.ac.uk <mailto:j.eld@sussex.ac.uk >
http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/eldlab/ Tel 01273
877135
Jeremy Field <J.Field@sussex.ac.uk >
UTexas Austin
SummerUndergradRes
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is emerging as an im-
portant biofuel candidate in the United States. Our
labs (see list of collaborators below) collectively study
the ecology, genetics/genomics, physiology and agron-
omy/plant breeding of Switchgrass. We are seeking a
talented and diverse group of undergraduate students
interested in conducting a variety of research in Switch-
grass biology across the US.
Program description: This program is an opportunity
for undergraduate students to participate in mentored
independent research on the biology of Switchgrass. The
program is funded through the NSF Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) program and is associated
with our ongoing interdisciplinary work on the ecology,
physiology, and genomic responses of switchgrass to fu-
ture climate change. Summer students will be immersed
in research and learn basic and applied biology through
active participation in primarily eld-based work. Work-
ing as part of our research team, they will contribute to
group research projects, design short research projects,
and present their work in an end-of-summer student
symposium.
Each position is supported for 8-10 weeks beginning
the rst week of June. Students are awarded a $4500
stipend, plus a housing and food allowance, and some
funds to help defray the cost of traveling to the desig-
nated University.
Who Should Apply: Undergraduates that are not in
their senior year (typically 2nd or 3rd year students),
who are either U.S. citizens or permanent residents
studying in the U.S.
Application process: The application deadline is Febru-
ary 15, 2016. Applicants should submit a cover letter
describing any relevant research experience, along withtheir motivation for joining our research group, and
include a copy of their current transcript (unocial
transcript or screenshots are acceptable). Applicants
should also ensure that two letters of recommendation
are submitted on their behalf. Only applications that
are complete will be considered. Applications and re-
quests for further information should be directed to:
Dr. Brandon Campitelli e-mail: bran-
don.campitelli@utexas.edu Subject: Switchgrass
REU 2016
For more information regarding this opportunity,
and ongoing research, please visit our website:
https://sites.cns.utexas.edu/juenger lab/summer-
research-opportunities Collaborating professors and
institutions:
Prof. Thomas Juenger; University of Texas at
Austin; https://sites.cns.utexas.edu/juenger lab/home
Prof. David Lowry; Michigan State University;
https://plantbiology.natsci.msu.edu/directory/david-
lowry/ Prof. Felix Fritschi; University of Missouri,
Columbia; http://plantsci.missouri.edu/faculty/-
fritschi.cfm Prof. Yanqi Wu; Oklahoma State
University; http://biopec.okstate.edu/?page id=-
155 Prof. Rob Mitchell; USDA-ARS, University
of Nebraska, Lincoln; http://www.ars.usda.gov/-
pandp/people/people.htm?personid=31809 Prof.
Arvid Boe; South Dakota State University; https:/-
/www.sdstate.edu/resources/directory/directory-
detail.cfm?view=detail&ci=234 Brandon E Campitelli,
PhD Postdoctoral Researcher, Dept. of Integrative
Biology College of Natural Sciences Clinical Assistant
Professor, Biology of Biofuels Freshmen Research
Initiative University of Texas at Austin
brandon.campitelli@utexas.edu
UTexas ElPaso REU
DesertBiodiversity
REU Opportunity Summer 2016: \Research Experience
for Undergraduates in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity"
The University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences invites applicants for the
NSF sponsored Research Experience for Undergradu-
ates (REU) in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity. This
is a 10 week summer program. The goal of this pro-
gram is to provide undergraduate students with experi-
ence in hypothesis-driven collaborative research utilizingMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 79
eld based and/or laboratory methods and fully engage
students in projects associated with the ecology and
evolution inuencing Chihuahuan Desert biodiversity.
The program provides:
* High quality research experience in ecology and evo-
lutionary biology in the eld and/or lab * Research
opportunities at the Indio Mountains Research Station
(IMRS), a 40,000 acre facility controlled by UTEP *
One-on-one and group mentoring from active research
faculty in multidisciplinary elds * Training in bioethics
and other relevant professional skills
The program includes
* $5250 stipend for 10 weeks
* Housing in shared apartments and eld station * Travel
reimbursement of up to $600
For more information on the program, research projects
or to apply please visit: http://science.utep.edu/cdb-
reu/ Enquiries: CDB-REU@utep.edu <mailto:CDB-
REU@utep.edu >
\mlmoody@utep.edu" <mlmoody@utep.edu >
ViewsOfScienceReligion
DearSir or Madam,
Iam writing to ask for your participation in an ongoing
research projectthat investigates the views of life scien-
tists and medical professionalsregarding the relationship
between personal belief and evolutionaryscience.
Myname is Tom Kaden, and I am a postdoc-
toral researcher at York University,Toronto.
Currently I am working in the interdisciplinary
researchproject ~A^ a:AScienceandReligion :
ExploringtheSpectrum ~A^a: ?`12. Inthe project,
I and my colleagues attempt to build a better under-
standingof how scientists and members of the public
view the relationshipbetween evolutionary science and
religion, and by extensionscience and religion. As part
of the study we will be looking ata range of topics,
including what people believe and how those beliefsare
formed, perceptions of science, experiences of prejudice
or discrimination,and views on public debate about
science and religion.
Weare especially interested in interviewing early career
life scientistsfor this project.
Webelieve that the best way for us to nd out about therange of viewsthat exist on these issues is by conducting
interviews and by engaginggroups of life scientists in a
conversation with each other. Weare looking to recruit
between ve and eight people for participationin a focus
group discussion that would take about two hoursand
cover the topics mentioned above. The date and venue
of the groupdiscussion will be scheduled once enough
people have expressed theirinterest.
Allparticipants are invited for lunch or dinner after the
discussion. Travelexpenses will be reimbursed. Please
be assured that all informationgathered as part of this re-
search project will be treated inthe strictest condence.
Only members of the project research team basedat
Newman University, UK, and York University, Toronto,
will have accessto the raw data and all information we
gather will be anonymized beforeit is made public.
Inaddition to the interviews and group discus-
sions we invite people regardlessof their loca-
tion or profession to complete a brief survey on-
science and religion that can be found on our
website: http://sciencereligionspectrum.org/engage/-
participate/ Thankyou very much for considering par-
ticipating in the research project.If you are interested
in participating in this project, please contactme via
e-mail at tomkaden@yorku.ca. I look forward to hearing
fromyou. Please let me know if you have any further
questions.
Dr.Tom Kaden 4700Keele St 317Bethune College Toron-
toON M3N 1P3 tomkaden@yorku.ca
TomKaden <tomkaden@yorku.ca >
Washington DC BioBlitz May20-21
Greetings, evolutionary biologists!
BioBlitzes are great opportunities to share your deep
knowledge of natural history with an enthusiastic audi-
ence, have fun with other biologists, and inspire more
citizen scientists.
*We are currently recruiting eld biologists
and naturalists* to participate in the National
Parks BioBlitz - Washington, D.C. <http://-
www.nationalgeographic.com/ explorers/ projects/
bioblitz/ washington-dc-2016/ >, and we in-
vite you to register now <https:// nationalgeo-
graphic.formstack.com/ forms/ national parks bioblitz
2016 washington dcscientist registration >! If
you are interested in events in Maryland and Virginia80 EvolDir March 1, 2016
further from D.C., there is a separate registration
form<https:// nationalgeographic.formstack.com/
forms/ national parks bioblitz 2016 national capital
region non cornerstone scientist registration form>
. This is a great opportunity to help document the
parks ^A biodiversity and to share your knowledge and
enthusiasm in the eld. If you're unsure where you t
in, watch this short video <https:// www.youtube.com/
watch?v=KKgYcIAsQaI&feature=youtu.be >to help
you nd your niche in BioBlitz. *The deadline to
register<https:// nationalgeographic.formstack.com/
forms/ national parks bioblitz 2016 washington
dcscientist registration >is Friday, February 26.*
*We are also looking for enthusiastic nature novices
and college students* to serve as iNaturalist <http://
www.inaturalist.org/ >Pro-Observers (link to registra-
tion form<https:// nationalgeographic.formstack.com/
forms/ national parks bioblitz 2016 washington dc
pro observer registration >) so please share this with
appropriate groups and clubs (registration will be open
at least through March, unlike above).
Background: The National Geographic Society and the
National Park Service are teaming up for the 10th year
to conduct a *BioBlitz <http:// natgeo.org/ bioblitz >
*in parks in and around our nation ^As capital on *May
20-21, 2016. *BioBlitz is an *all-taxa inventory* inwhich teams of volunteers, each led by a subject matter
expert, nd and identify as many species as possible
within a 24-hour period. The National Parks BioBlitz -
Washington, D.C. and concurrent Biodiversity Festival
on the National Mall is a cornerstone event of the larger
National Parks BioBlitz commemorating the centennial
of the National Park Service. More BioBlitzes will be
held in at least 100 national parks across the United
States. BioBlitzes happening in other National Parks
will have separate registration. You can see the grow-
ing list of parks here <http:// www.nature.nps.gov/
biology/ biodiversity/ bioblitz2016.cfm >.
*Please share this with others who may be in-
terested to help make this event a success.* You
can email bioblitz@ngs.org with general questions or
cseltzer@ngs.org for questions about registering as an
expert or amateur. We hope to see you at the National
Parks BioBlitz May 20-21!
*Carrie E. Seltzer, Ph.D.*
Program Manager, Experiences
t. 202.862.8239
1145 17th St., NW, Washington, DC 20036
cseltzer@ngs.org
PostDocs
AcademySciences CzechRepublic AntPlantInteractions
81
Bethesda Maryland HIV Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
CambridgeU HumanAdaptationBioinformatics . . . . 82
CambridgeU HumanAdaptationClimate . . . . . . . . . . . 83
CEES UOslo EvolutionDefense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
CharlesU Prague NightingaleSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . 85
DukeU Ecological Epigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
GeorgeWashingtonU ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . 86
HawkesburyInst Aust PlantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86IndianaU EvolutionSexReproduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
INRA Sophia-Antipolis EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . 87
IowaStateU Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
IowaStateU PopGenomicsFig-FigWasp . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
IST Austria MathEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
KansasStateU QuantitativeGenomicsPhenomics . . . 90
Kew PlantFungalDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90
Kiel Germany 1PDF 3PhD CelegansEvolution . . . . .90
LinkopingU Sweden GenomicsSexualDimorphims . . 91
LiverpoolSchMed MosquitoEvolutionaryGenetics . . 91March 1, 2016 EvolDir 81
Melbourne AvianInuenzaVirus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
MichiganStateU BEACON EvolutionaryBiology . . . 93
NMBU Norway SystemsBiologyFarmedSalmon . . . . 93
NotreDame BroadInst MosquitoSpeciationGenomics 94
Paris BlindSnakeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Paris CNRS TheoreticalEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . .96
Paris EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .96
Rosco MarineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
SpelmanC Atlanta MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
StockholmU BalticBiodiversity PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . 98
ToulouseCNRS EvolutionOfPlasticityNonGeneticInheri-
tance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ToulouseCNRS ExperimentalSelectionOfPlasticity . 99
ToulouseCNRS France HeritabilityAndSelection-
InTheWild . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
ToulouseCNRS WildPlantQuantitativeGenetics . . .100
TuftsU MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
UBordeaux QuantitativeEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UCalgary PlantComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . .102UCalifornia Berkeley 2 Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
UCalifornia Davis PlantPathogenEvolution . . . . . . .104
UCalifornia SantaCruz FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UExeter EvolutionCooperation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105
UGeorgia StressEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105
UGlasgow GenomeEvolutionaryTransitions . . . . . . . 106
UHawaii Manoa FruitFlyGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UHelsinki EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UKansas DrosophilaParasiteCoevolution . . . . . . . . . 108
ULausanne GenomicsSocialBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UMassachusetts ComparativeEndocrinology . . . . . . 109
UMinnesota EvolutionComplexTraits . . . . . . . . . . . . .109
UMinnesota GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UppsalaU PhylogenomicsAndMolecularClock . . . . . 110
USaoPaulo MolecularSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UTulsa BiodiversityClimateVariability . . . . . . . . . . . .112
UTurku PopulationEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UWashington GeneticsOfAging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
AcademySciences CzechRepublic
AntPlantInteractions
A highly motivated Postdoctoral Researcher is sought
to join a project exploring the shifts that occur in a
mutualistic ant-plant network when tropical rain for-
est is logged, fragmented, and converted to oil palm
plantation in Malaysian Borneo. The successful can-
didate will lead a team conducting eld surveys for
ant-inhabited trees, measuring ant and plant tness cor-
relates, and performing experimental manipulations of
the mutualistic communities, in particular in relation
to forest regeneration. They will also conduct analyses
and write papers on the main project ndings. The
project will provide the opportunity to collaborate with
two cutting-edge large-scale manipulations of tropical
forests: 1. The Stability of Altered Forest Ecosystems
project (SAFE), the world's largest rain forest fragmen-
tation experiment. 2. The Sabah Biodiversity Experi-
ment (SBE), a project assessing the impacts of dierent
diversities of tree planting on ecosystem functioning.
There will also be opportunities to develop the project
in a direction of the postdoc's own choosing. Duties will
include spending extensive periods of time in the eld
in Malaysian Borneo.
The successful applicant will join the Ant Research
Group (http://antscience.com/) at the Institute of En-
tomology, Biology Centre Academy of Sciences, Ceske
Budejovice, Czech Republic, employed on a grant heldby Tom Fayle (http://www.tomfayle.com/index.htm).
The group is a dynamic, multinational group studying
ant ecology, evolution and biogeography, and is embed-
ded within the Department of Ecology and Conservation
Biology, a world-class centre for interaction network re-
search with regular publications in Science, Nature and
other leading journals. The position allows the suc-
cessful candidate to apply for standard research grants
from the main Czech grant agency (GACR) to expand
the project. The deadline for applications is February
29th 2016, with a start date of May 1st 2016, and the
appointment lasting until Dec 2018. Applicants from all
countries are eligible. Salary for this full time position is
CZK 40,000 per month (approx. EUR 1500). Note that
living costs in Czech Republic are substantially lower
than in many other European countries (e.g. http://-
bit.ly/1NCkQKJ) and living costs in Malaysia are fully
covered.
Required - A PhD degree in either entomology or plant
ecology. - Experience and enthusiasm for working in
the eld for extended periods of time in challenging
conditions in tropical rain forest, including ability to
lead eld teams. - Good publication record for career
stage. - Experience in the use of ecological statistical
analyses.
Desirable - Previous work on insect plant interactions.
- Experience of molecular laboratory work, specically
DNA barcoding for species identications. - Experience
in use of methods for statistical analysis of interaction
networks.
To apply please send a CV, contact details for
three references, and cover letter stating qualica-82 EvolDir March 1, 2016
tions, previous work and motivation to Tom Fayle (tm-
fayle@gmail.com).
Tom Fayle <tmfayle@gmail.com >
Bethesda Maryland HIV Evolution
The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advance-
ment of Military Medicine Inc. (HJF) is seeking a
post-doctoral fellow for the HIV Research Program
(MHRP) located in Bethesda, Maryland. HJF provides
scientic, technical and programmatic support services
to MHRP. The U.S. Military HIV Research Program
(MHRP) (www.hivresearch.org) is at the forefront of the
battle against HIV to protect U.S. troops from infection
and to reduce the global impact of the disease. MHRP is
one of the leading clinical research programs developing
a vaccine to prevent HIV, improving treatments for HIV
and co-infections and also working towards a cure.
Job Summary
The post-doctoral fellow will be part of a team of biol-
ogists, clinicians and statisticians doing highly collab-
orative, multi-institutional and inter-disciplinary work
on a range of questions with a strong emphasis on vac-
cine research. The candidate will study evolutionary
processes both within and between hosts and compar-
ative genomics to investigate commonalities and dif-
ferences between HIV and other pathogens including
Ebola, Dengue, MERS-CoV, Zika.
The incumbent may perform some or all of the following
responsibilities:
1. Use Bayesian phylogenetic, phylogeographic and com-
parative genomics approaches.
2. Perform comprehensive molecular epidemiological
analysis and bioinformatic analysis of large datasets.
3. Develop mathematical and computational models of
evolution to explore various aspects of pathogen evolu-
tion, host adaptation and transmission.
4. Maintain current knowledge by participating in sci-
entic conferences and reading specialty journals. Con-
tribute to the science through independent and collabo-
rative research including by authoring manuscripts.
Qualications
The successful candidate will have a Ph.D. in population
genetics, evolutionary genetics, microbial genomics, com-
parative genomics, computational biology, mathematics,statistics or a related area. Background knowledge in
immunology, virology or structural biology is a plus.
The candidate should be a dedicated, social, detail-
oriented person, who is able to work independently
within a team of researchers. Excellent written and
verbal communication skills are required.
To apply
Please contact Morgane Rolland
mrolland@hivresearch.org
CambridgeU
HumanAdaptationBioinformatics
Dear Evoldir members, below is a bioinformatics posi-
tion within an exciting ERC project I'll be conducting
with Dr Andrea Manica and Dr Andrew Friend at Cam-
bridge, UK. Please spread the word to anyone you think
might be relevant.
Best regards Anders Eriksson
{ Dr. Anders Eriksson Integrative Systems Biology Lab,
KAUST Evolutionary Ecology Group, Dept. Zoology,
Cambridge University
Research Associate: Evolutionary Ecology Group
URL: http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/9367/ We are
looking for a bioinformatician/population geneticist to
work with Dr Andrea Manica on a project investigating
localised selection in humans. This ERC funded post
is available for up to 50 months, with a start date of 1
April 2015.
Details of Dr Manica's research may be found here:
http://www2.zoo.cam.ac.uk/manica/index.htm This
project focuses on investigating the eect of natural
selection in humans, using spatially explicit models that
are informed by climate and vegetation reconstructions
through time. The successful candidate will be involved
both in the development of new approaches to test for
selection and in their application to humans (and po-
tentially other species).
Duties will include: collating and curating genomic
data, both from the literature and ongoing collabora-
tions; Analysing genomic data for selection, both using
standard population genetics approaches and CISGeM;
interacting with archaeologists and climate modellers
to help result interpretation; and the preparation of
manuscripts for publication.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 83
Required experience / knowledge for the position
Essential:
A PhD in bioinformatics, population genetics or closely
related subjects.
Procient programming for the analysis of genomic data,
using python and/or R.
Willingness to interact with specialist from other elds,
such as archaeology and climatology
Ability to organise time, plan ahead and to work eec-
tively independently.
Good data handling and data analysis skills.
Good communication skills (written and oral).
Ability to work in a team and strong inter-personal
skills.
Desirable:
Experience with selection scans on whole genomes.
Background knowledge (e.g. from degree courses) of
archaeology or anthropology.
Advanced programming skills in C.
Experience in working with High Performance Comput-
ing facilities.
Fixed-term: The funds for this post are available for up
to 50 months.
We will interview during week beginning 7 March 2016
To apply online for this vacancy, please click on the
'Apply' button below. This will route you to the Uni-
versity's Web Recruitment System, where you will need
to register an account (if you have not already) and log
in before completing the online application form.
Please quote reference PF08215 on your application and
in any correspondence about this vacancy.
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
aeriksson75@gmail.comCambridgeU
HumanAdaptationClimate
Dear Evoldir members, below is a climate scientist posi-
tion within an exciting ERC project I'll be conducting
with Dr Andrea Manica and Dr Andrew Friend at Cam-
bridge, UK. Please spread the word to anyone you think
might be relevant.
Best regards Anders Eriksson
{ Dr. Anders Eriksson Integrative Systems Biology Lab,
KAUST Evolutionary Ecology Group, Dept. Zoology,
Cambridge University
Research Associate - Climate Modelling (Fixed Term)
URL: http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/9371 We are
looking for a climate modeller to work with Dr Andrea
Manica and Dr Andrew Friend (Dept. of Geography)
on a project investigating the role of past climate on
human adaptation. This ERC funded post is available
for up to 50 months, with a start date of 1 April 2015.
Details of Dr Manica's research may be found here:
http://www2.zoo.cam.ac.uk/manica/index.htm Details
of Dr Friend's research may be found here: http://-
www.geog.cam.ac.uk/people/friend/ This project fo-
cuses on investigating the eect of natural selection in hu-
mans, using spatially explicit models that are informed
by climate and vegetation reconstructions through time.
The successful candidate will be involved in generating
paleoclimate and paleovegetation reconstructions and
work with population geneticists to use this information
to quantitatively inform models of human evolution.
Duties will include setting up and running global
paleoclimatic models using CESM; running pa-
leovegetation reconstructions; potentially modify-
ing CESM/vegetation models to allow for hu-
man/environment interactions; interacting with archae-
ologists and geneticists to help result interpretation; and
the preparation of manuscripts for publication.
Required experience / knowledge for the position
Essential:
A PhD in climate modelling, or closely related subjects.
Advanced programming skills in Fortran 90/95/2003.
Experience running GCM
Willingness to interact with specialist from other elds,84 EvolDir March 1, 2016
such as archaeology and genetics
Ability to organise time, plan ahead and to work eec-
tively independently.
Good data handling and data analysis skills.
Good communication skills (written and oral).
Ability to work in a team and strong inter-personal
skills.
Desirable:
Experience running CESM
Experience with setting up and modifying CESM (or
an equivalent climate model).
Background knowledge (e.g. from degree courses) of
archaeology or anthropology.
Experience with vegetation models.
We will interview during week beginning 7 March 2016
Fixed-term: The funds for this post are available for up
to 50 months.
To apply online for this vacancy, please click on the
'Apply' button below. This will route you to the Uni-
versity's Web Recruitment System, where you will need
to register an account (if you have not already) and log
in before completing the online application form.
Please quote reference PF08219 on your application and
in any correspondence about this vacancy.
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
aeriksson75@gmail.com
CEES UOslo EvolutionDefense
Research in aquatic evolutioanry ecology
\A researcher position is available at the Centre for Eco-
logical and Evolutionary Synthesis, (CEES), http://-
www.mn.uio.no/cees/english/index.html, Department
of Biosciences, http://www.mn.uio.no/ibv/english/-
. The position is for 38 months, and the estimated
start date is May 1st 2016. The successful candidate
will work on the project "The evolution of defence sys-
tems: theory and experiment\ (EVODEF) funded by
the Research Council of Norway.Project description The EVODEF project focuses on
the evolutionary ecology of organismal defence traits.
Organisms may use an impressive diversity of defences
against their natural enemies. Evidence from a range
of animal and plant systems suggests that the dierent
defence traits expressed by an organism cannot be under-
stood in isolation from each other, but must be studied
as parts of complex suites of traits. The project com-
bines theoretical models (mainly developed by the PI)
with empirical experiments (conducted by the candidate)
to understand the properties of such defensive systems
and how they evolve under dierent selective conditions.
Topics of interest include how defence lines are phenotyp-
ically co-expressed and coevolve, how defences against
dierent enemies (e.g. predators or parasites) aect
each other, and the role of non-genetic inheritance (e.g.
maternal and epigenetic eects) in defence expression.
In the theoretical part of the project we will develop
mathematical models of organismal defence relevant to
several empirical systems. In the experimental part of
the project, we will use the inducible defences of Daph-
nia to test novel predictions from theory; the results
will in turn stimulate further theory development.
The successful candidate will join our team and study
the defence traits of Daphnia in the lab. The project
provides a unique opportunity to design and run ex-
periments that test novel theoretical ideas and inform
ongoing theoretical work. The ideal candidate will make
a major contribution to the planned research, but will
also develop his/her own complementary lines of re-
search that reect the candidate's own expertise and
interests and that broadly t within the project's main
goals. There is growing interest in developing a research
environment for Daphnia at the department and it is
highly desirable that the candidate will take an active
part in this, as well as contribute to developing future
collaborative projects that build upon achieved results.
Requirements The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences has a strategic ambition of being a leading
research faculty. Candidates for these fellowships will
be selected in accordance with this, and expected to be
in the upper segment of their class with respect to aca-
demic credentials. Applicants must hold a PhD-degree
or other corresponding education equivalent to a Norwe-
gian doctoral degree in biology or a related eld. The
successful candidate will be responsible for the establish-
ment and maintenance of Daphnia cultures, the daily
running of experiments, imaging, morphometrics, and
data analysis. A proven, solid record of running lab
experiments with small aquatic organisms (preferably
Daphnia) and maintaining them in culture is required.
The ideal candidate has extensive lab experience with
Daphnia, strong statistical and writing skills, pays care-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 85
ful attention to detail and theoretical context when
designing experiments, and has some experience with
eld sampling. A background from evolutionary ecol-
ogy or evolutionary biology is considered an advantage.
Field sampling is planned for the summer 2016, and
it is desirable that applicants are available to start by
this time. A research stay abroad is planned during one
section of the project.
The successful candidate will work in close collaboration
with the project PI and other members of the team. We
seek a highly motivated, enthusiastic person with the
ability to think creatively and critically, and with the
ambition to gain new insights and publish papers in
leading, international journals. Applicants must show
good interpersonal skills and be willing to work in close
collaboration with others, as well as have the ability
to work independently. Applicants should have a good
publication record for the career stage.
A good command of English is required.
Salary Position code 1109, Pay Grade: 57-63 (NOK 483
700 - 540 200 per year, depending on qualications).
The application must include: . Application letter in-
cluding a statement of interest, briey summarizing your
scientic work and interests and describing how you t
the description of the person we seek . CV (summariz-
ing education, research positions, and other qualifying
activity) . Copies of educational certicates, transcript
of records,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU Prague
NightingaleSpeciation
Post doc position at Charles University in Prague
Genomics of speciation in nightingales
We are looking for a post-doc trained in bioinformat-
ics and/or population genetics. The main goal of the
project is to elucidate the genetic basis of reproductive
isolation between two song bird species, the Common
Nightingale (Luscinia megarhynchos) and the Thrush
Nightingale (L. luscinia). The species hybridize in a sec-
ondary contact zone comprising F1 as well as backcrosshybrids. According to Haldane's rule F1 hybrid females
are sterile, while F1 hybrid males are fertile. Using
ddRAD sequencing of natural hybrid population and
transcriptome sequencing of gonads and somatic tissues
of both species and hybrids we aim to identify candidate
reproductive isolation loci responsible for hybrid female
sterility. The results should provide the rst insight into
genetic basis of Haldane's rule in heterogametic female
organisms.
The candidate will be mainly responsible for the bioin-
formatic part of the project. Samples as well as most
sequence data are already available. The position is
available from May 2016 to December 2017 with the
possibility of extension. The starting date is exible but
preferable before September 2016. The candidate will
work at the Department of Zoology at Charles Univer-
sity in Prague under the supervision of Radka Reifova
(http://web.natur.cuni.cz/ ~radkas/). The salary will
be 35,000 CZK (ca 1,300 EUR) (Note that living ex-
penses in the Czech Republic are generally lower than
in Western European countries.)
If interested, please, send (1) a CV including a list of
publications, (2) motivation letter and (3) a letter of
reference of your PhD supervisor or research advisor
to Radka Reifova (radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz) by 29th
February 2016.
{ RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D. Phone: +420 221
95 1872 E-mail: radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz, rad-
kas@natur.cuni.cz Web page: www.natur.cuni.cz/-
~radkas/ Department of Zoology Charles University
in Prague Faculty of Science Vini en a 7, 128 43 Praha 2
{
Pokud je tento e-mail sou e ast  obchodn ho jedn an ,
P~A rodov ~A a fakulta Univerzity Karlovy v Praze: a)
si vyhrazuje pr avo jedn an  kdykoliv ukon eit a to i
bez uveden  d ~A1vodu, b) stanovuje, ^Ae smlouva mus 
m t p semnou formu, c) vylu euje p ~Aijet  nab dky s
dodatkem  ei odchylkou, d) stanovuje, ^Ae smlouva je
uzav ~Aena teprve v ~A1
2slovn ~A1
2m dosa ^Aen m shody na
v^Aech n ale ^Aitostech smlouvy.
\RNDr. Radka Reifov a, Ph.D."
<radka.reifova@natur.cuni.cz >
DukeU Ecological Epigenetics
Postdoctoral Position in Ecological Epigenetics at Duke
University86 EvolDir March 1, 2016
A Postdoctoral Researcher is wanted to participate in
an NSF funded project on the ecological epigenetics of
trans-generational environmental eects in Arabidopsis
thaliana. The project aims to examine variation in the
stability of epigenetic inheritance and the conditions
under which the stability of epigenetic modications
is adaptive. Methods include genome-wide methyla-
tion proling, QTL analysis of epigenetic stability, and
whole-organism phenotyping. Candidates must have
demonstrated expertise in genomic data analysis and
motivating interests in the genetic basis of adaptation.
Experience working with plants is strongly preferred.
Available as early as 1 April 2016. Competitive salary
and full Duke benets. Duke University is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action employer.
Please send CV and names and contact infor-
mation for three references to Kathleen Donohue:
k.donohue@duke.edu
DEADLINE FOR PRIORITY CONSIDERATION: 1
MARCH, 2016
\k.donohue@duke.edu" <k.donohue@duke.edu >
GeorgeWashingtonU
ComputationalBiology
GeorgeWashingtonU.PostdoctoralScientist TheCompu-
tational Biology Institute (CBI) brings together GW
experts andscholars from partner institutions to con-
duct cutting edge research,enable broad educational
activities in computational biology andprovides compu-
tational biology services to university researchers and-
public and private partners. CBI is an interdisciplinary
eort, buildingon GW's strengths in life sciences and
computational science,in addition to the wealth of re-
search centers in the Washington,DC area. Additional
information on the work of CBI can be foundat: http:/-
/cbi.gwu.edu/ TheCBI is searching for a Postdoctoral
Scientist in the Goecks ResearchLaboratory. This scien-
tist will conduct computational biology researchin the
following areas:
*innovativesoftware development for the Galaxy plat-
form (http://galaxyproject.org)using Python and
JavaScript, including new methodsfor visualization,
visual analytics, and parallelization; *developmentof
new computational methods and pipelines for analyz-
ing largebiomedical ~A^ a:A omics ~A^a: ?`12datasets;
*usingnovel and existing analysis tools to process andextract patterns/information/knowledgefrom ~A^ a:A 
omics ~A^a: ?`12datasets, with a potentialfocus on can-
cer genomic datasets. *leadingand/or contributing to
scientic manuscripts and grant applications.
Pleasesend questions to Dr. Jeremy Goecks at
jgoecks@gwu.edu
MinimumQualications: Requires a PhD in the eld or
in a related area.
PreferredQualications: Demonstrated programming
experience, in the forma Github prole or code samples,
is ideal. CampusLocation: Ashburn, VA Theuniversity
is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Armative Ac-
tion employerthat does not unlawfully discriminate in
any of its programs oractivities on the basis of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin,age, disability, vet-
eran status, sexual orientation, gender identityor ex-
pression, or on any other basis prohibited by applicable
law. Applyhere: https://www.gwu.jobs/postings/33114
\Haight,Veronica" <vhaight@email.gwu.edu >
HawkesburyInst Aust PlantGenetics
Position Title: Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Plant
Ecological Genetics Academic Level: Level A xed term
(3 years) School/Oce: Hawkesbury Institute for the
Environment (HIE) College/Division: Research and De-
velopment Division
The Institute is seeking to appoint an energetic academic
to a Level A position within the Plant, Animal, and
Interactions theme. This 3-year, full-time, postdoctoral
fellowship will focus on research related to understand-
ing the capacity of trees to respond to climate change,
and determining the importance of genetic adaptation
and phenotypic plasticity.
The successful applicant will lead the molecular analyses
from experimental design to bioinformatic and popu-
lation genomic analyses. Molecular analyses will be
linked to plant trait, growth and physiological responses
of genotypes grown under contrasting rainfall environ-
ments in provenance trials in Western Australia, and
climatic manipulations in HIE growth facilities. Ex-
pected research outcomes include a detailed understand-
ing of genetic adaptation and physiological tolerance to
climate change, along with the development of a scien-
tic basis for the adoption of assisted gene migration to
ensure drought-resilience in future forests.
The incumbent will have the opportunity to work withMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 87
a broad scientic team: Dr Paul Rymer (HIE) in popu-
lation genomics and evolutionary ecology, Prof. David
Tissue (HIE) in plant ecophysiology, Prof. Giles Hardy
(Murdoch University) in plant ecology and stressors, and
Dr Margaret Byrne (Western Australian Department of
Parks and Wildlife) in conservation genetics.
Web: www.westernsydney.edu.au/hie Remuneration
Package: Level A $71,865 to $86,824 p.a. plus
17% Superannuation and Leave Loading Position
Enquiries: Dr Paul Rymer, (02) 4570 1094 or
p.rymer@westernsydney.edu.au Closing Date: 27 March
2016
https://uws.nga.net.au/?jati=3DBB14A23E-
B9F1-EBC4-7AEB-91B915E53D52
\P.Rymer@westernsydney.edu.au"
<P.Rymer@westernsydney.edu.au >
IndianaU
EvolutionSexReproduction
Common Themes in Reproductive Diversity (CTRD)
This T32 has 2 open positions for 2-year NIH trainee-
ships to support broadly integrative training in the areas
of sexual reproduction and development. Training will
focus on behavior in both humans and other animals
and will address key questions in three related themes:
(1) genetic, epigenetic, environmental, and parental con-
tributions to reproductive and social behavior; (2) the
origins and expression of dierences among the sexes;
and (3) sex and immunity in health and disease. In-
diana University's excellent support for research and
its globally recognized strengths in animal behavior,
endocrinology, human sexual health, and evolution of
development will ensure high quality training. PhD
in anthropology, biology, gender studies, neuroscience,
psychology or a related eld is required. Funding is
from NIH T32 training grant, \Common Themes in
Reproductive Diversity." For more information, make
initial contact with one or more of the training faculty
<http://www.indiana.edu/ ~reprodiv/faculty.php >
who might serve as primary mentors. Positions begin
as early as June 2016. Evaluations will begin as early
as March 15, 2016, but positions will remain open until
lled. Please check back for updates on timing.
lisummer@indiana.eduINRA Sophia-Antipolis
EvolutionaryGenomics
A 24-month postdoc position is available in our lab to
study genome evolution in parthenogenetic animals.
Root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) cause billions
of euros economic loss to the world agriculture every
year. These nematodes show an intriguing diversity
of reproductive modes ranging from \classical" sexual
reproduction to fully asexual reproduction. Curiously,
the most devastating species are those that reproduce
without sex and without meiosis. Furthermore, despite
absence of sexual reproduction, these species are able
to adapt and brake plant resistance.
Our lab aims at understanding how an asexual animal
can be a more ecient parasite than its sexual relatives.
We have sequenced the genomes of three asexually-
reproducing root-knot nematodes at high coverage and
completeness. Genomes of two sexual relatives are pub-
licly available for comparative genomics analysis.
The main goals of this postdoc project will be to: - assess
the level of heterozygosity within and between isolates
of parthenogenetic root-knot nematodes using PoolSeq
approaches. - identify dierences at the whole genome
level between virulent isolates and their avirulent pro-
genitors using GWAS. - assess the rates of accumulation
of mutations per generation and use molecular clock to
date the age of asexuality in these species.
We seek a highly motivated young or independent re-
searcher with a good background in comparative and
population genomics and skilled in computational bi-
ology / bioinformatics. A PhD in the relevant topics
will be requested. The candidate is expected to bring
GWAS, variant-calling and molecular dating skills and
expertise to our research team. The candidate will be
the principal investigator in this project and is expected
to show good autonomy and skills for oral and written
communication. Geographical mobility will be impor-
tant too as the postdoc will have the opportunity to
present the obtained results in international conferences.
More details, including information on how to
apply, and on the salary are available at this
URL: http://edanchin.free.fr/index.php/component/-
content/article/52-postdoc Etienne G.J. Danchin
Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique U.M.R.88 EvolDir March 1, 2016
- Institut Sophia Agrobiotech (ISA 1355) INRA-UNS-
CNRS { 400 route des Chappes, BP 167 06903 Sophia-
Antipolis Cedex { Tel. +33 492 386 402 Fax. +33 492
386 587
http://edanchin.free.fr \etienne.danchin@sophia.inra.fr"
<etienne.danchin@sophia.inra.fr >
IowaStateU Phylogenomics
Postdoctoral Research Associate in Phyloge-
nomics/Population Genomics
The Roe lab at Iowa State University seeks to recruit a
Postdoctoral Research Associate with expertise in Next-
Gen Sequencing/population genomics/bioinformatics.
The successful applicant will collaborate with the
PI to investigate the phylogenomics/population ge-
nomics of freshwater organisms (bivalves, shrimps, and
shes) For more information about the lab: http://-
www.nrem.iastate.edu/research/roe/ . Candidates for
the position should be able to demonstrate experience
generating and analyzing genomic datasets (sequence
capture, GBS, or RAD-seq); as well as experience work-
ing in a Linux/Unix shell environment; competency with
at least one scripting language (e.g., Perl, Python, R).
The candidate should have well-developed communica-
tion (verbal and written) and organizational skills, and
leadership ability to assist the PI with the direction
and training of graduate students. Qualied candiates
must hold a A PhD degree in biological sciences or
bioinformatics.
Terms of Appointment: Starting salary is $45,000 plus
benets. This position is for a minimum of one year
and is renewable, pending satisfactory progress. The
anticipated start date is June and August 2016.
Application Instructions: For consideration, applicants
must apply by April 1, 2016. Informal inquiries are en-
couraged prior to formal application. For formal applica-
tion, please send 1) a cover letter, 2) a curriculum vitae,
3) a brief statement of research experiences/interests,
and 4) names and contact information for three refer-
ences to Dr. Kevin J. Roe (kjroe@iastate.edu).
Iowa State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer. All qualied
applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information,
national origin, marital status, disability, or protectedveteran status, and will not be discriminated against.
Inquiries can be directed to the Director of Equal
Opportunity, 3350 Beardshear Hall, (515) 294-7612.
Kevin J. Roe, Ph.D Department of Natural Re-
source Ecology and Management Iowa State Univer-
sity 339 Science II Ames, Iowa, USA 50011 http://-
www.public.iastate.edu/ ~kjroe/ \kjroe@iastate.edu"
<kjroe@iastate.edu >
IowaStateU
PopGenomicsFig-FigWasp
Postdoc: Phylo- and Population-Genomic Analyses of
Fig-Fig Wasp Co-Diversication and Introgression
Postdoctoral Research Associate Department of Ecology,
Evolution, and Organismal Biology Iowa State Univer-
sity
The Nason and Heath labs are looking to recruit
a Postdoctoral Research Associate with expertise in
phylo/population genomics. The successful applicant
will collaborate with us on a new, NSF supported project
using sequence capture and GBS data to investigate the
coevolutionary history of species interactions in Central
American gs and their pollinating (mutualistic) and
non-pollinating (antagonistic) g wasps. Collaborators
on the project include Drs. John Nason and Tracy
Heath (Iowa State University), Dr. E. Allen Herre
(Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Panama),
Dr. Charlotte Jandr (Harvard University), Dr. Carlos
Machado (University of Maryland), and Dr. Robert
Raguso (Cornell University). Required qualications,
terms of employment, application instructions, and a
project summary follow below.
Required Qualications
Education: A PhD degree in biological sciences or bioin-
formatics, or acceptable equivalent combination of edu-
cation and experience.
Experience/Skills: Experience working with ge-
nomic/transcriptomic/GBS datasets; demonstrated ex-
perience working in a Linux/Unix shell environment;
competency with at least one scripting language (e.g.,
Perl, Python, R). Demonstrated experience in the phylo-
genetic and/or population genetic analysis of NGS data,
ideally obtained via sequence capture or GBS/RAD-seq
methods. Well-developed organizational and time man-
agement skills, and leadership ability to direct (with the
PIs) a large and productive project.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 89
Terms of Appointment
Starting salary is $45,000 plus benets. Funds are avail-
able for one year and are renewable for up to four years,
pending satisfactory progress. The optimal start date
is June 1, 2016.
Application Instructions
For consideration, applicants must apply by April 1,
2016. Informal inquiries are encouraged prior to formal
application. For formal application, please send 1) a
cover letter, 2) a curriculum vitae, 3) a brief statement
of research experiences/interests, and 4) names and con-
tact information for three references to Dr. John Nason
(jnason@iastate.edu).
Iowa State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer. All qualied
applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information,
national origin, marital status, disability, or protected
veteran status, and will not be discriminated against.
Inquiries can be directed to the Director of Equal
Opportunity, 3350 Beardshear Hall, (515) 294-7612.
Project Summary
Figs and their g wasp pollinators and parasites have
co-evolved for ~90 million years to become both highly
diverse (>750 species of gs) and ecologically important
keystonecomponents of tropical forest ecosystems.
Figs and wasps have long been assumed to represent
a case of strict co-speciation, with highly specic polli-
nator and parasitic (non-pollinator) wasps identifying
appropriate hosts via distinctive volatile chemical signals.
More recent studies suggest a more complex scenario,
however, involving an evolutionary history punctuated
by host-shifts by individual wasp species. Although
the wasp associations with g hosts have been widely
studied, the genetic consequences for the host gs of
host-shifting pollinators and the mechanisms underlying
host recognition remain poorly understood.
This project will ll these gaps by producing robust,
detailed, many-gene phylogenies for 14 strangling g
(Ficus) species and their associated pollinating (Pegosca-
pus) and non-pollinating (Idarnes) g wasps ( ~60
species) from the vicinity of Barro Colorado Island,
Panama. Using transcriptome sequences, we will tar-
get~300 genes from each of three species per lineage
for capture and subsequent Illumina sequencing. Phy-
logenies will be inferred using Bayesian methods and
will enable robust testing of phylogenetic congruence
between gs and g wasps. Further, they will guide
population-level genotype by sequencing to test a priori
predictions of potential cases of hybridization in the gsand host shifting and race formation in both pollinator
and non-pollinator wasps. Combined with quantica-
tion of wasp-attracting g volatiles and fruit-surface
chemicals, this work will detect and resolve the genomic
consequences of host introgression due to host-shifting
pollinator wasps, and link them to the chemical basis
of host-recognition.
This research will signicantly clarify both the patterns
and processes underlying the evolutionary ecology of
g and g wasp interactions. Our standardized, ge-
nomic approach is essential for: 1) obtaining robust g
and g wasp species trees, 2) delimiting g species and
discriminating
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
IST Austria MathEvolutionaryBiol
IST Austria (Institute of Science and Technology Aus-
tria) invites applications for postdoctoral fellows in all
elds of the natural and mathematical sciences, includ-
ing evolutionary biology. Current evolution faculty are
Nick Barton, Jon Bollback, Sylvia Cremer, Calin Guet,
and Beatriz Vicoso.
The Institute, which is on the outskirts of Vienna, was
established by the Austrian government with a focus on
basic research. IST Austria has English as its working
language, and its Graduate School awards PhD degrees.
It has an international mix of scientists chosen solely for
their individual excellence and potential contribution to
research.
The Institute has set up a program for exceptional post-
doctoral researchers. Appointments will be for 2-4 years.
Applications will be accepted at any time, but fellows
are selected twice a year in October and April. The
deadline for the next round is March 15th. Applicants
must have the support of one or more members of the
IST Austria faculty who will host them in their research
group.
The Institute oers an internationally competitive salary,
full social security coverage, and additional benets.
For further information about the program and the on-
line application process, please refer to http://ist.ac.at/-90 EvolDir March 1, 2016
istfellow IST Austria values diversity and is committed
to equality. Female researchers are encouraged to apply.
\nick.barton@ist.ac.at" <nick.barton@ist.ac.at >
KansasStateU
QuantitativeGenomicsPhenomics
Postdoc in Quantitative Genomics & Phenomics
A postdoc position is available in the Morris Lab on
quantitative genomics & phenomics of biomass accumu-
lation and environmental adaptation in sorghum.
The Morris lab studies genomics of crop adap-
tation to support crop improvement (Morris et
al. 2013 PNAS <http://www.pnas.org/content/-
110/2/453 >, Lasky et al. 2015 Science Ad-
vances<http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/1/-
6/e1400218 >, Hu et al. 2015 BMC Genomics
<http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2164/16/1048/-
abstract>). The successful candidate will lead quan-
titative genetics activities for a 4-year, $8M project
funded by Department of Energy ARPA-E that will
dissect the genomic basis of yield and adaptation
traits in bioenergy sorghum (TERRA-REF, http://-
terraref.ncsa.illinois.edu/about/).
The postdoc will be primarily responsible for: (1)
conducting genome-wide association and linkage map-
ping using multi-environment high-throughput pheno-
typing data and whole genome resequencing data and
(2) publishing ndings in high-quality peer-reviewed
manuscripts.
Other activities include improving methods for un-
manned aerial vehicle (UAV) phenotyping and popula-
tion genomic analyses of diverse global germplasm to
dissect adaptive traits.
Salary commensurate with experience and training, up
to $50,000 + benets.
For more details and instructions how to apply, go to
the full job posting: http://careers.pageuppeople.com/-
742/cw/en-us/job/492700/research-associate-agronomy
Review of applications starts Mar 26, 2016.
Geo Morris, Assistant Professor Department of
AgronomyjKansas State University 3004 Throck-
morton Plant Science Center jManhattan KS,
66506 E-mail: gpmorris@k-state.edu jWeb: http://-
www.morrislab.org Oce: 785-532-3397 jCell: 312-909-
1330jSkype/Google ID: morris.geo.p\gpmorris@ksu.edu" <gpmorris@ksu.edu >
Kew PlantFungalDiversity
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Plant or Fungal Diversity
Royal Botanic Garden Kew, London, UK is seeking an
outstanding early career scientist with a PhD and spe-
cialist knowledge in plant or fungal diversity, evolution,
genomics, or ecology relevant to plant health.
You will join Kew's science sta as a postdoctoral re-
search fellow, for three years, extendable to ve on re-
view. You will conduct and publish outstanding research
within the Plant Health theme, and develop funding
streams to support your science alongside a cohort of
other research fellows. You will be a future leader in
the science disciplines pursued at Kew.
Closing Date 18 Feb 2016
For more information, please contact Dr Richard Buggs,
Senior Research Leader (Plant Health) at Kew (starting
April 2016) <r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk >
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/early-career-research-
fellowship-in-pla nt-health-251220.html
Dr Richard Buggs jSenior Lecturer jSchool of
Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary
University of London, E1 4NS, United Kingdom
jemail: r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk jwebsite: http://-
www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/sta/richardbuggs.html joce:
+44(0)207 882 8441 jmobile: +44(0)772 992 0401 j
twitter: @RJABuggs
Richard Buggs <r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk >
Kiel Germany 1PDF 3PhD
CelegansEvolution
Kiel University, Germany
1 Postdoc + 3 PhD positions on the evolution and ge-
netics of C. elegans-microbiota interactions
The positions are funded within a larger research
initiative on host-microbiota interactions at Kiel
University (Collaborative Research Center CRC1182
~A^ a:AOriginandfunctionofmetaorganisms ~A^a: ?`12).March 1, 2016 EvolDir 91
The postdoc and one PhD position are supervised by
Hinrich Schulenburg (projects A1.1 and A4.3) and ad-
dress the evolutionary dynamics and genomics of C.
elegans microbiota interactions, based on evolution ex-
periments and genome sequencing (Schulenburg group).
The second PhD project (project A1.2) is supervised
by Katja Dierking (Schulenburg lab) and looks at the
transcriptomic and also genetic basis of the interaction,
using RNASeq and functional genetic analysis.
The third PhD project (project A1.3) is supervised by
Matthias Leippe and assesses the involvement of an-
timicrobial peptides and proteins in shaping C. elegans-
bacteria interactions using biochemical and functional
genetic approaches (Leippe group).
For further information, please check the web-
page of the Collaborative Research Center (http://-
www.metaorganism-research.com/ ) or the Schulenburg
group (which includes Katja Dierking; http://www.uni-
kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/) or the Leippe group
(http://www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/zoophysiologie/).
Application procedures are described on the web-
page of the Collaborative Research Center (see
above link; then under Jobs). Deadline for appli-
cations is 29 February 2016. If you have ques-
tions, then please contact either Hinrich Schulen-
burg (hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de), Katja Dierk-
ing (kdierking@zoologie.uni-kiel.de), or Matthias Leippe
(mleippe@zoologie.uni-kiel.de).
Hinrich Schulenburg
Zoological Institute Christian-Albrechts-Universitaet
zu Kiel Am Botanischen Garten 1-9 24118 Kiel Ger-
many Tel: +49-431-880-4143/4141 Fax: +49-431-880-
2403 Email: hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de Web:
www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/ Hinrich Schulen-
burg<hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de >
LinkopingU Sweden
GenomicsSexualDimorphims
Postdoc opportunity for 18 months with possible ex-
tension in the research group of Dr Urban Friberg at
IFM Biology, Linkoping University Sweden. Our re-
search group has a broad general interest in the area
of evolutionary biology/genetics/genomics and ongo-
ing projects focus on the evolution of ageing and the
genetics/genomics of sexual dimorphism (see https://-
www.liu.se/forskning/foass/urban-friberg?l=en for moreinformation).
Most sexual species exhibit distinct dierences between
the sexes, despite males and females sharing the same
genome. How this is accomplished is not yet fully
understood. We use the model organism Drosophila
melanogaster to learn more about this phenomenon.
The successful applicant is expected to primarily work
on two main projects. One aims to molecularly char-
acterize the genetics of a recent reversal in male and
female body size, while the second aims to enhance our
understanding of genetic mechanisms that generate sex
dierences above and beyond those shaped by the sex
determining pathway. There will also be opportunity
to develop one's own ideas related to these questions.
The successful candidate is expected to work closely
with other members of the lab (see also PhD position
advertised at EvolDir).
We seek a bright, highly motivated and enthusias-
tic person able to work both as part of a team and
independently, having a PhD in evolutionary biol-
ogy/genetics/genomics. Documented experience in one
or several of the following topics is highly benecial:
statistics, quantitative genetics, Drosophila genetics/lab
work, and, in particular, analyses of DNA and RNA
sequence data. The working language at the depart-
ment and lab is English. A high standard of spoken and
written English is required.
Applications should be written in English and include
i) a cover letter with information on your background,
research interests and experiences, and your motivation
to work on this project (max 3 pages), ii) complete
CV, and iii) the names and email addresses of 2-3 ref-
erees. Applications should be sent as one PDF to ur-
ban.friberg@liu.se. The position is open until lled, and
applications will be reviewed continuously, but for full
consideration please apply by March 1. The preliminary
starting date is June 1 2016, but is exible.
\urban.friberg@liu.se" <urban.friberg@liu.se >
LiverpoolSchMed
MosquitoEvolutionaryGenetics
Post-Doctoral Research Assistant
The Department of Vector Biology seeks to appoint a
post-doctoral research assistant (PDRA) to work with
Professor Martin Donnelly <http://www.lstmed.ac.uk/-
about/people/professor-martin-james-donnelly >on the92 EvolDir March 1, 2016
evolutionary genetics/ genomics of Anopheles gambiae
with a particular focus on the evolution of insecticide
resistance. Ref 006
The post holder will contribute to a project which as-
sesses how heterogeneities in insecticide resistance inu-
ence malaria transmission. You will assist the analysis
of data from a ve country study on the impacts of
insecticide resistance on epidemiological indicators of
malaria. During your employment you will also have
the opportunity to develop other research projects to
support fellowship and research grant applications.
The ideal candidate will have an enthusiastic approach
to work and have experience in one or more of the
following areas:
* Strong molecular biology laboratory skills * Strong
molecular genetic analytical skills * Strong epidemiolog-
ical or bioinformatics skills
It is essential that the candidate has a PhD in a relevant
subject area and the ability to work as an integral, pro-
ductive and co-operative member of a multi- disciplinary,
diverse team including vector biology, biostatistics, epi-
demiology and parasitology
If you are interested in applying, please return your com-
pleted Application Form, Personal Details Form and
Equal Opportunities Monitoring Form, stating vacancy
reference number 006 to jobs@lstmed.ac.uk (link sends
e-mail), or by post to HR, Liverpool School of Tropical
Medicine, Pembroke Place, Liverpool L3 5QA.
More details at http://www.lstmed.ac.uk/post-doctoral-
research-assistant-3 Please get in touch by email if you
would like to discuss the position before applying.
Closing Date: Monday 29 February 2016, 12pm GMT.
Martin James Donnelly
Professor of Evolutionary Genetics Department of Vec-
tor Biology Malaria Programme Liverpool School of
Tropical Medicine & Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
Pembroke Place Hinxton Liverpool Cambridge L3 5QA
CB10 1SJ Tel +44(0) 151 705 3296 Fax +44(0) 151 705
3369 Email martin.donnelly@lstmed.ac.uk Web http:/-
/donnelly.openwetware.org/Home.html Skype martin-
donnelly
Martin Donnelly <Martin.Donnelly@lstmed.ac.uk >Melbourne AvianInuenzaVirus
Expression of Interest: Postdoctoral Research Scientist
- Ecology and Evolution of Avian Inuenza Virus
A postdoctoral research scientist is required for a new
project on the ecology and evolution of avian inuenza
virus in wild birds funded by the Australian Research
Council (ARC).
Avian inuenza virus (AIV) has the potential to devas-
tate the poultry industry and cause human pandemics.
Although central to emergence, the factors that shape
the genetic diversity of AIV in its wild water bird reser-
voir, including modes of transmission, are poorly under-
stood. The aim of this project is to combine genomic,
ecological and phylogenetic approaches to reveal key
aspects of AIV evolution, as well as the risk for future
viral emergence. Using sampling sites in Australia and
Antarctica the project will aim to reveal the factors that
shape AIV diversity on both local and global scales,
the contrasting evolutionary dynamics of wild birds and
poultry, and the role played by environmental transmis-
sion in AIV ecology, including its ability to ignite new
epidemics.
Experience in molecular analysis of inuenza viruses
including, RNA extraction, RT-PCR, primer design,
Sanger sequencing, Next-Generation Sequencing and
bioinformatics is essential. Knowledge and experience
in classical virology techniques such as inuenza virus
culture are desirable. The successful candidate will also
be expected to assist in the organization of eldwork and
on sampling trips to collect samples from wild birds in
Australia. The two-year position will commence in July
2016 and be based at the WHO Collaborating Centre
for Research and Reference on Inuenza, Melbourne,
Australia, under the supervision of Dr. Aeron Hurt. A
formal advertisement with detailed requirements, job
specication, and salary will be posted at a later date.
If you are interested in the position, have appropriate
qualications, and would like more information please
contact: Aeron Hurt (Aeron.Hurt@inuenzacentre.org),
Eddie Holmes (edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au) or Mar-
cel Klaassen (marcel.klaassen@deakin.edu.au).
PROFESSOR EDWARD C. HOLMES FAA NHMRC
Australia Fellow
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY Marie Bashir In-
stitute for Infectious Diseases & Biosecurity, CharlesMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 93
Perkins Centre, Schoolof Life & Environmental Sciences
and Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney
jSydneyjNSWj2006jAustralia T+61 2 9351 5591
F+61 2 9351 3890 Eedward.holmes@sydney.edu.au
edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au
MichiganStateU BEACON
EvolutionaryBiology
*BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action*
*BEACON Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Pro-
gram*
**
BEACON is an NSF Science and Technology Center
headquartered at Michigan State University with part-
ners at North Carolina A&T State University, University
of Idaho, University of Texas at Austin, and University
of Washington. BEACON brings together biologists,
computer scientists, and engineers to study evolutionary
dynamics using biological and computational techniques
and to apply evolutionary principles to engineering prob-
lems. We seek outstanding post-doctoral scholars to
pursue interdisciplinary research on evolution in action
with BEACON faculty members, in the elds of biology,
computer science, and/or engineering.
Applicants will propose a research project within the
scope of BEACON ^As mission and must have two BEA-
CON faculty sponsors who will serve as research mentors
should the fellowship be awarded. One sponsor must
be MSU faculty; the other sponsor may be from any
of the ve BEACON institutions. Preference is given
for interdisciplinary research. The post-doc fellow will
be based at Michigan State University in East Lansing.
Please see our website (http://www.beacon-center.org)
for information about BEACON mission, participants
and ongoing research projects.
Applicants must submit the following, in a single PDF,
to BEACON Managing Director Danielle Whittaker via
email (djwhitta@msu.edu):
1.CV
2.A two-page description of their research plan
3.A one-page summary of their doctoral research
4.Letters of support from two BEACON sponsors (one
must be from MSU)5.Two additional letters of recommendation
Fellowships last two years and include a salary of
$50,000/year and modest funds to support research
and travel. The successful applicant will help foster
collaborations among faculty and disciplines and serve
as a professional model for pre-doctoral trainees.
A Ph.D. in biology, computer science, engineering or re-
lated elds is required. Current MSU graduate students
or postdocs are not eligible for this fellowship. US citi-
zens or permanent residents only. Minority applicants
are especially encouraged to apply. MSU is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action Employer.
The deadline for applications is March 15, 2016.
{ Danielle J. Whittaker, Ph.D. Managing Director
BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Ac-
tion 567 Wilson Road, Room 1441E Michigan State
University East Lansing, MI 48824 (517) 884-2561
djwhitta@msu.edu http://beacon-center.org \Danielle
J. Whittaker" <djwhitta@msu.edu >
NMBU Norway
SystemsBiologyFarmedSalmon
Dear list,
We have an available researcher position in our DigiSal
project ( http://tinyurl.com/digisal ) on the systems
biology of farmed salmon, described below.
Best regards, Dr. Jon Olav Vik Department of Animal
and Aquacultural Sciences Norwegian University of Life
Sciences jon.vik@nmbu.no
Position available: Researcher, systems biology of
farmed salmon (NMBU, As, Norway)
The Department of Animal and Aquacultural Sciences
seeks a SYSTEMS BIOLOGIST or MATHEMATICAL
or COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGIST to work on the
SYSTEMS BIOLOGY OF FARMED SALMON (3-
year researcher position with possibility of extension).
Salmon farming is a big industry in Norway and ripe
for systems biology applications thanks to the recent
sequencing of the salmon genome.
The project \Towards the Digital Salmon: From a reac-
tive to a pre-emptive research strategy in aquaculture
(DigiSal)" is part of Digital Life Norway, the rst call
dedicated to systems biology by the Research Council
of Norway. DigiSal will promote sustainable growth94 EvolDir March 1, 2016
of salmon farming by building model-based knowledge
about how salmon responds to novel sustainable feed
ingredients. This project combines nutritional expertise,
cutting-edge salmon genomics, high-throughput omics
technologies and model-based analysis of omics data.
The successful candidate will work within the Centre for
Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), which includes compre-
hensive molecular lab facilities and a strong environment
dedicated to bioinformatics and mathematical modeling.
Main tasks: Analyze how salmon metabolism depends
on variation in diet and genotype, based on omics and
microscopy data and using a variety of modelling frame-
works, both top-down multivariate analysis and bottom-
up metabolic network modelling.
The successful applicant will be part of a highly inter-
disciplinary group, with possibilities for visits to collab-
orators in the Systems and Synthetic Biology unit in
Wageningen, the Netherlands. The researcher will work
closely with a dedicated systems biology informatics
manager to ensure ndable, accessible, interoperable
and reusable data and models.
Full advertisement: https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/-
available-jobs/job/122082/researcher-position-systems-
biology-of-farmed-salmon-refno-16-00881 Application
deadline: Monday 2016-03-07. Email enquiries welcome:
Jon Olav Vik, jon.vik@nmbu.no.
Please forward this announcement to anyone you think
might be interested!
jonovik@gmail.com
NotreDame BroadInst
MosquitoSpeciationGenomics
POSTDOC: Species boundaries and evolutionary his-
tory of a cryptic radiation of malaria vectors
A Postdoctoral position funded by a 2-year NIH grant
is available April 2016 to work between two population
genomics groups: that of Nora Besansky at the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame (http://www3.nd.edu/~nbesansk/-
), and that of Daniel Neafsey at the Broad Institute
of MIT and Harvard (http://www.broadinstitute.org/-
bios/daniel-neafsey).
We are seeking highly qualied and enthusiastic appli-
cants with a background in population genetics and
evolution, to analyze whole genome sequence data and
infer speciation history in the *Anopheles funestus*complex.
BACKGROUND: Major malaria vectors are a rarity
in the mosquito genus Anopheles, and they are not
phylogenetically clustered. On the contrary, malaria
vectors are almost invariably members of sibling species
complexes containing minor or non-vector species, in-
dicating that the traits endowing major vector status
have evolved recently, rapidly and repeatedly in dierent
species complexes. Powerful insights about the genetic
basis of vector traits can be gained by comparative ge-
nomics of vectors and non-vectors across these replicate
systems of vector evolution. A crucial rst step toward
that end was taken with the assembly of 16 *Anopheles*
genomes led by Besansky at Notre Dame and Neafsey
at the Broad Institute, with the *Anopheles gambiae*
complex as one case study (Neafsey et al 2015 Science;
Fontaine et al 2015 Science). A next step is to con-
sider other lesser known but equally important sibling
species complexes. *Anopheles funestus* is one of the
three most important and widespread vectors of human
malaria in tropical Africa, but unlike *An. gambiae*, it
is understudied. This major vector conceals a group of
close relatives that are morphologically similar or identi-
cal as adults. The taxonomic complexity of this group is
at least as high as the *An. gambiae* complex; within
each named (and unnamed) species are genetically het-
erogeneous clusters whose interrelationships have never
been resolved, and additional cryptic diversity is being
reported by vector control programs. Moreover, echoing
the situation in the *An. gambiae* complex, there is
evidence for historical or ongoing introgression between
An. funestus and at least one other taxon.
PROJECT: As part of this NIH project, complete de
novo reference genome assemblies will be generated at
the Broad for available species in the *An. funestus*
complex, based on the DISCOVAR de novo algorithm.
Additional low coverage HiSeq data will be generated
from natural population samples. The successful post-
doctoral candidate will use the new reference assemblies
and additional light whole genome sequencing ( ~12 sam-
ples/taxon) to construct an initial portrait of population
genomic patterns and species relationships for the *An.
funestus* complex. Although the position is based at
Notre Dame, the postdoc will have the opportunity to
split time between Notre Dame and Broad, benetting
from interactions with active research groups in both
stimulating locations.
REQUIREMENTS: (1) A PhD in genetics/genomics,
evolutionary biology, or a related discipline; (2) a strong
background in statistics and population genetics; (3)
good communication skills and prociency in English,
both speaking and writing.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 95
PREFERENCES: The ideal candidate will be a
highly motivated individual with (i) prociency in the
Linux/Unix computing environment, familiarity with
R, and at least one other programming language (e.g.
Python or Perl); (ii) experience with the analysis of high
throughput biological data sets; and (iii) an excellent
record of scientic publication.
HOW TO APPLY: Applicants should submit a single
PDF le ( tofunestus.postdoc@gmail.com) containing
(1) a cover letter briey summarizing past research ac-
complishments and future goals; (2) a CV; (3) the names
and contact information for three references. Screening
of applicants will begin immediately and continue until
the position is lled.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: The University of
Notre Dame is located on the northern limits of South
Bend, Indiana [90 miles (150 km) east of Chicago]. Post-
doctoral scholars in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences (biology.nd.edu) have access to outstanding fac-
ulty, cutting-edge research infrastructure, and various
avenues for career development. Research in the depart-
ment spans the wide spectrum of the life sciencesXfrom
cells and organs to whole organisms and ecosystems.
This uncommon level of wide-ranging yet integrative bi-
ological inquiry provides an extraordinary environment
for learning, innovation and collaboration. Centers and
Institutes enhance our intellectual mission, and include
the Eck Institute for Global Health, Center for Rare
and Neglected Diseases,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Paris BlindSnakeEvolution
Postdoctoral researcher in functional morphology
Project title: Anatomy, phylogeny and origins: under-
standing the evolution of scolecophidian snakes.
Supervisors: Nicolas Vidal (UMR7205; nico-
las.vidal@mnhn.fr) and Anthony Herrel (UMR7179;
anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr).
Location: Mus eum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris,
France
Salary: ^A2500Euro/month ( ^A2000 Euro net) fundedby the LabEx BCDiv. Salary will vary with experience
based on national salary scales dened by the CNRS.
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher who is inter-
ested to work on a collaborative project devoted to a bet-
ter understanding of blindsnakes (Scolecophidia). The
postdoctoral researcher will collaborate closely with the
supervisors to 1) sequence twenty slow evolving markers
to obtain a better resolved phylogeny, 2) scan and seg-
ment ^ACT scans of specimens from the collection of
the Museum in Paris, to be completed with specimens
from other collections, 3) conduct eld work to collect
in vivo data on burrowing performances in live animals,
4) integrate these data in a time-calibrated phyloge-
netic framework established during the course of this
research to evaluate the evolution of cranial anatomy
and burrowing performance in blindsnakes.
Expertise in phylogenetic methods and with the analysis
of^ACT scans are a requirement. Experience with live
animals, eld work and expertise in functional morphol-
ogy are considered as additional positive elements for
the candidate.
Candidates should send (1) a letter of motivation, (2)
a full CV, and (3) two letters of recommendation to
the following e-mail addresses: nicolas.vidal@mnhn.fr;
anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr
The deadline for submission of applications is May 1st,
2015.
Please contact Nicolas Vidal or Anthony Herrel for ad-
ditional information.
{ Anthony Herrel Associate Editor Herpetological Jour-
nal, The European Journal of Anatomy & Functional
Ecology Branch Editor Functional anatomy of amphib-
ians and reptiles Zookeys Editorial board member J.
Zoology & Zoology
UMR 7179 C.N.R.S/M.N.H.N. D epartement d'Ecologie
et de Gestion de la Biodiversit e, 55 rue Buon,
Bat Anatomie Comparee, CP 55, 75005, Paris
Cedex 5, France e-mail: anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr -
phone: ++33-140798120 - fax: ++33-140793773
URL: www.anthonyherrel.fr Anthony Herrel
<anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr >96 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Paris CNRS
TheoreticalEvolutionaryEcol
Postdoc position in theoretical evolutionary ecology in
Paris (France)
A postdoc position, funded by the French National Re-
search Agency (ANR), is available to work with Florence
D ebarre in the SMILE group (Stochastic Models for the
Inference of Life Evolution), at Coll ege de France in
Paris (France). We are an interdisciplinary research
group gathering biologists, probabilists, and bioinfor-
maticians; our lab is located in the Latin Quarter in
Paris.
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoc interested
in developing mathematical and computational models
of evolution, to explore various aspects of the eects of
environmental heterogeneity and population subdivision
on local adaptation and diversication. Background (or
a strong interest) in evolutionary biology / ecology and
strong quantitative skills are required for the position.
The position can start April 15th 2016 or later. It is
initially for 1 year, but can be renewed twice. Salary is
commensurate with experience.
Feel free to contact me if you have any questions about
the position.
*To apply:* If you are interested in this position, please
send a CV, a 1-page description of your research inter-
ests and motivation, and the contact details of potential
references (all in one single pdf) to Florence D ebarre (
orence.debarre@college-de-france.fr ). Review of appli-
cations will start on February 15th, but will continue
until the position is lled.
{ Florence D ebarre website: http://-
www.normalesup.org/ ~fdebarre/ SMILE Team:
http://www.lpma-paris.fr/smile/ CIRB: http://-
www.college-de-france.fr/site/en-cirb/index.htm
College de France: http://www.college-de-france.fr/-
site/en-college/index.htm https://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/Coll%C3%A8ge deFrance Centre Interdisci-
plinaire de Recherche en Biologie (CIRB) Coll ege de
France CNRS/ UMR 7241 - Inserm U1050 11, Place
Marcelin Berthelot 75231 Paris Cedex 05 France
o.debarre@gmail.comParis EvolutionaryGenetics
*POSTDOCTORAL POSITION in Paris, France: *
*Adaptation of the gut microbiota to changes in lifestyle*
A 2-year postdoctoral position in evolutionary genetics
is available in Paris to study the biodiversity of the
gut microbiota in human populations with contrasted
lifestyles. The position is funded by the ANR (French
National Research Agency) and will be supervised by
Laure S egurel (UMR 7206 Ecoanthropology and ethno-
biology, head: Evelyne Heyer). Starting date is around
January 2017.
Humans are not only able to adapt to the environment
through changes in their own genes, but also through
changes in the diversity and composition of the micro-
organisms living in and on them. Notably, the gut micro-
biota represents an important target for natural selection
to act on, as well as a signicant factor to consider for
human health. The aim of this project is to describe
the biodiversity of the gut microbiota in populations
with contrasted subsistence modes (hunter-gatherers,
farmers, herders), investigate the factors responsible for
the loss of microbial diversity in industrialized popula-
tions and explore co-evolutionary processes between the
microbiome and the host genetic variation.
The candidate will be in charge of the analysis of metage-
nomic data collected in the lab in Central Africa, and
its interpretation in light of dietary, medical and envi-
ronmental data. He/She will also analyze jointly human
and microbial genomic data. Applicants for the position
must have a background in evolutionary or computa-
tional biology. Ideally, the candidate will have prior
experience with handling large-scale data and with the
use of bioinformatics and statistical tools.
*Contact: *To apply, please send your CV, including the
contact details of two references, and a letter describ-
ing your research interests and skills to Laure S egurel
(lsegurel@mnhn.fr)*.*
{ Laure S egurel CNRS Researcher UMR 7206 - Ecoan-
thropology and ethnobiology Mus ee de l'Homme, 17
place du Trocad ero, 75016, Paris, France +33 1 44 05
73 13
Laure S egurel <lsegurel@mnhn.fr >March 1, 2016 EvolDir 97
Rosco MarineBiodiversity
A 1-year postdoctoral fellowship is available at the
Rosco Biological Station (www.sb-rosco.fr) of the
University Pierre & Marie Curie (Paris6), France. The
candidate will work in close collaboration with Dr
Christophe Lejeusne (clejeusne@sb-rosco.fr) to inves-
tigate the eects of environmental gradients (e.g. pol-
lution) on species diversity in marinas, with a special
focus on non-indigenous species. Observational and
experimental approaches would be run.
The postdoc will be in charge of characterizing and
analyzing the diversity and structure of some harbor
communities (including through integrative taxonomy
approaches, and photo surveys) and its exposure to
contaminants (through biomarkers and water quality
assessment). Aquaria and in situ experiments would
also be conducted on manipulated communities (e.g.
increased diversity of introduced species).
The ideal candidate will have expertise in the analy-
sis of community data, especially from hard substrates
and/or articial substrates. Candidates with expertise
in taxonomy are very welcome (especially of sponges,
tunicates, mollusks, but not only). An ability to run
both aquarium and eld experiments is highly desirable.
Scientic diving is a plus.
The candidate will be based at the Rosco Biological
Station and will benet from the support of its plat-
forms for observational and experimental works (diving,
in situ and aquaria experiments), and also for taxonomic
expertise.
The candidate will be part of the ^A^ADiversity and Con-
nectivity ^A^A group (http://www.sb-rosco.fr/en/divco).
Duration: 1 year (possibly one additional year depend-
ing on funding)
Salary: about 2000 euros per month (after taxes)
Administrative requirements:
# Either non-French citizens, or French citizens having
spent at least 12 months out of France over the last 36
months (3yrs)
# PhD should have been defended less than 2 years ago
Preferred start date: as soon as possible but no later
than early June 2016
An ability to communicate in English is essential, and awillingness to learn French is desirable (but not manda-
tory).
Interested candidates should send a detailed CV and a
letter expressing their interest in this position by email
to the address given (clejeusne@sb-rosco.fr). They
should also provide details of two potential referees.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Further information on
the project can also be requested from the same address.
Christophe Lejeusne Associate Professor University
Pierre & Marie Curie (Paris 6)
AD2M<http://www.sb-rosco.fr/UMR7144/ >-
Adaptation & Diversit ^A^A en Milieu Marin
UMR 7144 UMPC - CNRS Group Diversity & Connec-
tivity - Div&Co <http://www.sb-rosco.fr/divco.html
>
Station Biologique de Rosco Place Georges Teissier -
CS90074 29688 Rosco - France
clejeusne@sb-rosco.fr Ph.: +33-298 292 372
Christophe Lejeusne <christophe.lejeusne@sb-
rosco.fr>
SpelmanC Atlanta
MicrobialEvolution
Postdoc Position in: Microbial Evolution, Behavior and
Genomics
Location: Atlanta, Georgia, USA
Funding Source: CURE Postdoctoral Fellowships [Spel-
man College is piloting a postdoctoral fellowship pro-
gram that combines a traditional principal-investigator
directed postdoctoral research experiences with men-
tored teaching experiences.]
A postdoc position (2.5 years) is available to conduct
experimental and computational research on small eu-
karyotic amoeboid microbes relating to their evolution
and sexual life cycle behavior. Candidates should have
an inter-disciplinary training or familiarity with molecu-
lar (e.g. next generation sequencing) and computational
(bioinformatics, phylogenetics) skills.
Potential research topics include (i) genomics and evolu-
tion of phenotypic traits in cryptic species, (ii) evolution
of sexual-like behavior and development in amoeboids,
(iii). origin, evolution and biodiversity of amoeboids98 EvolDir March 1, 2016
using large-scale analysis. (iv). evolution of amoeboid
movement and cytoskeleton architecture. Additional
projects under similar topics can be also considered
based on individual experience and interest. For addi-
tional information contact: ytekle@spelman.edu
This position oers competitive salary and benet. Can-
didates should complete Ph.D. training before starting
this position. This position is open to US citizens and
lawful permanent residents only. Screening of applicants
will begin immediately and continue until the position
is lled.
Spelman College is a private four-year liberal arts col-
lege located in Atlanta, GA, and ranked one of the top
100 liberal arts colleges by the US News.
Please email a copy of curriculum vitae, a short state-
ment of research interest, names and contact information
of at least three individuals familiar with your research
to Dr. Yonas Tekle through ytekle@spelman.edu
350 Spelman Ln SW, Box 1183, Department of Biology,
Spelman College, Atlanta, GA 30314-4399 LOCATIONS
Oce: AFM Science Center 271; Lab: AFM Science
Center 247 Phone: 404-270-5779 (oce); Fax: 404-270-
5725
Yonas Isaak Tekle <yonastekle@gmail.com >
StockholmU BalticBiodiversity
PlantEvol
*5 Postdoctoral Fellows in Baltic Sea Research and in
Plant Sciences*
**
*Closing date: April 30, 2016***
*The**Department of Ecology, Environment and Plant
Sciences (DEEP) at Stockholm University* conducts
research and education in an international environment.
Its subject areas are marine ecology, marine ecotoxicol-
ogy, plant ecology, plant physiology and plant systemat-
ics. The research is both basic and applied, often with a
broad and interdisciplinary approach. About 150 people
work at the department, including some 30 teachers or
senior researchers, 10 postdocs and 60 PhD students.
We are now recruiting:
*3 Postdoctoral Fellows in Baltic Sea Research*, for
example including any of the following topics:
- Benthic ^AV pelagic coupling- Mitigation of marine anthropogenic eects
- Climate change eects on the Baltic Sea ecosystem
- Baltic Sea biodiversity
- Coastal-oshore interactions
*2 Postdoctoral Fellows in Plant Sciences*, for example
including any of the following topics:
- Plant evolution
- Interactions between plants and other organisms
- Climate change eects on plant phenology and distri-
bution
- Plant growth and development
Each position will be linked to the research group of one
of the professors, associate professors or assistant profes-
sors at the department (www.su.se/deep). You should
therefore rst contact the group leader whose group you
wish to join (a) to enquire whether this person would
be interested to include you in his/her research group
and (b) to discuss and formulate your project proposal.
Your project proposal could be a new idea of your own
or it could be part of ongoing work in the group. The
important aspect is that the group leader supports your
application, which ensures that the infrastructure and
knowledge to support your project is available.
For further information see: http://www.su.se/-
english/about/vacancies/vacancies-new-list?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=1128
ToulouseCNRS EvolutionOfPlastici-
tyNonGeneticInheritance
Postdoc: EvolutionOfPlasticityNonGeneticInheritance
A postdoctoral research associate position is available at
CNRS (France) at the Evolution & Biological Diversity
laboratory in Toulouse. The postdoc will work in the
ERC team of Benoit Pujol (http://bit.ly/1svZZ6N) and
be part of a team of scientists studying the evolutionary
ecology and the adaptive potential of plant populations.
Stem elongation in response to shade is a school book
example of phenotypic plasticity in plants. Our aim is to
study the inheritance and the evolution of this develop-
mental reaction norm by using experimental approaches.
The aim is to assess the response to selection of stem
elongation in experimental populations of /Antirrhinum
majus,/ the snapdragon. One implication of this workMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 99
will be to investigate the role of non genetic inheritance
as a driver of plant adaptive evolution.
Potential projects are exible within the scope of the
project and there is scope for collaboration on other
projects underway in the team.
We are looking for a candidate with a strong background
in plant or animal breeding and/or evolution of phe-
notypic plasticity and/or plant selection experiments.
Expertise in quantitative genetics and prociency in
R are welcome. Experience in managing large plant
population experiments and working with experimen-
tal research assistants are welcome too. French is not
mandatory. A Ph.D. in evolutionary ecology, quantita-
tive genetics, plant breeding or closely related eld is
required. We seek to recruit enthusiastic and motivated
young researchers with no previous experience, 3-5 years
of postdoctoral research experience, or more. The ini-
tial appointment is for two years, with the potential for
additional years of support conditional on performance.
Start dates between early April and late May 2016, with
preference for earlier dates.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter explaining your
interest in the position, (2) a CV, and (3) contact infor-
mation (phone number and email) for three references
to Benoit Pujol: benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr
Closing date for application: March 1, 2016
Exemple of salary (depending on experience): 34,626
euros a year (monthly salary after tax ~2328 euros) for
researcher with 3-5 years experience
45,600 euros a year (monthly salary after tax ~2809
euros) for researcher with 5-10 years experience
{ *Benoit PUJOL* Researcher in evolutionary ecology
at CNRS, France Quantitative genetics in the wild and
non genetic inheritance
Lab. Evolution & Diversit e Biologique (EDB) Oce
104, Bat. 4R1, Universit e de Toulouse Paul Sabatier,
118 Route de Narbonne 31062 Toulouse Cedex 09 Mail:
benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr
\benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr" <benoit.pujol@univ-
tlse3.fr>ToulouseCNRS
ExperimentalSelectionOfPlasticity
Postdoc: ToulouseCNRS.ExperimentalSelectionOfPlasticity
A postdoctoral research associate position is available in
the laboratory of Benoit Pujol (http://bit.ly/1svZZ6N)
at CNRS in Toulouse (France) to study transgenera-
tional phenotypic plasticity and its change in response
to selection in /Antirrhinum majus,/ the snapdragon.
The postdoctoral associate will work as a member of
the ERC-funded ANGI project and use selection ex-
periments to understand how selection shapes non-
genetically inherited phenotypic variation at ecologically
relevant traits. This central question in evolutionary
biology is being tackled using up-to-date methods and
a variety of approaches, including selection experiments,
quantitative genetics and epigenetics. The postdoctoral
associate will participate to experimental work. Poten-
tial projects are exible within the scope of the project.
The successful candidate will be part of a team of scien-
tists studying the evolutionary ecology and the adaptive
potential of plant populations. There will be scope for
collaboration on other projects underway in the team.
We are looking for a candidate with a strong back-
ground in selection and/or phenotypic plasticity exper-
imental work in plants (and/or quantitative genetics),
prociency in R and experience in handling large plant
population experiments. French is not mandatory. A
Ph.D. in evolutionary ecology, quantitative genetics,
plant breeding or closely related eld is required. We
seek applicants with 3-5 years of postdoctoral research
experience. The initial appointment is for two years,
with the potential for additional years of support condi-
tional on performance. Start dates between early April
and late May 2016, with preference for earlier dates.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter explaining your
interest in the position, (2) a CV, and (3) contact infor-
mation (phone number and email) for three references
tobenoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr <mailto:benoit.pujol@univ-
tlse3.fr>
Closing date for application: March 1, 2016
SALARY (depending on experience):
Wage 34,626 euros a year (monthly salary after tax
~2328 euros) if 3-5 years experience
Wage 45,600 euros a year (monthly salary after tax100 EvolDir March 1, 2016
~2809 euros) if 5-10 years experience
*Benoit PUJOL* Researcher in evolutionary ecology at
CNRS, France Quantitative genetics in the wild and
non genetic inheritance
Lab. Evolution & Diversit e Biologique (EDB) Oce
104, Bat. 4R1, Universit e de Toulouse Paul Sabatier,
118 Route de Narbonne 31062 Toulouse Cedex 09 Mail:
benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr
\benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr" <benoit.pujol@univ-
tlse3.fr>
ToulouseCNRS France
HeritabilityAndSelectionInTheWild
Postdoc: ToulouseCNRS.HeritabilityAndSelectionInTheWild
A postdoctoral research associate position is available at
CNRS in the laboratory Evolution & Biological Diver-
sity in Toulouse, France. The postdoctoral associate will
participate to the ERC-funded ANGI project (PI: Benoit
Pujol http://bit.ly/1svZZ6N). The aim is to study the
heritability of traits (additive genetic variation, ecologi-
cal niche transmission) and the heterogeneity of selec-
tion in wild populations of /Antirrhinum majus,/ the
snapdragon.
To date, we have cumulated 6 years of data (4000plants,
6 generations) from the /in situ/ exhaustive survey
of owering snapdragon plants in fragmented popula-
tions growing on the Mediterranean coast in southern
France. The postdoctoral associate will work with other
team members on the creation and analysis of this large
dataset combining phenotypes (multiple vegetative and
reproductive traits), locations, pedigrees, and microsatel-
lite marker data. The postdoctoral associate will partic-
ipate to eld work. A large part of the data is already
available. Analyses and publication preparation will
therefore not be limited by the eld trip seasonality.
French is not mandatory. A Ph.D. in evolutionary ecol-
ogy, quantitative genetics, or closely related eld is re-
quired. We seek enthusiastic and motivated applicants
with no experience, 3-5 years of postdoctoral research
experience, or more. Prociency in R andexpertise in
quantitative genetics are welcome. Expertise in quanti-
tative genetic and/or selection analyses conducted on
wild population data is particularly welcome, even if
such work was not carried out on plants. The initial
appointment is for two years, with the potential for
additional years of support conditional on performance.Start dates between early April and late May 2016, with
preference for earlier dates.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter explaining your
interest in the position, (2) a CV, and (3) contact infor-
mation (phone number and email) for three references
tobenoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr Closing date for applica-
tion: March 1, 2016
Exemple of salary (depending on experience):
34,626 euros a year (monthly salary after tax ~2328
euros) for a researcher with 3-5 years experience 45,600
euros a year (monthly salary after tax ~2809 euros) for
a researcher with 5-10 years experience
{ *Benoit PUJOL* Researcher in evolutionary ecology
at CNRS, France Quantitative genetics in the wild and
non genetic inheritance
Lab. Evolution & Diversit e Biologique (EDB) Oce
104, Bat. 4R1, Universit e de Toulouse Paul Sabatier,
118 Route de Narbonne 31062 Toulouse Cedex 09 Mail:
benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr
Benoit PUJOL <benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr >
ToulouseCNRS
WildPlantQuantitativeGenetics
Postdoc: ToulouseCNRS.WildPlantQuantitativeGenetics
A postdoctoral research associate position is available in
the laboratory of Benoit Pujol (http://bit.ly/1svZZ6N)
at CNRS in Toulouse (France) to study natural selection
and the quantitative genetics of /Antirrhinum majus,/
the snapdragon.
The postdoctoral associate will work as a member of the
ERC-funded ANGI project and use pedigree based anal-
yses to understand heterogeneous selection, adaptive
transgenerational plasticity and the quantitative genetic
architecture of adaptive traits in wild plant populations
in southern France. Potential projects are exible within
the scope of the project.
To date, we have cumulated 6 years of data (6 gener-
ations) from the /in situ/ exhaustive survey of plants.
The postdoctoral associate will work with other team
members on the creation and analysis of this large
dataset combining phenotypes (multiple vegetative and
reproductive traits), locations, pedigrees, and microsatel-
lite marker data for 4000 plants. The postdoctoral
associate will participate to eld work every year (gen-March 1, 2016 EvolDir 101
erally the whole month of June). Some data is currently
available and ready for analysis, thus the postdoctoral
associate can expect to begin working on analyses for
publication during the rst year of their appointment.
There will be scope for collaboration on other projects
underway in the team.
French is not mandatory. A Ph.D. in evolutionary ecol-
ogy, quantitative genetics, or closely related eld is
required. We seek applicants with 3-5 years of postdoc-
toral research experience, prociency in R anda strong
background in quantitative genetics. Experience in wild
population quantitative genetics, even if not plant re-
lated, is particularly welcome. The initial appointment
is for two years, with the potential for additional years
of support conditional on performance. Start dates be-
tween early April and late May 2016, with preference
for earlier dates.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter explaining your
interest in the position, (2) a CV, and (3) contact infor-
mation (phone number and email) for three references
tobenoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr <mailto:benoit.pujol@univ-
tlse3.fr>
Closing date for application: March 1, 2016
SALARY (depending on experience):
Wage 34,626 euros a year (monthly salary after tax
~2328 euros) if 3-5 years experience
Wage 45,600 euros a year (monthly salary after tax
~2809 euros) if 5-10 years experience
*Benoit PUJOL* Researcher in evolutionary ecology at
CNRS, France Quantitative genetics in the wild and
non genetic inheritance
Lab. Evolution & Diversit e Biologique (EDB) Oce
104, Bat. 4R1, Universit e de Toulouse Paul Sabatier,
118 Route de Narbonne 31062 Toulouse Cedex 09 Mail:
benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr
\benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr" <benoit.pujol@univ-
tlse3.fr>
TuftsU MicrobialGenomics
Post-doc position in genomics/ecology/evolution of food
microbiomes in the Wolfe Lab @ Tufts University
(Boston Area, USA). https://sites.tufts.edu/wolfelab/-
join-the-wolfe-lab/ The Wolfe lab in the Department
of Biology at Tufts University ( https://sites.tufts.edu/-
wolfelab/) is seeking a post-doc to join the lab in June2016 (start date exible). Our lab studies the ecology
and evolution of microbial communities, using tractable
microbial communities isolated from food (cheese, kim-
chi, fermented tea) as model systems. Our work spans
taxonomic boundaries (we study both prokaryotes and
eukaryotes) and integrates a wide variety of techniques
including experimental evolution, metagenomics, com-
parative genomics/transcriptomics, genome engineering,
and in situ community reconstructions. Our research
questions are strongly anchored in basic biology, but
our work will help address emerging issues in human
health and food quality/safety.
The ideal candidate will be a creative, independent,
and integrative scholar with interests in discovering
the ecological and evolutionary processes that generate
microbiome diversity. Ideal candidates will have the
following:
- a PhD in molecular biology, microbiology, systems biol-
ogy, or genetics - extensive experience in the molecular
genetics of bacteria or fungi - experience with generating
and analyzing next-generation sequencing datasets - the
ability to develop and implement bioinformatics tools -
excellent time management, oral communication, and
writing skills - a track record of supporting an engaging,
thoughtful, and collaborative lab environment
This position also provides ample opportunities for the
post-doc to develop teaching/outreach skills. Our acces-
sible and engaging model systems provide powerful tools
to promote microbial literacy in the college classroom as
well as in our local communities (https://sites.tufts.edu/-
wolfelab/open-lab/). Members of the lab communicate
their science through social media, writing for online
publications, and by developing novel public outreach
experiences.
Current research in the lab is aimed at linking ecological
and evolutionary patterns of microbial diversity with
the molecular mechanisms that generate these patterns.
What are the mechanisms that govern species distribu-
tions or community-level traits? How do these mecha-
nisms evolve within a community and what are the conse-
quences of trait evolution within microbial communities?
How can we manipulate these mechanisms to control mi-
crobiome composition and function? We are also work-
ing on applied projects as part of the Tufts University
Science and Sensory Center ( https://sites.tufts.edu/-
wolfelab/tufts-sensory-and-science-center/) that aim to
link microbiome composition with the chemical and
sensory properties of microbial foods
The Wolfe lab is based in a newly renovated lab space
associated with the Tufts University Medford Campus.
In addition to diverse research being conducted in the
Department of Biology that spans the entire breadth102 EvolDir March 1, 2016
of biology (http://ase.tufts.edu/biology/), the Sackler
School of Graduate Biomedical Sciences at the Tufts
Medical School has an outstanding group of microbiolo-
gists (http://bit.ly/WDvgqA). There are also numerous
potential collaborators and resources at the Tufts Fried-
man School of Nutrition and the Cummings School of
Vet Medicine. The academic community in the Greater
Boston Area has an unprecedented collective wealth of
resources in microbiology, ecology, and evolution.
To apply, email Dr. Benjamin Wolfe (ben-
jamin.wolfe@tufts.edu) with: 1) a short description of
why you are interested in and qualied for the posi-
tion, 2) a CV listing peer-reviewed publications, skills,
and research experiences, and 3) the names and contact
information for three references. Applications will be
considered as they are received. For full consideration,
apply on or before April 15th, 2016.
*Benjamin E. Wolfe* Assistant Professor Tufts Uni-
versity Department of Biology 200 Boston Ave.,
Suite 4700 Medford, MA 02155 *Email:* ben-
jamin.wolfe@tufts.edu *Oce phone:* 617-627-0694
*Lab website:* sites.tufts.edu/wolfelab/
\benjamin.wolfe@tufts.edu"
<benjamin.wolfe@tufts.edu > \ben-
jamin.wolfe@tufts.edu" <benjamin.wolfe@tufts.edu >
UBordeaux QuantitativeEcology
Postdoctoral position in quantitative ecology
The University of Bordeaux is recruiting a postdoctoral
researcher with a modelling background in community
or ecosystem ecology, to work on species interactions
and ecosystem dynamics.
The postdoc will join the Integrative and Theoret-
ical Ecology chair of the Labex COTE (http://-
cote.labex.u-bordeaux.fr/ChairITE), and will interact
with Fr ~A^Acd~A^Acric Barraquand and other members
of the ITE chair. We work on collaborative research
projects with partners from French research institutes
(CNRS, INRA, IRSTEA, IFREMER), as well as inter-
nationally, on both ecological interactions and cross-
ecosystem ows. Some of our studies focus on areas
of special interest to the Labex COTE, the Gironde
estuary and the Arcachon bay area.
Research in the chair ranges from general theory to ap-
plied modelling. Current projects include tting stochas-tic models to community-level time series to infer inter-
action strengths, predicting the responses of estuarine
food webs to anthropogenic disturbances, ecological the-
ory on the eects of material or biological subsidies and
forest-stream linkages (e.g., decomposition processes).
The candidate could develop his/her own research ques-
tion in a related direction. If relevant, there will be
opportunities to connect with social sciences through
collaborations with ecological economists.
We are looking for a researcher with a strong modelling
skillset, able to work in a team. A good knowledge
of population dynamics and food web models is essen-
tial, as well as prociency with Matlab or R. A solid
background in either statistics or ecosystem ecology is a
plus. Familiarity with Linux and compiled programming
languages (e.g., C, Fortran) would be desirable.
The position is funded for two years by the Labex COTE.
Applicants should send a cover letter describing their
interest in the position, a curriculum vitae, and name
and contact information of three references to manager-
labexcote@u-bordeaux.fr by April 1, 2016.
For additional information on the research project, con-
tact frederic.barraquand@u-bordeaux.fr
For additional information regarding the application
procedure and employment conditions, contact manager-
labexcote@u-bordeaux.fr
|
Frederic Barraquand Researcher https://-
sites.google.com/site/fredbarraquand/home University
of Bordeaux Integrative and Theoretical Ecology
Chair - Labex COTE http://cote.labex.u-bordeaux.fr/-
ChairITE cote.labex.u-bordeaux.fr
\frederic.barraquand@u-bordeaux.fr"
UCalgary
PlantComparativeGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH POSITIONS at the
UNIVERSITY of CALGARY
Seeking two postdocs to work on plant comparative
genomics in the Yeaman lab in the Department of Bi-
ological Sciences at the University of Calgary. Lots
of de novo data to analyze. Two positions are avail-
able (2 years each), one beginning as soon as possible
and the other in fall 2016 or winter 2017. Experience
with searching large datasets for signatures of selection,March 1, 2016 EvolDir 103
genome annotation, orthology identication and anal-
ysis, and/or comparative transcriptomics is absolutely
necessary for the position beginning soon; the second
position is oriented more towards landscape genomics
and local adaptation, so experience in that area is highly
desirable. Good salary, negotiable, commensurate with
experience.
University of Calgary is located in a beautiful corner of
the world, just one hour from the Rocky Mountains.
Please contact Sam Yeaman at
samuel.yeaman@ucalgary.ca for details.
\yeaman@zoology.ubc.ca" <yeaman@zoology.ubc.ca >
UCalifornia Berkeley 2 Genomics
University of California, Berkeley Postdoctoral Scholar -
Genomics - Department of Environmental Science, Pol-
icy & Management
POSTDOCTORAL SCHOLAR POSITION AVAIL-
ABLE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMEN-
TAL SCIENCE, POLICY & MANAGEMENT The De-
partment of Environmental Science, Policy, and Man-
agement at UC Berkeley is currently seeking two Post-
doctoral Scholars in Genomics and Functional Genetics
in the laboratory of Dr. Neil Tsutsui. We are seeking
two Postdoctoral Scholars to study the genetic basis of
ant social behaviors. Previous work has focused on the
genetics, behavior, and chemical ecology of the invasive
Argentine ant (Linepithema humile). The central focus
of the Postdoctoral Scholars' research will be the genetic
basis of chemical communication, including the produc-
tion and perception of pheromones that Argentine ants
use to regulate fundamental behaviors, including forag-
ing, queen production, and colonymate recognition.
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS Candidates must have com-
pleted all degree requirements except the dissertation or
be enrolled in an accredited PhD or equivalent degree
program in biology, genetics, or related eld at the time
of application.
ADDITIONAL QUALIFICATIONS Candidates must
have a PhD, MD, or equivalent degree in biology, genet-
ics, or related eld by appointment start date.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS Demonstrated ex-
pertise in one or more of the following areas: production
and analysis of whole- genome datasets, RNAseq, RNAi-
mediated gene silencing, and bioinformatic analysis oflarge genomic datasets. Candidates uent in chemi-
cal ecology, insect biology, population genetics, and/or
behavioral ecology are desirable. Preferred candidates
will demonstrate excellent communication skills and the
ability to work both independently and as a member
of a small team. Applicants must have fewer than ve
years of prior post-doctoral experience.
APPOINTMENT The targeted start date for this posi-
tion is March 1, 2016. The initial appointment is for one
year, with renewal based on performance and funding.
This s a full-time appointment.
SALARY AND BENEFITS The salary range is between
$42,840 - $50,112 commensurate with qualications and
experience and based on UC Berkeley salary scales. Gen-
erous benets are included (http://vspa.berkeley.edu/-
postdocs)
TO APPLY Visit: http://apptrkr.com/745096 Inter-
ested individuals should include a 1-2 page cover letter
describing their research experience, 1-3 relevant pub-
lications, a current CV, and the names and contact
information of three references.
Letters of reference may be requested for nalists. It is
optional to include a statement addressing past and/or
potential contributions to diversity through research,
teaching, and/or service.
This position will remain open until lled.
Questions regarding this recruitment can be directed to
Professor Neil Tsutsui mailto:(ntsutsui@berkeley.edu).
All letters will be treated as condential per University
of California policy and California state law. Please refer
potential referees, including when letters are provided
via a third party (i.e. dossier service or career center) to
the UC Berkeley Statement of Condentiality (http://-
apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html) prior to submitting their
letters.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied ap-
plicants will receive consideration for employment with-
out regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age
or protected veteran status. For the complete Uni-
versity of California nondiscrimination and armative
action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/-
NondiscrimArmAct The Department is interested in
candidates who will contribute to diversity and equal
opportunity in higher education through their research
or teaching.
The University of California, Berkeley has an excellent
benets package as well as a number of policies and
programs in place to support employees as they balance104 EvolDir March 1, 2016
work and family.
Copyright ????2015 Jobelephant.com Inc. All
rights reserved. http://www.jobelephant.com/ jeid-
3e302751f6ac7042bfed3c40cdcc9532
Mitch Gillick Jobelephant.com 5443 Fremontia Lane
San Diego, CA 92115 Tel: 619.795.0837 Fax:
619.243.1484 Toll-Free Direct: 800.311.0563 Email:
mitch@jobelephant.com Website: www.jobelephant.com
Mitch Gillick <mitch@jobelephant.com >
UCalifornia Davis
PlantPathogenEvolution
2/19/16 Postdoctoral Position in Quantitative Disease
Resistance Available: May 2016 till... Location: Plant
Sciences: University of California, Davis
We seek a postdoctoral researcher to work on a project
investigating the evolution and networks controlling
genomic disease resistance and pathogen virulence varia-
tion in the interaction between a single pathogen (Botry-
tis cinerea) and eight dierent eudicot plant species.
Our laboratory has been conducting extensive work to
understand the molecular basis of quantitative pheno-
types at a genomic level utilizing network biology in Ara-
bidopsis thaliana and the necrotrophic plant pathogen
(Botrytis cinerea) (for a list of publications please go to
the Web site). We have nished the genomic sequence
of 100+ B. cinerea isolates as well as infection assays on
a broad array of Arabidopsis genotypes and other dicot
species (Soybean, Lettuce, Chicory, Sunower, Tomato
and two Brassicas). For each plant species there were
multiple genotypes representing wild and domesticated
lineages. This analysis also includes whole transcrip-
tome analysis of both the plant and pathogen. This
provides a unique dataset from which to examine the
eects of domestication and lineage evolution in the
eudicots on a single fungal pathogen and vice versa.
Among the questions we can ask are to identify how
genomic variation in the pathogen inuences host speci-
city across the eudicots with a focus on lineage specic
evolution and the potential role of domestication. We
can also utilize this data to conduct GWA (Genome
wide association) mapping within the pathogen and the
plants to identify the loci that control quantitative re-
sistance variation across the dicots. This will enable
us to begin parsing the genetic networks that control a
pathogen's specicity across plant species, plant geno-types and how the pathogen evolves in response to the
plant. These questions are directly translatable to fun-
damental population biology theory, ecological theory
and have direct application to improving crop produc-
tivity in the face of endemic diseases as represented by
Botrytis cinerea. Thus, there is an extensive collection
of phenotypic and genomic data that are ready to be an-
alyzed and utilized to develop and test new hypothesis
surrounding quantitative disease interactions.
The project is currently funded until May of 2019. Ap-
plicants with a Ph.D. in quantitative or computational
genetics will be given high priority. Knowledge of mod-
ern molecular biological techniques (e.g. PCR, Sequence
analysis, in vitro protein expression etc.) and laboratory-
based research is required. The position is available
immediately but the start date is exible. Salary will
be commensurate with experience; the position also
includes health insurance and other benets.
The laboratory is an interactive group at the forefront
of applying genomics techniques to understanding the
molecular basis of quantitative phenotypes in both an
ecological and applied context. We have numerous in-
ternational collaborations and opportunities with an
excellent track record of placing individuals in advanced
positions.
To apply, please e-mail a cover letter, curriculum vitae,
and the names of three references to Daniel Klieben-
stein. Applications will be reviewed until the position
is lled. For more information contact Dr. Kliebenstein
via e-mail at Kliebenstein@ucdavis.edu.
Daniel Kliebenstein Professor of Plant Genomics Univ
of California, Davis Dept of Plant Sci- MS3 1 Shields
Ave Davis, CA 95616
Kliebenstein Lab
Member of Dynamo Center University of Copenhagen
Dynamo Center
Daniel Kliebenstein <kliebenstein@ucdavis.edu >March 1, 2016 EvolDir 105
UCalifornia SantaCruz
FishEvolution
We are seeking a postdoctoral scientist to work on pop-
ulation and molecular genetic analyses of river herring
(Alosa spp.) as part of a team conducting basic and
applied research on the ecology, evolution, conservation
and management of marine and anadromous shes. The
successful candidate will formulate and carry out work
using molecular population genetic data and methods
to study distribution and abundance, shery bycatch,
restoration, evolutionary dynamics, secondary contact,
and hybridization of alewife and blueback herring (col-
lectively known as river herring) as part of a large,
bi-coastal collaboration.
Duties will involve overseeing data generation, develop-
ing and applying data analytical techniques, and dissem-
inating results through publications, reports and pre-
sentations. In addition to standard population genetic
techniques, experience with high-throughput sequencing
data and its manipulation with R, Python or similar
languages is desirable.
The successful candidate will work jointly with the re-
search teams of Dr. Eric Palkovacs, in the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University
of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) and Dr. John Carlos
Garza, at the Southwest Fisheries Science Center, both
located on the UCSC Marine Sciences Campus.
The position is available right away and will be open
until lled. Multiple years of funding have been secured
for this work, but the initial appointment will be for
one year, with possibility of extension.
Inquiries by email to Eric Palkovacs (epalkova@ucsc.edu)
and/or John Carlos Garza (carlosjg@ucsc.edu).
UCSC is an Armative Action/EEO Employer.
John Carlos Garza, PhD Southwest Fisheries Science
Center 110 Shaer Road Santa Cruz CA 95060 USA
Tel. 831 420-3903
\carlosjg@ucsc.edu" <carlosjg@ucsc.edu >UExeter EvolutionCooperation
Dear Colleague,
I am currently advertising a one-year postdoctoral
position in theoretical ecology at the University
of Exeter (deadline 6th March). The postdoc
will work on projects in my NERC fellowship
http://gtr.rcuk.ac.uk/projects?ref=3DNE/L011921/1
. The advert is at: https://jobs.exeter.ac.uk/-
hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/run/ETREC107GF.op
en?VACANCY IDy5024E8VK&WVID817591jNg&LANG=USA
I'd be grateful if you would pass this on to any interested
and qualied students/postdocs.
All the best Andy
Dr Andrew Higginson Senior Lecturer Psychology Col-
lege of Life and Environmental Sciences University of Ex-
eter https://sites.google.com/site/adhigginson/ Andy
Higginson<adhigginson@gmail.com >
UGeorgia StressEvolGenomics
A postdoctoral position studying the evolutionary ge-
nomics of abiotic stress resistance in sunower and re-
lated, stress-adapted species is available in the Burke
lab at the University of Georgia.
This position is part of a collaborative project that seeks
to understand the genomic and physiological basis of
adaptation to drought, salt, and low nutrient stress in a
fascinating study system. The ideal candidate will have
a strong background in population and/or quantitative
genetics with experience handling and analyzing large,
genome-scale datasets.
Funds are currently available to support this position
over multiple years. The position is available immedi-
ately, but the start date is somewhat exible. Applica-
tions will be reviewed as they are received, continuing
until the position is lled.
To apply, please send your CV, a brief statement of re-
search interests, and the names and contact information
for three references to: jmburke@uga.edu
Informal inquiries are also encouraged. Additional106 EvolDir March 1, 2016
project details are available upon request.
Information about the UGA Dept of Plant Biol-
ogy can be found at: http://www.plantbio.uga.edu/
Information about the Burke lab can be found
at: http://www.theburkelab.org/ John M. Burke,
Ph.D. Tel: 706.583.5511 Fax: 706.542.1805 http://-
www.theburkelab.org/ University of Georgia Depart-
ment of Plant Biology Miller Plant Sciences Athens, GA
30602
\jmburke@uga.edu" <jmburke@uga.edu >
UGlasgow
GenomeEvolutionaryTransitions
We have a research opportunity open at the Univer-
sity of Glasgow's Institute of Biodiversity, Animal
Health & Comparative Medicine (IBAHCM) work-
ing in the Evolutionary Analysis Group and the re-
search team of Kathryn Elmer (http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
researchinstitutes/bahcm/sta/kathrynelmer/).
We are seeking a motivated, creative and enthusiastic
postdoctoral researcher with expertise in genomics for a
project on 'major evolutionary transitions'. The primary
research eort will be on a NERC-funded project study-
ing the molecular and genomic mechanisms underlying
dierent reproductive modes in lizards. Complementary
projects on genome evolution in 'ichs and herps' are also
possible. Bioinformatic experience with NGS data and
expertise in whole genome analysis is imperative, ideally
with relevant experience in complex de novo genome
assembly. Skills in quantitative trait mapping, compar-
ative genomics, ecological and/or population genomics,
and phylogenetics are also sought. Team working and
positive attitude are a must. A strong track record of
genetic and evolutionary research is necessary, and on
shes or reptiles is a benet. Candidates must have
completed their PhD by the start of contract.
The position is for 1.5 years (with possibility for exten-
sion) starting as soon as possible, and is funded through
the NERC grant 'Unravelling the genetics of a major
evolutionary transition' to Kathryn Elmer, Maureen
Bain and Rod Page.
IBAHCM is a stimulating and interactive research envi-
ronment with a wealth of opportunities for discussion,
collaboration and cutting edge research in evolution,
ecology, and disease. The University of Glasgow ranks
in the world's top 100 universities. The Universityand IBAHCM have both been recognised with Athena
SWAN Bronze awards. The city of Glasgow is lively and
cultural, and sits on the doorstep of the great outdoors
of the Scottish Highlands, islands, and coast.
The ocial job description and application require-
ments are available on the University of Glas-
gow homepage (under current vacancies; http://-
www.gla.ac.uk/about/jobs/vacancies/) at job reference
M00658. **The advertisement closes 7 March 2016.**
Informal inquiries to K. Elmer welcome in advance.
kathryn.elmer@glasgow.ac.uk
\Kathryn.Elmer@glasgow.ac.uk"
<Kathryn.Elmer@glasgow.ac.uk >
UHawaii Manoa FruitFlyGenetics
Aloha! The USDA-ARS Pacic Basin Agricultural Re-
search Center (Geib Lab) and University of Hawaii
Manoa (Rubino Lab) have funding for a Junior Re-
searcher (Postdoc) to work on genetics of pest fruit ies.
The research project is focused on utilizing genomic
approaches for improving detection and identication
of tephritid pests. Most of the work involves analyz-
ing populations of tephritid species using genome-wide
analysis techniques. These techniques facilitate discov-
ery and the development of assays for determination
of source populations. In addition, position would in-
cluding assisting in ongoing experiments on quantitative
genetics of fruit ies to identify causative loci for traits
of interest. The applicant will be expected to work
independently and supervise technical sta and stu-
dents, as well as work well as part of a larger research
team. Experience in wet-lab molecular biology, genet-
ics, strong interpersonal skills, as well as computational
analysis of high-throughput sequence data is required.
Specic background in population genetics/genomics
and knowledge of linux/unix, scripting, etc. as well as
performing NGS approaches (RAD-Seq, GBS (genotyp-
ing by sequencing), RNA-seq, WGS) are desired. We
have advanced computing resources in-house, automated
laboratory instrumentation, and a very active research
program.
Salary is ~$~61,000/yr, hired through University of
Hawaii Manoa, and the job will be stationed at the
USDA-ARS Pacic Basin Agricultural Research Center
in Hilo, HI (on the Big Island of Hawaii). Minimum
PhD in genetics, biology, entomology, or similar is re-
quired. If interested, please contact Dr. Scott Geib atMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 107
scott.geib@ars.usda.gov and submit CV and contact for
at least 3 references.
smg283@gmail.com
UHelsinki EvolutionaryGenetics
A 2 YEAR POST DOCTORAL RESEARCHER PO-
SITION in Evolutionary Genetics is available in the
research group of Academy research fellow Marjo Saas-
tamoinen. The successful applicant will be part of the
Centre of Excellence in Metapopulation Research at the
Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki.
The main goal of the post doc project is to examine
spatiotemporal genetic variation of the ecological model
species, the Glanville fritillary buttery (Melitaea cinxia)
inhabiting the Aland Islands in Finland. In addition to
exceptional demographic and ecological resources, sub-
stantial genomic data are now available for this species,
including a high quality annotated whole genome se-
quence (Ahola et al. 2014 Nature Comm) and linkage
map (Rastas et al. 2013 Bioinformatics). The current
project will use available SNP genotype data from 20,000
individuals typed for both known candidate genes (Foun-
tain et al. 2016 PNAS, Orsini et al. 2008 JEB; Hanski
2011 PNAS; Saastamoinen et al. 2009 Proc R Soc B; de
Jong et al. 2014 Mol Ecol) and neutral loci across hun-
dreds of populations. The successful candidate will use
these data to test for associations of candidate sites with
individual life-history traits, population dynamics, and
landscape characteristics. Given that data are available
for nearly 10 years for hundreds of populations, there is
an excellent opportunity to examine both spatial and
temporal patterns of genetic variation. One specic aim
is to examine associations with environmental variables
(using software such as Bayenv). The post doc will be
part of a large team working on population genetics
and genomic work on the Glanville fritillary and will
work in close collaboration with Ass. Prof. Arild Husby
(blogs.helsinki./husby).
The successful candidate should have PhD / postdoc-
toral experience within the elds of evolutionary genetics
or population genetics and a good core knowledge of
ecology. Experience with population genetic software
and R programming are required. Excellent written and
verbal communication skills in English are needed and
you must also demonstrate ability to work as part of a
team.
The starting date is exible but preferable before 1stMay 2016, with a probationary period of four months.
The salary will be based on level 5 of the demands
level chart for teaching and research personnel in the
salary system of Finnish universities. In addition, the
appointee will be paid a salary component based on
personal work performance.
To apply, please send, in a single pdf le, your CV with
publications included and a letter (max 2 pages) with a
description of your research interests and, in particular,
why you would be a suitable candidate for the project.
The application letter should also contain possible start-
ing dates and contact details of three references. The
applications are to be addressed to Dr Marjo Saasta-
moinen and submitted to biotiede-mrg@helsinki. by
21st February 2016 at 15.45 local Helsinki time.
The University of Helsinki, founded in 1640, is one of
the world's leading universities for multidisciplinary re-
search. The university has an international academic
community of 40,000 students and sta members. The
University of Helsinki oers comprehensive services to
its employees, including occupational health care and
health insurance, sports facilities, and opportunities for
professional development. The International Sta Ser-
vices<http://www.helsinki./intsta/ >oce assists
employees from abroad with their transition to work
and life in Finland.
The Department of Biosciences situated at the Viikki
Science Park belongs to the Faculty of Biological and
Environmental Sciences of University of Helsinki and
is the largest research and teaching unit in biosciences
in Finland. The Department of Biosciences is one of
the largest departments of Helsinki University with its
c. 25 million euro budget and over 400 sta members.
Cutting edge infrastructure is available at all levels, in-
cluding high-performance computer clusters, a next-gen
sequencing facility, as well as molecular labs.
For more information about this posi-
tion, please contact Dr Marjo Saastamoinen
(marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki., http://-
www.mv.helsinki./home/msaastam/).
Dr Marjo Saastamoinen Academy Research Fellow Cen-
tre of Excellence in Metapopulation Research Depart-
ment of Biosciences PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1) FI-00014
University of Helsinki FINLAND
tel. + 358 (0)50 448 4471
http://www.mv.helsinki./home/msaastam/ \Saasta-
moinen, Marjo A K" <marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki. >108 EvolDir March 1, 2016
UKansas
DrosophilaParasiteCoevolution
The Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of
Kansas, seeks a postdoctoral researcher with interests
and experience in Drosophila host-parasite coevolution.
The successful candidate will work with a research group
that addresses the broad theme host-virus interaction
and coevolution using Drosophila and its associated
Nudivirus infection. This position consists of an initial
2-yr appointment and is expected to begin as early as
August 18, 2016.
Required qualications for the position includes a Ph.D.
in Biology or closely related eld, experience with pop-
ulation genetics and next-generation sequencing as evi-
denced by application materials, experience Drosophila
husbandry as evidenced by application materials and
some experience with coding in R, Perl, Python, etc. as
evidenced by application materials.
For a complete announcement and to apply online, go to
https://employment.ku.edu/sta/5392BR. A complete
application includes a detailed resume, a cover letter,
and the names and contact information for two refer-
ences. Initial review of applications begins March 15,
2016. For rst consideration, please apply before March
15, 2016
EO statement: The University of Kansas prohibits dis-
crimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion,
sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability status as
a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental
status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic
information in the universitys programs and activities.
Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The
following persons have been designated to handle in-
quiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are
the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses:
Executive Director of the Oce of Institutional Op-
portunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, 1246 West Campus
Road, Room 153A, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414,
711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder,
and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity
Oce, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway,
Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wi-
chita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center
campuses).
\Unckless, Robert Lewis" <unckless@ku.edu >ULausanne
GenomicsSocialBehaviour
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION, GENOMICS OF SO-
CIAL BEHAVIOUR / SUPERGENE EVOLUTION,
LAUSANNE
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral position in
the research group of Michel Chapuisat (Department of
Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne). Our
group studies social evolution, with a focus on the struc-
ture and evolution of ant societies. Please look at http:/-
/www.unil.ch/dee/page7000.html for information and
references.
In the Alpine silver ant Formica selysi, colony queen
number is controlled by a supergene (Purcell et al. Cur.
Biol. 2014). We aim to understand the origin and main-
tenance of this polymorphic supergene. We combine
genomic, behavioural and ecological approaches. The
focus will depend on the interest and background of
the postdoc, and there will be scope to accommodate
personal ideas or projects. The ideal candidate should
have a solid background in evolutionary biology. Some
experience in one or more of the following areas would
be an asset: bioinformatics, genomics, transcriptomics,
population genetics, evolutionary ecology, behavioural
ecology.
Starting date is negotiable. The Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution is large and thriving, and provides
excellent facilities for research and training (see http:/-
/www.unil.ch/dee/).
Informal enquiries and applications should be sent to
Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch. Applications should include
a cover letter with a statement of research interests
and qualications for the position, complete CV with
publication list, and contact details of three referees,
embedded in a single pdf le.
I will start reviewing the applications on February 16th,
2016, but will continue to consider incoming applications
until the position is lled.
Michel Chapuisat <Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch >March 1, 2016 EvolDir 109
UMassachusetts
ComparativeEndocrinology
POSTDOCTORAL Research Associate
A postdoctoral fellowship in comparative endocrinology
is available at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst
beginning April 1, 2016. The fellowship is supported by
an NSF grant with funding for 4 years and will examine
the hormonal control of osmoregulation in lamprey.
This is a beneted, full-time Postdoctoral Research As-
sociate position. Initial appointment is for one year,
reappointment beyond the rst year is contingent upon
availability of funding and job performance. Primary
responsibilities will include, but are not limited to: real
time PCR measurement of ion transporter, hormone
and receptor mRNA levels; in situ hybridization of cells
expressing ion transporters, hormones and receptors; im-
munohistochemical and microscopic analysis of pituitary
and gill; maintenance and experimental manipulation
of juvenile lamprey; manipulation of hormone levels in
vivo and in vitro. Qualied candidates are required
to have a Ph.D. in Biology or related eld. Two to
three years experience studying physiology, endocrinol-
ogy and/or using molecular approaches in sh biology re-
search is preferred. Experience with radioimmunoassays,
in situ hybridization, and molecular genetic approaches
is highly desirable.
It is expected that the appointee will work extended
hours as necessary to complete individual experiments.
Postdoctoral Research Associates at the University of
Massachusetts are unionized and receive standard salary
and benets, depending on experience. Salary is subject
to bargaining unit contract. Candidates must apply on-
line by submitting a cover letter, CV, summary of resear
ch interests, and the contact details of three references
willing to provide let ters of recommendation to:
http://umass.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=3D68722 Questions
can be addressed to Dr. Stephen McCormick at
mccormick@umext.umass.edu.
Review of applications will begin March 7, 2016 and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Applications received
by March 7th will be given priority consideration.
The University of Massachusetts Amherst is an Ar-
mative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer of women,minorities, protected veterans, and individuals with dis-
abilities and encourages applications from these and
other protected group members.
Lisa Barry Biology Department Morrill Science Center
South, Room 348 611 North Pleasant Street University
of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003
Phone: 413-545-2602 Fax: 413-545-3243
Lisa Barry <lisak@bio.umass.edu >
UMinnesota
EvolutionComplexTraits
Postdoctoral positions available in the genetics, ge-
nomics and evolution of complex traits
We are looking for enthusiastic and talented postdoc-
toral scientists to join our new lab at the University of
Minnesota in Minneapolis. The Albert lab investigates
how genetic dierences among individuals inuence gene
expression, cell biology and complex traits in species
ranging from yeast to humans. We also study how these
genetic architectures evolve. Typical projects in the lab
combine cutting edge experimental genomic technologies
with sophisticated statistical & computational analyses.
We provide a great environment for experts in either
one of these areas to expand into the other. Our wet
lab is located directly next to the new Genome Systems
Lab, a large collaborative space for computational re-
search that we share with the groups of Chad Myers,
Ran Blekhman and Dan Knights. There are also ample
opportunities to interact with an outstanding group of
evolutionary geneticists and genome scientists in the
UMN EEB department.
You will have considerable freedom to build your career
by following your own research goals, assuming they
broadly t with the interests of our group. Opportuni-
ties also exist to join ongoing projects.
Qualications: A Ph.D. in genetics, genomics, biology,
statistics, computer science, physics, or any relevant
combination thereof. Ideal candidates will have exper-
tise in experimental and / or computational biology.
Successful applicants will be deeply passionate about
their research, have a track record of published achieve-
ments (publicly posted preprints are explicitly encour-
aged), and thrive in a collaborative, rigorous and diverse
environment. The University of Minnesota is an equal
opportunity educator and employer.110 EvolDir March 1, 2016
The positions are available immediately, and will remain
open until lled. Please send a cover letter explaining
your interests and how they t in the lab, along with
your CV and contact information for three references
to falbert@umn.edu.
For more information on the lab, please visit:
albertlab.wordpress.com
{ Frank W. Albert Assistant Professor Department of
Genetics, Cell Biology, & Development University of
Minnesota 6-160 Jackson Hall 321 Church St SE Min-
neapolis, MN 55455 USA
\falbert@umn.edu" <falbert@umn.edu >
UMinnesota GenomeEvolution
Genome evolution, genome variation, and evolution of
gene expression: Multiple post-doctoral positions.
Multiple post-doc positions are available in the labo-
ratory of Nathan Springer (www.cbs.umn.edu/labs/-
springer/) at the Univ of Minnesota. We use genome,
transcriptome and epigenome information to understand
the sources of heritable variation. Details for several
current projects are provided below. Many research
projects will involve local collaborations (Peter Tin -
evolutionary genetics; Chad Myers - computational sys-
tems biology; Candice Hirsch - translational genomics)
as well as collaborations with other institutions. Post-
doctoral researchers will also be given freedom and sup-
port to develop their own research ideas that are com-
plimentary to ongoing projects.
Epigenome dynamics - The Springer group maintains
an active research program to study the sources and evo-
lution of epigenetic variation in maize. Whole-genome
proling of DNA methylation and histone modications
is used to understand how epigenetic information is used
to organize the genome.
Evolution of gene expression - Changes in gene expres-
sion are part of the mechanism used by plants to tolerate
abiotic stress, such as low temperature. We are study-
ing transcriptome and epigenome changes in diverse
maize genotypes subjected to cold stress in order to
study the molecular sources of variation for responsive-
ness to abiotic stress. This project involves collabora-
tion with Edgar Spalding (Univ of Wisconsin) to apply
machine-vision approaches to document the diversity of
phenotypic responses to cold stress in maize seedlings.Transposable element contributions to gene regulation -
Plant genomes are composed of interspersed genes and
transposons. We are studying the contribution of trans-
posons to gene regulation and phenotypic diversity. This
collaborative project with Cory Hirsch (Univ of MN)
utilizes genomic and molecular biology approaches to
document the inuence of transposons on nearby genes.
A Ph.D. degree in genetics, genomics, plant biology,
bioinformatics or a related eld is necessary. Experi-
ence in genomics and bioinformatics is preferred but
not required. To apply, send a letter of application, a
full curriculum vita, and contact information for three
references to Nathan Springer (springer@umn.edu). The
University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educa-
tor and employer.
Peter Tin <ptin@umn.edu >
UppsalaU
PhylogenomicsAndMolecularClock
Postdoc/Researcherin Systematic Biology
UppsalaUniversity is an international research university
focused on the development of science and education.
Our most important assets are all the individuals who
with their curiosity and their dedication make Uppsala
University one of Sweden's most exciting work places.
Uppsala University has 40,000 students, 7,000 employees
and a turnover of SEK 6,5 billion.
Description:Resolving the global tree of life has long
been a main goal of Biology. In recent years, break-
throughs in high-throughput sequencing and faster phy-
logenetic algorithms have allowed to rene the structure
of the tree in unprecedented ways. For eukaryotes, all
major groups as well as many once enigmatic lineages
now have genomic data available. This wealth of data
has opened the door to study the deep relationships
among eukaryotes with more condence, and map onto
the tree some of the main evolutionary events. Here,
we propose to go further by combining phylogenetics,
genomics (i.e. phylogenomics), and molecular dating to
address long-standing questions in eukaryote evolution,
such as the origin and spread of plastids. For this pur-
pose, we will infer a genomic timescale calibrated with
the microfossil record of protists, which presents the key
benet of being continuous and thus more comprehen-
sive than macrofossils. This is a timely project at the
forefront of microbial genomics and evolution, within aMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 111
motivating scientic environment that will lead to some
exciting developments in understanding the diversity of
eukaryotes.
Qualications:Depending on seniority, this position will
be lled either as postdoctoral fellow or researcher. Eli-
gible for employment as postdoctoral fellow are those
who have a doctoral degree or a foreign degree found to
be equivalent with a doctoral degree, obtained within
three years before the deadline for applications. If there
are special reasons, the degree may be older than three
years. Special reasons refer to absence due to illness,
parental leave, commissions of trust within trade unions
or other similar circumstances. Eligible for employment
as researcher are those with a doctoral degree older than
three years. Candidates must be uent in English with
strong writing skills. This position is for 2 years.
Assessment:I am looking for a highly motivated individ-
ual with strong academic prociency within the eld of
(microbial) eukaryote evolution. Proven experience in
bioinformatics to handle genomic-scale datasets, phy-
logenetics, and molecular dating will be highly valued.
Documented skills in phylogenomics would be an asset.
Application:The application should include a letter in
which the applicant describes oneself and the research
interests (one A4 page) and contact information for
three references. The application should also include
CV and a copy of the doctoral degree. Personal circum-
stances (such as parental leave) that the assessment of
qualications may be credited to the applicant, should
be indicated in the list of qualications and experience.
UppsalaUniversity is striving to promote gender equality
through gender balance. The majority of employees in
this category are women, which is why we would like to
see men as candidates for the position.
Informationabout the position will be given by Fa-
bien Burki: fabien.burki@ebc.uu.se(from March 1st)
or burkif@mail.ubc.ca
Moreinformation can also be found here: https://-
uu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:9186 fa-
bien.burki@botany.ubc.caUSaoPaulo MolecularSystematics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION - FACULDADE DE
SA~ADE P ~ABLICA, UNIVERSIDADE DE S ~AO
PAULO
The Laboratory of Public Health Entomology - Molecu-
lar Systematics at the University of S ~A$o Paulo, Brazil,
seeks a highly motivated and productive postdoctoral
researcher to work on a FAPESP Tematico-funded re-
search (grant no. 2014/26229-7) on malaria vector
mosquitoes in rural settlements in the Brazilian Ama-
zon.
Those interested must have a doctorate and experience
in phylogenetic systematics and related elds, as well
as excellent knowledge of molecular techniques used
in taxonomy and population genetics of insect vectors.
Computational skills and statistics will be of great im-
portance. The candidate should collaborate in both
disciplines and eld work in Brazil and training of un-
dergraduate and graduate students.
The position requires an individual with a PhD and ex-
perience in phylogenetic systematics and related elds.
Outstanding molecular, computational and statistics
skills are particularly advantageous. It is expected the
candidate collaborates in discipline, eld work in Brazil,
and training undergraduate and graduate students in
molecular techniques employed in systematics.
Funding is available for a minimum of 1 year, and may
be extended upon both mutual and FAPESP agreement.
Preference will be given to candidates with a high proba-
bility of applying for and obtaining independent funding;
for example through the TDR/WHO, or other funding
agencies.
The starting date is exible, and the position will remain
open until lled. For primary consideration, applicants
should apply by March 17th, 2016. Informal inquiries
are welcomed, prior to formal application. To apply,
please send the following:
1. A Curriculum Vitae 2. Names of 3 referees willing
to provide a letter of recommendation upon request 3.
A brief statement of how your research goals t with
research of Culicidae lab 4. A brief statement of in-
terest, ideas, and qualications for independent grant
applications
E-mail applications are preferred: masallum@usp.br112 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Mailed applications are also acceptable to: Maria Anice
Mureb Sallum Faculdade de Sa ~Aode P ~Aoblica Universi-
dade de S ~A$o Paulo Avenida Doutor Arnaldo 715 sala
210 01246-904 S ~A$o Paulo S ~A$o Paulo, Brasil
\masallum@usp.br" <masallum@usp.br >
UTulsa
BiodiversityClimateVariability
A Post-Doctoral position is available in the Department
of Biological Science at the University of Tulsa. This
position is part of the highly integrative NSF EPSCoR
project on the ecological and socio-economic impacts of
climate variability in Oklahoma. This project includes
Biologists, Ecologists, Climatologists, Hydrologists, So-
ciologists, and Economists from the University of Tulsa,
University of Oklahoma, Oklahoma State University,
and the Nobel Foundation. The Department of Biologi-
cal Science at the University of Tulsa is serving as the
biodiversity contingent of the project.
The Post-Doc will primarily be responsible for work-
ing on Oklahoma biodiversity/climate related research
projects with faculty and students at the University of
Tulsa and collaborators. The Post-Doc will also teach
a one-semester (per year) graduate/undergraduate GIS
based course on ecological modeling at The University
of Tulsa. This position will have access to further GIS
training and interactions with researchers at the world
class South Central Climate Science Center in Norman,
OK.
Dr. Bonett's research lab at the University of Tulsa
primarily uses integrative approaches to study the bio-
diversity, evolution, and development of amphibians
(Bonett Lab: http://ronbonett.weebly.com/index.html).
Depending on their research interests and goals, the
postdoc may conduct projects and receive training in
phylogenetics, genomics, transcriptomics, and compara-
tive endocrinology/physiology. The position has poten-
tial for high research productivity, specialized training,
and teaching experience.
The University of Tulsa is a private institution with
~4,500 students (3/4 undergraduate and 1/4 graduate
students): http://www.utulsa.edu .Faculty and grad-
uate students in our department study biodiversity of
algae, bacteria, fungi, amphibians, shes, mammals,
reptiles, insects, and viruses. Tulsa is a vibrant city lo-
cated in the Green Country of northeastern Oklahoma.Tulsa has all the amenities of major US cities, but with
relatively low cost of living.
APPLICATION INFORMATION:
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Biology or a related
discipline prior to the start of the appointment (as early
as June 1, 2016). The position requires signicant ex-
perience with Geographic Information Systems (GIS),
particularly with relevance to problems of biodiversity,
conservation, ecology, and evolution.
To apply, please send a letter of Intent, CV, and com-
plete contact information for three references to: Ron
Bonett (ron-bonett@utulsa.edu)
by March 11th, 2016.
The position can start on or after June 1, 2016, and can
potentially be renewed for up to two years.
Ronald M. Bonett, Ph.D. Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biological Science 800 S. Tucker Drive University
of Tulsa Tulsa, OK 74104 Email: ron-bonett@utulsa.edu
Oce: (918) 631-3328 Lab: (918) 631-3327 http://-
ronbonett.weebly.com/index.html Ronald Bonett <ron-
bonett@utulsa.edu >
UTurku PopulationEcology
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN POPULATION
ECOLOGY (UNIV. TURKU, FINLAND)
A two-year postdoctoral position is available at the De-
partment of Biology, University of Turku, Finland to
work on the project \Populations in temporally varying
environments: a demographic approach" led by Dr. Satu
Ramula and funded by the Academy of Finland. Ongo-
ing climate change, habitat fragmentation and invasive
species result in increasing temporal environmental vari-
ation, which poses a challenge for many organisms that
have limited dispersal capacity. This project investigates
the demographic strategies of populations to temporally
varying environments utilising long-term climate and
population data from dierent organisms. More speci-
cally, the aim is to identify organismal groups that might
suer or benet from increased environmental variation.
Duties: The postdoctoral researcher will work on time
series and climate data, conduct data analyses, write pa-
pers, and collaborate nationally and internationally with
the possibility of developing additional study questions
related to the project.
The successful candidate should have: 1) A PhD inMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 113
ecology, evolutionary biology or a comparable eld. 2)
Demonstrated ability to independently initiate, conduct,
and complete research projects. 3) Demonstrated abil-
ity to generate and publish the ndings in international
peer-reviewed journals. A strong background in quanti-
tative ecology is of advantage.
The starting date is preferably 1st September 2016 and
the position is available until 31st August 2018. The
position is subject to a four-month trial period. The
salary is in accordance with the university salary system
(for teaching and research personnel) level 5, where the
work specic salary component is 2865.30 euro/month.
In addition, there is a share increase based on the per-
sonal performance, which is, at most, 46.3% of the base
salary depending on the previous relevant research and
teaching experience of the candidate.
Formal applications should include 1) a motivation
letter or an academic portfolio describing research in-
terests, qualications, and reasons for applying (max
2 pages), 2) a full CV including a list of publi-
cations and the contact details of a minimum of
two referees. Please submit your application via
the electronic application form of the University of
Turku at http://www.utu./en/university/come-work-
with-us/open-vacancies/Pages/home.aspx, (position ID
2016). The deadline for applications is March 31st 2016.
Turku is the 6th largest city in Finland (185 000 people)
with rich cultural history. It is located on the south-
western coast of the country and has excellent transport
connections and recreational facilities.
For more information, contact satu.ramula@utu..
Dr. Satu Ramula Section of Ecology, Department of
Biology University of Turku FI-20014 Turku Finland
email: satu.ramula@utu. https://www.utu./en/-
units/sci/units/biology/research/projects/PopDyn/-
Pages/Satu-Ramula.aspx \satu.ramula@utu."
<satu.ramula@utu. >UWashington GeneticsOfAging
The University of Washington has a post-doctoral posi-
tion open in their \Genetic Approaches to Aging" Train-
ing Grant (see below). The position is available start-
ing May 1, 2016. Applicants must be US citizens or
Green Card holders. The successful applicant will have
the choice of numerous labs (information on link be-
low) with diverse training options, including training
in the Evolutionary Genetics of Aging (e.g., http://-
www.promislowlab.org).
The Genetic Approaches to Aging Training Grant at
the University of Washington (Seattle, WA) will have at
least one post-doc opening for a position starting May
1, 2016, with an application deadline of April 1, 2016.
For more details, please have a look at: http:/-
/www.uwaging.org/training-grant/post-doc-openings
The goal of our program is to train new independent
investigators who will utilize contemporary molecular
and genetic techniques to investigate the underlying
mechanisms of aging.
Applications are scored by consideration of the quali-
cations of the applicant and the mentoring environment,
as well as how the research specically relates to the
biology of aging. Funding is at NIH stipend levels.
For questions regarding the application process, please
contact Ellen Cravens at cravense@uw.edu
Daniel Promislow Department of Pathology and De-
partment of Biology University of Washington 1959
NE Pacic Street Box 357705, Room K-078 Seattle,
WA 98195 ph: 206 616-6994 e: promislo@uw.edu
w: http://www.promislowlab.org Daniel Promislow
<promislo@u.washington.edu >114 EvolDir March 1, 2016
WorkshopsCourses
AuburnU Bioinformatics Jun6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
Barcelona BiolNetworkAnalysis Oct24-28 . . . . . . . . .114
Budapest ConservationGenetics May30-Jun10 Deadline
115
Debrecen Hungary SexRolesAdultSexRatios Apr15-17
116
Faro Portugal StatisticalGenetics BruceWeir . . . . . 117
FridayHarbor Washington ComparativeEmbryology
Jun13-Jul15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .118
Hafjel Norway Selection Jun6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
LANGEBIO Mexico Drosophila May25-28 . . . . . . . .119
MalhamTarn Yorkshire UsingR May2-6 . . . . . . . . . . 119
NorthCarolinaStateU QuantitativeBiol Jun19-24 . 120
Rosco MarineEvolutionaryGenomics Jun13-24 . . 121SanJuan PR PhylogeneticComparativeMethods Jun28-
Jul1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
SCENE Glasgow TimeSeriesDataModelling May10-13
123
Stockholm AncientEnvironmentalDNA Mar10 . . . . 124
Switzerland TamingTheBeast Jun26-Jul1 . . . . . . . . .124
Toulouse Evolution May30-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
UBirmingham EnvironmentalGenomics Mar6-11 . .125
UMichigan Biostation PlantSystematics Summer . 126
UParis Diderot LociOfEvolution Sep5-7 . . . . . . . . . . 127
USheeld UK PopulationGenomics Mar21-23 . . . . 128
USouthernMaine ToolsForTreeOfLife Jul7-8 . . . . . . 128
Volterra Italy SystemsBiol Jul8-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
AuburnU Bioinformatics Jun6-10
Bioinformatics Bootcamp at Auburn University
>From June 6V10, 2016 the College of Science and
Mathematics will host the third annual Bioinformatics
Bootcamp X a training workshop in genomics and com-
putational biology for researchers interested in working
with modern genomic data resources. The Bootcamp is
a week-long immersion experience in the command line,
scripting, data handling and software skills required to
process and analyze data from high-throughput sequenc-
ing experiments. Previous experience in bioinformatics
is not required; interactive lectures and group data
analysis activities will introduce participants to best
practices in sequencing experiment design and analysis
including widely used methods in genome and transcrip-
tome assembly, annotation, dierential expression and
variant analysis.
The 2016 Bootcamp will feature a keynote lecture by
Dr. Monica Munoz-Torres, Lead Biocurator and Bioin-
formatics Analyst of the Berkeley Bioinformatics Open-
source Projects (BBOP), Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory.
The Bootcamp registration fee is $500. To
apply, send a brief statement of inter-
est and two-page CV (as a single pdf) to
bioinformatics@auburn.edu <mailto:bioinformatics@auburn.edu >
by April 1, 2016. Additional information can be found
at auburn.edu/bioinformaticsKenneth Halanych <ken@auburn.edu >
Barcelona BiolNetworkAnalysis
Oct24-28
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the course \Introduction to
Network Analysis in Life Sciences - 3rd edition".
Webpage: http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/syst-bio/networks/
GRANTS: Thanks to the donations of former partici-
pants, this year there is a place for free at the course
for PhD students. If you want to apply please send an
e-mail to grants@transmittingscience.org including: 1-
Full name and country, 2- Short project (maximum 300
words), 3- Letter of your advisor stating if you have
any grant to develop your PhD. Deadline: March 31st.
Please include the name of the course in the subject
line.
INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Diego Rasskin-Gutman (Institut
Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva, Spain)
and Dr. Borja Esteve-Altava (Institut Cavanilles de
Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva, Spain).
DATES: October 24th - 28th, 2016.
PLACE: Instalaciones de Sabadell del Institut Catal a
de Paleontologia M. C. Sabadell, Barcelona (Espa na).March 1, 2016 EvolDir 115
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
In the last decades, network analysis has provided new
insights into the organisation and functioning of com-
plex biological systems. A basic knowledge on network
modelling and network analysis will provide biologists a
better understanding of cutting-edge research in their
elds.
This course will introduce participants into the analy-
sis of complex biological systems using network mod-
els. Students will learn the basics of network analysis:
gathering information, building network models, and
interpret the outcomes of their analysis.
This course combines theoretical introduction and com-
puting practices using the free software environment R
(previous knowledge in R is not required)
Participants are encouraged to bring their own data for
practicing. Emphasis is placed on oering participants
a wide overview of network modelling in biology and
the many available software tools to do it.
Organized by: Transmitting Science and the Institut
Catal a de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD.
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org Trans-
mitting Science www.transmittingscience.org
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Budapest ConservationGenetics
May30-Jun10 Deadline
Recent Advances in Conservation Genetics Course (Con-
Gen2016) Lake Balaton
Early Registration Deadline Approaching.
Dear Conservation Genetics Community:
Please note that the deadline for the Early Registra-
tion for ConGen2016 is approaching (February 29), and
scholarships are available.
The 2016 Recent Advances in Conservation Genetics
Short Course (ConGen2016) will be held at Balaton
Limnological Institute of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences near Budapest, Hungary over May 30-June 10,2016. The course will host 25-30 students dedicated to
conservation and about 20-25 faculty from around the
world.
The course will be directed by Dr. Stephen J. O'Brien,
and taught by renowned scientists in methods, interpre-
tation, and applications of molecular genetic analyses for
conservation of endangered species, who will also share
a variety of their personal experiences in this important
eld. ConGen2016 faculty (http://congen2016.com/-
home/congen2016-faculty/) is an amazing group of peo-
ple who come from all around the world and will be
teaching, sharing their conservation stories and interact-
ing with students during the course.
For the rst time in its ore than 25 year history Congen
is coming to Europe. The 2016 course will be organized
in collaboration with the Balaton Limnological Insti-
tute on the shores of this charming freshwater lake in
Hungary. It is one of the largest freshwater lakes, and
one of the region's foremost tourist destinations. The
mountainous region of the northern shore is known both
for its historic character and as a major wine region,
while the at southern shore is known for its resort
towns. Due in no small way to the scientic eorts of
the Balaton Institute researchers, Lake Balaton is today
one of the most intensively studied lakes of the world.
Who should apply?
Applicants should be conservation-minded scientists (ad-
vanced graduate students, post-docs, teachers, and re-
searchers with advanced degrees) from academia, govern-
ment, NGOs, or industry who are studying the genetics
of endangered species and who will apply the knowl-
edge gained from this course to the conservation of such
species.
Please submit your registration here: http://-
congen2016.com/home/registration/ Registration Cost:
Early Registration - paid before March 1, 2016: The
cost per participant will be US$2,150 and will include
your accommodation, all meals and travel from and to
the airport.
Late Registration - paid after March 1 and before April
25, 2016: The cost of late registration per participant
will be US$2,350 and will include your accommodation,
all meals and travel from and to the airport.
Application forms: Please complete the application form
below and submit together with a CV. Successful ap-
plicants will be notied via email and will be sent ad-
ditional course information and they must ensure that
they check the following list. Payment must be made
in full using the PayPal link that will only be made
available to the successful applicants have been notied116 EvolDir March 1, 2016
or by direct bank deposit (SWIFT).
Scholarships:
Partial or full scholarships may be awarded to regis-
tered students, subject to availability. The scholarship
application is a separate process and will be coordi-
nated with our sponsors. To be eligible for a scholar-
ship, please apply on this page http://congen2016.com/-
home/registration/scholarship-application/ . Please
note: Scholarships will be allocated based on need,
scholastic potential , likelihood of conservation trans-
lation, the applicant's CV, and other information con-
tained in the application form. Scholarships will be
awarded as a complete or partial refund of the tuition
for those applicants who have already submitted their
deposit.
Course Faculty
- Stephen J. O'Brien: Chief Scientic Ocer at the Theo-
dosius Dobzhansky Center for Genome Bioinformatics ,
St. Petersburg State University, RUSSIA
- Scott Baker: Professor and Associate Director, Marine
Mammal Institute, Oregon State University, OREGON,
USA
- Oliver Ryder: Director of Genetics and Kleberg Chair
of San Diego Zoo's Institute for Conservation Research,
CALIFORNIA, USA
- Joan Pontius: Senior Bioinformatics Scientist at ESAC
Inc, Rockville MARYLAND, USA
- Harris Lewin: Vice chancellor for research at the Uni-
versity of California, Davis, CALIFORNIA, USA
- Dennis Larkin: Reader in Comparative Genomics Vet-
erinary College, London, ENGLAND, UK
- Bridget von Holdt: Assistant Professor, Ecology and
Evolution, Princeton University, NEW JERSEY, USA
- Augosthinho Antunes: CIMAR, Centro Interdisciplinar
de Investiga c ~A$o Marinha e Ambiental, Laboratory of
Ecotoxicology, Genomics and Evolution, University of
Porto, PORTUGAL
- Alfred Roca: Associate Professor, Department of Ani-
mal Sciences,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlDebrecen Hungary
SexRolesAdultSexRatios Apr15-17
Workshop: Sex roles and adult sex ratios
15-17 April, 2016, University of Debrecen, Debrecen,
Hungary
Sexual selection, mating systems, parental care and sex
roles attract considerable interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy, behavioural ecology and beyond. One of core ideas
is that the environment imposes specic pressures that
select for particular breeding system, mating behaviour
and patterns of parental care. Recent works are shifting
the emphasis from the abiotic environment to the social
environment, of which an important indicator is the
adult sex ratio (ASR). ASR varies widely in nature,
and understanding the causes and consequences of this
variation is an important goal because ASR impacts
behaviour and reproduction, and ultimately population
tness. The causes and implications of ASR variation
in wild populations, however, remain obscure. The ob-
jectives of this workshop are to overview recent studies
in sex roles and sex ratios, and to evaluate the use of
phylogenetic comparative methods for the analyses of
sex roles and sex ratios. This workshop will be relevant
to postgraduate students, young scientists and estab-
lished scholars with an interest in evolutionary biology,
behavioural ecology and population demography.
Conrmed invited speakers will include Professor Robert
Freckleton, University of Sheeld, UK Professor Jan
Komdeur, University of Groningen, The Netherlands Dr
Vladimir Remes, Palacky University, Czech Republic
Professor Zolt an Varga, University of Debrecen, Hun-
gary Professor Tam as Sz ekely, University of Bath, UK
Dr Veronika B okony, MTA Plant Protection Institute,
Hungary Dr L aszl o Zsolt Garamszegi, Do nana Biological
Station, Spain
The Workshop will start on Friday (15 April), and con-
tinue all day Saturday (16 April). For Sunday (17 April)
we plan a full-day excursion to Hortob agy National Park,
a UNESCO World Heritage site.
For further details on University of Debrecen, please
see https://www.unideb.hu/portal/en Information on
the city of Debrecen can be found at http://-
eng.debrecen.hu/ Information on Hortob agy National
Park can be found at https://www.hnp.hu/en Work-
shop organizers: Dr Bal azs V agi, University of DebrecenMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 117
Dr Zsolt V egv ari, University of Debrecen and Hortob agy
National Park Professor Andr as Liker, University of
Pannonia
In addition to the presentations by invited speakers, we
will accept a limited number of contributed talks.
The conference will be held at Life Science Build-
ing of University of Debrecen. There is no regis-
tration fee. Attendees are expected to book their
own accommodation (for accommodation, see https://-
revngo.com/kossuth-kollegiumok-debrecen (on campus);
www.campushotel.hu; or visit www.booking.com). The
prices vary between 10 EUR and 50 EUR per night
per person. Meals will be at the university Canteen on
campus (approx.10 EUR per meal).
Application deadline: Friday 11 March 2016 Applica-
tions (max 5 pages that may include a CV, motivation
letter and the title and abstract of the proposed contri-
bution) should be emailed as a single PDF to Dr Bal azs
V agi (bi.vagi@gmail.com)
Bal azs V agi, PhD research fellow Department
of Evolutionary Zoology, University of Debre-
cen, Debrecen, Egyetem ter 1., 4032, Hun-
gary Phone: +36 52 316 666 ext. 62356
<%2B36%2052%20316%20666%20ext.%2062334 >
jFax: +36 52 512 941
bi.vagi@gmail.com
Faro Portugal StatisticalGenetics
BruceWeir
ADVERTISEMENT WEBSITE: http://-
att.ccmar.ualg.pt/statistical genetics 2016 WORK-
SHOP IN STATISTICAL GENETICS - taught by
BRUCE WEIR - Professor of Biostatistics, and
Director of the Institute of Public Health Genetics
at the University of Washington. Bruce Weir is
the author of the textbook \Genetic Data Analysis"
(3rd edition in preparation) and he has directed
the Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics since
1996. http://www.gs.washington.edu/faculty/weir.htm,
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=-
Bruce+Weir DESCRIPTION: A unied treatment
for the analysis of discrete genetic data, starting with
estimates and sample variances of allele frequencies to
illustrate genetic vs statistical sampling and Bayesian
approaches. A detailed look at Hardy-Weinberg and
linkage disequilibrium, including the use of exact testswith mid-p-values and a new look at X-chromosome
Hardy-Weinberg testing. A new characterization
of population structure with F-statistics, based on
allelic matching within and between populations with
individual relationship estimation as a special case.
Analyses illustrated with applications to forensic science
and association mapping, with particular reference to
rare variants.
VENUE: Centre of Marine Sciences, University of the
Algarve, Faro, Portugal. http://ccmar.ualg.pt - Google
maps: https://goo.gl/cM78fp
DATE: 8th-9th September 2016
FORMAT: 2-day workshop, lectures and hands-on prac-
tical sessions (attendees will need to bring laptops). The
course is equivalent to 3 European ECTS credits.
INTENDED AUDIENCE: PhD students, post-doctoral
and advanced researchers (but no formal restriction)
REGISTRATION FEE: 240 euro
Registration does not include travel and lodging. Faro
has an international airport located 4 km from the Gam-
belas Campus of the University of Algarve where the
course will take place.
HOW TO APPLY: Applications in the form of a
CV and motivational letter should be sent tocc-
maratt@ccmar.ualg.pt by 31st March 2016. Applicants
will be selected on merit and successful applicants will
be informed by 10th April 2016.
SCHOLARSHIPS: At least 2 scholarships to cover regis-
tration fees will be awarded to PhD students; applicants
should indicate if they would like to be considered and
must send proof of student status.
ACCOMMODATION: Recommended: Hotel Aeromar
at Faro beach ( http://www.aeromar.net/en) has tem-
porarily reserved (until 31st May) and discounted 8
double rooms, priced 62.5 euro and 80 euro , double
and single occupancy, respectively (mention CCMAR
reservation when booking). Additional accommodation
at the beach and in Faro centre: http://goo.gl/mgG85g.
A minibus service will run between the beach, town
centre, and campus.
CONTACTS: Ester Serr ~A^A$o - Assistant Professor,
UALG/CCMAR - eserrao@ualg.pt Cymon J. Cox - FCT
Coordinating Researcher, CCMAR - cymon@ualg.pt
Advanced Technologies and Training programme
@ CCMAR 2016 ccmaratt@ccmar.ualg.pt,
att.ccmar.ualg.pt/statistical genetics 2016
The Centre of Marine Sciences (Centro de Ci ~A^Ancias
do Mar, CCMAR) is an independent multidisciplinary,
non-prot institute located on the Gambelas cam-118 EvolDir March 1, 2016
pus of the University of the Algarve in Faro with
~250 members and a mission to promote research and
education in the marine sciences. Faro ( http://-
www.algarve-tourist.com/Faro-portugal-guide.html) is
the capital city of the Algarve region of southern Portu-
gal and borders the Ria Formosa National Park (http:/-
/www.formosamar.com/en). The Algarve ( http://-
www.visitalgarve.pt/?idioma=uk) boasts >300 days
of sun per year, stunning beaches and mountain vis-
tas, opportunities for diving, golf, and other sporting
activities, and a unique traditional regional cuisine (esp.
seafood). A variety of optional social activities will be
organised to coincide with the course and special events
can be organised upon request for participants and/or
accompanying persons (diving, surf, stand-up paddle,
windsurf, kayaking, horse-riding, tennis, bird-watching,
nature walks, boat guided tours, shing, etc).
Bruce Weir - Recent Publications:
Zhu ZH, Bakshi1 A, Vinkhuyzen AAE, Hemani G, Lee
SH, Nolte IM, van Vliet-Ostaptchouk JV, Snieder H,
The LifeLines Cohort Study, Esko T, Milani L, M ~A^Agi
R, Metspalu A, Hill WG, Weir BS, Goddard ME, Viss-
cher PM, Yang J. 2015. Dominance genetic variation
contributes little to the missing heritability for human
complex traits. American Journal of Human Genetics
96:377-385.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
FridayHarbor Washington
ComparativeEmbryology
Jun13-Jul15
Applications are open for the Comparative Invertebrate
Embryology course at the Friday Harbor Labs (June
13 - July 15, 2016). *Applications are needed by Feb.
29th*.
It is a great course for anyone interested in the evolution
of development, developmental mechanisms, animal evo-
lution, or the ecology or physiology of early life stages.
The focus of the course is hands-on observation of living
embryos and larvae from over a dozen animal phyla.
The Friday Harbor Labs gives access to an extraordi-
nary variety of organisms from diverse marine habitats,all in a beautiful setting, and provides opportunities to
interact with a broad community of biologists.
We aim to bridge cell and molecular approaches with
ecological and evolutionary approaches to provide an
integrated view of animal development. Depending on
student interests, students may learn techniques such
as: - Spawning and culture of embryos and larvae from
diverse phyla. - Confocal microscopy and SEM - Microin-
jection - Methods for measuring cell/embryo mechanical
properties
Instructors include Dr. Sally Leys and myself. Dr. Leys
is an expert on sponge development and the evolution of
animal body plans. My research focuses on the roles of
biomechanics in development-environment interactions.
We will also have guest lectures from experts on diverse
topics and taxa, including Drs. Brad Shuster, Richard
Strathmann, Sophie George, Tony Pires, and others
TBD.
For the course description, please
see: http://depts.washington.edu/fhl/-
studentSummer2016.html#SumA-2 .
Please share with students who might be interested.
Thank you.
Mickey
mvondass@gmail.com
Hafjel Norway Selection Jun6-10
Dear colleagues,
The Nordic Genetic Resource Center (NordGen) is ar-
ranging a workshop* \Optimal Contribution Selection"*
in Hafjell ( ~Ayer municipality north of Lillehammer),
Norway 6th-10th of June 2016.
The main goals of the workshop are:
- to introduce the theory and implementation of Optimal
Contribution Selection in sustainable management of
breeding and conservation programs
- to promote the independent use of EVA (EVolutionary
Algorithms) software with hands-on exercises
To maximize the learning experience of all participants,
the workshop is divided into two parts. Participants
may choose to register for *both* *or only one* of the
consecutive parts: \*Part I - Introductory"* and \*Part
II - Advanced"*. The maximum number of participantsMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 119
in Part I and Part II are 20 and 25, respectively.
For a more detailed description of the workshop program,
registration and practical information please follow the
link below:
https://sites.google.com/a/nordgen.org/workshop-
optimal-contribution-selection/ Feel free to distribute
this invitation amongst your colleagues and other
institutions.
Best regards
Anne Kettunen
Dr. Anne Kettunen Senior Scientist NordGen - Nordic
Genetic Resource Center P.O. Box 115, NO-1431 ~As,
Norway Street address: Raveien 9, NO-1430 ~As, Nor-
way Phone: +47 9036 5249, mobile: +47 9778 0903
anne.kettunen@nordgen.org www.nordgen.org Anne
Kettunen<anne.kettunen@nordgen.org >
LANGEBIO Mexico Drosophila
May25-28
2016 Drosophila Species Workshop
Applications are being accepted for the 2016 Drosophila
Species Workshop held at LANGEBIO in Guanajuato,
Mexico. Workshop dates are Wednesday, May 25th
- Saturday, May 28th. Please email a one-page sum-
mary of research interests to Maxi Richmond (mrich-
mond@ucsd.edu) by March 20th, 2016. Registration is
$350 and will include workshop materials and several
meals. The registration fee does not include lodging or
airfare.
The main goal of the workshop is to teach participants
how to incorporate non-melanogaster Drosophila species
into their research program. Participants are introduced
to Drosophila systematics, rearing and husbandry tech-
niques, how to design and conduct mating experiments,
how to collect ies from wild populations, and analysis
of polytene chromosomes. In addition, workshop par-
ticipants learn the key morphological traits necessary
for identifying Drosophila species, and work in depth
with the D. melanogaster, D. obscura, and D. repleta
species groups along with instructors that specialize in
each of these groups to facilitate the process of keying
out specimens.
Workshop participants include domestic and interna-
tional Drosophila researchers that use a variety of tech-
niques pertaining to studies in genomics, proteomics,systems biology, microbial genetics, developmental biol-
ogy, chromosome biology, and ecological genetics.
More information: https://stockcenter.ucsd.edu/info/-
workshops Please email Maxi Richmond (mrich-
mond@ucsd.edu) with any questions.
Maxi Polihronakis Richmond <mrichmond@ucsd.edu >
MalhamTarn Yorkshire UsingR
May2-6
\Advancing in Statistical Modelling using R" We have a
limited number of places left for this popular course.
http://prstatistics.com/course/advancing-in-statistical-
modelling-using-r-advr/ Delivered by Dr. Luc Bussiere
and Dr. Tom Houslay
This course will run from 2 ^nd - 6 ^th May 2016 at
Malhamtarn Field Station, North Yorkshire, England
This is an introduction to model selection and simpli-
cation, mixed eects models, generalised linear models
and non-linear models.
The course is aimed at biologists with a basic to mod-
erate knowledge in R. The course content is designed
to bridge the gap between basic R coding and more
advanced statistical modelling. This ve day course will
consist of series of modules, each lasting roughly half a
day and comprised of lectures and practicals designed to
either build required skills for future modules or to per-
form a family of analyses that is frequently encountered
in the biological literature.
Course content is as follows
Day 1 Course introduction
Techniques for data manipulation, aggregation, and vi-
sualisation; introduction to linear regression. Packages:
ftidyrg,fdplyrg,fggplot2g
Day 2 Linear models
Diagnostics, collinearity, scaling, plotting tted values);
tting and interpreting interaction terms; model se-
lection and simplication; general linear models and
ANCOVA.
Packages:fstatsg,fcarg
Day 3 Generalized linear models
Logistic and Poisson regression; predicting using model
objects and visualizing model ts.120 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Packages:fbroomg,fvisregg,fggplot2g
Day 4 Mixed eects models
Theory and practice of mixed eect models; visualising
xed and random eects.
Packages:flme4g,fbroomg,fggplot2g,fsjPlotg
Day 5 Fitting nonlinear functions
Polynomial & Mechanistic models; brief introduction
to more advanced topics & combining methods (e.g.,
generalised linear mixed eects, nonlinear mixed eects,
and zero-inated and zero-altered models)
Packages:fnlsToolsg
Afternoon to discuss own data if time permits
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Upcoming courses - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGIC AL DATA US-
ING R (April)
TIMES SERIES DATA ANALYSIS FOR ECOLO-
GISTS AND CLIMATOLOGISTS (May)
INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS
(May)
ADVANCES IN DNA TAXONOMY USING R (August)
GENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R (August)
INTRODUCTION TO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL
MODELLING (August)
MODEL BASED MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R (October)
LANDSCAPE (POPULATION) GENETIC DATA
ANALYSIS USING R (October)
APPLIED BAYESIAN MODELLING FOR ECOLO-
GISTS AND EPIDEMIOLOGISTS (October)
Dates still to be conrmed - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR,
SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R
INTRODUCTION TO R AND STATISTICS FOR BI-
OLOGISTS
PHYLOGENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R
BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOL-
OGISTS
Oliver HookerPR Statistics
\oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk"
<oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk >
NorthCarolinaStateU
QuantitativeBiol Jun19-24
2016 National Academies Special Topics Summer Insti-
tute on Quantitative Biology
Lowering the Activation Energy: Making Quantitative
Biology More Accessible
June 19-24, 2016
North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Biology requires a rapidly expanding set of quantita-
tive skills including data analysis, statistics, modeling,
computational reasoning, and visualization. If you are
interested in developing your biology students' quanti-
tative skills, this is the summer workshop for you!
In partnership with the National Academies Summer
Institutes, the Quantitative Biology Summer Institute
(QB SI) is presented by BioQUEST, Science Case Net
and QUBES. This will be a working meeting during
which participants will learn about and use evidence-
based teaching strategies such as backward design, active
learning, and assessment, as well as methods such as
cases and modeling. Hands on sessions at the institute
will focus on resources and methods to address the spe-
cial challenges associated with teaching quantitative bi-
ology. The workshop is developed by BioQUEST, which
celebrates 30 years of leadership in biology education
reform in 2016, and Science Case Network, which brings
expertise on using case based pedagogies. The QUBES
project will support ongoing collaborations among par-
ticipants.
We invite applications from individuals and teams at
two and four year institutions. Participants from all
STEM elds are welcome. As indicated on the applica-
tion, participants are expected to work collaboratively
after the meeting and implement a module or method in
their classes during the 2016-2017 academic year. More
information and the application for the Quantitative
Biology Summer Institute are available at: https://-
qubeshub.org/groups/summer2016 Review of applica-
tions will begin March 28 and applicants will be notied
regarding their status of their application by April 4.
Please contact the organizers with any questions:March 1, 2016 EvolDir 121
Kristin Jenkins, BioQUEST
(kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org), Pat Marsteller, Science
Case Net (pmars@emory.edu), Sam Donovan, QUBES
(sdonovan@pitt.edu)
Kristin Jenkins <kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org >
Rosco
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
Jun13-24
Summer course on marine genomics at the Marine Bio-
logical Station of Rosco (F)
First announcement
>From June 13th ^- June 24th, 2016
the 12 ^th Summer Course on Marine Ecological & Evo-
lutionary Genomics
takes place at the Station Biologique de Rosco, Rosco,
France.
Aims:
Genomic knowledge is crucial for understanding the ma-
rine environment and for an ecient use of its resources.
State of the art NGS methods have revolutionized the
eld, spawning applications in basic research and en-
vironmental management. The course will give insight
into population, environmental, biodiversity, compar-
ative, evolutionary and functional genomics through
lectures, case studies and computer labs. It takes place
at the Biological Station, a vibrant research community
of 273 scientists and support personnel, located in the
old town and shing port of Rosco, Brittany, France.
The course includes lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises on the following topics.
- Genomics - next generation sequencing, database
searching, basic skills in data handling and bioinfor-
matics
- Population genomics - diversity, structure, connectiv-
ity and gene ow, assignment, eective population size,
population dynamics, adaptive variation, genotyping by
sequencing
- Environmental genomics - environment - genome in-
teractions, ecogenomics and metagenetics
- Functional genomics - genome structure, molecular
evolution at the functional level, genomic architecture,
functional networks- Comparative genomics - whole genome comparisons,
concatenated phylogenies, genome organization, anno-
tating genomic information, co-evolution
- metagenomics
The course covers all aspects of life in the ocean.
Target group:
PhD students (at least in their second year) and junior
postdocs with a solid knowledge in phylogenetics and/or
population genetics.
18 participants will be selected on the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project
2. Background and experience
3. We aim at training people with dierent research
backgrounds; not more than one person per institute
will be considered. We implement a gender policy.
The selected persons will be notied by March 25th and
will have to conrm attendance within 7 days. There is
a waiting list in case of non-conrmations and cancella-
tions.
Teaching sta :
Jonas Coll ~A^Acn, SB-Rosco, FR
Simon Creer, Univ. Bangor, UK
Yves Desdevises, OO-Banyuls, FR
Jakob Hemmer-Hansen, DTU-Aqua, DK
Erica Leder, Univ. Turku, Fi
Fr~A^Acd~A^Acric Partensky, SB-Rosco, FR
Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco, FR
Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
Mathias Wegner, AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee
Jonas Coll ~A^Acn, SB-Rosco, FR
Damien Guiant, SB-Rosco, FR
Matthias Obst, Univ. Gothenburg, SE
Sarah Bourlat, Univ. Gothenburg, SE
Nic Blouin, Univ. Rhode Island, USA
Nathalie Turque, EMBRC-France, FR
Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco, FR
Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
For information, a yer and application please check
http://meeg2016.sciencesconf.org . The application
deadline is March 10 2016.122 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Filip Volckaert <lip.volckaert@kuleuven.be >
SanJuan PR
PhylogeneticComparativeMethods
Jun28-Jul1
The following is an announcement for a workshop we
will oer on phylogenetic comparative methods in San
Juan, Puerto Rico from June 28 - July 1, 2016. The
course is free of cost, and there are various stipends to
partially or fully cover travel and lodging expenses. A
Spanish version of the announcement can also be seen
below.
El siguiente es un anuncio por un taller sobre m etodos
comparativos logen eticos que ofreceremos en San Juan,
Puerto Rico desde el 28 de junio hasta el 1 de julio,
2016. El curso es libre de costos, y hay varios estipen-
dios disponibles para minimizar o cubrir los gastos de
viaje y alojamiento en San Juan. Versi on en espa nol
abajo.
|{
Intensive short course on macroevolution and phyloge-
netic comparative methods in R
We are pleased to announce a new graduate-level in-
tensive short course on the use of R for phylogenetic
comparative analysis and downstream implementation
in macroevolutionary studies. The course will be four
days in length and will take place at the Hyatt House Ho-
tel of San Juan from the 28th of June to the 1st of July,
2016. This course is partially funded by the National
Science Foundation, with additional support from the
University of Massachusetts Boston and the University
of Puerto Rico, R o Piedras. There are a number of full
stipends available to cover the cost of travel, room and
board for qualied students and post-docs. Applicants
are welcome from any country; however, we expect that
most admitted students will come from the Caribbean
region and Latin America. Accepted students from fur-
ther aeld may be oered only partial funding for their
travel expenses. Topics covered will include: an intro-
duction to the R scientic computing environment, tree
manipulation, independent contrasts and phylogenetic
generalized least squares, ancestral state reconstruction,
models of character evolution, diversication analysis,
and visualization methods for phylogenies and compar-
ative data. Course instructors will include Dr. Liam
Revell (University of Massachusetts Boston), Dr. LukeHarmon (University of Idaho), Dr. Mike Alfaro (Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles), and Dr. Ricardo
Betancur (University of Puerto Rico).
Instruction in the course will be primarily in English;
however some of the instructors and TAs of the course
are competent or uent in Spanish and English. Discus-
sion, exercises, and activities will be conducted in both
languages.
To apply for the course, please submit your CV along
with a short (1 page) description of your research in-
terests, background, and reasons for taking the course.
Admission is competitive, and preference will go to-
wards students with background in phylogenetics and
a compelling motivation for taking the course. In your
application please indicate your preferred travel airport,
if appropriate. Applications should be submitted by
email to pr.phylogenetics.course@gmail.com by April
1st, 2016. Applications may be written in English or
Spanish; however all students must have a basic work-
ing knowledge of scientic English. Questions can be
directed to liam.revell@umb.edu.
|{
Curso de macroevoluci on y uso de m etodos logen eticos
comparativos en R
Nos complace anunciar un nuevo curso intensivo tipo
taller para estudiantes graduados/posgrado sobre el uso
de R en m etodos logen eticos comparativos con enfoque
a estudios sobre macroevoluci on. El curso tendr a una
duraci on de cuatro d as y se llevar a a cabo en el Hyatt
House Hotel de San Juan, Puerto Rico, entre el 28 de
junio y el 1 de julio de 2016. Este curso estar a parcial-
mente nanciado por la National Science Foundation
(Estados Unidos), con apoyo adicional de University
of Massachusetts Boston y la Universidad de Puerto
Rico, R o Piedras. Hay varios estipendios completos
disponibles para cubrir los costos de tiquetes de avi on y
alojamiento para estudiantes e investigadores postdoc-
torales calicados. Solicitudes de cualquier pa s ser an
recibidas; sin embargo, anticipamos que la mayor a de
los estudiantes admitidos ser an de la regi on Caribe y
otros pa ses latinoamericanos. Estudiantes provenientes
de pa ses m as lejanos que resulten elegidos tendr an la
posibilidad de recibir ~Aonicamente apoyo parcial para
costear sus gastos del viaje. Los temas que ser an dis-
cutidos en el curso incluyen: una introducci on al am-
biente computacional en R, manipulaci on de  arboles
logen eticos, m nimos cuadrados generalizados en un
contexto logen etico, reconstrucciones de estados ances-
trales, modelos de evoluci on, an alisis de diversicaci on
logen etica, y visualizaci on de logenias y datos com-
parativos. Los instructores del curso ser an: Dr. Liam
Revell (University of Massachusetts Boston), Dr. LukeMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 123
Harmon (University of Idaho), Dr. Mike
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SCENE Glasgow
TimeSeriesDataModelling May10-13
\Time Series Models for Ecologists and Climatologists"
http://prstatistics.com/course/time-series-models-for-
ecologists-and-c limatologist/
There are still some places left on this new course suited
to many types of Ecology, Evolutionary and Climatology
data
Delivered by Dr. Andrew Parnell and Dr. Doug McNeall
This course will run from 10th - 13th May 2016 at
SCENE Field Station, Loch Lomond national park, Scot-
land
This course will cover model-based time series analysis
with a particular focus on applications in ecology and
climatology. All methods will be illustrated using the
free, open-source software package R. Time Series data
are ubiquitous in the physical sciences, and models for
their behaviour enable scientists to understand temporal
dynamics and predict future values.
Participants will be taught a wide range of suitable time
series models for both discrete and continuous time
systems. The course takes a foundational Bayesian ap-
proach, which will enable participants to have a deeper
understanding of the models being tted, and to esti-
mate all unknown quantities with uncertainty. Partici-
pants are encouraged to bring their own data sets for
discussion with the course tutors.
Course content is as follows
Day 1 Basic concepts
Class 1: Introduction; some example time series datasets;
prediction vs explanation
Class 2: An introduction to Bayesian Statistics.
Class 3: The AR(1) model
Practical: revision on using R to load data, create plots
and t statistical modelsRound table discussion: understanding the output from
a Bayesian model
Day 2 Arima modelling
Class 1: ARMA models for real data
Class 2: ARIMA and sARIMA modelling
Practical: An introduction to the Bayesian modelling
language JAGS
Round table discussion: understanding and running a
JAGS model
Day 3 Continuous Time Series Modelling
Class 1: Brownian Motion and its application to real
data sets
Class 2: An introduction to Stochastic Volatility Mod-
elling
Practical: Fitting continuous time models in JAGS
Round table discussion: Issues of continuous vs discrete
time
Day 4 Advanced Times Series Models
Class 1: Multivariate models
Class 2: Fractional dierencing and models using dier-
ential equations
Practical: Running advanced models in JAGS
Round table discussion: Bring your own data set
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Upcoming courses - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGIC AL DATA US-
ING R (April)
ADVANCING IN STATISTICAL MODELLING US-
ING R (May)
INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS
(May)
ADVANCES IN SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF MULTI-
VARIATE ECOLOGICAL DATA (July)
ADVANCES IN DNA TAXONOMY USING R (August)
GENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R (August)
INTRODUCTION TO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL
MODELLING (August)
MODEL BASED MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R (October)124 EvolDir March 1, 2016
LANDSCAPE (POPULATION) GENETIC DATA
ANALYSIS USING R (October)
APPLIED BAYESIAN MODELLING FOR ECOLO-
GISTS AND EPIDEMIOLOGISTS (October)
Dates still to be conrmed - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR,
SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R
INTRODUCTION TO R AND STATISTICS FOR BI-
OLOGISTS
PHYLOGENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R
BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOL-
OGISTS
Oliver Hooker
PR Statistics
Oliver Hooker
PR~Statistics
\oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk"
<oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk >
Stockholm
AncientEnvironmentalDNA Mar10
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the SciLifeLab mini-symposium:
Ancient Environmental DNA.
This mini-symposium will be held in Stockholm on
March 10 and bring together scientists interested in
the eld of ancient environmental DNA and will pro-
vide an opportunity to present new results and discuss
current ideas and techniques for the analysis of DNA
data from ancient settings.
Conrmed keynote speakers are Inger Greve Alsos, Uni-
versity of Troms ~A, Francesco Ficetola, University of
Grenoble-Alpes and Mikkel Winter Pedersen, Univer-
sity of Copenhagen.
For additional information and registration go
to: https://www.scilifelab.se/events/scilifelab-mini-
symposium-ancient-envi ronmental-dna/
Best regards,
Laura Parducci (laura.parducci@ebc.uu.se)Switzerland TamingTheBeast
Jun26-Jul1
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce our summer school \Tam-
ing the BEAST" and would kindly ask you to forward
this email to interested students and PostDocs. We
apologize if you receive this email more than once. Phy-
logenetics and phylodynamics are central topics in mod-
ern biology. Phylogenetic inferences reconstruct the
evolutionary relationships between organisms, whereas
phylodynamic inferences reveal the dynamics that lead
to the observed relationships. These two elds have
many practical applications in disciplines such as epi-
demiology, developmental biology, paleontology, ecology
and even linguistics. However, phylogenetics and phylo-
dynamics are complex and fast-evolving elds. As such,
inference tools are not easily accessible to researchers
who are not from a computational background.
Taming the BEAST is a summer school focusing on
the BEAST2 software and consisting of a mix of in-
vited talks, lectures and hands-on tutorials by leading
and renowned experts in the eld (including several
of the core developers of BEAST2). The aim of this
summer school is to equip participants with the skills
necessary to condently perform their own phylogenetic
and phylodynamic inferences in Bayesian settings, while
providing them with a rm grasp of the theory behind
those inferences. Participants are also highly encouraged
to bring their own datasets along and to engage with
the organizers and speakers to address any problems
specic to their own datasets/analyses. Registration
is now open! We welcome applications from graduate
students and early-career scientists in the life sciences.
Preference will be given to applicants who are not from
a computational background and applicants who have
already collected/assembled a dataset that they need to
analyze.
Invited speakers:
Tanja Stadler (ETH Zurich)
Alexei Drummond (University of Auckland)
Tracy Heath (Iowa State University)
Tim Vaughan (University of Auckland)
Oliver Pybus (University of Oxford)
Dates: June 26th to July 1st (Registration deadline:March 1, 2016 EvolDir 125
March 15th).
Place: Engelberg, Switzerland
Registration Fee: 650 CHF for students and postdocs,
1000 CHF for industry. (Registration fee includes ac-
commodation and meals).
For more information regarding the program, registra-
tion, venue, etc, please visit the summer school website:
https://www.bsse.ethz.ch/cevo/taming-the-beast.html
We hope to see you there, the Taming the BEAST
organizing team
Best regards, Venelin Mitov Department of Biosystems
Science & Engineering Mattenstrasse 26 4058 Basel
Switzerland Email: venelin.mitov@bsse.ethz.ch Phone:
+41 61 38 73411 Oce: 7.48
Mitov Venelin <venelin.mitov@bsse.ethz.ch >
Toulouse Evolution May30-31
Dear colleagues,
We are delighted to invite you to the 4th Toulouse Eco-
nomics and Biology Workshop, which will take place on
May 30-31, 2016.
The theme is \Evolution: transmission mechanisms and
population structure", and we are thrilled to welcome
the following speakers (titles and summaries coming
soon):
Yann Algan <http://econ.sciences-po.fr/sta/yann-
algan/>, Sciences Po, Paris Carl Bergstrom <http://-
octavia.zoology.washington.edu/ >, University of Wash-
ington Alberto Bisin <http://www.econ.nyu.edu/user/-
bisina/>, New York University Jean Clobert <http:/-
/www.ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr/spip.php?article26 >, Sta-
tion d'Ecologie Th eorique et Exp erimentale du CNRS  a
Moulis Gabriella Conti <http://gabriellaconti.org/ >,
University College London Mats Gyllenberg <http://-
www.helsinki./ ~mgyllenb/ >, University of Helsinki
Barry Hewlett <http://anthro.vancouver.wsu.edu/-
faculty/hewlett/ >, Washington State University, Van-
couver Sarah Mathew <http://www.sarahmathew.net/
>, Arizona State University, Tempe Hisashi Ohtsuki
<http://bio-math10.biology.kyushu-u.ac.jp/ ~ohtsuki/-
index e.html>, The Graduate University for Ad-
vanced Studies, Hayama David Queller <https://-
wubio.wustl.edu/Queller >, Washington University, St
Louis Paul Seabright <http://paulseabright.com/ >,
Institute for Advanced Study in Toulouse, ToulouseSchool of Economics Joan Strassman <https://-
wubio.wustl.edu/Strassmann >, Washington University,
St Louis
Besides the plenary sessions, there will be a poster ses-
sion for post-docs and Ph.D. students. Submissions (ab-
stract + C.V.) should be sent to econbio poster@iast.fr
no later than March 31, 2016. A limited number of
travel grants will be available. To apply, please join
a cover letter explaining why you are applying for a
grant and why you are interested in attending to the
workshop.
The workshop will take place at the Institute for Ad-
vanced Study in Toulouse, Manufacture des Tabacs, 21
All ee de Brienne, 31015 Toulouse, France.
Registration will open in the beginning of March at:
http://www.iast.fr/conference/4th-toulouse-economics-
and-biology-workshop We look forward to welcoming
you!
Organizers: Ingela Alger and J orgen Weibull Co-
organizers: Jeanne Bovet and Arnaud Tognetti
The Toulouse Economics and Biology Workshop
<econbio@iast.fr >
UBirmingham
EnvironmentalGenomics Mar6-11
NERC-MDIBL Environmental Genomics and
Metabolomics Course, 2016
Online Registration Site: www.birmingham.ac.uk/-
EnGen Date: March 6-11, 2016
Location: The University of Birmingham, UK
Number of Places: up to 50
Participation: Open to everyone.
Priority is given to NERC-funded PhD students and
early-career scientists.
Bursaries are available covering registration fee. Please
send email to J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk to inquire
about eligibility.
Costs for Non-NERC Funded Researchers: Standard
$2340.
Course Leaders: John Colbourne, Joseph Shaw, Xin
Zhou and Ben Brown (for genomics). Mark Viant and
Warwick Dunn plus sta from the NERC Biomolecu-
lar Analysis Facility and Birmingham Metabolomics126 EvolDir March 1, 2016
Training Facility (for metabolomics).
Research Organisations Involved: University of Birm-
ingham (UK), BGI China National GeneBank (Shen-
zhen, China), Mount Desert Island Biological Labora-
tory (USA)
Online Registration Site: www.birmingham.ac.uk/-
EnGen DESCRIPTION This training opportunity is the
third European/UK installment of a successful annual
course originating from Mount Desert Island Biological
Laboratory. The curriculum is expanded to highlight a
multi-omics (system biology) approach to research in en-
vironmental sciences. It trains PhD students and early
career postdoctoral scientists to investigate how gene
function and metabolism are inuenced by environmen-
tal conditions while accounting for variation that exists
within and among natural populations. The course is
built on the paradigm that this multidisciplinary re-
search eld encompassing ecology, evolution, toxicology,
biostatistics and informatics will most eectively grow
by training early career environmental scientists to prop-
erly design comprehensive, large-scale, Next Generation
Sequencing and Metabolomics experiments enabled by
drastically increased sample-throughput and lower costs.
Most importantly, the challenges of manipulating and
analysing population-level omics (big) data must be
addressed.
The course provides a signicant introduction and much
hands-on training experience so that participants can
initiate their own environmental omics study and net-
work with others in the eld to launch Environmental
Scientist careers in academia and industry. Case studies
using multi-omics data sets collected at the University of
Birmingham will be provided so that you can gain prac-
tical experience of analysing and integrating multi-omics
data.
Course Details The course will include ~1.5 days of
generic environmental omics training and ~3.5 days of
specialised genomics or metabolomics training (parallel
tracks).
The combined sessions will include: * Overviews of
environmental genomics and metabolomics * Practi-
cal experience of analysing and integrating multi-omics
data * Synthesis sessions to obtaining grant funding *
Question and answer sessions with a panel of experts
The genomics track includes: * Library construction
methods and QC * Introduction to automation sys-
tems and sequence data workow * Software solutions
for sequence workows and their application in envi-
ronmental research * RNA-seq alignment * Statistical
considerations for analysing genome-scale data * Prac-
tical experience in applying open-source analysis toolsto visualise complex sequence data and explore genome
sequence variation, analyse Tuxedo output and perform
gene set enrichment analysis * Synthesis sessions to ex-
plore using the most appropriate model organism and
maximising outputs from your sequence data
The metabolomics track includes: * Experimental design
* Quality assurance and quality control in metabolomics
* Hands-on sample preparation * Analytical technologies
including mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy *
Data processing, including LC-MS and SIMS stitching
procedures * Univariate and multivariate data analysis
approaches * Metabolite identication
Evening Lecture Series Distinguished visiting academics
will provide keynote lectures on each day of the course
to highlight environmental omic applications that draw
on the expertise of our guest faculty.
Daphnia is used for training because of its growing use
as a model system in the environmental sciences and for
improving environmental health protection, yet the skills
learned during the course will be applicable to all study
systems with maturing genomics and metabolomics re-
sources.
j.k.colbourne@bham.ac.uk
UMichigan Biostation
PlantSystematics Summer
Study the Field Botany of Northern Michigan with
two renowned botanists this summer at the University
of Michigan Biological Station (UMBS). We welcome
back Dr. Charles Davis and Dr. Anton Reznicek as
co-instructors for the class.
Dr. Davis is Curator of Vascular Plants in the Harvard
University Herbaria and Professor of Organismic and
Evolutionary Biology at Harvard. Dr. Anton Reznicek is
Curator of Vascular Plants at the University of Michigan
Herbarium and a Research Scientist at the University
of Michigan.
Davis is a world expert on the parasitic (and remarkably
bloomed) plant family Raesiaceae. Reznicek is an in-
ternationally recognized expert on sedges, especially the
genus Carex. Both worked alongside legendary botanist,
UMBS instructor and Michigan Flora author Edward G.
Voss. Reznicek co-authored Field Manual of Michigan
Flora with Voss.
Field Botany is a graduate-level course, but weMarch 1, 2016 EvolDir 127
invite advanced undergraduates to enroll as
well. Course information is available at http:/-
/www.lsa.umich.edu/umbs/students/courses/-
eldbotanyofnorthernmichiganeeb556 ci .
The University of Michigan Biological Station is one of
the premier inland eld stations of North America. We
are located on Douglas Lake, near Pellston, Michigan
at the tip of Michigan's lower peninsula. The Station
is situated in the heart of the Great Lakes, with 3 of
the lakes within 30-90 minutes' drive. We are also near
many unique and sensitive habitats including dunes,
alvar, bogs, marshes and old-growth forest.
For more information, please visit our website
(lsa.umich.edu/umbs/) or call the oce: 734-763-4461.
{ Alicia Farmer, Communications Coordinator University
of Michigan Biological Station 734-764-5212
www.lsa.umich.edu/umbs/ Alicia Farmer
<farmeral@umich.edu >
UParis Diderot LociOfEvolution
Sep5-7
The Loci of Evolution Meta-Analysis Workshop 2016
September 5, 9am - September 7, 5pm Universit?? Paris
Diderot - Paris 7, France
\To collect and codify the fact of variation is the rst
duty of the naturalist [???] ; we need a compact cata-
logue of the known facts, a list which shall contain as
far as possible all cases of variation observed " - William
Bateson (1894)
Gephebase is an online database scheduled for public
release in Fall 2016 that will integrate our current knowl-
edge of genotype-phenotype relationships in a time of
accelerated discovery (GWAS, QTL mapping, reverse
genetics). The rst version will include no less than 1500
entries, forming an extensive catalogue of the empirical
studies that have associated genetic changes to specic
phenotypic variations in Eukaryotes.
We are inviting 20 researchers working on dierent
aspects of genetic evolution to join us in Paris next
September, and kick-start a community eort on the
meta-analysis of the so-called Loci of Evolution. The
rst day will consist in a presentation of Gephebase con-
tents, and its general potential for meta-analysis. On
the second and third day, we will have small discussion
groups with the overarching goal of cross-pollinatingopinions and initiate the writing of collaborative reviews.
Participants are encouraged to come to the Workshop
with a research question in mind. Here are a few possi-
bilities:
- Trait-centered themes: Domestication; Reproductive
Isolation; Innate Immunity, Morphological Patterns ;
Xenobiotic Resistance; Behavior; Adaptation to Ex-
treme Environments???
- Concept-centered themes: Micro- vs. Macro-evolution;
Convergence: mutations in the same vs. dierent genes;
Lateral transfers and Ancestral polymorphisms; Epis-
tasis and complex genetic architectures; Mutational
Biases; Optimal Pleiotropy and Mutational Target Size;
Structural, regulatory and coding evolution; Balancing
selection Vs. Mutation-selection balance; Eects of pop-
ulation size; Loss vs. Gain of function in evolution???
We are looking forward to meeting you and synergizing
our eorts to synthetize genetic knowledge. This is an
exciting time for evolutionary genetics!
No registration fee, meals and refreshments oered, lodg-
ing and travel in charge of the attendants (participants
who need assistance to cover these costs are welcome
to contact us). Graduate students, post-doctoral re-
searchers and permanent researchers are encouraged to
apply before April 15th 2016.
Please contact Dr. Arnaud Martin (arnaud@gwu.edu)
for applying or more information.
Dr. Virginie Orgogozo
virginie.orgogozo@ijm.fr
Directrice de Recherche CNRS ???
Institut Jacques Monod (Paris, France)
Dr. Arnaud Martin arnaud@gwu.edu Assistant Pro-
fessor, Department of Biological Sciences ??? George
Washington University (Washington, DC)
Arnaud Martin, Ph.D. Assistant Professor The George
Washington University Department of Biological Sci-
ences Mail: 800 22nd St. NW, Suite 6000 Washington,
D.C. 20052 USA Oce: SEH 6520 ; Lab: SEH 6480a
Phone: 202-994-2384 Cell: 949-302-3296 Google Scholar
@evolvwing
Arnaud Martin <arnaud@email.gwu.edu >128 EvolDir March 1, 2016
USheeld UK PopulationGenomics
Mar21-23
POPULATION GENOMICS WORKSHOP
March 21st-23rd 2016 University of Sheeld, UK
This course will be held at the NERC Biomolecular
Analysis Facility at the University of Sheeld and intro-
duce participants to a variety of population genomics
analyses for large next generation sequencing (NGS)
datasets. It will include discussion on single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) calling and ltering options, an
introduction to population genomics statistics using the
PopGenome R package, examining genetic structure,
Fst-based analyses such as outlier detection/genomic
islands of divergence and genome-wide association anal-
ysis (GWAS).
The majority of the course will comprise practical com-
puter sessions, giving participants hands-on experience
in these analyses. We will perform these on the high
performance computing cluster at Sheeld and comput-
ers will be provided. No prior experience is required,
but familiarity with the Linux environment and basic
command line tools would be advantageous (the course
will include a short introduction/refresher to Linux).
There is no charge for the course, and successful ap-
plicants will be provided with accommodation for two
nights and up to ^A$100 towards travel costs to Sheeld.
The application closing deadline is at 5pm on Friday
26th February.
Further details and how to apply can be found at: http:/-
/www.sheeld.ac.uk/nbaf-s/courses/popgen <https:/-
/www.sheeld.ac.uk/nbaf-s/courses >
{ Dr Helen Hipperson
Data Analyst NERC Biomolecular Analysis
Facility - Sheeld http://www.shef.ac.uk/-
nbaf-s/home https://www.facebook.com/-
nbafsheeld \h.hipperson@sheeld.ac.uk"
<h.hipperson@sheeld.ac.uk >USouthernMaine
ToolsForTreeOfLife Jul7-8
NEXT GENERATION PHENOMICS Tools for the Tree
of Life Workshop
July 7 and 8, 2016 Abromson Community Education
Center University of Southern Maine Portland, Maine
A workshop to showcase and further collaborate on new
web based programs developed for scientists, educators
and students to collect phenomic information for as-
sembling and annotating the Tree of Life. Publically
available tools focused on natural language processing,
computer vision and crowd sourcing.
For details about the workshop and registration, please
go to https://cms.usm.maine.edu/bio/ngp . Dr. Lisa
Moore Professor Department of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Southern Maine Portland, ME 04103 oce:
Science bldg, room 476B, C wing oce phone: 207-780-
4261 email contact: lrmoore@maine.edu
Lisa Moore <lrmoore@maine.edu >
Volterra Italy SystemsBiol Jul8-14
* Our sincere apologies if you receive multiple copies of
this announcement * 3rd International Synthetic and
Systems Biology Summer School - SSBSS 2016, 8-14
July 2016, Volterra (Pisa) - Tuscany, Italy
ssbss.school@gmail.com http://www.taosciences.it/-
ssbss/ https://www.facebook.com/ssbss.school/ The
Synthetic and Systems Biology Summer School (SSBSS)
is a full-immersion ve-day residential summer school
at the Volterra Learning Center (Pisa - Tuscany, Italy)
on cutting-edge advances in systems and synthetic
biology with lectures delivered by world-renowned
experts. The school provides a stimulating environment
for students (from Master students to PhD students),
Post-Docs, early career researches, academics and
industry leaders. Participants will also have the chance
to present their results (with Oral Talks and Posters),
and to interact with their peers, in a friendly and
constructive environment.March 1, 2016 EvolDir 129
SSBSS 2016 DEADLINES: Application: March 31, 2016
Notication Acceptance: April 10, 2016 Oral Presenta-
tion/Poster Submission: March 31, 2016 Notication of
Decision for Oral/Poster Presentation: April 10, 2016
http://www.taosciences.it/ssbss/#application-form
SPEAKERS * Yaakov (Kobi) Benenson, Synthetic Bi-
ology Group@Department of Biosystems Science and
Engineering, ETH Zurich, Basel, Switzerland Lectures:
TBA
* Leonidas Bleris, Bioengineering Department, The Uni-
versity of Texas at Dallas, USA Lectures: TBA
* Domitilla Del Vecchio, Department of Mechanical En-
gineering, MIT, USA Lectures: TBA
* Diego Di Bernardo, Dept of Chemical Materials and
Industrial Production Engineering University of Naples
\Federico II", Naples, Italy Lecture 1: \Engineering
and Control of Biological Circuits in Yeast" Lecture
2: \Engineering and Control of Biological Circuits in
Mammalian Cells
* J. Gootenberg, Feng Zhang's Group, Department of
Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Harvard Uni-
versity, USA Lectures: TBA
* Markus Herrgard, Technical University of Denmark -
Biosustain, Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Bio-
sustainability, Denmark Lecture 1: "Developing an In-
tegrated Cell Factory Design Tool\ Lecture 2: "Using
Automated Laboratory Evolution to Optimize Cell Fac-
tories?
* Shalev Itzkovitz, Department of Molecular Cell Biol-ogy, Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel Lecture 1:
\Single Molecule Approaches for Studying Gene Expres-
sion in Intact Mammalian Tissues" Lecture 2: \Systems
Biology of Stem Cell-Maintained Tissues?
* Francesco Ricci, Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnolo-
gie Chimiche, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome,
Italy Lecture 1: "DNA Nanotechnology Tools and Reac-
tions for Synthetic Biology\ Lecture 2: "Nature-inspired
DNA-based Nanodevices
More speakers will be announced soon!
INDUSTRIAL PANEL * Speakers TBA
Next Generation Sequencing Workshop ? Afternoon
July 12th, 2016
* ?How fast can we align sequences?? Mario Guarracino,
CNR, Italy
* ?Advanced Bioinformatics tools for NGS? ? TBC Luca
Zammataro, Yale University, USA
Tutorials: * ?Detection and analysis of contaminating
sequences in NGS sequencing data? Ilaria Granata,
CNR, Italy
* ?Detection and interpretation of circular RNAs in
RNA-seq experiments? Parijat Tripathi, CNR, Italy
MORE INFO ssbss.school@gmail.com http://-
www.taosciences.it/ssbss/ https://www.facebook.com/-
ssbss.school/ * Apologies for multiple copies. Please
forward to anybody who might be interested *
\cfp.ssbss@dmi.unict.it" <cfp.ssbss@dmi.unict.it >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject130 EvolDir March 1, 2016
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.