E v o l D i r
March 1, 2022
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Conferences
Blossin Germany EvolutionSymbionts Sep7-11 . . . . . . 2
CIGENE ApeAdmixture Feb16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
ColdSpringHarborLab BiologyOfGenomes May10-14 3
Columbia TandemRepeats When . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hinxton ConservationGenomics Nov30-Dec2 . . . . . . . . 4
Konstanz QUeeR in EEB May 19-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Lisbon IntlSocEvolutionMedicine Jul5-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Naples EuroEvoDevo AbstrSubmissionDeadline-
ExtMar4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Naples EuroEvoDevo May31-Jun3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Naples EvoDevo May31-Jun3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Online FishStressAdaptation Mar2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Online GenotypePhenotype Mar2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Online VisualizingBiologicalData Mar16-18 . . . . . . . . . 7
Prague ESEB ColourVariation Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Prague ESEB DomesticationWithAncientDNA Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Prague ESEB DynamicsOfChangingEnvironments
Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Prague ESEB InterplayPlasticityEvol Aug14-19 . . . 10
Prague ESEB RapidEvolutionOfColorPatterns Aug14-
19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Praque ESEB2022 InvasiveSpecies Aug14-19 . . . . . . 12
SanDiego SocialInsectEvolution Jul3-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
SMBE Everywhere DatesDetailsAwards . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Soa Bulgaria DNABarcoding May25-27 . . . . . . . . . . 14
Tanzania SpeciesInAncientLakes Jul18-21 . . . . . . . . . 15
UCalifornia SanDiego RECOMB-CG May20-21 Papers-
DueFeb18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May13-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Blossin Germany
EvolutionSymbionts Sep7-11
Abstract submission will open on the 7 ^th of March for
the above meeting, to be held at Blossin, close to Berlin,
Germany.
https://www.bcp.fu-berlin.de/en/biologie/-
arbeitsgruppen/zoologie/ag rol/Ecological-
Immunology-Workshop-2022/Home/index.html
The meeting is the next installment in a loose series of
workshops on ecological & evolutionary immunology
/ insect immunity, that started in 2001 in Sheeld,
the most recent one being in Blossin in 2017. These
meetings bring together researchers with dierent
backgrounds but with a shared interest in immunity
and host-microbe interactions, and where we encourage
the presentation of unpublished results.
The hallmark of these workshops is the open atmosphere,
fostering free exchange by keeping it an aordable, small
meeting ( ~85 participants). The format consists of in-
vited speakers, contributed talks and a dedicated poster
session. Long breaks provide plenty of opportunity for
informal exchange. Past workshops have initiated newcollaborations and ideas focusing on frontier research.^ a e
The premises are basic but in a beautiful location con-
ducive to the success of the meeting. We will be located
at a lakeside, which oers great swimming and canoeing,
and a small bar on the lakeside.
^ aeOur invited speakers are:
Nicholas Buchon (Cornell University, USA)
Delphine Destoumieux-Garzon (University of Montpel-
lier, France)
Laura Fl orez (University of Copenhagen, Denmark)
Brian Lazzaro (Cornell University, USA)
Bruno Lemaitre (EPFL Lausanne, Switzerland)
Jessica Metcalf (Princeton University, USA)
Charlotte Rafaluk-Mohr (Freie Universit at Berlin, Ger-
many)
Roland Regoes (ETH Z urich, Switzerland)
Paul Schmid-Hempel (ETH Z urich, Switzerland)
Mike Strand (University of Georgia, USA)
Yuko Ulrich (Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology,
Jena, Germany)
Pedro Vale (University of Edinburgh, UK)
Heiko Vogel (Max-Planck Institute for Chemical Ecol-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 3
ogy, Jena, Germany)
Bregje Wertheim (Groningen University, The Nether-
lands)
Anna Zaidman-R emy (Insitute National de Sciences
Appliqu ees, Lyon, France) ^ a e
Important dates:^ a e
25th March - Abstract submission deadline
31st March - Decisions on abstracts
14th April - Registration deadline and payment of fees
^ ae
Costs:
Includes registration fee, accommodation and food. The
below are estimates. We will have nal gures when
abstract submission opens.
e360 Student
e440 Non-student
Stipends:
We are excited to be able to oer ve stipends
to female PhD students or post-docs presenting
either a poster or a talk at the workshop, and who
are working in countries classied by the OECD
as low or middle income (https://www.oecd.org/-
dac/nancing-sustainable-development/development-
nance-standards/daclist.htm). Each stipend will be
for 1000 EUR. More details about how to apply for the
stipend will be given on our homepage.
Please circulate this advert amongst your colleagues.
More details will follow soon!
Best wishes from the organisers^ a e^ ae.
Sophie Armitage, Maryam Keshavarz, Lea Otte, Jens
Rol & Caroline Zanchi
Freie Universit at Berlin
We are grateful for funding from the German Research
Foundation (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG)
through FOR 5026) for this workshop.
Caroline Zanchi <caroline.zanchi@fu-berlin.de >CIGENE ApeAdmixture Feb16
Dear All,
We are very happy to welcome you to a new season of
CIGENE seminars, please nd the schedule attached.
The rst presenter this season is Martin Kuhlwilm, As-
sistant Professor, University of Vienna. He will present:
Admixture in apes and humans and its consequences
Abstract: Admixture is an important topic in many
species, including humans and our extinct relatives.
Great apes also show patterns of admixture, and the
exchange of genetic material did have an impact on
these species as well. Studying their genomes guides our
understanding of adaptation and speciation.
Time: Wednesday, February 16th, 12:00-13:00 CET
Place: This will be an online seminar. For
more information, check out the seminar website:
https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/ ** Postdoc
Fellowship Info ** https://drive.google.com/le/d/-
1R3gPbPUvBBZKuHKE5k5avvMJgdq FKrW/view
Marie SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal Investiga-
tor, Centre of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty
of Biosciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie Saitou
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
ColdSpringHarborLab
BiologyOfGenomes May10-14
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Meetings & Courses
<meetmail@cshl.edu >
The Biology of Genomes - CSHL Meeting May 2022
The Biology of Genomes May 10 - 14, 2022 Abstracts
Due: February 18 Organizers Christina Curtis, Stanford
University Hopi Hoekstra, Harvard University John
Marioni, European Bioinformatics Institute, UK Jay
Shendure, University of Washington Topics Popula-
tion Genomics Evolutionary & Non-Human Genomics
Complex Traits & Microbiome Functional Genomics &
Epigenetics Computational Genomics Cancer & Medi-
cal Genomics Developmental and Single Cell Genomics4 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Keynote Speakers Pardis Sabeti, Broad Institute of
MIT and Harvard Jonathan Weissman, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology Discussion Leaders Britt Adam-
son, Princeton University Luis Barreiro, University of
Chicago Ami Bhatt, Stanford University Michael Desai,
Harvard University Jean Fan, Johns Hopkins University
Moritz Gerstung, European Bioinformatics Institute,
United Kingdom Hani Goodarzi, University of Cali-
fornia, San Francisco Emilia Huerta-Sanchez, Brown
University Sarah Kocher, Princeton University Debora
Marks, Harvard Medical School Corrie Moreau, Cornell
University Lior Pachter, California Institute of Tech-
nology Elli Papaemmanuil, Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center Jenny Tung, Duke University For more
information and to register please visit The Biology of
Genomes meeting website. Cold Spring Harbor Labo-
ratory - Meetings & Courses j1 Bungtown Road, Cold
Spring Harbor, NY 11724
meetmail@cshl.edu
Columbia TandemRepeats When
Dear evoldir community,
It is our greatest pleasure to announce our ESEB 2022
symposium \Tandem repeats: their role in molecular
evolution and methods" (S27), which is now open for
submissions (see https://www.eseb2022.cz for further
details).
Tandem repeats (TRs) are adjacent repetitive stretches
of genomic DNA, found in abundance across all king-
doms of life. TRs provide a rich source of variation
in populations, hence a perfect playground for natural
selection forces. Especially, shorter TRs are known for
their orders of magnitude high mutation rates compared
to SNPs and indels. TR-suitable methods and resources
are emerging one after the other allowing accurate TR
annotation and genotyping integrated into existing ge-
nomic pipeline workows. Analysis of TR variation in
populations and over longer evolutionary time suggest
STRs as a major contributor to complex traits heri-
tability with a major impact on protein function and
expression.
This symposium will focus on the typing approaches,
evolution, and functional analysis of these highly poly-
morphic elements. We aim to bring together both re-
searchers who develop and apply methods for accurate
STR genotyping, and identication of STRs relevant
for phenotypic evolution, and recent adaptations. Thisway, the symposium will facilitate interactions between
researchers from dierent backgrounds and promote the
interdisciplinary study of the STRs, an emerging major
source of phenotypic variation. Therefore, we expect
this symposium to be of interest to a broad range of
researchers in the elds of bioinformatics, population
genomics, and evolutionary biology.
Keynote speakers:
Melissa Gymrek, UCSD, California
Miguel Andrade, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz
Organisers:
Tugce Bilgin, Columbia University, New York
Maria Anisimova, ZHAW, Zurich
Abstracts can be submitted on:
https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page.
Deadline is April 15 2022.
ESEB also proposes a grant in order to ensure equal
opportunities. For further details:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ For more
information email tb2879@columbia.edu
Tugce Bilgin Sonay <tb2879@columbia.edu >
Hinxton ConservationGenomics
Nov30-Dec2
Wellcome Connecting Science jConservation Genomics
at the Population Level
30 November-02 December 2022 Wellcome Genome Cam-
pus, Hinxton, UK
https://coursesandconferences.wellcomeconnectingscience.org/-
event/conservation-genomics-at-the-population-level-
20221130/ Population level analysis of complete
genomes is becoming a reality for many species. This
new conference will address the dierent challenges and
applications of population-level conservation genomics.
Sessions will focus on detecting adaptation and
deleterious variation in populations, and linking genetic
variation to phenotypic variation. New technologies for
data collection and application of genomic insights for
biodiversity conservation will be explored. The likely
impact of genomic approaches on conservation eorts
over the next decade will be discussed.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 5
This meeting will bring together scientists addressing
the challenges and opportunities arising from the rapid
development of population-level conservation genomics.
As the methods discussed will be cutting-edge, those
interested in population and evolutionary genomics in
other communities may benet learning and applying
similar techniques to their own research.
This conference will be a hybrid meeting - with onsite
or virtual attendance.
If you have any questions, please contact confer-
ences@wellcomeconnectingscience.org
{ The Wellcome Sanger Institute is operated by Genome
Research Limited, a charity registered in England with
number 1021457 and a company registered in England
with number 2742969, whose registered oce is 215
Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
Jane Murphy <jane.murphy@wellcomeconnectingscience.org >
Konstanz QUeeR in EEB May 19-20
We invite you to the rst \QUeeR in EEB" event at
the University of Konstanz (Germany), which will take
place on May 19-20, 2022. Our goal is to provide a
place for networking among students and scientists from
around the world who identify as queer and work in the
eld of ecology and evolutionary biology (EEB). The
event will be a mix of half-day workshops on networking
and empowerment, as well as scientic presentations
and discussions. Our focus is on science, and we aim
to stimulate interesting and fruitful discussions among
members of the queer EEB community. QUeeR in EEB
is planned as a hybrid event (in-person and online).
More information can be found here:
https://www.rtg-resilience.uni-konstanz.de/events/-
queer-eco-evo/ Prof. Dr. Lutz Becks University
of Konstanz Aquatic Ecology and Evolution Lim-
nological Institute University Mainaustrae 252
78464 Konstanz / Egg Germany Phone: 07531 88
2828 E-Mail: lutz.becks@uni-konstanz.de https://-
www.limnologie.uni-konstanz.de/en/ag-becks/ Back on
Campus
Wintersemester 2021/2022: vor Ort studieren - aber
sicher!
Lutz Becks <lutz.becks@uni-konstanz.de >Lisbon IntlSocEvolutionMedicine
Jul5-8
Registration and abstract submission have just opened
for the Seventh Annual Meeting of the International
Society for Evolution, Medicine, and Public Health,
in-person in Lisbon, Portugal, July 5-8.
Full information is at the Society's website: https:/-
/isemph.org . { >Special membership discounts until
February 28. https://isemph.org/membership { >Early
registration discounts now; registration fees are re-
fundable until two weeks before the event. https:/-
/isemph.org/page-18274 { >Abstract submission is
open now. https://isemph.org/ISEMPH-2022-Abstract-
submission ISEMPH 2022 welcomes researchers, clin-
icians, public health professionals, and students at all
levels as well as anyone interested in this integrative
view of evolutionary biology and medicine. The meeting
will gather delegates from around the world. For many
of us this will be the rst opportunity in two years to
reconnect, and to consolidate new and ongoing collab-
orations, while promoting important cross-talk among
all disciplines that inuence the eld of Evolutionary
Medicine.
DATES February 16 Registration and abstract submis-
sion open February 28 Special 20% ISEMPH member-
ship discount ends April 15 Abstract submission dead-
line May 1 Abstract acceptance notications May 15
Discounted early registration ends June 20 Last day to
cancel and get a refund July 5 Committee meetings and
evening reception July 6-8 ISEMPH 2022!
VENUE The conference will be held at the Funda c ao
Calouste Gulbenkian (FCG, in the Portuguese acronym)
in Lisbon. FCG is a pleasant, iconic, and easily acces-
sible place in the center of Lisbon, with ample indoor
and outdoor spaces. Around the FCG, there are many
options for accommodation and food, covering a wide
range of prices and styles, suitable for all.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS Sebastian Bonhoeer, ETH,
Switzerland, Combination therapy and the evolution
of drug resistance Mhairi Gibson, University of Bristol,
UK, The social and evolutionary dynamics of female
genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C) abandonment Is-
abel Gordo, Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, Portugal,
Eco-evolutionary dynamics of Escherichia coli when it
colonizes the intestinal tract Joseph L. Graves, North
Carolina A&T State University, USA, Racial health in-6 EvolDir March 1, 2022
equality is a solved problem: Now what do we do about
it? Gunther Janssen, Pharma PHC Centre of Excellence,
Homan-La Roche / Genentech, Switzerland, Afternoon
Discussion and Q&A on Pharma in and Evolutionary
World C. Jessica Metcalf, Princeton University, USA,
What we can and can't predict about the evolution-
ary trajectory of SARS-CoV-2 Winner of the $5,000
Omenn Prize NOMINATE your article or another arti-
cle today https://isemph.org/Omenn-Prize Winner of
the Williams Prize for the best article published in 2021
in Evolution, Medicine, and Public Health
We welcome your questions! HostingCommit-
tee@isemph.org ProgramCommittee@isemph.org Man-
ager@isemph.org
Randolph Nesse <nesse@asu.edu >
Naples EuroEvoDevo
AbstrSubmissionDeadlineExtMar4
Dear EvoDevo enthusiasts,
Upon general request we have decided to *extend the
period for abstract submission* for the Euro Evo Devo
conference, which takes place from May 31 to June 3 in
the historic city center of Naples, Italy, at the beautiful
Stazione Marittima and with satellite meetings at the
Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn.
Abstracts can still be submitted until the date limit for
early bird registration, which is *March 4, 2022*.
Please check https://www.evodevonapoli.eu/ for addi-
tional information, and for registration and abstract
submission. The conference and the early bird registra-
tion date are still approaching rapidly!
We would also like to take this opportunity to assure
you that we will of course adhere to all covid-related
public health guidelines in place at the time of the
conference. Updates on this will be provided on the
conference website.
We look forward to meeting you all in Italy, to discuss
science with good old and new friends alike!
With all best wishes,
The local organizing committee The executive commit-
tee of the European Society for Evolutionary Develop-
mental Biology
\eed.soc@gmail.com" <eed.soc@gmail.com >Naples EuroEvoDevo May31-Jun3
Dear EvoDevo enthusiasts,
We are happy to conrm that - for the rst time in
several years - it will be possible to hold our traditional
EED Conference as an in-person meeting again. The
conference will take place in the beautiful city of Naples,
Italy, *from May 31 to June 3*. Our Italian friends say
this is the best time of the year!
The EED Society and the Local Organizing Committee
have prepared an exciting program that covers many
of the current hot topics in evo-devo. Please visit the
conference website https://www.evodevonapoli.eu/ that
contains all the necessary information and provides links
to registration and abstract submission. Note that the
deadlines for abstract submission and early-bird regis-
tration are approaching rapidly!
We look forward to seeing you all in Naples,
The local organizing committee of the EED Conference
The executive committee of the European Society for
Evolutionary Developmental Biology
EED Society <eed.soc@gmail.com >
Naples EvoDevo May31-Jun3
Dear colleagues,
the 8th Meeting of the European Society for Evolution-
ary Developmental Biology will take place from the 31st
of May to the 3rd of June, 2022 in Naples, Italy.
The deadline for submitting abstracts is approaching
rapidly, it is already on February 15, 2022.
For more information, abstract submission and regis-
tration, please check: https://www.evodevonapoli.eu/
Best regards,
Tom Van Dooren
treasurer Euro Evo Devo Society
https://iees-paris.fr/annuaire/van-dooren-tom/ Tom
Van Dooren <tvdooren@gmail.com >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 7
Online FishStressAdaptation Mar2
Hi all,
At the next CIGENE seminar, Dr. Arianna Servili,
Ifremer, Universit >1
2de Brest, France, will present:
Global change impacts reproduction and stress response
of sh
Abstract: Anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxide
in the atmosphere generate rapid variations in atmo-
spheric composition which drives major climate changes.
This includes variations in physicochemical proprieties
of sea and freshwater, such as water temperature, salin-
ity, pH/pCO2 and oxygen content, which can impact
sh critical physiological functions. We will discuss how
climate change related eects would impact reproduc-
tion of sh aecting the neuroendocrine axes, with a
special focus on the eect of ocean acidication on re-
production and stress response of the marine teleost the
European sea bass
Time: Wednesday, March 2nd , 12:00-13:00 CET Place:
This will be an online seminar For more information,
check out the seminar website: https://cigene.no/cigene-
seminar-series/ { Marie SAITOU, Ph.D. (Looking for
a postdoc! By 3/27)
Tenure-Track Principal Investigator, Centre of
Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty of Bio-
sciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie
Saito <marie.saitou@nmbu.no > Marie Saito
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
Online GenotypePhenotype Mar2-4
Hi all,
many thanks for the excitingly positive response to
our virtual meeting \Mind the gap: From Genotype to
Phenotype and the role of Modelling, Genomic Predic-
tion and Development" organized by the Developmental
Biology section of the German Zoological Society. We
already received more registrations than expected, show-
ing us that the topic is relevant for many of you. Sucha positive response promises thorough and interesting
discussions throughout the meeting. To trigger the
discussion sessions, we need you to tell us about your
research! Maybe our previous announcement was not
clear enough. Contributed presentations do not need to
cover the full spectrum from genotype to phenotype. We
encourage contributions covering various individual as-
pects of the topic. - You are working on the phenotypic
end of the spectrum? Great! - You gathered exciting
data about genotypic variation? Excellent! - You are
interested predominantly in developmental biology or
in computational or theoretical approaches? We want
you!
Therefore, if you work on any of the above-mentioned
aspects and/or combinations of those please submit your
abstract until Feb 20. Contributions from all academic
levels are welcome (grad students, postdocs, PIs). If
you registered already, just re-register incl. the abstract
information.
Key dates and links: - Deadline for abstract submission:
February 20, 2022 - Deadline for registration: March
1, 2022 - For more information, the program, abstract
submission, and registration visit: https://www.posnien-
lab.net/dzg-gradmeeting/ We are looking forward to
meeting you soon!
Best wishes, Natascha and Nico
Nico Posnien (he/him) Georg-August-University
G >1
2ttingen Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute
for Zoology and Anthropology Department of De-
velopmental Biology Ernst-Caspari-Haus (GZMB)
Justus-von-Liebig-Weg 11 37077 G >1
2ttingen Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 55139 28662 E-mail: nposnie@gwdg.de
Website: http://www.posnien-lab.net Twitter: @Pos-
nienLab
\Posnien, Nico" <nposnie@gwdg.de >
Online VisualizingBiologicalData
Mar16-18
Call for participation at the 12th international meeting
on Visualizing Biological Data
Venue: Online in partnership with U. Southern Calif.'s
Bridge Institute. Dates: March 16-18, with sessions
starting daily at 8.30am Pacic Daylight Time. Pre-
conference Data Visualisation Masterclass: March 14-15.
Homepage: https://vizbi.org/2022 Earlybird registra-8 EvolDir March 1, 2022
tion closes February 28. Please see https://vizbi.org/-
2022/Registration All participants are invited to submit
an online poster and lightning talk video for presentation
during the main conference. For more details about the
conference and speaker line up, please read on below.
VIZBI brings together researchers, artists, designers
and animators working across the elds of biology and
medicine who apply or develop data visualization ap-
proaches for understanding and communicating insight.
VIZBI 2022 takes place online, in partnership with the
University of Southern California's Bridge Institute in
Los Angeles, USA.
Speaker line up is below. For the full program, see
https://vizbi.org/2022/Program You can also down-
load the VIZBI 2022 poster at https://vizbi.org/2022/-
img/Poster/Hi-res.pdf VIZBI 2022's speaker line up in-
cludes: Keynotes * Ben Fry (Fantom, USA) * Bongshin
Lee (Microsoft Research, USA) * David Goodsell (Rut-
gers, USA) and Helen Berman (Rutgers, USA) DNA:
* Clodagh O'Shea (Salk Inst., USA) * Erik Garrison
(UTHSC, USA) * Jian Ma (Carnegie Mellon U., USA)
RNA: * Athma Pai (UMass Chan, USA) * Michelle
Scott (U. Sherbrooke, CA) * Jane Richardson (Duke
U., USA) Proteins: * Jan Kosinski (EMBL, Germany)
* Carolyn Ott (HHMI Janelia, USA) * Bosco Ho (Re-
design Science Inc., USA) Cells: * Gokul Upadhyayula
(UC Berkeley, USA) * Meghan Driscoll (UTSW, USA)
* Elizabeth Brunk (UNC Chapel Hill, USA) Tissues
& Organisms: * Nils Lindstrm (USC, USA) * Hao
Li (UC Berkeley & Pinscreen, USA) * Kristin Branson
(HHMI Janelia, USA) Populations and Ecosystems: *
Ana Crisan (Tableau Research, USA) * David Aanensen
(U. Oxford & Wellcome Sanger, UK) * Holly Bik (U.
Georgia, USA)
Thanks for your attention!
The University of Dundee is a registered Scottish Char-
ity, No: SC015096
\James Procter (Sta)" <J.Procter@dundee.ac.uk >
Prague ESEB ColourVariation
Aug14-19
Abstract submission is now open for our ESEB 2022 sym-
posium, S14 \Ecological drivers and evolutionary con-
sequences of within-population colour variation". The
meeting will be held in Prague, Czech Republic on Au-
gust 14-19, 2022 (https://www.eseb2022.cz/ ).Symposium description: Colours of wild owers and
animals are the most conspicuous and highly diverse
traits in nature. While many plant and animal species
are colour-uniform, some species exhibit remarkable
within-population colour variation, either in the form
of discrete morphs (polymorphic species) or continuous
variation. Phenotypic selection is expected to operate on
such colour monomorphism, and investigating the mech-
anisms that counteract the eroding eect of genetic drift
that can lead to the loss of morphs can provide a deeper
understanding of how diversity is maintained. Most evi-
dence in plants suggests that within-population colour
variation is maintained by balancing selection, mediated
by multiple selection regimes, often from pollinators. In
animals, sexual selection and predation may be a com-
mon and widespread mechanisms maintaining colour
polymorphisms. Some evidence suggests that frequency-
dependent selection can maintain colour polymorphisms,
but this mechanism has only been demonstrated in a
few systems. Colour variation is also inuenced by other
evolutionary processes than selection, including genetic
drift and mutation and demographic processes, and
colour can be genetically correlated with other traits
that are targets of selection. However, most of these
mechanisms and their balance with selection have not
been subject to rigorous empirical tests. In this sympo-
sium we aim to address the drivers of within-population
colour variation, and the mechanisms that either main-
tain such variation or erode it. Among-population and
among-species variation are well studied and discussed
in past ESEB meetings. Colour variation within pop-
ulations, however, has gotten less attention. We will
bring together botanists and zoologists, theoreticians
and empiricists, to explore the evolutionary dynamics of
such colour polymorphisms. We plan to discuss topics
ranging from sexual selection and signalling to aposema-
tism and deception, with the overall aim to understand
the eco-evolutionary dynamics of such polymorphisms.
Potentially, the symposium will provide a baseline to
a unied theory of colour evolution, and will identify
new prospective directions for future research that will
advance our understanding of polymorphic variation
in nature. In addition, we will propose to publish the
symposium as a special issue in Journal of Evolutionary
Biology.
The two keynote speakers for the session are Dr. Karin
Kjernsmo (University of Bristol, UK) and Dr. Nathalie
Feiner (Lund University, Sweden).
We especially encourage submissions from early career
researchers and from researchers from historically un-
derrepresented groups. ESEB has funding opportuni-
ties to support meeting attendance, including confer-
ence travel awards for early career researchers (https:/-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 9
/eseb.org/prizes-funding/conference-travel-award/) and
attendance aid grants for caregiving women and others
who incur additional costs when attending meetings
( https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ ).
See https://www.eseb2022.cz for more information on
the conference and how to submit an abstract.
Organizers: Yuval Sapir (Tel Aviv University), Erik
Svensson (Lund University), Beatriz Willink (University
of Costa Rica), Katarzyna Roguz (University of War-
saw), and Lesley Lancaster (University of Aberdeen)
{
Yuval Sapir, PhD Yehuda Naftali Botanic Garden School
of Plant Sciences and Food Security Curator, The
Herbarium, The Steinhardt Museum of Natural History
Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 69978 Israel Tl: +972(0)3-
6407354 (lab); +972(0)54-7203140 (mobile) http://-
botanic.tau.ac.il/ http://labsapir.wix.com/labsapir
yuval sapir <sapiryuval@gmail.com >
Prague ESEB
DomesticationWithAncientDNA
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
We are excited to announce our symposium titled \Do-
mestication: Fresh insights from ancient genomics" to
be held during the ESEB meeting in Prague between
August 14-19, 2022.
More information about the ESEB meeting can be found
below and at the conference website: www.eseb2022.cz
S33: Domestication: Fresh insights from ancient ge-
nomics
Animal and plant domestication events have fundamen-
tally changed human societies in multitude ways, while
biologically shaping the domesticated species themselves.
The tempo and mode of domestication processes, the
subsequent dynamics of transport, breeding and intro-
gression between domesticates and their wild relatives,
the genetic bases of selected traits, as well as the so-
cial and biological impacts of animal husbandry and
farming on humans have long been investigated, using
either archaeological evidence or inferences from biolog-
ical studies of extant species. The advent of ancient
genomics, however, has been a game changer. The last
few years have seen a wide range of spectacular workthat rewrote domestication histories of dierent species,
from dogs to chicken. This session aims to bring to-
gether the most recent and exciting work on animal and
plant domestication, covering both the reconstruction
of demographic history, analyses of selective sweeps, ev-
idence for relaxation of constraints, as well as studies
on ancient pathogens.
Invited speakers
Dr. Laurent Franz, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit >1
2t
M >1
2nchen, Germany
Dr. Catarina Ginja, Universidade do Porto, Portugal
Organisers
Mehmet Somel, Middle East Technical University,
Turkey ( somel.mehmet@gmail.com)
Anders G >1
2therstr >1
2m, Stockholm University, Sweden
( anders.gotherstrom@arklab.su.se)
Eva-Maria Geigl, Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS,
France ( Eva-maria.GEIGL@ijm.fr)
Dates
Registration opens: February 2022
The abstract submission deadline: April 15, 2022
Selected contributions to be announced by: May 10,
2022.
Early-bird registration closes: June 15, 2022
Useful links
Abstract submission page: https://www.eseb2022.cz/-
en/call-for-abstracts-page Equal opportunities grant:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ Looking
forward to seeing you in Prague!
Eva-Maria, Anders, and Mehmet
Mehmet Somel METU Dept. Biology / ODT >1
2
Biyoloji B >1
2l >1
2m >1
206800 Ankara, Turkey Tel:
+90-543-9799060; Oce: +90-312-2106460 Email:
msomel@metu.edu.tr Lab: compevo.bio.metu.edu.tr
aDNA Lab: http://adna.bio.metu.edu.tr/ Eco-Evo So-
ciety of Turkey: https://ekoevo.org Mehmet Somel
<msomel@metu.edu.tr >10 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Prague ESEB
DynamicsOfChangingEnvironments
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
Our ESEB 2022 symposium \Eco-evolutionary dynam-
ics in changing environments: insights from models,
experiments and case studies" (S10), is now open for
submissions (see https://www.eseb2022.cz for further
details).
Eco-evolutionary dynamics is fundamental to our under-
standing of processes that shape species' distributions
and their capacity to adapt. Notably, due to the unabat-
ing climate change, environmental conditions change at
an unprecedented speed and often exhibit higher uc-
tuations. These can increase the selective pressures on
the populations and may drive major shifts in species
composition. In this context, an improved understand-
ing of eco-evolutionary processes is not only relevant to
grasp the conditions for the maintenance of biodiversity
but is also essential to provide informed management
policies.
Necessarily, experiments and theory develop in tandem:
without theory, one does not know what to measure;
and without experiments, no theory can be corrobo-
rated and assumptions may go seriously astray. The
proposed symposium aims to foster the dialogue between
theory in evolutionary ecology and assessment of the eco-
evolutionary dynamics in both natural and experimental
evolution. The focus will be on evolution with spatial
and/or temporal variation, where eco-evolutionary pro-
cesses are especially important. For modelling contribu-
tions, it will be required that the theory is formulated
in a way which makes it in principle testable in natural
or experimental populations. Extension to coevolution
and macroecological theory are welcome.
Our two keynote speakers are Jason P. Sexton (Uni-
versity of California) and Ruth A. Hufbauer (Colorado
State University).
Abstracts can be submitted on: https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page. Deadline
is April 15 2022.
ESEB also proposes a grant in order to ensure equal
opportunities. For further details: https://eseb.org/-
prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ For questions, please contact us
at jitka@univie.ac.at and lfouqueau@sb-rosco.fr
Sincerely,
Jitka & Louise
Louise Fouqueau Postdoctoral student Team EBEA
IRL3614 CNRS-Sorbonne Universit e Station Biologique
de Rosco YD building - Door 203 Place Georges Teissier
29680 Rosco, FRANCE Tel: +33 2 98 29 25 44
Louise Fouqueau <lfouqueau@sb-rosco.fr >
lfouqueau@sb-rosco.fr
Prague ESEB
InterplayPlasticityEvol Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
We are organising a symposium at ESEB 2022 this sum-
mer on the interplay between plasticity and evolution
during global change. Are plastic responses good enough
to cope with novel conditions? What role can evolution
play if plasticity is (mal)adaptive?
We invited two excellent people who tackle these ques-
tions, Anne Charmantier and Ryan Martin, to speak in
our session.
We encourage everyone interested in this topic to submit
their abstract.
S20. Unravelling the interplay between plasticity and
evolution during rapid global change
Following the accumulating evidence showing that ongo-
ing rapid global change is forcing many species to cope
with new conditions, a pressing question emerges: what
mechanisms underlie responses to these novel conditions?
Moreover, what are the respective contributions of evo-
lution and plasticity in facilitating species' persistence?
How does the interaction between plasticity and evolu-
tion shape responses to novel conditions? Phenotypic
plasticity can be a rapid type of response for coping with
global change, yet may be insucient to protect species
from extinction. Evolution may play an important role
by reinforcing adaptive plastic responses, or opposing
maladaptive plastic responses. Indeed, adaptive plastic-
ity can increase relative tness which can eventually lead
to canalization of the plastic response through evolution.
It is however not known how developmental mechanisms
inuence this process, and whether some types of traits
are more likely to experience this. Only in recent yearsMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 11
the interplay between maladaptive plasticity and evolu-
tion has gained more attention, despite the expectation
that these responses are under stronger directional se-
lection than adaptive plastic responses. Critical gaps
remain on the relative role of the various ways evolution
can interact with dierent types of plasticity, and how
these inuence the rate of response to global change.
Registration is open.
Abstract submission deadline: 15. April 2022
Early-bird registration closes: 15. June 2022
Abstract submission page: https://www.eseb2022.cz/-
en/call-for-abstracts-page Equal opportunities grant:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ Hope to see
you in Prague,
Janne Swaegers, KU Leuven, Belgium Nedim T >1
2z >1
2n,
KU Leuven, Belgium
https://bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/esee Janne Swaegers
<janne.swaegers@kuleuven.be > Janne Swaegers
<janne.swaegers@kuleuven.be >
Prague ESEB
RapidEvolutionOfColorPatterns
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce that abstract submission for
our symposium S15 \Rapid evolution of color patterns"
at the ESEB 2022 conference is now open.
The symposium will be held at the Congress of the Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology in Prague, 14-19
August 2022 (https://www.eseb2022.cz/ ). Abstract
Animal and plant color patterns are labile characters
that are involved in important biological functions such
as reproduction, predator evasion, pollinator attraction,
and thermoregulation. A fascinating feature of color
variation is that it can evolve rapidly in new environ-
ments, as highlighted by dramatic examples in peppered
moths, cichlid shes, and *Heliconius* butteries.
Beyond these classic cases, technological advances in
high-throughput sequencing, phenotyping, and gene edit-
ing, have opened new pathways to study rapid evolution
using color patterns in a diversity of models. Among
other examples, recent studies have highlighted the roleof transposable elements in bualo coat coloration, chro-
mosome re-arrangement in buttery wing patterns, and
trans-generational plasticity in ower coloration in re-
sponse to predation. This symposium will assemble
researchers who use animal and plant color patterns as
models to evaluate the diversity of factors driving and
constraining rapid phenotypic evolution. We will foster
transdisciplinary discussions addressing long-standing
questions on the genetic substrate of recurrent adap-
tation and the mechanistic scale of convergence. Ulti-
mately, we hope to gain a more comprehensive under-
standing of the mechanisms underlying rapid adapta-
tion.
Invited speakers
Mar Sobral, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela,
Spain
Patricia Beldade, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Abstract submission deadline: 15 April 2022 Abstract
submission page: https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-
for-abstracts-page Conference attendance aid grant:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ For any
questions, contact Sandra Goutte (sg5533@nyu.edu) or
Yann Bourgeois (yann.bourgeois@port.ac.uk) We look
forward to reading your abstracts!
Sincerely, Sandra and Yann.
Sandra Goutte, Ph.D. Research Associate New York
University Abu Dhabi Saadiyat Island campus P.O. Box
129188 Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
<https://www.ickr.com/gp/133250906@N05/g4196q
>
Sandra Goutte <sg5533@nyu.edu >12 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Praque ESEB2022 InvasiveSpecies
Aug14-19
Dear EvolDir Colleagues,|
We are organizing a symposium at the Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology, in Prague
(14-19 August 2022, https://www.eseb2022.cz), to dis-
cuss the integration of eco-evo concepts in biological
invasions.|We welcome your abstracts for this sympo-
sium at: https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-
page. The abstract submission deadline is 15 April
2022.|
|
SYMPOSIUM 19: **ECO-EVOLUTIONARY DYNAM-
ICS AND FEEDBACKS IN INVASIVE SPECIES**
Introduced alien species are remarkable in their unusual
ability to experience rapid evolutionary and ecological
changes on relatively short time scales following their
introductions to novel ranges. As a result, biological
invasions oer valuable insights into processes that con-
tribute to our understanding of population responses
to climate change, ecosystem function, extinction and
diversication events, with implications for species man-
agement and conservation. While a rich literature ex-
ists on the ecology and evolution of invasive species,
much less is known about how ecological properties
and evolutionary changes inuence one another, namely,
the so-called \eco-evolutionary dynamics" and \eco-
evolutionary feedbacks". Thus, this symposium aims
to discuss the innovative integration of concepts from
these two elds into the study of invasion biology. In
particular, we welcome studies that focus on topics such
as interactions between genome architecture and envi-
ronmental change, adaptive traits and their ecological
consequences, post-introduction evolution, feedbacks
between organisms and resource dynamics, eects of
evolution of dispersal on range expansions, and the
interplay between theoretical population genetics and
ecological demography. In addition, talks could focus
on evolutionary diversication, niche displacement or
extinction of resident species induced by invaders. We
also encourage studies on ecological genomics that could
be applied to non-model invasive populations.
|
Our invited speakers are Carol Eunmi Lee, Department
of Integrative Biology, University of Wisconsin, Madi-son, https://carollee.labs.wisc.edu/CarolPersonal.html
and Katrina Dlugosch, University of Arizona, Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, https://-
www.dlugosch-lab.net/people.| |
TRAVEL GRANTS|
ESEB provides funding opportunities to attend the
meeting for students and young researchers (https:/-
/eseb.org/prizes-funding/conference-travel-award/)
as well as for underrepresented groups including
caregiving women: https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/-
equal-opportunities-initiative/congress-attendance-aid-
grant/ . |
We look forward to receiving your abstracts and meeting
you in Prague! Organizers: Ramona-Elena Irimia, Isolde
van Riemsdijk (University of T ubingen, Germany) and
Armand Cav e-Radet (University of Rennes 1, France
and University of T ubingen).
|
For questions related to the symposium, please contact
us at: ramona-elena.irimia@uni-tuebingen.de.|
|
Ramona Irimia, PhD Postdoc, Institute of Evolu-
tion and Ecology| University of T ubingen, D-72076,|
T ubingen, Germany |
Ramona-elena Irimia <ramona-elena.irimia@uni-
tuebingen.de >
SanDiego SocialInsectEvolution
Jul3-8
The executive committee of the North American section
of the International Union for the Study of Social Insects
invites abstract submissions for the IUSSI International
Congress, being held in San Diego, CA July 3-8, 2022.
The meeting will be held in a hybrid format, allowing
attendees to attend in-person or virtually. This qua-
drennial meeting is the largest entomological meeting
focused on social insects, and is the best opportunity
for IUSSI-NAS members to present their work to an
appreciative audience, interact with current and poten-
tial collaborators, and locate future employers. The
abstract submission deadline is March 1, and registra-
tion will open soon. You will nd instructions and the
submission portal at http://burkclients.com/IUSSI/-
meetings/2022/site/abstract submission.html If your
research intersects with a social insect, whether a bee,March 1, 2022 EvolDir 13
wasp, ant, termite, thrip, aphid, social caterpillar, ag-
gregating insect, or beyond, please consider attending
the Congress! Cell biology, physiology, neuroscience,
genetics, genomics, evolutionary biology, behavior, ecol-
ogy, complex systems and conservation biology are all
well represented within our society, so whatever your
interest, you are bound to nd interesting presentations
and a common community. We are an inclusive, inter-
national society, and we welcome current and future
social insect biologists at all career stages. We strive to
have a society composed of a diversity of genders, eth-
nicities, study systems and questions, and geographic
locations, from both primarily teaching colleges and
research universities.
Travel grants are available for students and early-career
post-docs, with applications also due by March 1.
You will nd the travel grant application at https://-
iussi.cyberbee.net/iussi-2022/ There will be three types
of sessions for contributed presentations.
Symposia. Symposia are designed to bring together
speakers addressing a common topic. They were se-
lected by the Program Committee from submitted pro-
posals. Each one addresses a theme developed by the
organizers and will include several invited speakers. All
symposia also have empty slots available to be lled
by contributed abstracts selected by the symposium
organizers and the Program Committee. Talks will be
15 minutes long, including time for questions.
Thematic Sessions. Contributed talks that are not as-
signed to symposia will be organized by the Program
Committee into sessions according to topic. Just as for
the symposia, talks will be 15 minutes long, including
time for questions.
Poster Presentations. Contributed posters will be
grouped by topic and assigned to one of two poster
sessions to be held in the late afternoon on separate
days. Authors are expected to stand by their posters to
eld questions from participants during their assigned
session.
When you submit an abstract, you will have the op-
tion of requesting consideration for up to three of the
symposia listed below: 1. Mechanisms of individual life
history evolution in the social context. 2. Origins &
transitions: A model clade approach for social evolution.
3. Major transitions revisited: The how, why, and when
of social transitions in insects. 4. What can we learn
from simple insect societies? 5. Spatial structure and
organization within social insect colonies. 6. Division
of labor in social insects: Advancing theory and novel
empirical approaches. 7. Sociable arthropods: Broad-
ening conceptions about social insects. 8. Guests of
social insects. 9. Advances in collective behavior usingquantitative behavioral tools. 10. The function of net-
work structure: From genes to ecological communities.
11. Tiny brains pushing the limits: Cognitive abilities
of social insects. 12. From signaling to sensing: How
pheromones modulate social organization. 13. Neuro-
biology of chemosensation. 14. The sensory ecology
of social insect foraging. 15. The eects of anthro-
pogenic warming and increasing thermal variability on
social insects. 16. What makes a successful invader?
Exploring how genetics, ecological and behavioral fac-
tors contribute to the likelihood of invasion by eusocial
species. 17. The anthropogenic drivers of social in-
sect invasions. 18. Ecological and economic impacts of
invasive social insects. 19. Impacts of introduced hon-
eybee populations on plant- pollinator mutualisms in
non-managed ecosystems. 20A. Protecting pollinators
and our food supply: Understanding and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SMBE Everywhere
DatesDetailsAwards
SMBE Everywhere dates and details;
Awards 2022: 15 April deadline for nominations and
applications
Dear SMBE Members,
We are writing with three important announcements
about the annual meeting, plus two calls for Award
nominations and applications for this year.
1. We are pleased to announce the launch of SMBE
Everywhere, a series of 8-12 virtual Global Symposia
which will occur across the year starting in July 2022
through March 2023. The rst virtual Global Sympo-
sium will occur on July 11-12, 2022, so please mark your
calendars!
This rst symposium will feature the Graduate Student
Excellence Symposium, the 2022 Faculty Awards Sym-
posium, and the Presidential Address. On the second
day of the symposium, we will be holding a Sustainabil-
ity Plenary, an Inclusivity & Equity Panel Discussion,
and the SMBE business meeting. Please mark your
calendars, and see details below on Abstract Submission
for the Graduate Student14 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Excellence Symposium!
The full slate of one-day, themed virtual Global Sym-
posia (GS) will be announced later this spring and will
all be hosted on a single platform, with the option to
attend one, some, or all of the Global Symposia through-
out the year via a single registration portal.
2. We would like to make a call for submissions for ad-
ditional one-day Global Symposia proposals. We have
received outstanding submissions, but given the for-
mat for this year's meeting, we are inviting submissions
for proposals from organizers in Asia, South America,
and Africa, specically (for informal enquiries, contact
smbe.contact@gmail.com).
Please submit Global Symposia proposals by email to
smbe.contact@gmail.com by 20 February 2022 with
\Global Symposium proposal" in the subject line.
Symposium Proposal Guidelines
Symposium organisers should provide a description of
the symposium (250 words max) that will be made
public if selected. The symposium organisers will also
provide a description of how their proposal brings for-
ward the SMBE's objective of equity and diversity, as
well as any additional information for the committee to
make an informed review (250 words max)
Each symposium will include 1-2 invited speakers plus
a number of contributed speakers
Individuals can only be listed as an organiser for one
symposium proposal, although organisers can be listed
as an invited speaker on another proposal
3. We would like to open the SMBE Everywhere
Logo Competition. Entries should be submitted
in a vector-based format (*.ai, *.eps, *.pdf) to
smbe.contact@gmail.com by 15 March for full consid-
eration. The email subject line should read \SMBE
everywhere logo competition" and the winning entry
will be notied and will receive a $500 award.
4. The SMBE Graduate Student Excellence Awardpro-
vides a forum for young investigators to showcase their
exemplary research at the annual meeting.We show-
case the winners of this award at the Graduate Student
Excellence Symposium, which will be part of SMBE
Everywhere symposia in 2022. More details for the
symposium will follow in the coming months.
Eligibility:Current graduate students and postdoctoral
researchers who are members of the Society and who
received their primary doctoral-level degree no earlier
than July 2021 are eligible. Eligibility extensions can be
granted for any career disruption or delay; such an exten-
sion should be requested in a cover letter.Approximatelyeight winners will be selected every year to cover the
broad spectrum of research covered by SMBE.
How to apply:You must email a scientic abstract
(not to exceed 300 words for body of abstract), title
of proposed presentation, and your Curriculum Vitae
tosmbe@allenpress.com.
The deadline for applications for this award is15 April
2022.
5. SMBE seeks nominations for Faculty Awards for
Early-Career Excellence, Mid-Career Excellence, Life-
time Contribution, and Community Service. Please con-
sider nominating those of your colleagues you believe
deserve to be rewarded for their extraordinary achieve-
ments and dedication to the eld. Updated descriptions
of the awards follow; please read them carefully.
Nominations require a nomination letter, which should
clearly indicate the award under consideration and also
serve as a recommendation letter; a separate one-page
summary of the nominee's qualications for the award;
a CV of the nominee; and an additional letter of rec-
ommendation. Self-nomination is not allowed. The
nominator need not be an SMBE member, but the nom-
inee must be a member of SMBE to be considered for
the award.
SMBE Early-Career Excellence Award
This annual award is intended for outstanding members
of the SMBE community who are in the early stages of
an independent research career (3-7 years post-Ph.D).
The primary signal of research excellence is a trajectory
of innovative, creative research that is moving the eld
of Molecular Biology and Evolution forward. The ideal
candidate will
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Soa Bulgaria DNABarcoding
May25-27
Dear colleagues,
The Organizing Committee of the International Con-
ference on DNA Barcoding and Biodiversity cordially
invites you to attend the conference which will be heldMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 15
on 25-27 May 2022 in Park Hotel Moskva, Soa, Bul-
garia as a hybrid event (both virtually and in-person).
The conference is organized by the Institute of Plant
Physiology and Genetics, Bulgarian Academy of Sci-
ences, as part of the BULCode project supported by
the National Program \European Scientic Networks",
Ministry of Education and Science of Bulgaria.
The aim of the conference isto contribute to the project's
overall goal to promote biodiversity studies through
DNA barcoding technologies and to strengthen the net-
working capacity in this eld of research in Bulgaria.
The 3-day event will bring together renowned scientists
engaged in biodiversity and taxonomic studies and im-
plementing DNA marker technologies, including DNA
barcoding and metabarcoding, in their research. Exam-
ples of successful national DNA barcoding initiatives
will also be presented.
The conference will address various elds of application
of DNA barcoding and metabarcoding as well as other
DNA-based molecular approaches under the following
main topics:
SystematicsEcological researchConservation of biodiver-
sitySustainable agriculture and food safety practices
The conference is listed on iBOL webpage - https://-
ibol.org/news-and-media/news-and-events/ . The event
will be open to all contributing authors with no registra-
tion fee. The terms of participation are announcedon
the conference website.
We are excited that such renowned invited speakers have
conrmed their participation so far:
Prof. Paul Hebert Centre for Biodiversity Genomics,
University of Guelph, Canada
Prof. Hugo de Boer Natural History Museum, Univer-
sity of Oslo, Norway
Prof. Marko Mutanen Ecology and Genetics Research
Unit, University of Oulu, Finland
Prof. Torbj ^Arn Ekrem Department of Natural History,
NTNU University Museum, Norway
Dr. Fedor ~Aiampor Jr Plant Science and Biodiversity
Centre, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slo-
vakia
Prof. Dr. Kristy Deiner ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Assoc. Prof. Laura Parducci Sapienza University of
Rome,Italy
We would be grateful if you share information about
the event with your colleagues so that more people have
the opportunity to attend.
For additional information about the conference, pleasevisit the websites of the conference itself https://-
cmebg.com/en/sabitia/icdbb2022/ and of the project
https://www.plantbulcode.com/ . Sincerely yours,
Assist. Prof. Georgi Bonchev Chairman of the Organiz-
ing Committee
Mira Bonova Event Manager
17 Frederic Joliot-Curie Str., bldg. 2, . 5, oce
9 Soa 1113, Bulgaria tel: (+359) 2 9877 422 mo-
bile: (+359) 896 700 956 fax: (+359) 2 988 80 35
email: mira@cmebg.com www.cmebg.com Mira Bonova
<mira@cmebg.com >
Tanzania SpeciesInAncientLakes
Jul18-21
Dear EvolDir, Please join us for the 9thSpecies In An-
cient Lakes conference (SIAL 9) to be held on the shores
of LakeTanganyika, Kigoma, Tanzania.
Date: July 18-21 2022
The conference website is available at http://www.sial-
online.org/conferences/sial9. At this site you will nd
information about the meeting, accommodation options,
COVID policies, travel and registration information.
Registration will be done through a separate website
hosted by the African Center for Aquatic Research and
Education (ACARE) at https://www.agl-acare.org/-
sial9and there is a link to this site on the SIAL 9 regis-
tration page along with registration instruction and fee
information.
To promote African participants and students registra-
tion fees are 50% lower than for non-African profession-
als.
The pre-registration deadline for abstract submission
and payment is May 18, 2022. After this date payment
will still be possible but at the late registration rate and
abstracts will no longer be accepted for publication in
the program.
For any questions, please contact Andy Cohenco-
hen@arizona.edu
General SIAL 9 Conference Chair General SIAL 9 Con-
ference Chair16 EvolDir March 1, 2022
UCalifornia SanDiego
RECOMB-CG May20-21
PapersDueFeb18
The 19th RECOMB Satellite Conference on Compara-
tive Genomics
Extended Paper Submission Deadline: February 18,
2022
For 18 years, RECOMB-CG has been an autumnal
venue for cutting edge research in comparative genomics
by leading researchers in the mathematical, computa-
tional and life sciences. This year, RECOMB-CG moves
to a May slot to co-locate with the RECOMB in San
Diego. Attendance at both meetings oers the best of
both worlds:
RECOMB-CG 2022: a small, focused workshop in an
intimate setting that fosters lively discussion, new con-
nections and collaborations; RECOMB: a large, inter-
national meeting that spans the full range of research
in computational molecular biology and attracts partici-
pants from across the discipline. With this new schedule,
the RECOMB-CG 2022 submission deadline is right
around the corner! We invite submissions for review
by the RCG program committee on topics including
genome evolution; population genomics; genome rear-
rangements; genomic variation, diversity and dynamics;
phylogenomics; comparative tools for genome assembly;
comparison of functional networks; gene identication or
annotation; evolution of cancer genomes; comparative
epigenomics; paleogenomics; phylodynamics; metage-
nomics, and related areas. We encourage submissions
that oer new biological ndings or otherwise highlight
their relevance to biology.
Accepted contributions will be presented at the
RECOMB-CG 2022 meeting and will appear in the
RCG proceedings, published as a Springer LNBI volume.
Selected contributions will be invited to participate in
a journal special issue (with publication fees). See the
https://recombcg2022.usask.ca/ for more details.
Key Dates
Paper submission deadline extended to: Friday, Feb.
18, 2022 Author notication for papers extended to:
Monday, Mar. 14, 2022 Final camera-ready version due
extended to: Friday, Mar. 25, 2022
Poster submission deadline: Friday, Mar. 25, 2022 Au-thor notication for posters: Monday, Apr. 4, 2022
Registration open: Tuesday, Feb. 1, 2022 Early regis-
tration ends: Wednesday, Apr. 20, 2022
Conference starts: Friday, May 20, 2022 Conference
ends: Saturday, May 21, 2022
recombcg@gmail.com
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis
May13-15
PLEASE SAVE THE DATE MORE DETAILS SOON
Dear Colleagues,
After a two-year absence, The TENTH annual Yosemite
Symbiosis Workshop will take place on May 13th-15th,
2022 at the Sierra Nevada Research Institute, Yosemite
National Park. We have really missed having this meet-
ing over the last two years. In the previous nine years,
this meeting became a great venue for a diversity of
symbiosis researchers. We hope to continue to attract a
diverse group in 2022!
Keynote speaker 2022: Michelle Nishiguchi, UC Merced
COVID19 Safety:
Attendees will be required to provide proof of full vacci-
nation status against SARS-CoV2 during the registra-
tion process.
Rapid antigen tests will be made upon arrival at the
conference (provided by us) to provide an extra layer of
safety for attendees
The meeting will occur indoors, and masks will be re-
quired during meeting sessions when the opportunity
for social distancing will be limited.
Meals, and coee/snack breaks will be provided outside
weather permitting. Temperatures in mid-May are usu-
ally mild, but there is always some chance that it will
be cold and or rainy during the meeting.
Information about our meeting:
Why attend?
Our continuing goal is to better integrate the broad
groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis research.
Yosemite serves as an ideal site as it is both beautiful
and secluded. This will be our 10th annual meeting and
we have been consistently attracting scientists from all
over the country and overseas.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 17
Who will be there?
The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants) and
we seek to focus on scientists interested in cooperation,
mutualism, and symbiosis. In the past we have covered
a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and evolution
to molecular mechanisms in dierent model and non-
model systems. We would like to make room for a
diverse group of people so we will initially accept up to
3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a rst
come rst served basis.
When is the meeting?
The talks and formal meeting will be held May 14th and
15th, 2022, though we make accommodation arrange-
ments available for attendees to arrive on Friday the
13th to provide opportunities to enjoy the park. There
will be a welcome party on the evening of arrival, Friday
May 13th. Since time at the conference is limited, we
ask attendees to submit an abstract and a preference
(talk versus poster). Priority will be given to those pre-
senting. Abstract and early bird registration will be due
on March 1st, 2022.Where is the meeting?
This is the best part! The meeting takes place at the
Sierra Nevada Research Station, in Wawona California,
within the border of Yosemite National Park!
What will it cost?
We will provide details on the registration page soon.
We keep costs to a minimum, and so prices will be very
reasonable. We will only be able to accept credit card
payments this year.
Please direct any questions to the organizers:
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
*Joel L. Sachs* (he, him, his) *Professor, *Department
of Evolution Ecology & Organismal Biology University
of California, Riverside Oce (951) 827-6357 / Fax (951)
827-4286 / www.sachslab.com *Post address*: Sachs
Lab - UC Riverside 3401 Watkins Dr., 1229 Spieth Hall,
Riverside, CA 92521
joels@ucr.edu
GradStudentPositions
AuburnU EvolutionOfVirulence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
AucklandU EvolutionFishReproduction . . . . . . . . . . . .18
BielefeldU FungalGenomicAnalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Boku-Venna BioinformaticsOrPopGenetics . . . . . . . . 20
Brno Czechia FishBroodParasitism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
CharlesU PlantPolyploids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
DanishTechU BioinformaticsAncientDNA . . . . . . . . . 22
GlobeInst UCopenhagen AirborneEnvironmentalDNA
22
JohnsHopkinsU GrasslandPlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . .23
LeibnizInst Bonn GenomicsOfSexChromosomes . . . .24
London EvolutionTransposableElements . . . . . . . . . . . 24
LundU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
LundU EvolutionaryPotential . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
MaxPlanckInst Ploen ModellingCooperation . . . . . . 26
NewZealand BiofoulingCommunityBiodiversity . . . . 27Paris AI and EcoEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UAlaska Fairbanks HerringFisheriesGenetics . . . . . . .28
UBern Switzerland 2 TheoreticalEcoEvo . . . . . . . . . . .29
UCalgary VectorEctoparasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UExeter AbuDhabi AvianEvolutionBehaviour . . . . . 30
Ulethbridge PopulationGenomicsAmphibians . . . . . . 31
UNebraska Lincoln AvianPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . .32
UNorthDakota PopulationGenomicsPaleoecology . . 33
Uppsala InsectPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
UppsalaU EvolutionaryAppliedMathematics . . . . . . . 34
URoehampton London EcolEvolutionBehaviour . . . 34
UTasmania EvolutionMultipleSclerosisRisk . . . . . . . . 35
UVictoria BritishColumbia EvolutionInsectSymbiosis
35
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3618 EvolDir March 1, 2022
AuburnU EvolutionOfVirulence
Hi folks,
I'm looking for a PhD student to join my lab at Auburn
University and work on the evolution of virulence in
insect-vectored plant pathogens. We'll be applying and
extending the evolutionary theory to increase the sus-
tainability of agriculture. It's a collaborative project
with opportunities for experimental research with a bac-
terial pathogen (Xylella fastidiosa), their sap-sucking
insect vectors, and some of their host plants. If you're
interested, please send me an email with your CV and
any questions you might have about the position before
the end of February.
The position starts in August 2022, that is, the start
of the fall semester. It comes with a renewable twelve-
month stipend, health insurance, and a tuition waver.
Candidates who would add to the ethnic, gender, and
socioeconomic diversity of the academy are strongly
urged to apply.
Cheers!
Nate B Hardy
Associate Professor
Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology
Auburn University
Email: n8@auburn.edu
Website: http://hardylab.skullisland.info Nathaniel
Hardy <nbh0006@auburn.edu >
AucklandU
EvolutionFishReproduction
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student to be
part of a group to investigate the molecular mechanisms
underlying the reproduction of the Australasian snapper
(Chrysophrys auratus).
Supervisors
1. Main supervisor: Associate Professor Maren
Wellenreuther, Auckland University and Plant
and Food Research (PFR), Nelson, New Zealand.https://unidirectory.auckland.ac.nz/people/prole/-
m-wellenreuther 2. Co-supervisor: Craig Radford,
Auckland University, New Zealand
3. Advisor: Dr Dafni Anastasiadi (PFR), Plant and
Food Research (PFR), Nelson, New Zealand.
4. Advisor: Dr Matthew Wylie (PFR), Plant and Food
Research (PFR), Nelson, New Zealand.
Background Aquaculture is the fastest growing food-
production sector and New Zealand has the potential
to develop a range of locally grown nsh species to
meet this increasing demand. Plant and Food Research
(http://www.plantandfood.co.nz) is known worldwide
for its innovative breeding and genomics research, and
it is leading the development of New Zealand seafood
genomics. Understanding and controlling the repro-
ductive development of sh in captivity is critical for
the establishment of new aquaculture species and the
production of high quality seed. From gonadal dier-
entiation to gametogenesis and spawning, reproduction
is regulated by external and internal cues that trigger
nely tuned molecular networks. Expression of key genes
associated with reproduction respond to the endocrine
regulation of the brain-pituitary-gonad axis. Further-
more, epigenetic mechanisms can mediate changes in
gene expression since they are inducible by external
cues. This PhD project will involve working alongside a
group of experienced researchers to study the molecular
mechanisms involved in the reproductive development
of cultured Australasian snapper (Chrysophrys aura-
tus), using molecular, transcriptomic and epigenomic
approaches, and their association with reproductive phe-
notypes. The PhD student will gain experience working
with collaborators from New Zealand (Mark Lokman,
University of Otago), Australia (Abigail Elizur), Spain
(Francesc Piferrer) and Greece (Elena Sarropoulou).
PhD Project Aims 1. Describe the reproductive phys-
iology of snapper in captivity to provide a basis for
photoperiod manipulations and the appropriate tim-
ing for hormone-induced spawning. 2. Investigate the
role of epigenomic patterns, including DNA methyla-
tion and non-coding RNAs, in regulating gametogenesis.
3. Investigate the DNA methylation patterns in go-
nad development in this protogynous hermaphroditic
species.
This PhD project will provide an excellent opportunity
to learn the latest interdisciplinary technologies and
apply them to better understand reproduction and sh
(epi)genomics. The PhD student will gain experience
working in academic and government institutions. They
will be a member of a highly active and collaborative
group of researchers, and help develop new technological
approaches and applied-genomic tools.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 19
The Candidate and how to Apply The successful can-
didate will be a highly motivated researcher with a
strong background in laboratory techniques and com-
putational approaches. Molecular laboratory work and
data analysis of next generation sequencing data will be
the main workload of the project. Therefore, knowledge
and experience of a scripting language (Python/Perl)
is benecial. A proven ability and motivation to write
research papers is essential.
Students will be enrolled at the University of
Auckland but primarily based in Nelson (http://-
www.nelsonnz.com). We will provide a three-year schol-
arship that provides a stipend and university (domestic-
level) fees.
Applicants should send a CV, contact details of two
academic referees and a cover letter that states why
you are interested in the position and how your qual-
ications and experience make you a good t for the
proposed research. Send these to Maren Wellenreuther
(Maren.Wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz). Candidate
selection will begin in July, but applications will be
considered until the position is lled. The ideal starting
date is 1 June/July 2022. New Zealand applicants with
strong academic record are encouraged to apply.
Ng^A^A mihi, Maren
Maren Wellenreuther Science Group Leader, Plant and
Food Research, Nelson, New Zealand Associate Profes-
sor, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand
Email: Maren.Wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz Mo-
bile: +64 (0) 22 357 5802 Homepage: http://-
www.marenwellenreuther.com Twitter: @MarenWellen-
reut^A^A
T: +64 3 989 7658 M: +64 22 357 5802 E:
Maren.Wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz W:
www.plantandfood.co.nz
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BielefeldU FungalGenomicAnalysis
3-year PhD position: Genomic analysis of dispersal and
adaptation in porcini mushroomsWith Prof Joe Homan (Bielefeld University, Germany)
together with collaboration partners Prof. Bill Amos
(Cambridge University), Dr. Kanchon Dasmahapatra
(University of York, UK), Prof. Bryn Dentinger (Univer-
sity of Utah, USA), Prof. Thorunn Helgason (University
of York, UK), Dr. Minou Nowrousian (Ruhr-Universit at
Bochum, Germany), Dr. Ulrike Damm (Senckenberg
Museum of Natural History, G orlitz, Germany) and
Dr. Fernando Mart nez Pe na (Agri-food Research and
Technology Center of Aragon, Spain).
An outstanding opportunity is available for a PhD stu-
dent to work on the evolutionary genomics of porcini
mushrooms. The position is available in Joe Homan's
research group (www.thehomanlab.com) at the Depart-
ment of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld University and
is fully funded for three years. It will combine eldwork
in Germany, the UK, France and Spain with lab-based
bioinformatic analysis of next generation sequencing
data.
The project: Ectomycorrhizal fungi (EMF) are critical
components of terrestrial ecosystems that play essential
roles in nutrient recycling. Consequently, there is a
pressing need to study their population dynamics and
life histories so as to better understand how ecosys-
tems function and persist. In particular, we need to
learn how EMF disperse, colonise new habitats, adapt
to their hosts and, in the longer term, speciate. This
project will focus on the iconic edible mushroom, Bole-
tus edulis, known variously as the penny bun, c epe de
Bordeaux, porcino or Steinpilz. It will exploit a large
collection of B. edulis samples to deliver arguably the
most comprehensive population genomic study of any
wild fungus. Systematic repeated sampling of multiple
woodland patches from Bielefeld (Germany) and Thet-
ford Forest (UK) will be used to investigate ne-scale
patterns of dispersal, population structure and adapta-
tion to dierent tree hosts. Overall, this project will
produce a detailed picture of how EMF populations
become established, spread and evolve. Understand-
ing these processes is essential for predicting ecosystem
responses to climate change.
The applicant: We seek a bright and highly motivated
student who holds a good rst degree and an M.Sc. or
equivalent in a relevant topic (e.g. molecular ecology,
fungal biology, population genomics, bioinformatics).
The ideal candidate will have strong quantitative skills,
including prociency in working in R and writing cus-
tom scripts. Practical experience of working with next
generation sequence data would be advantageous, but
full training will be provided. The candidate should also
be able to work both independently and as part of a
multidisciplinary team. A high standard of spoken and
written English is required.20 EvolDir March 1, 2022
The working environment: The PhD student will be
based at the Department of Animal Behaviour at
Bielefeld University, Germany (www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/vhf/index.html). The department is the oldest
of its kind in Germany and currently hosts seven princi-
pal investigators, nine postdocs and 15 PhD students.
It oers a stimulating, supportive and highly interna-
tional environment as well as an excellent research in-
frastructure. The working language of the Department
is English.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with an attrac-
tive historical centre and easy access to the Teutoberger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It is an af-
fordable and pleasant city to live in and is well connected
to most major European cities.
The PhD student will be based at Bielefeld University
but will have ample opportunities to interact with the
international collaboration partners, who bring addi-
tional expertise in molecular ecology (Bill Amos), speci-
ation genomics (Kanchon Dasmahapatra), fungal biol-
ogy (Bryn Dentinger), plant-fungal interactions (Tho-
runn Helgason), fungal mating system evolution (Minou
Nowrousian), fungal systematics (Ulrike Damm) and
mycological conservation (Fernando Mart nez Pe na).
The successful applicant will therefore benet from an
integrative, multidisciplinary training that will prepare
her/him very well for a scientic career in molecular
ecology / fungal biology / population genomics / con-
servation biology.
Remuneration: This generous PhD studentship is
funded by the German Science Foundation (DFG) for
a period of three years and includes health insurance.
The pay scale is TVL E13 (65%). Funding will also
be available for travel and for the student to attend
workshops and conferences.
Application procedure: To apply for this position, please
provide: (i) a letter of motivation including a maximum
2-page statement of your research interests, relevant
skills and experience; (ii) a CV including publication
list; (iii) names and contact details of two referees willing
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlBoku-Venna
BioinformaticsOrPopGenetics
A 3 year PhD position is available at the institute for
integrative conservation research, University of natural
resources and life sciences, (Boku) Vienna, to support
the molecular biodiversity laboratory, with focus on
data analysis. Research at the laboratory emphasize
barcoding and metabarcoding applications as well as
genotyping using high through put methods. The posi-
tion is embedded in a project that provides resources
for population genetic analysis for forest trees. Hereby
a marker system based on amplicon sequencing and an
allele call that uses length and SNP information had
been developed. The analysis involves a series of python
scripts which allow a standardized procedure for allele
call and the construction of a genotype matrix. The
position is expected to be involved in optimization of
the python scripts and in improvement of the interface
and operability of the pipeline. In addition, the method
allows to automatically include new data into existing
matrices. The pipeline should be adapted to include this
functionality which includes design and implementation
of a database for the management of genotyping data.
The ideal candidate has a background in Bioinformatic
or Biology with relevant experience. Funding is avail-
able as a 75% B1 position on the master level for 3
years. The focus of the position can be broadened to
develop a PhD thesis in the eld of population genetics,
bioinformatics or related elds. The position will be
open until lled, applications sent until Feb.15th will
be fully considered.
For further information and to apply please contact:
Harald Meimberg, meimberg@boku.ac.at
Brno Czechia FishBroodParasitism
Ph.D. position on coevolutionary dynamics in brood
parasitism in sh
**applications until 14 March 2022
REICHARD LAB (www.reichardlab.eu)March 1, 2022 EvolDir 21
Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Czech Academy of Sci-
ences, Brno
One funded PhD student position is available at the
Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Czech Academy of Sci-
ences, located in Brno, Czech Republic. Formal start
of PhD. study is expected in September 2022, potential
earlier start can be nancially supported.
**The successful candidate will work on brood para-
sitism, primarily on the cuckoo catsh and their cichlids
hosts and/or bitterling shes and their mussel hosts
using experimental, molecular or theoretical modelling
methods/approaches. There is exibility in the topic
within the large research project.
**RESEARCH PROJECT:
The Expro-funded project uses brood parasitic shes
to study how co-evolutionary processes and ecological
interactions shape biodiversity at local and global scales.
Using two sh systems that are highly amenable to lab-
oratory and eld studies (cuckoo catsh and bitterling),
we employ comparative and experimental approaches to
understand how coevolution drives and constrains diver-
sication. In particular, we aim to identify the origin
and early evolution of host specicity, quantify large-
scale patterns of host specicity and their association
with parasite traits and diversication, and measure
the constraints and benets of host specicity. Field
and lab studies are combined with population genetics,
phylogenetics and mathematical modelling.
For experimental work, access to well-equipped sh
breeding facility and an outdoor mesocosm system is
granted.
QUALIFICATIONS - MSc. in Biology or a related
discipline. Experience with experimental work using
sh, molecular laboratory work and/or mathematical
modelling of evolutionary processes is welcome.
No TUITION, decent SALARY from the research
project and STIPEND from the Masaryk University
(expected enrolment at Masaryk University in Brno)
ensure an income for very good standard of living.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE
For applications, please submit a CV and explain your
motivation to apply for this position in your Cover Let-
ter (single page is sucient). Email your application to
reichard@ivb.cz.
All applications submitted until 14 March 2022 will
be fully considered. Formal application to the univer-
sity must be completed by 31 March 2022 (to start
in September 2022). Selected candidates will be inter-
viewed online.For informal enquires and more details, feel free to email
reichard@ivb.cz
Martin Reichard <reichard@ivb.cz >
CharlesU PlantPolyploids
***Ph.D. position about the role of temperature in the
origin and evolutionary success of Arabidopsis polyploids
Group of Plant Evolutionary CytoGenomics (Roswitha
Schmickl) and Group of Ecological Genomics
(Filip Kol a) Department of Botany, Charles
University, Prague, Czech Republic https://-
lab-allience.natur.cuni.cz/plantevocytogen/people-
research https://botany.natur.cuni.cz/ecolgen Whole
genome duplication (polyploidisation) is a dramatic
and widespread mutation in nature, however, with
controversial impact on adaptation and diversication.
The frequency of polyploid origins and the manifestation
of the adaptive potential of polyploidy is dependent on
the thermal environment. A cold environment promotes
the formation of unreduced gametes, directly aecting
polyploid formation and establishment, and it alleviates
the initial meiotic shock by restoring fertility in nascent
polyploids, providing novel opportunities for polyploid
adaptation and expansion. This project about the role
of temperature in the origin and evolutionary success of
polyploids will be done in close collaboration with the
group of Polina Novikova at the Max Planck Institute
for Plant Breeding Research, Cologne, Germany,
including short term research stays.
**Requirements The successful candidate should bring
a broad and strong interest in evolutionary biology.
Methods within the project will focus on ecological ex-
periments, genomics of adaptation, and cytogenetics.
Previous experience in these elds is benecial but not
strictly required. Excellent communication skills are
required for this position, as the candidate will become
part of an international team and international collabo-
rations.
**What we oer A creative and supportive scientic
atmosphere, which will give you the opportunity to
develop your scientic career. You will experience a
fun mix of the Czech and international scientic envi-
ronment, which, together with the vibrant cultural life
of Prague, will provide you a unique research and life
experience.
**Send your application via the STARS programme22 EvolDir March 1, 2022
of Charles University https://stars-natur.cz/phd-
positions/biology/the-role-of-temperature-in-the-
origin-and-evolutionary-success-of-arabidopsis-
polyploids?back=0tif0 Reviewing of applications
will begin on 14th March 2022 and will continue until
the position has been lled. The start date is exibel,
at earliest from April 2022.
p a 18. 2. 2022 v 18:32 odes latel Roswitha Schmickl,
Ph.D. <roswitha.schmickl@natur.cuni.cz >napsal:
Roswitha Schmickl, Ph.D.
Univerzita Karlova P rodov ~A a fakulta Albertov 6,
128 43 Praha 2 www.natur.cuni.cz Charles Univer-
sity Faculty of Science Albertov 6, 128 43 Praha 2
www.natur.cuni.cz/en \Roswitha Schmickl, Ph.D."
<roswitha.schmickl@natur.cuni.cz >
DanishTechU
BioinformaticsAncientDNA
DTU Health Tech is looking for a qualied candidate for
a vacant PhD position in bioinformatics. In this position,
you will develop algorithms and computational methods
to deal with the analysis of large datasets from modern
and ancient sources. More specically, these algorithms
will be aimed at analyzing relationships between ancient
and modern populations. The bioinformatics section
of DTU Health Tech performs research in the areas of
dierent metagenomics, cancer genomics and population
genomics.
Responsibilities and qualications
Current bioinformatics algorithms and software are of-
ten ill-equipped to deal with DNA extracted from an-
cient sources. This ancient DNA shows high levels of
fragmentation and accumulated chemical damage. Fur-
thermore, ancient sediments often contain DNA from
multiple species and often multiple individuals. Fortu-
nately, several problems pertaining to ancient DNA can
be described in a maximum-likelihood framework and
computer science techniques can help us to solve such
numerical problems eciently via numerical algorithms
and data structures. You will work in collaboration with
other partners including the University of Copenhagen
and McMaster University in order to develop the next
generation of algorithms and software applied to DNA
extract from fossils, ancient soils and sediments.
You must have a two-year master's degree (120 ECTS
points) or a similar degree with an academic level equiv-alent to a two-year master's degree in addition to a
bachelor's degree (180 ECTS points).
Ideally, your degree should be in computer science, math-
ematics or biological science with a focus on quantitative
and mathematical aspects.
More specically you should ideally have the following
qualications:
* Knowledge of a programming language like Python,
Perl, C++ and/or Java (C/C++ is preferred) * Abil-
ity to work in a UNIX environment, ideally in a high-
performance computing environment * Thorough under-
standing of basic algorithms and data structures used
in computer science * Knowledge of probabilities and
statistics * Firm grasp of rst-year university mathemat-
ics (dierential calculus/linear algebra) * Experience
in bioinformatics and knowledge of metagenomics is
a plus * Expertise in next-generation sequencing data
generation and processing is also a plus
The language of communication at DTU is English.
Application Apply no later than 12 December 2021
Apply at https://www.dtu.dk/english/about/-
job-and-career/vacant-positions/job?id=9e7988a4-
31e5-4bc3-a9fc-9230c24f347c Gabriel Renaud
<gabriel.reno@gmail.com >
GlobeInst UCopenhagen
AirborneEnvironmentalDNA
PhD fellowship in airborne environmental DNA at the
Globe Institute, University of Copenhagen
We oer a 3-year PhD fellowship in airborne environ-
mental DNA commencing 1 May 2022 or as soon as
possible hereafter. The project is funded by the Carls-
berg Foundation.
Project description You will work on the newly funded
Carlsberg Foundation Young Researcher Fellowship
awarded to Associate Professor Kristine Bohmann to
form a research team dedicated to establish the use of
airborne environmental DNA for terrestrial vertebrate
monitoring.
In addition to state-of-the-art environmental DNA lab-
oratory and computational workows, the team will
bridge disciplines through collaboration with a strong
group of national and international collaborators to ne-
tune the technique, expand it to natural environments,March 1, 2022 EvolDir 23
and apply it to biodiversity studies and standardised
surveys. You will take an active part in the overall
team's work and will work with both national and in-
ternational collaborators and team members. You will
work especially close with the team members based in
Copenhagen.
The project involves further development of the technol-
ogy for use in natural settings, exploration of challenges,
opportunities and limitations, and the use of metabar-
coding of airborne environmental DNA for vertebrate
detection in applied contexts. This can include design
and optimisation of air samplers, design of experiments
in dierent natural ecosystems as well as in more con-
trolled settings and comparison to existing monitoring
methods. There will be exibility to shape the PhD
fellowship within this framework.
The PhD Fellow will be supervised by Associate Profes-
sor Kristine Bohmann and co-advised by Associate Pro-
fessor Tobias Frslev and Postdoc Christina Lynggaard,
all from Globe Institute, University of Copenhagen.
Deadline: 27 February 2022
Further details: https://employment.ku.dk/all-
vacancies/?show=155725 Kristine Bohmann
<kbohmann@sund.ku.dk >
JohnsHopkinsU
GrasslandPlantEvolution
We are seeking postdoctoral and graduate student ap-
plicants from diverse backgrounds to participate in a
fully funded working group focusing on exploring the
role of evolutionary processes in long-term ecological re-
search, with an emphasis on grassland plants. The aim
of this working group is to facilitate collaborations be-
tween ecologists and evolutionary biologists by realizing
the opportunity that Long-Term Ecological Research
(LTER) sites provide for conducting eco-evolutionary
research.
Biologists increasingly recognize that ecological and
evolutionary processes are closely linked. This is partic-
ularly relevant in the context of global change, where en-
vironmental conditions may change rapidly, and species
may adapt to the novel conditions in a comparable
timeframe. Unfortunately, studies that examine the in-
teractions and feedback loops between evolutionary and
ecological processes, particularly in long-term ecological
studies, are rare. The working group will address thisproblem by rst identifying barriers that exist to de-
veloping evolutionary biology work at LTER sites and,
second, identifying possible solutions. In doing so, the
working group will develop a framework for how to best
implement future eco-evolutionary research in a long-
term ecological research context. Lastly, the main goal
of this working group is to unite early-career ecologists
and evolutionary biologists with postdoc and gradu-
ate students to create a new cohort of eco-evolutionary
scientists!
The working group will be held at Sevilleta
National Wildlife Refuge LTER <https://-
unmsevilletaeldstation.wordpress.com/ >in La
Joya, NM on May 9th-12th, 2022. We expect partici-
pants will arrive Sunday night (May 8th) and depart
Friday morning (May 13th). Travel to/from and
accommodation at the UNM Sevilleta Field Station
will be provided, and all meals will be catered for
the duration of the working group. There will be no
costs for participants. The format will be a daily
morning plenary, followed by break-out focus groups,
evening graduate and postdoc posters, and informal
discussion. Please be aware that we will be abiding by
CDC guidelines and requiring proof of vaccination to
attend in-person. Remote participation will also be
available to those who cannot or do not feel comfortable
attending in-person. Our goal is to hold a productive
meeting where all feel safe and comfortable - as such,
we will be monitoring the ever-changing situation and
making changes when necessary!
The organizers of the working group greatly value diver-
sity, equality of opportunity, and human dignity. Sci-
entists who are LGBTQ+, Black, Hispanic, Latin(o/a),
Indigenous, Asian, Asian American, Pacic Islander,
two or more races/ethnicities, or veterans are especially
encouraged to apply. To apply, email Jenny Cocciardi
(jenny.cocciardi@jhu.edu) with the subject line \Evo-
LTER Working Group Application" with; 1) a copy of
your CV, 2) an abstract describing research that you
would like to present on at the working group (limit
300 words), and, 3) a one-page diversity, equity, and
inclusion statement describing your experiences and com-
mitment to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion
in STEM. The research may be in the elds spanning
ecology and evolutionary biology, but preferably with
an element of both (including, but not limited to; plant
eco-evo-devo biology, global change ecology, adaptation
to climate change, phenology, plant physiology and mor-
phology, phenotypic plasticity, quantitative genetics and
genomics, community ecology, population genetics, etc.).
Applications are due March 4th and applicants will be
notied of the decision to attend by March 14th, 2022.
Undergraduate students who have conducted research24 EvolDir March 1, 2022
that they feel ts well with the working group's main
aims may also apply. Applicants are encouraged to
email Jenny Cocciardi (jenny.cocciardi@jhu.edu) with
any questions and inquiries on the working group!
<jenny.cocciardi@jhu.edu >
LeibnizInst Bonn
GenomicsOfSexChromosomes
Dear EvolDir Community
Two PhD student positions are open in the Compara-
tive Vertebrate Genomics group at Zoological Research
Museum Alexander Koenig, Bonn, Leibniz Institute for
the Analysis of Biodiversity Change LIB
For full descriptions and how to apply please see here:
https://bonn.leibniz-lib.de/en/job-portal Closing date:
February 27, 2022
| Genomics of sex chromosome evolution in African cich-
lids | The mechanisms of sex determination are diverse
despite their unifying function in dening male and fe-
male sex within a species. This project focuses on the
investigation of sex chromosomes in a model system of
evolutionary biology, the African cichlid shes, in which
we previously identied an outstandingly high rate of sex
chromosome turnover. We will here submerge deeper
into the sex chromosome history of African cichlids,
zoom into particular species with previously identied
sex chromosomes to study convergent evolution, perform
crosses and focus on the genomic signatures underlying
transitions between sex chromosomes. To understand
how sex is established and maintained at the molecular
level, we will also analyze gene expression as well as
the regulatory signatures activating and silencing gene
expression in males and females.
| Collectomics of vertebrates | High-quality genomes
are an important basis for biological and evolution-
ary research. However, generating assemblies of high
completeness and contiguity requires ideally fresh, ash-
frozen samples. The availability of such samples has
become a major limitation for biodiversity genomics,
in particular for rare or endangered species, or species
inhabiting remote regions. Museum collections house
millions of samples. Here we will use museum samples
to unlock collection treasures for genome sequencing
and analyses. This project is part of a collaboration
with LOEWE-Center for Translational Biodiversity Ge-
nomics (TBG), Senckenberg Research Institute, Dresdenconcept Genome Center, the Museum f >1
2r Naturkunde
Berlin and the Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research
Berlin.
Application Information: To apply, please submit a
single document as pdf including: - a motivation let-
ter explaining your interest in the project and your
matching prior experience (1-2 pages) - a detailed CV
including contact information for 2 potential references -
transcripts of your academic certicates and credentials
https://bonn.leibniz-lib.de/en/job-portal Equity: The
LIB is a family-friendly institution and an equal oppor-
tunity employer. We are committed to increasing the
proportion of women in academics. Consequently, we
actively encourage applications by women. We also wel-
come applications from candidates with severe disabili-
ties. Disabled candidates with equivalent qualications
will be preferentially considered. We are committed to
welcoming and supporting candidates from all nations
as well as to fostering a diverse team and will positively
consider candidates from under-represented groups and
all genders (m/f/d).
Dr. Astrid B >1
2hne Head of section Comparative Ver-
tebrate Genomics a.boehne@leibniz-zfmk.de
Dr. Astrid B >1
2hne Center for Molecular Biodiversity
Research ZFMK - Zoological Research Museum Alexan-
der Koenig LIB - Leibniz Institute for the Analysis of
Biodiversity Change
Mail Address Adenauerallee 127 53113 Bonn, Germany
email: a.boehne@leibniz-zfmk.de phone: +49 228 9122-
365 web: https://bonn.leibniz-lib.de/en/zfmk/astrid-
bohne { Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum Alexander
Koenig - Leibniz-Institut f >1
2r Biodiversit >1
2t der Tiere -
Adenauerallee 160, 53113 Bonn, Germany www.zfmk.de
Stiftung des  >1
2entlichen Rechts; Direktor: Prof. Dr.
Bernhard Misof Sitz: Bonn
B >1
2hne Astrid <A.Boehne@leibniz-lib.de >B >1
2hne
Astrid <A.Boehne@leibniz-lib.de >
London
EvolutionTransposableElements
A fully funded PhD position in the laboratory of Dr.
Alex de Mendoza at Queen Mary University of London
(United Kingdom). This is a PhD studentship for 3
years, that covers UK \home status" fees and an annual
stipend. International applicants are welcome to apply,
although the funding for the international fees wouldMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 25
need to be discussed upon selection of the candidate.
The PhD project aims to explore the evolutionary race
between transposable elements and the host chromatin
environment. The project will combine molecular biol-
ogy techniques (Nanopore sequencing, ChIP-seq) with
bioinformatics. Previous experience in molecular biol-
ogy and evolutionary biology would be benecial. An
MSc in elds related to molecular biology, epigenetics,
bioinformatics or related topics is also recommended.
Find link to the application and project details here:
https://www.ndaphd.com/phds/project/host-gene-
capture-by-transposable-elements-in-eukaryotic-
genomes/?p141199 Applications close on February
28th. All you need is:
1.- Curriculum vitae (CV).
2.- Motivation letter.
3.- Two reference letters.
Potential candidates should not hesitate to get in touch
with a.demendozasoler@qmul.ac.uk to discuss your in-
terest in the posts and the projects, even if you cannot
make it to the deadline.
More information on the group, publications and re-
search topics in the group can be found in the laboratory
website: https://www.demendozalab.com/ Research
environment:
Queen Mary University of London and the School of
Biological and Chemical Sciences are in London's East
End, and hosts a vibrant community of researchers with
complementary expertise in evolutionary genomics and
EvoDevo (https://www.qmul.ac.uk/sbbs/about-us/our-
departments/biology/), with access to state-of-the-art
computational resources and genomics facilities. Fur-
thermore, we are part of the Epigenetics Hub, a highly
integrated group of researchers with dierent expertise
in dierent aspects of epigenetics, from basic to applied
research: http://qmulepigenetics.com/home Alexandre
de Mendoza Soler <a.demendozasoler@qmul.ac.uk >LundU EvolutionaryBiology
I am looking to recruit a PhD student interested in evo-
lutionary biology and ecotoxicology. The student would
have the opportunity to use a variety of approaches
(phylogenetic comparative methods, lab/eld experi-
ments with insects, quantitative genetics) to understand
how toxicant sensitivity evolves over both short and
deep timescales, with substantial latitude to develop the
project into their own.
The position is fully funded for 4 years. The Depart-
ment of Biology at Lund University is a dynamic and
international research environment, and Sweden is a
wonderful place to do a PhD.
Deadline to apply: March 4 2022
For more details on the project and to apply,
visit: https://lu.varbi.com/en/what:job/jobID:470162/-
iframeEmbedded:0/where:4 For questions, email
Stephen De Lisle: stephen.de lisle@biol.lu.se
Stephen De Lisle <stephen.de lisle@biol.lu.se >
LundU EvolutionaryPotential
Attractive 4 year PhD-position at Lund universitywithin
a project addressinghow and why wild populations vary
in their evolutionary potential.The goal will be to moni-
tor selection and genetic variation in wild populations
of green tortoise beetlesCassida viridisover time and
space. This insect system enables studies of selection
and adaptation not only in the lab, but also in the eld
in multiple freeranging populations along environmental
gradients. The outcomes will increase our capacity to
predict evolution and to understand how populations
respond when encountering a changing or novel environ-
ment.
The doctoral studentbe a part oftheEvolutionary Ecol-
ogy of Plant Insect Interactions groupat the Depart-
ment of Biology, Lund University.For further informa-
tion, please contact the main supervisor Maja Tarka
(maja.tarka@biol.lu.se)
Please nd more information and apply here:26 EvolDir March 1, 2022
https://lu.varbi.com/en/what:job/jobID:473205/-
type:job/where:4/apply:1 Anna Runemark
<anna.runemark@biol.lu.se >
MaxPlanckInst Ploen
ModellingCooperation
The research group Dynamics of Social Behavior ex-
plores under which conditions individuals cooperate. To
this end, we translate social interactions into mathemat-
ical games. These games can then be explored analyti-
cally, with computer simulations, and with behavioral
experiments.
Our group currently consists of six members (includ-
ing two PostDocs and three PhD students), with back-
grounds in mathematics, physics, psychology, and eco-
nomics. The group members have a wide range of
competences, including mathematical modeling, game
theory, network theory, machine learning, data analysis
andcomputer programming.
We are looking for motivated researchers to join us. Our
website: http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/social-behaviour/
. PhD Position (3 years) Mathematical modelling and
data driven analysis of cooperation in stochastic games
One key mechanism for cooperation is repetition. Peo-
ple are more likely to help somebody if they have a
chance of meeting them again. Most existing models of
repeated games assume that when a set of people inter-
act over multiple rounds, the rules of their interactions
remain constant, and are independent of the outcomes
ofprevious interactions.
The project aims to develop and analyze models of re-
peated games that capture the idea that people's actions
aect the rules of their future interactions. Furthermore,
the project aims to explore such situations using a data
driven analysis.
Applicants should have a degree in mathematics, com-
puter science, economics, physics, or another related
eld. They should be curious to describe social be-
haviors mathematically and to analyze data. Ideally,
they are already familiar with the theory of Markov
chains and stochastic processes, and have some experi-
ence inprogramming and data handling (e.g. Python,
R, Matlab, SQL, ...). Good quantitative skills will be
important.
Working environmentThe Max Planck Research Group \Dynamics of Social
Behavior" has been established in October 2019, and
is led by Dr. Christian Hilbe. The group organizes a
weekly group meeting in which the group members have
an opportunity to present their ongoing work and to dis-
cuss current research, and to invite and learn fromguest
speakers. The group has hosted several guest speakers
in the last year; all experts in the eld of social behavior
with diverse backgrounds.
The group is a part of the Max Planck Institute for
Evolutionary Biology in Pl on, Germany. The Institute
has three departments (Evolutionary Theory, Micro-
bial Population Biology, Evolutionary Genetics) and
several additional research groups. The group is well
connected to the Department for Evolutionary Theory
led by Prof.Arne Traulsen, which oers further seminars
and a weekly journal club.
In addition, the research group maintains strong collab-
orations with external researchers, including researchers
from Harvard University, IST Austria, and the Univer-
sity of Exeter.
Pl on is a small town close to the Baltic Sea, embed-
ded into a beautiful landscape with innumerous lakes.
The area provides ample opportunity for free time ac-
tivities such as swimming, canoe-ing, or biking in a
stunning environment. The cities of Kiel and L ubeck
(^ a200,000 inhabitants) are only half an hour train ride
away.Hamburg (Germany's second largest city) can be
reached within 1.5h by train.
Application
Interested students should send their application (moti-
vation letter, CV, copies of certicates, contact details
of two references) by email totoglynatsi@evolbio.mpg.de.
Please use the code \PhD2022" in the subject line.
The Max Planck Society strives for gender and diver-
sity equality. We welcome applications from all back-
grounds. The Max Planck Society is committed to
employing more disabled individuals and especially en-
courages them to apply. The Max Planck Society seeks
to increase the number of women in those areas where
theyare underrepresented and therefore explicitly en-
courages women to apply.
For further questions, please get in contact with Dr.
Nikoleta E. Glynatsi. The application deadline is March
2, 2022. However, the positions will remain open until
lled by qualied candidates.
Contact
Dr. Nikoleta E. Glynatsi
Research Group Dynamics of Social Behavior Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Pl on, Ger-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 27
many Website: https://nikoleta-v3.github.io Email: gly-
natsi@evolbio.mpg.de
Link to the Institute's advertisement: https://-
www.evolbio.mpg.de/3584989/job fulloer 18186132
\Nikoleta E. Glynatsi" <glynatsi@evolbio.mpg.de >
\Nikoleta E. Glynatsi" <glynatsi@evolbio.mpg.de >
NewZealand
BiofoulingCommunityBiodiversity
PhD Scholarship to assess the temporal and spatial com-
munity composition of marine biofouling using eDNA
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student to be
part of a group investigating the temporal and spatial
community changes of biofouling using eDNA methods.
Candidates will apply phylogenetic and comparative
methods to understand community composition and
associated changes, and relate these to the wide abiotic
and biotic environment.
Project background and wider context Plant and Food
Research (PFR) is making a signicant investment in
developing the knowledge, capability and innovations
needed to undertake the aquaculture of sh at open
ocean sites around Aotearoa. Biofouling of marine struc-
tures has been identied as a hurdle to farming in the
open ocean, and a ve year programme called New
Open Ocean Ecosystems was designed and launched in
2021 to study the poorly understood topic of biofoul-
ing of aquaculture materials at exposed NZ sites. The
PhD project will form part of this research programme,
specically, the student will develop a standardised and
replicated sampling array for assessing the composition
of marine biolms. To adequately characterise com-
munity composition the student will apply optimised
DNA extraction methods to extract high quality DNA
for metabarcoding to characterize marine bacterial and
eukaryotic biofouling communities (Zaiko et al., 2016,
Pochon et al., 2015, von Ammon et al., 2018a, Briand et
al., 2018, von Ammon et al., 2018b, Zaiko et al., 2020).
Sampling will initially be undertaken at an easily acces-
sible inshore location (e.g. Beatrix Bay, Nelson Haven)
with the aim of extending these protocols to samples
from more exposed open ocean aquaculture sites, to
better understand the sources and vectors of propag-
ules and to improve management of biofouling-related
risks. Temporal and spatial variation among biolm
settlement will be assessed against the most relevant
parameters identied. Additionally ltered planktoniceDNA samples will be collected in close proximity to the
settlement arrays to examine linkages between plank-
tonic and settled communities. The opportunity to
include eRNA approaches as a proxy for the living por-
tion of the biofouling community will be considered and
discussed (Pochon et al., 2017, Wood et al., 2020).
The PhD project will incorporate a range of cutting-edge,
next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based techniques to
better understand the colonisation process on articial
surfaces and link what is present in the plankton to
what occurs in the fouling community under a range of
fouling-control conditions. The PhD student will gain
experience working in academic and government insti-
tutions. They will be a member of a highly active and
collaborative group of researchers, and help develop new
technological approaches and applied-genomic tools.
The specic PhD project aims are: (i) catalogue the
primary colonizers and their phylogenetic relationships
and document successional stages and seasonal changes,
(ii) understand the impact of the spatial location and
associated environmental factors on biolm community
composition, and (iii) compare the biolm-forming and
planktonic bacterial community.
The proposed topic leaves sucient freedom in the se-
lection of specic aspects and the design of a research
plan for the doctorate candidate.
How to apply Applicants should send a CV, contact
details of two academic referees and a cover letter
that states why you are interested in the position and
how your qualications and experience make you a
good t for the proposed research. Academic quali-
cations are considered alongside signicant relevant
non-academic experience. Send these to Maren Wellen-
reuther (Maren.Wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz) and
Peter Bell (Peter.Bell@plantandfood.co.nz). Applica-
tions will be considered until the position is lled. Stu-
dents will be enrolled at the University of Auckland
but be based in Nelson (http://www.nelsonnz.com/).
We will provide a three-year scholarship that provides a
stipend and university (domeWarning: base64 decoder
saw premature EOF! stic-level) fees.
Supervisors 1. Main supervisor: Associate Pro-
fessor Maren Wellenreuther, Auckland University
and Plant and Food Research, Nelson, New
Zealand. https://unidirectory.auckland.ac.nz/people/-
prole/m-wellenreuther 2. Co-supervisor: Peter Bell,
Plant and Food Research (PFR), Nelson, New Zealand.
3. Co-supervisor: Associate Professor Xavier Pochon,
Cawthron Institute (Nelson) and Auckland University,
New Zealand.
Ng^A^A mihi, Maren28 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Maren Wellenreuther Science Group Leader, Plant and
Food Research, Nelson, New Zealand Associate Profes-
sor, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand
Email: Maren.Wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz Mo-
bile: +64 (0) 22 357 5802
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Paris AI and EcoEvolution
A PhD position on Creating AI/ML techniques to
enhance mechanistic eco-evolutionary computer simula-
tionsis available in H el ene Morlon's research group
at the Biology Institute of the Ecole Normale Sup erieure
in Paris (France), in collaboration with Florian Hartig
at the University of Regensburg (Germany) and Loic
Pelissier at the ETH Zurich (Switzerland). The PhD
is part of a Horizon 2020-COFUND European doctoral
programArticial Intelligence for the Sciences and
will start in September 2022. Deadline for application:
February 23rd 2022.
Applicants should not have lived or carried out their
main activity (work, studies, etc.) in France for more
than 12 months in the 3 years immediately before the
deadline of the call (MSCA Mobility rule), namely be-
tween February 11, 2019 and February 23, 2022.
Link to the project <https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/-
jobs/717645 >
Link to the doctoral program <https://-
psl.eu/en/news/2021-call-applications-articial-
intelligence-sciences-doctoral-program?ct=-
t(EMAIL CAMPAIGN 2112022 816)>
If you are interested, please contact H el ene Morlon
<helene.morlon@bio.ens.psl.eu >and/or Florian Hartig
<orian.hartig@biologie.uni-regensburg.de >
H el ene MORLON <helene.morlon@bio.ens.psl.eu >UAlaska Fairbanks
HerringFisheriesGenetics
M.S. Assistantship: Population genomics of Pacic her-
ring in the Bering Sea, Alaska
We are seeking a candidate for a Master of Science
assistantship in Fisheries at the University of Alaska
Fairbanks, College of Fisheries and Ocean Sciences. The
student will develop genomic (RADseq and potentially
whole-genome) datasets for Pacic herring (Clupea pal-
lasii) and help conduct a ne-scale analysis of genomic
variability and population genomic structure in the east-
ern Bering Sea. The successful candidate will work with
samples from diverse sources and will have opportunities
to work closely with the Alaska Department of Fish and
Game's Gene Conservation Lab and NOAA's Alaska
Fisheries Science Center. The vision of this project is
to inform state and federal sheries management in the
North Pacic; thus a candidate with interests in ge-
nomics, conservation genetics and/or sheries is desired.
Start Date: August 2022
Salary and Benets: $30,448 per year (1.5 years) will
be paid through Research Assistantship. Tuition, fees
and health insurance will be covered by the project.
There are opportunities to serve as a TA for additional
semesters.
Qualications: Bachelor's degree in biology, evolution,
sheries, genetics, or other relevant discipline. Experi-
ence with molecular biology techniques and coding in R
is desirable, but not necessary. A willingness to learn,
attention to detail, and a strong work ethic are essential.
Contact: For more information about the project, please
email Andr es L opez (jalopez2@alaska.edu) or Jessica
Glass (jessica.glass@alaska.edu). To apply, please send
the following to the email addresses above: 1) 1-page
cover letter describing your interest in the position, skills,
and goals 2) CV or resume, 3) unocial transcripts, and
4) contact information for 3 references. UAF values
equity, diversity and inclusion and we especially en-
courage applicants from underrepresented or historically
excluded groups to apply. Applications will be accepted
until March 4th.
Andr es L opez <jalopez2@alaska.edu >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 29
UBern Switzerland 2
TheoreticalEcoEvo
Two PhD positions in Theoretical Ecology and Evolu-
tion
Two funded, 4-year PhD positions are available in the
Division of Theoretical Ecology and Evolution (https:/-
/banklab.github.io/) led by Professor Claudia Bank at
the University of Bern, Switzerland. The positions are
part of the ERC project \FIT2GO - a toolbox for tness
landscapes in evolution", in which we study adaptation
and speciation from a tness-landscape point of view.
The specic PhD projects will be developed individu-
ally and should broadly address some of the following
questions (see also this review paper from the lab: Fra-
gata et al., 2019, TrEE, https://www.dropbox.com/s/-
wiy9doprw3nhoe2/tree ms.pdf?dl=0):
1. How do tness landscapes vary across environments,
and how does that aect adaptation?
2. What is the role of epistasis (i.e., the interaction of
mutations for tness) during speciation?
3. How much information on epistasis and past environ-
mental change is maintained in genomes, and how can
we extract this information?
4. Which signature do dierent evolutionary processes
leave in genomic data?
5. How do ecology and evolution interact to shape
populations and communities?
Depending on the overarching fundamental question,
the projects might relate to applied problems, such as
the predictability or repeatability of (drug resistance)
evolution, or the probability of populations to adapt or
persist in the face of the climate crisis.
Both projects will be theoretical in nature and can in-
volve mathematical modeling, computer simulations,
and/or statistical method development and data anal-
ysis. If it strengthens the project and if the student is
interested, a (minor) experimental or eld-work compo-
nent can be included via our empirical collaborators.
Your prole
Candidates must be highly motivated, creative, and able
to work independently and collaboratively. Applications
from diverse scientic backgrounds (e.g., from physics,
mathematics, statistics, computer science, biology) areencouraged. In their motivation letter, applicants from
outside biology should state why they are interested in
the study of ecology and evolution, and applicants from
biology should state why they are interested in joining a
theoretical research group. Candidates must have excel-
lent written and spoken communication skills in English,
which is the working language of our institute. A Master
degree is required. This position is open to applicants
worldwide. We are committed to increasing diversity,
equity and inclusiveness in ecology and evolution and
especially encourage applications from underrepresented
groups.
Work environment
The Division of Theoretical Ecology and Evolution is
a dynamic, international, and interdisciplinary group.
Current and former group members include trained bi-
ologists, physicists, mathematicians, bioinformaticians,
anthropologists, and biochemists. As supporters of the
Better Science Initiative (https://betterscience.ch/en/),
our lab philosophy includes open and compassionate
communication, regular individual meetings and evalu-
ation of mentoring and career development needs, and
prioritization of the well-being of all lab members. Our
group is part of the Institute of Ecology and Evolution
at the University of Bern (https://www.iee.unibe.ch/);
we are also members of the Bern Data Science Initiative
(https://www.bedsi.unibe.ch/) and the Swiss Institute
of Bioinformatics (https://www.sib.swiss/). Through
these structures, the PhD students will have ample op-
portunities for interactions and collaborations across
research elds with a vibrant international community
of graduate students, post-doctoral researchers, and pro-
fessors. The University of Bern is situated near the
heart of the beautiful old city, and the quality of life in
Bern is very high, with the Swiss alps in close vicinity.
The starting date of the PhD positions is negotiable
(ideally in fall 2022). The starting salary is 47,040 CHF
and includes social security contributions.
Contact and Application
Please submit your application via email by 1 April 2022
to Prof. Claudia Bank: claudia.bank@iee.unibe.ch. Ap-
plicants must submit one merged PDF le that includes
a letter of motivation mentioning the desired starting
date ( <500 words), a CV, names of two referees who
should have sent their recommendation letter separately
by email before the deadline, and copies of relevant
publications and/or the Master thesis.
{
Prof. Dr. Claudia Bank Head of Division, Theoretical
Ecology and Evolution Institute of Ecology and Evo-
lution University of Bern Baltzerstrasse 6 3012 Bern30 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Switzerland Website: https://banklab.github.io/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalgary
VectorEctoparasiteEvolution
Graduate positions available in: Ectoparasite and Vector
Evolution / Genomics
Graduate studentships (MSc or PhD) are available at
the University of Calgary in the Soghigian Lab (https:/-
/www.soghigian-lab.net/) with a exible start date in
2022 or 2023.
We are recruiting students interested in basic and/or
applied research on ectoparasite and disease vector di-
versity and evolution. Potential student projects include
host-parasite coevolution, the evolution of complex phe-
notypes critical to parasite and vector success, and
population genomics of important invasive and vector
species. We leverage genomic tools and evolutionary
methods to answer questions across a range of scales,
from population genomics of important vectors like the
mosquito Aedes aegypti, to analyses of entire lineages
using phylogenomics and comparative methods.
The graduate student will receive a competitive stipend
and be enrolled in the Veterinary Medical Science grad-
uate program (https://vet.ucalgary.ca/future-students/-
graduate-students/), and will also be a member of the
award-winning Host-Parasite Interactions (HPI) train-
ing network which comprises 19 principal investigators
and 70 trainees. The HPI oers a wide array of commu-
nity engagement and professional development activities
(https://ucalgary.ca/host-parasite-interactions/about).
To learn more, please reach out to Dr. John Soghigian
(john.soghigian@ucalgary.ca) with a brief statement de-
scribing research interests and a copy of your CV. Ap-
plicants will be contacted on a rolling basis, but priority
will be given to applications received by March 31st,
2022.
John Soghigian, PhD Assistant Professor, Parasitology
Department of Comparative Biology and Experimental
Medicine Faculty of Veterinary Medicine University of
Calgary, Calgary, AlbertaJohn Soghigian <john.soghigian@ucalgary.ca >
UExeter AbuDhabi
AvianEvolutionBehaviour
Personality traits and cognitive abilities in captive-bred
North African houbara bustards
Academic Supervisors: Dr Joah Madden <http:/-
/psychology.exeter.ac.uk/sta/index.php?web id=-
Joah Madden >, University of Exeter Dr Enrico Sorato,
Reneco International Wildlife Consultants, Abu Dhabi
(esorato@reneco-hq.org)
Location:
Psychology, Streatham Campus, Exeter
The University of Exeter's College of Life and Envi-
ronmental Sciences, in partnership with Reneco Inter-
national Wildlife Consultants, is inviting applications
for a PhD studentship to commence in March 2022 or
as soon as possible thereafter. The studentship is to
investigate personality traits and cognitive abilities in
a captive-bred population of North African houbara
bustards (Chlamydotis undulata undulata).
Project Description: The endangered North African
houbara bustard (Chlamydotis undulata undulata) has
been declining drastically throughout its range due to
overhunting and habitat degradation. Since the late 90s
the species has been the subject of a large-scale captive
breeding programme at the Emirates Center for Wildlife
Propagation, Missour, with more than 15 000 birds pro-
duced annually for release in the wild. The intention of
this rearing and release is to restore wild populations
and supplement hunting grounds for regulated falconry
(http://www.houbarafund.org). Houbaras are bred us-
ing an articial insemination process following a strict
genetic management (pedigree-based), designed to in-
crease genetic diversity and avoid inbreeding depression
(Rabier et al. 2020, 2021). However, past research
(Charge et al. 2013, 2014) and ongoing analyses (E
Sorato) have provided evidence for among-individual dif-
ferences in sexual behaviour and life history traits partly
associated with origin (captive-bred vs wild-origin indi-
viduals), which may arise through genetic adaptation to
captivity and parental eects.. Still, the relative extent
to which genetic changes and environmental eects may
aect personality, cognitive traits, and ultimately tness
in the wild, remains to be explored.
The successful applicant will investigate the eects ofMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 31
captive-breeding on personality traits, by conducting
behavioural tests on captive houbaras throughout on-
togeny. Interplays between personality and individual
cognitive abilities (discriminative and reversal learning)
will also be explored. By testing individuals with vary-
ing known histories of captive breeding, and by using
quantitative genetics statistical methods, we will assess
the extent of adaptation to captivity and disentangle
the relative impact of additive genetic, parental and
environmental eects on the main personality axes, and
on interplays between personality and cognitive traits.
This study will contribute to unravel the selection forces
shaping variation in personality and cognitive traits and
will ultimately aid improve conservation breeding of
endangered species / houbara bustards.
References Charg >1
2, R., Teplitsky, C., Hingrat, Y.,
Saint Jalme, M., Lacroix, F., & Sorci, G. (2013). Quan-
titative genetics of sexual display, ejaculate quality and
size in a lekking species. Journal of Animal Ecology,
82(2), 399-407.
Charg >1
2, R., Sorci, G., Saint Jalme, M., Lesobre, L.,
Hingrat, Y., Lacroix, F., & Teplitsky, C. (2014). Does
recognized genetic management in supportive breeding
prevent genetic changes in life-history traits? Evolution-
ary Applications, 7(5), 521-532.
Rabier, R., Robert, A., Lacroix, F. & Lesobre, L. (2020).
Genetic assessment of a conservation breeding program
of the houbara bustard (Chlamydotis undulata undu-
lata) in Morocco, based on pedigree and molecular anal-
yses. Zoo Biol. 39, 365-447.
Rabier, R., Lesobre, L. & Robert, A. (2021). Repro-
ductive performance in houbara bustard is aected by
the combined eects of age, inbreeding and number of
generations in captivity. Sci Rep 11, 7813 (2021
Working environment: The project is part of a collabo-
ration between Dr Enrico Sorato (Reneco International
Wildlife Consultants; ECWP) and Dr Joah Madden
(Centre for Research in Animal Behaviour, University of
Exeter) investigating the behavioural, life history and
tness consequences of captive breeding in the houbara
bustard. The student will be based in UK at Exeter,
supervised by Dr Joah Madden. Fieldwork will take
place at the Emirates Center for Wildlife Propagation
in Missour, Eastern Morocco, starting in Spring 2022,
under the supervision of E Sorato. Besides Morocco,
the student will also be expected to spend time at the
Reneco HQ in Abu Dhabi, UAE, to conduct data analy-
sis. This award provides annual funding to cover Home
or International tuition fees for three years. Research
costs, associated travel, and any on-site accommodation,
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Ulethbridge
PopulationGenomicsAmphibians
Population genomics in amphibians
The Lee-Yaw lab at the University of Lethbridge is look-
ing for a PhD student interested in using population
genomic data to address fundamental and/or applied
questions in evolutionary ecology and conservation with
a focus on amphibians.
Research activities and potential projects:
The successful candidate will work alongside others in
the lab to generate population genomic data for amphib-
ian species of conservation concern in Canada. Potential
areas of investigation include (but are not limited to): 1)
Testing alternative evolutionary explanations for range
limits; 2) Assessing the eects of disturbance and land-
scape features on gene ow; 3) Examining hybrid zone
dynamics; 4) Investigating adaptation along elevational
gradients; or 5) Using genomic data to inform amphibian
reintroductions.
Depending on the student's interests, eldwork is possi-
ble (but is not required). There are also opportunities to
pair genomic data with spatial data analysis or with ex-
perimental or observational work using state-of-the art
aquatics facilities at the Water Institute for Sustainable
Environments at U of L.
Skills and Experience:
Prior experience in a molecular lab (pipetting, DNA
extractions and quantication) is required. Priority will
be given to candidates who also have experience with
the analysis of genetic data and/or bioinformatics (or
related coursework).
Please note: available funding guarantees support for
a Canadian resident or citizen. However, International
students who qualify for tuition support and/or who are
eligible for external funding are welcome to contact me.
All applicants will be encouraged to apply for external
stipend support.
Application details and procedure:
The preferred start date is September 2022. However,
we may be able to accommodate an earlier or later start32 EvolDir March 1, 2022
date. Applications will be received until the position is
lled. However, formal application for admission to U
of L is due May 1 for a September start date.
If you are interested in applying, please send an email
to Julie Lee-Yaw at: julie.a.leeyaw <at>gmail.com
(temporary email until April 2022).
Please use the subject line \Graduate Studies" and
include 1) a brief statement of research interests and
relevant experience, 2) a current CV, and 3) unocial
copies of academic transcripts. Please also indicate your
preferred start date.
Additional Information:
The Lee-Yaw lab is a new and growing lab. We strive
to maintain an inclusive and highly supportive en-
vironment. We welcome applications from students
with diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences.
Applications from Black, Indigenous, or other under-
represented communities, and/or female (or female-
identifying) individuals are particularly welcome. In
addition to a collegial lab environment, we work col-
laboratively with non-prot/Charitable organizations,
government, and industry, and with colleagues from
around the world. Students can expect ample support
not only with their project work, but with career and
professional development.
Lethbridge is a smaller, aordable city with an active
university community. We are about 2 hours south of
Calgary and have fantastic hiking, skiing, and other
recreational opportunities within a 2-hour drive in Wa-
terton Lakes National Park (Glacier NP in Montana),
Crowsnest Pass, and the Castle Provincial and Wild-
lands Parks. Ban National Park (3 hours away) and
the world-renowned recreational town of Fernie, British
Columbia (2.5 hours away) are also in reach.
The University of Lethbridge and Lee-Yaw Lab are lo-
cated on traditional Blackfoot Confederacy territory.
We honour the Blackfoot people and their traditional
ways of knowing and caring for this special region of the
world.
Lee-Yaw Lab: https://julleeyaw.weebly.com/ U of
L Biological Sciences: https://www.uleth.ca/artsci/-
biological-sciences U of L Graduate Studies: https://-
www.uleth.ca/future-student/graduate-studies/ ~~~
Julie A. Lee-Yaw
Assistant Professor
Department of Biological Sciences
University of Lethbridge
4401 University DriveLethbridge, Alberta, Canada
T1K 3M4
Phone: 403-329-2654
Website: https://julleeyaw.weebly.com/ Twitter:
@NorthernNiches
Julie Lee-Yaw <julie.a.leeyaw@gmail.com >
UNebraska Lincoln
AvianPopGenomics
M.S. Assistantship: Introgression and population ge-
nomics of gray-headed and boreal chickadees in Alaska
and western Canada.
We are seeking a candidate for a Master of Science
assistantship in Applied Ecology at the Nebraska Coop-
erative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit and the Uni-
versity of Nebraska-Lincoln. The student will develop
genomic (ddRAD and hyRAD) datasets to help conduct
a ne-scale analysis of genomic variability, degree of
introgression (species integrity) between the declining
gray-headed chickadee and closely related boreal chick-
adee. The successful candidate will work with samples
from diverse sources. This is a collaborative project
with the US Fish and Wildlife Service and Alaska De-
partment of Fish and Game. The aim of this project is
to inform conservation actions on the gray-headed chick-
adee, a species designated in several national, regional,
and local assessments as a bird of conservation concern.
As such, a candidate with interests in conservation ge-
netics/genomics or avian ecology is desired.
Start Date: August 2022 (exible) Salary and Benets:
$24,000 per year (2 years) will be paid through a re-
search assistantship. Tuition and health insurance will
be covered by the project.
Qualications:Bachelor'sdegree in biology, evolution, ge-
netics, or other relevant discipline. Experience with
molecular biology techniques and coding in R or python
is desirable, but not necessary. A willingness to learn,
attention to detail, and a strong work ethic are essential.
Contact: Please contact Sarah Sonsthagen (ssonstha-
gen2@unl.edu) for more information about the project.
To apply, please send the following to the email address
above: 1) One-page cover letter describing your interest
in the position, skills, and goals, 2) CV, 3) unocial
transcripts, and 4) contact information for 3 references.
UNL and NECFWRU values equity, diversity, and in-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 33
clusion.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Preference will be given
to applications received by March 31, 2022.
Sarah Sonsthagen <ssonsthagen2@unl.edu >
UNorthDakota
PopulationGenomicsPaleoecology
U. North Dakota. PopulationGenomicsPaleoecology.
The Laboratory of Evolutionary and Forensic Genetics
at the University of North Dakota (www.und.edu) is
inviting applications from highly motivated students
who pursue a PhD degree. MS candidates will be also
considered.
Students will be engaged in a project on the historic,
current, and future status of bison herds from biolog-
ical, ecological, and cultural perspectives. This cross-
disciplinary project represents an opportunity to get
intensive training in the methods of ancient and mod-
ern DNA analyses including high-throughput genome
sequencing, stable isotope studies, computational analy-
sis, and statistical modelling. Although the population
project is focused on bison genomics and paleoecol-
ogy, we have opportunities to develop new projects on
computational analysis of big oral and environmental
microbiome data as well as on genomics and microbiome
study of human migrations and evolution.
Candidates should demonstrate motivation for hard
laboratory work and strong interest in genomics and
computational biology. Preference will be given to can-
didates with a proven record of computational analysis
and bioinformatics skills. Additional experience in se-
quencing technologies is a plus.
If you are interested, you need to apply to the University
of North Dakota Biology Graduate Program using the
regular procedure. Requirements and How to Apply
procedure can be found in the UND Biology Graduate
School websites:
https://und.edu/programs/biology-phd/-
requirements.html https://und.edu/admissions/-
graduate/apply.html The additional information can
be also found in the Biology Department website:
https://arts-sciences.und.edu/academics/biology/ The
position starts in August 2022. To receive full consider-
ation, the Biology Graduate Program needs to receiveyour application and required materials by February 15,
2022 for priority consideration. Later applications will
be also considered.
Potential graduate students are also encouraged to con-
tact Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov.
Contact information:
Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Professor Lab. of Evo-
lutionary and Forensic Genetics Department of Biology
University of North Dakota
Email: igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu
\Ovtchinnikov, Igor" <igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu >
Uppsala InsectPhylogenetics
Dear All
Through project LIFEPLAN (https://www2.helsinki./-
en/projects/lifeplan), we are looking for a PhD student
to work on Phylogenetic community ecology.
LIFEPLAN generates standardized community-level
data across all continents over multiple years. Focusing
on insects, the PhD student will use data generated by
imaging, DNA barcoding and metabarcoding to explore
the structure of species assemblages. By generating a
phylogenetic framework for these communities, and by
extracting information on body size, the PhD student
will investigate community structure in terms of species
diversity, phylogenetic diversity and trait disparity. The
use and development of bioinformatics tools able to
handle large datasets, in particular for generating phy-
logenetic information, will be an important part of the
project.
The successful candidate will be integrated in the LIFE-
PLAN group, an international network of some hundred
researchers from the elds of community ecology, math-
ematical modeling, articial intelligence and metabar-
coding. At the Department of Ecology of the Swedish
University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU, Uppsala), the
PhD student will join a research group with strong
expertise in community ecology, ecological interaction
networks, biogeography and insect phylogenetics.
For more information, see: https://www.slu.se/-
en/about-slu/work-at-slu/jobs-vacancies/?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=6054&rmlang=UK The deadline for
application is March 4.
Best wishes Tomas Roslin34 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Tomas Roslin, Professor
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) De-
partment of Ecology Ulls v >1
2g 18B 75651 Uppsala
SWEDEN
Cellphone: +358 40595 8098 Phone (SWE): +46
18672383
web pages: https://www.slu.se/en/cv/tomas-
roslin/ http://www.helsinki./foodwebs/ https:/-
/www.helsinki./en/projects/lifeplan N >1
2r du skickar
e-post till SLU s >1
2inneb >1
2r detta att SLU behandlar
dina personuppgifter. F >1
2r att l >1
2sa mer om hur
detta g >1
2r till, klicka
h >1
2r E-mailing SLU will result in SLU processing your
personal data. For more information on how this is
done, click here
Tomas Roslin <tomas.roslin@slu.se >Tomas Roslin
<tomas.roslin@slu.se >
UppsalaU
EvolutionaryAppliedMathematics
Four PhD positions, some of which related to evolution-
ary biology, are oered by Uppsala University Center
for Interdisciplinary Mathematics.
https://www.math.uu.se/research/cim/ Best regards
Martin
Martin Lascoux Department of Ecology and Genetics
EBC, Uppsala University Norbyv >1
2gen 18D 75236 Up-
psala Sweden Tel +46 (0) 18 471 64 16 Fax +46 (0)
18 471 64 57 https://lascouxlab.wordpress.com N >1
2r
du har kontakt med oss p >1
2Uppsala universitet med
e-post s >1
2inneb >1
2r det att vi behandlar dina per-
sonuppgifter. F >1
2r att l >1
2sa mer om hur vi g >1
2r
det kan du l >1
2sa h >1
2r: http://www.uu.se/om-uu/-
dataskydd-personuppgifter/ E-mailing Uppsala Univer-
sity means that we will process your personal data. For
more information on how this is performed, please read
here: http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-
policy Martin Lascoux <martin.lascoux@ebc.uu.se >
Martin Lascoux <martin.lascoux@ebc.uu.se >URoehampton London
EcolEvolutionBehaviour
Master's programmes at the University of Roehampton,
London
We have two exciting master's programmes open for
applications at the University of Roehampton, London.
* MRes in Primate Biology, Behaviour and Conservation
* MbyRes in Ecology, Evolution and Behaviour
Both courses oer students the opportunity to develop,
design and conduct a substantial independent research
project with the support of a dedicated supervisor
who is the world-leading expert in their eld. These
include academic sta in the School of Life and
Health Sciences <https://www.roehampton.ac.uk/-
life-and-health-sciences/ >. Further details about
each course can be found here: MRes Primate <
https://eur02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=-
https%3A%2F%2Fwww.roehampton.ac.uk%2Fpostgraduate-
courses%2Fprimate-biology-behaviour-
and-conservation%2F&data=-
02%7C01%7Charry.marshall%40ROEHAMPTON.AC.UK%7Ceb797af7877d48dd6c1e08d814357e%7C5fe650635c3747fbb4cce42659e607ed%7C0%7C1%7C637281569437761862&sdata=
ZeOQ44rPudKgMa%2F1OM5b1698n0CA9YuC3U3xRZ4tVtQ%3D&reserved=
0>, MbyRes in EEB < https://-
eur02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=-
https%3A%2F%2Fwww.roehampton.ac.uk%2Fpostgraduate-
courses%2Fecology-evolution-
and-behaviour%2F&data=-
02%7C01%7Charry.marshall%40ROEHAMPTON.AC.UK%7Ceb797af7877d48dd6c1e08d814357e%7C5fe650635c3747fbb4cce42659e607ed%7C0%7C1%7C637281569437771857&sdata=
S%2FvjSoJS5G%2Furyf%2B8VDH%2BLVD5sBSADSVAmXS%2FWISiOI%3D&reserved=
0>. Examples of evolutionary research project oppor-
tunities (and the supervisor) include:
* The dierential evolution of hands and feet in humans
and other primates with specialised forms of locomotion
(Lia Betti)
* The behavioural physiology of air-breathing divers
(Lewis Halsey)
* Social integration: causes, consequences and ontogeny
(Julia Lehmann)
* What is the role of natural selection in shaping patterns
of morphological diversication in recently adapted sh?
(Isabel Magalhaes)
* The evolution of the menopause: testing predictions
in short- nned pilot whales (Harry Marshall)
* Exploring the eects of environmental warming onMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 35
predator- prey interactions (Dan Perkins)
* Social organisation and collective nest building in ants
(Andrea Perna)
* Contagion of aliative social behaviour in primates
(Stuart Semple)
A fuller list of potential project topics can be found
here<https://www.roehampton.ac.uk/postgraduate-
courses/ecology-evolution-and-behaviour/potential-
supervisors/ >. This is not an exhaustive list and
we particularly welcome students with their own
project ideas. Please get in touch with Harry Marshall
(harry.marshall@roehampton.ac.uk) for more details.
Please disseminate this to anyone relevant.
Harry Marshall Senior Lecturer in Zoology Centre
for Integrated Research in Life and Health Sciences
School of Life and Health Sciences University of Roe-
hamptonjLondonjSW15 4JD +44 (0)208 392 7386
harry.marshall@roehampton.ac.uk jTwitter <https:/-
/twitter.com/HarryHMarshall >jWebsite <https://-
harryhmarshall.com/ >
MbyRes in Ecology, Evolution and Behaviour
< https://www.roehampton.ac.uk/postgraduate-
courses/ecology-evolution-and-behaviour/ >jTwitter
<https://twitter.com/UoR MbyResEEB >jInstagram
<https://www.instagram.com/uor mbyreseeb/ >
MRes in Primate Biology, Behaviour and Conservation
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UTasmania
EvolutionMultipleSclerosisRisk
PhD position to study the evolution of multiple sclerosis
risk at the University of Tasmania (UTAS), in Hobart,
Australia
We are seeking a PhD candidate to study the impact
of natural selection on the genetic risk of developing
multiple sclerosis.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) prevalence shows a heteroge-
neous geographical pattern, with higher prevalence in
populations of European ancestry, increasing with dis-
tance from the equator within those populations. Thispattern has likely been shaped in part by natural selec-
tion. Identifying genes that have undergone selection
at MS risk loci will improve our understanding of the
causative mechanisms behind the disease. This project
will use population genomics to identify functional vari-
ation under natural selection at loci associated with MS
risk.
You will use cutting-edge bioinformatic methods to carry
out genome-wide scans for natural selection in popula-
tion genomic data, and localise MS-related selection by
targeting loci known to be associated with MS risk. You
will also use a landscape genomics approach to examine
the evolutionary causes of the strong latitude gradient
in MS prevalence that is observed in some populations.
You will use haplotype analysis to test whether specic
haplotypes at loci under selection are associated with
MS, providing a more detailed picture of the genetic ar-
chitecture that contributes to risk than we can generate
considering only individual variants. This project is pri-
marily computational, but may also include a laboratory
component to validate ndings by targeted sequencing
in a cohort of MS patients and controls.
The selected candidate will need to apply to the upcom-
ing scholarship round at UTAS. Details can be found at
the UTAS website below:
https://www.utas.edu.au/research/degrees/available-
projects/accordion-projects/health-and-medicine/-
area/menzies-institute-of-medical-research/the-
evolution-of-multiple-sclerosis-risk Selection criteria:
1. Strong academic record, including a Bachelor
degree with Honours or Masters from a recognised
institution. 2. Strong quantitative skills, ideally
including competence with R. 3. English language
uency. 4. Experience in either bioinformatics or
population biology.
For further information please contact the
primary supervisor, Bennet McComish (ben-
net.mccomish@utas.edu.au).
Bennet McComish <bennet.mccomish@utas.edu.au >
UVictoria BritishColumbia
EvolutionInsectSymbiosis
The Perlman lab, in the Department of Biology at
the University of Victoria, in British Columbia (BC),
Canada, studies the evolution, ecology, and genetics
of cryptic infections of insects, from benecial symbi-36 EvolDir March 1, 2022
otic microbes, to pathogens, to selsh genetic elements.
These hidden infections are widespread and incredibly
diverse, and are major players in the biology of their
hosts. We are looking to ll 2 funded PhD positions,
starting in fall 2022, to study either a) defensive micro-
bial symbionts of insects, b) obligate bacterial symbionts
of parasitic nematodes, or c) selsh X chromosomes in
Drosophila. For more information about our lab and
about these projects, please visit our lab web page:
http://perlmanlab.weebly.com We are looking for mo-
tivated students who are excited about research, with
expertise in data analysis, bioinformatics, evolutionary
genetics, and/or microbiology.
Victoria is a small, beautiful, liveable city on Vancouver
Island, and the provincial capital of BC, close to Van-
couver, BC and Seattle, Washington. The University
of Victoria is a large public research university, and
the Biology Department is a friendly, collegial place,
with over 30 faculty members, including a big interac-
tive group of evolutionary biologists, including Rana
El-Sabaawi, Ryan Gawryluk, Ben Koop, Greg Owens,
Dave Punzalan, Tom Reimchen, and John Taylor.
To apply, please send a 1 page statement of research
interests and experience, CV and transcripts, along with
the names and contact information of 2 references, to
Steve Perlman (stevep at uvic.ca), with 'PhD position
in insect infections' in the subject heading, by MARCH
1, 2022. Please also include which of the 3 research
topics you are most interested in.
Steve Perlman Professor Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Victoria
stevep@uvic.ca
Vienna PopulationGenetics
PhD positions in Population Genetics - apply by April
21
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on-site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a love for evolutionary research
and a background in one of the following disciplines:
evolutionary genetics, functional genetics, theoretical or
experimental population genetics, bioinformatics, math-
ematics, statistics.
Topics include:
- Did selsh DNA from Neanderthals infect our human
genomes? - Evolution from de novo mutations - inuence
of elevated mutation rates. - Evolution of sex-specic
neuronal signaling. - Impact of para-mutations on the
invasion dynamics of TEs. - Inference of selection sig-
natures from time-series data. - Invasion dynamics of
dierent TEs. - Leveraging long-read sequencing for
population genetics of TEs. - Long-term dynamics of
local Drosophila populations. - Studying the evolution
of gene expression with single cell RNA-Seq. - Studying
speciation during experimental evolution. - Tempera-
ture adaptation in Drosophila: phenotypic adaptation.
Only complete applications (application form, CV, mo-
tivation letter, university certicates, indication of the
two preferred topics in a single pdf) received by April 21,
2022 will be considered. Two letters of recommendation
need to be sent directly by the referees.
PhD students will receive a monthly salary based on cur-
rently 2.237,60 before tax according to the regulations
of the Austrian Science Fund (FWF).
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can be
found at www.popgen-vienna.at { Dr. Julia Hosp
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics Coordi-
nator
www.popgen-vienna.at https://twitter.com/-
PopGenViennaPhD c/o Institut f >1
2r Mathematik,
Universit >1
2t Wien & Institut f >1
2r Populationsgenetik,
Veterin >1
2rmedizinische Universit >1
2t Wien
Skype: julia.hosp T +43 1 25077 4302 (currently un-
available)
Julia Hosp <Julia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 37
Jobs
AbuDhabi 3mnth SteppeBirdPhylogenomics . . . . . . . 37
AuburnU CuratorTerrestrialInvertebrate . . . . . . . . . . 38
CAU Kiel Germany PlantPathogenEvolGenomics . .38
ColoradoStateU InsectSystematist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
EasternKentuckyU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
FWS Portland Oregon FishGeneticist . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Gotland Sweden FieldAssist HoleNestingBirds . . . . . 41
IndianaU ResAssist EvoGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
IowaStateU EvolutionInsectMicrobe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
JohnInnesCentre UK ResAssist InsectGenomics . . . 44
KarlstadU EcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
MarineBiolLab Maine ResAssistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
MarineBiolLab ScienticProgrammer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
MichiganStateU Tech PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . 47
Montpellier 3 TechSupport Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 47
NHM London ChairPostgraduateStudies . . . . . . . . . . 47
QMU London BiosciencesAI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48QueenMaryLondon 25 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . .49
RenecoIntl 4mnth WildlifeConsultants . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
Smithsonian LabTech ConservationGenomics . . . . . . 50
UEvry France EnvGenomicsMetabolism . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UIllinois AdaptiveAnimalGenomics DueMar6 . . . . . .50
UMainz PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UOslo EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
UPisa EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
UTennessee Chattanooga Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UTyumen EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UTyumen EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UVirginia ResTech DrosophilaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UWyoming ForestEvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Vienna PlantAnimalInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
WSL Swizterland ForestEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
AbuDhabi 3mnth
SteppeBirdPhylogenomics
Short term contract (3 months),Steppe Bird Phyloge-
nomics
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate to join
our Conservation Genetics team to develop pilot phy-
logenomic datasets for certain clades of African/Asian
steppe birds of conservation concern. The position
is ideally suited for an early career scientist contem-
plating further graduate study in conservation ge-
nomics/evolutionary biology, especially those interested
in improving their knowledge of wet lab and bioin-
formatics methodologies that result in the generation
of genome-wide phylogenomic markers using multiple
reduced-representation approaches.
The ideal candidate has passionand curiosity for arid
land birds, avian conservation, and/or the biogeogra-
phy of steppe ecosystems. Prior experience with next-
generation sequencingmethodologies, systematic biology,
and basic bioinformatics is a plus. The position is con-
templated for someone with Master's level experience,
but qualied applicants with undergraduate (Bsc.) de-grees are encouraged to apply.
The goal of short term contractpositions in the Conser-
vation Genetics teams is to generate pilot data/proof of
concept for emerging research in biodiversity genomics
in the Middle East/North Africa (MENA) region with
the goal of creating promising new research areas for our
group; as such, some successful projects may have the
possibility of becoming converted into funded graduate
student projects, as funding allows.
This is a three-month position based in Abu Dhabi,
UAE, starting around 10 March 2022. The incumbent
will receive round trip transportation to Abu Dhabi,
room and board at the National Avian Research Cen-
ter (NARC), as well as a monthly stipend. The intern
will join a growing, international team of conservation
genomicists and ecologists. The future employee will
work in a brand new, state of the art, conservation ge-
nomics laboratory located at the NARC under the close
supervision of the laboratory head.
Reneco is a multi-national and highly multi-cultural
institution, and we cherish diversity and promote toler-
ance. We encourage early career researchers, especially
from under-represented groups to apply.
Further information on RENECO research activities can
be found at: https://www.researchgate.net/institution/-
Reneco International Wildlife Consultants Interested38 EvolDir March 1, 2022
candidate can apply/inquire at join-us@reneco.org
Application materials should include a cover letter de-
scribing your interest in the position and qualications,
a CV, and the names and contact information for at
least two references.
Dr Matthew J MILLER Conservation Genetics Re-
searcher RENECO INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE
CONSULTANTS LLC 3902 Sky Tower Al Reem Is-
land, Abu Dhabi, UAE P.O. Box 61741 Oce:+971
(0) 2 64 33 500 Mobile:+971 (0) 50 125 9520 Email:
mmiller@reneco.org
MILLER Matthew <mmiller@reneco.org >
AuburnU
CuratorTerrestrialInvertebrate
Curator (Collection Manager) of Terrestrial Inverte-
brates
The Auburn University Museum of Natural History
(AUMNH) is seeking a Curator (Collection Manager)
for its Terrestrial Invertebrate Collection. The success-
ful candidate will have curatorial experience in insects or
other arthropods. Our collections are currently strong
in Alabama insects. Duties of the collection manager
will include sorting and identifying collections, maintain-
ing existing collections, processing loans of materials,
and maintaining the computer database. The candidate
should be familiar with database programs, particularly
Specify, and be committed to the open presentation of
collections data on the internet. The candidate will be
expected to contribute to AUMNH outreach and edu-
cation eorts. For more information on the AUMNH,
please visit: http://www.aumnh.auburn.edu Minimum
Qualications
The minimum qualications are a Bachelor's degree
from an accredited institution in Biological Sciences or
a related discipline. The successful candidate will have
knowledge of a wide variety of terrestrial arthropod col-
lections. Knowledge of fundamental concepts, practices
and procedures in the procurement and maintenance of
collections for exhibition is also required.
Desired Qualications
Desired qualications include: A MS or PhD in biology
or related eld is desired.
Evaluation of applications will begin 14 March 2022,
and will continue until a suitable applicant is found.For more information and to apply, visit: https://-
www.auemployment.com/postings/27712. Submit a
cover letter (including a statement describing curatorial
experience), CV, and names and contact information of
three references. If you have any questions, please con-
tact Dr. Jonathan W. Armbruster, Director AUMNH,
Department of Biological Sciences, 101 Life Sciences,
Auburn University, AL 36849, Armbrjw@auburn.edu.
334-844-9261. Auburn University is an equal oppor-
tunity/armative action employer and actively seeks
applications from qualied women and minority candi-
dates.
Jonathan W. Armbruster Director and Curator of Fishes,
Auburn University Museum of Natural History 101 Life
Sciences Building Auburn, AL 36849 334-844-9261
Oce: 131 Biodiversity Learning Center (M. White
Smith)
Jonathan Armbruster <armbrjw@auburn.edu >
CAU Kiel Germany
PlantPathogenEvolGenomics
Note: this job has been advertised before, but there are
some administrative changes.
The Salary scale is 14, instead of 13 and the starting
date should be August 1st 2022 or later.
|{
The Institute for Phytopathology at the Christian-
Albrechts-Universit at zu Kiel, Department of
Phytopathology (Head Prof. Remco Stam) is seeking
to ll the following position from August 2022 or later.
Research Associate (junior group leader)
initially for a limited period of three years. There is the
possibility to extend the position to six years. The reg-
ular weekly working hours are those of a corresponding
fulltime job (currently 38.7 hours). If the requirements
of the collective agreement are met, the position will
be classied in pay group 14 of the TV-L. The position
entails a regular weekly teaching obligation of four teach-
ing hours. A qualication to habilitation or equivalent
will be supported.
The candidate will work on ongoing projects within
the research group in the eld of population genomics
or evolutionary genomics of plant pathogens or crop
wild relatives. In addition, the candidate is expectedMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 39
to develop his/her own research project, thematically
complementary to the ongoing work of the research
group.
We oer: - Excellent working opportunities for ^ a Popu-
lation genomics and evolutionary genomics. Access to
good computer servers via the CAU computer centre. ^ a
Experimental plant cultivation work in eld trials (Ex-
perimentalfarms). ^ a Controlled trials, access to green-
houses and growth rooms. ^ a Well-equipped laboratories
with equipment for phenotyping and measuring defence
mechanisms in plants. - Opportunity to get involved
in ongoing externally funded projects, to develop in-
dependent research projects and to expand them by
attracting external funding - Excellent opportunities for
networking and collaborations throughthe Kiel Plant
Centre and the Kiel Evolution Centre
Job description: - Research work and publications in the
eld of evolutionary genomics or population genomics of
phytopathogens, host plants or crop wild relatives. - Par-
ticipation in teaching (genomics courses) to the extent
of 4 semester hours per week - Acquisition of third-party
funds - Organisational tasks within the department -
Within the scope of the position, the opportunity to
carry out own scientic work is given. The development
of an own research group should be aspired. - In addi-
tion, administrative work is to be carried out to a lesser
extent, such as the maintenance of the intranet and the
servers at the chair.
Requirements prole: - Doctorate in bioinformatics, bi-
ology or an agricultural science subject. - Knowledge
of evolutionary genomics or population genomics and
experimental design - Interest in the interaction between
plants and pathogens - Flexibility, independent work-
ing style and ability to work in a team - Knowledge of
a programming language - Experience in evolutionary
modelling is desirable. - Laboratory experience with
DNA and RNA techniques such as PCR, RT-qPCR is
desirable. - Proven experience with the acquisition of
third party funding (fellowships, grants) is desirable
Christian-Albrechts-Universit at zu Kiel sees itself as a
modern and cosmopolitan employer. We welcome your
application regardless of your age, gender, cultural and
social origin, religion, ideology, disability or sexual iden-
tity. We promote gender equality. Women are given
priority in the case of equivalent aptitude, ability and
professional performance.
The University of Kiel has an equal opportunities policy
for persons with recognized disabilities. Disabled per-
sons with the necessary qualications will therefore be
given priority. Applications by people with a migration
background are particularly welcomed.We do not en-
dorse submitting photographs/application photos andtherefore ask you to refrain from doing so.
Applications with the usual documents (letter of motiva-
tion, curriculum vitae and contact details of references)
should be sent in one document by 28 February 2022 by
e-mail to: remco.stam@tum.de
If you have any questions about the position, please
contact Remco Stam directly. Informal inquiries are
encouraged.
Please note that all documents will be destroyed after
completion of the recruitment process.
Institute for Phytopathology Christian-Albrechts-
Universit at zu Kiel Hermann-Rodewald-Str. 9, 24118
Kiel
Remco Stam <remco.stam@tum.de >
ColoradoStateU InsectSystematist
Insect Systematist- Assistant or Associate Professor -
Colorado State University The Arthropod Systematist
and Director of the C.P. Gillette Museum of Arthropod
Diversity will develop an externally funded, nationally
and internationally recognized research program on the
biology, systematics, biodiversity and/or conservation
of arthropods including taxa important to Colorado's
natural and managed ecosystems. This is a 9-month
tenure-track position. We are particularly interested
in scientists that can address questions of the biodi-
versity impacts of global climate and land-use change.
The successful candidate will also contribute to the de-
partment's teaching mission through teachingAdvanced
Insect Evolution and Classicationand contribute to
other courses that fulll department needs. As Director
of the C.P. Gillette Museum of Arthropod Diversity,
the person will direct curation of the collection, obtain
funds to support museum activities, and facilitate the
use of the collection by other researchers and the public.
Thanks,
Sarah Ehrlich
Assistant to the Department Head Agricultural Biology
970-491-1930 C129B Plant Science Building,307 Univer-
sity Avenue Colorado State University,Fort Collins CO
80523 http://agbio.agsci.colostate.edu/ she/her
\Ehrlich,Sarah" <Sarah.Ehrlich@colostate.edu >40 EvolDir March 1, 2022
EasternKentuckyU PlantEvolution
Job Title: Assistant Professor { Botany - Eastern Ken-
tucky University
Job Description: The Department of Biological Sciences
(https://biology.eku.edu/) at Eastern Kentucky Univer-
sity is accepting applications for a Botanist at the rank
of Assistant Professor. This is a 9-month, tenure-track
position to begin August 15, 2022. Teaching responsibil-
ities will include courses in the undergraduate Biology
(BS), Wildlife Management (BS), and graduate (MS)
programs. Primary courses to be taught include General
Botany, Dendrology, Plant Systematics, and Aquatic &
Wetland Plants. Additional courses may be assigned
based on the candidate's expertise and departmental
needs.
The typical teaching load is 12 hours per semester, but
new faculty can expect to teach 9 hours per semester
during their rst year. Current departmental policies
allow for continued reassigned time for research linked
with extramural funding and student-centered research
activities.The successful candidate will be expected to
direct and advance the mission of the Ronald L. Jones
Herbarium, the largest in the Commonwealth of Ken-
tucky, which is housed in the recently completed (Au-
gust 2017) Science Building. Knowledge of the ora of
the eastern United States is essential for both teach-
ing and direction of the herbarium. In addition, the
incumbent will establish an active research program,
mentor undergraduate and graduate (MS) students,
and engage with conservation-oriented organizations
such as the Kentucky Native Plant Society, the Of-
ce of Kentucky Nature Preserves, and US Fish and
Wildlife Service. Areas of research may include, but
are not limited to, computational biology, population
biology, plant phylogenetics/systematics, and organis-
mal diversity.A Ph.D. in Biology or a related eld from
a regionally accredited or internationally recognized
institution by the time of appointment is required; post-
doctoral and teaching experience are preferred. Review
of applications will begin March 21st and continue un-
til position is lled. For inquiries regarding facilities,
equipment, and natural areas, contact Dr. Jennifer
Koslow (mailto:jennifer.koslow@eku.edu), Chair of the
Search Committee.All interested applicants must apply
viahttps://jobs.eku.edu/postings/19329 . Applicants
should submit a brief letter of interest, a current CV, astatement of research accomplishments and goals that
includes a description of how their research program
will engage undergraduate and graduate students, a
statement of teaching interests that includes a descrip-
tion of experiences and planned approaches to teaching
eld botany, and contact information for three refer-
ences. The application materials should also address
the candidate's experience and training in working in
herbaria and the priorities of the candidate in directing
the EKU Herbarium. Oers of employment are con-
tingent upon completion of a satisfactory background
check and verication of educational credentials. EKU
is an EEO/AA institution that values diversity in its
faculty, sta, and student body. In keeping with this
commitment, the University welcomes applications from
diverse candidates and candidates who value diversity.
Direct Link: http://jobs.eku.edu/hr/postings/19329
David M. Hayes, Ph.D. Associate Professor Department
of Biological Sciences Science Building 3238 Eastern
Kentucky University 521 Lancaster Ave. Richmond, Ky
40475
Oce Phone - (859)622-1016 Oce - Science Building
1237
\Hayes, David" <David.Hayes@eku.edu >
FWS Portland Oregon
FishGeneticist
How to Apply:https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/-
ViewDetails/634934300 Geneticist (Fisheries)
This position is a Geneticist (Fisheries), GS- 0440-12
working in Portland, Oregon for the Abernathy Fish
Technology Center.br br emThis position is also open to
status candidates under announcement R1-22-11371339-
JH-MP. You must apply to each announcement sepa-
rately if you wish to be considered under both recruit-
ment methods./em
www.usajobs.gov Title: Geneticist (Fisheries), GS-0440-
12
Location: Longview, WA
Telework (work from home) eligible as determined by
supervisory approval.
Salary: $84,923-110,404
Permanent position
Relocation is not authorized.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 41
Full-time
Security clearance not required
Major Duties:
Acts as the Point of Contact and technical lead on nu-
merous applied genetic research projects involving native
sh species.Performs statistical analyses and generates
graphical representations of study results, and incorpo-
rates these data into written reports, peer-reviewed sci-
entic publications and oral presentations.Participates
in multi-agency work groups and provides interpreta-
tion and guidance on the application of genetic data
to Service policy to both internal and external part-
ners.Uses DNA markers and automated DNA analyz-
ers/sequencers to collect genotypic, gene frequency, and
DNA sequence data on populations of shes.Directs
daily laboratory activities performed by 1-2 lower-
graded sh biologists/geneticists, biological technicians,
visiting investigators, students, and/or volunteers. Qual-
ications:
Basic Requirement:
A bachelor's degree with a major in genetics; or one of
the basic biological sciences such as agronomy, horticul-
ture, animal, dairy, or poultry husbandry, entomology,
microbiology, plant pathology, chemistry, molecular and
cellular biology, and physiology that included at least 9
semester hours in genetics.
AND
Minimum Qualication GS-12
One year of specialized experience comparable in scope
and responsibility equivalent to grade GS-11 in the
Federal service. Examples of qualifying specialized ex-
perience may include: 1) Conduct complex molecular
genetic analyses for a variety of projects working with
dierent sh species and genetic analysis methods (e.g.
to determine genetic similarities and relationships, as-
sign individuals to population of origin, quantify levels
of genetic variation within and among populations, and
identify species and sex); 2) Perform statistical anal-
yses and generate graphical representations of study
results, and incorporate the data into written reports,
scientic publications, and oral presentations; 3) Over-
see and schedule laboratory activities performed by
1-2 biological technicians, students, and/or volunteers;
and 4) Use DNA markers and automated DNA analyz-
ers/sequencers to collect genotypic, gene frequency, and
DNA sequence data on populations of sh.
Thank you,
Jenn Harris
Human Resources Assessment SpecialistJoint Administrative Operations jU.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service
jennifer harris@fws.gov, 720-231-7199 (MST)
Mission: To deliver innovative administrative services
that advance the mission of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service.
\Harris, Jennifer L" <jennifer harris@fws.gov >
Gotland Sweden FieldAssist
HoleNestingBirds
Swedish ycatchers and blue tits from the beautiful
and mysterious island of Gotland are again calling for
new eldwork enthusiasts! We are looking for at least 3
motivated eld assistants, to join our team for the 2022
spring season on Gotland. You will become a member
of our large team (up to 10-12 people in total), working
on Gotland from the approx. half of April (start around
April 20th) until the end of June. Exact times spent
in the eld may vary and we are exible about arrival
and departure dates - but assistants able to cover larger
periods of the eld season will be preferred.
Currently on Gotland we run three projects, all coordi-
nated by the Jagiellonian University in Krakow (Poland),
with close collaboration of the Uppsala University (Swe-
den), all using the local blue tit and collared ycatcher
populations. Our research is part of a continued moni-
toring eort that has been going on Gotland since the
1980's. The current projects are concerned with: (i)
the impacts of ambient temperature on life-history pa-
rameters of parents and ospring; (ii) the inuence of
articial light at night on circadian rythms and physiol-
ogy of birds|and (iii) the quantitative genetic patterns
in variation of bird microbiomes. In all cases assistants
will have to be ready for long working hours in varying
weather conditions - although specic work times vary
greatly depending on the stage of breeding season, with
periods of busy work mixed with periods of relatively
little activity.
Fieldwork on Gotland typically involves: visiting study
plots on daily basis to monitor the progress of all breed-
ing attempts, helping in two main experiments that
currently take place in the population (the heating and
the lighting experiments - each requiring dierent tasks),
measuring the birds on specic occasions, blood sam-
pling selected individuals, and some logistic tasks such
as xing nest boxes or cleaning edged nests.42 EvolDir March 1, 2022
You will be housed with the rest of the team in one
of the houses we rent for the whole breeding season -
the house is quite comfortable and has all necessary
amenities. We will also cover most or all travel costs
(depending on your departure location) and living costs
(accommodation and food).
What do we require? - good organisation and atten-
tion to details - we pay great attention to precision
in data collection, its quality and correctness; - good
interpersonal skills - you have to be able to work in a
team, share work if needed and communicate eectively
(English is our working language during work); - expe-
rience with handling wild birds, ringing, mist-netting,
morphological measurements and/or blood sampling
is not required (we can teach you this on site) but
highly recommended and candidates having such skills
are always very welcome; - ideally - having an EU (or
EU-compatible) driving license.
If you are interested and would like to apply
to join the team this year please send your CV
and contacts to 2 potential reference providers to|
szymek.drobniak@uj.edu.pl|by March 15th. In your
application please also state: what is the preferred pe-
riod you would like to come (or whether you have no
preference, meaning you could join us for most/all of
the season) and where are you based (in terms of from
where you would travel to Gotland if accepted; due to
national and institutional COVID-19 restrictions travel
form certain locations may be more dicult to accom-
modate than form others). In case of any questions -
please do not hesitate to contact us. After the closing
date we may choose to contact only selected applicants.
Dr hab. Szymon Drobniak
Institute of Environmental Sciences Jagiellonian Univer-
sity, Krak ow, Poland
School of Biological, Environmental and Earth Sciences
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
Google Scholar prole szymekdrobniak.wordpress.com
szdrobniak.pl
Szymon Drobniak <szymek.drobniak@uj.edu.pl >IndianaU ResAssist EvoGenomics
A full-time Research Associate (RA) position is available
in the laboratory of Dr. Ryan Bracewell in the EEB
program at Indiana University Bloomington to help
study functional genomics and chromosome evolution in
beetles. The RA will be involved in insect colony mainte-
nance, next-generation and long-read sequencing library
preparation (RNA-seq, Hi-C, Nanopore), experimen-
tal execution, and data collection/management. The
RA will also be responsible for ordering lab supplies,
maintaining lab equipment, and helping to mentor un-
dergraduate students. Information about the Bracewell
lab is available at https://ryanbracewell.com. B.S. in
Biology or a related eld with previous research expe-
rience in genetics, genomics, molecular biology, and/or
evolution is required. M.S. or Ph.D. applicants will
also be considered. Good communication skills and
the ability to work independently as well as part of
a team are expected. Salary will be commensurate
with education and experience, benets included. Best
consideration date is March 1st, 2022. Expected start
date is late spring/negotiable. Please submit a cover
letter describing interest and previous experience, a
curriculum vitae, and the names of at least three refer-
ences (including email addresses and phone numbers) to
https://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/12379. For
questions about the position, please contact Dr. Ryan
Bracewell (rbracewe@iu.edu).
The College of Arts and Sciences is committed to build-
ing and supporting a diverse, inclusive, and equitable
community of students and scholars.
Indiana University is an equal employment and arma-
tive action employer and a provider of ADA services.
All qualied applicants will receive consideration for em-
ployment without regard to age, ethnicity, color, race,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or ex-
pression, genetic information, marital status, national
origin, disability status or protected veteran status.
\Bracewell, Ryan Russell" <rbracewe@iu.edu >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 43
IowaStateU EvolutionInsectMicrobe
Biologists working on evolutionary aspects of insect-
microbe, plant-microbe, or insect-plant-microbe interac-
tions are invited to apply for the position below.
Position Announcement Assistant Professor in Insect-
Microbe-Plant Interactions Applicants are invited for
a tenure-track faculty position at the rank of Assistant
Professor in the broad area of interactions between and
among insects, microbes and/or plants. Candidates that
work across all three organismal groups are particularly
encouraged to apply. We seek candidates whose research
will lead to a better understanding of the nature of these
interactions and how they impact natural, urban or agri-
cultural ecosystems. Areas of interest include, but are
not limited to, the genetic, genomic or metabolomic
bases of interactions; the inuence of biotic or abiotic
factors on interaction outcomes; plant-microbe interac-
tions mediated by insects; plant-insect interactions inu-
enced by microbes; and the impacts of such interactions
on ecosystem sustainability and health. The successful
candidate is expected to develop an externally funded,
high-impact research program and actively engage in
the training and supervision of graduate students. They
will be expected to develop a teaching program that
engages undergraduates in the biological sciences and
participate in service to the university. The position
is 9-month, 60% research, 30% teaching and 10% ser-
vice. The appointment will be in the Departments of
Plant Pathology & Microbiology and Entomology, which
are currently merging and are administered by a single
Chair in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at
Iowa State University.
All faculty members have a common responsibility to
support and sustain our core values and are expected
to interact collegially within the department, college,
and university, and maintain the highest standards of in-
tegrity and ethical behavior. Successful candidates must
be committed to working with diverse students, sta and
community members. ISU especially seeks candidates
who are committed to contributing to the diversity of
the academic community through their research, teach-
ing and service, and support the University's Principles
of Community. We encourage applications from individ-
uals who identify as members of traditionally underrep-
resented groups, including but not limited to African
American or Black, Asian American, First Nations, In-
digenous, Native American, and Latinx populations. Weare committed to the retention of new faculty, and as
such, the successful candidate will be provided with a
faculty mentor.
With 25,000 undergraduates, almost 5,000 graduate
students, and 6,200 faculty and sta, ISU is a strong
land-grant and Research I university. ISU has extensive
shared facilities for biological research, including 'omics
technologies for genetics, genomics and microbiome stud-
ies and high- performance computing. The collaborative
environment is enhanced by interdisciplinary and disci-
plinary graduate majors that promote cross-fertilization
within labs. The successful candidate will have an oce
and laboratory in one of the newest buildings on cam-
pus, which was designed for collaborative research and
teaching and has in-house chambers and greenhouses
for insect and plant growth. Highlighted aspects of the
departments are the ISU Plant and Insect Diagnostic
Lab, an active Insect Zoo for youth outreach, numerous
eld research facilities, co-administration of a vibrant
and experiential Microbiology program for undergradu-
ates, faculty strengths in extension, teaching, and the
scholarship of teaching and learning, and research across
the full spectrum from fundamental to applied.
Ames is a community of about 67,000 that is close to
the Des Moines metropolitan area. Ames is home to sev-
eral federal labs, including the National Laboratory for
Agriculture and the Environment and numerous USDA
Agriculture Research Service labs. Ames is ranked as a
top town to live in and has received awards recognizing
the high quality of its public schools, amenities, and
commitment to the environment and quality of life.
Required Qualications Candidates must have a Ph.D.
in Entomology, Microbiology, Plant Pathology or a re-
lated eld
Preferred Qualications - Evidence of strong potential
for conducting and publishing innovative research in
insect, microbe and/or plant interactions using modern
approaches - Demonstrated success in conducting re-
search - Demonstrated commitment to evidence-based,
innovative teaching - Demonstrated success in secur-
ing extramural funding - Demonstrated commitment to
principles of diversity, equity, or inclusivity
Application Instructions:
All application materials must be submitted via the
university's job portal at
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html44 EvolDir March 1, 2022
JohnInnesCentre UK ResAssist
InsectGenomics
Research Assistant (Entomology and Insectary Plat-
form) Salary:  >1
232,578 -  >1
235,445 per annum de-
pending on qualications and experience. Contract: 12
months, full-time (part-time hours will be considered)
Location: John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK. Closing
date: 5th March 2022 Reference: 1004204
An exciting opportunity has arisen for a Research As-
sistant to join the Entomology and Insectary Platform
team at the John Innes Centre to support research on
Invertebrate Genomics.
About the John Innes Centre:
The John Innes Centre is an independent, international
centre of excellence in plant and microbial genetics. We
nurture a creative, curiosity-led approach to answering
fundamental questions in bioscience, and translate that
knowledge into societal benets.
Our employees enjoy access to state-of-the-art technol-
ogy and a diverse range of specialist training opportuni-
ties, including support for leadership and management.
Click here to nd out more about working at the John
Innes Centre.
About the Entomology and Insectary Platform:
The John Innes Centre's Entomology and Insectary Plat-
form is a unique and specialised service for supporting
invertebrate-related studies. The main areas of research
are on pests associated with direct crop losses or trans-
mission of plant pathogens (bacteria and viruses) and
the production of natural products of interest. The ento-
mology team are highly experienced in the husbandry of
many dierent species of invertebrates, as well as in the
design, undertaking and overseeing of a wide range of
experiments. The Entomology and Insectary Platform
has recently started to work with several John Innes
Centre research groups to tackle emerging challenges
in invertebrate pest research by generating invertebrate
genomic resources and analysing large genomic datasets
using evolutionary approaches.
The role:
This role involves working with the Platform's Entomol-
ogy Team to design, undertake, and support inverte-
brate omics projects. In particular, the candidate willwork closely with the Informatics and RevGen Plat-
forms and the Hogenhout and Wells' research groups on
a project aimed at trialling two approaches to sequence
the genome of two insect pests of interest, Psylliodes
chrysocephala and Macrosteles quadrilineatus, with the
ultimate goal of establishing at JIC the capability to
carry out de novo genome sequencing of small inverte-
brates. In addition, the post holder will assist with the
day-to-day maintenance of insect colonies for research
purposes, and the basic duties associated with main-
taining an entomology facility to the high standards of
hygiene and strict operational procedures required for
operating under a Defra licence.
The ideal candidate:
You will have a MSc or a PhD in Biological Science
or a similar subject. You will have a keen interest in
entomology, demonstrable experience working in a re-
search environment, and proven knowledge of omics
approaches. Knowledge and experience on insect hus-
bandry (e.g. setting up crosses and breeding), molecular
biology laboratory techniques (e.g. DNA and RNA ex-
traction), and bioinformatics (e.g. handling of sequence
data, genome assembly and annotation) is highly de-
sirable. Although not essential, knowledge of ecology,
genetics and evolution of invertebrates and plant-insect
and plant-insect-pathogen interactions will be evaluated
positively. You will have a strong interest in pursuing
a research career in entomology supporting research
projects.
Additional information:
We welcome applications from candidates seeking part-
time or other exible working arrangements.
Interviews will be held on 14th and 15th March 2022.
For further information and details of how to apply,
please visit our website http://jobs.jic.ac.uk or con-
tact the Human Resources team on 01603 450462 or
nbi.recruitment@nbi.ac.uk quoting reference 1004204.
We are an equal opportunities employer, actively sup-
porting inclusivity and diversity. As a Disability Con-
dent organisation, we guarantee to oer an interview to
all disabled applicants who meet the essential criteria for
this vacancy. We are proud to hold a prestigious Gold
Athena SWAN award in recognition of our inclusive cul-
ture, commitment and good practices towards advancing
of gender equality. We oer an exciting, stimulating,
diverse research environment and actively promote a
family friendly workplace. The Institute is also a mem-
ber of Stonewall's Diversity Champions programme.
The John Innes Centre is a registered charity (No.
223852) grant-aided by the Biotechnology and BiologicalMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 45
Sciences Research Council.
Kind regards,
Georgina Roberts HR Advisor (Recruitment) Human
Resources
NBI Partnership, Norwich Research Park, Colney, Nor-
wich, NR4 7UH
I am sometimes working remotely but can be contacted
as normal by: Email: georgina.roberts@nbi.ac.uk >1
2
Tel: 01603 450462 or Ext 2462
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
KarlstadU EcologyEvolution
Associate Senior Lecturer in Biology Faculty of Health,
Science and Technology
https://kau.varbi.com/en/what:job/jobID:477128/
Karlstad University takes pride in combining active ex-
ternal cooperation with academic excellence. Karlstad
University has around 19 000 students and a sta of
over 1 300 members. Democratic principles, equality
and diversity are cornerstones of the University. We
value the enriching presence of diverse backgrounds
and competencies among students and sta. Read
more about working at Karlstad University at https:/-
/www.kau.se/en/work-with-us Would you like to be
part of exciting ecological and evolutionary research on
linkages between aquatic and terrestrial habitats?
Description
The Faculty of Health, Science and Technology is adver-
tising a position as Associate Senior Lecturer in Biology
at the Department of Environmental and Life Sciences.
The Department of Environmental and Life Sciences
conducts basic as well as applied research and we are
now looking for an enthusiastic colleague to complement
our research prole in biology.
The River Ecology and Management Research Group
specialises in sustainable use of natural resources and
strives to nd solutions to environmental problems that
benet both society and the environment. Many re-
search projects are carried out in collaboration with in-
dustry, government agencies, special interest groups, andlandowners. The research group (http://www.nrrv.se)
conducts research on the eects of hydropower on con-
nectivity, interactions between aquatic and terrestrial
environments, food webs, winter ecology in relation
to global climate change, landscape ecology, invasive
species, ecological modelling, endangered sh and in-
vertebrate species, and conservation biology. We also
conduct research in domains such as basic evolutionary
and molecular biology. In addition to a large aquarium
facility, the research environment provides opportunities
for genetic analysis (PCR), preparation of samples for
analysis of stable isotopes, plant cultivation, rearing
insects, and basic laboratory and eld equipment.
Duties
The position as associate senior lecturer aims to at-
tract ambitious and qualied researchers who are at
the beginning of their career and looking to gain valu-
able qualications in the eld. Research time for this
position is at least 75%. Main duties include leading
and developing ecological and evolutionary research on
links between aquatic and terrestrial habitats that com-
plement the research group's existing research prole,
as well as applying for external research funding and
teaching on-campus and distance courses at the rst-
and second-cycle level. Supervision at the rst-, second-
and third-cycle level may also be included.
You are also expected to collaborate with the surround-
ing community to create mutual exchange and work to
ensure that the knowledge and expertise available at
the university is put to good use in society. In order
to contribute to a positive working environment and
help further the subject's activities, we expect you to
be present and actively participate in the day-to-day
operations and workplace community.
Qualication requirements
To be eligible for the position of associate senior lecturer,
applicants are required to hold a PhD or equivalent sci-
entic qualications in biology. The position is primarily
intended for applicants who have completed their PhD
or acquired equivalent qualications no longer than ve
years before the application deadline. If an applicant
completed their PhD or equivalent qualications more
than ve years ago, this requirement may be waived if
there are special circumstances. The position requires
prociency in Swedish and English. A candidate who
does not meet this requirement may still be hired pro-
vided they actively work to acquire these language skills.
A requirement for eligibility is also a completed course
in higher education pedagogy. An applicant who has not
completed a course in higher education pedagogy can
still be eligible for the position provided that they use the46 EvolDir March 1, 2022
time allotted for professional development to complete
the course within two years of employment. For other
eligibility requirements, refer to Karlstad University's
Appointments Procedure: Anstallningsordning ENG
(kau.se)
Assessment criteria
In assessing the candidates, more weight will be given to
research expertise than teaching expertise. In assessing
research expertise, preference will be given to ecological
and evolutionary research on links between aquatic and
terrestrial habitats.
Special weight will be given to:
- documented scientic skills in ecological and evolution-
ary research on links between aquatic and terrestrial
environments
- excellent skills in statistics as well as excellent analyti-
cal ability
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MarineBiolLab Maine ResAssistant
Research Assistant Molecular Biology Lab - MBL
The Marine Biological Laboratory is seeking applicants
for a full-time Research Assistant position with the
Josephine Bay Paul Center. The successful applicant
will contribute to molecular biology investigation of
biological diversity.
Additional Information: Responsibilities include, but
are not limited to, laboratory management, DNA ex-
traction, polymerase chain reaction, use of informatics
software packages, and participation as a course TA
for college and high school level enrichment courses.
Duties and salary will be commensurate with relevant
experience.
Qualications: Bachelor's degree with training in molec-
ular biology. Must have one or more years of laboratory
experience. Candidate will be expected to work inde-
pendently after initial training period, but to be able to
work well with others in a larger research group. Facil-
ity with protist and bacterial culture, Microsoft Oce
programs, Linux operating systems.Apply on the
MBL website and provide: (1) a letter describing your
interests, skills and prior research experience, includ-
ing any specic experience with the job responsibilities
listed above; (2) a curriculum vitae; (3) the name and
contact information of three references.
https://recruiting.ultipro.com/MAR1033MBL/-
JobBoard/4c3007c3-6354-41de-a13f-d95be60d91e9/-
OpportunityDetail?opportunityId=8b487213-
0203-4d5a-9690-5f5e9e9fb189 Jennifer DeAlteris
<jdealteris@mbl.edu >
MarineBiolLab
ScienticProgrammer
Scientic Programmer - Integrated 'omics
Marine Biological Laboratory
A programmer position is available in the Bay Paul
Center to work with the new NSF-funded Science and
Technology Center Chemical Currencies of a Micro-
bial Planet, or C-CoMP (https://ccomp-stc.org/). The
successful candidate will work with A. Murat Eren
(Meren,https://merenlab.org) and collaborate with a
dynamic and diverse group of scientists in C-CoMP. We
are interested in developing advanced open-source soft-
ware platforms that enable integrative investigations of
complex environmental data from world's oceans. The
successful candidate will support ongoing data integra-
tion eorts through software development, participate
in scientic themes of the C-CoMP, and interact with
the vibrant and collegial MBL and WHOI scientic
community in Woods Hole.
Basic qualications:
A Ph.D. in biological sciences, computational sciences,
or anything in between.
Advanced knowledge of Python programming language.
Familiarity in JavaScript and basics of web development.
Demonstrated experience in open-source software devel-
opment.
Demonstrated expertise in OOP and modern software
design and development paradigms.
Familiarity with the anvi'o software platform (https://-
anvio.org)
Apply on the MBL website and provide the followingMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 47
required documents: (1) a short cover letter describ-
ing your interests, skills, and prior research experience.
(2) a curriculum vitae/resume. (3) the names and con-
tact numbers of three persons who can be contacted as
references.
Jennifer DeAlteris <jdealteris@mbl.edu >
MichiganStateU Tech
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
There is an opening for a research technician position
available in the lab of Dr. Emily Josephs in the De-
partment of Plant Biology at Michigan State University.
The Josephs Lab studies evolutionary genetics of plants
(see more at josephslab.github.io). The technician will
be involved in multiple projects in plant evolutionary ge-
netics. Specic projects will depend on the technician's
skills and interests, but could include greenhouse and
growth chamber experiments to measure plant pheno-
types, plant collection trips in the US, DNA extractions
or other wet-lab benchwork, and bioinformatics. The
technician will also be expected to participate in lab
meetings and collaborate with other lab members and
be involved in presenting and writing up the results
from their work. Ideally the candidate could start in
summer 2022.
MSU is a fantastic place to work, with a favorable cost-
of-living:salary ratio, and many other labs engaged in
exciting population genetics, plant genomics, and evo-
lutionary research. The Josephs lab is committed to
increasing diversity in the scientic community. I there-
fore strongly encourage applications from candidates
from historically excluded groups.
For additional details and to apply, please visit ca-
reers.msu.edu, respond to Job #762149. Applications
will be reviewed starting 3/1/2022. Please email with
any questions at josep993@msu.edu
Emily Josephs Assistant Professor Dept of Plant Biology
Michigan State University josephslab.github.io
\Josephs, Emily" <josep993@msu.edu >Montpellier 3 TechSupport
Biodiversity
University of Montpellier is recruiting 3 full-time posi-
tions for the Technical Support Unit of IPBES, a United
Nations Environment Program platform.
- Lead program management Ocer of the technical sup-
port unit for the IPBES : https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/-
jobs/740813 - Associate program management Ocer
of the technical support unit for the IPBES : https://-
euraxess.ec.europa.eu/jobs/740809 - Program manage-
ment assistant of the technical support unit for the
IPBES : https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/jobs/740807
Philippe Jarne
UMR Cefe - campus CNRS 1919 route de
Mende 34 293 Montpellier France 06 32 99 51
46 https://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/ Philippe JARNE
<philippe.jarne@cefe.cnrs.fr >
NHM London
ChairPostgraduateStudies
Chair of Postgraduate Studies, Natural History Museum,
London
The Natural History Museum, London, is seeking appli-
cants for a full-time, permanent Chair of Postgraduate
Studies for the Graduate Centre. The Natural History
Museum's Graduate Centre is the NHM's hub of student
training, with close to 200 Master's and PhD students
via partnerships with ~30 UK universities and research
institutions.
The Chair of Postgraduate Studies is a critical role in the
Natural History Museum Graduate Centre, as the person
with the primary responsibility for developing, imple-
menting, and maintaining a top-quality postgraduate
training and support programme for NHM early-stage
researchers (Master's and PhD students and contract
post-doctoral workers).
Reporting to the Dean of Postgraduate Education, the
Chair of Postgraduate Studies acts as the primary oper-
ations coordinator between the NHM and our university48 EvolDir March 1, 2022
partners in Master's and Doctoral training, including sit-
ting on operations and management boards and steering
groups for our joint programmes.
This role includes planning and leading student induc-
tions, skills training, career development workshops, and
other events for students, postdocs, and sta as appro-
priate, as well as engaging other NHM sta or external
contractors to deliver training. The Chair is also re-
sponsible for the pastoral care of students, including
supporting postdoctoral researchers and supervisors as
necessary. The postholder sits on the Graduate Cen-
tre committee and liaises regularly with the student
committee and is active in the promotion of the Gradu-
ate Centre by coordinating student blogs, maintaining
the alumni network, coordinating NHM involvement in
undergraduate research opportunities programmes and
EDI programmes with partner institutions, as well as
serving as the primary contact for postgraduate educa-
tion within the NHM.
About you
The ideal applicant will have a doctorate in a eld rele-
vant to NHM Science, experience in teaching, including
organising and developing undergraduate or postgrad-
uate courses, and in supervision and pastoral care of
students at the undergraduate level or above.
You will have experience in scientic research at the
postdoctoral level or above, and you will be passionate
about widening participation and inclusion to postgrad-
uate studies in the environmental sciences. You will
have experience working well in a team, as well as with
leadership of programmes or projects. You will be ap-
proachable, supportive of colleagues and students and
enjoy exploring new approaches to training.
What we oer
27.5 days holiday plus 8 bank holidays (full time equiv-
alent)
- Generous dened contribution Natural History Mu-
seum Pension Scheme (employer contribution 4 - 10%) -
Season ticket, bicycle and rental loan - Life insurance -
Free admission to our exhibitions and many other paid
exhibitions at museums, galleries and institutions across
London and the UK.
- Sta discount at our Museum shops and cafes - We
oer a wide variety of training initiatives and opportu-
nities to build skills. Investing in sta development is
important to us, and we are ambitious about helping
sta to grow and full their potential. - Aordable
membership to the Civil Service Sports Council which
oers a range of benets including an extensive list of
special oers and reduced entry fees at a selection ofcinema chains, theme parks, theatres, retailers and su-
permarkets. It also provides entry to up to 300English -
Heritage sitesand other national treasures. For more de-
tails, visit https://www.cssc.co.uk - Membership to our
Sports and Social Association (for a small fee), which
includes access to our in-house gym and clubs such as
football, softball, table tennis and tennis and classes in
Middle Eastern dance, yoga and Tai Chi
Further details at https://careers.nhm.ac.uk/-
templates/CIPHR/jobdetail 2322.aspx How to apply
If that sounds like you, please apply online on the
Natural History Museum's careers portal, at https://-
careers.nhm.ac.uk/ Closing date: 5pm, 18 February
2022
Interviews: 28 February 2022
Salary: 40,500 per annum
Please note that this role would not meet UK Visa and
Immigration's requirements for a sponsorship visa. As
such we are only able to consider candidates who have
the existing right to work in the UK.
Anjali Goswami <a.goswami@nhm.ac.uk >
QMU London BiosciencesAI
25 Lecturer/Senior Lecturer positions at Queen Mary
University London, including in applications of AI in the
biosciences https://www.qmul.ac.uk/jobs/vacancies/-
items/6618.html I'd like to call attention to this an-
nouncement of 25 new academic positions at the Faculty
of Science and Engineering at Queen Mary University
of London.
To support a new MSc program at the School of Biolog-
ical and Behavioural Sciences, we expect to appoint as
part of this call Lecturers and/or Senior Lecturers who
are pioneering applications of AI and big data analytics
in the biosciences, including molecular and cellular biol-
ogy, physiology, biomedicine, evolution, as well as basic
and applied ecology at all scales. If you are working in
one of these areas, please be encouraged to apply.
The application deadline is 13 March 2022.
Matteo Fumagalli (he/him) Senior Lecturer in Genetics
School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences Queen
Mary University of London Mile End Road London E1
4NS www.qmul.ac.uk/sbbs www.evogenomics.ai Matteo
Fumagalli <m.fumagalli@qmul.ac.uk >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 49
QueenMaryLondon 25
EvolutionaryBiology
See job posting:https://www.qmul.ac.uk/sbbs/about-
us/vacancies/s-e-lectureships/ The School of Biological
and Behavioural Sciences (SBBS) is seeking candidates
for several new academic positions to enhance its re-
search in strategic areas: Digital Environment, Bio-
sciences, and Green Energy and Sustainability. The
Faculty of Science and Engineering has 25 lectureships
and senior lectureships (Teaching and Research) to oer,
and it is expected that 7 of these will be placed in SBBS.
Our School is home to an active and multidisciplinary
research programme addressing themes of Ecology and
Evolution, Cell Dynamics and Structural Biology, and
Biological and Experimental Psychology. Through col-
laborative research centres and institutes, our research
also addresses the university's cross-faculty themes.Of
particular interest to us is the theme on \Green En-
ergy and Sustainability". This theme covers research on
environmental systems, biodiversity, conservation and
evolution.
Our research addresses major ecological and evolution-
ary questions at the cell, individual, community and
ecosystem levels. We have research strengths in the con-
struction and interpretation of large interdisciplinary
datasets, and use a range of experimental, molecular
and modelling approaches. Topics that are of relevance
to major sustainability challenges include our work on
photosynthesis, on major element cycles and on the
long-term eects of environmental change on species'
ecology and evolution.
We are seeking new Faculty members who are keen on
multidisciplinary research addressing major challenges
where evolutionary research intersects with green energy,
biodiversity and environmental sustainability.
Candidates may contact the following individuals (de-
pending on research interests) if further information on
our work in this area is required before applying:
Christophe Eizaguirre, Professor of Evolutionary and
Conservation Genetics,c.eizaguirre@qmul.ac.uk
Conrad Mullineaux, Professor of Microbiol-
ogy,c.mullineaux@qmul.ac.uk
Mark Trimmer, Professor of Biogeochem-
istry,m.trimmer@qmul.ac.ukCandidates with established industry collaborations in
one or more of these areas are particularly encouraged
to apply.
We seek to recruit the most exciting and talented minds
in our disciplines. Once with us we will nurture their
talents. As a University proud of its record on diversity
and inclusion, we are committed to our research and
education benetting society, and in being a welcom-
ing and supportive environment for sta from dierent
backgrounds and life experiences.
The deadline for applications is midnight on Sunday
13th March 2022.
Christophe Eizaguirre Deputy Dean for Research Impact
Head of Biology Department
Professor in Evolutionary and Conservation Genetics
Queen Mary University of London School of Biological
and Chemical Sciences Mile End Road, Fogg Building
6.04 E1 4NS London
Twitter: @EizaguirreLab Website: www.qmul.ac.uk/-
eizaguirrelab Tel: +44 (0) 207 882 6982 Email:
c.eizaguirre@qmul.ac.uk
Christophe Eizaguirre <c.eizaguirre@qmul.ac.uk >
RenecoIntl 4mnth
WildlifeConsultants
Reneco International Wildlife Consultants: paid short-
term research assistant position
We are seeking a research assistant to help conduct be-
havioural testing in a captive-bred population of North
African houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata undu-
lata) at the Emirates Centre for Wildlife Propagation
(ECWP) in Missour, Morocco. The succesful applicant
will join an ongoing research project exploring interplays
between individual behaviour, cognitive abilities, post-
release movements and survival. The assistant tasks will
involve behavioural testing of houbara bustards under
captive conditions and possibly in the wild, to assess
individual temperamental traits (a.k.a. personality) and
cognitive abilities (e.g., learning). Data entry and video
analysis will also be part of required duties. The position
should ideally start beginning of March 2022 and last for
a period of 4 to 6 months; however, later start dates (e.g.
April 2022) may also be possible. Besides a monthly
600 euros salary, travel expenses, onsite accommodation
and food will also be covered.50 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Successful applicants should have:
* Completed at least three years of undergraduate stud-
ies in animal behaviour/ethology or a closely related
eld. Experience with eld/lab research is highly desir-
able. * Experience with testing and handling of animals,
preferably birds. * Fluency in both English and French
languages. * Excellent organizational skills and ability
to work both independently and in a team. * Attention
to detail and ability to closely follow and implement
experimental protocols. * Data entry prociency and,
ideally, experience in video analysis
Reneco is a non-prot organization committed to the
conservation breeding and protection in the wild of
threatened bird species, most notably the houbara bus-
tard, and is active throughout North Africa, the Middle
East and Central Asia. To apply, send your CV together
with a cover letter detailing your relevant experience
and motivation, including contact information for two
referees, all in a single PDF document to Dr Enrico
Sorato: esorato@reneco.org. Review of applications will
start immediately and will continue until a suitable
candidate has been found.
SORATO Enrico <esorato@reneco.org >SORATO En-
rico<esorato@reneco.org >
Smithsonian LabTech
ConservationGenomics
Genetics Laboratory Technician Center for Conservation
Genomics Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute
National Zoological Park Washington, DC
We are recruiting a technician to participate in a vari-
ety of projects in conservation genomics of birds. The
technician will conduct laboratory genomic methods, in-
cluding library preparation, library capture for Illumina
sequencing, and metabarcoding, and some processing
of sequence data. The position is available for one year
and will begin as soon as possible. Minimum qualica-
tion is a bachelor's degree in biology or similar eld, or
an equivalent combination of education or experience.
Demonstrated experience in the laboratory methods
noted above is required, but some training is possible
where there may be gaps in an applicant's skill set.
To apply, email (1) a brief letter of application contain-
ing your interests and experience in genomic analyses
(both laboratory and bioinformatics), (2) a current cur-
riculum vitae or resume, and (3) names, addresses andphone numbers of at least three references to Dr. Robert
Fleischer (eischerr@si.edu). Review of applicants will
begin on 10 February. Please contact Dr. Fleischer if
you have any questions.
\Fleischer, Robert" <FleischerR@si.edu >
UEvry France
EnvGenomicsMetabolism
A junior professor chair in environmental genomics and
metabolic modeling is open at the University of Evry-
Val-d'Essonne (France) with the Genoscope \Metabolic
Genomics" research unit as the host laboratory.
Using bioinformatics approaches combining modeling
and integration of multi-omics data, the research project
will aim to understand the structure of microbial com-
munities and their adaptation to various environments
by determining individual and collective (interactions,
symbioses/holobionts) functional capacities.
A package of 400 k euro is associated to this chair for re-
cruitment (PhD student, post-doc, engineer) and other
expenses.
For more information:
https://labgem.genoscope.cns.fr/2022/02/08/chaire-
de-professeur-junior-modelomics
(Job oer in french because required language for teach-
ing)
David Vallenet <vallenet@genoscope.cns.fr >
UIllinois AdaptiveAnimalGenomics
DueMar6
FACULTY POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
Assistant Professor, Adaptive Animal Genomics
College of Agricultural, Consumer and Environmental
Sciences
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Position: Assistant Professor, Full-Time Tenure-Track
Faculty Position in Adaptive Animal Genomics in the
Department of Animal Sciences.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 51
https://jobs.illinois.edu/academic-job-board/job-
details?jobID=157641&job=aces-assistant-professor-
adaptive-genomics-of-livestock-animal-sciences-157641
WE TRANSFORM LIVES.Everything we do is
designed to improve the quality of life of the people in
the state of Illinois, across the nation, and around the
world. We discover, develop, translate, and disseminate
knowledge to address societal concerns and train the
next generation of experts and leaders in a way that
empowers them to expand the boundaries of science to
higher levels of understanding and inuence.
The Department of Animal Sciences is inviting appli-
cations to a faculty position in the area of adaptive
genomics. This position is available through a strategic
departmental hiring plan to expand genomic research
and education to provide safe, reliable food for a growing
world population. Understanding how the genome en-
ables physiological adaptation to environmental changes
is critical to improving food animal health, production,
and well-being in sustainable and socially acceptable
systems. This position encompasses research and teach-
ing in areas including but not limited to (1) genetic
adaptations to climate change, or (2) genetic selection
for lower greenhouse gas production, or (3) how health
and well-being can be maintained through genetically
driven adaptations to changes in temperature, immune
challenge, and other environmental and management fac-
tors. This opportunity builds on our history of diverse
research in genetics, nutrition, management, immune
and reproductive physiology, and animal systems with
application to food production and biomedical research.
The University of Illinois is an Equal Opportunity, Ar-
mative Action employer that recruits and hires qualied
candidates without regard to race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, age, national ori-
gin, disability or veteran status. For more information,
visithttp://go.illinois.edu/EEO . Qualications:Ph.D.
degree in Animal Science, Genomics, Molecular Biology,
Biological Sciences, or similar elds, with a research
emphasis on mechanistic approaches to understanding
how genomes impact the physiological adaptation of
production animals to environmental changes.
Preferred qualications include a strong record of publi-
cation; experience in teaching, mentoring students, and
grant writing; and collaborations with the private sec-
tor or internationally recognized programs in adaptive
animal genomics.
Responsibilities: The successful candidate will develop
and maintain a nationally and internationally recog-
nized research program supported by extramural fund-
ing, strengthening the preeminence of the Department
of Animal Sciences. Teaching responsibilities includeinstruction of established courses and the development
of new courses in the area of animal genomics.
Proposed Start Date:August 16, 2022, or negotiable.
Salary:Commensurate with qualications and experi-
ence Appointment Details:This 9/12 tenure-track fac-
ulty position is 100% FTE Location:The University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (www.illinois.edu) is lo-
cated approximately 120 miles south of Chicago in a
metropolitan area of approximately 232,000 people.
Resources:The Department of Animal Sciences has
outstanding facilities with convenient access to lab-
oratory and farm animal research units (https://-
ansc.illinois.edu/about/facilities).
The campus is home to internationally recognized
facilities and interdisciplinary programs, includ-
ing the Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic
Biology (www.igb.illinois.edu), Beckman Insti-
tute (www.beckman.illinois.edu), W.M. Keck
Center for Comparative and Functional Ge-
nomics (www.biotech.uiuc.edu/centers/Keck),
National Center for Supercomputing Applica-
tions (www.ncsa.illinois.edu), the Center for
Digital Agriculture (www.digitalag.illinois.edu),
Interdisciplinary Health Sciences Institute (https:/-
/healthinstitute.illinois.edu/), and Personalized
Nutrition
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMainz PlantEvolution
The Institute of Organismic and Molecular Evolution
at the Faculty of Biology, JGU Mainz
invites applications for the position of
Junior Professor of Plant Evolutionary Ecology
beginning at the earliest date possible.
Salary grade W 1 LBesG with tenure track to W 2
Civil servant with a xed-term contract
Please apply by under the link Junior Professor of Plant
Evolutionary Ecology (uni-mainz.de) with your com-
plete application documents (CV; certicates; lists of52 EvolDir March 1, 2022
publications and teaching activities; funding record;
current research and future research plans; teaching
concept) as well as the lled form available at no later
than March 27 th, 2022. For questions and further in-
formation, please contact the chairperson of the search
committee (Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik: foitzik@uni-
mainz.de).
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Institute of Organismic and
Molecular Evolution Johannes Gutenberg University
Mainz Biozentrum Hanns Dieter H >1
2sch Weg 15 D-
55128 Mainz Germany Tel: +49 (0) 6131 39 27 840 Fax:
+49 (0)6131 39 27 850 Email: foitzik@uni-mainz.de
\Foitzik, Susanne" <foitzik@uni-mainz.de >
UOslo EvolutionaryEcol
Dear Colleagues,
A full-time position as tenured Associate Professor in
terrestrial ecology is available at the Department of
Biosciences at the University of Oslo, Norway. Note
that the position is open for evolutionary perspectives
in evolutionary or behavioral ecology.
Brief description
The Department of Biosciences seeks a candidate for
the position as Associate Professor within the broadly
understood area of Terrestrial Ecology. The successful
applicant should have a strong track record and the abil-
ity to conduct competitive research at an international
level. The ideal candidate should address fundamental
biological questions related to terrestrial ecology at a
broad level, within at least one, and preferably more, of
the elds of disease ecology, statistical ecology, evolution-
ary ecology or behavioural ecology. Candidates with a
strong quantitative background are encouraged to apply.
The research should have relevance for achieving the
Sustainability goals of the United Nations (UN). The
proposed research should strengthen and synergize with
the ongoing research activities at the Department, and
candidates are encouraged to contact current faculty
members to explore these possibilities.
For further information see the following link:
https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/-
221530/associate-professor-in-terrestrial-ecology or
contact Paul Grini (paul.grini@ibv.uio.no) in the search
committee.
Sincerely,Thomas F. Hansen Professor, Department fo Biosciences,
University of Oslo (thomas.hansen@bio.uio.no)
\Thomas F. Hansen" <t.f.hansen@ibv.uio.no >
UPisa EvolutionaryBiology
Subject: researcher in zoology University of Pisa
The following researcher position in zoology at the Uni-
versity of Pisa (Italy) might be of interest for the evoldir
community.
Full instructions can be found in the following link (in
Italian): https://bandi.unipi.it/public/Bandi/Detail/-
26c25e04-9910-4d4b-a153-c6bc76203548 Dipartimento
di Biologia Settore concorsuale 05/B1 Zoologia e
antropologia SSD BIO/05 Zoologia n.1 posto
Ambito della ricerca: l'attivit a di ricerca riguarder a lo
studio dei protozoi e dei metazoi invertebrati, della loro
evoluzione e biodiversit a a livello di organizzazione cellu-
lare, organismica, di popolazione, specie e comunit a. Le
ricerche, di tipo teorico e sperimentale, saranno condotte
sul campo e in laboratorio e aronteranno lo studio della
organizzazione morfo-funzionale, interazioni intra- e in-
terspeciche e con l'ambiente, biogeograa, sistematica
e logenesi dei protozoi e degli invertebrati. In partico-
lare, la tipologia di impegno prevista riguarder a studi
teorici e sperimentali preferibilmente basati sull'utilizzo
di moderne tecniche di investigazione. Obiettivi di pro-
duttivit a scientica: gli obiettivi minimi di produttivit a
scientica consisteranno nella produzione di articoli sci-
entici pubblicati su riviste di rango internazionale e
con IF (1-3 articoli per anno), nella presentazione dei
risultati della ricerca in convegni nazionali ed inter-
nazionali, nella partecipazione a progetti nazionali ed
internazionali di ricerca Sede svolgimento delle attivit a:
Dipartimento di Biologia Attivit a didattica specica
prevista: l'attivit a didattica verr a svolta nell'ambito
degli insegnamenti con tematiche attinenti al settore
BIO/05, e consister a in lezioni frontali e in attivit a di
esercitazione e laboratorio per gli studenti, in funzione
delle esigenze delle prossime programmazioni didattiche
anche in relazione ai recenti (Prof. Franco Verni) ed
imminenti (Prof. Sergey I. Fokin) pensionamenti. Sono
previste inoltre attivit a di supervisione di laureandi e
dottorandi e attivit a seminariali. La prova orale ac-
certer a la conoscenza della lingua: inglese I candidati
possono presentare un numero massimo di 12 pubbli-
cazioni scientiche, ivi compresa la tesi di dottorato se
presentata.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 53
irisarri.iker@gmail.com
UTennessee Chattanooga Genetics
Full job description at https://ut.taleo.net/-
careersection/utc faculty/jobdetail.ftl?job=-
220000003M Assistant Professor of Genetics De-
partment of Biology, Geology & Environmental Science
IRIS Position # 50007081 Preference of Letters of
Recommendation: Upon Submission (all Candidates)
Description
The Department of Biology, Geology and Environmental
Science (BGE) at the University of Tennessee at Chat-
tanooga (UTC) College of Arts and Sciences invites
applications for a 9-month tenure-track assistant profes-
sor position in Genetics beginning August 1, 2022. We
are looking for a biologist, preferably molecular biologist,
with research experience and interest in genetics. The
candidate is expected to have a strong commitment to
undergraduate and graduate education and mentoring.
Participation in departmental, college, and university
committees and community outreach are expected.
The successful candidate will provide evidence of the
ability to: - Teach at undergraduate and graduate levels
- Develop a strong independent research program that
attracts extramural funding and involves undergraduate
and graduate students - Engage in collaborative research
- Provide university, community, and professional ser-
vice.
Teaching responsibilities include Genetics, Molecular
Genetics, Genetics Laboratory, and other courses in the
candidate's area of expertise. The standard teaching
load is three preparations per semester, where labora-
tory classes count as a preparation. Candidates should
be willing to engage in a variety of instructional modal-
ities, including online instruction, and in assisting the
UTC campus in its ability to reach additional goals
specied in UTC's Strategic Plan. In addition, can-
didates should demonstrate a commitment to equity,
diversity, and inclusion in higher education. We are
interested in candidates who have contributed to, or
have plans to contribute to, programs that aim to in-
crease the participation of underrepresented students
and/or faculty in the sciences. A Ph.D. in Biology or
a related eld is required, and postdoctoral research
experience is desired. In addition, we are interested in
candidates whose expertise complements the existingexpertise in the department and support and enhance
our undergraduate preprofessional curriculum.
Application Procedures
To be considered, applicants are required to submit the
following information through our online application
system, https://ut.taleo.net/careersection/utc faculty/-
jobdetail.ftl?job=220000003M .- Cover letter/letter of
interest including preferred teaching areas and long-term
goals - Current Curriculum Vitae, including personal
contact information (email, phone, etc.) - Undergradu-
ate and graduate transcripts (may be unocial) - State-
ment of research experience and vision - Statement of
teaching experience and philosophy (max 2 pages) -
Statement on diversity outlining the candidate's pre-
vious contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion
and a vision for future activities (max 1 page) - Names,
titles, and email addresses for three (3) references, from
which UTC will request condential letters of recom-
mendation.
Review of applicants will begin on February 21, 2022.
Preference will be given to those qualied candidates
who apply before this date. Questions about the posi-
tion should be directed to Dr. Gretchen Potts, Interim
Department Head, at Gretchen-Potts@utc.edu.
BGE has 33 full-time faculty with more than 850 majors
and oers B.S. Biology, B.S. Geology, B.S. Environmen-
tal Science, and M.S. Environmental Science degrees.
The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga is the sec-
ond largest school in the University of Tennessee System,
serving a diverse student body of more than 11k under-
graduate and graduate students through ve academic
colleges.
UTC oers a unique blend of private and public school
traditions and is a driving force for achieving excel-
lence, embracing diversity, inspiring positive change,
and enriching the community. Since its founding as
Chattanooga University in 1886, UTC has developed
a reputation for excellence built on an unusual blend
of the private and public traditions of American higher
education. For more than 83 years, the university was a
private school. In 1969, UTC became part of the state
university system. Today, UTC is on a journey to excel-
lence - boldly embracing a passion for excellence in all
things and focused on changing lives and transforming
communities. The UTC commitment - each and every
day - is to earn the trust and condence of those we
serve. Our goal is to make a dierence in our community
and in the lives of our students.
Chattanooga, the fourth largest city in the state, is lo-
cated in Southeast Tennessee near the border of Georgia
at the junction of54 EvolDir March 1, 2022
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UTyumen EvolutionaryBiol
Subject: Professor of Biology (open rank) at the School
of Advanced Studies, UTyumen, Russian Federation.
The School of Advanced Studies is looking for an evo-
lutionary biologist or an ecologist. Joint appointments
with the Institute of Environmental and Agricultural
Biology (X-BIO) possible. For more information and
submitting an application, please see the full ad:
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/jobs/745775 \Daniel
Kontowski" <d.kontowski@utmn.ru >
e~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A  a ~A~A~A~A~A~A ~Ao~A~A~A
<d.kontowski@utmn.ru >
UTyumen EvolutionaryBiology
Subject: Professor of Biology (open rank) at the School
of Advanced Studies, University of Tyumen, Russian
Federation.
The School of Advanced Studies is looking for an evo-
lutionary biologist or an ecologist. Joint appointments
with the Institute of Environmental and Agricultural
Biology (X-BIO) possible. For more information and
submitting an application, please see the full ad:
\Daniel Kontowski" <d.kontowski@utmn.ru >
Daniel Kontowski Associate Director for Education,
School of Advanced Studies <http://sas.utmn.ru/ >
University of Tyumen, Siberia, Russia
Daniel Kontowski <d.kontowski@utmn.ru >UVirginia ResTech
DrosophilaEvolution
We are Hiring! The Bergland Lab (https://-
www.bergland-lab.org/) in the Department of Biology
at the University of Virginia is looking to hire a Lab and
Research Technician 1 (RT1) to assist in ecological and
evolutionary genetics research. In this position, you will
receive training and be responsible for day-to-day lab
management, maintenance of Drosophila stocks, eld
work, conducting molecular work with DNA/RNA, phe-
notype assays with ies, public outreach, and managing
of undergraduates. Successful candidates must work
well with others and have a willingness to learn and take
on new challenges. Candidates may also participate
in supervised, independent research projects. This is
a 12-month appointment. A one-year renewal is pos-
sible contingent upon performance. Starting salary is
$35,000/y. Start date is expected late spring to early
summer 2022. Minimum requirements: Bachelors de-
gree (BA/BS) in Biology or similar eld, experience with
laboratory research (independent or supervised research
preferred; course-based research minimum). Experience
working with Drosophila or other insect/invertebrate
systems preferred. Experience with eld work preferred.
Evidence of written and verbal scientic communication
skills preferred.
Apply here: https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/BIOL|
Bergland-Lab-Tech-1 R0031535 If you have questions
about the position, please reach out to Alan Bergland
at aob2x@virginia.edu
Alan Bergland (he/him) jAssistant Professor, De-
partment of Biology jUniversity of Virginia PO
Box 400328jCharlottesville, VA 22904 https://-
www.bergland-lab.org jhttps://www.EEBvirginia.org j
http://bio.as.virginia.edu jhttps://dest.bio
\Bergland, Alan Olav (aob2x)" <aob2x@virginia.edu >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 55
UWyoming
ForestEvolutionaryEcology
Assistant Professor of Forest Ecology. The University of
Wyoming seeks to hire a tenure-track faculty member
with expertise in forest ecology. The appointment will
be as an Assistant Professor in the Department of
Botany (http://www.uwyo.edu/botany). The successful
candidate will build a strong externally funded research
program in forest ecology to advance our understanding
of forest dynamics in a rapidly changing world at
any level of biological organization or spatio-temporal
scale. Possible areas of expertise include, but are not
limited to, population and community responses to
changing climate and disturbance regimes, traditional
ecological knowledge of forest ecology and management,
evolutionary ecology of forests, plant physiological
ecology, forest ecosystem ecology, spatial analysis and
remote sensing, computational statistical modeling, and
mechanistic process-based modeling. Review of appli-
cations will begin March 10, 2022. Complete on-line
application here: https://eeik.fa.us2.oraclecloud.com/-
hcmUI/CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX 1/job/-
213438/?utm medium=jobshare Daniel Laughlin
<daniel.laughlin@uwyo.edu >
Vienna PlantAnimalInteractions
At the Faculty of Life Sciences of the University of
Vienna the position of a
Tenure-Track Professorship for the eld of Plant-Animal
Interactions
(full-time position) is to be lled.
Applicants have a strong record in studying evolutionary
patterns and processes underlying mutualistic or antag-
onistic plant-animal interactions and their consequences
for ecological networks. We expect the successful ap-
plicant to develop a competitive research programme
in the eld. The University of Vienna oers excellent
research conditions including well-equipped laborato-
ries, a herbarium, a Botanical Garden, and access to a
tropical research station (La Gamba, Costa Rica). Thecandidate is expected to teach on all academic levels.
Successful candidates should have the following quali-
cations: - Doctoral degree/PhD and at least two years
post-doctoral experience at a university or other re-
search institution; as a general rule, applicants must
have gained research experience outside the University
of Vienna for a total of at least two years during or
after their doctoral studies - Outstanding achievements
and potential in research, excellent publication record,
international reputation - Experience in designing and
participating in research projects, ability to lead research
groups, willingness to acquire third-party funding - Po-
tential for successfully acquiring an ERC Starting Grant
or an ERC Consolidator Grant (depending on career
level) or comparable renowned funding within the qual-
ication period. - Enthusiasm for excellent teaching,
teaching experience at universities or a teaching con-
cept. Candidates are expected to be willing to teach
students at all levels (bachelor's, master's, or doctoral
level), to supervise academic theses and to promote
junior colleagues
The University of Vienna expects the successful candi-
date to acquire, within three years, prociency in Ger-
man sucient for teaching in bachelor's programmes
and for participation in university committees.
We oer: - the opportunity to obtain a permanent po-
sition and eventual promotion to full professor. The
successful candidate is hired as \Assistant professor" for
a maximum duration of six years. If the candidate meets
the conditions stipulated in the qualication agreement,
the assistant professor is promoted to tenured \associate
professor", i.e. obtains a permanent position. If the
conditions are not met, the employment will end upon
expiry of the contract. Associate professors can be pro-
moted to \full professor" through a university-internal
competitive procedure. - at least a salary according
to the Collective Bargaining Agreement for University
Sta: section 49, job group A2 - in addition to the statu-
tory social insurance, the University of Vienna oers a
pension scheme to its employees - a dynamic research
environment - attractive working conditions in a city
with a high quality of life - a wide range of support
services oered by central service institutions
The University of Vienna is an equal oppor-
tunity employer and values diversity (http://-
diversity.univie.ac.at). The University strives to increase
the share of women in professorial positions. Given
equal qualications, preference will be given to female
applicants.
Application documents: Please submit a  >1
2single
PDF document  >1
2named \LastName FirstName.pdf"
to  >1
2tenuretrack.personal@univie.ac.at  >1
2containing56 EvolDir March 1, 2022
the following information (in  >1
2English). 1. Cover
Sheet and Table of Contents 2. Letter of motivation
3. Academic curriculum vitae o key terms that best
describe your own research interests o education, de-
grees (incl. information about the PhD granting insti-
tution and the exact date DD.MM.YYYY when the
PhD was conferred) o professional experience o appli-
cable parental leave, family or other care times, . o
scientic or scholarly \esteem factors" (e.g. experi-
ences as a publisher, functions in research societies or
programme committees) o previous and current coop-
eration partners o complete list of acquired third-party
funded projects as principal investigator (role, subject,
duration, funding agency, funding volume), and, if ap-
plicable, of inventions/patents o list of most important
scientic talks (max. 10) o list of courses taught o list
of theses supervised 4. List of publications o link to
own ORCID iD record o if common in your eld of
research provide information about indexation in data
bases such as SCIE, SSCI, AHCI, citations resp. book
reviews received or other indicators of scientic qual-
ity/international visibility (best paper award, etc.) 5.
Research statement o explain your previous research
achievements (max. 2 pages) and future research plans
(max. 4 pages) o name the three most important publi-
cations with an explanation of their relevance for this
tenure track professorship
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WSL Swizterland ForestEvolution
Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape
Research WSL
The Research Unit Forest Health and Biotic Interac-
tions investigates the inuence of biotic factors on forest
health and develops scientic basis for the protection
of forests against harmful organisms. Following the
retirement of the current group leader, we are look-
ing from October 2022 for a (f/m/d): Group Leader
Phytopathology (80-100% working percentage)You will be responsible for the strategic development
and the sta of the Phytopathology group. You will
lead a group of about 5 permanent sta members and
several PhD students, postdocs and other temporary
sta in scientic, technical and administrative matters.
The main focus of this group is on research on forest
pathogens, especially invasive fungi and oomycetes, and
their interactions with host trees and other organisms
such as insect vectors or antagonistic microorganisms.
Your research is expected to provide the scientic basis
for the prevention and management of harmful tree dis-
eases. A modern plant protection laboratory is available,
which includes state-of-the-art biosafety level 2 and 3
laboratories and a biosafety level 3 greenhouse. Also
integrated into the group is a molecular diagnostics lab-
oratory, which fulls national tasks in forest protection.
For your research you will acquire funding from national
and international institutions and publish your results
in recognized ISI journals.
You have a university degree with a dissertation in
forest pathology, international postdoctoral experience
with several years of independent research, knowledge
of statistical data analysis, and an excellent publication
record. You are familiar with the Swiss forest context.
You have leadership experience, successfully acquired
third-party funding and are motivated to foster research
in the unique plant protection and biosafety laboratory
of WSL. You are communicative, have a team-building
personality and you enjoy challenging yourself and the
group to develop the group's research. You are pro-
cient in English and German and ideally a second Swiss
national language.
The Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Land-
scape Research WSL is part of the ETH Domain. Ap-
proximately 600 people work on the sustainable use and
protection of the environment and on the handling of
natural hazards.
Please send your complete application to Mich ele Bucher,
Human Resources WSL, by uploading the requested doc-
uments through our webpage. Applications via email
will not be considered. Dr. Eckehard Brockerho, phone
+41 44 739 26 95 will be happy to answer any questions
or oer further information. WSL strives to increase the
proportion of women in its employment, which is why
qualied women are particularly called upon to apply
for this position.
deborah.leigh@wsl.chMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 57
Other
BioGeoBEARS AssistanceRequest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
ClarksonU REU MathBio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Conservation NewGrantOpportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
CUNY Brooklyn SummerREU UrbanAdaptation . . 58
EcologyLetters SpecialIssue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
ESEB EqualOpportunitiesInitiativeFund Deadline-
Mar31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
ESEB OutreachInitiativeFund DeadlineMar15 . . . . . 60
Hemimetabolous Insect Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Internship Austria UGlasgow FieldworkVolunteers
SpringSummer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Lapland FieldAssist SiberianJay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
LinneSys SystematicsResearchFund Webinar . . . . . . 62
OmennPrize 000 BestEvolutionaryMedicineArticle .63PaidInternships 2 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 63
RequestFeedback HemimetabolousModelSpeciesChoice
64
REU MultipleInst Thermoy May30-Jul31 . . . . . . . . 64
sDiv Germany FundingForSynthesisProjects . . . . . . . 65
Seminar ESEB STN Speciation Feb8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Snapdragon Fieldwork Volunteers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
SSE SmallGrantsProgram ForOutreach . . . . . . . . . . . .67
SystematicsResearchFund CallNowOpen . . . . . . . . . . .67
Trinidad ResearchInternships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
UndergraduateDiversity at EvolutionProgram . . . . . 68
WebinarSeries PopulationGeneticsVienna . . . . . . . . . . 68
BioGeoBEARS AssistanceRequest
Hi Folks,
A reviewer has asked me and my PhD student to add a
BioGeoBEARS analysis to a manuscript before resub-
mission. The editor has only given us 3 weeks to make
revisions, and the publication only permits 2 rounds of
review. If we don't get this right, the manuscript will
be tossed.
We don't have prior experience with this software and
we can't nd a local BioGeoBEARS user to help us
get started. Is there anyone out there with familiarity
with BioGeoBEARS who also has some time to virtually
coach a student (who already knows R) through the
early part of the learning curve?
Thanks, Je
Dr. Jerey M. Marcus Professor Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences University of Manitoba Winnipeg MB. R3T
2N2 Canada jerey.marcus@umanitoba.ca
Jerey Marcus <Jerey.Marcus@umanitoba.ca >ClarksonU REU MathBio
NSF REU opportunity summer 2022 - Mathematical Bi-
ology Team Science Research Experience for Undergrad-
uates (MBioTS REU) at Clarkson University, Potsdam
NY
Clarkson University's Biology and Mathematics Depts
are recruiting eight undergraduate students from a di-
verse range of academic backgrounds for our Mathe-
matical Biology Team Science Research Experience for
Undergraduates (MBioTS REU) program. This ten-
week full-time summer research experience runs from
May 23rd - July 30th, 2022, and aims to introduce stu-
dents to collaborative research at the intersection of
biology and mathematics. https://www.clarkson.edu/-
mbiots-research-experience-undergraduates-reu Pro-
gram overview: - An immersive team science research
experience using both experimental and theoretical ap-
proaches to tackle a range of biological questions from
ecology, evolution, cell biology, and public health. -
Financial package including: - $5000 summer research
stipend - $120/ week food stipend (10 weeks) - Round
trip travel to and from Potsdam, NY - On campus hous-
ing with a kitchenette - Each participant will focus on
either the biological or mathematical aspect of their58 EvolDir March 1, 2022
collaborative team research but will gain exposure to
both. - An emphasis on building skills for collaborative
research and eective communication across disciplines.
- Close mentoring from experienced faculty in both the
Biology and Mathematics Departments at Clarkson Uni-
versity. - Regular research and professional development
seminars, social events, and eld trips.
Applicants must be: - Excited about doing collaborative
science in Biology and Math! - A citizen or permanent
resident of the United States. - Enrolled in an under-
graduate college program for the Fall 2022 semester.
- Completed Calculus II or equivalent. - Fully vacci-
nated for COVID-19 (including booster) and willing to
observe Clarkson University's on-campus masking and
social distancing regulations.
For more information on the program, research projects
or to apply please visit: https://www.clarkson.edu/-
mbiots-research-experience-undergraduates-reu For
questions, contact the program co-directors: Dr. Su-
san Bailey, Biology Dept, Clarkson University, sbai-
ley@clarkson.edu Dr. James Greene, Mathematics Dept,
Clarkson University, jgreene@clarkson.edu
Susan Bailey <sbailey@clarkson.edu >
Conservation NewGrantOpportunity
The conservation non-prot Revive & Restorehas recent-
lylaunched the \Biotechnology for Bird Conservation
Program." Through this program, they have opened a
request for proposals targeting the advancement of repro-
ductive technologies and gene-editing techniques for the
entire evolutionary diversity of birds to enable advanced
genetic rescue techniques for the world's threatened
birds, which to date has posed a challenge due to the
diculties of applying mammalian technologies, like in
vitro fertilization and cloning, to egg-laying reproduc-
tion.
The deadline to apply to this grant opportunity is May
1, 2022. We are requesting that researchers intending to
apply send a letter of intent in advance of their proposal.
I hope you will consider submitting a proposal. The ad-
vances made by researchers funded by this program will
forge a brighter future for the world's birds and wildlife
conservation. Please send any inquiries to the Program
Manager, Ben Novak, at ben@reviverestore.org.
Ben J. Novak Lead Scientist & Biotechnology for
Bird Conservation Program Manager Revive & Restoreben@reviverestore.org 828-489-1583
Watch ourTED Talkon \Intended Consequences of Help-
ing Nature Thrive" Or listen onApple Podcasts
Ben Novak <ben@reviverestore.org >
CUNY Brooklyn SummerREU
UrbanAdaptation
Hi all,
Brooklyn College and the City University of New York
are now accepting applications for our summer REU in
Urban Ecology and the Environment (BUEE) that will
run this summer from June 6 through August 12. BUEE
oers an integrative summer research program aimed
at developing early-career undergraduate students into
mature and thoughtful environmental scientists - many
of our research projects have a strong evolutionary focus,
and investigate how plants and animals adapt to urban
environments.
BUEE couples authentic research experiences to-
gether with practical experience in research de-
sign, scientic communication and community out-
reach, leveraging the unique academic and research
resources at Brooklyn, including a state-of-the-art
Aquatic Research and Environmental Assessment Cen-
ter<http://www.brooklyn.cuny.edu/web/academics/-
centers/areac.php >, CUNY's Advanced Science Re-
search Center <https://asrc.gc.cuny.edu/ >and the
interdisciplinary Science and Resilience Institute at Ja-
maica Bay <http://www.srijb.org/ >, focused on urban
sustainability and resilience. Students are provided with
a competitive stipend, housing and food allowances, and
relocation credit for travel from outside the region. Ap-
plications from STEM-underrepresented students are
especially encouraged.
More information on the program, including potential
projects, can be found at the program homepage at
buee.brooklyn.cuny.edu, or by contacting the program
PI at buee@brooklyn.cuny.edu. Application materials
should be submitted online before April 1.
Please spread the word, and share the program with
research-oriented students interested in learning more
about ecology and evolution in an urban environment.
Best,
Tony Wilson, BUEE PIMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 59
buee<buee@brooklyn.cuny.edu >
EcologyLetters SpecialIssue
Announcement Special Issue Ecology Letters
Exploring the border between ecology and evolution
Object: Special issue of Ecology Letters \Exploring the
border between ecology and evolution"
Dear colleagues,
Ecology Letters and INEE CNRS are happy to announce
that Ecology Letters will publish a special issue entitled
\Exploring the border between ecology and evolution"
for the 25th anniversary of the journal. This special
should be delivered by the end of 2022 or beginning of
2023.
The special issue is motivated by the need to develop
deeper links between ecology and evolution. This call
is not new, as shown particularly in conceptual and
epistemological work. However, its importance has been
rearmed since the early 2000s and we have seen a
gradual rise in research explicitly blending the two per-
spectives. Numerous (non-exhaustive) reasons can be
invoked: the recognition that evolutionary processes
can occur at similarly short time-scales as ecological
processes; the fact that all spatial scales are relevant in
both disciplines; convergence on using a variety of ana-
lytical methods (e.g., omics, imaging); analogous forces
acting upon various levels of biodiversity; and the holo-
biont concept linking microbial and larger organisms.
However, integrative approaches coupling ecological and
evolutionary dynamics through analyses of reciprocal
feedbacks remain rare compared to mainstream research
in either eld, calling for new research, ideas and per-
spectives. Fostering an integrative approach appears
to be particularly relevant in times of marked environ-
mental change and biodiversity loss at the planetary
scale, which strongly aects multiple dimensions of both
ecological and evolutionary dynamics, with repercus-
sions for the resilience, conservation and management
of populations, communities and ecosystems.
Based on this nding, the objectives of this special issue
are (i) to advance the conceptual bases of coupled ecolog-
ical and evolutionary dynamics, (ii) to present original
ndings from both empirical and theoretical studies, and
(iii) to explore innovative research directions for the fu-
ture. We particularly welcome papers that propose new
ideas and approaches to deepening integration, reecton concepts and semantics, including epistemological
and other philosophical perspectives, address the issue
of temporal and spatial scales, and consider responses
to global change (e.g., adaptation vs. range or com-
munity shifts), specic taxa (e.g., are micro-organisms
dierent?), and eco-evolutionary dynamics in particular
settings (e.g., urban or Arctic environments).
If you are interested in contributing a Synthesis, Perspec-
tives, Letters, Viewpoints, Methods paper that addresses
linkages between ecology and evolution, please send a let-
ter of interest to St ephane Hello (ecolets2@cefe.cnrs.fr)
by March 15 2022. Letters should be less than a page
and outline the basic ideas of your intended contribu-
tion. They will serve to explore the interest of the
scientic community in the special issue, and as a basis
to commission selected papers, including suggestions to
prospective authors to cover related or complementary
topics or to combine proposals. However, since the call
for papers is open, proposals by authors not explicitly
invited to submit a full paper and/or who did not send
a letter of interest, will equally be welcome to submit a
paper. Importantly, all papers, whether commissioned
or not, will undergo the normal review process of EL.
Manuscripts to be considered should be received by early
September 2022.
Sincerely yours,
Peter Thrall, EL chief editor St ephane Blanc, INEE
director, CNRS
Philippe Jarne UMR Cefe - campus CNRS 1919
route de Mende 34 293 Montpellier France 06 32
99 51 46 https://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/ Philippe JARNE
<philippe.jarne@cefe.cnrs.fr >
ESEB
EqualOpportunitiesInitiativeFund
DeadlineMar31
** ESEB EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES INITIATIVE
FUND **
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology is
pleased to announce the open call for proposals for activ-
ities that increase knowledge and awareness of unequal
opportunities. Such proposals can include, but are not
limited to, short workshops (for instance, on unconscious
bias) and/or seminars (with invited speakers) at your
home organization, data collection, publication activities
and similar events. It must be clear from the proposal60 EvolDir March 1, 2022
how the activity will improve our knowledge and aware-
ness of inequalities, or how the activity will improve
equal opportunities directly, in the ESEB specically,
or Evolutionary Biology as a eld in general. There
are two calls per year, with the next upcoming dead-
line being the 31 Mar 2022. More information about
the Equal Opportunities (EO) Initiative is available
at https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/equal-opportunities-initiative-fund/ . *ELIGI-
BILITY*
- The main applicant must be ESEB member (to be-
come a member of ESEB, please visit https://eseb.org/-
society/eseb-membership/) - Applications can be sub-
mitted by scientists at any stage of a professional career
(e.g., undergraduate, Masters and PhD students, post-
docs, and lecturers). - Applicants must provide proof
of support of the host institution where the activity
should take place, if applicable (letter from head of
department) - Applicants must explain explicitly how
their activity will improve our knowledge, awareness
of unequal opportunities, or how the activity will im-
prove equal opportunities directly, in ESEB specically,
or Evolutionary Biology as a eld in general. - Appli-
cants must detail which group of people, and how many,
will benet from this activity (for instance, 50 under-
graduates, 10 graduate students, 15 faculty members)
- Budgets should be reasonable (usually not exceeding
1000 EUR, if more is required, please contact EO com-
mittee rst), and, if applicable, detail costs per person
(that benet from this event).
*HOW TO APPLY*
The application should be no more than 3 pages long
(excluding CV and support letter) and include: - Name
of the applicant(s), please indicate the main applicant
if appropriate. - A proposal of the activity - A justi-
cation of how the activity will improve our knowledge,
awareness of unequal opportunities, or how the activ-
ity will improve equal opportunities directly, in ESEB
specically, or Evolutionary Biology as a eld in general.
- Which group of people will benet (students, sta,
general public), and how many - A detailed, justied
budget (including cost per beneciary) - A time sched-
ule - A short summary to be published on the website
(100-150 words) - CVs of the applicants (1-2 pages) - A
letter of support of the host institution's head of the
department
Please submit the application as a single PDF-le by
email to Ute Friedrich (oce@eseb.org; Subject: EO
Fund) at the ESEB Oce at the ESEB Oce and take
care to limit the size of attachments (total <10 MB)
in any one email.
*Deadline 31 March 2022*Successful applications must hand in a report about
the activity, including details of how funds were spent,
within 3 months of the event.
Dr. Ute Friedrich jESEB Oce Manager European So-
ciety for Evolutionary Biology jwww.eseb.org ESEB
Oce <oce@eseb.org >
ESEB OutreachInitiativeFund
DeadlineMar15
**ESEB Outreach Initiative Fund**
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach Initiative
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. The goal of this initiative is to improve public
knowledge about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educational
initiatives that promote evolution, translation of evolu-
tionary material (books, lms, and websites) intended
for a general audience, public outreach seminars, public
exhibitions, etc.
There will be a single call per year with a total budget
of 20,000 Euro. A single project can be funded with up
to 4,000 Euro, but smaller projects are welcome. We
are requesting a report after one year, at which time
the project should be completed.
Please use the ESEB application form to submit your
proposal and note the word limits given herein. The
form can be downloaded at the ESEB website: https://-
eseb.org Proposals will be accepted until *15th MARCH
2022* and should be submitted by email to the ESEB
oce (Email: oce@eseb.org; Subject: Outreach 2022).
Note that we will acknowledge receipt of all applications
within a week. If you have not received our conrmation
by then, please contact the ESEB oce again!
Please note that scientic meetings are not supported
by ESEB Outreach Initiative funds. These fund also do
not work as a mechanism for continual funding. Once
the potential of a project has been demonstrated, this
should be used as a basis to convince other funding
sources on continuation funds. Hence, submissions by a
group that has been successful in past calls may be pe-
nalized if the proposals are mere follow-ups of previous
projects.
The applications will be evaluated by the Outreach
Initiative Committee:March 1, 2022 EvolDir 61
Josefa Gonz >1
2lez, Chair (ES) Delphine Sicard (FR)
Rhonda R. Snook (SE) Hildegard Uecker (DE) Karine
Van Doninck (BE)
{ Dr. Ute Friedrich - ESEB Oce - oce@eseb.org Eu-
ropean Society for Evolutionary Biology - www.eseb.org
ESEB Oce <oce@eseb.org >
Hemimetabolous Insect Survey
Dear Colleagues,
I'm writing to ask for your help in developing new
functional genetic tools to improve the study of
hemimetabolous insects.
I am planning to invest some of my lab's resources
towards this eort in the coming years, and I would
like to choose insects for study that will be of greatest
practical use to as many scientists as possible. To that
end, I would like to invite as many members of the
international entomological community as possible, to
provide their feedback and suggestions on which species
we should choose.
I have composed a short survey to gather this infor-
mation from anyone who would like to volunteer their
input:
https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/TRFVVLX I would
welcome your feedback and would also ask you to please
circulate the link to this survey to your network of in-
terested colleagues. If it would be less work for you, I
would also be happy to send it to suggested colleagues
directly, if you would prefer to send me their names and
contact emails.
Many thanks for your help, and for your leadership in
evo-devo.
Cassandra Extavour
Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical Institute Timken
Professor ofOrganismic and Evolutionary Biology andof
Molecular and Cellular Biology Harvard College Profes-
sor
http://www.extavourlab.com Harvard University 16
Divinity Avenue, BioLabs 2087 Cambridge, MA 02138,
USA Tel.1 617 496 1935 extavour@oeb.harvard.edu
Extavour Lab Administration: Esther Jules, Research
Coordinator Tel.1 617 496 2132 ejules@fas.harvard.edu
Dr. Evelyn Schwager, Lab Manager Tel. 1 617 496 1663
schwager@fas.harvard.eduEDEN: Evo-Devo-Eco Network http://-
www.edenrcn.com edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu
\Extavour, Cassandra" <extavour@oeb.harvard.edu >
Internship Austria UGlasgow
FieldworkVolunteers SpringSummer
Field assistant volunteers/interns needed - Field study
of the Eurasian common lizard
Research interns are needed to assist in an ongoing study
of reproductive modes of the Eurasian common lizard,
Zootoca vivipara. Z. vivipara is a small insectivorous
lizard with a broad palearctic distribution, with both
oviparous and viviparous lineages extant in its European
heartland.
We study the ecology, behaviour and evolution of this
fascinating species using a unique natural experiment
site based in southern Austria. The project is organ-
ised by a team of researchers based at the University of
Glasgow (UK) led by Professor Kathryn Elmer at the In-
stitute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Comparative
Medicine.
Internships will run from approximately late April to
late July/early August 2022.
Duties will include assisting in all aspects of eldwork at
the site, including but not limited to collection of wild
lizards by hand, recording and measurement, care and
husbandry, assisting with experiments, and contributing
to communal camping/ household tasks. Training will
be provided. There may also be opportunity for leading
or contributing to your own project within the team.
Fieldwork is physically demanding and will take place
outdoors in a remote rural location, with eldworkers
based at a commercial campsite for the duration. Interns
must be comfortable with living and working collabo-
ratively with others in a small group and long-term
camping; maintaining good relations with the team and
local community is essential.
All main expenses (food, camping/accommodation fees,
etc) and travel costs for arrival and departure will be
covered (up to ~400). More details available upon re-
quest. Interns must provide their own tent, bedding, and
outdoor clothing/personal equipment. We can welcome
team members from anywhere in the world!
Qualications: We are seeking interns with an inter-
est in herpetology, ecology and/or evolution and who62 EvolDir March 1, 2022
are very keen for gaining experience in the eld. Good
interpersonal and team working skills are essential, as
interns will be living and working with the eld team
in close quarters for an extended period. Additionally,
applicants must be physically able and willing to work
outdoors in challenging conditions (including inclement
weather and traversing steep or boggy terrain). Prior
experience of eldwork and/or working with lizards and
other herpetofauna is ideal, but not essential. We would
particularly welcome applicants who hold a full driver's
licence: please mention this on your application, if ap-
plicable, as well as any prior experience working with
lizards or other eldwork experience. Knowledge of/
uency in German would also be an asset. We partic-
ularly seek interns who can commit to the duration of
the entire eld season - please clarify your availability
in your application.
Applicants should send a cover letter (including aspects
noted above) and CV along with the names and email
addresses of two or more professional or academic refer-
ences to: Kathryn.Elmer@glasgow.ac.uk
Informal inquiries in advance of application are welcome.
Review of applications will begin 1 March and continue
until a team is assembled; we plan on completing the
decision by the end of March.
Kathryn Elmer <Kathryn.Elmer@glasgow.ac.uk >
Lapland FieldAssist SiberianJay
Expenses-paid eld assistant positions for a project in-
vestigating dispersal of Siberian jays in Swedish Lapland
For the upcoming eld season, Summer-Autumn 2022
(mid June-October; see below), we are looking for 3
highly motivated, expenses-paid eld volunteers to as-
sist with our eld project (principal investigator Dr.
Michael Griesser, University of Konstanz). The study
site is located near Arvidsjaur in Swedish Lapland. An
overview over our past work can be found here: https:/-
/www.youtube.com/watch?v=JaH6wjAYAiE We are
looking for 2 assistants for the whole period 15.6.-
31.10.2022, and 1 assistant from 15.6.-31.8.2022.
Our current project investigates the eect of social in-
teractions on the dispersal of Siberian jays. The work
of the eld volunteers will be to help with catching,
radio-tagging and colour-ringing birds, sampling blood,
conducting population censuses and behavioral obser-
vations, and managing data. This work will provideinsights into a long-term study system and will be car-
ried out in managed and pristine boreal forests.
Please note that daytime temperatures at the end of
the season can be as low as -15C. Fieldwork at times in-
volves walking up to 15km per day and can be physically
strenuous.
Qualications: 1) Field work experience, involving be-
havioural observations and experiments 2) Bird ringing
and mist-netting experience 3) Radio tagging and ra-
dio tracking experience is a plus 4) Ability to work in
small teams and sociable personality 5) Driver's license
(manual transmission) 6) Fluent in English 7) Highly
motivated
We will cover accommodation, travel expenses from and
to the study site (up to 340 euros return), as well as
on-site living expenses (food).
Applications, including a CV, letter of motivation (1
page), and the name of two referees, should be sent
to Michael Griesser michael.griesser@uni-konstanz.de,
preferably in a single PDF.
Applications received until 28 March 2022 will be given
full consideration.
{
Michael Griesser Heisenberg Fellow Department of Biol-
ogy University of Konstanz
Michael Griesser <michael.griesser@uni-konstanz.de >
LinneSys SystematicsResearchFund
Webinar
Webinar Linn >1
2Sys: Systematics Research Fund
Text:
The Systematics Association and Linnean Society will
hold a webinar on the Linn >1
2Sys: Systematics Research
Fund on Thursday 24th February at 3 pm GMT .
The joint fund of the Linnean Society and the Systemat-
ics Association, the Linn >1
2Sys: Systematics Research
Fund provides grants annually for small-scale research
and education projects in the eld of taxonomy and
systematics on any organism group from microscopic to
macroscopic past and present.
The webinar will outline the remit, eligibility criteria
and project application and answer all questions you
may have.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 63
Register using the link below:
https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZMrc-
mppj4vHtbRz2ug3s69DvVl-sj6YcMS Anne D. Jungblut
Grants and Awards Ocer
Systematics Association
Anne Jungblut <a.jungblut@nhm.ac.uk >Anne Jung-
blut<a.jungblut@nhm.ac.uk >
OmennPrize 000
BestEvolutionaryMedicineArticle
Nominate an article for the $5000 Omenn Prize for best
article on a topic related to evolution in the context of
medicine and public health.
Full information at https://isemph.org/Omenn-Prize
The$5000 Gilbert S. Omenn Prize is awarded by the In-
ternational Society for Evolution, Medicine, and Public
Health (http://isemph.org) for the best article published
in the previous calendar year on a topic related to evo-
lution in the context of medicine and public health.
Nominations are open until April 8, 2022 for the best
article in any peer-reviewed journal on a topic related to
evolution in the context of medicine and public health
with a nal publication date in 2021. The winning ar-
ticle will be announced May 1, 2022 and the prize will
be awarded to the rst author of the article who will
be invited to give a plenary talk at the 2022 ISEMPH
Annual Meeting July 5-9 in Lisbon, Portugal.
All peer-reviewed articles with a publication date of
2021 that use evolutionary principles to advance un-
derstanding of a disease or disease process are eligible.
The prize committee will give priority to articles with
implications for human health, but many basic science
or theoretical articles have such implications. Authors
are encouraged to nominate their own articles, but nom-
inations of articles by others are also welcome. Articles
by author's with close associations with members of the
prize committee are not eligible.
The prize is made possible by a generous donation by
Gilbert Omenn, M.D., PhD. Director of the Center for
Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics at the Uni-
versity of Michigan where he is a Professor of Internal
Medicine, Human Genetics, and Public Health. Dr.
Omenn served as Executive Vice President for Medi-
cal Aairs as Chief Executive Ocer of the University
of Michigan Health System from 1997-2002. He is apast president of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science and a member of the Institute of
Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
This year's prize committee is chaired by Caleb Finch.
Randolph Nesse <nesse@asu.edu >
PaidInternships 2
EvolutionaryGenetics
Two paid scientic internships in evolutionary and eco-
logical genetics
Nick Barton's group at the Institute of Sci-
ence and Technology (IST) Austria (https://-
bartongroup.pages.ist.ac.at/) is currently recruiting
two paid scientic interns to assist with a long-term
study of plant speciation in the common snapdragon,
Antirrhinum majus. The positions will begin in
early-mid May 2022, for a minimum of 6 months and
up to 12 months (open to discussion).
The project: We study evolutionary dynamics and spe-
ciation in snapdragons. The study, which has been
running since 2009, involves eldwork in natural hy-
brid zones between two subspecies with ower colour
dierences. The goal is to understand how dierent
evolutionary forces like natural selection have shaped
this diversity.
The positions: We are looking for people to help sup-
port the project by (i) participating in eldwork, (ii)
assisting with the daily management of eld volunteers,
and (iii) providing technical and scientic support after
the eldwork is complete. The internship will have 2
phases: for the rst 3 months (during the eld work),
the applicants will be based in the Spanish Pyrenees
near the town of Planoles; the second phase will be
based at the Institute of Science and Technology (IST)
Austria. All costs of the eldwork (travel, food, accom-
modation, covid testing, and insurance) are covered,
and aordable accommodation in Austria is available
through IST Austria (at the expense of the applicant).
Essential skills Applicants must be enthusiastic, hard-
working, and be comfortable working outdoors. Strong
communication skills, organization skills, and the ability
to live and work well with others are a must. A driving
license is essential.
Desirable skills Ideal applicants will have some eld-
work experience and have a strong interest in evolution,64 EvolDir March 1, 2022
ecology and/or speciation. Prior research experience,
including the curation and analysis of data, would be
helpful. The ability to speak Catalan and/or Spanish is
very useful. Applicants from Catalonia and Spain are
especially welcome.
How to apply Applicants should send a motivation
letter (addressing the skills mentioned above), CV
and the names two references to Sean Stankowski
(sean.stankowski@ist.ac.at). The review of applications
will start on the 10th of March and will remain open
until lled.
More information Questions about the positions can
be sent to the same address. More information
about scientic internships at IST can be found here:
https://phd.pages.ist.ac.at/scientic-internships/ Sean
STANKOWSKI <sean.stankowski@ist.ac.at >
RequestFeedback Hemimetabolous-
ModelSpeciesChoice
Dear Colleagues,
I'm writing to ask for your help in developing new
functional genetic tools to improve the study of
hemimetabolous insects.
I am planning to invest some of my lab's resources
towards this eort in the coming years, and I would
like to choose insects for study that will be of greatest
practical use to as many scientists as possible. To that
end, I would like to invite as many members of the
international entomological community as possible, to
provide their feedback and suggestions on which species
we should choose.
I have composed a short survey to gather this infor-
mation from anyone who would like to volunteer their
input:
https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/TRFVVLX
Hemimetabolous Insect Species Tool Development <
https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/TRFVVLX >Take
this survey powered by surveymonkey.com. Create your
own surveys for free. www.surveymonkey.com I would
welcome your feedback and would also ask you to please
circulate the link to this survey to your network of
interested colleagues. If it would be less work for you, I
would also be happy to send it to suggested colleagues
directly, if you would prefer to send me their names
and contact emails.Many thanks for your help, and for your leadership in
evo-devo.
Cassandra Extavour
Dr. Cassandra Extavour
Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator Timken
Professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology and
of Molecular and Cellular Biology Harvard College Pro-
fessor Harvard University
http://www.extavourlab.com 16 Divinity Avenue, Bio-
Labs 2087 Cambridge, MA 02138, USA
extavour@oeb.harvard.edu
Oce Tel. 1 617 496 1935 Lab Tel. 1 617 496 1949/1200
Fax. 1 617 496 9507
Extavour Lab Administration: Rosa Capellan Tel. 1
617 496 2132 rosacapellan@fas.harvard.edu
EDEN: Evo-Devo-Eco Network http://-
www.edenrcn.com edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu
\Extavour, Cassandra" <extavour@oeb.harvard.edu >
REU MultipleInst Thermoy
May30-Jul31
Summer Research Opportunity for Undergraduates in
Physiological Genetics and Evolution
We are currently accepting applications from undergrad-
uates who live or attend college in EPSCoR jurisdictions
(Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Delaware, Guam, Hawaii,
Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Mis-
sissippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire,
New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico,
Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Vermont,
Virgin Islands, West Virginia, or Wyoming) to partic-
ipate in a National Science Foundation-funded sum-
mer research program in genetic, physiological, and
evolutionary mechanisms of temperature tolerance in
Drosophila from May 30 - July 31, 2022. Students will
join a laboratory at one of our ve participating in-
stitutions, The University of Kentucky, University of
Vermont, Providence College, Salve Regina University,
or University of Nevada Las Vegas, and work in teams on
research projects that will include both eld and labora-
tory components as well as training in data analysis and
visualization. No prior research experience is required;
all you need is a year of college-level biology coursework,
enthusiasm for biology, and a desire to engage with theMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 65
exciting process of scientic discovery.
To nd out more and to apply, please visit thermoy.org
and ll out the online application form. Members of
traditionally under-represented groups in STEM are par-
ticularly encouraged to apply. We will begin reviewing
applications on March 1.
To nd out more about our laboratories, please visit:
Dr. Nicholas Teets, University of Kentucky: http:/-
/www.teetslab.com/ Dr. Seth Frietze, University of
Vermont: https://www.uvm.edu/cnhs/bhsc/proles/-
seth-frietze-phd Dr. Brent Lockwood, University
of Vermont: https://lockwoodlab.weebly.com/ Dr.
Sara Helms Cahan, University of Vermont: http://-
shelmscahan.github.io/ Dr. James Waters, Providence
College: https://www.lovetheants.org/lab/ Dr. Don-
ald Price, University of Nevada Las Vegas: https://-
www.unlv.edu/people/donald-price Dr. Sara Helms
Cahan She/her pronouns Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biology University of Vermont 109 Carrigan Dr.
Burlington, VT 05405 (802)656-2962 scahan@uvm.edu
Sara Cahan <scahan@uvm.edu >
sDiv Germany
FundingForSynthesisProjects
Dear all, (sorry for crossposting!)
I hope everyone is ne in these messy times!
sDiv, the synthesis centre of iDiv, the German Centre
for Integrative Biodiversity Research (www.idiv.de/sdiv)
has opened a new call for synthesis projects.
What? A call for Early Career Researcher Working
Groups(ECR) and Modular Synthesis Projects (Syn-
Flex)
When? Deadline for Pre-Proposals: 22nd March
What else? With this call, we want to specically en-
courage applications from researchers and topics from
regions that are often underrepresented in science (see
for more details the call website).
Where can I nd more about it? Please see for de-
tails www.idiv.de/sdiv/calls . Please distribute this call
widely into your networks & to relevant colleagues.
Feel free to ask my related questions.
Thanks a lot & stay healthy Cheers
sM(arten Winter) Head of sDivI'm sorry, if you receive this mail at weekends, in your
holidays or in non-oce hours. Of course I don't expect
you to answer immediately. Thanks for understanding!
IMPORTANT: I can't receive any old Windows Oce
le formats like doc or xls les for security reasons.
Head of sDiv - Synthesis Centre of iDiv
Homepage
https://www.idiv.de/groups andpeople/employees/-
details/eshow/winter marten.html Twitter
@sMarten Winter sDiv google scholar https:/-
/scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=-
YHlSZpUAAAAJ German Centre for Integrative
Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig
Puschstrae 4 04103 Leipzig Germany
iDiv is a research centre of the DFG - Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft
\Winter, Marten" <marten.winter@idiv.de >
Seminar ESEB STN Speciation Feb8
Dear colleagues,
The second session of the monthly online seminar se-
ries organised by the ESEB-funded STN network 
Integration Of Speciation research (for more info :
[ https://speciation-network.pages.ist.ac.at ] ) will be
held on Tuesday the 8th of February 2022, 9 am CET.
This second session, of a series of three addressing the
general topic of how to bridge the gap between micro-
and macro-evolution in speciation research, will focus
on how the study of adaptive radiations can help bridge
this gap.
We will welcome as speakers Renshe Onstein (Group
leader, German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search, Germany) who will talk about 'The role of
megafauna from macro- to microevolution during speci-
ation of tropical palms', and Ole Seehausen (Professor,
University of Bern and EAWAG, Switzerland) who will
talk about 'Confronting paleo-ecology, population ge-
nomics and phylogenomics in the study of cichlid sh
adaptive radiation'. The session will last 1.5 hours,
with the rst hour dedicated to the two talks and ques-
tions, and the last half-an-hour dedicated to a discussion
session.
To attend the session live, please follow the links below
:66 EvolDir March 1, 2022
webinar link : [ https://-
istaustria.zoom.us/j/63156080244?pwd=-
Z3hnQlRmbnVxeFlSUjB0RFlreEZjQT09 ] Passcode:
171060
discussion session link : [ https://-
istaustria.zoom.us/j/67025258005?pwd=-
ZHZHSzV0eWxtMEhJa0daamMzUnhuQT09 ] Meeting
ID: 670 2525 8005 Passcode: 846031
Talks (but not the discussion session) are recorded
and made available here [ https://www.youtube.com/-
channel/UClEkDdE 5sDw70SQq78DIAA ].
The IOS network does not only aim at scientic inte-
gration, but also integration of the community. A main
objective on this front is to foster diversity and inclu-
sion across the eld. The seminar series and subsequent
discussion is open to everyone, from students to estab-
lished researchers and non-scientists alike. In order to
maximise the geographic diversity of attendees, we will
alternate between two time slots every other month: 5
pm CET and 9 am CET. Please help us to circulate
this email to anyone who may be interested, especially
those in countries that are typically underrepresented
in scientic discourse.
The programme of the seminar series is announced by
email, on Twitter ( @Speciation net ) and on the IOS
network website. People who wish to receive automat-
ically the programme and other news from the IOS
network can sign up to the network mailing list from
the IOS website.
We hope to see many of you on Tuesday the 8th of
February, 9 am CET.
The STN IOS organising committee Jonna Kulmuni
(chair), Chris Cooney, Sean Stankowski, Carole Smadja
(co-chairs), Sonal Singhal, Liz Scordato, Joana Meier,
Richard Merrill, Konrad Lohse, Nick Barton and Roger
Butlin.
Dr. Carole Smadja Directrice de recherche CNRS -
CNRS Senior researcher Directrice adjointe de l'ISEM
- ISEM Deputy director carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr
T el : +33 (0)4 67 14 92 70
Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier - In-
stitute of Evolutionary Science of Montpellier (ISEM)
[ carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr ] [ tel:+33 (0)4 67 14
92 70 ] [ carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr ] [ https://isem-
evolution.fr/jhttps://isem-evolution.fr/ ] ISEM UMR
5554 cc065 Campus Triolet - Universit e de Montpellier -
34095 Montpellier Cedex 05
Carole Smadja <carole.smadja@umontpellier.fr >Snapdragon Fieldwork Volunteers
Fieldwork volunteers wanted: Help us study plant evo-
lution in the Spanish Pyrenees!
Nick Barton's group at the Institute of Sci-
ence and Technology (IST) Austria (https://-
bartongroup.pages.ist.ac.at/)is looking for volunteers to
assist with eldwork on plant speciation in the Spanish
Pyrenees this coming summer (late May - early August).
This is a great opportunity for anyone looking to obtain
experience in eldwork related to evolutionary biology,
speciation and plant ecology.
The project: We study evolutionary dynamics and spe-
ciation in snapdragons. The study, which has been
running since 2009, involves eldwork in natural hy-
brid zones between two subspecies with ower colour
dierences. The goal is to understand how dierent
evolutionary forces like natural selection have shaped
this diversity.
The eldwork: We are seeking volunteers to assist with
the eldwork, which involves working in teams to map
locations of individual plants (GPS) (the plants are pri-
marily found on the roadsides), tag and sample them for
leaves and owers, measure traits, and process material
for later DNA extraction. There may also be oppor-
tunities to be involved in other projects focusing on
pollinator behaviour and plant-insect interactions. The
work is outdoors as well as indoors - about one-third of
the of time will be spent indoors curating leaf samples
and organizing and preparing sampling equipment. The
work is highly team orientated, typically in groups of
2-3 in the eld and larger groups processing samples
back at the research station. Since we aim to sample
all living individuals in the hybrid zone during the ow-
ering season, the daily workload can vary signicantly.
At peak season, we are often very busy and our daily
routines change accordingly.
The location: The eld site is near Planoles in a beautiful
part of the Pyrenees in North Eastern Spain (Catalo-
nia). We stay in comfortable apartments overlooking a
picturesque valley, with close access to hiking trails and
small villages.
The ideal applicant: is an enthusiastic, hardworking bi-
ology student with strong interest in working outdoors.
You must be meticulous with recording data and also be
comfortable working as part of a team. Experience withMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 67
eld-based projects and plants is helpful but not essen-
tial. Climbing experience is useful as a small amount
work is conducted on ropes. We are looking for volun-
teers between the 29th May and the 1st of August. We
ask people to commit to stay for 3 weeks. Applicants
must be located in Europe or the UK.
What we cover: All food, lodgings, Covid testing and
travel within Europe/UK are covered.
How to apply? By the closing date of March 20th please
send (i) your CV, (ii) a short explanation about why you
are interested, and (iii) your availability between the
above dates to eldvolunteer2022@gmail.com. Please
send any questions to the same address.
For eldwork photos and more information, please
visit the Barton Group eld work page: https:/-
/bartongroup.pages.ist.ac.at/eldwork-2022/ Sean
STANKOWSKI <sean.stankowski@ist.ac.at >
SSE SmallGrantsProgram
ForOutreach
The Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE) is pleased
to announce the call for proposals for the Small Grants
Program for Local and Regional Outreach Promoting
the Understanding of Evolutionary Biology.
This program provides up to $1,000 USD in funding
for local and regional outreach activities, including but
not limited to public lectures, exhibits, student competi-
tions, and professional development events for teachers.
Proposals are due March 6, 2022.
Learn more about how to apply on the SSE website:
https://bit.ly/SSE-Outreach-Grants {
*Kati Moore*she/her *Communications Man-
ager* *Society for the Study of Evolu-
tion* communications@evolutionsociety.org
www.evolutionsociety.org SSE Communications
<communications@evolutionsociety.org >SystematicsResearchFund
CallNowOpen
A joint fund of the Linnean Society of London (https:/-
/www.linnean.org/) and the Systematics Association
(https://systass.org/), the Linn >1
2Sys: Systematics Re-
search Fund provides grants annually in the value of
up to  >1
21,500 for small-scale research and education
projects in the eld of taxonomy and systematics on
any organism group from microscopic to macroscopic,
past and present.
It is eligible to request funding towards eldwork expen-
diture, laboratory consumables, purchase of scientic
equipment, time on analytical equipment and services
for preparation of specimens, and cover of sequencing
costs. It is possible to request funding towards publica-
tion of books, monographs and eld guides.
Projects involving education, training courses or citizen
science activities are eligible if they focus on taxonomy
and systematics. Applications for education activities
or training courses must include the target audience/s,
approximate number of participants and anticipated
learning outputs. Citizen science applications must de-
scribe how the project team will be working together
and/or co-design with the public, as well as listing the
desired outcomes.
An applicant must be a current member of the System-
atics Association or Linnean Society of London. More
information on eligibility guidelines provided on the
application form: https://systass.org/4112-2/ Ques-
tions concerning the Linn >1
2Sys awards can be sent to
LinneSys@systass.org
Deadline: 14 March 2022
Many thanks
Anne
Grants and Awards Ocer
Systematics Association
Anne Jungblut <a.jungblut@nhm.ac.uk >68 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Trinidad ResearchInternships
*Research Internships - Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy*
Research interns are needed to assist in a multi-
disciplinary, multi-investigator, experimental study of
the evolution of species interactions in Trinidad, West
Indies. The research is led by Professors David Reznick
(University of California, Riverside), Joseph Travis
(Florida State University), Tim Coulson (University
of Oxford), and Ron Bassar (Williams College).||We
seek to integrate multiple biological elds for the study
of these interactions in experimental populations of gup-
pies and killish in Trinidad. Duties include assisting
in monthly censuses of guppy populations in montane
streams. The monthly censuses include long hours in
the eld and laboratory.||There will also be 12 days
o between each census when interns can pursue an
independent project.
Interns will be required to spend a minimum of 3-months
in Trinidad, with possibility of extension. There are
potential start dates in March 2022 and every month
thereafter until September 2024. We will cover all|
travel and living expenses and provide housing.
*Qualications:* We seek interns who are entertaining
the possibility of pursuing graduate studies in some
area of ecology and evolution and who wish to gain
some additional eld research experience before doing
so.||Research will take place in semi-remote areas
of Trinidad sometimes under bad weather conditions.
Applicants must be able to live and work well with oth-
ers. Research will involve carrying heavy packs over
slippery and steep terrain. Applicants must be in good
physical condition and be able to meet the demands of
eld research under these conditions. Ability to drive
a standard transmission vehicle is desirable but not
required. Applicants with rst-aid/rst responder train-
ing, skills in automobile maintenance, and construction
skills are highly desirable. Please address these skills
when applying.
Please see our website <
www.theguppyproject.weebly.com >for more in-
formation on the project and access to reprints.Be sure
to check out our video menu, which includes a \guppy
censuses" as submenu VII.It details the main tasks
associated with the internship.Applicants should send cover letter, CV and the names
and e-mail addresses of three or more professional refer-
ences to David Reznick (gupy@ucr.edu). At least two
of the references should be academics.
**
{ Ron Bassar Assistant Professor Department of Biology
Williams College 59 Lab Campus Drive Williamstown,
MA 01267 Phone: 413-597-2119 College Web-
page:https://biology.williams.edu/prole/rdb4/ Per-
sonal Webpage:www.ron-bassar.squarespace.com The
Guppy Project:www.theguppyproject.weebly.com
UndergraduateDiversity at
EvolutionProgram
Undergraduate Diversity at Evolution Program
The Undergraduate Diversity at Evolution (UDE) pro-
gram sends undergraduate students to the annual Evo-
lution meeting <https://www.evolutionmeetings.org/
>, where they will present a poster; receive mentoring
from graduate students, postdocs, and faculty; and
participate in a career-oriented 'Undergraduate Futures
in Evolutionary Biology' panel and discussion. The
in-person portion of this year's Evolution meeting will
be held June 24-28 in Cleveland, Ohio, USA: https:/-
/www.evolutionmeetings.org/ The UDE program is
funded by the Society for the Study of Evolution and
the BEACON Center for Evolution in Action. Appli-
cations are due Sunday, March 27. Learn more and
apply here: https://www.evolutionsociety.org/-
content/education/undergraduate-diversity-at-
evolution.html *Kati Moore*she/her *Commu-
nications Manager* *Society for the Study of
Evolution* communications@evolutionsociety.org
www.evolutionsociety.org SSE Communications
<communications@evolutionsociety.org >
WebinarSeries
PopulationGeneticsVienna
Dear colleagues,
The Vienna Graduate School of Population GeneticsMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 69
runs an internationally recognized seminar series fea-
turing weekly talks by leading experts in population
genetics. We invite interested listeners to join our webi-
nars during the upcoming Summer term (Tuesdays at
17:00 CET/CEST).
Sign up here to receive webinar announcements and
zoom links: https://forms.gle/89roNpvVJdKH8som9
Upcoming webinars:
01.03. Peter Michael Roth (Vetmeduni Vienna, AT):
tba
08.03. Guillaume Achaz (Mus eum national d'Histoire
naturelle, FR): What process(es) cause(s) genetic diver-
sity?
15.03. Ed Buckler (Cornell Univ., US): Tackling maize's
contributions to climate change by learning from all
plant genomic diversity.
22.03. Michael Nachman (Univ. of California, Berkeley,
US): The genomic basis of environmental adaptation in
house mice.
29.03. Filip Wierzbicki (Vetmeduni Vienna, AT): Evo-
lution of piRNA clusters and their role in the silencing
of transposable elements.
19.04. Alberto Civetta (Univ. of Winnipeg, CA): The
evolution of reproductive genes, selection and reproduc-
tive isolation in Drosophila.
26.04. Sara Mathieson (Haverford College, US): Auto-
matic evolutionary inference using Generative Adversar-
ial Networks.
03.05. Joshua L. Payne (ETH Zurich, CH): Mutation
bias and adaptive evolution.
17.05. Jesse Lasky (Penn State Univ., US): The ge-
netics of local adaptation: spatial statistics and crop
applications.24.05. Carina Farah Mugal (Uppsala Univ., SE): Diu-
sion models in molecular evolution - theory and appli-
cations.
31.05. Arvid ~Agren (Uppsala Univ., SE): The gene's-eye
view of evolution.
07.06. Hannes Svardal (Univ. of Antwerp, BE): The
mysterious role(s) of large chromosomal inversions in a
cichlid sh adaptive radiation.
14.06. Tamar Friedlander (Hebrew Univ. of Jerusalem,
IL): tba
21.06. Rahul Pisupati (Gregor Mendel Inst. of Molec-
ular Plant Biology, AT): Genetic basis for Epimuta-
tion rate variation within natural lines of Arabidopsis
thaliana.
28.06. Carol Eunmi Lee (Univ. of Wisconsin, US &
Univ. de Montpellier, FR): Rapid genome-wide parallel
evolutionary responses to environmental change.
All webinars organised by the Vienna Gradu-
ate School of Population Genetics are available
on our website https://www.popgen-vienna.at/news/-
seminars/ Most talks are recorded and can be
found on youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UCAdGx2zyQNyVti9Cr1muhUg { Dr. Julia Hosp
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics Coordi-
nator
www.popgen-vienna.at https://twitter.com/-
PopGenViennaPhD c/o Institut f ur Mathematik,
Universit at Wien & Institut f ur Populationsgenetik,
Veterin armedizinische Universit at Wien
Skype: julia.hosp T +43 1 25077 4302 (currently un-
available)
Julia Hosp <Julia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at >
PostDocs
AcademiaSinica Taiwan MarineEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . .70
ArizonaGenomicsInst RiceGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . 71
BielefeldU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
BielefeldU FurSealGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
ClemsonU FacialEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
ColoradoStateU ClimateAdaptiveAlleles . . . . . . . . . . . 74ColoradoStateU ResScientist AirborneMicrobes . . . .75
CRG Barcelona ModelingSequenceEvolution . . . . . . .75
DanishTechU ComputationalPopulationGenetics . . 76
DeakinU MarineEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
DukeU SpeciationConservationGenomics Madagascar
7770 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Eawag ETHZurich EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . 78
GlobeInstUCopenhagen AirborneEnvironmentalDNA
79
Hilo Hawaii EntomologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
Hungary InvasiveMosquitoeEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . 80
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
IndianaU MicrobeMediatedAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Jena Germany 3 EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Krakow EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
LeibnizInstBiodiversity Metabarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
LousianaStateU PlantPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
LundU LandscapeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
MaxPlanck Cologne Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
NHGRI-NIH Bethesda BioinformaticsComparativeGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
NorthCarolinaStateU PlantEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . 87
NorthCarolinaStateU ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
NortheasternU Boston CoralGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
OregonStateU GenomicsEpigenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Poitiers France TickBacteriaSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
QueenMaryU London EvolutionSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . 91
QueensU Canada MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
RockefellerU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
SGN Frankfurt WildlidfeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UArkansas EvolutionaryBehavioralGenomics Deadline-
Ext . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UCalifornia Irvine TransposableElementEvol . . . . . . 95UCambridge EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UCL London 3 GenomicsSexualAntagonism . . . . . . . 96
UEdinburgh EvolutionaryMicrobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UExeter EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UFlorida DoliolidEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UGoettingen ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UKiel ComputationMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ULB Belgium ViralLandscapePhylogeography . . . . . 99
UMainz EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
UMainz EvolutionarySingleCellGenomics . . . . . . . . .100
UManitoba PolarBearPopulationVulnerability . . . . 101
UNewSouthWales Sydney EvolutionaryPsychology 102
UniGE Italy ModellingVegetationDynamics . . . . . . 103
UOxford StatisticalGeneticsInfectiousDisease . . . . . 104
UPadua EvolutionDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UPittsburgh SpeciesInteractionsEvolution . . . . . . . . 105
UppsalaU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106
UppsalaU EvolutionOfHostAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UppsalaU SexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
USaoPaulo Macroevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
USouthCarolina Aiken PopulationGenomics . . . . . . 109
UTenneesse MossAdaptations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UVictoria BritishColumbia SelshXChromosome-
Drosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UWisconsin Milwaukee KelpGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . .110
YaleU ConservationBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
AcademiaSinica Taiwan
MarineEvoDevo
Post-doctoral position on Marine Eco-Evo-Devo with
Prof. Vincent Laudet at Yilan Marine Research Station
The Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology (ICOB;
http://icob.sinica.edu.tw) is one of the research insti-
tutes of Academia Sinica in Taiwan. Researchers at
ICOB investigate the basic mechanisms underlying cel-
lular functions and cell-cell interactions that coordinate
the growth and development of an organism and its
adaptation to an ever-changing environment. Current
research at ICOB comprises four focus areas: (1) Cel-
lular dysfunction, (2) Eco-Evo-Devo, (3) Neuroscience,
and (4) Stem cell and regenerative biology.
Prof. Vincent Laudet Marine Eco-Evo-Devo group uses
coral reef shes, and in particular anemonesh, to better
understand the role of hormones in life history transi-
tion, and specically metamorphosis. Prof. Vincent
Laudet???s lab is jointly supported by Academia Sinicaand Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (OIST)
in Japan (https://groups.oist.jp/meedu).
Position summary: We seek for a highly motivated
post-doctoral fellow to join the Marine Eco-Evo-Devo
laboratory of Prof. Vincent Laudet at Yilan Marine Re-
search Station in Taiwan. The post-doc will participate
to a collaborative project between 4 research teams at
ICOB that aim to study metamorphosis of 5 marine
organisms that occupy key phylogenetic positions and
exhibit dierent life history strategies: a teleost sh, a
cephalochordate, a hemichordate, an echinoderm, and
an annelid worm. Transcriptomic proling of key organs
and hormone analysis of several developmental stages
of all 5 species will be investigated and compared to
each other. The post-doc will be responsible for the
sh part, using clownsh as a model system. She/He
will determine if similar transformations of organs oc-
cur in terms of cellular processes, with a focus on the
intestine (key organ facing changes during metamorpho-
sis). By examining transcriptomic regulation during
metamorphosis at both organismic and single-cell level,
she/he will search for shared regulatory mechanisms
among these distantly related animal models. Lastly,
she/he will perform functional analysis (such as pharma-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 71
cological treatment, CRISPR/cas9???) to test whether
these shared regulatory mechanisms are essential for
metamorphosis. This position will imply interactions
with dynamic international research groups that aim to
published in high impact journals. Working Location:
Marine Research Station ??? ICOB - 23-10, Dah-Uen
Rd, Jiau Shi, YLan 262 Taiwan
Qualications: (Required) 1. PhD in Developmental
Biology, Cellular Biology or Evolutionary Biology (or
related topics). 2. Knowledge of basic techniques in
developmental biology techniques and molecular biol-
ogy. 3. Previous experience working with experimental
model organisms. 4. Prociency in oral and written
English. 5. Ability to collaborate, share results and
communicate with scientists from other elds.
(Preferred) 1. Experience working with sh model or-
ganisms. 2. Experience working with transcriptomic
data. 3. Good knowledge in endocrinology.
Starting Date: Spring 2022
Salary: Salarystart fromNT58,858.
How to Apply: Apply by emailing your Submission Doc-
uments to: vincent.laudet [at] oist.jp (Please replace
[at] with @ before using this email address)
Submission Documents:
Cover letter summarising research interests, professional
experience, and career goals. Curriculum vitae. Name
and contact information of 3 referees, one of which
should be a previous employer.
Pr. Vincent Laudet ?????? ?????? Marine Eco-Evo-
Devo Unit Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology
(OIST) 1919-1 Tancha, Onna-son,
Okinawa, 904-0495 Japan
Joint Distinguished Research Fellow Marine Research
Station Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology
(ICOB) Academia Sinica 23-10, Dah-Uen Rd, Jiau Shi,
I-Lan 262 Ta??wan
Tel: +81-(0)98-982-3512 Mobile (Japan):+81-(0)80-
9852-0005 Mobile (France): +33-(0)6-16-41-73-34 E-
mail: vincent.laudet@oist.jp https://groups.oist.jp/-
meedu http://icob.sinica.edu.tw/lab.php?idQ Vincent
Laudet <VINCENT.LAUDET@OIST.JP >ArizonaGenomicsInst
RiceGenomeEvolution
The Arizona Genomics Institute (https://-
www.genome.arizona.edu/) is seeking a highly
motivated candidate for an NSF-BBSRC funded, full-
or part-time Postdoctoral Research Associate I position.
The successful candidate will be part of a multi-
institutional team of researchers aiming at establishing
a pan-genome study of (initially) the cultivated Asian
rice (Oryza sativa). The project of this opening revolves
around identifying of repeated sequences, transposable
elements, and non-coding RNAs in fully assembled rice
genomes and subsequently conducting genome biology
and evolutionary analyses. Ultimately, the ndings will
be tied to the other main research themes of the pan-
genome project (e.g. protein-coding genes, comparative
genomics). The position is available immediately, appli-
cations will be reviewed until the position is lled.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATION: PhD in biology, genet-
ics, informatics, bioinformatics, or related elds upon
hire.
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Lead an independent research project, though still in
close collaboration with the PI and collaborating groups.
Develop autonomously supplementary research lines and
hypotheses, as well as methods of data analysis and in-
terpretation.
Supervise and train younger researchers and contribute
to an overall productive scientic environment.
Maintain detailed records and disseminate research nd-
ings in meetings and as manuscripts in scientic journals.
Additional duties may be assigned.
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES:
Knowledge of plant biology and plant genomics; Compu-
tational prociency (e.g., R, Python, or other languages);
Excellent written and oral communication skills.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Thorough understanding of DNA sequencing technolo-
gies, genome assembly, and annotation.
Previous experience in DNA sequence evolutionary anal-
yses.72 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Previous experience in transposable elements and non-
coding RNA biology.
Familiarity with high-performance computing clusters
and cloud computing.
Previous track record of generating reproducible and
sharable data.
For additional information, please contact Dario Copetti
at dcopetti@email.arizona.edu.
Applications should include a CV and a cover let-
ter and be submitted through this link: https:/-
/arizona.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/4/home/-
requisition/7554?c=arizona Dario Copetti, PhD
Associate Director Arizona Genomics Institute BIO5 -
Keating Bldg. - Rm. 229 The University of Arizona
www.genome.arizona.edu \Copetti, Dario - (dcopetti)"
<dcopetti@cals.arizona.edu >
BielefeldU EvolutionaryGenetics
A 12-months grant-writing fellowship opportunity in
the eld of evolutionary genetics is available at Bielefeld
University for Early career Postdocs ( <5yrs since PhD,
PhD thesis needs to be submitted)
The young researchers fund of Bielefeld University (Ger-
many) supports the preparation of grant applications
with an up to 12-months fellowship. Possible grant
schemes may include German (e.g. DFG, Heisenberg,..
), EU or International grants that will be submitted
with Bielefeld University as the host institution.
Deadline for this 12 month fellowship is mid-March and
earliest start date is 1st of July, but interested candidates
should contact me (toni.gossmann@uni-bielefeld.de) as
soon as possible. Please send a motivation letter (ap-
prox one A4) that includes your research interests and
potential grant scheme(s) that you would like to apply
for along with your CV. This scheme is open to any
nationality.
Funding details of the grant preparative fellowship: In
brief, this includes a generous stipend plus possible
research and travel expenses to prepare the grant ap-
plication. No other funding should be available to the
applicant during the funding period.
\Career bridge Doctorate- Postdoc"
Funding (max 26 000 EUR)
In order to nance the costs of living, young academicswithout employment/scholarships can apply for a post-
doctoral scholarship (monthly amount 2,000 euro ) for a
period of up to 12 months. Additionally, a child benet
supplement of euro 250 per child will be paid. Addi-
tionally consumables (for exand travel money can be
requested.
Career bridge Doctorate - Postdoc aims at support-
ing the application for third party funding of your cor-
responding existing position or group of junior scien-
tists and therefore, in order to prepare your application
forthird-party funding, you can also apply for research
aid and measures for the promotion of mobility alongside
the scholarship.
Selection criteria
Candidates will be selected by the University based on
following criteria:
- Scientic qualication of the applicant in relation to
age of qualication, disciplinary culture and per- sonal
circumstances (amongst others consideration of parental
leave, caregiver leave, handicaps, etc.) -Previous pub-
lications -Previous participation in scientic exchange
(for example lectures, posters) -Outstanding academic
achievements; for example scholarships and awards in
preceding academic career -Final grade and length of
doctorate studies -Quality of the application and com-
prehensibility of the project description. -Contribution
of the applied measures in the support of scientic pro-
ling and achievement of career goals of the applicant
-Feasibility of the described project. In addition, with
measures b) and c), the expected chances of success
of the applied measure in relation to the objective set
-Scientic independence of the applicant but also su-
cient institutional integration of the applicant within
the working group/faculty/institute.
Prof Toni Gossmann
Evolutionary Genetics (Animal Behaviour) Bielefeld
University Morgenbreede 45 D-33615 Bielefeld Fon:
+49/(0)521/106 2734 Fax: +49/(0)521/106 6426
Email:toni.gossmann@uni-bielefeld.de
Toni Gossmann <toni.gossmann@uni-bielefeld.de >
BielefeldU FurSealGenomics
4-year postdoc position: Genomics and epigenetics of
fur seals
With Dr Joe Homan (Bielefeld University, Germany),March 1, 2022 EvolDir 73
Prof. Toni Gossmann (Bielefeld University, Germany),
Dr Jaume Forcada (British Antarctic Survey, UK) and
Prof. Kees van Oers (Netherlands Institute for Ecology).
An outstanding opportunity is available for a post-
doctoral researcher to work on the evolutionary and
ecological genomics and epigenetics of fur seals. The
postdoc will be jointly supervised by Joe Homan
(www.thehomanlab.com) and Toni Gossman (tgoss-
mann.github.io), and will be based in the Department
of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld University. The post-
doc is funded from now until the end of 2025 and is
funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG)
within the collaborative research centre (SFB/TRR 212)
entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across
Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche
Conformance, Niche Construction (NC3).
The project: The postdoc will exploit and continue to
build upon an exceptionally detailed long-term study
of Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus gazella) at Bird
Island, South Georgia. Here, local environmental warm-
ing and the loss of sea ice have progressively reduced
the availability of Antarctic krill, the fur seal's staple
diet. The aim of this project (sub-project A01 of the col-
laborative research centre) is to investigate how genetic
and epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation
mediate short-term responses to environmental varia-
tion and facilitate long-term responses to environmental
change. We will combine the latest cutting-edge 'omics'
approaches, including high density SNP arrays and bisul-
phite sequencing, with detailed life-history data from
~800 individuals spanning a time series from the mid
1980s to the current day. This project will generate
detailed insights into the (epi-)genetic basis of tness
variation in a wild vertebrate, with implications for un-
derstanding ecological and evolutionary dynamics as
well as adaptation to climate change.
The applicant: We seek a bright and highly motivated
postdoc with a strong PhD in a relevant topic (e.g.
population or conservation genomics, ecological epige-
netics, marine biology). A deep understanding as well
as practical experience of working with high-throughput
sequencing data (e.g.DNA methylation, RAD sequenc-
ing, SNP array or whole-genome resequencing data)
is highly desirable, as is prociency in writing custom
scripts and working in Unix and R. Experience of quan-
tifying inbreeding from molecular data and / or working
with large-scale, long-term datasets from wild popula-
tions would be a bonus. The ideal candidate will also
be able to work both independently and as part of a
team. A high standard of spoken and written English
is required and a proven track record of publishing in
high quality international peer-reviewed journals would
be advantageous.The working environment: The postdoc will be based
at the Department of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld
University (https://www.uni-bielefeld.de/fakultaeten/-
biologie/forschung/arbeitsgruppen/behaviour). The de-
partment is the oldest of its kind in Germany and cur-
rently hosts around six principal investigators, ten post-
docs and twenty PhD students. It oers a stimulating
international environment and an excellent research in-
frastructure including modern, well equipped molecular
laboratories. The working language of the Department
is English. The postdoc will also have the opportu-
nity to interact closely with Dr. Jaume Forcada at the
British Antarctic Survey in Cambridge and Prof. Kees
van Oers at the Netherlands Institute for Ecology.
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attractive
internal and external training and further training pro-
grammes. Employees have the opportunity to use a va-
riety of health, counselling and prevention programmes.
Bielefeld University places great importance on a work-
family balance for all its employees. Bielefeld is a city of
325,000 inhabitants with an attractive historical centre
and easy access to the Teutoberger Wald for hiking and
other outdoor pursuits. It oers a very high standard
of living and is well connected to most major European
cities.
The collaborative research centre: The postdoc will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ClemsonU FacialEvoDevo
The Powder lab in the Department of Biological Sciences
at Clemson University is seeking a motivated postdoc-
toral fellow to work on the evolution of transcriptional74 EvolDir March 1, 2022
enhancers in facial development. This project aims to
understand the functional and morphological impact of
genetic variation in *cis-*regulation. Supported by an
NSF-CAREER grant, this work will utilize ATAC-seq,
RNA-seq, *in vivo* reporter assays, and CRISPR/cas9-
mediated embryological manipulations to identify and
assess how non-coding variation underlies facial devel-
opment and evolution using cichlid shes and zebrash.
Support is for at least two years with potential for
renewal beginning as early as 1 April 2022, or at a
mutually-agreed upon date.
Clemson University is located in the beautiful upstate
area of South Carolina, with proximity to mountains,
lakes, and larger urban areas. The university hosts
excellent facilities to conduct the advertised research.
We have access to AALAC-accredited animal facilities,
the Clemson Light Imaging Facility, and the Clemson
University Genomics and Bioinformatics Facility, all
of which oer excellent training to assist planned re-
search. The PI is committed to providing mentorship
that facilitates diverse career options going forward.
*Qualications:*
Applicants should have a PhD in evolution, genetics,
development, bioinformatics, or a related eld; peer-
reviewed publications; and enthusiasm and drive to
progress specied research.
Preference will be given to candidates with demon-
strated experience with enhancer analysis, craniofacial
development, and/or zebrash embryology.
Strong candidates will also be creative and independent
thinkers, have eective oral and written communication
skills, and possess the ability to collaborate with and
mentor a diversity of colleagues including graduate and
undergraduate students.
*Application Instructions:*
Applicants must submit the following: (1) cover letter,
(2) a curriculum vitae, (3) a description of relevant re-
search experience and motivation/interest in the current
position (1 page maximum), and (4) contact information
(including telephone numbers and e-mail addresses) for
three professional references.
All application materials must be submitted online at
https://apply.interfolio.com/102315. Review of appli-
cations will begin 1 Mar 2022 and continue until the
position is lled.
Questions regarding the search and position may be sent
to Kara Powder ( kpowder@clemson.edu).
*Kara E. Powder (she/her) j** Assistant Professor
of Biological Sciences jClemson University* *864-
656-3196j**karapowder.wordpress.com <http://-karapowder.wordpress.com/ >j**055A LSFj190
Collings St.jClemson, SC 29634-0314 *
Kara Powder <kpowder@clemson.edu >
ColoradoStateU
ClimateAdaptiveAlleles
Use your evolutionary genetics expertise for climate-
adaptive agriculture!
The Crop Adaptation Lab at Colorado State University
is recruiting three postdocs to identify and elucidate
climate-adaptive alleles in a global food security crop.
The postdocs will conduct collaborative hypothesis-
driven research to identify natural variants that improve
adaptation of sorghum to drought, striga and other
climate-related stressors. Sorghum is a staple food and
forage crop for smallholder farmers around the world
and a model system for understanding plant genomic
diversity (Morris et al. 2013 PNAS, Lasky et al. 2015
Science Advances, Bouchet et al. 2017 Genetics, Muleta
et al. 2022 Science Advances). The knowledge we gain
on climate-adaptive alleles will be used to accelerate
climate adaptation of sorghum in Africa. Enjoy a com-
petitive salary (5 years funding) and great quality of
life on the front range of the Rocky Mountains.
1) Postdoctoral Fellow - Plant Genomics & Bioinformat-
ics https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/97403 2) Post-
doctoral Fellow - Plant Stress Physiology & Genetics
https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/97404 3) Postdoc-
toral Fellow - Molecular Breeding & Germplasm De-
velopment https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/97341
The rst position would be a great t for someone with
expertise in evolutionary or ecological genomics, bioin-
formatics, molecular evolution, or similar elds. The
second position would be a great t for someone with
expertise in evolutionary or ecological genetics, plant
physiology, quantitative genetics, plant ecology, or sim-
ilar elds. The third position requires applied plant
breeding & genetics experience.
Feel free to email me if you have any questions about
the positions or the lab!
Best, Geo
Geo Morris Associate Professor, Crop Quanti-
tative Genomics Colorado State University, Soil
& Crop Sciences Plant Sciences Building, Fort
Collins CO Geo.Morris@colostate.edu j312-909-1330
www.cropadaptation.org jwww.gohy.orgMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 75
\Morris,Georey" <Geo.Morris@colostate.edu >
ColoradoStateU ResScientist
AirborneMicrobes
Hello,
Colorado State University's One Health Institute seeks
to recruit a highly motivated Research Scientist to work
on an NSF Biology Integration Institute project, den-
ing the composition, function, and evolution of microbes
in the air-the 'aerobiome'. This exciting project is based
in the One Health Institute at Colorado State University
and includes faculty from Departments of Agricultural
Biology, Atmospheric Sciences, Biology, Biomedical Sci-
ence, Chemical and Biological Engineering, Environ-
mental and Radiological Health Sciences, Mechanical
Engineering, Microbiology Immunology and Pathology,
Sociology, Soil and Crop Sciences at CSU, and faculty
at other regional and international locations. Collab-
orations in research and education among faculty and
sta at CSU and elsewhere will be facilitated by project
management provided by the successful candidate. We
seek an experienced post-graduate candidate with both
research competency and interest in developing skills in
project management, including assisting with technical
and reporting aspects of this complex program.
https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/99181 Thank you,
Jessica Hunter Business Operations & Research Admin-
istration Ocer One Health Institute Oce of the Vice
President for Research Colorado State University (970)
491-8701
Jessica.hunter@colostate.edu
\Hunter,Jessica" <Jessica.Hunter@colostate.edu >
CRG Barcelona
ModelingSequenceEvolution
Postdoc position at the Centre for Genomic Regulation
(CRG), Barcelona, Spain
The Evolutionary Processes Modeling group at the Cen-
tre for Genomic Regulation invites applications for a
postdoc position to study genetic variation and selectionin human genomes using computational data analysis,
population genetics and statistical methods.
https://recruitment.crg.eu/content/jobs/position/-
postdoctoral-researcher-group-evolutionary-processes-
modeling%E2%80%99 Deadline: 15 March 2022.
The Institute
The Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG) is an in-
ternational research institute of excellence, based in
Barcelona, Spain, with more than 400 scientists from
44 countries. The CRG is composed of an interdisci-
plinary, motivated and creative scientic team which is
supported both by a exible and ecient administration
and by high-end and innovative technologies.
In November 2013, the Centre for Genomic Regulation
(CRG) received the 'HR Excellence in Research' Award
from the European Commission. This is in recogni-
tion of the Institute's commitment to developing an HR
Strategy for Researchers, designed to bring the practices
and procedures in line with the principles of the Euro-
pean Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct
for the Recruitment of Researchers (Charter and Code).
The Role
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher to join
the \Evolutionary Processes Modeling" group. We use
computational analysis of sequencing data together with
population genetics predictions and statistical modeling
to answer questions about mutational processes and
selective pressures in cancer cells and in the human pop-
ulation. The ideal candidate should be highly motivated
and eager to work on evolutionary and biological prob-
lems through the use and development of computational
and statistical approaches.
About the Group
Cancer is a genetic disease, subject to population genet-
ics forces like mutation, selection and stochasticity. Our
group is particularly interested in how the evolution and
survival of cancer cell populations relies on mutation
inux as well as in selection inference from observed
mutation data. To this end, we develop mathemati-
cal and computational approaches to estimate muta-
tion rates and selection. Coding sequences of cancer
tumors not only exhibit positively selected mutations
that drive cancer (www.nature.com/articles/s41588-019-
0572-y), but there also can exist a small fraction of genes
that the tumor cannot aord to lose (www.nature.com/-
articles/ng.3987). In addition to genes, cancer driver
loci can occur in the non-coding part of the genome
(www.nature.com/articles/s41467-017-00100-x). Esti-
mates of the strength of selection in cancer allow for a
prioritization of genes and non-coding regions by their76 EvolDir March 1, 2022
disease relevance, with the ultimate goal of promoting
therapeutic advances.
We are also interested in mutation rates and selection
inference in the context of human genetic variation,
including polymorphisms (http://www.nature.com/-
articles/ng.3831; academic.oup.com/mbe/article-
abstract/36/8/1701/5475505) and de novo variants
(www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-17162-z). Here,
a particular focus of the group lies on the description
of purifying selection in humans and across species,
accounting for mutational processes as well as the
eects of genetic drift.
The Evolutionary Processes Modeling lab was estab-
lished in October 2018. Further information can be
found at https://weghornlab.net/ and at www.crg.eu/-
en/programmes-groups/weghorn-lab . Whom would we
like to hire?
Professional experience
- You are familiar with the principles of population ge-
netics - You have worked with DNA sequencing or other
biological datasets
Education and training
- You hold a PhD degree in population genetics, physics,
statistics, bioinformatics, or a related discipline
Languages
- You are uent in English
Technical skills
- You have experience with computational data analysis
- You are familiar with modeling and statistical analysis
Competences
- You have highly developed organization skills - You
have good communication skills
The Oer - Working Conditions
- Contract duration: 1 year, to be extended up to a maxi-
mum of 5 years. - Estimated annual gross salary: Salary
is commensurate with qualications and consistent with
our pay scales.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlDanishTechU
ComputationalPopulationGenetics
DTU Health Tech seeks qualied candidates for a post-
doc position in computational population genetics with
start as soon as possible.
Responsibilities In this position, you will develop algo-
rithms and computational methods to deal with the
analysis of large datasets from modern and ancient
sources. More specically, these algorithms will be
aimed at analyzing a large number of ancient genomes
using population genetics methods. Additional infor-
mation should be obtained by contacting the potential
main supervisor directly. The university is located in
the greater Copenhagen area, which is acknowledged for
its excellent standards of living, childcare and welfare
system.
Current computational methods are often ill-equipped
to deal with DNA extracted from ancient populations.
This ancient DNA shows high levels of fragmentation
and accumulated chemical damage. Furthermore, the
number of individuals that can be sequenced is often
limited. Fortunately, several problems pertaining to an-
cient DNA and ancient paleogenetics can be described in
a maximum-likelihood framework and computer science
techniques can help us to solve such numerical problems
eciently via machine learning, numerical algorithms
and data structures. You will work in collaboration with
other partners including the University of Copenhagen
in order to develop the next generation of algorithms
and software applied to DNA from fossils which can
then be used to reconstruct population history and infer
selection.
Qualications You must hold a PhD degree (or equiva-
lent) ideally in biological science with a focus on quanti-
tative and mathematical aspects, or in computer science
or mathematics.
The candidate we are looking for should ideally have
the following qualications:
* Knowledge of a programming language like Python,
Perl, C++ and/or Java * Ability to work in a UNIX
environment, ideally in a high-performance computing
environment * Thorough understanding of basic princi-
ples of population genetics * Knowledge of probabilities
and statistics * Firm grasp of rst-year university mathe-
matics (dierential calculus/linear algebra) * KnowledgeMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 77
of coalescence theory or diusion theory is an advan-
tage * Expertise in next-generation sequencing data
generation and processing is also a plus
The language of communication at DTU is English.
Apply at: https://www.dtu.dk/english/about/-
job-and-career/vacant-positions/job?id=e47dbc10-
d238-4707-8a2a-bae1c4ee9a Gabriel Renaud
<gabriel.reno@gmail.com >
DeakinU
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
Deakin University- Australia 2yr full time postdoc in
Marine Ecological Genomics
An exciting new 2 yr xed term postdoc opportunity in
the EcoGenetics Lab at Deakin University's Warrnam-
bool campus situated on the Great Ocean Road. The
successful applicant will contribute to a collaborative
research program funded by the Fisheries Research and
Development Corporation, aimed at resolving patterns
of biological stock structure among Southern Ocean crab
sheries. The postdoc will be responsible for liaising
with industry and government partners, coordinating
biological sample collections, conducting population ge-
nomic analyses, and disseminating research ndings in
the form of industry reports and peer-reviewed publica-
tions. The successful applicant will also contribute to
the supervision of local HDR students working in the
area of ecological genomics. Contact Adam Miller for
further details : a.miller@deakin.edu.au
https://careers.pageuppeople.com/949/cw/en/job/-
519653/postdoctoral-research-fellow Applications for
this position close on 4 March 2022 at 11:55PM.
Thanks Brian!
Kind regards, Adam
Dr Adam Miller Centre for Integrative Ecology School
of Life and Environmental Sciences Faculty of Science
Engineering & Built Environment Deakin University
PO BOX 423, Warrnambool, VIC 3280 Oce:
+61 3 5563 3171; Mobile: +61 488 735 482
Email:a.miller@deakin.edu.au ECOGENETIC-
SLAB:https://www.ecogeneticslab.com Adam
Miller <a.miller@deakin.edu.au >DukeU
SpeciationConservationGenomics
Madagascar
NSF-funded postdoc in speciation and conservation ge-
nomics
THE POSITION: The Yoder Lab at Duke University
seeks to hire a postdoctoral research associate with
skills in computational and speciation genomics. You
will become a member of a research team that takes an
integrative approach to speciation biology by combining
computer science, eld ecology, and genomic analysis.
The project is a collaboration with Ziheng Yang (Univer-
sity College London; computational biology) and Marina
Blanco (Duke Lemur Center; behavioral eld ecology).
Anticipated start date is April 15, 2022 with a starting
annual salary of $53,760, along with scheduled annual
increases. Funding is available for up to four years with
renewal determined annually.
THE PROJECT: The project will focus on southeastern
Madagascar where habitat fragmentation is threatening
the survival of unique and irreplaceable biodiversity. In
addition to generating important new knowledge about
the processes that drive and delimit speciation, the
project will include training and mentorship of both
Malagasy and American students across a range of edu-
cational levels. The research focuses on mouse lemurs,
which are the world's smallest primates and are unique
to Madagascar and builds on current research that in-
dicates that they have experienced episodic bursts of
lineage diversication consistent with the climatic cycles
of the Pleistocene. Key outcomes of the collaborative
project will be the development of genomic data and
computational tools for identifying the magnitude, di-
rection, and rate of genetic exchange among lineages
as well as a unique understanding of the roles of ecol-
ogy, metabolism, and sensory communication play in
inhibiting reproduction among the targeted species. The
advertised postdoctoral position will be devoted to il-
luminating the role of genomic architecture in driving
and maintaining species boundaries.
ORGANISMAL BIOLOGY & GENOMIC RE-
SOURCES: Mouse lemurs are fascinating creatures of
special biological interest given that they are genetically
highly distinct though morphologically and ecologically
similar. Notoriously, their taxonomy has exploded over78 EvolDir March 1, 2022
the past 25 years, with more than 20 species described
since 1994. Mouse lemurs reach sexual maturity within
the rst year of life, and typically reproduce annually
within a highly constrained seasonal timeframe that
is often correlated with the duration of a hibernation
season.
Female receptivity can be as short as several hours in
a given year. During the austral winter, individuals of
both sexes may enter periods of inactivity, ranging in
duration from hours (daily torpor) to weeks (hiberna-
tion). The project will focus on a region of Madagas-
car where ve distinct lineages, currently described as
species, occur in patterns of both sympatry and allopa-
try. Divergence time analysis using a pedigree-derived
measure of the de novo mutation rate (Campbell et al.,
2021; Heredity) indicates that they achieve reproductive
isolation extremely rapidly for a mammal which is a
driving motivation for the research (Poelstra et al., 2022;
bioRxiv). The project will benet from a number of
existing genomic resources including a reference genome
for one of the target species (Larsen et al., 2017; BMC
Genomics) as well as a newly released transcriptomic cell
atlas (The Tabula Microcebus Consortium; bioRxiv).
In-country outreach activities will build upon previous
eld-based genomics and associated workshops (Blanco
et al., 2020; Conservation Genetics).
QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants should have a PhD in
evolutionary genetics/genomics and strong computa-
tional skills. We seek an independent and collaborative
scientist with an interest in team-based science and a
generous approach to student training across a range of
educational levels. Applicants should be familiar with
the latest developments in genome assembly, population-
level resequencing, and statistical analysis of population
genomic data. Experience with single-cell genomics is a
plus.
WORK ENVIRONMENT: Duke University is located
in the Research Triangle region of North Carolina. It
is a short drive from other top universities, including
UNC - Chapel Hill and NC State University, and has
rich programs in evolution, ecology, and genomics.
The region has diverse cultural resources and is conve-
niently situated between the Appalachian Mountains to
the west and the Atlantic Ocean to the east. As we like
to say: \turn right, and within 2.5 hours you can be
hiking in the Smokies; turn left, and in 2.5 hours you
can be lounging on some of the world's most beautiful
beaches." The Yoder Lab welcomes individuals of all
identities and backgrounds. We believe that the best
science comes from an environment that includes a va-
riety of lived experiences and in which all persons are
encouraged to express their opinions freely in a cultureof mutual respect.
HOW TO APPLY: Please direct applications and/or
questions to Anne Yoder
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Eawag ETHZurich
EvolutionaryEcology
Postdoc Position in Evolutionary Ecology
A postdoc position is available in Christoph Vorburger's
lab at Eawag and ETH Z >1
2rich, Switzerland. Our
research is concerned with the evolutionary ecology of
host-parasite interactions in terrestrial and freshwater
systems. We have a particular interest in the role of
symbiont-conferred resistance in insect host-parasitoid
coevolution. This position is available for at least two
years and oers ample freedom to develop independent
research within the scope of our group. The incoming
candidate is expected to take over some responsibility
in lab management and in the instruction of students,
especially in molecular techniques.
The ideal candidate will have a keen interest in evo-
lutionary ecology, strong quantitative and communi-
cation skills evidenced by scholarly publications, and
excellent experimental and molecular laboratory skills.
Experience in generating and analyzing next-generation
sequencing data would be a plus. A PhD is required.
The position is available immediately, starting date is
exible.
Eawag is a modern employer and oers an excellent
working environment where sta can contribute their
strengths, experience and ways of thinking. We pro-
mote cultural and gender equality and are committed
to sta diversity and inclusion. The compatibility of
career and family is of central importance to us. For
more information about Eawag and our work conditions
please consult www.eawag.ch and www.eawag.ch/en/-
aboutus/working/employment . Applications must be
submitted by 31 March 2022 and should include a brief
application letter explaining your motivation, research
interests and relevant experience, a curriculum vitae,
and the names and contact details of three academic
references.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 79
For further information, please contact Prof. Dr.
Christoph Vorburger (christoph.vorburger@eawag.ch)
We look forward to receiving your application. Please
send it through this webpage, any other way of applying
will not be considered. A click on the link below will
take you directly to the application form.
https://apply.reine.ch/673277/0920/pub/1/-
index.html Christoph Vorburger Eawag, Swiss
Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology
& Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Z >1
2rich
 >1
2berlandstrasse 133 8600 D >1
2bendorf Switzerland
Phone: +41 58 765 5196 e-mail:
christoph.vorburger@eawag.ch or vorburgc@ethz.ch
group homepage: http://homepages.eawag.ch/-
~vorburch/ ***
\Vorburger, Christoph" <Christoph.Vorburger@eawag.ch >
GlobeInstUCopenhagen
AirborneEnvironmentalDNA
Postdoc in airborne environmental DNA at the Globe
Institute, University of Copenhagen
We are looking for a highly motivated and dynamic
postdoc for a 3-year position to work on airborne en-
vironmental DNA for terrestrial vertebrate monitoring.
The position is to commence 1 May 2022 or as soon as
possible thereafter.
Your job You will work on the newly funded Carlsberg
Foundation Young Researcher Fellowship awarded to As-
sociate Professor Kristine Bohmann to form a research
team dedicated to establish the use of airborne environ-
mental DNA for terrestrial vertebrate monitoring. In
addition to state-of-the-art environmental DNA labora-
tory and computational workows, the team will bridge
disciplines through collaboration with a strong group of
national and international collaborators to ne-tune the
technique, expand it to natural environments, and apply
it to biodiversity studies and standardised surveys. You
will take an active part in the overall team's work and
will work with both national and international collab-
orators and team members. You will work especially
close with the team members based in Copenhagen.
The project involves further development of the technol-
ogy for use in natural settings, exploration of challenges,
opportunities and limitations, and the use of metabar-
coding of airborne environmental DNA for vertebratedetection in applied contexts. This can include design
and optimisation of air samplers, design of experiments
in dierent natural ecosystems as well as in more con-
trolled settings and comparison to existing monitoring
methods. There will be exibility to shape the postdoc
fellowship within this framework.
Deadline: 27 February 2022
Further details: https://employment.ku.dk/all-
vacancies/?show=155728 Kristine Bohmann
<kbohmann@sund.ku.dk >
Hilo Hawaii EntomologicalGenomics
A position is available for a postdoctoral research as-
sociate through Eastern Mennonite University to in-
vestigate control of tropical insect pests using genetic,
genomic, and bioinformatic techniques, with the work lo-
cation being the USDA-ARS Pacic Basin Agricultural
Research Center located in Hilo, Hawaii.
The selected candidate will investigate the invasion of
a new insect pest, the Queensland Longhorned Beetle,
Acalolepta aesthetica (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) on
Hawaii Island.
The desired candidate will have a strong background in
invasion biology, eld research, bioinformatic analysis
of genomic data, and computational biology through a
command-line interface.
Candidates who have demonstrated strong written and
oral communication skills, experience working indepen-
dently and as part of a group, and strong interpersonal
skills are encouraged to apply.
A PhD in biology, genetics, evolution, entomology, or
related disciplines is required at the time of application.
The position will be hired through Eastern Mennonite
University and the candidate selected will serve as a
postdoctoral research associate with an annual salary of
$66,002 with health benets. The position is guaranteed
for one year with the possibility of extension contingent
on performance and availability of funds. The position
will be based in Hilo on the Big Island of Hawaii.
If interested, please submit a cover letter, CV, and the
contact information of three references to: Dr. Sheina
Sim, sheina[dot]sim[at]usda[dot]gov.
While the candidate will not be employed in the federal
service, it is relevant to note that the US Department of
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service is an equal80 EvolDir March 1, 2022
opportunity/armative action employer and all agency
services are available without discrimination.
Eastern Mennonite University is an equal opportunity
employer, committed to enhancing diversity across the
institution. Eastern Mennonite University does not dis-
criminate on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic
origin, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, or gender
identity. EMU conducts criminal background investiga-
tions as part of the hiring process.
\Sim, Sheina - ARS" <sheina.sim@usda.gov >
Hungary
InvasiveMosquitoeEvolutionaryEcol
\Investigation of the ecological factors that determine
the spread of invasive mosquito species in Hungary, and
the development of prediction models"
Climate change combined with a signicant increase
in international trade and tourism constitute the main
causes behind the emergence of invasive species in Eu-
rope, which raise several ecological, epidemiological and
economic problems. To understand the biological basis
of this threat, we need to uncover the spatial and tem-
poral patterns in association with the introduction and
spread of invasive species, and to identify the underlying
ecological factors. The fullment of these tasks requires
the continuous monitoring of invasive species as well as
their role in ecological interactions, for which many Euro-
pean country has organised surveillance programs. The
Hungarian program run by the Centre for Ecological Re-
search (CER, https://ecolres.hu/en) since 2019 targets
three invasive species currently present in the country,
and consists of a survey based on citizen science that is
combined with subsequent eld sampling and laboratory
screens for parasites (http://mosquitosurveillance.hu).
Based on the accumulated data, we are able to gen-
erate reliable and distribution maps in real time, and
now an important part of our mission is to identify the
environmental factors determining the spread of the
focal species, for which we hope to attract a post-doc
providing theoretical/statistical inputs. We expect the
young researcher to help us eectively obtain and inves-
tigate as many predictor variables as possible, create
an ecological prole each invasive species, and derive
reliable estimates for future distribution dynamics. The
new colleague would be in charge of collecting spatially
and temporally structured data regarding the potential
environmental predictors (e. g. climate, urbanization,demography, road network, habitat type, mosquito con-
trol programs, etc.), assigning these data to the avail-
able species-distribution patterns by multivariate models
(ideally including machine learning), and then using the
resulting information to build prediction models.
The post-doc project is founded by the main Hungarian
funding body (National Research, Development and In-
novation Oce). The period of employment is one year,
but the position could potentially be extended by an
extra year in case of success. Given the covid situation
and the theoretical aspects of the project, we oer high
exibility with regard to the working routine and allow
remote contribution (while we also welcome group mem-
bers who can physically join the research team at CER).
The allowance will be agreed upon with the relevant
union, the starting date is exible (but ideally as soon
as possible).
As a formal qualication, the candidate must hold a
PhD degree (or equivalent). Furthermore, we are look-
ing for candidates with the following qualications: -
Background in ecology or in evolution with consider-
able expertise in statistics; - Experience in data mining
and handling big data; - Experience in performing so-
phisticated statistical analyses (bioinformatics, machine
learning, GIS, networks, phylogenetic models) and/or
programming; - Experience in building prediction mod-
els; - Record of an excellent publication output.
Further information may be obtained from L >1
2szl >1
2
Zsolt Garamszegi, garamszegi.laszlo@ecolres.hu .
Application procedure Applications must be sub-
mitted as one PDF le containing all materials
to be given consideration as an e-mail package to
nagy.adrienn@ecolres.hu. Please, attach all your materi-
als in English in one le, which includes:
- Application (motivation letter) - CV - Academic Diplo-
mas (MSc/PhD) - List of publications - List of potential
references
All interested candidates irrespective of age, gender,
disability, race, religion or ethnic background are en-
couraged to apply.
L >1
2szl >1
2Zsolt Garamszegi Director General Centre
for Ecological Research 1113 Budapest, Karolina  >1
2t
29, Hungary
L >1
2szl >1
2Zsolt Garamszegi
<garamszegi.laszlo@ecolres.hu >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 81
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc: Evolutionary Genomics, Hahn Lab, Indiana
University
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is available in the
lab of Matthew Hahn in the Department of Biology and
Department of Computer Science at Indiana University,
Bloomington. The work will examine models of trait
evolution in a phylogenetic context, particularly for com-
plex traits and on species trees with discordance. Our
lab has developed some of the statistical and computa-
tional tools necessary to study traits in these contexts,
and we are looking for someone to extend these methods
and analyses in new ways. The postdoctoral candidate
will also be encouraged to carry out independent work.
There is a wide variety of research going on in the lab in
addition to the current project. For a summary of our
work, please see: https://hahnlab.sitehost.iu.edu/ The
candidate must have a Ph.D. at time of appointment,
preferably in phylogenetics, population genetics, statis-
tical genetics, or computer science. The position will
require the candidate to develop strong computational
skills, but motivated scientists who wish to learn these
skills are encouraged to apply. Salary commensurate
with experience.
To apply, please submit (i) a letter of application, (ii) a
full CV, (iii) a brief statement of research interests, and
(iv) contact information for three references electron-
ically to https://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/-
12475 Review of applications will start March 2, 2022
and will continue until the position is lled. Start date
is late spring/negotiable. Inquiries about the position
can be directed to Matthew Hahn (mwh@indiana.edu;
812-856-7001; 1001 E. 3rd St., Bloomington, IN 47405).
Indiana University has an active group in evolution-
ary genetics, and considerable computational resources.
Bloomington is situated in scenic, hilly southern Indiana,
near several parks and wilderness areas. The cultural
environment provided by the University is exceptionally
rich in art, music, and theater.
The College of Arts and Sciences is committed to build-
ing and supporting a diverse, inclusive, and equitable
community of students and scholars.
Indiana University is an equal employment and arma-
tive action employer and a provider of ADA services.
All qualied applicants will receive consideration foremployment based on individual qualications. Indi-
ana University prohibits discrimination based on age,
ethnicity, color, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, genetic information, mari-
tal status, national origin, disability status or protected
veteran status.
mwh@indiana.edu
IndianaU
MicrobeMediatedAdaptation
Postdoctoral Fellow in microbial eco-evolutionary
metagenomics, Indiana University.
The Lennon lab (https://microbes.bio.indiana.edu/)
seeks a postdoc to work on an NSF-funded project
that is part of the CNH2: Dynamics of Integrated Socio-
Environmental Systems. Postdoc will work with shotgun
metagenomic data coming from comparative eld stud-
ies and manipulative experiments to test predictions
about how microorganisms confer tolerance to environ-
mental conditions (i.e., drought). A PhD is required
by the start of appointment and qualied candidates
will have experience with the annotation, assembly, and
querying of shotgun metagenomic data to address eco-
logical and evolutionary questions. The postdoc will
have the opportunity to work collaboratively with biol-
ogists from Indiana University (Dr. Jennifer Lau) and
Michigan State University (Dr. Sarah Evans) as well as
investigators from social sciences to better understand
the adoption and outcomes of management decisions
on midwestern farms. The position is available for 12
months with expected renewal in subsequent years based
on satisfactory performance. Anticipated start date is
June 1, 2022 but negotiable. Salary will be commensu-
rate with experience. Full benets are included.
Indiana University has a large and interactive group
at the interface of ecology, evolution, and microbiology.
Bloomington is situated in scenic, hilly southern Indiana,
near several parks and wilderness areas. The cultural
environment provided by the University is exceptionally
rich in art, music, and theatre.
A PhD is required by the start of appointment and quali-
ed candidates will have experience with the annotation,
assembly, and querying of shotgun metagenomic data
to address ecological and evolutionary questions.
Inquires about the position can be directed to Jay
Lennon (lennonj@indiana.edu).82 EvolDir March 1, 2022
To apply, please submit a letter of application,
a C.V, statement of research interests, and the
contact information for three references to https:/-
/indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/ < https:/-
/indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/XXXXXXX
>12222/ Best consideration for those applying prior to
March 1, 2022. Start date exible.
The College of Arts and Sciences is committed to build-
ing and supporting a diverse, inclusive, and equitable
community of students and scholars.
Jay T. Lennon Professor Department of Biology In-
diana University 1001 E. 3rd Street Bloomington,
IN 47405 812-856-0962 lennonj@indiana.edu web: mi-
crobes.bio.indiana.edu wiki: lennon.bio.indiana.edu
lennonj@indiana.edu
Jena Germany 3 EvoDevo
The Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, German, is
a traditional university with a strong research prole
located in central Germany. It is a university that covers
a wide range of disciplines. Research is focused on the
areas Light-Life-Liberty. Our university collaborates
closely with research institutions, research companies
and renowned cultural institutions. With around 18,000
students and more than 8,600 employees, the university
plays a major role in shaping Jena's character as a cos-
mopolitan and future-oriented city. The Institute for
Zoology and Evolutionary Research conducts modern
zoological research with a comparative evolutionary per-
spective. The research topics range from entomology
to functional vertebrate morphology, comparative devel-
opmental biology and animal physiology. The Hejnol
Lab invites applications for 2 Postdoc positions and the
Olsson Lab seeks 1 postdoc. The positions are to be
lled with
3 Research assistants (PostDocs) in Evolutionary Devel-
opmental Biology of animals (f/m/d)
commencing on 01. April 2022.
The Hejnol Lab oer several projects that range from
genomic analysis, morphology, to advanced comparative
developmental biological approaches of non-model or-
ganisms. We combine advanced methods in molecular
biology, genomics, electron- and light microscopy, and
single cell-omics to study a range of marine and limnic
non-model organisms. The projects will connect the
genotype-level of organisation with the phenotype andcompare the results using the comparative evolutionary
approach. The postdocs are expected to use existing
technology and moving the implementation of modern
techniques to non-model species forward. It is expected
to solve current questions in animal evolutionary biology
that relate to the evolution of cell types, organ systems,
developmental pathways, physiological processes, and
the interaction of the organism with the environment.
A large list of interesting evolutionary modications
including developmental, physiological, and morpholog-
ical traits in non-vertebrate species is available to be
studied, and choices can be inuenced by the prefer-
ence of the postdoc. Active contribution in teaching
and outreach, e.g., through the Phyletic Museum is ex-
pected. The mission of our groups is to understand how
nature's fascinating phenotypic diversity has evolved
and how genomic, cellular and developmental changes
led to this diversity. The work in the Hejnol lab in-
cludes bioinformatic and embryological work. Since the
Principal Investigator Andreas Hejnol is also director
of the Phyletic Museum the lab actively contributes to
its outreach activities. English is the working language
in our lab. The Olsson Lab works on comparative de-
velopmental studies of the head in vertebrates. The
focus has sofar been on amphibians and shes, but the
postdoc. is of course free to work on other organisms.
Main questions include the transition to biphasic and
terrestrial life cycles and the evolution of novelties asso-
ciated with these transitions. Techniques used includes
fate mapping, gene down- and up-regulation and gene
editing. Three-dimensional reconstruction of embryonic
and larval anatomy using confocal microscopy, microCT
and the synchrotron at DESY - in addition to histology -
is central to our research, as is standard methods such as
clearing-and-staining, Antibody-staining and in-situ hy-
bridization. Depending on the seniority of the candidate,
the degree of independency can be increased with the
opportunity to attract own funding, design own courses
and develop an own research path. The independency
will be visualised by e.g. own webpage. Further, the
opportunity for a habilitation will be provided.
Your responsibilities: You will conduct a research project
related to comparative developmental biology. You will
support the training and education of lab members and
students. You will conduct teaching of one or more
courses in zoology, evolutionary biology, molecular bi-
ology, or bioinformatics in the area of zoology ande-
volutionary biology (4 SWS) you will participate in
collection trips to marine eld stations. You participate
in national and international meetings in your area of
responsibility. You will write and publishing scientic
papers in peer-reviewed journals. You will participate
in teaching and outreach activities.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 83
Your prole:
* Successfully completed university studies in with a
focus on zoology, developmental biology, evolutionary
biology, genomics or a related area followed by a doctoral
degree
* Knowledge of evolutionary biology, developmental bi-
ology and molecular approaches
* Experience in working with embryos or other develop-
mental stages of animals are favourable.
* Knowledge in bioinformatics and sequence analysis is
an advantage.
* English communication skills, both written and spoken
We oer: Remuneration based on the provisions of the
Collective Agreement for the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Krakow EvolutionaryEcol
Polish Academy of Sciences INC Krakow
Poland.EvolutionaryEcology
Postdoc position in the project \Integrating eects of
anthropogenic and natural stressors across the organ-
ism's life cycle" at the Polish Academy of Sciences INC
in Krakow, Poland in collaboration with KU Leuven,
Belgium.
The aim of the project is to understand how environ-
mental stressors: native and invasive alien predators,
increased temperature and seasonal time constraints
inuence key life history traits in aquatic invertebrates
(common bluetail damsely) through changes in physi-
ology and behaviour.
Requirements: - PhD in biology or ecology (PhD defence
not earlier than 7 years before the year of employment in
the project; this period does not include breaks related
to maternity leave) - Strong motivation for project work
- Experience in eld and laboratory work on aquatic
invertebrates - Background in laboratory analysis of
biochemical parameters - Publication record in leading
ecological journals (at least ve articles published within
last ve years) - Advanced skills in statistics in R en-
vironment - Fluency in English, written and spoken -Additional attribute: experience in and enthusiasm for
working in international team; valid driving license.
Responsibilities and job description: - Preparing eld
equipment and laboratory installations for experiments -
Damsely, sh and craysh eld sampling for exper-
iments - Rearing experiment in climate chambers -
Measurements of life history, behavioural (INC PAS
in Krakow, Poland) and physiological traits (Univ. in
Leuven, Belgium) - Involvement in work during irregu-
lar working hours (as eld work and lab experiment
require) - Attendance in national and international
conferences/workshops - Participation in supervising
MSc students - Running statistical analyses and writing
manuscripts of scientic publications.
Required documents (combined in one PDF le): - Cover
letter - Scientic curriculum vitae (including a list of
publications) - Scan of Doctorate diploma - Contact
details of two academics who can provide a reference.
I have funding from the National Science Centre,
Poland (grant no. 2019/33/B/NZ8/00521) Contract
of employment: full time for up to 11 months Start-
ing date of employment: 1 May, 2022 Application
due date: 15 March, 2022 Salary: monthly gross
salary ca. 8 000 PLN (average wage in Poland: +/-
5 700 PLN gross) Principal investigator: Dr hab.
in^A>. Szymon Sniegula, http://www.iop.krakow.pl/-
pracownicy,102,szymon sniegula.html The post-
ing is here https://www.iop.krakow.pl/les/339/-
callpost doceng2022 nal.pdf To apply, please
send combined in one PDF le documents to szy-
mon.sniegula@gmail.com with 'postdoc 2022' in the
subject heading.
Applications will be reviewed starting March 16, 2022,
and will be accepted until the position is lled.
Please contact Szymon Sniegula (szy-
mon.sniegula@gmail.com) if you have any questions
about the position.
Szymon Sniegula <szymon.sniegula@gmail.com >84 EvolDir March 1, 2022
LeibnizInstBiodiversity
Metabarcoding
Job advertisement
Postdoctoral position (f/m/d)
Metabarcoding and statistical analysis
The Leibniz Institute for the Analysis of Biodiversity
Change (LIB), which was created through the merger
of the Zoological Research Museum Alexander Koenig
(ZFMK), Bonn and the Center for Natural History (Ce-
Nak) at the University of Hamburg, is an internationally
operating research institute. As a research museum of
the Leibniz Association, the LIB contributes to taxo-
nomic and molecular biodiversity research and the con-
servation of global biodiversity, documents and analyzes
evolutionary and ecological biodiversity change and par-
ticipates in public communication about biodiversity
change and its possible causes.
The Conservation Ecology Section of the Center for Bio-
diversity Monitoring at the Museum Koenig, Leibniz
Institute for the Analysis of Biodiversity Change (LIB),
is oering a full-time postdoc position for up-scaled
DNA metabarcoding and data analysis. The position is
part of the interdisciplinary research project \Diversity
of Insects in Nature protected Areas" (DINA), which is
funded by the BMBF since 2019 until April 2023.
Recent developments in the eld of metabarcoding have
enabled large-scale applications in biodiversity monitor-
ing and conservation. The DINA work package biodi-
versity monitoring via metabarcoding of Malaise trap
samples aims at assessing the entire species spectrum
of ying insects in protected areas that are subject to
fragmentation, land use and ecotoxicological exposure.
We are seeking an enthusiastic and productive candidate
with demonstrated experiences in up-scaled metabar-
coding and biodiversity assessments, as well as in multi-
variate analysis of complex data sets.
Assessment Criteria:
The ranking of eligible applicants will be based primarily
on research expertise and the potential to contribute
to the success of the overall project. The candidate is
expected to integrate into a interdisciplinary consortium
and attend regular project meetings.
Required qualications:PhD in biology, ecology, biodiversity research or a closely
related eldExperience in processing of high-throughput
sequencing data
Experience in metabarcoding lab work, data analysis
and visualizationExcellent knowledge of the software R,
including the analysis of large data setsSolid knowledge
of insect functional and community ecology
Experience working with geographic information sys-
tems is an assetAbility to work independently as well
as to integrate in a team
Excellent communication skills in German and English
As the project tackles highly relevant questions around
potential drivers of insect decline in Germany, the posi-
tion oers the successful candidate a unique possibility
to sharpen her/ his scientic prole by high-impact
publications.
The LIB oers a highly motivating working environment
at the Museum Koenig in Bonn. The LIB advocates
gender equality is certied according to the audit \Beruf
und Family" audit, so women are strongly encouraged to
apply. Equally qualied severely disabled applicants will
be given preference. The salary corresponds to a public
service position in Germany (TV-L E13), with a classi-
cation depending on the candidate's work experience.
The contract will start as soon as possible and is limited
by the project term. The application deadline for this
position is February 27, 2022. Please submit your ap-
plication (letter of motivation, CV, publication record,
names of three potential referees) digitally via our ap-
plicant portal: https://leibniz-lib.de/karriere .In case
of questions concerning the position, you may contact
Dr. Livia Sch aer (e-mail: l.schaeer@leibniz-lib.de).
For more information about our institution, please visit:
http://www.leibniz-lib.de Cheers,
Livia
LIB -Leibniz Institute for the Analysis ofBiodiversity
Change
Dr. Livia Sch aer
Head of Section Conservation Ecology Centre for Biodi-
versity Monitoring
Museum Koenig
Adenauerallee 160 (mailingaddress127)
53113 Bonn
phone: +49 228 9122-352
email: l.schaeer@leibniz-lib.de
www.leibWarning: base64 decoder saw premature EOF!
niz-lib.deMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 85
Sch >1
2er Livia <L.Schaeer@leibniz-lib.de >
Sch >1
2er Livia <L.Schaeer@leibniz-lib.de >
LousianaStateU PlantPopGenetics
Postdoctoral position in population genetics, functional
genomics, and genome evolution Department of Plant
Pathology and Crop Physiology Louisiana State Univer-
sity Agricultural Center Baton Rouge, Louisiana
Position Description: The Richards Lab at Louisiana
State University is recruiting a postdoctoral research
associate to understand the population structure, ge-
netic diversity, genome evolution, and transcriptional
responses to environmental stresses in Phragmites aus-
tralis (Roseau cane) and the relationship of these factors
to Roseau cane dieback. The postdoctoral research asso-
ciate will be expected to lead and contribute to designing
experiments, collecting eld samples, preparing next-
generation sequencing libraries, and conducting bioin-
formatics analyses. Responsibilities also include writing
manuscripts, presenting results at meetings and confer-
ences, and mentoring students. Prior experience with
population genetic and/or functional genomics datasets
is highly preferred. This is a full-time (40 hrs/week)
position with available funding for two years. Contin-
uation past the rst year is contingent on a successful
annual review.
Qualications: PhD in genomics, genetics, biology,
botany, plant pathology, or other related eld. A success-
ful candidate will have demonstrated experience in the
design and execution of population genetic and/or func-
tional genomics experiments. Preferred qualications
include experience working with large-scale transcrip-
tomics datasets. Excellent oral and written communi-
cation skills and ability to collaborate with colleagues
within and among departments are required. A valid
Louisiana State driver's license and ability to drive is
required at the time of appointment or soon thereafter.
Application Deadline: March 01, 2022 or until a suitable
candidate is identied.
Application Procedure: Apply online at https://-
LSU.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/LSU (or through Work-
day for internal applicants) by attaching a cover letter
with resume, university transcripts, and contact infor-
mation for 2-3 references. Paper, faxed, or e-mailed
application materials will not be accepted.
Dr. Jonathan K. Richards Assistant Professor of FungalBiology Department of Plant Pathology and Crop Phys-
iology Louisiana State University Agricultural Center
Please contact Dr. Jonathan Richards if you have any
questions at jrichards@agcenter.lsu.edu
The LSU Agricultural Center is a statewide campus
of the LSU System and provides equal opportunities
in programs and employment. An Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer
\Richards, Jonathan" <JRichards@agcenter.lsu.edu >
LundU LandscapeGenomics
Attractive2 year position aspostdoctoral fellow in land-
scape genomics at Lund University
We have an opening for a postdoctoral researcher in
landscape genomics within the project \Genetic moni-
toring of connectivity, diversity and adaptive potential".
This project addresses the eect of fragmentation of
semi-natural grasslands on pollinator genetic diversity
and gene ow using landscape-genomic methods and
evolutionary approaches.
The post doc will work withinthe Evolutionary Ecology
of Plant Insect Interactions group, and bepart ofthe
interdisciplinaryBECC environment (Biodiversity and
Ecosystem Services in a Changing Climate) at the De-
partment of Biology, Lund University.For further in-
formation, please contact the main supervisor Anna
Runemark (anna.runemark@biol.lu.se)
Please nd more information and apply here:
https://lu.varbi.com/en/what:job/jobID:471660/-
type:job/where:4/apply:1 Anna Runemark
<anna.runemark@biol.lu.se >
MaxPlanck Cologne Genomics
Location:
Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research,
Cologne, Germany
Institute:
LMU Munich, Faculty of Biology, Munich, Germany
Group: Prof. Korbinian Schneeberger86 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Starting date: April 2022 (to be negotiated)
Apply until: February 28th, 2022 (position remains open
until lled)
Duration: 3 years
Postdoctoral position in Bioinformatics (m/f/d)
The Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich is one of
the largest and most renowned universities in Germany.
Working environment:
The established group \Genome Plasticity and Compu-
tational Genetics" managed by Korbinian Schneeberger
is focused on plant genomics, specically on the devel-
opment of novel computational and biotechnological
methods for the analysis of genome sequences. The
group is located at the Faculty of Biology at the LMU
in Munich, with a part of the group working at the
Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research in
Cologne, Germany. We are currently searching for a
postdoc for our location at the MPI in Cologne.
Our group analyzes genomic changes on dierent levels.
We compare the genomes between species, populations
and articial crosses. We do this using latest technolo-
gies (including third generation as well as single-cell
genomic technology) to get insights into how and why
genomes change over time. Current projects include
genetic experiments and the establishment of compu-
tational methods for the analysis of multidimensional
genome data to study the natural diversity of mutations
and recombination.
We are a multi-disciplinary group including bioinfor-
maticians, biologists and biotechnologists (schneeberg-
erlab.org). Our approach to science is curiosity-driven,
and is closely aligned to our interests in new genomic
technologies. Scientic support comes from a wide range
of facilities (genomics, microscopy, high performance
compute clusters) and lab technicians. Salaries will
be based on previous experience according to TV-L
guidelines.
Project Description
We have recently developed a new method to assemble
the individual haplotypes of tetraploid genomes based
on the combination of long-read sequencing and the anal-
ysis of single pollen genomes (Sun et al, 2021, biorxiv).
We applied this method for the reconstruction of the
rst fully haplotype-resolved assembly of a cultivated
potato genome.
Following up on this work we now would like to make
use of the individual haplotypes and develop genotyping
methods for a simplied analysis of even more complex
genomes. The method should then be applied to geno-typing recombinant pollen genomes (which will allow us
to analyze the inheritance on the individual haplotypes)
as well as other potato cultivars. While applied in the
context of plant genomics, such haplotype-type based
genotyping would be applicable across many dierent
species including even humans.
Qualications
We are searching for highly motivated applicants with a
PhD in bioinformatics or a similar eld in computational
biology. Applicants should be procient in scripting e.g.
Python and should have experiences in the analysis of
next-generation sequencing data and in the use of a
high-performance compute cluster. Good oral and writ-
ing skills in English are essential. We are particularly
looking for open-minded, creative and critical minded
candidates who like to work in an international team.
Disabled people with the appropriate qualications will
be considered preferably.
Have we raised your interest? Please submit your ap-
plication to Finni H >1
2u >1
2ler (nni.haeussler@lmu.de).
In case of questions, please directly email Korbinian
Schneeberger (k.schneeberger@lmu.de).
Postdoctoral Researcher Division of Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Faculty of Biology LMU Munich Grosshaderner Str.
2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried Germany
Sergio Tusso <situssog@gmail.com >Sergio Tusso
<situssog@gmail.com >
NHGRI-NIH Bethesda Bioinformat-
icsComparativeGenomics
Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch Na-
tional Human Genome Research Institute National In-
stitutes of Health
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Bioinformatics and Compar-
ative Genomics
A postdoctoral training position is currently available
in the Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch
(CSGB) of the National Human Genome Research In-
stitute (NHGRI). The position is in the laboratory of
Andy Baxevanis, Ph.D., whose research group uses com-
parative genomics approaches to better-understand the
molecular innovations that drove the surge of diversity
in early animal evolution. The overarching theme of
Dr. Baxevanis' research program is focused on how non-
traditional animal models can be used to convey criticalMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 87
insights into human disease research, in line with the
NIH Intramural Research Program's renewed emphasis
on developing new animal models for the study of basic
biology.
With this translational context in mind, Dr. Baxe-
vanis' group is currently leading international eorts
to sequence two cnidarian species: Hydractinia and
Podocoryna. The regenerative abilities of these colonial
hydrozoans make them excellent models for the study
of key questions related to pluripotency, allorecognition,
and stem cell biology, work that will be signicantly ad-
vanced by the availability of high-quality whole-genome
sequencing data from these organisms. The success-
ful applicant will have the opportunity to develop and
apply bioinformatic approaches to these and other large-
scale genomic data sets, focusing on the evolution of
specic protein families and biological pathways that
have putative roles in disease causation.
Candidates should have or be close to obtaining a Ph.D.
or equivalent degree in bioinformatics, computational
biology, computer science, molecular biology, or a closely
related eld. Candidates with a background in compar-
ative genomics or evolutionary biology are particularly
encouraged to apply. Programming skills and experience
in the application of computational methods to genomic
data are highly desirable. Applicants must possess good
communication skills and be uent in both spoken and
written English. The ability to learn how to use new
software and quickly become expert in its use, critical
thinking, problem-solving abilities, and the ability to
work semi-independently are required.
The NIH Intramural Research Program is on the
Bethesda, Maryland campus and oers a wide array of
training opportunities for scientists early in their careers.
The funding for this position is stable and oers the
trainee wide latitude in the design and pursuit of their
research project. The successful candidate will have ac-
cess to NHGRI's established and robust bioinformatics
infrastructure, as well as a 'Top 500' high-performance
computing resource available through NIH's Center for
Information Technology.
Interested applicants should submit a curriculum vitae,
a detailed letter of interest, and the names of three poten-
tial references to Dr. Baxevanis at andy@mail.nih.gov.
Postdoctoral traineeships are not available to scientists
who have more than ve years of relevant research ex-
perience since the receipt of their most recent doctoral
degree.
For more information, please visit https://irp.nih.gov/-
pi/andy-baxevanis . The NIH is dedicated to building
a diverse community in its training and employment
programs.\Baxevanis, Andy (NIH/NHGRI) [E]"
<andy@mail.nih.gov >
NorthCarolinaStateU
PlantEvolutionaryEcol
Postdoctoral position in Plant Evolutionary Ecology
Department of Plant and Microbial Biology
North Carolina State University
The Sheth plant evolutionary ecology lab <https://-
seemasheth.weebly.com/ >in the Department of Plant
and Microbial Biology <http://pmb.cals.ncsu.edu/ >
at North Carolina State University <http://ncsu.edu/
>(Raleigh, NC) is currently seeking a highly motivated
postdoctoral associate to participate in an NSF-funded
study of eco-evolutionary responses to climate change
across a species range. We combine eld, greenhouse,
and growth chamber experiments, demographic model-
ing, and quantitative genetics to examine constraints to
adaptation to climate across species geographic ranges.
We strive to foster an inclusive environment where peo-
ple from all backgrounds are respected and we especially
welcome applicants from groups that have historically
been underrepresented or excluded.
The successful candidate will contribute to studies of
eco-evolutionary responses to climate change in the
scarlet monkeyower, Mimulus cardinalis, a perennial
herb that grows in riparian habitats in western North
America. The postdoctoral scholar's primary respon-
sibilities involve coordinating research among multiple
institutions by establishing and monitoring eld and
greenhouse experiments, training and managing person-
nel, managing and analyzing data, and contributing to
the dissemination of results through manuscripts and
presentations. The position is based out of NCSU and re-
quires travel to California and Oregon for several weeks
each spring/summer and fall to establish and maintain
eld experiments. The postdoctoral scholar will also
have opportunities to analyze existing datasets, develop
additional research programs related to the overall ob-
jectives of the project, and gain experience mentoring
undergraduate and graduate students. The postdoc
will be co-mentored by Dr. Chris Muir <https://-
cdmuir.netlify.app/ >at the University of Hawaii, and
will interact with the research teams of Drs. Llu-
via Flores-Renteria <https://lluviaoresr.wixsite.com/-
lluviaoreslab >at San Diego State University, Jay88 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Sexton <https://sextonlab.ucmerced.edu/ >at UC
Merced, and Je Diez <https://diezlab.netlify.app/ >
at the University of Oregon.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Ecology, Evolutionary
Biology, Botany, or a related discipline, and experience
conducting eld experiments with plants. Candidates
are also expected to have a background in statistical
methods, a strong work ethic, and excellent problem-
solving, interpersonal, communication, and time man-
agement skills. A clear track record of publications,
independent research experience, and a commitment
to mentoring undergraduates is also required. Experi-
ence with analyses of quantitative genetic and/or demo-
graphic data in R is strongly desired.
This position is for one year, with potential for renewal
for up to two additional years. Start date is exible, but
ideally in Fall 2022 or Spring 2023.
TO APPLY: Please submit the following materials to
https://jobs.ncsu.edu/postings/156962: 1) a cover let-
ter describing your previous research experience and
qualications for this position, along with your current
and future research interests (1-2 pages), 2) current CV,
and 3) contact information for 3 references. Review of
applications will begin on March 1 and continue until
the position is lled. Feel free to email Dr. Sheth if you
have any questions about this position.
Seema Sheth (she/her) Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Plant and Microbial Biology North Car-
olina State University Email: ssheth3@ncsu.edu
seemasheth.weebly.com
Seema Sheth <ssheth3@ncsu.edu >
NorthCarolinaStateU
ViralEvolution
Postdoc: Evolution and phylodynamics of super-
generalist viruses
A postdoctoral research position is available in the Phy-
lodynamics Research Group led by David Rasmussen in
the Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology and
the Bioinformatics Research Center at NC State Uni-
versity. The postdoc will participate in a NSF-funded
project exploring how tness tradeos limit viral host
range as well as how generalist viruses evolve to resolve
these tradeos. In particular, the postdoc will help con-
nect theory to data by developing new phylodynamic
methods for quantifying pathogen tness between dif-ferent host environments. These newly developed meth-
ods will then be applied to multi-host viral pathogens
in order to empirically measure tness dierences and
movement between alternative hosts.
While the intended project is largely computational,
the postdoc may combine method development with
experimental work on the super-generalist plant virus
tomato spotted wilt virus, which our lab uses as a model
system for studying viral adaptation to multiple hosts
(see here). This may include assisting in eld surveys
of TSWV genomic diversity and quantifying the tness
of individual viral genotypes on a panel of crops and
native plants. By combining the newly developed phy-
lodynamic methods with empirical measures of viral
tness on dierent hosts, we will be able explore how
tness tradeos evolve over time and shape the host
range of an extraordinary RNA virus.
The successful applicant can also build their mentor-
ing skills by co-supervising an undergraduate led meta-
analysis aimed at synthesizing current literature on how
tness tradeos shape viral host range more broadly in
plant, animal and human viruses. Applicants interested
in gaining teaching experience may also help develop
educational materials for teaching genomic epidemiol-
ogy and phylodynamics in a new series of international
workshops.
Applicants must hold a PhD in biology or a related eld.
Candidates with strong programming and bioinformatics
skills will be given the highest consideration. Previous
molecular and virology lab experience are highly sought,
but not essential. Most importantly, the candidate must
possess strong problem-solving skills and a record of
self-directed, innovative research.
Initial appointment is for one year, but position will be
renewable for up to two years. Start date would ideally
be Summer 2022.
Please apply using the link below and include a CV, a
brief cover letter describing research interests, a writing
sample (e.g. rst author publication) , and the contact
info for two references. Submission of a code sample
written by the applicant is also strongly encouraged.
Application deadline: April 1st, 2022.
https://jobs.ncsu.edu/postings/156720 David Ras-
mussen Assistant Professor Dept. of Entomology and
Plant Pathology Bioinformatics Research Center North
Carolina State University Ricks Hall 312 1 Lampe Dr,
Raleigh, NC 27607
David Rasmussen <drasmus@ncsu.edu >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 89
NortheasternU Boston
CoralGenomics
The Vollmer lab at Northeastern University (Boston,
MA) is looking for a postdoc to join our NSF-funded
project associating genomic variants with coral disease
resistance. Ideal candidates will have a strong back-
ground in computational genomics. The position is
available immediately with an ideal start date before
May 1, 2022.
A link the posted position and applica-
tion portal is available here: https://-
northeastern.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-
US/careers/details/Postdoctoral-Research-
Associate R102482?q=postdoc If you are interested
in the position, please reach out to me (Steve Vollmer)
directly at s.vollmer@northeastern.edu, and apply via
the online portal.
Steve Vollmer Associate Professor, Department of Ma-
rine and Environmental Sciences Northeastern Univer-
sity, 430 Nahant Road, Nahant, MA 01908 Research
Associate, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Steve Vollmer <steve.vollmer@gmail.com >
OregonStateU
GenomicsEpigenomics
Reposting: Postdoctoral Scholar Position
*Genomic and epigenomic monitoring of endangered
whales and dolphins*
The Marine Mammal Institute of Oregon State Univer-
sity invites applications for a full-time (1.00 FTE), 12-
month, xed-term Postdoctoral Scholar position. Reap-
pointment is conditional on funding and at the dis-
cretion of the Principal Investigator. The successful
candidate will contribute to ongoing projects investi-
gating genomic diversity and population dynamics of
endangered whales and dolphins. This will require appli-
cation of bioinformatic pipelines and statistical analyses
to next-generation sequencing for genomics and to a cus-
tom methylation array for epigenomics. The long-termobjective is to integrate genomic diversity, kinship and
age structure into population dynamic models for Cook
Inlet beluga whales and New Zealand endemic M^ aui
dolphins.
The position is located at the Hateld Marine Science
Center in Newport, Oregon, where the Scholar will work
with Scott Baker in the Cetacean Conservation and Ge-
nomic Laboratory, and remotely with collaborators Paul
Wade (NOAA) and Rochelle Constantine (University of
Auckland, New Zealand).
Required qualications include a PhD in biological sci-
ences (genetics, ecology or evolution), with an empha-
sis in genomics, bioinformatics, statistics or popula-
tion modeling, and a demonstrated publication record.
The PhD must have been awarded within the last
ve years. Preferred qualications include experience
with programming (Python and R) and management
of large datasets typical of next-generation sequencing
and methylation arrays. An appreciation of collabora-
tive, interdisciplinary research and a commitment to
diversity, equity and inclusion is expected.
The minimum stipend for a candidate with no prior
postdoctoral experience is $53,760/year with annual
increments for experience following NIH guidelines.
Starting date is approximately March 15, 2022 (nego-
tiable).
For the full announcement and instructions for applica-
tion, see http://gradschool.oregonstate.edu/postdocs/-
open-positions For further information, contact Scott
Baker by email, using the subject 'Whale genomic post-
doc information' email: scott.baker@oregonstate.edu
From: C. Scott Baker Associate Director, Marine
Mammal Institute Professor, Department of Fisheries,
Wildlife and Conservation Sciences Hateld Marine Sci-
ence Center Oregon State University 2030 SE Marine
Science Drive Newport OR 97365
Mobile 541-272-0560 email:
scott.baker@oregonstate.edu http://-
mmi.oregonstate.edu/ Anjanette Baker
<theaga@theaga.org >
Poitiers France
TickBacteriaSymbiosis
A two-year position as a postdoctoral researcher at the
Ecology and Biology of Interactions laboratory of the90 EvolDir March 1, 2022
University of Poitiers (France) <https://ebi.labo.univ-
poitiers.fr/ >
24 months position, open from April 2022 or as soon as
possible thereafter.
How does mutualism with microbes emerge? How this
process favored the appearance and evolutionary ra-
diation of animal lineages whose nutrition is highly
specialized? Why are these mutualistic systems not
evolutionary stable? Through an innovative experimen-
tal approach using tick cell lines, we are looking for a
highly motivated and talented post-doc to work on these
fundamental questions.
Context: Mutualism with microbes is one of the keys
to the origins of complex life on Earth (Wernegreen,
2012; Bennett et al, 2015). In many cases, the host
and its benecial microbes merge into a single, coherent
symbiotic entity so that these mutualistic relationships
are considered stable associations over extremely long
periods. Yet recent evidence of gains and losses of mutu-
alistic symbionts suggests that the stability of benecial
mutualistic relationships is only apparent (Bennett et
al, 2015; McCutcheon et al, 2019). However, the mecha-
nisms favouring the extinction of ancestral, coevolved,
symbionts and their ultimate replacement by foreign,
less-coevolved, symbionts remain poorly understood. In
this context, our objective is to identify the evolutionary
mechanisms that drive extinction and reborn of mutu-
alistic interactions using ticks (Ixodida, Acari) as ideal
biological models to address this question. Ticks host
nutritional symbionts that are essential for their growth
and survival, but the origin of these symbionts varies
considerably between host species and substitution of
benecial symbionts can occur (Gottlieb et al, 2015;
Duron et al, 2018; Guizzo et al, 2017; Duron et al, 2017;
Binetruy et al, 2020).
Members of our consortium have demonstrated that
Francisella sp. (Gamma-proteobacteria: Thiotrichales:
Francisellaceae) is an obligatory symbiont for ticks by
providing them with B vitamins (Duron et al, 2018).
Surprisingly, from a large screening, most tick species
harbour a dierent intracellular symbiont, Coxiella sp.
(Gamma-proteobacteria: Legionellales:Coxiellaceae),
which is also able to synthetize B vitamins (Duron et
al, 2017; Binetruy et al, 2020). Overall, these works
show repeated replacements of Coxiella by Francisella
across the tick phylogeny (Duron et al, 2017; Binetruy
et al, 2020) but the factors favouring one nutritional
mutualist, over another, are not yet understood.
Post-doc project: The position is associated with the
ANR-funded collaborative project MICROM \Micro-
bial competition in mutualistic interactions with ticks".
The MICROM consortium, led by Olivier Duron, in-volves three teams (O. Duron MIVEGEC, Montpellier,
F. Vavre LBBE, Lyon and D. Bouchon EBI, Poitiers)
with excellent expertise in the eld of endosymbiosis.
MICROM aims at deciphering the competition between
Francisella and Coxiella symbionts using dierent ap-
proaches from genomics, transcriptomics, in vivo and in
vitro imaging. The recruited post-doc will participate
in this innovative program with a particular focus on
in vitro experiments assessing the competitive abilities
of the two benecial symbionts. The post-doc will be
responsible for monitoring tick cell lines, performing
infection and co-infection and characterising the cellular
phenotypes. Methods include RT-qPCR, dual-RNAseq,
FISH combined with electron microscopy.
Teams, lab and location: The post-doc will be part of
the Ecology, Evolution & Symbiosis team of the EBI
laboratory in Poitiers, which has a long experience in re-
search on symbiosis. The post-doc will have access to the
funding and infrastructures needed for this project, in a
stimulating scientic environment. Regular exchanges
and mobility are planned with the various project part-
ners as well as with external collaborators such as the
Tick Cell BioBank in Liverpool.
Remuneration will be between euro 2,663 and euro 3,789
gross per month depending on experience.
Relevant expertise: We are looking for an autonomous
and highly motivated candidate with a genuine interest
in symbiosis research with expertise in the following
areas: - Cell culture - Molecular biology - Imaging
approaches, cellular biology, histology. Experience in
electron microscopy is a plus. - Interested in acquir-
ing expertise in experimentation with arthropods: care,
injection, dissection - Expertise in genomics and bioin-
formatics is a plus
Application: The application form should be submitted
on the CNRS job portal by following this link: https://-
bit.ly/3LKQBsk Please send also your application: CV
including publication list
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 91
QueenMaryU London
EvolutionSymbiosis
Evolution of symbiosis -Host immunity manipulation as
an adaptation for symbiosis
A Postdoctoral Research Assistant position is available
at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) in Dr
Lee Henry???s group to investigating ???Host immu-
nity manipulation as an adaptation for symbiosis???.
This is a BBSRC-NSF/BIO funded project that aims
tounderstand how host immune systems are modied,
or manipulated, to recognise and host benecial mi-
crobes, while still resisting harmful pathogens. The
project involves state-of-the-art techniques in genomics
and molecular biology (e.g. RNAi, CRISPR), and exper-
imentally manipulations of herbivorous insects (aphids)
and their symbionts.
We have shown that hosting benecial microbes results
in a sharp decrease in the expression of key immune
genes in aphids. In this project, the successful applicant
will answer the questions: do symbionts manipulate
host immune systems to establish in hosts, or have hosts
evolved a modied immune response to facilitate symbio-
sis? and do host???s trade-o in their ability to harbour
benecial symbionts and resist pathogens?
An ideal candidate should have a PhD (or be close to
completion) in Evolutionary Biology, Genomics, Genet-
ics or a related eld. They should provide evidence
of expertise in lab skills in molecular biology. Alter-
natively, if candidates are more data-analysis oriented,
they should provide evidence of programming skills and
should be procient in transcriptome or genome anal-
yses. A proven track record of published research is
essential. Self-motivation, an ability to work as part of
a team and an interest in new research questions will
be fundamental to the position.
Queen Mary is one of the top research-led universities
in the UK and was ranked 9thamong the UK multi-
faculty universities in the Research Excellence Frame-
work (REF 2014). All postdoctoral researchers are part
of the QMUL Doctoral College, which provides sup-
port with high-quality training and career development
activities.
The post is full-time and available until 28thFebruary
2025. The start date would be 1thMay 2022 or as soonas possible thereafter. The salary is in Grade 4, in the
range of ??33,824 - ??34,733 per annum, inclusive of
London allowance.
We oer access to a generous pension scheme, 30 days???
leave per annum (pro-rata for xed-term), season ticket
loan scheme and access to a comprehensive range of
personal and professionaldevelopment opportunities.In
addition, weoer a range of work life balance and family
friendly, inclusive employment policies, exible working
arrangements, and campus facilities including an on-site
nursery at the Mile End campus.
For information on what we do, please visit our lab web-
site: https://www.henry-lab.co.uk/ Before applying,
please contact Dr. Lee Henry (l.henry@qmul.ac.uk).
To apply, please go to the website below:
https://www.qmul.ac.uk/jobs/vacancies/items/-
6709.html The closing date for applications is March
22nd, 2022.Interviews will be held shortly thereafter.
Lee Henry Senior Lecturer Queen Mary University of
London School of Biological and Chemical sciences Mile
End Rd London E1 4NS
https://www.henry-lab.co.uk/ Lee Henry
<l.henry@qmul.ac.uk >
QueensU Canada
MolecularEvolution
Postdoctoral researcher in molecular ecology/evolution
$40K-$70K/year (Canadian); Flexible Start Date
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher with experi-
ence in molecular ecology/evolution, broadly dened.
The successful candidate will join a diverse and inclusive
group of researchers representing a wide variety of career
stages and disciplines (natural sciences/engineering +
social science + humanities + biomedical science). As
a successful candidate, you will develop an independent
research program with the option to gain undergradu-
ate/graduate teaching experience and to lead or con-
tribute to projects in one of the research foci summarized
on our website: EcoEvoGeno.org
We encourage applications from candidates with exper-
tise in ANY of the following (we do not expect candi-
dates to have expertise in more than one of these): - In-
ferring natural selection and rates of molecular evolution
from sequence data - Comparative genomics - Popula-92 EvolDir March 1, 2022
tion genetics/genomics - Applying bioinformatics tools
to analyze Illumina and/or Nanopore sequencing data
- Programming in R or Python - Data science / Data
management - Quantitative biology - High-performance
computing (e.g. SLURM, SGE) - Reproducible/Open
Science - Biological Invasions - Ticks and tick-borne
diseases - SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19
This position can include exible hours and remote work
due to COVID restrictions or other personal consider-
ations. The position is based in the Colautti Lab at
Queen's University with opportunities to interact with
collaborators in other academic units at Queen's Uni-
versity (e.g. Biomedical-based departments, Kingston
Health Sciences Centre) and at other universities across
Canada and globally.
To maintain a diverse and inclusive group of researchers
dedicated to improving representation in STEM re-
search, we encourage applicants to include altmetrics
(e.g. downloads, tweets, pull requests, media coverage)
and other non-traditional evidence of research potential.
This can include an (optional) statement on commitment
to diversity, equity and inclusion, or other considera-
tions.
Interested applications should include CV, referee con-
tact information, and a cover letter outlining aligned
research interests and relevant experience to: Robert
[dot] Colautti@queensu.ca
Robert Colautti <robert.colautti@queensu.ca >
RockefellerU EvolutionaryGenomics
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the Lab-
oratory of Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics (Zhao
Lab) at Rockefeller University.
The project will involve single-cell RNA-seq, genomic,
transgenic, and transcriptomic experiments and analy-
sis, in order to understand the evolution and molecular
genetics of newly evolved genes and other genetic inno-
vations. We also have multiple other projects related
to immune-related micropeptides. The ideal candidate
for the position will have a strong background in com-
putational biology, as well as interests in evolutionary
genomics, functional genetics, or population genetics. A
Drosophila or human evolutionary biology background
is highly desirable but not required. Candidates who
have a strong background in Drosophila functional ge-
netics and behavior are also encouraged to contact LiZhao for possible opportunities.
The Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics at Rockefeller
University is located in the Upper East Side of Man-
hattan in New York City. We work on a number of
projects on genome evolution, gene evolution, gene func-
tion, and the genetic basis of local adaptation. Details
please see https://zhaolab.rockefeller.edu. Rockefeller
University supports a vibrant research community in
insect and human genetics and genomics and creates
a multidisciplinary research atmosphere for studying
fundamental biological questions. We provide state-of-
the-art resources and competitive salaries. Applications
will be accepted until the position is lled.
To apply, please send your CV, a description of your
research background and interests, and contact in-
formation for two to three references to Li Zhao at
lzhao@rockefeller.edu.
Li Zhao <lzhao@mail.rockefeller.edu >
SGN Frankfurt WildlidfeGenomics
Job Announcement Ref. #12-22001
The LOEWE Center for Translational Biodiversity Ge-
nomics (LOEWE-TBG, https://tbg.senckenberg.de/)
aims at making the genomic basis of biological diver-
sity accessible for basic and applied research. Building
on genome sequencing and analysis, LOEWE-TBG re-
search topics range from comparative genomics, natural
products genomics, and genomic biomonitoring to func-
tional environmental genomics. LOEWE-TBG is based
in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, and is a joint venture of
the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN),
Goethe-University Frankfurt, Justus-Liebig-University
Giessen and Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology
and Applied Ecology.
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fu Ir Naturforschung and
the LOEWE-TBG invite applications for a
PostDoc (m/f/d) Position
Genomic Wildlife Monitoring/ Population Genomics of
European Mammals
(full time, 3 years)
Your tasks
(Re-)Sequencing, assembly, and annotation of genomes
from recolonizing (e.g., wolf, lynx, beaver) and invasive
(e.g., raccoon, raccoon dog, mink) European mammals-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 93
Analyses of large population genomic data sets to study
population structure, dispersal, gene-ow and rapid
adaptive evolution in mammals expanding in anthro-
pogenic environmentsCoordinating research and com-
munication within a large network of international sci-
entistsPublication of results in high-prole international
journals Your prole
PhD in Biology, Genetics, Bioinformatics or a related
subjectExperience with analyzing genome data and pop-
ulation genomic analysisExceptional interest in wildlife
biology and population genomicsTeamwork oriented and
excellent communication skills with prociency in writ-
ten and oral English What is awaiting you?
An interesting task in a dynamic team of researchers
within an international research group and joining the
new LOEWE TBG excellence centre with its 20 new
research groupsThe possibility to create a network with
scientists in interdisciplinary elds in translational bio-
diversity genomicsFlexible working hours - dual career
service - leave of absence due to family reasons (audit
\berufundfamilie") - parent-child- oce - annual spe-
cial payment - company pension scheme - Senckenberg
badge for free entry in museums in Frankfurt - leave of
30 days/year
Place of employment: Gelnhausen
Working hours: full time (40 hours/week)
Type of contract: The contract shall start as soon as
possible and is initially limited for 3 years
Salary and benets: according to the collective agree-
ment of the State of Hesse (pay grade E13)
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fu Ir Naturforschung sup-
ports equal opportunity of men and women and there-
fore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qualied
handicapped applicants will be given preference. The
employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fu Ir Natur-
forschung.
How to apply
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job oer (ref.#12-22001), by e-mail to recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de. The application should include a
brief cover letter detailing your research interests and
experience (1 page), a CV with publication list, and
copies of your certicates, transcripts and grades.
The application deadline is March 15th, 2022.
For scientic information please contact Dr. Carsten
Nowak, carsten.nowak@senckenberg.de (recolonizing
mammals, large carnivores, conservation genomics);
see also \Genomic Biomonitoring" at https://-
tbg.senckenberg.de . Thank you for your considerationand interest! We look forward to your application.
Mit freundlichen Gr uen / Yours sincerely
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.
Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a  c 22 BGB)
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-21, 60325 Frankfurt
am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1319 Elsen, Carina
Team Personalbeschaung (Recruiting)
- 1564 di-Biase, Maria
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
Fax : 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1445
Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de Direktorium: Prof. Dr.
Klement Tockner, Prof. Dr. Andreas Mulch, Dr. Mar-
tin Mittelbach, Prof. Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese, Prof.
Dr. Karsten Wesche
Pr asidentin: Dr. h. c. Beate Heraeus
Aufsichtsbeh orde: Magistrat der Stadt Frankfurt am
Main (Ordnungsamt)
Mitglied der Leibniz-Gemeinschaft
Vernetzen Sie sich mit uns: www.senckenberg.de/-
socialmedia \recruiting@senckenberg.de"
<recruiting@senckenberg.de > \recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de" <recruiting@senckenberg.de >
UArkansas
EvolutionaryBehavioralGenomics
DeadlineExt
Postdoctoral Fellow in Evolutionary Behavioral Ge-
nomics at The University of Arkansas-submission ex-
tended due to weather!94 EvolDir March 1, 2022
The Westerman Lab at the University of Arkansas is
seeking a creative and motivated Postdoctoral Fellow
to investigate the evolutionary genetics and neuroge-
nomics of mate preference plasticity in butteries, to
begin as soon as late Spring/Early Summer 2022. The
Westerman Lab studies mechanisms underlying behav-
ioral diversity and plasticity, with a focus on sensory
system development and visual learning in butteries.
Current research topics include the role of genetics and
social environment in mate preference development and
evolution, behavioral and developmental plasticity, and
sensory biases. The lab is an integrative animal behavior
group, and integrates a wide range of techniques, includ-
ing, but not limited to, genomics, transcriptomics, gene
editing, controlled laboratory experiments, electrophys-
iology, and eld ecology. Research incorporates both
tropical butteries and those native to Northwestern
Arkansas, and takes advantage of multiple species-rich
eld sites within a 30-minute drive of campus. For
more information, please visit the lab website at http:/-
/www.ericawesterman.org . The successful candidate
will be expected to work in close collaboration with
Dr. Westerman on a gene editing and comparative evo-
lutionary behavioral genomics project identifying the
neurogenomics underlying visual mate preference learn-
ing, as well as to develop an independent research project
within the scope of the lab. In addition, the successful
candidate will be expected to collaborate with fellow lab
members, and will have the opportunity to mentor un-
dergraduate and graduate students. Dr. Westerman has
collaborations within the Biology Department, as well as
with faculty in both the Entomology and Plant Pathol-
ogy Department and the Physics Department at UARK,
and is part of a university-wide UA Integrative Systems
Neuroscience group (https://brainresearch.uark.edu/).
Postdocs in the lab will have the opportunity to work
across discipline, and will be encouraged to initiate and
develop innovative collaborative projects.
This technically integrative lab embraces creative ap-
proaches to studying animal behavior. Candidates with
a strong background in genomics, gene editing, neuro-
biology, and evolutionary development are particularly
encouraged to apply.
Funding is currently available to support this position
for two years, with the possibility for extension depend-
ing on funding and project progress.
Minimum Qualications:
Ph.D. in biological sciences or a related eld conferred
by the start of employmentDemonstrated expertise in
genomics, bioinformatics, gene editing, neurobiology,
or evolutionary developmental biology techniquesExpe-
rience with either multivariate statistics or statisticalanalysis of genomic dataDemonstrated evidence of ex-
cellent writing skills
Preferred Qualications:
Experience using CRISPR/Cas9Experience in animal
behavior experimental designExperience in live animal
husbandryExperience in microscopy
For a complete position announcement and information
regarding how to apply, visit:
https://uasys.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/UASYS/-
job/Fayetteville/Post-Doctoral-Fellow|12-
MONTH R0008203 Applicants must submit a
cover letter/letter of application, curriculum vitae, and
a two-page description of research accomplishments and
future plans uploaded to the 'Other Document' link. A
list of three professional references (name, title, email
address, and contact number) willing to provide letters
of reference will be requested during the application
process.
Applications received by February 9th, 2022 will be
given priority, though the position will remain open
until lled.
For more information, please contact:
Dr. Erica Westerman
Assistant Professor
Department of Biological Sciences
University of Arkansas
ewesterm@uark.edu
The University of Arkansas is an equal opportunity,
armative action institution.The university welcomes
applications without regard to age, race/color, gender
includingpregnancy),national origin, disability, religion,
marital or parental status, protected veteran status,
military service,genetic information, sexual orientation
or gender identity. Persons must have proof of legal
authority to work in the United States on the rst day
of employment. All applicant information is subject
to public disclosure under the Arkansas Freedom of
Information Act.
Erica L. Westerman, PhD (she/her/hers)
Assistant Professor Department of Biological Sciences
University of Arkansas Science & Engineering, Room
416 Fayetteville, AR 72701 ewesterm@uark.edu
http://www.ericawesterman.org
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 95
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia Irvine
TransposableElementEvol
Postdoctoral Fellow in Evolutionary Genomics Lab
The Lee lab at the University of California, Irvine is
seeking an independent and motivated postdoctoral fel-
low to study how transposable elements shape genome
function and evolution through epigenetic mechanisms.
Toward this end, we combine population genomics, func-
tional genomics, computational biology, and cell biology.
The postdoctoral fellow will focus on the impacts of
transposable elements on 3D genome organization, and
how the associated functional consequences contribute
to genome evolution. Candidates will ideally have inter-
ests relevant to these topics, and will have opportunities
to pursue their own research interests in evolutionary
genetics/epigenetics.
The lab is committed to individual mentoring and will
provide opportunities for career and skill development.
We will also provide resources for attending scientic
seminars and conferences. Our lab is part of the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (https://-
ecoevo.bio.uci.edu/), the Center for Evolutionary Genet-
ics (https://evogen.bio.uci.edu/), and Center for Com-
plex Biological Systems (https://ccbs.uci.edu/), which
is a vibrant multi-disciplinary center. More information
about our research interests can be found at http://-
grylee.science/ The position is NIH-funded and has full
benets. Salary will depend on candidate experience.
The start date is exible and can be as early as May
2022. The position will remain open until lled.
The successful candidates will have a Ph.D. in the fol-
lowing or related elds: evolutionary genetics, genet-
ics, genomics, epigenetics, cell biology, bioinformatics
or computational biology. We are currently looking
for candidates who (1) have extensive experience with
-omics data and strong quantitative skills or (2) have ex-
tensive experience with epigenomics/cell biology. Good
organizational and writing skills are also required. We
particularly encourage applications from candidates who
have recently completed, or will soon complete, their
Ph.D. Please contact Grace Lee (grylee@uci.edu) for
any questions. Informal inquiries are welcome.
To apply go to the following recruitment URL and up-
load the information below: https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/-JPF07081 The University of California, Irvine is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action Employer ad-
vancing inclusive excellence. All qualied applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender iden-
tity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran
status, or other protected categories covered by the UC
nondiscrimination policy.
Grace Yuh Chwen Lee <grylee@uci.edu >
UCambridge EvolutionaryGenomics
A Research Associate post is available in the Morpho-
logical Evolution Research Group to be supervised by
Em >1
2lia Santos (Department of Zoology) in collabora-
tion with Richard Durbin (Department of Genetics) at
the University of Cambridge. The start date is 7 March
2022 or as soon as possible thereafter.
The successful candidate will join a vibrant and inter-
disciplinary research environment with an excellent inter-
national reputation. They will work as a key member of
our research team investigating the genetic mechanisms
underlying organismal diversication. More specically,
the candidate will investigate the genetic basis underly-
ing variation in a sexually selected pigmentation trait
within and between species of cichlid shes. The can-
didate will use pre-existing genomic and phenotypic
datasets to perform genotype-phenotype associations
and genomic scans.
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with a
strong interest in evolutionary genetics and population
genomics. The Department of Zoology has a strong Evo-
lutionary Genetics background, with researchers working
in a variety of dierent organisms. Furthermore, the
Research Associate will work in close collaboration with
other groups in Cambridge working on cichlid popula-
tion genomics. The funds for this post are available
for twelve months with the opportunity to be extended
depending on our joint success in funding applications.
Application link with further information: https://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/33247/ Application closing
date: 20.02.2022
Please do not hesitate to contact me for more informa-
tion.
All the best,
Em >1
2lia96 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Emilia Santos <emilia.p.santos@gmail.com >Emilia
Santos <emilia.p.santos@gmail.com >
UCL London 3
GenomicsSexualAntagonism
Three postdoc positions: genetics and genomics of sex-
ual antagonism in fruit ies
Max Reuter and Aida Andr >1
2s groups, University Col-
lege London
We are hiring three postdocs to work with us on an am-
bitious and inter-disciplinary project on the genetics and
genomics of sexual antagonism in Drosophila, funded
by awards from the Leverhulme Trust and the Biotech-
nology and Biological Sciences Research Council. The
project aims to 1) identify high-condence sexually an-
tagonistic loci in the genome of Drosophila melanogaster,
2) functionally characterise and experimentally validate
such loci, 3) estimate their antagonistic tness eects in
wild populations and 4) infer the evolutionary history
of antagonistic variants and assess their contribution
to standing genetic and phenotypic variation in popula-
tions. The project integrates experimental approaches
(experimental evolution, tness and phenotypic assays,
CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing) and computational pop-
ulation genomics (Approximate Bayesian Computation
and/or Machine Learning). Thanks to the scale and
complexity of the research programme, the project oers
opportunities for each team member to lead particular
aspects of the work (and resulting publications) and has
scope for further directions developed by each postdoc.
We are seeking three highly motivated individuals with
complementary skills (see the job description and per-
son specication linked below) to become part of this
highly collaborative team. The postdocs will be embed-
ded within the groups of both Max Reuter and Aida
Andr >1
2s at UCL and work in collaboration with Alistair
McGregor at Durham University. Additional funding
through a BBSRC Australia Partnering Award will also
make it possible to collaborate with the research group
of Tim Connallon at Monash University (Melbourne,
Australia).
Work in Max Reuter's group (http://-
www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ~ ucbtmre/Labsite/-
Home.html) aims to understand the interplay between
the genetic architecture of traits and their evolution.
Approaches used include experimental work in fruit iesand yeast, genomic approaches and theory. We recently
published a genome-wide analysis of sexually antago-
nistic loci in Drosophila (Ruzicka et al. 2019, PLoS
Biology), from which this project follows on. Work in
Aida Andr >1
2s's group (https://wp.cs.ucl.ac.uk/evol-
genome/) uses computational and population genetics
to identify the signatures that natural selection leaves
in genomes. We work on local adaptation (eg Key et al.,
PLoS Genetics 2018) and balancing selection, where we
develop methods to identify its genetic signatures and
analyse genomes to identify loci harbouring balanced
polymorphisms (Bitarello et al., 2018, GBE).
Our groups are based in the Research Department
of Genetics, Evolution and Environment (https://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/biosciences/gee), home to a vibrant re-
search community spanning the elds of evolutionary
genetics and genomics, phylogenetics, human genetics,
evo-devo, ageing, and ecology and biodiversity. The
department oers a friendly, interactive and collabo-
rative environment, including a large and supportive
community of early-career researchers. Academic life
is animated by a number of seminar series featuring
international, national and local speakers, as well as
regular social events (such as weekly coee mornings)
that oer opportunities for informal interactions.
Our institution, UCL, is a large university in the cen-
tre of London. It oers a rich and research-focussed
environment, with access to state-of-the-art research
facilities. London is a big and multicultural city with
world-class cultural life, beautiful countryside in easy
reach and (yes, still) excellent transport links to Europe
and the rest of the world.
The positions are available from 1 April 2022 (nego-
tiable) for 36 months (two posts) and 30 months (one
post). Further details, including the job description
and person specication and a link to application sys-
tem, are available on the UCL HR website (http://-
tinyurl.com/UCLAntagonismPostdocs). The deadline
for applications is 14 March 2022.
For informal enquiries about the posts please con-
tact Max Reuter at m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk and/or Aida
Andr >1
2s at a.andres@ucl.ac.uk.
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London Darwin Building Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT, UK
Phone: +44-20-76792201 (internal 32201)
Lab: http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ~ucbtmre/-
Labsite/March 1, 2022 EvolDir 97
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEdinburgh
EvolutionaryMicrobiology
Postdoctoral Research Associate in evolutionary micro-
biology
School of Biological Sciences, University of Edinburgh
Fixed-Term Contract (01/07/2022 - 31/07/2024)
Application deadline: 14 March
Full description and link to apply: https:/-
/elxw.fa.em3.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/-
CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX 1001/job/3340
Brief description:
A postdoctoral research position is available in the lab
of Dr. Helen Alexander (Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology, University of Edinburgh). We are looking for a
researcher interested in microbial ecology and evolution,
for a wet lab-based role. Applicants should have (or
be near completion of) a PhD in evolutionary biology,
microbiology, or a related eld.
The project will focus on evolution of antibiotic resis-
tance in bacterial populations, using in vitro experi-
ments (primarily with Pseudomonas aeruginosa). We
aim to investigate how bacterial density (which inu-
ences competition and collective antibiotic tolerance)
and antibiotic dosing (i.e. concentration and timing)
impact initial emergence of resistance.
The successful applicant will join an interdisciplinary
research group, that applies both theoretical and ex-
perimental methods to a variety of topics in microbial
evolution and infectious disease dynamics. The post-
holder will be expected to work with a high degree of
independence in day-to-day lab work, and encouraged to
contribute their own ideas to the project direction. They
will be supported in career development and conference
attendance (funding available).
For more information about our research, please visit
https://www.ed.ac.uk/biology/groups/alexander Infor-
mal enquiries about the position may be directed to
helen.alexander@ed.ac.ukThe University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, regis-
tered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
Is e buidheann carthannais a th' ann an Oilthigh Dh ~A1n
~Aideann, cl araichte an Alba,  aireamh cl araidh SC005336.
ALEXANDER Helen <Helen.Alexander@ed.ac.uk >
UExeter EvolutionaryGenomics
The Fraser lab is looking to recruit a 1 year postdoc to
join our work on the genomic basis of convergent evolu-
tion in the Trinidadian Guppy. The successful applicant
will primarily lead on the quantitative genetics aim of
the grant.
The position will involve processing and analysing the
phenotypic and genomic data for quantitative genetics
breeding crosses already in-hand. Therefore, the appli-
cant should have experience and/or keen interests in
quantitative genetics, bioinformatics, and evolutionary
biology.
Application closing date: 14/03/2022 Start Date:
1/06/2022 Salary: The starting salary will be from
 >1
236,382 up to  >1
243,434 on Grade F, depending on
qualications and experience. Location: Exeter, Devon,
UK
Application link: https://jobs.exeter.ac.uk/-
hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/run/-
ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID=-
355889YYcB&WVID=3817591jNg&LANG=USA
Please do not hesitate to contact me (Bonnie Fraser)
for more information at b.fraser@exeter.ac.uk
Google scholar page: https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=ZsXGWJQAAAAJ&hl=en \Fraser,
Bonnie" <B.Fraser@exeter.ac.uk >
UFlorida DoliolidEvoDevo
Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience University
of Florida
A postdoctoral research position is currently available
in the laboratory of Joseph Ryan, Ph.D. at the Whit-
ney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience in St. Augus-
tine Florida. The postdoc would work on comparative98 EvolDir March 1, 2022
analyses of heart development in the pelagic tunicate
Dolioletta gegenbauri and the primary model tunicate
species, Ciona intestinalis. The work is computational
and includes comparative transcriptomics.
This is a 9-month position with the possibility of renewal.
The position is available immediately. Remote work is a
possibility. Diversity of background, experience, culture,
race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, ability, and more are
highly valued in the Ryan Lab.
Please apply here: http://ryanlab.whitney.u.edu/-
hiring/doliolid postdoc/ For more information on the
Ryan Laboratory see: http://ryanlab.whitney.u.edu/
Send questions to: joseph.ryan@whitney.u.edu
\Ryan,Joseph" <joseph.ryan@whitney.u.edu >
UGoettingen ExperimentalEvolution
The Division of Plant Breeding Methodology at the
University of G ottingen is looking for a productive sci-
entist to perform experimental evolution and genomic
prediction studies with maize. The full job description
and application information is available here:
https://www.uni-goettingen.de/en/656456.html Inter-
ested applicants may contact Tim Beissinger with any
questions: beissinger@gwdg.de
The Division of Plant Breeding Methodology is a highly
international group working on a wide array of agricul-
tural plant species. We are closely linked to G ottingen's
Center for Integrated Breeding Research (CiBreed),
which includes scientists interested in all branches of
plant/tree/animal breeding and genetics.
G ottingen is a beautiful university city in central Ger-
many with a long-standing academic tradition.
Prof. Tim Beissinger Chair of Plant Breeding Method-
ology, Department of Crop Science Managing Director,
Center for Integrated Breeding Research University of
G ottingen Carl-Sprengel-Weg 1, 37075 G ottingen Of-
ce phone:+49 551 39 24369; Home oce: +49 1516
5268591 Email: beissinger@gwdg.de Web: www.uni-
goettingen.de/plantbreeding \Beissinger, Timothy
Mathes" <beissinger@gwdg.de >UKiel ComputationMolEvol
Postdoctoral Position (m/f/*) in computational molec-
ular evolution or bioinformatics
Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology (IKMB), Uni-
versity of Kiel, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein,
Kiel, Germany
The Ancient DNA Group at the IKMB focuses on the
evolutionary history of human infectious diseases as
studied through ancient biomolecules in archaeological
remains. The successful applicant will be responsible for
investigating human-pathogen-interactions over the last
10,000 years by reconstructing and analyzing human
and pathogen genomes from ancient DNA sequences.
Start in our team We are looking for professional and
competent support to start as soon as possible, limited
for 3 years. The initial contract can be extended de-
pendent on a successful track record. The project will
employ next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies
to investigate the impact of ancient epidemics on the
past and present-day human gene pool.
What we oer: The salary will be based on the German
E 13 TV-L scale, if terms and conditions under collec-
tive bargaining law are fullled. Full-time employment,
currently 38.5 hours/ week. Part-time employment may
be compatible within the framework of certain working
time models. Many employee discounts on various on-
line platforms and with various companies. University
sports and tness at a company rate as a balance to
work.
Your skills and qualications: We are looking for a
highly motivated candidate with a Ph.D. in bioinfor-
matics, complex disease genetics, evolutionary genetics,
or a related eld. A strong background in bioinformat-
ics including experience with the analysis of NGS data.
A strong interest in or already existing expertise with
ancient DNA is advantageous. Additional expertise
in molecular evolution and genetic statistics is a plus.
A strong publication record, an excellent command of
English (especially in paper writing) and very good com-
munication skills are required. You will interact with
bioinformaticians, biologists as well as archeologists. In-
terest in archaeological and anthropological topics is
expected.
Please submit your application until 21st February 2022,
indicating the reference number 12751, by email toMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 99
Prof. Dr. Ben Krause-Kyora (b.krause-kyora@ikmb.uni-
kiel.de).
Additional Information: Prof. Dr. Ben Krause-Kyora,
Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology at the University
Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, b.krause-
kyora@ikmb.uni-kiel.de.
a.nebel@mucosa.de
ULB Belgium
ViralLandscapePhylogeography
Postdoctoral position in Viral Landscape Phylogeogra-
phy University of Brussels (ULB), Belgium Start date:
as soon as possible (and no latter than the 1st of July,
2022) Application date: 30 January 2022
A 2-year post-doc position is open at the Spa-
tial Epidemiology Lab (SpELL) of the University
of Brussels (ULB) to work on landscape phylo-
geographic approaches (https://spell.ulb.be/subject/-
landscape-phylogeography). The position is available
immediately and should start no later than July 1, 2022.
The researcher will work on a research project funded
by an Incentive Grant for Scientic Research awarded
by the Fonds de la Recherche Scientique (FNRS, Bel-
gium).
The ght against high-impact viral diseases would ben-
et from a better understanding of the drivers of virus
spreads, which could in turn help designing intervention
strategies. There is a need for analytical approaches
allowing to formally test the impact of environmental
(e.g. ecologic, climatic or anthropogenic) factors on the
dispersal of viruses. Recent advances in genomics, math-
ematical modelling and computational biology have led
to evolutionary approaches becoming key methods to in-
vestigate the spread of infectious diseases. In particular,
the development of a spatially-explicit phylogeographic
method has enabled to reconstruct dispersal history of
epidemics on a continuous space, using only a relatively
limited number of viral sequences sampled from known
locations and times. At the Spatial Epidemiology Lab
(University of Brussels, ULB), one of our main research
projects consists in exploiting such spatially-explicit phy-
logeographic to unravel the impact of external factors
on the dispersal history and dynamics of viral spreads.
Specically, we aim to develop, test, compare, apply,
and share novel approaches to analyse the impact of envi-
ronmental factors on the dispersal history and dynamic
of viral lineages.The researcher will work on the development, test, and
application of new methodological approaches to com-
bine phylogeographic inference and analyses of the im-
pact of environmental factors. Once tested with simula-
tion procedures, the best methodologies will be applied
on several case studies associated with notable wildlife
and socio-economic impacts (e.g. West Nile virus, Lassa
virus, avian inuenza viruses, and rabies virus).
The researcher will be aliated and work within the
Spatial Epidemiology Lab (SpELL, http://spell.ulb.be),
which has a recognised expertise in spatial and molecular
epidemiology. Globally, the Spatial Epidemiology Lab
aims to study the eect of spatial factors on the emer-
gence, spread, persistence and evolution of diseases, as
well as invasive species. The understanding of key spatial
factors, such as environmental or anthropogenic vari-
ables, and their integration into spatial models is used to
predict the geographical distribution of risk, which can
contribute to better targeted prevention, surveillance
and control measures.
The candidate should hold a Ph.D. in evolution-
ary biology, molecular epidemiology or phylogeogra-
phy/population genetics, should have a strong interest
in epidemiology and ecology, and should have demon-
strated computational, communication and writing skills
(English). Knowledge and use of the programming lan-
guage R is required.
Applications should include a cover letter, a curriculum
vitae, PDFs of the three most representative publica-
tions, and a list of three references with e-mail contact
information. Applications should be submitted as soon
as possible.
Contact. Dr Simon Dellicour (simon.dellicour@ulb.be)
DELLICOUR Simon <Simon.Dellicour@ulb.be >
UMainz EvolutionaryEcology
The Institute of Organismic and Molecular Evolution at
the University of Mainz, Germany, invites applications
for a
Postdoctoral Research Associate
Wissenschaftliche*r Mitarbeiter*in
(salary level TV-L E 13, 100%)
The preferred starting date is June 2022 or at the earliest
possible date. We oer a xed-term full-time position
for 3.5 years.100 EvolDir March 1, 2022
The project aims to investigate how niche choice
aects the evolutionary process of insecticide resistance
and gut microbiota in Colorado potato beetles (Lep-
tinotarsa decemlineata, CPB), using an integrative
approach that involves experimental evolution, trait
manipulation, metagenomics and individual-based
modelling. As a part of the Collaborative Research
Centre SFB/TRR 212 (https://www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
fakultaeten/biologie/forschung/verbuende/sfb nc3/),
the project will involve intensive collaboration with
consortium partners at the Universities of M >1
2nster
and Bielefeld.
Requirements: We are looking for a highly motivated
researcher with a doctoral degree, or equivalent thereof,
in biology, evolutionary ecology and evolutionary ge-
nomics. The candidate is expected to design, conduct
and organize a large experimental evolution experiment
and analyse genomic data with high degree of inde-
pendence. Applicants must demonstrate experience in
statistics and experimental evolution. Experience with
plant-insect interactions, insect evolutionary ecology
and molecular genetics is preferred. A background in
evolutionary genetics is a plus. Our group consists of
people of various nationalities and teamwork is essen-
tial for all projects in the group. Therefore, excellent
communication skills, as well as prociency in spoken
and written English are expected. Good knowledge in
German is a plus.
Excellent infrastructure and work conditions are avail-
able at the University of Mainz. The working language
of the lab is English. For further information, please
contact shuqing.xu <shuqing.xu@uni-mainz.de >@uni-
mainz.de <shuqing.xu@uni-mainz.de >.
The University of Mainz hosts many excellent scien-
tic institutions (http://www.uni-mainz.de/eng/), and
Mainz is a historic city located on the Rhine River with
many students and a rich social and cultural life.
Applications must be in English and include:
(1) a motivation letter stating the research interests
with reference to the stated requirements in no more
than 2 pages, (2) a detailed CV including academic and
extracurricular achievements, as well as details of all
research experience, (3) an abstract of the PhD thesis,
and (4) contact details of at least two referees.
Applicants should send their documents in one single
PDF le to Prof Shuqing Xu (shuqing.xu@uni-mainz.de)
with a subject line \NC3 Postdoc Position - Your Name".
The application review will commence on 15th March
2022. The position will remain open until lled.
Shuqing XuProf. Dr. Shuqing Xu Group website: https://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/plantadapt/people/-
shuqingxu.shtml University of M >1
2nster / University
of Mainz.
Shuqing Xu <shuqing.xu@uni-muenster.de >
UMainz
EvolutionarySingleCellGenomics
The Institute of Organismic and Molecular Evolution at
the University of Mainz, Germany, invites applications
for a Postdoc position (m/f/d) in evolutionary single-cell
genomics
(Salary level TV-L E13, 100%)
in the group of Evolutionary Plant Science and Biotic
Interactions, headed by Prof Shuqing Xu.
The successful candidate may start on the 1st of Nov
2022, or as early as possible. The salary will initially be
provided for three years, with the possibility of exten-
sion for another three years. Supported by other group
members, the candidate will work on the evolution of
gene functions and regulations at cellular level using use
the state-of-the-art single-cell genomic tools. During
the project, the candidate will mature his/her scien-
tic skills and develop independence in project planning
and management skills. The candidate is encouraged
to apply for additional third-party funding to establish
his/her own subgroup.
Requirements: We are looking for a highly motivated re-
searcher with a doctoral degree, or an equivalent thereof,
in biology, evolutionary genetics, bioinformatics or com-
puter science. The candidated is expected to design,
conduct and organize the projects independently. Expe-
rience in analysing a large amount of next-generation
sequencing data, in particular, single-cell sequencing
and/or comparative genomics data, with a high degree
of independence. A training background in bioinfor-
matics, evolutionary genetics and single-cell sequencing
is preferred. Applicants must demonstrate experience
in statistics and genomics. Experience with molecular
biology, epigenetics and computational modelling are
a plus. Our group consists of people of various nation-
alities and teamwork is essential for all projects in the
group. Therefore, excellent communication skills, as
well as prociency in spoken and written English, are
expected. Good knowledge of German is a plus.
Excellent infrastructure and work conditions are avail-March 1, 2022 EvolDir 101
able at the University of Mainz. The working language
of the lab is English. For further information, please
contact shuqing.xu@uni-mainz.de
The University of Mainz hosts many excellent scien-
tic institutions (http://www.uni-mainz.de/eng/), and
Mainz is a historic city located on the Rhine River with
many students and a rich social and cultural life.
Applications must be in English and include:
(1) a motivation letter stating the research interests with
reference to the stated requirements in no more than
two pages, (2) a detailed CV including academic and
extracurricular achievements, as well as details of all
research experience, (3) an abstract of the PhD thesis,
and (4) contact details of at least two referees.
Applicants should send their documents in one single
PDF le to Prof Shuqing.Xu@uni-mainz.de with the
subject line \Evolutionary Single-cell Genomics Postdoc
Position ' Your Name". The application review will
commence on 1st April 2022. The position will remain
open until lled.
Shuqing Xu
Prof. Dr. Shuqing Xu Group website: https://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/plantadapt/people/-
shuqingxu.shtml University of Muenster / University of
Mainz.
Shuqing Xu <shuqing.xu@uni-muenster.de >UManitoba
PolarBearPopulationVulnerability
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW POSITION IN
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AND HEALTH
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, UNI-
VERSITY OF MANITOBA, CANADA POSITION
START DATE: We're targeting a start in April 2022,
but we can be exible with start dates. Funding is for
two years.
CLOSING DATE FOR APPLICATIONS: We will begin
review of applications 21 Feb 2022 and the position will
remain open until lled
RANK: Post-doctoral fellow (start must be within 4
years of receiving PhD)
SALARY: $50,000- $55,000 per annum (plus benets),
commensurate with qualications and experience
PROJECT OVERVIEW: Come work with the Jones and
Garroway labs at the University of Manitoba, and with
Evan Richardson at Environment and Climate Change
Canada! Our groups are an inclusive and diverse envi-
ronment, and we encourage applications from people in
groups that have been historically excluded from STEM,
including but not limited to women, visible minorities,
LGTBQ2+, and persons with disabilities.
Polar bears in Canada are a Species of Special Concern.
This project will assess the population-level health of
polar bears from across the Canadian Arctic, and some
zoo animals, by exploring spatial patterns in the bio-
logical age of individuals, population changes in mean
biological age through time, and the relationship be-
tween biological age and environments. Lifetime stress
tends to accelerate biological age, so that individuals
who have lived more stressful lives tend to be older than
their chronological age. Because biological age reects
overall health it is a good measure of lifetime experiences.
Management action in response to population declines
and the loss of genetic diversity is critical but can only
occur in response to declines that have occurred or are
occurring. Explorations of patterns of biological ageing
patterns indicative of population-level stress could help
target management action before or in the early stages
of decline, periods where they should be more eective.
We will estimate biological age using new molecular tools
that quantify age-related DNA methylation patterns in
mammals. We have the molecular and lab expertise cov-102 EvolDir March 1, 2022
ered by the collaborative research team. We are most
interested in a statistically strong conservation-minded
person for this position.
The supervisory research team includes Meaghan Jones
(http://www.joneslaboratory.ca/ ), Evan Richardson
(https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-
change/campaigns/50-years-environmental-action/-
people-eccc/evan-richardson.html ), and Colin Garroway
(www.garroway-lab.com). Please send any questions
about the position to colin.garroway@umanitoba.ca
and one of us will respond.
RESPONSIBILITIES: To contribute signicantly to
and lead the experimental design, data interpretation,
and statistical analysis related to the above-described
research objectives.
To trial new statistical techniques as required and keep
abreast of the research literature relevant to the project.
Disseminate research through publications in peer-
reviewed journals To attend and contribute to research
seminars, departmental meetings, and international con-
ferences.
Carry out administrative roles as required, e.g. organis-
ing physical or remote meetings with collaborators and
arranging travel to meetings.
Perform professional activities such as refereeing papers,
editing journals, refereeing research grants, external ex-
amining, organising conferences, committee membership,
and involvement with professional bodies.
QUALIFICATIONS: The ideal candidate will:
* Have a PhD (current or expected at commencement
of contract) in conservation biology, statistics biology,
or conservation genetics.
* Have a track record of success in both funding and
publications
* Have demonstrated experience in statistics * Be en-
thusiastic about working in an interdisciplinary team,
both collaboratively and independently * Be prepared
to establish leadership of the project, with previous
demonstrated management skills a strong asset
CONTACT: Applicants should send their curriculum
vitae, a brief cover letter expressing their research ex-
perience and research interests, and the names of two
referees by email to:
Colin Garroway Associate Professor Department of
Biological Sciences, University of Manitoba garroway-
lab.com Colin.garroway@umanitoba.ca
Colin Garroway <Colin.Garroway@umanitoba.ca >UNewSouthWales Sydney
EvolutionaryPsychology
Postdoc Position - UNSW Sydney - Eects of Inequality
on Behaviours Relates to Sex and Gender
We are looking to appoint a postdoc for 2.25 years
to work with us on an Australian Research Council
funded project - \How Inequalities aect attitudes and
behaviours concerning sex and gender". The work in-
cludes online experiments and may include face-to-face
experiments to test hypotheses about the eects of in-
come and gender inequality on a range of gendered
behaviours as well as attitudes concerning sex and gen-
der. It will also include opportunities to collaborate on
studies of ecological variation in social media, and there
will be scope for the appointee to design and conduct
other studies related to the area of research. You could
start as early as May or as late as October - the im-
portant thing for us tis to get the right person. The
two Chief Investigators on this project (Rob Brooks and
Khandis Blake) are based in Sydney and Melbourne
respectively, but have a long track record of collabo-
ration. We want to appoint somebody who can work
with us both, and with members of our labs, helping
us build the next phase of our collaboration. In our
imagination, the ideal appointee will have experience
running psychology experiments, including Qualtrics
skills. They will have some academic understanding of
evolution and a willingness to work across both evolu-
tionary and gender psychology with a commitment to
using experiments and data to test hypotheses. They
will have some experience with OpenScience and a will-
ingness to work in that framework. And they are adept
at writing, speaking, planning, and communicating with
colleagues. You might have only some of these arrows
in your quiver, but still be what we are looking for.
So please head to the UNSW Human Resources Web-
site (https://external-careers.jobs.unsw.edu.au/cw/en/-
job/506994/postdoctoral-research-associate) and have
a look at the criteria. Then apply online. If you have
informal questions about the position, the labs, or any-
thing else, please let us know by email. (But please
don't send us your application by email).
Rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au Khan-
dis.blake@unimelb.edu.au
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.auMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 103
UniGE Italy
ModellingVegetationDynamics
Postdoctoral position in modelling vegetation dynamics
The Research Group of Environmental and Applied
Botany at the University of Genoa, School of Maths,
Physics and Natural Sciences, Dept. of Earth, Envi-
ronment and Life Sciences, Genoa, is recruiting a post-
doctoral Research Assistant (m/f/d) to work in the
EU-funded research project ECOLOPES, limited to 12
months (100%, approx. 40 h/week, net salary approx.
1600 euro/month).
ECOLOPES (www.ecolopes.eu) is a HORIZON 2020-
FET OPEN funded research project proposing a radical
change for city development: instead of minimizing the
negative impact of urbanisation on nature, we aim at ur-
banisation to be planned and designed such that nature
- including humans - can co-evolve within the city. We
envisage a radically new integrated ecosystem approach
to architecture that focuses equally on humans, plants,
animals, and associated organisms such as microbiota.
ECOLOPES will provide the technology that will help
to achieve this vision.
The advertised position will be critical in implement-
ing the modelling of population dynamics and resource
requirements of plants into the computational architec-
tural tools developed in ECOLOPES.
Your tasks
The post-doc will adapt and parameterize the model
FATE-HD, that simulates plant functional groups dy-
namics based on abiotic ltering, competition for light,
and dispersal, etc.
Plant traits, related to resource and abiotic require-
ments (e.g., N-xation), life-cycle strategies, and human
acceptance (e.g., appearance) will be integrated at the
plant functional group (PFG) level. PFG dynamics
will be spatially and temporally modelled as a function
of soil, architecture, abiotic conditions, animals, and
human management (e.g., mowing, weeding) using the
FATE-HD model.
Specic tasks to be developed:
Design relevant Functional Groups for ECOLOPES
from the global oras
Parameterization of FATE-HD to ECOLOPES Func-tional Groups (e.g., relations with abiotic constraints,
response to disturbances, and simplied demography
and dispersal)
Integration of the regional and local scales dynamics
Running of simulations and adapt or develop post-
treatment scripts.
Validation of the temporal dynamics using observations
Titles and skills
University degree (M.Sc.) and Ph.D. in ecology, biol-
ogy, environmental sciences, or a comparable eld of
study
Experience in modelling of population dynamics
Excellent knowledge of R
Experience in quantitative ecology
Experience in modelling plant population dynamics
Experience in using FATE-HD welcome
Interested in interdisciplinary approaches
Good language skills (English)
Ability to work in a team
Oer
We oer an interesting and challenging job in a moti-
vated international team, at the University of Genoa
(Genoa, Italy). ECOLOPES partners are the Technical
University of Munich in Germany (leader partner), the
University of Genoa in Italy, the Technical University of
Vienna, Austria, TECHNION in Haifa, Israel, McNeel
Europe, based in Barcelona, Spain, and Studio Animal-
Aided Design in Germany. The project team works
on various topics, including biodiversity and ecosystem
functioning, plant-microbiota interactions, urban ecol-
ogy. Genoa is an enchanting, small city on the West
Coast of the Mediterranean Sea, well connected to pub-
lic transports and a perfect starting point to explore
Italy.
Working hours are exible and remuneration is in accor-
dance with the applicable UNIGE regulations.
Details and contact
More details on post-doc enrolment and required doc-
uments for application can be found here: https://-
unige.it/en/ricerca/assegni-ricerca. Call publication by
22nd February 2022 can be available here: Calls for
research grantsjunige.it Deadline for application: 24th
March 2022.
Please direct questions about the position to Prof. En-
rica Roccotiello, Universita ~A degli Studi di Genova (en-
rica.roccotiello@unige.it) and Dr. Isabelle Boulangeat104 EvolDir March 1, 2022
(isabelle.boulangeat@inrae.fr), LESSEM (Ecosystems
and Society in Mountains), INRAE of Lyon- Grenoble,
Site de Grenoble.
More information about the project can be found
at www.ecolopes.org More information about the
Research Group in Environmental and Applied
Botany can be found at http://www.distav.unige.it/-
drupalint/schede-ricerca-eng Maria Guerrina
<maria.guerrina@edu.unige.it >
UOxford
StatisticalGeneticsInfectiousDisease
Danny Wilson's Infectious Disease Genomics Group <
http://www.danielwilson.me.uk >Big Data Institute <
https://www.bdi.ox.ac.uk >, part of Oxford Population
Health Deadline 12.00 noon UK time on 18th March
2022.
Grade 8:  >1
242,142 -  >1
250,296 p.a. (senior postdoc) or
Grade 7:  >1
233,309 -  >1
240,927 p.a. (postdoc)
I am seeking a postdoc in Statistical Genetics and In-
fectious Disease to join my research group at the Big
Data Institute, University of Oxford. Our research into
Infectious Disease Genomics is focused on developing
and applying big data methods to identify genetic risk
factors for disease, both microbial virulence factors and
human susceptibility genes. We are focused on a range
of bacterial and viral diseases including staphylococcal
sepsis and COVID-19.
The Big Data Institute, part of Oxford Population
Health, provides an excellent environment for multi-
disciplinary research and teaching. Situated on the
modern Old Road Campus in the heart of the medi-
cal sciences neighbourhood of Headington, we benet
from outstanding facilities and opportunities to collabo-
rate with world-leading scientists and clinicians to help
expand knowledge and improve global health.
As a Senior Postdoc the post-holder will work closely
with me to jointly lead the implementation, design and
application of new statistical tools for genome-wide asso-
ciation studies, and to lead the biological interpretation
of key ndings. They will develop novel methodologies
for analysis and data collection, take the lead in the
production of scientic reports and publications and
supervise junior group members.
To be considered at the Senior Postdoc level applicants
will have a PhD and post-doctoral experience in a rel-evant subject, with direct experience in statistical ge-
netics, demonstrable expertise and knowledge of the
statistical genetics literature or a closely related, rele-
vant discipline and a publication record as rst author,
in statistical genetics.
The position is full time (part time considered) and
xed-term for 3 years. The closing date for application
is 12.00 noon GMT on 18th March 2022.
For more information including how to apply,
visit https://my.corehr.com/pls/uoxrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.display form?p company=-
10&p internal external=E&p display inirish=-
N&p process type=&p applicant no=-
&pform prole detail=&p display apply ind=-
Y&p refresh search=Y&p recruitment id=156258
Associate Professor Daniel Wilson Big Data Institute
Robertson Fellow, Oxford Population Health Director
of Studies in Data Science, Dept. for Continuing Educa-
tion University of Oxford Web: www.danielwilson.me.uk
Daniel Wilson <daniel.wilson@bdi.ox.ac.uk >
UPadua EvolutionDiversity
University of Padua, Evolutionary Patterns for Biocul-
tural Diversity
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER IN EVOLUTION
OF BIO-CULTURAL DIVERSITY
(elds: evolutionary biology; ecology; philosophy of bio-
logical sciences)
Fully funded 3-year postdoctoral position available at
the Department of Biology, University of Padua, Italy,
starting 1.4.2022.
The researcher will work on a project investigating the
common evolutionary patterns underlying biological and
cultural evolution, with a focus on Italy as a hotspot of
biocultural diversity.
Research objectives during the three years:
1) checking the correspondence between biological di-
versity and cultural diversity in Italy on the basis of
existing data (literature analysis);
2) verifying the metrics of cultural diversity as proxies
for quantication (selection for the Italian case-study);
3) testing hypotheses on the common patterns of evolu-
tion of biological and cultural diversity in Italy (litera-
ture analysis, selection of models);March 1, 2022 EvolDir 105
4) comparing the Italian case with similar cases of In-
ternationally known bio-cultural diversity hotspots (lit-
erature analysis, missions abroad);
5) (nal year) testing the model with a eld-study in
Italy.
Expected results at the end of the research period:
Three articles presented in peer-reviewed international
scientic journals, in the rst three years.
National and international membership and press launch
at the end of the three-year period (conventions, confer-
ences, videos, cross-media communication).
Candidates with the following qualications are entitled
to take part in this selection notice:
PhD graduates.
Candidates must be in possession of a degree by the
selection notice deadline.
Basic skills in statistics are also required.
The appointed researcher will work in collaboration with
other members of the research group, supervised by Prof.
Telmo Pievani.
The application may only be submitted by completing
the online procedure available at https://pica.cineca.it/-
unipd/ from January 26, 2022 at 12.00 a.m. to February
25, 2022 at 12.00 a.m. (CET).
The date of the telematic interview is set for March 08,
2022 at 02.00 p.m. (Italian time zone).
For further information and to apply please see docu-
ments available at: Selection notice for Type A Research
Grant - Department of Biology UniPd <https://-
www.biologia.unipd.it/bacheca-di-dipartimento/-
visualizza/news/bando-di-selezione-per-il-
conferimento-di-n-1-assegno-di-ricerca-di-tipo-a-della-
durata-di-36-mesi-r/?tx news pi1%5Bcontroller%5D=-
News&tx news pi1%5Baction%5D=detail&cHash=-
69d14e64228fadcc872a163b5838f31a >
For informal inquiries please contact the supervisor:
https://www.biologia.unipd.it/people/-
?txwfqbe pi1%5Baccount%5D=dietelmo-pievani
Telmo Pievani
University of Padua - Department of Biology
Full Professor Philosophy of Biological Sciences
Vallisneri Building - Via U. Bassi 58/B
35131 - Padova
dietelmo.pievani@unipd.it
www.telmopievani.com Soa Belardinelli<soa.belardinelli96@gmail.com >
UPittsburgh
SpeciesInteractionsEvolution
Postdoctoral position in
Species interactions and evolutionary response to cli-
mate change
Postdoctoral position the ecological eects of plant evo-
lutionary response to climate change. The postdoc will
assess consequences of climate adaptation on biotic in-
teractions, i.e., plants-microbes, plants-pollinators.
Responsibilities include setup and collection of data
from greenhouse and eld experiments, use of herbar-
ium datasets; analysis of data on species interactions,
including community composition and interaction net-
works, and characterizing plant traits and tness, and
the preparation of manuscripts for publication.
Position aords opportunities for undergraduate men-
toring, scientic outreach, and the design and imple-
mentation of allied projects tailored to the skills and
interests of the postdoc.
An ideal candidate has the following characteristics: 1) is
evolutionary-minded, creative and a collaborative spirit,
2) background in community ecology, population biology
or microbial or plant biology, 3) experience with insect
identication, techniques for characterizing microbial
communities and/or willingness to expand expertise, 4)
strong statistical and writing skills.
Position is for two years and will be based in the De-
partment of Biological Sciences at the University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA. Start date is negotiable,
but expected Spring/summer 2022.
TO APPLY: Please send a CV and a cover letter describ-
ing your experience and interests to tia1@pitt.edu along
with the names and contact information for three refer-
ees. Review of applications will commence immediately
and continue until lled.
Dr. Tia-Lynn Ashman Distinguished Professor Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences University of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh Pa 15260 412 624-0984
\Ashman, Tia-Lynn" <tia1@pitt.edu >106 EvolDir March 1, 2022
UppsalaU EvolutionaryGenomics
2-year post-doc in Evolutionary Genomics Uppsala Uni-
versity, Sweden We are looking for a postdoctoral re-
searcher (2 years) to work on the evolutionary genomics
of adaptive divergence willows (Salix) within a project
funded by the Swedish Science Council and the Carl
Tryggers foundation.
Willows are a large a diverse genus of dioecious shrubs
and trees that occur in various habitats on the North-
ern Hemisphere, including arctic and alpine habitats.
Research questions are expected to include 1) evolution
of dwarf growth forms at high altitude and 2) ecological
genomics of polyploidization in a ploidy-variable species
and its putative progenitors. The post-doc will work
in close association with and contribute to an ongoing
project on the evolution of sex-determining mechanisms
in Salix. The development of further research questions
and approaches is highly encouraged, in particular re-
garding speciation mechanisms (reproductive isolation)
and adaptive divergence.
The postdoc will benet from our Swedish and interna-
tional collaborators as well as from a newly generated
draft genome of a dwarf willow, tissue collections and on-
going greenhouse cultivation of an Alpine dwarf species.
The position will be based at the Evolutionary Biology
Centre (EBC) at Uppsala University, Sweden where the
post-doc will join a highly international and stimulat-
ing environment (www.ieg.uu.se). Uppsala is a vibrant
student town surrounded by beautiful nature and not
far from Stockholm, the capital of Sweden.
Applicants should have a PhD or postdoctoral experi-
ence in a relevant area (evolutionary biology, population
genomics, ecological genomics). We will prioritize can-
didates with a strong interest in evolutionary biology.
Experience with population genomic methods, as well as
skills in bioinformatics and programming, are required.
Prior experience with plant ecology is also very wel-
come, but not strictly necessary. Our working language
is English and candidates should be uent in spoken
and written English.
The post-doc is funded by a 2-year stipend from the
Carl Tryggers foundation. The starting date is exi-
ble, ideally between mid-March and June 2022. Both
Swedish and International candidates are welcome, how-
ever, candidates cannot hold a current or recent em-ployment/placement at Uppsala University. PhD exams
must have been taken within the last 6 years.
Informal inquiries to Sophie Karrenberg (so-
phie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se) are welcome! Full
applications should be sent by e-mail to So-
phie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se, including 1) motivation
letter, 2) a detailed CV, 3) a list of publications, and 4)
contact details of three referees. Review of applications
will begin from February 15, 2022. The position will
remain open until a suitable candidate is found.
See also: https://www.ieg.uu.se/plant/karrenberg-
group/ N?r du har kontakt med oss p? Uppsala
universitet med e-post s? inneb?r det att vi be-
handlar dina personuppgifter. F?r att l?sa mer om
hur vi g?r det kan du l?sa h?r: http://www.uu.se/-
om-uu/dataskydd-personuppgifter/ E-mailing Upp-
sala University means that we will process your per-
sonal data. For more information on how this is
performed, please read here: http://www.uu.se/en/-
about-uu/data-protection-policy Sophie Karrenberg
<sophie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se >
UppsalaU
EvolutionOfHostAdaptation
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW IN EVOLUTIONARY
MICROBIOLOGY We are announcing a 2-years post-
doctoral fellowship in Lionel Guy's research group at
Uppsala University.
PROJECT Our group is studying the evolution of host-
adaptation in bacteria. In this particular project, we
aim to explore early infections and the role of phagocy-
tosis. The ability to feed on other organisms through
phagocytosis is a crucial step in the evolution of eukary-
otes, a prerequisite for food webs, multicellularity and,
arguably, the acquisition of mitochondria. It also paved
the way for intracellular parasitism, as some bacteria
avoided digestion by their hosts and multiplied in the
nutrient-rich cytoplasm. Here, we focus on the Deep-
branching Intracellular Gammaproteobacteria (DIG), a
large group of related bacteria (e.g. Legionella and Fran-
cisella) with a wide variety of host-adaptation strategies.
We hypothesize that the last common ancestor of DIG,
appeared during eukaryogenesis, circa 2 billion years ago,
and was among the rst bacteria to infect eukaryotes.
To test this hypothesis, the fellow will gather a solid
set of DIG genomes, reconstruct their evolutionary his-
tory, assess their metabolic potential, and identify theirMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 107
host-adaptation genes. The goal is to better understand
the relationships between the rst eukaryotes and their
early invaders, thereby shedding light on eukaryogenesis,
particularly on the role of phagocytosis.
FORM Two-years post-doctoral fellowship (SEK 300
000, circa EUR 28 300, per annum), free of tax. Fel-
lowship rules exclude candidates with a PhD from, or
already employed at, the host institution (Uppsala Uni-
versity). The candidate should in principle have ob-
tained their PhD at most six years before the start of
the project. The candidate has to be approved by the
funder. Starting date: to be discussed. The fellowship
is funded by the Carl Trygger Foundation.
BASIC SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS - A PhD in
evolutionary biology, molecular evolution, microbiology
or related topic. - Experience with high-throughput
sequencing data, metagenomics, comparative genomics,
and molecular evolution tools. - A documented experi-
ence of team work and collaborative projects.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS - Programming experi-
ence - Experience with acquiring metagenomics data
APPLICATIONS To be sent by email to li-
onel.guy@imbim.uu.se, latest on 14 March 2022. Appli-
cations (in one single document) must include: - Letter
of motivation - Resume - Publication list - Names and
contact information of two references or two letters of
reference
HOST INSTITUTION The group is located at the De-
partment of Medical Biochemistry Microbiology, Upp-
sala University. The host department is a very strong
and stimulating research environment, counting over
250 researchers in over 30 groups, and is conducting
world-leading research in microbiology.
Uppsala University is a comprehensive research-intensive
university with a strong international standing. Our
mission is to pursue top-quality research and education
and to interact constructively with society. Our most
important assets are all the individuals whose curiosity
and dedication make Uppsala University one of Swe-
den's most exciting workplaces. Uppsala University has
over 50 000 students, 7 000 employees and a turnover
of SEK 7.4 billion.
CONTACT Lionel Guy, M: lionel.guy@imbim.uu.se,
P: +46 18 471 42 46, W: https://www.imbim.uu.se/-
research-groups/infection-and-immunity/guy-lionel/ Li-
onel Guy Department for Medical Biochemistry and Mi-
crobiology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden phone:
+46 18 471 4246; mobile +46 73 976 0618; postal ad-
dress: Box 582, SE-751 23 Uppsala; visiting address:
BMC D7:308b, Husargatan 3, SE-752 37 Uppsala li-
onel.guy@imbim.uu.seLionel Guy <guy.lionel@gmail.com >
UppsalaU SexChromosomeEvolution
PostDoc Position at Uppsala University - Sex chromo-
some evolution Systematic Biology, Department of Or-
ganismal Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala
University, Sweden.
A two-year position on a Carl Tryggers post-doc stipend
is available to research sex chromosomes evolution in
morabine grasshopper with Dr. Octavio M. Palacios-
Gimenez at Uppsala University.
Project description: Sex is a fundamental and ancient
feature of eukaryotic reproduction often associated with
the presence of specialized sex chromosomes involved in
male or female development. Despite the importance
and conservation of sexual reproduction, there is a no-
table diversity of sex chromosomes within and between
sexes: XY system (male XY, female XX) and ZW sys-
tem (male ZZ, female ZW). This diversity is likely to
have key consequences for multiple facets of evolution,
as sex chromosome play critical roles in adaptation, spe-
ciation and sexual dimorphism but it is unclear how sex
chromosomes form and what kind of sex-specic changes
occur in newly evolved sex chromosomes. Understand-
ing the causes and consequences of sex chromosome
evolution requires study systems where sex chromo-
somes have evolved recently and independently several
times. The overall aim of this project is to investigate
the early signatures of sex chromosome evolution using
the grasshopper Vandiemenella viatica species complex.
Multiple chromosomal fusions between the ancestral X
chromosome and autosomes (neo-X) resulted in the for-
mation of new Y chromosomes in dierent races/species.
The independent sex chromosome mutations in the V.
viatica species complex thus allow independent compar-
isons to investigate the timing and patterns of newly
evolved sex chromosomes. The project will use genomics,
transcriptomics, single cell resolution, and cytogenetics
to answer: how is recombination suppressed between sex
nascent sex chromosomes? How does gene regulation
evolve after recombination suppressions? How fast does
the neo-Y degenerate after recombination suppression?
Requirements: Applicants should hold a PhD degree
in biology, genetics/genomics, bioinformatics or a re-
lated eld, and general molecular biology laboratory
skills. Experience with analyzing dierent types of
single-molecule sequencing, HiC and RNA-seq data, as108 EvolDir March 1, 2022
well as annotation of genes and repetitive elements, is re-
quired. Candidates must have received their PhD from
an institute other than the Institute of Organismal Bi-
ology at Uppsala University and cannot currently have
employment at the Department of Organismal Biology.
Prociency in spoken and written English is required.
Additional qualications: Programming in Perl, Python
and/or R and experience in cytogenetics are desirable.
Type of position: Postdoctoral fellowship for 24 months,
salary provided by the Carl Tryggers Foundation.
Scope of stipend: 100%
Salary: Individual stipend.
Starting date: As soon as possible.
Please submit your application by 10 April 2022.
For further information about the position, please
contact: Octavio M. Palacios-Gimenez, email oc-
tavio.palaccios@ec.uu.
Additional info: Uppsala is a great town to live in, and
the Evolutionary Biology Centre oers a super inter-
disciplinary working environment located at the heart
of Uppsala. Uppsala is located 40 minutes north of
Stockholm by train, 20 minutes from Stockholm???s
international airport.
Occtavio M. Palacios-Gimenez Researcher Uppsala Uni-
versity Norbyv??gen 18D 752 36 Uppsala, Sweden 752
36 Scope of employment: 100%
Octavio Manuel Palacios Gimenez
<octavio.palacios@ebc.uu.se >
USaoPaulo Macroevolution
#Post-doctoral fellowship on Diversication dynamics
of interspecic competition
The laboratory of Macroecology and Macroevolution
(LabMeMe) at Universidade de S ao Paulo, Brazil, is
seeking for a motivated postdoctoral fellow to work on
a project entitled \Diversication dynamics of interspe-
cic competition: the role of niche similarity and spatial
overlap". The main goal of the project is to study the
role of species competition on diversication dynamics
by developing and applying (to fossil record data) new
models designed to measure the \intensity of competi-
tion" (please see the abstract of the project below). The
fellowship is initially designed for 2 years but might be
extended.#Project abstract: Most macroevolutionary approaches
designed to study the role of species interactions on
diversication dynamics have relied on rather indirect
evidence. Interspecic competition has been the most
often studied kind of interaction. The following pat-
terns have been interpreted as evidence of competition:
a- statistical association between diversity trajectories
of two potential competitor clades; b- the inference of
diversity- dependent diversication dynamics (within
or between clades); c- a statistical association between
diversication rates of two or more clades. Addition-
ally, most previous studies have not explicitly taken
into account spatial overlap, except perhaps by doing
analysis at the continental level. That said, the eld
of macroevolution has recently advanced by developing
new processed-based models devoted to study interspe-
cic competition. Unfortunately, those have, for the
most part, been focused on the use of molecular phylo-
genies and on the eect of species interactions on trait
evolution. Here we propose to develop new models that
better capture the nature of interspecic competition
and use those models to study the eect of interspecic
competition within and between clades on diversica-
tion dynamics. More specically, we will develop and
use models that take into account niche similarity and
spatial overlap to build times series that described the
\intensity of competition". Dierent lineages of mam-
mals, in particular families within Carnivora, will be
targeted as the study systems.
#Desired qualications and skills include:
a PhD in evolution, ecology, paleobiology or related
elds.
strong quantitative background
Knowledge of at least one programming language (R,
Python, or others).
#Application Instructions:
Applicants must submit, in a single pdf, the following
information: (1) a curriculum vitae; (2) a description of
relevant research experience and motivation/interest in
the current position (2 pages maximum); (3) contact in-
formation (e-mail addresses) for at least two professional
references.
The positions are open to Brazilian and foreign citizens.
The selected candidates will receive a FAPESP postdoc
fellowship - current salary of R $7.373,10 per month. The
candidate will also receive 15% of its annual income for
research expenses.
Deadline for applications is March 15th 2022. Refer-
ence letters will only be requested for applicants under
serious consideration.March 1, 2022 EvolDir 109
Tiago Bosisio Quental <tbquental@usp.br >
USouthCarolina Aiken
PopulationGenomics
Post-Doctoral Fellow, UofSC Aiken, Department of Bi-
ology & Geology
The Ramstad Lab <https://www.usca.edu/biology-
geology/research/faculty-labs/ramstad-lab >at the Uni-
versity of South Carolina Aiken is seeking applicants
for a full-time, one-year postdoctoral position with a
preferred start date of 1 August 2022. Research in the
Ramstad lab focuses on conservation genomics of diverse
vertebrate systems. The successful candidate will partic-
ipate in genomic studies to understand the genetic basis
of migration in the federally threatened American wood
stork and red body color in sockeye salmon. Primary
duties will include bioinformatic analyses (including
GWAS with whole genome sequences), genomic data
management (including using Rmarkdown and Git) and
preparation of peer-reviewed manuscripts. The position
will be excellent training for those considering a career
that balances research and teaching. The successful
candidate will participate in teaching undergraduate
courses (BIOL 350 - Population Genomics and BIOL
352 - Fundamental Genetics), organizing and teaching a
Bioinformatics Workshop and mentoring undergraduate
researchers.
UofSC Aiken is consistently ranked as the #1 Regional
Comprehensive Public College in the South by U.S.
News & World Report and has been designated a 'Best
Place to Work' by The Chronicle of Higher Education.
The city of Aiken has been ranked as the 'Best Small
Town in the South' by Southern Living Magazine. Nu-
merous beaches, the Blue Ridge Mountains and two
national parks are all within a three-hour drive of Aiken.
Education Requirement: Candidates must have a Ph.D.
in Biology, Bioinformatics, or related area with a focus
on conservation or population genomics. Demonstrated
prociency in bioinformatic techniques, including pro-
cessing of next generation sequencing data (e.g., WGS,
GWAS, RADCap), is required. Strong candidates will
have experience in computer programming, including
writing and troubleshooting code, and a publication
record from their graduate or other work (papers pub-
lished, in press, or submitted).
Application process: Submit a completed applicationby 1 April for full consideration; applications will be
accepted until the position is lled. Interested appli-
cants should apply online at https://uscjobs.sc.edu/-
postings/108463 and submit: a) cover letter describing
your research interests and motivation, how your skills
are aligned with the needs of the position and your fu-
ture research interests/plans and b) current curriculum
vita. Finalists will be asked to submit three letters of
recommendation. Women and minorities are encouraged
to apply. UofSC Aiken is an AA/EOE.
Dr Kristina M Ramstad
Associate Professor Department of Biology and Geol-
ogy University of South Carolina Aiken 471 University
Parkway Aiken, SC 29801
Kristina Ramstad <KristinaR@usca.edu >
UTenneesse MossAdaptations
Post-Doctoral Research Associate - Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology The Budke Lab (http://jmbudke.github.io/)
in the Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Tennessee is seeking a Post-Doctoral
Research Associate for an NSF-funded project. The goal
of this project is to investigate adaptations that regulate
parent-ospring conict in moss plants. The primary
responsibilities of the postdoctoral researcher will be the
laboratory-based generation of DNA sequence data using
herbarium specimens followed by bioinformatic analysis
to analyze the evolution of morphological structures
involved in the parent-ospring conict. Opportunities
will also be available to develop novel research ques-
tions focusing on the functional morphology, physiology,
and evolution of the parent-ospring conict in mosses.
Supervising and mentoring undergraduate researchers
in both the laboratory and eld will be required. An
additional aim of this project is to build awareness of
and appreciation for plants and botanical natural his-
tory collections. As part of the team, the postdoc will
engage middle school students in hands-on activities and
develop a May-term course for undergraduate students
at the University of Tennessee. About The Department
of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology and the University
of Tennessee The Department of Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology values the quality of life of all its members,
and we are committed to recruiting and retaining a
diverse community and to supporting the intercultural
goals of the University. Knoxville is an exciting city
that has undergone a vibrant civic revitalization over110 EvolDir March 1, 2022
the past several years and is being recognized as one of
the most exciting up-and-coming regions in the country,
yet it remains one of the most aordable cities in the
United States. Nestled in the foothills of the Great
Smoky Mountains, Knoxville oers a broad spectrum
of educational, recreational, and cultural opportunities.
Qualications  >1
2A PhD in biology, ecology and evolu-
tion, systematics, or a related eld. This degree must be
completed by September 2022.  >1
2Research experience
in molecular systematics and morphological evolution
of plants, particularly using next-generation sequencing
data.  >1
2Prociency using bioinformatic tools to infer
phylogenetic trees and undertaking comparative analy-
ses, with experience using R preferred.  >1
2Motivation
to engage with botanical outreach and education.  >1
2A
strong work ethic with the ability to work independently
and as part of a team.  >1
2Excellent verbal and written
communication skills.  >1
2The ability to bring projects
to fruition as demonstrated by a strong record of publi-
cation in peer-reviewed journals.  >1
2Experience with
and a passion for seed-free plants and herbarium-based
research is advantageous If in doubt, apply: please do
not self-select yourself out from what might be a mu-
tually benecial position. Timeline and How to Apply
Review of applications will begin on 4 April 2022 and
will continue until the position is lled.The preferred
start date is June 2022 with the exibility to extend the
start date to September 2022.
The initial appointment is for one year with funding
available to extend up to three years, contingent on per-
formance. Apply through the University of Tennessee
system at this link: https://ut.taleo.net/careersection/-
utsystem/jobdetail.ftl?job=22000000CZ&tz=GMT-
05%3A00&tzname=America%2FNew York Please
include the following items in a single document with
the online application: (1) a cover letter (include
expected completion date of PhD, if appropriate), (2) a
CV, and (3) contact information for three references.
The starting salary for this position is $48,000/year
with annual increases contingent on performance.Full
benets are included.
J.M. Budke, PhD (she/her) Assistant Professor &
Herbarium Director (TENN) Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology University of Tennessee 569 Dabney Hall
Knoxville, TN 37996 Oce: 342 Hesler Biology Building
Oce Phone: (865) 974-6204 Lab: 316 Hesler Biology
Building Lab Phone: (865) 974-2635 TENN Herbarium
Oce: 102Temple Hall HerbariumPhone:(865) 974-6212
Budke Laboratory Research:http://jmbudke.github.io/-
GLOBAL Bryophyte & Lichen TCN: https://-
globaltcn.utk.edu/ jbudke@utk.edu jbudke@utk.eduUVictoria BritishColumbia
SelshXChromosomeDrosophila
The Perlman lab, in the Department of Biology at
the University of Victoria, in British Columbia (BC),
Canada, is hiring a postdoctoral researcher to work on
selsh X chromosomes in Drosophila. We are looking
for highly motivated applicants who are excited about
research, and with a PhD and publications in evolution-
ary genetics, evolutionary genomics, and/or Drosophila
genetics. While the start date is exible, summer or
fall 2022 are preferred. Funding is available for 1 year
initially, with the possibility of renewal for a 2nd year?.
For more information about our lab, please visit our lab
web page: http://perlmanlab.weebly.com Victoria is a
small, beautiful, liveable city on Vancouver Island, and
the provincial capital of BC, close to Vancouver, BC
and Seattle, Washington. The University of Victoria is a
large public research university, and the Biology Depart-
ment is a friendly, collegial place, with over 30 faculty
members, including a big interactive group of evolu-
tionary biologists, including Rana El-Sabaawi, Ryan
Gawryluk, Ben Koop, Greg Owens, Dave Punzalan,
Tom Reimchen, and John Taylor.
To apply, please send a CV and a 1-2 page statement of
research interests and experience, along with the names
and contact information of 2 references, to Steve Perl-
man (stevep at uvic.ca), with 'postdoctoral position in
selsh X chromosomes' in the subject heading. Appli-
cations will be reviewed starting March 1, 2022, and
will be accepted until the position is lled. Please con-
tact Steve Perlman if you have any questions about the
position.
Steve Perlman Professor Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Victoria
stevep@uvic.ca
UWisconsin Milwaukee
KelpGenomics
The Department of Biological Sciences at the University
ofMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 111
Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM) is currently accepting ap-
plication submissions for a postdoctoral appointment in
Dr. Filipe Alberto's laboratory.
The postdoctoral fellow will work on population ge-
nomics analysis of large brown algae (kelps). The Al-
berto lab is currently applying genomic analysis to the
conservation and breeding of giant (Macrocystis pyrifera)
and bull (Nereocystis luetkeana) kelps in the northeast
Pacic.
Candidates with a strong bioinformatics background are
preferred to tackle large data sets of WGS sequenced
individuals. We are looking for someone with demon-
strated experience (as evidenced by publications and
letters of reference) in at least two of the following broad
topics: dierential expression analysis from RNA-seq
experiments; analysis of large sets of WGS data mapped
to an annotated reference genome, including characteri-
zation of genomic regions under selection, demographic
and seascape genomics analysis; simulation and analysis
of population genomics data sets, genomic analysis of
epigenetic variation. The candidate should be familiar
with UNIX operating systems (e.g., Linux), bash script-
ing, and code in at least one programming language,
preferably Python or R.
Applicants are required to have a PhD. in evolutionary
ecology, plant breeding, population genetics/genomics,
genetics, or similar eld. The postdoctoral fellow will
have the opportunity to collaborate with our extended
network of partners, including but not limited to, the
following groups, Bob Miller and Dan Reed from UCSB,
Sergey Nuhzdin from UCS, Pete Raimondi from UCSC,
Scott Lindell and Charles Yarish from WHOI, the Puget
Sound Restoration Fund team, The Nature Conservancy
California Oceans team, and the California Conservation
Genomics consortium.
Informal inquiries about our projects are encouraged.
Please apply by sending a single pdf document, including
1. CV,
2. a declaration of research interests,
3. previous experience and t for the position, and
4. the email address and telephone number of three
potential contacts for reference letters.
Applications should be emailed to Dr. Filipe Alberto,
albertof(at)uwm.edu. The initial contract will be for
one year with a possible extension to one additional
year. The review of applications starts February 28, and
will continue until the position is lled. The position is
expected to begin as soon as possible.
UW-Milwaukee is an AA / EEO employer strongly com-
mitted to maintaining a climate supporting equality ofopportunity and respect for dierences based on gender,
culture, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, marital
status, race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
age and lawful activities.
For more information about the lab see: alberto-
lab.blogspot.com
UWM has an active group of researchers studying evo-
lutionary ecology and behavior:
https://uwm.edu/biology/research/ecology-evolution-
and-behavior/ Filipe Alberto Associate Professor
Dept. of Biological Sciences University of Wisconsin
- Milwaukee 3209 N. Maryland Ave. Milwaukee, WI
53211
URL: http://alberto-lab.blogspot.com/ URL: http://-
giantkelpbreeding.com Email: albertof@uwm.edu Tel:
414-251-8262
albertof@uwm.edu
YaleU ConservationBiodiversity
Postdoc positions in Quantitative Conservation, Ecology,
and Global Biodiversity Science
As part of a new cohort hire, six postdoctoral posi-
tions are available in association with the Yale Cen-
ter for Biodiversity and Global Change (BGC Cen-
ter), the Max Planck-Yale Center for Biodiversity
Movement and Global Change, and Map of Life.
These are 2-3-year positions, some with the poten-
tial for longer-term (non-ladder faculty) employment.
https://bgc.yale.edu Quantitative Conservation Science
- https://bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-conservation
Global Macroecology and Macroevolution - https:/-
/bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-macroecology Quanti-
tative Ecology - https://bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/-
pd-quantitativeecology Animal Movement and Global
Change - https://bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-mpyc
Global Marine Biodiversity Conservation - https:/-
/bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-marine Global Biodi-
versity of Vascular Plants - https://bgc.yale.edu/-
opportunities/pd-plants Diversity, equity, and inclusion
are core values of the Center, and we are committed to
ensuring our workplace reects those values. As such,
we strongly encourage applications from researchers
identifying as a member of a historically marginalized
group.
The Yale BGC Center connects biodiversity scientists112 EvolDir March 1, 2022
from across campus and supports research and train-
ing around the use of new technologies and data ows
for model-based inference and prediction of biodiversity
change. One agship BGC Center project is Map of Life.
Other initiatives associated with the Center include the
integration of spatial, phylogenetic, and functional di-
mensions of biodiversity (e.g., VertLife, ButteryNet),
NASA-supported remote sensing-informed layers and
tools for biodiversity modelling EarthEnv, biodiversity
movement analysis (through the Max-Planck Yale Cen-
ter), and the Wildlife Insights initiative for camera trap-ping data.
Yale University oers researchers and sta competitive
salaries and a generous package of benets. Yale has a
thriving and growing community of young scholars in
ecology, evolution, and global change science in the EEB
Department, the Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies,
the Peabody Museum, and the Yale School of the En-
vironment. New Haven is renowned for its classic Ivy
League setting, 75 miles northeast of New York City.
\Jetz, Walter" <walter.jetz@yale.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Austria Student4studentSummerSchool Sep5-9 Abst-
DeadlineFeb16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
CeskyKrumlov PopulationSpeciationGenomics Jun5-17
113
Finland MathEcolEvolution Aug21-28 . . . . . . . . . . . .113
Online GeneSetEnrichmentAnalysisInR May3-6 . . 113
Online GenomeAnnotation Mar7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Online GWAS May16-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Online Metabarcoding Jun6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Online SingleCellRNAseq Jun6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
Online SpeciesDistribution May9-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116Oxford StatisticalGenomics Jun19-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
Raleigh NorthCarolina EvolMedicineSummerInst
May15-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Raleigh NorthCarolina EvolMedSummerInst May15-20
117
SevilletaNatlWildlifeRefugeLTER EvoWorkingGroup
May9-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Sucre Bolivia GenPob Jul16-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .118
Venice EvoDevoCharacters Aug22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution May27-Jun6 . . . . . 120
Austria
Student4studentSummerSchool
Sep5-9 AbstDeadlineFeb16
Dear all,
This is a reminder of the abstract submission deadline
for S4SSS: February 16th, 23.59 CET.
S4SSS is organized by PhD students for PhD students.
Several sessions and workshops will be held within ve
focus groups, and one common theme: mountain re-
search.
The summer school will take place in Obergurgl, in the
middle of the Austrian Alps, September 5-9.Abstract submission:
https://www.imc2022.info/summerschool/ The sum-
mer school takes place in the context of the Interna-
tional Mountain Conference 2022, Innsbruck, Austria,
for which it is also possible to submit an abstract:
https://www.imc2022.info/ All the best,
Lisa Capponi PhD student, Department of Ecology Uni-
versity of Innsbruck
\Capponi, Lisa" <Lisa.Capponi@uibk.ac.at >March 1, 2022 EvolDir 113
CeskyKrumlov
PopulationSpeciationGenomics
Jun5-17
2022 Workshop on Population and Speciation Genomics,
~Aesk ~A1
2Krumlov, Czech Republic
The 2022 Workshop on Population and Speciation Ge-
nomics brings together an international collection of
faculty members and Workshop participants to study
and discuss current ideas and techniques for the analysis
of genomic data on the level of populations and closely
related species. The Workshop consists of a series of
lectures, demonstrations and computer laboratories that
cover theory and practice of population and speciation
genomics analyses.
Dates: 5 - 17 June, 2022
Application Deadline: 8 April, 2022.
Conrmed Faculty: Alex Buerkle - University of
Wyoming, US Rasmus Nielsen - University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, US Thornn Korneliussen - University of
Copenhagen, Denmark Leonie Moyle - Indiana Univer-
sity Bloomington, US Matthew Hahn - Indiana Univer-
sity Bloomington, US Walter Salzburger - University of
Basel, Switzerland Chris Jiggins - University of Cam-
bridge, UK Alexander Suh - University of East Anglia,
UK Valentina Peona - Uppsala University, Sweden Mat-
teo Fumagalli - Imperial College London, UK Flora Jay
- Universit e Paris-Saclay, France Simon Myers - Univer-
sity of Oxford, UK Leo Speidel - University of Oxford,
UK Georgia Tsambos - University of Washington, US
Registration Fee: $1950 USD. Fee includes the opening
reception and access to all course material, but does not
include other meals or housing. Special discounted pric-
ing has been arranged for hotels, pensions and hostels.
APPLY HERE: http://evomics.org/apply-2022-
workshop-on-population-and-speciation-genomics-
cesky-krumlov/ Workshop Schedule: http://-
evomics.org/2022-workshop-on-population-and-
speciation-genomics-cesky-krumlov/ Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQ) about the Workshop and ~Aesk ~A1
2
Krumlov: http://evomics.org/workshops/faq/ Work-
shop Team: Julia M.I. Barth, Scott Handley, Milan
Malinsky, Michael Matschiner, Britta S. Meyer, Walter
Salzburger, Jan Stefka, Emiliano Trucchi
Michael Matschiner <michael.matschiner@nhm.uio.no >Finland MathEcolEvolution
Aug21-28
THE HELSINKI SUMMER SCHOOL ON MATHE-
MATICAL ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 2022
After the postponements forced upon by the pandemic,
we are glad to announce that the 7th edition of The
Helsinki Summer School on Mathematical Ecology and
Evolution, an EMS-ESMTB School in Applied Mathe-
matics, will be held between 21 and 28 August 2022 in
Turku, Finland.
The core program consists of ve series of lectures:
Josef Hofbauer (University of Vienna): Dynamical sys-
tems in mathematical ecology Gergely R >1
2st (Univer-
sity of Szeged): The mathematics of infectious diseases
Pieter Trapman (Stockholm University): Stochastic
models of epidemics Jarno Vanhatalo (University of
Helsinki): Linking ecological models to data through
Bayesian statistics Christian Hilbe (Max Planck Insti-
tute for Evolutionary Biology): Dynamics of social be-
haviour
All young researchers working in mathematical ecology
can apply from all countries, especially from Europe and
the Mediterranean. The school is aimed at graduate
students of mathematics, but we also welcome students
of biology with sucient background in mathematics,
advanced undergraduates, and postdocs.
For more information and details of the appli-
cation procedure, please visit the school's web-
page https://wiki.helsinki./display/BioMath/-
The+Helsinki+Summer+School+on+Mathematical+Ecology+and+Evolution+2022
With best regards, Eva Kisdi (eva.kisdi@helsinki.)
\Kisdi, Eva" <eva.kisdi@helsinki. >
Online
GeneSetEnrichmentAnalysisInR
May3-6
Dear all, registrations are now open for the Physalia
course \Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) in R"114 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Dates: ONLINE, 3-6 May 2022 Course website:
( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
gse-in-r/ )
In this course, we will teach the use of popular GSEA
tools, both for online-based tools and those implemented
as R packages. We will give a detailed introduction on a
varietay of methods of GSEA analysis, including overrep-
resentation analysis, univariate methods, multivariate
methods, as well as extensions of GSEA analysis, such as
network-based GSEA, and single-sample GSEA. Finally,
you will also learn downstream processing of GSEA re-
sults, including eciently visualizing the massive GSEA
results, clustering, and simplifying GSEA results via
various methods. In the course, we will cover some other
topics that are tightly related to GSEA analysis, such
as multiple hypothesis testing. You will also learn how
to implement GSEA methods completely from scratch
in R.
The course is aimed at students and researchers with
limited statistical knowledge and they should have a
basic knowledge of R programming, e.g. basic data
structures (vectors, data frames, lists).
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
)Best regards,Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR info@physalia-courses.org
mobile: +49 17645230846 Follow us on ( https://-
twitter.com/Physacourses )
Online GenomeAnnotation Mar7-10
The Computational Biology Core at the University of
Connecticut's Institute for Systems Genomics is oer-
ing a workshop on structural and functional genome
annotation.
The workshop will cover basic concepts and walk
through several strategies on a high performance com-
puting cluster.
The goal is to familiarize attendees with the basic
concepts and details of computational approaches for
genome annotation. All code required to complete the
full analysis will be provided in a public github repos-
itory, and session recordings will be available to all
participants after the workshop.
The workshop will take place over 4 days for 3-4 hourseach day.
Dates: March 7-10 (4 days) Time: March 7: 8:30am-
12pm (Eastern) March 8-10: 9.00am - 12.00pm Loca-
tion: Online Cost: $350/$483USD for UConn ali-
ated/External attendees.
Workshop schedule: Day 1: Introduction to Linux and
high performance computing. Day 2: Introduction to
high throughput sequencing, genome assembly valida-
tion, le format basics, and repeats. Day 3: Alignments,
RNA-Seq based annotation with BRAKER2, and func-
tional annotation; Day 4: MAKER annotation, long
read annotation with BRAKER2, and evaluation.
Registration:
To register, please follow this link: https:/-
/forms.gle/daCLSmFtDhJQ7ndQA <
https://forms.gle/gcJpnRZKAwPcgnxV9 >
Workshop FAQ:
Who should attend?
Anyone who wants to learn the fundamentals of genome
annotation.
What are the prerequisites?
Prior bioinformatic experience is not required. We have
dedicated the rst day of the workshop to the basics of
Linux and high performance computing.
What do I need?
You will need your own computer and to install a few
applications. We will send you details of software and
installation instructions with your registration acknowl-
edgement email.
Can I bring my own data?
We will provide experimental datasets for use during
the workshop, as this helps to keep the workshop mov-
ing. There will be time, however, to discuss your own
datasets and how you might work with them outside of
the workshop.
How much does it cost?
The registration fee is $350/$483USD for UConn ali-
ated/External attendees.
How do I pay?
The fee is due at the time of registration. UConn af-
liates can use KFS accounts. The only other means
of payment we currently accept is credit card. Due to
some complications we cannot accept international wire
transfers at this time.
Where is the workshop?
It will be held on Blackboard-Collaborate platform, andMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 115
will run from 9:00am to 12:00pm on the dates indicated.
How do I apply?
All registration is \rst-come, rst-served." There is
no application process. Sign up as soon as possible to
ensure your place in the workshop.
Do you oer scholarships or tuition waivers?
Yes. For each workshop we oer waivers to up to two
attendees without other funding sources. Preference
will be given to students from primarily undergraduate
institutions, from countries classied by the World Bank
as low or middle-income, and those from underrepre-
sented groups. Applicants for waivers may submit a
one paragraph justication to cbcsupport@uconn.edu.
Questions?
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to con-
tact us at cbcsupport@uconn.edu
For our other currently scheduled workshops, see here:
https://bioinformatics.uconn.edu/cbc-workshops/
Noah Reid noah.reid@uconn.edu
Assistant Research Professor Institute for Systems Ge-
nomics University of Connecticut
\Reid, Noah" <noah.reid@uconn.edu >
Online GWAS May16-20
Dear all,
registration is now open for the 4th edition of the
GWAS course: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course49/ )
Dates: Online, May 16th-20th
This course will introduce students, researchers and
professionals to the steps needed to build an analysis
pipeline for Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS).
The course will describe all the necessary steps in-
volved in a typical GWAS study, which will then be
used to build a reusable and reproducible bioinformatics
pipeline.
It will include information useful for both beginners
and more advanced users. We will start by introducing
general concepts of GWAS and bioinformatics pipeline
building, progressively describing all steps and putting
there seamlessy together in a general workow. There
will be a mix of lectures and hands-on practical exer-
cises using R, Unix command line and custom software.Some basic understanding of R programming and Unix
will be advantageous.
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online Metabarcoding Jun6-10
Dear all,
registration is now open for the 6th edition of the
Physalia course \Metabarcoding".
Dates: online, 6-10 June
Course website: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course30/ This course is designed
for researchers and students with strong interests in
applying novel high-throughput DNA sequencing tech-
nologies to answer questions in the area of biodiversity.
The course will mainly focus on the analysis of phyloge-
netic markers to study bacterial, archaeal, and fungal
assemblages in the environment, but the theoretical
concepts and computational procedures can be equally
applied to any taxonomic group or gene of interest.
After completing the course, the participants should
be able to understand the potential and limitations of
metabarcoding techniques as well as to process their own
datasets to answer the questions under investigation.
Here is the full list of our courses and workshops: https:/-
/www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ Best re-
gards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on Twitter
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >116 EvolDir March 1, 2022
Online SingleCellRNAseq Jun6-10
Dear all, registration is now open for the 4th edition of
the Physalia course \Single-cell RNA-seq analysis with
R/Bioconductor", which will be held online in June
(6th-10th).
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course18/ )
This course will introduce biologists and bioinformati-
cians to the eld of single-cell RNA sequencing. We will
cover a range of software and analysis workows that
extend over the spectrum from the best practices in the
ltering scRNAseq data to the downstream analysis of
cell clusters and temporal ordering. This course will help
the attendees gain accurate insights in pre-processing,
analysis and interpretation of scRNAseq data.
At the end of this course, you should be able to:
Understand the pros/cons of dierent single-cell RNA-
seq methods Process and QC of scRNA-seq data Nor-
malize scRNA-seq data Correct for batch eects Visu-
alise the data and applying dimensionality reduction
Perform cell clustering and annotation Perform dieren-
tial expression analysis Infer pseudo-time and perform
temporal dierential expression
Here is the full list of our courses and workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online SpeciesDistribution May9-13
Dear all,
registration is open for the 3rd edition of the Physalia
course \Species distribution and ecological niche mod-
elling in R"Dates: May 9th-13th (Online)
Course website:( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course45/ )
This course will encompass the theory and practice
of species distributions models (SDM) and ecological
niche models (ENM), spanning the underlying concepts,
methods, and applications. We will address the caveats
and challenges of these models, and see how to make
the most of their strengths while avoiding their most
common pitfalls. Participants will build and validate
models based on species occurrence data of their choice,
and learn how to apply these models to a variety of
purposes.
The course is aimed at students, researchers and practi-
tioners at any career stage with an interest in building
and applying species distribution and/or ecological niche
models in a reproducible and automated way.
Here is the full list of our courses and workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Oxford StatisticalGenomics
Jun19-24
Join us for an immersive week-long residential
post-graduate summer school on Statistical Ge-
nomics < https://www.conted.ox.ac.uk/courses/-
oxford-statistical-genomics-summer-school?code=-
O22I410SGS >at St Hilda's College Oxford, overlook-
ing the River Cherwell and Christ Church Meadow, on
19th-24th June 2022.
This course aims to connect post-graduate and post-
doctoral researchers from academia and industry with
experts at Oxford's Big Data Institute, Wellcome Centre
for Human Genetics, and Department of Statistics.
Our friendly tutors, internationally recognised for their
scientic expertise, will oer specialist instruction and
hands-on computer practicals across ve broad areas of
Statistical Genomics: Next-generation Sequence DataMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 117
Analysis, Gene and Variant Association Testing, Ge-
nomics of Infectious Diseases, Genealogical Inference
and Analysis, and Medical Genomics.
The course is aimed at trainee scientists actively engaged
in statistical genomics research, who wish to expand
their knowledge of concepts and techniques.
For more information including how to apply
please visit: https://www.conted.ox.ac.uk/courses/-
oxford-statistical-genomics-summer-school?code=-
O22I410SGS { Associate Professor Daniel Wilson
Big Data Institute Robertson Fellow, Nueld Dept.
Population Health Director of Studies in Data Sci-
ence, Dept. for Continuing Education University of
Oxford Web: www.danielwilson.me.uk Daniel Wilson
<daniel.wilson@bdi.ox.ac.uk >
Raleigh NorthCarolina
EvolMedicineSummerInst May15-20
Applications are now open for the Triangle Center
for Evolutionary Medicine (TriCEM)'s Evolutionary
Medicine Summer Institute! The 2022 EMSI will be
held May 15th through 20th at North Carolina State
University in Raleigh, NC*.
EMSI provides training in evolutionary medicine to stu-
dents, postdocs, and faculty from diverse elds, plus
clinicians and other medical, veterinary, and public
health practitioners. The goals of EMSI are to:
1. Introduce core evolutionary principles 2. Apply
evolutionary perspectives to a wide range of topics (in-
cluding infectious disease, microbial resistance, cancer,
the microbiome, and more) 3. Provide training in com-
putational methods used in evolutionary and ecological
research 4. Foster new collaborations across the evolu-
tionary sciences, human and veterinary medicine, and
public health
Through lectures, hands-on computational exercises,
and team-based learning projects, participants will gain
the background and the tools to apply evolutionary biol-
ogy to questions of medical and veterinary importance.
For more information and to apply, please visit the EMSI
website: https://sites.duke.edu/emsi. Applications are
due by Monday, March 7th, 2022.
If you have any questions, please feel free
to contact Meredith Spence Beaulieu (mered-
ith.spence.beaulieu@duke.edu).*Note: We are currently planning for in-person, but
virtual options are a possibility given the uncertainty
around the ongoing pandemic. We encourage you to
apply if you would be interested in attending in-person
OR virtually! There is a question on the application to
gauge your comfort/interest with these options.
\Meredith Spence Beaulieu, Ph.D."
<meredith.spence.beaulieu@duke.edu >
Raleigh NorthCarolina
EvolMedSummerInst May15-20
TWO WEEKS LEFT TO APPLY for the Triangle Cen-
ter for Evolutionary Medicine (TriCEM)'s Evolutionary
Medicine Summer Institute! The 2022 EMSI will be
held May 15th through 20th at North Carolina State
University in Raleigh, NC*.
EMSI provides training in evolutionary medicine to stu-
dents, postdocs, and faculty from diverse elds, plus
clinicians and other medical, veterinary, and public
health practitioners. The goals of EMSI are to:
1. Introduce core evolutionary principles 2. Apply
evolutionary perspectives to a wide range of topics (in-
cluding infectious disease, microbial resistance, cancer,
the microbiome, and more) 3. Provide training in com-
putational methods used in evolutionary and ecological
research 4. Foster new collaborations across the evolu-
tionary sciences, human and veterinary medicine, and
public health
Through lectures, hands-on computational exercises,
and team-based learning projects, participants will gain
the background and the tools to apply evolutionary biol-
ogy to questions of medical and veterinary importance.
For more information and to apply, please visit the EMSI
website: https://sites.duke.edu/emsi. Applications are
due by Monday, March 7th, 2022.
If you have any questions, please feel free
to contact Meredith Spence Beaulieu (mered-
ith.spence.beaulieu@duke.edu).
*Note: We are currently planning for in-person, but
virtual options are a possibility given the uncertainty
around the ongoing pandemic. We encourage you to
apply if you would be interested in attending in-person
OR virtually! There is a question on the application to
gauge your comfort/interest with these options.
\Meredith Spence Beaulieu, Ph.D."118 EvolDir March 1, 2022
<meredith.spence.beaulieu@duke.edu >
SevilletaNatlWildlifeRefugeLTER
EvoWorkingGroup May9-12
We are seeking postdoctoral and graduate student ap-
plicants from diverse backgrounds to participate in a
fully funded working group focusing on exploring the
role of evolutionary processes in long-term ecological re-
search, with an emphasis on grassland plants. The aim
of this working group is to facilitate collaborations be-
tween ecologists and evolutionary biologists by realizing
the opportunity that Long-Term Ecological Research
(LTER) sites provide for conducting eco-evolutionary
research.
Biologists increasingly recognize that ecological and
evolutionary processes are closely linked. This is partic-
ularly relevant in the context of global change, where en-
vironmental conditions may change rapidly, and species
may adapt to the novel conditions in a comparable
timeframe. Unfortunately, studies that examine the in-
teractions and feedback loops between evolutionary and
ecological processes, particularly in long-term ecological
studies, are rare. The working group will address this
problem by rst identifying barriers that exist to de-
veloping evolutionary biology work at LTER sites and,
second, identifying possible solutions. In doing so, the
working group will develop a framework for how to best
implement future eco-evolutionary research in a long-
term ecological research context. Lastly, the main goal
of this working group is to unite early-career ecologists
and evolutionary biologists with postdoc and gradu-
ate students to create a new cohort of eco-evolutionary
scientists!
The working group will be held at *Sevilleta
National Wildlife Refuge LTER* <https://-
unmsevilletaeldstation.wordpress.com/ >in La
Joya, NM on *May 9th-12th, 2022*. We expect
participants will arrive Sunday night (May 8th) and
depart Friday morning (May 13th). *Travel to/from
and accommodation at the UNM Sevilleta Field Station
will be provided, and all meals **will be catered for
the duration of the working group*. *There will be
no costs for participants*. The format will be a daily
morning plenary, followed by break-out focus groups,
evening graduate and postdoc posters, and informal
discussion. Please be aware that we will be abiding by
CDC guidelines and requiring proof of vaccination toattend in-person. Remote participation will also be
available to those who cannot or do not feel comfortable
attending in-person. Our goal is to hold a productive
meeting where all feel safe and comfortable - as such,
we will be monitoring the ever-changing situation and
making changes when necessary!
The organizers of the working group greatly value diver-
sity, equality of opportunity, and human dignity. *Sci-
entists who are LGBTQ+, Black, Hispanic, Latin(o/a),
Indigenous, Asian, Asian American, Pacic Islander,
two or more races/ethnicities, or veterans are especially
encouraged to apply*. To apply, email Jenny Cocciardi
(jenny.cocciardi@jhu.edu) with the subject line \Evo-
LTER Working Group Application" with; 1) a copy of
your CV, 2) an abstract describing research that you
would like to present on at the working group (limit
300 words), and, 3) a one-page diversity, equity, and
inclusion statement describing your experiences and com-
mitment to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion
in STEM. The research may be in the elds spanning
ecology and evolutionary biology, but preferably with
an element of both (including, but not limited to; plant
eco-evo-devo biology, global change ecology, adaptation
to climate change, phenology, plant physiology and mor-
phology, phenotypic plasticity, quantitative genetics and
genomics, community ecology, population genetics, etc.).
*Applications are due March 4th*and applicants will be
notied of the decision to attend by March 14th, 2022.
Undergraduate students who have conducted research
that they feel ts well with the working group's main
aims may also apply. Applicants are encouraged to
email Jenny Cocciardi (jenny.cocciardi@jhu.edu) with
any questions and inquiries on the working group!
Jennifer Cocciardi <jenny.cocciardi@gmail.com >
Sucre Bolivia GenPob Jul16-25
The Gen-Pob.org workshop will resume in Sucre, Bolivia
from 16 to 25 July 2022, at the Universidad Mayor Real
y Ponticia de San Francisco Xavier de Chuquisaca <
https://www.usfx.bo/ >. This is an 8-day workshop
in Bolivia's oldest and historical capital city providing
instruction in population genomic theory and bioinfor-
matics exercises related to the analysis of RAD-Seq data.
Instructors this year include Dr. Kevin McCracken (
kevin.g.mccracken@gmail.com) from the University of
Miami and Dr. Je Peters from Wright State University
(jerey.peters@wright.edu).March 1, 2022 EvolDir 119
Details about the workshop can be accessed at:
www.gen-pob.org There is no cost to the workshop,
but registration is required by 1 June.
To apply please send the following to: cgen-
pop@gmail.com
1. Name
2. Aliation
3. Email & telephone
4. Proof of vaccination against COVID19
5. 2-page CV or resume
Only about 30 positions are available.
Kevin McCracken <kevin.g.mccracken@gmail.com >
kevin.g.mccracken@gmail.com
Venice EvoDevoCharacters
Aug22-26
Dear all,
Registration is now open for:
*** Venice Summer School 2022 - The character concept
in metabolic, physiological, and developmental evolution
*** Aug 26 - Aug 30, 2022, Centro Culturale Don Orione
Artigianelli, Venice, IT
Organisers: Johannes Jaeger, Complexity Sci-
ence Hub (CSH), Vienna, AT, jaeger@csh.ac.at
Berta Verd, University of Cambridge, UK,
berta.verdfernandez@zoo.ox.ac.uk James DiFrisco, KU
Leuven, BE, james.difrisco@kuleuven.be
Teaching Panel:
Graham Budd, University of Uppsala, SE
James DiFrisco, KU Leuven, BE Scott Gilbert, Swarth-
more College, USA Thomas Hansen, University of Oslo,
NO
Johannes Jaeger, Complexity Science Hub (CSH) Vi-
enna, AT
Ant onia Monteiro, National University of Singapore, SG
Edwige Moyroud, Sainsbury Laboratory, Cambridge,
UK Laura Nu no de la Rosa, Universidad Complutense
de Madrid, ES
Mihaela Pavlicev, University of Vienna, AT
Emilia Santos, University of Cambridge, UKBerta Verd, University of Oxford, UK
G unter Wagner, Yale University, USA
Course description:
The concept of \characters" lies at the heart of many
central issues in evolutionary biology. Characters dis-
tinguish taxa, cause tness dierences, and generally
are the fundamental units of comparison for studies
of phenotypic evolution. Historically, the concept of
characters originated in morphology and comparative
anatomy, where it was intimately connected to the issue
of homology. At the same time, characters in evolu-
tionary genetics have been understood as the eective
dimensions along which a population is evolving. Both
the more historical and functional conceptions of biolog-
ical characters presuppose that phenotypes are modular
enough that it makes sense to compare or model parts
of organisms directly rather than whole organisms. To-
day, the notion of characters or traits is increasingly
used to describe dynamic lower-level phenomena such as
metabolic, physiological, and developmental processes.
This raises a number of challenging but interesting con-
ceptual issues. How can we dene characters or traits
when the object under study is a process? Is it pos-
sible to modularize regulatory mechanisms into quasi-
independent characters? What light can contemporary
systems biology shed on the partitioning of the pheno-
type into characters? We do not yet have answers to
these important questions. We have gathered a select
group of empirical investigators and theoreticians from
the elds of biochemistry, physiology, developmental
biology, and evolutionary biology together with mathe-
matical modelers, and philosophers of biology to discuss
how characters can be dened, identied, and charac-
terized in the age of integrative systems biology. Is it
still useful to talk about characters? And if so, what
should the concept incorporate to guide research in the
right direction? Evolutionary biology lies at the very
heart of biology. Therefore, this topic is relevant far
beyond its boundaries. Properly tackling it requires
the kind of transdisciplinary exchange of ideas and ap-
proaches we are planning to implement in this course.
The summer school is mainly aimed at early-stage (PhD
or postdoc) empirical and theoretical researchers with
a general background and/or interest in developmental
and/or evolutionary biology. More senior investigators
are welcome to apply as well. Exceptions can be made
for motivated masters students. Participants of previ-
ous Venice Summer Schools in Evo-Devo are expressly
encouraged to reapply as this course has an entirely
dierent topic than previous editions. The course will
equip participants with the conceptual tools to engage
in a productive discussion of the notion of \characters,"
and to relate this notion to their own research questions120 EvolDir March 1, 2022
and explanations.
Detailed programme and further information: https://-
meetings.embo.org/event/21-evolution-venice *** Reg-
istration is open on EMBO's course website:
https://meetings.embo.org/event/21-evolution-venice
Applicants are required to submit an academic CV, and
a motivation letter. Optionally, also add an abstract if
you would like to present your own work as an elevator
pitch on the rst day of the course.
*** Application/abstract submission deadline: Apr 15,
2022. Applicants will be notied whether they have
been accepted (or not) by May 15, 2022. The payment
deadline for successful applicants is Jun 30, 2022.
Follow @VeniceEvoDevo on Twitter for updates.
On behalf of all the organisers, Yogi Jaeger
Dr. Johannes Jaeger Freelance Researcher, Philosopher
& Educator Associate Faculty, Complexity Science Hub
(CSH), Vienna
Johannes Jaeger <yoginho@gmail.com >
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution
May27-Jun6
The 2022 Workshop on Molecular Evolution at the
Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mas-
sachusetts, USA, will be held *** MAY 27 to JUNE 6
*** (note that this is earlier than past years).
The deadline for applications *** has been extended
to MARCH 7, 2022 *** : see https://www.mbl.edu/-
education/courses/workshop-on-molecular-evolution/
Founded in 1988, the Workshop on Molecular Evolution
is the longest-running workshop of its kind. The Work-
shop is the premier program for integrating the meth-
ods, theory, and applications of molecular phylogenetics,statistical genetics, molecular evolution, and related
disciplines. Students work closely with internationally-
recognized scientists, receiving: (i) high-level instruc-
tion in the principles of molecular evolution, phyloge-
netic inference, and evolutionary genomics; (ii) advanced
training in statistical methods best suited to modern
datasets; and (iii) hands-on experience with the latest
software tools (often from the authors of the programs
they are using). The material is delivered via lectures,
discussions, and bioinformatic exercises motivated by
contemporary topics in molecular evolution. A hallmark
of this workshop is the direct interaction between stu-
dents and eld-leading scientists. The workshop serves
graduate students, postdocs, and established faculty
from around the world seeking to apply the principles
of molecular evolution to questions of both basic and
applied biological sciences. A priority of this workshop
is to foster an environment where students can learn
from each other as well from the course faculty.
As the course progresses, participants learn how to
use the following software to address questions con-
cerning the phylogeny (including phylogenetic net-
works), divergence times, eects of selection, and migra-
tion: ASTRAL, FigTree, IQTree, MIGRATE, MrBayes,
RevBayes, PAML, PAUP*, RAxML, and SNaQ. Stu-
dents will have the opportunity to work with software
on their own laptops as well as receive training on how
to use the same programs on a computer cluster.
In 2022 the course instructors include Peter Beerli, Joe
Bielawski, Jeremy Brown, Minh Bui, Belinda Chang,
Scott Edwards, Deise Goncalves, Tracy Heath, John
Huelsenbeck, Lacey Knowles, Aki Laruson, Paul Lewis,
Emily Jane McTavish, Claudia Solis-Lemus, Ed Susko,
David Swoord, Katie Taylor, and Anne Yoder.
More information on the Workshop is available on the
course website: https://molevolworkshop.github.io For
further information, please contact the Workshop Co-
Directors:
Paul Lewis and Peter Beerli (moledirector@mbl.edu)
\Lewis, Paul" <paul.lewis@uconn.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listedMarch 1, 2022 EvolDir 121
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.