E v o l D i r
September 1, 2010
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Conferences
London Evol Interspeciﬁc Communication Dec2-3 . . 2
Madison Florida SEPEEG Oct8-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Marseilles 14thEvolutionaryBiology Sep21-24 4 . . . . . 3ULisbon PolyploidEvolution Nov11-12 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
London Evol Interspeciﬁc
Communication Dec2-3
Conference: Interspeciﬁc Communication
And the main text is:
Abstract Submission Deadline Extended (new date 31st
August 2010)
Signalling and communication, in the context of sexual
selection, has been one of the dominant research areas
in animal behaviour for the last three decades. The
2010 Winter ASAB conference will instead focus on in-
terspeciﬁc communication. This topic is rich in terms of
extraordinary natural history and the theory needed to
understand what is going on, and has profound impli-
cations for evolution and ecology. Sub-themes include:
host manipulation by parasites (including brood par-
asites), plant-pollinator interactions, anti-predator de-
fensive signals, the evolution of mutualism, and alarm-
calling.
The plenary speakers at the main conference are:
Redouan Bshary (University of Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland)
Lars Chittka (Queen Mary College, University of Lon-
don, UK) Leena Lindstrom (University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a,
Finland) Rob Magrath (Australian National University,
Australia)
The meeting is, as always, also host to ASAB’s annual
Tinbergen lecture. This year’s speaker is Laurent Keller
of the University of Lausanne, Switzerland.
We are now seeking contributed talks and posters
to complement the exceptional invited speak-
ers. Please send abstracts of potential contribu-
tions, using the downloadable form on the ASABwebsite: <http://asab.nottingham.ac.uk/ >, to
Adi.Whitty@bristol.ac.uk (putting ’ASAB conference’
in the subject box).
Deadline for abstract submission: 31st AUGUST 2010
Registration: Free. Just turn up! Venue: Zoological
Society of London meeting rooms, Regent’s Park, Lon-
don, UK Dates: 2nd - 3rd December, 2010
Dr A Radford BBSRC David Phillips Research
Fellow School of Biological Sciences Univer-
sity of Bristol Woodland Road Bristol BS8 1UG
Andy.Radford@bristol.ac.uk Tel: 0117-9288246
A Radford <Andy.Radford@bristol.ac.uk >
Madison Florida SEPEEG Oct8-10
Dear All,
SEPEEG/SEEPAGE, the 2010 southeastern popula-
tion ecology & evolutionary genetics meeting will be
held the weekend of 8-10 October at the 4H cen-
ter near Madison, Florida. The meeting will be
hosted by the Department of Biology, University of
Florida, Gainesville FL. Organizers: Charlie Baer
and Marta Wayne. You can learn more by clicking
here: http://web.me.com/mlwayne/SEPEEG 2010/-
home.html . Registration will open 1 September.
Hope to see you there, Marta and Charlie
mlwayne@uﬂ.eduSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 3
Marseilles 14thEvolutionaryBiology
Sep21-24 4
Dear All,
We are pleased to inform you that the program of the
14th Evolutionary Biology Meeting at Marseilles, Mar-
seilles, France, 21-24 september 2010 is available on our
web site: http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr Yours
sincerely,
Axelle Pontarotti
Egee@univ-provence.fr
ULisbon PolyploidEvolution
Nov11-12 2
International meeting on the genetics of polyploids
http://polyploidymeeting.fc.ul.pt/
Dear colleagues,the International meeting on the genetics of polyploids
has updated the Important dates; you have now extra
time to submit your abstract!
September 15 Deadline - abstracts submissions (poly-
ploidymeeting@fc.ul.pt)
September 30 Decision and communication on
oral/poster presentations
October 15 1st deadline for registration (reduced price)
October 30 2nd deadline for registration (full price)
The INTERNATIONAL MEETING ON THE GE-
NETICS OF POLYPLOIDS aims at promoting knowl-
edge exchange and discussions on the latest develop-
ments regarding the ﬁeld of polyploidy. The meet-
ing will take place next November11th-12th, 2010 at
the Faculdade de Ci ˜Ancias, Universidade de Lisboa
(FCUL).
The main topics to be covered in the meeting will be
gene expression, genome dynamics, sex and reproduc-
tion, and will include subjects such as epigenetics, gene
regulation, genome structure and evolution, heterosis,
sexual diﬀerentiation and determination.
This international meeting will feature outstanding
speakers in the ﬁeld of polyploidy such as Luca Comai,
UC Davis, USA; James Bogart, University of Guelph,
Canada; Manfred Schartl, University of Wuerzburg,
Germany; Roger Butlin, University of Sheﬃeld, UK.
Angela In ˜Acio<mainacio@fc.ul.pt >
GradStudentPositions
ACWilsonCentre NZ ModelsGeneticVariation . . . . . . . 4
CityUNewYork ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Davos Bern Uppsala 3 PlantEcol EvolEcol EcolGenet-
ics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
ETH Zurich TropcialForestPopulationsGenetics . . . . . 5
FIOCRUZ-Minas Brazil Genomics ComputBiol . . . . . 7
GoetheU Frankfurt GenomicsVertebrateEvolution . . 7
GoetheU Frankfurt PlantEﬀectorEvolution . . . . . . . . . 8
HelmholtzCentre Germany Phylogeography . . . . . . . . . 8
LouisianaStateU EchinodermPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . 9MasseyU FungalBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen EvolutionBatNeurogenesis
10
Montpellier MouseAdaptiveSpeciation 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 10
NorthCarolinaStateU PlantSystematicsEvolution . . 56
OregonStateU SheepPopulationStructure . . . . . . . . . . 12
UAmsterdam PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 13
UExeter EvolutionInformationProcessing . . . . . . . . . . 13
UHelsinki AntGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIdaho 12 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 EvolDir September 1, 2010
UIllinois SorghumEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UJyvaskyla Finland ComparativeTranscriptomics . . 16UManchester Ecology of Social Evolution . . . . . . . . . . 16
UWindsor EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
ACWilsonCentre NZ
ModelsGeneticVariation
Funded PhD Studentship Available through the Allan
Wilson Centre for Study at the University of Otago,
Dunedin, New Zealand
Topic: Population-Genetic Models for the Maintenance
of Genetic Variation
The mismatch between empirical data showing a vast
amount of genetic variation in natural populations and
theoretical models predicting such levels of variation
has been described as the central problem in population
genetics. Recently, progress has been made in resolving
this paradox by considering how selectively maintained
variation may build up over time. The models underly-
ing this research, however, assume that ﬁtnesses are rel-
atively unconstrained, which is often unrealistic. This
project will examine the consequences for these models
of incorporating constrained ﬁtnesses using simulation
techniques of mathematical modeling. The work re-
quires some mathematical background, although a de-
gree in mathematics is not a strict requirement.
Background reading: Trotter, M.V., and H.G Spencer.
2008. The generation and maintenance of genetic vari-
ation by frequency-dependent selection: Constructing
polymorphisms under the pairwise interaction model.
Genetics 180: 1547-1557.
Star, B., M.V. Trotter and H.G. Spencer. 2008. Evo-
lution of ﬁtnesses in structured populations with corre-
lated environments. Genetics 179: 1469-1478.
This project would be supervised by Prof. Hamish
Spencer at the University of Otago.
Should you wish to undertake study in the Allan Wil-
son Centre (AWC) on either an AWC Studentship or
through some other funding mechanism you must either
be a New Zealand citizen, hold New Zealand residency
or have a study permit to study in New Zealand. The
AWC is a partnership between 5 New Zealand universi-
ties and a New Zealand Crown Research Institute. The
rules for the admittance of international students may
vary slightly between institutions. - International stu-
dents wishing to enrol at the University of Otago should
read these pages.Professor Hamish G. Spencer, FRSNZ Allan Wilson
Centre for Molecular Ecology and Evolution National
Research Centre for Growth and Development Depart-
ment of Zoology / Te Tari o Mˆ atai Kararehe Univer-
sity of Otago / Te Whare Wˆ ananga o Otˆ ago Dunedin
/ˆOepoti New Zealand / Aotearoa
Email: h.spencer@otago.ac.nz or
hod.zoology@otago.ac.nz Postal: Department of
Zoology, P.O. Box 56, Dunedin 9054 Courier: 340
Great King Street, Dunedin 9016 Phone: +64-3-479-
7981 Fax: +64-3-479-7584
Departmental Website: http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
zoology/staﬀ/academic/spencer.html AWC Website:
http://www.allanwilsoncentre.ac.nz/ NRCGD Web-
site: http://www.nrcgd.org.nz/ NZ Mollusca Website:
http://www.molluscs.otago.ac.nz
CityUNewYork
ConservationGenetics
A position for a PhD student at the Graduate Center,
City University of New York is available through the
Conservation Genetics / Molecular Ecology and Evo-
lution laboratory of Eugenia Naro-Maciel, College of
Staten Island, starting Fall 2011.
Compatible candidates should be interested in investi-
gating relationships among and within species in order
to understand patterns and processes of molecular evo-
lution, and to inform conservation strategies. In this
laboratory we use a comprehensive analytical approach
to population genetics and systematics, and focus on
globally endangered sea turtles as well as other marine
animals and chelonians. This combination approach al-
lows assignment of individuals to their unknown source
populations, reveals relationships and diﬀerentiation
among groups, and explores genetic variation within
groups. This research provides unique insights into
temporal and spatial patterns of genetic variation, dis-
persal, and migration, while enhancing basic biological
knowledge of population structure and molecular evolu-
tion. By investigating population connectivity, or link-
ages among groups, and evolutionary history in endan-
gered species, this program advances understanding ofSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 5
central questions in evolution and conservation biology.
To ﬁll this position the student must be accepted to
the Graduate Center (please click to see information
for prospective students: http://www.gc.cuny.edu/-
prospective students/index.htm ).
Interested students are requested to visit the
website ( http://web.me.com/enaromaciel/Naro-
Maciel Laboratory/Home.html ) then email a cv and
cover letter, including research interests and GRE
scores, to Eugenia.NaroMaciel@csi.cuny.edu
Think green before you print this email.
Eugenia NaroMaciel <Eugenia.NaroMaciel@csi.cuny.edu >
Davos Bern Uppsala 3 PlantEcol
EvolEcol EcolGenetics
Davos Bern Uppsala.PlantEcol EvolEcol EcolGenetics
Three PhD positions in Plant Ecology, Evolutionary
Ecology and Ecological Genetics
We are seeking three PhD students for a new SNF-
funded project about the adaptation of the long-lived
alpine shrub Salix herbacea to diﬀerent altitudes and
habitats, and its ecological and evolutionary responses
to climate change. The project is a collaboration be-
tween the Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and
Landscape Research WSL in Davos, the Universities of
Basel, Bern and Fribourg (all in Switzerland), and the
University of Uppsala in Sweden.
The project consists of three sub-projects that are
tightly linked through common ﬁeld surveys and trans-
plant experiments. The ﬁeld sites are in the Swiss Alps
near Davos.
Position 1: Plant Ecology, Davos. This project will
examine how temperature, microclimate, snow condi-
tions and competition aﬀect the growth, demography
and physiology of S. herbacea. The student will be su-
pervised by Christian Rixen and Sonja Wipf (Davos,
www.wsl.ch/fe/oekosystem/alpine ) and G¨ unter Hoch
(Basel, pages.unibas.ch/botschoen/hoch).
Position 2: Evolutionary Ecology, Bern. This project
will examine the heritability of plant traits, natural se-
lection in diﬀerent habitats, and the potential evolu-
tionary responses of S. herbacea to climate change. It
will also study the role of biotic interactions in con-
straining plant adaptation. The student will be super-vised by Mark van Kleunen and Oliver Bossdorf (Bern,
www.botany.unibe.ch/planteco ).
Position 3: Ecological Genetics, Uppsala. This sub-
project will examine variation, selection and adapta-
tion in S. herbacea at the molecular level. It will
use population genomic approaches to study associa-
tions between molecular markers/candidate genes, eco-
logically important plant traits and habitat factors.
The student will be supervised by Sophie Karrenberg
(Uppsala, www.vaxtbio.uu.se/resfold/karrenberg.htm )
and Christian Lexer (Fribourg, www.unifr.ch/biol/-
ecology/lexer/ ).
For more information about the projects, research
groups and places of work, please visit the websites,
or contact the three subproject leaders, using the email
addresses below.
All positions require a MSc degree (or equivalent), ﬂu-
ency in English, a driver?s licence, and the ability to
work in an Alpine environment, sometimes indepen-
dently and sometimes in a team. Previous experience
with ecological ﬁeld work/experiments and statistical
skills are generally a plus. Position 3 requires experi-
ence with genetic lab work and analysis of genetic data.
The durations of the positions are 3 years for PhD po-
sitions 1 & 2, and 4 years for PhD position 3.
Applicants should send a letter of application, ex-
plaining your motivation, research interests and rel-
evant experience as well as a CV and contact de-
tails of at least two references, to rixen@slf.ch (po-
sition 1), vkleunen@ips.unibe.ch (position 2) or so-
phie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se (position 3). The applica-
tion deadline is 15 September 2010. Starting date for
the positions will be January 1, 2011, or shortly there-
after.
Sophie Karrenberg Uppsala University Evolutionary
Biology Center Plant Ecology Norbyv¨ agen 18 D 752
36 UPPSALA Sweden
+46-(0)18-471 2863
sophie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se
ETH Zurich
TropcialForestPopulationsGenetics
Fully funded PhD studentship oﬀered in the Professor-
ship of Ecosystem Management, ETH Zurich, Switzer-
land6 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Spatial Genetic Structure and Carbon Sequestration in
Bornean Tropical Forests
Start Date: Jan 2011
Project: Tropical trees species are threatened by defor-
estation, which also accounts for an estimated 17% of
global carbon emissions. Forest preservation can thus
both conserve forest tree species and the carbon they
contain. Eﬀective conservation strategy requires an un-
derstanding of the processes underlying plant popula-
tion viability, including reproduction, dispersal and ge-
netic structure. There are indications that such pro-
cesses correlate with wood density, providing the foun-
dation by which carbon storage and population viabil-
ity might be integrated within a single ecological frame-
work.
This project seeks to quantify and evaluate the strength
of relationships between wood density, reproductive
traits, gene dispersal and spatial genetic structure of
dipterocarp trees in Borneo, with a view to informing
policy and management practice on forest restoration
and carbon sequestration.
Speciﬁcally this project aims to:
1. Determine relationships between seed size, seed dis-
persal and wood density across a range of dipterocarp
species.
2. Evaluate degree of spatial aggregation across tree
size classes and correlate this to fruit traits (wing load-
ing, seed size) and environmental variables (soil associ-
ations).
3. Conduct analyses of spatial genetic structure for 10
Shorea species with contrasting reproductive traits and
wood density.
4. Evaluate the impact of changes in tree density due
to forest fragmentation and degradation on genetic di-
versity along a wood density gradient.
This project will be conducted in close collaboration
with the Sabah Forest Department and the Sepilok For-
est Research Institute. The results of this work have ap-
plication for tropical forest conservation, management
and restoration across Southeast Asia.
Supervisors: Prof. Dr. Jaboury Ghazoul, Dr. Chris
Kettle (ETH Zurich) and Dr David Burslem (Univer-
sity of Aberdeen).
Requirements: We are seeking highly motivated appli-
cants, with a desire to work on Tropical Forest ecology
as part of a dynamic team.
Essential requirements:
i. Good BSc and MSc degrees in Ecology, EvolutionaryBiology, Population Genetics or other similarly relevant
ﬁeld.
ii. Very good spoken and written English.
Highly desirable:
i. Experience of working in tropical ﬁeld conditions.
ii. Prior experience of molecular lab work.
iii. Quantitative and statistical expertise.
iv. Independence and self-reliance.
v. Spoken and written German.
Knowledge of spoken and written Malay would also be
advantageous.
The Ecosystem Management Group is an international
research group of scientists and students that addressed
range of multi-disciplinary topics relating to conserva-
tion and ecosystem management in both temperate and
tropical systems. More details can be found on our
web site ( www.ecology.ethz.ch ). The group has access
to world-class facilities (including the newly established
Genetic Diversity Center Zurich).
Conditions of Employment: Three years appointment
at ETH Zurich. Starting salary around 40,000 CHF per
year. The successful candidate should expect to spend
periods of ﬁeldwork at Danum Valley, Sabah, Malaysian
Borneo. The position is open to suitable candidates of
all nationalities.
Application: Please send a letter of motivation, full
CV and names and addresses of two academic referees
to Ms. Ankara Chen by e-mail [chen(at)env.ethz.ch]
by 1st Octoberth 2010. All applications must include
“PSC application” in the subject line.
Informal enquires should be directed to Jaboury Gha-
zoul: [jaboury.ghazoul(at)env.ethz.ch].
Dr Chris Kettle
Ecosystem Management < http://-
www.ecology.ethz.ch/people/pstdocs/people/pstdocs/-
ckettle >
ETH Zurich
Switzerland
Kettle Chris <chris.kettle@env.ethz.ch >
FIOCRUZ-Minas Brazil Genomics
ComputBiolSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 7
Master and PhD positions at FIOCRUZ-Minas, Brazil,
starting on February 2011
We are seeking a highly motivated candidate to en-
gage a Master (24 months) or Ph.D. (48 months)
graduate program at the Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz,
FIOCRUZ ( http://www.ﬁocruz ) in Brazil, as part of
the de Estudante-Convenio de Pos-graduacao (PEC-
PG).
The selected candidate will joint the Genomics and
Computational Group ( http://bioinfo.cpqrr.ﬁocruz.br )
and also interact with staﬀ from the Center for Excel-
lence in Bioinformatics ( http://www.cebio.org ), both
at FIOCRUZ-Minas ( http://www.cpqrr.ﬁocruz.br ) in
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
This project aims at providing a better understanding
of the biological diversity and evolution of human par-
asites, such as helminthes, and their vectors by adopt-
ing a phylogenomic framework. Besides contributing
to the functional annotation of genomes and predicted
proteomes, the selected candidate will conduct studies
on the evolution of protein families in order to iden-
tify potential therapeutic targets against helminthoses
through combined computational approaches.
Candidates with a Major or Masters degree in Biology,
Physics or Computer Science are encouraged to apply.
Prior experience with phylogenetic analysis, compara-
tive genomics, and/or computational biology is desired.
The selected candidate should have a strong interest
in molecular and evolutionary biology and will be ex-
pected to work in a collaborative environment.
Important: Portuguese is the oﬃcial language in all
graduate programs in Brazil.
Eligibility / Requirements: Candidate should be a citi-
zen of developing countries (see country list on websites
below) and would preferably be employed in his/her
home country. A certiﬁcate of proﬁciency in Portuguese
(CELPE-Bras) is required for speakers of other lan-
guages when submitting an application to CNPq by
October 4, 2010. Two-year home stay requirement af-
ter completion of the graduate program will apply. Fur-
ther information on eligibility and requirements for full
application can be found in the following websites:
Master’s Program V CNPq, Brazil (other countries)
http://www.cnpq.br/editais/ct/2010/pec pg.htm
Master’s Program - CAPES (only for candidates from
Timor Leste) http://www.capes.gov.br/cooperacao-
internacional/multinacional/pec-pg Ph.D. Program V
CAPES, Brazil http://www.capes.gov.br/cooperacao-
internacional/multinacional/pec-pg Key Dates:
September 1, 2010 V Submission of pre-application to
FIOCRUZ-Minas October 4, 2010 V Submission of fullapplication to CNPq December, 2010 V Announcement
of awards by CNPq February, 2011 V Start date of
graduate course in Brazil
For pre-application, please send a one-page letter of in-
terest, grade transcript, and CV (up to three pages)
to Laila Nahum (laila@nahum.com.br) by September
1, 2010.
Laila Alves Nahum, Ph.D. and Guilherme Correa de
Oliveira, Ph.D. Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, FIOCRUZ-
Minas Centro de Pesquisas Rene Rachou, CPqRR
Avenida Augusto de Lima, 1715 sala 504 30.190-002
Belo Horizonte, MG V BRAZIL
Laila Nahum <laila@nahum.com.br >
GoetheU Frankfurt
GenomicsVertebrateEvolution
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has been founded by the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-University Frankfurt
am Main, and additional partners. It is funded by
the Federal State of Hesse through its Initiative for
the Development of Scientiﬁc and Economic Excellence
(LOEWE). The mission of the Centre is to carry out
internationally outstanding research on the interactions
of biodiversity and climate change at the organism level.
The Project Area D “Laboratory centre” invites appli-
cations for the position of a
PhD position The Genomics of Vertebrate Evolution
Project D1.2 [Ref. #D15] TV-H E 13 (50%)
The successful applicant will use bioinformatical meth-
ods for data mining of genome and transcriptome se-
quences for studying vertebrate evolution. The aim
is to identify candidate genes that have been under
selection during major past environmental changes.
The candidate must hold a master or equivalent in
bioinformatics, biology, genetics or a similar ﬁeld of
study. The applicant should have some background and
strong interest in bioinformatics, population genetics
and/or molecular phylogenetics. Programming (PERL,
PYTHON or related) and some molecular biology skills
are essential assets for the position. Good written and
oral communication skills in English and the willingness
to learn some German are required. Salary and beneﬁts
are according to a public service position in Germany
(TV-H E 13, 50%). The Research Centre BiK-F ad-
vocates gender equality. Women are therefore strongly8 EvolDir September 1, 2010
encouraged to apply. Equally qualiﬁed severely handi-
capped applicants will be given preference. The con-
tract shall start as soon as possible and will be re-
stricted to three years. The duty station will be Frank-
furt am Main, Germany. The employer is the Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung. Please send
your application by e-mail attachment, mentioning the
reference of this position (#D15) and including a letter
outlining your suitability for the post, a detailed CV,
contact details of 2 referees and an electronic copy of
your diploma-thesis and/or other exams before Septem-
ber 14th to: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Sci-
entiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am
Main, Germany. Email to Service and Finances: re-
cruiting@senckenberg.de. For scientiﬁc enquiries con-
tact Prof. Dr. Axel Janke (ajanke@senckenberg.de).
Ursula Maurer <Ursula.Maurer@senckenberg.de >
GoetheU Frankfurt
PlantEﬀectorEvolution
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has recently been founded by the Sencken-
berg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-
University Frankfurt am Main, and additional partners.
It is funded by the Federal State of Hesse through its
Initiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Eco-
nomic Excellence (LOEWE). The mission of the Centre
is to carry out internationally outstanding research on
the interactions of biodiversity and climate change at
the organism level. The Project Area C “Adaptation
and Climate” invites applications for the position of a
PhD position Eﬀector evolution in plant pathogens
Project C2.5 [Ref. #C39a]
The main subject of the advertised position will be the
elucidation of evolutionary processes in the Hyaloper-
onospora arabidopsidis species cluster, with focus on
the evolution of eﬀector genes during adaptation and
radiation of downy mildews. The project will involve
population genetics, genomics, and functional analy-
ses. The applicant should hold a diploma, masters
or equivalent degree in biology, genetics, plant pathol-
ogy, bioinformatics or a similar ﬁeld of study. Expe-
rience in molecular biology (PCR, molecular cloning)
is a prerequisite. Knowledge in population genetics,
plant pathology or molecular phylogenetics is an ad-
vantage. Advanced English language skills and an in-terest in joining a multidisciplinary research team are
required. Knowledge of German is an advantage, and
at least the willingness to learn basic German is re-
quired. Salary and beneﬁts are according to a pub-
lic service position in Germany (TV-H E 13, 50%).
The Research Centre BiK-F advocates gender equal-
ity. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference. The contract shall begin as soon
as possible and will be restricted to three years. The
duty station will be Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The
employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Natur-
forschung. Please send your application by e-mail, men-
tioning the reference of this position (#C39a) includ-
ing a detailed CV, certiﬁcates, and 2 references, to:
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc Co-
ordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre,
Senckenberganlage 25, D- 60325 Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. E-mail to Service and Finances: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de. Review of applications starts 20th
of July 2010 and will continue until the position is
ﬁlled. For enquiries about the position and the con-
tract conditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stri-
brny (e-mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de) and
for scientiﬁc enquiries to Prof. Dr. M. Thines (e-mail:
marco.thines@senckenberg.de).
Ursula Maurer <Ursula.Maurer@senckenberg.de >
HelmholtzCentre Germany
Phylogeography
Dear colleagues,
please take note of the this PhD position for an immi-
nent German project analysing phylogenetic shifts of
climate niches in mammals.
Best wishes, Marten Winter
For a project funded by the German Science Foundation
(DFG), the UFZ Department of Computational Land-
scape Ecology at the Helmholtz Centre for environmen-
tal research ( www.ufz.de ) invites applications for 1 PhD
position in the ﬁeld of biogeography (m/f), code-digit
97/2010:
The project seeks to analyse the climatic niche of the
worldˆ as mammals and then relate it to their phylogeny.
Thereby the evolution of realised climate niches shall
be reconstructed. The interested applicant should hold
a master or diploma degree in Biology, Geoinformatics,September 1, 2010 EvolDir 9
Geography or Physics with a leaning towards statistical
computation (in R). The project comprises substantial
amounts of statistical analysis and statistical and/or
programming skills as well as basic knowledge of mam-
mal ecology are of a strong advantage.
Working language will be English. The successful can-
didate will be working in a highly interdisciplinary re-
search environment with excellent facilities and moti-
vated colleagues.
For further information on the project please contact
Dr. Carsten Dormann, carsten.dormann@ufz.de, phone
+49 341 235-1946.
The position will be available starting from 1 October
2010, for 36 months. The place of work is Leipzig, Ger-
many. Salary will be according to the appropriate civil
service level TV ˜AD 13 (50%). Women are explicitly
encouraged to apply in order to increase their share in
science and research. Physically handicapped persons
will be favoured if they are equally qualiﬁed.
The PhD students participate in the Graduate School
HIGRADE ( http://www.ufz.de/index.php?en=11429 ).
Interviews will start in September until the position is
ﬁlled. Applications with a motivation letter, curriculum
vitae and 3 references should be sent as single pdf-ﬁle
by email to Dr. Carsten Dormann. In addition, send
your complete application documents (CV, references,
certiﬁcates) under code digits 97/2010 to the personnel
department, P.O. box 500136, D-04318 Leipzig, Ger-
many. E-Mail: application@ufz.de.
Dr. Marten Winter
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research ˆ a UFZ
Department of Community Ecology
Helmholtz-Zentrum f¨ ur Umweltforschung GmbH - UFZ
Sektion Biozoenoseforschung Theodor-Lieser-Str. 4 D-
06120 Halle (Saale) Germany
phone: ++49 (0) 345 558-5316 / fax:++49 (0) 345
558-5329 E-mail: Marten.Winter@ufz.de www.ufz.de/-
index.php?enp81 DAISIE - Delivering Alien Invasive
Species Inventories for Europe www.europe-aliens.org
Marten Winter <marten.winter@ufz.de >
LouisianaStateU
EchinodermPhylogenetics
Anticipated MS/PhD student opportunity at LouisianaState University in 2011
A Research Assistantship is anticipated for the 2011-
2012 academic year for a graduate student to work on
molecular phylogenetics of echinoderms, with an em-
phasis on sea stars and brittle stars, under the direction
of Dr. David W. Foltz, Dept. of Biological Sciences,
Louisiana State University. Funding would be from a
National Science Foundation Award titled “Assembling
the Echinoderm Tree of Life.”
Further details on this position plus instructions on how
to apply can be found here:
www.biology.lsu.edu/webfac/dfoltz/lab/Position.htm
Inquiries should be sent to this address:
David W. Foltz, Professor
Department of Biological Sciences
Louisiana State University
Baton Rouge, LA 70803
Ph: 225-578-1737
Fax: 225-578-2597
Email: dfoltz@lsu.edu
David W Foltz <dfoltz@lsu.edu >
MasseyU FungalBioinformatics
PhD Project in Fungal Bioinformatics at Massey Uni-
versity, New Zealand
We are seeking an outstanding candidate for a PhD
project in fungal bioinformatics. The successful ap-
plicant will be responsible for curating and analyzing
next-generation transcriptome data to determine the
consequences of hybridization on fungal gene expres-
sion.
The project is part of a collaboration between the In-
stitutes of Natural Sciences ( http://ins.massey.ac.nz )
and Molecular BioSciences ( http://imbs.massey.ac.nz )
at Massey University, and AgResearch ( http://-
www.agresearch.co.nz ), and is funded through the
New Zealand Bio-Protection Research Centre ( http:/-
/bioprotection.org.nz ). The successful candidate will
be based at the Institute of Natural Sciences at Massey
University in Auckland, but will work closely with team
members at the other two Institutes in Palmerston
North.10 EvolDir September 1, 2010
This position would suit a highly-motivated student
with a background in bioinformatics, computer pro-
gramming, or mathematics. Training in biology is
preferable, but not essential.
Requirements are: * Familarity with a Linux working
environment * Experience with the analysis of next-
generation sequencing technology reads * Programming
experience
We are oﬀering a fees-only scholarship for this
PhD project. To support living costs dur-
ing the course of their PhD study, candidates
should apply for a Massey Doctoral Scholarship
(see http://www.massey.ac.nz/massey/admission/-
scholarships-bursaries-awards/doctorate-scholarships/-
en/doctorate-scholarships home.cfm for information).
For more information, please contact Dr. Austen Gan-
ley at A.R.Ganley@massey.ac.nz
Austen Ganley (PhD) Senior Lecturer, Room 14.05 In-
stitute of Natural Sciences Oteha Rohe Campus Massey
University (Albany) Private Bag 102-904 North Shore
Mail Center Auckland NEW ZEALAND
Phone +64-9-414-0800 ext.41512 Fax +64 9 441 8142
Mailing address: Building 11, INS Station Crescent
Gate 4 Oteha Rohe Campus Massey University North
Shore City NEW ZEALAND
A.R.Ganley@massey.ac.nz
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen
EvolutionBatNeurogenesis
Masterthesis: Evolution of Adult Neurogenesis in the
Olfactory Bulb of Bats Adult neurogenesis, i.e. the es-
tablishment of new neurons in the adult brain, is by no
means a new phenomenon anymore, we still do not en-
tirely understand its function and thus why it evolved
in the ﬁrst place.
Based previous work in bats (Amrein et al. 2007)
we know that against expectations adult neurogenesis
is practically absent in the hippocampus of bats, but
there is always a large number of neuronal precursors
observed in the sub-ventricular zone (SVZ) migrating
through the rostral migratory stream to integrate in the
granual cell layer of the main olfactory bulb (MOB).
The MOB of mammals is the second known site of in-
tegration for neuronal precursor cells after the gyrus
dentate in the hippocampus. Recent work on the roleof olfaction in mammalian social and mating systems,
has shown that odour cues have been important in the
evolution of individual recognition, group cohesion, and
also, mate choice. Knowing how ﬂexible and dependent
on environmental and physiological parameters adult
neurogenesis is in the hippocampus, we want to inves-
tigate if there is similar ﬂexibility in the brain centers
involved with smell and whether this is connected with
mate choice. If so, one would expect sexual dimorphism
in the size of the relevant brains structures, but also in
neurogenesis rates. In addition, one would expect sea-
sonal variability, especially in the ˆ aodour-receivingˆ a sex
in- and outside the mating season.
Our study species is Tadarida brasiliensis, the Mexi-
can free-tailed bat. This species has sexually dimor-
phic odour-producing structures, oﬀering an excellent
opportunity for a pilot study looking at sexual and sea-
sonal diﬀerences in neurogenesis rates in bats. Using
the methods established in the lab of Manfred Gahr
and Hans-Peter Lipp, we want to cryosection the brains
obtained from our collaborators in the US and stain the
sections for various markers of adult neurogenesis using
immonohistological methodes. Afterwards stained sec-
tions have to be analyzed under the microscope count-
ing immuno-positiv cells. A statistical analysis will tell
us about possible biological relevance of the penomena
observed.
Lab work will be done in Seewiesen (25 km south of
Munich), at least 3 months of accomodation in the
institute’s guest house will be provided and the costs
for the laboratory expenses will be covered. Unfortu-
nately we cannot pay for food, travelling or any other
expense.This is an excellent opportunity to get an in-
side view of a leading research institution and gather
experience in a state-of-the-art laboratory methods.
Supervisors: Dr. Moritz Hertel, MPI Seewiesen (her-
tel@orn.mpg.de) und Dr. Dina Dechmann, Uni Kon-
stanz und MPI Radolfzell (ddechmann@orn.mpg.de)
Starting date: as soon as possible Please contact Antje
Weber (aweber@orn.mpg.de) for more information.
Dina Dechmann <ddechmann@orn.mpg.de >
Montpellier
MouseAdaptiveSpeciation 2
*Reminder: deadline is the 3d of September*September 1, 2010 EvolDir 11
*Advert*
A PhD position is available at the Institut des Sci-
ences de l’Evolution (Montpellier, France) to work with
Guila Ganem on the causal and proximal mechanisms
of adaptive speciation in the house mouse (Mus mus-
culus). The project combines behavioural, biochemical,
chemical and genetic approaches to understand the evo-
lution of assortative mating based on an olfactory mate
recognition system. Speciﬁcally, the PhD student will
test for the role of competition and sexual selection in
adaptive speciation, and will participate to the iden-
tiﬁcation of the odorant molecules involved in species
mate recognition. A strong background in evolutionary
biology is required, experience in chemical ecology and
behavioural ecology is not compulsory but will be ap-
preciated. Candidates of all nationalities can apply, but
they should be proﬁcient in spoken and written English.
French skills, although helpful, are not essential.
The PhD student will be immerged in a multidisci-
plinary international project. Furthermore, the Institut
des Sciences de l’Evolution ( http://www.isem.cnrs.fr/-
) is hosted at the University of Montpellier, in the
Mediterranean part of France and is part of a vast group
of academic institutions in Montpellier devoted to re-
search in Evolutionary Sciences, Ecology and Environ-
mental Sciences and Applied Plant Sciences. Montpel-
lier is more generally one of the most vibrant research
communities in France.
The position is for three years. The stu-
dent will be attached to the graduate school
’Ecole Doctorale SIBAGHE’ ( http://www.adum.fr/-
as/ed/bsiae ). Raw monthly salary is 2600 Eu-
ros. Deadline for submission of applications is
the 3rd of September 2010. Interested candi-
dates are strongly encouraged to make informal con-
tact with Guila Ganem (guila.ganem@univ-montp2.fr
<mailto:guila.ganem@univ-montp2.fr >). Applicants
should send a 1-2-page application letter stating re-
search interests and date of availability, a detailed CV,
and the names and contact details of at least two ref-
erees, preferably by email.
Une bourse de th` ese est disponible ` a l’Institut des Sci-
ences de l’Evolution (Montpellier, France) pour tra-
vailler avec Guila Ganem sur les m´ ecanismes causaux et
proximaux de la sp´ eciation adaptative chez la souris do-
mestique (Mus musculus). Le projet int` egre approches
de g´ en´ etique, d’´ ecologie comportementale, d’´ ecologie
chimique et de biochimie dans le but de comprendre
l’´ evolution de l’homogamie entre deux sous-esp` eces de
souris, suspect´ ee d’ˆ etre li´ ee ` a l’´ evolution d’un syst` eme
de reconnaissance olfactif. En particulier, le/la doctor-
ant(e) testera le rˆ ole de la comp´ etition et de la s´ electionsexuelle dans l’´ emergence de barri` eres reproductrices,
et participera ` a l’identiﬁcation des mol´ ecules odorantes
impliqu´ ees dans cette reconnaissance sp´ eciﬁque. De
bonnes connaissances de base en biologie ´ evolutive sont
n´ ecessaires, et une exp´ erience en ´ ecologie chimique /
´ ecologie comportementale n’est pas obligatoire mais
serait appr´ eci´ ee. Les candidats de toutes nationalit´ es
peuvent postuler.
Le/la doctorant(e) sera immerg´ e(e) dans un projet plus
large, impliquant d’autres chercheurs bas´ es ` a Montpel-
lier et ` a l’´ etranger. Par ailleurs, l’Institut des Sciences
de l’Evolution ( http://www.isem.cnrs.fr/ ), situ´ e sur le
campus de l’Universit´ e Montpellier 2, fait partie d’un
pole d’excellence regroupant diverses institutions qui
d´ eveloppent des recherches en Sciences de l’Evolution,
Ecologie, Sciences environnementales et Agronomie.
Le poste est pour trois ans. L’´ etudiant(e) sera
rattach´ e(e) ` a l’Ecole doctorale SIBAGHE ( http://-
www.adum.fr/as/ed/bsiae ). Le salaire brut mensuel
sera de 2600 Euros.
La date limite de candidature est ﬁx´ ee au 3 Septem-
bre 2010. Les candidats int´ eress´ es sont invit´ es ` a
prendre contact avec Guila Ganem (guila.ganem@univ-
montp2.fr) . Les candidats devront envoyer, de
pr´ ef´ erence par email, une lettre de motivation (1-
2 pages maximum) pr´ ecisant leur date possible de
d´ emarrage, un CV d´ etaill´ e et les noms et coordonn´ ees
d’au minimum deux personnes pouvant ˆ etre contact´ ees
pour apporter leur avis sur le/la candidat(e).
Guila Ganem <guila.ganem@univ-montp2.fr >
NorthCarolinaStateU
PlantSystematicsEvolution
Ph.D. Student: Evolutionary developmental genetics
of inﬂorescence architecture in Dogwoods - North Car-
olina State University
We are looking for a Ph.D. student to participate in
a NSF-funded project investigating the genetic bases
of inﬂorescence evolution in the dogwood family. The
student will be working with a multidisciplinary team
of three faculty members in the Department of Plant
Biology and Department of Genetics at NCSU. Back-
ground and training in plant genetics, evolutionary de-
velopment or molecular systematics is required. A MS
degree and experiences in working with ﬂowering plants
in the interface of the three areas are preferred. Exper-12 EvolDir September 1, 2010
imental skills in plant genetic transformation, RNA in-
situ hybridization, RT-PCR or qRT-PCR, and phylo-
genetics are desired. English skills in writing, speaking,
and reading are expected.
The student will be supported by a combination of
research funding and teaching assistantship. Women
and other minority categories are encouraged to ap-
ply. Please send application by e-mail attachment to
jenny xiang@ncsu.edu including a letter outlining your
suitability for the position, a detailed CV, and contact
details of 3 referees. The position is available in the
Spring 2011.
Jenny Xiang
Qiu-Yun (Jenny) Xiang, Ph.D. Associate Professor De-
partment of Plant Biology North Carolina State Uni-
versity Gardner Hall 2115 Raleigh, NC 27695-7612
USA Phone: 919-515-2728 Fax: 919-515-3436 Home-
page: http://www4.ncsu.edu/ ˜ qyxiang Jenny Xiang
<jenny xiang@ncsu.edu >
OregonStateU
SheepPopulationStructure
Ph.D. Assistantship: population structure and the im-
pact of climate change on desert bighorn sheep in na-
tional parks of the western United States.
Location: Oregon State University
Job Description: We seek outstanding applicants for
a Ph.D. Assistantship to study genetic structure, ge-
netic diversity, and impacts of climate change on desert
bighorn sheep in 10 national parks in the western
United States. The project is a collaboration involving
Dr. Clinton Epps of Oregon State University ( http:/-
/fw.oregonstate.edu/labs/epps/index.htm ), Dr. Ryan
Monello of the National Park Service (NPS), and re-
searchers from other academic institutions, NPS, and
other agencies. The student will lead the design and
implementation of ﬁeld sampling, genetic analyses, and
spatially-explicit metapopulation models to determine
how metapopulation structure and climate change af-
fect persistence of desert bighorn sheep on park service
lands.
Applicants should have a solid background in wildlife
ecology, population genetics, landscape ecology, or a
related ﬁeld, demonstrated interest and ability in mod-
eling, and the ability to work both independently and
as a part of a research team. Students will be expectedto present research results at professional conferences,
publish research results in peer-reviewed scientiﬁc out-
lets, and pursue extramural funding to supplement their
assistantships, as appropriate.
Applicants should create a single pdf that includes a let-
ter of interest, a resume or CV, unoﬃcial undergraduate
and graduate transcripts, unoﬃcial general GRE scores
and percentiles ( <5 years old), and a list of three refer-
ences and their contact information (institution, email
address, phone number). This pdf should be sent to
Dr. Clinton Epps (clinton.epps@oregonstate.edu) via
an email with Bighorn Assistantship in the subject line.
The name of the pdf should contain the applicant’s ﬁrst
and last names. Interested individuals with appropri-
ate experience may contact me either by the email or
phone (541-737-2478) before submitting materials.
Screening of applicants will begin immediately and con-
tinue through August 2010 (or until a suitable candi-
date is found), at which time desirable applicants will
be invited to apply for admission to the graduate pro-
gram in the Dept. of Fisheries and Wildlife, Oregon
State University ( http://fw.oregonstate.edu/ ).
Qualiﬁcations: Analytical techniques will likely include
individual and population-based analyses of genetic
structure and gene ﬂow, GIS-based analyses of habi-
tat, metapopulation structure, and outputs from down-
scaled climate change models, and spatially-explicit
metapopulation modeling. Experience with GIS and
quantitative population or metapopulation modeling,
climate data and models, and/or population genetics is
strongly preferred. Because some ﬁeldwork will be re-
quired, experience working in remote landscapes is also
helpful. Preference will be given to applicants with a
research-based M.S. degree (or equivalent) in a relevant
ﬁeld and a publication record demonstrating ability to
conduct, complete, and publish quantitative research.
Salary: This position provides three years of GRA fund-
ing at $1806/month plus a tuition waver, partial fee
oﬀset, and 85% of health insurance for the GRA (but
not dependents). Additional support, if required, will
be provided through graduate teaching assistantships.
Start date: October 1, 2010 or January 1, 2011.
Clinton W. Epps Dept. of Fisheries and Wildlife, Ore-
gon State University
Clinton.Epps@oregonstate.eduSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 13
UAmsterdam
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
PhD Student in Plant Evolutionary Genomics at the
University of Amsterdam, Netherlands
A PhD position is available for the project: “An-
cient genome duplications and glucosinolate evolution
in the Brassicales” funded by a Dutch NWO Ecoge-
nomics grant. The project is collaborative between the
University of Amsterdam, Netherlands (Eric Schranz),
Radboud University Nijmegen, Netherlands (Nicole van
Dam) and University of Missouri, Netherlands (Chris
Pires).
Project description:
Understanding the role of ancient whole genome du-
plications (WGD) and subsequent pathway divergence
in generating the complexity of life on earth is an im-
portant goal of comparative genomics. Recent genomic
analyses have found that most ﬂowering plant lineages
have had one to several rounds of WGD in their history.
These WGDs are believed to have contributed to plant
evolutionary innovations and success. However, there
are few examples of how key innovations derive from
duplicated pathways.
This project will investigate the potential link between
WGDs and key-trait evolution by investigating the glu-
cosinolate defense pathway in the plant order Brassi-
cales. The Brassicales is an excellent plant genomics
research system with 16+ genome sequencing projects
completed or underway (including Arabidopsis, Bras-
sica crops and papaya) and the glucosinolate pathway
is one of the best-characterized plant defense systems
with great structural diversity and biological activity
linked to variable amino acid precursors. In this project
you will utilize twelve diverse species for: (1) making a
survey of glucosinolates, their induction and other cor-
related metabolites; (2) cloning and/or bioinformatic
mining of key candidate genes; (3) studying gene ex-
pression patterns; (4) making detailed phylogenetic and
molecular evolutionary analyses; and (5) integrating re-
sults by systems biology analysis of pathway duplica-
tion and divergence.
Applying:
We are seeking a highly motivated and independent
student that has completed their Bachelor or Master
Program. You should be familiar with molecular tech-niques and have good interpersonal and communica-
tion skills. Amsterdam is a wonderful city to live and
work in. We have recently moved into a new Faculty
of Science building with excellent laboratory and plant
growth facilities.
The position will begin January 1, 2011. Applicants
should send a letter of application explaining your mo-
tivation, research interests and relevant experience as
well as a CV and contact details of at least two refer-
ences. Please apply by September 20th.
To apply, or for more information, please contact:
Dr. Eric Schranz, e-mail: M.E.Schranz@uva.nl; tel: +
31 20-525 7660;
Eric Schranz University of Amsterdam Institute for
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics (IBED) Faculty
of Science PO Box 94240, 1090 GE Amsterdam, The
Netherlands
Email: M.E.Schranz@uva.nl Tel: +31
(0)20 525 7660 Fax: +31 (0)20 525 7832
http://home.medewerker.uva.nl/m.e.schranz/
M.E.Schranz@uva.nl
UExeter
EvolutionInformationProcessing
Phd position at the OSS Lab, University of Exeter for
an international student
Information processing at cellular level and its evolu-
tion. The aim of this project is to better understand
the relation between response dynamics and features of
protein networks. By developing generic models based
on ﬁrst-principles and existing biological knowledge (see
for example [Csik´ asz-Nagy, A., Cardelli, L. & Soyer, O.
S. J R Soc Interface (2010)], we will analyze the reper-
toire of response dynamics in protein networks and ef-
fectively map out their information processing capabil-
ities. Further, such models will allow us to analyze how
diﬀerent evolutionary processes can shape key network
features and generate novel information processing ca-
pabilities [Soyer, O. S. Sci Signal 3, pe23 (2010)].
For this PhD project, the OSS lab ( http://-
people.exeter.ac.uk/oss203/ ) recently received a
Dorothy Hodgkin Postgraduate Award from EP-
SRC and Microsoft Research. This prestigious
award will allow a successful candidate to under-
take cutting-edge research under the supervision of14 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Orkun Soyer (head of OSS lab, University of Exeter)
and Luca Cardelli (Microsoft Research, Cambridge,
UK) with a generous stipend and budget for con-
ference attendance. Further, the candidate will be
able to participate at Microsoft Research summer
schools ( http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/events/-
2010summerschool/ ).
Skills and Eligibility: The Dorothy Hodgkin Postgradu-
ate Award (DHPA) ( http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/hodgkin/-
default.htm ) is available only to student nationals from
India, China, Hong Kong, South Africa, Brazil, Russia
and the developing world, as deﬁned by OECD ( http:/-
/www.oecd.org/dataoecd/62/48/41655745.pdf ). The
candidate needs to demonstrate suﬃcient English pro-
ﬁciency (e.g. an overall TOEFL score of 79 with no less
that 17 for writing and no less than 20 for reading and
listening). GRE general test is not required but ben-
eﬁcial. If the candidate has recent GRE scores, these
should be included with the covering letter. The candi-
date should have an undergraduate degree (equivalent
of class 2.1 or better for UK) with either a mathematical
or a biochemical focus. A good grasp of biochemistry
of signaling networks and molecular evolution, agent-
based modeling, and system dynamics analyses (e.g.
bifurcation analysis) would be beneﬁcial but is not nec-
essary.
Exeter: University of Exeter is well positioned among
the leading research-intensive universities in the UK.
The University is undergoing a strategic development
with continuing investment in excess of £40 million.
Within this development, Systems Biology is recognised
as a growth area and there are now several leading re-
search groups at Exeter focusing on both experimental
and theoretical systems biology. Exeter oﬀers excellent
student living and the University is ranked number one
in the UK for student satisfaction. Exeter is situated in
the south-west of England which is considered the most
beatiful part of the country and a hub for outdoor ac-
tivities such as hiking, surﬁng and sailing.
Application Details: Application deadline is 24th of
September. To apply, ﬁll in the online applica-
tion from at http://www.exeter.ac.uk/postgraduate/-
money/2010studentships/application/and include a
CV and covering letter detailing your motivation for
undertaking a PhD.
Informal queries should be sent to: Orkun S. Soyer at
O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk
“Soyer, Orkun” <O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk >UHelsinki AntGenomics
PhD position: Genomic consequences of low relatedness
in ant societies University of Helsinki, Department of
Biosciences
The diﬀerentiation into queen and worker castes is the
foundation of advanced insect sociality, and is based
on diﬀerences in gene expression between the castes.
Caste speciﬁc expression also aﬀects how natural se-
lection works on the genes. Because workers do not
reproduce themselves, selection on genes expressed in
workers depends on the relatedness between workers
and the queens they help. In ants, relatedness between
queens and workers varies widely, but little is known
about how this aﬀects the evolution of gene expression
across species.
In order to study these questions, the project “Ge-
nomic consequences of low relatedness in ant societies”,
funded by the Academy of Finland and carried out at
the University of Helsinki, Finland, is looking for a
highly motivated PhD student. The ideal candidate
has an MSc in biological sciences, with experience of
molecular genetics lab work (preferably gene expres-
sion analyses), ability and desire to acquire new skills,
enthusiasm for research in genetics and evolution, and
an ability to work independently as well as in a team.
The Phd student is expected to carry out gene expres-
sion analyses using real time qPCR on a number of
genes, and analyse the results in a comparative frame-
work. The main focus will be on comparing gene ex-
pression patterns in unicolonial ants (such as the Ar-
gentine ant and unicolonial /Formica/ wood ants) that
have extremely low relatedness societies with their non-
unicolonial relatives. In addition to this main focus, the
project can be expanded to include other directions, de-
pending on the skills and interests of the student and
the progress of the project.
The position is funded for four years, with a salary ac-
cording to the University of Helsinki salary system (ca.
2000 euro per month). The PhD project can be started
in the beginning of 2011.
The PhD thesis will be supervised by Dr. Heikki
Helanter¨ a and Prof. Pekka Pamilo, and carried out
in close collaboration with The Centre for Social Evo-
lution at the University of Copenhagen (Prof. Jacobus
J. (Koos) Boomsma, Dr. Jes S. Pedersen, Dr. MortenSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 15
Schiøtt). The research group of Dr. Heikki Helanter¨ a
is part of the group studying social evolution in ants
at the Department of Biosciences at the University of
Helsinki (Prof. Lotta Sundstr¨ om, Prof. Pekka Pamilo,
Dr. Perttu Sepp¨ a and others).
Send your application to heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ
<mailto:heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ >. Attach a CV,
publication record, contact details of two references,
and a two page (max) description of your research in-
terests and why you would be a suitable candidate for
the project. Screening of the applications will start on
1^st of October.
More info: heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ
<mailto:heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ > http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/ants/Heikki.htm http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/ants/ Heikki Helanter¨ a, PhD,
Academy of Finland Research Fellow
Department of Biosciences University of Helsinki POB
65 / Viikinkaari 1 FI-00014 Univ. of Helsinki Finland
e-mail: heikki.helantera@helsinki.ﬁ website: http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/ants/Heikki.htm phone: +358-
9-19157682
UIdaho 12 EvolBiol
We are recruiting 12 PhD students to work in inter-
disciplinary teams focused on the social and ecological
resilience of ecosystems in Idaho and Costa Rica with
funding from the NSF IGERT program.
Prospective doctoral students with experience in the
following subject areas are needed:
entomology soil science agricultural ecology restora-
tion plant ecology forest resources forest ecology land-
scape ecology and genetics plant virus ecology invasive
species ecology conservation social sciences rural so-
ciology environmental sociology rural and community
economics resource economics hydrology and water-
shed management wildlife biology and genetics
Requirements: Applicants must be American citizens
or permanent residents of the USA. Successful appli-
cants must have obtained a research-based M.S. degree
in a discipline of relevance to the project or equiv-
alent experience during or after a B.S. degree, and
demonstrate interest and/or experience in team-based
projects. Students will join the program to begin course
work at the end of July 2011.Review of applications will begin November 1st 2010.
Earlier applications are highly encouraged. Interviews
of top applicants will be conducted at the University of
Idaho campus in early February 2011.
For speciﬁc details on the research focus of each
team/project and application information visit our web
site: http://www.cals.uidaho.edu/igert2/
Lisette
– Lisette Waits, PHD Professor Fish and Wildlife
Resources Center for Research on Invasive Species
and Small Populations Laboratory for Conser-
vation and Ecological Genetics University of
Idaho PO Box 441136 Moscow, ID 83844-1136
Phone: (208) 885 7823 Fax: (208) 885 9080
lwaits@uidaho.edu http://www.cnrhome.uidaho.edu/-
default.aspx?pid=72862 http://www.cnr.uidaho.edu/-
crissp http://www.cnr.uidaho.edu/lecg/ http:/-
/www.cals.uidaho.edu/igert2/ Lisette Waits
<lwaits@uidaho.edu >
UIllinois SorghumEvolution
A PhD position is available at the Energy Biosciences
Institute at the University of Illinois to study the evolu-
tion of developmental and life history traits in sorghum
using linkage and association mapping. Traits of in-
terest include ﬂowering phenology, carbon allocation,
perenniality, and plant architecture.
The Energy Biosciences Institute (EBI;
www.energybiosciencesinstitute.org ) is a multidis-
ciplinary group of over 60 research programs and
projects at the University of Illinois and the University
of California, Berkeley, devoted to ﬁnding biological
solutions to global energy challenges, and funded
by a 10-year, $500 million grant from the energy
company BP. At the University of Illinois, EBI is
housed in the Institute for Genomic Biology (IGB;
www.igb.illinois.edu ), one of the newest buildings on
campus, and oﬀers a large, fully-equipped lab space
and ample computational infrastructure. Champaign-
Urbana is located in east-central Illinois, several hours
drive from Chicago, St. Louis, and Indianapolis,
with a thriving arts scene, aﬀordable housing, and a
family-friendly community.
To apply, please email a CV and statement of research
interests to:
Dr. Patrick Brown Assistant Professor Energy Bio-16 EvolDir September 1, 2010
sciences Institute & Department of Crop Sciences Uni-
versity of Illinois 1408 Institute for Genomic Biology
pjb34@illinois.edu
UJyvaskyla Finland
ComparativeTranscriptomics
EU funded Early Stage Researcher position in compar-
ative transcriptomics: Jyvaskyla, Finland
A position is available for an early stage researcher
(MSc or equivalent) in the lab of Emily Knott at the
University of Jyvaskyla, Finland within the EU Marie
Curie Initial Training Network Speciation. Funding for
15 months is available. Extension of the project and
employment for a full PhD studentship is possible. The
project involves a comparative transcriptomic study of
the developmentally polymorphic polychaete Pygospio
elegans.
Applications are due on 1 September 2010 and should
include a CV and brief motivation letter. Applicants
must meet the eligibility requirements as outlined in the
FP7 Work Programme ˆ aPeople.ˆ a The position should
begin as soon as possible, at latest, 1 January 2011.
For more information, please contact Emily
Knott emily.knott@jyu.ﬁ And see the labˆ as web
pages: https://www.jyu.ﬁ/bioenv/en/divisions/-
eko/research/Knott group Information about the
ITN Speciation can be found here: http://-
speciation.group.shef.ac.uk/ Information about
the University of Jyvaskylaˆ as Department of Bio-
logical & Environmental Science can be found here:
https://www.jyu.ﬁ/bioenv/en
Dr. K. Emily Knott Department of Biological & Envi-
ronmental Sciences P.O. Box 35, Survontie 9, Ambiot-
ica C410.2 40014 University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a FINLAND
tel: 358 14 260-2302 fax: 358 14 260-2321 https:/-
/www.jyu.ﬁ/bioenv/en/divisions/eko/research/-
Knott group/index.html http://users.jyu.ﬁ/ ˜ kknott/-
index.html emily.knott@bytl.jyu.ﬁ
UManchester Ecology of Social
EvolutionA PhD position in The Ecology of Social Evolution in
Dictyostelium discoideum at the University of Manch-
ester
A PhD studentship is available at the University of
Manchester to examine the eﬀect of ecological factors
and life-history trade-oﬀs on social success and cheat-
ing in Dictyostelium discoideum. The project integrates
concepts from ecology, social evolution and life- history
evolution with a developmental genetics perspective. It
provides opportunities for students to develop both the-
oretical and empirical/experimental skills (though the
project is strongly experimentally driven).
D. discoideum is an excellent model system to examine
the genetic basis of cooperation and cheating because
free living individuals aggregate to make a multicellu-
lar ’organism’ (the ’slug’) that goes through develop-
ment to form a dead stalk that holds aloft a spore-
head. Because diﬀerent genotypes will aggregate to
form chimeric slugs, competition for space in the spore-
head should lead to strong selection to become viable
spores rather than dead stalk cells. The aim of this stu-
dentship is to ask how natural variation in social success
is maintained and how cheater spread is mitigated in D.
discoideum in the face of this strong selection.
The project will be jointly supervised by Daniel Rozen
and Chris Thompson in new state of the art labora-
tory facilities in the Faculty of Life Sciences (University
of Manchester). The student will beneﬁt from expo-
sure to and training in a wide variety of diﬀerent tech-
niques, ranging from quantitative data handling, theo-
retical population genetics, experimental evolution and
statistical analysis to genetics and molecular cell biol-
ogy. Importantly, you will also work closely with Jason
Wolf at the University of Bath, where additional math-
ematical, theoretical or data analysis training needs will
be met.
The studentship would begin at either the September
2010 or January 2011 intake dates.
For application details and further information, please
seehttp://tinyurl.com/32odjg5 (the advertisement on
ﬁndaphd.com).
Please address informal inquiries to:
Chris Thompson (Christo-
pher.thompson@manchester.ac.uk)
Daniel Rozen (Daniel.rozen@manchester.ac.uk)
Jason Wolf (Jason@evolutionarygenetics.org)
Daniel Rozen Faculty of Life Sciences Michael Smith
Building Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT UK
phone: +44 (0)161 275 5094 fax: +44 (0)161 275 5082September 1, 2010 EvolDir 17
Daniel.Rozen@manchester.ac.uk
UWindsor EvolutionaryGenomics
University of Windsor; Ecological Genomics
One Ph.D. position beginning January 2011 or Septem-
ber 2011 is available in the lab of Dr. Melania Cristescu
at the University of Windsor, the Great Lakes Institute
for Environmental Research. Research in our lab com-
bines evolutionary biology with molecular genetics and
genomics to address broad evolutionary questions. We
use lab experiments, ﬁeld studies and computational
analyses of large scale sequence data to test speciation
patterns, the genetics of habitat transitions and local
adaptation in aquatic invertebrates. See our web page
athttp://www.uwindsor.ca/glier/mcris/ for a descrip-
tion of current research projects.
We are looking for a highly motivated graduate stu-dent to help develop and work on a project about the
genetics of habitat transitions in Daphnia. Candidates
should have a strong undergraduate background in bi-
ology, with course work in molecular genetics and evo-
lution. Prior molecular or computational research ex-
perience with any organism is required. Successful ap-
plicants must have obtained a research-based M.S. de-
gree in a discipline of relevance to the project, and
demonstrate interest and/or experience in team-based
and interdisciplinary projects. International students
with strong credentials and publication record are also
considered.
For more information and inquiries about the position
please contact Melania Cristescu at mcris@uwindsor.ca
Melania E. Cristescu Assistant Professor University of
Windsor Great Lakes Institute for Environmental Re-
search 401 Sunset Ave Windsor Ontario Canada N9B
3P4
Phone: (519) 253-3000 Ext. 3763 FAX: (519)
971-3616 E-Mail: mcris@uwindsor.ca http://-
uwindsor.ca/glier/melania-cristescu Melania Cristescu
<mcris@uwindsor.ca >
Jobs
ArizonaStateU Bioinformatics Programmer . . . . . . . . 18
BardCollege ResAssist TickEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
BEACON MichiganStateU EvolutionEducationDirec-
tor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
BrighamYoungU ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 19
BroadInstitute CompBiol ViralGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 20
CaliforniaAcademySciences EvolutionFish . . . . . . . . . 20
CaliforniaAcademySciences EvolutionReptilesAmphib-
ians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
CaliforniaAcademySciences MicroorganismEvolution
21
CollegeHolyCross EvolutionaryVertebrateBiol . . . . . 21
CornellU ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
DrexelU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
DuquesneU EukaryoticBiologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Dusseldorf EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
EastCarolinaU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
LehighU EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24Montpellier SouthAfrica FieldAssist CooperativeRe-
production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
OklahomaStateU Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
PrincetonU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
RhodesCollege PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
SouthAfrica Meerkat Field Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UCLondon FullProf EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UGeorgia ResTech BatRabiesEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UGeorgia ResTech EvolGeneticsOfAging . . . . . . . . . . 28
UMainz 6year BehavioralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UMichigan 3 ComputationalBiol readvert . . . . . . . . . 29
UMichigan 3 EvolBiol readvert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UNewSouthWales ResAssoc EvolutionMtDNA . . . . . 30
UOldenburg LabTech PlantMolSyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UParisSud EvolutionarySystemsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
USoutherCalifornia LosAngeles MolEvolutionaryGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UStAndrews 5year EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3218 EvolDir September 1, 2010
UToronto ConservationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UTubingen EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UVirginia ResTech PlantOrganelleGenomics . . . . . . . 34
UWollongong EvolutionaryBiologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35UZurich EvolAdaptEnvChange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
WakeForestU ResTech EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . 36
WillametteU EvolutionaryMicrobiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ArizonaStateU Bioinformatics
Programmer
The Center for Evolutionary Medicine and In-
formatics (CEMI) at the Biodesign Institute is
seeking a Computer Programmer Assistant to be
responsible for the maintenance, development,
and debugging of software applications for use in
the ﬁelds of Computational Biology and Bioinfor-
matics (URL: http://kumarlab.biodesign.asu.edu ).
We have already developed many tools, including
MEGA ( http://www.megasoftware.net ), TimeTree
(http://www.timetree.org ), and FlyExpress ( http://-
www.ﬂyexpress.net ). Come join an active and dynamic
team.
Desired Qualiﬁcations: Experience working with one or
more major programming languages such as Java, Del-
phi, or C++/C#; design/development of rich internet
applications; problem solving skills; bioinformatics.
MORE INFORMATION: The scientiﬁc programs
in CEMI address four primary research themes. 1)
personal genomics: predicting adaptive and disease
propensities of mutations in individuals; 2) disease ori-
gins: tracing pathogen evolution to unravel dynamics
of infections and drug resistance; 3) functional pro-
teomics: discovering functionally important elements
of genome; and 4) discovery bioinformatics: modeling,
analysis, and simulations to discover patterns and
test predictions. More information about the Center
can be found at http://cemi.asu.edu . You can view
and apply for this job at: https://ep.oasis.asu.edu/-
psp/asuepprd/EMPLOYEE/PSFT ASUSAPRD/-
c/HRS HRAM.HRS CE.GBL?Page=-
HRS CEJOB DTL&Action=A&JobOpeningId=-
24958&SiteId=1&PostingSeq=1 (JOB ID: 24958;
ASU, Tempe Campus) Initial deadline: September 1,
2010 (with weekly review thereafter)
Sudhir Kumar, Director Center for Evolutionary
Medicine & Informatics Biodesign Institute (oﬃce A-
240) Professor, School of Life Sciences Arizona State
University Tempe, Arizona, AZ 85287-5301, USA
s.kumar@asu.eduBardCollege ResAssist
TickEvolution
The Biology Program at Bard College is seeking a
highly motivated individual with molecular biology lab-
oratory experience for a full-time Research Assistant
position. The successful candidate will be joining a
multidisciplinary group studying environmental factors
aﬀecting transmission of emerging tick-borne infectious
diseases. Duties include high throughput screening of
ticks for the presence of pathogens using real-time and
nested PCR, ordering of supplies, and management of
a large database.
The successful candidate will have a minimum of a
bachelor’s degree in biology or a related discipline and
extensive experience with PCR, be capable of working
independently, have exceptional organizational skills
and meticulous work habits in the laboratory, and en-
joy working as an integral part of a diverse team of
scientists and public health professionals. Bard Col-
lege is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes
applications from individuals who contribute to its di-
versity. Please send cover letter with resume and list of
three references to Human Resources-7708, Bard Col-
lege, PO Box 5000, Annandale-On-Hudson, NY 12504-
5000, fax to 845-758-7826 or email to hr@bard.edu
<mailto:hr@bard.edu >(Word attachments only). Re-
view of applicants will begin immediately. AA/EOE
Felicia Keesing Associate Professor of Biology Bard
College
Felicia Keesing <keesing@bard.edu >
BEACON MichiganStateU
EvolutionEducationDirector
Education Director – BEACON Center for the Study
of Evolution in ActionSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 19
The BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Ac-
tion is a newly established NSF Science and Technology
Center (STC), funded at $5 million/year for ﬁve years,
renewable to ten years. We are recruiting a full-time
Education Director who is an accomplished scholar,
with a deep understanding of evolution, some knowl-
edge of computation, and a commitment to innovative
science education at all levels. Desirable qualiﬁcations
include a record of administrative leadership and excep-
tional interpersonal, communication and multi-tasking
skills. This is a ﬁxed term position at Michigan State
University. The initial appointment is for 12 months,
with annual reappointment possible for the duration of
the project. Salary and beneﬁts will be competitive,
commensurate with experience.
BEACON will advance research and education on the
evolutionary dynamics of natural and digital systems
and apply new evolutionary principles to engineering
and biological problems. BEACON includes over 60
faculty members in biology, engineering and computer
science, half at Michigan State University (BEACON
headquarters), with others distributed among North
Carolina A&T State University, University of Idaho,
University of Texas at Austin, and University of Wash-
ington. Additional information is available at the BEA-
CON website: http://www.beacon.msu.edu/ . The Ed-
ucation Director is a member of the BEACON manage-
ment team, reporting to the BEACON Director. She or
he is a member of the Education and Human Resource
Development (EHRD) Steering Committee and works
with that committee to initiate and facilitate projects
within the educational mission of BEACON, including
mentoring postdocs, multidisciplinary graduate train-
ing, undergraduate research and education, K-12 and
public outreach. The Education Director coordinates
educational initiatives among the ﬁve BEACON uni-
versities as appropriate and works with the leadership
and evaluation teams to prepare materials related to
EHRD activities to be submitted in BEACON reports.
She or he works with BEACON faculty in the prepa-
ration of proposals for external support of BEACON
EHRD activities and on scholarly publications that fol-
low from these activities. The Education Director will
have the opportunity to devote up to 25% of her or his
eﬀort to collaborative studies that advance the BEA-
CON research and/or education missions.
Questions and applications should be emailed to Tom
Getty, Chair of the BEACON Education Director
Search Committee, at getty@msu.edu with “BEACON
Education Director” in the subject line. Applications
should include a cover letter, a full resume/vita, a two-
page statement of purpose emphasizing the applicant’s
suitability for the job, and contact information for threereferences. Application materials should be emailed as
a single pdf-ﬁle, if possible. We will begin reviewing ap-
plications on August 15, 2010 and continue the search
until the position is ﬁlled.
MSU is an aﬃrmative-action, equal-opportunity em-
ployer. MSU is committed to achieving excellence
through cultural diversity. The university actively en-
courages applications and/or nominations of women,
persons of color, veterans and persons with disabilities.
Connie James
Connie James <jamesc@msu.edu >
BrighamYoungU
ComputationalBiology
Computational Biology Position Announcement The
Department of Biology at Brigham Young University
(BYU) invites applications for a continuing faculty sta-
tus (BYU’s equivalent to tenure) track position in the
area of computational biology. We seek exceptional in-
dividuals with a PhD and postdoctoral experience rele-
vant to computational biology, including degrees in ar-
eas of biology, computer science, mathematics, and/or
statistics. The successful candidate is expected to de-
velop an externally funded research program and teach
courses in computational biology and the biology core.
The department oﬀers competitive start-up packages
and reduced teaching loads for new faculty. The antic-
ipated start date for this position is January or August
2011.
Complete applications will include a cover letter, cur-
riculum vitae, teaching statement, research statement,
and a completed BYU employment application form
(found at https://yjobs.byu.edu ). Applicants should
provide names and contact information for three ref-
erences; letters of recommendation will be requested
for those candidates that make our short list. The
initial review process will begin September 30, 2010
and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Inquiries
should be directed to Dr. John S.K. Kauwe, Compu-
tational Biology Faculty Search, 401 WIDB, Depart-
ment of Biology, BYU, Provo, UT 84602, USA (or email
bio@byu.edu <mailto:bio@byu.edu >).
Brigham Young University, an equal opportunity em-
ployer, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
gender, age, national origin, veteran status, or against
qualiﬁed individuals with disabilities. All faculty are20 EvolDir September 1, 2010
required to abide by the university’s honor code and
dress and grooming standards. Preference is given to
qualiﬁed candidates who are members in good standing
of the aﬃliated church, The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Successful candidates are expected
to support and contribute to the academic and reli-
gious missions of the university within the context of
the principles and doctrine of the aﬃliated church.
Byron Adams Evolutionary Ecology Laboratories, De-
partment of Biology Brigham Young University Provo,
UT 84602
byron adams@byu.edu
BroadInstitute CompBiol
ViralGenomics
Dear EvolDir Members,
The Broad Institute is currently seeking qualiﬁed can-
didates for a computational biologist position within
the viral genomics group. For more information about
this position and to apply please visit:
http://www.broadinstitute.org/careers/career-center
and search for requisition #329.
Best, Matt
Matthew Henn, Ph.D. Director Viral Genomics Broad
Institute of MIT & Harvard
mhenn@broadinstitute.com
CaliforniaAcademySciences
EvolutionFish
EVOLUTION, DIVERSITY, AND CONSERVATION
OF FISHES California Academy of Sciences, San Fran-
cisco
The California Academy of Sciences seeks an outstand-
ing scientist to conduct innovative, externally funded
research in the phylogeny, diversity, and conservation
of ﬁshes. We are particularly interested in individuals
conducting rigorous ﬁeld and laboratory-based analy-
ses of key questions in evolution and conservation sci-
ence, using molecular, morphological, developmental,and biodiversity informatics approaches in the context
of phylogeny and global environmental change. Candi-
dates should have a strong commitment to the curation,
use and development of museum collections as a com-
plement to their research and to participation in the
Academy’s public engagement programs. Relationships
with local universities provide opportunities to partici-
pate in graduate and undergraduate teaching and train-
ing. Hires may be made at any level.
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae, statement
of research goals, up to three publications, and contact
information for three references by 15 October 2010
to casvert@calacademy.org. The California Academy
of Sciences is an equal opportunity employer and wel-
comes applications from individuals who will contribute
to its diversity.
DRobson@calacademy.org
CaliforniaAcademySciences
EvolutionReptilesAmphibians
EVOLUTION, DIVERSITY, AND CONSERVATION
OF REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS California Academy
of Sciences, San Francisco
The California Academy of Sciences seeks an outstand-
ing scientist to conduct innovative, externally funded
research in the phylogeny, diversity, and conservation of
amphibians and reptiles. We are particularly interested
in individuals conducting rigorous ﬁeld and laboratory-
based analyses of key questions in evolution and con-
servation science, using molecular, morphological, de-
velopmental, and biodiversity informatics approaches
in the context of phylogeny and global environmen-
tal change. Candidates should have a strong commit-
ment to the curation, use and development of museum
collections as a complement to their research and to
participation in the Academy’s public engagement pro-
grams. Relationships with local universities provide op-
portunities to participate in graduate and undergradu-
ate teaching and training. Hires may be made at any
level.
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae, statement
of research goals, up to three publications, and contact
information for three references by 15 October 2010
to casvert@calacademy.org. The California Academy
of Sciences is an equal opportunity employer and wel-
comes applications from individuals who will contributeSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 21
to its diversity.
DRobson@calacademy.org
CaliforniaAcademySciences
MicroorganismEvolution
MICROORGANISMS: PHYLOGENETIC, TAXO-
NOMIC AND FUNCTIONAL DIVERSITY California
Academy of Sciences, San Francisco
The California Academy of Sciences seeks an out-
standing scientist to conduct innovative, externally
funded research in the phylogenetic, taxonomic and
functional diversity of microorganisms. Microorgan-
isms are broadly construed to include Archaea, Bacte-
ria, viruses or microscopic Eukarya. We are interested
in individuals conducting ﬁeld, laboratory and/or in-
formatics based analyses to discover and understand
poorly known microorganisms in the context of phy-
logeny, ecosystems function and global environmental
change. Candidates should have a strong commitment
to participation in the Academy’s public engagement
programs. Hires may be made at any level.
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae, statement
of research goals, up to three publications, and contact
information for three references by 15 October 2010 to
casmicro@calacademy.org.
The California Academy of Sciences is an equal oppor-
tunity employer and welcomes applications from indi-
viduals who will contribute to its diversity.
DRobson@calacademy.org
CollegeHolyCross
EvolutionaryVertebrateBiol
Evolutionary Vertebrate Biologist
The Department of Biology of the College of the Holy
Cross seeks an organismal biologist with expertise in
vertebrates for appointment as a tenure-track assistant
professor beginning August 2011. Candidates must
demonstrate commitment to, and excellence in, under-
graduate teaching as well as scholarly achievement, and
propose a research program involving undergraduates.A Ph.D. is required at the time of appointment and
post-doctoral experience is desirable.
This position carries a 3-2 teaching load with a full-
salary one-semester leave prior to tenure review and
generous sabbatical and fellowship leaves for senior fac-
ulty. The appointee will be expected to develop an
intermediate lab/ﬁeld course on the evolutionary biol-
ogy of vertebrates or a vertebrate group, to develop a
one-year human comparative anatomy and physiology
course targeted for non-premed pre-health students,
and to participate in other teaching in the department.
Applicants should submit a cover letter, statements
describing research interests and teaching philosophy,
curriculum vitae, oﬃcial academic transcripts, publi-
cations, and three letters of recommendation in hard
copy by 15 October 2010 to Dr. Rob Bellin, Search
Committee (Ref. E), Department of Biology, College
of the Holy Cross, Worcester MA 01610.
For detailed information on the position and applica-
tion procedure, please see the Biology Departments
website: http://academics.holycross.edu/biology . The
College of the Holy Cross (enrollment 2,700) is a
highly selective Catholic liberal arts college in the Je-
suit tradition located in a medium-sized city 45 miles
west of Boston. Holy Cross belongs to the Col-
leges of Worcester Consortium ( http://www.cowc.org )
and the New England Higher Education Recruitment
Consortium ( http://www.newenglandherc.org/home/-
index.cfm ). The College is an Equal Employment Op-
portunity Employer and complies with all Federal and
Massachusetts laws concerning equal opportunity and
aﬃrmative action in the workplace.
Robert M. Bellin, Ph.D. Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biology 331 O’Neil Hall College of the Holy
Cross Worcester, MA 01610
Phone: 508-793-3422 Fax: 508-793-2696 e-mail:
rbellin@holycross.edu
rbellin <rbellin@holycross.edu >
CornellU ComputationalBiology
Faculty position in computational biology and bioinfor-
matics at Cornell University
Assistant, Associate or Full Professor Applications are
invited for a tenure-track position in Computational Bi-
ology in Cornell University’s Computer Science Depart-22 EvolDir September 1, 2010
ment. The position could be at the assistant, associate,
or full professor level, depending on experience. Appli-
cants must possess a Ph.D. in computer science, or a
Ph.D. in a related ﬁeld and suﬃcient expertise in com-
puter science to ﬁt within a CS department. Faculty
in this position will also have the opportunity to inter-
act closely with campus-wide biology eﬀorts, including
the Cornell Center for Comparative and Population Ge-
nomics.
Outstanding applicants in all areas of computational
biology will be considered, but research areas of special
interest include evolutionary, comparative, and popu-
lation genomics; applications of new high- throughput
genomic or proteomic technologies; dynamical behavior
at the sub- cellular and cellular levels; networks in bi-
ological systems; and applications of machine learning
to biological problems.
To ensure full consideration, applications should be re-
ceived by December 1, 2010, but they will be accepted
until the position is ﬁlled. Applicants should submit a
curriculum vitae and a research statement and should
arrange to have three reference letters submitted, at
http://www.cs.cornell.edu/apply . Cornell University is
an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applica-
tions from women and ethnic minorities.
Adam Siepel <acs4@cornell.edu >
DrexelU EvolutionaryBiol
The Department of Biology at Drexel University
(www.drexel.edu/biology ) invites applications for an
anticipated tenure-track faculty position in the ﬁelds of
Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology. Ap-
plications at level of associate or full professor rank are
encouraged. The Biology department will move to the
Papadakis Integrated Sciences Building in July 2011
(www.drexel.edu/biology/news ISB.html ). Drexel has
committed substantial resources for the departments
growth over the next ﬁve years. Candidates with
funded research programs who can synergize existing
interests in the department will be given the highest pri-
ority. We are particularly interested in individuals ad-
dressing research questions related to: climate change;
plant, terrestrial, or landscape ecology; environmental
microbiology; evolution; paleobotany; or biodiversity.
The department is located on Drexels main campus in
the University City area of Philadelphia, where several
academic institutions are concentrated in a rich andhistoric urban environment. Anticipated start date for
the position is Sept. 2011. Applicants should have a
PhD or DPhil. Apply online at www.drexeljobs.com/-
applicants/Central?quickFinds973; please attach CV,
two-page statement of research interests & goals, one-
page statement on teaching philosophy & experience,
and contact information for three references. Applica-
tion deadline is November 30, 2010.
For additional information about the Department of
Biology’s hiring process, please contact the
Biology Search Committee, Dept. of Biology, Drexel
University, 3141 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19104
(biology.search@drexel.edu). Drexel University is an
Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and
encourages applications from women, members of mi-
nority groups, disabled individuals, and veterans.
Jacob Russell <jar337@drexel.edu >
DuquesneU EukaryoticBiologist
Duquesne University invites applications for a tenure-
track position in the Department of Biological Sciences.
The successful applicant is expected to develop a vigor-
ous independent research program involving the study
of molecular, cellular, and/or organismal processes in
eukaryotes. Areas of interest include, but are not lim-
ited to, molecular biology, cell biology, development,
immunology, and physiology. The successful candidate
will join an active department of 18 faculty with a com-
mitment to combining externally funded research with
excellence in teaching at both the graduate and un-
dergraduate levels. Applicants must have post- doc-
toral experience, and are expected to mentor MS and
PhD students. Preference will be given to candidates
at the Assistant Professor level. However, more senior
candidates may also be considered. Competitive salary
and start-up packages are available. Additional infor-
mation about the Department can be found at http:/-
/www.duq.edu/biology . To apply, send a cover let-
ter, CV, statements of research and teaching goals, and
three letters of recommendation to Chair, Biology Fac-
ulty Search Committee, Department of Biological Sci-
ences, 201 Mellon Hall, 600 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh,
PA 15282. Review of applications will begin October
15, 2010. Please direct inquiries about the position to
biology@duq.edu. Motivated by its Catholic identity,
Duquesne values equality of opportunity both as an ed-
ucational institution and as an employer.September 1, 2010 EvolDir 23
Michael Jensen-Seaman, PhD Department of Biological
Sciences Duquesne University
seamanm@duq.edu
Dusseldorf EvolutionaryGenetics
The newly founded research group of Population and
Quantitative Genetics at Heinrich-Heine Universit¨ at in
D¨ usseldorf, Germany has two open positions, available
immediately, for a
1. SENIOR POSTDOC / GROUP LEADER
and
2. PhD STUDENT
The group of Dr. Laura Rose focuses on population
genetics of plants and coevolution between plants and
microbes. The three major projects in the group are
wild tomatoes and bacterial pathogens, Arabidopsis
and oomycete pathogens, and Lotus species and rhi-
zobia.
We are looking for enthusiastic, dedicated scientists to
work in one of the following areas:
- Coevolution between plants and microbes - Theoreti-
cal population genetics - Molecular evolution in plants
- Plant genomics
For the Postdoc / Group Leader position, candidates
should have a PhD degree in evolutionary biology,
quantitative genetics, plant molecular biology or bioin-
formatics and a strong interest in genomic and/or quan-
titative approaches. You will have access to brand new
state-of-the-art laboratory facilities and the opportu-
nity to develop your own independent line of research.
This position involves some teaching in the area of evo-
lutionary biology and population genetics. The initial
appointment is for three years with the possibility of
extension for another three years. Salary will be ac-
cording to the German governmental salary scale and
depends on previous experience, age and marital status.
For the PhD student position, candidates should have a
Master’s degree in biology or related ﬁeld and a strong
background in plant genetics and evolutionary biology.
The PhD student will conduct research on the coevolu-
tion and recognition speciﬁcity between Lotus species
and their rhizobial symbionts. This project is funded by
the German Science Foundation (DFG) and will involve
functional studies on plants (inoculations with bacteriaand trans-gene expression) and classical population ge-
netics.
Please ﬁnd further information about the lab and these
positions at this website: http://evol.bio.lmu.de/ rose
or by contacting me by email: rose@bio.lmu.de
Applications should be ﬁled by September 30, 2010.
Applicants should send a single PDF ﬁle containing a
statement of research interests and previous research
and teaching experience (when appropriate), full cur-
riculum vitae, and contact information for at least two
referees to: Dr. Laura Rose (rose@bio.lmu.de).
rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
EastCarolinaU EvolutionaryBiology
Evolutionary Biologist
The East Carolina University Department of Biology
[http://www.biology.ecu.edu] seeks to build on a core
strength in evolution by inviting applications for a
tenure-track position in evolutionary biology at the
rank of assistant professor to begin August 15, 2011.
Will consider other titles based on degree and qualiﬁ-
cations. Applications from individuals with research in-
terests in the areas of biodiversity, systematics, molecu-
lar ecology, population genetics, or comparative biology
are particularly encouraged. The successful candidate
is expected to establish an externally funded research
program; teach and advise undergraduate, Masters and
Doctoral level students; and contribute appropriate ser-
vice to the university, community and profession. Po-
tential to form collaborations with members of the De-
partment of Biology faculty and a number of other aca-
demic areas, institutes, and centers (e.g., the College
of Technology and Computer Science, the Institute for
Coastal Science and Policy, the Center for Sustainable
Tourism, and the Coastal Science Institute at Manteo)
and contribute to the recently formed North Carolina
Center for Biodiversity is desirable.
Candidates should submit a letter of application, state-
ments of research interests and teaching philosophy,
and a curriculum vitae online. Also, arrange for three
current letters of reference to be sent to: Evolutionary
Biologist Search Committee Chair, Department of Biol-
ogy - Mail Stop 551, Howell Science Complex, East Car-
olina University, Greenville, NC 27858-4353 or emailed
directly to letsingerj@ecu.edu. Inquiries can be directed
to Dr. Kyle Summers, Search Committee Chair, sum-24 EvolDir September 1, 2010
mersk@ecu.edu. Screening of applications will begin on
September 20, 2010 and continue until the position is
ﬁlled. Graduate transcript required upon employment.
East Carolina University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action University that accommodates
individuals with disabilities. Individuals requesting
a disability accommodation should call the ECU Of-
ﬁce of Disability Support Services at [252] 737-1016
(Voice/TTY/Relay). Proper documentation of identity
and employability are required at the time of employ-
ment.
“Rudel, David” <RUDELD@ECU.EDU >
LehighU EvolBiol
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY ASSISTANT PROFES-
SOR - Lehigh University
The Department of Biological Sciences seeks candidates
at the Assistant Professor level with outstanding re-
search that employs modern analytical methods in the
study of fundamental aspects of the evolutionary pro-
cess. Areas of specialization may include ﬁeld and/or
laboratory studies on molecular aspects of population
genetics, molecular mechanisms of phenotypic expres-
sion, cell division, asexual or sexual development, neu-
ral/endocrine processes, genome conservation, or phy-
logeny. The successful candidate for this tenure-track
position will have the potential or demonstrated abil-
ity to generate extramural funding and have a commit-
ment to instructional excellence at the undergraduate
and graduate levels.
The College of Arts and Sciences at Lehigh is especially
interested in qualiﬁed candidates who can contribute,
through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the
diversity and excellence of the academic community.
Applications should be directed to: Evolutionary Bi-
ology Search Committee. E-mail: inbios@lehigh.edu.
Send curriculum vitae, representative publications, de-
scription of research and teaching interests, and four
letters of reference to the search committee chair elec-
tronically or to: Department of Biological Sciences,
Evolutionary Biology Search, 111 Research Drive,
Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA 18015. Deadline for
submission is October 15th, 2010.
Lehigh University is an Equal Opportunity Aﬃrmative
Action Employer and is committed to recruiting and
retaining women and minorities.–
Maria Brace <mpb3@lehigh.edu >
Montpellier SouthAfrica FieldAssist
CooperativeReproduction
Job
Field assistant: study on cooperative reproduction and
maternal investment in the Sociable weaver (Philetairus
socius) in South Africa
CEFE CNRS, Montpellier / Percy Fitzpatrick Insitute,
university of Cape Town
We are looking for a volunteer ﬁeld assistant to help
with the monitoring of Sociable weaver’s reproduction
over a period of 3 months (from the end of September
to the end of December) at Benfontein Game Farm near
Kimberley, South Africa.
The work will include monitoring of breeding activity,
behavioral observations, capturing and measuring birds
and data entering. The candidate should have a strong
interest in ecology and animal behavior and be able to
work in a small team during long days in quite isolated
ﬁeld conditions. Previous ﬁeld work experience on birds
is preferable but not required.
We will cover food and accommodation and will be able
to contribute towards traveling expenses.
If you are interested in applying and to learn more
about the details of the project, please send us a CV
and a short motivation letter.
Matthieu Paquet
matthieu.paquet@cefe.cnrs.fr
And also:
Rita Covas: rita.covas@cefe.cnrs.fr
Claire Doutrelant: claire.doutrelant@cefe.cnrs.fr
Matthieu PAQUET <Matthieu.PAQUET@cefe.cnrs.fr >
OklahomaStateU Adaptation
Assistant Professor, Environmental Stress V Tenure-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 25
track. The Department of Zoology at Oklahoma State
University ( http://zoology.okstate.edu ) invites applica-
tions for an Assistant Professor in environmental stress.
Areas of research emphasis could include, but are not
limited to, natural and anthropogenic stressors, envi-
ronmental physiology, toxicology, and global change.
Applicants should have a Ph.D., post- doctoral experi-
ence, teaching experience, and success in obtaining ex-
tramural funding. Responsibilities include establishing
an extramurally funded research program, mentoring
M.S. and Ph.D. students, and teaching at the under-
graduate and graduate level. To apply please 1) send
a single pdf ﬁle composed of a cover letter, curriculum
vitae, and separate statements of research interests and
teaching philosophy; 2) send three publications; and 3)
arrange to have three letters of recommendation sent
in support. All of the items should be sent to the
search committee chair, Dr. Jason Belden, at zoolo-
gysearch@okstate.edu. Application review will begin 8
October 2010, with employment beginning 1 January
2011. Filling of this position is contingent upon avail-
ability of funding. Oklahoma State University is an
AA/EEO/ E:Verify Employer committed to diversity.
OSU-Stillwater is a tobacco- free campus.
Puni Jeyasingh Department of Zoology, 501 Life
Sciences West, Oklahoma State University, Still-
water, OK 74078-3052. Phone: (405) 744-
9634. Fax: (405) 744-7824. http://web.me.com/-
punidan/Jeyasingh/Jeyasingh Lab.html Puni Jeyas-
ingh<puni.jeyasingh@okstate.edu >
PrincetonU EvolutionaryBiol
ASSISTANT PROFESSORSHIP
ECOLOGY, EVOLUTION AND/OR BEHAVIOR
Princeton University’s Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology plans to hire a tenure-track Assistant
Professor. We have broad interests in ecology, evolu-
tion, behavior, functional biology, conservation biology,
biogeochemistry and disease dynamics. We seek ap-
plicants who pursue research that aims for signiﬁcant
conceptual and/or empirical integration across tradi-
tional disciplinary boundaries and who have a strong
commitment to teaching. Applicants should write a vi-
sion statement, no longer than two pages, that outlines
one or more major unsolved problems in their ﬁeld and
how they plan to address them. The vision statement
should go beyond a pr´ ecis of the applicant’s prior andcurrent research.
Applications, including the vision statement, a curricu-
lum vitae, three reprints, and contact information for
three references should be submitted online via http:/-
/jobs.princeton.edu, Req #1000647.
Any questions about the position should be addressed
to Dr. Bryan Grenfell, the chair of the search com-
mittee. Screening of applications will begin 15 Octo-
ber 2010 and will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Princeton University is an equal opportunity employer
and complies with applicable EEO and aﬃrmative ac-
tion regulations.
(Direct link to online posting: https://-
jobs.princeton.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/position/-
JobDetails css.jsp?postingId=175203 )
Diane Carlino Department Manager Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology Princeton University 104A Guyot
Hall 609-258-5810
dcarlino@princeton.edu
RhodesCollege PlantEvolution
Evolutionary Biologist / Plant Biology
The Department of Biology at Rhodes College seeks
qualiﬁed applicants for a tenure-track faculty position
to begin in August of 2011. Candidates must have
a Ph.D. and must have a background and expertise
in both evolutionary and plant biology. Applicants
should have a commitment to teaching undergraduates
as well as to maintaining an active research program
that engages undergraduate students. Normal teach-
ing responsibilities will include an upper-level Evolution
course plus a role in the introductory biology course se-
quence. Other teaching opportunities may include se-
nior seminar, a course for non-science majors, or an ad-
ditional course in the candidate’s area of specialty. Of
particular interest are courses in plant biology. We en-
courage applications from individuals whose interests
go beyond traditional disciplinary boundaries. Infor-
mation about the Department of Biology may be found
athttp://www.rhodes.edu/biology . Review of com-
pleted applications will begin October 4, 2010 and con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled. Candidates from back-
grounds typically underrepresented in higher education
are strongly encouraged to apply. As Rhodes continues
to diversify its student body, we also seek candidates
with experience working with students from diﬀerent26 EvolDir September 1, 2010
backgrounds. Completed applications will include a let-
ter of application, a statement of teaching philosophy,
a research plan, a curriculum vitae, copies of gradu-
ate and undergraduate transcripts, and three letters of
recommendation.
Please apply online at https://jobs.rhodes.edu . For ad-
ditional information regarding the position, please con-
tact Gary Lindquester, Chair of the Search Committee,
at glindquester@rhodes.edu.
Founded in 1848, Rhodes College is a highly selec-
tive, private, residential, undergraduate college, located
in Memphis, Tennessee. We aspire to graduate stu-
dents with a lifelong passion for learning, a compas-
sion for others, and the ability to translate academic
study and personal concern into eﬀective leadership and
action in their communities and the world. We en-
courage applications from candidates interested in help-
ing us achieve this vision. Memphis has a metropoli-
tan population of over one million and is the nation’s
19th largest city. The city provides multiple oppor-
tunities for research and for cultural and recreational
activities. Read more about Memphis at http://-
www.rhodes.edu/about/369.asp . We are an equal op-
portunity employer committed to diversity in the work-
force.
thomask@rhodes.edu
SouthAfrica Meerkat Field Assistant
Volunteer ﬁeld assistant needed to assist 1st year PhD
student with a study on relations between hormones
and cooperative behaviour in meerkats between Octo-
ber 2010 and April 2011.
Field work will take place at the Kuruman River Re-
serve, a remote study site in the southern Kalahari
Desert in South Africa. Work days under desert condi-
tions may be long and repetitive and will involve follow-
ing habituated groups of meerkats to record behaviour
and collect faecal samples. Living at the ﬁeld site will
be under basic conditions together with a team of 15 -
25 early career researchers and ﬁeld assistants.
Food and accommodation will be provided, however,
unfortunately my funding does not cover travel ex-
penses and visa costs (together some £1000,-).
Previous experience with ﬁeld work and remote living
are a plus, but motivation and an easy going personality
will be most important.If interested, please send me a cover letter and CV at
ps511@cam.ac.uk.
– Peter Santema PhD student Large Animal Research
Group Department of Zoology University of Cambridge
http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/zoostaﬀ/larg/Pages/-
index.html ps511@hermes.cam.ac.uk
UCLondon FullProf EvolBiol
For those who missed this while travelling over the sum-
mer:
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE LONDON Department of
Genetics, Evolution and Environment
*Chair in Evolutionary and Population Biology*
Dear all,
The Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment at University College London is seeking to ﬁll a
Chair (full professorship) in Evolutionary and Popula-
tion Biology. The job ad has appeared in the July 9
issue of Science and is pasted below.
We are looking for excellent candidates; we are open
with respect to approaches used (theory, bioinformat-
ics, experimentation), level of investigation (cellular to
ecosystems) and career stage (successful mid- career sci-
entists or established leaders in their ﬁeld).
*The closing date for applications is 3rd September
2010.*
The Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment brings together scientists with interests in evolu-
tionary, population and environmental biology, genet-
ics, systems and theoretical biology and human genet-
ics. The Department oﬀers a dynamic and stimulating
multi-disciplinary research environment and is part of
a variety of cross-departmental and cross-institutional
groupings within UCL and the wider London research
landscape. From spring 2011, the department will be
housed in re-furbished lab and oﬃce space on UCL’s
campus in the centre of London.
For more information on the Department, please visit
our website ( http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee ). For informal
enquiries, please email the Head of Department, Prof.
Andrew Pomiankowski (a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk).
Best regards, Max
++September 1, 2010 EvolDir 27
Advertisement in Science July 9th
*Chair in Evolutionary and Population Biology*
The appointment will be full time on the UCL Profes-
sorial grade. The salary range will be negotiable on the
professorial scale but not less than £61,713 per annum,
inclusive of London Allowance.
We invite applications from world class research scien-
tists using theoretical or experimental approaches, with
no restriction on organism or level of biological organ-
isation studied. The appointment is part of a major
initiative to strengthen and diversify research activity
in evolutionary, population and environmental biology
in newly refurbished laboratories within UCL.
The successful candidate will be expected to play a
leadership role in this initiative and promote interaction
across the diverse disciplines represented in the Depart-
ment, the Division of Biosciences and across UCL, as
well as co-ordinate eﬀorts to respond to national and
international funding initiatives. Furthermore, the suc-
cessful candidate will play an important part in de-
veloping existing and new postgraduate training pro-
grammes and contribute to undergraduate teaching.
The successful candidate will have an international rep-
utation in an area of Evolutionary and Population Biol-
ogy and a track record of running a successful research
group, securing competitive funding over a number of
years and publishing high impact original research ar-
ticles.
For further details about the vacancy and how to apply
online please go to http://www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ and
search for Reference Number 1127113.
Informal enquiries may be made to Professor An-
drew Pomiankowski, tel: +44 (0)20 7679 7413;
email:a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk. Queries regard-
ing the application process should be addressed to
Nick McGhee, tel: +44 (0)20 7679 8878; email:
n.mcghee@ucl.ac.uk.
Closing Date: 3rd September 2010. Interview Date:
Week commencing 11th October 2010.
We particularly welcome female applicants and those
from an ethnic minority, as they are under-represented
within University College London at this level.
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London 4 Stephenson Way London NW1 2HE, UK
Phone: +44-20-76795095 (internal 25095)
Lab: http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ˜ ucbtmre/-Labsite/ Department: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee
m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk
UGeorgia ResTech
BatRabiesEvolution
*Position opening: * Research Technician at the Odum
School of Ecology, University of Georgia and Rabies
Laboratory, Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, Atlanta, GA
Classiﬁcation: Full time (40h/week)
Starting Salary: $27,000 with annual raise plus beneﬁts
Start date: September 1 or later Duration: Renewable
annually depending on performance, with an expected
duration of three years
*Job summary:*
The Altizer lab in the Odum School of Ecology at the
University of Georgia is seeking a highly motivated re-
search technician to assist with an NSF-funded col-
laboration with the Rabies Laboratory of the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Research
will focus on understanding how anthropogenic environ-
mental changes in Latin America, including deforesta-
tion and agricultural intensiﬁcation, inﬂuence vampire
bat populations and, in turn, how these aﬀect the trans-
mission dynamics of rabies with bats and from bats to
humans or domesticated animals. The technician will
be stationed at the laboratory of Dr. Charles Rup-
precht in the Poxvirus and Rabies Branch in the Na-
tional Center for Zoonotic, Vector borne and Enteric
Diseases at the Clifton Road campus of the CDC in
Atlanta, GA. The technician will also work in close co-
ordination with graduate students and a post-doctoral
associate from the Altizer lab at the University of Geor-
gia in Athens, GA.
For more information on the Altizer lab and the vam-
pire bat rabies project visit: http://www.uga.edu/-
altizerlab/ and http://dstrike.myweb.uga.edu/
*Responsibilities:*
The technician will assist with tasks necessary to con-
duct captive experiments and perform serological and
genetic assays on blood and tissue samples collected in
ﬁeld studies. Speciﬁc duties will include inoculation,
sampling and monitoring of captive vampire bats, as-
sessing immunological responses to infection and mon-
itoring viral excretion using molecular genetic tools.28 EvolDir September 1, 2010
The role of the technician is viewed as an active col-
laborator in this research and he/she will be encour-
aged to participate in data analysis and project devel-
opment whenever possible. The technician can expect
laboratory training in cell culture techniques in virol-
ogy, serology, RT-PCR and sequencing, as needed. The
technician may also assist with daily management of
the laboratory, including purchasing, equipment main-
tenance and database management.
*Qualiﬁcations:* The successful applicant will be ener-
getic with a strong work ethic and a demonstrated abil-
ity to work independently and as part of a team. Ap-
plicants should minimally have a Bachelor’s degree in
biology, ecology, genetics or a related ﬁeld, and should
have experience in either laboratory work or animal
handling. Experience working in BSL-2 or BLS-3 labo-
ratories is preferred, but not required. Special consider-
ation will be given to applicants with a strong interest in
the ecology and evolution of infectious diseases, wildlife
management, public health or veterinary medicine, and
any previous experience in rabies research, laboratory
diagnostics, and skills in working with bats. Applica-
tions from international candidates, such as Peruvian
nationals, are encouraged.
*To apply:* Applicants should visit the UGA Human
Resources website and upload the following information
before 8/24/2010: 1) a cover letter describing motiva-
tions and qualiﬁcations for this position
2) a curriculum vitae containing relevant information
on educational training and research experience 3) the
names of three professional references
Web address: https://www.ugajobsearch.com/-
applicants/jsp/shared/Welcome css.jsp Title: RE-
SEARCH TECHNICIAN III Posting Number:
20100981 Department: 551-School of Ecology
Applicants may also wish to send a backup copy
of their materials as a pdf ﬁle to: saltizer@uga.edu
<mailto:danbolnick@mail.utexas.edu >
– Sonia M. Altizer, Assoc. Professor Odum School of
Ecology University of Georgia Athens, GA 30602
Ph: 706-542-9251 Email:saltizer@uga.edu
URL: www.uga.edu/altizerlab www.ecology.uga.edu/-
altizer saltizer@uga.edu
UGeorgia ResTech
EvolGeneticsOfAgingResearch Technician at The University of Georgia
The Promislow lab at the University of Georgia is look-
ing for full time Research Technician III. Our research
uses quantitative genetic and molecular approaches to
understand the role of aging in somatic mutations,
and in metabolic networks. The work will involve ex-
periments with Drosophila (crosses, measures of age-
speciﬁc ﬁtness traits, dissection), and some molecu-
lar biology techniques (DNA/RNA extraction, RNA
sequencing). Additional responsibilities will include
maintaining Drosophila stocks, supervising undergrad-
uate researchers, ordering lab supplies, and maintaining
safety records. Applicants should have a minimum of
a Bachelors degree in a Biology-related eld, previous
experience in biological research, and strong interper-
sonal communication skills. Experience with molecu-
lar techniques and working with Drosophila or other
insects is preferred. The ideal candidate will be or-
ganized, pay close attention to detail, and be able to
work both independently and in collaboration with oth-
ers. Applicants may contact me directly at promis-
low@uga.edu with informal questions, but are required
to apply through the UGA Human Resources website
(posting number 20100996 in Genetics [unit 093] at
https://www.ugajobsearch.com ). The position is avail-
able immediately and applications will be reviewed un-
til the position is lled. Salary is commensurate with
experience and will include benets. The Promislow lab
is a part of the diverse and interactive UGA Genetics
Department, for which more information can be found
athttp:// www.genetics.uga.edu/ . The University of
Georgia is located in Athens, GA. Athens is located
about an hour from Atlanta and is consistently ranked
one of the top college towns in the country. It has
a vibrant music scene, plentiful opportunities for out-
door recreation, and a reasonable cost of living. For
more information about living in Athens, see http://-
www.visitathensga.com/ Daniel Promislow, Professor,
Department of Genetics University of Georgia Athens,
GA 30602-7223 email: promislow@uga.edu
Daniel Promislow <promislow@uga.edu >
UMainz 6year BehavioralEvolution
University of Mainz
Assistant professor / wissenschaftlicher Assistant - Be-
havioral / Evolutionary Ecology
(non-tenure track, 6 years - extendable up to 10 years)September 1, 2010 EvolDir 29
Closing date: 30.09.2010
We invite applications for three open *Assistant pro-
fessor / wissenschaftlicher Assistent *positions in the
newly established evolutionary biology group at the In-
stitute of Zoology at the Johannes Gutenberg Univer-
sity of Mainz, Germany.
We are seeking highly motivated researchers with a
PhD and Postdoctoral Experience and a background
in behavioral or evolutionary ecology. Three new ju-
nior research groups will be established associated to
the new evolutionary biology group of Prof. Susanne
Foitzik, who recently moved from Munich. Success-
ful candidates should work in related research areas,
for example on the behavior or ecology of (social)
insects, host-parasite coevolution, population genet-
ics, chemical ecology, experimental evolution or the-
oretical evolutionary biology. Information on Prof.
Susanne Foitzik’s research can be found at http:/-
/ecology.bio.lmu.de/etho e/index.htm, or by directly
contacting her: foitzik@biologie.uni-muenchen.de. Ex-
cellent research conditions will be found at the newly
renovated and well equipped behavioral, genetic and
chemical laboratories in Mainz. Furthermore, new cli-
mate rooms and chambers are available for animal
maintenance.
Successful candidates should have an excellent publi-
cation record. Experience with grant acquisition and
teaching is advantageous. The candidates should set-up
independent research labs and are encouraged to apply
for grants in Germany or abroad (e.g., DFG, Eu). The
positions come with a teaching requirement of 4h per
week during the semester. Some basic zoology classes
have to be taught in German. Therefore, willingness to
learn the German language is required. The candidates
have the option to acquire a “Habilitation”. Working
language of the lab is English.
The Johannes Gutenberg-Universit¨ at Mainz is inter-
ested to increase the number of women in Science. Ap-
plications from female scientists are strongly encour-
aged. Similarly qualiﬁed candidates with disabilities
will be preferred.
The university of Mainz hosts many excellent sci-
entiﬁc institutions http://www.uni-mainz.de/eng/ and
Mainz is a historic city located at the river
Rhine with many students and a rich social and
cultural life ( http://www.mainz.de/WGAPublisher/-
online/html/default/hpkr-5nkek8.en.html ).
Interested candidates should send applications as a sin-
gle e- mail attachment containing a CV, a list of publi-
cations (including reprints of the three most important
publications), a research and teaching statement andthe addresses of two potential referees to:
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Evolutionary Biology Insti-
tute of Zoology Johannes-v.- M¨ uller-Weg 6 55128 Mainz
Germany foitzik@biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Closing date for application is September 30th, 2010
Starting date for the positions is Winter – Spring 2011
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Department Biologie
II Behavioral Ecology (Verhaltens¨ okologie) Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit¨ at M¨ unchen Großhaderner Str. 2
D - 82152 Planegg / Martinsried Germany
Phone: + 49 89 / 2180 74 209 Fax: + 49 89 / 2180 74
221 e-mail: foitzik@biologie.uni-muenchen.de http://-
ecology.bio.lmu.de/etho e/index.htm Susanne Foitzik
<foitzik@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de >
UMichigan 3 ComputationalBiol
readvert
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of Michi-
gan
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites applications for
three tenure-track positions (open rank) in evolution,
one of which will be in the area of computational bi-
ology. We seek outstanding individuals with research
and teaching interests in evolutionary biology or evo-
lutionary ecology. These searches are part of a hir-
ing initiative to expand the evolution program, which
includes a coordinated university-wide eﬀort of inte-
gration with the computational sciences. Areas of re-
search include evolutionary or ecological genetics and
genomics, computational evolutionary biology, evolu-
tionary theory, phylogenetics, and evolution of mor-
phology, function, and behavior. Also strongly en-
couraged are research programs that take advantage
of the outstanding collections of the Museum of Zo-
ology, Herbarium, and Museum of Paleontology. For
further information, see http://eeb.lsa.umich.edu <
http://eeb.lsa.umich.edu >. To apply, please begin
atwww.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/apply/evolsearch <http:/-
/www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/apply/evolsearch >, and ar-
range to have three letters of recommendation submit-
ted through the same website. Review of applications
will begin on 15 September 2010.
“Knowles, L” <knowlesl@umich.edu >30 EvolDir September 1, 2010
UMichigan 3 EvolBiol readvert
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of Michi-
gan
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites applications for
three tenure-track positions (open rank) in evolution,
one of which will be in the area of computational bi-
ology. We seek outstanding individuals with research
and teaching interests in evolutionary biology or evo-
lutionary ecology. These searches are part of a hir-
ing initiative to expand the evolution program, which
includes a coordinated university-wide eﬀort of inte-
gration with the computational sciences. Areas of re-
search include evolutionary or ecological genetics and
genomics, computational evolutionary biology, evolu-
tionary theory, phylogenetics, and evolution of mor-
phology, function, and behavior. Also strongly en-
couraged are research programs that take advantage
of the outstanding collections of the Museum of Zo-
ology, Herbarium, and Museum of Paleontology. For
further information, see http://eeb.lsa.umich.edu <
http://eeb.lsa.umich.edu >. To apply, please begin
atwww.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/apply/evolsearch <http:/-
/www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/apply/evolsearch >, and ar-
range to have three letters of recommendation submit-
ted through the same website. Review of applications
will begin on 15 September 2010.
“Knowles, L” <knowlesl@umich.edu >
UNewSouthWales ResAssoc
EvolutionMtDNA
Research Associate Faculty of Science School of
Biotechnology and Biomolecular Science REF.
7378NET
Salary Level A: A$71,250 - $76,209 per year, plus 17%
employer superannuation, plus leave loading.
The Research Group of Professor Bill Ballard in the
School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences
(BABS) at the University of New South Wales, is seek-
ing a Research Associate to work on a project entitled“Linking the genotype with the phenotype through mi-
tochondrial bioenergetics”.
The research group studies the mechanisms and selec-
tive forces that inﬂuence the evolution of mitochondrial
DNA and have used it as a model to study the link be-
tween the genotype and phenotype. The project fund-
ing is to extend the project of Melvin et al. (2008) J.
Mol. Evol. 66: 232. The speciﬁc goal will be to asses
the naturally occurring variation at all complex IV loci
in a population of African Drosophila and identify mu-
tations that are predicted to be functionally signiﬁcant
based on the quaternary structure model. The func-
tional signiﬁcance of identiﬁed mutations will then be
assessed. It is expected that this work will then be ex-
tended to mammalian populations. We seek somebody
with skills and experience in evolutionary genetics. Ex-
pertise measuring mitochondrial bioenergetics would be
an asset.
The successful applicant is expected to do empirical
work, analyze data and write papers. Limited labo-
ratory supervision while Professor Ballard is Head of
School is required. The applicant should be prepared
to apply for fellowships in coming fellowship rounds, es-
pecially the ARC Discovery round in early 2011. Em-
phasis will be given to the quality of published research
in our decision to appoint.
This is a full time position (35 hours per week), ﬁxed
term for 2 years.
Applicants should systematically address the selection
criteria in their application.
Having read the documentation, you may then direct
any enquiries to Professor Bill Ballard on +61 2 9385
2029 or email w.ballard@unsw.edu.au.
Applications close : 27 August 2010
For more information, application procedures or
other vacancies, visit: http://www.hr.unsw.edu.au/-
services/recruitment/jobs/06081001.html Kind re-
gards, Angela Teng Advertising Executive UNSW Mar-
keting Services
The University of New South Wales UNSW SYDNEY
NSW 2052 AUSTRALIA t: (+612) 9385 1698 |f:
(+612) 9385 8797 e: angela.teng@unsw.edu.au |w:
www.unsw.edu.au CRICOS Provider no. 00098G
Angela Teng <angela.teng@unsw.edu.au >September 1, 2010 EvolDir 31
UOldenburg LabTech PlantMolSyst
Lab technician - University of Oldenburg, Germany
A full-time position is oﬀered starting on November,
1st, 2010 in the department of biology and environ-
mental sciences of the faculty of mathematics and sci-
ence of the Carl von Ossietzky-university Oldenburg, in
the working group biodiversity and evolution of plants
as lab technician in the area of molecular systematics
(salary level up to TV-L 9 depending on qualiﬁcations).
Responsibilities include apart from normal lab duties
and help in the preparation of student practicals a
range of techniques related to evolutionary biology and
molecular systematics as well as maintenance of a DNA
sequencer. Furthermore, the position requires help in
further techniques in the lab, the herbarium and plant
propagation and investigation as well as support in the
lab for candidates and foreign guests.
Necessary qualiﬁcations are a completed education as
technician or bachelor of science. Employment with
higher university degrees is possible with time reduc-
tion (M.Sc. ˆ a ca. 85%; PhD ˆ a ca. 70%).
Further necessary qualiﬁcations are experience with
diﬀerent DNA-techniques (extraction, PCR, gel elec-
trophoresis, sequencing, ﬁngerprint techniques), expe-
rience with handling DNA sequencers, good skills in En-
glish, basic skills in German with a willingness to learn
the language, experience with lab management (order-
ing lab supplies, lab organization), training other labo-
ratory users such as graduate students and postdoctoral
fellows. We expect a high degree of self-responsible
working and working in a team.
Women and disabled applicants with equal qualiﬁca-
tions are preferentially employed. Questions regarding
salary (approx. 2200 Euro before tax) can be answered
by Mrs. Ursel Bunjes (ursel.bunjes@uni-oldenburg.de).
Interested applicants should send a cover letter de-
tailing their experience and interests and a CV elec-
tronically or per mail until September, 18th, 2010
to Prof. Dirk Albach, Institut f¨ ur Biologie und
Umweltwissenschaften Carl von Ossietzky Universit¨ at
Oldenburg, Carl von Ossietzky-Str. 9-11, 26127 Olden-
burg or per email to dirk.albach@uni-oldenburg.de.
Prof. Dr. Dirk Albach
Alexandersfeld 49 26127 Oldenburgalbach@gmx.net
UParisSud EvolutionarySystemsBiol
Assistant professor position in biomathematics at the
University of Paris-Sud, France : Modelling in Evolu-
tionary System’s Biology.
We are looking for a population geneticist with a strong
background in mathematics or physics, or a mathemati-
cian or a physician with a strong knowledge in Biology.
The research work will be on system’s biology, at the in-
terface between math and biology, to better understand
the evolution of biological networks. The candidate will
teachTeaching will be in mathematics, biostatistics and
bioinformatics at the licence and master level for biol-
ogy students of the University of Paris-Sud. The can-
didate will join the GQF team at the UMR du Moulon
(http://www.moulon.inra.fr )
The position should be opened in spring 2011. Appli-
cants NEED to be qualiﬁed by the French ministry of
Research and Education as follows :
Deadline for the qualiﬁcation = October 2010
Informations about the procedure: https://-
www.galaxie.enseignementsup-recherche.gouv.fr/-
ensup/candidats.html Application for the qualiﬁcation:
https://galaxie.enseignementsup-recherche.gouv.fr/-
antares/can/index.jsp Foreign applications are
welcome. Please contact-us before September 2010.
We will help you with the qualiﬁcation and application
procedures.
Contact : Christine Dillmann, dill-
mann@moulon.inra.fr –
Les acquis de plusieurs mois de gr` eves et de manifesta-
tions contre les r´ eformes de l’enseignement sup´ erieur et
de la recherche sont extrˆ emement limit´ es. L’UMR de
G´ en´ etique V´ eg´ etale reste donc mobilis´ ee et vigilante.
Pour plus d’information : http://moulon.inra.fr/-
SGV/moulon enlutte.html Despite the ongoing eﬀorts
of faculty and researchers against the proposed gov-
ernmental reforms of research and higher education in
France, there has been very little progress in achiev-
ing meaningful dialog. The UMR Le Moulon therefore
remains mobilized to achieve reforms that support and
strengthen public universities and research institutions.
For more information: http://moulon.inra.fr/SGV/-
moulon enlutte.html Christine Dillmann Professeur
` a l’Universit´ e Paris-Sud UMR de G´ en´ etique V´ eg´ etale32 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Ferme du Moulon 91190 Gif sur Yvette, France tel :
+33 1 69 33 23 48 fax : +33 1 69 33 23 40
dillmann@moulon.inra.fr
USoutherCalifornia LosAngeles
MolEvolutionaryGenomics
Faculty Position in Molecular Evolutionary Genomics.
The Molecular & Computational Biology Section of the
Department of Biological Sciences in the College of Let-
ters, Arts & Sciences at the University of Southern
California invites applications for a tenure- track Assis-
tant Professor in Molecular Evolutionary Genomics We
seek an innovative, productive scientist using genomic
approaches rooted in cell and molecular biology. The
position will be in the Molecular and Computational
Biology Program, which is a unique collaborative en-
vironment with strong expertise in the generation and
quantitative analysis of molecular biology data. The
MCB Program includes an NIH Center of Excellence in
Genomic Science with a special emphasis on genotype
to phenotype mapping.
This position provides opportunity for collaboration
within and beyond the Molecular and Computational
Biology Section, including with the Neurobiology Sec-
tion, Marine and Environmental Biology Section and
Integrative Biology Program. Strong links to world-
class epidemiology and epigenetics research groups on
the nearby USC Health Sciences Campus are other
important assets. Field studies can be enhanced by
USCs Marine Biology facility housed on Catalina Is-
land. The position will provide access to students in
multiple graduate programs and a competitive start up
package. The University of Southern California has ex-
tensive facilities for high performance computing, ge-
nomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
Our program has strength in a number of model sys-
tems using a variety of approaches, and has under-
gone a recent expansion, including occupancy of a
new research building with modern animal facilities.
For additional information please visit our website:
http://college.usc.edu/bisc/people/jobsearch.cfm Re-
view of applications will begin immediately. Please
send a curriculum vitae, a statement of research
objectives, and three letters of recommendation to:
msearch@usc.edu by October 1. For more information,
contact Norm Arnheim (arnheim@usc.edu) and Sergey
Nuzhdin (snuzhdin@usc.edu), Search Committee co-Chairs, Department of Biological Sciences, RRI201,
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
90089-2910.
USC strongly values diversity and is committed to equal
opportunity in employment. Women and men, and
members of all racial and ethnic groups, are encour-
aged to apply.
Matt Dean <matthew.dean@usc.edu >
UStAndrews 5year EvolutionaryBiol
The following ﬁxed-term (5 year) lectureship at the
University of St Andrews, Scotland, is suitable for Evo-
lutionary Biologists
Title Lectureship in Biology - CD7318 Vacancy De-
scription School of Biology £36,715- £45,155 per annum
Start: September 2010 or as soon as possible thereafter
Fixed term 5 years Job Description The School of Biol-
ogy at the University of St Andrews is one of the leading
departments of Biology in the UK. To fully embrace our
diversity, we oﬀer several diﬀerent degree programmes,
including Biochemistry, Cell Biology, Ecology & Con-
servation and Marine Biology as well as general Biology,
and additional joint degree options.
We are now seeking to appoint a ﬁxed-term Lecturer to
provide undergraduate and graduate teaching in the ar-
eas of Biodiversity and Conservation and contribute to
degree programmes within the School of Biology. You
will prepare and deliver lectures, practical classes and
tutorials in modules in the areas of Biodiversity and
Conservation, as well as co-ordinating the overall de-
livery of a variety of modules. You will also possess
a strong research background and publications in Bio-
diversity, Ecology and Conservation and be willing to
conduct cutting-edge independent research as well as
collaborating with colleagues in Evolutionary and Ma-
rine Biology, CREEM (Centre for Research into Ecolog-
ical and Environmental Modelling) and Geosciences.
You will have a degree in biological sciences and will
hold a PhD in Biodiversity, Conservation, Ecology or
a related ﬁeld. Experience of lecturing, tutoring and
assessment at undergraduate or postgraduate in Biodi-
versity, Conservation, Ecology or a related ﬁeld and a
track record of research publications would be advan-
tageous.
This is a ﬁxed-term post until 2015 with an anticipated
start date of September 2010 or as soon as possibleSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 33
thereafter.
Informal enquiries to Prof Anne Magurran, email:
aem1@st-andrews.ac.uk and for further informa-
tion about the lab please visit: http://biology.st-
andrews.ac.uk/staﬀProﬁle.aspx?sunID=aem1 .
Interview date: 27 September 2010
Please quote ref: CD7318
Closing Date: 6 September 2010
Further particulars: https://www.vacancies.st-
andrews.ac.uk/welcome.aspx School of Biology
£36,715- £45,155 per annum Start: September 2010 or
as soon as possible thereafter Fixed term 5 years
–
Mike Ritchie School of Biology Dyers Brae House Uni-
versity of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife Scotland KY16
9TH
Phone 0 (44 outside UK) 1334 463495 Fax 0 (44 outside
UK) 1334 463366
Websites: http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/ritchielab/
http://biology.st-and.ac.uk/supplemental/ritchie/-
papers.aspx Mike Ritchie <mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk >
UToronto ConservationBiology
Professor (Open-Rank) in Ecology and Conservation
Biology
University of Toronto Scarborough
The Department of Biological Sciences invites applica-
tions for a tenure stream position (at the Assistant, As-
sociate or Full Professor level) in Ecology and Conser-
vation, to begin July 1, 2011. The successful applicant
must have a strong publication record, evidence of a
sustained and externally funded research program, and
a proven commitment to graduate student supervision
and training. Candidates with an active ﬁeld program
are especially encouraged to apply. The incumbent will
be expected to take a leadership role in a planned Pro-
fessional Master’s graduate program in Conservation
and Biodiversity. The University of Toronto is an in-
ternational leader in biological research and education
and the Department of Biological Sciences enjoys strong
ties to other units within the University. More infor-
mation about the multi-disciplinary department and its
research can be found at www.utsc.utoronto.ca/biosci,
as well as information on the graduate Departmentof Ecology and Evolution at www.eeb.utoronto.ca/-
graduate and the University of Toronto’s Koﬄer Sci-
entiﬁc Reserve at www.ksr.utoronto.ca/ .
The successful candidate will demonstrate excellence in
research and have a strong commitment to excellence in
teaching at both the undergraduate and graduate level.
They will also be expected to participate actively in the
Graduate Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology at the University of Toronto, and to undertake
an active research program centered at the University
of Toronto Scarborough.
Salary will be commensurate with qualiﬁcations and
experience.
Applications must include a CV, statements of re-
search and teaching interests and three representa-
tive publications. Applications must be submitted on-
line at http://www.jobs.utoronto.ca/faculty.htm (Job
Number 1000523). We encourage applicants to com-
bine PDF or MS WORD documents into one or two
ﬁles.
Applicants should also arrange that letters of reference
from three referees familiar with the candidate’s teach-
ing and research be sent directly to:
Professor Greg Vanlerberghe, Chair
Department of Biological Sciences
University of Toronto Scarborough
1265 Military Trail
Toronto, ON M1C 1A4
Canada
or e-mailed to biologygeneral@utsc.utoronto.ca.
All materials must be received by Nov. 1st , 2010.
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to
diversity within its community and especially wel-
comes applications from visible minority group mem-
bers, women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabil-
ities, members of sexual minority groups, and others
who may contribute to the further diversiﬁcation of
ideas. The University is responsive to the needs of dual
career couples. The University of Toronto oﬀers the op-
portunity to conduct research, teach, and live in one of
the most diverse cities in the world. All qualiﬁed can-
didates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians
and permanent residents will be given priority.
Jessica Barnett
Assistant to the Chair
Dept. of Biological Sciences
University of Toronto Scarborough34 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Room SW421B
1265 Military Trail
Scarborough, Ontario M1C 1A4
416-287-7399; FAX 416-287-7676
Jessica Barnett <jbarnett@utsc.utoronto.ca >
UTubingen EvolGenetics
Research Associate in Evolutionary Genetics
University of T¨ ubingen, Institute of Evolution and
Ecology, Group of Comparative Zoology
The research group of Katharina Foerster seeks a highly
motivated team-oriented researcher with a strong back-
ground in molecular ecology, evolutionary genetics
and/or population genetics. The person appointed is
expected to lead the DNA lab, participate in ongoing
projects, develop an independent research programme,
teach (4 hours/week and semester) and supervise bach-
elor and master students.
The candidate will have a PhD in a relevant area of
biology, a strong postdoctoral research record in one or
more of the above named ﬁelds, and good skills in statis-
tics. He/she will be involved in the startup of new re-
search projects. Self-motivation and the willingness to
work eﬀectively and ﬂexibly within a multi-disciplinary
team will be essential. The working language in the lab
will be English. However, for everyday life at the Uni-
versity and in T¨ ubingen a willingness to learn German
will be advantageous.
The newly established Chair of Comparative Zoology
at the University of T¨ ubingen will combine molecular
genetic analyses with life history, behavioural, physio-
logical, and morphological data collected in wild popu-
lations of various species to investigate the forces that
may maintain genetic diversity in the wild. Our inter-
ests focus on behavioural ecology, molecular ecology,
population genetics and quantitative genetics. Cur-
rently, we plan to establish two new long-term projects
on harvest mice and on alpine newts, but we are open
to include other types of organisms.
We are part of the Institute of Evolution and Ecology,
a young and lively mix of experts ranging from veg-
etation ecologists to animal physiologists. This insti-
tute is a founding member of the recently established
Evolution& Ecology platform EvE. Eve unites scientistsworking in the broad ﬁeld of evolution and ecology in
T¨ ubingen, and it organises joint research and teaching,
scientiﬁc meetings and public events. This environment
oﬀers excellent opportunities for professional feedback
and interdisciplinary collaborations.
This is a ﬁxed-term position, available from 01. Octo-
ber 2010 for 4 years, with option for extension. The
salary will be according to a public service position in
Germany (TV-L 13).
Applications will be reviewed from August 23, 2010 un-
til the position is ﬁlled.
Please contact us for any further information:
sekretariat.zoologie@uni-tuebingen.de
To apply, please send an email with a single ﬁle attach-
ment including your CV, a short description of your re-
search interests and research experience (including a list
of methods you are familiar with), and names and email
addresses of 2-3 references who could be contacted to:
Professor Katharina Foerster at
sekretariat.zoologie@uni-tuebingen.de
T¨ ubingen is situated in Southern Germany between
the Black Forest and the Swabian Alb, not far from
Stuttgart. The charming university town of 87,000 in-
habitants and 22,000 students combines the ﬂair of a re-
stored medieval old town with the colourful bustle and
typical atmosphere of a young and cosmopolitan stu-
dents’ community. T¨ ubingen features numerous cafes,
beer gardens, restaurants and pubs as well as an active
music and theatre scene.
katharina.foerster@zool.uni-tuebingen.de
katharina.foerster@zool.uni-tuebingen.de
UVirginia ResTech
PlantOrganelleGenomics
Research Technician at the University of Virginia
The Taylor Lab at the University of Virginia Biology
Department is looking for a full-time research techni-
cian to assist in studies of the molecular evolution of
plant organelle genomes. This project aims to address
fundamental questions about the role of mutation rate
in genome evolution and the interaction between or-
ganelle and nuclear genomes. The responsibilities for
this position will include a combination of lab work
(DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, DNA sequencing, etc.)
and greenhouse work. The position will include train-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 35
ing in the use of high throughput DNA sequencing tech-
nologies (454 and Illumina), but previous experience
with these methods is not required. Applicants should
have a bachelor’s degree in biology or a related ﬁeld and
experience with basic laboratory techniques, including
DNA extraction, PCR, and traditional (Sanger) DNA
sequencing.
Application materials, including a CV and cover letter,
can be submitted to the University of Virginia’s human
resources department via the following link, which also
provides a more detailed description of the position.
jobs.virginia.edu/applicants/Central?quickFinda754
Doug Taylor Professor and Chair Department of Bi-
ology University of Virginia Charlotteville, VA 22904
USA e-mail: drt3b@virginia.edu
drt3b@virginia.edu
UWollongong EvolutionaryBiologist
Lecturer level B Faculty of Science, School of Biological
Sciences, University of Wollongong, Australia
Applications are sought for a tenure-track Lecturer po-
sition (Lecturer level B) in the School of Biological Sci-
ences at the University of Wollongong. We are seeking
candidates in the broad area of evolutionary biology.
Applicants with research interests that would lead to
productive collaborations with current academic staﬀ
are particularly encouraged. Demonstrated excellence
in research and the potential to attract external re-
search funding is essential. The appointee will be ex-
pected to develop a research program within the School
and to supervise honours and postgraduate research
students. The University of Wollongong has recently
built a state-of-the-art research facility for contained
animal and plant experiments, comprising 576 m2 of
laboratory space. The appointee will be expected to
become a member of and contribute to the Institute for
Conservation Biology and Environmental Management
(ICBEM), a key area of research strength within the
University. The appointee will be expected to teach at
all levels in subjects dealing with evolution, behaviour,
ecology and/or physiology.
Applicants must address the selection criteria spec-
iﬁed in the Position Description, which is available
from the University Website. Further information can
be obtained from Associate Professor Mark Dowton,
by telephone (+61 2) 4221 3429 or by email (mdow-ton@uow.edu.au). Information about the School can be
obtained from our website ( http://www.uow.edu.au/-
science/biol/ ).
Applications Close 26th September 2010 Quote Ref No:
23678
how to apply: Please go to our website http://-
employment.uow.edu.au/ to submit your application
online & for more information about the position and
UOW.
Professor David Ayre Director Institute for Conserva-
tion Biology School of Biological Sciences University of
Wollongong Wollongong NSW 2522 Australia
dja@uow.edu.au
UZurich EvolAdaptEnvChange
The Faculty of Science at the University of Zurich in-
vites applications for a
Professorship in Evolutionary Adaptation to Environ-
mental Change
The newly founded Institute of Evolutionary Biology
and Environmental Studies conducts research in the
areas of ecology, evolution, behaviour and the environ-
ment. We seek outstanding, innovative applicants with
a record of excellence in research who will complement
our existing interests and strengths.
The successful candidate is expected to develop a
strong, indepen- dent program of empirical research
that integrates both evolutionary and environmental
aspects, to attract external funding, and contribute to
graduate and undergraduate teaching (in English or
German). The position will be preferentially at the
level of associate or tenure- track assistant professor.
The University of Zurich provides generous research
support, including earmarked funds for personnel and
running expenses, and competitive start-up packages.
Zurich oﬀers a stimulating scientiﬁc and cultural en-
vironment, including a rich spectrum of research ac-
tivities in life sciences, and provides extensive oppor-
tunities for collaborations with research groups at the
Faculties of Science and of Medicine of the University
of Zurich, as well as teams at the nearby ETH Zurich.
Application packages should include a full curriculum
vitae (see http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/static/documents/-
for guidelines), an intro- ductory summary, a vision36 EvolDir September 1, 2010
statement of research interests outlining major un-
solved problems and how they could be tackled, and the
names and addresses of four potential referees. Docu-
ments should be addressed to Prof.Michael Hengartner,
Dean of the Faculty of Science, University of Zurich,
and submitted as a single PDF ﬁle to jobs@mnf.uzh.ch
by September 30, 2010. For further information, please
contact Prof. Andy Hector at andrew.hector@uzh.ch.
The University of Zurich is an equal opportunities em-
ployer. Applications from women are particularly en-
couraged (see CV guidelines).
Lukas Keller <lukas.keller@ieu.uzh.ch >
WakeForestU ResTech
EvolutionaryGenetics
I am looking for a full-time research technician for an
evolutionary genetics lab using yeast for evolution ex-
periments that test theories on a variety of broad topics,
such as the evolution of sex, the evolution of organelle
inheritance, and speciation. The position is initially for
one year, with possible extension.
A bachelor’s degree in biology and research or job expe-
rience in a lab are required. Experience with culturing
and genetically manipulating microbes is strongly pre-
ferred, and an interest in evolutionary biology would
be a great asset. If interested please e-mail me at
zeylcw@wfu.edu
Cliﬀord Zeyl
Associate Professor, Department of Biology
Wake Forest University
Winston-Salem, NC USA
phone: 336 758-4292
fax: 336 758-6008
cliﬀord.w.zeyl@gmail.com
WillametteU EvolutionaryMicrobiol
Attached and pasted below is the info about an upcom-
ing review deadline (15 Sept 2010) for applicant ﬁles for
our tenure track-position at Willamette University. Asindicated below, the person’s focus relative to micro-
biology is open in this search provided s/he meets the
eligibility criteria, can teach a microbiology course, and
will engage undergraduates actively in their area of ex-
pertise.
Applicants with questions about the position, as noted
below, should contact our chairperson who is also
copied here:
Dr. David P. Craig, “David P. Craig”
<dpcraig@willamette.edu >
Assistant or Associate Professor, Microbiology
Willamette Universitys Biology Department invites ap-
plications for a tenure-track position in microbiology
at the rank of assistant or associate professor to be-
gin August, 2011. The nine-member undergraduate de-
partment values innovative teaching and research and
seeks to integrate them seamlessly into high impact
learning experiences for students at every level of the
curriculum. For information about the department see
http://www.willamette.edu/cla/biology . The success-
ful candidate will teach an introductory microbiology
course that emphasizes viruses and bacteria; upper level
courses for majors in his/her area of expertise; and
courses for non-science majors. The candidate will be
expected to establish a vigorous research program that
advances science while engaging undergraduates.
Applicants from disciplines as diverse as virology, bac-
teriology, mycology, genetics, genomics, physiology,
ecology, and/or evolution are welcome. Applicants
must have a Ph.D. and post-doctoral research expe-
rience and must be qualiﬁed by their formal training
to teach the courses described. To be considered at
the associate level, applicants must have an exceptional
record of research and undergraduate teaching com-
mensurate with their rank.
To apply:
(a) Submit to micro-search@willamette.edu a single,
electronic PDF that contains these materials in the fol-
lowing order: 1) A cover letter describing your interest
in the position 2) Current curriculum vitae 3) A teach-
ing statement that describes your teaching experience
and philosophy, plans for an introductory microbiology
course, and a list of courses you feel qualiﬁed to teach 4)
A research statement that includes current and future
research goals and plans and their relevance to this po-
sition 5) A diversity statement that describes your ex-
perience with diverse populations and the importance
of diversity in teaching and research communities 6) An
unoﬃcial graduate transcript (b) Solicit three reference
letters that address both research and teaching poten-
tial as they relate to this position. Reference lettersSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 37
should be sent electronically to:
David Craig, Search Chair Biology Department
Willamette University micro-search@willamette.edu
Address inquiries to David Craig,dpcraig@willamette.edu
Review of applications will begin on September 15,
2010.
skephart <skephart@willamette.edu >
Other
AcademicGenealogy EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . 37
AFLPdat sample ﬁle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Aligning fragments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
BEAST question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
DNA from FormalinFixedBone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
DNA sequencing from formalin tissues . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
DPGP New Data and Collaborative Opportunities 38
Drosophila oviposition sites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Drosophila stocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ESEB Outreach Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Ethiopia Volunteer CampManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Evolution Meetings Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Fish DNA extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Fish DNA extraction answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Free Beckman sequencer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43GMOD Evo Hackathon Open Call for Participation 43
Goat Sheep hair DNAExtraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
IsadoreNabi at 100 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Large African samples Drosophila melanogaster . . . 45
London LERN EpigeneticsDebate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
MasseyU SummerScholarship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
MolEvol TeachingResources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Outsourcing msat genotyping answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Script for editing alignments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Script for editing alignments answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
SNP screening question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Software BAli-Phy2 1 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Software ReleaseofRawGenoVersion2 0-0 . . . . . . . . . . 50
SSE new logo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
AcademicGenealogy
EvolutionaryBiology
The Academic Genealogy of Evolutionary Biol-
ogy has been launched and is being hosted by
http://academictree.org/ http://academictree.org/-
evolution/index.php The Academic Genealogy of Evo-
lutionary Biology is a free, volunteer-run website de-
signed to help you track your academic genealogy. Our
goal is to collect information about the graduate stu-
dent and postdoctoral connections between most re-
searchers in the ﬁeld.
Please add yourself and your PhD and post-doc men-
tors – once the tree is seeded with ~200 names the tree
will be linked to academictree.org’s main page. Notethat there is a Drosophila Genetics tree, and entries
can be cross-listed among trees. Contributors can add
anyone, but site editors will be maintaining the page to
guard against vandalism and jokesters.
“Baucom, Regina (baucomra)”
<baucomra@ucmail.uc.edu >
AFLPdat sample ﬁle
Hi All,
I’m having trouble with getting an acceptable input
ﬁle for AFLPdat to use in R. I keep getting unexpected
symbol errors in ﬁrst row second column even though
it looks exactly the same as in the manual. There38 EvolDir September 1, 2010
was no sample ﬁle to go along with the software. If
anyone has a sample input ﬁle with a populations col-
umn and recessive allele row, could you kindly send it:
bsp22e@bangor.ac.uk.
Thank you, Mrinalini Bangor University
bsp22e@bangor.ac.uk
Aligning fragments
Hi,
For a speciﬁc protein family, I have 39 complete se-
quences from sequenced bacterial genomes; I also have
many incomplete sequences from metagenome. I know
they are fragments of complete sequences.
Is there anyway to do accurate multiple sequence align-
ment for all these complete and fragmentary protein
sequences >
Thanks!
Haiwei Luo University of Georgia
Haiwei Luo <hluo2006@gmail.com >
BEAST question
Hi all,
I constructed a phylogenetic tree of 50 protein orthologs
using BEAST, with the strict clock model and a upgma
starting tree. However, the output tree obtained from
TreeAnotator turns out to be not ultrametric. Is it
because of the wrong molecular clock I chose (should I
instead chose relaxed time clock) or do I need to convert
the tree into ultrametric using some software? Which
software performs best to convert the ultrametric tree?
Thanks in advance!
Sincerely,
shan
Shan Li Bioinformatics UNC Charlotte
Shan Li <lishan989@gmail.com >DNA from FormalinFixedBone
Dear List:
I am looking for protocols for extracting DNA from
bone and from formalin-ﬁxed tissues. I’ve tried a few
in the literature without success. I’m looking to extract
from museum specimens of turtles. If anyone has had
success with this, would you please suggest a protocol.
Thanks, Steve
– Steve Kimble PhD student, Department of
Forestry and Natural Resources Purdue Uni-
versity skimble@purdue.edu sjkimble@gmail.com
205.337.4843 http://web.ics.purdue.edu/-
˜ rodw/Steve%20Kimble.htm steve kimble
<sjkimble@gmail.com >
DNA sequencing from formalin
tissues
Hi all,
I am attempting to extract DNA for sequencing from
formalin ﬁxed and stored larval ﬁsh tissues. I was curi-
ous if anyone had any good protocols or tips and tricks
to help me accomplish this task. My ultimate goal is
to get a long enough sequence to be able to compare to
a known adult sequence and conﬁrm identiﬁcation.
Thanks so much,
Carie Bikson UW Fish Collection University of Wash-
ington, Seattle, WA cbikson@uw.edu
cbikson@u.washington.edu
DPGP New Data and Collaborative
Opportunities
DPGP: Transitional data sets, opportunities for collab-
orationSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 39
DPGP’s analysis of 42 Drosophila melanogaster
genomes is essentially complete, and a manuscript will
be submitted in the very near future. Further questions
should be directed to Chuck Langley or Dave Begun.
D. melanogaster genome sequencing has continued at
Davis, with a focus on African variation. With the
goal of identifying one or two locations in Africa that
merit genome sequencing of large population samples,
we have initially sequenced a geographically scattered
sample of sub-Saharan genomes: a median of three
genomes from each of approximately 20 African loca-
tions, with a few more to be added. Preliminary analy-
sis of this data motivated us to obtain new, large popu-
lation samples from Uganda and Zambia (described in
a subsequent message). But prior to the sequencing of
large samples, the scattered sample itself (which may
ultimately contain roughly 80 African genomes) will be
one target of analysis, with relevance for understand-
ing the history of the species in its ancestral range, and
possibly for detecting local adaptation.
While the new Uganda and Zambia samples were being
obtained, a second data set was created, consisting of
27 D. melanogaster genomes from Rwanda. Here the
goal was to give the research community access to a
somewhat larger sample of African genomes in the short
term. The Rwanda genomes (along with most of the
data in the scattered sample) are >30X sequence depth
(75bp paired-end reads) from libraries of prepared from
whole genome ampliﬁcations of single haploid embryos
(see second message). This data is from 75bp paired-
end reads (300 to 400 bp inserts), which will oﬀer new
opportunities for studying indels and rearrangements.
It is anticipated that the Rwanda genomes and the
scattered African genomes will be published separately,
with the Rwanda genomes analysis likely to begin ﬁrst.
Data generation for both of these projects is nearing
completion. Sequencing reads will be deposited the
NCBI archive. We will generate an assembly for each
data set, and share this with the research community. It
will probably be at least one month before the Rwanda
assembly is ready, and at least two months for the scat-
tered African assembly.
We are interested in pursuing a diﬀerent model of com-
munity involvement with the analysis of these data sets.
Rather than composing a “genome paper” on our own
and encouraging the community to pursue independent
analyses, we would like to involve more of the research
community in the initial analysis of both new data sets.
Please contact me if you are interested in being a part
of this collaboration.
John Pool (jepool(a)ucdavis.edu)Postdoctoral Researcher
Drosophila Population Genomics Project
UC Davis
jepool@ucdavis.edu
Drosophila oviposition sites
Dear Evoldir members
A group of ecologist is exploring Drosophila oviposition
sites in a Mediterranean habitat. Any information that
could help us ﬁnd these sites will be appreciated
Thank you
Gilad Danon.
Gilad Danon <giladgiladgiladgilad@gmail.com >
Drosophila stocks
New isofemale strains Drosophila species: The UCSD
Drosophila Species Stock Center has isofemale strains
of two species:
14 new Drosophila wheeleri isofemale lines, Santa
Catalina Island, California. 30 new Drosophila arizonae
isofemale lines, cape region of Baja California, Mexico.
These will be available until November. See the stock
center website at: https://stockcenter.ucsd.edu/info/-
listannouncements.php Therese Ann Markow, Profes-
sor Amylin Chair in Life Sciences Section of Cell and
Developmental Biology Division of Biological Sciences
Muir Biology Building 2215 9500 Gilman Drive Univer-
sity of California at San Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0116
Email: tmarkow at ucsd.edu Phone: (858) 246 0095
Laboratory: (858) 246 0402 FAX:(858) 534-7108
http://biology.ucsd.edu/labs/markow/ http:/-
/stockcenter.ucsd.edu Therese Markow
<tmarkow@ucsd.edu >40 EvolDir September 1, 2010
ESEB Outreach Fund
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB) is pleased to announce a new Outreach Fund
available globally to promote evolution-related activi-
ties, with a total annual budget of 10000 euros. The
goal of this initiative is to promote knowledge about
evolution to general public. Applications for funding
will be accepted for educational initiatives that promote
evolution, translation of evolutionary material (books,
ﬁlms, websites) intended for a general audience, public
outreach seminars, public exhibitions, etc. The appli-
cation form can be found on www.eseb.org (click on
the “Outreach Fund” link). Applications will be ac-
cepted twice yearly (deadlines March 15, September
15) and should be submitted by email to Olga Vos
<oﬃce@eseb.org >(Subject: Outreach).
otto@zoology.ubc.ca
Ethiopia Volunteer CampManager
ONE camp manager needed for The University of
Michigan Gelada Research Project, a study of the evo-
lution, behavior, communication, endocrinology, and
conservation of wild geladas (Theropithecus gelada) V
a close relative of baboons. All research is conducted
at a ﬁeld station located in the Simien Mountains
National Park of Ethiopia. Directors of the project are
Drs. Thore Bergman and Jacinta Beehner, faculty at
the University of Michigan. The camp manager will
be responsible for (a) collecting basic demographic
and reproductive data as part of routine monitoring of
the well-habituated study population, (b) conducting
focal animal samples and collecting fecal samples from
individually-recognized geladas (for later laboratory
steroid hormone analysis in the USA), (c) recording
GPS readings of gelada ranging locations, (d) manag-
ing the computer database, and (e) equipment upkeep
and personnel management. The gelada population
has been studied on a near-daily basis since 2006 and
we currently recognize approximately 150 individuals.
The camp manager will live in a stone hut located in
the national park with 0-3 graduate students (depend-ing on the time of year), and 1-2 Ethiopian staﬀ. Our
camp includes one stone house with 3 bedrooms, a full
kitchen set-up (including a propane-powered stove and
oven), solar panels to power computers and lights, a
generator (for electricity during the rainy season), a
satellite telephone and modem (for email), a Mitsubishi
4x4 pickup truck, a shower tent (hot showers require
heating up water on the stove). There is no running
water at the ﬁeldsite, but fresh water can be fetched
from a nearby spring. Also, there is no refrigeration at
the ﬁeldsite, but we have a project freezer at a nearby
eco-lodge (about a 30-minute drive away) where we
can store things. For more information on the project
directors, the project publications, and some photos
of the ﬁeldsite, please see the following websites:
http://sitemaker.umich.edu/jacinta.beehner/home,
and http://sitemaker.umich.edu/thore.bergman/home
. Qualiﬁed applicants will have a B.S. or B.A in
Evolutionary Biology, Biology, Zoology, Biological
Anthropology, or a related ﬁeld. Prior travel and/or
ﬁeld experience in Africa or mountainous regions of
Asia or South America preferred. Applicants must
be ﬂuent in English and eager to learn Amharic
(the national language of Ethiopia). Good physical
ﬁtness is essential - the terrain is hilly, the air is thin
(due to the high elevation), and the temperatures
can get quite cold during the rainy season (nights
are sometimes below freezing and days can be cold).
Good organizational skills and experience with basic
database management a must. Must be able to drive
a stick-shift 4x4 truck over rough terrain. Experience
with leadership also a plus V as you will be managing
several graduate students and ﬁeld assistants.
Salary/funding: This is a volunteer position so there
is no salary. However, round-trip airfare and living
support will be provided for the volunteer (visa ex-
penses, travel, meals, lodging). Additionally, volunteer
will be provided with basic accommodation, food and
other basic supplies while at the ﬁeld site. The volun-
teer is responsible for any additional expenses incurred
while traveling in Ethiopia. The project will provide
travel health insurance, but the volunteer is required
to acquire the necessary vaccinations prior to entry to
Ethiopia. The volunteer will need to provide their own
winter/alpine condition clothing, footwear and sleeping
bag. Advice about what items are necessary for life in
the Simien Mountains will be provided to the successful
applicant.
Appointment: 1-2 years beginning mid October 2010.
Because the training process requires 2-4 months, the
successful applicant must be willing to work for a min-
imum of 1 year. Applicants committing to a longer
period will receive one round-trip ﬂight to their homeSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 41
country halfway through their internship.
Deadline: Position will remain open until ﬁlled. Earlier
applications will receive priority.
Application: Please email the following materials to Dr.
Jacinta Beehner at jbeehner@umich.edu: (1) a letter of
interest stating how and why this position satisﬁes your
interest and future career goals, explaining your suit-
ability for this project, plus a time frame during which
you are available to work, (2) a CV or resume detailing
relevant experience, (3) a summary of college courses
taken and the grades received, to be followed by an
oﬃcial transcript, and (4) contact information for at
least two references, preferably at least one academic
reference as well as one person who has worked closely
with you or who has closely supervised your work. The
subject heading of the email message should read: for
ﬁeld research position.
Jacinta C. Beehner
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Evolution Meetings Survey
Dear Evol-Dir Members,
Have you attended the US Evolution meetings in the
past? Do you plan to attend them in the future? If
so, we’d like to get your input regarding childcare and
MentorNet mentoring programs oﬀered at the confer-
ence.
With funding from an Elsevier Foundation New Schol-
ars Grant, on-site childcare and email-based Mentor-
Net mentoring programs were oﬀered for the ﬁrst time
at the Evolution 2009 conference in Moscow, ID, were
recently oﬀered at Evolution 2010 (Portland, OR), and
will be oﬀered again at Evolution 2011 (Norman, OK).
The survey will take about 5 minutes, and your re-
sponses are completely anonymous. Please click on
the link below (or copy and paste into your internet
browser) to complete the survey.
http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/F5S8VMV Thanks
for taking the time to help out!
Heidi Meudt & Leah LarkinHeidi Meudt, PhD
Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa, PO
Box 467, Cable St, Wellington, New Zealand, P +64
4 381 7127, F +64 4 381 7070 School of Biologi-
cal Sciences, Victoria University, 1-85 Kelburn Pa-
rade, Room 507, New Kirk Building, Wellington, New
Zealand, P +64 4 463 5026, F +64 4 463 5331 http:/-
/www.victoria.ac.nz/sbs/staﬀ/heidi-meudt.aspx Visit
the Te Papa website http://www.tepapa.govt.nz Heidi
Meudt <HeidiM@tepapa.govt.nz >
Fish DNA extraction
Hello all.
I am trying to extract DNA from ﬁsh muscle preserved
in ethanol. I have had success with liver, heart, gonads,
and blood. But, I have some important muscle samples
that are yielding no DNA at all. These are relatively
fresh samples. I have been using the QIAGEN DNeasy
tissue kit. This is a rather oily ﬁsh, so I wonder if that
is getting in the way. Although, I would expect that
most of it would be washed oﬀ with the ethanol. I have
also tried PCI based methods, and have had similarly
little luck.
Any help on improving the yield would be greatly ap-
preciated.
Thank you.
Anders.
Anders.Goncalvesdasilva@csiro.au
Fish DNA extraction answers
Hello all.
I would like to thank all the members of the list who
took the time to respond. I had quite a few protocols to
test, and I think I have found one that works really well
for my ﬁsh. A slightly modiﬁed protocol based on what
Sarah Helyar (thank you so much, and yes we did meet
in Seattle) sent me worked really well. CTAB, which
was also another common suggestion, didn’t work so
well. Upon adding isopropanol, I get a viscous liquid
that comes out of solution, and no DNA at the end of42 EvolDir September 1, 2010
the elution step. Depending on who you talk to they
say this viscous substance is either SDS or polysaccha-
rides. In any case, with a little RNAse, I was able to
obtain about 15-20 µg of DNA from 15-20mg of muscle
with A260/A280 of around 1.8-2. Running a gel showed
high molecular weight with little degradation. So, I was
really pleased, as before I was not able to get any DNA
at all.
Thanks again everyone, below I have posted all re-
sponses, which will hopefully be a resource to others.
All the best.
Anders.
– If I hear “slimy” or “oily” I have to think of this
procedure:
Bahl, A., Pfenninger, M. A rapid method of
DNA isolation using laundry detergent (1996)
Nucleic Acids Research, 24 (8), pp. 1587-1588.
Cited 30 times. http://www.scopus.com/inward/-
record.url?eid=3D2-s2.0-0029923281&partnerID=-
40&md5=60a69b5b3d97efc5de234209d7c40d04 Might
be worth a try. The 2nd author is still active and
might be responsive upon direct contact.
–
Have used a mixture of techniques with ﬁsh, from a
high salt to using some other mystic witchcraft broth!
I should add, all these techniques seemed to work on
blood, muscle tissue, and ﬁn samples...if I was to choose
one for muscle, perhaps the high salt one...
–
Maybe you could try the CTAB 2X protocol. It is a
very eﬃcient one and works very good on a wide range
of organisms although initially used for plants. Land-
snails that are covered with mucus are working ﬁne with
the CTAB protocol so maybe the oily substances of
the ﬁshes will be dealt with too. A google search with
CTAB 2x will provide several protocols and you could
use the one that better suits your needs. I wish you
good luck.
–
I did extract DNA from frozen muscle with phenol clo-
roform protocol with excellent results, I also used QI-
AGEN DNeasy tissue kit and no problem.
–
we normally use the hexadecyltrimethylammonium
bromide (CTAB) protocol for genomic DNA extraction
from ﬁsh muscle preserved in ethanol. See attached an
example of the protocol. It works also on very degraded
samples, I used it also for total DNA extraction fromﬁsh gut content, following Deagle BE, Jarman SN, Pem-
berton D, Gales NJ (2005) Genetic screening for prey in
the gut contents from a giant squid (Architeuthis sp.).
Journal of Heredity 96: 417-423
–
Have you tried Chelex? I just started working on ﬁsh
about a year ago, and the lab I am working in uses
Chelex for ﬁsh muscle and scales–and it seems to work
great. It’s cheap and requires very little tissue and takes
much less time than the Quiagen protocol.
–
am not sure that its the oil that’s causing the problem if
the liver was extracting ok, but anyhow, I generally use
a very basic high salt protocol, so no phenol/chloroform
steps, the yield from this is usually pretty high, it tends
not to be the cleanest DNA, but for general applications
like msats and SNPs, theres been no problem. We cur-
rently working on herring - so they’re pretty oily too.
–
I used to work with muscle samples of Yellowﬁn Tuna.
We used a regular precipitation with isopropanol and
ethanol (a normal High salt protocol). I don’t have the
protocol just in hand but I think that you can ﬁnd
it everywhere. Consists of incubation with PK and
Buﬀer, two precipation with isopropanol, and one with
ethanol... and ﬁnally elution with water or TE...
–
You might consider rehydrating the samples by rinsing,
then soaking them in water for ~15 minutes prior to us-
ing the kit. Sometimes this helps, and it is easy enough
to try.
–
I would try one of the older chloroform or chloro-
form/phenol methods. Those reagents should get rid
of extra lipids early on in the extraction process. Also,
you might want to try increasing the detergent concen-
tration a bit in the initial homogenates.
–
We do tons of ﬁsh here at the Smithsonian - muscle,
eyes, ﬁns, anything really. We basically have a DNA
barcoding factory and having been going nuts with
Caribbean ﬁsh.
Not sure what’s going on with your extractions, but
thought I’d share a few things that we’ve learned. You
may already be doing all this.
-It is important to dry oﬀ as much of the ethanol from
the sample as possible - dry it on a chem-wipe and
maybe even let it air dry a bit. Or it sounds like you’reSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 43
already rinsing it - we sometimes do that with the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Free Beckman sequencer
Other: A Beckman CEQ 2000XL sequenzer for free If
somebody can use a Beckman CEQ 2000XL sequen-
zer, they can get it for free. All you need to do is
to arrange and pay for the pick up and transportation.
The machine is functioning, and have mainly been used
for fragment analysis, but have not been used for 21
2
years, and may need some kind of service. Maybe you
can use it as spare parts for another CEQ 2000 or CEQ
8000. The Machine is standing in a lab close to Copen-
hagen, Denmark, from where we need to move by mid-
September, so quick response is recommended.
Contact info: Ole K. Hansen, Forest & Land-
scape Denmark, University of Copenhagen. E-mail:
okh@life.ku.dk, Phone: +45 35 33 16 47
Ole K. Hansen Cand.silv,PhD, Assistant Professor For-
est & Landscape University of Copenhagen Address:
Hørsholm Kongevej 11 2970 Hørsholm, Denmark Mail:
okh@life.ku.dk Telephone Oﬃce: +45 35 33 16 47 Tele-
phone DNA-lab: +45 35 33 19 42 Fax: +45 35 28 15
17 Private +45 39 65 07 00
okh@life.ku.dk
GMOD Evo Hackathon Open Call
for Participation
We are seeking participants for the GMOD Tools for
Evolutionary Biology Hackathon, held November 8-12,
2010 at the US National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) in Durham, NC.
This hackathon targets three critical gaps in the ca-
pabilities of the GMOD toolbox that currently limit
its utility for evolutionary research: 1. Visualization ofcomparative genomics data 2. Visualization of phyloge-
netic data and trees 3. Support for population diversity
and phenotype data
If you are interested in these areas and have relevant
expertise, you are strongly encouraged to apply. Rele-
vant areas of expertise include more than just software
development: if you are a GMOD power user, visualiza-
tion guru, domain expert (comparative, phylogenetics,
population, ...), or documentation wizard, then your
skills are needed!
How To Apply: Fill out the online application form at
http://bit.ly/gmodevohack . Applications are due Au-
gust 25.
About GMOD: GMOD is an intercompatible suite
of open-source software components for storing, man-
aging, analyzing, and visualizing genome-scale data.
GMOD includes many widely-used software compo-
nents: GBrowse and JBrowse, both genome viewers;
GBrowse syn, a comparative genomics viewer; Chado,
a generic and modular database schema; CMap, a com-
parative map viewer; as well as many other components
including Apollo, MAKER, BioMart, InterMine, and
Galaxy. We hope to extend the functionality of exist-
ing GMOD components, and integrate new components
as well.
About Hackathons: A hackathon is an intense event
at which a group of programmers with diﬀerent back-
grounds and skills collaborate hands-on and face-to-face
to develop working code that is of utility to the commu-
nity as a whole. The mix of people will include domain
experts and computer- savvy end-users.
More details about the event, its motivation, organiza-
tion, procedures, and attendees, as well as URLs to the
hackathon and related websites are included below.
Sincerely,
The GMOD EvoHack Organizing Committee (and
project aﬃliations as relevant): Nicole Washing-
ton, Chair (LBNL, modENCODE, Phenote) Robert
Buels (SGN, Chado NatDiv) Scott Cain (OICR,
GMOD) Dave Clements (NESCent, GMOD) Hilmar
Lapp (NESCent, Phenoscape, Chado NatDiv) Sheldon
McKay (University of Arizona, iPlant, GBrowse syn)
—–
About the GMOD Evo Hackathon
Overview
We are organizing a hackathon to ﬁll critical gaps in the
capabilities of the Generic Model Organism Database
(GMOD) toolbox that currently limit its utility for evo-
lutionary research. Speciﬁcally, we will focus on tools44 EvolDir September 1, 2010
for 1) viewing comparative genomics data; 2) visualiz-
ing phylogenomic data; and 3) supporting population
diversity data and phenotype annotation.
The event will be hosted at NESCent and bring to-
gether a group of about 20+ software developers, end-
user representatives, and documentation experts who
would otherwise not meet. The participants will in-
clude key developers of GMOD components that cur-
rently lack features critical for emerging evolutionary
biology research, developers of informatics tools in evo-
lutionary research that lack GMOD integration, and
informatics-savvy biologists who can represent end-user
requirements.
The event will provide a unique opportunity to infuse
the GMOD developer community with a heightened
awareness of unmet needs in evolutionary biology that
GMOD components have the potential to ﬁll, and for
tool developers in evolutionary biology to better un-
derstand how best to extend or integrate with already
existing GMOD components.
Before the Event
Discussion of ideas and sometimes even design actu-
ally starts well before the hackathon, on mailing lists,
wiki pages, and conference calls set up among accepted
attendees. This advance work lays the foundation for
participants to be productive from the very ﬁrst day.
This also means that participants should be willing to
contribute some time in advance of the hackathon itself
to participate in this preparatory discussion.
During the Event
Typically, hackathon participants use the morning of
the ﬁrst day of the event to organize themselves into
working groups of between 3 and 6 people, each with
a focused implementation objective. Ideas and objec-
tives are discussed, and attendees coalesce around the
projects in which they have the most experience or in-
terest.
Deliverables / Event Results
The meeting’s attendance, working groups, and out-
comes will be fully logged and documented on the
GMOD wiki ( http://gmod.org ). Each working group
during the event will typically have its own wiki page,
linked from the main EvoHack page, where it docu-
ments its minutes and design notes, and provides links
to the code and documentation it produces. Also, since
GMOD and NESCent are both committed to open
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Goat Sheep hair DNAExtraction
Dear colleagues,
Does anybody knows a good protocol for DNA extrac-
tion from goat and sheep hair? (commercial or pref-
erentially home made). I have some samples collected
from diﬀerent animals and I’d like to use them in ge-
netic diversity studies. The samples have been collected
from the animals’ tails. In addition, Id like to know if
anybody could suggest me the best way of storing these
kind of material. I’ll appreciate any information on this
topic.
Thanks a lot, Fbio B. Britto Universidade Federal do
Piau (UFPI) - Federal University of Piau Campus Uni-
versitrio Profa. Cinobelina Elvas BR 135, Km 03,
Planalto Horizonte Cep 64900-000 Bom Jesus, PI
Brasil (Brazil)
Fabio Britto <fbbritto@yahoo.com >
IsadoreNabi at 100
I am writing requesting information on the status and
whereabouts of Isadore Nabi.
Isadore (variously spelled “Isidore” and “Isador”) Nabi,
if not one of the greatest evolutionary biologists of the
20th century, was certainly the most controversial.
If still alive, Dr. Nabi would have turned 100 on July
22nd. Despite his untimely obituary in Nature in 1981,
like S. Clemens, the report of his demise was prema-
ture. He published at least as recently as 2002 in Gene
Watch.
As a recipient of an encouraging letter from Dr. Nabi
early my career, I have always held him in high regard.
After ﬁnding his biography online today, I was shocked
to see that his 100th birthday has come and gone with-
out mention in evoldir.
If he remains alive, let us congratulate him on his tenac-
ity for life, especially in a world that has grown unnec-
essarily serious. If he has passed, let us raise a toastSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 45
to the man who gave evolutionists a chance to smile at
themselves.
Sincerely,
Norman Ellstrand Professor of Genetics
Norman Ellstrand <ellstrand@ucr.edu >
Large African samples Drosophila
melanogaster
This message is to update you on the progress of our
recent sampling of D. melanogaster in Africa, and to
make you aware of newly available population samples
that we want to share with the research community. In
July, large samples of isofemale lines were established
from:
Uganda ( ~400 lines from Masindi) Zambia ( ~420, ~400,
and ~85 lines from three separate locations - Living-
stone, Siavonga, and Solwezi) South Africa ( ~240 lines
from Phalaborwa in the northeast part of the country)
France ( ~180 lines)
We anticipate sequencing perhaps 100 genomes each
from France, Uganda, and Zambia (or possibly South
Africa). Based on preliminary sequencing of African
genomes (described in my previous message), our hope
is that Uganda will provide the best proxy for the
source of cosmopolitan (non-sub-Saharan) populations,
whereas Zambia may be within the region of highest
diversity.
We are unlikely to have the capacity to maintain all
of these lines, even in single replicates. Therefore, we
are quite interested in hearing whether any of you (or
others) would like to receive subsets of these popula-
tion samples. If you are only interested in receiving the
lines that are targeted for genome sequencing, please
indicate this (we will be maintaining these lines indeﬁ-
nitely). Also please indicate whether you plan to main-
tain these samples beyond short-term use.
Data from these lines will consist of one haploid genome
from each isofemale line. Haploid genomes are obtained
by crossing virgin females from the stock of interest to
a sterile males of the genotype ms(3)K81/ms(3)K81.
Rare embryos which develop extensively as matriclinal
haploids, are then individually collected and their DNA
ampliﬁed. A standard small insert Illumina library is
constructed (one from one haploid embryo from each
independent isofemale line) and sequenced to >30X.The above protocol produces haploid genomes without
a need for inbreeding or balancer chromosomes. How-
ever, we realize that some analyses would beneﬁt from
having the closest possible correspondence between the
sequence obtained and the alleles present in a living
stock. When practical, we have been inbreeding stocks
for ﬁve generations prior to sequencing. Ideally, inbred
stocks could also be PCR-tested for inversion homozy-
gosity. However, we may not have the person-hours
available to conduct inbreeding and inversion testing
for several hundred stocks. If your research would ben-
eﬁt from genomes sequences from well-inbred living ﬂy
stocks, please let us know if you would be willing to
help inbreed a subset of these lines.
To recap, please respond and let me know if: (1) there
are ﬂy samples you would like to help maintain (2) you
would like to assist with inbreeding / inversion testing.
John Pool (jepool(a)ucdavis.edu) Postdoctoral Re-
searcher Drosophila Population Genomics Project UC
Davis
jepool@ucdavis.edu
London LERN EpigeneticsDebate
I would like to draw to your attention to the next LERN
(London Evolutionary Research Network, http://-
londonevolutionarynetwork.wordpress.com/ ) debate
on Epigenetics that will take place in London on the
14th September 2010.
The issue of epigenetics has sparked some discussion
about the mechanisms by which evolutionary change
arises. Some scientists believe that epigenesis has been
an important factor in evolution, and propose a refor-
mulation of the evolutionary theory as we know it, while
others do not see epigenesis as a mechanism by which
permanent adaptive changes can occur, and thus do not
consider the evidence compelling enough to warrant re-
thinking the tenets of neo-Darwinism.
We at the London Evolutionary Research Network
think this is a fascinating topic, and we are pleased
to announce our forthcoming debate.
Four eminent speakers in the ﬁeld will be discussing the
motion: “Resuscitating Lamarck: do we need a new
evolutionary theory ?”
I would be grateful if you could transmit the informa-
tion to the EvolDir list.46 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Thanks a lot in advance,
Best regards,
Alexandra
Alexandra Alvergne, PhD. Human Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Group Department of Anthropology University
College London 14 Taviton Street London WC1H OBW
United Kingdom +44(0)2076798781
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/anthropology/staﬀ/a alvergne/-
index London Evolutionary Research Net-
work/Treasurer http://www.londonevolution.net/
Alex Alvergne <a.alvergne@ucl.ac.uk >
MasseyU SummerScholarship
The Bio-Protection Research Centre is oﬀering a
ten-week Summer Scholarship at Massey University
Palmerston North, New Zealand. This research schol-
arship can be completed at any time between November
2010 and April 2011.
I am searching for a motivated student, either an up-
per undergraduate (B.Sc., B.Sc. (Hons) or equivalent)
or recent graduate (M.Sc. or equivalent), looking to
improve their skills in bioinformatics, comparative ge-
nomics and next generation sequencing.
The Scholarship will be held over the Southern Hemi-
sphere’s summer. As such, this is a great opportunity
to extend your research training, while taking advan-
tage of the many travel opportunities that New Zealand
has to oﬀer. Palmerston North is close to the North
Island’s central mountains, with many options for hik-
ing, adventure sports, and experiencing New Zealand’s
unique culture.
The project on oﬀer is:
Dissecting the regulatory environment of secondary
metabolite clusters With Dr Murray Cox, Massey Uni-
versity Palmerston North, New Zealand
This project will determine how gene regulation in sec-
ondary metabolite clusters has evolved. Fungal endo-
phytes produce a range of secondary metabolites that
help protect their host plants from insects, mammalian
grazers and even other fungi. This natural form of bio-
control plays a major role in many agricultural and sil-
vicultural systems in New Zealand and overseas. How-
ever, the genetic factors controlling gene regulation in
these secondary metabolite pathways are not fully un-derstood. Using recently sequenced genomes of two
fungal species (Epichlo¨ e festucae and Dothistroma sep-
tosporum), as well as high throughput mRNA sequenc-
ing data, the successful candidate will explore the role
of synteny, conserved promoter/enhancer regions and
other regulatory processes in controlling the production
of selected secondary metabolite gene clusters.
Note: This project will provide computational biol-
ogy training for a young scientist. There is no lab-
oratory component, and the scholarship recipient will
need advanced computer skills, as s/he will be handling
substantial quantities of second generation sequencing
data and/or performing comparative analysis of large
genomic regions. The recipient will need knowledge of
UNIX and basic programming, or willingness and an
aptitude to obtain these skills.
Scholarships are for a nominal period of 10 weeks, held
anytime between 22 November 2010 and 22 April 2011
(dates are negotiable), have a total value of NZD$5,000
(tax free), and will be awarded on the basis of aca-
demic merit. New Zealand citizens and permanent res-
idents are strongly encouraged to apply, but all appli-
cations will be considered. Please send a cover letter,
CV, and the names of two references to Murray Cox
(m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz) by 10 September 2010.
Dr Murray Cox Massey University E
m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz T +64-6-356 9099
x2570 W http://massey.genomicus.com mur-
ray.p.cox@gmail.com
MolEvol TeachingResources
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) has a new website (smbe.org).
We are interested in posting links to websites that may
be useful for researchers and/or teachers of molecu-
lar evolution. If you would like SMBE to post a link
to such a website, please contact Dr. Dan Graur at
smbe.resources@googlemail.com.
In addition to the link itself, please supply a description
of at most 140 characters (` a la Twitter).
I shall check this email address only periodically, so do
not expect a very quick decision on either acceptance
or rejection.
Please feel free to forward this email to whoever you
think may have an interesting resource for the SMBESeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 47
members.
Sincerely
Dan Graur
Councilor SMBE
smbe.resources@googlemail.com
Outsourcing msat genotyping
answers
Thank you all who took the time to respond to my re-
quest for information regarding outsourcing microsatel-
lite genotyping. There are a lot of options, and few are
identical, so there is a lot to take into consideration
when deciding where to go. For ease of use, I’m ﬁrst
listing the companies (and their websites) that were
recommended. Below the list will be the actual recom-
mendations, in case anyone is interested in what was
actually said about these companies.
Thank you all again.
Ecogenics GmbH www.ecogenics.ch Nevada Ge-
nomics Center http://www.ag.unr.edu/genomics/-
default.html FADSS http://web.ubc.ca/okanagan/-
ikbarberschool/research/analytical/fadss.html
University of Arizona Fragment Analysis Fa-
cility http://uagc.arl.arizona.edu/index.php/-
fragment-analysis.html Alan Wilson Centre
http://awcmee.massey.ac.nz/genome-genotyping-
main.htm GeneWiz http://www.genewiz.com/-
public/micro sat.aspx The Rockefeller University Ge-
nomic Resource Center http://www.rockefeller.edu/-
genomics/microsatellite.php University of Maine DNA
Sequencing Facility http://www2.umaine.edu/-
dnaseq/ Central Michigan University Applied
Technology in Conservation Genetics Lab http:/-
/atcg.bio.cmich.edu/ Georgia Genomic Facility (UGA)
http://dna.uga.edu/ BYU DNA Sequencing Center
http://dnasc.byu.edu/indexPolicies.asp GENterprise
http://www.genterprise.de DNA Analysis Facility
on Science Hill at Yale University http://dna-
analysis.research.yale.edu/ Complete Answers:
—–
we did this for birds at Ecogenics GmbH in Schlieren
Zurich. www.ecogenics.ch .Might be inconvenient to
send your DNA to Europe, and they are probably not
the cheapest, but our experience is very good, and they
are fast in general. May be worth to ask for a quote foryour speciﬁc system, it seems you could set up some
mulitplexes which could may it cheaper (they can do
that too)..... Good luck, Sjouke
—–
I recommend Nevada Genomics Center ( http://-
www.ag.unr.edu/genomics/default.html ). Excellent
service, rapid turnover, fast and useful assistance and
a reasonable price at ~$1.90 per sample (see http://-
www.ag.unr.edu/genomics/price.html ).
My Lab has used their services for 3 years now. Though
I am based in NYC, we just drop oﬀ PCRs products in
the normal mail and it arrives in NV in 3 days usually.
So we’ve had no need for expensive fedexing. Good luck
!! Best regards, Else Fjerdingstad
—–
You can try FADSS at UBC ( http://web.ubc.ca/-
okanagan/ikbarberschool/research/analytical/-
fadss.html ). I have always had good results with
them. Cheers, Anders
—–
You should look into the University of Arizona’s Frag-
ment Analysis Facility:
http://uagc.arl.arizona.edu/index.php/fragment-
analysis.html I’ve used them for several years and
have few complaints. They charge $1 per specimen so
if you multiplex they can be quite inexpensive. They
have a nice user interface on their website too.
—–
I doubt it will help as I’m in New Zealand, but we
use the Alan Wilson Centre in Palmerston North, New
Zealand. I’m sure you’ll be able to ﬁnd some place
closer though. Cheers, Roz
—–
You may want to look into the New Jersey based com-
pany GeneWiz. I spent last year analyzing 50 plates of
microsat genotyping. They charge about $100 a plate.
We were also pool-plexing, pooling samples with up to
4 diﬀerent dyes per well. At that level, samples cost
about 25 cents a pop. They also have really quick
turnaround and will do some free sample work to draw
in your business. It’s worth a shot. Good luck, John
—–
I use the University of Maine sequencing facility for
all of my microsatellite genotyping. I believe they use
an ABI 3730 (48 capillary). I typically use two diﬀer-
ent ﬂorescent labels (6FAM and HEX with a ROX size
standard) so I can load two samples in one well to cut
the price in half. Their cost is $75 per 96 well plate and48 EvolDir September 1, 2010
turn
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Script for editing alignments
Dear All
Alignment programs like MUSCLE and Clustal often
output alignments with “-” symbols indicating indels
(real events) within sequence alignments, but also “-”
symbols at the 5’ and 3’ ends of sequences. The lat-
ter however, are not real evolutionary events and really
should be Ns (missing data), depending on the sort of
analytical framework you use.
If there is suﬃcient heterogeneity and signal within the
5’ and 3’ ends of sequences, the “-”s can be manually
edited in a text editor to Ns with no problem, if the
alignment is small. If it is large (e.g. 2000 seqs), or
there are lots of alignments, it becomes a lengthy task.
I’m investigating such alignments presently and so was
wondering if anyone had a clever way of implementing
sed, or had a Perl script that would perform such a
task. Simply put, it would require replacing the 5’ and
3’ “-” below only with Ns and leaving the within se-
quence “-”s alone. The sequences naturally may span
more than one line.
>Taxon 1 —–ATGCTG–TGACTG—-TGACT—
>Taxon 2 —GTATGTTG–TGACTGCT–
TGACCGTC
to
>Taxon 1 NNNNNATGCTG–TGACTG—-
TGACTNNN >Taxon 2 NNNGTATGTTG–
TGACTGCT–TGACCGTC
It’s a simple task, but I haven’t seen any scripts out
there to do the job.
If there are any scripters out there who can help, or
if someone knows of an application that would help, it
would be great to hear from you.
With best wishes and thanks
Si Creer
– Simon Creer Senior Research Fellow Molecular Ecol-ogy and Fisheries Genetics Lab Environment Centre
Wales Building School of Biological Sciences Bangor
University Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2UW UK
e-mail: s.creer@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +1248 382302
Fax: +1248 371644 Home Page: http://-
biology.bangor.ac.uk/ ˜ bssa0d/ “Creer,Simon”
<s.creer@bangor.ac.uk >
Script for editing alignments
answers
Dear All again
As is customary in Q&A sessions on EvolDir, I am re-
porting back the gargantuan response to my query be-
low, regarding an expedient way to change TERMINAL
ONLY “-” characters to Ns in large or multiple sequence
alignments of VARIABLE LENGTH. The initial query
is below for reference.
A really big thank you to everyone - it really stimulated
a lot of interest and indeed thought on the many ways to
skin this particular rabbit. On the GUI front, it became
clear that I’m unfamiliar with MacClade, Mesquite and
SeaView and will be investigating all soon. A mix of
summaries and cut/pastes are below for all to refer to.
Some of my alignments are pretty big though and so
I am shying away from GUIs and would prefer Perl or
Python for these sorts of jobs.
We THINK that sed (Linux) is not powerful enough
on its own and so various Python and Perl scripts
were donated for testing. The sources and some
code (copy, save and make executable chmod +x
ﬁlename, http://www.linux.org/lessons/beginner/l14/-
lesson14b.html ) are also pasted below for beta trialling.
I also copy in some thoughts regarding the treatment
of gaps and Ns in datasets for consideration.
Many thanks once again to the senders of dozens of
responses and best wishes to all once again..
Si
For GUIs, various options were suggested:
MacClade, if you have a Mac and a licence for $125
http://macclade.org/macclade.html Re. your question
in evoldir, I think Mesquite will do the job for you (open
your alignment and in the menu “Matrix”, select “Al-
ter/Transform” and “Terminal Gaps to ?”).
Till someone send you a real script, I suggest usingSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 49
Seaview software for alignment manipulation. http://-
pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/software/seaview.html Best wishes,
Eszter Ari
PERL Scripts (also check out the BioPerl website
http://bioperl.org/: Available from:
Pauline Garnier-Gere pauline@pierroton.inra.fr
Francesco Nardi nardifra@unisi.it Olaf Bininda-
Emonds olaf.bininda@uni-oldenburg.de seqConverter
script for lots of alignment manipulations John Wares
Jpwares@uga.edu Charles Kieswetter ckies@bu.edu
Nick Crawford ngcrawfo@bu.edu
Some scripts posted below:
Hi Si -
This is pretty straightforward with Bioperl (as long as
you have BioPerl installed on your Linux/Unix ma-
chine). Here’s one solution:
#!/usr/bin/perl -w use strict; use Bio::AlignIO; my $in
= Bio::AlignIO- >new(-format = >’fasta’, -ﬁle = >shift
@ARGV); my $out = Bio::AlignIO- >new(-format = >
’fasta’);
while( my $aln = $in- >next aln ){for my $seq ( $aln-
>each seq ){my $str = $seq- >seq; if( $str = ~/^(-
+)/ ) {my $rep = length($1); # replace from the
5’ end substr($str,0,$rep,’N’x$rep); }if( $str = ~/(-
+)$/ ) {my $rep = length($1); # replace from the
3’ end substr($str,-1 * $rep,length($str),’N’x$rep); }
$seq->seq($str); }# don’t print the /start-end info
in the FASTA ID $aln- >setdisplayname ﬂat(1); $out-
>write aln($aln); }
-jason
Franceso Nardi
#!/usr/bin/perl
use Bio::SeqIO;
if (! $ARGV[0]) {print “ \n\nUsage: ﬁllNs.pl
/home/../../ﬁlename.fasta \n”; print “(..and be care-
ful, this is very basic) \n\n”;}else{$in = Bio::SeqIO-
>new( -ﬁle = >“<$ARGV[0]” , -format = >“fasta”);
$out = Bio::SeqIO- >new( -ﬁle = >“>$ARGV[0].wNs”
, -format = >“fasta”);
while ( $seq = $in- >next seq() ) {$s=$seq- >seq; if ($s
=~m/[^-].*[^-]/){$s = “N” x length($‘).“$&”.“N” x
length($’); $seq- >seq($s); $out- >write seq($seq); }else
{die “Sorry, could not ﬁnd the sequence in ”.$seq-
>id.“, quitting... \n\n”;};};};
PYTHON Scripts:
Available from:
Nicolas Feau nicolas.feau@bordeaux.inra.fr EricFontanillas efontanillas@sb-roscoﬀ.fr
Dear Si,
This was such an easy thing to do in python that I
wrote a script to do it in 5 minutes. To run it, just
follow the instructions at the top of the script. They
should work for a mac and linux (which will come with
Python installed), not sure about windows though. I
have tried it out on my alignments, and it seems to
do the trick, and deals with sequences on >1 line no
problem.
I have put the script up on my website
(www.robertlanfear.com ) where you can download
it. Let me know if it does what you want. It would be
trivial to extend it to alter all ’.fasta’ ﬁles in a single
directory, happy to extend it like that if it would be
useful.
Yours
Rob
GAWK solutions:
Hi Simon,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
SNP screening question
Dear Sir/Madam,
I have just developed around 50 new SNP markers that
I would like to test on 1000 samples. Now I am won-
dering which genotyping system is most suitable for my
situation. The system must be reliable und not to ex-
pensive. One of the options is also appropriate service
that would perform the genotyping.
Can somebody help me with my problem?
Best regards,
Ga1per Pustovrh
“Pustovrh, Ga1per”<Gasper.Pustovrh@bf.uni-lj.si >50 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Software BAli-Phy2 1 0
BAli-Phy ver 2.1.0 ——————
A new version of the software package BAli-Phy is
now available. BAli-Phy is a Bayesian MCMC pro-
gram for estimating phylogenies and sequence align-
ments jointly from unaligned sequence data. You
can download it here: http://www.biomath.ucla.edu/-
msuchard/bali-phy/ BAli-Phy is a console program,
and is available for - Linux (32-bit and 64-bit) - Mac
(32-bit and 64-bit) - Windows (32-bit) - ... and source
code. ( http://www.biomath.ucla.edu/msuchard/bali-
phy/download.php )
New features include: - Allow multiple separate genes
as input, - Each gene may have a diﬀerent substitu-
tion model or indel model , - Decrease the amount of
RAM used. - Speed up the analysis for many taxa
(e.g. >30). - Auto-detect step sizes in slice sam-
pling. - (more news: http://www.biomath.ucla.edu/-
msuchard/bali-phy/news.php )
The updated manual is here: - http://-
www.biomath.ucla.edu/msuchard/bali-phy/-
help.php#usersguide If you have trouble using
bali-phy, please join bali-phy-users@googlegroups.com,
and post your questions there. I should be able to get
back to you fairly quickly.
take care, Benjamin Redelings
benjamin.redelings@nescent.org
Software
ReleaseofRawGenoVersion2 0-0Dear Evoldir members,
We announce the release of RawGeno version 2.0-0, an
R CRAN library for automating the scoring of AFLPs
This new release includes: - A binning edition device,
allowing users to interactively review and modify re-
sults obtained with the scoring algorithm. (This is a
beta version, so any comments / suggestions are wel-
come!). - An interactive device for ﬁltering low qual-
ity samples. - Enhanced visualization functions for ex-
ploring scoring results. - A simpliﬁed GUI, that better
guides users in their analysis. - Various bug ﬁxes.
In addition, RawGeno is distributed with - A new users
manual, with example data. This text was completely
rewritten and is far more clear than the previous man-
ual. - An example script showing a complete scoring
analysis, using RawGeno with command lines. - A
script for optimizing ﬁltering parameters
We hope that will enjoy this version. As usual, any
questions / comments / suggestions / bug ﬁxes are wel-
come.
RawGeno is freely available at: http://-
sourceforge.net/projects/rawgeno/ﬁles/ Best Nils
ARRIGO
Nils Arrigo <nils.arrigo@unine.ch >
SSE new logo
The Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE) an-
nounces a competition for an updated logo. We
invite submission of logo designs in electronic for-
mat by October 15, 2010. A prize will be awarded
for the winning design. See the SSE website
(www.evolutionsociety.org ) for details.
Judy Stone <jstone@colby.edu >
PostDocsSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 51
BikF Germany MolecularClocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
HarvardU ComparativeSymbiosisTranscriptomics . . 52
IfremerUParis6Roscoﬀ GenomicMarinebacteria . . . . 52
ImperialCollege London 2 BioinformaticsSpeciationGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
ImperialCollegeLondon MosquitoPopulationGenomics
53
MNHN Paris HumanPopulationHistory 2 . . . . . . . . . . 54
Montpellier EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
NorthCarolinaStateU PlantSystematicsEvolution . . 56
OxfordU GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Paris MolPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Ploen Germany EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Tallahassee Florida CoralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
TexasAMU MolPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UArizona PERT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UBuﬀalo PolarBearEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UBuﬀalo PolarBearEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UChicago 2 PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60UCSB TranscriptomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UGeorgia NetworkPopulationDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UGeorgia PopDynamicsInfectiousDiseases . . . . . . . . . 61
UGeorgia ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UHawaii AstrobiologyBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UHelsinki AntPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UIllinois GenomeEvolutionGrasses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UNebraska ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UNewSouthWales EvolutionLifespan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UNewSouthWales EvolutionSex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
USouthCarolina 2 DaphniaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
USouthernCalifornia CNVs and RareVariants . . . . . 66
UToronto EvolutionRegulatorySequences . . . . . . . . . . 66
UTuebingen SpermFunctionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UTulsa EvolutionSocialBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UWisconsin Milwaukee EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UWyoming EvolutionaryBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . 68
BikF Germany MolecularClocks
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-F)
is a new interdisciplinary institute with the mission to
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions of biodiversity and climate change on the
organism level. It has been founded by the Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-
University Frankfurt am Main, and others partners.
The Centre is funded by the Federal State of Hesse
through its Initiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc
and Economic Excellence (LOEWE). It provides a new,
dynamic research environment that integrates a variety
of disciplines from both natural and social sciences. The
Project Area A “Evolution and Climate” invites appli-
cations for the position of a Postdoctoral Researcher
Molecular Clocks
[Ref. #A29] TV-H E 13 We are looking for a scien-
tist with a strong research focus at the interface of
biology, mathematics and informatics, in particular,
molecular clocks. The successful applicant will coop-
erate with various groups of biologists and palaeontol-
ogists working on the relation of long-term evolution
of climate and plant (and animal) evolution. She or
he will be in charge of improving existing and develop-
ing new molecular clock approaches, and apply them
to diﬀerent DNA and fossil data sets. The success-
ful applicant will play an active role in the acquisitionof external funds and participate in university teach-
ing. Applicants should hold a Ph.D. in biology or in
another relevant subject and have a solid publication
record. Expertise in the following areas is expected:
theory and application of molecular clocks; preference
will be given to applicants with additional skills in
statistics/mathematics/programming. Excellent writ-
ten and oral communication skills in English and the
interest in joining a multidisciplinary team are required.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service po-
sition in Germany (TV-H E 13). The Research Centre
BiK-F advocates gender equality. Women are there-
fore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualiﬁed
severely handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence. The contract shall start as soon as possible and
will initially be restricted to three years. The duty
station will be Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The
employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Natur-
forschung. Please send your application by e-mail at-
tachment, mentioning the reference of this position
(#A29) and including a letter outlining your suitabil-
ity for the position, a detailed CV, contact details of
2 referees and a copy of your PhD certiﬁcate before
5 September 2010 to: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mos-
brugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Cli-
mate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. E-mail to Service and
Finances: recruiting@senckenberg.de, and cc to alexan-
dra.muellner@senckenberg.de. For scientiﬁc enquiries
please write to Prof. Dr. A. Muellner (e-mail: alexan-
dra.muellner@senckenberg.de).
Ursula Maurer <Ursula.Maurer@senckenberg.de >52 EvolDir September 1, 2010
HarvardU ComparativeSymbiosis-
Transcriptomics
Postdoctoral Fellow Position at Harvard University:
Comparative Transcriptomics of Symbiosis**
The Pringle laboratory at Harvard University is looking
for a full-time postdoctoral fellow to direct research on
the comparative transcriptomics of closely related free-
living and symbiotic fungi. The fellowship is funded by
the U.S. National Science Foundation for a period of
two years.
The Pringle laboratory focuses on the evolution and
ecology of fungi, and is broadly interested in the evolu-
tion of cooperation and symbiosis, adaptation in the
face of global change, and the evolution of the in-
dividual. Experiments are directed at understanding
phylogeography and evolution of the genus *Amanita*,
changing interactions among fungi and plants, and in-
dividuality and senescence in a variety of fungal species.
The fellow will work collaboratively with Associate Pro-
fessor Anne Pringle and graduate student Benjamin
Wolfe to grow *Amanita* species both alone and in
symbiosis with plants, to extract RNA and create EST
libraries, and to use a wide range of bioinformatics
techniques to analyze data. Research will coordinate
with ongoing sequencing of the *Amanita thiersii* and
*Amanita muscaria* genomes. This position requires
an independent, organized, and motivated individual
with demonstrated skills and experience in molecular
techniques and bioinformatics. Above all, we are look-
ing for someone who is personable, motivated and en-
thusiastic about working in a group environment.
Information about the Pringle laboratory can be found
athttp://www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/pringle/ In-
formal inquiries can be directed to Anne Pringle at
pringle@oeb.harvard.edu.
Formal applications should be made to the ad-
ministration, by emailing Sutopa Dasgupta at
sdagupt@fas.harvard.edu. Please send a letter describ-
ing your research interests and experience, a C.V., and
contact information for three references.
Applications will be reviewed beginning September 30,
2010 and will be accepted until a suitable candidate is
found.
Harvard University is an equal opportunity, aﬃrmativeaction, non-smoking workplace.
bewolfe@gmail.com
IfremerUParis6Roscoﬀ
GenomicMarinebacteria
Ifremer oﬀers a post-doctoral position for french or for-
eigners who have completed their PhD.
Duration: 12 months, possibly renewable for 6 months.
Salary(before taxes): 31 680 Euros/years (2640 Eu-
ros/months)
Closing date of the call for application: 21 september
2010
Post doc positions will begin from the 1st November
2010
See details at
http://www.ifremer.fr/ds/animation scientiﬁque/-
bourses/postdoctorales/index.html
Subject: Comparative genomic to investigate
the molecular mechanisms implicated in marine
invertebrate-Vibrio interactions
Principal investigator : Fr´ ed´ erique Le Roux, ﬂer-
oux@ifremer.fr
Laboratory: Station marine de Roscoﬀ (Universit´ e
Paris 6-CNRS-Ifremer) Bretagne France
http://www.sb-roscoﬀ.fr/
Abstract
Bacteria of the genus Vibrio represent the predominant
culturable, heterotrophic bacteria in marine ecosys-
tems. Of the nearly 80 species described so far, some
are pathogenic for humans, while the vast majority
is recognized to be a major disease problem in ma-
rine invertebrates, notably in mariculture facilities. In
this context, our research group aims at investigating
the molecular mechanisms involved in the emergence
of Vibrio pathogenic for marine invertebrates through
an approach integrating molecular epidemiology, viru-
lence mechanisms and genome plasticity as well as host-
pathogen interactions. This project is based on in silico
approaches (phylogeny, comparative genomic analyses)
combined to in vivo (functional genomic) and in vitro
studies (experimental challenges).
The main goal of this postdoctoral fellowship is to iden-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 53
tify, using bioinformatics, the molecular mechanisms in-
volved in adaptation of vibrios to their hosts. This will
be done through characterization of the diﬀerent gene
families within these genomes as well as gene classiﬁca-
tion according to their distribution, function and origin.
Finally, this work will aim at investigating the evolu-
tion of speciﬁc genes to decipher putative relationships
with the species/strain biology, and at characterizing
mobile genetic elements implicated in virulence.
Key words: comparative genomic, phylogeny, evolu-
tion, Vibrio, pathogen, marine invertebrates.
Competences
Computer analyst with good background in microbiol-
ogy, if possible prokaryote.
ﬂeroux2007@yahoo.fr
ImperialCollege London 2
BioinformaticsSpeciationGenomics
2 Postdocs Research Associates in Bioinformatics &
Speciation Genomics
Imperial College London
Salary £30,680 - £39,130 per annum
All appointments will normally be made at the bottom
of the salary range
Silwood Park Campus
This is an exciting opportunity for two Research Asso-
ciates with an interest in Evolutionary Genomics, Next-
Generation Bioinformatics and Speciation Research.
The successful candidates will carry out cutting edge
research investigating the mechanisms of speciation us-
ing next-generation sequencing technologies on plant
and animal systems on islands (including - but not re-
stricted to - the palms of Lord Howe Island, Australia,
see Nature 441:210).
The successful candidates must possess a PhD or equiv-
alent qualiﬁcation in evolution, ecology, genetics or a
closely related discipline. You will have a solid back-
ground in either (i) bioinformatic processing of next-
generation data for genome assembly, and/or (ii) spe-
ciation genetics and genomics. Both candidates should
have a strong interest in evolutionary biology.
The successful candidates must also be proﬁcient in
statistics, have advanced knowledge of either specia-tion biology or genome assembly, and in depth expe-
rience of working in bioinformatics/genomics. Experi-
ence of working in a multi-disciplinary environment, a
good track record of academic publications, and expe-
rience of management and analysis of complex bioinfor-
matic and genomic data are essential.
The posts are funded for up to 3 years by the European
Research Council and will be based at the Silwood Park
Campus. The successful candidates will work closely
with Prof. Vincent Savolainen (holder of the ERC Ad-
vanced Grant) and his research group.
Further details of the research group can be ob-
tained from the research group website: http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen Informal
enquiries should be addressed to Professor Vincent
Savolainen (v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk) or Ms Diana
Anderson (d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk).
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We are
also an Athena Silver SWAN Award winner and a
Stonewall Diversity Champion.
Closing Date
20 September 2010 (midnight GMT/BST)
How To Apply
Click the following link: https://www4.ad.ic.ac.uk/-
OAHTML/OA.jsp?akRegionCode=-
IRC VISVAC DISPLAY PAGE&akRegionApplicationId=
800&transactionid=691375908&retainAM=-
Y&addBreadCrumb=S&p svid=19798&p spid=-
998023&oapc=7&oas=5PO9dhL7aCiFd5X61Ru9eQ. .
Or following the relevant links ’employment opportu-
nities’, then ’job search’ on Imperial College London’s
website
Prof. Vincent Savolainen Imperial College London &
Royal Botanic Gardens Kew Silwood Park Campus,
Buckhurst Road SL5 7PY Ascot, Berks, UK Tel:
+44 (0)20 7594 2374 Fax: +44 (0)20 7594 2339
v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk www.savolainenlab.org
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
“Savolainen, Vincent” <v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk >
ImperialCollegeLondon
MosquitoPopulationGenomics
Postdoc in Anopheles population genomics.
A Research Assistant/Associate position is available54 EvolDir September 1, 2010
in the lab of Austin Burt for population genomic
analyses of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae s.l.
The post will involve analyses of population genomic
datasets from full genome shotgun sequencing. The
position is funded by the FNIH through the Gates
Grand Challenges in Global Health initiative and by
the European Commission INFRAVEC project, and
you will be a member of both these multi-disciplinary,
multi-national teams developing genetic approaches
to vector control. (For more detail, see http://-
www.grandchallenges.org/ControlInsect/Challenges/-
GeneticStrategy/Pages/EndonucleaseGenes.aspx and
http://www.infravec.eu/ ). The research topics to be
addressed include patterns of gene ﬂow across the
genome both among diﬀerent geographical locales and
between molecular forms and subspecies in the same
locale. Time series analyses will also be explored. The
emphasis of the post will be on data analysis rather
than data generation.
The post will be based in the Ecology and Evo-
lution section at the Silwood Park campus of Im-
perial College London ( http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
silwoodparkcampus ). It is a ﬁxed-term position, avail-
able immediately until 31 August 2013. Salary £26,720
-£38,930 per annum depending upon experience.
Candidates should hold a PhD degree (or equivalent
level of qualiﬁcation) in population genetics, evolution-
ary genetics, or a related ﬁeld. You should have ex-
perience in molecular population genetic analyses, in
dealing with large genetic datasets and/or data from
modern sequencing machines, and with some form of
programming. A willingness to work eﬀectively and
ﬂexibly within a multi- disciplinary team and to exer-
cise initiative and judgment in carrying out research
tasks are essential.
Informal enquiries should be addressed to Professor
Austin Burt (a.burt@imperial.ac.uk ).
Our preferred method of application
is online via https://www4.ad.ic.ac.uk/-
OAHTML/OA.jsp?akRegionCode=-
3DIRC VISVAC DISPLAY PAGE&akRegionApplicationId=
800&transactionid=1289525897&retainAM=-
Y&addBreadCrumb=S&p svid=18955&p spid=-
960020&oapc=7&oas=FtLmGyXp4mJr52sfy0vm7A .
Alternatively, contact Diana Anderson at +44 20 7594
2207 or email d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk
Closing Date: 31 August 2010
——
Austin Burt Imperial College at Silwood Park Ascot,
Berks., SL5 7PY, UKa.burt@imperial.ac.uk
MNHN Paris
HumanPopulationHistory 2
This position was recently announced. However, we
have learned since then that the restriction in the num-
ber of years after the PhD does not apply anymore, so
everybody is welcome to apply. The new deadline is
September 15th.
Proposal for a PostDoctoral position Supervi-
sors: Evelyne Heyer and Fr´ ed´ eric Austerlitz UMR
7206 Eco-anthropologie CNRS/MNHN/Universit´ e
Paris 7 Equipe “g´ en´ etique des populations hu-
maines” Mus´ eum National d’Histoire Naturelle,
Paris, France http://www.ecoanthropologie.cnrs.fr/-
spip.php?article300 http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/-
pages perso/spip.php?article18 Inferring the history
of human populations using genetic data. Link with
environmental changes.
DNA polymorphism data allow the inference of some
aspects of the history of human populations. Various
methods have been developed, in particular coalescent-
based methods, which allow detecting demographic
processes, such as migration or population growth
and inferring their chronology, using genetic polymor-
phism within DNA sequences, SNPs and microsatel-
lites. Other methods based on linkage disequilibrium
can bring complementary knowledge on these events,
allowing in particular the inference of more recent
events. These methods include likelihood method and
Bayesian methods, in particular the recently developed
Approximate Bayesian Computation methods.
The aim of this PostDoctoral position will be to develop
and apply these methods to human populations living
under contrasting life styles: hunter-gatherers, pastoral
nomads, sedentary farmers... The postdoctoral fellow
may work in collaboration with a PhD student on this
subject. The aim will be to assess whether these pop-
ulations underwent demographic events, and also the
timing of such events in order to assess if they are linked
with environmental changes. The available data for this
study will be DNA polymorphism data available in pub-
lic databases, as well as data sets already available or
under development within our laboratory. These data
sets concern populations of pastoral nomads and farm-
ers from Central Asia, as well as those from hunter-
gatherer (pygmies) and farmers from Central Africa,September 1, 2010 EvolDir 55
two regions that went through strong climatic changes
during the past millennia.
The candidate should have a strong background in pop-
ulation genetics, in particular on theoretical questions,
and on data analysis. Some experience in bioinfor-
matics is required. For any additional information,
please contact Evelyne Heyer (heyer@mnhn.fr) or Fred-
eric Austerlitz (frederic.austerlitz@u-psud.fr).
The Postdoctoral position is funded for one year by the
French CNRS. Net salary should be between 2000EUR
and 2350EUR, depending on experience. Potential can-
didates should send us by email a CV, three references
and a letter of motivation. The deadline for application
is September 15st 2010. The successful candidate will
start the position no later than December 1st 2010.
frederic.austerlitz@u-psud.fr
Montpellier EvolutionaryBiology
Postdoc in Evolutionary Community Ecology and Ex-
perimental Evolution, Montpellier, France.
A postdoctoral contract of 24 months starting from
January 2011 (earlier appointment is negotiable) and
funded by the French National Research Agency (ANR)
is available in the ˆA/lessmuchEvolutionary Community Ecol-
ogyˆA/greatermuchgroup headed by Nicolas Mouquet at the Insti-
tute of Evolutionary Sciences of Montpellier (University
of Montpellier, France).
The role: The successful appointee will undertake in-
novative research related to mecanisms of evolutionary
diversiﬁcation and emerging community properties us-
ing bacteria as a model system. The main objective is
to understand how evolution on simple and complex en-
vironments alters the relationship between species rich-
ness and ecosystem functioning. His work will be done
in close collaboration with theoreticians and can also in-
clude modeling if the applicant wants to develop both
experimental and theoretical approaches. The research
will be supervised by Nicolas Mouquet and will beneﬁt
of technical helps.
The person: Applicants should possess a PhD in the
area of ecology, evolutionary ecology, or microbial ecol-
ogy/evolution. A strong background in conceptual ecol-
ogy/evolution in needed. Experience with ecological
microcosms and bacterial evolution will be appreciated.
Candidates should have a working knowledge of En-
glish, good communication, teamwork and organiza-tional skills as well as to be able to work independently.
The team: Our group associate theoretical and ex-
perimental approaches to understand the dynamics of
species diversity over short (ecological) and long (evo-
lutionary) time scales. Our approaches are multidisci-
plinary, mixing community and ecosystem ecology, bio-
geography, evolution, microbiology, conservation biol-
ogy and modeling of complex systems. We use diﬀer-
ent techniques and biological material : (1) mathemati-
cal modeling, (2) experimental evolution (with two sys-
tems : Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens SBW25 and its phage
Phy2 and the protozoan Paramecium caudatum and its
bacterial parasite Holospora undulata), (3) data anal-
yses on large-scale species distribution datasets (Birds,
Fishes, Rodents and their parasites) and (4) ﬁelds stud-
ies on tropical ﬁshes Monogenea and marine bacteria.
Our team hosts 7 permanent researchers (Vincent De-
victor, Michael Hochberg, Oliver Kaltz, Sonia Keﬁ,
Serge Morand, Nicolas Mouquet and Antoine Pariselle)
one permanent Technician, several postdocs, Phd and
master students.
The department: The Institute of Evolutionary Sci-
ences of Montpellier (ISEM) is one of the strongest
French institutes in the ﬁeld of biodiversity. It hosts 63
permanent researchers (plus 92 technicians, engineers,
post-docs and PhD), and encompasses every aspect of
evolutionary biology: paleontology, systematics, phy-
logeny, population genetics, ecology and conservation
biology. ISEM belongs to University Montpellier 2, and
is deeply involved into teaching, from master to doctor-
ate.
Remuneration: The net salary will be of at least 1800
euros including social security and medical assistance
depending on the candidate experience. This is a full-
time, ﬁxed term appointment for 24 months.
Contact/Application: This job will remain open un-
til the position is ﬁlled, but applicants are encour-
aged to apply by October 1, 2010. To discuss the role
and/or send application contact Dr. Nicolas Mouquet
nmouquet@univ-montp2.fr
Application materials should include: (1) Cover let-
ter summarizing interests and qualiﬁcations. (2) Re-
sume/Vita. (3) Names and contact information of at
least two professional references
Nicolas Mouquet
Institut des Sciences de lˆ aEvolution - CNRS UMR
5554 - Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtde Montpellier II - CC 065 34095
MONTPELLIER Cedex 05
nmouquet@univ-montp2.fr Tel +33 4 67 14 93 57 Fax
+33 4 67 14 40 61 Skype : nmouquet56 EvolDir September 1, 2010
http://nicolasmouquet.free.fr/ Nicolas Mouquet
<nmouquet@univ-montp2.fr >
NorthCarolinaStateU
PlantSystematicsEvolution
Postdoc: Evolutionary developmental genetics of inﬂo-
rescence architecture in Dogwoods
We are looking for a scientist who is interested in evo-
lutionary developmental genetics of plant morphology.
The position is available at the North Carolina State
University, Raleigh, NC, USA and funded by the Na-
tional Science Foundation for 2-4 years. It is open until
ﬁlled.
A PhD in plant genetics, evolutionary development or
molecular systematics is required, ideally with experi-
ence in working with ﬂowering plants in the interface
of the three areas. Experimental skills in plant genetic
transformation, RNA in-situ hybridization, RT-PCR or
qRT-PCR, and phylogenetics are desired. Excellent
written and oral communication skills in English and
the interest in joining a multidisciplinary team are ex-
pected. The postdoc will be working with a team of
three faculty members in the Department of Plant Bi-
ology and Department of Genetics at NCSU.
The salary is $32,000-35,000 depending on experiences.
Women and applicants in minority categories are en-
couraged to apply. Please send application by e-mail
attachment to jenny xiang@ncsu.edu including a letter
outlining your suitability for the position, a detailed
CV, and contact details of 3 referees.
Jenny Xiang
Qiu-Yun (Jenny) Xiang, Ph.D. Associate Professor De-
partment of Plant Biology North Carolina State Uni-
versity Gardner Hall 2115 Raleigh, NC 27695-7612
USA Phone: 919-515-2728 Fax: 919-515-3436 Home-
page: http://www4.ncsu.edu/ ˜ qyxiang Jenny Xiang
<jenny xiang@ncsu.edu >
OxfordU GenomeEvolution
Two post doctoral positions are available in compara-
tive evolutionary genomics and transcriptomics.Both posts are for up to 5 years (24 months in
the ﬁrst instances, renewable for up to 36 additional
months), and are funded by an ERC grant to Dr.
Judith Mank at the Department of Zoology at Ox-
ford University to study the genomic and transcrip-
tomic basis of sexual dimorphism in birds. The project
will utilize next-generation sequencing (RNA-seq) in
a range of bird species to study the ways that sex-
speciﬁc selection pressures shape the gene expression
and gene sequence, and how sexually dimorphic phe-
notypes are encoded within the genome. The project
will be carried out in the state-of-the-art molecular
genomics laboratory of the PI, which is part of the
Edward Grey Institute ( http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/-
index.htm ) within the Department of Zoology ( http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/ ). In addition to the speciﬁc respon-
sibilities of the posts, the successful candidates will be
encouraged to develop their own research interests in
line with those of the PI and other members of the
research group. The posts will begin on 4 January,
or as soon as possible thereafter. Informal enquiries,
with CV, can be sent to judith.mank@zoo.ox.ac.uk. To
apply, please see the full advertisements at http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/jobs/index.htm . Postdoctoral Re-
search Assistant - Comparative Molecular Evolution-
ary Genomics and Gene Expression Reference number
AT10024
(1) Evolution of gene sequence and gene expression The
primary goal of the project is combine data on expres-
sion and coding divergence of sex-biased genes in or-
der to develop a complete picture of how sex-speciﬁc
selection pressures, arising from diﬀerent mating sys-
tems, shape gene sequence and transcription patterns,
and how these contribute to the evolution of sexually
dimorphic phenotypes. The successful candidate will
use comparative transcriptomic and genomic methods,
including divergence estimates, polymorphism studies,
and comparative phylogenetics, to identify signatures
of selection on sets of genes that contribute to sexual
dimorphism.
(2) The evolution of the avian sex chromosomes The
project will answer many questions regarding the evolu-
tionary forces shaping Z chromosome expression and di-
vergence, including: 1) the relative importance of pos-
itive selection and genetic drift in Faster-X (Faster-Z
for birds) Evolution; 2) the magnitude of sexual antag-
onism and its relative aﬀect on the Z chromosome evo-
lution; 3) the evolution of avian Z chromosome dosage
compensation. The successful candidate will incorpo-
rate models of sexual conﬂict and sex chromosome evo-
lution with comparative genomic and transcriptomic
data to address these issues.
Selection criteria: Essential: (1) A doctorate in evo-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 57
lutionary biology, genetics, or a related subject. (2)
Proven skills in the analysis of whole-genome sequence
and/or expression data, with associated bioinformatic
abilities. (3) Proven experience in the writing and
publishing of data, as evidenced by the publication as
ﬁrst author of at least one primary research paper.
Desirable: (1) Wet-lab experience with molecular ge-
netic techniques including DNA and RNA preparation,
Sanger sequencing, real-time PCR, and fragment am-
pliﬁcation. (2) Research skills in sex chromosome evo-
lution.
Postdoctoral Research Assistant V Bioinformatics and
comparative genomics Reference number AT10023
(1) The evolution of gene sequence and gene expression
in next-generation sequencing data The primary goal
of the project is combine data on expression and cod-
ing divergence of sex-biased genes in order to develop
a complete picture of how sex-speciﬁc selection pres-
sures, arising from diﬀerent mating systems, shape gene
sequence and transcription patterns, and how these
contribute to the evolution of sexually dimorphic phe-
notypes. The successful candidate will use bioinfor-
matic methods to measure gene expression from next-
generation (RNA-seq) data in ﬁve species of birds. The
post-holder will also be responsible for building an ac-
cessible database of gene expression and sequence data
generated by this and other related projects within the
research group.
(2) The evolution of alternate splicing Alternate splic-
ing has been documented between males and females
in several species, and represents an important mech-
anism for the evolution of sexually dimorphic pheno-
types. Identifying sex-speciﬁc patterns of alternate
splicing will give insight into the diﬀerent methods by
which the sexes deploy their shared genome, and can
be used with evolutionary divergence data to identify
how sex-speciﬁc selection pressures act on sexually di-
morphic splicing variants. The successful candidate will
use
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Paris MolPopulationGenetics
A post-doctorate position in molecular populationgenetics is open in Paris (in UMR 7205 CNRS-
MNHN-EPHE) . Research project : molecular popu-
lation genetics in several Drosophila species from the
melanogaster subgroup (D. teissieri, D. yakuba, D.
erecta), in order to link patterns of DNA polymor-
phisms with the history of the African rain forest during
the last ten thousand years. The research is supported
by Agence Nationale de la Recherche (ANR) The posi-
tion includes teaching population genetics to Master’s
students (30 h/y). The position will be open for one
year, beginning the 1 September 2010. It can be re-
newed a second year. Applicants are invited to send a
CV to Michel Veuille (veuille@mnhn.fr) by the 15 Au-
gust.
Michel Veuille <veuille@mnhn.fr >
Ploen Germany EvolutionaryTheory
In the Evolutionary Theory Group at the Max-Planck
Institute for Evolutionary Biology in Ploen (Germany),
we have several openings (2-3 years) for
Postdoctoral Researchers
Speciﬁc research projects are ﬂexible and can be ad-
justed to the interests of the applicant, but should fall
into the broad area of evolutionary theory. So far, our
main research interests range from evolutionary game
theory to the evolutionary dynamics of blood disorders,
but also include population genetics and cultural evo-
lution.
Requirements for the position include a record of self-
motivated research (supported by peer-reviewed publi-
cations), a PhD in theoretical biology, applied mathe-
matics, theoretical physics or a related area, excellent
analytical and numerical skills and a strong interest in
evolutionary biology.
The postdoctoral fellowships provide a competitive an-
nual stipend. Start date and term are negotiable.
Highly motivated applicants of any nationality are
encouraged to email (i) a statement of research in-
terests (ii) CV and (iii) two letters of reference to
traulsen@evolbio.mpg.de . Screening of applications
will start on August 30th.
The Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology is
located in Ploen, a small town in a beautiful lake area
with all the amenities of a touristically active region.
The Baltic Sea and the major university cities Kiel and
L¨ ubeck are only 30 minutes away. The working lan-58 EvolDir September 1, 2010
guage at the institute is English.
The Max-Planck-Society is an equal opportunity em-
ployer, and is very interested in raising the proportion
of women in areas they are underrepresented. Thus ap-
plications from female scientists are especially encour-
aged.
Arne Traulsen <traulsen@evolbio.mpg.de >
Tallahassee Florida CoralEvolution
Hi All,
I have an opening in my lab for a combination post-
doc/lab tech position to work on genetics of deep-sea
corals. The position could begin as early as Sept 1 and
goes through May 6 with the possibility of a second full
year. Candidates must have already completed their
PhD.
Required experience: DNA/RNA extraction, PCR and
sequencing Fluency in phylogenetics and/or population
genetics software Excellent writing skills Willingness to
help train graduate and undergrad students in basic
lab methods Willingness to participate in ﬁeld work
(including travel of lengths as long 4 weeks or more)
Excellent data management skills
Preferred Experience: Experience with octocorals
and/or deep-sea corals Experience with bioinformatics
If interested, please send a CV, 1 page describing re-
search experience, and names of 3 refs.
Thank you for forwarding to interested parties, Amy
–
Amy Baco-Taylor, PhD EOAS/Oceanography 117 N.
Woodward Avenue P.O. Box 3064320 Tallahassee, FL
32306-4320
Phone: (850) 645-1547 Fax: (850) 644-2581
PLEASE NOTE NEW EMAIL: abacotaylor@fsu.edu
Amy Baco-Taylor <abacotaylor@fsu.edu >
TexasAMU MolPopulationGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH SCIENTIST- MOLECULAR POPULATION GENET-
ICS/ECOLOGY
Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences Texas
A&M University College Station, Texas 77843-2258
Responsibilities: Position responsibilities involve devel-
opment and assay of nuclear-encoded microsatellites
and of mitochondrial DNA sequences for projects in-
volving population genetics and molecular ecology of
marine ﬁshes. Primary responsibilities include data ac-
quisition and analysis, and preparation of reports and
publications.
Qualiﬁcations: Dissertation or postdoctoral work in
molecular population genetics and/or molecular ecol-
ogy is required, as is experience with microsatellite
and/or mtDNA data acquisition and analysis. Experi-
ence with major software programs (e.g., ARLEQUIN,
GENEPOP, MIGRATE, LDNE, etc.) also is required.
Salary: Salary range is from $32,000 - $38,000/year and
will depend on experience. Beneﬁts include health care
and retirement. Position is for 12-24 months.
Closing date: Position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Contact: Send curriculum vitae, description of re-
search experience, and names, addresses, phone num-
bers, and e-mail of three references to: Dr. John R.
Gold, Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences,
Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843-
2258. Electronic submissions are acceptable: gold-
ﬁsh@tamu.edu. International applicants will be con-
sidered if they hold the correct visa(s). Texas A&M
University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Access Employer.
John R. Gold Regents Professor and Senior Faculty
Fellow Texas A&M University College Station, Texas
77843-2258 979-847-8778 http://wfscnet.tamu.edu/-
gold/gold.html goldﬁsh@tamu.edu
UArizona PERT
Postdoctoral Positions Available: Research Associate
Arizona Research Laboratories, University of Arizona,
Tucson, AZ
NIH-Training Program: Postdoctoral Excellence in Re-
search and Teaching (PERT) The Postdoctoral Excel-
lence in Research and Teaching (PERT)
Program is a comprehensive program which oﬀers
up to three years of support to outstanding candi-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 59
dates seeking advanced postdoctoral research training,
teacher training and student mentorship opportuni-
ties in preparation for an academic career in biomed-
ical and life sciences. Funded by NIGMS through an
IRACDA (Institutional Research and Career Develop-
ment Award) training grant, the PERT program also
fosters ties between research-intensive institutions and
minority-serving institutions.
PERT trainees may select from over thirty-six faculty
research mentors at the University of Arizona, repre-
senting a broad range of disciplines in biomedicine, bio-
engineering, genetics, biochemistry, neurobiology, evo-
lutionary biology, molecular/cellular biology, physiol-
ogy and behavior. The program stresses the use of
model organisms for biomedical and life sciences re-
search. The program is administered through the Ari-
zona Research Laboratories Center for Insect Science
and is partnered with a Minority Serving Institution,
Pima Community College, ( http://www.pima.edu/-
program/biology/ . Starting salary, based on the NIH
NRSA scale, will be $37,368 for program participants
with less than one year of postdoctoral experience. An
annual allowance for research supplies and travel is
also included. Positions are dependent upon continued
funding. Additional information about the Center for
Insect Science and the PERT program is available at
http://cis.arl.arizona.edu/PERT . Qualiﬁcations: Ap-
plicants must have, as of the beginning date of the ap-
pointment, a Ph.D. in a related ﬁeld from an accredited
institution and must be U.S. citizens, permanent resi-
dents, or non-citizen nationals. Applicants should have
no more than two previous years of postdoctoral ex-
perience at the time of application. Application: All
applicants must apply electronically through the Uni-
versity of Arizona’s Career Track website at: https://-
www.uacareertrack.com, citing Job #44851. Deadline
for receipt of applications is Friday, October 1, 2010.
All applications are to include:
– a letter of interest with a statement explaining how
the PERT program will assist the applicant in his/her
research and career goals. – a CV – a three to six page
research proposal developed with the intended PERT
faculty research mentor describing the project to be
undertaken during the training period – three letters
of reference – a letter of support from the intended fac-
ulty research mentor
Potential applicants are encouraged to contact relevant
Program Faculty as soon as possible to discuss research
projects and the application process. Original letters of
reference and the letter from the proposed faculty re-
search mentor should be mailed to: PERT, Center for
Insect Science, 1007 E. Lowell Street, University of Ari-zona, Tucson, AZ 85721-0106. Emailed letters will be
accepted only if accompanied by an electronic signa-
ture. The letter of interest, CV and research proposal
must be submitted online through the UA Career Track
website listed above. As an equal opportunity and af-
ﬁrmative action employer, the University of Arizona
recognizes the power of a diverse community and en-
courages applications from individuals with varied ex-
periences and backgrounds. Please contact Teresa Ku-
drna for more information, tkudrna@email.arizona.edu,
520-621-9310.
Teresa Kudrna Program Coordinator, Sr. PERT Pro-
gram Center for Insect Science 1007 E. Lowell Street,
Room 227 Tucson, AZ 85721 Telephone: 520-621-4923
Fax: 520-621-2590 Email: tkudrna@email.arizona.edu
Teresa Kudrna <tkudrna@email.arizona.edu >
UBuﬀalo PolarBearEvolution
Postdoctoral fellowship: Polar Bear Evolution
Postdoctoral fellowship available immediately at the
University at Buﬀalo for up to 2 years to study po-
lar bear evolution using next-generation sequencing and
population genetic methods. The project will employ
ancient DNA (see Lindqvist et al., PNAS 2010) and
modern polar and brown bear material. Fellowship will
require considerable bioinformatic skills, including, e.g.,
PERL, PYTHON, Java, C++ programming, and pop-
ulation genetics theory and practice. Experience with
transcriptomic analysis and SNP detection in any sys-
tem preferred, as well as some molecular wet lab back-
ground. The research is in collaboration with Stephan
Schuster at Penn State University, Sandra Talbot at
USGS, and Øystein Wiig and Lutz Bachmann at the
University of Oslo.
Please send CV with 3 references indicated and a cover
letter describing your background and reasons for inter-
est in this particular study. The position will remain
open until ﬁlled.
Charlotte Lindqvist, Department of Biological Sciences,
University at Buﬀalo, Email: cl243@buﬀalo.edu
Charlotte Lindqvist <cl243@buﬀalo.edu >60 EvolDir September 1, 2010
UBuﬀalo PolarBearEvolution 2
*Postdoctoral fellowship: Polar Bear Evolution*
Postdoctoral fellowship available at the University at
Buﬀalo for up to 2 years to study polar bear evolution
using high-throughput next-generation sequencing and
population genetic and molecular evolutionary methods
to detect, e.g., selective sweeps and positive Darwinian
selection.
The project will employ ancient DNA (see Lindqvist et
al., 2010, PNAS 107: 5053-7) and modern polar and
brown bear material. Fellowship will require bioinfor-
matic skills, e.g. PERL, PYTHON, Java, and/or C++
programming, as well as population genetic and molec-
ular evolutionary theory and practice. Experience with
transcriptome analysis and SNP detection in any sys-
tem preferred, as well as molecular wet lab background.
The research is in collaboration with Stephan Schuster
at Penn State University, Sandra Talbot at USGS, and
Øystein Wiig and Lutz Bachmann at the University of
Oslo.
Please send CV with 3 references indicated and a cover
letter describing your background and reasons for inter-
est in this particular study. The position will remain
open until ﬁlled.
Charlotte Lindqvist, Department of Biological Sci-
ences, University at Buﬀalo, Email: cl243@buﬀalo.edu
<mailto:cl243@buﬀalo.edu >
– Charlotte Lindqvist, PhD Department of Biological
Sciences University at Buﬀalo (SUNY) Buﬀalo, NY
14260 716-881-8216 (CoE) 716-645-4986 (North Cam-
pus) 716-645-2975 (fax) cl243@buﬀalo.edu
Charlotte Lindqvist <cl243@buﬀalo.edu >
UChicago 2 PopulationGenetics
Postdoc positions, University of Chicago
Two postdoctoral positions are available in Molly Prze-
worski’s lab at the University of Chicago. Current work
in the group focuses on a wide range of topics in pri-mate evolution and population genetics; for more infor-
mation, see http://przeworski.uchicago.edu/ . The suc-
cessful candidates can focus on whichever topic they
ﬁnd of most interest.
The group shares space and weekly lab meetings with
those of Jonathan Pritchard and Matthew Stephens
and enjoys close ties with other members of the Human
Genetics and Ecology & Evolution departments, no-
tably Anna Di Rienzo, Dick Hudson and Carole Ober.
Moreover, it beneﬁts from the large and outstanding
community of researchers in population genetics, statis-
tics and genomics at the University of Chicago.
Applicants for the position must have either a back-
ground in theoretical population genetics, with expe-
rience in data analysis, or come from a quantitative
ﬁeld (such as statistics or computer science) and have
a strong interest in genetics and evolution. Strong pro-
gramming and bioinformatics skills are essential. Infor-
mal inquiries as well as applications (including a CV,
copies of relevant publications and two letters of rec-
ommendation) should be emailed to Molly Przeworski
at mfp@uchicago.edu. The starting date is negotiable
but could be as early as fall 2010.
Molly Przeworski Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Early Career Scientist Dept. of Ecology & Evolution
and Dept. of Human Genetics University of Chicago
molly.przew@gmail.com
UCSB TranscriptomeEvolution
*Postdoctoral Position - UCSB Transcriptome Evolu-
tion*
The Oakley Lab at the University of California-Santa
Barbara seeks a highly motivated and productive post-
doctoral researcher to work on NSF-funded research to
characterize genes involved in invertebrate vision and
eye development. We are targeting for next-generation
sequencing traditionally ’non-genomic’ organisms with
rich histories of studies on eye/vision physiology, evo-
lution, and development.
The position requires an individual with a PhD and
experience in molecular evolution, evo-devo, phyloge-
netics, visual or neurophysiology, or related ﬁelds. Out-
standing molecular, computational and/or quantitative
skills are particularly advantageous.
Funding is available for a 12-month position, for a min-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 61
imum of 1 year, and may be extended upon mutual
agreement. Preference will be given to candidates with
a high probability of applying for (with the help of the
PI) and obtaining independent funding; for example
through the University of California President’s Post-
doctoral Fellowship, NIH-NRSA fellowship, NSF Post-
doctoral fellowships, or other funding agencies.
The successful candidate will be expected to interface
with multiple collaborators who are experts on target
taxa, to co-ordinate next-generation sequencing, and
to perform initial bioinformatic analyses on the data.
The candidate will be expected to become an integral
member of an interactive and collaborative lab group,
and to supervise and/or mentor students. There will
be ample opportunity for the candidate to pursue his
or her own research program within the context of the
grant proposal, and in collaboration with the PI, lab,
and outside collaborators.
The starting date can be immediate, and the position
will remain open until ﬁlled. For primary consideration,
applicants should apply by September 15, 2010. Infor-
mal inquiries are welcomed, prior to formal application.
To formally apply, please send the following:
1. A curriculum vitae 2. Names of 3 referees willing
to provide a letter of recommendation upon request 3.
A brief statement of how your research goals ﬁt with
research on the evolution of vision transcriptomes 4. A
brief statement of interest, ideas, and qualiﬁcations for
independent fellowship and/or grant applications
E-mail applications are preferred: oak-
ley@lifesci.ucsb.edu <mailto:oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu >
Mailed applications are also acceptable to: Todd Oak-
ley Ecology Evolution Marine Biology University of
California- Santa Barbara Santa Barbara, CA 93106
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity /
Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Todd H. Oakley Professor Ecology Evolution and
Marine Biology University of California-Santa Bar-
bara Santa Barbara, CA 93106 (805) 893-4715
http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/labs/oakley/
todd.oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
UGeorgia
NetworkPopulationDynamics
POSTDOCTORAL ASSOCIATE IN POPULATIONDYNAMICS ON NETWORKS
A *Postdoctoral Associate* is sought to join a collab-
orative project between the University of Georgia (Dr.
John Drake) and the University of Michigan (Dr. Pe-
jman Rohani) on dynamics of metapopulations on ge-
ographic networks. Goals of this project are to char-
acterize the eﬀects of targeted and systematic inter-
ventions on the dynamics of populations distributed on
networks. Applications include epidemic forecasting,
control of invasive species, and conservation and man-
agement of natural resource systems. The position will
be located in the Drake lab at the University of Geor-
gia Odum School of Ecology with a starting salary of
$41,715. Start date is negotiable. Applicants should
have a background in population ecology, dynamical
systems, network theory or a related ﬁeld. Inquiries
may be communicated by email. Applicants are re-
quested to send a letter of introduction and CV and
to arrange for three letters of recommendation to be
sent to jdrake@uga.edu. Review of applications will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
andrea.silletti@gmail.com
UGeorgia
PopDynamicsInfectiousDiseases
POSTDOCTORAL ASSOCIATE IN DYNAMICS OF
COMPLEX SYSTEMS: TIPPING POINTS IN DIS-
EASE CONTROL
A *Postdoctoral Associate* is sought to join a col-
laborative project between the University of Georgia
(Dr. John Drake) and the University of Michigan (Dr.
Pejman Rohani) on the population dynamics of infec-
tious diseases. Goals of this project are to understand
the eﬀect of vaccination on the bifurcation structure
of endemic pathogen systems and to document tipping
points in disease dynamics. The position will be located
in the Drake lab at the University of Georgia Odum
School of Ecology with a starting salary of $41,715.
Start date is negotiable. Applicants should have a
background in dynamical systems, statistical mechan-
ics, biomathematics, biostatistics or a related ﬁeld. In-
quiries may be communicated by email. Applicants are
requested to send a letter of introduction and CV and
to arrange for three letters of recommendation to be
sent to jdrake@uga.edu. Review of applications will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.62 EvolDir September 1, 2010
andrea.silletti@gmail.com
UGeorgia ViralEvolution
POSTDOC POSITIONS Opportunities are available
for two postdoctoral research associates to study the
molecular dynamics of HIV and other viruses. The
ideal applicants should have Ph.D. in molecular biol-
ogy, bioinformatics, or applied mathematics with less
than ﬁve years of postdoctoral experience. Extensive
experience with high-throughput sequence analysis and
modeling, data mining, Perl/CGI, R, and MySQL is
desirable. The position will be funded for 2 years with
possible extension. To assure consideration, complete
applications should be received by September 15, 2010.
Applications will be entertained until the two positions
are ﬁlled. The tentative start date is anytime after
November 1, 2010. Please send the curriculum vitae,
brief statement of research interests and names of three
references to:
Dr. Ming Zhang Department of Epidemiology and Bio-
statistics Faculty of Infectious Diseases University of
Georgia Athens, GA 30602 mingzh@lanl.gov or, c/o
Dustin Baker jambaker@uga.edu
Ming Zhang <mingzh@lanl.gov >
UHawaii AstrobiologyBioinformatics
The Institute for Astronomy (IfA) invites appli-
cations for a postdoctoral fellowship in evolution-
ary bioinformatics to work with the University of
Hawai’i’s NASA Astrobiology Institute team (see
http://www.ifa.hawaii.edu/UHNAI/ ).
We seek an individual to undertake a mentored research
program that studies the evolution of genetic coding
through analysis of protein folds and their amino acid
composition. We require someone with experience in
protein fold prediction (protein threading algorithms,
homology modeling or alternatives); Experience in au-
tomated queries of the SCOP and CATH databases (or
equivalents) and a general competence in bioinformatics
programming (i.e. scripting languages such as Perl) will
be strongly preferred. Experience with XML databasedevelopment would be ideal.
The Fellowship is for one year and may be renewable for
another year assuming satisfactory progress and con-
tinued availability of funds. The fellow will receive
a stipend of $5,000 per month, a small relocation al-
lowance and basic research costs.
For further details, and application procedure,
please see: http://www.ifa.hawaii.edu/UHNAI/-
PDbioinformatics.pdf – Project Manager, University
of Hawaii NASA Astrobiology Institute
Room B106 Institute for Astronomy 2680 Woodlawn
Drive Honolulu, Hawaii 96822-1839 USA
evolving.man@gmail.com
UHelsinki AntPopGenetics
Post-doctoral position in Helsinki, Finland
A one-year postdoctoral position with the possibility of
an extension (funding pending) is available at the De-
partment of Biosciences, University of Helsinki. Focus
will be on colony kin structure and genetic population
structure in the ant Formica fusca, with aim to answer
questions such as colonization patterns and gene ﬂow
in a pioneering species, variation in eﬀective population
sizes and the eﬀects of these on colony kin structure
and genetic variability. An extensive data set compris-
ing the microsatellite genotypes of workers and resident
queens on six populations and over 150 colonies, as well
as worker genotype data on four additional populations
is available. The post-doc will be expected to take an
independent role in processing the data and compiling
the results into publications.
The post doc will work in a highly active and integrated
academic environment of three collaborating research
teams, including faculty, other post docs and PhD stu-
dents (see links below). The successful applicant will
have the opportunity to develop additional questions
related to the main research program.
We are looking for a strongly motivated candidate with
a PhD in the ﬁeld of Evolutionary Biology and Ecology.
Experience in evolutionary ecology, population genet-
ics, statistics and strong written and oral communica-
tion skills are a plus. Salary ranges between 2500-3000
brutto per month and includes beneﬁts (health insur-
ance) which are included in the Finnish system.
Applications will be reviewed starting August 30th un-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 63
til the position is ﬁlled. The anticipated start date is
January 1st 2011 but is negotiable; the end date is ﬁxed
to December 31st 2011 owing to limitations in the fund-
ing period.
Applications should be sent to Lotta Sundstr¨ om
(liselotte.sundstrom@helsinki.ﬁ), and include: (1) a
cover letter describing your research interests and qual-
iﬁcations, (2) a full CV, (3) contact information (email,
phone number) of minimum 2 referees, and (4) pdfs of
up to three representative publications. Please include
ˆA/lessmuchpostdoctoral application ˆA/greatermuchin the subject line of
the e-mail. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Links:( http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/biosciences/-
ecologyandevolutionarybiology/research.htm );http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/ants/Antzz.html )
Liselotte Sundstr¨ om Professor in evolutionary biol-
ogy University of Helsinki Department of Biosciences
P.O.Box 65, FI-00014 Helsinki. Finland
phone: +358-(0)9 191 57695 fax: +358-(0)9 191 57694
email: liselotte.sundstrom (at) helsinki.ﬁ
web sites: www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/ants
liselotte.sundstrom@helsinki.ﬁ
UIllinois GenomeEvolutionGrasses
A 3-year postdoc is available at the Energy Biosciences
Institute at the University of Illinois to study genome
evolution in interspeciﬁc and intergeneric hybrids of the
Saccharinae clade of grasses, which includes sorghum,
sugarcane, and Miscanthus. The project involves the
identiﬁcation of parent-speciﬁc polymorphisms in hy-
brids, tracking their changes in copy number and ex-
pression through meiotic events, and testing them for
association with a suite of developmental and life his-
tory traits. Major responsibilities include the design,
implementation, and analysis of next-gen sequencing
experiments. A PhD in plant biology, genetics, bioin-
formatics, or evolutionary biology is required. Pro-
gramming skills and previous experience working with
large genetic datasets are desired.
The Energy Biosciences Institute (EBI;
www.energybiosciencesinstitute.org ) is a multidis-
ciplinary group of over 60 research programs and
projects at the University of Illinois and the University
of California, Berkeley, devoted to ﬁnding biological
solutions to global energy challenges, and funded
by a 10-year, $500 million grant from the energycompany BP. At the University of Illinois, EBI is
housed in the Institute for Genomic Biology (IGB;
www.igb.illinois.edu ), one of the newest buildings on
campus, and oﬀers a large, fully-equipped lab space
and ample computational infrastructure. Champaign-
Urbana is located in east-central Illinois, several hours
drive from Chicago, St. Louis, and Indianapolis,
with a thriving arts scene, aﬀordable housing, and a
family-friendly community.
To apply, please email a CV and statement of research
interests to:
Dr. Patrick Brown Assistant Professor Energy Bio-
sciences Institute & Department of Crop Sciences Uni-
versity of Illinois 1408 Institute for Genomic Biology
pjb34@illinois.edu
UNebraska ViralEvolution
POSTDOC POSITIONS in Viral Evolution
Two postdoctoral research positions in viral evolution
and bioinformatics are available in the Nebraska Cen-
ter for Virology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
This Center is one of the premier virology research
centers in the US. The candidates will work with Dr
Charles Wood. His laboratory uses molecular and
genomic approaches to study HIV and Human Her-
pesvirus 8, a virus linked to Kaposi’s Sarcoma, a rare
cancer often found in AIDS patients. Ongoing research
includes studies on HIV evolution in an African cohort;
mother-to-child transmission, disease progression and
drug resistance among patients. Speciﬁcally, the suc-
cessful candidate will be responsible for mining next-
generation sequence data (454/Illumina platform) and
carrying out bioinformatic data analyses. Candidates
will also have the opportunity to work with other re-
search projects by diﬀerent Center faculty studying var-
ious, human, animal and plant viruses, which include
HIV, herpesviruses, papilloma, inﬂuenza, pox and algal
viruses.
These positions require highly motivated, enthusiastic
and independent individuals. Candidates should have
a PhD in evolution, genetics, genomics, bioinformat-
ics, computational biology or a related ﬁeld. Appli-
cants should have programming experience in a linux
environment using perl or other high-level languages
and proﬁciency with relevant software packages for
genome assembly, molecular evolution, and phylogenet-64 EvolDir September 1, 2010
ics. Knowledge and experience with next-generation
sequence data is preferred.
Informal inquiries about the projects are encouraged.
For more information about the Center please go to
www.unl.edu/virologycenter .Applicants should submit
a cover letter describing previous experience and ﬁt to
the position, full CV and contact information for 3 ref-
erences. Applications and all queries may be sent to Dr
Charles Wood at cwood1@unl.edu
Charles Wood, PhD Director, Nebraska Center for Vi-
rology Lewis Lehr/3M University Professor School of
Biological Sciences University of Nebraska Rm 102C,
Morrison Center, 4240 Fair St Lincoln, NE 68583-0900
Oﬃce: 402-472-4550/4570 Lab : 402-472-4559 Fax
:402-472-3323
e-mail: cwood1@unl.edu
www.unl.edu/virologycenter cwood1@unl.edu
damientully@gmail.com
UNewSouthWales EvolutionLifespan
Research Associate Faculty of Science School of
Biotechnology and Biomolecular Science REF.
7391NET
Salary Level A: A$71,250 - A$76,209 per year, plus 9%
employer superannuation, plus leave loading.
The Research Groups of Professor Bill Ballard in the
School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences
(BABS) and Professor Rob Brooks in the School of
Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences at the
University of New South Wales, are seeking a Postdoc-
toral Research Associate to work on a grant funded by
the ARC Discovery scheme “Linking the evolutionary
and bioenergetic causes of sex diﬀerences in lifespan
and ageing”, and to undertake other research on bioen-
ergetics and aging in insects.
The successful applicant is expected to do empirical
work, analyze data and write papers. Laboratory su-
pervision while Professor Ballard is Head of School is
required. The applicant should be prepared to apply
for fellowships in coming fellowship rounds, especially
the ARC Discovery round in early 2011. Emphasis will
be given to the quality of published research in our de-
cision to appoint.
This is a full time (35 hours per week) position, ﬁxedterm for 18 months.
Applicants should systematically address the selection
criteria in their application.
Having read all the documentation you may then
direct any enquiries to Professor Bill Ballard on
telephone number (61 2) 9385 2029 or email
w.ballard@unsw.edu.au, or to Professor Rob Brooks on
(61 2) 9385 2587 or at email rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
Applications close : 10 September 2010
For more information, application procedures or
other vacancies, visit: http://www.hr.unsw.edu.au/-
services/recruitment/jobs/13081005.html
Angela Teng Advertising Executive UNSW Marketing
Services
The University of New South Wales UNSW SYDNEY
NSW 2052 AUSTRALIA t: (+612) 9385 1698 |f:
(+612) 9385 8797 e: angela.teng@unsw.edu.au |w:
www.unsw.edu.au
CRICOS Provider no. 00098G
Angela Teng <angela.teng@unsw.edu.au >
UNewSouthWales EvolutionSex
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE FAC-
ULTY OF SCIENCE SCHOOL OF BIOTECHNOL-
OGY AND BIOMOLECULAR SCIENCES REF
ADVERTISEMENT
Salary Level A: A$6 71,250 - A$76,209 per year (plus
17% employer superannuation and leave loading)
The Research Groups of Professor Bill Ballard in the
School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences
(BABS) and Professor Rob Brooks in the School of
Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences at the
University of New South Wales, are seeking a Postdoc-
toral Research Associate to work on a grant funded by
the ARC Discovery scheme “Linking the evolutionary
and bioenergetic causes of sex diﬀerences in lifespan
and ageing”, and to undertake other research on bioen-
ergetics and aging in insects.
The successful applicant is expected to do empirical
work, analyze data and write papers. Limited labo-
ratory supervision while Professor Ballard is Head of
School is required. The applicant should be prepared
to apply for fellowships in coming fellowship rounds, es-September 1, 2010 EvolDir 65
pecially the ARC Discovery round in early 2011. Em-
phasis will be given to the quality of published research
in our decision to appoint.
This is a ﬁxed term position for two years.
Applicants should systematically address the selection
criteria in their application.
Having read all the documentation you may then di-
rect any enquiries to Bill Ballard on telephone number
(61 2) 9385 XXXX or at email w.ballard@unsw.edu.au,
or to Rob Brooks on (61 2) 9385 2587 or at email
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
Applications close 10 September 2010
>From Friday 13 August, this advertisement
and details on how to apply will be available at
http://www.hr.unsw.edu.au/services/recruitment/-
newjobres.html Rob Brooks www.eerc.unsw.edu.au
Participate in our new Global study on the evolution
of attractiveness www.bodylab . biz
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
USouthCarolina 2 DaphniaEvolution
Two Post-docs: Genetics of Aging in Daphnia
We seek to ﬁll two post-doctoral positions for an in-
terdisciplinary NIH-funded project on the characteriza-
tion and genetics of aging in Daphnia. As a whole, the
project involves the integration of demographic, physi-
ological, genomic, and functional genetic information to
understand naturally evolved variation of aging and its
response to resource heterogeneity. The project exploits
naturally occurring variation among Daphnia ecotypes
with diﬀerent selection pressures on aging and diﬀer-
ent levels of resource variation. This is a collaborative
eﬀort among the labs of PI Dr. Jeﬀ Dudycha (evolu-
tionary ecology and genetics of life history), Dr. Rekha
Patel (molecular genetics of stress responses), and Dr.
Sean Place (ecophysiological genomics).
Post-Doc #1: Functional genetics (jointly advised by
Patel & Dudycha). This position will focus on devel-
oping functional genetics techniques in Daphnia, and
apply them to genes likely to be involved in aging. We
anticipate that this individual will use a variety of tech-
niques, such as yeast two-hybrid assays, cell culture,
transgenics and gene knockdown, and epigenetic proﬁl-
ing. Start date for this position is as soon as possible.
Post-Doc #2: Ecological genomics and physiology(jointly advised by Dudycha & Place). This position
will focus on A) characterizing gene expression proﬁles
in Daphnia of diﬀerent ages exposed to diﬀerent re-
source levels and B) quantifying age-dependent physio-
logical changes. We anticipate that this individual will
use a combination of life tables, gene expression proﬁl-
ing, and phenotypic measures to characterize variation
associated with aging.
Qualiﬁcations: Candidates for both positions must
have a Ph.D. in biology or related ﬁeld at the start
of the appointment. In addition, candidates should be
comfortable working in a diverse collaborative environ-
ment, should have excellent written and verbal commu-
nication skills and strong quantitative skills, and should
have an intellectual interest in the project. Candi-
dates for Position 1 should have a strong background in
molecular genetics. The ideal candidate will have expe-
rience in a range of molecular genetic techniques (e.g.,
yeast two-hybrids, epigenetics, cell culture, antibody
staining), and an interest in advancing functional ge-
netics in a novel model system. Experience with Daph-
nia or other crustaceans, as well as transgenic construc-
tion or gene knockdowns in inbertebrates are assets, but
not expected. Candidates for Post-Doc #2 should have
a strong background in evolutionary biology, and ide-
ally will have experience with bioinformatics, Daphnia,
and/or life history evolution. In addition, preference
will be given to candidates with experience in gene ex-
pression analysis, invertebrate physiology, and statisti-
cal software (R or SAS).
Both positions oﬀer competitive salary and beneﬁts,
commensurate with experience, as well as a range of
mentoring and professional development opportunities.
Review of materials for PD#1 will begin immediately,
to start as soon as practical. Review of materials for
PD#2 will begin November 1. A start date of May 16,
2011 is preferred for Position 2, but is ﬂexible. Positions
will be oﬀered for an initial period of 1 year, and can be
renewed for 2 years upon satisfactory performance. To
be considered, submit the following materials as a single
.pdf ﬁle: 1) a cover letter that describes your qualiﬁca-
tions for the position, 2) A current CV, 3) Names and
contact information for three referees willing to pro-
vide a letter of recommendation, 4) a brief statement
of your research interests and how they dovetail with
our research project. Submit all materials to Dr. Jeﬀ
Dudycha via email to dudycha [at] biol [dot] sc [dot]
edu. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Additional information about our research pro-
grams can be found on our websites: http://-
www.biol.sc.edu/ ˜ dudycha/ http://www.biol.sc.edu/-
faculty/patel-r.html http://www.biol.sc.edu/faculty/-
place.html Cheers,66 EvolDir September 1, 2010
Jeﬀ –
Jeﬀry L. Dudycha Assistant Professor Dept. of Biologi-
cal Sciences University of South Carolina Columbia, SC
29208 http://www.biol.sc.edu/˜dudycha dudycha [at]
biol.sc.edu
USouthernCalifornia CNVs and
RareVariants
POSTDOCTORAL ASSOCIATES TO WORK ON, A)
EVOLUTION AND DETECTION OF COPY NUM-
BER VARIATION, and B) METHODS FOR DETEC-
TION OF ASSOCIATION WITH RARE VARIANTS
The Division of Biostatistics at the University of South-
ern California seeks a highly motivated individual to
work on a recently funded project focusing on copy
number variation and rare variants. The project has
two main aims. Firstly, the assessment of performance
of existing algorithms for CNV detection and the de-
velopment of new methods for CNV-calling based upon
mathematical models for copy number evolution. Sec-
ondly, the development of statistical methods for de-
tecting associations between phenotype and rare vari-
ants. The project is a collaboration with colleagues at
USC’s Molecular and Computational Biology group.
Candidates should be ready to start immediately,
have a PhD with an appropriate (mathematical) back-
ground, and be able to ’hit the ground running’. Salary
will be $40-$60K/annum dependent upon experience.
The position is for 12 months, starting immediately,
and is at the Division of Biostatistics, located at USC
Health Sciences Campus, located just east of Downtown
Los Angeles.
Interested applicants should send a CV, statement of
research interests, and names and contact information
for three referees to Dr. Paul Marjoram, USC, Dept. of
Preventive Medicine, 1540 Alcazar St., CHP-220, Los
Angeles, CA 90033. email: pmarjora@usc.edu
emailed responses are would be preferred.
Paul Marjoram Dept. of Preventive Medicine Univer-
sity of Southern California 1540 Alcazar Street, CHP
220 Los Angeles, CA 90089-9011 USA.
Ph= 323-442-0111 FAX= 323-442-2349
Paul Marjoram <pmarjora@usc.edu >UToronto
EvolutionRegulatorySequences
A postdoctoral position is available in Alan Moses’ lab
at the University of Toronto to study evolution of reg-
ulatory sequences. The ﬁrst aim will be to apply evolu-
tionary genomics approaches to analyze regulatory se-
quences in newly sequenced plant genomes as part of
a multi-investigator project ( http://biology.mcgill.ca/-
vegi/index.html ).
Our lab is interested in the evolution of regulatory
sequences and networks, and we use computational
and statistical techniques from molecular evolution
and population genetics. We have ties to the Cell
& Systems Biology, Computer Science and Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology departments, making our lab
a great environment for collaboration with people in
other disciplines. You can ﬁnd out more at http:/-
/www.moseslab.csb.utoronto.ca/ Candidates with a
strong background in evolutionary or population ge-
netics and experience with genome-scale data analysis
would be ideal. Interested candidates should contact
Alan Moses by email. Please include a single PDF at-
tachment containing your c.v., a brief description of
past research accomplishments and future goals, and
the name and e-mail address of 2 potential references.
Funding is guaranteed for 1 year, with a second year
renewable depending on progress.
The University of Toronto is a large research university
in downtown Toronto, a vibrant, multicultural city on
the shore of Lake Ontario, with rich cultural options
in the arts, music and ﬁlm, ethnic cuisine, and a high
quality of life.
Contact: alan.moses@utoronto.ca
UTuebingen
SpermFunctionEvolution
Dear All,
I have a postdoctoral position available. Please pass it
on to interested people. Many thanks, KlausSeptember 1, 2010 EvolDir 67
Postdoc: UTuebingen - Evolution of sperm function/
physiology
For a postdoc position at the University of Tuebin-
gen (Germany), funded by the VolkswagenStiftung
http://www.volkswagenstiftung.de/funding/thematic-
impetus/evolutionary-biology.html?L=1, I am looking
for a postdoctoral researcher who is interested in (ex-
perimental) evolution of sperm physiology/ function/
competitiveness using Drosophila and bedbugs. The
position is ﬁxed-term, for ca. three years, available
from Nov 2010 or early 2011. A PhD in genetics,
evolutionary or reproductive biology or related subjects
is required, ideally coupled with experience in working
with Drosophila, and in methods of sperm physiology
or experimental evolution.
The payment is at TVL E13 (which amounts to any-
thing between 17,500-28,800 EURO annually (after
taxes), depending on previous experience, marital sta-
tus, children and extra insurances). In case of equal
quality of applicants, those with disabilities will be pre-
ferred. The university of Tuebingen aims to increase the
representation of women in research and teaching and
therefore encourages female scientists to apply.
Please contact me for further details
(k.reinhardt@sheﬃeld.ac.uk) or send me your cv, 2-3
email addresses of references and, if you have, your own
two favourite (not necessarily highest-ranked) publica-
tions (all in one ﬁle), to (k.reinhardt@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
The deadline for applications is 26 Sept 2010.
Tuebingen is a lively town with beautiful surroundings,
the biology is ranked as one of the best of German
universities. The research group Ecology and Evolu-
tion ( www.eve.uni-tuebingen.de/ ) is very (inter)active
and includes several research areas within the university
and the Max-Planck Institute for Developmental biol-
ogy ( www.eb.tuebingen.mpg.de/ ). Tuebingen will host
the 2011 European biology meeting (ESEB) ( http://-
www.eseb2011.org/ ).
Dr Klaus Reinhardt Advanced Fellow - Volkswa-
genStiftung Visiting Scientist - Dept Animal &
Plant Sciences University of Sheﬃeld http:/-
/e3.group.shef.ac.uk/people/klaus-reinhardt/
k.reinhardt@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
UTulsa EvolutionSocialBehavior
Postdoctoral Position in Evolution of Social BehaviorA postdoctoral research associate position is available
with Dr. Charles R. Brown at the University of Tulsa
to work on analysis of a 30-year mark-recapture data
set on cliﬀ swallows. General questions include deter-
mining the eﬀects of colony size, philopatry, breeding
time, and morphometrics on ﬁtness (annual survival)
and movement of birds within a study area contain-
ing about 30 capture sites (colonies) each year. The
total data set contains over 200,000 individuals and
over 350,000 captures and recaptures, and is among the
largest such data sets on birds in the world. Candidates
should have a Ph.D. and background and training in
state-of-the-art (including Bayesian) analysis of mark-
recapture data. The position can start by 1 January
2011, and funding is available for up to three years.
Some summer ﬁeld work at the research site in west-
ern Nebraska could be incorporated, depending on a
candidate’s interest.
Tulsa is the second largest city in Oklahoma, with
a population of about 700,000 in the greater Tulsa
metropolitan area. Located within the cross timbers
region of Oklahoma, an ecotone between the eastern
forests and the Great Plains, the city is within an hour’s
drive of the Ozarks to the east and tall grass prairie
to the northwest. Tulsa is annually ranked among the
more aﬀordable cities in the U.S., and contains the cul-
tural amenities expected of a major metropolitan area.
Persons interested should send a CV and names and
contact information for three references to Dr. Charles
R. Brown, Department of Biological Sciences, Univer-
sity of Tulsa, 800 S. Tucker Dr., Tulsa, OK. 74104,
email: charles-brown@utulsa.edu.
Charles R. Brown Professor Department of Biological
Sciences University of Tulsa 800 S. Tucker Dr. Tulsa,
OK. 74104 Phone: 918-631-3943 Fax: 918-631-2762 E-
mail: charles-brown@utulsa.edu
“Brown, Charles” <charles-brown@utulsa.edu >
UWisconsin Milwaukee
EvolGenomics
Postdoc: University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Evolu-
tionary Genomics of Hybrid Zones
A postdoctoral position in the evolutionary genomics of
hybrid zones is available in the lab of Emily Latch at the
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. This project inves-
tigates the genomic architecture of a stable hybrid zone68 EvolDir September 1, 2010
between mule deer and black-tailed deer. Speciﬁcally,
the successful candidate will be responsible for min-
ing next-generation sequence data (exon capture fol-
lowed by Illumina sequencing), to characterize selected
and non-selected SNPs distributed across the genome of
mule, black-tailed and hybrid deer. Once loci are iden-
tiﬁed, they will be used for high-throughput genotyping
of spatially referenced deer from across the hybrid zone
to characterize the structure and mode of hybrid zone
maintenance in this species. Despite a high potential
for gene ﬂow in this species, the hybrid zone has re-
mained relatively stable for approximately 8,000 years,
parental types have maintained genetic and morpho-
logical distinctiveness, and hybrids do not exhibit an
apparent reduction in ﬁtness. The complex nature of
the mule deer X black-tailed deer hybrid zone presents
a unique opportunity to evaluate competing models of
hybrid maintenance in the context of genomic and ge-
ographic mosaics.
A PhD in evolution, genetics, genomics, bioinformatics,
computational biology or similar ﬁeld is required. Ap-
plicants should have demonstrable experience in one or
more of the following areas: 1) assembly and annota-
tion of genomes from next-generation sequencing tech-
nologies, 2) evaluation of genomic data using tools of
molecular evolution and phylogenetics, or 3) computer
programming. Annual salary starts at $40,000/year.
One year of funding is available, and responsibilities for
the ﬁrst year include collaborating on a grant proposal
to fund continued research after the ﬁrst year.
Informal inquiries about the project are encour-
aged. Applicants should submit a pdf document
that includes: 1) cover letter describing previous
experience and ﬁt to the position, 2) full CV,
and 3) contact information for 3 references. For
more information about the Latch lab see: http:/-
/people.uwm.edu/latch/ . UW-Milwaukee has an ac-
tive group of researchers studying evolutionary genet-
ics and behavior: https://pantherﬁle.uwm.edu/rafa/-
www/BME%20site/BME%20home.htm Applications
and all queries should be sent to Emily Latch at
latch@uwm.edu. Review of applications will begin
Sept. 1, but will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Emily Latch
Assistant Professor
Dept of Biological SciencesUniversity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Milwaukee, WI 53211
Emily K. Latch Assistant Professor Dept. of Biological
Sciences University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee 3209 N.
Maryland Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53211
Email: latch@uwm.edu Tel: 414-229-4245
Emily K Latch <latch@uwm.edu >
UWyoming
EvolutionaryBioinformatics
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Bioinformatics
A Postdoctoral Research Position is currently available
in evolutionary bioinformatics. The position will be
joint between the groups of David Liberles and Jessica
Siltberg-Liberles at University of Wyoming. Applicants
should have good programming skills and a publication
record in computational comparative genomics, struc-
tural bioinformatics and/or molecular evolution. The
Liberles Group works in comparative genomics, and
mechanistic molecular evolution. The Siltberg-Liberles
group works in evolutionary structural bioinformatics.
For more details on research in the groups, please see
http://www.wyomingbioinformatics.org/-
LiberlesGroup and
http://uwacadweb.uwyo.edu/uwmolecbio/Faculty/-
JLiberless Files/research.htm . University of
Wyoming is located in Laramie, WY, 2 hours
north of Denver in the rocky mountains. It is an
ideal location for those with interests in skiing (both
downhill and cross country), rock climbing, hiking, ....
To apply, please send a CV contact information
for three references to liberles@uwyo.edu and to
jliberle@uwyo.edu. Informal inquiries before applica-
tion are welcome. Initial review of applicants will begin
on August 31, 2010 and continue until the position is
ﬁlled.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >September 1, 2010 EvolDir 69
WorkshopsCourses
Plon Germany EvolutionaryGenetics Sep28-Oct1
DeadlineSep1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69Salzburg Austria Phylogeography Sep27-Oct5 . . . . . 69
Plon Germany EvolutionaryGenetics
Sep28-Oct1 DeadlineSep1
We have extended the deadline for the workshop to
Sept, 1st 2010.
Conﬁrmed speakers in include: Hopi Hoekstra, Harvard
University Peter Keightley, University of Edinburgh
PhD STUDENT WORKSHOP ON ’EVOLUTION-
ARY GENETICS’ IN PL&ouml;N, GERMANY
The newly established working group (GEN-AG) ’Evo-
lutionary Genetics’ of the German Society of Genetics
organizes its ﬁrst workshop from 28 September to 1 Oc-
tober in Pl&ouml;n, Germany. The workshop will take
place at the Kappelsberg Youth Hostel in Pl&ouml;n,
Northern Germany. The venue is located very beauti-
fully and is in close vicinity to the Max-Planck-Institute
of Evolutionary Biology.
The workshop aims to establish a network of young
scientists who work in the German-speaking countries
and use theoretical or empirical approaches to study
evolutionary genetic questions ranging from genes to
ecosystems. Each participant will have the opportu-
nity to present his or her work in 20 min talks or in
a poster session. Three invited speakers will provide
an overview of diﬀerent ﬁelds of evolutionary genetics.
In addition to the classical program, the workshop will
include two so-called ’unconference’ sessions, which are
self-organized sessions by the participants.
Further information on the workshop, the program and
the registration can be found at the following website:
http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/ ˜ harr/home.html The
workshop fee be EUR 170.- for a single room and
EUR 150.- (per person) in a double room. These
costs include all meals. Student members of the GFG
(Gesellschaft f&uuml;r Genetik) will be reimbursed for
the accommodation, but not for the food (which costs
EUR 60.-), when registering with the GFG BEFOREregistering for the meeting. A membership form can be
downloaded from the website above.
The closing date for registration is Sept, 1st 2010.
The organzing team are Karl Schmid (University of Ho-
henheim, Stuttgart) as well as Bettina Harr and Em-
ilie Hardouin (both at MPI of Evolutionary Biology,
Pl&ouml;n). Please send any further questions regard-
ing the workshop to karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
Bettina Harr PhD Max-Planck-Institut fuer Evo-
lutionsbiologie Abteilung Evolutionsgenetik August-
Thienemannstrasse 2 24306 Ploen (Germany)
Tel: ++49 4522 763 287
http://web.mac.com/harrb1/HarrLab/index.html
Bettina Harr <harr@evolbio.mpg.de >
Salzburg Austria Phylogeography
Sep27-Oct5
Phylogeographical Analysis, Workshop and
PhD/Master course (Nr.: 437.112)
Phylogeography literally combines phylogeny with bio-
geography and investigates the geographic distribution
of intra- or interspeciﬁc genetic variation. Observed
patterns reﬂect the biogeographical and evolutionary
history of a species or a species complex. Phylogeo-
graphic studies address questions about colonization
pattern, historical range contractions or expansions in
reaction to past climate change or other environmen-
tal inﬂuences, ice age refugia or hybridization. The
phylogeographic approach has become increasingly im-
portant in taxonomic research as well as in the ﬁeld
of conservation biology. Methodologically, phylogeog-
raphy combines elements of population genetics, phy-
logeny and historical biogeography. Despite its original
focus on genetic lineages and sequence data, also al-
lele frequencies and other types of genetic data are fre-70 EvolDir September 1, 2010
quently used. In this course we will introduce the the-
oretical basis of phylogeography, genetic markers used,
and data analysis. The main part will be a computer
course in analysing and interpreting phylogeographic
data based on model datasets and/or data sets of par-
ticipants.
. Where: University of Salzburg, Faculty of Natural
Sciences, Hellbrunnerstrasse 34, 5020 Salzburg, Aus-
tria . When: Monday, 27.9.2010 – Tuesday, 5.10.2010 .
Course fee: 200 æ (excluding food & hotel)
Course leaders: . Dr. Dorothee Ehrich (University of
Troms c/circlecopyrt, Norway) works on the ecology and phylogeog-
raphy of arctic animals and plants. . Dr. Andreas Trib-
sch (University of Salzburg, Austria) works on the evo-
lution and phylogeography of alpine and arctic-alpine
plants.
Salzburg is located 150 km east of Munich and 300 km
west of Vienna and can be reached via: .Train, Salzburg(or Munich) Airport
The course is limited to 25 participants. Minimum
attendance is 15 participants. (Priority will be given
to PhD students, but Master students and Post-
docs/researchers are very welcome, too. First come,
ﬁrst serve). Please send a short application asap (in-
cluding title of master/PhD thesis, motivation for par-
ticipation in few lines, type of own molecular data,
in case you have any, etc.) and questions to an-
dreas.tribsch@sbg.ac.at. Notiﬁcation of acceptance and
more information: latest September 10th 2010.
With regards, Andreas Tribsch University of Salzburg,
Department of Organismic Biology, /Ecology and
Diversity of Plants, Hellbrunnerstrasse 34, A-5020
Salzburg, Austria, tel.: ++43/662/80445504, an-
dreas.tribsch@sbg.ac.at
Andreas Tribsch <andreas.tribsch@sbg.ac.at >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.September 1, 2010 EvolDir 71
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.