E v o l D i r
September 1, 2020
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Conferences
JBJC ClubForEvolutionaryNeuroscience Oct22-23 . . 2
Marseilles 24thEvolutionaryBiology Sep21-24 2021 . .2
Online BiodiversityGenomics Oct5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Online ClimateChangeSoil Aug7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Online DiversityInScience Aug8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Online EcolEvolution Sep4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Online EvoDevo Aug26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Online EvolutionEcol Aug12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Online EvolutionEcol Aug5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6Online EvolutionEcology Aug26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Online EvolutionEcology Sep2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Online GenesAsEnvironment Nov15-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Online GraduateEvolBiol Sep28-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Online LinkedSelectionMicrobialDiversity Aug18-25 8
Online Transposons Sep30-Oct02 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Prague CZ ESEB20201 CallForSymposia DeadlineOct15
9
JBJC
ClubForEvolutionaryNeuroscience
Oct22-23
This is a call for abstracts and datablitz submissions
for the 2020 J.B. Johnston club for evolutionary neu-
roscience, which is due on *September 1st*. The JB
Johnston club is an annual meeting that is focused on
comparative neuroscience. The 2020 JBJC meetings
will be held virtually on October 22nd and 23rd. The
Karger Workshop in Evolutionary Neuroscience will
be organized by Andrew Halley, and is titled \Hete-
rochrony in comparative neurodevelopment". The ab-
stract form for 2020 to submit your abstract is available
here: https://www.jbjclub.org/abstract-and-datablitz-
submission.html .Note that *you must be a member to
submit an abstract*. If you need to join or renew your
membership, you may do so on our website: https:/-
/www.jbjclub.org/join-today.html Christine Charvet
<charvetcj@gmail.com >Marseilles 24thEvolutionaryBiology
Sep21-24 2021
Dear all The 24th EBM is will take place September
21 - 24 2021 registrations will start October 1st 2020
web site http://aeeb.fr https://ebm24.sciencesconf.org
twitter :EvolBiolMeetingMarseilles
all the best
Pierre
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >September 1, 2020 EvolDir 3
Online BiodiversityGenomics Oct5-9
Dear EvolDir Community,
Biodiversity Genomics 2020 will bring together re-
searchers across the world to celebrate our achievements
in genome sequencing across the eukaryotic tree of life,
explore current challenges and their likely solutions, and
look forward to the coming decade of the application of
genomics across the globe.
Sessions will cover many interconnected topics including
evolutionary and comparative genomics, hence sharing
with this list.
Full details and the registration (free!) link are avail-
able at: https://www.sanger.ac.uk/science/biodiversity-
genomics-2020/ There will be a session focused on
Arthropod Genomics, to which we invite talk and virtual
poster submissions for all types of arthropod genomics
projects.
Meeting registration open: NOW Poster and talk ab-
stract submission open: NOW Talk abstract submission
close: 1 September 2020 Notication of speaker choices:
10 September 2020 Poster abstract submission close: 20
September 2020 Registration to attend closes: 2 October
2020
Please share this invitation widely with your colleagues.
Best wishes, Dorith Rotenberg and Surya Saha On be-
half of the organizing committee
\\Robert M. Waterhouse O0o{ www.rmwaterhouse.org
\" SNF Prof & SIB Group Leader Univ. Lausanne +41
21 692 41 05
Robert Waterhouse <robert.waterhouse@gmail.com >
Online ClimateChangeSoil Aug7
Dear EvolDir
Our University of Adelaide Ecology & Evolution com-
munity host free, monthly seminars. Thanks to COVID,
we???re now running these through zoom so everyone
can join us.We???d love to share these seminars with our EvolDir
community too. The link to RSVP is below so you can
join us if you???d like to ??? we hope you do!
Best wishes, Jasmin
Curious. Cutting-edge. Community.
We hope you can join us for our Ecology & Evolution
Seminar this Friday, the nal in our Winter Series on
Conservation Technology.
Zoom in for our free, monthly, rst Friday's seminar:
exciting, cutting-edge science by one of our fabulous
nishing PhD Candidates, Amelie Jeanneau, and Dr
Ramesh Raja Segaran. Please spread the word to ev-
eryone who might like to join us.
RSVP at the bottom of this page for the zoom link.
Friday 7 August
3???4 pm via Zoom
Amelie Jeanneau Soil erosion is more common than we
think and can have dramatic impacts on agricultural
productivity. My research aimed to develop new tools
to predict the impact of climate change and extreme
environmental conditions (e.g. drought, bushres) on
future soil losses.
Dr Ramesh Raja Segaran
Leading cutting-edge conservation technology, Dr
Ramesh Raja Segaranisdirector of the Unmanned Re-
search Aircraft Facility (URAF) - the University of
Adelaide???s???drone hub???.
If you???re a PhD Candidate and wish to count seminar
attendance as part of your CaRST credit, please register
here.
See you there! Bowie and Jasmin
Jasmin Packer PhD Convenor jEcology & Evolution
Seminar Series Research Fellow Environment Institute j
The University of Adelaide
Jasmin Packer <j.packer@adelaide.edu.au >
Online DiversityInScience Aug8
Dear EvolDir community,
We hope you are well during these unprecedented times!
We are a group of paleontology graduate students and
early career professionals at Cornell University in charge
of organizing the *14th Annual Summer Symposium4 EvolDir September 1, 2020
on Saturday August 8th, 2020 at the Paleontological
Research Institution* in Ithaca, NY. This year, due to
the eects of COVID-19 we are going *virtual* !
Given recent events across the world both outside and
within our eld, we felt the need to facilitate a con-
versation on diversity, equity, and inclusion with our
peers. Consequently, we are dedicating the PRI Sum-
mer Symposium to the topic of *Diversity, Equity, and
Inclusion in Paleontology* and are inviting speakers to
share their experiences and discuss a path forward in
our eld during several short sessions. *Registration
is free & still open! * https://www.priweb.org/event/-
summer-symposium?rq=symposium . For any inquiries,
please email symposium@priweb.org. We hope to see
you there!
Caren Shin <cps257@cornell.edu >
Online EcolEvolution Sep4
We hope you can join us for our Ecology & Evolution
Seminar <https://sciences.adelaide.edu.au/biological-
sciences/engagement-industry/seminars-ecology-
evolution-series >next Friday, the rst in our Spring
Series on Environmental Diversity. Hosted by The
University of Adelaide.
Zoom in for our free, monthly, rst Friday's seminar:
exciting, cutting-edge science by highly respected Profes-
sor Sean Connell and PhD Candidate, Angus Mitchell.
Please spread the word to everyone who might like to
join us.
Friday 4 September
3-4 pm via Zoom (local Adelaide time, ACST -
UTC +9:30) Recording will be available online <
https://sciences.adelaide.edu.au/biological-sciences/-
engagement-industry/seminars-ecology-evolution-series
>the week after live seminar.
Angus Mitchell <https://researchers.adelaide.edu.au/-
prole/angus.mitchell >
Growing up by the sea drove Angus' fascination with
the ocean. After completing Honours on the eects of
temperature on tropical and temperate sh, he decided
to delve deeper.
Angus is now looking at the eects of ocean warming and
acidication on tropical sh shifting their home range,
and on their new temperate neighbours. Angus is a
PhD student with Professor Ivan Nagelkerken <https:/-/researchers.adelaide.edu.au/prole/ivan.nagelkerken >
and external Co-supervisor Professor David Booth.
Professor Sean Connell < https://-
researchers.adelaide.edu.au/prole/sean.connell
>
Sean is a highly respected marine biologist who's in-
trigued by how our brains respond to the world around
us. Along with his students, Sean has boosted evidence-
based polices to create cleaner and healthier coasts.
They've improved the treatment of coastal seas and
restored 20 hectares of oyster reefs [with a second one
on its way for 2020]!
To launch our Spring Series, Sean will explore how diver-
sity provides ecological mechanisms that allow natural
systems to withstand shocks and partner with humans
for their restoration.
If you're a PhD Candidate and wish to count seminar
attendance as part of your CaRST credit, please register
here<https://goo.gl/forms/RrScv47rdvhIdIVx1 >.
See you there!
Bowie and Jasmin
Jasmin Packer Convenor jEcology & Evolution Semi-
nar Series Research Fellow Environment Institute jThe
University of Adelaide Adelaide, Australia.
Hi there,
Jasmin Packer is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meet-
ing. Join from a PC, Mac, iPad, iPhone or Android
device:
Please click this URL to start or join:
https://adelaide.zoom.us/j/96273278658?pwd=-
TUVhbnlJc0VPZ2JEb0Frc2M2WkovQT09 Password:
518083
Join from dial-in phone line: Dial: +61 8
7150 1149 Meeting ID: 962 7327 8658 Interna-
tional numbers available: https://adelaide.zoom.us/-
u/abJtqktwd Join from a H.323/SIP room sys-
tem: Dial: 96273278658@zoom.aarnet.edu.au or
SIP:96273278658@zmau.us or 103.122.166.55 (Aus-
tralia)
Meeting ID: 962 7327 8658 H323/SIP Password: 518083
Jasmin Packer Research Fellow Environment Institute
jThe University of Adelaide Work days: Mondays-
Thursdays
j.packer@adelaide.edu.auSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 5
Online EvoDevo Aug26
Dear EvolDir,
Join us on August 26th for the Stowers Research Con-
ferences (SRC) Early Career Symposia: Evolutionary
Developmental Biology
WHAT: Early Career Symposia are a series of FREE
online webinars which celebrate the achievements and
promote the development of early career researchers
from around the world.
Evolutionary Developmental Biology speakers and ses-
sions:
Bauplan of Adaptation - Emily Hager jHarvard Uni-
versity - A tale of tails: Tail length evolution in deer
mice - Rachel Thayer jUC Berkeley - Genetic basis
and evolutionary context for structural color shift in
Buckeye butteries - Shuonan He jStowers Institute
for Medical Research - An axial Hox code guides tissue
segmentation in the starlet sea anemone Nematostella
vectensis
Evolution of Behavior and EvoPhysio - Carole Hyacinthe
jHarvard Medical School - Underground sounds: Evolu-
tion of acoustic communication in Astyanax mexicanus
- Arjuna Rajakumar jMcGill University - Origin and
elaboration of a Major Evolutionary Transition in In-
dividuality - Marion Lebouvier jUniversity of Bergen -
An evolutionary perspective on digestion: endocytosis
in the sea anemone Nematostella vectensis.
Extreme EvoDevo - Alexa Sadier jUniversity of Cal-
ifornia, Los Angeles - Bat teeth at the cusp: nding
rules for the evo-devo of serial organs - Aditya Saxena
jUniversity of California, San Diego - How the Jerboa
got its long feet: Identifying genetic mechanisms that
control the evolution of skeletal proportions. - Itzel
Sifuentes-Romero jFlorida Atlantic University - Eye
morphogenesis: the role of rx3 in eye size reduction in
cavesh
WHEN: August 26, 2020 - 12:00pm-3:30pm US Central
Time
WHERE: Online via Zoom Webinars
Registration is FREE: https://www.stowers.org/-
conferences Registration Deadline: August 25, 2020
For updates and information please follow us on Twitter:
@Stowers SRCVisit https://www.stowers.org/conferences to register
and view the Program and Schedule.
Thank you! Nicolas Rohner, Symposium Host Matt
Gibson, SRC Organizer
\Dreyer, Abby" <ADreyer@stowers.org >
ADreyer@stowers.org
Online EvolutionEcol Aug12
Dear EvolDir,
Join us for the next week of our popular online seminar
series in Evolution and Ecology.
|
Wed 12 August
Prof. Martha Mu noz (Dept. of Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology, Yale University, USA)
\Behaviour is a motor and a brake for evolution"
|
When: 5-6PM BST / 9-10AM PDT, Wednesdays
Where: talks live-streamed to our YouTube
channel https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UCMsYvoHLNVm4rbcTLj162zQ, post your questions
for our speakers via Slack
Publicity: upcoming talks promoted on Slack
& Twitter @EvoEcoSeminars (https://twitter.com/-
EvoEcoSeminars)
How to join: our Slack 'Evolution and Ecology Seminars'
here https://join.slack.com/t/evolutionecol-xl54980/-
shared invite/zt-ev4fe0io-M7B ~D6p74blV ZRcDtmAcg
Please follow our Twitter feed and join the Slack group
for details of future upcoming talks.
Hope that you can join us. Feel free to circulate to
anyone who may be interested.
Many thanks,
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Dr. Andreas Sutter Dr. Iulia
Darolti Dr. Wouter van der Bijl
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Senior Postdoctoral Research
Associate Prof. Alexei Maklakov Group School of Bi-
ological Sciences University of East Anglia Norwich
Research Park UK
\E.Duxbury@uea.ac.uk" <E.Duxbury@uea.ac.uk >6 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Online EvolutionEcol Aug5
Dear EvolDir,
Join us for the next week of our popular online seminar
series in Evolution and Ecology.
|
Wed 5 August
Prof. Swanne Gordon (Dept. of Biology, Washington
University, USA)
\Diversity in nature, why and how it is maintained: a
test using a 'non-model' model system"
|
When: 5-6PM BST / 9-10AM PDT, Wednesdays
Where: talks live-streamed to our YouTube
channel https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UCMsYvoHLNVm4rbcTLj162zQ , post your questions
for our speakers via Slack
Publicity: upcoming talks promoted on Slack
& Twitter @EvoEcoSeminars (https://twitter.com/-
EvoEcoSeminars)
How to join: our Slack 'Evolution and Ecology Seminars'
here https://join.slack.com/t/evolutionecol-xl54980/-
shared invite/zt-ev4fe0io-M7B ~D6p74blV ZRcDtmAcg
Please follow our Twitter feed and join the Slack group
for details of future upcoming talks.
Hope that you can join us. Feel free to circulate to
anyone who may be interested.
Many thanks,
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Dr. Andreas Sutter Dr. Iulia
Darolti Dr. Wouter van der Bijl
|-
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Senior Postdoctoral Research
Associate Prof. Alexei Maklakov Group School of Bi-
ological Sciences University of East Anglia Norwich
Research Park UK
\Elizabeth Duxbury (BIO - Sta)"
<E.Duxbury@uea.ac.uk >Online EvolutionEcology Aug26
Dear EvolDir,
Join us for the next week of our popular online seminar
series in Evolution and Ecology.
|
Wed 26 August
Prof. Simen Sandve (Centre for Integrative Genetics,
Norwegian University of Life Sciences)
\Evolution of gene regulation following whole genome
duplication in salmonids"
|
When: 5-6PM BST / 9-10AM PDT, Wednesdays
Where: talks live-streamed to our YouTube
channel https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UCMsYvoHLNVm4rbcTLj162zQ , post your questions
for our speakers via Slack
Publicity: upcoming talks promoted on Slack
& Twitter @EvoEcoSeminars (https://twitter.com/-
EvoEcoSeminars)
How to join: our Slack 'Evolution and Ecology Seminars'
here https://join.slack.com/t/evolutionecol-xl54980/-
shared invite/zt-ev4fe0io-M7B ~D6p74blV ZRcDtmAcg
Please follow our Twitter feed and join the Slack group
for details of future upcoming talks.
Hope that you can join us. Feel free to circulate to
anyone who may be interested.
Many thanks,
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Dr. Andreas Sutter Dr. Iulia
Darolti Dr. Wouter van der Bijl
|- Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury
Senior Postdoctoral Research Associate Prof. Alexei
Maklakov Group School of Biological Sciences University
of East Anglia Norwich Research Park UK
\Elizabeth Duxbury (BIO - Sta)"
<E.Duxbury@uea.ac.uk >September 1, 2020 EvolDir 7
Online EvolutionEcology Sep2
Dear EvolDir,
Join us for the next week of our popular online seminar
series in Evolution and Ecology.
|
Wed 2 Sept
Prof. Ruth Hufbauer (Dept. of Bioagricultural Sciences
& Pest Management, Colorado State University, USA)
\Eco-evolutionary dynamics of small populations in novel
habitats"
|
When: 5-6PM BST / 9-10AM PDT, Wednesdays
Where: talks live-streamed to our YouTube
channel https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UCMsYvoHLNVm4rbcTLj162zQ , post your questions
for our speakers via Slack
Publicity: upcoming talks promoted on Slack
& Twitter @EvoEcoSeminars (https://twitter.com/-
EvoEcoSeminars)
How to join: our Slack 'Evolution and Ecology Seminars'
here https://join.slack.com/t/evolutionecol-xl54980/-
shared invite/zt-ev4fe0io-M7B ~D6p74blV ZRcDtmAcg
Please follow our Twitter feed and join the Slack group
for details of future upcoming talks.
Hope that you can join us. Feel free to circulate to
anyone who may be interested.
Many thanks,
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Dr. Andreas Sutter Dr. Iulia
Darolti Dr. Wouter van der Bijl
|- Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury
Senior Postdoctoral Research Associate Prof. Alexei
Maklakov Group School of Biological Sciences University
of East Anglia Norwich Research Park UK
\Elizabeth Duxbury (BIO - Sta)"
<E.Duxbury@uea.ac.uk >Online GenesAsEnvironment
Nov15-18
AGA2020 President's Symposium - Genes as Environ-
ment: Indirect Genetic Eects in Evolution, Agriculture,
and Medicine
Indirect genetic eects (IGE) are genetic eects of an in-
dividual on the trait values of others in the same species.
IGE provides a unifying framework for traditional quan-
titative genetics, maternal and paternal genetic eects,
inclusive tness, and multilevel selection.
The pandemic is still with us, so the AGA is moving
the President's Symposium online. To maximize the
number of people who can participate in real time, the
meeting will take place over 4 consecutive days from
15:00 -19:00 UTC (11:00 - 15:00 EST, 08:00 -12:00 PST,
16:00-20:00 GMT).
There will be breakout rooms for question-and-answer
sessions, and virtual coee/lunch breaks and happy
hours so all participants can interact. Speakers will also
have the option to make videos of presentations available
for a short time period, to accommodate participants
who cannot view talks in real time.
AGA student and postdoc members who submit a
\poster" abstract before September 1st will receive free
registration and the opportunity for a short presentation.
The exact format for \posters" has not been nalized,
and we are currently considering several options, includ-
ing 3-minute lightning talks. President Kim Hughes
will select several of the abstracts for 15-minute oral
presentations and $50 Presentation Awards.
Register now at https://www.theaga.org/-
agatwentytwenty.htm Key Distinguished Lecturer
Allen J Moore will open the meeting with his address,
*Why we need to understand indirect genetic eects*.
Invited speakers include: Nathan Bailey Amelie Baud
Piter Bijma Butch Brodie Nancy Chen Niels Dinge-
manse Kathleen Donohue Courtney Fitzpatrick Maren
Friesen Swanne Gordon Andrew McAdam Joel McGloth-
lin Stephanie Porter David Rand Julia Saltz Michael
Wade Alastair Wilson
theaga@theaga.org8 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Online GraduateEvolBiol Sep28-30
Dear colleagues,
The registration to the 25th DZG Graduate Meeting
Evolutionary Biology (aka the 1st DZG ONLINE Grad-
uate Meeting) to be held on the 28-30 September is still
open. Please register until the 1. Sept.
Invited speakers: - Kelly Swarts (GMI Vienna) -
Joachim Hermisson (University of Vienna)
The 25th DZG (German Zoological Society) Graduate
Meeting in Evolutionary Biology will be organized by
the Institute of Population Genetics at the Vetmeduni
Vienna in September 2020. While the meeting's main
topic is \Genetics of adaptation: from single loci to
polygenic traits", all scholars of evolutionary biology
are welcome to discuss their plans and results. The
meeting is supported by the DZG.
We have over 20 slots available for 15 minutes talks (+
5 minutes discussion) and 24 slots for short poster pre-
sentations (5 minutes including questions). The poster
presentations will be selected on a 'rst come, rst
served' basis. The registration is free.
If you would like to participate at the meeting, please
send us an email (dzg25th@gmail.com) no later than
1.9.2020 with the following information: - indicate if you
prefer a talk or a poster - in case of talk: your consent
to record your talk and put it online (not mandatory,
if you prefer your talk not to be recorded, please in-
form us) - in case of a poster: your consent whether
the poster can be shared with the other participants -
short abstract ( <250 words) with title and all authors,
indicate presenting author
You can nd more information about the meet-
ing https://dzgevol.wordpress.com/2019/11/19/25th-
dzg-graduate-meeting-evolutionary-biology/ Hope to
see you online!
Best wishes, Robert, Neda and Christian
Organizing committee: - Robert Koer - Neda Barghi -
Christian Schl otterer
Robert Koer <rokoer@gmail.com >Online
LinkedSelectionMicrobialDiversity
Aug18-25
Emory University is holding a free online symposium on
August 18th and 25th, co-organized by Daniel Weissman
and Matt Hahn and hosted by the Theory and Modeling
of Living Systems (TMLS) initiative. The rst session,
on the 18th, will be focused on linked selection, and the
second session, on the 25th, will be focused on micro-
bial diversity. Both sessions are organized as a series
of short talks followed by discussion with an additional
discussion period at the end. Information below.
Symposium: \Can we predict the diversity of real pop-
ulations?" August 18th and 25th Registration (free):
https://forms.gle/3K8PEht5SDK7aUpa7 Website:
http://livingtheory.emory.edu/programs/conferences-
symposiums.html Stream available from the Emory
TMLS YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/-
channel/UCSzB7CmWksZPxQUjlOinU-Q. Please
register for direct links to the streams.
Session 1: \What is linked selection doing to popula-
tions?" August 18th, 12:30-2:20pm EDT
Schedule: 12:30-12:40: Introduction 12:40-1:00: Chris-
telle Fra sse (IST Austria/CNRS), \Multilocus barriers
to introgression between hybridizing species: sex chro-
mosomes vs. autosomes" 1:00-1:20: Derek Setter (U
Edinburgh), \Sweeps in time: leveraging the joint dis-
tribution of branch lengths" 1:20-1:40: Kim Gilbert (U
Lausanne/U Bern), \Drivers of genetic diversity in re-
gions of low recombination" 1:40-2:00: Ivana Cvijovic
(Stanford), \The eect of background selection on ge-
netic diversity" 2:00-2:20: Discussion
Session 2: \What determines microbial diversity?" Au-
gust 25th, 11:25am-1:50pm EDT Schedule: 11:25-11:30:
Introduction 11:30-12:00: Erik van Nimwegen (U Basel),
\Bacterial phylogenies reect complex patterns of re-
combination rates" 12:00-12:30: Jacopo Grilli (ICTP),
\Laws of diversity and variation in microbial communi-
ties" 12:30-1:00: Maitreya Dunham (U Washington),
\Microbial diversity between and within species in beer"
1:00-1:30: Nandita Garud (UCLA), \Evolution in the
Human Gut Microbiome" 1:30-1:50: Discussion
dbweissman@gmail.comSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 9
Online Transposons Sep30-Oct02
Dear colleagues,
The registration for the 4th Uppsala Transposon Sym-
posium (virtual) to be held on September 30 - October
02, 2020, is open!
Invited speakers: - Irina Arkhipova (Marine Biological
Laboratory) - John Con (Tufts University) - Molly
Hammell (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory) - Aris Kat-
zourakis (University of Oxford) - Alice Eunjung Lee
(Harvard University) - Kenji Kojima (Genetic Informa-
tion Research Institute) - Rita Rebollo (INRA Lyon)
- Arian Smit (Institute for Systems Biology) - Nathan
Springer (University of Minnesota)
Registration is free, includes coee breaks (please
B.Y.O.B.) and discussion rounds for networking, and the
opportunity to present your research as a regular talk
or lightning talk with poster. We encourage especially
early-career researchers to submit abstracts on topics
related to transposons, viruses, and genetic conicts!
Abstract submission deadline is September 13.
You can nd more information about the meeting
and this year's virtual format here: https://-
transposonsymposium.wordpress.com/4th-uppsala-
transposon-symposium-gone-virtual/ Welcome and
please stay safe everyone!
Best wishes, Alex
(on behalf of the organizing committee)
Organizing committee: - Alexander Suh (University of
East Anglia and Uppsala University) - Claudia Kutter
(Karolinska Institute) - Patric Jern (Uppsala University)
- Contact us: transposonsymposium@gmail.com
Dr. Alexander Suh Dept. of Organismal Biol-
ogy - Systematic Biology Evolutionary Biology
Centre Uppsala University Norbyv agen 18D SE-
752 36 Uppsala, Sweden Alexander.Suh@ebc.uu.se
https://twitter.com/alexander suh (Twitter) http:/-
/genomicrocosm.wordpress.com (Blog) https://-
www.iob.uu.se/research/systematic-biology/suh/ (Lab
website)
Alexander Suh <alexander.suh@ebc.uu.se >Prague CZ ESEB20201
CallForSymposia DeadlineOct15
CALL FOR SUBMISSION OF SYMPOSIUM PRO-
POSALS FOR ESEB 2021
A dening feature of ESEB congresses is the \bottom-up"
approach to determining the scientic content of each
meeting. The vast majority of the scientic program is
arranged in symposia topics that are suggested by ESEB
members, and the symposium organisers then also play a
major role in selecting the oral and poster presentations
from the submitted abstracts. Symposia topics can be
on any theme related to evolutionary biology: specic
or broad, emerging or well established. A|symposium
normally consists of around 5-12 oral presentations, 1-2
of which are invited, with remaining abstracts in the
theme being presented together in the poster sessions.
Invited speakers typically have their congress registra-
tion covered (but not travel or accommodation), and
have extended speaking time.
SYMPOSIUM PROPOSAL
You will be asked to provide:
(1) The names and email addresses of the primary organ-
iser (for all communication) and 1-2 co-organiser(s), who
must be committed to attend the whole meeting. (2)
Optional - Links to the professional web pages of organ-
isers and short biographies of organisers (maximum 150
words each biography). (3) The proposed symposium
title. (4) A|maximum 200 word explanation justifying
why you feel your proposed topic warrants a symposium
at the conference. (5) The names of two potential in-
vited speakers (please check beforehand whether they
are indeed available). You can also submit titles of
potential invited talks (optional).
Balance, in terms of gender, nationality and career stage
of invited speakers and symposium organisers will be
included as one criterion used by the scientic commit-
tee when selecting symposia, and successful symposium
organisers are expected to do the same when selecting
oral presentations. ESEB also supports diversity via
conference attendance aid grants.
When organising your symposium at the ESEB confer-
ence, we would like you to consider a Target Review
paper or Special Issue on the symposium topic to be pub-
lished in the /Journal of Evolutionary Biology/ (/JEB/),
the ocial journal of the society, soon after the confer-10 EvolDir September 1, 2020
ence or in parallel. /JEB /is particularly interested in
publishing summary or synthesis papers of any current
evolutionary topic discussed at the ESEB conference.
HOW TO SUBMIT A SYMPOSIUM PROPOSAL
* Please submit your symposium proposal only via the
online form that is accessible in the user zone. * Propos-
als sent by e-mail cannot be considered. * Symposium
proposal has to be submitted by a primary organiser of
the symposium. * A|primary organiser of the sympo-
sium is considered to be a contact person. * At least one
of the organisers must be an ESEB member at the time
of the \nal date for presenters and symposia organisers
to register". The organisers will be required to prove
member status at a later time, upon registering for the
congress.DEADLINE
The deadline for submission is OCTOBER 15, 2020.
EVALUATION
Proposals will be double-blind evaluated by the Scientic
Committee, and the selected list will be communicated
in December 2020.
CONTACT
Enquiries can be directed to ab-
stracts.eseb2021@guarant.cz. We will be happy
to assist you.
European Society for Evolutionary Biology Email: of-
ce@eseb.org Website: eseb.org
ESEB <oce@eseb.org >
GradStudentPositions
Antwerpen CichlidGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Australia ClimateChangeAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
ETH Zurich YeastCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
JagiellonianU BankVoleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
JagiellonianU EvolutionMicrobiome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
KielU EvolutionHumanLongevity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Krakow JagiellonianU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . 15
Lausanne MycorrhizalSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
LiverpoolJohnMooresU EvolutionObesity . . . . . . . . . .16
LiverpoolJohnMooresU FlyGutMicrobiota . . . . . . . . . 17
Liverpool LJMU EvolutionAgonisticSignalling . . . . . 17
Liverpool LJMU EvolutionCognitionSociality . . . . . .18
MaxPlanck EvolutionFacialVariability . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18OsnabrueckU SoilBacteriaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
SGN Frankfurt EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Taiwan AvianEvolutionMatingSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
TiHo Hannover AposematismEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . .22
UExeter SocialCognitionCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UMississippi CrayshConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . 24
UNorthDakota WildlifeGenomicsPaleoecology . . . . . 24
USouthernMississippi OysterDomesticationGenomicss
25
USouthFlorida AdaptationDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UTexasAM PopulationGenomicsAquaticInvertebrates
26September 1, 2020 EvolDir 11
Antwerpen CichlidGenomics
******* Deadline extended till 25 August 2020 ********
Fully funded 4-year PhD position in cichlid sh Evo-
lutionary Genomics available in the Svardal lab at the
University of Antwerp
Application deadline: 25 August 2020
The hundreds of closely related but ecologically diverse
species of Lake Malawi cichlid shes provide an excep-
tional model to study the genomic mechanisms involved
in rapid adaptation and diversication.
Cichlid shes are known for their spectacular adaptive
radiations, but some populations are also under recent
heavy shing pressure leading to strong human-induced
selection. In this PhD you are going to dissect genomic
and phenotypic responses to sheries-induced and natu-
ral evolution.
{ You will apply computational genomic approaches to
whole-genome sequencing data of 100s of Malawi cich-
lids to identify genomic adaptations. { Ideally, you will
also have an interest in developing your own computa-
tional methods in python, R, or C/++ etc. { You will
apply ancient DNA methods to sequencing data from
museum specimens to track adaptation through time.
{ Depending on your interest, there will be scope for
experiments and eld work in Malawi: E.g., measuring
growth and maturation traits under controlled condi-
tions in our state-of-the-art sh facilities and (2) using
transcriptomes to understand population dierences.
Prior knowledge in bioinformatics, data analysis, or
statistics is a plus for this position, but also candidates
with a dierent background will be considered, if they
can demonstrate strong motivation to develop in this
direction.
You can apply for this vacancy through the University
of Antwerp's online job application platform until 10
August 2020. Click on the 'Apply' button, complete
the online application form and be sure to include the
following attachments: a motivation letter (max 2 pages,
in English) clarifying specically why you want to work
in our group on this project, your academic CV, your
master's grades and percentile in peer group (if avail-
able).
https://www.uantwerpen.be/en/jobs/vacancies/-
academic-sta/?q=1182&descr=Doctoraatsbursaal-
evolutionaire-en-adaptatiegenomica Looking forward
to your application. Best wishes,Hannes Svardal
{ Hannes Svardal Research Professor in Evolutionary,
Ecological and Environmental Omics Department of
Biology University of Antwerp
Campus Groenenborger, room U758
hannes.svardal@uantwerpen.be
Hannes Svardal <Hannes.Svardal@uantwerpen.be >
Australia ClimateChangeAdaptation
Genetics of climate-change adaptation in Great Barrier
Reef corals
We are seeking expressions of interest for PhD positions
working under the supervision of scientists at the Aus-
tralian Institute of Marine Science (Dr. Line Bay), the
University of Queensland (Prof. Cynthia Riginos, Dr.
Cheong Xin Chan), and Southern Cross University (Dr.
Emily Howells).
Global warming and associated changes to earth's cli-
mate threaten the survival of corals worldwide. Aus-
tralia's iconic Great Barrier Reef has experienced multi-
ple episodes of severe and widespread bleaching. Thus,
it is becoming increasingly urgent to determine how
quickly corals can adapt to elevated temperatures and
other environmental stressors. A large-scale integrative
project is underway as part of the Reef Restoration
and Adaptation Program that will use whole genome
sequencing of multiple coral species in association with
the examination of physiological phenotypes, microhab-
itats, and geography to advance our understanding of
the genetic basis of heat adaptation in GBR corals.
PhD projects will be part of this larger research pro-
gram. Students will take primary responsibility for sub-
elements of this broader project such as focusing on the
physiology, quantitative genetics, and seascape genomics
of coral hosts and their symbionts. There is considerable
scope for students to develop additional projects depend-
ing on their specic interests. Competitive applicants
will have demonstrated relevant research experience en-
compassing some combination of a) marine eld work
involving diving for research, b) experience undertaking
physiological experiments on corals or related taxa, c)
advanced training in evolution and genetics (Masters or
Honours degree with associated publications), d) expe-
rience with bioinformatics and computer scripting (R,
python, perl or other relevant language). Note that we
do not expect applicants to have experience in all of12 EvolDir September 1, 2020
these areas.
Full funding (living expenses and fees) for strongly quali-
ed applicants will be provided by UQ (for one domestic
or international student) and SCU (for one domestic
or international student). Strongly qualied domestic
(Australian and New Zealand) must be eligible for the
Australian Research Training Program scholarship or
other stipend funding. Applicants should be available
to start their studies in January 2021, although delays
may be unavoidable due to COVID travel restrictions.
Expressions of interest should be submitted via the
RRAP portal https://www.gbrrestoration.org/en US/-
enquiry-form by August 21 2020 with a single PDF le
that includes: a brief cover letter/statement of interest
and experience (1 page maximum), a CV including the
names and contact details of 3 referees (2 pages max),
and an academic transcript. Please tag your submission
with \PhD in Genetics of climate-change adaptation".
Short listed candidates will be contacted and video inter-
viewed in the rst week of September. Email enquiries
can be directed to emily.howells@scu.edu.au.
c.riginos@uq.edu.au
ETH Zurich YeastCoevolution
Our group at ETH Zurich has a position for a PhD
student to study co-evolutionary dynamics in the \killer
yeast" model system. The \killer yeast" system features
eco{evolutionary interactions among plants, animals
and fungi, as well as viruses. Core of the system is the
winemaking yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which is
mostly found in ephemeral fruits. Yeast modify their
niche to drive the coevolution of mutualism between
themselves and Drosophila ies. Yeast is also used as a
host by various double stranded RNA viruses. Certain
dsRNA virus combinations (dsRNA L-A virus and M
satellite dsRNA) convert the yeast to a killer phenotype
providing the yeast strain with a competitive advan-
tage over other coexisting strains. The actors in the
killer yeast system - S. cerevisiae, dsRNA viruses and
Drosophila are all excellent research models in their own
right with well-established population genetic, -omic
and ecological toolboxes. The system is suitable for
both eld and laboratory studies, which are expected to
be part of the developed PhD project. We invite appli-
cations from candidates who are interested in studying
the coevolutionary dynamics and population ecology of
the interacting species, whilst focusing on topics thatare not only of broad interest within fundamental re-
search, but also highly relevant to more applied elds
(e.g. winemaking). The PhD candidate should take
this system as a platform to develop a project around
her/his own interests complementing the general goals
of understanding the coevolutionary dynamics determin-
ing the structure of natural yeast populations and their
infecting virus populations.
We are looking for a highly motivated, enthusiastic and
independent person with a passion for science. Candi-
dates for this position should have a strong interest in
evolutionary ecology and should be open to learning new
skills in experimental hypothesis testing, population ge-
netics and evolutionary biology. Formally, candidates
need to hold a MSc degree in biology, environmental
sciences or another relevant eld.
The PhD candidate will be supervised by Dr. Claudia
C. Buser and Prof. Jukka Jokela of the Aquatic Ecology
group at the Institute of Integrative Biology at ETH
Z urich, Switzerland. Further information about PhDs
at ETH Z urich is available here: https://ethz.ch/en/-
doctorate.html. Information about being employed at
ETH Z urich is here: https://ethz.ch/en/the-eth-zurich/-
working-teaching-and-research.html . To apply send a
single combined pdf to claudia.buser@env.ethz.ch includ-
ing (1) cover letter, (2) CV, (3) contact details for 2-3
referees. We will start reviewing applications after 15th
of September and continue until the position is lled.
The position is for four years, during which the PhD
dissertation at ETH Zurich is expected to be completed.
The earliest available start date is likely to be winter
2020.
Dr. Claudia C. Buser ETH Zurich Aquatic Ecol-
ogy/Eawag Institute of Integrative Biology (IBZ)
~Aberlandstrasse 133 8600 D ubendorf, Switzerland
E-mail: claudia.buser@env.ethz.ch Web: https://-
n.ethz.ch/~busercl/
Claudia Buser ETH <busercl@ethz.ch >Claudia Buser
ETH<busercl@ethz.ch >
JagiellonianU BankVoleEvolution
PhD position in evolutionary and biomedical physiology
at the Jagiellonian University, in a project:
Experimental evolution of the thrifty and spendthrift
genotypes, and its consequence for susceptibility to ad-
verse eects of \Western diet": insights from a selectionSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 13
experiment on bank voles
The project is based on a unique experimental
evolution model system, with lines of a common
rodent, the bank vole, selected in three distinct
directions: http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/en GB/zespol-
zjologii-ewolucyjnej/badania. We will answer the ques-
tion how the selection for high performance under the
conditions of unlimited vs restricted energy sources af-
fects vulnerability of animals to adverse eects of the
Western diet.
Conditions of employment: A warranted scholarship for
48 months of 5000 PLN / month, equivalent to mean
gross income in Poland. Formal requirements
§MSc in life science (biology, biotechnology, ecology,
evolution, or related; eective on 18.09.2020),
§admission in the International PhD Biology program
at the Jagiellonian University eective on 1.10.2020
(https://science.phd.uj.edu.pl/).
Merit requirements
§Good communication skills, good level of spoken and
written English;
§Previous experience in molecular or biochemical lab-
oratory as well as working with terrestrial vertebrates
(preferably rodents)
§Achievements such as publications or conference pre-
sentations are considered advantageous. Preliminary
enquiries: email to the principal investigator - Pawe ^A3
Koteja (pawel.koteja@uj.edu.pl)
Detailed information about the enrollment procedure
and other formal issues - see here:
https://wb.uj.edu.pl/wydzial/aktualnosci/-
ogloszenia-konkursowe/-/journal content/-
56INSTANCE NepRLepShInQ/41643/145578301
The application should be sent by email
(pawel.koteja@uj.edu.pl) by 16.08.2020 (the term
will be automatically prolonged if needed).
The applications will be considered by the selection com-
mittee according to the regulations of the PhD School
and the regulations of scientic scholarships in research
projects nanced by the National Science Centre, Poland
(https://www.ncn.gov.pl/sites/default/les/pliki/-
2019 0916koszty wprojektach NCN.pdf) and the
general regulations of the PhD in Biology Programme:
(https://science.phd.uj.edu.pl/en GB/rekrutacja/-
rekrutacja-2020/2021/phd-programme-in-biology).
The pre-selected candidates will be invited for inter-
views (scheduled for 21-28 August 2020). The decision
of acceptance will be made by 31 August 2020.Contact person: Pawe ^A3Koteja
(pawel.koteja@uj.edu.pl)
The Evolutionary Physiology Research Team
http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/en GB/zespol-zjologii-
ewolucyjnej/badania Institute of Environmental
Sciences Jagiellonian University 7 Gronostajowa Street,
30-387 Krak ow, Poland e-mail: pawel.koteja@uj.edu.pl
oce phone: +48 12664 5209 skype: pkoteja ORCID:
0000-0003-0077-4957 ResearcherID: O-4039-2015 Scopus
Author ID: 6603751464
Pawe ^A3Koteja <pawel.koteja@uj.edu.pl >
JagiellonianU EvolutionMicrobiome
PhD position in evolutionary and ecological physiology
at the Jagiellonian University, in the project:
The eects of energy availability on pace of life and
microbiome of bank voles
The project: Acquiring energy from the environment
is fundamental for the reproduction and survival of all
organisms and animals have evolved many ways to gain
energy. The community of microbes inhabiting the ani-
mal intestine (gut microbiota) has coevolved with animal
hosts and participates in the critical task of extracting
energy from food eaten by the animal (e.g. by producing
dierent short-chained fatty acids). The microbiota can
thus be especially important in matching the energy
requirements of the animal with the resource availabil-
ity in its environment. Coping with limited resources
should depend on both the animal's metabolic demands
and the eciency of the gut microbes to extract energy
from food. To test this idea, we study the eects of
food manipulations at dierent life stages on the life his-
tory, physiology, and gut microbiome of animals from a
unique experimental evolution model system: selection
lines of a non-laboratory rodent, the bank vole (My-
odes glareolus), selectively bred for a high metabolic
rate and unselected control lines. The project is a part
of a long-term research program based on an articial
selection experiment using a common rodent, the bank
vole (http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/en GB/zespol-zjologii-
ewolucyjnej/badania). Conditions of employment: A
warranted stipend (4500 PLN/month gross) is available
for 2.5 years, followed by 1.5 years of the stipend oered
through the regular PhD program of the Jagiellonian
University.
Formal requirements: - MSc in life science (biology,14 EvolDir September 1, 2020
biotechnology, ecology, evolution, or related; achieved by
the time of enrollment), - admission in the International
PhD Biology program at the Jagiellonian University
eective on 1.10.2020 (https://science.phd.uj.edu.pl/).
Merit requirements: - evidence of good quantita-
tive/computational skills; - strong English language,
communication, organizational and collaboration skills;
- experience with molecular laboratory analyses and
bioinformatics. - Previous experience with analyses
of microbial communities, working on small mammals,
animal physiology and/or evolutionary biology are con-
sidered advantageous.
For detailed information about the enrollment procedure
and other formal issues, see:
https://wb.uj.edu.pl/en GB/wydzial/aktualnosci/-
ogloszenia-konkursowe/-/journal content/-
56INSTANCE NepRLepShInQ/41643/145754689
Preliminary enquiries: email to the principal investiga-
tor Anni H am al ainen (anni.m.hamalainen@gmail.com),
with a copy to the prospective PhD school supervisor,
Pawe ^A3Koteja (pawel.koteja@uj.edu.pl).
The formal application should be sent by email to the
above two addresses and to the PhD School secretary
(anna.stec@uj.edu.pl) by 16.08.2020.
Contact person: Dr Anni H am al ainen
anni.m.hamalainen@gmail.com The Evolutionary
Physiology Research Team http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/-
enGB/zespol-zjologii-ewolucyjnej/badania Institute
of Environmental Sciences Jagiellonian University 7
Gronostajowa Street, 30-387 Krak ow, Poland
Anni H am al ainen <anni.m.hamalainen@gmail.com >
KielU EvolutionHumanLongevity
***1 PhD Position in Translational Evolution - Genomics
of Human Longevity***
In the framework of the Research Training Group (RTG)
2501 for Translational Evolutionary Research (Tran-
sEvo) (https://transevo.de/) at Kiel University, Ger-
many, we are seeking
a PhD student
to conduct research on the genomic architecture of hu-
man longevity (RTG project 6.1) using next genera-
tion sequencing (NGS) and genome-wide association
studies (GWAS). The successful candidate will performbig-data analysis including bioinformatics and statis-
tics. In particular, the focus will be on analyses of
GWAS chip arrays, exome and HLA data to identify
new longevity-associated loci, following evolutionary
informed approaches.
Your prole:
* An MSc in a discipline relevant for the project (e.g.
bioinformatics, genetics, evolutionary genomics, statisti-
cal genetics) is a prerequisite
* Background in vertebrate or human genetics/genomics
is a must
* Programming skills (ideally in R or python) are re-
quired, branching and version control programming with
Git is desirable
* Expertise in the analysis of NGS and SNP data (vcf
and plink format) is very advantageous
* Strong interest in working in a research environment
focusing on evolutionary biology
* Very good written and spoken English is required
We oer:
*Exciting projects in the Human Longevity Group using
large-scale data sets already generated from nonagenar-
ians and centenarians
*Exceptional infrastructure (NGS and bioinformatics)
in the Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology (https://-
www.ikmb.uni-kiel.de)
*Integration into the interdisciplinary RTG 2501, stim-
ulating collaborations with scientists from various dis-
ciplines, in particular from the Helmholtz Center for
Ocean Research Kiel (GEOMAR)
*The contract runs for three years and starts on Septem-
ber 15, 2020. The salary will be according to the German
salary scale TV-L (PhD student 65%, German TV-L
E13).
Application:
Please submit your documents including a motivation
letter, CV (both in English), certicates and contact
details of two references as one pdf le (10 Mb max).
*****The application deadline is August 31, 2020.*****
Please apply online via the following link: https://-
jobs.uksh.de/job/Kiel-Doctoral-Researcher-Position-
in-Computational-Genomics-at-IKMB-Schl-24105/-
612003801/ For more information, please contact Prof.
Almut Nebel (a.nebel@mucosa.de), Dr. Guillermo
Torres (g.torres@ikmb.uni-kiel.de) or Dr. Janina Dose
(j.dose@ikmb.uni-kiel.de).
Almut Nebel, PhDSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 15
Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology Kiel University
Rosalind-Franklin-Str. 12 24105 Kiel Germany Tel.:
+49-431-500-15155
a.nebel@mucosa.de
Krakow JagiellonianU
EvolutionaryBiology
Graduate position:Krakow JagiellonianU.Evolutionary Biology
PhD position in Evolutonary Biology - deadline for
applications is approaching
PhD student position is oered from October 2020
within the Polish National Science Centre grant
Environment-dependent balancing selection in a gene in-
volved in sexual conict in Genomics and Experimental
Evolution Group at Jagiellonian University, Institute of
Environmental Sciences.
The project The maintenance of genetic variability, en-
abling populations to adapt to novel environments, is
one of the greatest puzzles in evolutionary biology. This
is because ubiquitous directional selection should lead
to depletion of genetic variation in selected traits. This
is especially the case with sexually selected traits, in
which directional selection is particularly strong. Yet,
substantial genetic variance in these traits is maintained.
A potent force proposed to maintain genetic variation is
balancing selection which can take a form of a crossover
genotype by environment interaction for tness in het-
erogeneous environments. It causes selection to act in
environment-dependent manner so that one allele is fa-
vored in one environment and the other at another one.
We aim to investigate the maintenance of polymorphism
in Phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6Pgdh) ?a sexually
selected gene associated with sexual conict in the bulb
mite Rhizoglyphus robini. 6Pgdh polymorphism (with
two alleles, S and F) is associated with dierences in
male reproductive success. The S-bearers have advan-
tage in male-male competition, but decrease fecundity
of their partners. Previous studies suggest that 6Pgdh
polymorphism is maintained by environment-dependent
balancing selection, but the exact mechanisms driving
this selection are unknown. PhD candidate will investi-
gate ecological factors that determine persistence of the
polymorphism.
Scope of work PhD candidate will assess the level of
6Pgdh polymorphism in natural populations and de-
termine environmental factors aecting 6Pgdh allelefrequencies in the eld. He/she will conduct experi-
mental evolution and will be involved in phenotypic
measurements in the lab that will enable direct test of
the role of potential factors driving 6Pgdh frequencies.
Real-time PCR with TaqMan probes will be used to
genotype individuals. PhD candidate may also be in-
volved in other molecular analyses conducted in frames
of the project, including transcriptomics.
Place and salary The Student will join a dynamic, coop-
erative research group at the Institute of Environmen-
tal Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland
(www.eko.uj.edu.pl/en GB). The Institute of Environ-
mental Sciences is one of the most inuential and best-
recognized research institutions in the elds of Ecology
and Evolution in Central Europe located in a beautiful
medieval city with rich history and lively cultural life,
well connected to other European cities.
The PhD student will receive a tax-free scholarship from
doctoral school (ca. 2500 PLN) and/or a tax-free re-
search stipend from the National Science Centre grant
(3000 PLN per month).
Requirements
The successful candidate will have a M.Sc. degree in
biology or other relevant elds by the start of the stu-
dentship. We are looking for a student with good En-
glish, strong background in Evolutionary Biology and
experience in molecular techniques as well as good skills
in data analyses. Excellent communication and organi-
zational skills are also required.
Documents
Please send a CV including contact details for two
references and a cover letter to Agata Plesnar-Bielak
(agata.plesnar@uj.edu.pl) by August 10. The selected
candidate will be assisted with a formal application to
the PhD program at Jagiellonian University (the exam
will take place between 9th and 14th September 2020)
For more information, please e-mail Agata Plesnar-
Bielak.
Agata Plesnar-Bielak <agata.plesnar@gmail.com >
Lausanne MycorrhizalSymbiosis
PhD student position - The role of the soil microbiome
in determining plant responses to the mycorrhizal sym-
biosis (Uni. Lausanne, Switzerland & collaboration with
the ETH Z urich)16 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Job Description: PhD student position available in the
Sanders' group on The role of the soil microbiome in de-
termining plant responses to the mycorrhizal symbiosis
using experimental approaches. Research will build on
previous work in the group showing that mycorrhizal
fungi shape soil microbial communities. We now want
to know how the soil microbiome inuences how the
plant responds to inoculation with mycorrhizal fungi.
The results of this project will be combined with research
in the eld where our work is leading to real solutions
to increase production of food in areas of the world
where starvation is a major problem. More informa-
tion can be found at http://people.unil.ch/iansanders/
The project is part of a large collaboration at the new
Swiss Centre for Excellence in Research (NCCR) - Mi-
crobiomes, created between University of Lausanne and
the ETH Z urich https://nccr-microbiomes.ch . Your
skills and qualications: Candidates must be highly
motivated, have an MSc (or very soon), and have a
strong interest in community structure, coupled with
microbial metagenomics and/or microbial communities.
You must have a strong interest in investigating this
topic using an experimental approach. An interest in
using appropriate bioinformatics tools will be a clear
advantage, as will, an interest in solving problems in an
analytical way. The successful candidate will work on
this project with a postdoctoral researcher. You should
have good interpersonal skills and an ability to work
well in a multicultural team and department.
Job information: The position is available as soon as
possible. A PhD at the University of Lausanne takes
between 3 and 5 years. The contract is initially for 1
year, renewable. Most of the PhD student's time will be
dedicated to research, but contributing to some teach-
ing activities is expected and there is the additional
possibility of supervising master students.
Applications: You must apply online to the University
of Lausanne job portal and upload a CV and moti-
vation letter in English. The letter must include the
names of 2-3 referees. The link to apply is: Microbiomes
and the mycorrhizal symbiosis (16336): https://bit.ly/-
2XTc2jq Applications must be received not later than
30th September 2020. Informal enquiries may be made
by email to ian.sanders@unil.ch but you MUST ONLY
APPLY ONLINE. You must NOT send your application
to this email address.
ian.sanders@unil.chLiverpoolJohnMooresU
EvolutionObesity
We are looking for a strong candidate to apply for a
fully funded PhD in genetics of obesity in non-human
primates at Liverpool John Moores University. Un-
derstanding and tackling obesity is currently at the
forefront of the political agenda in many developed
countries. While obesity is multifactorial, a heritable
genetic component is important, with an estimated 40-
70% of the variance in body mass index due to genetic
factors. A number of hypotheses advanced to explain
the propensity for obesity and metabolic disease involve
evolutionary events in the ancestors of modern humans,
relating to the body's response to uctuating food avail-
ability. This is not limited to humans however, and
many other species face similar circumstances. Indeed,
animals kept in captivity can also become obese, with
dierent species showing dierent propensities to do so.
Therefore, understanding obesity in other species may
help us to understand obesity as a phenomenon and
may have important implications for how we tackle this
issue.
The project will involve comparing candidate genes asso-
ciated with obesity across non-human primates and link
these to environmental factors to help understanding
of potential selection pressures. It will use comparative
genomics and molecular evolutionary computational ap-
proaches to study genes involved in energy metabolism
and adipose tissue homeostasis in apes.
You must hold a good BSc and a master's degree (or
demonstrable research experience) in a relevant disci-
pline. UK/EU applicants only.
Send your CV and a cover letter explaining your interest
in the topic and demonstrating how your skills make you
suitable for this project (max. 2 A4-pages, font Arial
11 or equivalent, space 1.5) to G.D.Weedall@ljmu.ac.uk
Deadline for initial applications is September 1st 2020.
This is a two-stage process: the selected candidate will
then be invited on the 5th of September to prepare the
nal proposal in collaboration with the LJMU supervi-
sory team.
More information on the call can be found
here: https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-us/news/articles/-
2020/7/28/ljmu-vc-phd-scholarships If you have any
questions, contact G.D.Weedall@ljmu.ac.uk.September 1, 2020 EvolDir 17
You can nd more information about the supervisory
team in the following links: https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/-
about-us/sta-proles/faculty-of-science/school-of-
biological-and-environmental-sciences/gareth-weedall
https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-us/sta-proles/faculty-
of-science/school-of-biological-and-environmental-
sciences/richard-brown https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-
us/sta-proles/faculty-of-science/school-of-biological-
and-environmental-sciences/fatima-perez-de-heredia-
benedicte https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-us/sta-
proles/faculty-of-science/school-of-biological-and-
environmental-sciences/serge-wich \Brown, Richard"
<R.P.Brown@ljmu.ac.uk >
LiverpoolJohnMooresU
FlyGutMicrobiota
Applications are invited for a fully funded PhD on sea-
sonal adaptation of ies gut microbiota based at Liver-
pool John Moores University.
Supervisors: Dr Mirko Pegoraro, Dr Susanne Zajitschek,
Dr Gareth Weedall and Prof Charalambos P. Kyriacou
(University of Leicester).
Brief description of the PhD project: Seasonal changes
in the y gut microbiota. This project will involve
investigating the role of Drosophila melanogaster gut
microbiota in the ies' seasonal response using molecu-
lar biology experiments, behavioural essays and tness
tests.
Criteria: a good BSc and MSc in a relevant area.
UK/EU citizens only.
Desirable: knowledge of R, publication (accepted, in
press, under review or submitted).
Deadline for initial applications: 4th September 2020,
midnight.
Please email a cover letter and CV to Dr Mirko Pego-
raro (m.pegoraro@ljmu.ac.uk) . The cover letter should
be a maximum of 2 sides of A4 and also explain your
interest in the topic and demonstrate your skill set rel-
evant to the post. Please include also contacts details
of 2 references. This is a two-part process and the se-
lected application will be invited to apply for a second
assessment round with a mid-September deadline.
Sta research proles can be viewed here:
Dr Mirko Pegorarohttps://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-us/sta-proles/faculty-
of-science/school-of-biological-and-environmental-
sciences/mirko-pegoraro Dr Susanne Zajitschek
https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-us/sta-proles/faculty-
of-science/school-of-biological-and-environmental-
sciences/susanne-zajitschek Dr Gareth Weedall
https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/about-us/sta-proles/faculty-
of-science/school-of-biological-and-environmental-
sciences/gareth-weedall Prof Charalambos P. Kyriacou
https://www2.le.ac.uk/departments/genetics/-
people/kyriacou \Zajitschek, Susanne"
<S.R.Zajitschek@ljmu.ac.uk >
Liverpool LJMU
EvolutionAgonisticSignalling
To live together, animals must communicate, and so to
understand social groups, we need to understand com-
munication. How the receiver of a signal reacts depends
on the signal content, the characteristics of the signaller,
and the context in which the communication takes place.
We will be using realistic computer-generated stimuli to
control and manipulate all of these aspects of signal pro-
duction in order to investigate how animals respond to
social signals at behavioural, neural, and hormonal lev-
els. Our study system is the highly social daodil cichlid
sh (Neolamprologus pulcher), which has a fascinatingly
complex social behaviour and signalling repertoire.
I am looking for students with excellent CVs (rst class
degree and/or distinction at Masters level, plus relevant
experience and/or publication success in peer reviewed
journals) to apply for a competitive 3 year doctoral
scholarship in the school of Biological and Environ-
mental Sciences at Liverpool John Moores University
(https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/research/phd-scholarships).
We will make use of an established daodil cichlid breed-
ing colony at LJMU. Social behaviours can be scored
using both live observations and high denition video
recordings. We plan to use 3D scanning and computer
animation to produce highly realistic articial stimuli
which can vary in phenotype and can be programmed
to display a variety of signalling behaviour. We intend
to measure the response to these stimuli using detailed
behavioural analysis, hormone measurements, and imme-
diate early gene responses to quantify neural activation.
This is a highly integrative project which will combine
functional analysis of behaviour with measurements of18 EvolDir September 1, 2020
proximate mechanisms while making use of computer
generated stimuli.
Preferred candidate characteristics include a keen in-
terest in animal social behaviour; experience studying
behaviour in the laboratory; strong writing and analyt-
ical skills; knowledge of experimental design and sta-
tistical analysis. Previous experience with one or more
of the following: behaviour coding, hormone analysis,
immunohistochemistry, 3D modeling and commuter an-
imation would be highly valuable. Previous experience
working with sh is desirable but not essential. UK/EU
nationals only.
Please apply by email to a.r.reddon@ljmu.ac.uk with
a CV, a brief statement outlining your interest, and
the names and contact information for two references.
Please feel free to email me with any questions.
Due date: Aug 31, 2020
Adam R. Reddon, Ph.D. Lecturer in Behavioural
Ecology School of Biological and Environmental
Sciences Liverpool John Moores University Room
346, James Parsons Building t: +44 (0)151
231 2034 www.adamreddon.ca \Reddon, Adam"
<A.R.Reddon@ljmu.ac.uk >
Liverpool LJMU
EvolutionCognitionSociality
Living in a group requires a set of advanced cognitive
skills, such as recognizing individuals, understanding so-
cial rank and modulating behaviour to the social context.
For this reason, it has been proposed that sociality has
driven the evolution of cognition in many taxa, including
humans (the social brain hypothesis). We will investi-
gate the role of sociality on the evolution of cognitive
abilities using Lamprologine cichlid shes. Our study
system consists of several closely related cichlid species
that have evolved highly distinct social systems in inde-
pendent evolutionary events. The Ph.D. candidate will
compare these species in a battery of cognitive tasks and
use phylogenetically controlled methods to assess associ-
ations between social system and interspecic variation
in cognition. In addition, the molecular mechanisms un-
derpinning observed dierences will be investigated by
quantifying neural activation via immediate early gene
expression and using immunohistochemistry and qPCR.
The project will be primarily based at Liverpool John
Moores University in the UK but may require researchperiods at the University of Ferrara, Italy.
We are looking for students with excellent CVs (rst
class degree and/or distinction at Masters level, plus
relevant experience and/or publication success in peer
reviewed journals) to apply for a competitive 3 year
doctoral scholarship in the school of Biological and Envi-
ronmental Sciences at Liverpool John Moores University
(https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/research/phd-scholarships).
Preferred candidate characteristics include a keen in-
terest in animal behaviour and evolution; experience
studying behaviour in the laboratory; strong writing
and analytical skills; knowledge of experimental design
and statistical analysis. Previous experience with one
or more of the following: behavioural testing, immuno-
histochemistry, RNA extraction, qPCR would be highly
valuable. Previous experience working with sh is desir-
able but not essential. UK/EU nationals only.
Please apply by email to a.r.reddon@ljmu.ac.uk and
tyrone.luconxiccato@unife.it with a CV, a brief state-
ment outlining your interest, and the names and contact
information for two references. Deadline for application:
August 31 2020. Please feel free to email us with any
questions.
Adam R. Reddon, Ph.D. Lecturer in Behavioural
Ecology School of Biological and Environmental
Sciences Liverpool John Moores University Room
346, James Parsons Building t: +44 (0)151 231
2034 www.adamreddon.ca \A.R.Reddon@ljmu.ac.uk"
<A.R.Reddon@ljmu.ac.uk >
MaxPlanck
EvolutionFacialVariability
PhD position
Craniofacial development and evolutionary aspects of
intra- and interspecies facial variability.
We are seeking a highly motivated candidate with an
interest in craniofacial development and evolutionary
aspects of facial variability, to join our group at the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology.
Our research is focused on the early stages of head for-
mation and we combine inter-disciplinary approaches
and dierent vertebrate models. Specically, we utilize
single-cell transcriptomics and genomics, high-resolution
and whole-mount imaging, multiplex in situ hybridiza-
tion, micro-computed tomography and 3D reconstruc-September 1, 2020 EvolDir 19
tions, genetic tracing, tissue-specic gene modications
and a spectrum of in vivo & in vitro methods to reveal
the genetic, cellular and molecular basis of vertebrate
head development. Our goal is to characterize cell types
participating in the early head morphogenesis and dis-
sect their interactions on a cellular and molecular level.
We are particularly interested in the evolutionarily con-
served link between the development of the nervous
system and the skull. By investigating the signals orig-
inating from the emerging nervous tissues, we aim to
elucidate the mechanisms of cartilage and bone induc-
tion, growth, and shaping across dierent vertebrate
species. Our main research models are mouse, chicken,
zebrash, and Xenopus.
The applicant is expected to have a deep knowledge of
the research in elds of (including but not limited to)
developmental and molecular biology. Prior experience
working with the above-mentioned animal models is ben-
ecial but not essential. Knowledge and experience with
bioinformatics analysis of single-cell sequencing data are
benecial. A Master of Science degree or a Diploma
as well as a strong interest in EvoDevo biology are pre-
requisites for joining our group. We oer international,
stimulating and collaborative environment, access to
state-of-the-art equipment and further professional de-
velopment. Applicants with a strong motivation for
a career in science, outstanding bench and organiza-
tional skills, and excellent written and verbal English
communication skills are welcome to apply.
The position is open from 01.01.2021. Candidates should
send their CV, motivation letter, along with the names
of at least two references to kaucka@evolbio.mpg.de
Deadline for applications is 1st of October 2020.
For more details on the institute, re-
search group and the university, please, see:
https://www.evolbio.mpg.de/2169/en https://-
www.evolbio.mpg.de/CraniofacialBiology https://-
www.studium.uni-kiel.de/de The Max Planck Society
has set itself the goal of employing more severely
disabled people. Applications from severely disabled
people are expressly welcome. In addition, the Max
Planck Society strives for gender equality and diversity.
We welcome applications from any background. The
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology in Pl??n
(Schleswig-Holstein) consists of three departments:
Evolutionary Genetics, Evolutionary Theory, and
Microbial Population Biology. It is focused on basic
research to unravel general evolutionary processes,
such as ecological adaptations, benets of sexual
reproduction, or evolution of cooperation. The scope
of the work includes ecological, organismic, molecular,
and theoretical approachesMarketa Kaucka <kaucka@evolbio.mpg.de >
OsnabrueckU SoilBacteriaEvolution
*** Two Research Assistants (m/f/d) (Pay scale E 13
TV-L, 65%) ***
The Department of Ecology at the School of Biol-
ogy/Chemistry at the University of Osnabr uck (Ger-
many) is seeking to appoint 2 Research Assistants to
commence work at the earliest possible date.
This is a temporary, three-year position.
Your Duties:
{ Participate in the DFG-funded research project:
\Testing the black queen hypothesis in communities of
soil-living bacteria"
{ Perform large-scale coculture experiments to test
hypotheses regarding the ecology and evolution of
metabolic cross-feeding interactions in soil microbial
communities
{ Use state-of-the-art microscopic techniques and mi-
crouidic devices
{ Characterize and analyze the exo-metabolome of bac-
terial cells using LC/MS/MS
{ Generate and characterize bacterial mutants
{ Handle and analyze large data sets (16S rRNA, genome
sequences, statistics)
{ Work together with other group members and collabo-
ration partners
(e.g. metabolic modelling, population dynamics models,
individual-based models)
{ Opportunity to work towards a PhD
Requirements:
{ Completed degree (M.Sc.) in biology or a related eld
{ Practical experience in microbiological techniques and
molecular biological methods
{ Excellent command in written and spoken English
{ Strong motivation and curiosity
{ Ability to work in an interdisciplinary team
{ Structured and independent way of working
Additional Qualications:20 EvolDir September 1, 2020
{ An excellent university degree
{ Creative way of working
{ Sound knowledge of ecological and evolutionary theory
{ Practical experience in the application of microscopic
techniques (microuidics, FISH-labelling)
{ Practical experience in the generation, analysis, and
handling of large data sets
(16S rRNA sequencing, whole genome sequencing)
{ In-depth knowledge of quantitative methods (qPCR)
and tools of statistical analysis
{ Ability to develop and analyze theoretical models
(metabolic modelling, population dynamics, individual-
based models) is an asset
{ Scientic publication(s) in peer-reviewed international
journal(s)
We oer:
{ An exciting and highly topical research project
{ Collaboration in an interdisciplinary and international
research team
{ Participation in the excellent graduate education pro-
grams at the University of Osnabr uck (ZePrOS, EvoCell
graduate school)
{ Use of the state-of-the-art research infrastructure at
the School of Biology/ Chemistry (e.g. CellNanOs)
{ Live and work in the vibrant city of Osnabr uck
Osnabr uck University is a certied family-friendly uni-
versity and is committed to helping working/studying
parents balance their family and working lives.
Osnabr uck University seeks to guarantee equality of
opportunity for women and men and strives to correct
any gender imbalance in its schools and departments.
If two candidates are equally qualied, preference will
be given to the candidate with disability status.
Please submit your application (including a letter of mo-
tivation, CV, publication list, copies of certicates, as
well as names and contact details of 3 referees) to arrive
by September 9, 2020 as one PDF le via email (Code:
\~ABH" to the Dean of the School of Biology/ Chemistry
(Email: bewerb-bio@uni-osnabrueck.de). We are very
much looking forward to receiving your application.
For further information regarding this vacancy, please
contact Prof. Dr. Christian Kost:
Email: christiankost@gmail.com
Homepage: www.kostlab.com Christian Kost
<christiankost@gmail.com >SGN Frankfurt
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
is a member of the Leibniz Association and is based
in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. LOEWE Centre for
Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG)
is a joint venture of the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung (SGN), Goethe-University Frankfurt,
Justus-Liebig-University Giessen and Fraunhofer Insti-
tute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology IME
aiming to intensify biodiversity genomics in basic and
applied research. We will establish a new and taxo-
nomically broad genome collection to study genomic
and functional diversity across the tree of life and make
genomic resources accessible for societal-demand driven
applied research.
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung and
the LOEWE-TBG invite applications for a PhD Posi-
tion (m/f/d) - Evolutionary genomics of mobile DNA
(part time 50%)
Your tasks:
§Comparative genomic analysis of mobile DNA in non-
model organisms, with a focus on invertebrates
§Evolutionary inference of mobile DNA to study dynam-
ics, phylogeny, and/or mode of transmission
§Phylogenomic analysis of whole genome data using
state of the art methodology
Your prole:
§A master degree in the elds of biology, evolution or
bioinformatics
§Preferred experience with genome assemblies, bioinfor-
matics and basic scripting languages (bash, perl and/or
python)
§Interest in mobile DNA and its genomic inuences
§Experience and exceptional interest in comparative
genomics, evolutionary biology research and phyloge-
nomics
§Teamwork oriented and excellent communication skills
in written and spoken English, you also work indepen-
dently and meet deadlines
What is awaiting you?
§Become part of a dynamic team of researchers in anSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 21
international research group and join the new LOEWE
excellence centre with its 20 new research groups.
§Access to unpublished genomes from exotic animal
phyla.
§The possibility to create a network with scientists in
interdisciplinary elds in translational biodiversity ge-
nomics.
Salary and benets are according to a part time public
service position in Germany (TV-H E13, 50%). The
contract should start as soon as possible and will ini-
tially limited for 36 months. The place of employment
is in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The employer is the
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung. Equally
qualied handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence.
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job oer (ref. #12-20017) before 7th September,
2020 by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf document)
and including a cover letter detailing research inter-
ests and experience, a detailed CV and a copy of your
certication to:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
For more information please contact Prof. Dr. Axel
Janke (axel.janke@senckenberg.de).
Mit freundlichen Gr uen /Best Regards
Maria di Biase Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG
Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (Rechtsf ahiger Verein
gem a  c 22 BGB) Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt
am Main Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-21, 60325
Frankfurt am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales - 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Personal & Soziales - 1319 Elsen, Carina
Team Personalbeschaung (Recruiting) - 1564 di-Biase,
Maria - 1313 Helm, Jessica
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1445 Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de
Direktorium: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Volker Mosbrugger,
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mulch, Stephanie Schwedhelm, Prof.
Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese, Prof. Dr. Karsten WeschePr asidentin: Dr. h. c. Beate Heraeus Aufsichtsbeh orde:
Magistrat der Stadt Frankfurt am Main (Ordnungsamt)
Mitglied der Leibniz-Gemeinschaft Vernetzen Sie sich
mit uns: www.senckenberg.de/socialmedia recruiting
<recruiting@senckenberg.de >
Taiwan
AvianEvolutionMatingSystems
PhD position on the breeding ecology and evolution of
mating systems in shorebirds in Taiwan
Mating systems can inuence sexual selection, parental
behaviour, and other social behaivours in wild animals.
Despite many studies investigating the causes and con-
sequences of several common mating systems such as
polygamy and monogamy (with or without extra-pair
mating), our understanding on polyandry remains lim-
ited. The diverse mating systems in shorebirds make
them an ideal system to study the causes and conse-
quences of sex-role reversal in polyandry. The objective
of this studentship is to investigate these fundamental
issues by means of eldwork and population genetics on
breeding shorebirds in Taiwan.
WHAT:
We seek one bright and highly motivated student with
strong interests in evolutionary ecology and behavioural
ecology. The successful candidate is expected to conduct
extensive eldwork in residential areas, so strong will-
ingness to conduct eldwork and good communication
ability with residents are essential. This student will
search for nests, trap and ring birds, take blood samples
and record their behaviours. In addition, this student
will use molecular methods to reconstruct the pedigree
of avian population(s). Previous experience with avian
eld biology and the ability to work independently is
important.
The successful candidate will be co-supervised by Yu-
Hsun Hsu and Tam as Sz ekely. Both supervisors share
their research interests on the evolution of avian mating
systems. Professor Tam as Sz ekely is one of the core
members of the ~ALVONAL SHROEBIRD SCIENCE.
By participating in this PhD project, the successful
candidate may have the opportunity to meet and col-
laborate with other shorebird ornithologists.
WHERE:
This student will be based in the Department of Life
Sciences in National Cheng Kung University (NCKU)22 EvolDir September 1, 2020
(https://www.bio.ncku.edu.tw/english). Full funding is
available by the ~ALVONAL SHOREBIRD SCIENCE to
cover the eldwork, attending conferences and visiting
Tam as Sz ekely in the University of Bath, UK. Scholar-
ship for the rst year will be provided by NCKU. The
amount of scholarship may increase by Yu-Hsun Hsu's
grant funding for the second year onwards depending
on your performance.
To apply, please send your CV, the name of two referees,
and a concise statement of your research interests, the
transcripts of your BSc and MSc as a single PDF le to
yuhsunhsu@mail.ncku.edu.tw. All documents should be
in English. The deadline of application is 15th Septem-
ber 2020. A double interviews with both Yu-Hsun Hsu
and Tam as Sz ekely will be held soon thereafter. After
the interviews, the successful candidate will need to
go through the ocial application process in NCKU
before 10th October 2020. For further information con-
cerning this position, please contact Yu-Hsun Hsu (
yuhsunhsu@mail.ncku.edu.tw ).
Websites with related information:
Yu-Hsun Hsu: https://sites.google.com/site/-
yuhsunhsu/ Hsu, Y.-H.. The consequences of
indelity in non-human animals. In: *Handbook of
Indelity*. Expected in 2020. Edited by T. Shackelford
& T. DeLecce. Oxford University Press. Invited review.
*Accepted*.
Hsu, Y.-H., R. B. Cocroft, R. L. Snyder & C.-P. Lin.
2018. You stay, but I hop: Host-shifting near and far
co-dominated the evolution of *Enchenopa* treehoppers.
*Ecology and Evolution* 8(4): 1954-1965.
Hsu, Y.-H., J. Schroeder, I. Winney, T. Burke & S.
Nakagawa. 2015. Are extra-pair males dierent from
cuckolded males? A case study and a meta-analytic
examination. *Molecular Ecology* 24(7): 1558-71
Tam as Sz ekely: https://researchportal.bath.ac.uk/en/-
persons/tamas-szekely Kubelka, V., M. ^A alek, P.
Tomkovich, Zs. V egv ari, R. Freckleton & T. Sz ekely.
2018. Global pattern of nest predation is disrupted by
climate change in shorebirds. *Science* 362: 680-683.
Eberhart-Phillips, L. J., C. K upper, M. C. Carmona-
Isunza, O. Vincze, S. Zefania, M. Cruz-L opez, A. Kosz-
tol anyi, T. E. Miller, Z. Barta, I. C. Cuthill, T. Burke,
T. Sz ekely, J. I. Homan & O. Kr uger. 2018. Demo-
graphic causes of adult sex ratio variation and their
consequences for parental cooperation. *Nature Com-
munications* 9:1651
Pipoly, I., V. B okony, M. Kirkpatrick, P. F. Donald, T.
Sz ekely & A. Liker. 2015. The genetic sex-determination
system predicts adult sex ratios in tetrapods. *Nature*527: 91 - 94.
~ALVONAL SHROEBIRD SCIENCE: https://-
elvonalshorebirds.com Department of Life Sciences in
NCKU: https://www.bio.ncku.edu.tw {
Yu-Hsun Hsu PhD. Assistant Professor Department of
Life Sciences National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan
Email: yuhsunhsu@mail.ncku.edu.tw
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
TiHo Hannover
AposematismEvolution
PhD ON APOSEMATISM EVOLUTION - TiHo Han-
nover
ABOUT THE PROJECT
Aposematism is the association of conspicuous coloration
with chemical defenses. Although present in several taxa,
its evolution is challenging because it must enhance
individuals' tness, but, chemical defenses are costly,
and conspicuousness increases predation risk. In the
Pr ohl group, at the University of Veterinary Medicine
Hannover, we investigate the evolution of aposematism,
using poison frogs as a model, and with a focus on how
their chemical defenses inuence their behavior. Aiming
to determine the relationship between dietary drugs,
behavior, and conspicuous coloration in the aposema-
tism of poison frogs, in this project you could make
use of techniques such as: GC-MS, analysis of micro-
and macronutrients, behavioral assays, whole-brain u-
orescent imaging (iDISCO), gene expression (qPCR,
RNA-Seq and scRNA-Seq), DNA methylation analysis,
target enrichment sequencing, coloration spectrometry
and pattern analysis. Although we already have an idea
of the experiments, these are exible and might change
according to your interests and own ideas.
APPLICATION
After considering the recommendations listed below,
send CV, motivation letter, and 1 or 2 letters of recom-
mendations to eugenia.sanchez@tiho-hannover.de with
the subject 'Doktorand 2021'. The deadline is 30. of
September, and we will contact you for an interview in
early October 2020.September 1, 2020 EvolDir 23
- Make sure your CV contains the following sections:
Education: bachelor and/or master degree, including
major, specialization or elective courses
Continuing education: list any course or workshop, and
the hours of each
Grants and fellowships: include also prices here.
Research and eld experience: add projects, techniques,
countries visited, or organisms you have worked with
Languages: include the level of human (A1-C2) and
programming languages (R, python, bash, C, etc.)
Research interests: in an ideal world, what would you
like to work with or research?
Other: write information that you consider relevant.
DO NOT INCLUDE: biasing information such as pic-
tures, sex, gender, religion, nationality, age, etc.
- In the Motivation letter try to answer: Why are you
interested in making a PhD? What are your personal
and professional expectations? How do you see yourself
in 5 years?
- For the recommendation letters, please, ask contacts
to send them separately to the same email address with
the subject 'Doktorand: [YOUR NAME]', and to try
to answer: How long and from which context do you
know the applicant? Whereby does the applicant stand
out? How do you assess the applicant's potential? How
would a Ph.D. on 'Aposematism evolution' impact the
academic or professional growth of the applicant? Is
there any additional information you would like us to
consider?
\Sanchez, Eugenia" <Eugenia.Sanchez@tiho-
hannover.de >
UExeter
SocialCognitionCoevolution
Leverhulme-funded PhD Opportunity, University of Ex-
eter (Penryn Campus), UK.
Co-evolution of social relationships and cognition: a
theoretical investigation
Supervisors: Sasha Dall & Alex Thornton, Centre for
Ecology and Conservation, University of Exeter, Penryn
Campus, Cornwall
We are looking for an enthusiastic, analytically-mindedstudent to join us in beautiful Cornwall.
Full details of how to apply are here: http:/-
/www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/award/?id933
Project Description Relationships can be hard work.
Indeed, the challenges of maintaining social relation-
ships are widely thought to drive the evolution of large
brains and intelligence in humans and other animals
such as primates, cetaceans and corvids. This idea,
known as the Social Intelligence Hypothesis, has been
hugely inuential in biology, psychology and anthro-
pology for over 50 years. However, it remains highly
controversial and lacks predictive power, largely because
it is based on verbal arguments rather than formal mod-
els with explicit assumptions. In this PhD, part of the
Leverhulme-funded project \The role of social relation-
ships in cognitive evolution" you will develop a novel
theoretical framework to analyse whether and under
what circumstances social relationships generate cogni-
tive demands and how those demands in turn inuence
social evolution.
By integrating game theoretical approaches with recent
advances in the ecology of information use, you will
develop mathematical and/or computational models to
analyse the implications of evolutionary costs and bene-
ts of tracking information from social partners to make
decisions across diering social and ecological condi-
tions. These models will generate explicit predictions of
whether and under what circumstances social relation-
ships generate cognitive demands for monitoring and re-
sponding to partner behaviour, and how those demands
in turn inuence social evolution. Predictions from the
models will be tested using data from co-supervisor Alex
Thornton's long-term eld studies of wild corvids and
meta-analyses of published data.
The successful candidate will be supervised by Dr Sasha
Dall and Dr Alex Thornton at the lively research envi-
ronment of the Centre for Ecology and Conservation, at
the University of Exeter's Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Prof, John McNamara FRS (Mathematics: University
of Bristol) will be involved with the project as an ex-
ternal partner. You will be an active member of both
Thornton's Wild Cognition Research Group, and the
wider Behaviour Discussion Group, one of the largest
concentration of behavioural biologists in the world.
This award provides annual funding to cover UK/EU
tuition fees and a tax-free stipend. For students who
pay UK/EU tuition fees the award will cover the tuition
fees in full, plus at least 15,285 per year tax-free stipend.
Students who pay international tuition fees are eligible
to apply, but should note that the award will only pro-
vide payment for part of the international tuition fee
and no stipend.24 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Entry requirements Applicants for this studentship must
have obtained, or be about to obtain, a First or Upper
Second Class UK Honours degree, or the equivalent
qualications gained outside the UK, in an appropriate
area of science or technology (e.g. biology, psychology,
mathematics, computer science). A Master's degree in
a related area is desirable.
Applicants must have strong mathematical and/or com-
putational skills and research interests in the evolution
of cognition and behaviour. Experience of theoretical
modelling would be a strong advantage.
If English is not your rst language you will need to
have achieved at least 6.5 in IELTS and no less than 6.0
in any section by the start of the project. Alternative
tests may be acceptable (see http://www.exeter.ac.uk/-
postgraduate/apply/english/).
www.wildcognitionresearch.com
www.culturalminds.co.uk Dr Alex Thornton As-
sociate Professor of Cognitive Evolution Centre for
Ecology and Conservation University of Exeter, Penryn
Campus Cornwall, TR10 9FE, U.K.
Tel: +44 (0)1326 255081
\Thornton, Alex" <alex.thornton@exeter.ac.uk >
UMississippi
CrayshConservationGenetics
The Garrick lab at U. Mississippi is currently recruit-
ing graduate students for Spring or Fall 2021. The lab
has interests in understanding evolutionary processes
that generate, maintain, or compromise diversity within
and among species, and an opening exists for an early
career researcher to contribute to a conservation genet-
ics project focusing on threatened craysh species from
the southeastern US. This initiative has collaborative
support and funding from the USDA Forest Service.
Students with interests in population genetics, molec-
ular phylogenetics, freshwater ecology, morphometrics,
species distribution modelling and/or applied conser-
vation biology are encouraged to contact Ryan Gar-
rick (email: rgarrick@olemiss.edu, lab website: rcgar-
rick.org).
The U. Mississippi Department of Biology deadline for
receipt of graduate student applications is 1st October
2020 for a Spring 2021 start, or 1st February for Fall 2021
start (https://biology.olemiss.edu/programs/graduate/-application-procedure), but initial conversations should
start now to allow planning for supplementary fellow-
ships.
Ryan Garrick Department of Biology 508 Shoemaker
Hall University of Mississippi University, MS 38677-1848,
USA
webpage: http://www.rcgarrick.org \rgar-
rick@olemiss.edu" <rgarrick@olemiss.edu >
UNorthDakota
WildlifeGenomicsPaleoecology
Wildlife Genomics and Paleoecology
U. North Dakota. WildlifeGenomicsPaleoecology.
The Laboratory of Evolutionary and Forensic Genetics
at the University of North Dakota (www.und.edu) is
inviting applications from highly motivated students
who pursue a PhD degree. MS candidates will be also
considered.
Students will be engaged in a project on the historic,
current and future status of bison herds from biological,
archaeological, and cultural perspectives. This cross-
disciplinary project represents an opportunity to get
intensive training in the methods of ancient and modern
DNA analyses including high-throughput genome se-
quencing, stable isotope studies, computational analysis
and statistical modelling. The examples of our recent
publications: Ovchinnikov et al. Diversity and Origin
of the Feral Horses in Theodore Roosevelt National
Park. PLoS One, 2018, 13(8); Davies et al. Isotopic
Paleoecology of Northern Great Plains Bison during the
Holocene. Scientic Reports, 2019, 9(1): 16637. Al-
though the wildlife project is focused on bison genetics
and paleoecology, we have opportunities to develop new
projects on computational analysis of big oral and envi-
ronmental microbiome data as well as on genomics and
microbiome study of human migrations and evolution.
Candidates should demonstrate motivation for hard
laboratory work and strong interest in genomics and
computational biology. Preference will be given to can-
didates with a proven record of computational analysis
and bioinformatics skills. Additional experience in se-
quencing technologies is a plus.
If you are interested, you need to apply to the University
of North Dakota Biology Graduate Program using the
regular procedure. Requirements and How to ApplySeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 25
procedure can be found in the UND Biology Graduate
School websites:
https://und.edu/programs/biology-phd/-
requirements.html https://und.edu/admissions/-
graduate/apply.html The additional information can
be also found in the Biology Department website:
https://arts-sciences.und.edu/academics/biology/ The
position starts in January 2021. To receive full consid-
eration, the Biology Graduate Program needs to receive
your application and required materials by September
15, 2020 for priority consideration but not later than
October 15, 2020.
Potential graduate students are also encouraged to make
contact with Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov.
Contact information:
Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Professor Lab. of Evo-
lutionary and Forensic Genetics Department of Biology
Forensic Science Program University of North Dakota
Email: igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu
\Ovtchinnikov, Igor" <igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu >
USouthernMississippi
OysterDomesticationGenomicss
A graduate student position is available in our labora-
tory to conduct studies of domestication and breeding
of eastern oyster in the Gulf of Mexico as part of the
Gulf of Mexico Oyster Genetics and Breeding Research
Consortium.
The successful applicant will be provided a 12-month
full-time Research Assistantship with a tuition waiver.
Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree in a rele-
vant eld (e.g. Biology, Ecology& evolutionary biology,
Fisheries science) when applying for this position. Bioin-
formatics skillsand experience with molecular techniques
are assets. The position is available starting in spring
2021.
Interested individuals should email a CV, GRE scores
if available, and unocial transcripts to:
Eric Saillant, Ph.D Associate Professor
The University of Southern Mississippi School of Ocean
Science and Technology
Thad Cochran Marine Aquaculture Center 103 McIlwain
Drive Ocean Springs, MS, 39564 Tel. (1) 228-818-8007Fax (1) 228-872-4204 E-mail: eric.saillant@usm.edu
Eric Saillant <Eric.Saillant@usm.edu >
USouthFlorida AdaptationDynamics
Graduate positions in Evolutionary Genomics
University of South Florida
The Margres Lab in the Department of Integrative Bi-
ology at the University of South Florida is looking for
highly motivated graduate students (M.S. and Ph.D.) to
study adaptation dynamics in two co-evolving systems:
(1) Tasmanian devils and a species-specic transmissible
cancer, and (2) venomous snakes and their prey. We use
a combination of eld work, 'omics, and bioinformatic
approaches in both systems to answer fundamental ques-
tions in evolutionary biology related to adaptation, the
genotype-phenotype relationship, and coevolution.
Candidates should have a background in ecology, evo-
lution, genetics and/or bioinformatics and be an inde-
pendent learner with a strong work ethic. Familiarity
with R, Linux/Unix, computing clusters, and the use of
bioinformatic tools would be advantageous, but prospec-
tive students interested in establishing these skillsets are
also encouraged to apply. Candidates should also have
strong lab and interpersonal skills allowing them to work
well in a laboratory setting and in a group. The Mar-
gres lab is committed to increasing diversity in STEM,
and we encourage applications from underrepresented
groups.
Interested applicants should contact Dr. Margres di-
rectly at margres@usf.edu. The desired start date is
Fall 2021. Applications for domestic students are open
11/30/2020 through 2/15/2021. Applications for inter-
national students are due 11/30/2020. Please contact Dr.
Margres no later than 11/1/2020 if interested. See here
for more details: https://www.usf.edu/arts-sciences/-
departments/ib/graduate/how-to-apply.aspx Mark J.
Margres, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department of In-
tegrative Biology University of South Florida, Tampa
(813)-974-4576
margreslab.com
\Margres, Mark" <margres@usf.edu >26 EvolDir September 1, 2020
UTexasAM PopulationGenomic-
sAquaticInvertebrates
Ph.D. Position - Population Genomics of Aquatic Inver-
tebrates
A Ph.D. assistantship is available in the Hogan Lab at
Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi (TAMUCC).
The student will join an NSF Macrosystems-funded
project to study population genomics of wetlands in-
vertebrates. The project is using reduced representa-
tion genome sequencing (RADseq) to assess patterns
of genetic diversity and gene ow among invertebrate
populations across the central United States by wind
driven processes and animal vectors (birds) as well as
determining genome-by-environment correlations. The
Ph.D. student will join a team of researchers that in-
cludes Dr. Jim Thorp (University of Kansas), Dr. Kevin
McCluney (Bowling Green State University), and Dr.
Chris Patrick (Virginia Institute of Marine Science), and
others.
The student will lead eld work in Texas to sample tem-
porary wetlands ecosystems for invertebrates, as well as
contribute to the maintenance of mesocosm experiments
at TAMUCC. The student will develop population ge-
nomic datasets from spatial and temporal samples from
ve study populations, including patterns of diversity
and signatures of selection, and genetic drift. Exten-
sive opportunities for collaboration across the multi-
institutional team, including within the HoBi Lab and
Marine Genomics Lab at TAMUCC.
The position is ideally suited to researchers with a back-
ground in wetlands ecology, population genomics, or
population and community ecology. No specic experi-
ence in wetlands ecology is required. Experience with
genetic techniques and the analysis of population genetic
datasets is highly sought after, including experience
with DNA extraction, gel electrophoresis, PCR, RAD
library preparation, RADseq analysis pipelines, analysis
of population genetics data, and database management.
Applicants with evidence of productivity, strong oral
and written communication abilities, and enthusiasmare especially encouraged to apply. The successful ap-
plicant will be an independent, motivated person who
communicates well and enjoys working in a collaborative
team.
**Assistantship details** The Ph.D. assistantship in
TAMUCC's Marine Biology (MARB) program will be-
gin in Spring or Summer 2021 (exact start date is ne-
gotiable). Partial RA funds and tuition support are
available. Competitive assistantships are also available
through the MARB program that cover salary and ben-
ets. Assistantship includes health insurance and other
benets. Teaching Assistantships are also available.
Funding for conference travel is available.Applicants
ideally will have an MS degree prior to starting.
**Application process** Review of applications will be-
gin immediately and will continue until the position is
lled. Interested candidates should email Dr. J. Derek
Hogan (james.hogan@tamucc.edu). In your email please
include: 1) a one ^A'-page cover letter describing your in-
terest in the position and your relevant skills you possess.
The letter must address your experience in population
genetics; 2) a CV including education history, publica-
tions, conference presentations and grant/scholarship
funding; and 3) the names and contact information for
three scientists familiar with your research work.
**Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi** TAMUCC
is located in Texas' coastal bend on the Gulf of Mexico.
TAMUCC has recently been ranked as a tier 2 research
university by the Carnegie Classication of Institutions
of Higher Education. The Marine Biology program
is the largest Ph.D. program on campus and consists
of approximately 30 research faculty and 50 graduate
students engaged in research in marine, estuarine, fresh-
water, and terrestrial research in the elds of ecosystem,
community, and population ecology, evolutionary bi-
ology, biogeography, microbial ecology, developmental
genetics, restoration ecology, and biomedical research.
Corpus Christi is known for an active outdoor life-style
including wind surng, sailing, sea kayaking, and salt-
water shing. The city is 2.5 hours from San Antonio,
and 4 hours from cultural centers including Houston
and Austin Texas.
J. Derek Hogan Associate Professor Department of Life
Sciences Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi Corpus
Christi, Texas, 78412 USA james.hogan@tamucc.edu
\Hogan, James" <James.Hogan@tamucc.edu >September 1, 2020 EvolDir 27
Jobs
Egham UK BiodiversityBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
EmbarkVeterinaryInc DogGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
EMBL Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
EmporiaStateU FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
Ewha Korea PlantSystematicsEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Harvard AncientDNA Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
IndianaU BioinformaticAnalyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
JohnInnesCentre UK ResAssist PlantEvolution . . . . 33
MortonArboretum USA BiologicalIntegration . . . . . .34
Museum Illinois STEMEducation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
NHM Vienna Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
StMarysC Maryland EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . 36
Surrey UK BiodiversityMonitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37UAmsterdam EvolutionBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UBath MicrobiologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UCalifornia LosAngeles ConservationGenomics LabTech
39
UCincinnati TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UIC Chicago EcoEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
UIllinois Chicago GeneEnvironment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UmeaU Sweden EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UMuenster TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . 42
UVirginia ResTech HostParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . 43
WestChesterU AquaticEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Wyoming Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Egham UK
BiodiversityBioinformatics
Location: Egham, Surrey Salary: pounds 40,000+ per
annum, depending on experience Start: Immediately
Duration: Permanent
Applications are invited for an Ecological Data Scientist
to join an expanding science-based start-up. The success-
ful candidate will work closely with the bioinformatics
and science teams to develop new ways of analysing
and visualising the big biodiversity data generated by
the company. Providing customers with state-of-the-art
visualisation and decision-making tools will be key tasks
for the successful applicant. NatureMetrics works with
major corporates, NGOs and governments around the
world to improve Environmental Impact Assessment
in high impact industry and monitor conservation and
restoration projects.
Applicants should have signicant experience with eco-
logical data science and statistics. Evidence of advanced
data visualisation for biodiversity data is required, as
is one or more of computational ecology, big data an-
alytics, data mining, machine learning, or advanced
ecological statistics. The successful applicant will be a
proactive problem-solver with a high level of attention
to detail and excellent oral and written communication
skills adaptable for a range of target audiences.The successful applicant will be comfortable working
independently and as part of a wider team. They will
be required to take a leadership role in the evolution of
the data analysis services provide by the company.
NatureMetrics is a high-growth start-up company lead-
ing the revolution in molecular biodiversity monitoring,
enabling environmental managers to measure and moni-
tor biodiversity with DNA-based tools. We have grown
steadily for four years and are now expanding following
a recent investment raise. We are a team of bright,
enthusiastic individuals who are excited to be breaking
new ground and disrupting the world of biodiversity
monitoring. We take great pride in our work and are
seeking new team members who will do the same.
The full specication can be found below. To apply
please email careers@naturemetrics.co.uk including a
CV and covering letter, and state that you are applying
for the Ecological Data Scientist role. There is no xed
deadline for applications and the position will be held
open until we nd the right candidate. Applicants are
encouraged to submit examples of their work as part of
their application.
Roles & responsibilities General - Be the company expert
on the analysis of the data we generate on biodiversity
to support better decision making for our clients and
for nature - Develop interactive data visualisations for
use by clients to explore and understand their results.
- Develop metrics to quantify and qualify biodiversity
change, facilitating decision making that benets na-
ture. - Lead the data analysis of large projects that
may require a bespoke approach. - Ensure that analy-28 EvolDir September 1, 2020
ses produced by the company are statistically robust.
- Contribute to scientic publications and reports. -
Contribute to the preparation of grant applications and
tenders where relevant.
Documentation - Maintain version-controlled, annotated
scripts. - Write guides/explainers for developed tools
suitable for dierent audiences. - Prepare reports for
funders where relevant.
Reporting - The role reports to our CEO and works
closely with our head of bioinformatics and head of sci-
ence Communication - Attend regular update meetings
with the wider team. - Update wider company, manage-
ment or board on progress when required. - Work col-
laboratively with the bioinformatics and science teams. -
Work closely with clients and other environmental stake-
holders to understand and meet their needs for data
analysis and visualisation
Person Specication Education & qualications - You
will have a PhD in data science or computational ecol-
ogy, or an allied eld. Specialist knowledge, skills &
experience - Evidence of expertise in complex data visu-
alisation is required. - Strong R and Python coding is
essential, plus knowledge of relevant packages. - Experi-
ence with community and/or metabarcoding data would
be an advantage. - Experience with supervised and un-
supervised machine learning, and related techniques,
would be an advantage. - Experience in occupancy
modelling, power analysis, time-series analysis and joint
species distribution modelling would be an advantage.
Interpersonal & communication skills - Organised &
meticulous with eective communication skills - Able
to work independently and as part of a team
Additional requirements - All applicants are legally re-
quired to demonstrate the right to work/permission to
work in the UK.
Terms and Conditions Location
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
EmbarkVeterinaryInc DogGenomics
Research Scientist - Ancestry - Embark Veterinary Inc.
Ithaca, NYAbout Us
Discover your dog more than fur deep with the most
comprehensive DNA test on the market. Designed by
world leaders in dog genetics, in partnership with Cor-
nell University, the Embark DNA Test tells owners what
breeds make up their pets, how to prevent future possi-
ble health problems, and what features and traits their
pet might have. Help us end preventable disease in dogs
and improve the lives of pets and their people through
genomics.
Embark's market-leading dog DNA Test is not only
the most comprehensive on the market for breed mix,
health, traits, inbreeding, and nding relatives, it is also
an engine driving scientic discovery in dogs. Embark
uses a 220,000-marker research-grade DNA microarray,
enabling us to give our customers the most accurate and
comprehensive results on the market. More importantly,
it allows Embark to do ongoing research into the genetics
of dogs, which are a unique population for genetic study
and discovery due to selective breeding over time. Our
research focuses on mapping new traits and diseases,
improving personalized veterinary medicine, and devel-
oping new breeding programs to eliminate preventable
diseases.
Interested in joining? We're looking for highly moti-
vated and driven employees who will help us stay on
the cutting edge of creativity and innovation in the
fast-growing consumer genetics space.
The Role
We are looking to expand our Ancestry team and are
accepting applications for Scientists with extensive train-
ing and experience in Population Genetics, Genomics
and Computational Biology, or Data Science. Talented
candidates at all levels of experience are encouraged to
apply.
This team is applying a combination of population ge-
netics and data science approaches to improve Embark's
core Ancestry products, develop new products such as
the next generation of breeding tools, and conduct evo-
lutionary research in dogs, with the goal of accelerating
canine genetic science and a long-term vision of ending
preventable disease in pets.
The Opportunity
The principal objectives of this role are to continually
maintain and improve upon Embark's Breed and Ances-
try oerings.
- Contribute to the development of Embark's best-in-
class Dog Ancestry products, including the world's only
Dog Relative Finder.
- Build population genetic resources to assess and moni-September 1, 2020 EvolDir 29
tor genetic diversity.
- Understand the phenotypic impact of inbreeding and
inbreeding depression across dog breeds.
- Work collaboratively across teams to develop and ac-
celerate Embark's resources tailored for dog breeders
and professionals.
- Add to a culture of teamwork and continuous learn-
ing/teaching.
Requirements
- PhD in Population Genetics, Computational Biology,
Bioinformatics, or a related eld.
- Comfort with Linux/Unix environments and coding
experience including python, R, and SQL.
- Excellent statistical prociency.
- Excellent oral and written communication skills.
- Experience in applied population genetics preferred.
- Experience with Amazon Web Services preferred.
- A passion for pet health and desire to build products
to improve the lives of pets and pet owners.
What We Oer
- Dog friendly oce in downtown Ithaca, NY.
- Perks tailored for dog lovers including Trupanion pet
insurance and paw-ternity leave.
- Startup perks with big-company benets.
- Competitive salaries, all-inclusive health care, and
equity participation.
- A exible vacation policy along with paid maternal
and paternal leave.
- Fully-stocked oce snack bar and regular oce events.
- New iMacs and MacBook Pros, or laptops running
Linux.
- Continuing education, including attending conferences.
Embark Veterinary Inc. is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and values diversity at our company. We do not
discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national
origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status,
veteran status, or disability status.
Please apply directly here: https://embarkvet.com/-
careers/research-scientist-ancestry/ Aaron Sams
<asams@embarkvet.com >EMBL Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Trainee - EvoCELL Short-term Early
Stage Researcher (MSCA) About the team/job The posi-
tion is available from the EvoCELL Marie Sk??odowska-
Curie Innovative Training Network (www.evocell-itn.eu).
EvoCELL comprises 12 European partner laboratories
working together to investigate the evolution of ani-
mal cell types by comparative whole-body single-cell
RNA-seq approaches. The project entails testing and
developing bioinformatic tools that allow tracking cell
types and cell type families across animal phylogeny.
We are looking for a bioinformatician to join forces to
assist with bioinformatic analysis, which is key to the
success of this innovative and exciting project.
Your role The successful candidate will be trained to
help analyse and build tools for the analysis and integra-
tion of single cell RNA-seq data collected from diverse
marine animals by laboratories of the EvoCELL net-
work. The researcher will be hosted in the Arendt lab
at EMBL (Heidelberg, Germany) and cooperate with
all EvoCELL labs across Europe.
The network, coordinated by EMBL Heidelberg, brings
together 10 academic and 2 non-academic organizations
from 6 European countries, including a company and
a museum. Partners have complementary expertise in
evolutionary developmental biology (EvoDevo), bioin-
formatics, functional neurobiology, and paleontology. In
this unique environment the researcher will have the op-
portunity to take part in the network training activities
and benet from established collaborations.
You have Prior experience writing code and performing
data analysis in Python or R, as well as basic experience
with Linux/Unix environments.
You might also have Prior experience with phyloge-
netics, single-cell analysis, or analyzing RNA-seq data
in an evolutionary or ecological context, and/or web
development.
This is a 12-months position with a possibility of exten-
sion up to 20-24 months. Working language is English,
therefore prociency in this language is required.
Eligibility Criteria In order to be eligible to apply for
this position, candidates should have completed their
Master studies (or the degree that allows them to em-
bark in a PhD in their country of origin or in the hosting
country), not longer than 4 years from the start of the30 EvolDir September 1, 2020
fellowship.
At the time of recruitment, the candidate must not have
resided or carried out their main activity (work, studies,
etc.) in the country of their recruiting organisation for
more than 12 months in the 3 years immediately prior
to start of the project. Short stays such as holidays
and/or compulsory national service are not taken into
account. Candidates can be of any nationality, but are
required to undertake transnational mobility. Candi-
dates should ideally possess a Master???s degree in a
relevant academic eld, or a degree that allows them
to embark in a PhD. Candidates must be within the
rst four years of their research career. Applications
from candidates who already possess a doctoral degree
will not be considered. Furthermore, this short-term
position cannot lead to a PhD at EMBL.
Why join us EMBL is an inclusive, equal opportunity
employer oering attractive conditions and benets ap-
propriate to an international research organisation with
a very collegial and family friendly working environ-
ment. The remuneration package consists of a competi-
tive salary, a comprehensive pension scheme, medical,
educational and other social benets, as well as nan-
cial support for relocation and installation, including
your family and the availability of an excellent childcare
facility on campus.
What else you need to know We are Europe???s agship
research laboratory for life sciences ??? an intergovern-
mental organisation performing scientic research in dis-
ciplines including molecular biology, physics, chemistry
and computer science. We are an international, inno-
vative and interdisciplinary laboratory with more than
1600 employees from many nations, operating across
six sites, in Heidelberg (HQ), Barcelona, Hinxton near
Cambridge, Hamburg, Grenoble and Rome.
Our mission is to oer vital services in training scien-
tists, students and visitors at all levels; to develop new
instruments and methods in the life sciences and actively
engage in technology transfer activities, and to integrate
European life science research.
Please note that appointments on xed term contracts
can be renewed, depending on circumstances at the time
of the review.
Application link https://www.embl.de/jobs/searchjobs/-
index.php?ref=HD01809&newlang=1&pos%5b%5d=-
0&loc%5b%5d=0 Detlev Arendt <arendt@embl.de >EmporiaStateU FishEvolution
The Dept of Biological Sciences at Emporia State
University in Emporia, KS, invites applications for
a nine-month, tenure-track position at the rank of
Assistant or Associate Professor, to begin August
2021. Salary starts at $50,000, commensurate with
experience and qualications. The position is partially
supported by a generous endowment and the successful
candidate will be named the \Jones Endowed Professor
of Aquatic Sciences." The advert may be found
at: https://sites.google.com/g.emporia.edu/human-
resources/faculty-sta-open-positions/21290-assistant-
or-associate-professor Responsibilities: The successful
candidate will be expected to teach an Ichthyology
course, with laboratory, and an Introductory Zoology
course. Additional courses could include Fisheries Man-
agement, Population Ecology, Fish Ecology, Aquatic
Biology, Stream Ecology, Limnology or other specialty
courses that complement our existing oerings at the
undergraduate and graduate levels. Faculty members
typically teach 12 contact hours (or equivalent) per
semester. The successful candidate will also be expected
to develop an active research program, including the
supervision of graduate (M.S.) and undergraduate
research, and she or he will be encouraged to apply
for extramural funding. Dedicated research space will
be available in the new on-campus Prophet Aquatic
Research and Outreach Center.
Qualications: A Ph.D. and relevant research experience
are required by the start date. Postdoctoral experience
is highly desirable. Applicants should have eld-based
research expertise in ichthyology and freshwater aquatic
ecology (sheries/conservation/population, community,
landscape, and/or behavioral biology), including experi-
ence with contemporary statistical modeling approaches.
Expertise in applied/sheries ecology is strongly desired
for mentorship of our students in the Fisheries and
Wildlife/Ecology and Biodiversity concentrations and
also for potential collaboration with the on-campus Re-
search and Survey Oce of the Kansas Department of
Wildlife, Parks and Tourism.
Apply: Screening will begin on September 4, 2020, and
continue until the position is lled. Please email a letter
of intent, separate statements of teaching philosophy and
research interests, CV, and contact information for three
references (including email, phone, and postal address)September 1, 2020 EvolDir 31
to Dr. William E. Jensen at wjensen1@emporia.edu
(email preferred). Application materials are also ac-
cepted by mail to: Dr. William E. Jensen, Search
Committee Chair, Department of Biological Sciences,
Campus Box 4050, Emporia State University, 1 Kellogg
Circle, Emporia, KS 66801-5415. Phone: 620-341-5339;
Fax: 620-341-5607.
About the University: Emporia State University is a
small public university ( ~6,500 students) located in the
beautiful Flint Hills region of Kansas. The university
has built its reputation on quality teaching, research,
and service, and strives to keep classroom sizes small to
promote high-impact learning experiences. Please visit
the ESU website (https://www.emporia.edu) and the
departmental website (https://biology.emporia.edu).
Darren Rebar <drebar@emporia.edu >
Ewha Korea
PlantSystematicsEcology
Division of EcoScience at Ewha Womans University,
in Seoul, Korea, invites application for a faculty posi-
tion in plant systematics or/and plant ecology. It is
a tenure-track full-time position at the ranks of either
Assistant or Associate Professor starting in March 2021.
Applicants must have PhD degree in biological science
and at least two years of post-doctoral research expe-
rience. The candidate will teach, in both Korean and
English, minimum 6 credit hours (approximately two
lecture courses) per semester, including graduate classes,
and establish a strong research program leading to pub-
lications in major journals in the elds of ecology and
evolutionary biology. Applicants must submit informa-
tion and statements to the faculty recruitment system
of Ewha (https://faculty.ewha.ac.kr) which will be open
for application from August 31 to September 14.
Yuseob <yuseob@ewha.ac.kr >
Harvard AncientDNA
Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Data Manager,Harvard Medical
School Job Code 52391BR (Apply here: https:/-/sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/-
Home?partnerid%240&siteidS41#jobDetails30332 5341)
Job Summary
We oer an opportunity to support a cutting-edge lab-
oratory that has so far been responsible for producing
more than half of the world's ancient DNA data. The
successfulcandidate will assume a computational biolo-
gist/data scientist position and will work closely with
scientists in the lab studying DNA from human remains
up to 20,000 years ago.
Under limited supervision, this role is responsible for
computational data analysis of the assigned project. Col-
laborates and consults with researchers and scientists
to analyzeproblems, recommend technology-based solu-
tions, and design computational strategies for a project.
Contributes to the design, development, implementa-
tion, and testing of bio-computing tools. Ability to
communicate analyzed data to analysts writing scien-
tic papers
An article on our laboratory ancient DNA work can
be found here:https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/-
20/science/david-reich-human-migrations.html The
John Templeton Foundation \Ancient DNA Atlas of
Humanity" initiative that will support this work is
described here: https://www.templeton.org/news/-
john-templeton-foundation-awards-15-5m-for-ancient-
dna-atlas-of-humanity This is an ideal opportunity for
candidates with several dierent backgrounds:
- Recent graduates with college or masters degrees in
bioinformatics or computer science more generally - Ex-
perienced bioinformatician with a background in pro-
cessing genomic data. - Experienced data scientist who
has broad experience working with data and databases
We are looking for candidates intending to stay for an
extended period (at least threeyears).
Job-Specic Responsibilities
(1) Processing data through a bioinformatic pipeline
and working with its software engineer designers to im-
prove the pipeline:Our laboratory team is constantly
producing new genetic data. Each year, we produce
trillions of new DNA sequences on more than ten thou-
sand ancient individuals. We need aperson who will
take charge of day-to-day computational processing this
stream of data, taking the sequences from their raw
form (as the data are generated by DNA sequencers)to
a processed form that can be used by analysts writing
scientic papers based on the data. We have a full-time
software engineer who has built a software pipeline that
makesthis processing ecient, but the processing needs
to be actively supervised, and frequently repeated with
new parameter settings or redone depending on the32 EvolDir September 1, 2020
needs of particularanalyses. This is an exciting position
that will put the person who lls the position at the
heart of the work in our laboratory, and will involve
active communication with laboratory-based personnel,
with senior software engineers constantly working to im-
prove our data processing capabilities, and with analysts
writing scientic papers
(2) Extracting data from published papers, incorporat-
ing it into the laboratory's dataset, curating datasets,
and harmonizing meta-data:Second major area of re-
sponsibility will be to download data published by a
variety of scientic groups onto our computers, and re-
process this externally generated to make it ispossible
to co-analyze with data generated by our group. Dif-
ferent scientic groups upload data to public databases
in a variety of formats, and process their data in a
variety ofways, and a key aspect of this position will
be to grapple with this variety of formats, reprocess
data when necessary, and create a homogeneous com-
bine dataset that can bereliably analyzed. Importantly,
the person who lls this position will not only be down-
loading data but will also need to download meta-data
(for example, information on the locationand age of the
ancient individuals which needs to be extracted from
scientic papers), so that users of the data can have this
information available for their analyses
Basic Qualications - Bachelor's degree in computer
science, data science experience preferred
- Fluency in a scripting language (e.g. Python or Perl)
- Linux/Unix prociency
Additional Qualications - Some experience in biology
or genomics
- SQL database experience
- High-Performance Computing experience (SLURM)
- Interest in anthropology, archaeology or history (need
not be professional)
- Excellent written, documentation, and oral communi-
cation skills
- Ability to multi-task
Additional Information This is a one-year term position
with strong potential for renewal.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlIndianaU BioinformaticAnalyst
The National Center for Genome Analysis Support (NC-
GAS), housed at Indiana University in Bloomington,
Indiana, has an opening for a Bioinformatic Analyst.
We are looking to hire someone with a biological and
computational background, a willingness to learn new
skills on the job, and help us toward our goal to reduce
computational roadblocks to genomic research.
Who we are: The National Center for Genome Anal-
ysis Support (NCGAS) helps the U.S. biological re-
search community analyze, understand, and make use
of the vast amount of genomic information now avail-
able. Primary focus areas include transcriptome- and
genome-level assembly, phylogenetics, and metagenomic,
meta-transcriptomic, and community genomic analysis.
NCGAS is a collaborative project between Indiana Uni-
versity (IU) and the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
(PSC) at Carnegie Mellon University.
Through NCGAS, users can access: - Compute resources
at IU and XSEDE. - Curated software packages main-
tained on high-performance computing (HPC) clusters.
- Consulting time and expertise from NCGAS sta. -
Training materials and workshops about genomics and
related HPC tools.
These services at no cost to NSF-funded researchers (or
those doing similar work). All researchers may obtain
computational and storage resources on a fee-for-service
basis from NCGAS.
NCGAS is aliated with the Indiana University Perva-
sive Technology Institute (PTI) as a Cyberinfrastructure
and Service Center. PTI Service and Cyberinfrastruc-
ture centers focus on developing and delivering leading-
edge services that benet the university, the state of
Indiana, and the national scholarly community. Please
see our website (ncgas.org) for more information on our
services, sta, and activities.
General duties of the job include: -Working indepen-
dently and as part of a coordinated team, provides
computational-biology consulting for life science re-
searchers at Indiana University and nationally, with
an emphasis on the appropriate use of existing applica-
tions.
-Acts as a representative of IU and NCGAS in outreach
and training, presenting at meetings and project-relatedSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 33
sessions, and presents technical information to inter-
ested groups and constituencies. Trains, mentors and
provides guidance and feedback to co-workers - and
REU students - less experienced in areas of expertise.
-Working independently, installs, congures, customizes,
and supports analytical software for genomics and other
'omics research on IU research computing systems. This
includes appropriate developer, administrator, and user
documentation for software and gateways like Galaxy
and GenePattern.
-Works with individual researchers within IU and na-
tionally to provide intellectual contributions to their
projects, publications, and grants.
-Performs metrics of performance and participates in
grant and report writing in support of the goals of
NCGAS, Science Community Tools, and Research Tech-
nologies.
-Performs other professional duties as assigned.
Please feel free to send questions about the opening to
Dr. Sheri Sanders, NCGAS Manager, at ss93@iu.edu.
For more details to be found
here: https://hrms.indiana.edu/psc/-
PH1PRD PUB/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/-
HRS HRAM FL.HRS CGSEARCH FL.GBL?Page=-
HRS APP SCHJOB FL&Action=U Sheri Sanders
Manager (Acting), Bioinformatic Analyst National
Center for Genome Analysis and Support (NCGAS)
NCGAS is a management unit of the Research Tech-
nologies division of UITS; NCGAS is aliated with the
Indiana University Pervasive Technology Institute.
\Sanders, Sheri" <ss93@iu.edu >
JohnInnesCentre UK ResAssist
PlantEvolution
Research Assistant
Salary: 32,255 - 39,345 depending on qualications and
experience. Contract: Full-time, 23 months Location:
John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK. Closing date: 10
September 2020 Reference: 1003931
An exciting opportunity has arisen for a Research Assis-
tant to join the Byers Group at the John Innes Centre.
About the John Innes Centre:
The John Innes Centre is an independent, internationalcentre of excellence in plant science, genetics and micro-
biology. We nurture a creative, curiosity led approach
to answering fundamental questions in bioscience, and
translate that knowledge into societal benets.
Our employees enjoy access to state-of-the-art technol-
ogy and a diverse range of specialist training opportuni-
ties, including support for leadership and management.
Click here to nd out more about working at the John
Innes Centre.
About the Byers Group:
Dr. Byers started at JIC in August 2020, so this is a
chance to help build a lab from the ground up and con-
tribute your expertise and passion to the group and its
culture. The lab is a part of the Cell and Developmental
Biology department and the Genes in the Environment
ISP at the John Innes Centre.
The group studies the eect of oral scent on the evo-
lution of owering plants from a genetic, phenotypic,
and ecological perspective, focusing particularly on how
it drives interactions with animal pollinators. We use
several dierent plant systems, including monkeyow-
ers (Mimulus), orchids (Gymnadenia), and bedstraws
(Galium).
The role:
As a Research Assistant, your role will be to manage the
lab's day to day aairs, including managing a wet molec-
ular and chemical ecology lab, greenhouse/glasshouse
plant populations, and potentially assisting with eld-
work both within the UK and in the United States and
central Europe. You may be asked to assist others in the
lab with experiments and tasks, including Postdoctoral
Researchers and PhD students, and there may be the
scope to develop some of your own interests as well,
pending funding, space, and time availability.
Depending on your project involvement, you may also
be asked to help prepare or edit manuscripts (for which
you would receive authorship credit where appropriate)
and talks for publication and presentation. Work will
be primarily with plants, but may also include work
with pollinating insects, including bees (subject to a
risk assessment for e.g. allergies). You will be an active
part of the lab group.
The ideal candidate:
The ideal candidate will have at least a BSc (under-
graduate) degree in life sciences with wet lab expe-
rience. A Master's or PhD in life sciences or equiv-
alent experience is desirable. You'll be passionate
about science! You will have experience with molec-
ular biology and genetics techniques (ideally includ-
ing plant transformation through e.g. VIGS, Agrobac-34 EvolDir September 1, 2020
terium, CRISPR, etc., as well as library preparation
for genome/transcriptome/marker sequencing), strong
record-keeping skills (e.g. lab notebook, collections
maintenance, data storage and organisation) and a
strong command of written and spoken English. You'll
also be comfortable maintaining the lab on a day to
day basis, including developing standard operating pro-
cedures, ordering and maintaining laboratory supplies,
managing and disposing of chemical inventory safely,
and working with greenhouse/glasshouse plant collec-
tions. You will have experience with plant cultivation
and plant science.
You will be comfortable working both independently
and as a member of a larger team, as well as having
good time management, attention to detail, and priori-
tisation skills. You'll be comfortable collaborating with
international and local colleagues from diverse cultures
and backgrounds. You will be able to travel locally and
internationally for e.g. collaborations, meetings, and
eldwork, and may be asked to work limited unsociable
hours for crucial experiments. Some eldwork may take
place in remote areas without public transport access
(but reasonable adjustments will be considered in the
case of a disability).
Additional information:
The position is available for 23 months in the rst in-
stance, with the possibility of further renewal.
Interviews will be held in early October either in per-
son or via video conference depending on travel needs
and current restrictions; no particular preference will be
given to candidates who are able to interview in person.
For further information and details of how to apply,
please visit our web site http://jobs.jic.ac.uk or con-
tact the Human Resources team on 01603 450462 or
nbi.recruitment@nbi.ac.uk quoting reference 1003931.
We are an equal opportunities employer, actively sup-
porting inclusivity and diversity, and particularly encour-
age applications from individuals often underrepresented
in STEM, including racial and ethnic minorities, Indige-
nous, and BAME individuals; LGBTQIA+ individuals;
individuals
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMortonArboretum USA
BiologicalIntegration
The Morton Arboretum invites applications for a
part-time, term-limited (16 months) project assis-
tant for the Design phase of a tree-focused Biology
Integration Institute (https://www.nsf.gov/funding/-
pgm summ.jsp?pims id=505684).
The Biology Integration Institute (BII) program at the
National Science Foundation is a new initiative to create
a multi-disciplinary research center that brings together
expertise from numerous elds of science to address big
general questions confronting modern biology. During
the design process our team will better dene our sci-
entic theme and questions, the scope and schedule of
projects and activities, culminating in the submission of
a proposal to the National Science Foundation for the
full implementation grant in January 2022.
The successful candidate will work closely with the Direc-
tor and scientists in the Center for Tree Science (CTS),
Arboretum sta in several other departments, and a
diverse national group of collaborators. The successful
candidate will play a critical role in organizing, facili-
tating, and documenting discussions on the scientic,
logistic, and educational objectives of the BII. While
the successful candidate should have knowledge of plant
biology, preferably with an undergraduate degree in a
related eld, strong communication, organizational and
interpersonal skills and documented experience in sci-
ence communication and/or meeting facilitation are a
key to success. The position will involve arranging vir-
tual meetings among participants dispersed across the
country, helping facilitate and maintain notes during
group meetings, facilitating frequent communication,
and ensuring the team meets deadlines.
Given the expected sustained impact of COVID-19 on
travel and in-person meetings, we anticipate that much
of the work, at least the rst eight months, will be
performed from the successful candidate's home. For
this reason and because virtual collaboration and coor-
dination of the project is essential, we will not require
that the successful candidate move to the Chicago re-
gion. Hopefully, once travel and in-person meetings are
feasible again, the assistant will join us at the Arbore-
tum for short scheduled periods to work in-person and
potentially join team visits to collaborator sites.September 1, 2020 EvolDir 35
Expectations include being self-motivated with an abil-
ity to work independently; the ability to manage virtual
meetings involving numerous participants and presen-
ters, take detailed technical notes, integrate perspectives
from multiple viewpoints, and clearly and eectively
communicate the notes and products from these meet-
ings; support and facilitation of the development and
writing of the nal Full Implementation proposal; pro-
ducing reports and making presentations for broader
public audiences.
Qualications: Bachelor's degree prefered, with demon-
strated experience in science communication or pro-
gram coordination. Working knowledge of plant biology
or relevant biological discipline strongly recommended.
Strong organization and independent working skills re-
quired. Prociency with a variety of web-based and
software platforms, particularly for teleconferencing and
digital content sharing, and Microsoft Oce or Google
applications benecial.
Applications may be submitted until the position
is lled; applications received by Sept 14 are guar-
anteed consideration. A start date in September
2020 is preferred. Please address your questions
to Dr. Chuck Cannon at cts bii@mortonarb.org.
Please apply here: https://careers.hireology.com/-
themortonarboretum/431866/description {
Sean Hoban jTree Conservation Biologist jThe
Morton Arboretum 4100 Illinois Rt 53, 3rd Floor
Research Bldg, room 324, Lisle, IL 630-719-2419 j
shoban@mortonarb.org jTweets @seanmhoban
Our recent major paper in Proceedings B Taxonomic
similarity does not predict necessary sample size for ex
situ conservation Recent letter in Science: Post 2020
goals overlook genetic diversity
Recent publication in Biological Conservation: Genetic
diversity targets and indicators in the CBD post-2020
Global Biodiversity Framework must be improved with
policy summary in 2 pages (in 8 languages) here
research webpage: http://sites.google.com/-
site/hoban3/ ResearchGate Prole: http://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Sean Hoban/ food
blog: http://cuisineraveclevin.blogspot.it/ Sean Hoban
<shoban@mortonarb.org >Museum Illinois STEMEducation
Museum Education Lead <https://earlham.edu/-
human-resources-and-business-operations/current-
openings/?job=72011 >(FTE)
August 11, 2020 Description
The Joseph Moore Museum of Natural History, on the
campus of Earlham College, seeks a creative, enthusi-
astic, and motivated educator to lead a revitalization
of our educational programs and college student tour
guide training program. The Museum Education Lead
will strengthen our undergraduate interpreter training
program to better prepare our undergraduate educa-
tors to teach condently and update the delivery of our
school programs to provide online learning options and
ensure learner-centered experiences aligned with cur-
rent best practices in informal education. As a natural
history museum within a small liberal arts college of
~1,000 students, we provide professional museum train-
ing for undergraduates while simultaneously oering
educational programming for PreK-12 and the public in
a geographic area of high poverty and STEM education
need.
The Lead will work with the museum director, collec-
tions manager, administrative assistant, student leaders,
college faculty/sta, and community members to design
and facilitate delivery of inquiry-based programs featur-
ing our museum collections. Our programs cover a wide
variety of topics ranging from biomedical science to Na-
tive American studies, with new programming planned
for high school audiences. The Lead must be passionate
about working with Earlham College students, providing
sustained support for their growth as museum educators
as part of their college learning experiences. This is a
full time, 12 month, 3 year, grant-funded position sup-
ported by a part-time administrative assistant. Primary
Duties & Responsibilities
- Supervise, train and mentor Earlham College under-
graduate student sta in outreach (i.e. interacting with
the public through tours, events, and museum hosting
during open hours). The majority of the Education
Lead's work is teaching and supporting students who
engage with the community, though the Lead will also
lead some programs. Tour guide training is a contin-
uous process and will use methods from the National
Association for Interpretation and Reecting on Prac-
tice. - Plan and implement community educational36 EvolDir September 1, 2020
programs for the Joseph Moore Museum in line with
the museum's mission and vision, including designing,
scheduling, stang/leading, publicizing and promot-
ing educational programming, including eld trips that
meet state standards throughout the school year and in
summer. In fall 2020, programming will need to be both
converted to virtual experiences and administered online.
- Plan and implement special events to connect Earlham
community members with each other and the broader
Wayne County community around topics of importance
to science and society. Must be available on evenings
and weekends to oversee events. - Document, assess
and report on community engagement to the Director.
This includes keeping daily statistics on program atten-
dance, student tour leader performance and diversity
and inclusion practices. - Build and maintain sustained
relationships with teachers in the community and on
campus - Assist with exhibits, including maintenance,
refurbishment and design, ensuring a strong connection
between outreach and the physical exhibits.
Experience & Qualications
- Experience providing informal science education to
children and youth - A commitment to the eld of
museum education and an interest in continued study
in pedagogical strategies and practices - Ability to en-
gage, challenge, and interest young people in the natural
world - Experience designing and implementing devel-
opmentally appropriate curricula - Experience working
in customer service roles, ideally in a museum or non-
prot environment - Experience in a supervisory role -
Strong organizational skills and attention to detail with
a proven ability to manage multiple tasks and priorities,
plan ahead, anticipate and articulate program needs -
Ability to problem-solve, be exible, and imaginative
- Ability to work independently and as a team - BS
in biology/geology and/or education, or museum stud-
ies with an education focus, demonstrated college-level
understanding of science - Preferred: Masters degree,
appropriate Indiana or Ohio teacher license, experience
with Reecting on Practice Program and/or NAI certi-
cation process
Application Instructions
Qualied applicants should send a letter of interest, re-
sume, contact information for three references and a
hyperlink to a 5-minute sample science education video
for a single grade in the range of 3rd to 12th grade
(specify grade level) all in a single pdf le to:
Human Resources Oce Earlham College
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NHM Vienna Bioinformatician
We are pleased to announce that the Natural History
Museum Vienna is opening a position for a bioinformati-
cian. Please, feel free to spread the information.
https://www.nhm-wien.ac.at/en/information/-
jobs https://www.nhm-wien.ac.at/information/-
stellenausschreibungen Dr. Luise Kruckenhauser
Molekulare Systematik Zentrale Forschungslaboratorien
Naturhistorisches Museum Wien Burgring 7, A-1010
Wien Tel.: +43 1 52177-403
Kruckenhauser Luise <luise.kruckenhauser@NHM-
WIEN.AC.AT >
StMarysC Maryland
EvolutionaryBiology
Evolutionary Biologists are encouraged to apply.
The Department of Biology at St. Mary's College of
Maryland invites applications for a tenure-track *as-
sistant professor in plant biology* position beginning
August 2021. We are particularly excited about, but
not limited to, applicants with a focus on cellular pro-
cesses. Teaching responsibilities include participating
in biology core courses as needed (Contemporary Bio-
sciences, Principles of Biology I, Principles of Biology
II, Genetics, Ecology and Evolution) and upper division
electives in their specialty. Ph.D. required; postdoc-
toral training and/or teaching experience preferred. An
interest in attracting and retaining students from under-
represented groups is desirable. Because both teaching
and research are highly valued, we seek candidates with
a commitment to excellence in teaching as well as an
active research program that has the potential to involve
undergraduates. Employment will be contingent upon
successful completion of a criminal background check.
Non-sectarian since its founding, St. Mary's College
of Maryland is a public Carnegie Baccalaureate, Arts
and Sciences institution which has been designated as
Maryland's public honors college. We are located inSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 37
St. Mary's City, 70 miles southeast of Washington,
D.C. With selective admissions policies, academically
talented students, and a rigorous curriculum, we oer a
small college experience similar to that found at excep-
tional private colleges. St. Mary's faculty benet from
a comprehensive program of support for scholarship,
research, travel, and curriculum development, including
course releases for pre- ^A'tenure faculty and leaves for
tenured faculty. The quality of life is enhanced by the
recreational opportunities of the Chesapeake region and
by our proximity to Washington, D.C. and Baltimore.
St. Mary's College (www.smcm.edu) embodies diversity
and inclusion in its mission. We create an environment
that recognizes the value of individual and group dif-
ferences and we encourage inquiries from applicants
who will contribute to our cultural and ethnic diversity.
Application materials should include a cover letter in
which candidate includes how his/her teaching at the
College will contribute to a culture of inclusion and
campus diversity, curriculum vitae (including e-mail ad-
dress), statement of ceaching philosophy, statement of
research interests, and evidence of teaching eectiveness
(if available). Applicants should also arrange for the
submission of three condential letters of recommenda-
tion. Applicants can request condential letters through
their Interfolio Dossier account, and may be uploaded
for free by the letter writer directly to our Interfolio-
hosted account for committee review. Applications are
being accepted online at: *apply.interfolio.com/78068 <
http://apply.interfolio.com/78068 >*. Questions may
be directed to Dr. Aileen Bailey.
Review of applications will begin September 14, 2020
and continue until the position is lled. St. Mary's
College of Maryland is an armative action/equal op-
portunity employer.
Visit our website: *www.smcm.edu/hr* Employment
will be contingent upon successful completion of a crim-
inal background check.
kjemerson@smcm.edu
|{
Evolutionary Biologists are encouraged to apply.
The Department of Biology at St. Mary's College of
Maryland invites applications for a tenure-track *as-
sistant professor in plant biology* position beginning
August 2021. We are particularly excited about, but
not limited to, applicants with a focus on cellular pro-
cesses. Teaching responsibilities include participating
in biology core courses as needed (Contemporary Bio-
sciences, Principles of Biology I, Principles of Biology
II, Genetics, Ecology and Evolution) and upper division
electives in their specialty. Ph.D. required; postdoc-toral training and/or teaching experience preferred. An
interest in attracting and retaining students from under-
represented groups is desirable. Because both teaching
and research are highly valued, we seek candidates with
a commitment to excellence in teaching as well as an
active research program that has the potential to involve
undergraduates. Employment will be contingent upon
successful completion of a criminal background check.
Non-sectarian since its founding, St. Mary's College
of Maryland is a public Carnegie Baccalaureate, Arts
and Sciences institution which has been designated as
Maryland's public honors college. We are located in St.
Mary's City, 70 miles southeast of Washington, D.C.
With selective admissions policies, academically talented
students, and a rigorous curriculum, we oer a small
college experience similar to that found at exceptional
private colleges. St. Mary's faculty benet from a com-
prehensive program of support for scholarship, research,
travel, and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Surrey UK BiodiversityMonitoring
Senior Operational Scientist Location: Surrey, United
Kingdom Salary: 45 000 - 50 000+ - depending on
experience Start: Immediately Duration: Permanent
Applications are invited for an operational scientist role
to work with a rapidly expanding science-based start-up
company.
NatureMetrics is a high growth, biotech start-up with an
exciting potential for combining commercial excellence
with a positive impact on nature and the environment.
Our amazing team of scientists has commercialised a pro-
cess to bring DNA-based monitoring technologies to the
frontline of environmental management and biodiversity
conservation around the world.
We are excited to be disrupting the world of biodiversity
monitoring, by accelerating the power and pace of data
acquisition in sectors such as the agriculture, infrastruc-
ture and extractive industries. We've already delivered
client projects across three continents. Now we want to
scale up our operations, increasing throughput whilst38 EvolDir September 1, 2020
maintaining the highest possible quality standards. We
will also continue to further develop our methods and
processes and optimise new assays and technologies into
a wider set of fully commercial product oerings.
Trading since early 2016, we have established ourselves
as the leading provider of DNA-based monitoring ser-
vices in the UK, as well as building a presence in Scandi-
navia, Latin America, Africa and South-East Asia. We
have established strong relationships with key players
in industry, policy and academia nationally and interna-
tionally, poising us for rapid growth over the next few
years. We are currently a team of over 20 people which
is continuing to rise over the coming months. Further,
we anticipate that we will more than double the volume
of samples processed in the next 2 years.
To apply, please email careers@naturemetrics.co.uk in-
cluding both a CV and covering letter as soon as pos-
sible. There is no xed deadline for applications, and
the position will be held open until we nd the right
candidate.
Roles & responsibilities General . Experience in man-
aging a lab and a lab team. This role will currently
be managing 6 labs, 6 scientists and a lab manager.
. Experience in extraction of DNA and working with
high throughput sequencing techniques including, im-
portantly; MiSeq, qPCR. . Experience in research and
new product development . Experience in delivering
quality product at scale preferably with some commer-
cial scale experience . Experience in setting up a lab.
This role will work with a design consultant to bring the
company a lab that is able to scale up quickly as well
as to ensure our extremely high-quality standards are
set and maintained in our new, larger HQ . Experience
of working to maximise eciency of costs, resources
and delivery time in the lab . Experience in overseeing
quality control and bringing in new and innovative tech-
nologies and methods. . Ability to bring in automation
and process optimisation to the business. . Ability to
work closely with our head of product validation to drive
new product development from a laboratory delivery
perspective, ensuring accuracy and eciency . Ability
to drive product delivery - organise the lab technicians
on a day to day basis and working closely with the
lab manager to ensure that samples are processed in
a timely manner in accordance with client deadlines. .
Role will be responsible for working towards an ISO
accreditation.
Communication . Reporting to our Director of Oper-
ations with a dotted line to our Head of Science and
managing our Lab Manager. . Overseeing the lab team
and working closely with the operations and business
development teams to understand how our products canbe developed and rened. . Role will bridge the gap
between the lab team and the operations teams.
Safety Use COSHH and risk assessments, oversee com-
pliance with company procedures and HSE legal require-
ments
Person Specication Education & qualications . A
PhD is not necessary, but it would be an advantage.
Specialist knowledge & skills . Understanding of issues
relating to scale up of molecular labs, innovation, HSE,
excellence in product delivery, eciency and process
optimisation.
Interpersonal & communication skills . Organised &
meticulous with eective communication skills . Able
to work independently and as part of a team . Dynamic
& exible with the ability to work with a variety of
dierent people at dierent levels Relevant experience
. The preferred candidate will have at least 3 years
experience in overseeing a lab and managing a team. .
Experience in working in a molecular lab and working
with DNA.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UAmsterdam EvolutionBehaviour
The Faculty of Science at the University of Amsterdam
has a vacancy for an assistant professor in Cognitive
behavioral ecology to develop empirical research on the
evolution and development of cognitive abilities, and to
develop courses in the eld of Evolutionary Psychobi-
ology and Evolutionary Anthropology. This position
oers many opportunities for collaborations at dier-
ent interdisciplinary, interfaculty and university levels
within the elds of biology, psychobiology, anthropology
and sociology. This eld also oers opportunities for
long-term public collaborations with the Amsterdam zoo
ARTIS. Teaching will be ~50% of the activities, while
the other duties (50%) consist of research, organisation,
acquiring funding and outreach activities. For more
information, see:
https://www.uva.nl/en/content/vacancies/2020/-
08/20-501-assistant-professor-cognitive-behavioural-
ecology.html?origin=dxuSI3bDRY2CW7N9J3yPlw
Application deadline: 7 September 2020September 1, 2020 EvolDir 39
\Groot, Astrid" <a.t.groot@uva.nl >
UBath MicrobiologyEvolution
Revealing Rewiring Routes to Natural Selection: mak-
ing predictions on gene regulatory network evolution
based on gene co-expression proles
Come and join the Taylor lab at the University of Bath,
UK (https://tianybtaylor.wordpress.com/) as a full-
time research assistant on a 13-month xed-term con-
tract funded by a Royal Society 2020 Enhancement
Award.
Project description: How are opportunities for rewiring
events between gene regulatory networks (GRNs) re-
vealed to selection? Previous work has shown that
GRNs are dynamical such that connections are forged
and lost frequently across an evolutionary timescale. We
predict network activity to be a key factor in revealing
opportunities for rewiring events between previously
disconnected networks, facilitating novel genetic inno-
vations. With a microbial model system, you will use
experimental evolution combined with molecular ma-
nipulations to explore the role of environmentally con-
tingent network activity in predicting rewiring between
GRNs using motility rescue as a model system. This will
inform our understanding of the role the environment
plays in shaping GRN arrangement, with the potential
for dierent environments to rewire GRNs dierently.
Location: This project will be conducted under the
direct supervision of Dr Tiany B. Taylor, and based
within the Department of Biology and Biochemistry at
the University of Bath (UK) in the new Milner Centre
for Evolution (http://www.bath.ac.uk/groups/milner-
centre-for-evolution/).
Requirements: We are looking for a biology graduate
who has a strong interest in genetics, microbiology and
evolution. Some practical experience in microbiology
and molecular techniques is highly desired. The suc-
cessful candidate will be enthusiastic, highly motivated,
independent, have experience in microbiology, molecular
biology or evolutionary biology (or a combination), and
have a relevant degree. The applicant must meet the
standard University of Bath English language require-
ments.
Planned start date: 1 September 2020 (13 months fund-
ing)
Contact: For informal enquiries please contactTiany Taylor T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk. Apply via
the University website: https://www.bath.ac.uk/-
jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=CC7550 Tiany Taylor
<tt515@bath.ac.uk >
UCalifornia LosAngeles
ConservationGenomics LabTech
We are looking to hire a lab assistant in the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University
of California, Los Angeles.
The position will primarily support the laboratory re-
search requirements of the California Conservation Ge-
nomics Project, a state-wide initiative that seeks to as-
semble a large multispecies genomic data set for Califor-
nia's wild taxa. The position involves processing tissue
and DNA/RNA extracts for next-generation sequenc-
ing in a high-throughput research setting. Previous
experience in a molecular biology laboratory is prefer-
able. The successful candidate will have a demonstrated
ability to work with some supervision on large-scale
projects that require attention to detail and molecular
skills. If time permits, the employee may also help with
similar research tasks supporting related projects. The
Lab Assistant will also be responsible for some general
lab management, including equipment maintenance and
supply stock ordering.
Please see full job description and apply online:
hr.mycareer.ucla.edu/applicants/Central?quickFindy221.
Thanks you!
Happy hand washing, ~Tara ~
Tara Luckau Lab Manager, UCLA Shaer Lab tk-
luckau@ucla.edu j310.825.5063 pronouns: she/her/hers
TARA LUCKAU <tkluckau@ucla.edu >
UCincinnati TeachingEvolution
Hi all,
For those of you who are interested in the philosophy of
science, science communication, and science outreach,
the University of Cincinnati is hiring a full-time posi-
tion for a person to act as the Executive Director of40 EvolDir September 1, 2020
the Philosophy of Science Association (0.75 FTE) and
the Program Director for the UC Center for Public En-
gagement with Science (0.25 FTE). More details are
below. I encourage you to apply and/or forward this to
potentially interested parties.
All my best,
Nate
Nathan Morehouse
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sciences
University of Cincinnati 711H Rieveschl Hall Cincin-
nati, OH 45221-0006 Oce: (513) 556-9757 colorevo-
lution@uc.edu https://homepages.uc.edu/~morehonn/
@morehouselab <https://twitter.com/morehouselab >
\Il y a un autre monde mais il est dans celui-ci." - Paul
~Aluard
\One can give nothing whatever without giving oneself
that is to say, risking oneself. If one cannot risk one-
self, then one is simply incapable of giving." - James
Baldwin
***
The University of Cincinnati (UC) seeks to ll a full-
time sta position to serve as Executive Director of the
Philosophy of Science Association (PSA) <https://-
www.philsci.org >and Program Director for the UC
Center for Public Engagement with Science <https://-
ucengagingscience.org >. We invite applications from
candidates with an interest in nonprot leadership, bud-
gets and fundraising, and philosophy of science. Ex-
perience in these areas is desired but not required, as
is an advanced degree in philosophy or another disci-
pline in the humanities or sciences. Minimum degree
requirement is a Bachelor's degree.
Approximately three-quarters of the job (or 0.75 FTE)
is dedicated to serving as Executive Director (ED) of
the PSA. The ED is the executive leader and public
face of the PSA, responsible for overseeing the organiza-
tion's administration, programs, and strategic planning.
The ED works closely with the President, Governing
Board, and PSA committees to develop and implement
initiatives that further the mission of the organization,
such as public outreach, expanding and diversifying the
membership, and fundraising. Key responsibilities in-
clude managing business oce operations, including the
website and member communications, facilitating board
meetings, serving as the principal liaison with the edi-
tors and publisher of the journal Philosophy of Science,
and above all ensuring the successful functioning of PSA
biennial conferences.
The remaining one-quarter (or 0.25 FTE) is dedicated
to serving as Program Director for the UC Center forPublic Engagement with Science. This Center is an inter-
disciplinary initiative to expand and enrich the interface
between science and the public to benet all stakehold-
ers. The Program Director will serve on the Center's
leadership team, managing organizational matters, bud-
get and fundraising, and performing other activities
congruent with PSA ED responsibilities.
This is a continuing, twelve-month appointment with
an annual salary of $60,000 and benets. Start date is
negotiable with the aim of October 19, 2020.
Application Process Interested and qualied candi-
dates must complete the online application at UC's
recruitment website (link <https://jobs.uc.edu/job/-
Cincinnati-Program-Director,-Philosophy-OH-45201/-
664573400/ >). In addition to the online application,
please include a cover letter detailing your qualications
and interest in the position, curriculum vitae or resume,
and the names of at least three references (who will
not be contacted without advance notication to the
applicant). Review of applications will begin on August
24, 2020, and will continue until the position is lled.
The University of Cincinnati, as a multi-national and
culturally diverse university, is committed to providing
an inclusive, equitable and diverse place of learning and
employment. As part of a complete job application you
will be asked to include a Contribution to Diversity and
Inclusion statement.
The University of Cincinnati is an Armative Action
/ Equal Opportunity Employer / Minority / Female /
Disability / Veteran.
\Morehouse, Nathan (morehonn)"
<morehonn@ucmail.uc.edu >
UIC Chicago EcoEvoDevo
The Alexander Shingleton Lab at University of Illinois
at Chicago invites applications for Visiting Research
Specialist. Successful candidate will conduct research
on the regulation and evolution of gene-environment
interactions by rearing, crossing and maintaining fruit
ies (Drosophila melanogaster); conducting functional
analysis of developmental physiology by generating ies
that contain specic combinations of transgenic con-
structs designed to modify gene expression and/or pro-
tein function within specic tissues; rearing ies under
a range of environmental conditions (variation in tem-
perature, nutrition and oxygen level); assaying eectsSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 41
of environmental variation and/or changes in gene ex-
pression/protein function on y growth development
and adult morphology; dissecting tissues from larval
and adult ies; mounting dissected materials on slides;
imaging dissected materials using transmitted and inci-
dental light microscopy; using image analysis software
to measure morphology of dissected materials; collating
morphological data from various sources for statisti-
cal analysis; conducting statistical analysis; managing
teams of junior researchers in data collection; assisting
with the general function of the lab through purchasing
supplies and equipment necessary for research. They
will both conduct their own research and assist with the
principle investigator's research.
Key Responsibilities/Duties:
- Generate and maintain Drosophila strains
- Conduct genetic crosses
- Dissect adult and larval Drosophila
- Mount dissected material on slides
- Image dissected material using both transmitted and
incidental light microscopy
- Collate database of morphological measurements
- Analyze data both locally and using cloud-based re-
sources
- Develop, troubleshoot and implement new protocols
for data collection
- Supervise the operation and maintenance of highly-
specialized equipment like microscopes.
- Train and supervise undergraduate students in research
techniques, use of equipment, laboratory database usage
and other related research as needed.
- Manage data collection by undergraduate students
- Coordinate, analyze, and document results for publi-
cation
- Purchase supplies and equipment necessary for research
Minimum Requirements:
- Bachelor's degree in biological sciences required
- Minimum of 3 years of laboratory research experience
in a Drosophila genetics laboratory required
- Strong background in database management is required
- Strong background in morphometric analysis is highly
desirable
- Successful candidate should be able to walk into the
laboratory and know how to use light and uorescent
microscopes without additional trainingFor fullest consideration, submit an application, cover
letter and CV at https://jobs.uic.edu/job-board/job-
details?jobID=134856 by August 21, 2020.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is an Equal Oppor-
tunity, Armative Action employer. Minorities, women,
veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged
to apply.The University of Illinois may conduct back-
ground checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of
a contingent oer. Background checks will be performed
in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
Alexander Shingleton Associate Professor
Department of Biological Sciences The University of
Illinois at Chicago
4283 SELE, MC 067 840 West Taylor Street Chicago,
IL 60607 tel: (312) 996-0203 web: shingletonlab.org
\Shingleton, Alexander" <ashingle@uic.edu >
UIllinois Chicago GeneEnvironment
The Alexander Shingleton Lab at University of Illinois at
Chicago invites applications for Visiting Research Spe-
cialist. Successful candidate will conduct research on
gene-environment interactions by rearing, crossing and
maintaining fruit ies (Drosophila melanogaster); con-
ducting functional analysis of developmental physiology
by generating ies that contain specic combinations of
transgenic constructs designed to modify gene expression
and/or protein function within specic tissues; rearing
ies under a range of environmental conditions (variation
in temperature, nutrition and oxygen level); assaying ef-
fects of environmental variation and/or changes in gene
expression/protein function on y growth development
and adult morphology; dissecting tissues from larval
and adult ies; mounting dissected materials on slides;
imaging dissected materials using transmitted and inci-
dental light microscopy; using image analysis software
to measure morphology of dissected materials; collating
morphological data from various sources for statisti-
cal analysis; conducting statistical analysis; managing
teams of junior researchers in data collection; assisting
with the general function of the lab through purchasing
supplies and equipment necessary for research. They
will both conduct their own research and assist with the
principle investigator's research.
Key Responsibilities/Duties: - Generate and maintain
Drosophila strains - Conduct genetic crosses - Dissect
adult and larval Drosophila - Mount dissected mate-42 EvolDir September 1, 2020
rial on slides - Image dissected material using both
transmitted and incidental light microscopy - Collate
database of morphological measurements - Analyze data
both locally and using cloud-based resources - Develop,
troubleshoot and implement new protocols for data col-
lection - Supervise the operation and maintenance of
highly-specialized equipment like microscopes. - Train
and supervise undergraduate students in research tech-
niques, use of equipment, laboratory database usage
and other related research as needed. - Manage data
collection by undergraduate students - Coordinate, ana-
lyze, and document results for publication - Purchase
supplies and equipment necessary for research
Minimum Requirements: - Bachelor's degree in biologi-
cal sciences required - Minimum of 3 years of laboratory
research experience in a Drosophila genetics laboratory
required - Strong background in database management
is required - Strong background in morphometric anal-
ysis is highly desirable - Successful candidate should
be able to walk into the laboratory and know how to
use light and uorescent microscopes without additional
training
For fullest consideration, submit an application, cover
letter and CV at https://jobs.uic.edu/job-board/job-
details?jobID=134856 by August 21, 2020.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is an Equal Oppor-
tunity, Armative Action employer. Minorities, women,
veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. The University of Illinois may conduct back-
ground checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of
a contingent oer. Background checks will be performed
in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
Thank you,
Jacquelyn DeLaurentis Human Resource Associate |
Department of Biological Sciences The University of
Illinois at Chicago | 845 W Taylor St. 3238 SES, MC
066 Chicago, IL 60607 jdelaur@uic.edu
Jacquelyn DeLaurentis <jdelaur@uic.edu >
UmeaU Sweden
EvolutionaryBiology
The Faculty of Science and Technology, Umea Univer-
sity, Sweden, has opened up ve six-year positions as
assistant professor. These positions will be lled in com-
petition with applicants from all disciplines within the
faculty, including Evolutionary Biology, Genetics andEcology. Candidates should be within ve years after
PhD-defense.
The deadline for the application is 19 Oct 2020. See
the ad at: https://www.umu.se/en/work-with-us/open-
positions/up-to-ve-tenure-track-positions-as-assistant-
professor 339630/ Xiao-Ru Wang
Xiao-Ru Wang <xiao-ru.wang@umu.se >
UMuenster
TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiology
Job Announcement
The Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity (IEB) in
the Faculty of Biology at the University of M unster,
Germany, is seeking to ll a permanent position for a
Scientic Sta
einer Studienr atin/eines Studienrates im Hochschul-
dienst
(Salary Level A13, 100%)
The teaching obligation associated with this position is
13-17 (hours of instruction per week during semester),
depending on the other general tasks assigned to the
position. The weekly working time is currently 41 hours.
The primarily obligations associated with the position
involve teaching in the area of Zoology and Evolutionary
Biology, in particular organizing and running modules
for the Bachelor of Biology, Master's of Science and
Master's of Education in German and English. The
successful candidate will also be heavily involved in the
statistical education of bachelor, master's and doctoral
students in the Faculty of Biology. They will also take
over general tasks at the IEB according to her/his past
experience.
In addition to teaching, the candidate is encouraged
to develop their own research program in collaboration
with colleagues at the IEB and Faculty of Biology and
acquire third party funding.
Requirements for this position are a university degree
and a doctoral degree in biology, physics, chemistry or
mathematics, as well as comprehensive experience in the-
oretical evolutionary biology (e.g. statistical methods,
modelling, etc.).
To be eligible for \Beamtenverh altnis" (German civil
servant status) according to  c 45 LVO, the candidateSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 43
needs to be able to prove employment for 3 years and
6 months after nishing her/his university degree or
for 1 year after completing a doctoral degree. If the
requirements are not yet fullled, the candidate can in-
stead be employed as a public servant (TV-L E13) and
change to the status of \Beamtenverh altnis" at a later
stage. If the employee does not fulll the requirements
for a \Beamtenverh altnis" she/he can be permanently
employed as a public servant (TV-L E13).
The University of M unster is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and is committed to increasing the proportion of
women academics. Consequently, we actively encourage
applications by women. Female candidates with equiva-
lent qualications and academic achievements will be
preferentially considered within the framework of the
legal possibilities. The University of M unster is commit-
ted to employing more sta with disabilities. Candidates
with recognised severe disabilities who have equivalent
qualications are given preference in hiring decisions.
Applications including a CV, certicates of university
and doctoral degrees, and details of teaching experience
and publications should be sent by email as a single
PDF le to evolecol@uni-muenster.de by 1 September
2020.
https://sso.uni-muenster.de/Rektorat/Stellen/-
ausschreibungen/st 20200807 tb2.html Prof. Dr.
J urgen Gadau
Institute for Evolution und Biodiversity H uerstrae
1, 48149 https://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
molevolsocbio/ \Gadau, J urgen Rudolf" <gadauj@uni-
muenster.de >
UVirginia ResTech
HostParasiteEvolution
The Department of Biology is hiring a Lab and Re-
search Technician in the Gibson lab at the University of
Virginia in association with a recently funded project
to understand how environmental factors promote or
impede the evolution of resistance. The Research Tech-
nician will be responsible for assisting with this and
other ongoing projects in the lab.
The Gibson lab (coevolving.org) studies the evolutionary
ecology and genetics of host-parasite interactions with
the goal of understanding how organisms adapt to ram-
pant uncertainty 'V uncertainty in the species and strain
of parasite a host might encounter and uncertainty in theenvironment in which that encounter will unfold. Our re-
search makes use of the fabulous experimental tools and
resources available for the model nematode C. elegans
and its natural parasites. These include experimental
evolution with cryogenic preservation, high-throughput
phenotyping, a variety of transgenic methods, and wild
isolates with whole genome sequences. Researchers in
the lab have ample opportunity for creative experimen-
tal design, independence, and training in a variety of
skills and areas of scholarship. In joining the lab, new
members sign on to our commitment to promoting an
inclusive and safe environment, supporting all the mem-
bers of our team in realizing their full potential, and
actively valuing the creativity and productivity that
comes from the meeting of diverse minds.
Experience performing basic molecular techniques in-
cluding DNA extraction, PCR, or gel electrophoresis,
and familiarity with Excel and R is also highly preferred.
In addition, the qualied candidate will have excellent
verbal and written communication skills and the ability
to work accurately and with attention to detail.
Duties:
* Performing phenotyping assays to measure parasite
resistance * Overseeing and assisting in experimental
evolution projects * Entering and formatting data for
use by researchers developing and parameterizing math-
ematical models * Staying up to date on relevant ex-
perimental techniques and implementing these in the
lab to improve accuracy and eciency * Training under-
graduates in the lab and managing their schedules and
responsibilities * Animal husbandry, including tracking
levels of archived stocks, archiving additional stocks,
ordering new stocks, and maintaining the condition of
stocks * Ensuring normal day-to-day operations of the
lab and compliance with environmental safety standards.
The anticipated salary range for the position is $14 -
$16/hr.
This full-time position will remain open until lled.
APPLICATION PROCESS:
Process for External Applicants: Please apply
at https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/-
UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Biology-Gibson-Lab-
and-Research-Tech R0017086 .Complete an application
online and attach a cover letter, CV/resume, and
contact information for three professional references
(name, email address, telephone number, and address).
Process for Internal UVA Applicants: Please apply
through your Workday Home page, search \Find Jobs",
and search for \Biology Gibson Lab and Research Tech".
Complete an application online and attach a cover letter,44 EvolDir September 1, 2020
CV/resume, and contact information for three profes-
sional references (name, email address, telephone num-
ber, and address).
For questions about this position or the application pro-
cess please contact Rich Haverstrom, Faculty Search
Advisor, at rkh6j@virginia.edu.
The Laboratory and Research Technician role provides
career tracks for laboratory technicians, geological tech-
nicians,and laboratory animal caretakers that perform
a variety of laboratory and/or research tasks in support
of research/teaching,clinical services, geological services,
eld research or a regulatory laboratory. Employees
are responsible for a variety of standard procedures
that range from routine to specialized in the areas of
cleaning and decontamination; media preparation; per-
forming standard/routine laboratory testing; sectioning
and preparing rock and mineral samples for various min-
eralogical and laboratory analyses; preparing samples;
assisting in autopsy, necropolis, or routine surgical proce-
dures; maintaining animal health and welfare; recording
data, and operating and maintaining tools and equip-
ment.
The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health
System and the University Physician' ^As Group are fun-
damentally committed to the diversity of our faculty
and sta. We believe diversity is excellence expressing
itself through every person's perspectives and lived ex-
periences. We are equal opportunity and armative
action employers. All qualied applicants will receive
consideration for
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WestChesterU
AquaticEvolutionaryBiol
West Chester University of Pennsylvania Tenure Track
Assistant Professor of Biology Freshwater Ecologist Col-
lege of the Sciences and Mathematics
Join a vibrant campus community whose excellence
is reected in its diversity and student success. West
Chester University of Pennsylvania's Department of Bi-
ology invites applicants for the position of FreshwaterEcologist. This is a tenure-track, Assistant Professor
position starting August 2021. Actual starting salary is
commensurate with experience.
Responsibilities:
Teaching: Teaching responsibilities will include both
Wetlands and Freshwater Ecology lecture and labora-
tory sections, as well as upper division courses in the
candidate's area of expertise or graduate courses as
needed. The candidate may also be asked to teach
lecture and/or laboratory sections of General Biology
and Ecology. The teaching load at WCU is 12 student
contact hours per week per semester.
Advising: Advise biology majors regarding academic
planning and course scheduling. Faculty must schedule
5 hours of advising/consultation time each week for
students.
Research: Establish an active, externally funded re-
search program in freshwater ecology, with a eld-based
component, involving graduate and/or undergraduate
students. Faculty members are expected to present
results at national meetings and publish in refereed
journals.
Service: Contribute to the university community and
department by serving on committees, helping to recruit
potential students, and performing other services as
needed.
Requirements:
An earned doctorate in Ecology or a related discipline
is required. The selected candidate must be qualied
to teach Wetlands (lecture and laboratory), Freshwater
Ecology (lecture and laboratory), and lecture and/or
laboratory sections of General Biology and Ecology. Re-
search focus in some area of freshwater ecology, with
a eld-based component, is required. Applicants must
successfully complete the interview process, including a
teaching demonstration and a research seminar, to be
considered as a nalist.
To apply, upload a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teach-
ing philosophy statement, research statement, diver-
sity statement (please review guidance on the WCU
Biology website: https://www.wcupa.edu/sciences-
mathematics/biology/diversityStatement.aspx), and all
undergraduate and graduate unocial university tran-
scripts to the online application system at http://-
agency.governmentjobs.com/wcupa/default.cfm. In ad-
dition, provide email addresses for three references when
completing the application. An email will be sent to
each reference with information regarding how to upload
letters of recommendation into the applicant tracking
system. For any questions, contact Dr. Jessica Schedl-September 1, 2020 EvolDir 45
bauer at Search-Bio@wcupa.edu.
Review of applications will begin on 10/5/20 and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Developing and sus-
taining a diverse faculty and sta advances WCU's
educational mission and Strategic Plan, Pathways to
Student Success. West Chester University is an Ar-
mative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women,
minorities, veterans, and persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
General Information: Approximately 14,500 under-
graduate and 2,600 graduate students attend West
Chester University (WCU), located 25 miles west of
Philadelphia in scenic southeastern Pennsylvania. The
University's strategic goals (https://www.wcupa.edu/-
president/strategicPlan/default.aspx) comprise learning,
diversity and inclusion, sustainability, personal and pro-
fessional development, and community engagement. The
Department of Biology has 20 full time tenured/tenure-
track faculty, approximately 750 undergraduate majors
in six dierent concentrations, and 25+ graduate stu-
dents in the M.S. program. Microscopy equipment in
the Department includes epiuorescence microscopes,
apparatus for video microscopy, scanning and transmis-
sion electron microscopes, a laser dissection microscope,
cryostat, a microtechniques laboratory, and a spinning
disk confocal microscope with TIRF capabilities. The
Department has well-equipped teaching and research
greenhouses, as well as growth chambers. It also houses
a vertebrate collection containing over 2500 specimens
and the Darlington Herbarium, one of the most his-
torically important herbaria in the eastern U.S. with
more than 20,000 specimens. The University is home
to the 97-acre Gordon Natural Area, a protected area
containing grassland, forest, riparian, and wetland habi-
tats, available for teaching and faculty research. Also
available within the Department of Geography and Plan-
ning's Center for Geographic Information Systems and
Spatial Analysis are up to date GIS resources including
ArcGIS and Arc Hydro. For
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlWyoming Bioinformatics
The Wyoming INBRE Bioinformatics (IBC) is seeking
to expand its team with the hire of a data scientist
experienced in working with biological data. Our team
currently consists of scientists whose expertise covers
model system genetics, bacterial evolution, marine bi-
ology, forest population genomics and computational
biology.
Please see the complete post and online application in-
formation here: https://uwyo.taleo.net/careersection/-
00ex/jobdetail.ftl?job=20002838&lang=en Additional
information about the IBC can be found here: https:/-
/ibc.uwyo.online Additional information about the
WY INBRE program can be viewed here: http://-
www.uwyo.edu/wyominginbre
Education/Outreach Coordinator - - Research Scientist
in Bioinformatics - (20002838)
The University of Wyoming invites diverse applicants
to consider our employment opportunities. We are also
especially interested in candidates who have experience
working with diverse populations and/or diverse initia-
tives.
JOB TITLE: Education/Outreach Coordinator - Re-
search Scientist in Bioinformatics
RESEARCH SCIENTIST IN BIOINFORMATICS De-
partment: The NIH-funded grant Wyoming INBRE
Bioinformatics Core is seeking to hire a Research Sci-
entist. The position will support the bioinformatics
research and education activities of the Core, and will
include service (60%), teaching (30%), and research
(10%) components.
ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: The
Core serves a state-wide network that includes the Uni-
versity of Wyoming (Laramie and Casper), as well as
several community colleges, so some travel within the
state is associated with the position.
The successful applicant will collaborate with faculty
across the state to develop curricula and training in
bioinformatics skills with college and university science
instructors so that they can eectively integrate bioin-
formatics into their science curricula and help their
students prepare for the 21st century workplace, and
these activities will constitute the service component of
the positions.46 EvolDir September 1, 2020
The research component is anticipated to mostly consist
of co-authored publications arising from these collabora-
tive projects. However, as long as the service goals of the
positions are achieved, maintenance of an independent
research program will be encouraged.
The teaching component will consist of organizing and
conducting formal training activities (short courses,workshops), as well as one-on-one training sessions with
researchers.
Nicolas Blouin Associate Director, INBRE Bioinformat-
ics Core University of Wyoming
\Nicolas A. Blouin" <nblouin@uwyo.edu >
Other
Belgium Internship PlantPestInteraction . . . . . . . . . . 46
CharlesU AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Online EvolCompGen Seminars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Online EvolutionTeachingResources answers . . . . . . . 48
RobbLeary Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48Spain Internship PlantPestInteraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
StudentAwards GenesAsEnvironment DeadlineAug31
50
Belgium Internship
PlantPestInteraction
Impact of climate changes on plant-pest interaction: in-
sights from the rosy apple aphid and its apple host in a
context of domestication
Amandine Cornille?s group (http://moulon.inra.fr/-
index.php/fr/equipes/group-leader-amandine-cornille-
young-atip-avenir-team) and Tim Belien?s group
(https://be.linkedin.com/in/tim-beli%C3%ABn-
4a41164) are recruiting a Master student and a bachelor
to investigate the adaptation to climate and plant host
of aphid pests.
Lab address?(supervision): PC-Fruit pcfruit vzw Fruit-
tuinweg 1 3800 Sint-Truiden Belgium
Supervisors?: Amandine Cornille (aman-
dine.cornille@inrae.fr), Ammar Alhmedi (Am-mar.alhmedi@pcfruit.be) and Tim Belien
(tim.belien@pcfruit.be)
Project summary Understanding the extent of local
adaptation in natural populations and the mechanisms
enabling individuals to adapt to their native environ-
ment is a major avenue in evolutionary ecology research.
Host-pathogen coevolution is widely seen as a major
driver of local adaptation and has therefore been a
study model to dissect the evolutionary processes at
work during local adaptation. However, the relative
contributions of species interactions (i.e. biotic factor)
and abiotic factors to local adaptation are still unclear.
Addressing these issues is more than a simple academic
exercise. Understanding of local adaptation processes in
host-parasite interactions will also help tackling pressing
issues, such as the ways in which environmental change
alters the emergence of pathogens leading to host extinc-
tions, how to promote sustainability of agroecosystems
in the face of emerging crop diseases or in guiding for
public health practices as more human pathogens and
their vectors expand their ranges.September 1, 2020 EvolDir 47
In this project, we investigate whether local adaptation
occurred during the recent rapid colonization of culti-
vated apple by Dysaphis plantaginea, the major aphid
pest of cultivated apple orchards, in Europe. We will
carry out in April 2020 experimental tests for D. plan-
taginea tness dierences across environments (i.e. host
and climate) to investigate whether the aphid is locally
adapted to its host and/or climate. This project will
generate original results adding to our understanding
of how species interactions and abiotic conditions can
shape local adaptation.
Master project The project involves the transplant of
Belgian, French and Spanish aphid genotypes on Belgian,
French and Spanish apple varieties in three locations
(Belgian, France and Spain). The candidate will be in-
volved in the assessment of the adaptive capacities at the
ecological level of the rosy apple aphid at the BELGIAN
site located at PCFruit (Sint-Truiden, Belgium). The
project can last four (Bachelor) to six months (Master),
and will consist in participating in aphid infestations
and rearing on the eld, tree measurement, associated
statistical analyses, and nal report writing.
1) The candidate will lead the launching of the experi-
ment there during Spring 2021 by transplanting aphids
on several apple cultivars and will measure several phe-
notypic traits. The growth rate of each colony will be
measured after 12 days of infestation. Various functional
traits which are proxies of the condition of the plant
(i.e. chlorophyll content, carbon/nitrogen balance, and
avonol and anthocyanin content measured with the
Dualex? pincel) will also be measured.
2) If wanted, He/She will analyze the dataset that will
be generated.
Methodology: Statistical analyses (linear and mixed
models, R), ecophysiology, phenotypic measurement,
rearing, insect biology, eld experiment.
Prole preferred for the candidate: Ideally, the candi-
date will have skills in ecology and evolution or at least
will show strong interest in these elds. He/She will
have to be highly motivated about eld experiment, as
this one will be intense the rst two months. He/she will
not necessarily be familiar with apple or aphid model.
Deadline for submission: The sooner the better.
Duration : 2 to 4 months, starting date: March 2021,
contact Amandine CORNILLE for further discussions.
Supervision?: Amandine CORNILLE - Charg?e de
Recherche CNRS CRCN G?n?tique Quantitative et Evo-
lution - Le Moulon Ferme du Moulon 91190, Gif-sur-
Yvette, France
mail?: amandine.cornille[at]gmail.com Google Scholarprole : https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
EqIE2h8AAAAJ&hl=fr Personal page : http://-
moulon.inra.fr/index.php/fr/equipes/dygap/355 Group
page?:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU AvianEvolution
Do you like birds? Are you interested in the eld of
behavioural ecology and bioacoustics? We are looking
for a highly motivated student to join our research group
at the Department of Ecology of Charles University in
Prague.
What do we oer? A degree nal project on geographic
song variation of the spectacled warbler (Sylvia con-
spicillata). This species presents dierent migratory
strategies (sedentary in islands VS migrant in the main-
land) that might be leading to divergence in song struc-
ture in dierent populations within the same species.
We have acoustic data from islands of three dierent
archipelagos (Madeira, the Canaries and Cape Verde)
as well as from continental areas (the Iberian Peninsula).
The selected candidate will assess the song dierentia-
tion among populations within archipelagos and among
archipelagos, and also among islands and the mainland.
In order to achieve this, the student will be trained in
the use of specialized software for bioacoustics studies
such as the widely used Avisoft and Raven and the up-
and-coming Luscinia. Besides that, the student might
have the chance to get some eldwork experience by
giving a hand in other projects of this group conducted
in dierent eld sites around the Czech Republic.
This is a perfect opportunity for international students
that want to carry out their degree nal project abroad
(Bachelor's/ Master's thesis). For students from Euro-
pean universities, they can get money to cover/reduce
monthly living costs by applying for Erasmus funding
(e.g. Erasmus + traineeship grant).
Please contact the head of the lab (Tereza Petruskov a)
if you wish to apply or want to nd out more about it:
kumstatova@post.cz
Do you still want to know more about our research
group? Check the following link:48 EvolDir September 1, 2020
https://www.natur.cuni.cz/biology/ecology/research/-
ongoing-projects/bioacoustic-research-group/about
Javier O nate Casado <javiatocha@gmail.com >
Online EvolCompGen Seminars
Dear colleagues,
You are invited to the next online journal club on Evolu-
tion and Comparative Genomics organized by ISCB and
SMBE (as part of the ISCBacademy series of webinars)
on Evolution and Comparative Genomics.
The next seminar will take place next week, Monday
August 24, at 11:00AM EDT: Unravelling the mystery
of orphan genes to understand the origins of genetic
novelty by Nikos Vakirlis (BSRC Alexander Fleming).
Participation is free for any member of ISCB or SMBE,
but registration is required. Please follow the link below.
https://www.iscb.org/iscbacademy-upcoming#vakirlis
Links to the articles:
* Vakirlis, N., Carvunis, A.-R., McLysaght, A., 2020.
Synteny-based analyses indicate that sequence diver-
gence is not the main source of orphan genes. eLife 9,
e53500. https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.53500 * Vakirlis,
N., Acar, O., Hsu, B., Castilho Coelho, N., Van
Oss, S.B., Wacholder, A., Medetgul-Ernar, K., Bow-
man, R.W., Hines, C.P., Iannotta, J., Parikh, S.B.,
McLysaght, A., Camacho, C.J., O'Donnell, A.F., Ideker,
T., Carvunis, A.-R., 2020. De novo emergence of adap-
tive membrane proteins from thymine-rich genomic se-
quences. Nature Communications 11, 1- 18. https:/-
/doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-14500-z If you are inter-
ested in presenting, or you want to suggest an article of
interest for the journal club, please send an abstract to
webinar@evolcompgen.org with \Abstract for Webinar"
as the title of your message.
All the best,
Aida Ouangraoua, on behalf of the organizing commit-
tee.
\Aida.Ouangraoua@USherbrooke.ca"
<Aida.Ouangraoua@USherbrooke.ca >Online EvolutionTeachingResources
answers
Dear all,
I recently posted a request on Twitter for online evolu-
tion resources that could be used in teaching to replace
museum specimens.
I promised I would share any signposted links via
EvolDir, so they are listed below ??? hope they are
helpful, and many thanks to those who responded to
the call.
I hope everyone is doing okay in these strange and trou-
bling times, and best wishes,
Zen
Flies: https://www.ento.csiro.au/biology/y/-
yGlossary.html JOVE: https://www.jove.com/-
science-education/10561/evolutionary-relationships
The one above is part of a suite of resources: https:/-
/www.jove.com/science-education-library/41/lab-bio.
They can be integrated into teaching platforms, instruc-
tions here: https://www.jove.com/facultyresources .
Everything: https://www.idigbio.org/ . Skulls: https:/-
/sketchfab.com/ . UK NHM: https://data.nhm.ac.uk/-
dataset/collection-specimens/resource/052255-c38a-
40c9-b657-4ccb55ab2feb?view id=6ba121d1-da26-4ee1-
81fa-7da11e68f68e&lters=collectionCode%3AZOO
. Invertebrates: https://arludo.com/game/pinned-
diversity/ . Professor Zenobia Lewis @Zen ofScience
Room G53, Ground Floor, Biosciences Building School
of Life Sciences University of Liverpool Liverpool L69
7ZB UK
+44(0) 151 795 4384
\Lewis, Zenobia" <Z.Lewis@liverpool.ac.uk >
RobbLeary Obituary
It is with great sadness that I report the death of Robb
F. Leary on 27 July 2020. In 1984, Robb was awarded
the Theodosius Dobzhansky Prize by the Society for the
Study of Evolution for his work on understanding the
developmental genetic basis of uctuating asymmetry.September 1, 2020 EvolDir 49
Robb once said that one of the smartest things he ever
did was to turn a sh over to the other side.
Robb was born on 11 April 1955 in Hartford, CT, USA.
He did his undergraduate work at the University of
Massachusetts-Amherst, his MS research at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Stevens Point, and he received his PhD
from the University of Montana in 1986. Robb devoted
his life to the study of the genetics, evolution, and con-
servation of native shes in positions at the University
of Montana and with the Montana Department of Fish,
Wildlife and Parks. He was recognized for this work in
February 2020 by receiving the Montana Chapter of the
American Fisheries Society Career Achievement Award.
Please contact fred.allendorf@gmail.com if you would
like more information.
Fred Allendorf <fred.allendorf@gmail.com >
Spain Internship
PlantPestInteraction
Impact of climate changes on plant-pest interaction: in-
sights from the rosy apple aphid and its apple host in a
context of domestication
Amandine Cornille?s group (http://moulon.inra.fr/-
index.php/fr/equipes/group-leader-amandine-cornille-
young-atip-avenir-team) and Enrique Dapenas?s
group (https://be.linkedin.com/in/tim-beli%C3%ABn-
4a41164) are recruiting a Master or a bachelor to
investigate the adaptation to climate and plant host of
aphid pests.
Lab address?(supervision): SERIDA. ?rea de Cultivos
Hortofrut?colas y Forestales. Apdo 13. 33300 Villavi-
ciosa Asturias (Espa?a).
Supervisors : Amandine Cornille (aman-
dine.cornille@inrae.fr), Enrique Dapenas
(edapena@serida.org) and Marcos Minarros (mmi-
narro@serida.org)
Project summary Understanding the extent of local
adaptation in natural populations and the mechanisms
enabling individuals to adapt to their native environ-
ment is a major avenue in evolutionary ecology research.
Host-pathogen coevolution is widely seen as a major
driver of local adaptation and has therefore been a
study model to dissect the evolutionary processes at
work during local adaptation. However, the relative
contributions of species interactions (i.e. biotic factor)
and abiotic factors to local adaptation are still unclear.Addressing these issues is more than a simple academic
exercise. Understanding of local adaptation processes in
host-parasite interactions will also help tackling pressing
issues, such as the ways in which environmental change
alters the emergence of pathogens leading to host extinc-
tions, how to promote sustainability of agroecosystems
in the face of emerging crop diseases or in guiding for
public health practices as more human pathogens and
their vectors expand their ranges.
In this project, we investigate whether local adaptation
occurred during the recent rapid colonization of culti-
vated apple by Dysaphis plantaginea, the major aphid
pest of cultivated apple orchards, in Europe. We will
carry out in April 2020 experimental tests for D. plan-
taginea tness dierences across environments (i.e. host
and climate) to investigate whether the aphid is locally
adapted to its host and/or climate. This project will
generate original results adding to our understanding
of how species interactions and abiotic conditions can
shape local adaptation.
Master project The project involves the transplant of
Belgian, French and Spanish aphid genotypes on Belgian,
French and Spanish apple varieties in three locations
(Belgian, France and Spain). The candidate will be
involved in the assessment of the adaptive capacities
at the ecological level of the rosy apple aphid at the
SPAIN site located at SERIDA (Villaviciosa, Spain).
The project can last two (Bachelor) to three months
(Master), and will consist in participating in aphid in-
festations and rearing on the eld, tree measurement,
associated statistical analyses, and nal report writing.
1) The candidate will participate in the launching of the
experiment there during Spring 2021 by transplanting
aphids on several apple cultivars and will measure sev-
eral phenotypic traits. The growth rate of each colony
will be measured after 12 days of infestation. Various
functional traits which are proxies of the condition of
the plant (i.e. chlorophyll content, carbon/nitrogen bal-
ance, and avonol and anthocyanin content measured
with the Dualex? pincel) will also be measured.
2) If wanted, He/She will analyze the dataset that will
be generated.
Methodology: Statistical analyses (linear and mixed
models, R), ecophysiology, phenotypic measurement,
rearing, insect biology, eld experiment.
Prole preferred for the candidate: Ideally, the candi-
date will have skills in ecology and evolution or at least
will show strong interest in these elds. He/She will
have to be highly motivated about eld experiment, as
this one will be intense the rst two months. He/she will
not necessarily be familiar with apple or aphid model.50 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Deadline for submission: The sooner the better, deadline
mid-septembre.
Duration : 2-3 months, starting date: March 2021, con-
tact Amandine CORNILLE for further discussions.
Supervision?: Amandine CORNILLE - Charg?e de
Recherche CNRS CRCN G?n?tique Quantitative et Evo-
lution - Le Moulon Ferme du Moulon 91190, Gif-sur-
Yvette, France
mail?: amandine.cornille[at]gmail.com Google Scholar
prole : https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
EqIE2h8AAAAJ&hl=fr Personal page : http://-
moulon.inra.fr/index.php/fr/equipes/dygap/355 Group
page?:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
StudentAwards
GenesAsEnvironment
DeadlineAug31
Awards available for students and postdocs who submit
abstracts for the November online AGA2020 President's
Symposium: Genes as Environment: Indirect Genetic
Eects in Evolution, Agriculture, and MedicineAGA student and postdoc members who submit a
\poster" abstract before September 1st will receive free
registration and the opportunity for a short presenta-
tion. Because of the switch to a virtual meeting, \poster"
presentations will actually be lightning talks, so by sub-
mitting an Abstract, you will be able to present a short
(3-min) talk at the AGA Genes as Environment Sym-
posium. President Kim Hughes will select several of
these abstracts for 15-minute oral presentations and $50
Presentation Awards.
Register now at https://www.theaga.org/-
agatwentytwenty.htm To maximize the number
of people who can participate in real time, the meeting
will take place over 4 consecutive days, 15-18 Nov, from
15:00 -19:00 UTC (11:00 - 15:00 EST, 08:00 -12:00 PST,
16:00-20:00 GMT).
There will be breakout rooms for question-and-answer
sessions, and virtual coee/lunch breaks and happy
hours so all participants can interact. Speakers will also
have the option to make videos of presentations available
for a short time period, to accommodate participants
who cannot view talks in real time.
Key Distinguished Lecturer Allen J Moore will open the
meeting with his address, *Why we need to understand
indirect genetic eects*.
Invited speakers include: Nathan Bailey Amelie Baud
Piter Bijma Butch Brodie Nancy Chen Niels Dinge-
manse Kathleen Donohue Courtney Fitzpatrick Maren
Friesen Swanne Gordon Andrew McAdam Joel McGloth-
lin Stephanie Porter David Rand Julia Saltz Michael
Wade Alastair Wilson
theaga@theaga.org
Anjanette Baker <theaga@theaga.org >
PostDocsSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 51
AarhusU Denmark StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Bergen Norway NeuronEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
CarnegieStanford EcoEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . .53
Chile EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
ConsortiumPlantInvasionGenomics Aug10deadline .55
CzechRepublic 2 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
DalhousieU PhylogeneticModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
FieldMuseum Chicago MolecularEvolutionCompara-
tiveGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
FloridaAtlanticU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . .58
FreieU Berlin EvolutionaryDemography . . . . . . . . . . . 59
GEOMAR Kiel SeagrassEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . 59
HalleJena Germany ViralEvolutionaryBioinformatics 60
INRAE CNRS France ModelingEcoEvolutionaryDy-
namics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
JohnInnesCentre UK EvolutionPlants . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Lausanne SoilMicrobiome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Liverpool MosquitoGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
MarineBiolLab MicrobialSymbioses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64
Muenster Germany ForecastModelDiseaseDynamics 65
Normandy EvolutionRespiratoryViruses . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Oxford UK GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Paris-SaclayU PhylogenomicsOriginEukaryotes . . . . 67Surrey UnitedKingdom Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
TempleU PlantPollinatorInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UCalifornia Berkeley HumanEvolutionaryGenetics .69
UCalifornia Davis FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UCDavis PlantEvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UColorado LichenMetagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
UCopenhagen WildlifePopGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UDresden EvolutionarySpermBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
UEasternFinland HumanSexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . 72
UFlorida MelastomataceaePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . 73
ULethbridge SalamanderConservationGenomics . . . 74
UManchester EvolutionaryMicrobiology . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UMichigan ModelingDiseases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UOxford EcoEvoHostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UPadova HumanPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
UToronto 2 PlantPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
UUlm WildlifeImmuneEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
UVirginia HostParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
VanderbiltU MicrobialSymbiosisEvolution . . . . . . . . . 79
WoodsHole MA TransgenerationalInheritance . . . . . 80
YorkU BeeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
AarhusU Denmark
StatisticalGenetics
Aarhus University is recruiting two 2-year postdocs in
statistical genetics based at the Center for Quantitative
Genetics and Genomics (QGG). The provisional starting
date is 1st November 2020.
The positions The primary supervisor will be myself
(Doug Speed, QGG), with co-supervision from Drs
Bjarni J Vilhjalmsson (NCRR) and Sren ~Astergaard
(Department of Clinical Medicine). Below are the two
main aims of the positions, however the specic projects
will be decided according to the interests and experience
of the successful applicants.
1 - Heritability analysis of genome-wide association
study (GWAS) data. I have created the software package
LDAK which contains a variety of methods for analysing
GWAS data. These include tools for estimating SNP
heritability, heritability enrichments and genetic corre-
lations and for performing single-SNP and gene-based
association tests. Each of these methods starts with the
linear mixed model. Possible projects include extending
these methods or developing new versions (e.g. adapt
them to accommodate dierent datatypes, generalizingthem to multiple phenotypes, or create versions that
require only summary statistics). The primary focus
will be methods for human data (e.g., UK Biobank),
but there is also the opportunity to work with animals
and plants.
2 - Using articial intelligence to improve genetic predic-
tion of complex traits This work will be part of a project
investigating whether articial intelligence methods can
be applied to genetic data in order to improve prediction
of complex traits. As described in the project descrip-
tion \Many complex diseases are highly heritable (e.g.,
schizophrenia, major depression, Ischemic Stroke and
Alzheimer's Disease all have heritability between 40 and
80%), and so it should be possible to accurately predict
which individuals will develop them based on genetic
information. However, at present this is not the case.
For most complex diseases, the best prediction models
have accuracy less than a fth the theoretical maximum.
In an attempt to move the eld of personalized medicine
forward, we will adapt tools for natural language pro-
cessing (NLP), a branch of articial intelligence, for use
with genetic data."
Relevant references 1 <https://www.nature.com/-
naturecareers/job/two-postdocs-developing-gwas-
methods-with-a-focus-on-prediction-of-complex-traits-
aarhus-university-au-728333#fn1 >Speed et al.
Reevaluation of SNP heritability in complex human
traits (Nature Genetics, 2017)52 EvolDir September 1, 2020
2<https://www.nature.com/naturecareers/job/-
two-postdocs-developing-gwas-methods-with-a-focus-
on-prediction-of-complex-traits-aarhus-university-au-
728333#fn2 >Speed and Balding. SumHer better
estimates the SNP heritability of complex traits (Nature
Genetics, 2019)
3<https://www.nature.com/naturecareers/job/-
two-postdocs-developing-gwas-methods-with-a-focus-
on-prediction-of-complex-traits-aarhus-university-au-
728333#fn3 >Speed et al. Evaluating and improving
heritability models using summary statistics (Nature
Genetics, 2020)
Supervisors and supervision I specialize in developing
statistical methods for analyzing large scale GWAS data.
I have released the software LDAK which contains tools
for detecting causal variants, constructing prediction
models and better understanding genetic architecture,
using both individual-level data and summary statistics
(see www.ldak.org for more details).
I believe that when performing a statistical analysis, it is
very important to understand what the analysis is doing.
Further, if you understand an analysis, it increases the
chance that you can nd ways to improve the analysis
or to transfer the ideas to other problems. In general, I
only use software that I could in theory code up myself
(I say in theory, because it would be very inecient to
always make my own software). Therefore, I am keen
that people I supervise also understand the analyses
they perform, and am happy if they spend time trying
to understand methods (I will also try and help explain
methods, where I can).
Bjarni J Vilhjalmsson is interested in developing and ap-
plying statistical methods that integrate health records
and large genetic datasets to study the etiology of dis-
eases and psychiatric disorders. This includes causal
inference, heritability analysis, GWAS, as well as poly-
genic risk scores.
Sren Dinesen ~Astergaard is a medical doctor who fo-
cuses on psychiatric
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlBergen Norway NeuronEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Fellow position: Evolutionary
Origin of Synapses and Neurons at Sars Centre in
Bergen, Norway
There is a vacancy for a postdoctoral research fellow
position at the Sars International Centre for Marine
Molecular Biology (www.sars.no) in the research group
headed by Dr. Pawel Burkhardt. The position is for a
period of 3 years and is funded on the Sars Centre core
budget. The Sars Centre belongs to the University of
Bergen and is partner of the European Molecular Biol-
ogy Laboratory (EMBL) (www.embl.de). The place of
work will be at the Sars Centre. The preferred starting
date is between October and December 2020.
About the project/work tasks:
The Burkhardt group combines comparative biologi-
cal systems in the laboratory to understand when and
how the rst synapses and neurons evolved. The group
is particularly interested in studying the origin and
evolution of synaptic proteins. We are looking for a
highly self-motivated and enthusiastic Postdoctoral Re-
search Fellow with interests in evolutionary biology,
neurobiology and cell biology. The project will focus
on the functional characterization of synaptic protein
homologs in choanoagellates and ctenophores to bet-
ter understand the evolution of rst neuron-like cell
types in animals. The successful candidate will under-
take research with the possibility to use a variety of
techniques, ranging from generating transgenic reporter
lines, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing, super
resolution immunouorescence and electron microscopy
to study synaptic protein homologs in choanoagellates
and/or ctenophores. The successful candidate will work
in close association with the group leader and other
lab members with the aim to contribute to the further
development of the project in line with her/his interests.
Qualications and personal qualities:
- The applicant must hold a Norwegian PhD or an equiv-
alent degree or must have submitted his/her doctoral
thesis for assessment prior to the application deadline.
It is a condition of employment that the PhD has been
awarded - Strong motivation/enthusiasm to perform re-
search at an internationally competitive level - Practical
experience with CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome edit-
ing and with dierent uorescence imaging techniquesSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 53
is highly desirable - Specic experience with choanoag-
ellates or ctenophores is benecial, but not essential -
The ability to work both independently and to coop-
erate with others in a structured manner is essential' -
Prociency in both written and oral English
About the position of postdoctoral research fellow:
The position of postdoctoral research fellow is a xed-
term appointment with the primary objective of quali-
fying the appointee for work in top academic positions.
The xed-term period for this position is 3 years. Indi-
viduals may not be hired for more than one xed-term
period as a postdoctoral research fellow at the same
institution.
Upon appointment, applicants must submit a project
proposal for the qualifying work including a work sched-
ule. It is a requirement that the project is completed in
the course of the period of employment.
We can oer:
- A professional, challenging and international working
environment. - Well-equipped, modern laboratories and
facilities - Salary at pay grade 59 (code 1352 / pay
range 24, alternative 1) according to the state salary
scale upon appointment. This constitutes a gross annual
salary of NOK 523.200. Further promotions are made
according to length of service. For particularly highly
qualied applicants, a higher salary may be considered
- Enrolment in the Norwegian Public Service Pension
Fund - Good welfare benet
Your application must include:
- A cover letter of the applicant's research interests and
motivation for applying for the position. - The names
and contact information of 2-3 reference persons. One
of these must be the main advisor from the PhD pro-
gramme. - CV - Transcripts and diplomas and ocial
conrmation that the doctoral thesis has been submitted
- Relevant certicates/references - List of publications
or other relevant scientic work
The application and appendices with certied
translations into English or a Scandinavian lan-
guage must be uploaded at JobbNorge (https://-
www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/190639/-
postdoctoral-research-fellow-position-evolutionary-
origin-of-synaptic-proteins).
Application Deadline: 30.08.2020
General information:
Detailed information about the position can be obtained
by contacting: Group Leader Pawel Burkhardt, tlf.: +47
906 48 539, email: Pawel.Burkhardt@uib.no
The state labour force shall reect the diversity of Nor-wegian society to the greatest extent possible. Age and
gender balance among employees
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CarnegieStanford
EcoEvolutionaryGenetics
4 Postdoc or Technician Positions in Eco-Evolutionary
Genetics, Field Experimental Ecology, Genome Sequenc-
ing, and/or Gene Editing in Plants
*Description* Moi Exposito-Alonso Lab -
www.moisesexpositoalonso.org Carnegie Institu-
tion for Science & Stanford University, California 94305,
USA Annual salary $64,268 (for postdoc level, may vary
depending on qualications) Up to 5 years (extendable
for technician positions) Publication date: Aug 2020
Earliest starting date: Sep 2020 (exible) Closing date:
accepting applications until lled
*Description* We aim to recruit highly motivated and
creative people with strong training in at least one of
the following areas: quantitative and population genet-
ics, bioinformatics, next-generation sequencing, gene
editing, experimental ecology.
We seek to study the impact of climate change on species
and how or whether they will genetically adapt to such
changes. Specically, we aim to experimentally quantify
the mode and tempo of genetic adaptation to dierent
climates, nd genetic loci involved in past adaptations,
and model experimental populations using population
genetic theory and computational approaches. A core
project of the lab involves next-generation sequencing
of experimental populations in ~50 locations around
the world (GrENE-net.org), and the analyses of this
sequence data to understand evolutionary processes re-
lated to evolutionary rescue. A parallel project involves
engineering plants with CRISPR or other tools to study
the impact of engineered mutations in similar experi-
mental evolution settings as GrENE-net. The lab is also
involved in analysing ecological and genomic data of
threatened keystone species (Aspen and Joshua trees)
and sustainable bioenergy crop species (Pennycress).
These positions require conducting research indepen-
dently using large genomic and experimental datasets,54 EvolDir September 1, 2020
participating in collaborative projects, preparing publi-
cations, and presenting research in scientic meetings.
*Equal opportunity employer* Carnegie is an equal op-
portunity employer. All qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race,
religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, age, veteran status, disability or any
other protected status in accordance with applicable
laws. We aim to have a vibrantly diverse lab, which is
essential to tackle scientic questions from dierent cre-
ative angles. The main requirement for these positions
is that you are passionate about the topics above, so
please apply!
*Requirements* Required qualications for these posi-
tions are a doctoral degree in any of the following areas:
molecular biology, population genetics, evolutionary bi-
ology, ecology, bioinformatics, computer sciences, or
statistics; a track record of research productivity and
independence, and a willingness to work closely with
collaborators and lab members.
*Position details* This is a full-time position with a com-
petitive annual salary of $64,638 and benets. The lab
is located at the Carnegie Institution on the Stanford
University campus. Carnegie Postdocs have access to
Stanford facilities. Stanford campus is a vibrant com-
munity embedded in the San Francisco Bay area, with
opportunities for extensive social and scientic inter-
actions. The initial position will be for one year with
potential renewal of up to ve years depending upon
performance.
*Additional information:* The Department of Plant Bi-
ology of the Carnegie Institution for Science (formerly
known as the Carnegie Institution of Washington) is a
private endowment U.S.-based non-prot, located on
the campus of Stanford University since 1928. Andrew
Carnegie founded the Carnegie Institution of Washing-
ton in 1902 as an organization for scientic discovery to
serve as a home to exceptional individuals - men and
women - with imagination and extraordinary dedication
capable of working at the cutting edge of their elds.
Today, Carnegie scientists work in six scientic depart-
ments on the west and east coasts and at the Las Cam-
panas Observatory in Chile. Carnegie investigators have
made key discoveries in plant biology, including early
experiments of local adaptation (Clausen, Keck, Hiesey),
the discovery of transposable elements (McClintock),
plant ecophysiology at global scales (Berry, Field), the
discovery of key photosynthesis and phototropism genes
(Grossman, Briggs), or The Arabidopsis Information
Resource TAIR (Rhee, Somerville). The Department of
Plant Biology ( https://dpb.carnegiescience.edu) and
Global Ecology ( https://dge.carnegiescience.edu) havestate-of-the-art facilities for molecular genetic studies
of plants, greenhouses and eld sites, and computer
resources.
The lab is co-aliated with the Department of Biology
at Stanford
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Chile EvolutionaryPhysiology
Is this too long?
[Postdoc call in Evolutionary Physiology] Global warm-
ing, conservation and hibernation in the relict marsupial
Monito del Monte, in Southern South America
Our laboratory is looking for postdoctoral associates
interested in applying to the next Fondecyt competition,
for developing a 3-years research project in populations
of the relict marsupial \monito del monte" (Dromiciops
gliroides). Possible topics are listed below, and will
depend on applicant' ^As background:
1. Hibernation and climate change. To develop a physi-
ological model predicting geographic shifts and survival
in D. gliroides populations, using the temperature pro-
jections of global warming. This includes parameterizing
a model with eld data from temperature data loggers
and nests, across an altitudinal gradient in Southern
Chile and Argentina (Humphries et al., 2002).
2. Mesocosm experiments and the bioenergetics of hiber-
nation. To perform a replicated outdoor experiment for
measuring eld metabolic rates in hibernating monitos,
including thermographic images and thermal gradients
in animals located within eld enclosures in the Valdi-
vian forest (example: Nespolo et al., 2020).
3. Local adaptation of hibernation genes, across monitos
geographic range. This includes to use the recent whole
genomic sequencing of monitos, to assess local adapta-
tion by resequencing and testing for positive selection
in genes with functional signicance for the cold (exam-
ple: Ngatia et al., 2019). Sampling (blood) in our eld
locations at extreme Andean North/South populations
in Chile and Argentina is required.
4. Seasonal changes in body composition during hi-
bernation using quantitative magnetic resonance. ThisSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 55
includes to use the recently obtained quantitative reso-
nance equipment (Fondequip) for studying how monitos
manage to accumulate reserves and spend them during
hibernation (example: Hindle et al., 2015).
Interested researchers are asked to provide a one-
page outline of their proposal before Aug, 31,
2020. Contact: Roberto Nespolo Rossi (robertone-
spolorossi@gmail.com), Universidad Austral de Chile.
Ocial deadline for application in Fondecyt: middle
September, 2020, for starting in April, 2021. Requisite:
to have the PhD.
Location: Valdivia, Chile.
Fondecyt website: https://www.anid.cl/concursos/-
concurso/?id=281 Hindle, A. G., Otis, J. P., Epperson,
L. E., Hornberger, T. A., Goodman, C. A., Carey, H.
V. & Martin, S. L. 2015. Prioritization of skeletal mus-
cle growth for emergence from hibernation. Journal of
Experimental Biology 218: 276-284.
Humphries, M. M., Thomas, D. W. & Speakman, J.
R. 2002. Climate-mediated energetic constraints on
the distribution of hibernating mammals. Nature 418:
313-316.
Nespolo, R. F., Font ^A^A2rbel, F. E., Mejias, C., Contr-
eras, R., Gutierrez, P., Oda, E., Sabat, P., Hambly, C.,
Speakman, J. R. & Bozinovic, F. 2020. A mesocosm
experiment in ecological physiology: adaptive modula-
tion of energy budget in a hibernating marsupial under
chronic caloric restriction. bioRxiv.
Ngatia, J. N., Lan, T. M., Dinh, T. D., Zhang, L.,
Ahmed, A. K. & Xu, Y. C. 2019. Signals of positive
selection in mitochondrial protein-coding genes of woolly
mammoth: Adaptation to extreme environments? Ecol-
ogy and Evolution 9: 6821-6832.
Roberto Nespolo Rossi Instituto de Ciencias Ambien-
tales y Evolutivas robertonespolo@uach.cl Edicio Pu-
gin, ocina 338, laboratorio 302 Avenida Rector Ed-
uardo Morales 23 Campus Isla Teja, Universidad Austral
de Chile Valdivia - Chile Fono 56-63-2221704
Roberto Nespolo <robertonespolorossi@gmail.com >
ConsortiumPlantInvasionGenomics
Aug10deadline
The Consortium of Plant Invasion Genomics (CPING;
www.invasiongenomics.com) invites applications for its
postdoctoral researcher fellowship competition. CPINGis an NSF-funded project spanning ve universities with
the joint missions to determine how and why certain
plant species become invasive and to train the next
generation of botanists to use modern genomic and
bioinformatic tools. Specically, we are reconstructing
genomic time series for ve focal invasive plant species
using herbarium specimens to investigate the roles of
colonization history, admixture and adaptation in the
invasion process. We also will be hosting genomics boot-
camps for professors from EPSCoR regional universities
and colleges. This training network will both promote
genomics/bioinformatics expertise and create the oppor-
tunity for participants to contribute to CPING research
projects.
*Possible Mentors / Home Universities* Applicants may
apply to work with any Co-PI in the network and can
be based at any of the four CPING hub institutions:
University of Louisiana at Lafayette, West Virginia Uni-
versity, University of Alabama, South Dakota State Uni-
versity and Wichita State University. Co-PI projects
are described below:
*Barrett Lab - West Virginia University* Projects in the
Barrett lab will focus on genomic, phenotypic, and en-
vironmental aspects of rapid adaptation in the invasive
Japanese stiltgrass. Potential projects for the CPING
postdoc include genotype-phenotype associations using
common garden and reciprocal transplant experiments;
population genomics of invasion history in the native
vs. invasive ranges; comparative genomics and genomic
architecture of invasiveness; and the role of transposable
elements in invasion history and success.
*Latvis Lab - South Dakota State University* Projects
will focus on Russian thistle, using historical specimens
to examine population structure, admixture, and ploidy
through time in the introduced range. Potential postdoc
projects include population genomics of invasion history
and admixture with closely related species; inference of
ploidy from historical specimens and ecological niche
modeling of diering ploidal levels (cytotypes)
*Kooyers lab - University of Louisiana at Lafayette*
Projects in the Kooyers lab focus on the role of adap-
tation in facilitating invasions while evolving to match
changing climates. Potential projects for the CPING
postdoc could include assessing adaptation lags in mul-
tiple introduced regions using resurrection experiments,
investigating and investigating the genomic architectures
of invasiveness and adaptation to climate change, or
comparing the population genomics of invasion history
across multiple geographically disparate introductions
using herbarium specimens.
*McKain Lab - University of Alabama* Projects in the
McKain lab will focus on the generation and analysis of56 EvolDir September 1, 2020
whole genome sequences for multiple accessions across
the US range of Johnsongrass. Potential projects for
the CPING postdoc in the McKain lab include the com-
parison of subgenome fractionation across accessions,
identication of transcription factor binding sites and
their variation for homoeologs in dierent populations,
and comparison of structural variation associated with
adaptation. Generation of methylome and open chro-
matin data to add to current CPING analyses is also of
potential interest.
*Preferred Qualications* *The optimal candidate
would possess some or all of the following:* - PhD in
invasion biology, botany, evolutionary biology, ecology,
computational biology, or a related eld - Experience
constructing genomic libraries - Experience working
with herbaria or other natural history collections - Ex-
perience in bioinformatics (working in a Unix environ-
ment, genome assembly, phylogenomic or population
genomic analyses) - Experience coding in R, python,
Perl, or another computing language - Experience re-
searching polyploid species - Desire and propensity to
teach genomics and bioinformatics to all levels of trainee
- Excellent communication and organization skills.
The successful applicant will focus his/her research ef-
forts on one of the CPING focal invasive species, while
having latitude to pursue independent research interests
related to CPING projects. The successful applicant will
also collaborate with other CPING labs to leverage the
strength of the network to their advantage. Opportuni-
ties for outreach through participation in genomics and
bioinformatics bootcamps will also be available. The
initial appointment is for one year with the opportunity
to extend up to three years. Support includes a compet-
itive salary and a benets package including retirement
and health care. A stipend for independent research
( $5,000/year) is also included.
Informal inquiries about the position can be sent to any
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CzechRepublic 2 Bioinformatics
Position 1Postdoctoral Position in Bioinformatics (Aquatic Para-
sitology)
Expires on September 30, 2020
The position for experienced bioinformatician is open
to analyse large genomic & transcriptomic datasets of
parasites 24-month-position in \Aquatic Parasitology"
from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2022 is available
to work on myxozoans (parasitic cnidarians) and par-
asitic atworms (a joint project of the Laboratory of
Fish Protistology - head Astrid Holzer, and Laboratory
of Helminthology - head Tom a ^A Scholz).
The research project will be focused on comparative anal-
yses of genomes, transcriptomes and proteomes to better
understand host-parasite interactions at the molecular
level and to elucidate the evolution of parasitism in
cnidarians and atworms (Platyhelminthes).
https://www.paru.cas.cz/en/sections/aquatic-
parasitology/ https://jobs.bc.cas.cz/en/detail/37
Requirements Candidates should have at maximum
of 7 years after PhD (no earlier than in 2014 with the
exception of the maternity leave and long-term illness)
in the area of bioinformatics, biostatistics, applied
mathematics, computational biology or related research
elds.
The candidate should demonstrate strong programming
skills and experience with assembly and ltration of
next-generation sequencing data (Illumina, Nanopore),
statistical modelling, or machine learning. Having rst-
authored research publications in the eld of sequence
analyses is a strong plus. Candidates that worked in
the Czech Republic for the past two or more years are
excluded.
Benets - Friendly international working environment
- Dedicated funds for conference and workshops atten-
dance and for open- access publications - Benets from
a social fund - Support of leisure time activities - Health
insurance
Applicants are requested to submit a motivation letter,
curriculum vitae, list of publications and scanned copy
of PhD certicate before September 30, 2020. For ques-
tions or additional information, contact Roman Kuchta
(krtek@paru.cas.cz).
The Institute of Parasitology is one of the largest centres
of parasitological research and provides all state-of-the-
art facilities required to undertake a multi-disciplinary
repertoire of methods, enabling studies on host-parasite
interactions at the organismal, cellular and molecular
levels. The Institute is located in ~Aesk e Bud ~A(Budweis),
the central district to the South Bohemia region and
known for its original Budweiser (Budvar) beer. ~Aesk eSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 57
Bud~A, two hours south of Prague in South Bohemia, and
the proximity to other cities and countries is favourable,
as it is tucked in a nook between upper Austria and
Bavaria. The city is surrounded by the UNESCO her-
itage sites of ~Aesk ~A1
2Krumlov and Hola ^Aovice, and the
pristine nature of the Bohemian Forest National Park.
The Biology Centre of the Czech Academy of Sci-
ences is a holder of the HR Excellence in Research
Award. Our selection process is transparent, open, non-
discriminating and fair. For more information about
the researchers recruitment policy at our institution, see
www.bc.cas.cz/en/about-us/employment/ . Position 2
Postdoctoral Position in Bioinformatics (Ticks and Tick-
borne Diseases)
Expires on September 30, 2020
The position for experienced bioinformatician is open
to analyse large genomic & transcriptomic datasets of
parasites.
17-month-position in \Ticks and Tick-borne Diseases"
from March 1, 2021 to July 31, 2022 is available as
a join project of the Laboratory of Vector Immunol-
ogy (head Petr Kop a eek) and Laboratory of Genomics
and Proteomics of Disease Vectors (head Michail Kotsy-
fakis). The applicant's responsibility will be the creation
of a dynamic expression database of proteins through-
out tick (Ixodes ricinus) life stages and in reponse to
blood feeding. The resulting database should be placed
on publicaly accessible server (will be discussed) and
should be performed under the headline of the Institute
of Parasitology BC CAS. This database will be based
on MACE-Seq - 3'mRNA / UTR sequencing for copy
number/mRNA representativeness accompanied with
RNAseq data for full-sequence reads.
https://www.paru.cas.cz/en/sections/biology-of-
disease-vectors/ https://jobs.bc.cas.cz/en/detail/38
Requirements Candidates should have at maximum of
7 years after PhD (no earlier than in 2014 with the
exception of the maternity leave and long-term illness)
in the area of bioinformatics, biostatistics, applied
mathematics, computational biology or related research
elds.
The candidate should demonstrate strong programming
skills and experience
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlDalhousieU PhylogeneticModeling
Postdoc in Phylogenetic modeling:
Two 3-year funded postdoctoral research positions in
statistical phylogenetic modeling are available in the
laboratories of Andrew J. Roger and Edward Susko
at Dalhousie University in collaboration with Laura
Eme (Univ. Paris-Saclay) and Minh Bui (Australian
National University). The research project will be to
develop, test and apply novel phylogenetic statistical
models/phylogenomic methods to determine billion-year
relationships related to the origin of eukaryotes. Roger
and Susko are part of the world-renowned Centre for
Comparative Genomics and Evolutionary Bioinformat-
ics (CGEB: http://cgeb.dal.ca ), a large collaborative
group of faculty and trainees at Dalhousie university
with shared research interests in deep evolution, compar-
ative genomics, phylogenetics, microbiomics and com-
putational biology.
The successful candidates participate in an international
collaborative project (with Dr. Laura Eme in Orsay,
France and Dr. Minh Bui in Canberra, Australia) re-
lated to the origin of eukaryotic cell by developing novel
phylogenetic models and applying them to phylogenomic
analyses to resolve key phylogenetic problems. The goals
are to develop new more realistic phylogenetic mod-
els including approaches to model heterogeneity in the
process of protein sequence evolution across sites and
branches of phylogenetic trees and accommodate mul-
tiple dierent phylogenetic histories for dierent genes
or sites. New models will be implemented in maximum
likelihood framework and their statistical properties will
be investigated. Other related topics are also open for
investigation.
The ideal candidates should have a Ph.D. in statistics,
computational biology or related disciplines (e.g. phylo-
genetics with an emphasis on method development and
implementation). Knowledge and expertise in statisti-
cal modeling, theory/implementation of phylogenetic
models in a likelihood framework and comparative ge-
nomic methods are an asset. Programming experience
using scripting languages (e.g. Python), the R statistical
package and, ideally, C or C++ would be invaluable.
For more information about the Roger
and Susko labs and the CGEB Cen-
tre see http://rogerlab.biochem.dal.ca,58 EvolDir September 1, 2020
https://www.mathstat.dal.ca/ ~tsusko/ and http:/-
/cgeb.dal.ca To apply please send an application
package consisting of: - a cover letter that describes
why you are interested in this position and highlights
your expertise - a curriculum vitae (CV), and - the
names and contact details of 2 or more individuals who
have agreed to write reference letters
The applications should be sent by email to: Andrew
Roger: andrew.roger@dal.ca . The ideal start time for
the positions is Oct. 1, 2020.
Review of complete applications will occur continuously
until the search is closed. Please note, only those can-
didates chosen to continue on through the selection
process will be contacted.
Dalhousie University is committed to fostering a colle-
gial culture grounded in diversity and inclusiveness. We
encourage applications from qualied individuals from
all equity-seeking groups including people who identify
as indigenous, African Nova Scotian, dierently-abled,
ethnic minorities, minority sexual orientations and gen-
der identities, and all other qualied candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.
Andrew J. Roger Ph.D. F.R.S.C. Canada Research
Chair Centre for Comparative Genomics and Evolu-
tionary Bioinformatics Dept. of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology Dalhousie University tel: (902)
494 2620 lab website: rogerlab.ca CGEB: cgeb.dal.ca
Twitter: @andrewjroger https://scholar.google.ca/-
citations?user=Dm-pAawAAAAJ&hl=en Andrew
Roger <Andrew.Roger@Dal.Ca >
FieldMuseum Chicago MolecularEv-
olutionComparativeGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Scientist, Molecular Evolution
and Comparative Genomics The Grainer Bioinformatics
Center of the Science and Education Department at
the Field Museum is recruiting a full-time Postdoctoral
Research Scientist to conduct comparative genomics of
non-model organisms, with a focus on symbiotic fungi.
We are looking for an individual with a strong interest
and background in computational biology and/or bioin-
formatics. The position is for a term of 12 months, with
the possibility for extension.
The research entails studies on molecular evolution and
genomic adaptation of asexual organisms. You will
be involved in various aspects of comparative genomeanalyses, including genome sequencing, assembly, and
annotation. You should be able to demonstrate expe-
rience in comparative genomics, generating and ana-
lyzing genomic datasets, competency with at least one
scripting language (e.g., Perl, Python, R), and inter-
est in applying new statistical approaches. Experience
with phylogenetics and population genomics is a plus.
Well-developed communication (verbal and written) and
organizational skills are essential. You will join a diverse
team of bioinformaticians, evolutionary biologists, and
molecular scientists. You will also demonstrate lead-
ership ability to assist the PI with the guidance and
training of students.
In this postdoc role, you are expected to publish
at least one research paper as lead author within a
year and collaborate as co-author on additional re-
search papers. Guidance will be provided follow-
ing the Postdoctoral Mentoring Plan. Please apply
at https://careers.hireology.com/eldmuseum/420103/-
description. With your application, includea statement
of interest and CV with publication list.
As we adjust to working during this unprecedented time
the Field Museum is committed to nding as much
exibility as possible with regards to remote working
for this position. Review of applications will begin on
September 1st and continue until the position is lled.
Please contact with questions Felix Grewe
(www.felixgrewe.de, fgrewe@eldmuseum.org)
Felix Grewe <fgrewe@eldmuseum.org >
FloridaAtlanticU
EvolutionaryGenomics
The DeGiorgio group (http://degiorgiogroup.fau.edu/-
), at Florida Atlantic University, is seeking to hire a
postdoctoral scholar to work on NIH-supported projects.
We have active projects related to - machine learning
and signal processing methods in genomics - statistical
approaches for detecting natural selection - probability
models and algorithms in phylogenetics - local adapta-
tion and demographic history of the Americas
The ideal candidate will have a solid computational
background, and will be given extensive freedom in
choosing their research direction within the broad scope
of research areas covered in the group.
The position will also oer a competitive salary, andSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 59
the university is situated in the beautiful city of Boca
Raton, FL.
Interested candidates please contact me directly at
mdegiorg@fau.edu with a CV. More information
about the DeGiorgio group can be found at http://-
degiorgiogroup.fau.edu/ .
{ Michael DeGiorgio Associate Professor Department of
Computer & Electrical Engineering and Computer Sci-
ence Florida Atlantic University Boca Raton, FL 33431
USA mdegiorg@fau.edu http://degiorgiogroup.fau.edu
FreieU Berlin
EvolutionaryDemography
We look for a post-doc candidate at the Freie Universit at
Berlin to join the evolutionary demography group led
by Ulrich Steiner. The aim of the group is to under-
stand stochastic, evolutionary neutral, and deterministic
inuences on population dynamics in variable environ-
ments. The post-doc is expected to conduct highly
automated single-cell microuidic experiments on bac-
teria to quantify transcription factor dynamics and link
those dynamics to the demographic fates of the cells and
population dynamics. In addition to this empirical work
a theoretical part is to formulate matrix population
models.
Candidates should show strong interested in cross-
disciplinary work and ideally have a background in evo-
lutionary biology, quantitative ecology, systems biology,
biophysics, biomathematics, or similar elds. Strong
quantitative/statistical skills, programming experiences,
and excellent command of English are expected.
Experiences in microuidics/microscopy, modelling com-
plex systems, image analysis, and molecular biology
would be an asset. We oer a nurturing work envi-
ronment, in a multicultural and dynamic setting that
fosters personal development and creativity.
The position is limited to 3-years, the starting date is
1.Dec 2020 or thereafter. For further information please
contact Ulrich Steiner (usteiner@zedat.fu-berlin.de).
Please apply before the 24th of August 2020 by
mentioning AG Steiner PostDoc (preferably as single
PDF) electronically to usteiner@zedat.fu-berlin.de.
The ocial post is only available in German under
https://www.fu-berlin.de/universitaet/beruf-karriere/-
jobs/wiss/21 fb-biologie-chemie-pharmazie/BC-AG-
Steiner PostDoc.html Some related publications: Twostochastic processes shape diverse senescence patterns
in a singled cell organism https://doi.org/10.1111/-
evo.13708 Ulrich Steiner <usteiner@zedat.fu-berlin.de >
GEOMAR Kiel
SeagrassEvolutionaryGenomics
GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel
is one of the internationally leading institutions in the
eld of marine sciences. The research unit Marine Evo-
lutionary Ecology within the research division \Marine
Ecology" is inviting applications for a
Postdoctoral Researcher (m/f/d) in Marine Evolution-
ary Genomics/ Asexual Adaptation of Seagrass Clones
starting the earliest 1 December 2020. The position is
available for a funding period of three years until 30
November 2023.
Job and Project Description
Although asexually growing, large clones of seagrasses
are the basis for stable and productive ecosystems in
many marine coastal locations. Recent ndings dis-
covered abundant somatic genetic polymorphisms that
could play a role in local adaptation and resilience of
seagrass to rapid environmental change (see Nature Ecol
Evol 2020; https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-020-1196-4).
The aim of ADAPTASEX is to experimentally test
a possible role of somatic genetic polymorphisms for
evolutionary adaptation of seagrass clones. A second
objective, addressed together with theoretical colleagues
in the ADAPTASEX collaborative project, is to dis-
tinguish neutral and selective allele frequency changes
and to model temporal and spatial adaptation dynam-
ics. A further comparative question will be whether
and how somatically generated mutations in corals and
seagrasses can also inuence genetic variation within
the sexual reproductive cycle. The work is embedded
into the recently funded \Human Frontiers of Science
Program" (HFSP) project ADAPTASEX, which aims
to study and model diverse asexual adaptation processes
in coral colonies, seagrass clones and cancer tumors in
a comparative approach.
Required and desirable qualications
The successful candidate should have a PhD or doctoral
degree in biology or oceanography along with a solid
education and/or postdoctoral experience in (marine)
evolutionary biology or evolutionary ecology. Publica-60 EvolDir September 1, 2020
tions in international scientic journals, ideally in the
eld of (marine) genomics or evolutionary biology, are
expected. Experience in high-throughput sequencing,
bioinformatics including scripting in programming lan-
guages, population genetic modeling, or the performance
of evolutionary ecology experiments is highly desirable,
as is knowledge of marine coastal habitats including
seagrass beds.
The salary depends on qualication and could be up
to the class E13 TV oD-Bund of the German tari for
public employees. This is a full-time position that can-
not be split. Yet, exible working time models are in
principle possible that allow for a temporary reduction
of the working time to 75% of a full-time employment.
GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel
seeks to increase the proportion of female scientists
and explicitly encourages qualied female academics to
apply.|GEOMAR is an equal opportunity employer and
encourages scientists with disabilities to apply. Qual-
ied disabled applicants will receive preference in the
application process.
Please send your application via email in a single pdf-le,
mentioning the keyword \ADAPTASEX" in the subject
line. We would like to receive your application no later
than 25 September 2020 to bewerbung@geomar.de. As
soon as the selection procedure is nished, all applica-
tion data will be removed according to data protection
regulation.
GEOMAR is a member of the Helmholtz Association.
For further information please visit www.geomar.de or
www.helmholtz.de.|GEOMAR is committed to a non-
discriminatory personnel selection. Our job advertise-
ments address all people.
For further information regarding the position, the
project or the research unit please contact Prof.
Thorsten Reusch (treusch@geomar.de).
Thorsten Reusch Professor Marine Ecology GEOMAR
Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel Marine Ecol-
ogy - Marine Evolutionary Ecology Dusternbrooker Weg
20 24105 Kiel Germany
Thorsten Reusch <treusch@geomar.de >HalleJena Germany
ViralEvolutionaryBioinformatics
A two-year postdoc position is available in the labs
of Robert Paxton (Uni. Halle, Germany), specializ-
ing in bee-virus experimental approaches, and Manja
Marz (Uni. Jena, Germany), who heads the European
Virus Bioinformatics Center based at Jena. The aim
of the research is to quantify evolutionary processes
to inform on viral adaptive potential following viral
spillover among insect pollinator species. Using honey
bees and their viruses as a model system, we seek a
highly motivated postdoc with skills in viral bioinfor-
matics to explore the genetic underpinning of viral
spillover. Opportunities exist to develop the research
through lab-based experiments coupled to molecular
genetic analysis of bees and their viruses. The posi-
tion is one of six new postdocs oered by iDiv, the
German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research
Halle-Jena-Leipzig. If interested, please contact Robert
Paxton (robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de) for fur-
ther details.
Applications should include: a cover letter describing
motivation for the project, research interests and rele-
vant experience, a cv with names and contact details of
at least two scientic references, and a digital copy of
MSc and PhD certicates or equivalent. Please send ap-
plications as a single pdf le, quoting the reference num-
ber 4-8989/20-D, via the application portal at https:/-
/apply.idiv.de. Submission deadline is 10 September
2020. Selected candidates will be invited to an online
joint recruitment symposium on 28 - 29 September 2020.
\robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de"
INRAE CNRS France
ModelingEcoEvolutionaryDynamics
Postdoctoral position in eco-evolutionary dynamics of
introduced populations
Position Summary This postdoc is focused on modeling
processes driving outcomes of small population in novel
habitats, including evolutionary rescue and extinctionSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 61
vortices. The host lab is based near Antibes, France,
this position is for 18 months, with start date negotiable,
but ideally this fall. French is not required, and visas
can be arranged. Application deadline is Oct. 1. See
below for all the details!
Background A crucial area of research in Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology is understanding the role of eco-
evolutionary dynamics in determining the fate of small
populations. Specically, declining populations are
extinction-prone, and introduced populations often fail
to establish. A general explanation is that low num-
bers trigger deleterious demographic and genetic pro-
cesses such as inbreeding depression, Allee eects, and
stochasticity. Although each process is well-studied,
their relative inuence and mutual dependence remain
unclear. Do these processes reinforce one another and
drive small populations into an extinction vortex, or do
they provoke a form of evolutionary rescue underpinned
by a purge of the genetic load?
Such a question is of prime importance for population
management, including biological control. Populations
of biocontrol agents experience dramatic variation in the
number of individuals during collection, importation,
rearing and releases. Meta-analyses suggest that low
numbers partly explain establishment failure, but some
experiments tell a dierent story. Our aim is therefore
to develop a general simulation model implementing
demographic-genetic interactions in a context of popula-
tion introduction. The model will serve to analyze the
consequences of these interactions on the dynamics of
small introduced populations, and to search for optimal
scenarios maximizing establishment probability.
Beyond biological control, we seek a better understand-
ing of eco-evolutionary feedbacks and the functioning
of small populations, with relevance to Invasion and
Conservation Biology.
References - Extinction of populations by inbreeding
depression under stochastic environments. Tanaka, Y.
2000. Population Ecology 42(1): 55-62. - Invading para-
sitoids suer no Allee eect: a manipulative eld exper-
iment. Fauvergue X, Malausa JC, Giuge L and Cour-
champ F. 2007. Ecology 88(9): 2392-2403. - Inbreeding
depression is purged in the invasive insect Harmonia
axyridis. Facon B, Hufbauer RA, Tayeh A, Loiseau A,
Lombaert E, Vitalis R, Guillemaud T, Lundgren JG,
and Estoup A. 2011. Current Biology 21:424-427. - The
biology of small, introduced populations, with special
reference to biological control. Fauvergue X, Vercken E,
Malausa T, Hufbauer RA. 2012. Evolutionary Applica-
tions 5(5) : 424- 443. - Trophic interactions may reverse
the demographic consequences of inbreeding. Bompard
A, Amat I, Fauvergue X & Spataro T. 2016. Ecology.97(11) : 3131-3142. - The genetic Allee eect: A unied
framework for the genetics and demography of small
populations. Luque G, Vayssade C, Guillemaud T, Fa-
con B, Courchamp F & Fauvergue X. 2016. Ecosphere.
7(7) : e011413.
Location The position is housed at ISA (Institut Sophia
Agrobiotech), a research institute funded by INRAE,
CNRS and Universit e C^ ote d'Azur (ISA website). ISA
hosts about 200 professors, researchers, engineers and
technicians distributed across 13 research teams, as
well as an international Master school and many stu-
dents. Research will be supervised by Xavier Fauvergue,
research director at INRAE (xavier's website). The In-
stitute is based in Sophia-Antipolis, near Antibes on the
French Riviera (GPS coordinates: 43.612906, 7.077723).
Surroundings combined with Mediterranean climate of-
fer great opportunities for outdoor activities in sea and
mountain environments (les Alpes Maritimes). The po-
sition is for 18 months with a gross salary of about 2700
euro /month.
Qualications Competitive applicants will have a PhD
in Ecology, Evolutionary Biology or a related discipline
by the start date, expertise in Population Genetics, and
should show evidence of strong quantitative and model-
ing skills. English speaking and writing must be uent,
French is not mandatory.
Application To apply, please send a single pdf le includ-
ing a letter of motivation, a curriculum vitae, contact
information for at least two previous supervisors, and
any rst-author articles that are related with the posi-
tion to xavier.fauvergue@inrae.fr. You are also welcome
to use this mail for prior inquiries. Deadline for appli-
cation: October 1st, 2020. Start date: negotiable, but
ideally by November 15th, 2020.
\Hufbauer,Ruth" <Ruth.Hufbauer@colostate.edu >
JohnInnesCentre UK
EvolutionPlants
Postdoctoral Researcher Salary: 32,255 - 39,345 depend-
ing on qualications and experience.
Contract: Fulltime, 23 months Location: John Innes
Centre, Norwich, UK.
Closing date: 17th September 2020 Reference: 1003935
An exciting opportunity has arisen for a Postdoctoral
Researcher to join the Byers Group at the John Innes62 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Centre.
About the John Innes Centre:
The John Innes Centre is an independent, international
centre of excellence in plant science, genetics and micro-
biology. We nurture a creative, curiosity led approach
to answering fundamental questions in bioscience, and
translate that knowledge into societal benets.
Our employees enjoy access to state-of-the-art technol-
ogy and a diverse range of specialist training opportuni-
ties, including support for leadership and management.
Click here to nd out more about working at the John
Innes Centre.
About the Byers Group:
Dr. Byers started at the Centre in August 2020, so
this is a chance to help build a lab from the ground up
and contribute your expertise and passionto the group
and its culture, as well as to experience rst-hand what
starting your own group might look like. The lab is a
partof the Cell and Developmental Biology department
and the Genes in the Environment ISP at the John
Innes Centre.
The group studies the eect of oral scent on the evo-
lution of owering plants from a genetic, phenotypic,
and ecological perspective, focusing particularly on how
it drives interactions with animal pollinators. We use
several dierent plant systems, including monkeyow-
ers (Mimulus), orchids (Gymnadenia), and bedstraws
(Galium).
The role:
As a Postdoctoral Researcher, you'll take ownership of
a specic projectwithin the group. This project will be
developed in consultation between you and Dr. Byers.
One potential/ideal project is to investigate the evolu-
tion of oral traits, particularly oral scent, across the
phylogeny of monkeyowers (Mimulus s.l.), a group of
about 150 species that are developing model systems in
evolutionary biology and ecology. Prior work in a small
group of species within the genus has shown that shared
patterns of oral scentphenotype have evolved using
quite distinct genetic mechanisms, thus sparking our
interest in investigating these patterns at a genus-wide
level.
The ideal candidate:
The ideal candidate will have a PhD degree in evolu-
tionary biology or ecology. Especially desirable is expe-
rience with macroevolutionary/phylogenetic approaches
to trait evolution; chemical ecology; and/or pollination
biology. You will have experience with plant cultivation
and plant science; in particular, experience cultivatingdicult species (e.g. requiring seed pre-treatment or
special growth conditions) would bevaluable for this
position. You will have demonstrable experience with
molecular biology and genetics techniques and analysis,
strong record-keeping skills (e.g. lab notebook, collec-
tions maintenance, data storage and organisation) and a
strong command of written and spoken English. You'll
be passionate about science!
You will be comfortable working both independently
and as a member of a larger team, as well as having
good time management, attention to detail, and priori-
tisation skills. You'll be comfortable collaborating with
international and local colleagues from diverse cultures
and backgrounds. You will be able to travel locally and
internationally for e.g. collaborations, meetings, and
eldwork, and may be asked to work limited unsociable
hours for crucial experiments.
Additional information:
Interviews are expected to be held on 15th October
2020.
For further information and details of how to apply,
please visit our website http://jobs.jic.ac.uk or con-
tact the Human Resources team on 01603 450462 or
nbi.recruitment@nbi.ac.uk quoting reference 1003935.
We are an equal opportunities employer, actively sup-
porting inclusivity and diversity, and particularly en-
courage applications from individuals often underrepre-
sented in STEM, including racial and ethnic minorities,
Indigenous, and BAME individuals; LGBTQIA+ indi-
viduals;individuals with disabilities, Deaf individuals,
and those with chronic illness(es); and women and gen-
der minorities. As a Disability Condent organisation,
we guarantee to oer an interview to all disabled appli-
cants who meet the essential criteria for this vacancy.
We are a member of Stonewall's Diversity Champions
programme and are proud to hold a prestigious Gold
Athena SWAN award in recognition of our inclusive cul-
ture, commitment and good practices towards advancing
of gender equality. We oer an exciting, stimulating,
diverse research environment and actively promote a
family friendly workplace. Dr. Byers is committed to
maintaining a respectful, inclusive, and friendly work-
ing environment for all sta and students, as well as
promoting your personal and career development.
Kind regards
Eve
Eve Edwards Recruitment Coordinator
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.September 1, 2020 EvolDir 63
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Lausanne SoilMicrobiome
Postdoctoral position - The role of the soil microbiome
in determining plant responses to the mycorrhizal sym-
biosis (Uni. Lausanne, Switzerland & collaboration with
the ETH Z urich)
Job Description: We are looking for a highly moti-
vated postdoctoral researcher to study the role of the
soil microbiome in determining plant responses to the
mycorrhizal symbiosis using experimental approaches.
The research will build on previous work in the group
showing that mycorrhizal fungi can shape soil microbial
communities. We now want to know how the structure
and composition of soil microbiomes inuence how the
plant responds to inoculation with mycorrhizal fungi.
It is intended that the results of this project will be
combined with research in the eld where our work is
leading to real solutions to increase production of food
in areas of the world where starvation is a major prob-
lem. More information about our work can be found at
http://people.unil.ch/iansanders/ The project is part
of a large collaboration at the new Swiss Centre for Ex-
cellence in Research (NCCR) on Microbiomes, created
between many research groups at the University of Lau-
sanne and the ETH Z urich https://nccr-microbiomes.ch
. Your skills and qualications: Candidates must be
highly motivated, have a PhD (or very soon), and have
a good conceptual knowledge in community structure,
coupled with practical experience in microbial metage-
nomics and/or microbial communities. You must have
a strong interest in investigating this topic using an ex-
perimental approach. Sound knowledge of appropriate
bioinformatics tools will be a clear advantage, as will, an
interest in solving problems in an analytical way. The
successful candidate will work on this project with a
PhD student. You should have good interpersonal skills
and an ability to work well in a multicultural team and
department.
Job information: The position is full-time and available
as soon as possible and is initially for 1 year. A renewal
of the contract may be possible but is not guaranteed
since it is subject to the development and future direc-
tion of the project. Preference will be given to someone
who very recently obtained, or will very soon obtain, a
PhD.Most of the researcher's time will be dedicated to re-
search, but a contribution to teaching is expected, in-
cluding the possibility of supervising master students.
Formally, the contract stipulates: 70% Personal re-
search, 25% Participation to teaching activities, 5%
group-related tasks such as data management.
Applications: You must apply online to the University
of Lausanne job portal and upload a CV and motivation
letter in English. The letter must include the names
of 2-3 referees. The link to apply is: https://bit.ly/-
2PU7K7e Applications must be received not later than
30th September 2020. Informal enquiries may be made
by email to ian.sanders@unil.ch but you MUST ONLY
APPLY ONLINE. You must NOT send your application
to this email address.
Ian Sanders <ian.sanders@unil.ch >
Liverpool MosquitoGenomics
The department of Vector Biology are looking for TWO
experienced PDRAs to work within a project team bridg-
ing the groups of David Weetman and Martin Donnelly.
You will provide bioinformatics and/or lab support for
analysis of genomic and transcriptomic insecticide re-
sistance data and samples. You will work primarily
within the scope of a large programme grant aiming to
identify genetic and transcriptomic variation underlying
resistance to insecticides used for Anopheles malaria
vector control in Africa, mapping the predictive value
of diagnostic markers. The role will involve analysis of
WGS (Whole-genome sequencing) and RNA sequencing
data sets along with characterisation of putative insec-
ticide resistance associated variants through laboratory
approaches. Key responsibilities to this role:
* Ability to analyse genomic and transcriptomic data
from insect disease vectors and investigate candidate
variants * Develop and deliver training to project part-
ners from disease endemic countries * Provide training
and supervision for postgraduate students and collabo-
rate on their project analyses * Develop novel projects
to help generate ideas and data to support new project
applications * Produce and disseminate research out-
puts * Prepare and write peer-reviewed publications for
the scientic community
Please see the job description for further details The
ideal candidate will have excellent interpersonal skills
with the ability to work as an integral and cooperative
member of a multi-disciplinary, multi-national research64 EvolDir September 1, 2020
team. You will well-developed research skills with the
ability to eectively present research ndings in oral and
written format. Ideally you will be able to demonstrate:
* PhD in relevant area (genetics, biology, biological
computing) * Strong bioinformatic skills * Record of
publication in peer reviewed international journals *
Strong molecular genetic analytical skills * Experience
in molecular laboratory techniques * An ability to com-
municate with specialists from a variety of disciplines:
vector biology, biostatistics, parasitology, epidemiology
* Knowledge of health and safety regulations and legal
requirements * It is desirable that you can demonstrate
experience of using programmes such as PYTHON and
R and have previous experience in Vector Biology.
About LSTM Founded in 1898 and the oldest of its kind
in the world, the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine
(LSTM) is an internationally recognised centre of ex-
cellence for teaching and research in tropical diseases.
Through the creation of eective links with governments,
NGOs, private organisations and global institutions
and by responding to the health needs of communities,
LSTM aims to promote improved health, particularly for
people of the less developed/resource poorest countries
in the tropics and sub-tropics. Closing Date: 16th Au-
gust 2020 Please note: Interviews will be taking place
week commencing 7th September 2020 More details
at https://www.lstmed.ac.uk/post-doctoral-research-
assistant-6 https://www.lstmed.ac.uk/post-doctoral-
research-assistant-7 or get in touch with David
(david.weetman@lstmed.ac.uk) or I
Martin
Martin James Donnelly Head of Department of Vec-
tor Biology Professor of Evolutionary Genetics Royal
Society Wolfson Fellow
Department of Vector Biology Liverpool School of
Tropical Medicine & Pembroke Place Liverpool L3
5QA Tel: +44(0) 151 705 3296 Fax: +44(0) 151
705 3369 Email: martin.donnelly@lstmed.ac.uk Web:
https://www.lstmed.ac.uk/about/people/professor-
martin-james-donnelly Skype: martin-donnelly Orcid:
0000-0001-5218-1497
Parasites and Microbes Programme Wellcome Sanger
Institute Hinxton Cambridge CB10 1SJ Email:
mjd@sanger.ac.uk Web: www.sanger.ac.uk/research/-
faculty/mdonnelly/ This e-mail message is sent on
behalf of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, a
charitable company limited by guarantee registered in
England and Wales with company number 222655 and
whose registered oce is at Pembroke Place Liverpool
L3 5QA (\LSTM")
The contents of this e-mail are subject to LSTM's emaildisclaimer found at: http://www.lstmed.ac.uk/-
disclaimer/email-disclaimer Martin Donnelly
<Martin.Donnelly@lstmed.ac.uk >
MarineBiolLab MicrobialSymbioses
Position Summary: The MBL is seeking a candidate for
the position of Postdoctoral Scientist in the laboratory of
Dr. Blair Paul to investigate physical interactions among
uncultivated microbial symbioses from aquatic environ-
ments. For more information about our lab's work, see
https://www.mbl.edu/jbpc/sta/bgpaul/. This project
is funded by The Betty and Gordon Moore Foundation's
Symbiosis in Aquatic Systems Initiative and oers oppor-
tunities to collaborate with the labs of co-investigators
at UC Berkeley, UC San Diego, and UC Santa Bar-
bara. The ideal candidate will apply existing skills in
biochemistry and genetics to assist with development
of a high-throughput workow for cell isolation. This
research will involve a synergistic combination of ex-
perimental biology and bioinformatics to examine the
molecular interface between microbial symbionts and
their hosts. We enthusiastically encourage individuals
from backgrounds that are underrepresented in STEM
elds to apply for this opportunity.
Additional information: The position is for two years
with potential for extension, contingent on performance
and funding. Salary will be commensurate with expe-
rience and qualications. For more information about
MBL and living on Cape Cod, please visit: https://-
www.mbl.edu/hr/employment/our-community/ . Basic
qualications: A Ph.D. in biology, microbiology, molec-
ular biology, biochemistry, or a related eld is required.
Preferred qualications: Experience in the following
areas is desirable: protein biochemistry, microbial culti-
vation, and/or bacterial or archaeal genetics.
Instructions: Apply on the MBL website (https://-
www.mbl.edu/hr/employment/) and provide the fol-
lowing required documents: (1) a cover letter describing
your interests, skills, and prior research experience, in-
cluding any specic experience with the job responsibili-
ties listed above; (2) a curriculum vitae/resume; and (3)
the names and contact numbers of three persons who
can be contacted for letters of reference, at least one of
whom must have acted as your supervisor in a previous
research position.
Jennifer Larkum <jlarkum@mbl.edu >September 1, 2020 EvolDir 65
Muenster Germany
ForecastModelDiseaseDynamics
Postdoc position full time for 2 years in Muenster, Ger-
many Julius K uhn-Institute (JKI), Federal Research
Centre for Cultivated Plants, Institute for Plant Protec-
tion in Horticulture and Forests, Vertebrate Research,
Toppheideweg 88, 48161 Muenster, Germany
Tasks Develop forecast model for rodent-borne diseases
in humans (model species Hanta virus) Research, col-
late and organise data Develop, optimise and validate
predictive model Report, publish and present results at
national and international conferences
You have University degree in natural sciences or math-
ematics, optimally with a PhD in relevant eld Expe-
rience in developing predictive/risk models Thorough
knowledge of relevant model approaches/programs Pub-
lished in peer-reviewed international journals Excel-
lent skills in communication, organisation of research
projects, initiative, team work and exibility Drivers
licence and be prepared to conduct work travel incl.
driving work cars
We oer 2 year full time position at 39 hours/week start-
ing as soon as possible (pending allocation of funds)
under regulations of the federal public service (Tarifver-
trag fuer den oeentlichen Dienst (TVoeD)) Depending
on professional qualication and personal situation pay-
ment at salary scale E13 (pending allocation of funds)
We provide professional equality and exible work hours
to improve the balance of work and family life. JKI fur-
thers the inclusion of disabled people in the workforce,
encourages them to apply and gives their application
priority in the selection process.
Please send you complete application documents (mo-
tivation letter, CV, university/degree certicates, list
of publications) until 27 August 2020 preferably via e-
mail to bewerbungen.muenster@julius-kuehn.de as one
single pfd le of max. 10 MB and state the le number
BS-GF-WA-46-20. Other formats will not be considered.
JKI is an institution of the German Federal Ministry of
Food and Agriculture (BMEL).
Access to German version of announcement: https:/-
/www.julius-kuehn.de/media/Stellen/2020/wiss/-
BS-GF-WA-46-20.pdf \jens.jacob@julius-kuehn.de"
<jens.jacob@julius-kuehn.de >Normandy
EvolutionRespiratoryViruses
Postdoc position - Dynamic'H project - last call Dy-
namic of respiratory Microbiome in Human Untangling
the microbiome interplay with human respiratory viral
infections Due to CoVID-19, this program has been
delayed, recruitment process was stopped and we are
now urgently looking for candidates.
A two-year postdoctoral position, with attractive salary,
is available, starting as early as possible, in the histor-
ical, cultural and university city of Caen, Normandy.
The post-doc will be hosted in a young and dynamic
team, within the Virology Department of the Univer-
sity Hospital of Caen, Normandy (National Reference
Center & WHO Coll. Center for Measles, Rubella and
Mumps viruses). (Prof. Astrid Vabret & Dr. Meri-
adeg Le Gouil - http://coronavirus.fr) and at GRAM
2.0 (Group for Research on the Adaptation of Microbes,
EA2656 UNICAEN/UNIROUEN), University of Caen,
Normandy ; (Pr. Simon Le Hello). The position is part
of a research project (Dynamic-H / RIN) funded by the
region Normandy and European Commission (Feder).
Responsibilities: Leading and collaborating the research
involved in the above-mentioned project under the
supervision of Dr. Meriadeg Le Gouil (https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Meriadeg ArGouilh).
The project includes the implementation and analysis
of short and long reads sequencing / transcriptomics
/ targeted and untargeted sequencing of respiratory
samples originating from 2 pre-characterized and rare
human collections (n = 2000). The main objectives is
to decrypt the species composition and the expression
prole of the microbiome associated with respiratory
viruses (Coronaviruses including SARS-CoV2, RSV,
Rhinoviruses, Inuenza, Parainuenza, Metapneu-
moviruses, Adenovirus, Bocavirus ...) and to model
the dynamics and expression of microbial communities.
This will allow a better understanding of the microbial
interactions and evolution of the healthy sick continuum
for patients infected (or not) by respiratory viruses and
will enhance our knowledge of the biological landscape
and evolution of viral infections.
Prerequisites for an application include : 1 - A doctoral
degree in natural sciences (biology, chemistry, biochem-
istry, etc.), with above-average grades and an interest
in independent scientic work.66 EvolDir September 1, 2020
2 - Strong abilities to team co-working, networking,
collaboration and socializing.
3 Preferably, strong knowledge and skills in : virology,
mixed approach of high-throughput sequencing (short
and long reads), analysis of NGS data (bioinformat-
ics) and evolutionary analysis (phylogenetics) is desired.
Scripting skills in bash, R and/or python would also be
highly appreciated.
4 - We expect a very good command of English; French
will be much appreciated.
For informal enquiries about the position, please get
quickly in touch with : Meriadeg Le Gouil (meri-
adeg.legouil@unicaen.fr / meriadeg.legouil@normandie-
univ.fr) or Astrid Vabret (vabret-a@chu-caen.fr).
Deadline for applications: interviews is starting and can-
didate will be selected as soon as possible. more infos :
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/jobs/471068 Application
documents (CV, 1 page research statement, Publica-
tions) should be sent by PDF to the above contacts, or
by post to:
Dr. Meriadeg Le Gouil GRAM 2.0 Service de Virologie,
CHU de Caen Avenue Georges Clemenceau 14000 Caen
FRANCE
Meriadeg Le Gouil, PhD, HDR
GRAM - Groupe de Recherche sur l'Adaptation Micro-
bienne EA 2656 UNICAEN / UNIROUEN Normandie
Universite meriadeg.legouil@normandie-univ.fr
&
Service de Virologie, CHU de Caen CNR ROR - Centre
National de Reference pour les Virus de la Rougeole,
Rubeole et Oreillons Av. Georges Clemenceau, 14033
Caen, Cedex tel. : 0231272554 - Fax : 0231272557
legouil-me@chu-caen.fr encrypted email : legouil-me.chu-
caen@apicrypt.fr
Meriadeg research@Pasteur < http://-
research.pasteur.fr/en/member/meriadeg-le-
gouil/ >/ Meriadeg@researchgate <https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Meriadeg LeGouil >/
Coronavirus.fr / Chiroptera.fr <http://chiroptera.fr/-
communaute/chiroblog/ >
\meriadeg.legouil@normandie-univ.fr"Oxford UK GenomeEvolution
A 1-year postdoctoral researcher position (or part time
pro rata) is available with the Barraclough lab, in the
Department of Zoology, University of Oxford. The post
will generate new genomic data and analyses for evo-
lutionary time-series of multiple species, focusing on 8
fungal and 8 insect species in the UK. Funded by the
John Fell Fund, the project will collaborate with the
Big Data Institute in Oxford, the CABI living fungal
collection, the Insect Survey at Rothamsted Research,
and the Darwin Tree of Life project led by the Wellcome
Sanger Institute.
The postholder should have prior experience of evo-
lutionary genomics and a hold a PhD (or be near to
completion) in a relevant area is essential, but experi-
ence could be in laboratory methods or in bioinformatic
analysis or in both.
This position will manage sample acquisition, DNA
extraction (including from tricky historical samples),
submitting samples to genome sequencing centres, and
the analysis and compilation of resulting genome se-
quence data. They will work closely with a range of
partners including the Big Data Institute in Oxford,
the UK's living fungal culture collection at CABI, the
Insect Survey at Rothamsted and the Darwin Tree of
Life project at the Sanger Institute.
Only applications made online will be accepted. You will
be required to upload a CV and supporting statement
as part of your online application.
Full-time and part-time applications (minimum 20 hours
per week) are welcome.
Informal inquiries should be directed to
tim.barraclough@zoo.ox.ac.uk.
The closing date for applications is 12.00 noon on 3
September 2020
https://my.corehr.com/pls/uoxrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.jobspec?p id=146687 Timothy
Barraclough <tim.barraclough@zoo.ox.ac.uk >September 1, 2020 EvolDir 67
Paris-SaclayU
PhylogenomicsOriginEukaryotes
{ Practical information { Contract type: Postdoctoral
Contract length: 3 years Location: Diversity Ecology
and Evolution of Microbes (DEEM) team, Paris-Saclay
University (Orsay, France) Starting date: October 1st,
2020 (negotiable)
{ Project overview { The candidate will work in the
DEEM team which focus on the diversity and evolu-
tion of microbial life across the three domains of life.
This particular project is in close collaboration with the
laboratories of Andrew J. Roger and Edward Susko (Dal-
housie University), and Minh Bui (Australian National
University). The research project will be to develop phy-
logenomic datasets to determine billion-year relation-
ships related to the origin and early of eukaryotes and
investigate potential biases aecting phylogenetic recon-
structions based on those datasets. The candidate will
take part in developing and extending various datasets
to resolve ancient divergences (e.g, root of eukaryotes,
origin of mitochondria, ...), applying sophisticated phy-
logenomic approaches and investigating various sources
of potential phylogenetic artefacts.
{ Your prole { We will prioritize candidates with a
strong background in molecular phylogenetics prefer-
ably at large evolutionary scale. General knowledge
about eukaryogenesis and the tree of eukaryotes will be
a plus.
{ Additional requirements { - English prociency (written
and spoken). - Good presentation and communication
skills - Autonomy and organization
{ Working environment { The Ecology, Systematics and
Evolution (ESE) unit is coaliated CNRS 'V Paris-
Saclay University 'V AgroParisTech, and is located on
the Paris-Saclay campus in Orsay, 20 kms South of
Paris and directly accessible by the RER (commuter
rail). The candidate will work in the DEEM team
(Diversity, Ecology et Evolution of Microbes: http://-
www.deemteam.fr/en), which focuses on the diversity
and evolution of prokaryotic and eukaryotic microor-
ganisms using molecular phylogenetics and comparative
genomics. Our team is international and the working
language is English. We work in a good atmosphere and
an inclusive and supportive environment. We welcome
candidates from all horizons.{ Applications { Application should include a detailed
CV, a cover letter and contact information for at least
two referees. Send them to laura.eme@u-psud.fr
Laura Eme <laura.eme@universite-paris-saclay.fr >
Surrey UnitedKingdom Biodiversity
Research Scientist - DNA assay developer
Location: Egham, Surrey, United Kingdom
Salary: 30,000 - 40,000 per annum
Start: ASAP
Duration: Full time, permanent.
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral scientist
role to work with an expanding science-based start-
up company. The position will focus on R&D relating
to the development and validation of molecular meth-
ods to monitor biodiversity, using environmental DNA,
metabarcoding and related technologies.
This role will also involve some routine analysis of client
samples and assisting in the delivery of our more com-
plex commercial contracts. The candidate will report to
our Lead Scientist and will also work closely with other
members of the R&D team and our bioinformaticians
to ensure that R&D work is targeted towards the devel-
opment of replicable and scalable tests for biodiversity
that our clients are interested in.
Experience with environmental DNA and targetted as-
say development and subsequent validation are highly
desired, and experience with HTS/NGS for metabarcod-
ing and/or metagenomics are very welcome. You will be
a proactive problem-solver with a high level of attention
to detail and an ability to work on multiple projects at
once. You should enjoy working in a dynamic, collabo-
rative, team environment. You will need to be able to
take a leadership role in the delivery of certain projects
but be prepared to follow standard procedures where
necessary.
NatureMetrics is a high-growth start-up bringing DNA-
based tools to environmental managers to measure and
monitor biodiversity. We are well-connected to the re-
search world and have strong connections with academic
research groups throughout Europe. Producing scientic
publications is not our priority, but we do look to co-
author papers with our collaborators and clients where
relevant. We also present at national and international68 EvolDir September 1, 2020
conferences.
This is an ideal role for an early-career researcher with a
PhD in the eld of eDNA and molecular biomonitoring,
who is looking to work in an applied setting to help de-
liver on the promise of these potentially game-changing
tools for environmental management. We will be consid-
ering applications from candidates who have previously
designed molecular assays & worked with DNA derived
from complex real-world samples (e.g. eDNA/iDNA).
The full specication can be found on our web-
site here https://www.naturemetrics.co.uk/careers/-
current-vacancies/. To apply, please email ca-
reers@naturemetrics.co.uk including a CV and covering
letter. There is no xed deadline for applications, and
the position will be held open until we nd the right
candidate.
Roles & responsibilities
General
Lead the design and execution of projects identied by
the management team in collaboration with our clients
and collaborators.
The primary focus of this role will be to develop new
assays for biodiversity monitoring. This will include
primer design, evaluation of existing primer sets, PCR
optimisation, and assay validation, eld validation and
sample strategy development and optimization, as well
as involvement in the bioinformatics processing and data
analysis.
Be responsible for the generation, analysis and interpre-
tation of experimental data, identify issues, troubleshoot
and implement necessary changes.
Ensure the quality of experimental data, results and
methodology used.
Generate SOPs and train other members of the team
to carry out protocols developed from your research
activities.
Where necessary, contribute to routine analysis of client
samples and delivery of results within a specied time
frame.
Contribute to scientic publications and outreach activ-
ities.
Contribute to the preparation of grant applications and
tenders where relevant
Documentation
Keep detailed laboratory notes
Follow internal protocol for sample tracking & documen-
tationPrepare reports as required by project funders where
relevant
Progress reports to management team and the wider
company as required
Generate standard protocols for internal use as an R&D
output
Safety
Use COSHH and risk assessments, compliance with
company procedures and HSE legal requirements
Education & qualications
You will have a PhD (or equivalent) in a related subject.
Specialist knowledge, skills & experience
Experience in development & optimisation of assays
targeting single or multiple species. Desired: eDNA
assay publication history.
Bioinformatics skills for in silico assay design and to
analyse data from research projects.
Field experience - and knowledge of how to validate an
assay.
Core laboratory skills: DNA extraction, PCR, NGS
library preparation etc.
Experience of working with environmental DNA.
Able to pick up and apply new methods with minimal
guidance.
Experience in training other scientists to follow methods
you use (could be collaborators, colleagues, students or
technicians).
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
TempleU
PlantPollinatorInteractions
The Spigler Lab at Temple University in Philadelphia,
PA, USA ( http://rachelspigler.weebly.com) is looking
for a postdoctoral researcher to conduct research on
plant-pollinator interactions. The primary goals of the
position are to (i) analyze existing datasets on pollina-
tor foraging and (ii) develop and carry out eld studiesSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 69
related to understanding links between resource avail-
ability, oral resources, and pollinator foraging. The
postdoc will have considerable latitude in developing
the specic project and opportunities to collaborate on
ongoing research in the lab related to nectar chemistry,
plant-pollinator interaction networks, and selection on
oral traits. There are also opportunities to mentor un-
dergraduates in research and to design and participate
in outreach eorts.
Candidates must have a PhD in Ecology, Evolutionary
Biology, Botany, or related eld; experience designing,
conducting, and managing eld studies; strong quantita-
tive and writing skills. Strong preference for candidates
with experience analyzing networks. Depending on the
realities of COVID19 in 2021, the candidate will need
to be prepared to travel to eld sites in central Penn-
sylvania for up to weeks at a time during the summer
owering season (Driver's License required). Antici-
pated start date is October/November. There is the
possibility to begin remotely. Funding is available for
one year, with an additional year based on satisfactory
progress and funding. Salary is commensurate with
experience, and health benets are provided.
Applicants should submit a SINGLE PDF le contain-
ing a cover letter describing your previous research
and research goals, a full CV, and names and con-
tact information for three references to Rachel Spigler
( rachel.spigler@temple.edu) by September 15. Review
of applications will begin immediately. The Spigler Lab
is committed to equitable access to opportunities in
research and career development. All qualied appli-
cants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to age, ethnicity, color, race, religion, sex, sex-
ual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital
status, national origin, disability status or protected
veteran status.
Rachel Spigler <rachel.spigler@temple.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley
HumanEvolutionaryGenetics
Post-doctoral position ??? University of California,
Berkeley ??? Human Evolutionary Genetics.
Description: The Moorjani Lab (https://-
moorjanilab.org/) at University of California, Berkeley
uses computational and statistical methods to inves-
tigate questions in human evolutionary genetics, inparticular on mutation rate, demographic inference
and archaic ancestry. A central aim in the lab is to
understand the impact of evolutionary history on
genetic variation and to apply this knowledge to learn
about human history and disease. To this end, we use
genetic data from ancient specimens and present-day
species to learn about: (1) when key events (such as
introgression and adaptations) occurred in human
history, (2) how dierent evolutionary processes such as
mutation rate evolve across primates, and (3) how we
can leverage these patterns to identify genetic variants
related to human adaptation and disease. The research
in the lab involves both development of new methods
and large-scale genomic data analysis.
Responsibilities: A successful candidate will develop
and apply computational approaches to large genomic
datasets to characterize patterns of population history
and evolution. The main responsibilities include con-
ducting research, attending regular lab meetings and
journal clubs, and preparing research results for pub-
lication and presentations at scientic meetings. Op-
portunities may also exist for mentoring graduate and
undergraduate students.
Required qualications: Ph.D. or equivalent in genetics,
genomics, computational biology or related elds and
demonstrated record of productivity and publications.
Experience with programming (e.g. C/C++, Python/
Perl, R or other programming languages), genomic data
analysis and methods development.
Please contact Priya with your CV and a brief overview
of research questions you are interested in pursuing.
Please also request three recommenders to send a letter
of reference on your behalf. The position is open until
lled with an anticipated start date in 2019/2020.
Salary: This is a multi-year postdoctoral position (initial
appointment is for 12 months and renewable annually
up to three more years). Salary is commensurate with
qualications and experience.
Contact: Priya Moorjani Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Molecular and Cell Biology Center for Compu-
tational Biology https://moorjanilab.org/ Email: moor-
jani@berkeley.edu
Priya Moorjani <moorjani@berkeley.edu >70 EvolDir September 1, 2020
UCalifornia Davis FishEvolution
Two postdoctoral scholar positions are open at the
UC Davis Fish Conservation and Culture Laboratory
(FCCL: https://fccl.ucdavis.edu/). The FCCL is a part
of the Department of Biological and Agricultural Engi-
neering at University of California, Davis. Note that the
location of the FCCL is o the main campus in Byron,
CA. These appointments will be full time for a duration
of one year with the possibility of extension for another
year.
The successful candidates will be involved various stud-
ies, potentially focused on, but not limited to: * devel-
oping sperm preservation methods * determining sperm
competition between individuals and among species *
development of sh culture methods for a smelt species *
working with collaborators on various research projects
* maintaining the safety program in the lab
General responsibilities also include: laboratory sup-
port, animal trial support, sample analysis, and data
management. The candidate should also be actively
and signicantly involved in reviewing journal articles,
engaging in discussions on research and the interpre-
tation of research results, participating in appropriate
professional societies or groups and other educational
and research organizations, presenting research data at
conferences, and publishing manuscripts.
The ideal candidates will have strong interpersonal, com-
munication, and decision-making skills, as well as the
ability to work well both independently and as part of
a team. Full-time salary and benets are included and
are consistent with UC Davis policy and commensurate
with applicant experience. START DATE: October 2020
or ASAP.
Application materials (Cover letter and C.V.) must
be submitted to Dr. Tien-Chieh Hung at
thung@ucdavis.edu. The position will remain open until
lled, but to ensure consideration, application materials
should be received by August 28, 2020.
See job adverts here: https://recruit.ucdavis.edu/-
JPF03723 https://recruit.ucdavis.edu/JPF03726
\areads@ucdavis.edu" <areads@ucdavis.edu >UCDavis PlantEvolutionaryEcology
Postdoctoral Associate in Evolutionary Ecology of Plant
Climate Response
The Gremer, Schmitt, Strauss and Maloof labs at UC
Davis are together seeking a postdoctoral associate to
conduct research on an NSF-funded Dimensions of Bio-
diversity project exploring the ecology and evolution of
the seasonal niche and its impact on population and
species responses to current and future climates. On-
going work using the Brassicaceae clade *Streptanthus
*and allies is characterizing how responses to environ-
mental cues, such as temperature and precipitation,
drive seasonal timing of germination and owering, how
that has evolved across the clade, and the implications
for tness and population dynamics in the face of cli-
mate change. This postdoc will focus on relating these
cue responses to seasonal timing and tness, as well
as to species and population persistence under current
and future climate scenarios. To address these ques-
tions, we use common garden experiments, demographic
monitoring, and process-based and demographic models.
Duties will include demographic modeling, niche model-
ing, and participating in eld demography censuses; the
postdoc will also oversee greenhouse experiments and
eld seed collections from populations across the state
of California. Opportunities for genomic analyses of
the basis of germination responses are possible. While
modeling experience is not required, it is preferred, and
demonstrated interest in the above-mentioned areas is
necessary.
The postdoc will co-supervise a technician, along with
PIs, and will work with the technician on data collection
and project management. The postdoc will assist with
supervision and mentoring of undergraduate students,
as well as coordination with graduate students, and will
participate in lab meetings and activities and be an ac-
tive member of the lab and campus research community.
Experience managing people, experiments, and datasets
and good communication skills are essential.
The postdoc will receive professional mentoring from
PIs, and can expect to have individual weekly meetings
with one or more PI, in addition to weekly lab and
project meetings.
The SSGM labs embrace open and equitable access to
opportunities for scientic learning and development, re-September 1, 2020 EvolDir 71
gardless of race, ethnicity, gender and gender expression,
age, disability, nationality, sexual orientation, citizen-
ship status, veteran status, religious/non-religious be-
liefs, socio-economic class, or any other dierences that
have been the basis for oppression, misunderstanding
or bias.
This position will be for 12 months with possibility of
extension for additional years.
Please email a CV, names of three references, and a
2 page statement of your interest and experience as
they pertain to this position to jrgremer@ucdavis.edu.
Review of applications will begin on September 1, 2020.
Johanna Schmitt <jschmitt@ucdavis.edu >
UColorado LichenMetagenomics
Subject: Postdoctoral Researcher in Lichen Metage-
nomics (Boulder, Colorado)
Dear colleagues, Please see / share the following adver-
tisement for a postdoctoral research scientist in metage-
nomics. The position will be based at the University
of Colorado (Boulder, CO), Department of Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology.
https://jobs.colorado.edu/jobs/JobDetail/?jobId=-
26493&emailCampaignId=168 Thanks so much, Erin
Tripp
'X Associate Professor, Department ofEcology & Evolu-
tionary Biology Curator of Botany, Museum of Natural-
History University of Colorado, Boulder 303.492.2462
(Herbarium) Ruellia Pages:https://trippreport.com/the-
ruellia-pages/ President, Society of HerbariumCurators
(2020-2022) 'X
Erin Tripp <erin.tripp@colorado.edu >
UCopenhagen WildlifePopGen
Postdoctoral position in Population Genomics
Position summary
The Department of Biology, Faculty of Science at Univer-
sity of Copenhagen is oering a post doc position work-
ing on population and evolutionary genetics in Asianand African mammals, commencing December 1st 2020
or as soon as possible thereafter. The 2-year post doc
position is available with Tenure-track Assistant Pro-
fessor Rasmus Heller. The successful candidate will
be working on questions such as speciation, admixture,
adaptive introgression and population history in large
Asian and African mammals. There will be considerable
freedom to decide which of our existing projects is most
suitable for the candidate, and eld trips are denitely
possible.
Description of the scientic environment
The position will be in the lab of Tenure-track Assis-
tant Professor Rasmus Heller (RH). RHs lab works
on using population genetic methods to infer evolu-
tionary processes in wildlife species, including pop-
ulation divergence, local adaptations and speciation,
mainly in ruminants of Africa and Asia (https://-
rathmuth.wixsite.com/wildlifegenetics). We have access
to a unique set of large mammal samples from Africa
and Asia through our in-house collection as well as our
comprehensive international network of collaborators.
The RH lab is part of the Statistical and Population
Genetics group (www.popgen.dk), consisting of a dy-
namic team of four PIs working on animal and human
population genetics, high throughput data analyses,
statistical genetics and method development. Further-
more, RH plays a leading role in the Ruminant Genome
Project, a consortium aiming to use the full suite of
omics tools to study evolutionary questions in wild rumi-
nants (http://animal.nwsuaf.edu.cn/code/index.php/-
RGD). The University of Copenhagen has a strong and
growing population genetic research environment spread
on several dierent institutes, bound together by many
collaborative projects and monthly research seminars.
The city of Copenhagen is consistently considered as
one of the most liveable cities in the world.
Qualications
Applicants must have a PhD in population genet-
ics/genomics, evolutionary genomics, bioinformatics or
a similar quantitative eld. In addition, the following
are formal requirements to apply: - comprehensive ex-
perience in working with linux/unix and command lines,
as well as some prociency in one or more programming
languages (such as R, Python, Perl, C/C++). - experi-
ence in working with high-throughput sequencing data,
ideally with whole-genome sequencing data. - experience
with population genomic analyses. - a demonstrated
ability to communicate his/her scientic work in writ-
ing and in oral presentations. - must have published
high-quality peer-reviewed papers.
In addition to these formal requirements, the following
will be considered advantageous in candidates:72 EvolDir September 1, 2020
- is highly motivated, able to work independently and
has good interpersonal skills. - has prior experience with
admixture analyses, including inferring local ancestry
and demographic history. - has an interest in mammal
biology and/or animal domestication and/or livestock
genetics. - is willing to travel to Asian and African
countries as part of the collaboration with researchers
and institutions in these countries.
Inquiries about the position can be made to Rasmus
Heller, email rheller[at]bio.ku.dk.
Terms of employment
The starting salary is currently up to DKK 437.843
including annual supplement (+ pension up to DKK
74.871). Negotiation for salary supplement is possible.
To apply
The application must be submitted electronically by
clicking APPLY NOW on the following website (https:/-
/employment.ku.dk/faculty/?show=3D152464). The ap-
plication should include the following items:
- Cover letter detailing your motivation and background
for applying for this position (max. 2 pages) - Curricu-
lum vita - Complete publication list - Diplomas (Master
and PhD degree or equivalent) - 1-3 reference letters
(if any) The deadline for applications is 10 September
2020, 23:59 GMT +1
rheller@bio.ku.dk
UDresden
EvolutionarySpermBiology
Postdoc 3yrs+, Germany, U Dresden, Evolutionary
sperm biology and metabolism, deadline 30 Sept
Dear All,
I am looking for a postdoc to study evolutionary as-
pects of sperm metabolism, sperm membranes, sperm
mitochondria/ mito-nuclear interactions..., preferably
in insects (our current models are Drosophila, bedbugs
and crickets). Applicants should have experience in one,
and a keen interest in the other of the following two
elds: i) evolutionary biology, experimental design and
statistics and ii) sperm/ cell/ insect physiology to mea-
sure metabolism by microscopic, genetic or biochemical
means, e.g. extending existing ex vivo microscopy meth-
ods to characterise the sperm metabolism. The position
will involve some teaching in the areas of evolution, mi-croscopy, entomology, statistics, or biodiversity (exact
eld depending on any command of German).
The position can start any time but is negotiable. It is
for three years, but can be extended for a maximum of
another three years - so the development of an indepen-
dent research programme is desired (incl. to qualify for
a habilitation for those in whose countries that thing
still exists). Payment is \E 13 TV-L", which allows for
comfortable living.
Our lab is currently jevunating, with two more positions
to be announced soon but major technological skills are
being retained. We are generously equipped concerning
space, facilities, resources, microscopy and technician's
support. Dresden is a beautiful city and the surround-
ings are amazing. Lots of amazing international research
with ample for opportunity to collaborate.
The ocial deadline was unfortunately tightly set to 4
Sept. Please get in touch if you miss(ed) that - I am
happy to consider applications till 30 September.
Information about the position can be obtained from
me, from current publications (https://tudaz.net/) and
the ocial announcement is here: https://tinyurl.com/-
yxj3bchz Many thanks, Klaus
Klaus Reinhardt Professor of Applied Zoology Fac-
ulty of Biology, TU Dresden, Germany http://tu-
dresden.de/bio/appzoo internal lab page: http://-
tudaz.net klaus.reinhardt@tu-dresden.de +49 351 463
37534
Klaus Reinhardt <klaus.reinhardt@tu-dresden.de >
UEasternFinland
HumanSexualSelection
The University of Eastern Finland, UEF, is one of the
largest multidisciplinary universities in Finland. We
oer education in nearly one hundred major subjects,
and are home to approximately 15,500 students and
2,700 members of sta. We operate on two campuses
in Joensuu and Kuopio. In international rankings, we
are ranked among the leading universities in the world.
The Faculty of Science and Forestry operates on the
Kuopio and Joensuu campuses of the University of East-
ern Finland. The mission of the faculty is to carry out
internationally recognised scientic research and to of-
fer research-education in the elds of natural sciences
and forest sciences. The faculty invests in all of the
strategic research areas of the university. The faculty'sSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 73
environments for research and learning are international,
modern and multidisciplinary. The faculty has approxi-
mately 3,800 Bachelor's and Master's degree students
and some 490 postgraduate students. The number of
sta amounts to 560. See: http://www.uef./en/lumet/-
etusivu We are now inviting applications for:
Postdoctoral Researcher / Project Researcher (cryptic
female choice in humans), Department of Environmen-
tal and Biological Sciences, Joensuu and/or Kuopio
Campus
We are seeking a motivated Postdoctoral/Project Re-
searcher for our project \Towards molecular-level under-
standing of fertilization and sexual selection" (funded
by the Academy of Finland, more information from
research: https://gamcomgroup.wordpress.com/).
Fertilization is one of the most complex and enigmatic
biological processes, which severely hinders our under-
standing about reproduction, evolution and beginning of
life. It has traditionally been assumed that fertilization
is a completely unbiased process, leading to random
fusion of gametes. Against this assumption, our re-
cent ndings have indicated that gametes often combine
non-randomly, which bias fertilization towards partic-
ular (compatible) reproductive partners. However, the
molecular-level mechanisms of this gamete-level sexual
selection (cryptic female choice) have remained unclear.
The primary aim of our research is to clarify these
mechanisms in humans and this way also gain better
understanding of the mechanistic basis of fertilization
and infertility.
See our recent publications on the topic:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2018.0836 and http:/-
/dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2020.1682 The Postdoc-
toral/Project Researcher will participate in experimen-
tal research that aims to clarify these mechanisms in
humans. Depending on the expertise of the researcher,
the duties can include either:
1) Molecular and/or immunological analyses (e.g. RNA
sequencing, human leucocyte antigen analyses, and mass
spectrometry of reproductive proteins), 2) sperm motil-
ity and chemotaxis measurements, or 3) determination
of female-induced physiological changes in sperm. The
researcher's tasks also include data analysis and report-
ing of the results in scientic journals.
The applicant is expected to have good skills in written
and spoken English. Earlier experience in laboratory
work, relevant methods in molecular biology (e.g. RNA
seq, other next-generation sequencing methods or pro-
teomics) and cell biology (e.g. sperm motility or viability
analyses, ELISA assays or ow cytometry) will be con-
sidered a benet for the applicant. If you have any ofthese skills, please indicate that in the accompanying
CV and/or motivation letter (see below).
The person to be appointed as Postdoctoral/Project
Researcher is expected to hold a doctoral degree from
an applicable eld. If the employee has been awarded
his or her doctoral degree less than ve years ago, the
post will be one of a Postdoctoral Researcher. If the
doctoral degree has been awarded more than ve years
ago, the post will be one of a Project Researcher. In
this context, the ve years refer to a net period of time,
which does not include maternity leaves, parental leaves,
or military service, etc.
The position is lled for a xed term for two years start-
ing from 1.10.2020 or as agreed (starting at the latest
1.1.2021).
The salary of the Postdoctoral Researcher or Project
Researcher position is determined in accordance with
the salary system of Finnish universities and is based
on level 5 of the job requirement level chart for teaching
and research sta (2 967,84 euro 7/month). In addi-
tion to the job requirement component, the salary is
supplemented by a personal performance component,
which can be a maximum of 50% of the job requirement
component.
For further information on the position, please contact:
Associate professor Jukka Kek al ainen, tel.+358 29 445
1004, email: jukka.s.kekalainen[a]uef.. For further in-
formation on the application
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFlorida
MelastomataceaePhylogenomics
The Majure and Cellinese labs at the Florida Museum
of Natural History, University of Florida, are seeking a
postdoctoral associate to study the phylogenomics, bio-
geography and morphological evolution of the pantropi-
cal clade Melastomataceae. This is a 4 year NSF-funded
project in collaboration with Fabian Michelangeli at
the New York Botanical Garden. The project aims to
understand the systematics and evolution of at least
3000 taxa in this clade.74 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Selection criteria: - Ph.D. in molecular evolution, sys-
tematics, evolution, bioinformatics, genomics, or a re-
lated eld. - Research experience in molecular sys-
tematics, evolution, biogeography, particularly using
next-generation sequencing data. Therefore, familiarity
in bioinformatics and with relevant software packages
for phylogenetic and post-tree analyses is required. -
Prior experience with herbarium methodology highly
preferred - Ability to work independently and as part of
a team - Excellent verbal and written communication
skill - A strong interest in tropical plant systematics
and biogeography is advantageous.
Responsibilities: - Collection and organization of sam-
ples - DNA extractions and data analyses of hyb-seq
datasets - Maintenance of laboratory equipment and
supplies pertinent to the project - Coordination with
all project members, including students, and domestic
and foreign collaborators - Mentoring graduate and un-
dergraduate students - Presentation of research results
at relevant professional meetings and publications
This position is available as soon as the successful can-
didate is able to start, and hopefully at the latest by
Jan 1, 2021.
How to apply: To apply please submit a letter of in-
terest and CV, together with the names and contact
information of three academic references to Dr. Lucas
C. Majure (lmajure[at]oridamuseum.u.edu) and Dr.
Nico Cellinese (ncellinese[at]mnh.u.edu).
The position will remain open until lled. The Univer-
sity of Florida is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Nico Cellinese, Ph.D. Associate Curator, Botany &
Informatics Joint Associate Professor, Department of
Biology
University of Florida Florida Museum of Natural History
354 Dickinson Hall, 1659 Museum Rd. Gainesville, FL
32611-7800, U.S.A. Tel. 352-273-1979 Fax 352-846-1861
Lab: http://www.mnh.u.edu/museum-voices/-
cellinese-lab/ http://www.Phyloref.org Twitter
@ncellinese
ncellinese@mnh.u.edu
ULethbridge
SalamanderConservationGenomics
The Lee-Yaw Lab at the University of Lethbridge and
the Weisrock Lab at the University of Kentucky arelooking for a post-doc who is interested in using ge-
nomic data to inform amphibian conservation eorts in
the Rocky Mountains of southwestern Alberta.
We are specically using genome-wide estimates of ge-
netic diversity and genotype-environment-associations
to identify ideal source populations for the planned rein-
troduction of long-toed salamanders to high-elevation
sites where they had been extirpated by historic sh
stocking programs. Tissue samples have already been
collected and the ideal candidate will work with current
lab members on library preparation and sequencing, as
well as lead the bioinformatics for the project. Rein-
troduction sites are located in the beautiful Waterton
Lakes National Park (sister park to Glacier National
Park in the USA) and this work is being done in close
collaboration with Parks Canada as part of their Nature
Legacy Program. Depending on interest and additional
funding, there may be opportunities for the successful
candidate to be directly involved in the reintroductions
and post-reintroduction monitoring to determine estab-
lishment success.
Additional Details:
We are seeking candidates with experience generat-
ing and analyzing genomic data. This appointment
is funded for 18 months, with a possible extension de-
pending on funding (ideally, the candidate will work
with us to develop applications for additional external
funding). The start date for this appointment is January
1, 2021.
The position is based in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada.
Lethbridge is a smaller, aordable city with an active
university community. We are about 2 hours south
of Calgary, 2 hours north of the Canada-US border,
and have fantastic hiking, skiing, and other recreational
opportunities close by (Waterton Lakes National Park
and Castle Provincial Park are ~1.5 hours away; Ban
National Park is ~3 hours away). The collaborator labs
will be working closely and, depending on COVID re-
strictions, some activities may take place in Kentucky.
If you are interested in applying, please send an email
to Julie Lee-Yaw (julie.leeyaw@uleth.ca) to discuss next
steps. Please use the subject line \post-doc" and include
a brief statement of your research interests and relevant
experience, as well as a current CV.
The Lee-Yaw lab is committed to diversity, equity, and
inclusion and particularly welcomes applications from
researchers with diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and
experiences.
Lee-Yaw Lab: https://julleeyaw.weebly.com/ Weis-
rock Lab: wesirocklab.com U of L Biological Sciences:
https://www.uleth.ca/artsci/biological-sciences BiologySeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 75
U of K: https://bio.as.uky.edu/ Julie A. Lee-Yaw
Department of Biological Sciences University of Leth-
bridge skype: julleeyaw
\Lee-Yaw, Julie" <julie.leeyaw@uleth.ca >
UManchester
EvolutionaryMicrobiology
Research Associate in Single-cell Evolutionary Microbi-
ology
Location: Manchester Salary: 32,816 - 35,845 p.a. Start:
November 2020 Duration: 3 years
A fully funded postdoctoral position (3-year full-time
position in the rst instance) is available within the new
research group of Dr Rok Kra ^Aovec to study mecha-
nisms involved in mutation avoidance and DNA repair
in a single bacterial cell.
Rok's lab at the Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health
focuses on the spontaneous mutation, a fundamental
biological process that drives evolutionary innovations
and generates the key global challenge of antimicrobial
resistance. Rok's lab is built on his previous research
ndings that bacterial pathogens at lower population
densities have more than 20-fold higher chance of be-
coming resistant to multiple antibiotics (Kra ^Aovec et
al., Nature Commun., http://doi.org/skb ; Kra ^Aovec et
al., Plos Biology, http://doi.org/cb9s ). This 'density-
associated mutation rate plasticity' critically depends on
mutation avoidance proteins and cell-cell interactions.
The aim of this inter-disciplinary project is to com-
bine a live uorescence microscopy and microuidics
to measure quantitatively and dynamically the molecu-
lar processes involved in mutation avoidance and DNA
repair. The project will deepen our fundamental under-
standing of how evolution works and will enable us to
better predict mutation-based resistance in microbial
communities. This will extend the usefulness of existing
antibiotics and inform the development of longer-lasting
novel drugs.
The postdoctoral researcher will i) develop multi-
parameter experimental (microuidics and live uores-
cence microscopy) and computational methods in or-
der to track single molecules of Nudix hydrolases and
DNA repair proteins, ii) integrate single-molecule and
single-cell quantitative measurements with statistical
modelling, and iii) determine roles of environments andcell-cell interactions on single-molecule dynamics.
The successful candidate will perform single-cell and
single-molecule experiments in the cutting-edge bioimag-
ing facility, regularly interact with enthusiastic team of
outstanding young scientists in Manchester (e.g. from
the Microbial Evolution Research Manchester (MER-
Man) cluster) and collaborate with the groups of Sir
David Klenerman (University of Cambridge) and Martin
Ackermann (ETH Z urich).
The ideal candidate is an outstanding experimentalist
who holds (or expects to hold shortly) a PhD in micro-
bial evolution, microbial ecology, molecular biology, bio-
chemistry, biophysics, biophysical chemistry or related
eld. You should have extensive and up-to-date theoret-
ical and practical knowledge either in live uorescence
microscopy/quantitative cell imaging or in molecular
biology/DNA repair/protein-nucleic acid interactions.
Being experienced in both areas is an advantage but it
is not necessary, because we will provide appropriate
training, substantial technical support and expertise for
this position. However, enthusiasm for the project and
a strong interest in crossing research elds are essential.
The position includes a generous career development
package within a long-term, inter-disciplinary and well-
resourced project. You will work together with a full-
time research technician exclusively associated with this
UKRI funded research programme, with the aim to
study factors that aect cells' capability to avoid and
repair mutations.
The University of Manchester is the largest single-site
university in the UK with over 40,000 students and
more than 12,000 sta. The integrated structure of
our Faculty enables a truly translational approach to
biology, medicine and health - from pure discovery sci-
ence through to clinical application and patient care.
It also encourages collaborative working, enabling sta
to deliver innovative, world-leading research that has a
very real and positive impact on people's lives, as well
as high-quality education and training to over 11,000
undergraduate and postgraduate students.
We are strongly committed to promoting equality and
diversity, including the Athena SWAN charter for gen-
der equality in higher education. The School holds a
Silver Award which recognises their good practice in
relation to gender; including exible working arrange-
ments, family-friendly policies, and support to allow
sta achieve a good work-life balance. We particularly
welcome applications from women for this post. All
appointment will be made on merit.
This vacancy will close for applications at midnight on
the closing date (DD/MM/YYYY): 04/10/202076 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Contract Duration: Available from 1 November 2020
until 31 October 2023
To submit an application and to gather further infor-
mation on responsibilities, accountabilities, duties, and
person specication criteria, please visit:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMichigan ModelingDiseases
*Postdoctoral position available*
Modeling WASH (Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene) in-
terventions
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research posi-
tion to develop and work with a computational modeling
framework to answer policy, programmatic, and epidemi-
ological questions related to WASH infectious disease
exposure pathways and community-based interventions.
This work will incorporate observational and trial data
from low-income settings to understand the relative roles
of various pathogens and pathways, and to identify cov-
erage thresholds to inform and improve the eectiveness
of future WASH interventions.
Qualications: Successful candidates will have strong
quantitative, oral, and written skill sets and a Ph.D. in
a relevant eld (epidemiology, applied math, statistics,
computer science, ecology and evolution, engineering,
or a related eld). *Candidates should have previous
experience (professional or personal) in a low- or middle-
income country context.* The ideal candidate will be
highly motivated, be able to work independently, have
previous R programming experience, and be able to
write peer-reviewed manuscripts. Additional helpful
skills include knowledge of dynamical systems, parame-
ter estimation, and/or infectious disease modeling. We
are seeking applicants with a commitment to contribut-
ing to a diverse, equitable and inclusive environment for
all members of our community.
Workplace: The University of Michigan School of Public
Health is pursuing a healthier, more equitable world
through education, research, and action. We work with
compassion, innovation, and inclusion to create mean-
ingful, lasting impact. Within the School of PublicHealth and across the University, there is a vibrant
mathematical modeling and complex systems commu-
nity. Modeling expertise expands across departments
including Epidemiology, Health Management and Policy,
Complex Systems, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
Mathematics and Statistics.
Details: Compensation (salary and benets) will be
oered according to University of Michigan and NIH
guidelines. The position is available immediately, but
the starting date is negotiable. To apply please, sub-
mit a cover letter, CV, names of three references, and
two publications to Dr. Joseph Eisenberg via email at
jnse@umich.edu or mail at Joseph Eisenberg, Depart-
ment of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Univer-
sity of Michigan,1415 Washington Heights, Ann Arbor,
MI 48109. Applications will be considered on a rolling
basis.
{ Kevin M. Bakker www.kevinmbakker.com NIH Ruth
L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award Post-
doctoral Fellow Department of Statistics University of
Michigan
Kevin Bakker <bakkerke@umich.edu >
UOxford EcoEvoHostParasite
A 2-year post-doctoral researcher position is available
with the King Lab (thekinglab.com) in the Department
of Zoology, University of Oxford.
This post is part of an inclusive, dynamic, and inter-
disciplinary research group working on the evolution-
ary ecology and genetics of host-microbe interactions.
The project will use a natural bacterial parasite in
Caenorhabditis nematode populations to examine the
consequences of host contact for the spread and evolu-
tion of infectious disease. The post-holder will be given
the opportunity to contribute to the development and
direction of this project.
The successful candidates should have prior experience
in infectious disease ecology/evolution and microbiology,
and hold a PhD/DPhil (or near to completion) in a
relevant area. The start date is exible.
Only applications made online before 12.00 mid-
day (UK time) on 11 September 2020 will be
considered. You will be required to upload your
CV and supporting statement. For more informa-
tion see: https://my.corehr.com/pls/uoxrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.display form?p company=-September 1, 2020 EvolDir 77
10&p internal external=E&p display inirish=-
N&p process type=&p applicant no=-
&pform prole detail=&p display apply ind=-
Y&p refresh search=Y&p recruitment id=-
145926 Please send informal inquiries to
kayla.king@zoo.ox.ac.uk
Kayla
Kayla King Professor of Evolutionary Ecology Depart-
ment of Zoology University of Oxford
Tutorial Fellow in Biology Christ Church College, Ox-
ford
https://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/people/dr-kayla-king http:/-
/www.thekinglab.com/ \kayla.king@zoo.ox.ac.uk"
<kayla.king@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
UPadova HumanPopGenetics
Hello,
please nd here https://tinyurl.com/PadovaPostdoc a
call for a 16 months Postdoctoral position at the Uni-
versity of Padova, Italy, to improve calculation of Poly-
genic Scores in recently admixed individuals (PI: Luca
Pagani - https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=-
2TYX99YAAAAJ&hl=en).
The candidate is expected to further expand the Mar-
netto et al. 2020 method developed by the PI's re-
search group (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-
020-15464-w) with the help of the local research team
and in collaboration with the Institute of Genomics of
the University of Tartu, Estonia.
Computational experience on human whole genome data
and programming skills are mandatory. Deadline for
the application is 5th August 2020. Starting date: 1st
September 2020. Salary after taxes: ~1850 EUR/month.
Most of the work can be carried out remotely or in
presence.
The position is part of the PI's ASPERA Project:
ttps://www.biologia.unipd.it/news/leggi/news/-
grant-and-awards-series-starsunipd-luca-pagani/-
?txnews pi1%5Bcontroller%5D=News&tx news pi1%5Baction%5D ~Atail&cHashp4d4d96999ee73de8e8166496388dab
Please circulate to potential candidates and encour-
age them to get in touch for further info. Email:
lp.lucapagani@gmail.com or luca.pagani@unipd.i
Best and thank you, Luca Pagani
Associate Professor, Department of Biology, Universityof Padova Via Ugo Bassi 58/B, 35131 Padova, Italy
Luca Pagani <lp.lucapagani@gmail.com >
UToronto 2
PlantPopulationGenomics
Hi Everyone-
I have reposted these jobs to allow remote-work during
the rst year (at least) because of the pandemic.
Please forward to anyone interested.
cheers,
John
On 3/17/2020 6:44 PM, John Stinchcombe wrote:
Two post-doctoral fellowships are available to work with
John Stinchcombe in the general area of ecological ge-
netics and plant population genomics. I am looking
for people with bold ideas on how they can push their
research, and my lab's,| forward.
The full ad with the application details, how to apply,
etc is here:
https://t.co/cL7aQtplpd?amp=1 Potential topics in-
clude validating novel candidate genes underlying ow-
ering time variation, genomic and transcriptomic ap-
proaches to plant-microbe interactions, and empirical
work at the intersection of quantitative and population
genetics.
Job Requirements:|The candidate(s) must have a re-
cent PhD in evolutionary biology, genomics, popula-
tion/statistical/ quantitative genetics or a related eld,
with strong evidence of published research productivity.
The ideal candidate would have some combination of
extensive experience with data analysis and statistical
skills, experience working next-generation sequencing or
transcriptome data, and/or facility implementing green-
house or eld experiments with large numbers of plants.
A burning desire to test evolutionary hypotheses with
genetic and ecological data in plants would be favorable.
To apply: All individuals interested in this position
must submit the following documents to Professor John
Stinchcombe (john.stinchcombe@utoronto.ca) by the
closing date. 1. A cover letter indicating the intersec-
tion of their research interests and expertise with recent
work in the lab, including how both will be extended;|
2. A current C.V.;| 3. Three (3) relevant publications78 EvolDir September 1, 2020
or preprints; and 4. Contact information for three (3)
references by the closing date (June 1, 2020).| Review
of complete applications will begin March 30, 2020.
Cheers, and stay safe and socially-distant, John
John Stinchcombe <john.stinchcombe@utoronto.ca >
UUlm WildlifeImmuneEvolution
The Institute of Evolutionary Ecology and Conserva-
tion Genomics / University of Ulm, Germany invites
applications for a
Postdoc position in Wildlife Immunogenomics / Host-
microbiome interactions
Applications are invited for an initial 3-year postdocposi-
tion investigating the eects of environmental changes on
wildlife health. Our research focus on the relationships
between land-use changes, wildlife genome-wide and im-
mune genetic diversity, host's microbiome, and zoonotic
infections. We oer a very stimulating, multi-national
research community with excellent infrastructure We
are looking for a skilled, creative and highly-motivated
postdoc who is able to work independently and in a
team. The positionrequires social, teaching, organiza-
tional and time-management skills. A high standard of
spoken German and English, and manuscript writing
prociency is required. The candidate should be willing
to support teaching in German and English, and su-
pervising undergraduate and PhD students' projects as
well as developing and performing own research. Candi-
dates should hold a completed doctoral degree and have
a strong background in evolutionary ecology and ge-
nomics, microbiome and/or metagenomics research, and
should be qualied by a very good publication record.
Preference will be given to a candidate with own prac-
tical experience with next generation sequencing and
analysis of large bacterial and metagenomic data sets,
including bioinformatic data processing (Qiime2), mul-
tivariate modelling and statistics, and R and Phyton
programming languages.
The appointment is made by the Central University Ad-
ministration. Please upload your application referring
to the call with the index number 20066.
https://stellenangebote.uni-ulm.de/jobposting/-
4f1e9d57b7f943945025e3aa03a0b95f3fa72f43, The
application should include a letter describing your past
research experience and particular skills and motivation
for this position (max. 2 pages), an outline of plannedown future projects (max. 2 pages), a CV, a summary
of the PhD thesis, 2-3 letters of recommendation or
contact details of referees and your publication list. For
enquiries please contact Prof. Dr. Simone Sommer
(simone.sommer@uni-ulm.de).
The anticipated starting date is November 2020. The
position is open until lled, and applications will be
reviewed continuously, but for full consideration please
apply by September 10th, 2020. Remuneration is in
accordance with TV-L 13 (100%). The applicants as-
sessed as the best qualied will be called to a web-based
interview.
Physically disabled applicants receive favorable consid-
eration when equally qualied. Job sharing is always
possible for full time positions. The University of Ulm
is committed to increase the share of women and teach-
ing positions and therefore explicitly encourages female
candidates to apply.
Simone Sommer <Simone.Sommer@uni-ulm.de >
UVirginia HostParasiteEvolution
The Department of Biology at the University of Virginia
invites applicants for a post-doctoral research associate
position to work in the lab of Professor Amanda Gibson.
The Gibson lab (coevolving.org) at the University of
Virginia studies the evolutionary ecology and genetics of
host-parasite interactions with the goal of understand-
ing how organisms adapt to rampant uncertainty 'V
uncertainty in the species and strain of parasite a host
might encounter and uncertainty in the environment in
which that encounter will unfold. We are starting a ve-
year NIH-funded project to determine how genetic and
environmental contexts changes the selective advantage
of resistance alleles. This research will make use of the
fabulous experimental tools and resources available for
the model nematode C. elegans and its natural para-
sites. These tools include experimental evolution with
cryogenic preservation, high-throughput phenotyping,
a variety of transgenic methods, and wild isolates with
whole genome sequences. Researchers on the project will
have ample opportunity for creative experimental de-
sign, independence, and training in a variety of skills and
areas of scholarship. In joining the lab, new members
sign on to our commitment to promoting an inclusive
and safe environment, supporting all the members of
our team in realizing their full potential, and actively
valuing the creativity and productivity that comes fromSeptember 1, 2020 EvolDir 79
the meeting of diverse minds.
The lab is recruiting a Postdoctoral Research Associate
to contribute to this work. The proposed research in-
tegrates techniques and concepts associated with the
elds of host-parasite coevolution and evolutionary ge-
netics, and eligible candidates will have demonstrated
strengths in one of these areas or in closely allied elds.
The postdoc will be involved in designing and imple-
menting experimental evolution studies, quantitative
trait mapping and high-throughput phenotyping (using
e.g. qPCR, uorescence microscopy, ow cytometry
and other automated phenotyping schemes), mentoring
of undergraduate trainees, data analysis, and writing
of manuscripts. The postdoc will receive mentorship
from the PI and support to pursue independent research
projects.
QUALIFCATION REQUIRMENTS: An ideal candidate
would have:
* A PhD in Biology or a related eld * Excellent written
and oral communication, demonstrated by a strong pub-
lication record, consistent with the candidate' ^As career
stage, and presentations at conferences * Demonstrated
ambition, creativity, independence, and ability to work
well with others * A strong background in experimental
design, data analysis, and data management * Experi-
ence with analysis and interpretation of genomic data
and design of mapping studies * Interest and condence
in developing new techniques, notably molecular genetic
tools, for hypothesis testing * Experience in mentoring
undergraduate students and a dedication to promoting
underrepresented groups in STEM * An enthusiasm for
nematodes
The Biology Department at UVA (http://-
bio.as.virginia.edu/) is an excellent training envi-
ronment for curious, highly motivated scientists. The
successful applicant can expect to interact frequently
with the department' ^As strong, collegial group of
evolutionary ecologists and geneticists (https://-
www.eebvirginia.org/). There may be opportunities for
research, training, and
outreach at Mountain Lake Biological Station (https://-
mlbs.virginia.edu/), in southwestern Virginia.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE: Apply online
at https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/-
UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Associate-
in-Biology R0017284 and attach a cover letter,
curriculum vitae, 2-3 writing samples(preferably
rst-author publications, published or in prep), and
contact information for three individuals who can
provide professional reference letters. In the cover
letter, please address your t with the qualicationsabove and your experience in mentoring undergraduates.
Applications by members of all underrepresented groups
are strongly encouraged.
Please note that multiple documents can be uploaded
in the box.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Review of applications
will begin on August 15, 2020, but the position will
remain open until lled. The University will perform
background checks on all new hires prior to employment.
The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health
System which represents the UVA Medical Center,
Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician' ^As
Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library,
are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our
faculty and sta.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
VanderbiltU
MicrobialSymbiosisEvolution
Postdoctoral or technician positions are oered to join
the Bordenstein Lab in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences and Vanderbilt Microbiome Initiative in Nashville,
TN.
The rst project seeks applicants with interests, experi-
ence, or skill sets in the evolution and function of phage
genes underpinning selsh drive systems including cyto-
plasmic incompatibility and male killing. The project
will involve nucleotide and amino acid sequence anal-
yses, uorescence microscopy, antibody development,
and high throughput sequence analytics. Experience in
Drosophila is preferred but not required.
More information about the lab, topics, and systems
can be found at: lab.vanderbilt.edu/bordenstein.
If interested, contact Seth Bordenstein
(s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu) with informal in-
quiries or a single, compiled pdf including: (i) earliest
start date (ii) a full curriculum vitae with at least
three references (iii) a statement of intent, career goal,
research experience, and your areas of growth and (iv)
two example publications or other writings.80 EvolDir September 1, 2020
The Vanderbilt University campus is a National Ar-
boretum located in the heart of Nashville, the capital
of Tennessee, known internationally as \Music City
USA", Nashville is also home to Nashville Hot Chicken
or Tempeh (a lab favorite), professional sports teams,
the Nashville Symphony, the Frist Center for the Visual
Arts, and numerous activities for outdoor enthusiasts.
Education required: * Degree(s) in symbiosis, genet-
ics, biochemistry, evolutionary biology or closely related
elds
Desirable Qualications: * Experience in evolution-
ary genetics, y transgenics, uorescent microscopy,
antibody-based tools, gene expression, and/or gene
knockdown technology * Strong background in team
leadership, community organizing, scientic indepen-
dence, writing, and teaching.
Preferred Starting date: as soon as possible
Application Deadline: until position is lled
\Bordenstein, Seth R" <s.bordenstein@Vanderbilt.Edu >
WoodsHole MA
TransgenerationalInheritance
Post Doc at MBL - Genetic and Epigenetic Mechanisms
of Transgenerational Inheritance
Marine Biological Laboratory jWoods Hole, MA jSalary
commensurate with experience and qualications
A postdoctoral research position is available in the lab-
oratory of Dr. Kristin Gribble at the Marine Biological
Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA. The interests of the lab
include the mechanisms and evolution of the biology of
aging, and maternal and transgenerational eects on
ospring health. We use rotifers as a model system
for our work. For more information about our lab's
work and a list of publications, see www.mbl.edu/jbpc/-
gribble . Qualied applicants will have the opportunity
to study the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of aging
in a novel experimental model system, focusing on how
maternal eects inuence ospring health and lifespan.
This NSF-CAREER funded research program will use
experimental, genetic, biochemical, and bioinformatic
approaches to elucidate the mechanisms of transgenera-
tional epigenetic inheritance.
Applicants should posses a Ph.D. in molecular biology,
cell biology, biochemistry, genetics, bioinformatics, or a
related eld. The ideal candidate will have a record ofscientic rigor, productivity, and creativity; the ability
to work independently and as part of a team; and a
strong publication record. Excellent oral and written
communication skills are required. Highly motivated
individuals with experience in other model systems and
a background in biochemistry, cell/molecular biology,
epigenetics, and/or bioinformatics are encouraged to
apply. Salary will be commensurate with experience
and qualications.
Applicants must apply for this position via the Ma-
rine Biological Laboratory careers website: https://-
www.mbl.edu/hr/employment/. Please submit: a cover
letter with a brief description of your research experi-
ence and how your expertise will contribute to research
on the mechanisms of parental eects and transgenera-
tional inheritance; a CV including a list of publications,
and contact information for three references.
Jennifer Larkum <jlarkum@mbl.edu >
YorkU BeeEvolution
*Wild Bee Microbial Ecology and Landscape Genomics
Postdoc*
The Rehan Lab (www.rehanlab.com) is hiring a postdoc
to study landscape genomics and microbial ecology of
wild bees. The candidates will join a collaborative group
of researchers, sta, and students focusing on bee health,
behaviour, and conservation. We are located at York
University in Toronto, Canada.
This position will examine metagenomics of wild bees to
determine their dietary breadth and microbial ecology
across landscapes. The successful candidate will have
technical expertise in molecular biology and bioinformat-
ics. Writing and analytical skills as well as familiarity
with microbiome and genomic data are highly desirable.
York University is an Equal Opportunity Employer and
encourages applications from women and underrepre-
sented groups. If interested, please send a CV, names
of three references, and a short statement of interests
to Sandra Rehan sanrehan@yorku.ca by September 16,
2020. The postdoctoral position is available for one year
(starting as soon as October 2020 and as late as January
2021) and renewable up to three years with successful
progress and performance.
{ Sandra Rehan, FRES jAssociate Professor of Molec-
ular Evolution Department of Biology jFaculty of Sci-
ence jYork University 4700 Keele Street j109 Far-September 1, 2020 EvolDir 81
quharson Building jToronto ON jM3J 1P3 Email:
sanrehan@yorku.ca jWeb: www.rehanlab.com jTel:416.736.2100 ext. 77822
Sandra Rehan <sandra.rehan@gmail.com >
WorkshopsCourses
Online DatavizInRggplot Nov9-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Online DeepLearning Sep28-Oct1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81
Online FundamentalsOfMuseumStudies . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Online IntroNGS Sep7-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83Online PhylogenyR Aug24-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Online StatisticalGenetics Oct1-Dec10 . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Online DatavizInRggplot Nov9-13
Dear all,
we will run a 5-day ONLINE course on \Data
visualization in R with ggplot2" in November
(9-13) : https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course56/ In this course, you learn how
to use R to load, transform, explore and visualize data.
The course also covers the basic concepts in data visu-
alization and a suite of dierent chart types and tricks
to make appealing and informative-rich plots using `gg-
plot2`.
This course is aimed at researchers and technical work-
ers with a background in any data-related eld. In
general, no programming experience is needed. The
course teaches all relevant steps to load, transform and
visualize the data. However, basic knowledge of R is
benecial.
After completing the course, students should be in a
position to:
- know and apply the principles of good data visualiza-
tion such as the right choice of colors and chart types -load and transform data in R using `tidyverse` - under-
stand the layered structure of `ggplot2` - visualize the
data in multiple ways using `ggplot2` - create publica-
tion quality and easy understandable gures - perform
reproducible by using version control and project orga-
nization
Session content: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses- workshops/course56/curriculum56/
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIREC-
TOR info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/=0A=0ATwitter: @physacourses mobile:
+49 17645230846 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses info@physalia-courses.org
Online DeepLearning Sep28-Oct1
Dear all,82 EvolDir September 1, 2020
The registration deadline is soon approaching and we
have the last 4 seats left on our Physalia course on
\INTRODUCTION TO DEEP LEARNING FOR BIOL-
OGISTS".
It will be held online from the 28th of September to the
1st of October.
Course website:( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course67/ )
The course is aimed at students, researchers and profes-
sionals interested in learning what deep learning is and
how to develop a deep learning model for applications
in biology. It will include information useful for both
absolute beginners and more advanced users willing to
delve into some aspects of the implementation of deep
learning. We will start by introducing general concepts
of deep learning presenting a functioning model and
then we will progressively describe the main building
blocks of a deep learning model and how the internal
machinery works. Attendees are expected to have a
background in biology and the research problems involv-
ing prediction, inference, pattern discovery; previous
exposure to predictive experiments would be benecial.
There will be a mix of lectures and hands-on practical
exercises using mainly Python, Jupyter Notebooks and
the Linux command line. Some basic understanding of
Python programming and the Linux environment will
be advantageous, but is not required.
Programme: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course67/curriculum67/ )
Our other online courses: ( https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
All the best,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
17645230846 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses info@physalia-courses.org
Online
FundamentalsOfMuseumStudies
Dear all,
We have developed a Museum studies course, MSM
211 'V Fundamentals of Museum studies that we aredelivering online for the rst time this fall.
Course Description: This 3-credit course will introduce
students to the inner world of museums, how they func-
tion and the many dierent skills they bring together.
We will consider museum science with a wide lens to give
you the broadest possible experience and answer critical
questions including: - What are the dierent types of
museums and what do they do? - What kind of museum
jobs are available? - What other jobs can museum skills
prepare you for? - How are objects (specimens/artifacts)
collected and conserved? - How are collections data man-
aged and shared? - How do we develop exhibitions and
media for the public? - What ethical issues do museums
face? - What are the challenges that museums may face
in the future?
Instructors: Stefanie Ickert-Bond, Curator of the Herbar-
ium, Professor of Botany Patrick S. Druckenmiller, Di-
rector, UA Museum, Professor of Geology Leonard
Kamerling, Curator of Film, Professor of English An-
gela Linn, Senior Collections Manager, Ethnology and
History Andres Lopez, Curator of Fishes, Associate Pro-
fessor of Fisheries Josh Reuther, Curator of Archaeology,
Associate Prof. of Anthropology Derek Sikes, Curator
of Insects, Professor of Entomology
Course website: https://msm211.community.uaf.edu/
Dates: Aug. 24 'V Dec. 12, 2020
Delivery: Online delivery, interactive with 1 weekly
synchronous cohort meetings (optional).
This course will be valuable for students curious about
pursuing a career in museums as educators, administra-
tors or curators, for those who interact with museums,
and for those already in related elds seeking profes-
sional development opportunities. This course is taught
by sta at the University of Alaska Museum of the North,
Alaska' ^As only only teaching, collecting, and research
museum. Our instructors are practicing museum profes-
sionals and educators whose expertise spans a spectrum
of disciplines, including natural and cultural history, art,
lm, exhibit design and museum administration.
Audience: Anybody interested in museum col-
lections, links on how to register can be found
here: https://msm211.community.uaf.edu/about-
this-course/ Questions: Contact Ste Ickert-
Bond <smickertbond@alaska.edu >or Angela Linn
<ajlinn@alaska.edu >
{ Ste Ickert-Bond, Ph.D.
Professor of Botany and Curator of the UA Museum
Herbarium (ALA) FNA Regional Coordinator Alaska-
Yukon University of Alaska Fairbanks 1962 Yukon Drive
Fairbanks, AK 99775-6960September 1, 2020 EvolDir 83
Phone: 907-474-6277 (oce) 907-474-5285 (WRRB lab)
Fax: 907-474-5469 email: smickertbond@alaska.edu
http://www.uaf.edu/museum/collections/herb/ Ste-
fanie Ickert-Bond <smickertbond@alaska.edu >
Online IntroNGS Sep7-11
Dear all,
we have the last 3 seats left on our \Summer School in
Bioinformatics" which will be held online (via Zoom)
from the 7th to the 11th of September (2-8 pm Berlin
time).
General Topic: Understanding and Working with Next
Generation Sequencing Data
Course website: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course68/ Instructors: Dr. Daniel
A. Pass (Cardi University) and Dr. Christoph Hahn
(University of Graz)
The course is aimed at researchers with a biological
background but with no to basic hands-on experience
with NGS data. This course will introduce participants
into the eld of NGS biology, understanding both the
concepts and handling of the data. We will cover a broad
range of software and analyses from quality assessment
of sequencing runs, through assembling and annotating
small genomes, RNAseq and dierential gene expression,
and phylogenomics with NGS data. Primarily focussed
on Illumina data, we will also look at the dierent re-
quirements and opportunities when utilising long read
data (Nanopore/PacBio). This course will be accom-
panied with sessions on the use of the Linux command
line, and docker which is the preferred platform for most
bioinformatic analyses, as well as software containers,
through Docker or Singularity, with particular focus on
best practices for reproducibility.
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
17645230846 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"<info@physalia-courses.org >
Online PhylogenyR Aug24-28
Dear evoldir members,
Transmitting Science is oering the LIVE ONLINE
course 'Phylogenetic Analysis Using R'.
Instructors: Dr. Emmanuel Paradis (Institut de
Recherche pour le Developpement, France) Dr. Klaus
Schliep (Graz University of Technology, Austria)
Dates & Times: August 24th-28th, 2020 8:00-10:30
&11:30-14:00 (GMT+1, London time)
COURSE OVERVIEW:
This course is for biologists dealing with the analysis
of multiple molecular sequences at several levels: Popu-
lations, species, clades, communities. These biologists
address questions relative to the evolutionary relation-
ships among these sequences, as well as the evolutionary
forces structuring biodiversity at dierent scales.
The objectives of the course are: (i) to know how to
choose a strategy of molecular data analysis at the inter^ a
euro ^A or intraspecic levels, (ii) to be able to initiate a
phylogenetic analysis starting from the les of molecular
sequences until the interpretation of the results and the
graphics.
The software used for this course will be centered on
the R language for statistics. This will include the use
of specialized packages particularly ape, phangorn, and
adegenet.
For more information and registration: https:/-
/bit.ly/phylogenetic-analysis-R Contact:
haris.saslis@transmittingscience.com
All the best,
Haris Saslis, PhD Course Coordinator Transmitting
Science www.transmittingscience.com Haris Saslis
<haris.saslis@gmail.com >84 EvolDir September 1, 2020
Online StatisticalGenetics
Oct1-Dec10
The Institute for Public Health Genetics and the Depart-
ment of Biostatistics at the University of Washington
invite online participation in BIOST 551 \Statistical
Genetics" taught by Bruce Weir for 3 hours of graduate
credit. The course will be taught entirely online, 10:00-
11:20 am Pacic on Tuesdays and Thursdays, starting
Thursday October 1 and ending Thursday December
10.
The course includes material covered in Module 13 \Sta-
tistical Genetics" of the Summer Institute in StatisticalGenetics (https://si.biostat.washington.edu/suminst/-
sisg2020/modules/SM20130). It considers ve major
areas: Allelic association, Population structure and re-
latedness, Quantitative genetics, Heritability and in-
breeding depression, and Association mapping. Stu-
dents will work through current literature and analyze
public-domain SNP data.
Application is made through the University of Wash-
ington Continuum College (phone 206-543-2310,
email c2reg@uw.edu) with forms at (https://-
www.nondegree.uw.edu/register/register-as-an-nm-
student/) Prior to submitting the registration form,
email Bruce Weir (bsweir@uw.edu) to receive email
approval (before October 1, 2020 to avoid a late fee).
The tuition cost for this 3-credit graduate course is
$2,738.
Bruce
Bruce S Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.September 1, 2020 EvolDir 85
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.