E v o l D i r
April 1, 2017
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .123
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 147
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Conferences
Aarhus Denmark Probgen17 Sep18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Asilomar ASN Jan5-9 SympCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Asilomar California AmerSocNat Jan5-9 RequestPro-
posals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Bangalore StudentConservationScience Sep21-24 . . . .4
Barcelona CrustaceaGenomics Jun19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Blossin InsectEvolutionaryImmunity Aug28-Sep1 Ex-
tension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Calgary EvoDevo Aug19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
ChicagoFieldMuseum PlantEvolution Apr8 . . . . . . . . . 6
Chize France EcologyBehaviour Jun19-23 DeadlineExt
7
Copenhagen RubiaceaeConference Sep11-14 . . . . . . . . 7
Edinburgh ComplexTraitGenetics Mar17 . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Groningen ESEB Aug20-25 Earlybird . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
HalleSaale PlantEvolution May18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
London BESMacro July5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
London WildlifeConservation Mar14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
LosAngeles MolluscAdaptation Jun20-22 . . . . . . . . . . 10
Marseilles EBM21 Sep26-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11Montpellier GalaxyCommunity Jun26-30 . . . . . . . . . . 11
NewHampshire MicrobialPopBiol Jul9-14 . . . . . . . . . .12
Portland Oregon MimulusCommunity Jun23 . . . . . . 12
QueensU OE3C-17 May18-20 RegistrationClosesApr14
12
Rosco HostParasiteInteractions Oct30-Nov3 . . . . . . 13
Seattle GSA Macroevolution Oct22-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Smithsonian Conservation Apr21-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UCalgary EvoDevo Aug19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
UEssex GenomicsEpigeneticsGeneRegulation Sep14 16
UFlorida GeneralScience May20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics Jun6-11 . . . . . . . . 17
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics Jun7-11 Registration
17
Winnipeg EcomorphologyDiversity May15-19 . . . . . . 18
Yosemite Symbiosis May5-7 EarlyRegistrationDue . 18
Yosemite Symbiosis May5-7 SpacesOpen . . . . . . . . . . .19
Zurich PolygenicAdaptation Aug28-Sep1 . . . . . . . . . . 20
Aarhus Denmark Probgen17
Sep18-20
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce the 3rd Probabilistic Mod-
eling in Genomics Conference (ProbGen17), that will be
held at Aarhus University, Denmark, from 18-20 Sept
2017.
The conference will cover probabilistic models, algo-
rithms, and statistical methods across a broad range
of applications in genetics and genomics. We invite
abstract submissions on a range of topics including Pop-ulation Genetics, Functional Genomics, Systems and
Structural Biology, Methods for Genome-wide Associa-
tion Studies, Causal inference in genetic studies, Assem-
bly and Variant Identication, Phylogenetics, Natural
Selection and Quantitative Genetics.
Alongside invited speakers, oral presentations will be
selected from submitted abstracts. We particularly en-
courage abstract submissions from junior investigators,
including postdoctoral fellows and graduate students.
Probgen was held previously in Cold Spring Harbor
(2015), and Oxford (2016). It evolved from the suc-
cess of previous similarly-themed workshops held at
the HHMI Janelia Farm Research Campus (2013) and
Merton College, Oxford (2014).
The conference talks and poster sessions will be held
at the new Moesgaard Museum for archaeology andApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 3
ethnography (MOMU) situated just 5 km out of Aarhus.
Aarhus is most easily accessible from either Aarhus
(AAR) or Billund (BLL) Airport that serves most ma-
jor European cities.
The meeting will begin with an informal mixer on
the evening of Sunday 17 September 2017 at Hotel
Comwell [http://www.comwellaarhus.dk/] in central
Aarhus. Talks will take place from Monday 18 Septem-
ber until lunchtime on Wednesday 20 September.
Registration will open soon. We have provisional ca-
pacity for ~200 participants; due to space limitations,
registration will proceed on a rst-come-rst-served ba-
sis.
Important deadline: The early bird registration and
abstract submission deadline is June 10th, 2017.
The conference venue webpage:
www.moesgaardmuseum.dk/en/ The conference
webpage can be found at http://conferences.au.dk/-
probgen17/ Please send enquiries to prob-
gen17@birc.au.dk
We would appreciate if you could circulate this announce-
ment to your local colleagues and collaborators.
The organizers: Ida Moltke, University of Copenhagen
Thomas Mailund, Aarhus University Thomas Bataillon,
Aarhus University Mikkel H. Schierup, Aarhus Univer-
sity
Thomas Bataillon <tbata@birc.au.dk >
Asilomar ASN Jan5-9 SympCall
The American Society of Naturalists
Call for Symposia
ASN meeting at Asilomar, California
5-9 Jan 2018
The American Society of Naturalists invites sympo-
sium proposals for their stand-alone meeting, to be held
at Asilomar in Monterey, California 5-9 January 2018.
Two symposia will be chosen for this meeting, to run
on separate days, in addition to a special symposium
celebrating the 150th anniversary of the rst publication
of the American Naturalist. Proposals for the special
anniversary symposium are being solicited separately.
Symposium topics should support the Society's goal
to advance the conceptual unication of the biologicalsciences and further knowledge in evolution, ecology,
behavior and organismal biology. Proposals are encour-
aged on topics that are synthetic, interdisciplinary or
that address important emerging issues in evolution,
ecology and behavior.
Proposals should include (1) a title; (2) a description of
the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list of
speakers, including institutional aliations; (4) a jus-
tication for the symposium explaining why the topic
and speakers are appropriate for an ASN meeting, keep-
ing in mind the broader goals of the society ( http://-
www.amnat.org/about/about-the-society.html); and (5)
a statement that all proposed invited speakers have
agreed to participate. Organizers should plan the sym-
posia to run from approximately 1:30-5:30, and can
divide this time amongst speakers as they wish, reserv-
ing time for a coee break.
Proposals must be submitted by midnight Eastern
Standard Time on March 31, 2017 by email (emi-
lies@umn.edu) as a single pdf attachment, under subject
heading: ASN Asilomar Symposium Proposal. Propos-
als that include women, young investigators and in-
dividuals from underrepresented groups are especially
encouraged.
Please note that the society does not have the funds to
pay for travel or lodging expenses of the chosen speak-
ers. But, in exceptional circumstances we may consider
requests to waive conference registration costs for ju-
nior participants in symposia. Regardless, there may be
opportunities to seek external symposium funding.
The Society's selection committee will evaluate propos-
als based on the likelihood of attracting a substantial
audience, the signicance and timeliness of the topic,
and on it being substantively dierent from recent sym-
posia hosted by the Society. All applicants will be
notied of the decision by late April 2017.
Emilie Snell-Rood
ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior
University of Minnesota
emilies@umn.edu4 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Asilomar California AmerSocNat
Jan5-9 RequestProposals
Tocelebrate the 150th Anniversary of the rst publica-
tion of The American Naturalist, there will be a special
symposium at the stand-alone meeting of the American
Society of Naturalists (January 5 - 9, 2018, Asilomar
CA, USA). The symposium is titled \On the shoulders
of giants: the future of The American Naturalist". The
goal of the symposium will be to show how major ad-
vances published in the journal's history have laid the
foundation for exciting new directions in evolutionary
ecology and related elds. There will be time for six
30-minute talks, each highlighting a dierent concept
from a classic American Naturalist paper, and where
those ideas are headed next. We want the talks to place
the original paper into its historic context, trace the sub-
sequent development of the idea, and (crucially) show
how the classic ideas connect to today's cutting-edge
research. Weare requesting proposals for talks. Each
proposal should be no more than 250 words. Proposals
should:
1) Identify what inuential paper(s) from The American
Naturalist's past will be the starting point of the talk.
2) Briey explain how that past paper inuenced the
direction of the eld generally and the speaker's career
in particular.
3) Indicate how the speaker is using / developing /
changing that classic paper's ideas in their own current
and future work. Inaddition to the 250 word limit, one
gure and up to 5 references are allowed.
Talkproposals should be sent to Daniel Bolnick (danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu) by May 1. We expect to notify
chosen speakers by June 1.
Weencourage junior researchers (post-docs, early-career
faculty) to apply, and individuals from often under-
represented groups.
Thesociety does not have the funds to pay for travel
or lodging expenses of the chosen speakers. But in ex-
ceptional circumstances ASM may consider appeals to
waive conference registration fees for junior presenters
who lack other means to cover conference costs.
Inaddition to this symposium, the American Society
of Naturalists is separately seeking proposals for topics
and speakers for two other organized symposia at the2018 Asilomar meeting (contact Emilie Snell-Rood for
details, emilies@umn.edu).
Dr.Daniel I. Bolnick
Professor Departmentof Integrative Biology
Chair,Graduate Program in Ecology Evolution
and Behavior OneUniversity Station C0990 Universityof
Texas at Austin Austin,TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu
Labwebsite: https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu
Bangalore
StudentConservationScience
Sep21-24
Dear all,
The Student Conference on Conservation Science
(SCCS) - Bengaluru brings together young researchers
in the science and practice of biodiversity conservation.
The conference facilitates interaction, encourages ex-
change of research ideas and methods, sharing of knowl-
edge and experience related to conserving wildlife and
helps build contacts and capacity. As a sister conference
to SCCS-Cambridge, SCCS-Bengaluru focuses on at-
tracting student participants, primarily from countries
in South and South-east Asia and Africa.
DATES:
The 2017 conference will be held at the JN Tata Au-
ditorium, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, from
21st to 24th September 2017.
* Early Bird registrations and Abstract submissions are
now open on our website: http://www.sccs-bng.org *
Abstract submissions are open for those who want to
present either a talk or a poster.
* Students need to register and pay the conference fee
before being able to submit an abstract. * Deadline for
submitting abstracts is 3 April 2017.
You can view the Conference Flyer here: https://goo.gl/-
LF0Hsh SCCS-Bengaluru is a four-day conference,
where you can look forward to a host of long and short
workshops (which are research focused and equip stu-
dents with skills required for conservation), plenary
talks by invited speakers, close to 25+ student talks and
about 80 student poster presentations. Read the 2016April 1, 2017 EvolDir 5
report here: https://goo.gl/LF0Hsh We will also have
sessions on 'Who's Who in Conservation' and 'Birds of
a Feather' for students to learn about the work done
by a diversity of academic institutions and conservation
organisations, to discover work and research opportu-
nities they oer, and to network with students and
scientists working on similar issues. Based on feedback
from previous years we are working towards a slightly
new format for this year's conference, so do keep a
lookout for our announcements via email, our website,
Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sccsbangalore
>and Twitter <https://twitter.com/sccsbng >.
For further information don't hesitate to contact us at
sccs@sccs-bng.org.
Warm regards,
Shreekant Deodhar
Conference Administrator
On behalf of the Organizing Committee of SCCS-
Bengaluru 2017
(Abinand Reddy, Abishek Harihar, Arshiya Bose, Kavita
Isvaran, Krishnapriya Tamma, Ravi Chellam, Shomen
Mukherjee and Tarsh Thekaekara)
SCCS - Bangalore <sccs@sccs-bng.org >
Barcelona CrustaceaGenomics
Jun19-22
\Dear colleagues,
We organize a 2-day symposium on "Crustacean Ge-
nomics\ within the TCS congress in Barcelona this
summer (19th to 22nd June 2017).
The symposium will include talks on the use of Ge-
nomics in Physiology (19th June 2017) and Systematics
and Evolution studies (20th June 2017), so we believe
it might be of interest for a broad audience. You will
nd the preliminary program attached.
For more information and registration to this event,
please visit the conference website at:
http://tcs2017barcelona.com/welcome.html Looking
forward to meeting you in Barcelona. Best regards,
Guiomar Rotllant & Ferran Palero Organizing commit-
tee of the Crustacea genomics symposium"
You will nd the preliminary program attached.Thanks!
{ Ferran
PALERO Ferran, Ph.D. M.Sc. Dept. Marine Ecology
Centro de Estudios Avanzados de Blanes (CEAB-CSIC)
C/ d'acces a la Cala St. Francesc, 14. 17300 Blanes
SPAIN Tel: +34 972 33 61 01 (Ext: 277) E-mail :
fpalero@ceab.csic.es // BPI - Biologie des Populations
Introduites Institut Sophia Agrobiotech (INRA PACA)
400 route des Chappes. BP 167 06903 Sophia Antipolis
cedex. FRANCE Tel: +33 (0)4 92 38 64 99 E-mail
: fpalero@inra.fr Web: http://www.paca.inra.fr/-
institut-sophia-agrobiotech/Equipes-de-recherche/BPI
ResearcherID: A-7830-2012
Ferran Palero <fpalero@ceab.csic.es >
Blossin InsectEvolutionaryImmunity
Aug28-Sep1 Extension
***DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT SUBMISSION EX-
TENDED TO 20TH MARCH***
Please submit your abstract or register via the following
link: http://rolevolution.net/ecological-immunology-
workshop-2017/ Ecological Immunology Workshop 2017
on:
'Insect immunity: genomics, microbiome, applications'
28th August to 1st September 2017 in Blossin (close to
Berlin), Germany.
This workshop will bring together researchers interested
in ecological immunology with a focus on insects, and
with diverse scientic backgrounds ranging from molecu-
lar biology to ecology. The hallmark of these workshops,
started in 2001, is the open atmosphere fostering free
exchange by keeping it an aordable, small conference
(100 participants). The format consists of eighteen in-
vited speakers, contributed talks and a dedicated poster.
Long breaks provide plenty of opportunity for informal
exchange. Past workshops have initiated new collabo-
rations and ideas focusing on frontier research that has
not been published. The premises are basic but in a
beautiful location conducive to the success of the meet-
ing. We will be located at a lakeside, which at this time
of the year oers great swimming and canoeing, and a
small private bar at the harbour [http://www.blossin.de]
. Registration fee includes accommodation and catering
(all meals): https://goo.gl/forms/Rtz3ngliH3ZnGvyD2
Important dates Abstract submission extended until6 EvolDir April 1, 2017
20th March 2017 Registration closes at the latest on
31st March 2017 or when the maximum number or pos-
sible participants is reached, i.e. 100 persons. Final
programme announcement is 31st July 2017.
Program and invited speakers
Genomics and functional work in the wild Seth Bar-
ribeau, University of Liverpool Nicole Gerardo, Emory
University Brian Lazzaro, Cornell University Hinrich
Schulenburg, University of Kiel Ann Tate, University
of Texas Lumi Viljakainen, University of Oulu Chris
Wheat, University of Stockholm
Host-symbiont interactions aecting host immunity
Nichole Broderick, University of Connecticut Ewa
Chrostek, MPI Infection Biology Ellen Decaesteker, Uni-
versity of Leuven Abdelaziz Heddi, INSA-Lyon Martin
Kaltenpoth, University of Mainz David Schneider, Stan-
ford University
Applying ecological immunology Lena Bayer-Wilfert,
University of Essex Astrid Groot, University of Amster-
dam Dino McMahon, Free University Berlin Brian Weiss,
Yale University Ken Wilson, University of Lancaster
We are looking forward to welcoming you at the Ecolog-
ical Immunology Workshop 2017.
Kind regards,
Organizing Committee Jens Rol, Free University of
Berlin Oliver Otti, University of Bayreuth Paul Schmid-
Hempel, ETH Zurich Magdalena Nagel, Free University
of Berlin
If you have any questions concerning the meeting please
do not hesitate to e-mail us: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de
(program) magdalena.nagel@fu-berlin.de (travel and reg-
istration)
Dr. Oliver Otti Animal Population Ecology Animal
Ecology I University of Bayreuth Universit atsstrasse 30
95440 Bayreuth Germany
phone: +49921552646 e-mail: oliver.otti@uni-
bayreuth.de
web: Otti's homepage <http://www.bayceer.uni-
bayreuth.de/toek1/de/mitarbeiter/mit/-
mitarbeiter detail.php?id obj=106154 >
Ecological Immunology Meeting 2017 in Blossin
< http://rolevolution.net/ecological-immunology-
workshop-2017/ >
Oliver Otti <oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de >Calgary EvoDevo Aug19-23
The Pan-American Society for Evolutionary Develop-
mental Biology 2nd Biennial Meeting August 19-23,
2017
University of Calgary Alberta, Canada
Registration is now open for the 2nd Biennial EvoDe-
voPanAm Meeting, which will be held on the cam-
pus of the University of Calgary. Renew your mem-
bership and register for the meeting online, http:/-
/www.evodevopanam.org/2nd-biennial-meeting.html .
Abstract submission and discounted rates are available
through May 15.
Please visit http://www.evodevopanam.org/ for news
and updates as the meeting approachs. And be sure
to follow us on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/-
EvoDevoPanAm) and on Twitter @EvoDevoPanAm!
-The EvoDevoPanAm Executive Board
\drangeli@colby.edu" <drangeli@colby.edu >
ChicagoFieldMuseum
PlantEvolution Apr8
Chicago Plant Science Symposium 2017 The Field Mu-
seum *Saturday April 8, 2017 * *10:00 AM - 7:00 PM*
We are pleased to announce the seventh year of the
annual Chicago Plant Science Symposium. This series
is designed bring together the plant science community
of the greater Chicago area for a one day symposium
that highlights the cutting edge of research in plant
evolution, ecology, and conservation. The program will
include lunch and a post-conference mixer. Best of all,
registration is free!
The theme of the symposium this year is *\Genomic
insights into plant ecology and evolution"*. We have
invited a diverse set of speakers representing a wide
range of research elds that are benetting from the
application of these new technologies and analytical
methods.
*Schedule*April 1, 2017 EvolDir 7
*9:00-10:20 AM Registration, West Atrium*
*10:20-10:30 AM Patrick Herendeen, Chicago Botanic
Garden* Introductory remarks
*10:30-11:15 AM Felix Grewe, The Field Museum* Mi-
tochondrial genome evolution: trends towards extreme
complexity in the plant lineage
*11:15-12:00 AM Fay-Wei Li, Cornell University *The
ferntastic genomes reveal unique evolution of ferns and
cyanobacterial symbiosis
*12:00-1:15 PM Lunch, West Atrium * *1:15-2:00 PM
Quentin Cronk, University of British Columbia *Track-
ing labile sex determining regions of plants using ge-
nomics and methylomics
*2:00-2:45 PM Alison Dawn Scott, University of Wis-
consin *Polyploid evolution in Sequoioideae: The dawn
of redwood phylogenomics
*2:45-3:30 PM Matt Johnson, Chicago Botanic Garden
*Building a better tree and using it wisely: phylogenomic
approaches in non-model organisms
*3:30-4:00 PM Coee Break, West Atrium * *4:00-4:45
PM Emily Sessa, University of Florida *Taming Dar-
win's incubus: Phylogenetics and oral symmetry evo-
lution of the Core Goodeniaceae
*4:45-5:30 PM Debashish Bhattacharya, Rutgers Univer-
sity *Greening of our planet: the long and short story
of plastid endosymbiosis
*5:30-7:00 PM Mixer, West Atrium*
*Registration*: Registration is free, but we need to know
who is coming to plan for lunch and refreshments.
To register simply respond to this message with your
name and institution. You may also send questions to
chicagoplantscience@gmail.com.
Organizers: Andrew Hipp, Patrick Herendeen and
Richard Ree chicagoplantscience@gmail.com http://-
www.chicagoplantscience.org/ ahipp@mortonarb.orgChize France EcologyBehaviour
Jun19-23 DeadlineExt
Dear everyone,
We decide to extend the deadline of submission until
the 1st April 2017.
Send us your abstract directly on the website of the
conference : https://eb2017.sciencesconf.org/ For more
information, you can also look at our teaser : https://-
vimeo.com/203603912 Regards, AREB
sophie.dupont93@gmail.com
Copenhagen RubiaceaeConference
Sep11-14
VII International Rubiaceae and Gentianales Conference
11-14 September 2017 Carlsberg Academy, Copenhagen,
Denmark
The Natural History Museum of Denmark invites you to
Copenhagen from 11 to 14 September 2017 to participate
in the Seventh International Rubiaceae and Gentianales
Conference. The conference is an excellent opportunity
for international researchers with a common interest
in Rubiaceae and Gentianales to meet and interact. It
will be a great opportunity to share exciting results, to
spark vivid discussions, to exchange original ideas, and
to initiate or strengthen international collaboration. We
are looking forward to meeting you in Copenhagen!
ONLINE http://snm.ku.dk/english/research/-
conferences/vii-rubiaceae-gentianales/ DEADLINES
Abstract submission and registration open: 1 Febru-
ary 2017 Abstract submission close: 1 May 2017
Registration close: 1 July 2017
PROGRAM Monday 11: Presentations and evening
reception at the Natural History Museum of Denmark
Tuesday 12: Presentations Wednesday 13: Presentations
and conference dinner Thursday 14: Excursion to Mns
Klint Friday 15: Optional visit to the Herbarium C
The conference fee includes coee breaks, lunches, the
reception, the conference dinner, and the excursion.8 EvolDir April 1, 2017
CONTACT viirubiaceae@gmail.co
brecht.verstraete@snm.ku.dk
Edinburgh ComplexTraitGenetics
Mar17
Message for Evoldir:
The 12 ^th meeting of the Edinburgh Alliance for Com-
plex Trait Genetics, sponsored by the Genetics Society,
will be held on the afternoon of 17 ^th March 2017. Pro-
gramme below.
It is free to attend but please register at https://-
tinyurl.com/E-ACTG12 Chris Haley
Josephine Pemberton
for the E-ACTG Committee
***
Edinburgh Alliance for Complex Trait Genetics
12th meeting - Friday 17 ^th March, 2017
Royal Society of Edinburgh
22-26 George St., Edinburgh,EH2 2PQ
13.00 Arrival and registration
13.30 Session 1
13.30 Elizabeth Thompson (University of Washington)
Mapping QTL using shared descent of genome
14.00 Xia Shen (Usher Institute of Population Health
Sciences and Informatics) Beyond Mendelian random-
ization: Establishing causal relationships using GWAS
results
14.30 David Hill (Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cog-
nitive Epidemiology) Shared genetic aetiology between
personality and health and anthropometric traits
14.45 Gail Davies (Centre for Cognitive Ageing and
Cognitive Epidemiology) Meta-analysis of GWAS of
general cognitive function in the CHARGE-COGENT
consortium
15.00 Tea
15.30 Frank Chan (Friedrich Miescher Laboratory of the
Max Planck Society, Tubingen) Genomics of selection
response for increased tibia length in the \Longshanks"
mouse
16.00 Christos Palaiokostas (The Roslin Institute) Breed-ing disease resistant farmed sh using high-throughput
sequencing
16.30 Tom Marchant (The Roslin Institute) Identifying
genes for craniofacial morphology in dogs
17.00 David Clark (Usher Institute of Population Health
Sciences and Informatics) Inbreeding depression in hu-
mans
17.30 Discussion and refreshments
***
PEMBERTON Josephine <J.Pemberton@ed.ac.uk >
Groningen ESEB Aug20-25
Earlybird
ESEB 2017 - biennial congress of the European Soci-
ety for Evolutionary Biology August 20 - 25, Gronin-
gen, The Netherlands Website: www.eseb2017.nl
Congress registration is still open at discounted early
bird rates! EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION DEAD-
LINE EXTENDED TO APRIL 14, 2017
ESEB oce - oce@eseb.org
oce@eseb.org
HalleSaale PlantEvolution May18-20
PopBio2017 - 30th Conference of the Plant Population
Biology Section of the Ecological Society of Germany,
Austria and Switzerland (Gf ~A-)
\Population Biology in a Changing World" http://-
www.popbio2017.de/ We are very happy to invite you
to the 30th PopBio conference, which will be held in
Halle/Saale, Germany, from 18th to 20th May 2017.
PopBio 2017 will be hosted by the Helmholtz Centre
for Environmental Research (UFZ), the Martin Luther
University Halle-Wittenberg, and the German Centre
for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv).
Online registration and abstract submission is open
now at: http://www.popbio2017.de/registration.html
*** Deadline for abstract submission 31 March, 2017 ***
PopBio is the annual international meeting for peopleApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 9
working in the eld of plant population biology and
ecology. This years motto is \Population Biology in
a Changing World". We invite contributions in the
subelds: - Plant demography - Population and evolu-
tionary genetics - Pollination ecology - Mechanisms of bi-
ological invasions - Plant-pathogen and plant-herbivore
interactions - Free topics
We expect that the conference will dene the state of the
art in plant population ecology, set the research agenda
for the next years and give insights into novel tools
to empower in particular young scientists to analyse
population-ecological data.
We will have two and a half days of exciting presen-
tations. An informal conference dinner will be oered
on Friday. On Saturday afternoon, you can join the
excursion to the Global Change Experimental Facility,
GCEF, or to continental dry grasslands with unique
ora on porphyry outcrops near Halle.
Keynotes: - Roberto Salguero-Gomez, Department of
animal and plant sciences, University of Sheeld, UK
\Life history currencies shape plant population perfor-
mance worldwide" - Erin Mordecai, Department of Bi-
ology, Stanford University, USA \Impact of pathogens
on plant species diversity in grassland communities" -
Je Ollerton, Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology,
University of Northampton, UK \The macroecology of
wind and animal pollination" - Steve Keller, Department
of Plant Biology, University of Vermont, USA \Climate
adaptation past, present, and future: new insights from
combining genomics and spatial modeling in forest trees"
- Jane Catford, Centre for Biological Sciences, Univer-
sity of Southampton, UK \Using community ecology to
understand invasive species and their impacts"
Timeline: - Deadline for abstract submission 31 March,
2017 (www.popbio2017.de) - Notication of abstract ac-
ceptance after 17 April, 2014 - Deadline for registration:
24 April, 2014 - Registration fees rise by 50 euro after 2
May, 2017
Special feature in Basic and Applied Ecology, BAAE:
Presenters at PopBio2017 are invited to contribute to
a special issue of Basic and Applied Ecology, the Jour-
nal of the Ecological Society of Germany, Austria and
Switzerland (GF ~A-) which will be edited by Susanne
Lachmuth, Stefan Michalski and Niek Scheepens.
The PopBio 2017 organization committee: Harald
Auge, Helge Bruehlheide, Walter Durka, Isabell Hensen,
Tiany Knight, Susanne Lachmuth, Stefan Michalski
Conference secretary: Dr. Hildegard Feldmann F&U
conrm, Permoserstr. 15, 04318 Leipzig, Germany
Fon: +49 341 235 2264 Fax: +49 341 235 2782 Email:popbio2017@fu-conrm.de
Susanne Lachmuth <susanne.lachmuth@botanik.uni-
halle.de >
London BESMacro July5-7
The deadline for BES Macro 2017 registration, April 28,
is rapidly approaching!
http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/bes-macro-2017-tickets-
29074065312 BES Macro 2017 is the annual meeting
of the British Ecological Society Macroecology (and
macroevolution) Special Interest Group, and we hope
you'll join us for three days of macro-fun!
This year's conference is 5-7 July at the Natural His-
tory Museum in London. We've got a great line up
of speakers (see below) highlighting all kinds of macro-
scale research as well as our annual student plenary,
contributed talks, posters etc. Tickets are just 45 for
students (and unemployed graduates) or 75 for non-
students.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS AND TOPICS
- David Nogues-Bravo <http://macroecology.ku.dk/-
research/phylogeography/ >(CMEC) - extinction
dynamics under climate change - Helene Morlon
<http://www.biologie.ens.fr/phyloeco/index.html >
(CNRS) - macroecology, macroevolution, modelling
- Richard Pearson <https://www.ucl.ac.uk/cber/-
pearson >(UCL) - climate change, SDMs, community
ecology - Erin Saupe <https://www.earth.ox.ac.uk/-
people/erin-saupe/ >(Oxford) - macroecology, palaeon-
tology, marine inverts - Jana Vamosi <http://-
homepages.ucalgary.ca/ ~jvamosi/ >(Calgary) - macroe-
cology, macroevolution, plants
Hope to see you there!
The BES Macro committee
\cs16502@bristol.ac.uk" <cs16502@bristol.ac.uk >
London WildlifeConservation Mar14
Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park, London
NW1 4RY, UK; Tuesday 14 March 2017; 18:00-21:0010 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Immigrants to the rescue! How can immigration help
save threatened wildlife populations?
Speakers: Richard Frankham; Mike Bruford; Jane Reid
Threatened species have invariably small and frequently
isolated populations, and are thus characterized by in-
creased inbreeding and depleted genetic variation. In-
creased inbreeding could lead to a reduction in reproduc-
tion and survival (inbreeding depression), which causes
an immediate risk of extinction. Depleted genetic varia-
tion could compromise the ability of a species to adapt
to an ever-changing environment, threatening its long-
term survival. How to mitigate these adverse eects of
small populations, and maintain a threatened species
for short- and long-term survival, is a major task for
conservation science. Supplementing genetically impov-
erished populations with external unrelated individuals
(immigrants) can be a valuable strategy to counteract
the negative eects of isolation. This 'genetic rescue'
eect occurs because the addition of unrelated genomes
increases diversity in the recipient population, reducing
inbreeding and inbreeding depression. Genetic rescue
has the added benet of increasing population size and
larger populations are less vulnerable to random events,
such as a natural disaster or disease outbreak. Despite
the potential benets of genetic rescue for the manage-
ment of threatened species, there have been fewer than
twenty published studies of genetic rescue/restoration
for conservation purposes. Why has there been such a
low uptake?
The speakers will describe the hurdles, and illustrate
how genetic rescue can be expedited through rein-
troduction and conservation programmes. Free and
open to all https://www.zsl.org/science/whats-on/-
immigrants-to-the-rescue-how-can-immigration-help-
save-threatened-wildlife The Zoological Society of
London is incorporated by Royal Charter Principal Of-
ce England. Company Number RC000749 Registered
address: Regent's Park, London, England NW1 4RY
Registered Charity in England and Wales no. 208728
Linda DaVolls <linda.davolls@zsl.org >
LosAngeles MolluscAdaptation
Jun20-22
SYMPOSIA ANNOUNCEMENT 50th Annual Meeting,
Western Society of Malacologists, Los Angeles, Califor-
nia https://www.eventbrite.com/e/western-society-of-
malacologists-50th-annual-meeting-tickets-28744283927Molluscs and Climate Change 20 June 2017 What are
the eects of climate change on molluscs and the evi-
dence molluscs give us regarding climate change? Ap-
propriate topics for presentations include (but are not
limited to) anthropogenic and naturally-caused changes,
range changes or contractions because of long term
ocean temperature changes or El Ni no/La Ni na condi-
tions, inuence of ocean acidication, global or local
extinctions, invasions or introductions, and evidence
from fossil/subfossil and indigenous midden sites.
Current Research in Fossil Mollusca 21 June 2017 The
rich fossil record of molluscs lends itself to studies and
interpretation of biostratigraphy, systematics, evolution,
and paleoecology. We invite presentations concerning
any fossil molluscan taxa with a local, regional, or world-
wide focus. We also invite presentations about the work
of museums in cataloging and preserving fossil molluscs.
Terrestrial Molluscs 22 June 2017 Terrestrial snails and
slugs comprise nearly one third of known molluscs at
estimates of 40,000 species. Much of this fauna, espe-
cially in Western North America, is poorly documented
and/or under-studied. This symposium will highlight
native and introduced land snails and slugs and current
research that is elucidating aspects of their morphology,
behavior, distribution, evolution, and conservation.
General Session 20, 21, 22 June 2017 Presentations con-
cerning almost any aspect of molluscan biology, archeol-
ogy, and anthropology are welcome.
We hope to see you in Los Angeles!
Abstracts: The closing date for abstracts is 14 April,
2017. Please submit abstracts (with length limited to
350 words including title and authors) in Times New
Roman, 12 pt. as a .doc .or docx as an email with
the subject line \WSM abstract [your last name]" to
jvendett@nhm.org or jannvendetti@yahoo.com
Abstracts should include: - Indication of the author's
preference that this presentation should be a poster or
talk - Title: Concise and descriptive, bold font left jus-
tied - Author(s): Last name rst, followed by initials,
presenting author underlined, plain font, left justied
- Author(s) aliation: Include full postal address and
email for all authors, italics, left justied - Main body:
Use standard scientic English, avoid contractions, plain
font, left justied - References (if necessary): Author(s),
year, title, journal (not abbreviated), volume, inclusive
pages
Talks will be limited to ten minutes plus ve minutes for
Q&A. Posters should not be larger than 40 x 30 inches.
WSM membership is not required for submitting an ab-
stract and/or poster but attending authors must registerApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 11
for the meeting at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/-
western-society-of-malacologists-50th-annual-meeting-
tickets-28744283927 Please feel free to share this
announcement with colleagues, students, and anyone
interested in fossil mollusk research.
Abstract submission guidelines are here: http:/-
/research.nhm.org/malacology/western-society-of-
malacologists/ Jann Vendetti, Ph.D. Assistant Curator
& Twila Bratcher Chair in Malacology Natural History
Museum of Los Angeles County 900 Exposition Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90007 Phone: 213-763-3380 http://-
www.inaturalist.org/projects/slime www.nhm.org/slime
Jann Vendetti <JVendett@nhm.org >
Marseilles EBM21 Sep26-29
Dear all ,the 21st evolutionary biology meeting at Mar-
seilles will take place from September 26-29, 2017
dead line June 30
The following subjects will be discussed:
* Evolutionary biology concepts and modeling; * Biodi-
versity and Systematics; * Comparative genomics ans
post-genomics (at all taxomic levels); * Self non Self
Evolution * Holobiome evolution * Environment and
biological evolution; * Origin of life and exobiology; *
Non-adaptative versus adaptative evolution; * The 
minorphyla: their usefulness in evolutionary biol-
ogy knowledge; * Convergent evolution * Evolution of
complex traits (Evo-Devo)
more info : http://aeeb.fr/?page id=3D524 best re-
gards
Pierre
\pierre.pontarotti@univ-amu.fr"
<pierre.pontarotti@univ-amu.fr >
Montpellier GalaxyCommunity
Jun26-30
2017 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2017)
26-30 June 2017 Montpellier, France https://-
gcc2017.sciencesconf.org/ {The 2017 Galaxy Community Conference will bring
together several hundred researchers working in and
supporting data intensive life science research. There
is no better place to share your work and learn from
others that are addressing diverse questions and fac-
ing common challenges in data intensive biology. GCC
participants work across the tree of life, come from
around the world, and represent universities, research
organizations, industry, medical schools and research
hospitals.
GCC2017 will be in Montpellier, France, 26-30 June and
will feature two days of presentations, discussions, poster
sessions, lightning talks, computer demos, keynotes, and
birds-of-a-feather meetups, all about data-intensive bi-
ology and the tools that support it. GCC2017 also
includes data and coding hackathons, and two days of
training covering 16 dierent topics. GCC2017 will be
held at Le Corum Conference Centre in the heart of
Montpellier, just 10km from the Mediterranean.
Abstract submission is now open. If you work in or sup-
port data intensive life science research then GCC2017 is
an ideal opportunity to present your work. The deadline
for oral presentations is Apr 15 (23:59 Paris local time),
and posters and computer demonstration submission
closes on May 27 (23:59 Paris local time). The Lightning
talk submission deadline is June 23 (23:59 Paris time).
Early registration is also open and starts at less than
55e/ day for post-docs and students. You can also book
low cost conference housing when you register. Travel
fellowships are being oered by the Galaxy Community
Fund for early career researchers that are travelling from
afar.
About Galaxy Galaxy (https://galaxyproject.org/) is an
open, web-based platform for data-intensive biomedical
analysis used by tens of thousands of researchers around
the world. It supports ad hoc exploration and analysis
through scalable and repeatable data analysis pipelines
for large research studies. Galaxy is available in over 90
free and publicly accessible web servers, on public and
national cloud infrastructures, and is locally installed
at hundreds, if not thousands, of research organisations
around the world.
We hope to see you this summer in Montpellier!
Au revoir,
The GCC2017 Organising Committee
PS: Please redistribute this announcement to any inter-
ested groups.
clementsgalaxy@gmail.com12 EvolDir April 1, 2017
NewHampshire MicrobialPopBiol
Jul9-14
The 2017 Microbial Population Biology Gordon Re-
search Conference will be held from July 9-14, 2017,
at the Proctor Academy in Andover NH, USA. The
conference will bring together thought leaders from a
spectrum of disciplines to present and discuss empirical
data and theoretical concepts pertinent to the adaptive
evolution of not only microbes, but all other forms of life.
The conference is still open for registration but is lling
up fast. To see the full program of the meeting and
to apply - preferably before April 1, go here: http://-
www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=3D12013 Dr. Eva Top,
Professor, Dr. Larry Forney, Distinguished University
Professor Co-Chairs
Institute for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies
Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho
\evatop@uidaho.edu" <evatop@uidaho.edu >
Portland Oregon
MimulusCommunity Jun23
Dear Community
An International Mimulus meeting will be held June
23rd, just prior to the Evolution Meeting in Portland,
OR. The meeting will be located at Portland State Uni-
versity. Thanks to Matt Streisfeld and Mitch Cruzan
for securing a room for us!!!!
For details of the meeting, please see the website.
http://mimulusmeeting2017.wordpress.com/ As our
community continues to grow, we need to adjust the
meeting format accordingly. Instead of research talks,
like previous meetings, we will instead have presenters
that will summarize advances in Mimulus research over
the last few years. We will also focus the afternoon part
of the meeting on community building and organization.
We will send out more details soon on how this will all
work, but community input will be crucial for success.
So that we can send you updates, we encourage regis-
tration for meeting ASAP, even if you are not sure ifyou can come:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/-
1z0X8QC49tBpzUHgcalPgbbHipNBML
6nJZq7eIDmPGwE/edit#gid=0
Hope to see you all in Portland!!!!!!
David, Matt, Yaniv, Andrea, Josh, Yaowu, Paul (Orga-
nizers)
{ David B. Lowry Assistant Professor Plant Biol-
ogy Department Michigan State University Plant Bi-
ology Laboratories Room 268 517-432-4882 http://-
davidbryantlowry.wordpress.com/ \dlowry@msu.edu"
<dlowry@msu.edu >
QueensU OE3C-17 May18-20
RegistrationClosesApr14
Where: Queen's U
What: OE3C'17
When: May 18th-20th, 2017
Header: Conference: OE3C'17, Registration closes April
14th 2017
Message: The Ontario Ecology and Evolution Collo-
quium 2017 (OE3C'17) call for abstracts and registration
is now open to all researchers including undergraduates,
graduate students, post doctoral fellows, and faculty.
The event focuses primarily on ecology, ethology, and
evolution, but is open to researchers in conservation bi-
ology, earth sciences, behavior, environmental sciences,
genetics, molecular and cellular biology, and psychology.
Researchers will be able to present a full 12 minute
presentation, 5 minute lightning talk, or a poster.
The three day event will include 4 plenary speakers:
Dr. Fran Bonier (Queen's University), Dr. Rowan Bar-
rett (McGill University), Dr. Ben Evans (McMaster
University), and Dr. Anne Bell (Ontario Nature). It
will also include 2 breakfasts, 2 lunches, Friday dinner,
coee breaks, and social events on Thursday and Friday
nights.
Registration cost is $82.62 and abstract submission and
registration will close April 14th.
For more information about OE3C'17 visit us
at www.queensu.ca/oe3c17/ or contact us at
oe3c2017@gmail.com.
We are excited to welcome researchers from all acrossApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 13
Ontario, Quebec and Upstate New York to Queen's!
oe3c2017@gmail.com
Rosco HostParasiteInteractions
Oct30-Nov3
Dear all,
Registration is now open for the next Jacques Monod
Conference on the ecology and evolution of host-parasite
interactions. The conference, entitled Open Questions
in Disease Ecology and Evolution: from Basic Research
to Evolutionary Medicine, will take place in Rosco
(Brittany, France) from the 30th of October to the 3rd
of November 2017.
Please see below for the full list of invited speakers.
There are 85 slots available for non-invited participants,
some of which will be selected for a short oral presenta-
tion.
Please use this URL for more info and instructions
on how to apply: http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/2017/-
Rivero e.html Looking forward to seeing you in Rosco!
Andrea Graham & Ana Rivero
INVITED SPEAKERS (and provisional titles)
ANTONOVICS Janis (Charlottesville, Virginia, USA)
Blinded by vectorial capacity: rethinking transmission
by pollinators and mosquitoes
BLANC St ephane (Montpellier, France) A pluricellular
way of life for multipartite viruses
de BOER Rob (Utrecht, The Netherlands) Are viruses
immunologically pre-adapted to their hosts?
BORER Elisabeth (St Paul, Minnesota, USA) Experi-
mental insights into the structuring and functional role
of the host microbiome across sites, regions, and conti-
nents
BOULINIER Thierry (Montpellier, France) The transfer
of maternal antibodies: from evolutionary immunology
to albatross conservation
BUCKLING Angus (Exeter, United Kingdom) Conse-
quences of polymicrobial infections for pathogen evolu-
tion
CORDAUX Richard (Poitiers, France) Wolbachia repro-
ductive parasites and the evolution of sex determination
in the isopod Armadillidium vulgareDAY Troy (Kingston, Ontario, Canada) Can we design
evolution-proof antimicrobial drugs?
EBERT Dieter (Basel, Switzerland) Getting at the mech-
anistic core of host-parasite coevolution
EZENWA Vanessa (Athens, Georgia, USA) Helminth-
microbe coinfection: insights from natural systems
FERGUSON Heather (Glasgow, United Kingdom) Ecol-
ogy and evolutionary responses of malaria vectors to
control measures: implications for elimination
GRAHAM Andrea (Princeton, USA) Evolutionary
causes of susceptibility to inammatory disease
KALTZ Oliver (Montpellier, France) Environmental het-
erogeneity and epidemiological dynamics in Paramecium
KREMER Natacha (Lyon, France) Specicity and sta-
bility of the squid-Vibrio symbiosis
LAMBRECHTS Louis (Paris, France) Integrative ge-
nomics of host-pathogen interactions
LIVELY Curt (Bloomington, Indiana, USA) Genetic
diversity, disease spread, and sex
MILINSKI Manfred (Pl on, Germany) Do eggs prefer
sperm with complementary MHC immunogenes?
NAVARRO Arcadi (Barcelona, Spain) Genome diversity
and susceptibility to infection in humans
PARKER Jane (K oln, Germany) Plant host-pathogen
evolution and tracing local adaptation of a plant resis-
tance gene locus
PEDERSEN Amy (Edinburgh, United Kingdom) A sys-
tems ecology approach to infection and immunity in the
wild
PRUGNOLLE Franck (Montpellier, France) Origin and
evolutionary adaptation of human malaria agents
REECE Sarah (Edinburgh, United Kingdom) Once
upon a time: the ecology of rhythms in malaria infection
REGOES Roland (Zurich, Switzerland) Are viruses im-
munologically pre-adapted to their hosts?
RIGAUD Thierry (Dijon, France) A host/parasite bio-
logical invasion in European rivers: Why, how and how
to reduce the risk of an emerging disease
RIVERO Ana (Montpellier, France) Heterogeneity of
infection outcomes in malaria-infected mosquitoes
de ROODE Jaap (Atlanta, Georgia, USA) Competi-
tive suppression of drug resistance in human malaria
infections
SORCI Gabriele (Dijon, France) Plastic and micro-
evolutionary responses of a nematode to the immune
environment14 EvolDir April 1, 2017
VAVRE Fabrice (Lyon, France) Evolution of addiction
in host-symbiont(s) interactions
WILFERT Lena (Exeter, United Kingdom) Evolution-
ary ecology of multi-host pathogens in pollinators
ZUK Marlene (Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA) Medicine,
evolution and the model male
Ana Rivero (ana.rivero@cnrs.fr)
www.researchgate.net/prole/Ana Rivero4 Maladies
Infectieuses et Vecteurs: Ecologie, G en etique, Evolution
et Contr^ ole (MIVEGEC)
IRD, 911 Avenue Agropolis,
34394 Montpellier, FRANCE
tel: +33 467 41 63 73, fax: +33 467 41 62 99
{ Andrea L. Graham Associate Professor Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Princeton University
Princeton, NJ 08544 USA
Tel: (+1) 609-258-6703 E-mail: algra-
ham@princeton.edu
Graham Group: http://algraham.princeton.edu/ ISI Re-
searcher ID: http://www.researcherid.com/rid/A-8808-
2010 ORCID ID: http://orcid.org/0000-0002-6580-2755
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Seattle GSA Macroevolution
Oct22-25
Dear All,
We are convening a topical session entitled \Biodiver-
sity dynamics in the face of environmental change: In-
tegrating paleontological and neontological approaches
to macroevolution" at the 2017 Geological Society of
America conference. The conference will be held 22-
25 October in Seattle, Washington. Our session (T51)
will focus on how environmental changes have shaped
Earth's biodiversity through geologic time and how these
macroevolutionary relationships might be used to un-
derstand the responses of extant species to current and
projected environmental conditions. Invited speakers in-
clude Samantha Price (University of California, Davis),Andy Purvis (Natural History Museum London), and
Jens-Christian Svenning (Aarhus University).
If you have a current project that ts the scope of our
session we hope that you will consider submitting an
abstract for consideration. Abstract submission will be
open around April 1st, 2017 and close on August 1. We
are keenly interested in putting together a slate of talks
that span a diversity of disciplinary approaches and in-
cluding presenters from neontological backgrounds who
are interested in incorporating paleontological perspec-
tives into their research. For more information about the
conference: https://www.geosociety.org/GSA/Events/-
Annual Meeting/GSA/Events/gsa2017.aspx.
If you have any questions please do not hesitate to con-
tact us and if you know others who might be interested
please consider forwarding this announcement to them.
Best wishes,Shan Huang (Senckenberg Biodiversity and
Climate Research Centre, shan.huang@senckenberg.de)
Paul Harnik (Franklin & Marshall College,
paul.harnik@fandm.edu) Lee Hsiang Liow (Natural His-
tory Museum & Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary
Synthesis, University of Oslo, l.h.liow@ibv.uio.no)
{ Paul Harnik Department of Earth and Environment
Franklin and Marshall College PO Box 3003 Lan-
caster, PA 17604-3003 Phone: 717-358-5946 Email:
paul.harnik@fandm.edu
Paul Harnik <paul.harnik@fandm.edu >
Smithsonian Conservation Apr21-23
EARTH OPTIMISM SUMMIT - SMITHSONIAN IN-
STITUTION April 21-23, 2017 - Washington, DC
Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center
www.earthoptimism.si.edu Join 150 speakers and 1200
thought leaders, scientists, artists, environmentalists,
and civic and business leaders to share stories of what's
working in conservation. From how to tackle species
extinction to inspiring communities to take action or
securing the future of food, we'll explore how people
around the world are making positive change for the
planet!
REGISTER ON LINE <https://www.regonline.com/-
registration/Checkin.aspx?EventID=1927451 >: Early
bird registration extended to March 10, 2017. Student
registration code: EarthST (Must bring student ID
to check-in). PROGRAM & SPEAKERS <http://-
earthoptimism.si.edu/calendar/summit/ >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 15
Summit Fees: General Admission: $650 / Early Bird
Rate: $575 Student Rate: $300 / Early Bird Student
Rate: $250
NB: Admission to the Summit includes breakfast and
lunch, bird-friendly coee sessions, and some receptions
each of the 3 days.
VIDEO COMPETITION - \CONSERVATION SUC-
CESS": Winners receive travel, lodging and registration
for the three day Summit. Grand prize winner also
receives $1000 Help celebrate Earth Optimism by
creating a 2 minute video about your own conser-
vation success story or highlighting one that needs
to be told. All videos will be posted to the Earth
Optimism You Tube channel and select videos will
be shown at the Summit. The competition is open
to undergraduate and graduate students. Visit this
link for complete details and submission instructions
<http://earthoptimism.si.edu/blogs/news/2017/02/-
02/earth-optimism-summit-announces-student-video-
competition/ >. Deadline to submit your video is
March 10th, 11:59 PM EST.
HACK A THON: Cash prizes (currently $5,000) If you
are you a hacker, coder, maker, engineer, designer, en-
trepreneur, creative thinker or tinkerer, come celebrate
Earth Optimism by creating solutions to challenging
conservation problems in front of a global audience!
Fifteen teams of 4 will compete by pitching their inno-
vative solutions & prototypes to a crowd of potential
supporters in an on-site event called Make for the Planet.
Teams will have access to problem sets two weeks be-
fore the event, access to leading conservationists and
innovators during the event, and access to equipment
on site to create prototypes and models of hardware
and/or software solutions to specic conservation prob-
lems. All participants will have full access to the Earth
Optimism Summit. Apply to participate on-line at Con-
servation X Labs Make for the Planet website <https:/-
/www.makefortheplanet.com/ >no later than March 1,
11:59 PM EST. Space and registration is limited!
SPECIAL FEATURES at EARTH OPTIMISM SUM-
MIT An Innovation Commons of exhibits showcasing
solutions. Streaming FacebookLive. Musical perfor-
mances, lm festival and networking events. Public
events in Smithsonian museums and zoo (entrance fees
may apply).
Please direct questions to ConservationCom-
mons@si.edu
\Coyle, Brian J." <CoyleB@si.edu >UCalgary EvoDevo Aug19-23
The Pan-American Society for Evolutionary Develop-
mental Biology 2nd Biennial Meeting August 19-23,
2017
University of Calgary Alberta, Canada
Registration is now open for the 2nd Biennial EvoDe-
voPanAm Meeting, which will be held on the cam-
pus of the University of Calgary. Renew your mem-
bership and register for the meeting online at http:/-
/www.evodevopanam.org/2nd-biennial-meeting.html .
Abstract submission and discounted rates are available
through May 15.
**Conference venue** The meeting will take place in
the MacEwan Conference and Event Center (MCEC)
at the University of Calgary. MCEC is located minutes
by local transportation from downtown Calgary, with
easy access to Calgary International Airport. There is a
food court adjoining the center which oers many quick
meal choices and coee shops, bars. Other amenities
nearby include a pharmacy, medical/dental center, gym
and pool. MCEC is a fully wheelchair-accessible facility.
**Meeting Schedule** The meeting will begin at 6 pm
on Saturday, August 19th with keynote talks and an
opening reception. The meeting will end on Tuesday,
August 22nd with our Young Investigator and Lifetime
Award talks in the evening (6:30-8:00 pm) and a closing
reception to follow. A preliminary schedule of events
can be found online at https://goo.gl/FG0LLN **Reg-
istration** Faculty or Postdoc from Central America,
South America or the Caribbean: $130.00
Faculty from all other geographical regions (e.g., US,
Canada, Europe, Asia, Australia): $260.00
Postdoc from all other geographical regions (e.g., US,
Canada, Europe, Asia, Australia): $200.00
Student (undergraduate or graduate): $130.00
**Accommodations** We have arranged accommoda-
tion for delegates through the Alma Hotel, the Univer-
sity of Calgary's on-campus hotel and residence facility.
There are several room options to choose from, includ-
ing individual rooms and suites, shared two-bedroom
apartments, and dormitory-style rooms. These housing
options are on the UofC campus, a 3-5 minute walk from
the MacEwan Conference and Event Center. We have
also reserved rooms at the Best Western Village Inn, a 1516 EvolDir April 1, 2017
minute walk from the MCEC. For details on housing op-
tions and instructions on reserving accommodations, re-
fer to the PDF at https://goo.gl/ueDzqS **Child care**
Child care will be available Monday 21st to Wednesday
23rd. For children aged 1-5, we have a limited number
of drop-in spots at Kids & Company's SmartTech loca-
tion, a ~20 minute walk from campus. 80 $/day includes
three meals and age-appropriate activities. Hours are
6:30 am to 6:00 pm. For reservations contact Kelley
Hodson at smarttech@kidsandcompany.com. For older
children, the University of Calgary runs an excellent
summer camp program, weekdays from 8am to 4pm.
Visit the University of Calgary Camps website https:/-
/www.ucalgary.ca/activeliving/camps . PASEDB will
oer a partial childcare subsidy to conference atten-
dees with accompanying children who will be attend-
ing either the drop-in daycare or the summer camp
programs during the meeting. Please contact trea-
surer@evodevopanam.org for additional information and
to apply for the subsidy.
**Arriving by Air** Calgary's international airport
(YYC) is located in the north-east quadrant of the city.
If you need any help when you arrive at the airport,
just ask one of the many airport greeter/volunteers
you'll nd around the airport. They are easy to nd
in their white cowboy hats and red vests, and are
there to assist. Transportation to the University is
available by shuttle services ( http://www.yyc.com/-
en-us/travellerinfo/groundtransportation.aspx ) or
taxi. It's about a 25 minute ride, and will cost
40-45 $ (http://www.yyc.com/en-us/travellerinfo/-
groundtransportation/taxis,sedans.aspx) All ma-
jor car rental agencies are available at the air-
port http://www.yyc.com/en-us/travellerinfo/-
groundtransportation/carrentals.aspx Public trans-
portation from the airport to the University is also
available http://www.evodevopanam.org/2nd-biennial-
meeting.html Parking on campus is available in several
on-campus lots with a pay-per-entry fee of $7.
**Associated Course** Arrive early and attend the
Transmitting Science course: GEOMETRIC MORPHO-
METRICS in R. August 14th - 18th, 2017 - Ban Centre,
University of Calgary, run by Dr. Julien Claude. During
this course, concepts in
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUEssex GenomicsEpigenetics-
GeneRegulation
Sep14
Dear colleagues,
The 'Genomics, Epigenetics and Gene Regulation Sym-
posium' at the University of Essex aims to gather re-
searchers to present their work on this fast growing
eld. This one-day symposium on the 14th of Septem-
ber will cover DNA-based regulation (chromatin and
methylation) and RNA-based gene regulation (regula-
tory RNAs). We strongly encourage submissions of
abstracts from PhD students and postdocs, as we aim
to host contributed talks from scientists at dierent
levels in their careers.
We will also have a keynote talk by Prof. Anne Ferguson-
Smith (U. Cambridge) and three invited speakers: Prof.
Tamas Dalmay (UEA), Dr. Alessia Buscaino (Kent)
and Prof. Boris Lenhard (Imperial)
Our campus is located at Wivenhoe Park, close to Colch-
ester (Essex), which is less than one hour away from
Stansted Airport. If you require accommodation, there
are plenty of options on campus or in town.
For more information visit our webpage:
http://gate.essex.ac.uk/ Registration is free. Abstracts
will be accepted for submission from the 3rd of April
until the 2nd of June.
Please share this information with your colleagues
and/or anyone that may be interested.
Best regards from the organizing committee,
Antonio Marco Pradeepa Madapura Radu Zabet Andrea
Hatlen
{ Antonio Marco School of Biological Sciences University
of Essex
Web: http://amarco.net Blog: http://-
eblogution.wordpress.com Twitter: http://twitter.com/-
amarcobio amarco.bio@gmail.comApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 17
UFlorida GeneralScience May20
To All Students and Postdocs:
The graduate students and postdocs of the UF Whit-
ney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience invite you to our
5th Annual Science by the Shore Symposium (formally
Biology at the Beach) open to all scientic disciplines.
This event will take place all day Saturday, May 20th,
at the Whitney Lab, located in Saint Augustine, FL.
Undergrads, graduate students and postdocs from many
dierent departments and universities in the southeast
attend, so anticipate learning from, and explaining your
research to, a diverse audience united by scientic cu-
riosity and the beach!
Presentation formats include 10 minute and 5 minute
oral presentations, a traditional poster session, and a
poster blitz (see registration website for more details).
Prizes will be awarded for the best presentations. Regis-
tration is $25 (cash or check only the day of the event)
and covers breakfast, lunch, dinner, and fun symposium
giveaways. The deadline to register is May 6th, but
attendance is limited, so please register early.
We look forward to you joining us for a fun, casual
day at the beach where we can discuss diverse re-
search topics, engage in outdoor activities, and get to
know peers from outside our individual elds! If you
have any questions, feel free to email me at science-
bytheshore@whitney.u.edu
REGISTRATION LINK: https://u.qualtrics.com/SE/-
?SID=SV 6zdP6HYX7L1QzbL Casandra Newkirk,
PhD Student University of Florida Fisheries and Aquatic
Sciences
melissa.debiasse@gmail.com
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics
Jun6-11
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropod-
genomics-symposium/ >and Arthropod Bioinformatics
Workshop <http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-
arthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/>will be held from June 6 - June 11, 2017 and is
hosted by the Eck Institute for Global Health at the
University of Notre Dame.
*KEY DATES AND DEADLINES - 2017*
March 31, 2017: Poster Abstracts due if you DO wish
to be considered for a General Session Platform presen-
tation
March 31, 2017: Travel Grant Deadline for considera-
tion.
April 14, 2017: Early Registration Deadline
May 26, 2017: Poster Abstracts due if you DO NOT
wish to be considered for a General Session Platform
presentation
May 26, 2017: Hotel / Dorm Room Block Deadline
May 26, 2017: Registration Deadline
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropod-
genomics-symposium/ The website above has
information on registration, speakers, abstract sub-
missions, the accompanying bioinformatics workshop,
accommodations, and travel grants. In case of questions
contact:
Ashley Scott, ascott12@nd.edu Sarah Craig,
craig.20@nd.edu Mary Ann McDowell, mcdow-
ell.11@nd.edu
{ Ashley Scott Program Director Eck Institute for Global
Health University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556
574-631-9227
ascott12@nd.edu
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics
Jun7-11 Registration
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropod-
genomics-symposium/ >and Arthropod Bioinformatics
Workshop <http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-
arthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/
>will be held from June 7 - June 11, 2017 and is
hosted by the Eck Institute for Global Health at the
University of Notre Dame.
*KEY DATES AND DEADLINES - 2017*
March 31, 2017: Poster Abstracts due if you DO wish
to be considered for a General Session Platform presen-
tation18 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Friday, March 31, 2017: Travel Grant Deadline for con-
sideration.
April 14, 2017: Early Registration Deadline (reduced
registration rate)
May 26, 2017: Poster Abstracts due if you DO NOT
wish to be considered for a General Session Platform
presentation
May 26, 2017: Registration Deadline
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropod-
genomics-symposium/ The website above has
information on registration, speakers, abstract sub-
missions, the accompanying bioinformatics workshop,
accommodations, and travel grants. Feel free to contact
me (ascott12@nd.edu, 574-631-9227) with questions.
{ Ashley Scott Program Director Eck Institute for Global
Health University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556
574-631-9227
ascott12@nd.edu
Winnipeg EcomorphologyDiversity
May15-19
The Comparative Morphology & Development (CMD)
section of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ) in-
vites you to attend the following joint symposium (with
Integrative Ecology and Evolution, IEE) at the annual
CSZ meeting:
May 15-19, 2017, in fabulous WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
MAIN SYMPOSIUM: \Ecomorphology & Diversity"
(May 17, 2017)
SHARLENE SANTANA (Washington) *CMD* The
role of morphology, performance, and behavior in the
ecological diversication of bats
BEREN ROBINSON (Guelph) *CMD* Ecomechanics
and plasticity of lamellar self-amputation in larval dam-
selies
SIMONE DES ROCHES (UC Santa Cruz) *CMD*
Niche shifts, directional change, and ecological release
in White Sands lizard ecomorphology
LUIS F. DE LEON (U Mass, Boston) *IEE* Ecomor-
phology and adaptive radiation in Darwin's nches
JILLIAN DETWILER (Manitoba) *IEE* Using integra-
tive taxonomy to explore the diversity and host speci-
city of echinostome parasitesKAMAL KHIDAS (Canadian Museum of Nature) *IEE*
Ecomorphology, resources utilization and distribution
patterns in mammals
[Organized by Tim Higham (UC Riverside) & Mery
Martinez-Garcia (Laurentian)]
FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THIS SYMPOSIUM,
SEE:
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm TO
REGISTER, OR TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
CSZ ANNUAL MEETING, SEE:
http://www.csz-scz2017.com/home.html EARLY REG-
ISTRATION DEADLINE: Friday, March 31, 2017
CONTRIBUTED PAPERS: Spaces are also available
for contributed papers in sessions organized by the CMD
section. The deadline for submitting abstracts is barely
3 weeks away, so don't delay:
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Friday, March
31, 2017
FINAL REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Sunday, April
30, 2016
{ A. Richard Palmer, FRSC Systematics and Evolution
Group Department of Biological Sciences University
of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 CANADA
phone: (780) 492-3633 message: (780) 492-3308
FAX: (780) 492-9234 http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/-
palmer/palmer.html Secretary-General Comparative
Morphology & Development section Canadian Society
of Zoologists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/-
home.htm rich.palmer@ualberta.ca
Yosemite Symbiosis May5-7
EarlyRegistrationDue
Dear Colleagues,
The Seventh annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will
take place on May 5th-7th, 2017 at the Sierra Nevada
Research Institute, Yosemite National Park. This has
become a great venue for a diversity of symbiosis re-
searchers. We hope to continue to attract a diverse
group in 2017!
Keynote speaker 2017: Dr. Corrie Moreau from the
Field Museum of Natural History.
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our continuing goal is to better integrate theApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 19
broad groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis re-
search. Yosemite serves as an ideal site as it is both
beautiful and secluded. This will be our 7th annual
meeting and we have been consistently attracting scien-
tists from all over the country and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in cooper-
ation, mutualism, and symbiosis. In the past we have
covered a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and
evolution to molecular mechanisms in dierent model
and non-model systems. We would like to make room
for a diverse group of people so we will initially accept
up to 3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a
rst come rst served basis.
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held May 6-
7, 2017, though we make accommodation arrangements
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 5th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Abstract and early bird registration are due on March
6th, 2017.
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room.
Costs: See details in the registration page. We will only
be able to accept credit card payments this year. Your
registration is not activated until you have completed
the payment process. NOTE that the payment link is
at the top of the registration page. The registration fee
includes room and board.
The registration form for the 2017 Symbiosis Work-
shop is active: http://snri.ucmerced.edu/symbiosis
Please direct any questions to the organizers: Joel Sachs
joels@ucr.edu A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
*Joel L. Sachs**, Associate Professor* 5406 Boyce Hall
Department of Biology University of California, River-
side
*Mailing Address:* Sachs Lab - UC Riverside 3401
Watkins Dr. 1229 Spieth Hall Riverside, CA 92521
Oce (951) 827-6357 Fax (951) 827-4286 www. sach-
slab.com http://www.biology.ucr.edu/people/faculty/-
Sachs.html \joels@ucr.edu" <joels@ucr.edu >Yosemite Symbiosis May5-7
SpacesOpen
We still have spaces open and there is still time to
register!
|{
Dear Colleagues,
The Seventh annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will
take place on May 5th-7th, 2017 at the Sierra Nevada
Research Institute, Yosemite National Park. This has
become a great venue for a diversity of symbiosis re-
searchers. We hope to continue to attract a diverse
group in 2017!
Keynote speaker 2017: Dr. Corrie Moreau from the
Field Museum of Natural History.
Information about our meeting: Our continuing goal is
to better integrate the broad groups of scientists that
focus on symbiosis research. Yosemite serves as an ideal
site as it is both beautiful and secluded. This will be
our 7th annual meeting and we have been consistently
attracting scientists from all over the country and over-
seas.
The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants) and
we seek to focus on scientists interested in cooperation,
mutualism, and symbiosis. In the past we have covered
a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and evolution
to molecular mechanisms in dierent model and non-
model systems. We would like to make room for a
diverse group of people so we will initially accept up to
3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a rst
come rst served basis.
The talks and formal meeting will be held May 6-7,
2017, though we make accommodation arrangements
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 5th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room.
Costs: See details in the registration page. We will only
be able to accept credit card payments this year. Your
registration is not activated until you have completed
the payment process. NOTE that the payment link is20 EvolDir April 1, 2017
at the top of the registration page. The registration fee
includes room and board.
The registration form for the 2017 Symbiosis Work-
shop is active: http://snri.ucmerced.edu/symbiosis
Please direct any questions to the organizers: Joel Sachs
joels@ucr.edu A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
{
*Joel L. Sachs**, Associate Professor* 5406 Boyce Hall
Department of Biology University of California, River-
side
*Mailing Address:* Sachs Lab - UC Riverside 3401
Watkins Dr. 1229 Spieth Hall Riverside, CA 92521
Oce (951) 827-6357 Fax (951) 827-4286 www. sach-
slab.com http://www.biology.ucr.edu/people/faculty/-
Sachs.html \joels@ucr.edu" <joels@ucr.edu >
Zurich PolygenicAdaptation
Aug28-Sep1
A Summer School and a Symposium will take place
this summer in Zurich calling for students and scientists
keen to learn and discuss about the most recent theory,
methods and applications to detect the genomic signal
of polygenic adaptation and understanding the role of
epistasis in evolution.
The invited speakers include, Prof Nick Barton (IST
Austria, Austria) Dr. Jeremy Berg (Columbia Uni-
versity, USA) Prof ~A-rjan Carlborg (Uppsala Univer-sity, Sweden) Dr. Josephine Daub (University Pompeu
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain) Prof. Frederic Guillaume (Uni-
versity of Zurich, Switzerland) Prof. Thomas Hansen
(University of Oslo, Norway) Prof Joachim Hermisson
(University of Vienna, Austria) Prof Sergey Kryazhim-
skiy (University of California San Diego, USA) Prof.
John Mckay (Colorado State University, USA) Dr. Josh
Payne (University of Zurich, Switzerland) Prof. Peter
Visscher (Institute for Molecular Bioscience, Queensland,
Australia) Prof. Sam Yeaman (University of Calgary,
Canada)
For more information visit the event websites: Sum-
mer School on \Integrated methods to detect polygenic
adaptation from genomic data"
28 Aug - 30 Aug 2017, WSL, Birmensdorf, Switzer-
land http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/en/teaching/Polygenic-
Adaptation.html Symposium on the \Genomics of
polygenic adaptation and the role of epistasis in
evolution"
31 Aug - 1 Sep 2017, ETH Zentrum, Zurich,
Switzerland http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/en/events/-
symposium.html Informal inquiries may be addressed
to Katalin Csillery at katalin.csillery@wsl.ch
Looking forward to seeing you this summer!
The organising committee: Dr Katalin Csillery (ETH
Zurich & WSL Birmensdorf) Prof Dr Frederic Guillaume
(University of Zurich) Dr Felix Gugerli (WSL Birmens-
dorf) Dr Christian Rellstab (WSL Birmensdorf) Dr
Alejandra Rodriguez-Verdugo (ETH Zurich) Dr. Tony
Weingril (University of Zurich) Prof Dr Alex Widmer
(ETH Zurich) Dr. Debra Zuppinger-Dingley (University
of Zurich)
Katalin Csillery <katalin.csillery@env.ethz.ch >
GradStudentPositionsApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 21
CharlesU Prague EvolutionGenomicsFishesLASTCALL
21
KielU ComputationalEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 22
LausanneU AntNetworksDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
London GenomicTraitCorrelation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
MacquarieU BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
MasseyU Bioinforamtics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
MasseyU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
MaxPlanckInst Ploen EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MaxPlanck Ploen 10 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
McMasterU FishBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
MichiganStateU PopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
MonashU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
MurrayStateU Kentucky PhenotypicPlasticity . . . . . 30
Naturalis Netherlands PteropodEvolution . . . . . . . . . 30
NewZealand FishSex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
NewZealand SnapperSequencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
SouthDakotaStateU SustainablePollinationBiol . . . . 33
SouthernIllinoisU PoisonFrogEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
StAndrews EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
TrentU LaurentianU AmphibianPopGenetics . . . . . . 34
TrinityCollegeDublin HumanPopulationGenomics . .35
UAberdeen ArchaeaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UAberdeen UK MicrobialEcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . 36
UAdelaide BioinformaticsandPaleogenomics . . . . . . . 37UBath ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UHelsinki MathModellingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UHudderseld ApodemusEvolutionaryGenomics . . . 39
ULeicester GeneticEpidemiologyBioinformatics . . . . 40
ULeicester GenomicsKinshipAncestryForensics . . . . 41
ULethbridge EvolutionaryNeurobiology . . . . . . . . . . . .42
ULincoln UruguayEvolutionStudents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
ULondon EvolTheoryApplied2Cancer . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UmeaU ForestGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UmeaU LandscapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
UNewSouthWales 2 FishEpigenetics EvolMed . . . . . 44
UNotreDame EcologicalSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
UOtago GenomicsParasiticMindControl . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UOtago NewZealand PopGenTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UOtago NZ WeevilEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UPadua Italy SexualSelectionGuppy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48
UppsalaU BirchPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
USalzburg Austria PollinatorAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . 50
UStAndrews DrosophilaSpeciationGenomics . . . . . . . 51
USussex FloralEvolution new deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . .51
UUppsala PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
WesternSydneyU 3 TephritidFruitFlies . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
CharlesU Prague EvolutionGe-
nomicsFishesLASTCALL
LAST CALL: We are still searching for more highly
motivated candidates for a Ph.D. position to join our
project focused on molecular evolution of sensory genes
in shes. The selected Ph.D. candidate will become part
of the research team within the framework of the project
entitled: \Genomics of sensory adaptations: evolution
of vision, smell and taste in shes" funded by SNSF
(Switzerland):
1) PhD position I: Molecular evolution of vision and
olfaction in teleost shes with the main focus on the
elephant shes (Mormyridae); methods: genomics, tran-
scriptomics, stable isotope analysis; oered eld work
participation: Cameroon, Czech Republic
2) PhD position II: Transcriptomics and developmental
plasticity of sensory systems in shes; model groups: Ci-
chlidae, Cyprinidae, deep-sea shes; methods: genomics,
transcriptomics, experimental biology; oered eld work
participation: Cameroon, Zambia, Czech Republic
Genomic and transcriptomic methods will be employedto identify molecular evolution and mechanisms of adap-
tation of sensory systems in shes. The general research
project aims to integrate the ndings of molecular ge-
netics with trophic ecology and developmental stages
in dierent species and, therefore, it oers a great com-
bination of eld observation, experimental setups and
laboratory approaches.
The research group is located in Prague (Czech Republic)
and the Ph.D. students will process collected material,
as well as will have an option to actively participate
in the eld sampling. Selected candidates are expected
to actively participate in international conferences and
produce research publications.
Start: October 2017, Duration: 4 years
Competitive salary is composed of the fulltime project
position (240'000 CZK annually) + standard university
scholarship (will start at 75'600 annually and raise up to
115'000 CZK according to the progress of the study du-
ties; additional bonuses available for published research
papers), which in total corresponds to the average na-
tional salary and suciently covers living expenses in
the Czech Republic.
Required: motivation and enthusiasm for biology and
science; uency in English; a M.Sc. degree in biology or
related elds (or to be nished until September 2017).22 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Desirable (but not necessary): previous experience with
molecular genetic methods; (basic) bioinformatics skills
(please highlight if you have any), experience with re-
search projects evidenced by a (co)authorship of research
papers or conference contributions.
Deadline: 31st March 2017 (the candidate has to be
assigned to the position by mid-April).
All questions and applications (CV + half-page mo-
tivation letter + contact details for one person who
can be asked for a reference) should be sent di-
rectly to Zuzana Musilova (zuzmus@gmail.com - pre-
ferred, zuzana.musilova@natur.cuni.cz). Please indi-
cate which position you're interested in. More info
about the Division of Animal Evolutionary Biology,
and Department of Zoology: http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
zoologie/biodiversity/index.php?page=musilova zuz-
mus@gmail.com
KielU ComputationalEvolution-
aryGenomics
The Genomic Microbiology Group of Prof. Tal Da-
gan in the Institute of Microbiology at Kiel University,
Germany, invites applications for a:
PhD position in computational evolutionary genomics
The position is oered within the International Max
Planck Research School (IMPRS) for Evolutionary Bi-
ology
Application deadline is April 23, 2017.
Research topic: Evolutionary metagenomics of
foraminifera residing in oxygen minimum zones
Benthic foraminifera are unicellular eukaryotes populat-
ing sediments of aquatic environments. Several species
were shown to perform complete denitrication, a rare
metabolic pathway foraminiferal denitrication pathway
is yet unknown and a prokaryotic contribution has been
suggested. Our current research comprises the analysis
of metagenomes sequenced from foraminifera sampled
in a hypoxic environment in Gullmarfjord (Sweden).
Our results indicate that denitrication is performed,
at least in part, by foraminifera-encoded proteins. This
constitutes evidence for a rare eukaryotic pathway for
nitrite resporation. The PhD candidate will take part
in analyzing foraminifera metagenomes sampled in the
Peruvian oxygen minimum zone with a focus on evolu-
tion of the denitrication pathway. The project requiresbackground in molecular evolution and programming
skills.
Research Group: The PhD candidate will work in the
Genomic Microbiology group led by Prof. Tal Dagan
(http://www.uni-kiel.de/genomik) that is focused on
microbial genome evolution. The group is international
and multidisciplinary with both computational and ex-
perimental working scientists. For enquiries regarding
the position and research topic please contact Prof. Tal
Dagan: tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de
The IMPRS graduate school is dedicated to highest
level of research and training in all areas of contem-
porary Evolutionary Biology. It is a joint initiative of
the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, the
University of Kiel and the Helmholtz Center for Ocean
Research Kiel (GEOMAR). The school oers an interna-
tionally competitive research environment with state of
art facilities. The participating groups are working on
a broad variety of scientic topics including molecular,
behavioral, theoretical and organismal approaches.
The graduate program starts with a rotation period
of three months followed by a PhD project of three
years including seminars, courses and workshops. The
language of the graduate school is English. Financial
support is provided throughout the program.
To obtain further information about the PhD program
and application details (only online application possible),
please visit our website at http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
imprs . Well-motivated and highly-qualied students
from all countries are welcome to apply. A Master of
Science degree or a Diploma as well as a strong interest
in Evolutionary Biology and exibility in the research
project are prerequisites for entering the program. We
are looking forward to your online application for a
PhD fellowship in the beautiful landscape of Northern
Germany.
The deadline for applications is April 23, 2017
The selection week will be held from June 26- 30 and
the program itself starts on September 18, 2017.
For information regarding the program contact: Dr.
Kerstin Mehnert, August-Thienemann-Str. 2, 24306
Plon, Germany email: imprs@evolbio.mpg.de phone:
+49(0)4522 763 233
The coordinator Kerstin Mehnert
The steering committee Tal Dagan, Thorsten Reusch,
Hinrich Schulenburg, Eva Stukenbrock, Diethard Tautz
and Arne Traulsen
\tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de" <tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 23
LausanneU AntNetworksDisease
PhD position at Lausanne University
I am looking to recruit a highly motivated PhD student
to work on disease transmission in ant social networks
at the Department of Ecology and Evolution (DEE) of
Lausanne University, Switzerland. The position is fully
funded for three years and starts in August 2017.
The successful candidate will work with a novel system,
the queenless clonal raider ant Ooceraea biroi (formerly:
Cerapachys biroi), to investigate the properties of social
groups that increase resistance to pathogens (fungi, ne-
matodes). The unusual biology of this species allows us
to precisely control and replicate aspects of colony com-
position (e.g. size, genetic and demographic structure)
that are thought to modulate interaction network struc-
ture, and therefore, disease spread. The student will use
newly developed techniques for automated behavioral
tracking in combination with experimental infections
and/or molecular methods (RNAseq/qPCR) to study
how ant colonies of dierent composition regulate be-
havior and immune function at the individual and group
levels, and how this aects disease spread. Within this
framework, the student will also be encouraged to de-
velop her/his own research questions.
Candidates should have a Master's degree (or equiva-
lent) and a background in evolution/ecology, behavior,
epidemiology, systems biology or other relevant eld.
Motivation, curiosity, and an ability to work indepen-
dently are essential. Experience working with social
insects, programming, or standard wet-lab techniques
would be advantageous but are not necessary. The work-
ing language of the group is English; prociency with
French is helpful but not required.
The successful applicant will join an international, in-
teractive department with 20 groups working on a wide
range of topics in evolution and ecology, including other
labs working on social insects. Lausanne is a small
but vibrant city located on the shore of Lake Geneva,
less than one hour from the Alps. There are large stu-
dent and international communities and the city is well
connected to all major European cities.
To apply, please send a CV, a short ( <1 page)
cover letter describing your background and interests,
and the name and contact information of 2-3 persons
willing to provide recommendations to Yuko Ulrich(yuko.ulrich@gmail.com) by the end of March. Informal
inquiries are also welcome.
Yuko Ulrich (main supervisor)
Laboratory of Social Evolution and Behavior (current
address)
The Rockefeller University, New York
http://lab.rockefeller.edu/kronauer/members Useful
links:
Lab webpage: https://www.ulrichlab.com/ DEE at
Lausanne University: https://www.unil.ch/dee/en/-
home.html The system: https://www.nytimes.com/-
2017/01/23/science/gene-modied-ants.html Yuko Ul-
rich<yulrich@mail.rockefeller.edu >
London GenomicTraitCorrelation
A fully funded PhD studentship is currently available at
Queen Mary University of London on ash genomics in
an evolutionary context. The deadline for application
to these studentships is Friday, March 31, 2017.
see: http://www.ashgenome.org/studentships Further
details are as follows:
The genomic basis of disease resistance in plants - inte-
grating within and among species data
Supervised by Dr Richard Buggs and Prof. Richard
Nichols
Project Description
Ash dieback, caused by the fungal pathogen Hymenoscy-
phus fraxineus, is threatening populations of ash trees
throughout Europe. This has sparked o an interna-
tional research eort to develop ash trees with low sus-
ceptibility to the fungus. This PhD studentship, funded
by Defra, provides an outstanding opportunity for a
student with a strong background in genetics, bioin-
formatics or statistics to contribute to this eort, and
develop methods that will be applicable to other plant-
pathogen systems.
The PhD student will be based in the lab of Dr Richard
Buggs, working with other students and postdocs on
ash genomics in relation to ash dieback. This lab re-
cently published a paper in Nature on the genome of
the European ash tree, and its diversity in Europe. The
lab has strong collaborations with many other organi-
sations working on the same problem, including Forest
Research, Teagasc, Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, Uni-24 EvolDir April 1, 2017
verity of Copenhagen and Earlham Institute. We are
currently sequencing and assembling the genomes of 30
ash worldwide species and testing them for resistance
to ash dieback (see http://www.ashgenome.org). We
are also analysing mass screening trials of European ash
(Fraxinus excelsior) set up by Forest Research, where
tens of thousands of trees from dierent locations in the
UK are bing exposed to ash dieback infection in eld
trials in the south of England.
The student will be co-supervised by Prof. Richard
Nichols, who has a long track record of research and
novel statistical method development in population ge-
netics. The student will conduct data analyses and
develop methods aiming to uncover the genomic basis
of tree susceptibility to pests or pathogens. He/she will
analyse genomic data from within and between tree
species, and develop new methods of analysis and data
integration. The main datasets analysed will be for
the genus Fraxinus but the methods developed will be
applicable to a wide range of systems where the genomic
basis of traits is sought.
The main criterion by which a student will be selected
is scientic excellence. There is considerable scope for
the project to be tailored to the skills and interests of
the student, tting with the broad research programme
on ash dieback.
Funding Notes
This studentship is funded by the UK Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Aairs. The award covers
Home/EU tuition fees and a tax free annual stipend at
Research Councils UK rates (pounds 16,296 in 2016/17).
Dr Richard Buggs jReader in Evolutionary Genomics
jSchool of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen
Mary University of London, E1 4NS, United King-
domjemail: r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk jwebsite: http://-
www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/sta/richardbuggs.html joce:
+44(0)207 882 8441 jmobile: +44(0)772 992 0401 j
twitter: @RJABuggs
Richard Buggs <r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk >MacquarieU BehaviouralEvolution
4 PhD positions in Behavioural and Physiological Ecol-
ogy
at Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia We are
pleased to announce multiple opportunities available
for a start from mid to late 2017
1: Adapting to a foreign climate: the reproductive ecol-
ogy of the house sparrow in Australia The house sparrow
(Passer domesticus) was introduced into Australia in the
1860's and has since become well established across a
broad range of climates in both countries. This project
will take advantage of this 'experimental' introduction
to focus on behavioural and physiological adaptations
to dierent climates through a eld-based comparative
approach. This research will complement our existing
work on related questions in endemic Australian species
and will provide insight into the capacity of avian species
to adapt to changing climates. This project will involve
periods of eld-work in Broken Hill, Armidale and Ho-
bart in Australia, along with a range of behavioural,
molecular and physiological assays. The project will
involve collaboration with other groups in Australia and
the US.
2: The challenge of growing in a hot climate (in the
zebra nch) In recent years we have characterised the
very hot conditions in which zebra nches are raised
(with nests often reaching temperatures over 40 degrees
Celsius, as well as identifying adverse eects of these
conditions on embryonic development, ospring growth,
and adult sperm. This project is supported by an ARC
funded project and will investigate the adaptations that
this iconic and well-studied species has to deal with the
extreme climate in which it lives. The project will take
a variety of approaches including behavioural work, and
assays of metabolism and physiology, and combine eld-
work and laboratory work. The project will be run in
collaboration with Dr Christine Cooper (Curtin Univer-
sity, Western Australia), Prof. Pierre Deviche (Arizona
State University, US), and Prof. Pat Monaghan (Glas-
gow, UK).
3: Social structuring and life-history in free-ranging
domestic sheep In this project we will examine the im-
portance of social structure and collective intelligence
to life-history trade-os and productivity in domestic
sheep in the rangelands of Australia. The project will
use tools from social network theory and spatial ecologyApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 25
to characterise individual and group behaviour and inves-
tigate their eect on individual quality and productivity
(lambs and wool) in this challenging, but economically
important part of Australia. The project will be based
at Fowlers Gap (near Broken Hill in the arid zone) and
require eld work and well-developed analytical skills.
This work will be run in collaboration with partners in
the pastoral industry and be jointly supervised by Dr
Stephan Leu (also at Macquarie University).
4: Parasite transmission dynamics in an Australian
lizard This project will investigate the relationship be-
tween host spatial and social behaviour and bacterial
transmission. It combines social network theory, spatial
ecology and wildlife epidemiology to determine how dif-
ferent bacterial strains are transmitted through the pop-
ulation and how individual behaviour and consequently
population social structure changes as a function of in-
fection status. The project combines the analysis of
a very comprehensive (already collected) dataset with
scope for the student to develop his/her own ideas and
conduct eldwork. The student should be interested in
social networks and disease modelling and have strong
analytical skills. This project will be jointly supervised
by Dr Stephan Leu and A/Prof Martin Whiting (both
at Macquarie University). We also have strong relation-
ships with disease modelling colleagues in the US.
Application The Department of Biological Sciences at
Macquarie University is a vibrant environment which
oers excellent support to postgraduate students. A
Macquarie University Excellence in Research Scholar-
ship has already been assigned to one of these projects,
but there are other scholarship opportunities available
to suitably competitive candidates. International candi-
dates are welcome to apply for any of the projects listed
above.
The 2014 MQRES full-time stipend rate is $26,682 pa
tax exempt for 3 years (indexed annually). In addition
to external grant support for projects, there is additional
internal funding (up to $17,000) available to cover di-
rect research expenses and conference travel. Applicants
should ideally have a research-based MSc in a related
discipline (with a minimum 50% research component),
and additional relevant research experience, qualica-
tions, and details of awards or prizes. For projects 1,
2, and 4 an ability to work in remote and harsh condi-
tions as well as experience in capturing and handling
animals is desirable. A driving licence is required for all
projects. Applications should include 1) your CV, 2) a
brief statement of your reasons for applying (max. 500
words) and the project you are applying
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MasseyU Bioinforamtics
We have a scholarship for an enthusiastic and motivated
individual who is interested in conducting a PhD re-
search project in the areas of computational statistics
and/or bioinformatics. Typical keywords to describe
our research include, but are not limited to: network
inference/analysis, causality, simulation strategies, ge-
netic/genomic data, evolution, high-dimensional meth-
ods, probabilistic graphical models. Examples of re-
cent projects conducted here are \Study of gene ex-
pression patterns in an allopolyploid species: a network
approach", \Inferring causality in complex systems from
observations" or \Analysis of phenotype:genotype re-
lationships in bacteria using machine learning". Our
approach is clearly interdisciplinary.
Background: The Statistics and Bioinformatics group at
Massey is among the largest of its kind in New Zealand.
It is part of the Institute of Fundamental Sciences (IFS),
which gathers scientists from varied elds working on
cutting edge problems within and across their disci-
plines. Strong links with other Institutes within Massey
University and beyond are already established. Biologi-
cal/agricultural research is one the strengths of Massey
University, and this is a real opportunity to develop
sound and original quantitative methodologies. There
is a large, diverse and active community of PhD stu-
dents and postdoctoral researchers at Massey. Excellent
library, computing (locally or at the nationwide scale,
e.g. NeSi, https://www.nesi.org.nz/) and other research
support facilities, sustained programmes of research
seminars and workshops are available to the successful
candidate. It is against this backdrop that the success-
ful candidate will be aorded agreed upon objectives
and the motivation to develop original research with a
balance of methodological developments in a quantita-
tive subject and meaningful applications. The planned
supervisory team currently consists of A/Prof Patrick
Biggs, who has a prominent role in research in Bioin-
formatics at Massey and Dr Matthieu Vignes, who is a
specialist in modern statistical computation strategies
for biologically inspired problems. Depending on the
interests of the student, and the agreed project, other
faculty members may join the supervisory committee.26 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Candidate and conditions: The anticipated admission
standard for this PhD position is a 1st class or high
upper 2nd class Honours degree, or a Master's degree
with merit or distinction, in Mathematics, Statistics,
Computer Science, or a related quantitative discipline.
Overseas qualications of an equivalent standard are
also acceptable. In addition, the candidate will have a
marked taste for interdisciplinary research, the ability to
work as a team member, and to organise their own tasks.
Prociency with at least one scientic language/software
(R, Python, C/C++...) is highly desirable.
The studentship will be three years in duration and
covers tuition fees at the domestic rates plus a tax-
free stipend of NZ $25,000 per annum. In addition,
some reasonable funds are available to students e.g. for
travel to international conferences, or small equipment.
There would be the possibility to gain some experience
in teaching if desired. The location of the PhD is at
the Manawatu campus of Massey University, in Palmer-
ston North, a small, very aordable yet lively, enjoyable
and culturally diverse city in the North Island of New
Zealand.
The deadline for the application is 30/04/2017. Appli-
cations will be considered on a rolling basis until the
studentship is lled. Apply as soon as possible to avoid
disappointment! The ideal enrollment date is Sept 2017.
For further information and informal discussions of po-
tential projects please contact us (p.biggs@massey.ac.nz
and/or m.vignes@massey.ac.nz).
Patrick J Biggs PhD Associate Professor of Genomics
and Computational Biology Head of Bioinformatics j
mEpiLab Infectious Disease Research Centre (IDReC)
Institute of Veterinary, Animal and Biomedical Sciences
{ and { Bioinformatics and Statistics Group Institute of
Fundamental Sciences Massey University jPalmerston
NorthjNew Zealand
Tel: +64 6 356 9099 ex 84597 Direct dial: +64 6 951
7597jFax: +64 6 355 7955 Email: p.biggs@massey.ac.nz
P.Biggs@massey.ac.nz
MasseyU Bioinformatics
We have a scholarship for an enthusiastic and motivated
individual who is interested in conducting a PhD re-
search project in the areas of computational statistics
and/or bioinformatics. Typical keywords to describe
our research include, but are not limited to: networkinference/analysis, causality, simulation strategies, ge-
netic/genomic data, evolution, high-dimensional meth-
ods, probabilistic graphical models. Examples of re-
cent projects conducted here are \Study of gene ex-
pression patterns in an allopolyploid species: a network
approach", \Inferring causality in complex systems from
observations" or \Analysis of phenotype:genotype re-
lationships in bacteria using machine learning". Our
approach is clearly interdisciplinary.
Background: The Statistics and Bioinformatics group at
Massey is among the largest of its kind in New Zealand.
It is part of the Institute of Fundamental Sciences (IFS),
which gathers scientists from varied elds working on
cutting edge problems within and across their disci-
plines. Strong links with other Institutes within Massey
University and beyond are already established. Biologi-
cal/agricultural research is one the strengths of Massey
University, and this is a real opportunity to develop
sound and original quantitative methodologies. There
is a large, diverse and active community of PhD stu-
dents and postdoctoral researchers at Massey. Excellent
library, computing (locally or at the nationwide scale,
e.g. NeSi, https://www.nesi.org.nz/) and other research
support facilities, sustained programmes of research
seminars and workshops are available to the successful
candidate. It is against this backdrop that the success-
ful candidate will be aorded agreed upon objectives
and the motivation to develop original research with a
balance of methodological developments in a quantita-
tive subject and meaningful applications. The planned
supervisory team currently consists of A/Prof Patrick
Biggs, who has a prominent role in research in Bioin-
formatics at Massey and Dr Matthieu Vignes, who is a
specialist in modern statistical computation strategies
for biologically inspired problems. Depending on the
interests of the student, and the agreed project, other
faculty members may join the supervisory committee.
Candidate and conditions: The anticipated admission
standard for this PhD position is a 1st class or high
upper 2nd class Honours degree, or a Master's degree
with merit or distinction, in Mathematics, Statistics,
Computer Science, or a related quantitative discipline.
Overseas qualications of an equivalent standard are
also acceptable. In addition, the candidate will have a
marked taste for interdisciplinary research, the ability to
work as a team member, and to organise their own tasks.
Prociency with at least one scientic language/software
(R, Python, C/C++...) is highly desirable.
The studentship will be three years in duration and
covers tuition fees at the domestic rates plus a tax-
free stipend of NZ $25,000 per annum. In addition,
some reasonable funds are available to students e.g. for
travel to international conferences, or small equipment.April 1, 2017 EvolDir 27
There would be the possibility to gain some experience
in teaching if desired. The location of the PhD is at
the Manawatu campus of Massey University, in Palmer-
ston North, a small, very aordable yet lively, enjoyable
and culturally diverse city in the North Island of New
Zealand.
The deadline for the application is 30/04/2017. Appli-
cations will be considered on a rolling basis until the
studentship is lled. Apply as soon as possible to avoid
disappointment! The ideal enrollment date is Sept 2017.
For further information and informal discussions of po-
tential projects please contact us (p.biggs@massey.ac.nz
and/or m.vignes@massey.ac.nz).
Patrick J Biggs PhD Associate Professor of Genomics
and Computational Biology Head of Bioinformatics j
mEpiLab Infectious Disease Research Centre (IDReC)
Institute of Veterinary, Animal and Biomedical Sciences
{ and { Bioinformatics and Statistics Group Institute of
Fundamental Sciences Massey University jPalmerston
NorthjNew Zealand
Tel: +64 6 356 9099 ex 84597 Direct dial: +64 6 951
7597jFax: +64 6 355 7955 Email: p.biggs@massey.ac.nz
P.Biggs@massey.ac.nz
MaxPlanckInst Ploen EvolBiol
Weare seeking a motivated PhD student to join our
research team working oneco-evolutionary dynamics at
the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biologyin
Pl on, Germany.
Weare looking for a highly motivated ecologist or evolu-
tionary biologist tojoin our group Community Dynamics
at the Max Planck institute for EvolutionaryBiology
(http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/comdyn) and the Kiel Evo-
lutionCenter (http://www.kec.uni-kiel.de). The ideal
candidate is fascinatedby evolutionary and ecological
questions, independent and creative.She/he has a back-
ground in evolutionary biology, population orcommunity
ecology. A MSc (or equivalent) in Biology is required.
Thereis a continuing interest to identify the interactions
and feedback dynamicsbetween ecological and evolu-
tionary changes at the same time scale.This interest in
eco-evolutionary dynamics is fuelled by the needto un-
derstand how populations and communities could adapt
to rapid environmentalchange such as warming, invasion
and pollution. Despite thispressing need to understand
eco-evolutionary dynamics, they are notwell understoodin complex systems. In the project we aim to (1) identi-
fyrapid adaptive changes in coevolving host-virus popu-
lations in dierentfood webs that dier in the types of
species interactions and complexityand to (2) compre-
hend how the dynamics of adaptive changes alterthe eco-
logical dynamics and potential feedbacks. We will com-
bine controlledlaboratory experiments, whole genome
sequencing of populations acrossdierent time points
and modeling to characterize and compare theadaptive
dynamics and their consequences within the dierent
food webs.For more information on potential the project
contact Lutz Becks (lbecks@evolbio.mpg.de).
Theinstitute oers a stimulating international environ-
ment and anexcellent infrastructure with access to
state^ a^ a-art techniques.The town of Pl on is in the mid-
dle of the Schleswig-Holstein lake-districtwithin a very
attractive and touristic environment near the Baltic-
Sea, close to the university towns of L ubeck and Kiel.
Hamburg andL ubeck are the closest airports.
Theposition is funded for three years. We ask
applicants to send aPDF le containing their CV
and letter of motivation as well ascontact infor-
mation of two references by e-mail to Lutz Becks
(mailto:lbecks@evolbio.mpg.de).We will begin reviewing
applications startingMarch 22th until the position is
lled.
TheMax Planck Society is an equal opportunity em-
ployer.
Dr.Lutz Becks CommunityDynamics Group MaxPlanck
Institute for Evolutionary Biology AugustThienemann
Str. 2 24306Pl on Germany
Telephone:+49 4522 763 230
LutzBecks <lbecks@evolbio.mpg.de >
MaxPlanck Ploen 10
EvolutionaryBiol
International Max Planck Research School (IMPRS) for
Evolutionary Biology is oering up to 10 PhD positions
and fellwoships. Application deadline is April 23, 2017.
It is important that the application should be
done via the online tool on our homepage http://-
www.evolbio.mpg.de/3017297/application . The Inter-
national Max Planck Research School for Evolutionary
Biology
is oering up to 10 PhD positions and fellowships.28 EvolDir April 1, 2017
The graduate school is dedicated to highest level of
research and training in all areas of contemporary Evo-
lutionary Biology. It is a joint initiative of the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, the University
of Kiel and the Helmholtz Center for Ocean Research
Kiel (GEOMAR). The school oers an internationally
competitive research environment with state of art facil-
ities. The participating groups are working on a broad
variety of scientic topics including molecular, behav-
ioral, theoretical and organismal approaches.
The graduate program starts with a rotation period
of three months followed by a PhD project of three
years including seminars, courses and workshops. The
language of the graduate school is English. Financial
support is provided throughout the program.
To obtain further information about our PhD program
and application details (only online application possible),
please visit our website at http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
imprs . Well-motivated and highly-qualied students
from all countries are welcome to apply. A Master of
Science degree or a Diploma as well as a strong interest
in Evolutionary Biology and exibility in the research
project are prerequisites for entering the program. We
are looking forward to your online application for a
PhD fellowship in the beautiful landscape of Northern
Germany.
The deadline for applications is April 23, 2017
The selection week will be held from June 26- 30 and
the program itself starts on September 18, 2017.
Contact: Dr. Kerstin Mehnert,
August-Thienemann-Str. 2, 24306 Plon, Germany
email: imprs@evolbio.mpg.de phone: +49(0)4522 763
233
The coordinator
Kerstin Mehnert
The steering committee
Tal Dagan, Thorsten Reusch, Hinrich Schulenburg, Eva
Stukenbrock, Diethard Tautz and Arne Traulsen
{
Dr. Kerstin Mehnert Scientic Coordinator IMPRS,
Press and Public Relations, International Oce
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology Interna-
tional Max Planck Research School (IMPRS) August-
Thienemann-Str. 2 24306 Plon, Germany
phone: ++49 - (0)4522 - 763 - 233 fax: ++49 - (0)4522
- 763 - 351 e-mail: mehnert@evolbio.mpg.de
www.evolbio.mpg.de, www.evolbio.mpg.de/imprsKerstin Mehnert <mehnert@evolbio.mpg.de >
McMasterU FishBehaviour
Two graduate student positions (at either MSc or PhD
levels) are available in the Aquatic Behavioural Ecology
Laboratory (ABEL) at McMaster University. Specic
research projects will be designed to best t the appli-
cant's strengths and interests. Projects will focus on
our lab's long standing research interests on ecological
and behavioural analyses of sh reproductive behaviour
and will make use of a combination of eld and labora-
tory studies to address questions about the evolution of
social behaviour, breeding systems and human impacts
on animal behaviour.
If interested, please contact Dr. Sigal Balshine (si-
gal@mcmaster.ca) with a statement of interest, tran-
script and curriculum vitae.
Sigal Balshine Professor Department of Psychol-
ogy, Neuroscience & Behaviour McMaster Univer-
sity 1280 Main St. West Hamilton,ON L8S 4K1
Canada Phone:905-525-9140 ext. 23024 FAX:905-529-
6225 Email:sigal@mcmaster.ca http://abel.mcmaster.ca
\Balshine,Sigal" <sigal@mcmaster.ca >
MichiganStateU PopGenomics
Graduate Student-PhD, forest pathology (genet-
ics/genomics)
Position Description:
The Forest Pathology Lab at Michigan State Univer-
sity (East Lansing, MI) is accepting applications for
a graduate student (PhD level) to start as a research
assistant in the Summer of 2017 and to enroll for Fall
2017. We are looking for a highly-motivated individ-
ual to study the population genomics of Ceratocystis
fagacearum, the pathogen behind the devastating dis-
ease of oaks \oak wilt". This is a unique opportunity
to combine traditional plant pathology research (mi-
croscopy, eld and culture work) with molecular and
bioinformatics approaches (PCR, qPCR and genome
resequencing analyses). The candidate will identify the
population structure of C. fagacearum in the US andApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 29
evaluate known assays and, if required, develop novel
molecular assays to detect the pathogen. Furthermore,
the candidate will investigate seasonal variation in infec-
tion of red oak by C. fagacearum and seasonal variation
in red oak susceptibility. The candidate will be part of
a larger project focused on identifying high-risk periods
of C. fagacearum transmission and infection in Michi-
gan. For further information please go to the following
web link: https://forestpathology.msu.edu/research/-
oak-wilt/ . The Graduate student will have the option
of a degree from either the Department of Plant, Soil
and Microbial Sciences or the Department of Forestry,
depending on their interests. The student will be sup-
ported with three years of stipend, tuition waiver and
health insurance. Additional fellowship opportunities
for graduate students at Michigan State University are
also available.
Position Requirements:
The ideal applicant will have an MSc and experience
and interest in molecular biology of tree pathogens, par-
ticularly in population genetics/genomics and detection
assays. Applicants must have a degree in a relevant area,
including plant pathology, forestry, mycology, genomics,
bioinformatics, physiology, biochemistry, microbiology,
botany, or other biological sciences. They should be
self-motivated, have strong interpersonal skills and be
capable of working in a multidisciplinary team. They
must be able to perform experiments independently and
write scientic publications and other documents. Ap-
plicants with prior experience in next-gen sequencing,
bioinformatics, pcr and qPCR are encouraged to apply.
Excellent communication, reading, and writing skills in
English are also desired. The selected candidate must
meet eligibility requirements for work in the U.S. by the
start date. Additionally, candidates will need to meet
the minimum requirements outlined by Michigan State
University's Graduate program (https://grad.msu.edu/-
).
Instructions For Applying:
If you are interested in this position please contact Dr.
Monique Sakalidis via email at sakalidi@msu.edu. In-
clude a short statement of interest, your CV and the
contact details of three references. To be accepted into
the graduate program you will need to apply through
the MSU Graduate School https://grad.msu.edu/apply.
Applications must be received by April 20 ^th, 2017 to
receive full consideration.
Specic information regarding the Plant pathology
graduate program please see http://www.psm.msu.edu/-
degree cercate programs . Specic informa-
tion regarding the Forestry graduate program
please see http://www.for.msu.edu/graduate/-important information forgraduate appl icants.
Organization Description:
MSU is an equal opportunity employer and the De-
partment Plant, Soil and Microbial Sciences and the
Department of Forestry is committed to promoting di-
versity in research.
Organization Website: www.msu.edu Closing Date:
April 20 ^th 2017
Monique Sakalidis <sakalidi@msu.edu >
MonashU EvolutionaryBiology
The School of Biological Sciences at Monash Univer-
sity is taking applications for PhD students (see the
advertisement, below). Monash has a strong community
of evolutionary biologists, including labs focusing on
evolutionary population and quantitative genetics, evo-
lutionary physiology, biogeography, behavioral ecology,
and many other areas. Further information on how to
apply can be found here:
http://www.monash.edu/science/schools/biological-
sciences/postgrad/how-to-apply ||
PhD positions at the School of Biological Sciences,
Monash University, Melbourne, Australia
Scholarships are available for enthusiastic and talented
students looking to undertake study in the areas of
Biosecurity, Cellular & Developmental Genetics, Dis-
ease Control & Genetics, Ecology, Evolutionary Biology,
Global Change & Conservation, and Microbiology.
Scholarships covering tuition fees and providing a living
allowance of AUD $26,682 per year are available to both
Australian and international students. Students are also
supported to attend an international conference during
their PhD and as part of the Monash Doctoral Program
are provided with professional development and training
opportunities, to complement their research project.
Monash University is the largest university in Australia
and is consistently ranked in the top 100 universities
in the world and is ranked in the top 50 for Biological
Sciences. The School of Biological Sciences provides an
outstanding scientic environment in which to under-
take a PhD. It is home to world-renowned researchers
in a range of biological disciplines providing a highly
collaborative and supportive environment. We have a
large and dynamic postgraduate community with stu-30 EvolDir April 1, 2017
dents drawn from a wide range of nationalities, cultures,
and backgrounds. This creates a productive scientic
environment as well as an active social atmosphere.
Academic Requirements: MSc (research) or BSc or
equivalent degree including a research project of at least
6 months full time (or equivalent) duration.
English language requirements; IELTS 6.5 overall (no
less than 6 in any category), TOEFL ibt 91 (at least
25 writing, 22 for speaking, reading, listening); or to
be from, or have a tertiary qualication with at least 2
years study from, a country with English as the primary
language.
Interested applicants should visit http://monash.edu/-
biologyphd for more information and to identify a po-
tential supervisor.
Applications close 31st May 2017^ a euro ^A
tim.connallon@monash.edu
MurrayStateU Kentucky
PhenotypicPlasticity
Graduate position (M.S.) in phenotypic plasticity and
evolution of animal behavior.
The Beckers' lab at Murray State University accepts
M.S. student interested in phenotypic plasticity and
evolution of animal behavior starting in the fall of 2017.
Our lab works on male calling and female preference
behavior in two of the very few Orthopteran species that
display environmentally-induced call plasticity. We use
crickets and katydids as model organisms to address our
questions. Our research is focused primarily on behavior,
but will soon extend in a collaborative eort its focus
to the underlying molecular underpinnings responsible
for behavioral diversity. We seek an enthusiastic and
driven student to join our lab, who has a B.S. in biol-
ogy, ecology, evolution, or related discipline. Teaching
assistantships are available.
To apply or for inquires please send email to: obeck-
ers@murraystate.edu
For applications, please attach a letter of application
indicating your research interests and career goals and
a curriculum vitae including undergraduate GPA and,
if available, GRE scores. Review of applications starts
immediately and continues until the position is lled.
Thank you for your interest.Find more information on Dr. Beckers' research here
(faculty directory):
https://www.murraystate.edu/-
academics/CollegesDepartments/-
CollegeOfScie nceEngineeringandTechnol-
ogy/CollegeOfSciencePrograms/biologyDept/facult
y/
Oliver Beckers <obeckers@murraystate.edu >
Naturalis Netherlands
PteropodEvolution
*Two PhD positions are available to study pteropods
(planktonic gastropods) and the impact of ocean acidi-
cation at Naturalis Biodiversity Center (Netherlands)*
http://www.naturalis.nl/nl/over-ons/organisatie/-
werken-bij-ons/phd- student-pteropods-ocean-
acidication/
The closing date for applications is March 16, 2017.
The focus of Naturalis is biodiversity. Naturalis curates
a collection of 37 million specimens; this is one of the
world's largest natural history collections. We present
the history of our planet and the diversity of life on
Earth with permanent and temporary exhibitions, edu-
cational programmes and websites. Our research and
education are maintained at a high academic level.
Two PhD positions are available within the Vidi project
of Dr. Katja Peijnenburg to study planktonic gas-
tropods in the Marine Biodiversity group at the Nat-
uralis Biodiversity Center (Leiden, the Netherlands).
PhD project 1 will focus on assessing the adaptive po-
tential of pteropods using a population genomics ap-
proach. PhD project 2 will focus on quantifying calci-
cation and vulnerability to ocean acidication of shelled
pteropods using 3D morphometric techniques and eld
experiments.
Successful candidates should have a Master's degree
with an interest in ecology, evolution, oceanography,
marine biology, or a related eld. Excellent command
of the English language (written and verbal) is required.
The ideal candidates will be highly motivated and organ-
ised, with a demonstrated capacity for multidisciplinary
research. For PhD project 1, experience with next
generation sequencing and data analyses is a distinct
advantage. For PhD project 2, knowledge of morpho-
metric methods and advanced statistics is a distinctApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 31
advantage.
We oer a full-time contract for a period of one year,
to be extended with three years after a successful rst
year evaluation, and a salary of circa euro 2.670,- gross
per month. The successful candidates will be employed
by Naturalis in Leiden, and the PhD theses will be
defended at the University of Amsterdam. Naturalis
Biodiversity Center promotes gender equality and wants
to enhance the diversity of sta members.
Information on how to apply: http://www.naturalis.nl/-
nl/over-ons/organisatie/werken-bij-ons/phd- student-
pteropods-ocean-acidication/
Feel free to contact Katja Peijnenburg if
you have questions about the positions.
Katja.Peijnenburg@naturalis.nl. https://-
science.naturalis.nl/en/people/scientists/katja-
peijnenburg/ https://www.researchgate.net/-
job/884998 PhD position tostudy pteropods
andtheimpact ofocean acidication
\K.T.C.A.Peijnenburg@uva.nl"
<K.T.C.A.Peijnenburg@uva.nl >
NewZealand FishSex
Project opportunity BSc (Hons) or Masters
Investigating the molecular basis of sex in snapper
Maren Wellenreuther (Plant and Food Research, Nelson,
New Zealand) and Neil Gemmell (University of Otago,
Dunedin, New Zealand)
Project Description: Aquaculture provides half the
seafood consumed worldwide, and is expected to in-
crease substantially as wild sheries have little or no
scope for increased production. New Zealand has the
potential to be a major producer; however, a lack of
domesticated species is one factor that hinders develop-
ment and protability. Plant and Food Research aims
to enhance production of New Zealand's aquaculture
sector by developing accelerated breeding approaches for
native marine nsh species. Our main target species is
the culturally and commercially important Australasian
snapper (Chrysophrys auratus), a species that we have
been breeding for over 10 years and for which we can
reliably produce a large numbers of juveniles.
The ability to control sex is one of the most important
factors for the commercialisation and ecient propa-
gation of new sh species due to inuences on repro-duction, growth and product quality. Snapper have no
heterochromosomes and are sexually monomorphic and
it is not known how sex determination is achieved. His-
tological sexing is also complicated as juvenile snapper
have a bisexual gonad with an ovarian lumen from which
ovaries or testes develop. Dierentiation to ovaries pro-
gresses in all sh until 7 months. Subsequently half of
the sh continues to develop their ovaries, while the
other half starts to develop testis until maturation at
around 3 years. Plant and Food Research has recently
assembled the snapper genome and transcriptome, and
generated whole genome re-sequencing and GBS data
that can be mined for genomic regions associated with
sex. The aim of this research project is to i) utilise these
whole genome and transcriptome sequence data to inves-
tigate the molecular basis for sexual determination in
snapper and, ii) develop markers that can be used to de-
termine sex early in snapper life history. Investigations
will initially focus on a comparative genomics approach
that utilises knowledge about sex determining genes
from other species and mining the available genomic
resources for their presence. Gene expression data from
snapper at dierent ontogenetic time stages will also be
generated and used to gain insights into the functional
roles of potential sex determining genes. Finally, we will
use the GBS data available to search for sex specic
SNPs. Based on this knowledge, candidate sex specic
markers will be developed and trialled in a number of
snapper of known sex from across the species geographic
range. The generation of a sex marker for snapper will
improve broodstock management and enables to develop
appropriate breeding schemes.
The Ideal Candidate: We are seeking an outstanding
student with broad interests in genetics to conduct re-
search into the genetic basis of sex determination in
snapper. Although a good level of bioinformatic skills
would be required to complete this project, a highly mo-
tivated student should be able to learn suitable Linux
and scripting to undertake this task. Some background
in statistics or programming would be an advantage, but
training will be provided through the Plant and Food
bioinformatics team, with support from the Gemmell
lab While the project would be largely computational
analysis, it would also involve RNA sampling and ex-
traction. This is an opportunity to work more closely
with industry, and would involve some time working at
the Plant and Food Research hatchery in Nelson.
The project compartmentalises so there is prospect for
this to be developed as either a BSc (Hons) or an MSc
degree. Applications should include a curriculum vitae,
academic transcripts, contact details of two academic
referees and a cover letter that states why the candidate
is interested in the position and how their qualications32 EvolDir April 1, 2017
and experience make them a good t for the proposed
research. Please email with completed applications and
for any additional information Dr Maren Wellenreuther
(Maren.Wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz) and Profes-
sor Neil Gemmell (neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz).Closing
date for applications is the end of March 2017.
Maren Wellenreuther Senior Scientist
T: +64 3 989 7658 F: +64 3 546 7049
E: maren.wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz
www.plantandfood.co.nz The New Zealand Insti-
tute for Plant & Food Research Limited
Postal Address: Plant & Food Research Box 5114, Port
Nelson, Nelson, 7043, New Zealand Physical Address:
Plant & Food Research Seafood Research Unit, 300
Wakeeld Quay, Port Nelson, Nelson, 7010, New Zealand
Maren.Wellenreuther@plantandfood.co.nz
NewZealand SnapperSequencing
PhD Project Opportunity
Testing for Fishing-Induced Evolution using Genotyping-
by-Sequencing of Ancient and Modern Snapper
We are seeking a highly-motivated PhD student for a
project that aims to test for shing-induced evolution
in New Zealand Snapper (Chrysophrys auratus) using
Genotyping-by-Sequencing (GBS) of modern and an-
cient DNA.
Project Supervisors Dr. Peter Ritchie, Victoria Uni-
versity of Wellington (VUW), New Zealand Dr. Nic
Rawlence, Department of Zoology, University of Otago,
New Zealand Dr. Maren Wellenreuther, Plant and Food
Research (PFR), Nelson, New Zealand
Fishing typically targets larger individuals and thus has
the potential to increase the reproductive success of
small sh that mature early. Numerous studies have
reported a decrease in the average size of heavily shed
species and the age of maturation, but there is uncer-
tainty about whether this is caused by directional se-
lection on allele frequencies (evolutionary change). The
overall goal of this PhD project is to test for shing-
induced evolution in New Zealand snapper by comparing
DNA isolated from contemporary populations, to the
DNA isolated from bones of pre-industrial sh samples.
New Zealand has a unique record of snapper bones that
have been preserved in prehistoric New Zealand mid-
dens (i.e. places where food remains were dumped orburied). The successful candidate for this project will be
responsible for collecting a GBS dataset of genome-wide
SNPs using DNA extracted from contemporary samples.
This position will be based at Victoria University of
Wellington (New Zealand). The data set collected from
contemporary samples will be combined with a compa-
rable dataset recovered from snapper ancient DNA that
will be obtained by researchers at the Otago Palaeoge-
netics Laboratory. The complete physical isolation of
the ancient and modern part of the project will ensure
there is minimal risk of cross-contamination. This am-
bitious and innovative approach will provide the level
of resolution needed to identify genomic regions that
have experienced selection and make precise population
genetic and demographic inferences possible.
PhD Project Aims 1. To test whether size-selective
industrial shing is associated with a signature of ge-
netic selection, 2. Determine levels of genetic diversity
and dierentiation, 3. Test for loci under selection and
adaptive genetic variation.
This project will provide an excellent opportunity to de-
velop skills in the areas of genomics, bioinformatics and
population genetics, and how they can be used to sup-
port sustainable harvesting. The PhD student will gain
experience working with collaborators in New Zealand
(Professor Hamish Spencer), Australia (Professor Mike
Bunce), and Norway (Dr. Bastiaan Star). The PhD
student will be a member of a highly active and collabo-
rative group of researchers, and help develop population
genomics and an understanding of how human activity
is changing the environment.
The successful candidate will be a highly-motivated
researcher, with a strong background and interest in
genomics and molecular evolution. Experience with a
coding and/or scripting languages will be an advantage.
This position will be based at Victoria University of
Wellington and comes with a three-year scholarship that
provides a stipend (NZ $27,500 pa) and university tu-
ition fees. This project is supported by the New Zealand
Marsden Fund.
Applicants should send a CV, contact details of
two academic referees and a cover letter that states
why you are interested in the position and how your
qualications and experience make you a good t for the
proposed research. Send these to Peter Ritchie (E-mail:
Peter.Ritchie@vuw.ac.nz). Candidate selection will
begin May, but applications will be considered until the
position is lled. The ideal starting date is 1 July 2017.
International applicants with strong academic record
are encouraged to apply. For more information about
studying at VUW and the entry requirements for the
PhD program please see http://www.victoria.ac.nz/-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 33
study/programmes-courses/postgraduates/phds-
doctorates Also on https://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=84854 Peter Ritchie
<Peter.Ritchie@vuw.ac.nz >
SouthDakotaStateU
SustainablePollinationBiol
Master'sResearch Degree opportunity in the CB Fenster
lab, South Dakota State University: Pollination Biology
in an Agricultural Landscape
Starting Date: Preferably end of May 2017
Pollinator service is globally associated with increased
crop yield. Furthermore, owering eld crops (i.e.,
oilseeds, legumes) contribute to the maintenance of
ecosystem services, providing nectar and pollen re-
sources for pollinators. The student opportunity is
to participate with a team to investigate the role of pol-
linators in yield of a new crop, ~ABrassica carinata ~Aand
how that crop can impact bee health. This team, in
addition to myself, includes insect ecologists (Jon Lund-
gren), plant landscape ecologists (Henning Nottebrock),
economists (James Stone, Heidi Sieverding) and exten-
sion personnel (Amanda Bachmann). More specically,
we will quantify plant-pollinator interaction at dierent
scales to understand the contribution of carinata to sus-
taining native pollinators, honey bees and honey yield.
Finally, we will determine parameters to estimate the
economic impact of carinata in terms of yield, honey
production, and sustainability of native pollinators.
Location: Department of Biology and Microbiology,
South Dakota State University, Brookings, South
Dakota. Brookings is a small, but vibrant commu-
nity with easy access to culture and the outdoors.
More information about the Department of Biology
and Microbiology ~Aat~ASDSU can be found at: http:/-
/www.sdstate.edu/biology-and-microbiology Require-
ments: The ideal student should embrace ~Aeld-based
research as well as have some background or interest in
large data and or landscape approaches. Most impor-
tantly, you should ~Abe passionate about biology and the
questions being pursed at the ~ACBFenster lab. Specif-
ically for this project, one should have an interest in
sustainable agriculture and the consequences of various
land-use polices for ecosystem services. Generally, stu-
dents who work with me either have or develop a broad
understanding of statistics. Foreign students need to
meet English language requirements.I encourage you to contact me, if interested at:
charles.fenster@sdstate.eduMore information can be
found at the CBFenster lab website: https://-
charlesbfenster.wordpress.com/ and here you can also
nd links to all of the collaborators. Please include
in your email: * brief description of your research in-
terests* concrete evidence of interest in this project*
experience related to this project * CV Funding options
are available for both US and International students.
https://charlesbfenster.wordpress.com/ CharlesB. Fen-
ster, Professor
Departmentof Biology and Microbiology
AgriculturalExperiment Station
SouthDakota State University
Brookings,South Dakota 57007
Oce:Berg Agricultural Hall, 1148 College Avenue, Rm
310
Phone:(605) 688 4453
Charles.Fenster@sdstate.edu
SouthernIllinoisU
PoisonFrogEvolution
Evolution of South American Poison frogs (genus
Ameerega) Zoology Department, Southern Illinois Uni-
versity, Carbondale, IL, USA
A graduate position (either Masters or PhD) is available
to study the evolution of South American poison dart
frogs (genus Ameerega). Neotropical poison frogs are
a species-rich family (Dendrobatidae) that exhibit a
diversity of mating systems, parental care strategies and
phenotypes. The Brown lab is looking for a student to
develop a research program studying ANY core aspect
of the lab's research. Topics could include color/pattern
evolution, phylogeography/ biogeography, systematics
and speciation (to name a few). The ideal student will
be prepared to conduct eld-based research, have some
experience in molecular ecology/population genetics,
genomic and/or geospatial analyses. Several trips to
South America and lab work is fully funded.
For more information on the Brown Lab please visit
the lab website at: http://www.jasonleebrown.org
and the Zoology Department at SIUC http://-
www.zoology.siu.edu. Students will nd all the brains
of a nationally ranked research university and all the34 EvolDir April 1, 2017
heart of a small college at SIUC.
Carbondale is located in southern Illinois and provides
a close link to many forested areas and lakes. The re-
gional landscapes varies from bottomlands to uplands
with rolling hills, blus, and rugged topography. This
makes it perfect home for outdoor lovers (when they are
not in the rainforest of S. America).
Interested students are encouraged to contact Dr. Brown
(jason.brown@siu.edu). Please include a brief descrip-
tion of your research interests, a CV, and names of two
references (with contact info). Competitive funding op-
tions are available. US and Canadian students only. For
full consideration, application due date is April 15th,
2017. Applications will be evaluated as they are received.
Start date of position is August 2017 (or earlier).
\jason.brown@siu.edu" <jason.brown@siu.edu >
StAndrews EvolutionaryTheory
PHD IN EVOLUTIONARY THEORY
A PhD position is available in the group of Dr. Carolin
Kosiol at the Centre of Biological Diversity of the Uni-
versity of St. Andrews/Scotland. The position will be
funded for 3.5 years.
The PhD project is part of a larger project entitled
\Genome-wide molecular dating". The recent sequenc-
ing of genomes of closely related species and of many
individuals from the same species enables the study of
speciation and the inference of the history of populations.
Standard phylogenetic methods reduce entire popula-
tions to single points in genotypic space by modelling
evolution as a process in which a single gene mutates
along the branches of a phylogeny.
In my group, we have developed an allele-frequency
based approach called Polymorphism-Aware Phyloge-
netic Models (PoMo, De Maio, et al., 2015, Schrempf
et al., 2016). While standard phylogenetic models treat
substitutions as instantaneous events, PoMo describes
them as gradual: substitutions require rst a mutation
introducing a new rare allele, followed by a series of
changes in allele frequency. This innovation accounted
for many problems in classical phylogenetics, such as
incomplete lineage sorting and shared ancestral poly-
morphisms that cause the tree topology to vary along
the genome. In this project, we plan to expand this
approach to infer population trees that can be used for
molecular dating as well as model of character evolutionthat allow for polymorphism in traits along the tree.
Candidates will be expected to have a strong interest in
applying quantitative methods and modelling to Biology.
They will have a degree in Bioinformatics, Mathematics,
Physics, Statistics, Computer Science or a related eld.
Prior experience with either population genetics or com-
parative genomics is a benet. Preferably the candidate
will have experience in programming language such as
C, C++, Java and a scripting language such as Python
or Perl.
Please send informal inquires to Carolin Kosiol
ck202@st-andrews.ac.at before the deadline on the
27th March 2017. Further information can be found
at https://synergy.st-andrews.ac.uk/research/phd-
study/phd-study-projects/phd-study-cbd-projects/
\ck202@st-andrews.ac.uk" <ck202@st-andrews.ac.uk >
TrentU LaurentianU
AmphibianPopGenetics
PhD positions available - Amphibian occupancy pat-
terns, population genetics, and disease dynamics
Funded by a Strategic NSERC grant, we are seeking
PhD students to complete our team on research related
to the detection and monitoring of amphibians and their
pathogens (chytrid fungus, ranavirus) in Canada. Using
environmental DNA as a basis for the research, the team
will conduct: 1) Habitat occupancy modeling for am-
phibians and their pathogens; 2) Analysis of the evolu-
tionary dynamics of pathogens and amphibian hosts; 3)
Assessment of potential synergistic interactions between
pathogens and aquatic contaminants; and 4) Modeling
the drivers of amphibian population decline. Students
will develop research projects that t within the context
of the broader program, such as: Validation of eDNA
for detecting amphibians; Assessment of ranavirus
pathogenicity; Chytrid fungus evolutionary dynamics;
and Modeling drivers of amphibian occupancy. We are
seeking students to initiate their research in Spring or
Fall 2017, with the research to be conducted across
southern Ontario. Interested applicants should submit
a letter of interest, CV, unocial transcripts and names
of 3 references to: Dennis Murray, Trent University, den-
nismurray@trentu.ca (www.dennismurray@trentu.ca)
or David Lesbarreres, Laurentian University dlesbar-
reres@laurentian.ca (http://gearg.jimdo.com/people/-
head/).April 1, 2017 EvolDir 35
\dlesbarreres@laurentian.ca"
<dlesbarreres@laurentian.ca >
TrinityCollegeDublin
HumanPopulationGenomics
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student for a
research project in the population genomics of Native
Americans from South America. Please nd details
of the position: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=84325&LID=367 Shigeki
Nakagome, PhD Ussher Assistant Professor in Genomic
Medicine School of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences
Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin Tel:
+353-1-896-3260 E-mail: nakagoms@tcd.ie
Shigeki Nakagome <NAKAGOMS@tcd.ie >
UAberdeen ArchaeaEvolution
UAberdeen.Archaea
Funded PhD studentship in microbial ecology and/or
microbial evolution at the University of Aberdeen (UK).
A 3.5-year PhD studentship in microbial ecology and/or
microbial evolution, starting in May 2017 at the ear-
liest, is now open for application at the University of
Aberdeen, Scotland, UK. The deadline for applications
is April 10th 2016 and there is no restriction regarding
the nationality of the applicants (no fee incurred for
non-EU nationals).
The project will be designed with the PhD supervisors
depending on the interest of the applicant, including on
microbial ecology, evolution, physiology and/or bioin-
formatics. The PhD project will target ey scientic
questions with a special focus on Thaumarchaeota to
align with the research thematic of the University of
Aberdeen Nitrication Group.
Thaumarchaeota form an abundant and ubiquitous phy-
lum of archaea on Earth. They perform a critical ecosys-
tem function, ammonia oxidation to nitrite, which is
subsequently oxidised to nitrate in the process of ni-
trication. Ammonia oxidisers limit nitrication, and
thereby play a central role in the global N cycle. Insoil, they lead to considerable loss of N fertiliser, nitrate
leaching into groundwaters and production of green-
house gases. Thaumarchaeotal cultivation is in its in-
fancy, especially that of soil Thaumarchaeota, but is
currently being achieved employing a combination of
DNA-SIP soil incubations, innovative cultivation ap-
proaches and single-cell genomics and metagenomics.
These approaches are being applied in the University of
Aberdeen Nitrication Group to study environmental
adaptation of these microbes in soil. In recent years,
our research has demonstrated that pH is a ey factor
controlling the composition of the soil Thaumarchaeota
community, which plays an important role in nitrica-
tion in acidic soils. In addition to inuencing extant
thaumarchaeotal niche specialisation, pH has also in-
uenced their diversication and patterns of lineage
formation through deep evolutionary time. The exis-
tence of several ecologically coherent dominant phylo-
genetic lineages ('pH-adapted lineages') has also been
demonstrated and several mechanisms of specialisation
for acidophilic growth have been suggested for the thau-
marchaeotal strains acquired in the laboratory. Finally,
our research expands to other Thaumarchaeota that do
not perform ammonia oxidation in order to understand
the evolution of these physiological metabolisms.
The University of Aberdeen Nitrication Group, headed
by Prof. James Prosser (https://www.abdn.ac.u/-
ibes/people/proles/j.prosser) and Dr C ecile Gubry-
Rangin (https://www.abdn.ac.uk/ibes/people/proles/-
c.rangin), is a well-established group with world-wide
recognised reputation in microbial ecology and a high-
impact track record.
The PhD student will join a dynamic team of researchers
within the Institute of Biological and Environmental
Sciences (https://www.abdn.ac.u/ibes/) and the School
of Biological Sciences (http://www.abdn.ac.uk/sbs/).
The University of Aberdeen (UoA) was ranked 1st in
the UK by the 'Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Sci-
ence' REF2014 exercise and provides an excellent sci-
entic environment. In addition, the University of Ab-
erdeen provides state-of-the-art technological support
facilities with a unique single-cell genomics platform,
highly-specialised cytometry and genomic platforms, an
exclusive thaumarchaeotal culture collection, molecular
and environmental facilities and a High Performance
Computing system. The University of Aberdeen also
provides diverse training opportunities for all aspects
of research and for transferable academic and generic
skills. The academic requirement for entry is a rst or
upper second class degree or equivalent.
For any inquiry, please send an email describing your
research interests directly to the principal investigator
Dr C ecile Gubry-Rangin (c.rangin@abdn.ac.u).36 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Application Process: Formal application should be
made as described on: http://www.abdn.ac.u/clsm/-
graduate/research/terrestrial-environment-1407.php Dr
C ecile Gubry-Rangin, URF Institute of Biological & En-
vironmental Sciences Cruicshank Building, Room 1.13
University of Aberdeen St Machar Drive Aberdeen AB24
3UU
c.rangin@abdn.ac.uk
Tel. +44(0)1224 273662
c.rangin@abdn.ac.uk
UAberdeen UK
MicrobialEcologyEvolution
UAberdeenUK.MicrobialEcologyEvolution
Funded PhD studentship in microbial ecology at the Uni-
versity of Aberdeen (UK): ?Unravelling the metabolic
versatility and diversity of abundant but unexplored
terrestrial Thaumarchaeota?.
A 4-year PhD studentship in microbial ecology, starting
in March 2017 at the earliest, is now open for appli-
cation at the University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK.
The deadline for applications is March 17th 2016 and
this studentship is available to UK and EU nationals
(providing funding for tuition fees and stipend). The
PhD project is funded by the Royal Society and will
target key scientic questions with a special focus on
Thaumarchaeota to align with the research thematic of
the University of Aberdeen Nitrication Group.
The vast microbial diversity in natural environments
underpins the global ecosystem functioning on earth.
The central aim of this project is to understand the
largely underexplored physiological and ecological pro-
cesses that generate high microbial functional diversity
in nature, with a special focus on a functionally impor-
tant group of archaea, the Thaumarchaeota, that play
a key role in the nitrogen cycle. Their high diversity
and abundance, together with our recent demonstra-
tion of the inuence of pH on both niche specialisation
(Gubry-Rangin et al., 2011; Vico-Oton et al., 2016)
and lineage formation through deep evolutionary time
(Gubry-Rangin et al., 2015), provide an excellent system
to address this aim. The paucity of cultivated repre-
sentatives has severely limited their investigation, but
this restriction can now be alleviated by major recent
technical innovations in single cell genome sequencing
and cultivation techniques (informed by genomic data)enabling physiological studies (Lehtovirta-Morley et al.,
2011; 2016). Better knowledge about an abundant, glob-
ally distributed but unexplored and uncultivated group
of Thaumarchaeota that dominate ammonia oxidiser
communities in many agricultural neutral and alkaline
soils seems crucial to unravel their ecophysiology and
contribution to soil nitrication and greenhouse gas emis-
sion. By using a single-cell genomics-driven cultivation
approach, the physiological mechanisms implicated in
thaumarchaeotal alkaline adaptation will be determined,
and novel isolates will in turn allow further experimen-
tal physiological studies. The suggested mechanisms
allowing growth, activity and preferential selection over
the other nitrifying communities will nally be tested in
many alkaline soils. This ambitious project will strongly
impact on our fundamental knowledge of the general in-
tegrated ecological-functional mechanisms of adaptation
that generate high microbial diversity in nature, using
Thaumarchaeota as a model.
The University of Aberdeen Nitrication Group, headed
by Prof. James Prosser (https://www.abdn.ac.uk/-
ibes/people/proles/j.prosser) and Dr C?cile Gubry-
Rangin (https://www.abdn.ac.uk/ibes/people/proles/-
c.rangin), is a well-established group with world-wide
recognised reputation in microbial ecology and a high-
impact track record.
The PhD student will join a dynamic team of researchers
within the Institute of Biological and Environmental Sci-
ences (https://www.abdn.ac.uk/ibes/) and the School
of Biological Sciences (http://www.abdn.ac.uk/sbs/).
The University of Aberdeen (UoA) was ranked 1st in
the UK by the ?Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Sci-
ence? REF2014 exercise and provides an excellent sci-
entic environment. In addition, the University of Ab-
erdeen provides state-of-the-art technological support
facilities with a unique single-cell genomics platform,
highly-specialised cytometry and genomic platforms, an
exclusive thaumarchaeotal culture collection, molecular
and environmental facilities and a High Performance
Computing system. The University of Aberdeen also
provides diverse training opportunities for all aspects
of research and for transferable academic and generic
skills. The academic requirement for entry is a rst or
upper second class degree or equivalent.
Application Process: Formal application should be made
as described on https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=83998 . References: Gubry-
Rangin C, Hai B, Quince C, Engel M, Thompson BC,
James P, Schloter M, Griths RI, Prosser JI, Nicol GW.
(2011) Niche specialization of terrestrial archaeal ammo-
nia oxidizers. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 108(52):21206-
21211.April 1, 2017 EvolDir 37
Gubry-Rangin C, Kratsch C, Williams TA, McHardy
AC, Embley TM, Prosser JI, Macqueen DJ. (2015) Cou-
pling of diversication and pH adaptation during the
evolution of terrestrial Thaumarchaeota. Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA 112(30):9370-9375.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UAdelaide
BioinformaticsandPaleogenomics
2 PhDs in bioinformatics and paleogenomics using an-
cient DNA
Two (2) PhD positions are available at the Australian
Centre for Ancient DNA (ACAD; adelaide.edu.au/acad).
We seek highly motivated students to join our dynamic
research team in one of the world's leading ancient DNA
centres. Candidates must have a 1st Class Honours
or MSc degree, an excellent undergraduate academic
record and meet the English Language Prociency re-
quirement. The call is open to international and do-
mestic students with a background in bioinformatics,
programming or population/quantitative/statistical ge-
netics. In addition, a passion for history and archae-
ology is desirable along with demonstrable analytical
skills. The projects are high prole (ACAD's publica-
tions; adelaide.edu.au/acad/publications/) and will suit
hard-working and self-motivated candidates equipped
with good skills in critical and independent thinking.
Training will focus on the analysis of Next-Generation
Sequencing data with a special emphasis on the utili-
sation and expansion of population genetics, quantita-
tive genetics, and phylogeny methods for paleogenomic
data. Successful candidates will also have the oppor-
tunity to assist in the development and application of
cutting-edge reference genome approaches for humans
and other organisms. Training opportunities to advance
wet-laboratory techniques can be oered in parallel.
Great computational skills are required and a successful
candidate would be competent in:
- Data analysis and management skills
- Fluency in using Linux systems, with a good hands-on
experience with Bash scripting- Advanced programming in a scripting language such
as Python and/or R
- Querying a SQL databases
This is a great opportunity to study abroad (for interna-
tional candidates) as Adelaide is a vibrant cosmopolitan
city with a Mediterranean climate guaranteeing a great
lifestyle. Interested applicants are encouraged to send
a resume, a cover letter and a list with full contact
details of three referees to Dr Yassine Souilmi (yas-
sine.souilmi@adelaide.edu.au).
ACAD collaborates with a team of high-prole inter-
national researchers from Europe and the USA, and
successful applicants will be co-supervised by Prof. Alan
Cooper, Dr. Yassine Souilmi, Dr. Raymond Tobler and
Dr. Stephen Richards at ACAD, School of Biological
Sciences, University of Adelaide.
Note that the Australian Department of Immigration
and the University of Adelaide expect international
applicants to meet the English Language Prociency
(ELP) requirements. See below for details of the ELP.
The ELP is based on high scores in IELTS (Interna-
tional English Language Testing System) or TOEFL
(Test of English as a Foreign Language). For fur-
ther information, please refer to this link (http://-
www.international.adelaide.edu.au/apply/admission/).
Yassine Souilmi <yassine.souilmi@adelaide.edu.au >
UBath ExperimentalEvolution
Fully funded 4-year PhD position in experimental evo-
lution at the University of Bath (UK).
Application deadline: 24/04/2017
Apply here: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=84040&LIDi >>The Role
of Environmental Change in Gene Regulatory Network
Evolution
Supervisors: Dr Tiany Taylor <http://-
www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/contacts/academics/-
tiany-taylor/ >; Prof Laurence Hurst <http:/-
/www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/contacts/academics/-
laurence hurst/ >
How does novelty arise in evolution? Does environmen-
tal change drive genome complexity, and if so how?
These are central questions in evolutionary biology, and
they are the questions that drive research in our lab.38 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Using a combination of molecular genetic manipula-
tions/analyses and experimental evolution, within the
context of gene regulatory networks (GRNs) you will
explore whether more complex GRNs promote survival
and create opportunities for innovation in changeable en-
vironments. This project will conduct experiments with
a genetically modied common soil bacterium that has
had the 'master switch' of the agellar network deleted.
Firstly, it will address the role that gene duplication
plays in the evolution of complex gene networks. It
will do this by observing the divergence between dupli-
cated genes from a dierent network that is capable of
'mending' agellar function (1). Secondly, it will test the
hypothesis that more complex networks provide a tness
benet in less predictable environments (2). It will do
this by using genetically manipulated bacteria with step-
wise increases in network complexity and evolve them
in static and changing environments. Lastly, it will look
across a range of bacteria of the same species, which
inhabit dierent environments, to link life-histories with
network architecture (3).
Location: This project will be conducted under the di-
rect supervision of Dr Tiany Taylor with co-supervision
from Prof Laurence Hurst, and based at the Depart-
ment of Biology and Biochemistry at the University
of Bath (UK) in the new Milner Centre for Evolu-
tion (http://www.bath.ac.uk/groups/milner-centre-for-
evolution/). The Milner Centre is a new research centre
focused on doing ground breaking research that ad-
dresses major questions in evolutionary biology. The
Milner Genomics Centre provides on-site facilities and
expertise for genome sequencing and analysis for evo-
lution research, and the world-class researchers at the
centre creates a vibrant research culture that ensures
support and training for the next generation of evolu-
tionary biologist.
Requirements: This is a fully-funded PhD studentship.
We are looking for a biology graduate who has a strong
interest in genetics and evolution. Some practical ex-
perience in microbiology and molecular techniques is
highly desired but training will be provided. The suc-
cessful candidate will be enthusiastic, highly motivated,
independent, have experience in microbiology, molecular
biology or evolutionary biology (or a combination), and
have a relevant degree. The applicant must meet the
standard University of Bath English language require-
ments.
Planned start date: 2 October 2017.
For informal enquiries, please contact Tiany Taylor
<T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk >
Funding notes: Funding is available for up to 4 years
for an excellent UK/EU student. The studentship willinclude Home/EU tuition fees and a stipend of 14,553
(2017/18 rate). Applicants who are classed as Overseas
for fee-paying purposes are not eligible to receive the
funding.
T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk
UHelsinki MathModellingEvolution
Graduate position for a PhD in mathematical modelling
in evolution and development:
1.Job/ project description:
The main objectives of the PhD project is to:
Develop computational models of organ development
(morphogenesis and pattern formation) and their evolu-
tion in mammalian teeth, hair or Drosophila wing.
The research will take place in the Center of Excellence
in Experimental and computational developmental biol-
ogy of the Biotechnology Institute of the Helsinki Uni-
versity under the supervision of Isaac Salazar-Ciudad.
Embryonic development is one of the most amazing phe-
nomena in life. During development a single cell trans-
forms into a complex functional organism made of many
cells, dierent cell types and a specic spatial distribu-
tion of those in space. How embryos organize themselves
so that each cell ends up located in a specic position in
the body is the central question of pattern formation and
morphogenesis. This process involves the interaction of
many genes in complex networks and the interaction of
those with cells' and tissue's mechanical properties. In
addition, this process is now widely acknowledged to be
crucial to understand evolution since any change in the
phenotype in evolution (e.g. morphology) would be rst
a change in the developmental process by which this
phenotype is produced. Understanding development,
thus, would allows us to understand which phenotypic
variation can arise in populations due to genetic muta-
tion (the so called genotype-phenotype map) and that,
together with natural selection, would determine the
direction of evolution. Understanding this link between
development and evolution is a central aspect of the
research in Salazar-Ciudad group.
Computational models are important tools to under-
stand how gene networks interact with cell and tissue
mechanical properties in development. There is cur-
rently a huge amount of data on how genes interact
during development but data alone do not directly leadApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 39
to understanding. The large number of genes involved,
the complexity of the gene networks and cell and tissue
mechanics in development require the building of precise
quantitative hypotheses, the building of mathematical
models to explore the consequences of these hypotheses
and the comparison between models' predictions and
well designed quantitative experiments. The center of
experimental and computational developmental biology
is a pioneering center combining models and experi-
ments with this approach. In that sense the PhD will
include collaborating with experimental developmental
biologists, bioinformaticians, populational and quanti-
tative geneticists, systems biologists, mathematicians,
paleontologists and other evolutionary biologists.
The modeling will focus on integrating gene network
regulation, cell-cell communication, cell mechanical in-
teractions and developmental mechanisms in general
and, optionally, artical in silico evolution.
2. Requirements:
The applicant must be a biologists preferably with a
strong background in either evolutionary biology, devel-
opmental biology or theoretical biology. Some knowl-
edge of ecology, zoology, cell and molecular biology are
also desirable.
Bioinformaticians, systems biologists or computer biolo-
gists that do not have a degree in biology or a strong
background in biology will not be considered (e.g. no
engineers or computer scientists).
Programming skills or a willingness to acquire them is
required.
The most important requirement is a strong interest
and motivation on science, embryonic development and
evolution. A capacity for creative and critical thinking
is also required.
3. Description of the position:
The fellowship will be for a period of up to 3-4 years
(100% research work: no teaching involved).
The purpose of the fellowship is research training leading
to the successful completion of a PhD degree.
Salary according to Finnish PhD student salaries.
4. The application must include:
-Application letter including a statement of interests
-CV (summarizing degrees obtained, subjects included
in degree and
grades, average grade)
-Application should be sent to Isaac Salazar-Ciudad by
email:isaac.salazar@helsinki.
Foreign applicants are advised to attach an explanation
of their university's grading system. No ocial docu-
ments are required for the application rst stage but
these may be required latter on.
5. Examples of recent publications by Isaac Salazar-
Ciudad group.
-Salazar-Ciudad I1, Mar ~An-Riera M. Adaptive dynamics
under
development-based genotype-phenotype maps.
Nature. 2013 May 16;497(7449):361-4.
-Salazar-Ciudad I, Jernvall J. A computational model
of teeth and
the developmental origins of morphological variation.
Nature. 2010
Mar 25;464(7288):583-6.
6. Interested candidates should check our group web-
page:
http://www.biocenter.helsinki./salazar/index.html
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHudderseld
ApodemusEvolutionaryGenomics
A 3-year PhD studentship in evolutionary genomics of
wood and yellow-necked mice (Apodemus avicollis and
sylvaticus), starting in September 2017, is now open
for applications at the University of Hudderseld, West
Yorkshire, UK. The deadline for applications is 26th
March 2017. The studentship is funded by the Uni-
versity of Hudderseld and available to UK and EU
nationals.
Rodents from the genus Apodemus are the most common
mammals in the Palearctic and an attractive subject
for evolutionary and molecular studies: they are likely
to be under multitude of selective pressures in dier-
ent habitats, they contribute to the spread of Lyme
disease and tick-borne encephalitis and harbour extra
(\B") chromosomes. However, the genomic and genetic
resources for their studies remain very limited.40 EvolDir April 1, 2017
We are a young and small research group that has re-
cently embarked on establishing phylogenetic and phylo-
geographic relationships between Apodemus populations
in Europe based on whole-genome genotypes. Thanks
to collaboration with researchers in Poland, Germany
and Belgium we are presently acquiring and analysing
whole-genome high-density genotyping data (ddRAD-
seq) from hundreds of individuals across Europe. Anal-
ysis of this data will inform future directions of our
studies: phylogeography of sylvaticus and avicolis, di-
versity and divergence of their populations, SNP-based
genetic maps and whole-genome scans for signatures of
positive selection.
We are looking for an independent candidate with keen
interest in evolution and computational approaches to
study genetic variation on a population scale. Famil-
iarity with UNIX/Linux, command line or R is a plus,
as is research experience, preferably on a master's level,
but strong B.Sc. graduates are also encouraged to apply.
Majority of the project involves computational analyses
of large datasets, but it has a small wet-lab component,
such as preparation of DNA and/or RNA sequencing
libraries.
The PhD student will be associated with the Evolution-
ary and Environmental Genomics Group at the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences and embedded with PhD stu-
dents in the Leverhulme Doctoral Training Centre who
work on human and cattle phylogeography, archaeoen-
tomology, yeast transposable elements and evolution of
choanoagellates using genomic approaches. The stu-
dentship requires candidates to undertake small teach-
ing duties during the PhD. For more information about
us and our work, please go to https://bryklab.net/-
research/ and https://www.hud.ac.uk/oursta/prole/-
index.php?stad=1409 . To apply, send an email outlin-
ing your motivation and experience to j.bryk@hud.ac.uk
(CC'd to f.cross@hud.ac.uk), including a CV and
the names of two referees. You also need to com-
plete an on-line application at http://halo.hud.ac.uk/-
pgronlineapps/. For more details about the application
process please go to https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
PhDDetails.aspx?CAID=3062. Candidates are also en-
couraged to contact the project's supervisor, Dr Jarek
Bryk, directly with informal questions and requests at
j.bryk@hud.ac.uk. University of Hudderseld inspiring
tomorrow's professionals.
This transmission is condential and may be legally
privileged. If you receive it in error, please notify us
immediately by e-mail and remove it from your system.
If the content of this e-mail does not relate to the busi-
ness of the University of Hudderseld, then we do not
endorse it and will accept no liability.J.Bryk@hud.ac.uk
ULeicester
GeneticEpidemiologyBioinformatics
The following 3 year PhD studentship is being re-
advertised for a September 2017 start.
Title: Using genetic epidemiology to understand the role
of complex genetic variation of immune system genes in
respiratory health and disease
Supervised by Dr Louise Wain and Dr Ed Hollox (De-
partment of Genetics)
The studentship is for 3 years and will commence in
September 2017. The student will be based in the De-
partment of Health Sciences.
Respiratory disease is a major public health concern and
the third leading cause of death globally. Genome-wide
association studies (GWAS) have identied multiple re-
gions of the genome associated with respiratory health
and disease and amongst these, one of the strongest sig-
nals of association is in the Human Leukocyte Antigen
(HLA) region gene cluster on chromosome 6 which en-
codes proteins with essential roles in the immune system.
However, the HLA region is complex and understand-
ing the mechanisms underlying the genetic signals of
association in this region requires sophisticated analyti-
cal approaches. Bespoke computational methods which
measure variation of the HLA region, and of other clus-
ters of functionally-related genes, at both the genetic
and protein level, have been developed. This project
will involve applying these methods to large general
population cohorts to explore both the direct and inter-
active eects of variation at immune gene clusters on
respiratory traits and disease. The student will develop
computational research skills at the interface of genetics,
statistics and computer science which will equip them
for a career in the exciting and fast-moving eld of ge-
netic epidemiology. A background in bioinformatics,
genetics or statistics is preferred and a keen interest
and aptitude for developing further skills in all of those
areas, and in the use of high performance computing to
analyse very large data sets, is essential.
Closing date for applications: 31st March 2017
https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=81829 http://-
www2.le.ac.uk/research-degrees/funding/mbp \Batini,
Chiara (Dr.)" <cb334@leicester.ac.uk >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 41
ULeicester
GenomicsKinshipAncestryForensics
Project supervisors: Professor Nuala Sheehan - De-
partment of Health Sciences; Professor Mark Jobling -
Department of Genetics
University of registration: University of Leicester
Non-Academic partner: Dr Martin Blythe - DNA World-
Wide Group
Project title: Next-generation kinship deduction for
forensic and genealogical analysis
We seek a highly-motivated student with an interest in
statistics, genomics, population genetics and/or forensic
genetics, to work with us and our industrial partner
DNA WorldWide (https://www.dna-worldwide.com), a
direct-to-consumer DNA testing company oering an-
cestry, paternity and kinship testing.
The use of DNA analysis to determine familial rela-
tionships between human individuals is well established.
For close (rst-degree) pairwise relationships as targeted
in the paternity test, a small number of polymorphic
markers (the short-tandem repeats [STRs] also used
in forensic individual identication) is analysed, and
probabilities of true paternity can be established with
near certainty. However, there is also a need in some
applications to estimate more distant kin relationships:
in forensic casework 'familial searching' exploits the fact
that a perpetrator and their relative(s) are expected
to share 'similar' DNA proles, which can provide in-
vestigative information when the relative(s) are in the
National DNA Database but the perpetrator is not; in
immigration cases a claim of relationship may need to be
validated in order to allow entry to the UK; in genealog-
ical research participants may have specic hypotheses
about their relationships which they wish to support
via DNA evidence. The kinship estimation problem
is more dicult in these cases because with each ad-
ditional generation that separates two individuals, the
expected proportion of the genome shared identical by
descent (IBD) halves. Additional power can be gained
by increasing the number of DNA markers analysed, for
example by using genome-wide SNP chips.
The project proposed here addresses these issues by
exploring the potential of NGS forensic multiplexes and
genome-wide SNP data in relationship estimation, us-
ing real-world data. Forensically relevant data will begenerated by typing either the Promega Powerseq or
Illumina Forenseq multiplex on existing pedigree DNA
resources (e.g. CEPH families; French-Canadian deep-
rooting pedigrees). Anonymised genome-wide SNP data
will be obtained from DNA WorldWide (consenting
clients, and a dataset of 72 individuals from 9 pedigrees).
Both the forensic multiplexes and the genome-wide data
(based on the HumanOmniExpressExome-8 chip) in-
clude uniparentally-inherited markers (Y chromosome,
mitochondrial DNA) as well as biparentally-inherited
(autosomal) markers. A novel feature of this project is
to investigate ecient incorporation of such data with
SNP-based likelihood estimates by considering haplo-
type frequencies and possible pedigree structures includ-
ing sex. A key issue will be to understand the sensitivity
of relationship estimation to allele frequencies, and a
number of approaches will be taken, including the use of
internal frequencies from the data themselves, data from
public resources such as HapMap, or our own datasets.
Consideration will also be given to population structure,
admixture and the eects of linkage disequilibrium. De-
tailed sensitivity analyses will be carried out through
extensive simulation studies.
Closing date for applications: 31st March 2017
Check eligibilty and apply here: https://-
www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross fac/mibtp/pgstudy/-
phdopportunities/application/ Please note:
Students will be part of the Midlands Integrative Bio-
sciences Training Partnership (MIBTP), a BBSRC-
funded Doctoral Training Partnership between the Uni-
versities of Warwick, Birmingham and Leicester. iCASE
students must full the MIBTP entry requirements and
will join the MIBTP cohort for the taught modules and
masterclasses during the rst term. Students can then
start their PhD project in Jan 2018 but must complete
a 3-month miniproject (at a non-home institution) be-
fore the end of their rst year. They will remain as
an integral part of the MIBTP cohort and take part
in the core networking activities and transferable skills
training.
Prof Mark A. Jobling Professor of Genetics Department
of Genetics Room G5, Adrian Building University of
Leicester University Road Leicester LE1 7RH UK
tel.: +44 (0)116 252 3427 mob.: +44 (0)7955 882334 fax:
+44 (0)116 252 3378 email: maj4@le.ac.ukweb: http:/-
/www2.le.ac.uk/departments/genetics/people/jobling
Mark Jobling <maj4@leicester.ac.uk >42 EvolDir April 1, 2017
ULethbridge
EvolutionaryNeurobiology
MSc and PhD positions in evolutionary neurobiology
Our lab uses a combination of approaches to under-
stand evolutionary dierences in brain size and anatomy
across vertebrates. We are now seeking students inter-
ested in pursuing a graduate degree (MSc or PhD) in
the evolutionary neurobiology of birds and mammals
(http://scholar.ulethbridge.ca/iwaniuk/home). Much
of our current research focuses on the eects of sexual
selection and sociality on brain anatomy and neurochem-
istry in ground squirrels, but many other projects are
available on birds, other mammals and sh.
Located at the University of Lethbridge, the Iwaniuk lab
has a large comparative bird brain collection and direct
access to a range of microscopy equipment. Dedicated
lab facilities include microtome, cryostat, uorescent
microscope, a digital slide scanner for creating 'virtual'
slides, and the latest in stereology and neuron tracing
software. Confocal and electron microscopy are also
available within the Canadian Centre for Behavioural
Neuroscience at the University of Lethbridge. Field
research is supported by a brand new 4x4 eld vehicle
and mobile lab for preparing samples. Our eldwork
takes us to the Rocky Mountains, foothills and prairie
regions of western Canada, depending on the species
being studied. Opportunities are available for students
to collaborate with researchers at other institutions in
Canada, the USA, Australia and elsewhere as well as
travel to national and international conferences.
The University of Lethbridge oers competitive scholar-
ship funding, including tuition waivers, for applicants
based on grades and research experience. Potential stu-
dents must have a background in biology, psychology
or neuroscience, some research experience and a valid
driver's license.
To apply, send: 1) a c.v.; 2) unocial copies of academic
transcripts; and 3) a brief description of your research
interests to: andrew.iwaniuk@uleth.ca. Applications
will be evaluated as soon as they are received. Start
dates are exible, but there are deadlines set by the
university for graduate student applications. For more
details see: https://www.uleth.ca/graduate-studies/
\theresa.burg@uleth.ca" <theresa.burg@uleth.ca >ULincoln
UruguayEvolutionStudents
Header: ULincoln (UK), Fully-funded PhD Scholarship
(Uruguay)
A new programme of scholarships to conduct PhD stud-
ies in Life Sciences has recently been agreed between the
University of Lincoln (UK) and the Uruguay National
Agency for Research and Innovation (ANII - Agencia Na-
cional de Investigacion e Innovacion). This programme
consists of full 3-year PhD scholarships for citizens of
Uruguay only, which cover University fees and a subsis-
tence bursary.
Funding will be awarded to applicants working on the fol-
lowing areas of research (broadly dened - please contact
potential supervisors in these elds to discuss projects
in more details): Environmental Sciences and Climate
Change Biology, Conservation of Biodiversity, Evolu-
tion and Ecology, Biomedicine, Macroecology, Molec-
ular Biology and Genetics, Molecular Nanotechnology,
Biophysics, Clinical and Veterinary Animal Behaviour,
Animal Welfare.
Application Process and Requirements include: (1) Must
be a citizen of Uruguay, (2) Have already obtained a
BSc (or equivalent) degree in an area relevant to the
research elds described above. A minimum of a UK
equivalent to a 2:1 award is required to enter the appli-
cation process, (3) As part of the application process the
applicant must complete and submit their application
to the University of Lincoln using the online application
system, (4) The applications must include a copy of the
applicant's CV and a one page research statement de-
scribing research interests, ambition and briey outline
a research project.
Submission of applications for 2017 entry are now open.
The deadline for applications via the University of Lin-
coln is 11 ^th May 2017.
For additional information regarding this scholarship
please contact:
Dr Daniel Pincheira-Donoso
School of Life Sciences
University of Lincoln E-mail:
DPincheiraDonoso@lincoln.ac.uk Web: http://-
selectiondynamics.weebly.com/ Telephone +44(0)1522
835025April 1, 2017 EvolDir 43
Daniel Pincheira-Donoso
Senior Lecturer in Evolutionary Biology
Laboratory of Evolutionary Ecology of Adaptations
School of Life Sciences
Joseph Banks Laboratories
University of Lincoln
Brayford Campus
Lincoln, LN6 7DL
United Kingdom
Oce Tel: +44(0) 1522 835025
Oce: JBL 1W12
E-mail: DPincheiraDonoso@lincoln.ac.uk
Lab Website: http://selectiondynamics.weebly.com/
The University of Lincoln, located in the heart of the city
of Lincoln, has established an international reputation
based on high student satisfaction, excellent graduate
employment and world-class research.
Daniel Pincheira-Donoso
<dpincheiradonoso@lincoln.ac.uk >
ULondon
EvolTheoryApplied2Cancer
Fully funded position with stipend. EU and other over-
seas candidates welcome.
There is a repertoire of theory in evolutionary ecology
to explain the rate and nature of adaptation to sudden
changes in the environment, particularly pesticide use
and rapid climate change. This body of evolutionary the-
ory is strongly analogous to that needed to explain the
emergence of resistance during cancer therapy - both
involve a sudden new selective regime (temperature,
presence of a pesticide or drug). In this PhD project,
we propose to translate this theory to understand the
development of resistant clones in cancer, and then to
construct new treatment regimes that are designed to
forestall or even prevent their emergence. The project
will involve theory development, and then bioinformatic
analysis of human cancer data and in vitro evolution
experiments to critically evaluate the theoretical predic-
tions.This is an interdisciplinary collaboration between
Prof Nichols (Evolutionary Genetics) and http://-
www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/sta/richardnichols.html Prof
Graham (Cancer biology) https://sites.google.com/-
site/nottrevorgraham/lab-members Further details
Richard Nichols r.a.nichols@qmul.ac.uk Trevor Graham
t.graham@qmul.ac.uk
Richard Nichols <richard.alan.nichols@googlemail.com >
UmeaU ForestGenetics
PhD student position in forest genetics
The Department of Ecology and Environmental Sci-
ence (EMG), Ume ~A Plant Science Center (UPSC)
and the Swedish Forest Research Institute (Skogforsk)
jointly open a 5-year PhD position within the industrial
graduate student research school in forest genetics and
biotechnology at UPSC. Application deadline is 20th
April, 2017.
Project description The future supply of biomass will
come mostly from planted forests. In Sweden, almost
all the regeneration material used in pine and spruce
reforestation are supplied by tree breeding programs and
seed orchards. It is thus critical that seed orchards func-
tion well, producing high seed yield and breeding gain
but also a genetic base to support increased biomass
production and resilience to future conditions. This
project investigates: 1) how seed orchard design and
management practices aect the genetic composition
and diversity of seed crops; and 2) how seed orchard
establishment and seed deployment strategy aect pine
and spruce forests ^A adaptation and productivity in their
northern range.
This project is in close collaboration with Skogforsk.
The position is for 5 years and dened as 80% research
time at EMG, Ume ~A University, and 20% at Skog-
forsk.
Qualications We seek a candidate with academic
background in population genetics, forest genetics and
breeding, or molecular ecology. Knowledge of genetic
data analyses, bioinformatics, and experience of high-
throughput sequencing techniques are strong merits.
The candidate should be highly motivated, independent
and collaborative, and have a very good command in
both oral and written English. The position includes in-
teractions with the Swedish forestry sector. Evaluation44 EvolDir April 1, 2017
will be based on the individual letter, quality and rele-
vance of master program and publication, the interview,
and the candidate's performance in a literature essay
given after the interview.
Prerequisites for PhD studies include 240 ECTS credits
of higher education studies of which 60 ECTS cred-
its should be on an advanced level (Master level), or
an equivalent qualication from abroad. This position
specically requires 120 ECTS credits in a subject rele-
vant for ecology.
Application The application should include: . A short
letter (max 2 pages) describing your research interests
and why you are interested in the position . CV, in-
cluding academic achievements . Digital copies of Bach-
elor/Master thesis . publications . Certicates from
higher education and other documentation that sup-
ports your application . Contact information to three
reference persons.
Your application must be registered in Ume ~A Univer-
sity's e-recruitment system MyNetwork Pro (at http:/-
/www.umu.se/om-universitetet/lediga-jobb/) no later
than 20th April 2017.
Other information The principle supervisors to this
project are Prof. Xiao-Ru Wang (xiao-ru.wang@umu.se)
from EMG, and Prof. Bengt Andersson Gull
(bengt.anderssongull@skogforsk.se) from Skogforsk.
Salary: According to agreements for PhD students at
Ume ~A University.
The Department of Ecology and Environment Sciences,
Ume ~A University, performs research and research ed-
ucation in ecology, environmental science and physical
geography. The department has ~150 co-workers of
which ~30 are PhD students. (www.emg.umu.se)
Skogforsk is funded by the forest industry and the state.
The demand-driven applied research includes a wide
variety of elds, such as forest technology, raw-material
utilization, environmental impact and conservation, for-
est tree breeding, logistics, forest bioenergy and silvicul-
ture. The institute has about 120 employees, of which
80 are researchers. (www.skogforsk.se)
Xiao-Ru Wang
Xiao-Ru Wang <xiao-ru.wang@umu.se >UmeaU LandscapeGenetics
We are seeking candidates for a PhD student position
in ecology with focus on landscape genetics at Ume ~A 
University. The project will use recent conceptual and
methodological advances in genetics and spatial ecology
to study patterns in gene ow in riverine plants and
how these are inuenced by landscape structure and
obstruction of dispersal pathways by dams.
Information about the position and how to apply, En-
glish version: https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/-
what:job/jobID:134617/where:4/ Information about
the position and how to apply, Swedish ver-
sion: https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/se/what:job/-
jobID:134617/where:4/ Please circulate to qualied
candidates!
The last day to apply is April 18, 2017.
best,
Roland Jansson and Xiao-Ru Wang
Roland Jansson Dept. of Ecology and Envi-
ronmental Science Ume ~A University SE-901 87
Ume ~A Sweden Phone +46-90-7869573 alt +46-
70-3686605 http://www.emg.umu.se/english/about-the-
department/sta/jansson-roland Roland Jansson
<roland.jansson@umu.se >
UNewSouthWales 2 FishEpigenetics
EvolMed
A PhD position: Transgenerational non-genetic (epige-
netic) eects in zebrash at I-DEEL, E&ERC, UNSW,
Australia
It is increasingly clear that non-genetic (epigenetic)
parental eects inuence not only the phenotypes of
ospring but also those of grand-ospring. However, we
still know very little about the extent of this eect in
the subsequent generations, and its specic mechanisms.
The project will use a zebrash model to close this gap
in our understanding of transgenerational non-genetic
eects by taking an integrative evolutionary framework.April 1, 2017 EvolDir 45
Our group (http://www.i-deel.org/) is seeking a PhD
candidate to take on this project. The candidate
will conduct experiments using zebrash to investigate
how parental conditions can transgenerationally inu-
ence subsequent generations; we especially focus on
behavioural traits. We have access to a state-of-the-art
zebrash facility and molecular facility in collaboration
with Dr. Dan Hasselson at the Garvan Institute of
Medical Research (www.garvan.org.au). There, we have
developed a high-throughput behavioural phenotyping
system. High quality behavioural data will be combined
with cutting edge molecular data (individual-based tran-
scriptome and methylation data) to explore the im-
pact of parental environments on subsequent ospring
behaviour. We also employ modern genome editing
techniques (CRISPR, TALEN) to manipulate parental
genomes and thus the potential molecular mechanisms
under investigation.
This project is challenging and uniquely interdisciplinary,
by mixing molecular genetics, evolutionary biology, be-
havioural ecology and statistical modeling. Therefore,
the candidate will learn not only molecular techniques
but also advanced statistical and computational meth-
ods. There are also opportunities for the candidate to
develop their own PhD project with us. Note that our
lab conducts many meta-analyses, comparative analyses
and computer simulation work so these kind of projects
can be blended into the PhD thesis.
Please read our webpage to see the wide range of re-
search we conduct (www.i-deel.org). Here are some
relevant papers.
O'Dea, R. E., Noble, D. W. A., Johnson, S.L., Hesselson,
D.
& Nakagawa, S. (2016) The role of non-genetic inheri-
tance in evolutionary rescue: epigenetic buering, heri-
table bet hedging, and epigenetic traps. Environmental
Epigenetics. 2:1-12 Chatterjee, A., Ozaki, Y., Stockwell,
P. A. Horsled, J. A., Morison I. M. & Nakagawa, S.
(2013) Mapping the zebrash brain methylome using
reduced representation bisulte sequencing. Epigenetics.
8: 979-989
APPLICATION PROCEDURE: (1) DISCUSS: Email
letter with CV, academic record, and details of
two academic referees, to A/Prof Shinichi Nakagawa
(s.nakagawa@unsw.edu.au). Your letter should explain
how your results are sucient to allow application for a
SCHOLARSHIP at UNSW (see below). At this point
we cannot provide funding for a PhD from other sources,
so you need to qualify for a scholarship (see below) or
bring your own funding to work with us.
(2) PhD CANDIDACY APPLICATION: Requirementsfor PhD are BSc (Hons 1), MSc, or equivalent along
with solid research and communication skills.
For application timing and details, see: https://-
research.unsw.edu.au/how-apply-enrol-research-degree
(3a) PhD SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION - LOCAL:
Citizens or permanent residents of Australia/NZ, apply
for APA and UPA at UNSW. You will need to have
completed a research degree (e.g. MSc or BSc Honours
research year), with results which are equivalent to
85% or higher, in order to be competitive for these
scholarships. Publications in ISI-listed international
journals will also help. For application timing and
details see: https://research.unsw.edu.au/postgraduate-
research-scholarships (3b) PhD SCHOLARSHIP
APPLICATION - INTERNATIONAL: Applicants
who are NOT citizens or permanent residents of
Australia/NZ, can apply for IPRS and UIPA at UNSW.
In order to be competitive for these scholarships, you
will need to have completed a research degree (e.g. a
full year of research in either MSc or BSc-Honours),
with results which are equivalent to 95% or higher for
the research component of the degree. Note that a
coursework MSc is NOT acceptable.
Dr Shinichi Nakagawa (Associate Professor / ARC Fu-
ture Fellow) Deputy Director of Research, Evolution
& Ecology Research Centre, EERC (Visiting Scientist
at Garvan Institute of Medical Research) Room 568,
Biological Sciences Building (D26) School of Biological,
Earth and Environmental Sciences, BEES The Univer-
sity of New South Wales Randwick NSW 2052, Sydney,
Australia Mobile: 0422 655 854 Oce : 0293 859 138
Website: http://www.i-deel.org/ |{
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UNotreDame EcologicalSpeciation
The Je Feder lab in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences at the University of Notre Dame, in Notre Dame,
Indiana has a graduate student position available for
studying the genomics of ecological adaptation and spe-
ciation in insects. Our research has both laboratory
and eld components, spanning the realms of ecology
and evolution from experimental manipulation stud-
ies to high throughput DNA sequencing, focused on46 EvolDir April 1, 2017
discerning the adaptive basis of speciation and its ge-
nomic underpinnings. Ideally, we seek individuals with
experience in bioinformatics and candidates with past
research experience (e.g., in a master's program), for
the position. However, all highly motivated students are
encouraged to apply. The Department provides gradu-
ate students with generous stipend support and benets.
To apply please e-mail a CV, personal statement of in-
terest, and contact information for three references to
feder.2@nd.edu.
For additional information about our lab and grad-
uate program, please see http://federlab.nd.edu/-
and http://biology.nd.edu/graduate/graduate-studies-
overview/, respectively.
\mdoellma@nd.edu" <mdoellma@nd.edu >
UOtago
GenomicsParasiticMindControl
PhD Project Opportunity
Parasitic Puppeteers - How do They Pull the Strings?
We are currently seeking at least one, but potentially
several PhD students with interests in genetics, evolu-
tion, parasitology and neuroscience to investigate the
molecular mechanisms through which parasitic worms
alter the behaviour of their insect hosts.
Project Description Parasites can have profound eects
on the animal hosts they invade, manipulating host bi-
ology with exquisite precision to enhance host-to-host
transmission. One of the most extraordinary of these
host manipulations is the water-seeking behaviour that
some nematodes and hairworms induce in their hosts
so that the worms might exit the host and reproduce.
The process is the stu of science ction; the worm
hijacks the host's central nervous system forcing it to
seek water. Once water is found the adult worm, often
many times the size of the host, emerges, sacricing the
host. This amazing alteration in behaviour is induced by
parasitic worms spanning two phyla (Nematoda and Ne-
matomorpha) and is observed in a variety of arthropod
hosts, notably crickets, weta, earwigs, and sandhoppers,
leading us to hypothesise that a common and conserved
mechanism is being utilised by the parasites to induce
this behaviour in their hosts. Here we propose to couple
eld and laboratory studies of two phylogenetically dis-
tinct hosts and their parasites, with powerful genomic
and bioinformatic comparisons to elucidate the trig-
ger and genetic cascade through which these parasiticpuppeteers elicit this highly conserved, yet astonishing
behavioural response.
The project emerges from a new Marsden Grant headed
by Professor Neil Gemmell (Anatomy) in collaboration
with Professor Robert Poulin (Zoology) and will be
based in the Gemmell laboratory at the University of
Otago.
The Ideal Candidate The ideal candidate will possess
experience in molecular genetics/genomics, evolution-
ary biology and bioinformatics. Knowledge of NGS
approaches and analyses us desirable, while past work
in comparative genomics and an interest in parasitol-
ogy and neurobiology may be helpful. They candidate
will be motivated and organized, with a demonstrated
capacity to master the broad skill set necessary for the
successful completion of a research project. They will
be collegial and able to work alongside a wide variety
of people. In addition they will have a strong commit-
ment to academic and research excellence. Minimum
qualications: B.Sc. (Hons) and/or M.Sc. in Genetics,
Genomics, Molecular Biology or equivalent with an A
average or better.
Scholarship Funding: Financial support is expected to
be available for a high achieving student with an A
average or better via a University of Otago or Depart-
mental scholarship see http://www.otago.ac.nz/study/-
scholarships/).
Eligibility: The University of Otago and Departmental
scholarships are open to all nationalities. However, over-
seas candidates for whom English is not a rst language
must satisfy the English Language Requirements of the
University <http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/-
postgraduate/index.html#englishlanguage >to be eli-
gible for study (see). Other international eligibility cri-
teria are here <http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/-
postgraduate/otago002221.html >.
How to Apply: Interested applicants are encouraged
to make informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your aca-
demic transcript, a sample of your written scientic
work and the names of three referees with a covering
letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
Further information Gemmell lab <http://gemmell-
lab.otago.ac.nz/ >
Applications close on the 28/4/2017. It would be de-
sirable if the successful applicant were able to start by
mid 2017.
Neil Gemmell <neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 47
UOtago NewZealand PopGenTheory
PhD in Epigenetic Theory
A PhD position is available within the Department of
Zoology at the University of Otago in Dunedin, New
Zealand. This position in the laboratory of Professor
Hamish G. Spencer is funded by the Marsden Fund of
the Royal Society of New Zealand. A scholarship cover-
ing fees plus a tax-free stipend of NZ $27,500 per year is
available for three years.
The project is part of a larger project entitled \Epi-
genetics and Evolutionary Theory." Just as natural
populations exhibit genetic variation, so too do they
harbour epigenetic variation, some of which is trans-
mitted from one generation to the next. This project
asks how we can explain this transgenerationally in-
herited epigenetic variation in natural populations and
what might be the consequences for evolution. The can-
didate will construct and analyse novel mathematical
models to investigate these matters, validating these
models with data from real examples, and using the
models to make novel predictions about the properties
of epigenetic variation in nature.
The successful candidate will have a strong interest in ap-
plying quantitative methods in biology. They will have a
degree in biology and/or mathematics (or a related eld)
that included a research component (e.g., a dissertation
or a thesis). The degree (e.g., BSc(Hons), MSc) will
have been awarded with rst-class honours/distinction.
Our research group and the wider Department includes
world-class research sta, facilities and strong interna-
tional collaborations, oering excellent opportunities to
gain a variety of highly pertinent research and technical
skills.
For details about living in Dunedin, in the South
Island of New Zealand, see http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
humanresources/join-otago/lifestyle-and-culture/
dunedin/index.html
As part of your application, please submit a CV, a
transcript of your university grades, a personal state-
ment of suitability and the names and contact de-
tails of two referees to Professor Hamish Spencer
(hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz).
Applications will close on 9 April 2017.
Hamish Spencer <hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz >UOtago NZ WeevilEvolution
PhD Project Opportunity Available to Investigate the
Reproductive Ecology of Clover Root Weevils to Inform
New Biocontrol Strategies
We are currently seeking at least one PhD student with
interests in genetics, evolution, and behavioural ecology
to conduct research into the reproductive ecology of
clover root weevil and its implications for an exciting
new pest management method called the Trojan female
technique.
Project Description: Maternally inherited mitochondrial
DNA can accumulate mutations deleterious to males
so long as the mutations are neutral for females - a
phenomenon dubbed \Mother's curse". Often these
mutations reduce male fertility. Recently it was recog-
nised that this male-fertility-reducing curse could, in
theory, be cast upon invasive pests through an approach
known as the 'Trojan female technique' (TFT). The
TFT involves nding male-fertility-reducing mitochon-
drial mutations, breeding up populations of the female
carriers in captivity, then releasing them into the eld
where their infertile male progeny reduce reproduction
of the wild population. The TFT concept has recently
been proven in laboratory trials and we are now working
towards the world-rst eld implementation against a
New Zealand pasture pest called clover root weevil.
The ecacy of the TFT will be partly dependent on the
reproductive ecology of clover root weevil: How often
does a female mate, and with how many males? How
long does she store sperm for? Which male's sperm
does she use to fertilise her eggs? Can she choose? Is
sperm from males that carry one or more deleterious
mitochondrial mutations equally competitive with the
sperm of wild-type males? Answers to these and related
questions are critical for optimally implementing the
TFT against clover root weevil and other similar pests.
The project emerges from a new MBIE Smart Ideas
grant headed by Dr Craig Phillips (AgResearch, Lin-
coln) in collaboration with Prof Neil Gemmell (Otago),
Dr Damian Dowling (Monash University, Australia) and
Dr Dan Tompkins (Landcare Research, Dunedin). The
PhD position will be based predominantly based at
AgResearch Lincoln with a requirement to also spend
time in the Gemmell laboratory at the University of
Otago.48 EvolDir April 1, 2017
The Ideal Candidate: The ideal candidate will pos-
sess experience in molecular genetics, genomics and
evolutionary genetics, likely with direct application in
addressing questions relating to mating systems and
mate choice. Knowledge of entomology, microscopy and
molecular genetic approaches and analyses will be a
distinct advantage. The successful candidate will be
motivated and organised, with a demonstrated capacity
to master the broad skill set necessary for the success-
ful completion of a research project. They will be a
competent laboratory worker, experienced in all routine
molecular genetic techniques, and computer literate with
familiarity with database management and statistical
analyses.
Minimum qualications: B.Sc. (Hons) and/or M.Sc.
in genetics, genomics, molecular biology, behavioural
ecology or equivalent with an A average or better.
Scholarship Funding: Financial support is available for
a high achieving student with an A average or better
via an AgResearch stipend, and the candidate may also
be eligible for University of Otago scholarships.
Eligibility: The AgResearch and University of Otago
scholarships are open to all nationalities. However, over-
seas candidates for whom English is not a rst language
must satisfy the English Language Requirements of the
University <http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/-
postgraduate/index.html#englishlanguage >to be eli-
gible for study.
How to Apply: Interested applicants are encouraged
to make informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your aca-
demic transcript, a sample of your written scientic
work and the names of three referees with a covering
letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
Further information: Gemmell lab <http://gemmell-
lab.otago.ac.nz >
Applications close on the 28th May and it would be
desirable if the successful applicant were able to start
by mid 2017.
Professor Neil J. Gemmell Head of Department De-
partment of Anatomy jSchool of Biomedical Sciences j
University of Otago Te Tari Kikokiko jTe Kura M^ atai
Rongo^ a-KoiorajTe Whare W^ ananga o Ot^ ago Tel: 64 3
479 6373 Fax: 64 3 479 7254 Mail: PO Box 56, Dunedin
9054, New Zealand Address: 270 Great King Street,
Dunedin 9016, New Zealand Web: www.otago.ac.nz/-
anatomy [http://www.otago.ac.nz/otago634585.jpg]
Neil Gemmell <neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz >UPadua Italy SexualSelectionGuppy
PhD scholarship for a project on sexual selection in
guppies (Poecilia reticulata)
Supervisor Andrea Pilastro, University of Padova, Italy
Application Process:
The University of Padova, Italy, oers 15 PhD positions
to non-Italian students (deadline March 28, 2017, see:
http://www.unipd.it/en/research/doctoral-degrees-phd-
programmes/phd-courses-fees-grants-and-benets#).
The scholarships is 13.638 euros per year for 3 years,
but it comes with full board and free lodging (at the
University residences and canteens), so basic costs of
living are covered. Furthermore, the fellowship will be
increased by 50% during periods spent abroad (which
need to be approved by the PhD School board) in other
research institutions for study and research.
Padova is a lively town, close to the Venice, the Adriatic
see and the Dolomites, and hosts about 50000 undergrad-
uate and 1400 graduate students. Our PhD School in
Biosciences (http://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/) enrols
approx 50 PhD students and adopt English as working
language.
Selection of candidates is based on CV, proposed re-
search plan and recommendation letters from two previ-
ous supervisors. Preliminary agreement on the research
project with a supervisor at U Padua (that will cover
research funds) is also an important selection criterion.
Selection will be completed
The U Padua usually receives about 500 applications for
the 15 positions. Competition may therefore be hard,
although really eligible applicants (with good CV, two
reference letters and a project agreement) are usually a
small fraction of the total applicants.
The list of the candidates that will get a fellowship will
be published by 26th June 2017. Succesful candidates
will have to conrm their will to enroll by July 3rd 2017
and courses will start on
Any graduate student interested in doing a PhD in my
lab in the topic described below is encouraged to con-
tact me (andrea.pilastro@unipd.it), by sending a brief
CV and a statement of research interests. Deadline for
applications is March 28, 2017. Below a brief, general
description of the proposed research topic.
Proposed projectApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 49
Interaction between pre- and post-mating episodes of
sexual selection in a variable environment
In polyandrous species, sexual selection acts on reproduc-
tive traits during both pre- and post-mating episodes of
selection. While the scientic literature exploring these
two episodes singularly is vast, we are just starting to
explore how the overall variance (the potential for 'total
sexual selection' to act) in reproductive success can be
decomposed into its pre- and post-mating components
(see Devigili et al 2015, 2016 for some recent study). In
particular, although there is strong evidence that ecolog-
ical and social factors can modify singular components
of the sexual selection process, very little experimental
work has actually explored how total sexual selection
is aected by variations in ecological factors. Modica-
tions in the strength and direction of the relationships
between traits involved in mating and fertilization suc-
cess would have important evolutionary implications
(e.g. maintenance of additive genetic variation in sexual
traits, genetic bets of mate choice, contribution of sex-
ual selection to adaptation to environmental changes).
Following established experimental protocols (Devigili et
al. 2015), we will use replicated populations of guppies
(Poecilia reticulata) to investigate how experimentally
manipulated environmental and social factors aect the
level of polyandry, variances in mating rate and compet-
itive fertilization success. Traits associated with mating
and fertilization success are well known in this species
(Evans et al. 2003; Pilastro et al. 2004; Devigili et al.
2016) and will allow a trait-based analyses of selection
across a range of conditions.
Devigili, A., A. Di Nisio, A. Grapputo, and A. Pilas-
tro. 2016. Directional postcopulatory sexual selection
is associated with female sperm storage in Trinidadian
guppies. Evolution 70:1829-1843. Devigili, A., J. P.
Evans, A. Di Nisio, and A. Pilastro. 2015. Multivariate
selection drives concordant patterns of pre- and post-
copulatory sexual selection in a livebearing sh. Nat.
Commun. 6:8291. Evans, J. P., L. Zane, S. Francescato,
and A. Pilastro. 2003. Directional postcopulatory sex-
ual selection revealed by articial insemination. Nature
421:360-363. Pilastro, A., M. Simonato, A. Bisazza, and
J. P. Evans. 2004. Cryptic female preference for colorful
males in guppies. Evolution 58:665-669.
More publications of th eresearch group can be found
at:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUppsalaU BirchPopulationGenomics
PhD Position in birch population genomics at the De-
partment of Ecology and Genetics, Evolutionary Biology
Centre, Uppsala University, Sweden
The Department of Ecology and Genetics, which is part
of the Evolutionary Biology Centre, is an international
environment with more than 200 coworkers. The De-
partment research and education span from evolutionary
ecology and genetics to studies of ecosystems. The Evo-
lutionary Biology Centre is one of the world's largest
workplaces for evolutionary biologists and is an excellent
research environment with a wide range of topics in evo-
lution and ecology. Our graduate school oers a creative
and stimulating environment and oers a rich variety
of seminars, journal clubs, courses and possibilities to
interact with other scholars and students. The envi-
ronment is international with English as the primary
language at the department. For more information, see
www.ieg.uu.se . Project description: Natural occurrence
of polyploidy, inter-specic hybridization and the ability
to propagate asexually, together with accelerated ow-
ering (less than 1 year) and a relatively small genome
size of 440 Mb with a recent reference genome sequence,
make birches ideal for evolutionary biology studies in
trees. In the present project, we will investigate the rel-
ative contributions of hybridization, population history
and selection to local adaptation and thereby address
the response of Swedish birch populations to global
warming. The work will combine population genomic
studies of hybridization and local adaptation along lat-
itudinal gradients with controlled experiments of the
response of birches to elevated temperatures. These new
data, together with data from birch breeding programs,
will be used to evaluate the potential of genomic selec-
tion for developing advanced breeding material better
adapted to the forthcoming environmental conditions.
The applicant will be involved in material collection,
DNA extraction, bioinformatics, growth chamber ex-
periments and populations genetic analysis. The work
will be coupled to the ongoing EU project GENTREE,
which studies local adaptation of trees at European scale
in seven species. In this way there will be possibilities
to expand the PhD project in new directions. The work
will be co-led by Dr. Jarkko Salojarvi at University
of Helsinki. The project is supported by the Swedish
Research Council Formas and Dr. Martin Lascoux is50 EvolDir April 1, 2017
the main supervisor.
Qualications: A relevant master degree in biology,
genetics, ecology or equivalent. We are looking for a
candidate that is motivated, highly reliable, driven and
well-organized, and has a broad interest in evolutionary
biology. Experience of laboratory work and bioinfor-
matics and using Linux is needed. Previous experience
of quantitative/molecular/population genetics and pro-
gramming (e.g. R, Matlab, C, Perl, Python) is a merit.
You should have the capacity to express yourself well
in speech and writing in English. Because the holder of
this position will interact closely with other lab mem-
bers, we put emphasis on personal ability, independence
and ability to collaborate.
Position: The graduate program covers four years of
full-time study. The position can be combined with
teaching or other duties at the department (maximum
20%), which prolongs the employment with the corre-
sponding time. The salary will be set according to local
agreements. Rules governing PhD candidates are set
out in the Higher Education Ordinance Chapter 5, { 1-7
and in Uppsala university's rules and guidelines http:/-
/regler.uu.se/Rules andregulations inEnglish/. More
information about postgraduate studies at Uppsala
University is available at http://www.teknat.uu.se/-
education/postgraduate/ . Application: The applica-
tion should include 1) a letter describing yourself, your
research interests, why you want to do a PhD and why
you are suitable for the current position, 2) a CV 3), a
short description of your education, 4) an authorized
copy of your Master's degree and course grades, 5) the
names and email addresses of at least two referees, 6)
relevant publications including Master's thesis. The
application should be written in English.
Uppsala University aims for gender balance and diversity
in all activities in order to achieve a higher quality at all
levels of the organization. We therefore welcome appli-
cants of any gender and with dierent birth background,
functionality and life experience.
Starting: As soon as possible or as otherwise agreed.
For further information about the position please con-
tact
Professor Martin Lascoux, e-mail: mar-
tin.lascoux@ebc.uu.se, tel. 018-471 6416.
More information about the research: https://-
lascouxlab.wordpress.com/people/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUSalzburg Austria
PollinatorAdaptation
The Department of Ecology & Evolution at the Univer-
sity of Salzburg is oering
2 PhD positions for three years each
in the FWF-funded project \Local pollinator adaptation
in deceptive Arum maculatum" (Project leaders: Stefan
D otterl, Hans-Peter Comes, Anja H orger)
This project aims to identify 1) the ecological roles of
oral scent in the plant-pollinator interaction between
brood-site deceptive Arum maculatum and its main pol-
linators, Psychoda phalaenoides and Psycha grisescens;
and 2) the likely dierential selective inuence of each
moth y species and its olfactory preferences on inores-
cence scent divergence between European A. maculatum
populations along a latitudinal gradient covering areas
north and south of the Alps. The project will be pur-
sued along three axes. First, it will study the geographic
patterns of pollinators trapped in comparison to the in-
orescence scents emitted. Second, it will study the
mechanisms of pollinator attraction by looking which
molecule(s) within the blend is(are) responsible for de-
ceiving the two main pollinator species. Finally, it will
test for the involvement of inorescence scent in the
divergent local adaptation of A. maculatum by using
both ecological-experimental and genomic approaches.
One of the doctoral researchers will be mainly responsi-
ble for the ecological and chemo-ecological approaches
(dynamic headspace, gas chromatography / mass spec-
trometry; electroantennographic detection, behavioral
assays, multivariate statistical analyses), the second stu-
dent will focus on the genomic approaches (Rad-seq,
meta-barcoding, bioinformatics) and correlative analy-
ses (ecological-genomic). Both students are expected
to perform eld work (scent sampling, pollinator ob-
servations, reciprocal transplants) and supervise eld
assistants.
The successful applicants should be highly motivated,
procient in English language and scientic writing, and
have a research focus in one or more of the following
elds of research: a) pollination biology; b) chemical
ecology; c) population genetics/genomics. An MSc,
diploma degree or equivalent in Botany, Zoology, Ecol-
ogy, Genetics, Molecular Biology or Evolutionary Ecol-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 51
ogy is required. Previous eld and lab experience and/or
bioinformatics skills are of advantage.
The monthly gross salary is c. 2071 EUR (14 months of
payment per year). The University of Salzburg oers
excellent research facilities, and a very pleasant working
and living environment in a beautiful landscape with
numerous lakes and mountains.
Please send your application (letter of motivation, CV,
certicates, contacts of two potential referees) in elec-
tronic form as a single pdf le to Univ.-Prof. Dr. Stefan
D otterl, Stefan.Doetterl@sbg.ac.at. Please also indicate
your preference for the ecological or the genomic project.
The start date is scheduled for April 2017. The positions
will be lled as soon as suitable applicants are found. In
case you have any requests, please contact Univ.-Prof.
Dr. Stefan D otterl.
Dr. Anja H orger University of Salzburg Department of
Ecology and Evolution Hellbrunnerstr. 34 5020 Salzburg
Austria
email: anja.hoerger@sbg.ac.at Tel: +43 662 8044-5501
H orger Anja <anja.hoerger@sbg.ac.at >
UStAndrews
DrosophilaSpeciationGenomics
We would like to advertise a PhD project at the Univer-
sity of St Andrews.
PhD studentship: Genomic predictors of reproductive
isolation in Drosophila
We are looking for a talented and motivated student
(UK or EU) to undertake a four-year PhD at the Uni-
versity of St Andrews, Scotland. Project details be-
low. Interested applicants are encouraged to contact
the primary supervisor, Prof. Mike Ritchie, via email
(mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk) before the application deadline
on March 27th.
Project summary
Reproductive isolation has long been recognised as a key
step in the process of speciation. The Biological Species
concept argues that isolation needs to be complete be-
tween 'good' species, but most recent research suggests
that this is far too stringent a criterion. Advances in
the availability and methods of analysis of genomes al-
low us to detect and quantify variation in gene ow
not only between species, but also between genomicregions within species. Much new data is emerging on
patterns of genomic divergence. This project will ex-
amine predictors of these patterns of divergence using
both existing and novel genomic data, in combination
with data on the ecology and measures of pre- and
post-mating reproductive isolation. The data will come
from Drosophila, which has a relatively well understood
genome, and detailed compilations of the strength of
dierent types of reproductive isolation exist. The stu-
dent will integrate existing and new genomic data into
this database and use novel analytical techniques to
determine genetic divergence and gene ow between
dierent genomic regions. Do similar patterns of ge-
nomic divergence correlate with sexual or post-mating
isolation? Do both inuence sex-chromosomes versus
autosomes similarly? Do ecological generalists show
dierent patterns from specialists? Do patterns dier
between sympatry and allopatry, and how often do we
detect gene ow in sympatric species? Co-supervisor1,
Konrad Lohse (Edinburgh), has developed new meth-
ods to detect introgression and regions of admixture
from such genomic data. Co-supervisor 2, Oscar Gag-
giotti (St Andrews), has developed methods to detect
genomic outliers while controlling for population history
and ecological covariates. Both will advise and help the
student apply such techniques to the data. The lead
supervisor, Michael Ritchie, brings extensive experience
of speciation in this group.
Prof. Mike Ritchie Centre for Biological Diver-
sity, School of Biology, University of St Andrews,
Fife. Scotland KY16 9TH UK 0 (+44 out-
side UK) 1334 463495 http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
prole/mgr http://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=
JSkvwMsAAAAJ&hl Email: mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk
LOHSE Konrad <klohse@exseed.ed.ac.uk >
USussex FloralEvolution new
deadline
Deadline extended for this PhD opportunity:
* PhD position available to study ower evolution during
range expansions at the University of Sussex*
Supervisor: Maria Clara Castellanos
(www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/plant-evolutionary-ecology-
lab)
co-supervisor: Dave Goulson (www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/-
goulsonlab)52 EvolDir April 1, 2017
co-supervisor: Je Ollerton (University of Northamp-
ton)
We are looking for an enthusiastic student interested
in pollination and oral evolution to explore how new
pollinator environments on dierent continents can gen-
erate oral evolutionary innovation during plant inva-
sions. The project will use several plant species that
can be studied in their native and new ranges, and com-
bine eld work in South and Central America and/or
southern Europe, molecular work and greenhouse stud-
ies to understand how plants deal with changes in
their pollinators. For further details on the project
please visit http://www.sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/fees-
and-scholarships/scholarships/view/759 .The student
will be part of the vibrant Evolution, Behaviour and
Environment subject group within the University of
Sussex; our campus is located within a national park,
10 minutes from the seashore city of Brighton.
This 3.5-years fully funded studentship is open to UK
and EU citizens. The successful applicant will have
a strong interest in plant evolutionary ecology; expe-
rience with eld work and/or molecular biology will
be a plus. A driving licence and availability and in-
terest in performing eld work in the UK and abroad
are essential. The closing date for applications is 25th
April 2017. Applications should be submitted through
Sussex University's graduate application system: http:/-
/www.sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/apply. Please include
a CV, statement of interest and the names and email
addresses of two academic referees. The expected start-
ing date is in September 2017. Email me for informal
enquiries: m.c.castellanos@sussex.ac.uk.
Maria Clara Castellanos
<M.C.Castellanos@sussex.ac.uk >
UUppsala PopulationGenomics
A PhD student position in population genomics is avail-
able at the department of Organismal Biology, Uppsala
University.
Closing date: 2017-04-30
Project description: The demographic history of many
species is currently being addressed with modern com-
putational methods combined with population genomic
data, especially humans that often function as a model
organism in this respect. In order to understand popu-
lation divergence processes, concepts of eective popu-lation size, population structure and genetic diversity
become important. Linking eective population size as a
function of time to population divergence and structure
is a major challenge for modern population genomics and
computational biology. The proposed project focuses
on trying to disentangle population structure and diver-
gence from population size (both eective and census)
changes. The project will investigate these processes
using large-scale population genomic data from humans
and archaic humans such as Neandertals.
The project is part of a larger program that links theoret-
ical population genetics, genomics and human evolution.
The successful candidate will work in Professor Mat-
tias Jakobsson research group together with Dr. Per
Sj odin. The group consists of ~25 researchers (senior
scientist, postdocs, graduate students and research en-
gineers) with dierent areas of expertise. The research
at the Jakobsson lab focus on population genetics and
human evolution and the lab uses a combination of
mathematical studies of population genetic models and
computational approaches to understand the complex
patterns of large-scale human genetic variation and their
implications for human demographic and evolutionary
history. In particular, the research focuses on under-
standing human evolution using genetic information
from both recent and ancient individuals, developing
statistical methods for analyzing large genomic data,
and searching for genes targeted by selection.
Qualications: A master degree (or equivalent) in a
relevant eld is required. The ideal candidate is highly
motivated with thorough education in quantitative disci-
plines, such as statistical/quantitative/population genet-
ics, bioinformatics, computer science, statistics, mathe-
matics and with a strong interest in population genetics
and human evolution.
For further information about the position please see
http://www.iob.uu.se/about-us/join-us/?positionId=-
3D141314 or contact Professor Mattias Jakobsson
mattias.jakobsson@ebc.uu.se, +46 18 471 6449.
\Per.Sjodin@ebc.uu.se" <Per.Sjodin@ebc.uu.se >
Vienna PopulationGenetics
Call for PhD students at the Vienna Graduate School
of Population Genetics
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 53
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a background in one of the follow-
ing disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolutionary
genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and experimen-
tal population genetics. Students from related disci-
plines, such as physics or mathematics are also welcome
to apply.
Topics include:
Evolution of gene expression Understanding thermal
adaptation The impact of new transposable element in-
sertions on adaptation to a new environment Wolbachia
infection dynamics in evolving Drosophila populations
The adaptive value of diversity produced by recur-
rent whole genome doubling Epigenetic variation in
Arabidopsis Genetic footprints of adaptive introgres-
sion Statistical inference concerning population genetic
parameters from repeated genomic measurement data
New methods for modelling and analysis of data from
experimental evolution Maximum likelihood inference
of population genetic parameters using genome-wide
data Macroevolutionary dynamics of selsh DNA un-
ravelled by third generation sequencing Dynamics of a
selsh DNA invasion
Only complete applications (application form, CV, mo-
tivation letter, university certicates, indication of the
two preferred topics in a single pdf) received by May 21,
2017 will be considered. Two letters of recommendation
need to be sent directly by the referees. Accepted PhD
students will receive a monthly salary based on currently
EUR 2071 before tax according to the regulations of the
Austrian Science Fund (FWF).
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can
be found at www.popgen-vienna.at { Dr. Julia Hosp
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics Co-
ordinator www.popgen-vienna.at https://twitter.com/-
PopGenViennaPhD c/o Institut f ur Populationsgenetik
Veterin armedizinische Universit at Wien (Vetmeduni Vi-
enna) Veterin arplatz 1, 1210 Wien
T +43 1 25077 4338 F +43 1 25077 4390
http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-
genetics/ https://twitter.com/PopGenVienna
julia.hosp@gmail.comWesternSydneyU 3
TephritidFruitFlies
Three PhD Positions, Hawkesbury Institute for the En-
vironment, Western Sydney University, Australia
Three PhD scholarships are available for highly moti-
vated and driven candidates to study the ecology and
evolution of entomopathogens and endosymbionts of
Australian tephritid fruit ies. The general aims of the
projects are to characterise the diversity and impact of
entomopathogens (EPNs, fungi, bacteria and viruses),
the interactions with their hosts and endosymbionts
(including Wolbachia). Research will include laboratory
experiments and eld studies in dierent environments
from central New South Wales to northern Queensland,
Australia.
The PhD candidates will be based at the Hawkes-
bury Institute for the Environment (HIE) (https://-
www.westernsydney.edu.au/hie) in Richmond, NSW,
with placements with collaborating research and indus-
try partners. HIE is a recently established research
institute within Western Sydney University. HIE has
rapidly built a strong research reputation in ecology
and evolution, and houses a team of over 50 academic
research scientists and over 50 PhD students with access
to a unique suite of world-class research facilities.
The PhD positions form part of the HIE node of the Aus-
tralian Research Council (ARC) funded Industrial Trans-
formation Training Centre (ITTC) for Fruit Fly Biose-
curity and Innovation (http://www.fruityittc.edu.au).
This ITTC is cross-institutional (in collaboration with
Macquarie University and Queensland University of
Technology), and the focus of the team at HIE is to
investigate the potential for new microbial control of
Australian tephritid pest fruit ies, including Australia's
most signicant pest, Queensland fruit y Bactrocera
tryoni.
Three research projects are available to highly moti-
vated candidates in the areas below: Interactions of
entomopathogens and Australian fruit y. Wolbachia
and other endosymbionts of Australian fruit y. Biotic
mortality factors of Australian fruit y across dierent
regions.
For more information about the projects and applica-
tion process please visit the website below: https://-
www.westernsydney.edu.au/graduate research school/-54 EvolDir April 1, 2017
grs/scholarships/ current scholarships
Application deadline: 19 March 2017 (please direct late
applications to Markus Riegler).For further information please contact Associate Profes-
sor Markus Riegler <m.riegler@westernsydney.edu.au >
Markus Riegler <M.Riegler@westernsydney.edu.au >
Jobs
23andMe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
BrownU AnatomyTeacher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
ClemsonU 2 Lecturer Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
DukeU FullTimeTeachingAssistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
GeorgeWashingtonU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
ImperialC London PollinatorEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . 58
LaTrobeU Australia GenomicPlantBreeding . . . . . . . 58
LUOMUS UHelsinki InsectCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
NewYorkU ResearchScientist EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . 60
OhioStateU CropGeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
OmahaZoo GeneticsResAssist Bioinformatics . . . . . . 62
QueenMaryU EvolNeurobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
SouthDakotaStateU WildlifeConservation . . . . . . . . . 63
Tromso Norway FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UCalgary ComputationalBiol DeadlineExt . . . . . . . . .65
UCatolicadeChile 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UCentralFlorida CoastalDiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . 67UEdinburgh BioinformaticsHairColour . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UGreifswald EvolutionaryMathematics . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UGreifswald SciAssist18Mnths EvolutionVibrational-
Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UGrenobleAlpes 3yr EvolutionaryDataScience . . . . . 69
UKansas ResAsst Drosophila ComplexTraits . . . . . . 69
UMaryland Tech InvertPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UppsalaU QuantitativeGeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . .71
UPrague PlantEvolutionSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
UTromso FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UUtah Genetics LabManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
Virginia DirectorResearchCenter Bioinformatics . . . 73
WSLBirmensdorf EnvironmentalGenomics . . . . . . . . .74
Xishuangbanna TropicalBotanicalGarden ResearchPosi-
tions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
23andMe
23andMe's mission is to help people access, understand,
and benet from the human genome. We are a group of
passionate individuals excited to push the boundaries of
what's possible to help turn genetic insight into better
health and personal understanding.
Our Research Team prides itself on driving cutting edge,
industrial-scale science to make an impact that belies
the team's size, in an environment and culture thatfosters creativity, innovation, collaboration, and fun.
More than 80% of our customers consent to participate
in research, and as a result of their participation, we
have one of the largest recontactable, genotyped, and
phenotyped research cohorts in the world. The scope
and breadth of our vision means that most of the meth-
ods and tools necessary to unlock the potential of this
unique resource for discovery have yet to be developed.
Our science has garnered the respect of many mem-
bers of the broader scientic community. For a list of
our publications, see www.23andme.com/publications/-
for-scientists/ . Join us! Visit our Careers page
(www.23andMe.com/careers) to learn more about theseApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 55
open positions:
- Scientist, Research Communications - Bioinformati-
cist - Computational Biologist, Ancestry R&D - Sci-
entist/Senior Scientist, Statistical Genetics - Scien-
tist/Senior Scientist, Survey Methodology - Scien-
tist/Senior Scientist, Health R&D - Senior Computa-
tional Biologist - Biostatistician
pfontanillas@23andme.com
BrownU AnatomyTeacher
Alpert Medical School and Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Brown University
Anatomy Lecturer
The Alpert Medical School at Brown University is seek-
ing a full-time faculty member at the rank of Lec-
turer (non-tenure track) with teaching responsibilities in
dissection-based human anatomy. The successful appli-
cant will: 1) team-teach anatomy for medical students,
including lecture, prosection preparation and presenta-
tion, dissection labs, and training teaching assistants; 2)
coordinate the anatomy component of the new Gateways
to Medicine, Health Care, and Research Program (Mas-
ter^A1s and Certicate students); 3) team-teach anatomy
for physician assistant students from Bryant University,
both lecture and dissection; 4) organize, manage and su-
pervise the anatomy outreach program including visits,
tours, and use of the lab by clinical groups.
Qualications: Ph.D., M.D., D.O. or equivalent doc-
toral degree and experience in dissection-based human
anatomy required. At least two years teaching experi-
ence in dissection-based human anatomy preferred.
The successful applicant will join a cohesive team
of anatomy faculty including Dale Ritter (Director),
Stephen Gatesy, Thomas Roberts and Elizabeth Brain-
erd. Review of applications will begin March 15, 2017
and will continue until the position is lled. The antici-
pated start date is June 1, 2017. Salary will be commen-
surate with experience and competitive for non-tenure
track faculty in medical education. Please apply through
the Interfolio system [http://apply.interfolio.com/40284]
and include a letter of application, curriculum vitae, and
statement of teaching experience and interest, and the
names and contact information for four references.
Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and
inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AAemployer, Brown considers applicants for employment
without regard to, and does not discriminate on the ba-
sis of, gender, race, protected veteran status, disability,
or any other legally protected status.
\holbrook@rowan.edu" <holbrook@rowan.edu >
ClemsonU 2 Lecturer Genetics
Clemson University: College of Science: Genetics &
Biochemistry Lecturer Location: 154 Robert F Poole
Closes: Apr 15, 2017 at 11:59 PM Eastern Time (GMT-4
hours)
Two full-time, nine-month LECTURER positions for
the instruction and development of teaching laboratories
in genetics and biochemistry. One lecturer will have
expertise in the area of Biochemistry and a second will
have expertise in the area of Genetics. Both Lectur-
ers will be responsible for the sophomore integrated
biochemistry/genetics laboratory course GEN/BCHM
3040 Molecular Biology Lab. The Biochemistry Lecturer
will also be responsible for the upper level biochemistry
laboratory courses, BCHM 4330 Physical Approach to
Biochemistry Lab and BCHM 4340 Biochemistry of
Metabolism Lab, while the Genetics Lecturer will be re-
sponsible for the upper level genetics laboratory courses,
GEN 4210 Molecular Genetics and Gene Regulation Lab
and GEN 4110 Population and Quantitative Genetics
Lab. A Ph.D. in a relevant discipline is required and ex-
perience in teaching and laboratory course development
at the college level is preferred. Expected start date
is July 1, 2017. This is a renewable, non-tenure track
position with opportunity for promotion. Salary level
will be commensurate with education and experience
and a benets package is included.
Qualications One lecturer will have expertise in the
area of Biochemistry and a second will have expertise
in the area of Genetics. A Ph.D. in a relevant discipline
is required and experience in teaching and laboratory
course development at the college level is preferred.
Application Instructions To apply, please submit an
electronic application (submitted as a single PDF) that
includes a cover letter, curriculum vitae, names and
contact information for three persons from whom a let-
ter of reference can be requested, and a statement of
teaching philosophy to Interfolio at (insert Interfolio
web address and job # for Genetics position) or (insert
Interfolio web address and job # for Biochemistry po-
sition). Appropriately qualied individuals may apply56 EvolDir April 1, 2017
for both positions by submitting an application to each.
To ensure full consideration, please submit applications
by April 14, 2017.
https://apply.interfolio.com/41087 Amy Lawton-Rauh,
PhD Associate Professor, Department of Genetics and
Biochemistry; Faculty Senate Vice President/President-
Elect
Clemson University 316 Biosystems Research Complex,
105 Collings Drive, Clemson SC 29634-0318
Oce +1.864.656.1507 jSkype amy.lawton.rauh
jamylr@clemson.edu jpopquantgenomics.org j
twitter.com/alawtonrauh < http://twitter.com/-
CUSoA Clemson >j j clemson.edu/genbiochem
<http://www.clemson.edu/genbiochem >jros-
breed.org/about <mailto:amylr@clemson.edu >
j clemson.edu/glimpse/?pR60 < http://-
clemson.academia.edu/PeterLaurence >
Amy Lawton-Rauh <amylr@clemson.edu >
DukeU FullTimeTeachingAssistant
Information about the full-time teaching/prep positions
in Biology 202L course \Genetics and Evolution," Duke
University
Position description: Work full time (40 hours/week)
as a teaching assistant and laboratory prep assistant
in the introductory biology program for the 2017-2018
academic year. The position has two main components,
teaching and behind-the-scenes laboratory preparation.
Teaching component: The primary teaching responsi-
bility of the position is to lead laboratory sections of
up to 16 students in the Biology Department's genet-
ics and evolution Gateway course, Biology 202L. Each
Biology 202L section meets weekly for 2.5 hours for
a combined hands-on laboratory/problem-based learn-
ing session. Additional teaching responsibilities include
(a) attending and taking notes at all course lectures
including the weekly large discussion section, (b) grad-
ing weekly student written assignments, (c) helping
with the preparation and grading of in-class quizzes and
mid-semester hourly and nal exams, and (d) assisting
students during oce hours and otherwise mentoring
students as beginning biologists.
Teaching assistants should plan to be in Durham early
the week of August 21, 2017, and are expected to par-
ticipate in a teacher-training workshop before the fallsemester begins. TAs also attend weekly prep sessions
during the semester on Mondays.
Prep component: The second set of duties associated
with the position is to assist in the preparatory work
for the teaching labs in Biology 201L and 202L, as de-
termined by the Lab Administrator. Responsibilities
include setting up and putting away equipment and
specimens for laboratory exercises, maintaining supplies
in lab rooms between sections, cleaning glassware, assist-
ing with eld collection of live specimens, and helping
to care for a diverse collection of invertebrate animals
in salt-water aquaria. The lab prep workload is likely
to require some evening (until 10 PM) and/or early
morning (8 AM) work.
Salary: The projected salary for the position is $17,500
or commensurate with experience. Employment begins
on August 21, 2017 and ends May 11, 2018, with most of
the winter and spring breaks o, with payment made in
9 equal amounts on the 25th of each month starting in
September and ending in May. Full-time teaching/prep
employees are eligible for health plans made available
by the University.
Qualications: Applicants should have a bachelor's de-
gree with a strong, varied background in biology, espe-
cially genetics and evolution, with a superior science
GPA. A very important attribute is a high level of
energy and an enthusiasm for teaching genetics and
evolution. Prior enrollment with good grades in Duke
University courses Biology 25L (introductory biology),
118 (genetics), 116 (evolution), 102L/202L (genetics and
evolution), or the equivalent(s), and experience teaching
are highly desirable; experience tending Drosophila is a
plus. Teaching assistants in Biology 202L are expected
to be actively engaged with their students in all aspects
of the course and to serve as role models and mentors.
Because they are a vital part of the gateway biology
teaching team both in the classroom and behind the
scenes, full-time assistants must be willing to commit
themselves fully to the responsibilities of the position
described above and as determined by the faculty mem-
bers in charge of the gateway course. US citizens only.
Duke is an Equal Opportunity and Armative Action
employer.
Interviews and Application Process: Formal interviews
are planned to begin after April 5, 2017. Hiring decisions
will be made on a rolling basis thereafter, continuing as
necessary.
Interested applicants should provide (a) a cover letter,
(b) a transcript(s), and (c) a resume with the names of
two references (preferably at Duke for Duke students
or alumni) to Julie Noor. These may be emailed to
jkfnoor@duke.edu, delivered to her mailbox in the De-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 57
partment of Biology (BioSci 138), or mailed to her at
the Department of Biology, Box 90338, Duke University,
Durham, NC 27708-0338. To be assured of considera-
tion, applications should be submitted by April 5, 2017,
although later applications will be considered if all posi-
tions haven't been lled.
For more information contact Julie Noor by e-mail at
jkfnoor@.duke.edu
Mohamed Noor <noor@duke.edu >
GeorgeWashingtonU Bioinformatics
Computational Biology Institute
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics
Milken Institute School of Public Health
The George Washington University
The Computational Biology Institute and the Depart-
ment of Epidemiology and Biostatistics of the GW
Milken Institute School of Public Health are recruit-
ing for 1-2 full-time tenure track or tenured faculty
at the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor. The
successful candidate(s) will develop a program of spon-
sored research with the Computational Biology Institute,
and teach and mentor graduate students in the Depart-
ment of Epidemiology and Biostatistics. Academic rank,
salary and employment position are competitive and
will be commensurate with experience. GW has a strong
commitment to achieving diversity among faculty and
sta, and accordingly we encourage applications from
members of underrepresented populations.
The Computational Biology Institute seeks faculty mem-
bers to establish externally funded, internationally recog-
nized, and interdisciplinary research programs in bioin-
formatics and/or computational biology in an area such
as genome analysis, biodiversity informatics, transla-
tional medicine, public health, cancer, neurobiology and
systems biology developing methods to address 'big data'
issues from a computational perspective.
The Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics over-
sees the MPH, MS and PhD programs in epidemiology,
MPH program in biostatistics, and the MS program
in public health microbiology and emerging infectious
diseases. The Department collaborates with the De-
partment of Statistics for the MS and PhD programs in
biostatistics.
Basic Qualications: Applicants must have an MD orPhD conferred prior to the time of application in Bioin-
formatics, Computational Biology, Computer Science,
Mathematics, Genomics, Epidemiology or a related dis-
cipline, with postdoctoral research experience; as well as
experience publishing in peer-reviewed journals, propos-
ing and/or implementing funded research, and teaching
graduate and/or undergraduate courses in their area of
expertise.
Responsibilities: The successful candidates will devote
approximately 50% of their eorts to obtaining, im-
plementing or overseeing funded research, and 50% to
teaching, mentoring, and educational administration.
Application Procedure: Applicants should complete
the online faculty application at http://www.gwu.jobs/-
postings/40652 and submit the following documents: 1)
a curriculum vitae; 2) a statement of research interest
to include accomplishments and future plans; and 3)
a statement of teaching interest to include mentoring
interest. Only complete applications will be considered.
Review of applications will begin on March 29, 2017
and will continue until the positions are lled.
For further information about the Computational
Biology Institute at George Washington University,
please see https://cbi.gwu.edu/ .Additional informa-
tion about the Milken Institute School of Public
Health can be found at http://publichealth.gwu.edu/-
and the Department of Epidemiology & Bio-
statistics http://publichealth.gwu.edu/departments/-
epidemiology-and-biostatistics . The university is an
Equal Employment Opportunity/Armative Action em-
ployer that does not unlawfully discriminate in any of
its programs or activities on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, veteran
status, sexual orientation, gender identity expression, or
on any other basis prohibited by applicable law.
Employment oers are contingent on the satisfactory
outcome of a standard background screening.
Keith A. Crandall, PhD Director, Computational Biol-
ogy Institute Milken Institute School of Public Health
The George Washington University 800 22nd Street, NW
- Suite 7000D Washington, DC 20052 (o): 571-553-0107
(m): 202-769-8411 Twitter / LinkedIn
\Prof. Keith A. Crandall" <kcrandall@gwu.edu >58 EvolDir April 1, 2017
ImperialC London
PollinatorEvolutionaryEcol
Research Associate in Insect Pollinator Evolutionary
Ecology Imperial College London, UK - Department of
Life Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences
Closing date 6 April 2017 (Midnight GMT)
A NERC funded Research Associate position is avail-
able for 33 months in the research group of Dr Richard
Gill at Imperial College London's Silwood Park cam-
pus, to investigate insect pollinator responses to a cen-
tury of land-use change. This position will primarily
focus on population trait evolution of insect pollina-
tors, and the investigation of stress induced eects on
bee behaviour and colony tness. The position will
involve collaborating with researchers at the Natural
History Museum London who will generate complemen-
tary genomic datasets, and involve work with curators
from a number of UK museums to analyse insect speci-
mens and with researchers from NHM London, Queen
Mary University of London, Northampton University
and Christchurch University (New Zealand).
The Gill group's aim is to better understand how insect
pollinator populations (primarily bees) respond to land-
scape change, and how they adapt to newly emerging
environments and the impact on measures of tness.
The successful candidate will focus on addressing two
primary questions (i) whether there are regional adapta-
tions in response to dierential land-use change (LUC)
and (ii) whether specic factors associated with agri-
cultural LUC place a constraint on social bee colony
development and tness. This will involve analysis of
morphological variation using museum specimens, in-
vestigating phenological change from archival records,
and undertaking manipulation experiments alongside
behavioural observations. As part of this NERC project,
Prof Ian Barnes and Dr Selina Brace (@NHM London)
will be focusing on the recovery and analysis of ancient
DNA from museum specimens and we intend for the
successful candidate to also contribute to this aspect of
the project.
You should hold a PhD (or equivalent) in a Biological
Science. You will have a background in evolution and/or
ecology, with experience in the analysis of trait variation.
You will also have experience of husbandry, handling
or monitoring animals in the laboratory and/or eld.You will also have experience in experimental design
and will have the ability to analyse large data sets in
addition to a proven track record of publishing qual-
ity research. Previous experience in using any of the
following methods is desirable: micro-CT scanning tech-
nology, geometric morphometrics, observation of animal
behaviour and collections-based research.
This full-time, xed-term post has a start date of
19 June 2017 (but with some exibility). Infor-
mal enquiries should be directed to Dr Richard
Gill at r.gill@imperial.ac.uk and further details of
the Gill research group can be found at: https:/-
/www.imperial.ac.uk/people/r.gill . The preferred
method of application is online via our website http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment (please select \Job
Search" then enter the job title or vacancy reference
number including spaces - NS 2017 045 LH - into
\Keywords"). Please complete and upload an appli-
cation form as directed. If you are unable to ap-
ply online, please contact Christine Short by email
c.j.short@imperial.ac.uk, to request an application form.
Salary: 36,070 - 43,350 per annum (maximum starting
salary 36,070)
\Gill, Richard J" <r.gill@imperial.ac.uk >
LaTrobeU Australia
GenomicPlantBreeding
Are you a plant breeder/quantitative geneticist who is
passionate about genomic plant breeding? Do you want
to work in a group that develops new methods and ap-
plies them directly to increase genetic gain for growers
in Australia and globally? Then you should think about
joining my growing group.
We are currently looking for a Senior Research Scientist
and a Research Scientist. Both positions require strong
skills and experience in quantitative genetics, genomics,
and candidates should be familiar with computer pro-
gramming. A major theme for these positions is to
investigate the long-term impact on genetic gain and di-
versity of novel plant breeding programs using empirical
data and computer simulations.
The positions will report to me (Hans Daetwyler). There
will also be opportunities to collaborate with other team
leaders including Assoc. Prof. Matt Hayden, Dr. Noel
Cogan, and Prof Mike Goddard. Senior Research Scien-
tist (closes March 19, 2017) Fixed Term / Full Time - 3April 1, 2017 EvolDir 59
Years Bundoora location, AgriBio, La Trobe University
Campus
more info at https://jobs.careers.vic.gov.au/jobs/VG-
022151 We are seeking a motivated and experienced
quantitative geneticist for an exciting new role under-
pinning our strategy to accelerate the rate of genetic
gain in plant breeding. You will be responsible for co-
ordinating and delivering research within large plant
breeding research projects, primarily focused on plant
breeding program designs that utilise genomic and opti-
mal haploid value selection. An important focus will be
to develop stochastic computer simulations to underpin
breeding program choice within Agriculture Victoria
and for commercial partners.
We are looking for an experienced researcher with excel-
lent organisational skills, preferably with a background
in the use of genomic data for breeding outcomes in
general and specically for genomic selection, as well as
a foundation in computer programming. Publications in
key international journals are expected and encouraged,
as is supervision of sta and PhD students.
You will also have a strong commitment to the values
of collaboration, accountability, delivery, and a passion
for science. The position oers a unique opportunity
to fast track the latest research in plant genetics and
genomics into industry application with a large commer-
cial partner.
The successful applicant will work eectively as a mem-
ber of a team, enjoy exible working arrangements and
undertake a wide variety of work across the division.
Research Scientist (closes March 12, 2017) Fixed Term
/ Full Time - 3 Years Bundoora location, AgriBio, La
Trobe University Campus
more info at https://jobs.careers.vic.gov.au/jobs/VG-
022152 The Research Scientist Computational Biology
will develop tools enabling faster genetic gain for impor-
tant crop and forage species through research on genomic
and optimal haploid value selection, with a focus on de-
veloping stochastic computer simulations that underpin
breeding program choice within Agriculture Victoria
and for commercial partners. The role is required to
deliver on specic research milestones for large, collab-
orative, industry co-funded projects. In this position
you will develop novel genomic breeding programs that
will be the foundation for breeding and pre-breeding
programs in Australia and abroad. Communicating key
results and new methodologies to industry, and engag-
ing with industry partners will also be a key part of
the role. Publications in key international journals are
expected and encouraged. The position oers a unique
opportunity to fast track the latest research in geneticsand genomics into industry application. You will be
expected to support other scientists as well as PhD stu-
dents working in the same area and build a collaborative
culture.
For a condential discussion, please call or
email Hans Daetwyler on +61 (0)3 9032 7037.
hans.daetwyler@ecodev.vic.gov.au The Department of
Economic Development, Jobs, Transport and Resources
is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes
applicants from a diverse range of backgrounds.
We assist successful candidates with attaining work
visas.
Best wishes, Hans
Dr. Hans Daetwyler jResearch Leader Computational
Biology Agriculture Research Division jAgriculture
VictoriajDEDJTR Senior Research Fellow jApplied
Systems BiologyjLa Trobe University AgriBio Centre,
5 Ring Rd., Bundoora 3083, Victoria T: 03 9032 7037 j
E: hans.daetwyler@ecodev.vic.gov.au
Department of Economic Development, Jobs, Trans-
port and Resources, Government of Victoria, Victoria,
Australia.
hans.daetwyler@ecodev.vic.gov.au
LUOMUS UHelsinki InsectCurator
The Finnish Museum of Natural History LUOMUS
(www.luomus./en) is an independent institute of the
University of Helsinki and the national museum in the
eld of natural history in Finland. The museum's duties
are to amass, maintain, and display its collections, and
to conduct related research, particularly in the eld of
species-level biodiversity. The collections serve research,
teaching, and public education in biology, geology, and
biodiversity, and form part of the international network
of natural history repositories. The Finnish Museum
of Natural History, established in 1988, has four units:
Zoology, Botany, Natural Sciences, and General Services.
The institution has a sta of c. 130, of which 40 work in
the Zoology Unit. The entomological collections of the
Unit comprise c. 9 million specimens from all over the
world. Close to half of the insects are from Finland, and
there are extensive collections from e.g. the northern
Palearctic region and sub-Saharan Africa. The collec-
tions are particularly rich in Lepidoptera, Coleoptera,
Hymenoptera, and Diptera.60 EvolDir April 1, 2017
The Finnish Museum of Natural History invites appli-
cations for a permanent position of
Senior Curator
specialising in the systematics and biogeography of in-
sects. The appointment will begin on 1 November 2017
or as mutually agreed.
The duties of the senior curator will include independent
research in collection-based systematics and zoogeogra-
phy, acting as a superior for the Entomology Team as
well as managing, amassing, and developing the scien-
tic collections together with the other team members.
As an expert in the eld, the senior curator will partic-
ipate in the museum's international collaboration and
community engagement in the eld, as well as tasks
related to teaching, e.g., the development of Bachelor's
and Master's programmes and digital learning environ-
ments. The senior curator is expected to be active in
obtaining external funding and in supervising research
students and junior colleagues.
According to the Regulations of the University of
Helsinki, an appointee to a senior curatorship shall hold
a doctoral degree and have top-level scholarly quali-
cations, experience in leading research, proven success
in obtaining external funding, as well as the documen-
tation of international cooperation in the research eld
that the appointee represents.
Experience in working with scientic collections, peda-
gogical training, participation in university teaching and
supervision, good leadership skills, and an inclination
to team work as well as experience of societal interac-
tion and knowledge of Finland's nature and fauna are
considered further assets.
The ocial languages of the University of Helsinki are
Finnish and Swedish. According to the Government De-
cree on Universities, senior curators must be procient
in Finnish. They must also have at least satisfactory
spoken and written skills in Swedish. Foreign citizens,
non-native Finnish citizens or citizens who have not
been educated in Finnish or Swedish may be exempted
from this requirement without a separate application.
To successfully attend to the duties of the position, the
appointee must also have good skills in English.
The senior curator's salary will be based on level 8-9 of
the job requirement scheme for teaching and research
personnel in the salary system of Finnish universities.
In addition, the appointee will be paid a salary compo-
nent based on personal work performance. The gross
monthly salary will be approximately 5 100-6 100 euros,
depending on the appointee's career stage and scholarly
qualications.Applicants are requested to submit their application as
one single pdf le which includes the following docu-
ments:
1) An English language CV
2) An English language report (max. 3 pages) on the
applicant's previous research activities and acquired ex-
ternal funding, and a brief plan on how the applicant
intends to develop and focus his or her research and its
funding in the future
3) A report (max. 3 pages) of experience and mer-
its which are of relevance for the evaluation of other
skills relevant for the position (e.g. leadership, col-
lection work, supervision and teaching). Please re-
fer to the criteria for the assessment of teaching
skills: http://www.helsinki./bio/faculty/materials/-
Teaching skills evaluation matrix2012.pdf 4) A num-
bered English language list of publications and other
works with which the applicant wishes to demonstrate
his or her competence and merits
Or, alternatively, an academic portfolio containing
the above documents and information (for instruc-
tions, please see http://www.helsinki./recruitment/-
academicportfolio.html /
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NewYorkU ResearchScientist
EvolGenetics
NYU Evolutionary Genetics Research Scientist
The Rockman Lab at NYU seeks to hire a senior research
scientist. We use quantitative genetics and genomics
to study the molecular and evolutionary causes of phe-
notypic variation, with a focus on developmental and
life-history phenotypes.
The research scientist will collaborate with postdocs on
three funded projects in the lab: Genetic dissection of
developmental variation in Streblospio benedicti, a poly-
chaete annelid Construction of a genetic mapping panel
in the diatom Seminavis robusta Analysis of complex-
trait genetic architectures in outbreeding and selng
Caenorhabditis nematodesApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 61
Applicants should have experience with the wet-bench
components of NGS library construction and associated
methods (e.g., qPCR, bioanalyzer, covaris, etc.), includ-
ing RNA-seq and reduced-representation methods for
genomic DNA. The ideal candidate is highly organized
and enthusiastic about experimental marine biology and
evolutionary genetics and genomics.
Core responsibilities of the research scientist will include:
- Perform experimental crosses in diatoms, annelids, and
nematodes - Construct sequencing libraries for genetics
and genomics projects - Help develop new phenotyping
assays - Participate in the design of experiments - Main-
tain annelid and diatom stocks and associated databases
- Prepare media (worm plates, diatom media, polychaete
food, articial seawater, buers, etc) - Order supplies
and manage inventory - Keep detailed lab notebooks -
Participate in lab meetings - Help write up results for
publication
This is a full-time position with an initial 1-year ap-
pointment, with subsequent reappointment available.
The lab is located in Greenwich Village, a block from
Washington Square Park, convenient to transit and ev-
erything else. Employment comes with a full benets
package.
NYU is an equal opportunity employer. We work in
New York because we value diversity.
Please send a CV and cover letter to mrock-
man@nyu.edu. We aim to ll this position before May.
\mrockman@nyu.edu" <mrockman@nyu.edu >
OhioStateU CropGeneticsGenomics
https://hcs.osu.edu/about-us/open-faculty-positions
Position: Genetics, Genomics, and Breeding of Hor-
ticultural Crops
Rank: Assistant Professor
Departments: Horticulture and Crop Science
Description
The Department of Horticulture and Crop Science in
The College of Food, Agriculture and Environmental
Sciences (CFAES) at The Ohio State University (OSU)
seeks applicants for a 9-month tenure-track faculty po-
sition at the Assistant Professor level in genetics, ge-
nomics, and breeding of cultivated plants, whose schol-
arly interests focus on the programmatic eld of appliedgenetics and genomics. The successful candidate should
have demonstrated skills in developing an extramurally
funded, innovative research program pertinent to the
breeding of cultivated plants, such as germplasm devel-
opment, seed biology and/or trait analyses. Applicants
who focus on vegetable, small fruit, or medicinal plant
breeding and link fundamental and genome-wide ques-
tions with applied outcomes to cultivar improvement
are particularly encouraged to apply.
Candidates should have a strong record of research ac-
complishments and a commitment to teaching. The
successful candidate is expected to contribute to the
undergraduate and graduate education with at least 2
classes (5-7 credit hours) per academic year to support
the department's core teaching program and to engage
in new interdisciplinary teaching collaborations with
other departments. There will also be opportunities to
develop new courses based on the candidate's expertise.
This position is located at OSU's main campus in Colum-
bus, Ohio. OSU has a large and strong plant research
community, with outstanding interdisciplinary under-
graduate and graduate programs and excellent core
facilities on the main campus in Columbus and the
Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center
(OARDC) in Wooster. Collaborations are facilitated
by multiple Centers and Programs including the Food
Innovation Center, Center for Applied Plant Sciences,
and Translational Plant Sciences Graduate Program.
Candidates are expected to have a Ph.D. degree in plant
breeding and genetics or related eld, evidence of schol-
arly productivity in publications, university teaching
experience, demonstrated excellence in communication,
experience in interdisciplinary collaborations, ability to
obtain extramural funding, and interest and/or experi-
ence in mentoring or working with members of under-
represented populations.
Contact: Ginger Koozer koozer.2@osu.edu
full description: https://hcs.osu.edu/sites/hcs/-
les/imce/images/Genetics%20Genomics%20a
nd%20Breeding%20of%20horticultural%20Crops%20pd.pdf
\Slot, Jason C." <slot.1@osu.edu >62 EvolDir April 1, 2017
OmahaZoo GeneticsResAssist
Bioinformatics
Genetics Research Assistant
Job Description:
Applications are invited for a Genetics Research As-
sistant (Bioinformatics) in the Conservation Genetics
Department at Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo & Aquarium
(http://www.omahazoo.com/careers/). The Bioinfor-
matics Technician will participate in ongoing molecular
and bioinformatics research. Importantly, the technician
will utilize sophisticated computer programs during the
analysis of datasets from next generation sequencing.
This technician will develop high-throughput solutions
to improve scalability of in-house genetic interpretation
tools. The technician will be responsible for developing
a pipeline for genomic analyses and database monitor-
ing and maintenance. Early-career technicians will have
the opportunity to gain on-the-job training regarding
bioinformatics.
Duties:
The Bioinformatics Technician will confer with research
sta to determine data needs and programming require-
ments and to provide assistance with database-related
research activities. Importantly, the technician will uti-
lize bioinformatics techniques to analyze or manipulate
large datasets from next generation sequencing in a
Unix/Linux environment. Sophisticated computer pro-
grams will be used to gather, analyze, and track data
regarding biological functions or characteristics in or-
der to gain a better understanding of computational
evolutionary biology and comparative genomics. The
technician will develop high throughput solutions to
improve scalability of in-house genetic interpretation
tools. Duties will involve writing or modifying existing
computer code to perform analysis of high-throughput
sequencing data including the analysis of whole genome
sequencing data. The technician will need to develop
a pipeline for genomic analyses as well as a system for
monitoring database performance and perform any nec-
essary maintenance, upgrades, or repairs. Ultimately
the technician will complete statistical analyses and
prepare reports on related ndings. Additionally, the
technician will assist multiple research projects as well
as routine maintenance within the laboratory. Partici-
pation in group activities such as grant preparation and
reporting, literature searches, and manuscript writingeorts will be expected. All laboratory sta will main-
tain cleanliness and sanitation while complying with
safety procedures in their employed laboratories. Du-
ties will include non-research activities such as facility
maintenance and outside work.
Qualications:
Ideally, the Bioinformatics Technician will have a thor-
ough knowledge of bioinformatics, molecular genetics
and related techniques, and have a good understanding
of biological sciences. Experience in bioinformatics and
next-generation sequencing is highly preferred. A Bach-
elor's degree in the Genomics, Genetics, Bioinformatics
or Computer Science or related eld is required. Ideal
candidates will have prociency in Linux, Bash, and
scripting experience in Python (BioPython), Perl (BioP-
erl), Julia, or R. C, C++, PHP, and Java competency is
a plus. Knowledge of parallel processing, and computing
would be benecial.
Start Date:
Flexible, ideally mid-April 2017
Application:
Please visit http://www.omahazoo.com/careers/ for full
job description and to formally apply. Applicants should
include a cover letter describing previous experience, a
resume, and the names and contact information for a few
professional or academic references. Please also send a
copy of your application materials to Dr. Edward Louis
Jr. at genetics@omahazoo.com
Review of applications will begin immediately and will
continue until the position is lled.
From: Genetics Department Sent: Wednesday, March 1,
2017 9:24:10 AM To: Golding@McMaster.CA Subject:
EvolDir -for announcement section
Postdoctoral Fellow - Madagascar Biodiversity Ge-
nomics
Job Description:
Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo & Aquarium Department
of Conservation Genetics (OHDZA-CG) based in Om-
aha, Nebraska, is seeking a post-doctoral researcher
with interest/expertise in the generation and analysis
of next-generation sequencing data of lemurs, tortoises,
and other taxa from Madagascar.
Duties:
The successful applicant will be procient in the con-
struction genomic libraries and in solution hybridization
methodologies for high throughput sequencing as well
as all relevant analysis of large datasets, and manageApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 63
next-generation sequence workows. This individual
will be responsible for development, implementation,
and support of software applications related to variant
detection and interpretation from high-throughput ex-
periments involving multiple species of lemurs, tortoises,
and taxa from Madagascar. Assembly of whole genomes
is in-progress, but will likely require additional analy-
sis pertinent to specic research projects. Interested
candidates
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
QueenMaryU EvolNeurobiology
Lecturerin Neurobiology Schoolof Biological and Chem-
ical Sciences QueenMary University of London
We'relooking to hire a lecturer in Neurobiology to join
our Nanchang joint programme. The search is for a
world-class neurobiologist in the broad sense, including
researchers with interests in comparative/evolutionary
neurobiology, evolution and physiology of neuropeptide
signalling, behavioural neurobiology, and developmental
neurobiology.
Thepost involves teaching for 4-6 weeks in Nanchang,
China, and the setting up of a leading research group
at QMUL's campus in London.
Deadline:17 March 2017
Fulldetails: http://bit.ly/QMUL-Neurobiology Mario-
dos Reis
Lecturer@QMUL mariodosreis.wordpress.com
m.dosreisbarros@qmul.ac.uk
SouthDakotaStateU
WildlifeConservation
Assistant Professor/Wildlife Ecologist (50% teaching,
50% research/full time, 9 month position) Departmentof Natural Resource Management South Dakota State
University
The Department of Natural Resource Management
(NRM) at South Dakota State University invites appli-
cations for a full-time, tenure-track, 9-month position
(50% teaching, 50% research) at the rank of Assistant
Professor with expertise in Wildlife Ecology and Man-
agement, beginning fall 2017. We seek a talented col-
league who will contribute to teaching excellence in the
department and will build an external, competitively-
funded research program with an emphasis on wildlife
ecology and management in natural and/or captive en-
vironments. The candidate should address fundamental
questions about ecology and life histories of wildlife to in-
form and benet current issues and future management
practices.
The NRM Department houses undergraduate programs
in Ecology and Environmental Science, Natural Re-
source Law Enforcement, Rangeland Ecology and Man-
agement, and Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences. The de-
partment has 21 faculty (20 tenured/tenure-track and 1
non-tenure-track) and 4 Extension Field Specialists. It
is also the home of the USGS South Dakota Cooperative
Fish and Wildlife Research Unit (3 research scientists).
In addition, the department is promotion and tenure
home for 3 faculty members in the Geospatial Sciences
Center of Excellence. The department's faculty have
diverse teaching, research, and extension appointments.
Departmental research facilities include the Oak Lake Bi-
ological station (30 minutes from campus), the Wildlife
Research Unit (one mile from campus) for captive eld
studies that include enclosures for animals, eld plots,
aquatic research space, storage and upkeep of eld re-
search gear (research space and lab space is housed in
various buildings at this unit). The department is also
home to the C.A. Taylor Herbarium, fully databased
South Dakota State Aquatic Invertebrate Collection,
bird, amphibian, reptile, and mammal collections.
RESPONSIBILITIES: The successful candidate will
be expected to be active in research and contribute
to a nationally recognized applied wildlife research
program which includes competing successfully for
extramural sources of funds, and publishing in na-
tional/international peer-reviewed journals. The candi-
date will contribute to advising and professional devel-
opment of M.S. and Ph.D. students. The candidate will
teach courses in principles of wildlife management and
introductory biometry as well as contribute to team-
taught courses in natural resource management eld
techniques and habitat conservation and management.
Participation in service associated with wildlife man-
agement is expected, including involvement with profes-
sional organizations and student organizations aliated64 EvolDir April 1, 2017
with the department.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: The successful candi-
date will have completed a Ph.D. in a research area
germane to Wildlife Ecology, Wildlife Management, or
closely related discipline prior to March 2017. The suc-
cessful candidate will have strong quantitative skills
and a publication record commensurate with experi-
ence. Candidates must be enthusiastic scientists and
teachers with the ability to develop excellent communi-
cation skills (verbal, written, and electronic). Applicant
must demonstrate the ability to work cooperatively with
other faculty, extension eld specialists, state and federal
wildlife biologists, producers, and other clientele.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: We prefer a candi-
date with post-doctoral experience and an established
record of external competitive grant funding with ac-
companying publications in nationally/internationally
recognized peer-reviewed journals; experience in grant
budget management; demonstrated interest and experi-
ence in teaching; and an expert skill set in addressing
questions pertinent to the ecology and life histories of
wildlife that inform and benet current issues and future
management practices.
SALARY: Commensurate with qualications and expe-
rience.
UNIVERSITY/COMMUNITY: South Dakota State
University, founded in 1881, is the state's land grant
institution and its largest and most comprehensive in-
stitution of higher learning. It is a designated Carnegie
Research University-High Intensity and is an APLU In-
novation and Economic Prosperity University. Current
enrollment is approximately 12,500 students. SDSU
and the NRM department oer research and teaching
opportunities at four eld stations, two with equipped
laboratories and long-term data sets. Additionally, the
SDSU Functional Genomics Core Facility facilitates in-
terdisciplinary gene function research and training.
South Dakota State University is located in Brookings,
on the east-central border of South Dakota. Brook-
ings is an economically vibrant and welcoming college
town of approximately 23,000 residents. The city has
an excellent
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlTromso Norway FishEvolution
*Associate Professor in sh biology- *UIT The Arctic
University of Norway**
The research group for genetics at the The Norwe-
gian College of Fishery Science <http://en.uit.no/om/-
enhet/forsiden?p dimension id=88166 >(NCFS), UiT
The Arctic University of Norway (in beautiful Troms),
seeks a motivated, collaborative, and ambitious scientist
for a permanent position as Associate professor in sh
biology (12 month's salary). The position is a part of
a strategic commitment to strengthen the capacity for
aquaculture related research at NCFS/UiT.
Research emphases of the position include two or more
of the following themes: 1) Biological and genetic in-
teractions between aquaculture and natural systems; 2)
Biological and genetic eects of climate change for the
aquaculture industry; 3) Evaluation and assessment of
biodiversity in relation to area planning and sustainabil-
ity of aquaculture activities; 4) Conservation biology
with focus on maintaining local adaptations in aqua-
culture and natural systems/species. Responsibilities
also include teaching sh biology, supervision of under-
graduate and graduate students, and contribution to
educational outreach and dissemination, at UIT and to
the industry and society in general.
Qualication requirements:**Doctoral degree in sh bi-
ology and a strong research record.The ideal candidate
should have a background and experience in classic
sh biology, modern molecular taxonomy, and princi-
ples related to speciation in shes. Knowledge of the
use of environmental DNA in studies of biodiversity,
population genomic methods, sh anatomy and/or sh
physiology, as well as documented ability to secure exter-
nal funding for research are an advantage. Experience
in teaching relevant subjects is needed.
Please read the full posting for complete details perti-
nent to the position at: https://www.jobbnorge.no/-
en/available-jobs/job/135757/associate-professor-in-
sh-biology-at-the-faculty-of-biosciences-shery-and-
economics, and follow the application instructions
therein.
For further information, please contact: Group
leader, Associate Professor Kim Pr ~Abel,
kim.praebel@uit.no, Professor Ragnar L. Olsen,
ragnar.olsen@uit.no, or head of department KathrineApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 65
Tveiter ~A s, kathrine.tveiteras@uit.no. <http://-
www.life.illinois.edu/ccheng/ >
c-cheng@illinois.edu
UCalgary ComputationalBiol
DeadlineExt
The University of Calgary invites applications for a full-
time Professor faculty position with Tenure to join a
dynamic group of investigators as part of the Biomedi-
cal Engineering (BME) Calgary Initiative. BME Cal-
gary brings together researchers from multiple faculties
across campus with external stakeholders, including gov-
ernment and industry participants, to benet from a
team-based approach for tackling current and future
BME challenges in Alberta, Canada and worldwide.
Biomedical Engineering at the University of Calgary
involves more than 100 faculty members across six fac-
ulties, with current annual research funding exceeding
$45M. The university has made signicant investments
in Biomedical Engineering to date, including the allo-
cation of four Tier 1 and ve Tier 2 Canada Research
Chairs. Engineering Solutions for Health: Biomedical
Engineering is one of six strategic research priorities
of the University of Calgary. A strong culture of col-
laboration and cross-disciplinary research excellence is
enabled by signicant research infrastructure located in
multiple centers across campus. The university operates
a multi-faculty Biomedical Engineering Graduate Pro-
gram, hosts a Biomedical Engineering-related NSERC-
CREATE training program, and delivers a Biomedical
Engineering Specialization in conjunction with 6 engi-
neering majors in the Schulich School of Engineering.
Please visit our website (http://www.ucalgary.ca/bme)
for more information.
The successful candidate will be placed in a joint posi-
tion, depending on their background, in the Faculty of
Science, and/or Schulich School of Engineering, and/or
Cumming School of Medicine. Applicants must have
earned a Ph.D. in biomedical engineering or equivalent.
It is expected that the successful candidate will provide
evidence of:
- Outstanding and innovative world-class research which
has made a major impact in their eld - International
recognition as a leader in their eld - Superior track
record in attracting and supervising graduate students
and postdoctoral fellows - Strong service and/or leader-
ship record - Excellent teaching record The applicantshould propose an original, innovative research program
of the highest quality. The successful candidate will
be nominated for an NSERC Tier 1 Canada Research
Chair, created by the Government of Canada to posi-
tion Canada as a world leader in research. This Chair
will directly support the successful candidate's research
program.
Exceptional candidates must have a research focus in
Biomedical Engineering with particular interest in:
- Development of computational biology or bioinformat-
ics algorithms, tools or software for the analysis of large
multivariate datasets, including biosensor, imaging, hu-
man genome, transcriptome, epigenome, microbiome, or
physiome - Biological network behaviors, such as gene
regulatory networks, protein interactions, and epigenetic
eects, as approached through experimental, computa-
tional, and analytical methods. - Big data/machine
learning methods, analytics, visualization, software and
modeling applied to emerging areas of biomedical engi-
neering or biological science - Development and applica-
tion of precision diagnostic and therapeutic technology,
through computational, genomic, and pervasive data
sensing and collecting techniques
The successful candidate will join an established mul-
tidisciplinary and inter-Faculty team of biomedical en-
gineers, scientists, clinicians, nurses and veterinarians
whose fundamental research activities, support collabo-
rative health-related research problems. The position
provides an opportunity to establish a vigorous, sustain-
able, externally-funded research program, contribute to
teaching and graduate student supervision, and partici-
pate in leadership of BME related research, education
and service. This is an excellent opportunity to build
and develop an innovative research program within a
dynamic and collaborative environment. A competi-
tive salary and an attractive start-up package will be
provided.
The University of Calgary is committed to supporting
Biomedical Engineering as a strategic research theme
within the context of the Eyes High vision to become
one of Canada's top 5 research universities. The suc-
cessful candidate possesses the attributes and desire
to lead research initiatives within this interdisciplinary
area at the University of Calgary, to build on current
strengths, to develop strategy for future growth and pro-
mote program development combined with both student
engagement and experience.
The Schulich School of Engineering is committed to
fostering diversity through cultivating an environment
where people with a variety of backgrounds, genders,
interests and talents feel welcome and included. In 2016,
the Schulich School of Engineering was recognized with66 EvolDir April 1, 2017
the KNOVO Award of Distinction to honour school's
commitment to diversity and equity.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCatolicadeChile 2
EvolutionaryBiol
The Pontica Universidad Cat olica de Chile invites ap-
plications to two tenure-track Assistant Professor po-
sitions, aliated to the Department of Ecology at the
Faculty of Biological Sciences.
*Description of the Department of Ecology and the Po-
sitions *
The Department of Ecology (DECOL) includes 20 re-
searchers some of which have joint appointments with
the Faculty of Physics, Engineering, and Political Sci-
ences & Geography. The DECOL is a diverse depart-
ment that includes among its members, researchers from
Argentina, Australia, USA, France, M exico and Uruguay.
They participate in both undergraduate (Licentiate in
Biology and Marine Biology) and graduate teaching
(PhD in Biological Sciences / Ecology). In terms of
research, the DECOL has identied interdisciplinary
science as one of its priorities and the analyses of the
impact of Global Change upon biodiversity and sustain-
ability as its major cross-cutting themes.
In general, we are searching for creative, productive
and collaborative scientists whose work addresses fun-
damental questions in Ecology and/or Evolution that
t within the general prole of DECOL outlined above.
However, for one of these positions priority will be given
to applicants with the capacity to develop a research
program in the area of Ecology and/or Evolution of
marine organisms, specically macroalgae.
*Position Responsabilities: *
The selected applicants should:
1) develop an independent research program, and lead
research projects in the area of Ecology and/or Evolu-
tion with emphasis in any level of ecological integration
(from molecules to ecosystems) and using experimental,
correlational and/or theoretical approaches.2) generate interactions with researchers within DECOL,
and potentially, from other Departments of the Faculty
of Biological Sciences and/or other Faculties within the
University.
3) He/she should be prepared to teach courses at the
undergraduate and graduate level and according to the
needs of DECOL.
*Application requirements:*
Applicants should have a PhD and Postdoctoral expe-
rience. At least one of these should be in Ecology or
Evolution. The applicant should show capacity to carry
out an independent research program and obtain com-
petitive, extramural funding. Teaching experience at
undergraduate and/or graduate level is desirable.
*Selection Criteria:*
Academic trajectory and quality of the scientic pro-
duction of the applicant
Experience in interdisciplinary work
Academic references
Potential for integration into the academic activities of
DECOL and the Faculty of Biological Sciences.
*Application Process:*
TO APPLY, COMPLETE THE APPLICATION
FORM *AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST FROM:
*Prof. Xavier Figueroa, Academic Secretary of the
Faculty of Biological Sciences. E- mail: secre-
taria.academica@bio.puc.cl
Request at least three letters of recommendation that
make reference to the trajectory and academic cre-
dentials of the candidate. These should be sent di-
rectly to the Academic Secretary of the Faculty of
Biological Sciences at the following E- mail: secre-
taria.academica@bio.puc.cl
Applicants should send all application materials
by E-mail to Prof. Xavier Figueroa, Academic
Secretary, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Ponti-
cia Universidad Cat olica de Chile, E- mail: secre-
taria.academica@bio.puc.cl
*Deadline for Applications: April 27, 2017 at 17:00. *
{ Sylvain Faugeron
UMI3614 Evolutionary Biology and Ecology of Algae
Departamento de Ecolog a Facultad de Ciencias Bi-
ologicas Ponticia Universidad Catolica de Chile Av.
Bernardo O'Higgins 340 Santiago - Chile +56-223 54 26
47 sfaugeron@bio.puc.cl
Sylvain Faugeron <sfaugeron@bio.puc.cl >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 67
UCentralFlorida
CoastalDiseaseEvolution
Sustainable Coastal Systems Cluster
Coastal Disease Ecologist
Applicants for an Assistant/Associate Professor position
in coastal disease ecology must have a Ph.D. from an
accredited institution, relevant post-doctoral training,
and show a demonstrated ability, or strong potential,
to maintain a vigorous, extramurally-funded research
program. Preference will be given to candidates whose
research interests focus on the ecology of infectious dis-
eases in natural coastal ecosystems (not aquaculture
systems) and who uses innovative approaches, including
modeling and empirical eld and laboratory work, to ad-
dress fundamental ecological or evolutionary questions
about any coastal host-pathogen systems regardless of
taxonomic group. Potential research questions may in-
clude, but are not limited to, the ecology of emerging
coastal diseases and the intersection of disease and an-
thropogenic stressors, such as climate change, pollution,
habitat loss, or invasive species. Strong interdisciplinary
skills, experience working at the interface of social and
biological sciences, strong quantitative and excellent
communication and interpersonal skills are essential.
Proven track records of publication in refereed journals
of high quality and acquisition of research funding are
highly desirable.
Candidates must apply on-line at http://-
www.jobswithucf.com/postings/46716 (Position
#38660) and attach the following materials: a cover
letter, curriculum vitae, teaching statement, research
statement, and contact information for three profes-
sional references. In the cover letter candidates should
address their background in their discipline and should
identify the department(s) for their potential tenure
home. In the research statement candidates should
include descriptions of their successful interdisciplinary
research collaborations and how their current and
future research can contribute to the cluster's overall
interdisciplinary objectives.
The search committee will review applications on an
on-going basis until the position is lled.
The University of Central Florida, with more than 63,000
students, has grown in quality, diversity, and reputation
in its rst 50 years and is committed to being inclusiveand diverse by building a faculty who are a reection
of the students they teach. For more information about
this position please contact the Sustainable Coastal
Systems Cluster search committee Chair, Dr. Graham
Worthy at CoastalCluster@ucf.edu
Anna Savage <Anna.Savage@ucf.edu >
UEdinburgh
BioinformaticsHairColour
Dear All,
There is an exciting opportunity to study the genetics
of hair colour in humans at the MRC-HGU at the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh. We are looking for a driven bioin-
formatian/statiscal geneticsts that would like to work
within a very multidisciplinary team. Further informa-
tion can be found at https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/
Vacancy reference 038148. Please, address informal in-
quires to Albert Tenesa <albert.tenesa@ed.ac.uk >or
Ian Jackson ian.jackson@igmm.ed.ac.uk.
Best wishes, Albert
TENESA Albert <Albert.Tenesa@ed.ac.uk >
UGreifswald
EvolutionaryMathematics
Dear readers of EvolDir,
At the institute of Mathematics and Computer Science
at the University of Greifswald (Germany), we have an
open permanent position (50 %, TVL-13) as a teaching
and research assistant with teaching obligations of 7
hours per week (note that one of our research focusses
is biomathematics, which is why I am posting this job
oer here, too! Please see below for more details). The
application deadline is the 1st of April. The aspired re-
search area is not restricted, so we are open to interested
applicants of all areas of mathematics as long as he or
she ts into the general research areas of our institute.
Note that the main focus of this position is teaching.
For more details on the position, please visit our
website: https://www.uni-greifswald.de/universitaet/-
information/stellenausschreibungen/oeentliche-68 EvolDir April 1, 2017
stellenausschreibungen/wissenschaftliches-personal/-
institut-fuer-mathematik-und-informatik-17sa05/ Note
that the website also contains an English version (you
just need to scroll down).
We accept applications via mail or via email (one single
PDF please).
Greifswald is a beautiful town located at the Baltic Sea,
a popular holiday region. Student life here is vibrant,
and the university has a long tradition - in fact, it is
one of the oldest universities of Europe. Our institute
is one of only a few places in Germany where students
can study biomathematics already at an undergraduate
level, which is why this study program attracts students
from all over Germany. Therefore, the majority of our
institute's students study biomathematics, but we also
have pure mathematics students as well as students who
want to become maths teachers. However, our institute
also does a lot of teaching for students of other sub-
jects that are not directly linked to our institute, e.g.
students of natural sciences.
Kind regards,
Mareike Fischer
{
Prof. Dr. Mareike Fischer
Biomathematics and Stochastics
Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-University Greifswald Institute for
Mathematics and Computer Science Walther-Rathenau-
Str. 47 17487 Greifswald Germany
Tel: +49 (0) 3834 864643
Mareike Fischer <email@mareikescher.de >
UGreifswald SciAssist18Mnths Evo-
lutionVibrationalCommunication
Scientic assistant position - Vibrational Communica-
tion in Mantophasmatodea
Application deadline: 20.03.2017
A scientic assistant position (65% TV-L E13, 18 months
contract) is available at the University of Greifswald, in
the group of Dr. Monika Eberhard, Zoological Institute
and Museum, General and Systematic Zoology (chair:
Prof. Gabriele Uhl). The successful candidate will join
the DFG-funded research project
Vibrational Communication Signals in Mantophasma-todea: Species Recognition, Sexual Selection, and Pop-
ulation Dierentiation.
We are investigating the vibrational signals of
Mantophasmatodea-species that occur in several popula-
tions at dierent localities in the Western Cape Region,
South Africa, a biodiversity hotspot. Variability of vi-
brational calls and morphological characters, as well
as genetic diversity using microsatellite markers will
be investigated in populations of the same species to
reveal the present state of population dierentiation of
Mantophasmatodea in the Western Cape. Behavioural
experiments will be conducted to assess the decisive
cues within vibrational communication calls, which are
used for species recognition. Field studies (in coop-
eration with University of Cape Town) will allow for
optimized seminatural laboratory setups. This will pro-
vide insight into the role vibrational communication
might play for population dierentiation and speciation
in Mantophasmatodea. Further possibilities of research
include anatomical studies, behavioural trials or phylo-
genetic analyses. The position is open for early stage
researchers (postgraduate or postdoc) or very dedicated
Bachelor with Honours.
The highly motivated candidate will use genetic analy-
ses (microsatellites, sequencing), morphological meth-
ods (light microscopy, SEM, microCT), and behavioural
trials (video, laser-doppler-vibrometry). Strong back-
ground in at least one of these skills would be advanta-
geous.
Requirements: - Either B.Sc. degree + Honours, M.Sc.,
or higher, in Biology (Zoology, Ecology, Behavioural or
Evolutionary Biology) - Strong background in Evolu-
tionary Biology - Practical experience in at least two
of the following areas: DNA-analysis (microsatellites,
sequencing), behavioural studies (eld and laboratory;
preferably with invertebrates), Ecology (population dy-
namics), morphology (SEM, micro-CT) - Very good
English skills (written and spoken) - Willingness to stay
in South Africa for a longer time period (ca. 6-8 weeks)
- Experience in analysis programs for the required data-
sets and statistics are an advantage
The position is available from April 2017 until lled.
For more information please contact Monika Eberhard
and send your application in one PDF (letter of mo-
tivation, CV, contact details of two academic referees,
and summary of nal thesis) with the reference number
17/Wi09 via email to
Universit at Greifswald, Zoologisches Institut und Mu-
seum Dr. Monika Eberhard J.-S.-Bachstrae 11-12
17489 Greifswald
E-mail: monika.eberhard@uni-greifswald.deApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 69
Monika Eberhard <monika.eberhard@uni-
greifswald.de >
UGrenobleAlpes 3yr
EvolutionaryDataScience
Universit e Grenoble Alpes invites applications for a
3-year junior research chair in Data Science for Life
Sciences starting in October 2017. The objective is
to recruit an outstanding candidate motivated in de-
veloping or applying data science methodology to Life
Sciences.
We are looking for candidates that will accelerate the up-
take of data science analytics in Life Sciences. Through
his/her research activities in one of the research groups
at Universit e Grenoble Alpes, the successful candidate
should demonstrate the benets of data science and mod-
ern data analytics in Life Sciences. His/her research
applications in Life Sciences can concern bioinformatics,
epidemiology, evolutionary biology, and neuroscience.
His/her activities at Universit e Grenoble Alpes should
in particular help demonstrating how open-source sci-
entic software or new collaborative approaches (e.g.
hackaton, data challenges) contribute to successful in-
terdisciplinary research. Candidates for this position
should be either - a life scientist with experience in
applying modern data analytics in his/her eld and/or
experience in open source scientic software develop-
ment. - or a data scientist (computer science, machine
learning, optimization, signal processing, statistics) with
a proven track record in biological applications and a
strong motivation for advancing knowledge in Life Sci-
ences.
The research chair is funded by the Grenoble Alpes Data
Institute, which promotes applications of data science
in several scientic domains. The Grenoble Alpes Data
Institute seeks to leverage methodological advances in
machine learning, signal processing, statistics, and com-
putational sciences to provide actionable tools for ad-
dressing concrete scientic challenges. Research must be
conducted in one of the labs aliated with the Grenoble
Alpes Data Institute (https://goo.gl/wzzmQx).
Interested applicants should send their application
to application-datachair@univ-grenoble-alpes.fr before
May, 21st 2017. Before application, we encourage
candidates to contact contact-datachair@univ-grenoble-
alpes.fr to discuss about potential labs where the re-
search project can be carried out. Application lesshould include a two page research project, a curricu-
lum vitae, and a list of publications and references.
Short-listed candidates will be interviewed in June.
Annual gross salary ranges from 30,000 to 35,00 eu-
ros. The position is endowed with equipment and travel
resources. The research chair will be employed by Uni-
versit e Grenoble Alpes that is a major player in higher
education and research in France (http://www.univ-
grenoble-alpes.fr/en/). The position is located in Greno-
ble, which is a university town located in a beautiful
alpine environment.
Michael BLUM CNRS Senior Researcher Tel: +33
(0)4 56 52 00 65 michael.blum@imag.fr http://-
membres-timc.imag.fr/Michael.Blum/ Michael Blum
<michael.blum@univ-grenoble-alpes.fr >
UKansas ResAsst Drosophila
ComplexTraits
A research assistant position is available in my lab at
KU to work on ies and complex traits. The position
will involve both y work and molecular biology (in-
cluding approaches using high-throughput sequencing),
and might be great for someone interested in gather-
ing more research experience before going to graduate
school. Experience with ies would be a plus, but isn't
required. The formal announcement, and links to the in-
stitutional employment website are provided below. Feel
free to email me with any questions. Stuart Macdonald
(sjmac@ku.edu)
A research assistant position is available in the Macdon-
ald lab in the Department of Molecular Biosciences at
KU. The Macdonald group explores the genetic basis
of complex phenotypic variation using Drosophila as a
model system. The successful candidate will help main-
tain a panel of y lines, supervise and carry out large-
scale phenotyping screens, and generate next-generation
sequencing libraries for various genomics applications.
We are looking for an enthusiastic and organized indi-
vidual who is willing to learn new skills, and has excel-
lent oral and written communication skills. Previous
research assistants in the Macdonald group have under-
taken independent research projects and been authors
on research publications from the lab. The position
is funded through a multi-year NIH grant and has an
anticipated start date of July 1, 2017 (although this is
negotiable).70 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Required qualications include a Bachelor's degree in
biology (or a related eld) by the time of appointment,
and some experience with laboratory molecular biol-
ogy techniques. Prior experience with ies and/or next
generation sequencing library construction would be a
plus.
For a complete announcement and to apply online, go to
https://employment.ku.edu/sta/8336BR Please direct
any questions about the position to Stuart Macdonald
(sjmac@ku.edu).
A complete online application includes the follow-
ing materials: A CV/resume, a cover letter out-
lining relevant experience, and contact information
(phone/email/address) for three referees. Initial review
of applications begins 1 May 2017 and will continue
until the position is lled.
The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on
the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national
origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sex-
ual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender
identity, gender expression, genetic information and
retaliation in the University's programs and activities.
Access to information regarding equal opportunity
and diversity worksite posters is available at http:/-
/www.humanresources.ku.edu/policies procedures/-
category details/index.aspx?category=8 or you may
contact 785-864-4946 or employ@ku.edu for alternate
access options. Any inquiries regarding the non-
discrimination policies should be directed to: Executive
Director of the Oce of Institutional Opportunity and
Access, IOA@ku.edu, 1246 W. Campus Road, Room
153A, Lawrence, KS, 66045, (785)864-6414, 711 TTY.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Department of Molecular
Biosciences 4043 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
University of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
oce: 785-864-5362 lab: 785-864-5777 fax: 785-864-5321
email: sjmac@ku.edu web: FlyRILs.org
\sjmac@ku.edu" <sjmac@ku.edu >
UMaryland Tech InvertPopGenetics
Faculty Research Assistant
The University of Maryland Center for Environmen-
tal Science (UMCES) is seeking applicants for a tech-
nician position in the Plough Laboratory (http://-
geronimo.hpl.umces.edu/lplough/)at the Horn PointLaboratory (HPL) in Cambridge MD.
The position will be a full-time Faculty Research Assis-
tant (BA or BS degree required) in support of grant-
funded projects related to the population genetic anal-
yses of estuarine and marine animals, particularly in-
vertebrates (blue crabs, oysters). Laboratory duties
will include tissue preservation and DNA extraction,
environmental DNA sampling, quantitative PCR and
analysis, and preparation of genomic libraries for next-
generation sequencing (NGS). The technician may also
be involved in eld work (local) collecting animals on
small craft or from shore, and will assist with nsh care
and shellsh culturing at HPL. Finally, the technician
will be expected to assist in data organization/analysis
and preparation of reports/manuscripts.
Required skills include: laboratory experience in molec-
ular genetics (e.g. PCR, agarose gel electrophoresis,
DNA extraction; ideally in a research setting), han-
dling of large datasets in spreadsheets, and familiar-
ity/experience with biostatistical analysis using software
such as R or similar. A willingness to be in the eld for
short periods of time (day trips) and to manage live cul-
tures of larvae or sh is also required. Ideal applicants
will have some prior experience preparing next gener-
ation sequencing libraries and some familiarity with
UNIX/Linux for command-line processing of genomic
data sets. Some experience with animal culture or care
(especially larval shellsh culture) is also a plus. Fund-
ing is currently available for two years with additional
time possible dependent on future funding. Salary will
be commensurate with experience and a comprehensive
benets package is available.
Email a single PDF containing a letter of interest,
resume or curriculum vitae, and contact informa-
tion for three professional references to: (ploughfra-
job@umces.edu ), Subject: Faculty Research Assistant.
To receive full consideration, apply by March 31, 2017.
UMCES is an AA/EOE institution. Individuals with
disabilities, veterans, women, and minorities are encour-
aged to apply.
Wennett Jones-Johnson, M.S. Program Manage-
ment Specialist-HR UMCES Horn Point Laboratory
410.221.8241
Wennett Jones-Johnson <wjonesjohnson@umces.edu >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 71
UppsalaU
QuantitativeGeneticsGenomics
Tenure track position as Assistant Professor in Quanti-
tative Genetics and Genomics at Uppsala University
Department of Ecology and Genetics, program in evolu-
tionary biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre
World-leading research in the interface of ecology, evo-
lution and genomics is conducted at the Evolutionary
Biology Centre of Uppsala University. One particular
area of strength is genomic research geared towards evo-
lutionary processes such as speciation, local adaptation
and evolution of tness traits. It remains a challenge
to connect genotype and phenotype in research aimed
at understanding the genetic basis of traits in natural
populations. Genome scans and genome-wide associa-
tion studies (GWAS) are important tools in this respect
and build on large-scale genomic analyses of population
samples. The genetics of quantitative traits is closely
associated to such research. We are now seeking a highly
competitive candidate with interests and competence
combining quantitative genetics and genomics.
The position is for four years and can then be tenured.
Specically, an associate senior lecturer (the Swedish
term for Assistant Professor) has the right to apply
for promotion to senior lecturer. If the associate se-
nior lecturer is deemed suitable and fullls the criteria
for promotion established by the Faculty Board he/she
shall be promoted to and employed permanently as se-
nior lecturer. At a subsequent step, an application for
promotion to full professor can be made.
According to the Swedish Higher Education Ordinance
those qualied for appointment as associate senior lec-
turer are persons who have obtained a doctoral degree
or achieved the equivalent competence. Applicants who
have obtained a doctoral degree or achieved the equiva-
lent competence in seven (7) years or less prior to the
end of the application period will be given priority.
Uppsala University is an international research univer-
sity focused on the development of science and education.
Our most important assets are all the individuals who
with their curiosity and their dedication make Uppsala
University one of Sweden's most exciting work places.
The university has 40,000 students, 7,000 employees and
a turnover of SEK 6,5 billion. The Evolutionary Biology
Centre is one of the strongest research environments atUppsala University, as for example illustrated by hosting
a large number of ERC grantees, including at Starting,
Consolidator and Advanced levels.
You are welcome to submit your application no later
than 2 April 2017, UFV-PA 2017/364. Please use the fol-
lowing link to get further information about the position
including how to apply http://uu.se/en/about-uu/join-
us/details/?positionId=139356 For further information
about the position, please contact professor Hans Elle-
gren, hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se
Hans Ellegren <hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se >
UPrague PlantEvolutionSystematics
Assistant Professor of Plant Evolution and Systemat-
ics Department of Botany, Charles University, Prague,
Czech Republic Deadline: 31st March 2017
We are seeking an experienced independent researcher
to join the academic sta of the Department of Botany,
Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague. The
successful candidate will become member of the Vas-
cular Plant Unit, a research team addressing a broad
range of evolutionary questions in vascular plants such
as evolution through genome duplication, breeding sys-
tem variation, phylogenomics and phylogeography incl.
potential practical implications for plant conservation
and biodiversity assessment (taxonomy).
We oer - a full institutionally-funded position for min
3 years in rates markedly exceeding the average Czech
salary - academic career growth and perspective of ex-
tension into a long-term contract - support for estab-
lishment in foreign language environment - support for
submission of Czech and international grant proposals
- work in an inspiring academic environment in daily
contact with students in the historical centre of the
UNESCO heritage site of Prague
We require - strong scientic track record including regu-
lar publications in international journals - full scientic
independence, enthusiasm for team building and col-
laboration - experience in grant project management -
moderate teaching load (the extent negotiable) - super-
vision of Master and PhD students
Desirable but not required - experience from a work-
ing environment outside the Czech Republic - experi-
ence with evolutionary research in vascular plants (e.g.,
population genetics, genomics, phylogenomics) - good
background in statistical analysis of ecological and/or72 EvolDir April 1, 2017
molecular data - teaching experience in the academic
environment
Please, send your CV, list of publications, contact of two
referees, a short motivation letter specifying your major
motivation how to contribute the research environment
at the Dept. of Botany (https://botany.natur.cuni.cz/-
cevnate), legalized copy of PhD certicate by March
31st 2017 to the Faculty of Science, Charles University,
Albertov 6, CZ-12843, Prague. For questions regarding
the position requirements and the application submis-
sion process please contact the Head of the Vascular
Plant Unit at the Department of Botany, Dr. Tom a ^A1
F er (tomas.fer@natur.cuni.cz).
The position is available from September 2017, with
negotiable starting date.
{ Tomas Fer tomas.fer@natur.cuni.cz +420-221951661
tomasfer@natur.cuni.cz
UTromso FishEvolution
Associate professor in sh biology
Application deadline: April 30 ^th 2017
The research group for genetics at The Norwegian Col-
lege of Fishery Science (NCFS), UiT The Arctic Uni-
versity of Norway (in beautiful Troms), seeks for a
motivated, collaborative, and ambitious candidate for
a vacant permanent position as Associate professor in
sh biology.
The position is expected to emphasize two or more of
the following research themes: 1) Biological and genetic
interactions between aquaculture and natural systems;
2) Biological and genetic eects of climate change for
the aquaculture industry; 3) Evaluation and assessment
of biodiversity in relation to area planning and sustain-
ability of aquaculture activities; 4) Conservation biology
with focus on maintaining local adaptations in aqua-
culture and natural systems/species. The position is
assigned teaching within sh biology, as well as super-
vision of master and PhD candidates. The successful
candidate is further expected to contribute with out-
reach and dissemination, at UIT and to the industry
and society in general.
Qualication requirements: Doctoral degree in sh biol-
ogy and scientic merits beyond this. Experience within
modern sh biology and within sh taxonomy and diver-
sity. It is advisable to have experience within classic shbiology, an understanding of principles related to speci-
ation in shes and experience with modern molecular
taxonomy. Knowledge of population genomic methods,
the use of environmental DNA in studies of biodiversity,
sh anatomy and/or sh physiology is an advantage.
The applicant must have a strong track-record, docu-
mented ability to receive external funding for research,
and experience in teaching relevant subjects.
As this posting is a short summary of the complete
job posting, please read the full posting and apply
via: https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/-
job/135757/associate-professor-in-sh-biology-at-the-
faculty-of-biosciences-shery-and-economics Kim
Pr~Abel, Ph.D. Associate Professor Group leader,
Genetics Norwegian College of Fishery Science UiT The
Arctic University of Norway N-9037 Troms, Norway
Oce: (+ 47) 776 46107 Mobile: (+47) 454 36415
E-mail: kim.praebel@uit.no
kim.praebel@uit.no
UUtah Genetics LabManager
The Chow Lab in the Department of Human Genetics
at the University of Utah School of Medicine is hiring a
new technician or lab manager:
Apply here: https://utah.peopleadmin.com/postings/-
61290 Target Start Date June/July.
Job Summary: Assists with the daily operations of the
lab, including but not limited to, training new members,
assisting in lab projects, maintenance, and ordering.
There will be an opportunity to perform independent re-
search. Previous experience with genetics and molecular
biology or biochemistry is strongly preferred. Experi-
ence with Drosophila maintenance is a plus, but not
required. Must be willing to work with mice. The lab-
oratory of Dr. Clement Chow in the Dept. of Human
Genetics is seeking a lab technician to aid in projects
related to genetic variation and disease. Research in
the Chow lab utilizes the fruit y Drosophila, mouse,
and cell culture. The candidate will work independently
and together with other researchers in the lab to study
specic aspects of how genetic variation impacts human
disease. Please see www.ChowLab.org for more details.
Qualications: Bachelor's degree in biology, chemistry,
or other scientic disciplines in a related eld or equiva-
lency required; knowledge of complex laboratory tech-
niques, equipment, terminology, materials and sub-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 73
stances. Skilled in the use of laboratory equipment,
ability to create and analyze statistical calculations and
prepare reports required; and demonstrated human re-
lations and eective communication skills also required.
OSHA training and certication in animal care and use
or the willingness to complete the certication may be
required by some departments.
Responsibilities: 1. Works together with researchers
in the lab to further the goals of specic projects. 2.
Operates and maintains laboratory equipment and mi-
croscopes. 3. Troubleshoot basic molecular biology
procedures 4. Ensures that the lab is stocked and sup-
ply orders are placed when needed. 5. Maintains the
Drosophila lab stocks 6. Maintains a detailed and well
organized laboratory notebook. 7. May assist in mouse
colony maintenance 8. May assist in supervision of
undergraduate researchers 9. May engage in indepen-
dent research 10. May coauthor research papers and
publications
Clement Chow <cchow@genetics.utah.edu >
Virginia DirectorResearchCenter
Bioinformatics
Director,Center for the Study of Biological Complexity
Richmond,Virginia Rank:Associate to Full Professor
VCULife Sciences seeks a Director of the Center for
the Study of BiologicalComplexity (CSBC). VCU Life
Sciences is a University^ amatrix organizationthat pro-
motes Life Sciences Research and Education. CSBC has
beenin existence for 15 years and oers undergraduate
and graduate degreesin bioinformatics. Administrative
oces are on the Monroe Park campus.Degree programs
are Bachelor of Science in Bioinformatics, Master of-
Science in Bioinformatics with a traditional thesis and
a non^ adegreeoption (Professional Master's program).
Doctoral students have a specializedtrack in the Integra-
tive Life Sciences doctoral program, which alsooperates
under VCU Life Sciences. The new director would be
expected tobring their own research program, but also
recruit a diversied set of juniortenure^ afaculty, increas-
ing the research portfolio with extramuralfunding and
expanding enrollment in the existing degree programs.
VirginiaCommonwealth University is a major, urban
public research universitywith national and international
rankings in sponsored research. VCUis designated as
a research university with very high research activity
bythe Carnegie Classication of Institutions of HigherEducation and is recognizedas a community^ ainstitution
by the Carnegie Foundation. VCUtakes great pride
in its commitment to creating a campus community
that embracesdiverse perspectives, cultures, experiences
and people. Located in downtownRichmond, VCU en-
rolls more than 31,000 students in 226 degree and cer-
ticateprograms in the arts, sciences and humanities.
Sixty^ aof theprograms are unique in Virginia, many of
them crossing the disciplines ofVCU's 13 schools and one
college. Medical College of Virginia Hospitals andthe
health sciences schools including the Schools of Medicine,
Dentistry,Nursing, Pharmacy and Allied Health Profes-
sions comprise VCU MedicalCenter, one of the nation's
leading academic medical centers. Today,VCU serves
an integral role in the economic health of the city of
Richmondand the region by educating the current and
future workforce, advancingresearch, and enhancing pa-
tient care. VCU, its health system and otherrelated
entities have assets of approximately $3.0 billion, which
includes $840 million in endowment funds.
Responsibilities
- Represent the Center to Life Sciences, the University,
and the community (local,regional, and national).
- Provide scholarly leadership by maintaining indepen-
dent research program andgraduate student mentorship.
- Supervise 10 full^ aterm and tenured/tenure^ aresearch
and teachingfaculty. Assign specic teaching and service
responsibilities to faculty.
- Supervise full^ aclassied sta members who run the
Center for High PerformanceComputing (CHiPC).
- Assume primary responsibility for recruitment, reten-
tion, tenure and promotion,and compliance with univer-
sity guidelines regarding faculty appointments.
- Negotiate and supervise the departmental budget.
- Grow enrollment in BNFO degree programs (B.S.,
M.S.) with over 120 graduateand undergraduate majors
and a curricula comprised of 30+ courses.
- Build on existing cross^ ainitiatives to strengthen link-
ages acrosscampus.
RequiredQualications
- Doctoral degree in related discipline from an accredited
university
- Ten years of experience in discipline
- Tenured faculty member at a research active institu-
tion.
- Demonstrated experience working in and fostering a
diverse faculty, sta,and student environment or com-
mitment to do so as a faculty member atVCU74 EvolDir April 1, 2017
PreferredQualications
- Demonstrated commitment to undergraduate and grad-
uate education
- Current federal research funding
- Demonstration of ability to recruit tenure track faculty
and support research
- Demonstrated experiencein budget management
- Excellent leadership, communication and interpersonal
skills
ApplicationProcess
Interested, please apply online at https://-
www.vcujobs.com/postings/58027 tosubmit cover
letter, application, CV, and a list of three references.
Foradditional information, please contact Paul Fawcett,
Ph.D. at paul.fawcett@vcuhealth.org.
Projectedstart date is July 1, 2017. This position oers
a competitive salary,start^ a, and relocation package.
VirginiaCommonwealth University is an equal oppor-
tunity, armative actionuniversity providing access
to education and employment without regardto race,
color, religion, national origin, age, sex, political alia-
tion,veteran status, genetic information, sexual orienta-
tion, genderidentity, gender expression, or disability.
RodneyJ. Dyer, PhD Departmentof Biology Centerfor
Environmental Studies VirginiaCommonwealth Univer-
sity http://dyerlab.bio.vcu.edu
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WSLBirmensdorf
EnvironmentalGenomics
See job posting online and nd link for upload-
ing your application: https://apply.reine.ch/273855/-
0687/pub/1/index.html The Swiss Federal Institute for
Forest, Snow and Landscape Research WSL is a part of
the ETH domain. Approximately 500 people work on
the sustainable use and protection of the environment
and on the handling of natural hazards.
The Research Unit Biodiversity and Conservation Bi-
ology studies the diversity of life in its various forms,from genetic diversity to the diversity of species and
ecosystems as well as their interactions. To strengthen
our team in ecological genetics, starting July 1, 2017, or
later, we are searching a
TENURE TRACK SCIENTIST IN ENVIRONMEN-
TAL GENOMICS (80%?100%)
You are responsible for the design and execution of the
studies on the interrelationship of genomic and environ-
mental variation, focusing on forest trees, alpine plants
and conservation-relevant animal species. Together with
the group leader, you will acquire third-party funding
at international and national levels. You will carry out
these research projects in collaboration with technical
sta, publish the results in high-ranking international
journals and present them at international conferences.
Contributions to applied research projects and outreach
activities are also expected. You have a PhD degree in
biology or environmental sciences, an excellent interna-
tional reputation in the eld and a strong background
in ecological genetics and evolutionary biology. You are
competent in the analysis of genomic and environmental
data and their relationship, and provide skills in written
and oral scientic publication. You are ambitious and
highly motivated, demonstrate a high level of collabora-
tive, interdisciplinary competence, and are experienced
in guiding technical sta during molecular-genetic lab
work.
Please send your complete application to Monika
Lips, Human Resources WSL. Felix Gugerli, fe-
lix.gugerli@wsl.ch, and Rolf Holderegger, phone +41
(0)44 739 25 27 or rolf.holderegger@wsl.ch, will be happy
to answer any questions or oer further information.
The WSL strives to increase the proportion of women
in its employment, which is why qualied women are
particularly called upon to apply for this position.
Felix Gugerli Kuenzle, PhD Senior Scientist / Head
\Ecological Genetics" Swiss Federal Research Institute
WSL Research Unit Biodiversity & Conservation Biol-
ogy Zuercherstrasse 111 CH-8903 Birmensdorf
SWITZERLAND
phone: +41-(0)44-739-2590 fax: +41-(0)44-739-2215
http://www.wsl.ch/info/mitarbeitende/gugerli/index=-
5FEN \felix.gugerli@wsl.ch" <felix.gugerli@wsl.ch >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 75
Xishuangbanna
TropicalBotanicalGarden
ResearchPositions
I have several positions available for researchers keen
to carry out some exciting research in a very healthy
environment.
In my group, I have the following positions open at mo-ment (1) 2 Positions of assistant or associate professor
(2) 3 Postdoc positions Please forward this information
to anyone who might be interested. The job advertise-
ments are available at: http://english.xtbg.cas.cn/ju/
The call will be open until the positions are lled.
Best wishes, Harald
Prof Harald Schneider, PhD FLS 1. Xishuangbanna
Tropical Botanical Garden, Centre for Integrative Con-
servation, Chinese Academy of Sciences 2. Department
of Life Sciences Natural History Museum, London SW7
5BD, UK
erin.tripp@colorado.edu
Other
1000 Genomes TeachingTools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76
5000OmmenPrize EvolutionAndMedicine NominateY-
ourArticle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76
Avian Plasma Progesterone levels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
BloodCapillaries For DNA Extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Cairns Australia VolFieldAssist FairyWrens . . . . . . . 77
Caymans YouPay MarineConservationFieldAssist . .77
DukeU SummerInternshipOpportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
DukeU SummerInternshipOpportunity 2 . . . . . . . . . . 79
ESEB SpecialTopicsNetworks CallDeadlineMar31 . .80
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen 2Vol SexualSelectionParrots
81
Melbourne VolFieldAssist Mistnetting . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
PacBio Competition BombardierBeetle . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
PacBio Competition Dingo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
PacBio Competition PinkPigeon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
PacBio Competition SeaSlug . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83Phyloseminar FordDoolittle March28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Phyloseminar MartaCasanellas Apr26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
PossibleGrants ForScienceExchange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Pyrenees VolFieldAssist PlantSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . .85
RohlfMorphometricsMedal CallForNominations . . . .86
SocStudyEvol GradStudentCouncil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Software NextGeneration RAxML Released . . . . . . . 86
SSB Grad Student Research Grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Sweden VolFieldAssit AvianEvolEcol MayJune . . . . 87
ULausanne SIBVirtualSeminar LaurentExcoer TO-
DAY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
ULausanne SIBVirtualSeminar LExcoer Mar29 . . 88
USaskatchewan 4Interns GroundSquirrel . . . . . . . . . . 88
US NatlMedalScience CallNominations . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Volunteer TeachingEvolutionInNepal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9076 EvolDir April 1, 2017
1000 Genomes TeachingTools
Hi All,
As a follow up to my previous request for any teaching
tools using 1000 genomes in the classroom, the follow-
ing noble souls shared their teaching resources with
me. They have all agreed to be contacted if you are
interested in their documents/ideas.
Vikram Chhatre vchhatre@uwyo.edu Daryn Stover
dastover@asu.edu Max Taub taubd@southwestern.edu
David Remington dlreming@uncg.edu
{ Diane Ramos, PhD
Associate Professor Natural Sciences Department Dae-
men College 4380 Main St. Amherst, NY 14226
Duns Scotus 329 dramos@daemen.edu 716.839.8560
\dramos@daemen.edu" <dramos@daemen.edu >
5000OmmenPrize
EvolutionAndMedicine
NominateYourArticle
Nominations are open now for the
$5000
2016 Omenn Prize for the best article published
in 2016 in any scientic journal on a topic related
to evolution in the context of medicine and public
health. Self nominations are encouraged. Deadline
March 31, 2017. https://evolutionarymedicine.org/-
funding-and-awards/gil-omenn-prize/ The prize will
be awarded at the 2017 annual meeting of The Interna-
tional Society for Evolution, Medicine & Public Health,
August 18-21 in Groningen, Netherlands. https://-
evolutionarymedicine.org/2017-isemph-meeting/ The
prize, provided by the generosity of Gilbert S. Omenn,
will be awarded to the rst author of the winning article.
Authors are encouraged to nominate their own articles,
but nominations of articles by others are also welcome.
Any relevant peer-reviewed article with a publication
date of 2016 for the nal version of the article is eligible,
but the prize is intended for work that uses evolution-
ary principles to advance understanding of a disease
or disease process. The prize committee will give pri-ority to articles with implications for human health,
but many basic science or theoretical articles have such
implications.
The Prize Committee for this year is chaired by Grazyna
Jasienska, and its members are James Bull and Antonis
Rokas. Papers by committee members, their students
and lab group members are not eligible, and articles
by their co-authors or close associates are subject to
special conditions. The winner will be invited to present
a talk at the meeting of the International Society for
Evolution and Medicine.
The rm deadline for nominations is March 31. Nomi-
nation instructions at the link.
https://evolutionarymedicine.org/funding-and-awards/-
gil-omenn-prize/ Randolph Nesse <nesse@asu.edu >
Avian Plasma Progesterone levels
Dear All,
If you have used Enzo Life Sciences ELISA progesterone
kits (product # ADI-900-011 or ADI-901-011) for avian
plasma, could you please contact me? Compared to
the published results of other enzyme immunoassays,
I was surprised by the values returned after analyz-
ing avian plasma samples for progesterone, even when
plasma levels were diluted. I have had diculty nding
any published results in the literature using this exact
ELISA kit and Enzo has not been able to assist me in
this. Any help that you would be able to provide would
be greatly appreciated.
Thank you, Misha
{ Misha Blizard Ph.D. Candidate Ecology & Evolution
University of Chicago blizard@uchicago.edu
misha.blizard@gmail.com
BloodCapillaries For DNA
Extraction
Dear all,
I am looking for the best solution to eciently collect
blood from birds in the eld (following venipuncture)April 1, 2017 EvolDir 77
for DNA extraction and subsequent Illumina sequencing.
Glass capillaries in my experience are the most ecient
means of collecting (as opposed to double-capped plastic
capillary tubes, which tend to have lower capillary forces
and leave back a lots of blood on the bird). However, I
have trouble nding glass capillaries coated with EDTA
rather than heparin.
1) Does anybody know a company producing EDTA-
coated glass capillaries? 2) Does anybody have experi-
ence with Illumina sequencing from blood collected in
heparinized tubes? (as heparin is supposed to inhibit e.g.
PCR) 3) Any other tips about how to most eciently
collect blood following venipuncture?
Any help or comment would be highly appreciated.
Thanks a lot & best wishes, Reto
{ RETO BURRI Department of Population Ecology,
Institute of Ecology Friedrich Schiller University Jena
Dornburger Strasse 159 D-07743 Jena, Germany Tel.
+49 (0)176 272 155 08
// https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=-
xqB6K7kAAAAJ&hl=en // https://publons.com/-
author/420923/reto-burri#prole // https://-
twitter.com/Reto Burri Reto Burri <reto.burri@uni-
jena.de >
Cairns Australia VolFieldAssist
FairyWrens
Avian volunteer eld assistant - Lovely fairy-wrens, Aus-
tralia
We are looking for one eld assistant to help monitor
a colour-banded population of Lovely fairy-wrens in
Cairns, Queensland, Australia, for a research project on
female ornamentation from University of Melbourne.
Time period: From August 25th to 25th September.
Starting/ending date can be adjusted but needs to be
around this time. Assistant is expected to stay a full
month.
Location: Cairns region, Queensland, Australia. We
will be based in Cairns city but travel to several sites in
the area.
The applicant will have the opportunity to enjoy the
unique wildlife of North Queensland and leisure time
to visit Cairns, the Great Barrier Reef or the world
heritage rainforests.Duties: Censusing of colour-banded birds, searching for
and monitoring nests, banding nestlings, behavioural ob-
servations while following birds, assisting in behavioural
experiments and target mist-netting. After eldwork
video/photo analysis, data entry and other computer
activities will occur. Working days are long, with early
starts, six days a week.
Qualications: Experience resighting colour-banded
birds, following birds in dense canopy, nest-searching,
bird handling skills, mist-netting, banding and be-
havioural observations. Must also be early riser, phys-
ically t, able to work in extreme weather conditions
(hot, humid, and occasional tropical rain), maintain
a positive attitude and enjoy shared living conditions.
Good knowledge of English is a must. Applicant must
be able to work independently and have great hearing
and vision. Enthusiasm, self-motivation, organisation,
and a strong work ethic are a requisite.
Compensation: Free onsite accommodation is provided,
but assistants cover travel to Cairns and their own food
costs. The project will reimburse up to AUD $750 for
the month towards receipted food and travel expenses
(including airfare) to Cairns.
For more information contact: Ana Leitao
(anamvleitao@gmail.com). To apply, please email
a letter outlining previous relevant eld research
experience, availability and a CV including names and
contact information for 3 referees.
anamvleitao@gmail.com
Caymans YouPay
MarineConservationFieldAssist
To Whom This May Concern on EvoDir,
Please circulate this announcement to anyone whom
you feel would be interested in The Central Caribbean
Marine Institutes (CCMI) new Reef Research Experi-
ence during the summer of 2017. Apologies for any
cross-postings.
CCMI is a US 501 C3 nonprot organization, a UK char-
ity (#1104009) and a Cayman Islands charity located on
Little Cayman, Cayman Islands. As a remote tropical
research, conservation, and education institution; we are
aware of the discussions concerning internships, courses,
experiences, etc. which are currently going on between
all the list serves and welcome any professionally stated
questions or comments regarding the cost or validity of78 EvolDir April 1, 2017
research conducted during our programme.
~~~~~
The Central Caribbean Marine Institute - Little Cayman
Research Station (CCMI - LCRC)
*NEW* Reef Research Experience (RRE) - Coral Reef
Research and Spatial Ecology
*APPLICATION DEADLINE MAY 1 ^ST, 2017*
DO YOU WANT TO CONTRIBUTE TO CORAL
CONSERVATION RESEARCH?
The CCMI - LCRC in the Cayman Islands is recruiting
15 junior research assistants for an exciting new coral
reef and spatial ecology research experience for a two-
week period during the summer of 2017. Junior Research
Assistants (JRA's) will work alongside CCMI scientists
to focus on answering exciting questions regarding two
specic projects:
Project 1: Fish Herbivory and Productivity
This project is funded with the help of the Darwin Ini-
tiative, a UK government grant scheme that helps to
protect biodiversity and the natural environment in de-
veloping countries and UK overseas territories. Junior
research assistants will help assist with the expansion of
our knowledge regarding the population dynamics of key
herbivore species (such as parrotshes and urchins) in
the waters surrounding Little Cayman. Data collection
regarding competition in the spatial ecology between
reef shes, algae, and stony corals will contribute to
developing a biodiversity action plan for the Cayman
Islands.
Project 2: Coral Reef Resilience and Restoration
This project is part of our Long-term Assessment and
Monitoring Program (LAMP) funded by various or-
ganizations throughout the last 10 years. Junior re-
search assistants will assist with monitoring the health
of outplanted Acropora cervicornis colonies at 10 dif-
ferent restoration sites around Little Cayman, across
various parameters such as: bleaching, disease, preda-
tion, and fragmentation. Junior research assistants will
also be conducting benthic habitat surveys as part of
our Coral Reef Resilience and Restoration Research pro-
gram, where you will learn how to analyze data using
a new program called CoralNET. CoralNet is a free
platform developed by the University of California at
Santa Barbara which utilizes articial intelligence to
analyze the composition of marine benthic communi-
ties. Data collected from this research will contribute
to developing a restoration plan which will assist with
the identication of optimal restoration sites around the
Cayman Islands.LENGTH OF PROGRAMME:
Session 1: July 14 ^th - 28 ^th, 2017
Session 2: August 16 ^th - 30 ^th, 2017 (If session 1 lls)
PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES:
- Establish a Cayman Islands CoralNet database of ma-
rine benthic communities
- Enrich our existing database of sh populations, stony
coral cover, and algae density
- Create a Cayman Islands web-based eld guide of key
herbivores species
- Determine localized extinction risks of endangered
corals by mapping coral restoration sites and assessing
coral -health at our LAMP sites
EXPERIENCE YOU WILL GAIN: Minimum of 15 +
research dives (weather permitting)
- Knowledge of coral reef ecology; including Caribbean
coral, algae, and sh identication workshops
- Skills in underwater eld research methods
- Working directly with endangered coral species (specif-
ically Acropora cervicornis and Acropora palmata)
- Instruction on creating an experimental design, data
collection, and data analysis
- Analyzing coral reef images using image analysis soft-
ware (CoralNet, ArcGIS, and AgiSoft) to construct
photo-mosaics and underwater maps to aid in habitat
restoration techniques
*CCMI will issue a Certicate of Completion of 80 hours
in Coral Reef Research and Spatial Ecology at the com-
pletion of the reef research experience.
REQUIREMENTS:
We seek a to ll 15 junior research assistant positions
over a 14-day period during the summer of 2017. Re-
quirements include:
- 18+ years of age
- Open Water Diver with at least 20 logged dives (Ad-
vanced certication or higher preferred)
- Insured through DAN
- Current enrollment in an undergraduate programme
with a focus in Marine Science, Biology, Environmental
Science or a related eld (or a recent graduate)
- Must be physically t to work long days in the sun
and on the water
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.April 1, 2017 EvolDir 79
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
DukeU
SummerInternshipOpportunity
Duke University: AEOP summer internships - Biome-
chanics of Ultrafast Movements
The Patek Lab in the Biology Department at Duke
University is recruiting one undergraduate student re-
searcher through the US Army Educational Outreach
Program (AEOP) during the summer of 2017. The stu-
dent will participate in projects examining fast, impul-
sive movements of animals in the natural environment.
The focal systems for the project are trap-jaw ants. Re-
sponsibilities of the student researchers may include
collecting study organisms from local habitats, obtain-
ing high-speed videos of animals, analyzing high-speed
videos using computer software, performing statistical
analyses and scientic writing. The details of responsi-
bilities and tasks will be determined based on mutual
interests of the students and the mentors. There are
also possibilities for the students to develop individual
projects under our mentorship.
We are looking for motivated, reliable students who are
excited about having rst-hand research experience at
the intersection of biology and physics. Skills to perform
the above-mentioned tasks are not required. We espe-
cially value students who are curious, hard-working and
have an open mind about the possibilities of basic, sci-
entic research. For more information about The Patek
Lab, please visit our website: www.thepateklab.org
DEADLINE: March 12, 2017, 11:59 pm. All applicants
must submit two letters of recommendation, transcripts
and must have maintained a cumulative GPA of at least
3.2 in their coursework. Applicants must also include a
brief essay that explains their interest in this research
and how it relates to their future goals.
TO APPLY: Please click the link below, and then: -
Select \Apply" at the bottom of the page - Fill out the
forms - At \Please select your 1st preference of URAP
location," please select \BDUN53 Duke University"
Application link, through the Undergraduate Re-
search Apprenticeship Program (URAP): http://-
www.cvent.com/events/2017-undergraduate-research-
apprenticeship-program-urap-/event-summary-
ccf8d39466294c8391d60121495cfcdf.aspx Chi-Yun KuoPostdoctoral Associate Patek Lab, Duke University
Personal website <https://www.chiyunkuo.com/ >
https://pateklab.biology.duke.edu 919-613-0994
Chi-Yun Kuo <chi.yun.kuo@duke.edu >
DukeU
SummerInternshipOpportunity 2
DukeUniversity: AEOP summer internships - Biome-
chanics of Ultrafast Movements
ThePatek Lab in the Biology Department at Duke
University is recruiting one undergraduate student re-
searcher through the US Army Educational Outreach
Program (AEOP) during the summer of 2017. The stu-
dent will participate in projects examining fast, impul-
sive movements of animals in the natural environment.
The focal systems for the project are trap-jaw ants. Re-
sponsibilities of the student researchers may include
collecting study organisms from local habitats, obtain-
ing high-speed videos of animals, analyzing high-speed
videos using computer software, performing statistical
analyses and scientic writing. The details of responsi-
bilities and tasks will be determined based on mutual
interests of the students and the mentors. There are
also possibilities for the students to develop individual
projects under our mentorship.
Weare looking for motivated, reliable students who are
excited about having rst-hand research experience at
the intersection of biology and physics. Skills to perform
the above-mentioned tasks are not required. We espe-
cially value students who are curious, hard-working and
have an open mind about the possibilities of basic, sci-
entic research. For more information about The Patek
Lab, please visit our website: www.thepateklab.org
DEADLINE:March 12, 2017, 11:59 pm. All applicants
must submit two letters of recommendation, transcripts
and must have maintained a cumulative GPA of at least
3.2 in their coursework. Applicants must also include a
brief essay that explains their interest in this research
and how it relates to their future goals.
TOAPPLY: Please click the link below through the Un-
dergraduate Research Apprenticeship Program (URAP):
http://www.cvent.com/events/2017-undergraduate-
research-apprenticeship-program-urap-/event-summary-
ccf8d39466294c8391d60121495cfcdf.aspx - Select
\Apply" at the bottom of the page - Fill out the forms -
At \Please select your 1st preference of URAP location,"80 EvolDir April 1, 2017
please select \BDUN53 Duke University"
NOTE:The project description from the Army Research
Oce website was incorrect and has now been xed. It
should read:
\ImpulsiveBiological Performance in the Natural Envi-
ronment": Student will focus on impulsive performance
in the natural environment. Applicants will need to
have taken introductory biology and physics (mechan-
ics). They must have an interest in working outdoors
and with live animals.\
chi.yun.kuo@duke.edu
ESEB SpecialTopicsNetworks
CallDeadlineMar31
REMINDER - ESEB SPECIAL TOPICS NETWORKS
2017
DEADLINE for proposals: 31 MARCH 2017
***ESEB Special Topic Networks - Call for proposals***
Small symposia, workshops and courses in various for-
mats can perform functions complementary to those of
the ESEB Congresses, allowing more focused interac-
tions within specialist areas, forging new links between
previously separate areas or fostering interdisciplinary
and innovative ideas that merge specialized elds. One-
o events can be valuable but the returns for connected
series of events can be even greater. Therefore, ESEB in-
vites proposals for Special Topic Networks (STNs) that
will support dynamic and exible series of small meet-
ings and/or other networking opportunities in focused
and currently active research areas.
Each STN will be funded for up to 6 years (subject to
review after 2 and 4 years of operation) with an an-
nual budget of up to 10 000 Euros. Two STNs were
initiated in 2016 (see http://eseb.org/prizes-funding/-
special-topic-networks/), two will be initiated in 2017
and then further STNs will be initiated every other year.
The format of these STNs is up to their organisers and
innovative ideas are encouraged. All elds of evolution-
ary biology are eligible. Applicants should provide a
proposal with the following components:
1) a description of the research area to be targeted,
showing why it is timely to address it in this way and
outlining the expected benets to the eld from the STN
(max. 1000 words), 2) a plan for the rst two years of
operation of the STN and an outline of activities overthe remaining years (max. 500 words), 3) the names and
aliations of the proposed organisers, with brief (max.
one page) CVs, and 4) a budget, with brief justication,
for the STN activities proposed for the rst two years.
Applicants should also identify an institution that is
prepared to open an account in which the funds can be
deposited and managed by the applicants. ?Overheads?
will not be paid to this institution but reasonable di-
rect administrative costs will be eligible. Funding for
each 2-year block will be subject to approval by the
STN Committee, established by Council, following re-
ceipt of a report of activities in the preceding 2 years.
The institution managing funds will be asked to pro-
vide a certied statement of expenditure to accompany
the report. The principal criterion for renewal will be
evidence that the funding provided had been used to
further interaction in the topic area.
Applications should be sent to the ESEB oce email
(oce@eseb.org) as PDF les by 31 MARCH 2017. Pro-
posals will be assessed by an independent STN Review
Panel appointed by the STN Committee following the
closing date and ensuring no conict of interest by panel
members. The STN Review Panel will make funding
recommendations to Council. The result will be an-
nounced after the next Council meeting, at latest on 31
August 2017.
The principal criterion for selection of an STN will be its
focus on an active area of research within the scope of
evolutionary biology. Preference might be given to STNs
that propose new connections between sub-disciplines
or that focus on the resolution of current controver-
sies. A score for this criterion based on part (1) of the
application will account for 50% of the overall panel
score. It is primarily for the proposers to demonstrate
the need for an STN, the potential for it to stimulate
progress and the activities that will enable the network
to be eective. A typical STN might organise one small
discussion meeting per year but it might also organise
training events and its members might work together to
generate resources or publications. Interaction among
members might be fostered, between meetings, using
social media, online discussion forums or similar. A
score for the eective and innovative nature of the plans
laid out in part (2) of the proposal will account for 25%
of the overall panel score. The nal 25% of the score will
be based on the budget and adherence to the following
guidelines:
1. A proposal should be supported by at least three
ESEB members (membership in date on the closing
date for applications), from at least two and typically
three countries and taking gender issues into account,
who commit to organising the STN for its duration (orApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 81
to nding appropriate replacements if forced to step
down). A member should support no more than one
proposal in a given application round and organisers of
current STNs should not be proposers of new STNs. 2.
STNs should organise at least one meeting in the non-
Congress year following its inception and one in its nal
non-Congress year. Complementing these meetings with
an innovative range of other activities is strongly encour-
aged. 3. STNs should consider oering a contribution
to the ESEB Congress in
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen 2Vol
SexualSelectionParrots
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen. SexualSelectionParrotsVol-
unteers
Where: Tenerife, Spain When: beginning of June until
end of August 2017 What: Volunteer eld assistants -
Parrot sexual selection
The Department of Behavioural Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Genetics at the Max Planck Institute for Or-
nithology in Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany (see http:/-
/www.orn.mpg.de/2622/Department Kempenaers), is
seeking 2 volunteers to start working beginning of June
and until the end of August 2017.
The volunteers will assist in the collection of courtship
displays and egg-laying data. This work would be part
of a project that aims to understand sexual selection
in parrots of the world. The work will be done with
captive animals that are held in the facilities of the Loro
Parque Fundacion, located in Tenerife, Spain.
Work will include: . recording courtship displays . fol-
lowing up reproduction (sexual displays, mating, and egg
laying) . maintenance of electronic equipment . setting
up experimental equipment . data collection, entry, and
management Successful candidates should have some
experience with video-recording equipment. Experience
with monitoring animals is desirable. Applicants should
also be highly motivated and well organised, with capa-
bilities of working both in a group and independently.
Work will be 5-6 days per week. The working languageat the Institute is English, so good knowledge of the
language is required. A basic working knowledge of the
Spanish language would be advantageous. Eligibility
is restricted to EU students. The Max Planck Insti-
tute for Ornithology employs a dynamic, dedicated, and
international group of researchers who are focused on
exploring the elds of evolution, ecology, genetics, and
neurobiology.
Benets will include accommodation and ight ticket to
Tenerife.
Please apply (including your CV and cover letter) via
email to lcarballo@orn.mpg.de. Deadline: 05 May 2017
or until the positions are lled.
Luisana Carballo Department of Behavioural Ecology
and Evolutionary Genetics Max-Planck-Institute for
Ornithology Eberhard-Gwinner-Strae, House 8 82319
Seewiesen Germany
\L. Carballo" <lcarballo@orn.mpg.de >
Melbourne VolFieldAssist
Mistnetting
We are looking for a volunteer eld assistant to help
with research on sexual selection and seasonal colour
change in superb fairy-wrens (Australia). We need an
experienced mist-netter, who is organised, respectful of
animals and enjoys being outdoors. The work involves
mistnetting for superb fairy-wrens (banding, blood sam-
ples, photography and spectral measurements) and be-
havioural observations of free-living birds. Work will
be conducted from May-July and September-October
2017, in an open woodland approximately 1 hour east
of Melbourne CBD. Our eld site provides many op-
portunities to see unique Australian wildlife, including
kangaroos, wallabys and echidnas. The park has di-
verse range of native birds, such as crested shrike-tits,
sacred kingshers, spotted pardalotes and red-browed
nches. Food, accommodation and local travel expenses
are compensated (to be discussed with the applicant).
For more information please contact Alex McQueen:
alex.mcqueen@monash.edu
\alexandra.mcqueen@monash.edu"
<alexandra.mcqueen@monash.edu >82 EvolDir April 1, 2017
PacBio Competition
BombardierBeetle
PacBio World's Most Interesting Genome competition
to dispel the myths of intelligent design.
I am writing for your support and vote to help us win
PacBio's World's Most Interesting Genome contest. My
team aims to unravel the mysteries of the explosive bom-
bardier beetle (Brachinus elongatulus), a species that
repels predators with rapid-re, precisely-aimed explo-
sive discharges of a toxic chemical mix at over 100 ^AoC,
earning them lead roles in media and culture. Yet the
genomic basis of this extraordinary ability remains a
mystery and bombardiers are currently being used as
prototypes of \intelligent design."
We propose sequencing the genome of the bombardier
beetle to generate a resource and model system for
insect chemical biosynthesis, ll a major gap in our
knowledge of the tree of life ( >40,000 species!), and
provide an unparalleled opportunity to advance under-
standing of biodiversity and evolutionary biology among
the general public. Although their explosive delivery is
well-documented, both scientically and in the popular
media (the combined view count for the top the ve
bombardier beetle YouTube videos is over 3 million!),
the genetic basis, evolutionary history, and biosynthesis
of defensive chemistry in bombardiers remain poorly
understood. The rst bombardier genome will allow us
to understand the genetic basis of bombardier chemical
production, solving a long-standing evolutionary puzzle.
Help Us Sequence The Explosive Bombardier Beetle
Genome.
Tanya Renner (San Diego State University) and team's
proposal to sequence the bombardier beetle's genome
has been selected as one of 5 nalists to undergo a
popular vote for the world's most interesting genome.
More than 200 proposals were submitted to the PacBio
2017 Plant and Animal SMRT Grant Program. The
nal winner is selected by popular vote. We need your
VOTE on the PacBio website to help us win this com-
petition: https://goo.gl/xv2lUH You can vote today
and everyday through April 5th. You can use up to 3
email addresses to vote per day.
Learn more about our research and watch the bom-
bardier beetle's CHEMICAL CANNON in action on
this website: https://youtu.be/BWwgLS5tK80 Thankyou for supporting Team Explosive Bombardier Beetle!
Tanya #SeqtheBeetle
Tanya Renner, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor San Diego State University Depart-
ment of Biology North Life Sciences 230 5500 Campanile
Dr.
San Diego, CA 92182-4614 trenner@mail.sdsu.edu
www.tanyarenner.org Tanya Renner
<trenner@mail.sdsu.edu >
PacBio Competition Dingo
I'm writing to see if you could help me with a rather fun
competition I'm trying to win. An aim of the project is
to look at genes involved in unconscious selection (wolf
to dingo) as comparted to articial selection (dingo
ancestor to domestic dogs)
Below is a brief from the University.
A proposal by Bill Ballard in Sydney to study the DNA
of a two year old dingo called Sandy Maliki has been
announced as one of ve nalists in the World's Most
Interesting Genome competition.
More than 200 international entries were received for
the Pacic Biosciences SMRT Grant, which provides
services worth about $20,000 to sequence the complete
genome of a particularly fascinating or important plant
or animal.
The general public will decide the winner and we need
evolutionary biologists to vote on the competition
website: http://www.pacb.com/smrt-science/smrt-
grant/pag2017/dancing-dingoes/ Sandy's progress
can be followed on theDancing with DingoesFacebook
page:https://www.facebook.com/DancingwithDingoes/.
And on utubehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-
FdhF6qwXNao A Sydney Morning Herald report can
be found at: http://www.smh.com.au/technology/-
sci-tech/unsw-dingo-dna-study-could-be-the-rst-test-
of-darwins-challenging-theory-20170315-guysi0.html
Thanks
Bill
BABS/ UNSW Sydney Australia
Meet Sandy and share the page
VOTE NOW
w.ballard@unsw.edu.auApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 83
PacBio Competition PinkPigeon
Dear Members,
The endangered pink pigeon (Nesoenas mayeri) needs
your vote in the Pacic Biosciences competition.
The pink pigeon is an endangered species that declined
to less than 20 individuals in the 1970's and increased
to near 400 individuals currently. Although this is a
conservation success story, the pink pigeon is still endan-
gered, threatened by invasive pathogens, and suering
from inbreeding depression.
We (University of East Anglia, Earlham Institute and
our collaborators) hope to implement a genetic rescue
approach to help the species recover, in particular to
develop resistance to the pathogen Trichomona gallinae,
which kills over 60% of young. Transcriptome sequenc-
ing using Iso-Seq would enable us to identify candidate
genes that contribute to resistance so that we can begin
screening the captive population for these alleles.
Your vote for the pink pigeon will help us identify the
genes associated to resistance, which will help us to bet-
ter inform captive breeding programmes to safeguard
this important genetic variation and enable genetic sup-
plementation of the wild population in the future. This
research will also contribute to our understanding of
the evolution of the avian genome and the evolution of
immune gene regions.
Please vote at: bit.ly/seqthepigeon You can also tweets
us at : #seqthepigeon
Thank you very much, Best wishes,
Camilla Ryan, Dr Matt Clark, Professor Cock Van Oost-
erhout
(If anyone would like further information please contact
Camilla at camilla.ryan@earlham.ac.uk)
Camilla ryan@hotmail.comPacBio Competition SeaSlug
Dear colleagues,
We need your voice! 3 times a day! 3 weeks long!
Why?
Elysia timida is a brilliant sea slug. It incorporates
chloroplasts (the energy-converting organelles inside the
cells of plants) from its food algae and lets them con-
tinue photosynthesis, almost like a plant! The starch
that the chloroplasts produce in the slug allows it to
survive during longer periods of starvation.
To better understand how the slug does this, we would
like to analyze the genome of Elysia timida, and have
submitted a proposal to an international competition
organized by PacBio (http://www.pacb.com). The
winners get their proposed genome sequenced (with
PacBio's latest SMRT technology) and assembled.
Our proposal has been selected by a group of experts
from more than 200 project ideas. Now we have to
compete against four other nalists.
That is why we need your vote!
How can you help us?
If you think that Elysia timida is an exciting animal and
want to know why it has these special abilities, please
go to the following website and vote for us:
http://www.pacb.com/smrt-science/smrt-grant/-
pag2017/solar-powered-slug/ How does the election
work?
Votes are counted daily for three weeks from 15 ^th
March until 5 ^th April. So you can vote for us every
day! And best of all, you can even vote for us three
times each day if you use three dierent e-mail addresses
(the name can stay the same). The proposal with the
most votes will be the winner.
Learn more and watch this brief video about our project:
https://youtu.be/UA7YdtayqlQ We hope for your
vote(s)! Thank you for your help!
Your Elysia timida (E.T.) Team
#SeqtheSlug
Carola Greve, Ph. D. Zoological Research Museum
Alexander Koenig Adenauerallee 160 53113 Bonn Ger-
many email: c.greve@leibniz-zfmk.de phone (oce):84 EvolDir April 1, 2017
++49 (0)228-9122-242
Greve Carola <C.Greve@leibniz-zfmk.de >
Phyloseminar FordDoolittle
March28
Next on http://phyloseminar.org/ ...
Darwinizing Gaia W. Ford Doolittle Dalhousie Univer-
sity Tuesday, March 28, 2017, 10:00 AM PDT
Talks in this series have largely focused on population
genetic and phylogenetic methods for reconstructing
micro- and macroevolutionary patterns consequent from
microevolutionary processes. When natural selection
is invoked, it is generally assumed to operate through
the dierential reproduction of favored variants among
populations of physical entities, be they genes, cells,
organisms or (rarely) species. The Gaia hypothesis of
James Lovelock, co-developed and vigorously promoted
by Lynn Margulis in the 1970s, has been very popular
with the lay public. But most mainstream Darwinists
scorned and still do not accept the notion. They cannot
imagine global biospheric stability being selected for
at any of the above levels, and do not see the Earth's
biosphere as part of a population of comparable global
entities engaged in reproductive competition. Most
philosophers of biology would similarly argue that any
global homeostatic systems (if they exist) can be only
\fortuitous byproducts" of lower-level selection. I will sug-
gest that we look at the biogeochemical cycles and other
homeostatic processes that might confer stability{ rather
than the individual organisms or \species" (mostly mi-
crobial) that implement them{ as the relevant units
of selection. By thus focusing our attentions on the
\song", not the \singers," a Darwinized Gaia might be
developed. Our understanding of evolution by natural
selection would however need to be stretched to accom-
modate dierential persistence, and our denition of
reproduction would need to be reworked.
Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fredhutch.org/ ematsen@gmail.comPhyloseminar MartaCasanellas
Apr26
Next talk on http://phyloseminar.org/ :
Phylogenetic invariants: what are they and why should
we care Marta Casanellas Rius Universitat Polit ecnica
de Catalunya Wednesday, April 26, 2017, 10:00 AM
PDT
It has been now thirty years since the introduction of
phylogenetic invariants by Lake, Cavender, and Felsen-
stein. However, the use of phylogenetic invariants as
a method of phylogenetic reconstruction has been in a
dormant state for about 20 years; quoting J. Felsenstein
in his 2004 book \invariants are worth attention, not
for what they do for us now, but what they might lead
to in the future".
During the last decade many eorts have been made by
mathematicians to completely understand the structure
and use of phylogenetic invariants. This has led to the
characterization of dierent types of invariants for many
dierent models: from the most simple Jukes-Cantor
model to the general Markov model, and even mixtures
of them and the coalescent. Most importantly, this has
produced new and ecient methods of phylogenetic re-
construction for complex models. The use of invariants
has also been used in model selection and has been
crucial in proving the identiability of parameters for
certain models.
In this talk we shall introduce phylogenetic invariants,
explain the main ideas that underlie the methods of phy-
logenetic reconstruction based on invariants and discuss
the advantages and drawbacks of them.
{ Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate Mem-
ber Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
http://matsen.fredhutch.org/ Erick Matsen
<ematsen@gmail.com >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 85
PossibleGrants ForScienceExchange
Hi evoldir listers,
I'm excited to share with you that I have been se-
lected as one of 78 international female scientists to take
part in the second edition of Homeward Bound (http:/-
/homewardboundprojects.com.au/), a 10-year global
collaboration of women working together to communi-
cate climate science and gender equity on the world
stage. I'm the only representative of Venezuela and the
Caribbean in the program.
The Program covers 60% of the cost of my participation,
and I need to raise the remaining funds (US $16,000).
Raising funds from within Venezuela is a real challenge
for me, since the currency exchange control established
in 2003 by the government seriously limits Venezuelans
to obtain any kind of foreign currency.
I'm writing to the list in order to ask information about
grants or scholarships I could apply to get funds for my
participation in this initiative.
Also, I will really appreciate if people could share my
crowdfunding campaign in their social media. https://-
www.chued.org/project/adrianahumanes).
Thanks in advance!
Cheers
Adriana Humanes
{ www.adrianahumanes.com https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Adriana Humanes
0414-0221895
Adriana Humanes <adrihumanes@gmail.com >
Pyrenees VolFieldAssist
PlantSpeciation
Nick Barton's group at the Institute of Science and Tech-
nology (IST) Austria requires volunteers to assist with
eld work on plant speciation in the Pyrenees (Spain)
this coming summer (late May - early August).
The project: We are studying the evolutionary dynam-ics underlying species diversication in the genus Antir-
rhinum (snapdragons). A major focus of this research
involves eld work on natural hybrid zones between two
subspecies with dierent ower colours. Most of the
eld work is contributing to a long-term pedigree project
aimed at establishing a direct link from genotype to phe-
notype to tness. With 20,000 samples collected over six
generations (so far), this provides an exciting and pow-
erful system to examine many outstanding questions in
speciation and quantitative genetics in wild populations.
We are seeking volunteers to assist with the eld work,
which involves working in teams mapping the location of
individual plants (GPS), tagging and sampling them for
leaves and owers, measuring quantitative traits, phe-
notyping them for ower pigmentation and processing
material for later DNA extraction. There may also be
opportunities to be involved in other projects we are
doing on plant-pollinator interactions, pollen fertility
and community ecology surveys. Most of the work is
outdoors, however we do spend some time indoors pro-
cessing samples. The work is highly team orientated,
typically in groups of 2-3 in the eld and larger groups
processing samples back at the research station. This
is a great opportunity for anybody looking to obtain
experience in eld work relating to evolutionary biology,
plant ecology and plant-animal interactions. You will
also be part of a large multidisciplinary team includ-
ing researchers from IST Austria (Vienna), John Innes
Centre (Norwich, UK) and the University of Toulouse.
The eld site is located near Ripoll in a beautiful part
of the Pyrenees of North Eastern Spain (Catalonia).
We stay in comfortable apartments overlooking a pic-
turesque valley, with close access to hiking trails and
small villages. All food, accommodation and travel
(within Europe) are covered. However, we cannot oer
any further stipend.
For these positions we are looking for hard working and
enthusiastic biology students with a strong interest in
working outdoors with plants. You must be meticulous
with recording data and also be comfortable working
as part of a team. Experience with eld-based projects
and plants is preferred but not essential.
We require assistance between late May and late July.
Depending on the year and the plants, we may extend
our time into August. Length of stay is exible but a
minimum stay of 3 weeks is required.
Please send any questions to the email address below.
How to apply? By the closing date of April 7th, please
send a statement of your background, CV, why you are
interested and the length of time you would be available
via email to maria.clara.melo@ist.ac.at
Best regards,86 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Dr. Maria Clara Melo Hurtado Postdoctoral Researcher
mmelohur@ist.ac.at Barton Group IST Austria Am
Campus 1 Klosterneuburg 3400
Maria Clara MELO HURTADO
<maria.clara.melo@ist.ac.at >
RohlfMorphometricsMedal
CallForNominations
2017 CALL FOR NOMINATIONS
The Rohlf Medal
The Rohlf Medal was established in 2006 by the family
and friends of F. James Rohlf to mark his 70th birthday.
He has been a longtime Stony Brook University faculty
member and is currently Emeritus Distinguished Pro-
fessor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution, and
Research Professor in the Department of Anthropology.
Recipients of the Rohlf Medal will be recognized for
excellence in their body of work on the development
of new morphometric methods or for their applications
in the biomedical or biological sciences, including evo-
lutionary biology, population biology, physical anthro-
pology, developmental biology, neurobiology, computer
sciences and medicine. The term 'morphometrics' is
intended to include high-dimensional pattern analyses
of biological shape, especially those that analyze shape
in a comprehensive way, or of covariation of shape with
other variables. The award can recognize advances in
the mathematical or statistical theory underlying mor-
phometric methods, new software that implements or
visualizes new methods, or specic new biological nd-
ings that rely crucially on contemporary morphometric
methods and represent major advances.
Candidates for the Rohlf Medal may be self-nominated
or nominated by others. They must possess a Ph.D.
degree or the equivalent.
The winning candidate must agree to attend the award
ceremony in person in order to accept the Rohlf Medal
and then deliver the award lecture.
Nomination packages should include, (1) a description
of the body of work (not to exceed two pages) on which
the candidacy is based, (2) reprints of no more than
three relevant papers and/or software products, (3) a
curriculum vitae, and (4) three letters of support.
Nominating packages should be uploaded to the
Rohlf Medal website (http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/-rohlf medal/apply.html) and received by 5 pm, EST, 15
July 2017 to be assured of full consideration.
The successful candidate will receive the Rohlf Medal
and a cash prize at Stony Brook University, planned
for October 24th, 2017. She or he will deliver a lecture
that is appropriate for a broad audience, ranging from
the exact sciences to the humanities, concerning the
morphometric methodology, software, or ndings for
which the Rohlf Medal was awarded.
Benedikt Hallgrimsson <bhallgri@ucalgary.ca >
SocStudyEvol GradStudentCouncil
The Society for the Study of Evolution is look-
ing for three students to join the 2018 cohort
of the Graduate Student Advisory Council. The
GSAC represents student interests to SSE Coun-
cil and facilitates interaction among students and
between students and mentors. Brief applica-
tions are due April 15. Please see the website
( http://www.evolutionsociety.org/index.php?module=-
content&type=user&func=view&pid=44) or email
GSAC@evolutionsociety.org for more information.
\kobie003@umn.edu" <kobie003@umn.edu >
Software NextGeneration RAxML
Released
Dear Community,
We have released next generation RAxML, a total re-
design of RAxML that should be better, faster, more
stable, and more scalable.
The code is available here:
https://github.com/amkozlov/raxml-ng/releases/-
tag/0.1.0 and you can nd pre-compiled binaries
here:
https://github.com/amkozlov/raxml-ng/releases/-
download/0.1.0/raxml-ng v0.1.0b linux x8664.zip
Alexis
{ Alexandros (Alexis) Stamatakis
Research Group Leader, Heidelberg Institute for The-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 87
oretical Studies Full Professor, Dept. of Informatics,
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology Adjunct Professor,
Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University
of Arizona at Tucson
www.exelixis-lab.org alexandros.stamatakis@gmail.com
SSB Grad Student Research Grant
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) Graduate
Student Research Awards assist students in the initia-
tion (rst two years) of their systematics projects and
in the collection of preliminary data to pursue addi-
tional sources of support (e.g., Doctoral Dissertation
Improvement Grants from the National Science Founda-
tion) or enhance dissertation research (e.g., by visiting
additional eld collection sites or museums). Awards
will range between $1000 - $2000 and approximately 15
awards will be made.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: All application materials
are due on April 30, 2017 by 11:59 Eastern Standard
Time.
** HOW TO APPLY **
Submit all materials via the SSB website: http:/-
/www.systbio.org/graduate-student-research-
awards.html The application materials required
are:
+ a curriculum vitae
+ brief research proposal including objectives, methods,
signicance, and schedule
+ budget ( $2,000 limit) and budget justication
+ two letters of recommendation.
Please see the SSB website for further details about the
aplication materials.
** ELIGIBILITY **
Applicants may be from any country, but must be mem-
bers of SSB, and are advised to join the Society as soon
as possible to facilitate their applications. Previous
awardees may not re-apply, but previous applicants who
were not selected for funding are encouraged to re-apply.
Systematics is interpreted broadly to include questions
below and above the species level, molecular and mor-
phological approaches, and issues of pattern and pro-
cess. Funding is not limited to any particular as-
pect of research, but rather is available for eld, mu-seum/herbarium, and/or laboratory work.
** CONTACT **
If you have any questions, please contact the Chair
of the SSB Awards Committee (Dr. Tracy Heath:
ssb.awards.director@gmail.com).
ssb.awards.director@gmail.com
Sweden VolFieldAssit
AvianEvolEcol MayJune
Volunteer eld assistant/internship in avian evolutionary
ecology
PERIOD: 1.5-30.6.2017 LOCATION: Gotland, Sweden
PROJECT Maternal eects play a key role in shaping
ospring development and are a source of phenotypic
variation. Understanding the proximate mechanisms
underlying maternal eects is crucial. I am looking
for a volunteer eld assistant/intern to a collaborative
project on the role of maternal (egg) hormones shap-
ing ospring development and tness in the collared
ycatcher (Ficedula albicollis). The work will be con-
ducted in May and June in a nest-box population on
the island of Gotland, Sweden. It is also possible to
make part of the data collection into an intern project.
DUTIES The eld assistant/intern will be conducting
nest-box monitoring and capturing, ringing and mea-
suring chicks/ adult collared ycatchers, together with
the rest of the team (international). Potentially also
blood-sampling. The eld work will include long days
(sometimes in bad weather) and work during weekends,
thus the candidate needs to be prepared for that.
QUALIFICATIONS Suitable candidates should be hard-
working, independent and organized, possess good com-
munication skills and uent English. Candidates should
have a valid driving lisence. Experience in eld work
with birds, and bird handling/ringing is a denite asset.
WE OFFER We will train the volunteer/student for the
eldwork and bird handling. Travel costs (from Europe)
and costs of accommodation (room shared with another
assistant/student) will be covered. The candidate will
join an enthusiastic team of researchers and students
(French, Finnish, Taiwanese). The study populations
are located on the beautiful island of Gotland!
If you are interested, please contact me asap and include
your CV and a short motivation letter.88 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Suvi Ruuskanen (suvi.ruuskanen@utu.), Section of
Ecology, Department of Biology, 20014 University of
Turku.
Suvi Ruuskanen, researcher, Academy research fellow
Section of Ecology Department of Biology 20014 Uni-
versity of Turku, FINLAND
Mobile +358503256547
Suvi Ruuskanen <skruus@utu. >
ULausanne SIBVirtualSeminar
LaurentExcoer TODAY
Dear all,
Please nd here a gentle reminder regarding today's
speaker, Laurent Excoer. Please note that the semi-
nar's title has now changed to:
Demographic inference from NGS data: Application to
humans and chimpanzees
This seminar will take place in Lausanne, but as al-
ways will be broadcast here: https://collab.switch.ch/-
sib-cbss/ Looking forward to seeing you there live or
on remote.
Best wishes, Diana
\Diana.Marek@sib.swiss" <Diana.Marek@sib.swiss >
ULausanne SIBVirtualSeminar
LExcoer Mar29
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce the next speaker at the SIB
Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics Virtual Computational
Biology Seminar Series:
Laurent Excoer, Institute of Ecology and Evolution,
Department of Biology, University of Bern & SIB Ge-
nomic insights into the settlement of Australia by
modern humans Wednesday 29 March 2017 at 16:00
- Genopode Auditorium A - UNIL campus
The seminar will be broadcast live for those unable to
attend it physically (https://collab.switch.ch/sib-cbss/).
For more information about these seminars as well as theupcoming speakers list and previous screencasts, please
visit the SIB virtual seminar series webpage: http://-
www.sib.swiss/training/virtual-seminars-series Impor-
tant: If you want to remain informed about our up-
coming seminars, please subscribe to the dedicated
mailing list:http://lists.isb-sib.ch/mailman/listinfo/sib-
virtual-seminars Looking forward to seeing you all there.
Best regards, Diana Marek
{ *Diana Marek, PhD *Vital-IT - Training & Outreach
* **SIBjSwiss Institute of Bioinformatics* Quartier
Sorge - B ~A'timent Genopode - CH 1015 Lausanne -
Switzerland t +41 21 692 40 77 - f +41 21 692 40 65
New email: Diana.Marek@sib.swiss www.vital-it.ch -
www.sib.swiss/training
\Diana.Marek@sib.swiss" <Diana.Marek@sib.swiss >
USaskatchewan 4Interns
GroundSquirrel
Internship Description: We are looking for 4 interns
interested in taking part in a eld ecology project on
Columbian ground squirrels. Positions will begin on
May 15, 2017 and will nish on Aug 31, 2017. The
project investigates the ecology of Columbian ground
squirrels. As a member of the study, interns will be
involved with monitoring the phenology (when animals
emerge from hibernation), reproduction and survival
of individuals. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping and
handling of animals, radio-telemetry, behavioural obser-
vation and assistance with the measurement of phys-
iological (metabolism) traits on free-ranging animals.
This is an excellent opportunity to gain training and
experience working with a collaborative research team
on a long-term study of a wild mammal. Opportunities
for independent research projects are also available.
All eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky
Mountains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to
some of the most majestic wildlife in North America.
Interns will have the opportunity to interact with, and
learn from, other researchers working with ground squir-
rels on a diversity of projects in behavioural and popula-
tion ecology. Additionally, a number of other researchers
in the area are studying a range of species, from insects
to large mammals.
International applicants: We welcome applications from
all individuals. If applicants are not Canadians or perma-
nent residents, there is the opportunity to enter CanadaApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 89
and complete the internship as a Visiting Research Stu-
dent. To be eligible for this program, you must be an
undergraduate student, a graduate student, or be in
between degrees (e.g., following graduation from a bach-
elors degree and looking to pursue graduate school). As
part of this program, applicants will be registered at
the U of S in a non-credit activity and it is expected
that you will gain a demonstrable educational benet
from being involved. We are particularly interested in
applicants who wish to use this opportunity to pursue
an independent research project. Applicants are eligible
for this program for a maximum of 6 months per 12
month period. Application forms and information are
available at http://grad.usask.ca/admissions/alternate-
applicants/visiting-research-student.php If you are inter-
ested in this program, please contact us (contact details
below) and we will guide you through the process.
Skills Required: These positions are best suited to ap-
plicants with interests in ecology, evolutionary biology,
wildlife, eld biology, and/or physiological ecology. As
evidence of this, applicants must either be enrolled in,
or have graduated from, a relevant discipline. Successful
applicants will need to be able to cope under these eld
conditions (including periods of time spent camping),
enjoy the outdoors, be up-beat, positive, responsible
and work well as a member of a team. Evidence of
these abilities (gained, for example, through previous
involvement on eld projects or extended back-packing
trips) is expected.
Terms of Employment: Salary is not provided as part of
these positions. Accommodation and food are provided.
Volunteers are required to provide for their own travel
to Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Travel between the eld
station and Saskatoon is provided.
If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details for
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email to Je
Lane (contact info below) ASAP. Applications will be
evaluated as they are received. To ensure full considera-
tion, please apply right away.
Contact:
Dr. Je Lane
jerey.lane@usask.ca
Department of Biology
University of Saskatchewan
http://www.lanelab.ca \Lane, Jerey"
<jerey.lane@usask.ca >US NatlMedalScience
CallNominations
Dear Colleagues:
One of the most important and gratifying aspects of
participating in the scientic community is the nomi-
nation of colleagues for honorary awards in celebration
of their exceptional contributions to one of our elds. I
am sending this email today to urge you to recognize
one of your peers by submitting a nomination for the
2017 National Medal of Science.
This premier award for American scientists and engi-
neers { considered by some as the US equivalent of the
Nobel Prize { was established by the 86th Congress in
1959. It is the highest recognition our Nation can bestow
for outstanding cumulative contributions to knowledge
or sustained, impactful work in the elds of engineering,
chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, and behav-
ioral and social sciences. Conferred by the President
of the United States during a ceremony at the White
House, the Medal has been awarded to approximately
500 pioneering individuals. The National Science of
Medal program is administered by the National Science
Foundation (NSF) in conjunction with the Executive
Oce of the President.
Please nominate colleagues and peers for this prestigious
honor who have extraordinarily advanced the scientic
enterprise. Nominations and three letters of support
must be submitted to NSF by April 7, 2017. If you have
any questions, please contact the Program Manager for
the National Medal of Science at nms@nsf.gov or by
phone at 703-292-8040. For more information, please
visit the National Medal of Science website at http:/-
/www.nsf.gov/od/nms/medal.jsp . I look forward to
celebrating new honorees with you in 2018.
Sincerely, /// signed /// France A. Cordova Director
National Science Foundation 4201 Wilson Boulevard,
Suite 1205N Arlington, VA 22230
France C ordova <director@nsf.gov >90 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Volunteer TeachingEvolutionInNepal
Dear Sir-
Could you please spread this message to those that are
interested?
We are looking a long term volunteer to serve in ru-
ral areas of Nepal to teach primary level students in
one of the Government school. The volunteer teacher
may choose teach science(including evolution), English,
Math or their subject of interest starting from April 1
or later, 2017.
The school has not any other source of funding to sup-
port the teacher at the moment. The upcoming teacher
may come with their own support(some philantrophic
or own). Living cost here is expected to be less than 50
U $$/Month.You may choose to live in Tamang community (learn
their ethnic language), do some treks in world famous
mountain in this small tiny country located between
India and China during holidays. Those who are look-
ing to work in stress free environment and interested in
doing something new, it will be a great opportunity.
Enthusiasts can often do research in their own time,
write their scholar activities like books, papers etc.
Some of the great question could be asked such as what
is DNA lineage and SNPs in these community , if one
has facility (lab test, or analysis) to do research besides
teaching for their thesis or publications.
Please contact me for further arrangements.
dpathak@uthsc.edu Or, pathakdhruba@gmail.com
Thanking you,
Sincerely,
Dhruba
Dhruba Pathak <pathakdhruba@gmail.com >
PostDocs
ArizonaState PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
AustralianNationalU StatQuantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . .91
CWilliamMary ButteryPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
DTUAqua Denmark AnalysisOfEnvironmentalDNA 92
DukeU SpeciationGenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 93
HarvardMedSchool DiseaseGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
IndianaU Bloomington HostSymbiontCoevolution . 95
InstitutPasteur Paris KlebsiellaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 95
IowaStateU 2 MolCytogeneticsBioinformatics . . . . . .96
LudwigMaximiliansU ButterySpeciation . . . . . . . . . .96
MaxPlanckInst Ploen Adaptation BiologicalClocks 97
MNHN Paris EvolutionDrosophilaSuzukii . . . . . . . . . 98
Montpellier SelectionDetection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99NewYorkU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
NHGRI-NIH Bethesda BioinformaticsEvolGenomics
100
NorthCarolinaStateU ComputationalEvolModeling 101
Omaha Nebraska MadagascarBiodiversityGenomics 102
Paris EvolutionaryAndEnvMarineGenomics . . . . . . 103
Paris EvolutionaryEnvironmentalGenomics . . . . . . .104
RockefellerU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
RoslinInst StaticsticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
SaintLouisU EvolInsectCommunication . . . . . . . . . . .105
SmithCollege 2 AmoebaeCiliates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
SouthAfrica eDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Tampa Florida ModelingCancerEvolution . . . . . . . . 107April 1, 2017 EvolDir 91
UAdelaide PhylogeographicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . 108
UBirmingham AdaptiveEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UCalifornia SanDiego PDF Tech YeastExptEvol . .109
UCambridge BacterialGenomicEpidemiology . . . . . 110
UCambridge EvolutionaryNeurobiology . . . . . . . . . . 111
UCambridge FloralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UCLondon ExcellenceFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UFlorida HumanEvolGeneticsEpigenetcs . . . . . . . . . 112
UHalle EvolutionaryBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UIdaho BiomedicalModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
UKansas DrosophilaComplexTraits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
ULeiden AntibioticResistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
ULeuven PDF0rPhD Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116UmeaU ProteinEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UMinnesota BiologyEducation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UNebraska PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .117
UOslo DevelopmentalBiologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 118
UOtago NZ GenomicsParasiticMindControl . . . . . . 119
UQueensland QueenslandUTech MarsupialEvol . . .119
USheeld Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .120
USussex PopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
UTennessee Knoxville Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .121
UValencia Spain VirusSocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . .122
UVermont EvolutionaryEcologicalGenomics . . . . . . 122
ArizonaState PopulationGenetics
The Jensen Lab at Arizona State University is hiring a
postdoc in the area of computational population genet-
ics.
Briey, research in the lab includes the development
of population genetic theory and statistical inference
approaches, as well as the analysis of large-scale genomic
datasets from both natural and experimental popula-
tions. Further information regarding current research
themes, as well as recent lab publications, may be found
at: http://jjensenlab.org
Applications should include a cover letter briey de-
scribing research interests, a CV, as well as contact
information for two references - and should be emailed
to jerey.d.jensen@asu.edu prior to April 30. Start date
is exible.
Jerey D. Jensen Professor Arizona State University
School of Life Sciences Center for Evolution & Medicine
\jerey.jensen@ep.ch" <jerey.jensen@ep.ch >
AustralianNationalU
StatQuantGenetics
*** Postdoctoral Fellow, Australian National University,
Statistical/Quantitative Genetics ***
The ANU-CSIRO Centre for Genomics, Metabolomics
and Bioinformatics (CGMB) is seeking up to two as-sociate Postdoctoral fellows (Academic Level A4) to
be appointed in the ANU Research School of Finance,
Actuarial Studies and Statistics (RSFAS). The CGMB
combines cutting-edge technologies and principled data
science to catalyse biological advances, with an empha-
sis on transformational agriculture. RSFAS is the home
of statistics at the Australian National University and
is comprised of a dynamic team of academics focused
on achieving excellence in research and teaching.
Successful candidates will be recent PhD graduates in
statistics, bioinformatics, computational biology or a
related eld looking to further develop their research
potential with leading academics. They should have the
skills and experience to develop and apply statistical
methodology in a biological context. They will be pro-
vided time to advance their own research agenda and
aorded the opportunity to interact with biologists do-
ing cutting-edge science. The candidate will be expected
to contribute to experimental design, data analysis and
the preparation of publications. They may also assist in
teaching and be involved in externally funded research
projects.
The Australian National University (ANU) is a national
research university located in Canberra, the capital of
Australia. Founded in 1946, it is the only university to
have been created by the Parliament of Australia. ANU
enrols over 22,500 students, comprised of roughly equal
numbers of undergraduates and postgraduates. ANU
is ranked 22nd in the world (rst in Australia) by the
2016/17 QS World University Rankings.
For more information about this position please contact
Eric Stone at eric.stone@anu.edu.au.
Salary package: $68,307 to $86,646 AUD per an-
num plus 17% superannuation Terms: Fixed Term, 3
years Link: http://jobs.anu.edu.au/cw/en/job/515973/-
postdoctoral-fellow Eric A. Stone Professor Director,
ANU-CSIRO Centre for Genomics, Metabolomics and92 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Bioinformatics Research School of Biology; College of
Medicine, Biology and Environment Research School
of Finance, Actuarial Studies and Statistics; College of
Business and Economics
R.N Robertson Building, 46 Sullivans Creek Road The
Australian National University Canberra ACT 2601 Aus-
tralia
E: eric.stone@anu.edu.au
\Eric.Stone@anu.edu.au" <Eric.Stone@anu.edu.au >
CWilliamMary
ButteryPopGenetics
Postdoctoral Fellow: Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral
Fellow @ The College of William and Mary
The Environmental Science and Policy program at the
College of William & Mary seeks applications for a
two-year postdoctoral scholar position in Environmental
Science sponsored by the Andrew W. Mellon Founda-
tion.
The postdoctoral scholar will research the decline of the
monarch buttery and the common milkweed plant us-
ing an interdisciplinary approach with techniques includ-
ing population genetics, chemical ecology, GIS, and anal-
ysis of historical collections. The postdoctoral scholar
will teach one upper-level primary literature focused
seminar course per academic year and arrange an envi-
ronmental speaker series in the second year. A PhD in
Biology or a closely related discipline is required by the
time of appointment, August 10, 2017.
The position oers a competitive salary ( $45,000), re-
search and travel funds ( $5000/year), and administrative
support. The postdoctoral fellow will be mentored by
two William & Mary faculty members with research
interests in plant ecology and population genetics.
Review of applications begins April 1st, 2017 and will
continue until an appointment is made. Start date is Au-
gust 10th, 2017. To apply, please submit online a letter
of application and a curriculum vitae as a single PDF
document as well as the names and email address of
three references at http://jobs.wm.edu. (Job # F0004L)
The College of William and Mary values diversity and
invites applications from underrepresented groups who
will enrich the research, teaching, and service missions
of the university. The College is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer and conducts back-ground checks on applicants for employment.
If you have questions please email:
Joshua Puzey, Assistant Professor of Biology, jr-
puzey@wm.edu http://puzeylab.weebly.com Harmony
Dalgleish, Assistant Professor of Biology, hjdal-
gleish@wm.edu http://wmpeople.wm.edu/site/page/-
hjdalgleish/home Joshua Puzey <jrpuzey@gmail.com >
DTUAqua Denmark
AnalysisOfEnvironmentalDNA
Within the research area \Population Genetics" at The
National Institute for Aquatic Resources, DTU Aqua,
we oer a 3-year post-doctoral fellowship in the eld of
environmental DNA analysis.
The fellow will be employed at DTU Aquas ^As location in
Silkeborg, Jutland, which besides the Population Genet-
ics group also hosts the section for Freshwater Fisheries
and Ecology (FFE). The starting time is negotiable, but
preferably around 1 June 2017.
The successful candidate will work on a number of
funded projects within the topic of environmental DNA
from marine organisms. The main focus will be on the
application and evaluation of an in situ, underwater
automated DNA laboratory; the \ESP" (Environmen-
tal Sample Processor), for qPCR (quantitative PCR)
based eDNA analysis. The aim is to apply the ESP
for improved monitoring and management of a number
of species, ranging from rare over invasive to marine
ecosystem key species. Another main task will be devel-
opment, test and application of species specic qPCR
assays for monitoring a range of invasive species in Dan-
ish harbours.
The population genetics group at DTU Aqua has three
senior researchers (one professor, two senior research
scientists), one postdoc, three laboratory technicians,
PhD and masters students (currently four PhD and one
MSc student). Our main research focus is on Fisheries
and Conservation Genetics, i.e. to apply molecular ge-
netic tools to solve problems in sheries science and
conservation biology in order to contribute to long term
sustainable management of marine resources and biodi-
versity. Our project portfolio ranges from basic science
to projects directly targeted at providing specic man-
agement advice, and most projects encompass both
basic and applied aspects. In recent years the group's
main focus has shifted from genetics to genomics. Thus,April 1, 2017 EvolDir 93
most ongoing projects include genomic analysis. The
facilities in Silkeborg comprise a fully equipped state of
the art genetics laboratory, including DNA lab facilities
for manipulating sensitive DNA samples.
The DTU Aqua Silkeborg location currently employs
around 35 people including six PhD students. The
young researchers work on a diversity of projects related
to sh ecology and genetics aiming at sheries resource
management and biodiversity protection. They actively
interact through various fora including regular seminars
and the local study group in population ecology and
genetics.
Qualications
We invite applications from post doc level researchers
with a background in eDNA analysis or related research
elds. In particular experience in designing, testing and
applying qPCR assays for species specic identication
and quantication is will be considered an asset.
As we are in a process to expand the group's compe-
tences with respect to genomic analysis, we strongly
encourage applicants with previous bioinformatics ex-
perience in relation to handling and analysing genomic
data. The candidate will be selected based on previous
scientic track record and qualications of relevance to
the described projects.
Candidates should have a PhD degree or equivalent.
Further information
For further information please contact the Popula-
tion Genetics research coordinator, professor Einar Eg
Nielsen (een@aqua.dtu.dk), tel +45 3588 3115.
You can read more about DTU Aqua at
www.aqua.dtu.dk and more on population genet-
ics
Please do not send applications to Principal Investigator,
instead apply online as described below.
Salary and terms of employment
The appointment terms will be based on the collective
agreement with the Confederation of Professional As-
sociations. The salary will be agreed upon with the
relevant union.
Starting date is negotiable. The position is for 3 years.
Place of work is DTU Aqua in Silkeborg, Denmark.
Application procedure We must have your online appli-
cation by 25 April 2017.
Please go to the web-site (http://www.aqua.dtu.dk/-
OmDTU Aqua/Ledige stillinger/job?id=9206cbcd-
f1b7-432e-b55d-982528cf1f2f ), open the link \apply
online" and ll in the application form and attach thefollowing documents:
*A letter motivating the application (cover letter) *Your
application *Curriculum vitae with publication list
*Diploma *Two letters of recommendation *If appli-
cable, other material that you would like to be included
in the evaluation.
Applications and enclosures received after the deadline
will not be considered.
All interested candidates irrespective of age, gender,
race, disability, religion or ethnic background are en-
couraged to apply.
The purpose of DTU Aqua is to provide research, ad-
vice and education at the highest international level
within the sustainable exploitation of living marine and
freshwater resources, the biology of aquatic
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
DukeU
SpeciationGenomicsBioinformatics
The Yoder Lab at Duke University seeks to hire a se-
nior postdoctoral research scientist interested in the
genomics of speciation.
The project is focused on an evolutionary radiation
of small nocturnal primates endemic to Madagascar,
the mouse lemurs (genus Microcebus). These primates
constitute something of a classic \cryptic" species radia-
tion in that they are highly similar morphologically and
ecologically, but strongly diverged genetically and geo-
graphically. Whereas only two species were recognized in
1992, that number has grown to 25. Research questions
focus on understanding the phylogenomic relationships
among species, the levels of genomic divergence that sep-
arate them, the levels of gene ow (if any) among them,
and the underlying genomic signatures that dene them
and perhaps maintain their species identity. Of par-
ticular interest is the question of \what are the forces
of selection (sexual and/or natural) that might have
driven their diversication and maintain their species
identity?"
At present, genomic resources relevant to the project
include a high-coverage and near-chromosome level as-94 EvolDir April 1, 2017
sembly of one species within the radiation (the \gray
mouse lemur," generated in collaboration with the Bay-
lor College of Medicine, Human Genome Sequencing
Center), low coverage ( ~20X) genomes of ten other in-
dividuals within the species complex, low coverage (6 -
30X) genomes of ten additional species within the genus,
and eld samples for another ve to ten species. In
collaboration with investigators Alison Richard, Laurie
Godfrey, and Emilienne Rasoazanabary, we are stewards
of a large collection of wild-caught samples ( >200 indi-
viduals) of the reddish-gray mouse lemur collected from
the Beza Mahafaly Special Reserve a population that
may be in the earliest stages of ecological speciation
in sympatry. Finally, via the captive collections of the
Duke Lemur Center, and in collaboration with investi-
gators at the Brunoy Centre National de la Recerche
Scientique, we have access to biological samples from
thousands of individual gray mouse lemurs now living,
or preserved, from fty years of captive management.
The main duties of the researcher will be managing, pro-
cessing, and analyzing next-generation sequence data,
generating high-quality genome assemblies, subsequent
population/speciation genomic analysis, database or-
ganization, and most importantly, shared intellectual
leadership of the project aims and publication of the
results. There will be some molecular lab work, though
the research will be largely bioinformatic. The ideal
candidate will have experience working with genomic
and population genetic data, a strong publication record,
and ideally, demonstrated grant-writing skills. More-
over, the candidate will be highly organized, mature,
enthusiastic, motivated, with plenty of esprit de corps
and joie de vivre!
Starting salary will be in the range of $50K - $60K,
dependent on skills and experience. The position is
guaranteed with seed funds for two years (assuming a
successful rst-year review), with continuation possible
through successful grant acquisition.
To Apply:
Via email, send current CV, publications, and contact
information for three to four references to:
Anne D. Yoder, Professor Department of Biology Duke
University, Box 90338 BioSci 315 Science Drive Durham,
NC 27708 anne.yoder@duke.edu http://yoderlab.orgHarvardMedSchool
DiseaseGenomics
The Department of Biomedical Informatics (DBMI) at
Harvard Medical School and the Farhat Lab are looking
for a Postdoctoral Fellow in infectious disease genomics.
Pathogens display a remarkable range of variability in
phenotypes relevant to disease including transmissibility,
organ tropism, and antibiotic resistance. Elucidating
the biological mechanisms for these dierences is a fun-
damental question in the study of infectious diseases
and creates new avenues for surveillance, diagnosis and
personalized treatment. The heritability of disease phe-
notypes within pathogen species and their evolution
over generations indicates that they should be geneti-
cally encoded. As a result, the study of pathogen whole
genome sequence (WGS) data is expected to further
our understanding of these traits. The Farhat lab was
one of the rst to use phylogenetic convergence to test
for association between genes and the drug resistance
phenotype on a genome wide scale, and is continuing
in this path for both methodological development and
application to large scale datasets.
Responsibilities
The Postdoctoral Fellow will be responsible for devel-
oping and applying computational methodologies to
identify novel infectious disease genomic markers.
Basic Requirements
We are an interdisciplinary lab. Candidates may have
an MD or PhD degree in epidemiology, bioinformatics,
computational and evolutionary biology, biostatistics,
or a related eld. Experience with genomics is a must.
The candidate interested in this position must be highly
motivated and demonstrate initiative in assigned tasks.
Due to funding mechanism requirements this position
is restricted to US citizens or permanent residents.
Additional Requirements
Experience in programming R, Python, and/or Perl
and statistical analysis or at least an interest in learn-
ing these skills will be necessary. The candidate and
PI can work together to delineate the fellow's training
needs and develop a program to fulll this, utilizing the
department and university's wide range of resources.
Terms
The position is available immediately and can be re-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 95
newed annually.
How to apply
Email applications including curriculum vitae, sum-
mary statement of personal objective and research
interests, PDFs of the best two papers, and the
names and email addresses of three references to mr-
farhat@partners.org. Maha R Farhat, MD MSc Assis-
tant Professor of Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Med-
ical School Assistant Physician Pulmonary and Crit-
ical Care Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital
scholar.harvard.edu/mahafarhat phone: 617-432-5140
skype: maha.reda.farhat
\Farhat, Maha R.,M.D." <MRFARHAT@partners.org >
IndianaU Bloomington
HostSymbiontCoevolution
Job Title: Postdoctoral Fellow, Biology (Wade Lab)
OAA#: 21703-03 Job Summary:
The Wade lab at Indiana University, Blooming-
ton, (http://www.bio.indiana.edu/faculty/directory/-
prole.php?person=mjwade)seeks a collegial, self-
motivated, independent, and intellectually curious indi-
vidual with a recent Ph.D. in Evolutionary Biology or
related eld(s). The research emphasis is the intersection
of population genetics and the evolution of development
in complex systems, with an emphasis on models of dual
inheritance for investigating general features of indirect
genetic eects and niche construction with applications
to cyto-nuclear and host-symbiont co-evolution. The
candidate will have the opportunity to enrich the inter-
actions between the laboratory groups of Drs. Michael
Wade and Armin Moczek. The position is fully funded
by a multi-year grant from the John Templeton Founda-
tion and available for 24 months. Anticipated start date
desired is July 1, 2017 but negotiable. Please apply via
this link: https://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/-
3769 . \Wade, Michael J." <mjwade@indiana.edu >InstitutPasteur Paris
KlebsiellaEvolution
Postdoc: Institut Pasteur, Paris - Klebsiella pneumoniae
ecology, genomics and molecular pathogenesis
We are looking for a young talented researcher in micro-
bial ecology or molecular pathogenesis to perform the
following tasks:
* Sample Klebsiella pneumoniae from diverse sources *
Characterize strains by genomics and phenotypic meth-
ods * Identify colonization or virulence-associated can-
didate factors using GWAS * Perform functional studies
on the identied candidates
Skills. Experience in molecular biology, reverse genetics
and infection/colonization models is a priority. Innova-
tive thinking, work autonomy and good communication
skills are important. Population genetics and bioin-
formatics experience will be appreciated but are not
absolutely required as they can be provided by members
of the lab.
Environment. The candidate will work in the Brisse
group in close interactions with European partners of
the SpARK project (coordinated by Ed Feil, Bath
U.), and with bioinformaticians and microbiologists
of the Brisse group: https://research.pasteur.fr/en/-
team/group-sylvain-brisse/ Conditions. The position is
funded by the French Agence Nationale de la Recherche.
The monthly salary will correspond to the standards in
France (up to 2300 euro netto / month) and will depend
on experience. The contract will be for 24 months. The
positions is available from June 1st, 2017, but starting
date can be delayed for a few months if the chosen
candidate has agenda constraints.
Application: Please send your application as a single
pdf to Sylvain Brisse (sbrisse@pasteur.fr) with a de-
tailed CV, a cover letter and recommendation letters.
Deadline May 1st, 2017.
Sylvain BRISSE <sylvain.brisse@pasteur.fr >96 EvolDir April 1, 2017
IowaStateU 2
MolCytogeneticsBioinformatics
PostDoctoral Positions in Turtle Molecular Cytogenetics
and Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral positions are available to work in the labo-
ratory of Dr. Nicole Valenzuela at Iowa State Univer-
sity on NSF-funded projects to study the evolution of
genomes and dosage compensation in turtles.
These projects combine molecular cytogenetics, bioinfor-
matics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, and phylogenetic
analyses. The successful candidates will have the op-
portunity to contribute to one or more of these areas,
leveraging and augmenting turtle genomic resources.
*Project description:
Species with sex chromosomes face the challenge posed
by dierential gene dosage between XX and XY in-
dividuals (or ZZ and ZW) that may lead to disease,
suboptimal phenotypes or death. Dosage compensation
is a mechanism to equalize the activity of X- or Z-linked
genes between sex chromosomes and autosomes, and
between males and females. As part of this NSF-funded
project we are leveraging the multiple independently-
evolved sex chromosome systems found in turtles to
study the evolution of dosage compensation.
The growing genomic resources we have developed also
allow us to continue studying turtle genome evolution
across species with temperature-dependent sex determi-
nation (TSD) and those with sex chromosomes (GSD)
(a) to decipher the molecular architecture of sex deter-
mination, both genetic and epigenetic in an ecologically
relevant context, (b) to test models of sex chromosome
evolution, (b) to reconstruct the evolution of turtle
karyotypes, and (c) to identify proximal links between
evolutionary chromosomal break points and transitions
in sex determination, among others.
*Position Requirements: The ideal candidates will
have a PhD degree and strong background in one or
both of the following areas (a) Molecular cytogenetics
(BAC/probe FISH, whole chromosome painting, chromo-
some microdissection or ow sorting). (b) Bioinformat-
ics (genome assembly, comparative genome evolution,
transcriptome/methylome analyses).
*Position details: Funding is available for 2 years with
annual renewal contingent upon performance. The po-sitions are available at any time starting 1 May 2017
(molecular cytogenetics) and November 2017 (Bioinfor-
matics).
*Application deadline: April 1 2017, or until positions
are lled.
*How to apply: For inquiries or to apply please
email the following to Dr. Nicole Valenzuela at
nvalenzu@iastate.edu : 1. Cover letter describing re-
search interests and experience 2. Current CV 3. Copies
of up to two relevant publications if available 4. Appli-
cants should arrange to have three letters of recommen-
dation be sent directly to nvalenzu@iastate.edu.
Iowa State University does not discriminate on the ba-
sis of race, color, age, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex,
marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran.
Dr. Nicole Valenzuela Associate Professor
<nvalenzu@iastate.edu >Department of Ecology,
Evolution, and Organismal Biology 251 Bessey Hall
Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011, USA Phone:
515-294-1285 URL: http://www.public.iastate.edu/-
~nvalenzu/
\Valenzuela, M. N [EEOBS]" <nvalenzu@iastate.edu >
LudwigMaximiliansU
ButterySpeciation
*Postdoc: Behaviour and speciation in Heliconius but-
teries*
We invite applications for a postdoctoral research po-
sition to study visual mate recognition and speciation
in *Heliconius *butteries with Dr Richard Merrill's
research group at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at, Mu-
nich, and in close collaboration with the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute in Panama. The position
is funded by the DFG Emmy Noether program, and is
initially available for 2.5 years, with a further 2 years of
funding available dependent on progress and interests.
The position should start on 1 June 2017 or as soon as
possible thereafter.
The project is focused on understanding the genetic
basis and evolution of dierences in mate recognition
between divergent *Heliconius *taxa. *Heliconius* but-
teries are well known for their bright warning patterns,
which are also used as a mate recognition cue. The
genetic basis of the colour pattern cues is now known inApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 97
fantastic detail; however, we still know relatively little
about the genetic basis of the corresponding preference
behaviours.
The postdoctoral researcher will be primarily based at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama,
working in close collaboration with Dr Owen McMillan's
research group. The rst major aim of the project is to
develop methods to eciently quantify visual attraction
behaviours, using automated video analyses. By com-
bining these methods with genetic crosses and genomic
techniques the postdoctoral researcher will then investi-
gate the genetic basis of visual preference behaviours in
*Heliconius.*
Both at LMU (http://www.evol.bio.lmu.de) and STRI
(http://www.stri.si.edu), the postdoctoral researcher
will be part of vibrant international communities of
scientists. In addition, the researcher will join a collabo-
rative and driven community of *Heliconius *biologists.
Applicants should have a PhD, completed or completion
imminent, in evolutionary biology/genetics, behavioural
ecology, or a related eld. Experience of behavioural
analyses would be desirable. Candidates are expected
to work collaboratively, within the group and across
the community more generally, and to take an active
role in the supervision of students and management of
insectaries. Enthusiasm, determination and the capacity
to work independently are essential.
Further information can be found at (https://-
richmerrill.wordpress.com), and questions should be
directed to Richard Merrill (r.merrill@zoo.cm.ac.uk).
Applications, including a current CV, letter of motiva-
tion and names and contact details of two referees should
be sent to Richard Merrill ( r.merrill@zoo.cm.ac.uk) be-
fore the deadline of 21 April 2017.
Richard Merrill <r.merrill@zoo.cam.ac.uk >
MaxPlanckInst Ploen Adaptation
BiologicalClocks
Postdoc position - \Evolutionary adaptation and physi-
ology of biological clocks"
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen,
Germany
The Max Planck Research Group \Biological Clocks"
aims to uncover the yet unknown molecular basis of
circalunar clocks, using the intertidal midge Clunio mar-inus (Diptera) as a model. Clunio times its life cycle
to the rhythm of the tides by circalunar and circadian
clocks. As the tides dier along the coastline, the clocks
of Clunio populations are genetically adapted to the
local pattern of the tides. We study these adaptations
using a combination of evolutionary genomics and molec-
ular biology, behavioral experiments and ecological eld-
work. We have shown that this approach enables the
identication of new clock molecules (Nature 540,6973).
Clunio's circalunar clock can be set by moonlight, as
well as mechanical cues and temperature cues associ-
ated with the tides. The postdoc will work with Clunio
strains that are insensitive to mechanical and moonlight
cues and use them to identify the receptors responsible
for setting the circalunar clock.
The ideal candidate holds a PhD in Biology with a strong
background in neurobiology, behavioral physiology or
molecular biology. Experience in receptor physiology,
immunohistochemistry, genome editing or cell culture
are great assets. The postdoc will participate in the ge-
nomic work related to the project. As a central member
of the group, the postdoc has good communication and
organizational skills and will take part in supervising
students. The position will be oered for 2 years with
the possibility of extension. Starting date is May 2017
or as soon as possible thereafter.
The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology
(http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/2169/en) oers a stimu-
lating and ambitious international working environ-
ment. Excellent infrastructure is available at all levels.
The MPI collaborates with the nearby Christian Al-
brechts University of Kiel (http://www.mnf.uni-kiel.de/-
en/einrichtung/sektion-biologie-1) and the GEOMAR
(http://www.geomar.de/en/). The town of Plon is sur-
rounded by lakes and the Baltic Sea is nearby, oering
plenty of opportunity for leisure and outdoor activities.
The nearby ports of Kiel and Travem unde provide access
to Scandinavia, the closest airport is Hamburg.
The Max Planck Society is committed to also employing
handicapped individuals and encourages them to apply.
The Max Planck Society seeks to increase the number of
women in those areas where they are underrepresented
and therefore explicitly encourages women to apply.
Applications should include a cover letter describing
your motivation to work on this project and your rele-
vant experience, a detailed CV and copies of relevant
certicates, and the contact details of three academic
referees. Please send the above as a single PDF le to
kaiser@evolbio.mpg.de.
Review of applications will start on 21st March 2017
and will continue until the position is lled. Feel free to98 EvolDir April 1, 2017
contact me for further information.
Dr. Tobias Kaiser
Max Planck Research Group \Biological Clocks" Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology August-
Thienemann-Str. 2 j24306 PlonjGermany Phone
+49-4522-763-224
http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/biologicalclocks
MNHN Paris
EvolutionDrosophilaSuzukii
A two years post doctoral position will open in our
lab next fall on the phenotypic and genetic evolution
of Drosophila suzukii throughout its recent worldwide
invasion. The project will include the phenotyping of
various traits, in connection with genetic (molecular
and quantitative) and genomic data. Possible lines of
research include the role of phenotypic plasticity in the
success of the invasion or the evolution of quantitative
genetic architecture (G matrices), but the project is
open to further elaboration.
Inquiries and applications must be sent to Vincent Debat
(debat@mnhn.fr)
Starting date is exible but should be prior to December
2017. Review of applications starts immediately and
will continue until position is lled.
The Project
Although positioned within the framework of the ANR
funded grant (see below), the selected candidate will
have the opportunity to elaborate his/her own research
project.
The project is included in a larger collaborative work on
D. suzukii invasion, involving three labs: Paris MNHN
(part led by Vincent Debat), LBBE (Lyon, part led by
Patricia Gibert) and CBGP (Montpellier, part led by
Arnaud Estoup).
The Lab
The recruited postdoc will be based in Paris
Museum of Natural History (MNHN) and will
work in close collaboration with Vincent De-
bat (http://www.evomorpho.com/) in the team
Evolution et Developpement des variation phe-
notypiques (http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/annuaire-et-pages-
personnelles/pages-personnelles /Nouvelle-traduction-
Violaine?lang=en). The lab research focus on the evo-lution of phenotypes and their variation, using various
(insect) models - including butteries and ies, and a
combination of morphometric and molecular approaches.
The Salary
Net salary will me circa 2300 euros/month.
Abstract of the ANR funded project
The number of worldwide problems related to inva-
sive species, which are largely due to human activities
(development of international trade and intercontinen-
tal transportation), has strongly increased in the last
decades. Invasive species are generally considered as
having a negative eect both on economy (crop dam-
age and health problems) and environment (loss of bio-
diversity). Managing and controlling invasive species
requires an understanding of the ecological and evolu-
tionary processes that underlie invasions. On a more
academic side, biological invasions represent \natural
experiments" for evolutionary biologists and are thus
ideal to study the genetic bases of adaptation. In this
project, we will investigate the evolutionary processes
at play during a biological invasion with a particular
focus on the mechanisms of adaptation. We will also
infer the evolutionary potential in this species, so as
to make short-term and longer-term predictions with
respect to adaptation. This project will be carried on
an Asian drosophila species (Drosophila suzukii, aka
the Spotted Wing Drosophila ) that has recently in-
vaded both Europe and North America. Unlike most
Drosophilids D. suzukii uses a sclerotized ovipositor to
lay eggs in unripe fruits causing dramatic losses to the
fruit industry, with a yearly cost estimate exceeding
one billion euros worldwide. The rapid dissemination of
D. suzukii in North America and Europe demonstrates
its remarkable ability to adapt or acclimate to new en-
vironments. We propose to: (1) quantify phenotypic
variation among and within populations, using quanti-
tative genetics and reaction norms; (2) investigate the
associated molecular variation using genomics and tran-
scriptomics approaches; (3) combine phenotypic and
molecular approaches to better investigate the traits
associated with the invasion success, study the relative
importance of natural selection and genetic drift on
phenotypic dierentiation between native and invasive
populations, and to analyze the role of transposable
elements in adaptation; (4) investigate how phenotypic
plasticity, micro-evolution and symbionts contribute to
the capacity of D. suzukii to feed on many dierent
crop species and therefore switch hosts within a year.
The strength of this project lies in several points: i)
the complementarity of the approaches (molecular and
phenotypic), ii) the skills of the partners on both the
methods/technics (including the development of newApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 99
inferential methods of general interest for the statistical
analysis of populational pangenomics data) as well as
the concepts that will be used, iii) the good knowledge of
the biological model that has been the subject of several
publications of the partners, iv) our collection of popula-
tion samples from all around the world that has allowed
to obtain valuable and original results on the routes
of invasion of this species, v) an existing collaborative
network with various socio-economic partners that will
allow a rapid and ecient transfer of knowledge.
{ Vincent Debat
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Montpellier SelectionDetection
Post-doc position: Detection of selection from temporal
population genomic data
We seek a post-doctoral researcher to work in a project
on statistical population genomics. One of the goals
of population genetics is understanding the biological
processes (migration, selection, etc.) that inuence the
genetic diversity of populations. To this end, model-
based statistical inference is often used to characterize
these forces from genetic data. Of particular interest are
data of genetic diversity taken at several time points,
which allow to track genetic changes through time and
are more informative about the processes acting on the
population. The amount and nature of the genetic data
have changed with the advent of high throughput se-
quencing technologies. Thus, new statistical approaches
are required to analyse population genomic data. The
post-doc will evaluate the use of random forests on
the approximate Bayesian computation framework for
tackling the analysis of population genomic data. The
objective of the project will be to provide a statisti-
cal framework to co-estimate demography and selection
from time-series population genomic data. The methods
developed will be applied to one or more data sets from
organisms of agronomic interest (e.g. agricultural pest
Drosophila suzukii, wild crop relative Medicago truncat-
ula or poplar rust fungus Melampsora larici-populina;
data already available).
The ideal candidate will have a PhD in population ge-netics with an interest in statistics and computing or,
alternatively, a PhD in statistics with a strong inter-
est in biology and genetics. Programming skills are
required, at the very least with R, but ideally with
other languages (such as C or Python). Experience
with simulation-based work or approximate Bayesian
computation is recommended. The candidate should
have good skills in written and spoken English to be
able to communicate the results of his/her work.
The postdoc will be based at the CBGP laboratory
(Montpellier, France) working under the supervision of
Miguel Navascu es (population geneticist at the INRA)
in collaboration with Jean-Michel Marin (professor of
statistics at the University of Montpellier). The postdoc
will work in an interdisciplinary environment within
a group of researchers working on the development of
statistical methods for the analysis of population ge-
netic data. Montpellier is one of the main research
poles in France in evolutionary and computational bi-
ology. It is a medium-size city in the south of France,
with an animated student life and near natural sites on
the Mediterranean coast and the Cevennes mountains
National Park.
Miguel Navascu es: http://www6.montpellier.inra.fr/-
cbgp eng/Sta/Permanent-sta/Miguel-Navascues
Jean-Michel Marin: http://www.math.univ-montp2.fr/-
~marin/ CBGP lab and research group: http:/-
/www6.montpellier.inra.fr/cbgp eng/Research/-
Thematic-groups/Statistical-and-evolutionary-
population-genomics Computational Biology Institute:
http://www.ibc-montpellier.fr/ Starting date: ideally
August-September 2017
Location: Montpellier (France)
Duration: 18 months
Salary: determined by the ocial standard of the Uni-
versity of Montpellier, depends on experience (around
2000 euro /month net)
Conditions for eligibility: The candidate must hold a
PhD degree obtained in the last 6 years. The PhD
degree must NOT have been obtained working in a lab
belonging to the LabEx AGRO, CEMEB or NUMEV
from Montpellier. The candidate must not have worked
as a post-doc in France more than 1 year in the last 3
years. We encourage interested candidates who do not
full all these conditions to apply, although they might
only be selected if no eligible candidate is found .
Application: Send a CV, a motivation letter and con-
tact information of two references to Miguel Navascu es
(miguel.navascues@inra.fr) and Jean-Michel Marin (jean-
michel.marin@umontpellier.fr). Informal enquires are
welcome.100 EvolDir April 1, 2017
{ Miguel NAVASCU ~AS
!! NEW EMAIL ADDRESS !!
UMR CBGP, INRA Centre de Biologie pour la Ges-
tion des Populations 755 avenue du campus Agropolis
CS30016 34988 Montferrier-sur-Lez cedex (France)
phone: +33499623370 fax: +33499623345 e-mail:
miguel.navascues AT inra.fr web (personal): http://-
sites.google.com/site/navascuesresearch/ web (team):
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NewYorkU EvoDevo
POSTDOC POSITION Genome Regulatory Network
of Sexual Dimorphism: Development and Evolution
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of
Prof. David Fitch at New York University (Greenwich
Village, New York City) to study how morphogenesis is
regulated to occur in the appropriate time, place and sex
in males of Caenorhabditis elegans and related nema-
todes. Sexual dimorphism of tail tip morphogenesis has
evolved convergently in several lineages of nematodes re-
lated to C. elegans and oers a powerful genetic/genomic
system for dissecting this process at a very ne scale.
One goal is to use genomic-level (e.g. ChIP-seq) and
single-cell transcriptomics methodologies already estab-
lished in the lab to delineate gene expression dynamics
of male tail morphogenesis in C. elegans and related
species. From these data, we would like to infer the
architecture of the genetic regulatory network (GRN)
controlling this process and eventually reconstruct its
evolution in convergent lineages. Ultimately, such data
are required for addressing if and how GRN architecture
canalizes evolutionary change, as well as for understand-
ing how sexual dimorphism originates.
The Fitch lab is a part of the Biology Department at
NYU, and has access to a full range of facilities for the
project, including access to a genomics/bioinformatics
core facility, high-resolution microscopy, laser microdis-
section, the NYU Rhabditid Collection (over 150 dier-
ent species of nematodes related to C. elegans), culture
facilities, and standard molecular biology and genetics
facilities. The postdoc will join a community of otherC. elegans biologists, enjoying access to their collective
wisdom and resources. The department and school also
maintain excellent mentoring programs for postdocs,
who have multiple opportunities for participating in the
vibrant academic environment of NYU and the city in
which it resides.
Funding is currently available for a two-year period,
with the opportunity to be extended into subsequent
years. Prior experience in C. elegans genetics and molec-
ular biology is preferred. Knowledge regarding bioin-
formatics analyses and tools is advantageous. Appli-
cations will be reviewed on a rolling basis until the
position is lled. Please send CV and contact informa-
tion for at least two people who can serve as references
to: david.tch@nyu.edu
\df3@nyu.edu" <df3@nyu.edu >
NHGRI-NIH Bethesda
BioinformaticsEvolGenomics
Computationaland Statistical Genomics Branch Nation-
alHuman Genome Research Institute NationalInstitutes
of Health
PostdoctoralFellowship in Bioinformatics and Evolution-
ary Genomics
Apostdoctoral training position is currently available
in the Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch
(CSGB) of the National Human Genome Research Insti-
tute (NHGRI). The position is located in the laboratory
of Andy Baxevanis, Ph.D., whose research group uses
comparative genomics approaches to better-understand
the molecular innovations that drove the surge of diver-
sity in early animal evolution. The overarching theme of
Dr. Baxevanis' research program is focused on how non-
traditional animal models can be used to convey critical
insights into human disease research, in line with the
NIH Intramural Research Program's renewed emphasis
on developing new animal models for the study of basic
biology.
Withthis translational context in mind, Dr. Baxeva-
nis' group is currently leading an international eort to
sequence two cnidarian species: Hydractinia echinata
and Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus. The regenerative
abilities of these colonial hydrozoans make them ex-
cellent models for the study of key questions related
to pluripotency, allorecognition, and stem cell biology,
work that will be signicantly advanced by the avail-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 101
ability of high-quality whole-genome sequencing data
from these organisms. In addition, and in collaboration
with colleagues at the Whitney Marine Laboratory of
the University of Florida, the group is also now focusing
on polychaete species that show particular promise for
advancing our understanding of regeneration and early
developmental processes. The successful applicant will
have the opportunity to develop and apply bioinformatic
approaches to these and other large-scale genomic data
sets, focusing on the evolution of specic protein fami-
lies, with an emphasis on examining their putative roles
in disease causation.
Candidatesshould have or be close to obtaining a Ph.D.
or equivalent degree in bioinformatics, computational
biology, computer science, molecular biology, or a closely
related eld. Candidates with a background in evolu-
tionary biology are particularly encouraged to apply.
Programming skills and experience in the application
of computational methods to genomic data are highly
desirable. Applicants must possess good communica-
tion skills and be uent in both spoken and written
English. The ability to learn how to use new software
and quickly become expert in its use, critical think-
ing, problem-solving abilities, and the ability to work
semi-independently are required.
TheNIH Intramural Research Program is on the
Bethesda, Maryland campus and oers a wide array of
training opportunities for scientists early in their careers.
The funding for this position is stable and oers the
trainee wide latitude in the design and pursuit of their
research project. The successful candidate will have ac-
cess to NHGRI's established and robust bioinformatics
infrastructure, as well as a 'Top 500' high-performance
computing resource made available through NIH's Cen-
ter for Information Technology (CIT).
Interestedapplicants should submit a curriculum vitae, a
detailed letter of interest, and the names of three poten-
tial references to Dr. Baxevanis at andy@mail.nih.gov.
Formore information on CSGB and NHGRI's Intramural
Research Program, please see http://genome.gov/DIR/
. DHHSand NIH are Equal Opportunity Employers and
encourage applications from women and minorities.
andy@mail.nih.govNorthCarolinaStateU
ComputationalEvolModeling
Postdoc position - \High-performance computational
tools for evolutionary sequence analyses"
North Carolina State University, Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences, Raleigh NC.
A post-doctoral position is available to work with Prof.
Michela Becchi and Gavin Conant at NC State Univer-
sity. The successful applicant will be part of a collab-
orative research project on the use of new computing
hardware platforms and algorithms for large-scale ge-
nomic analyses. She or he will conduct research either
developing algorithms on such platforms or using tools
from computational collaborators to study the ques-
tion of whether increasing volumes of genomic data,
coupled to improved computing hardware, can resolve
long-standing problems in functional genomics involving
nding regulatory elements and resolving orthology re-
lationships. Computing platforms under consideration
includes: GPUs, FPGAs, Micron's Automata Processor
and Intel Phi coprocessor devices.
The candidate must hold a Ph.D. or equivalent doc-
torate (e.g., M.D., D.V.M., Sc.D.) in appropriate eld
awarded no more than ve (5) years from initial date of
postdoctoral appointment and must be able to program
in c, c++ or Fortran and have a working knowledge of
bioinformatics and computational genomics. Knowledge
of parallel programming or string matching algorithms
is strongly preferred.
The successful applicant will be located on the main cam-
pus of NC State University, close to downtown Raleigh.
Collaborative opportunities include NCSU's Bioinfor-
matics Research Center (https://brc.ncsu.edu), its Ge-
netics program (https://genetics.sciences.ncsu.edu), its
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
(https://www.ece.ncsu.edu/) and the Triangle Center
for Evolutionary Medicine (formerly NESCENT; https:/-
/www.nescent.org).
Full details of the position and formal application
instructions are available at https://jobs.ncsu.edu/-
postings/82212 . Review of applications will begin on
March 10th and continue until the position is lled.
Informal inquires may be directed to Gavin Conant:
gconant@ncsu.edu102 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Gavin Conant Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ological Sciences 356 Ricks Hall North Carolina State
University Raleigh NC 27695
email: gconant@ncsu.edu web:
www4.ncsu.edu/ ~gconant
\gconant@ncsu.edu" <gconant@ncsu.edu >
Omaha Nebraska
MadagascarBiodiversityGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow - Madagascar Biodiversity Ge-
nomics
Job Description:
Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo & Aquarium Department
of Conservation Genetics (OHDZA-CG) based in Om-
aha, Nebraska, is seeking a post-doctoral researcher
with interest/expertise in the generation and analysis
of next-generation sequencing data of lemurs, tortoises,
and other taxa from Madagascar.
Duties:
The successful applicant will be procient in the con-
struction genomic libraries and in solution hybridization
methodologies for high throughput sequencing as well
as all relevant analysis of large datasets, and manage
next-generation sequence workows. This individual
will be responsible for development, implementation,
and support of software applications related to variant
detection and interpretation from high-throughput ex-
periments involving multiple species of lemurs, tortoises,
and taxa from Madagascar. Assembly of whole genomes
is in-progress, but will likely require additional analy-
sis pertinent to specic research projects. Interested
candidates should be highly motivated, organized, inde-
pendent, and have extensive experience with molecular
genomics and bioinformatics, and be able to eciently
write and revise manuscripts. Travel to Madagascar to
support the eld programs of OHDZA-CG is required
for a minimum of ve week intervals twice a year.
Basic Qualications:
Applicants should hold a PhD in bioinformatics, com-
puter science, molecular genomics or related eld
and have more than one year of experience in high-
throughput genome sequence analysis. Applicants
should be experienced at software related to next genera-
tion sequencing data and be able to manipulate genomic
data for phylogenetics and phylogeography. Our group'sfocus is large-scale sequencing for phylogenetics, phylo-
geography and evolutionary studies of lemurs, tortoises
and other taxa from Madagascar. Thus, previous expe-
rience in genome assemblies, annotation and analysis of
a variety of next generation sequencing (NGS) pipelines
is preferable. The ideal candidate will be independent,
highly motivated, productive, and able to work eec-
tively in a team with members from a variety of diverse
backgrounds with outstanding written and verbal com-
munication skills. The successful applicant must be
interested in interdisciplinary science and eld research
and have a solid publication record that illustrates abil-
ity to conduct novel, independent research.
Preferred Qualications
Candidates should have 3+ years of experience in molec-
ular biology, genetics, or bioinformatics. The position
requires prociency in programming (perl or python)
and bash scripting using Linux operating systems. Ap-
plicants are also expected to be familiar with bioin-
formatics tools, be able to implement complex com-
putational pipelines, incorporate genomics databases
and have extensive and creditable laboratory experience
with constructing genomic libraries. The applicant will
need to work closely with two full time technicians to
manage NGS lab work, as well as with a full time bioin-
formatician. While in Madagascar the applicant will
work with a variety of Malagasy graduate students, and
is expected to assist with the progression of a variety of
projects, and assist with completion of their degrees and
peer-reviewed manuscripts. Based on all these above
duties requires a candidate with excellent interpersonal
skills, and the ability to train and teach both national
and international audiences is necessary. The candidate
must also be able to jump between a variety of projects,
based on needs of the research group.
Must be legally entitled to work in the USA. Visa spon-
sorship is not available.
Appointment:
The selected candidate will be based primarily at
OHDZA-CG, but the individual will be required to
travel and conduct eld work with the projects under
the management of the Madagascar Biodiversity Part-
nership, NGO (www.madagascarpartnership.org).
Salary/benets are based on OHDZA-CG's
salary/benets structure, and are commensurate
with experience. The initial appointment is for duration
of two-years, but is renewable for an additional two
years based on performance. The position will begin
approximately mid-August 2017.
Application:
Applicants should send curriculum vitae, a statement ofApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 103
research interests and career goals, a few publications,
and the names and addresses of three academic and
professional references to:
Dr. Edward E. Louis, Jr.
Director of the Department of Conservation Genetics
Center for Conservation and Research
Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo & Aquarium
3701 South 10 ^th Street, Omaha, NE 68107 USA
Email: genetics@omahazoo.com
Review of applications will begin immediately upon
receipt.
Genetics Department <genetics@omahazoo.com >
Paris EvolutionaryAndEnvMari-
neGenomics
Postdoc Position in Evolutionary and Environmental
Marine Genomics: Large scale metatranscriptomics of
eukaryote plankton ecology and evolution in the Global
Ocean .
We invite applications for a 2 years postdoctoral fellow-
ship to analyze large scale metagenomics and metatran-
scriptomics eukaryotic data from the Tara Oceans and
Tara Oceans Polar Circle expeditions.
*PROJECT*: Plankton communities are composed of
viruses, bacteria, protists and multicellular eukaryotes
that all together perform biological and geochemical
processes important for global earth and climate reg-
ulations. The Tara Oceans and Tara Oceans Polar
Circle expeditions have systematically sampled marine
plankton at hundred sites of the world's oceans, cov-
ering the entire ecosystem diversity from viruses and
prokaryotes to eukaryotes, and generating the largest
standardized eco-morpho-metaomics dataset available
(>40 Terabases), including over 1,000 virus-, prokaryote-
, and eukaryote-enriched metagenomes and metatran-
scriptomes, as well as 4 billion eukaryotic and prokary-
otic metabarcodes from 3,000 size-fractionated plankton
communities worldwide. This dataset covering global
geographic and taxonomic scales represents a unique
opportunity to explore the boundaries of a planetary
ecosystem at the interface between oceanography, biodi-
versity, ecology, and evolution. The selected candidate
will investigate and compare meta-transcriptomics and
meta-genomics data at the organismal level to exploreresponses to population and environmental changes in
the whole set of sampled locations.
*CANDIDATE*: The successful candidate should have
a PhD in the elds of bioinformatics or environmental
genomics. The following expertises would be favored: i)
extensive rst-hand experience in computational anal-
ysis of biological sequences (particularly: population
genetics, meta-omics mining), ii) prociency in statis-
tical methods using R, or iii) demonstrated script pro-
gramming skills in *NIX environments (Perl, python,
shell etc.) as well as familiarity with the use of com-
pute farms. Knowledge of numerical ecology approaches
and/or oceanography will be very favorably considered.
*APPLICATION*: Applications and informal
queries should be addressed to Eric Pelletier
(eric.pelletier@genoscope.fr). Interested candi-
dates should send their CV with a publications list,
and a cover letter describing their research interests
and motivation. Candidates should also arrange for
at least two referees to e-mail recommendation letters
directly to Eric Pelletier <eric.pelletier@genoscope.fr >.
Review of applications will begin on March 1st, 2017
and applications will continue to be accepted until the
position is lled.
*CONTRACT AND ENVIRONMENT*: The position
will start at the earliest possible date, taking into ac-
count that drafting the work contract usually takes at
least 8 weeks. The salary will be 2,700 ~3,000 euro , based
on the CEA salary grid, and depends on qualications
and experience. The position is based at Genoscope
near Paris and will involve close national and interna-
tional collaboration in particular with other partner
institutions of the Tara Oceans consortia. The selected
candidate will work in a team of 10 people in the Labo-
ratory of Eukaryotic Genomics led by Patrick Wincker.
*REFERENCES*:
https://www.embl.de/tara-oceans Guidi, L. et
al. Plankton networks driving carbon export
in the oligotrophic ocean. Nature 532, 465-470,
doi:10.1038/nature16942 (2016).
Roux, S. et al. Ecogenomics and potential biogeochemi-
cal impacts of globally abundant ocean viruses. Nature,
doi:10.1038/nature19366 (2016).
De Vargas, C. et al. Eukaryotic plankton diversity in the
sunlit ocean. Science. May 2;348(6237) doi: 10.1126/sci-
ence.1261605. (2015)
Brum, JR. et al. Patterns and ecological drivers of
ocean viral communities. Science. May2;348(6237) doi:
10.1126/science.aah6502. (2015)
Sunagawa, S. et al. Structure and function of the global104 EvolDir April 1, 2017
ocean microbiome. Science. May 22;348(6237) doi:
10.1126/science.1261359. (2015)
Villar, E. et al. Environmental characteristics of Agul-
has rings aect interocean plankton transport. Science
May 22; doi: 10.1126/science.1261447.(2015)
{ Dr Eric Pelletier jCEA / Genoscope Environmental
(Meta)GenomicsjCNRS UMR-8030 Tel: (33) 0 160 872
519jCP 5706 91057 Evry cedex - France
Paris EvolutionaryEnvironmentalGe-
nomics
*Postdoc Position in Evolutionary and Environmental
Genomics: Investigating the plankton ecology and evo-
lution in the Arctic Ocean in relation to adjacent ecosys-
tems. *
We invite applications for a 2 years postdoctoral fellow-
ship to analyze plankton ecology through data mining of
environmental genomics datasets from the expeditions
/Tara/ Oceans and /Tara/ Oceans Polar Circle.
*PROJECT*: Plankton communities are composed of
viruses, bacteria, protists and multicellular eukaryotes
that all together perform biological and geochemical
processes important for global earth and climate reg-
ulations.The /Tara/ Oceans and /Tara/ Oceans Polar
Circle expeditions have systematically sampled marine
plankton at hundred sites of the world's oceans, covering
the entire ecosystem diversity from viruses and prokary-
otes to eukaryotes [1]. The /Tara /Oceans//project
has generated the largest standardized eco-morpho-
metaomics dataset available ( >40 Terabases), including
over 1,000 virus-, prokaryote-, and eukaryote-enriched
metagenomes and metatranscriptomes, as well as 4 bil-
lion eukaryotic and prokaryotic metabarcodes from 3,000
size-fractionated plankton communities worldwide. This
dataset covering global geographic and taxonomic scales
represents a unique opportunity to explore the bound-
aries of a planetary ecosystem at the interface between
oceanography, biodiversity, ecology, and evolution.
Following the rst /Tara/ Oceans global analyses pub-
lished in Science and Nature in 2015 and 2016[2], the se-
lected candidate will investigate and compare genomics
data from two distinct environments, the temperate
and Arctic Oceans which are connected through North
Atlantic. In collaboration with other researchers, the
candidate will address the question of the impact of the
physical connectivity between the Atlantic basin andthe Arctic basin on the ecology, genetic and evolution
of organisms.
*CANDIDATE*: The successful candidate should have
a PhD in the elds of bioinformatics or environmen-
tal genomics. The following expertises would be fa-
vored: i) extensive rst-hand experience in computa-
tional analysis of biological sequences (particularly: sim-
ilarity searching, phylogeny, variant identication, pop-
ulation genetics, meta-omics mining), ii) prociency in
statistical methods using R, or iii) demonstrated script
programming skills in *NIX environments (Perl, python,
bash etc.) as well as familiarity with the use of com-
pute farms. Knowledge of numerical ecology approaches
and/or oceanography will be very favorably considered.
*APPLICATION*: Applications and in-
formal queries should be addressed to
Olivier Jaillon ( < ojaillon@genoscope.cns.fr
<mailto:ojaillon@genoscope.cns.fr >>). Interested
candidates should send their CV with a publications
list, and a cover letter describing their research interests
and motivation. Candidates should also arrange for
at least two referees to e-mail recommendation letters
directly to.
Review of applications will begin on March 1st, 2017
and applications will continue to be accepted until the
position is lled.
*CONTRACT AND ENVIRONMENT*: The position
will start at the earliest possible date, taking into ac-
count that drafting the work contract usually takes at
least 8 weeks. The salary will be based on the CEA
salary grid and depends on qualications and experience.
The position is based at Genoscope near Paris and will
involve close national and international collaboration in
particular with the Stazione Zoologica of Naples and
with other partner institutions of the /Tara/ Oceans
consortia. The selected candidate will work in a team
of 10 people in the Laboratory of Eukaryotic Genomics
(Lage) led by Patrick Wincker.
*REFERENCES*: [1] https://www.embl.de/tara-
oceans[2] Guidi, L. et al. Plankton networks driv-
ing carbon export in the oligotrophic ocean. Nature
532, 465-470, doi:10.1038/nature16942 (2016). Biard,
T. et al. In situ imaging reveals the biomass of gi-
ant protists in the global ocean. Nature 532, 504-
507, doi:10.1038/nature17652 (2016). Roux, S. et
al. Ecogenomics and potential biogeochemical im-
pacts of globally abundant ocean viruses. Nature,
doi:10.1038/nature19366 (2016). De Vargas, C. et al.
Eukaryotic plankton diversity in the sunlit ocean. Sci-
ence. May 2;348(6237) doi: 10.1126/science.1261605.
(2015)April 1, 2017 EvolDir 105
Brum, JR. et al. Patterns and ecological drivers of
ocean viral communities. Science. May2;348(6237) doi:
10.1126/science.aah6502. (2015)
Sunagawa, S. et al. Structure and function of the global
ocean microbiome. Science. May 22;348(6237) doi:
10.1126/science.1261359. (2015)
Villar, E. et al. Environmental characteristics of Agul-
has rings aect interocean plankton transport. Science
May 22; doi: 10.1126/science.1261447.(2015)
Olivier Jaillon <ojaillon@genoscope.cns.fr >
RockefellerU EvolutionaryGenomics
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the
Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics (PI:
Li Zhao) at the Rockefeller University. The project
will involve genomic and transcriptomic experiments
and analysis to understand the evolution and molecular
genetics of newly evolved genes. The ideal candidate
for the position will have a strong background in com-
putational biology, evolutionary genomics, as well as
interests in functional genetics and population genetics.
A background with Drosophila or human evolutionary
biology is highly desirable.
The Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics is a newly
established lab at the Rockefeller University located in
the Upper East Side of Manhattan in New York City.
We work on a number of projects on genome evolu-
tion, gene evolution, gene function, and genetic basis of
local adaptation. Rockefeller University supports a vi-
brant research community in insect and human genetics
and creates a multidisciplinary research atmosphere for
studying fundamental biological questions. Candidates
who have strong background in Drosophila functional
genetics and behavior are also encouraged to contact Li
Zhao for possible opportunities.
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled.
The anticipated start date for this appointment is sum-
mer 2017. To apply, please send your CV, a state-
ment of your research background and interests, and
contact information for three references to Li Zhao at
lzhao@rockefeller.edu.
Best regards,
Li Zhao
Li Zhao, Ph.D. Assistant Professor and Head of Labora-
tory Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics and GenomicsRockefeller University 1230 York Ave, New York, NY
10065
\lzhao@rockefeller.edu" <lzhao@rockefeller.edu >
RoslinInst StaticsticalGenetics
Dear All,
We have available an exciting post to develop, imple-
ment and apply statistical methods for the analysis of
binary phenotypes for someone with strong statistical
and programming background.
Further details can be found at https:/-
/www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/-
erqsearch package.search form?p company=-
5&p internal external=E# . The vacancy reference
is 039228. Please, address informal inquires to me
(albert.tenesa@ed.ac.uk). Best wishes, Albert
TENESA Albert <Albert.Tenesa@ed.ac.uk >
SaintLouisU
EvolInsectCommunication
The Fowler-Finn Lab at Saint Louis University is seeking
applicants for a postdoctoral scholar to lead a dynamic
research team in an NSF-funded project investigating
thermal eects on reproductive performance and sexual
communication in natural populations of treehoppers
(Hemiptera: Membracidae). This project implements
a function-valued approach to characterize plasticity
in thermally-sensitive reproductive traits, and classic
quantitative genetics to measure genetic variation across
a latitudinal gradient. There is also an outreach compo-
nent to the project that capitalizes on the ability of the
bizarre and beautiful vibrational songs of treehoppers
to capture the imagination of the public. There will be
opportunities for the postdoc to develop related projects,
and the postdoctoral scholar is encouraged to interact
and collaborate with other members of the Evolution,
Ecology, and Behavior community in the Saint Louis
area.
The successful candidate will have (i) a Ph.D. in Evo-
lutionary Biology (or related eld), (ii) demonstrated
expertise in behavioral experimentation, (iii) excellent106 EvolDir April 1, 2017
organizational skills, strong work ethic, and desire to
collaborate with and lead a team, (iv) a strong record of
written and oral communication in English, and (v) com-
mitment to supporting diversity and outreach education
in STEM. Additional valuable skills and experience in-
clude: familiarity with classic quantitative genetics, sta-
tistical analysis of complex phenotypic data, strong inter-
est in mentorship of students, and a general attitude of
having fun while working hard in the lab! The initial ap-
pointment will be made for one year, with an additional
1-2 years contingent on satisfactory progress. Start date:
spring 2017 or until lled. To apply, please email the
following materials to (Kasey Fowler-Finn) with the
email subject \Postdoc Treehoppers": (1) cover letter
with research experience, training and qualications for
the position as described in this advertisement, (2) up-
to-date CV, and (3) names of three mentors/colleagues
from whom you can request letters of support. For best
consideration, please apply by February March 31, 2017.
Saint Louis University is an Armative Action/Equal
Opportunity Employer (AA/EOE), and encourages nom-
inations of and applications from women and minorities.
Kasey Fowler-Finn, Ph.D. Assistant Professor
Department of Biology Saint Louis University
http://bio.slu.edu/fowlernn/ Kasey Fowler-Finn
<fowlernn@slu.edu >
SmithCollege 2 AmoebaeCiliates
The Katz lab <http://www.science.smith.edu/katz-
lab/research/ >is recruiting two full-time postdoctoral
research fellows to work on testate amoebae and ciliates.
The rst position| <http://apply.interfolio.com/41040
>combines microscopy and molecular tools to explore
the diversity of testate amoebae in New England bogs
and fens. The aims of this project include characteriz-
ing the diversity of testate amoebae morphospecies and
communities in low pH bogs and fens, and collecting
transcriptomic data from testate amoebae. The ideal
candidate will: be a productive researcher with inter-
ests in biodiversity and phylogenomics of microorgan-
isms; have experience identifying and isolating diverse
amoebae; and have knowledge of bioinformatic and/or
phylogenetic tools. Excellence in communication and
an interest in collaborating with graduate and under-
graduate students in the laboratory are essential. Ph.D.
in Biological Sciences or related eld required by time
of appointment.The second position <http://apply.interfolio.com/-
41036 >focuses on using single cell 'omics' to
characterize genomes of ciliates isolated from various
freshwater and marine habitats. The goals of the
project are to assess intraspecic variation in both
somatic macronuclei and germline micronuclei from
diverse ciliates. The ideal candidate will: be a
productive researcher with interests in phylogenomics of
microorganisms, including analyzing complex genomic
data; have experience identifying and isolating diverse
ciliates; have knowledge of bioinformatic tools, and
ideally have familiarity with python or a comparable
computer language. Excellence in communication
and an interest in collaborating with graduate and
undergraduate students in the laboratory are essential.
Ph.D. in Biological Sciences or related eld required by
time of appointment. In both cases, the position will
begin on or after July 2017, and the initial appointment
is for one year, with the possibility of extending for ad-
ditional years. Applications must be submitted through
interfolio to be considered (http://apply.interfolio.com/-
41040 ,http://apply.interfolio.com/41036),
though potential applicants can contact Laura
<mailto:lkatz@smith.edu >with any questions. Please
submit applications through interfolio with a letter of
application, C.V., a statement of research interests,
three representative publications, and the names and
contact information of three references. Review of
applications will begin April 1, 2017.
Diversifying the student body, faculty, administration,
sta, and curriculum is crucial to the mission of and
vision for the College. Smith is committed to providing
access and reasonable accommodation in the application
process for individuals with disabilities and encourage
applicants to request any needed accommodation(s).
The college values and is committed to a host of diverse
populations and cultures, including, but not limited to,
those based on ability, age, ethnicity, gender, gender
identity, national origin, race, religion, sexual orienta-
tion, and veteran status.
Smith College is an EO/AA/Vet/Disability Employer.
Women, underrepresented racial groups, veterans and
individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
Laura A Katz <lkatz@smith.edu >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 107
SouthAfrica eDNA
We are looking for a postdoctoral fellow to work on
eDNA of marine and estuarine communities in South
Africa, in particular characterising the communities
associated with seagrass meadows. This is part of a
National Research Foundation funded project on eDNA,
hosted in the lab of Prof. Sophie von der Heyden
(www.vonderheydenlab.com), in collaboration with the
Molecular Ecology and Fisheries Genetics Lab at Ban-
gor University (http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/sta/si.php).
The primary focus of this research project is to use an
environmental DNA metabarcoding approach to charac-
terise known and hidden genetic diversity in a variety
of marine ecosystems in South Africa, to not only allow
comparison between sites, but to 1. assess this method-
ology as a tool for monitoring change in African marine
ecosystems and 2. utilise seascape genetic approaches
to help disentangle the biological drivers of community
structuring.
Applicants must have evidence of working with eDNA,
including the necessary skills for the collection of sam-
ples, isolation of DNA, subsequent PCRs and relevant
bioinformatics skills. A proven track record of pub-
lications in international journals is a must. Ideally,
the candidate would be familiar with southern African
marine systems, but this is not essential. This is an
exciting opportunity for someone looking to work in one
of the most biodiverse and beautiful parts of the world
as the project will cover much of the ~3600km of coast-
line that South African has to oer. Good people skills
are a must, as this project also supports postgraduate
students.
The tenure of the postdoc would be for two years (start-
ing date negotiable) or longer, depending on the avail-
ability of funds. The successful candidate will need to ap-
ply to the University of Stellenbosch Postdoctoral Fellow-
ship scheme (details available from PI von der Heyden)
and also apply to the Claude Leon Foundation for post-
doctoral support (http://www.leonfoundation.co.za/-
postdoctoral.htm). The vdH lab is housed in the De-
partment of Botany and Zoology at the University of
Stellenbosch. This university is one of the top-ranked
in the southern Hemisphere, with strong undergraduate
and postgraduate training and research. Stellenbosch
is a historical, safe and vibrant community surrounded
by magnicent mountains, close to the sea. Find out
more at www.sun.ac.za. To apply or to nd out moreabout the projects, please contact Prof. Sophie von der
Heyden (svdh@sun.ac.za) with a comprehensive CV, de-
tailing your research background and publication record
and a short statement on your expertise with eDNA, by
the 24th March.
\Von der Heyden, S, Prof <svdh@sun.ac.za >"
<svdh@sun.ac.za >
Tampa Florida
ModelingCancerEvolution
Link: http://scholar.harvard.edu/les/paltrock/-
les/altrocklab postdocposition march2017.pdf
Text: Postdoctoral Position in Mathematical On-
cology/Computational Biology The Evolutionary
Dynamics lab, headed by Dr. Philipp Altrock at the
Department of Integrated Mathematical Oncology,
Mott Cancer Center and Research Institute, in
Tampa, Florida, is seeking to ll a postdoctoral position.
Mott is the only Florida cancer center to receive
the National Cancer Institute designation for its
scientic excellence and oers unique opportunities
for interdisciplinary collaborations at the forefront of
nding new cancer cures.
Candidates ideally hold a PhD in mathematics, com-
puter science or physics and have a strong interest in
cancer biology and medicine.
Applicants from other areas with a quantitative back-
ground in biology or medicine are also encouraged to ap-
ply. Applicants should clearly state their desire to work
in close collaboration with experimental and clinical on-
cologists, as well as their experience in mathematical or
computational modeling, data analysis and visualization,
and scientic writing. Please send a cover letter includ-
ing a brief research statement, a CV, and a publication
list highlighting individual contributions. Send all in
one pdf document to philipp.altrock@mott.org, and
have three letters of recommendation sent independently.
The position is posted until lled.
The lab focuses on mathematical and statistical models
that elucidate the role of selective forces acting in home-
ostatic tissues and growing tumors. Our goals are to
better understand onset and epidemiology of cancers, as
well as cell phenotypic and tissue environmental features
in somatic and cancer evolution. To achieve these goals,
data from novel experiments at Mott and Harvard
Medical School will be used.108 EvolDir April 1, 2017
In addition, publically available datasets are evaluated
and incorporated in the modeling process. We are par-
ticularly interested in blood disease in which cell interact
with the microenvironment and the immune system.
The Department of Integrated Mathematical Oncology
(IMO) consists of 7 internationally renowned cancer
researchers and mathematical modelers.
The focus of all IMO research groups is to apply physical,
mathematical and mechanical principles to cancer biol-
ogy to decipher rst order principles of tumor growth
that can be exploited for novel cancer treatments. Mof-
tt Cancer Center and Research Institute, in Tampa, is
Florida's largest cancer center, located on the campus of
the University of South Florida, near beautiful beaches
in the Gulf of Mexico.
Dr. Philipp M. Altrock Assistant Member Mott Can-
cer Center, Tampa, FL scholar.harvard.edu/paltrock
philipp.altrock@mott.org Please consider the environ-
ment before printing this email.
\Altrock, Philipp M" <Philipp.Altrock@mott.org >
UAdelaide
PhylogeographicsBioinformatics
PostdoctoralResearcher Position at the Australian Cen-
tre for Ancient DNA, The University of Adelaide
Keywords:Phylogenetics, Bioinformatics, Molecular Evo-
lution, Population Genetics, Ancient DNA.
Two(2) post-doctoral position are available at the
Australian Centre for Ancient DNA (ACAD; ade-
laide.edu.au/acad) for 1-year (extendable). Highly
independent and motivated researchers with strong
phylogenetics, statistical genetics and bioinformatics
are invited to apply. The successful candidates will
work under the supervision of Prof Alan Cooper, and
will have the opportunity to work on ACAD's wide
range of high-prole projects (ACAD's publications;
adelaide.edu.au/acad/publications/). We are currently
conducting a range of projects investigating molecular
evolution, and phylogeographics of a number of organ-
isms including dental microbiome, large mammals, and
humans. The successful applicant will lead a program to
develop and integrate analytical methods and pipelines
for the analysis of large ancient genomic datasets, and
co-supervise a group of postgraduate students in col-
laboration with local, and overseas colleagues and the
University's School of Mathematical Sciences.TheUniversity of Adelaide is one of Australia's leading
Group of Eight, research-intensive universities and is
consistently ranked among the top 1% of universities in
the world. Established in 1874, it is Australia's third
oldest university with a particularly strong reputation
for scientic research. The Faculty of Sciences is one
of ve faculties at the University of Adelaide. As the
rst university in Australia to grant degrees in science
(1882), science has long been at the cornerstone of the
institution and this continues today. As a research and
education leader in elds such as biomedical sciences,
agricultural, environmental and earth sciences, the fac-
ulty oers an exciting and innovative work environment.
ACAD sits within the Flagship Environment Institute,
and is a world reference ancient DNA research centre,
regularly publishing in high-impact journals such as Na-
ture and Science. The applicant would be expected to
operate at this level.
*To be successful you should have: - A PhD or MSc in-
volving bioinformatics, biostatistics, population genetics,
biomedical or ancient DNA research, or other relevant
disciplines. - Expertise in UNIX based systems, includ-
ing scripting in bash and at least one pre-compiled lan-
guage (preferentially Python), data analytics language
(R and/or Matlab) (as well as prociency in working on
Linux clusters and databases. - Demonstrated knowl-
edge and experience with Next Generation Sequencing
and genomics datasets, including ltering/processing
large datasets, multivariate statistical analysis, develop-
ing analytical methods and pipelines, and performing
population genetics analyses. - Demonstrated ability
to publish in scientic journals, and present research at
international conferences. - Excellent written and oral
communication skills with the ability to liaise, collab-
orate and interact with a wide range of national and
international scientic researchers.
*Salary: Level A $78,525 - $84,291 per annum, and up
to 9.5% Superannuation applies.
Thisis a great opportunity to study abroad (for interna-
tional candidates) as Adelaide is a vibrant cosmopoli-
tan city with a Mediterranean climate guaranteeing a
great lifestyle. Interested applicants are encouraged
to send a resume, a cover letter and a list with full
contact details of three referees to Prof Alan Cooper
(alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au), and Dr. Yassine Souilmi
(yassine.souilmi@adelaide.edu.au).
yassine.souilmi@adelaide.edu.auApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 109
UBirmingham AdaptiveEvolution
dear community, * *
*A 30-month postdoc position**is open at the Univer-
sity of Birmingham in the Environmental Genomics
Group**for an evolutionary biologist. *
the live link to the application on the University
webpage is the following: https://atsv7.wcn.co.uk/-
search engine/jobs.cgi?amN vZGU9MTYy MTM5MSZ2
dF90ZW1w bGF0ZT03 Njcmb3du ZXI9NTAzM jUyM-
SZvd2 5lcnR5cG U9ZmFpci ZicmFuZF 9pZD0wJn
ZhY2Zpcm0 udmFjdGl0 bGU9NTY3 NDMmcG9z
dGluZ19j b2RlPTEx NyZyZXFza Wc9MTQ4ND
U4NjM4My 04NDEzMD RhNjNiMm Q5MDU5YT
JmNzQxOGI wOTY5ZTRl ZTI2YzBi OTNj=&jc ode21
391&vt t emplate=7 67&owner= 5032521& owner-
typ e uir&b rand id= 0&vacrm .vactitle V743&p ost-
ingc ode7& reqsig=1 484586383 -841304a6 3b2d9059
a2f7418b 0969e4ee 26c0b93c
*Job description*
One 30-month postdoctoral research fellowship in Ex-
perimental Evolutionary Ecology and Omics is available
within the School of Biosciences in the Environmental
Genomics Group at the University of Birmingham, UK.
\Cracking the Code of Adaptive Evolution" (dCODE) is
a multidisciplinary collaboration among seven investiga-
tors at the University of Birmingham who form a vibrant
research community to advance the eld of environmen-
tal omics. We pursue foundational science using natural
populations of the ecologically relevant model species
Daphnia. This project seeks to discover the relative
contributions of phenotypic plasticity, the epigenome,
and of molecular evolution to the process of adaptation,
by experimenting on an historical Daphnia population
that is \resurrected" from dormancy spanning 100 years
of evolution.
The candidate will contribute to the planned research
by (1) designing and conducting experiments to assess
tness changes leading to species persistence in pres-
ence of anthropogenic stress; (2) performing advanced
statistical analyses to summarize tness responses at
species level; (3) linking tness responses at species
level with ecosystem services. Ability to code in R or
similar software is required. The ideal candidate will:
(i) understand theoretical underpinnings of evolution-
ary theories; (ii) have proven experience in conductingand analyzing experiments in the eld of evolutionary
ecology; (iii) have prior knowledge on how to link biodi-
versity and genetic diversity to ecosystem functioning
and services; (iv) have prior experience with working in
a multidisciplinary context.
The successful candidate will be responsible for all as-
pects related to laboratory experiments using Daphnia.
Applicants must hold a PhD-degree with substantial ex-
perience in experimental evolution design and analysis,
statistics and biostatistics. Ability to perform ecological
modeling and in combining experimental and omics data
will be considered an advantage.
thanks, Luisa Orsini
{
Dr Luisa Orsini Lecturer in BioSystems and Envi-
ronmental Change Fellow of the Higher Education
Academy Environmental Genomics Group, School of
Biosciences, University of Birmingham Birmingham,
B15 2TT, United Kingdom T: +44 (0)121 4145894 F:
+44 (0)121 414 5925 Email: l.orsini[at]bham.ac.uk
https://lorsini5.wixsite.com/luisaorsini http:/-
/www.birmingham.ac.uk/schools/biosciences/-
sta/prole.aspx?ReferenceId=63090&Name=dr-
luisa-orsini https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Luisa Orsini \Luisa Orsini (School of Biosciences)"
<l.orsini@bham.ac.uk >
UCalifornia SanDiego PDF Tech
YeastExptEvol
Postdoc and technician positions available to work on
experimental evolution of gene drives in yeast
Gene drives are technology that will potentially
transform our capacity to eliminate diseases like
malaria, extricate invasive species, and combat hunger.
The newest iteration of this technology incorporates
CRISPER/Cas9 into genetic elements that can transfer
from one copy of a chromosome to others. This prop-
erty allows the elements to defy Mendelian inheritance
and to drive through a population. As they drive, the
elements can carry benecial genes, such malarial re-
sistance alleles in mosquito populations. While gene
drives are powerful molecular tools, there are a number
of unknowns about their evolution and the evolutionary
pressures they impose on the genomes they are intro-
duced to. Will the elements evolve loss of function110 EvolDir April 1, 2017
mutations or others that cause unintended transfers,
will the drives impose selection on their host genomes
to coevolve, and will drive-induced mutagenesis alter
the target genome's evolutionary trajectory? Sergey
Kryazhimskiy and Justin Meyer's labs at UC San Diego
will begin to answer these questions using experimental
evolution of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. This project will
be part of a larger active genetics initiative at UCSD
and the creation of the Tata Institute for Genetics and
Society on campus and in India. Two positions are
available, a postdoc and technician, that will begin in
June of 2017. Please e-mail Justin, jrmeyer@ucsd.edu
with your cv and short cover letter if you're interested in
joining this important and groundbreaking work. Ideal
candidates will have experience with yeast genetic engi-
neering, genomics, and evolutionary theory.
Justin Meyer Asst Prof, Biology, U.C. San Diego
http://labs.biology.ucsd.edu/meyer Justin Meyer
<jrmeyer@ucsd.edu >
UCambridge
BacterialGenomicEpidemiology
University of Cambridge. The funds for this post are
available until 23 April 2020 in the rst instance.
http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/13109/ Applications
are invited for a Research Assistant/Research Asso-
ciate position in bacterial genomic epidemiology to start
from 1 May 2017 or as soon as possible after this date,
funded by the Medical Research Council through a Joint
Programming Initiative on Antimicrobial Resistance in-
ternational consortium project aiming to understand
the transmission of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) at
the genome, bacterium, national and international lev-
els. This research is highly topical and relevant to both
human and animal health. The work will be conducted
within a One Health framework, consistent with research
recommended by several international policy reviews,
including the Food and Agriculture Organization, the
World Organisation for Animal Health, and the World
Health Organization.
The focus of the research is on extended-spectrum
cephalosporin (ESC) resistance in Enterobacteriaceae,
comparing bacteria, host populations (humans and do-
mestic animals) and countries. Collaborators providing
data are from Canada, France and Germany. A suite
of quantitative approaches will be used, including epi-
demiological, phylodynamic and bioinformatics methods,analysing whole genome sequences. This post will be
based in Cambridge led by Dr Alison Mather and Pro-
fessor James Wood, with opportunities to visit the other
consortium partners.
Applicants will have a PhD (or have submitted a PhD)
in epidemiology, computational biology or a related
quantitative discipline, and experience working with
next generation sequencing data. Desirable skills will
be experience in mathematical modelling and program-
ming skills in Unix, python and R. The candidate must
value teamwork and collaboration, be able to work in-
dependently, and have excellent communication and
interpersonal skills.
Some of the main duties will include:
Selection of isolates for whole genome sequencing (WGS)
from bacterial collections held by collaborators
Epidemiological analysis of bacterial collections
Analysis of WGS data to assess transmission and evolu-
tion of bacteria and AMR
A full detailed description of the key responsibilities is
available in the further particulars le.
Where a PhD award is pending (e.g, the thesis has been
submitted but has not yet been examined), an appoint-
ment will be made as a Research Assistant and amended
to Research Associate when the PhD is awarded.
For informal enquires please contact: Natalie Wills
nw366@cam.ac.uk
To submit an application for this vacancy, please
visit the vacancy pages on the following website:
http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/ Further particulars for
the role and information about the Department
www.vet.cam.ac.uk . Fixed-term: The funds for this
post are available until 23 April 2020 in the rst in-
stance.
To apply online for this vacancy, please click on the
'Apply' button below. This will route you to the Uni-
versity's Web Recruitment System, where you will need
to register an account (if you have not already) and log
in before completing the online application form.
Please ensure that you upload your Curriculum Vitae
(CV) and a covering letter in the Upload section of the
online application. If you upload any additional docu-
ments which have not been requested, we will not be
able to consider these as part of your application
Closing date: 17 April 2017
Interviews will be held on 5 May 2017
Please quote reference PP11624 on your application and
in any correspondence about this vacancy.April 1, 2017 EvolDir 111
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
lucy.weinert@googlemail.com
UCambridge
EvolutionaryNeurobiology
Postdoc in brain evolution in butteries
We invite applications for postdoctoral Research Asso-
ciate position in the Department of Zoology in Central
Cambridge on Downing Street with Dr Stephen Mont-
gomery's research group. It is funded for up to 12 month
and should start on 1 June 2017 or as soon as possible
thereafter.
The PDRA will study the cellular basis of evolved dif-
ferences in mushroom body size across Heliconius but-
teries and their closest relatives. We have recently
conrmed previous reports that Heliconius have evolved
massively expanded mushroom bodies (see Montgomery
et al. 2016 J. Comp. Neurol. 524 (9):1747-1769; and
Merrill et al. 2015 J. Evol. Biol. 28(8): 1417-1438 for a
wider review of Heliconius behaviour), providing a novel
case study for investigating the causes and consequences
of volumetric expansion of 'higher order' brain regions.
We are interested in understanding the cellular basis
of mushroom body expansion by investigating how the
number of neurons and synaptic complexes co-evolve
with size, and by testing the hypothesis that mushroom
body expansion co-evolves with changes in input to the
mushroom bodies from other brain regions.
The successful applicant should have a Ph.D., completed
or completion imminent, in comparative neurobiology,
evolutionary biology cell/developmental biology or a re-
lated eld, and a strong interest in brain and behavioural
evolution. Candidates should have a good collaborative
spirit, and can expect a high degree of support and
assistance from the PI. Enthusiasm, determination and
the capacity to work independently are also essential.
Fixed-term: The funds for this post are available for up
to 12 months.
Further details about the post can be found
here: http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/13015/ Depart-
mental webpage: http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/directory/-
stephen-montgomery Personal webpage: http:/-/www.shmontgomery.co.uk Stephen Montgomery
<shm37@cam.ac.uk >
UCambridge FloralEvolution
Deadline: 26 March
A position is open for a NERC-funded postdoctoral re-
search associate based within the Department of Plant
Sciences at the University of Cambridge, and super-
vised by Professor Beverley Glover in collaboration with
Professor Allan Ellis (University of Stellenbosch).
The appointee will investigate the ecological, population
genetic and molecular developmental processes that gen-
erate and maintain oral variation and lead to incipient
speciation in the South African daisy Gorteria diusa.
In this project we aim to understand how morphological
variation within a species is produced genetically, how
variation is aected by natural selection resulting from
ecological context, and how such variation is maintained
when varieties meet. We are particularly focused on
the insect-mimicking spots found on the ray orets of
Gorteria diusa.
The primary objectives of this project are:
1. To describe the evolutionary patterns underpinning
morphologically distinct populations by character map-
ping oral traits and the genes underlying them onto
our established phylogeny of the system.
2. To determine the ecological causes of intraspecic
variation in targeted oral traits through eld studies in-
cluding reciprocal transplant experiments and analyses
of ecological context.
3. To determine the evolutionary processes maintaining
intraspecic oral variation by investigating barriers to
hybridization.
4. To determine the molecular developmental pathways
that allow oral variation to evolve, using comparative
transcriptomic approaches to identify genetic regulators
of petal spots.
We are looking for a highly motivated post-doctoral
scientist to work in this area. The successful candidate
must be able to demonstrate a strong background in the
evolution and development of owering plants, including
a PhD in a relevant area. Experience with molecular
genetic, systematic and developmental techniques will
be necessary, along with prior experience of ecological
techniques.112 EvolDir April 1, 2017
The appointee will be expected to carry out eld work
in South Africa over at least two austral springs. For
further information contact Professor Beverley Glover
(bjg26@cam.ac.uk).
For more information and to apply go to:
http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/jobs/pd11523
\bjg26@hermes.cam.ac.uk" <bjg26@hermes.cam.ac.uk >
UCLondon ExcellenceFellowships
UCL Excellence Fellowships Department of Genetics,
Evolution, and Environment University College London
UCL's Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment (GEE) is a world class department with a broad
research portfolio. We are currently recruiting promising
early-career researchers via UCL's Excellence Fellowship
programme. We aim to expand our current strengths by
encouraging applications from outstanding applicants
in the main research areas within the department:
- Comparative 'omics' and deep evolutionary analysis
(new Centre for Life's Origins and Evolution, contact
Prof. Max Telford, m.telford@ucl.ac.uk) - Research at
the interface between biodiversity and environmental
change (Centre for Biodiversity and Environmental Re-
search, contact Prof. Georgina Mace, g.mace@ucl.ac.uk)
- Statistical and computational biology (R.A. Fisher
Centre for Computational Biology, contact Prof. Ziheng
Yang, z.yang@ucl.ac.uk) - Genetics of health and dis-
ease (UCL Genetics Institute, contact Prof. Fran cois
Balloux, f.balloux@ucl.ac.uk) - Biology of ageing (Insti-
tute for Healthy Ageing, contact Prof. Linda Partridge,
l.partridge@ucl.ac.uk)
The UCL Excellence Fellowship scheme is run by the
School of Life and Medical Sciences and is open to the
full range of disciplines in basic and applied life sciences.
The fellowship oers salary and research funding, as well
as generous funding supplements for individuals trans-
ferring existing, externally funded fellowships to UCL.
Excellence Fellows who are not already holding awards
are expected to apply to externally funded schemes, in-
cluding ERC, Royal Society, NERC, BBSRC, and Well-
come Trust. This requires that Excellence Fellowship
applicants are eligible and competitive for these awards.
For more information on the Excellence scheme and
application process, see http://www.ucl.ac.uk/slms/-
research/excellence-fellowship/ Candidates are required
to identify a sponsor in GEE by contacting a relevant
member of sta. Please identify a sponsor and contactProf. Anjali Goswami (a.goswami@ucl.ac.uk) and Dr
Max Reuter (m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk), who are in charge of
fellowship support for GEE, to notify us of your interest
in applying by April 7, 2017. GEE runs a pre-selection
to identify candidates for departmental support. Prelim-
inary applications, including a one-page proposal, full
CV and the name of the sponsor, should be submitted
for internal review by April 25, 2017. Documents should
be sent to Prof. Anjali Goswami and Dr Max Reuter.
They can also provide assistance with identifying a po-
tential sponsor if contacted in advance of the deadline.
Based on the preliminary applications, a shortlist of
applicants will be selected for departmental support
and invited to submit a full application by the scheme
deadline of May 10, 2017.
The Department has had great success supporting fellow-
ship applicants from initial application to securing subse-
quent permanent employment within UCL. You can nd
more information about the department and its research
centres and institutes at http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee . A
note for non-UK applicants: Fellowships allow early-
and mid-career scientists to concentrate on their work
unhindered by teaching and administrative loads. They
are an integral part of the UK academic system and are
a typical route towards permanent academic positions.
Schemes covering salary and research expenses from a
range of funding agencies are open to non-UK appli-
cants. Please see http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/fellowships
for more details.
\Goswami, Anjali" <a.goswami@ucl.ac.uk >
UFlorida
HumanEvolGeneticsEpigenetcs
Post-doctoral position in Human Evolutionary Genetics
and Epigenetics, Laboratory of Connie Mulligan, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, University of Florida, Gainesville,
FL, USA
Post-doctoral position to work on two ongoing NSF
and internally funded projects: 1) Investigation of an
epigenetic mechanism to mediate the eects of mater-
nal stress on maternal and infant health in the Demo-
cratic Republic of Congo (DRC). We are testing for
associations between maternal stress exposures, new-
born health outcomes and changes in DNA methyla-
tion and gene expression in mothers and their infants.
More broadly, we are interested in the idea that mech-
anisms may have evolved to allow the genome to re-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 113
spond to psychosocial stressors, specically behavior
and complex phenotypes may be shaped by early life
experiences that alter gene expression through epige-
netic alterations. Samples and data have already been
collected and research is funded by a newly awarded
NSF grant. See http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/-
10.4161/epi.21180 and http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/-
doi/10.1111/cdev.12487/epdf .2) Investigation of ge-
netic, epigenetic, and biological signatures of war trauma
exposures and impact of a program intervention in Syr-
ian refugees. This is a collaboration with Catherine
Panter-Brick (Anthropology, Yale University) and Rana
Dajani (Hashemite University, Jordan) to integrate ge-
netic and epigenetic analyses into an ongoing study
to measure the health eects of a program interven-
tion to reduce psychosocial stress in Syrian refugees.
Genetic variants are assayed to predict the impact of
past stress exposures and the eects of the program
intervention on self-reported mental health. Epige-
netic variants will be tested as possible mediators of
the eect of stress on mental health outcomes. See
project website at http://www.elrha.org/map-location/-
yale-psychosocial-call2/. In addition, samples are cur-
rently being collected for an intergenerational study to
investigate the epigenetic impacts in ospring of war-
exposed mothers and grandmothers. The bigger ques-
tion is to determine if environmentally-induced methy-
lation changes are heritable across two generations in
humans.
Qualications: A PhD, good publication record, and
strong background in the generation of genetic data
(microarray, gene expression, NGS, SNP detection) and
data analysis (gene association analysis, regression anal-
ysis, genetic ancestry estimation, linkage analysis, etc)
are essential. A background in evolutionary genetics and
experience with methylation data (Illumina chips, py-
rosequencing, etc), RNA sequence/gene expression array
data and/or additional computational or bioinformat-
ics experience (e.g. computer programming, simulation
analysis, etc) is a plus. Candidates who speak French
or Swahili are encouraged to apply. In addition to the
projects listed above, there are excellent opportunities
for the successful candidate to develop new lines of re-
search as well as productive collaborations outside the
lab.
The University of Florida is a leading research institution
with a university-wide commitment to genetics research.
The Department of Anthropology (www.anthro.u.edu)
has 30 full-time faculty with diverse interests and is one
of the top rated programs in the country (6th among pub-
lic institutions, 11th overall). The University of Florida
Genetics Institute (www.ufgi.u.edu) is an inter-college
institute with a dedicated research building intended toenhance opportunities for collaboration. Gainesville is
located in north central Florida (away from the hurri-
canes!), with average temperatures ranging from 45F to
90F. Beaches on the gulf and Atlantic coast are ~1^A1
2
hours away.
To apply: via email, send a CV, statement of research
interests, and names and contact information for three
references. Applications and inquiries should be ad-
dressed to Connie Mulligan at cmulligan@u.edu.
Review of materials will begin March 31 and will con-
tinue until the position is lled. Start date is exible
and the successful candidate can begin as early as May,
2017. Salary is commensurate with experience. Position
may be extended for a total of three years. Informal
inquiries prior to submitting a formal application are
welcome. AA/EOE.
\Connie J. Mulligan" <cmulligan@ad.u.edu >
UHalle EvolutionaryBehaviour
Postdoctoral Research Scholar in Behaviour at Univer-
sity of Halle, Germany
An experienced research scientist/assistant/associate
professor with an emphasis on behaviour (e.g. be-
havioural ecology, sociobiology) is sought for a full-time
position to join the Paxton lab at the University of
Halle, Germany. Broad research themes of the group
are host-parasite interactions, pollination, conservation
biology and social evolution:
http://www.zoologie.uni-halle.de/allgemeine zoologie/-
research/ The group's taxonomic focus is on insects,
particularly bees, it draws heavily on molecular genetics,
and research infrastructure is excellent. We seek a
highly motivated individual with strong quantitative
skills who can work independently to develop a research
program complementary to one or more of the group's
themes and contribute to teaching behaviour at
undergraduate and postgraduate levels within general
zoology. Halle is a delightful, historic city of a quarter
million people with a large, research-intensive university
situated 260 km southwest of Berlin and 40 km from
Leipzig. You will be a member of a supportive and
dynamic group that interacts closely within and outside
the university, including with the UFZ-Helmholtz
Environmental Research Center at Halle-Leipzig:
http://www.ufz.de/ and with the recently estab-
lished DFG-funded biodiversity center iDIV: http://-114 EvolDir April 1, 2017
www.idiv.de/ a collaboration of the universities of Halle,
Leipzig and Jena.
Applicants must hold a university doctoral degree in
biology or a related discipline and address current topics
in behaviour (e.g. behavioural ecology, sociobiology).
Applicants should have a proven track record in pub-
lishing high quality scientic papers. Experience in
writing grant applications and past success in attracting
research funding is of advantage. The working language
of the group is English, though knowledge of German
is essential for teaching purposes. The position is xed
term, initially for 3 years, commencing 1 August 2017
or as soon as possible thereafter, with the possibility of
extension for a further 3 years. The salary is currently
at the German standard postdoctoral rate (TV-L 13,
100%). The University of Halle is an equal opportu-
nity employer. Further details of the position can be
obtained from Robert Paxton (email below), to whom
applications should be emailed as a single pdf le, to
include (i) a letter of motivation, (ii) cv, (iii) list of
publications, (iv) list of externally acquired funds, (v) a
single page on research achievements and future plans,
(vi) a single page on experiences and approaches to
teaching, and (vii) contact details of three referees, by
15 May 2017. Interviews are scheduled for the end of
June 2017.
Prof. Robert Paxton, General Zoology/Institute of Bi-
ology, Uni. Halle, Hoher Weg 8, D-06120 Halle/Saale,
Germany. Tel.: +49-345-5526500; Email: robert.paxton
[at] zoologie.uni-halle.de
Robert Paxton <robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de >
UIdaho BiomedicalModeling
The NIH-funded Center for Modeling Complex Inter-
actions (CMCI) at the University of Idaho (UI) is an
intellectual, cultural, and physical environment to foster
synergy in interdisciplinary biomedical research. The
focal point of CMCI is the Collaboratorium, a space and
a culture for collaborative modeling. It brings together
faculty and students from both the empirical and mod-
eling realms with postdoctoral scientists who reside in
the Collaboratorium and devote full-time eort to col-
laborative modeling. We currently have openings in the
Collaboratorium for two postdoctoral fellows interested
in biomedical modeling.
CMCI fellows are knowledgeable modelers who are cre-
ative, collaborative, and strong communicators. Theyengage in interdisciplinary research, working with both
experimentalists and other modelers, and take leader-
ship roles on research direction, manuscript preparation,
oering workshops to the UI research community, and
presenting research at national and international scien-
tic meetings.
CMCI interfaces with several strong research programs
at UI including bioinformatics, computational biology,
evolutionary biology, microbiome ecology, infectious dis-
ease, and movement science. Fellows will have opportu-
nities to collaborate across campus on these and other
areas of biomedical research.
For more information about CMCI, visit http://-
www.cmciuidaho.org/. To apply submit: 1) a letter
of application addressing the criteria outlined above; 2)
a CV; 3) contact information for three individuals who
can provide recommendations; and 4) PDFs of up to
three publications to cmci@uidaho.edu. Use COLLAB-
ORATIVE POSTDOC APPLICATION as the subject
line. Review of applications will begin in mid-March
and will continue until all positions are lled.
\mmattoon@uidaho.edu" <mmattoon@uidaho.edu >
UKansas DrosophilaComplexTraits
A postdoc position is available in my lab at KU to work
on any of a number of evolutionary genomics projects
that use ies to understand and dissect complex trait
variation. Projects emphasize the Drosophila Synthetic
Population Resource (DSPR) that my lab is developing.
The formal announcement, and links to the institutional
employment website are provided below. I'll be at the y
meeting in San Diego in a few days if anyone would like
to talk more about the position. Feel free to email me
with any questions. Stuart Macdonald (sjmac@ku.edu)
The Macdonald lab at the University of Kansas seeks a
postdoctoral researcher with interests in the genetics of
complex trait variation. The Macdonald group uses a
range of molecular, genetic, and genomic technologies
to dissect the genetic basis of complex phenotypic vari-
ation using Drosophila as a model system. We are also
leading the development of the Drosophila Synthetic
Population Resource (DSPR, FlyRILs.org) in collabora-
tion with Tony Long's group at UC Irvine. As part of
the DSPR project we are generating large sets of phe-
notyping data, and various large-scale, tissue-specic
RNAseq and ATACseq datasets. A principal goal is to
combine these data to dissect trait variation to the levelApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 115
of causative polymorphisms, and ultimately validate via
CRISPR/Cas9 editing. The breadth and depth of the
data we are collecting allows for a range of questions
to be addressed, allowing the successful candidate to
position themselves as an independent investigator. The
position is funded through a multi-year NIH grant and
has an anticipated start date of 1 July 2017 (although
this is negotiable).
Required qualications include a PhD in evolu-
tion/genetics/bioinformatics (or a related eld), and
a rst-author publication that shows your ability to
initiate and execute a research project. Prior experi-
ence with Drosophila, with big data analysis, and with
genome editing would all be useful, but are not required.
For a complete announcement and to apply online, go to
https://employment.ku.edu/sta/8359BR Please direct
any questions about the position to Stuart Macdonald
(sjmac@ku.edu).
A complete online application includes the following
materials: A CV, a cover letter outlining relevant ex-
perience, research interests and accomplishments, and
contact information (phone/email/address) for three
referees. Initial review of applications begins 1 May
2017 and will continue until the position is lled.
The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on
the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national
origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sex-
ual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender
identity, gender expression, genetic information and
retaliation in the University's programs and activities.
Access to information regarding equal opportunity
and diversity worksite posters is available at http:/-
/www.humanresources.ku.edu/policies procedures/-
category details/index.aspx?category=8 or you may
contact 785-864-4946 or employ@ku.edu for alternate
access options. Any inquiries regarding the non-
discrimination policies should be directed to: Executive
Director of the Oce of Institutional Opportunity and
Access, IOA@ku.edu, 1246 W. Campus Road, Room
153A, Lawrence, KS, 66045, (785)864-6414, 711 TTY.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Department of Molecular
Biosciences 4043 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
University of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
oce: 785-864-5362 lab: 785-864-5777 fax: 785-864-5321
email: sjmac@ku.edu web: FlyRILs.org
\sjmac@ku.edu" <sjmac@ku.edu >ULeiden AntibioticResistance
3-year Postdoc, Evolution of Antibiotic Resistance In-
stitute of Biology, Leiden University, The Netherlands
A 3-year Postdoc position is available in my lab at the
University of Leiden in The Netherlands. This JPI-AMR
(Joint Programming Initiative on Antimicrobial Resis-
tance) funded project will study the structure, causes
and consequences of collateral sensitivity (CS) networks
for antibiotic resistance in Streptococcus pneumoniae.
The project is part of an international collaboration
between experimentalists and theoreticians, with labs in
Norway (Pal Johnsen and Pia Abel zur Weisch), Sweden
(Dan Andersson) and Denmark (Niels Frimodt-Moller).
Collateral sensitivity between a pair of antibiotics occurs
when a mutation causing resistance to one antibiotic
increases susceptibility to another. Across multiple an-
tibiotics, CS networks dene how resistance mutations
for any given drug inuences the response of a bacte-
rial strain to exposure to a suite of alternative agents.
By understanding these responses at a phenotypic and
mechanistic level, CS networks can be used to make
rational and informed decisions about drug choice and
dosage that can suppress the emergence and spread of
de novo resistance, and also potentially arrest the trans-
mission of pre-existing resistance in clinical isolates.
The postdoc will identify CS networks for both chromo-
somal and horizontally acquired resistance for Strepto-
coccus pneumoniae, a gram-positive pathogen responsi-
ble for more than 1 million deaths in children annually,
and seek to answer the following questions: 1) Can the
spread of strains with pre-existing antibiotic resistance
be suppressed via CS-based therapy; 2) do CS networks
vary as a function of genetic background; 3) Is CS in
laboratory isolates informative of CS in clinical isolates;
and 4) What is the interplay between S. pneumoniae
transformation and CS?
Interested applicants should have experience in microbi-
ology, microbial evolution and molecular genetics and
a strong interest in antibiotic resistance. Bioinformat-
ics experience and design of methods and analysis for
high-throughput screening is also desirable.
Written applications, including a motivation letter, a
CV and the names of three references, will be reviewed
until the position is lled.
Informal enquiries can be addressed to: Daniel116 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Rozen, Tel: +31 (0)71 527 7990, Email:
d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nl
\Rozen, D.E." <d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nl >
ULeuven PDF0rPhD Bioinformatics
Postdoc or Ph.D bioinformatics: Single molecule se-
quencing
The Laboratory for Cytogenetics and Genome research
at the Center for Human Genetics is looking for a:
Postdoc or Ph.D bioinformatics: Single molecule se-
quencing
The Laboratory for Cytogenetics and Genome research
at the Center for Human Genetics develops tools for
genome analyses. Currently, we are implementing
PacBio single molecule sequencing for de novo genome
assemblies and we are exploring the use of PacBio se-
quencing for haplotyping.
Website unit <http://gbiomed.kuleuven.be/apps/cme/-
index.html?en >:
Project * Implementation and development of bioinfor-
matics tools to enable genome wide haplotyping from
single molecule sequencing data. * Combining short and
long read sequencing technologies to improve genome
wide de novo assemblies. * Involvement in targeted
haplotype reconstruction. * Participation in structural
variation detection. * Gene discovery based on struc-
tural variation analysis.
Prole * You have a masters/doctoral degree in bioinfor-
matics or biology but with strong bioinformatics skills.
* You have experience with massive parallel sequencing
data analysis and genomics. * You can work indepen-
dently. * You have a proven scientic track record and
have strong scientic interests.
Oer * A job of three (Postdoctoral researcher) or four
years (Ph.D researcher). * A position in an international
environment, a vibrant work atmosphere and in modern
facilities. The KU Leuven (University of Leuven) is
located in the city of Leuven, a historic, dynamic and
lively city located in the heart of Europe.
Interested? For more information please contact
Prof. dr. Joris Vermeesch, tel.: +3216345941, mail:
joris.vermeesch@kuleuven.be You can apply for this job
no later than April 16, 2017 via the
Online application tool: http://www.kuleuven.be/-eapplyingforjobs/light/54118024 Job descrip-
tion: http://gbiomed.kuleuven.be/apps/cme/job-
detail.html?job id=223 Gregory Maes, Ph.D.
University of Leuven (KU Leuven) Laboratory for
Cytogenetics and Genome Research Centre for Human
GeneticsjGenomics Core O&N I Herestraat 49 - box
602 UZ Leuven B-3000 Leuven Belgium Phone: +32
(0)16 37 25 22 E-mail: gregory.maes@kuleuven.be
Gregory Maes <gregory.maes@kuleuven.be >
UmeaU ProteinEvolution
There is a post doc position available in the lab of Vasili
Hauryliuk, MIMS Nordic EMBL, Umea University, Swe-
den:
http://www.ucmr.umu.se/images/postdoc2017/-
Hauryliuk.pdf http://www.mims.umu.se/groups/-
vasili-hauryliuk.html The project is on small alarmone
((p)ppGpp) syntetase enzymes in bacteria, and their
recently discovered regulation by RNA (Beljantseva
et al. PNAS, in press). These enzymes are important
for many aspects of bacterial physiology, and response
to stress including antibiotic challenges. The project
is open ended, and can be either wet lab based, or
computer based (including comparative genomics and
phylogenetics). Bioinformatic investigations would be
co-supervised by me (http://www.molbiol.umu.se/-
english/research/researchers/gemma-atkinson/).
Contact: vasili.hauryliuk@umu.se
Please spread the word!
Best wishes,
Gemma C. Atkinson
Umea Centre for Microbial Research (UCMR)
Department of Molecular Biology
Umea University, Sweden
Gemma Atkinson <gemma.atkinson@umu.se >
UMinnesota BiologyEducation
Postdoctoral Associate - University of MinnesotaApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 117
The Cotner lab seeks a post-doc for 1-2 years (or more,
pending funding). Duties include: ~ACollaborating with
Andamio Games (https://www.andamiogames.com/),
Biology Teaching and Learning (BTL), and Center for
Educational Innovation (CEI) faculty and sta at the
University of Minnesota; teaching in the non-majors
course series; and researching one or more of the fol-
lowing: STEM equity, STEM games in a k-12 setting,
and course-based undergraduate research experiences
for non-majors. The selected candidate will: serve as
the scientic consultant on a Phase II ~ASerious STEM
Games ~A project (NSF funded), to develop educational
games centered on metabolism; teach Biology 1003 in
Spring 2018 (department funded), and conduct Biology
Education Research aligned with personal and PI goals
(PI funded). ~A
Essential Qualications: PhD in the natural sciences;
documentation of evidence-based teaching; interest in
the above topics
Preferred Qualications: ~APeer-reviewed publications in
both the natural sciences and discipline-based education
research
I'd love this individual to start in May, but can be
exible. I'll begin reviewing applications ~AMarch 20.
Lab website: https://cbs.umn.edu/cotner-lab Job
posting: https://cbs.umn.edu/academics/departments/-
btl/hiring/cotner-postdoc-associate Applicants
can~Aapply ~Aby: 1) Visiting ~Ahttp://www1.umn.edu/-
ohr/employment/ 2) Clicking on the tab in the center
of the page that corresponds to their situation 3)
Searching Job ID# 316032
Cissy Ballen, PhD Postdoctoral Associate Dept. of Biol-
ogy Teaching and Learning College of Biological Sciences
University of Minnesota 3-154 Molecular & Cellular Bi-
ology 420 Washington Avenue SE Minneapolis, MN
55455 *P *607 279 2625 j*E* balle027@umn.edu
Cissy Ballen <balle027@umn.edu >
UNebraska PopulationBiology
UNebraska-Population Biology Post-doc
POPULATION BIOLOGY POSTDOCTORAL RE-
SEARCH FELLOWSHIP
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-LINCOLN is
seeking applications for a 2-year postdoctoral position
in the Population Biology Program of Excellence.The goal of the Population Biology-POE Postdoctoral
Fellowship is to stimulate synergistic interactions be-
tween faculty and postdoctoral scholars interested in
the broad area of Population Biology. We are seeking
applications from recent PhDs who show promise of con-
ducting cutting edge research related to, and expanding
upon, faculty research areas in the Ecology, Evolution
& Behavior (EEB) section in the School of Biological
Sciences (http://biosci.unl.edu/research-specializations).
The POE also seeks to identify potential postdoctoral
fellows who will enhance graduate education, serve as a
model for graduate students in career development, and
promote interactions among faculty at UNL. Qualied
candidates are required to submit a single, coherent
2-year research proposal to be completed under the
guidance of a faculty member in the Ecology, Evolution
& Behavior (EEB) section in the School of Biological
Sciences. The position does not include research funds
so the extent of contributions from the faculty sponsor
should be addressed in the proposal. While in residence,
the postdoctoral fellow will be expected to lead a sem-
inar, symposium or outreach project that will appeal
to Population Biologists across campus. Applications
must include a CV, a 1-page description of previous or
current research and a 2- 3 page description of proposed
research. Additional proposal guidelines and suggestions
should be obtained from the proposed faculty sponsor.
In addition, the applicant must arrange for two recom-
mendation letters from non-UNL faculty, and one from
the UNL faculty sponsor (a total of 3 letters) to be
emailed to the address below. The expected salary will
be $45,000 per year with a start date of August 1, 2017.
Priority will be given to applicants who have completed
their degree and are new to UNL. Research descriptions
for past and current POE postdoctoral fellows can be
viewed at http://biosci.unl.edu/population-biology/
Application materials should be emailed to: Dr. Jo-
hannes Knops at: jknops2@unl.edu. The subject line
should read \Population Biology Post-doc application".
Applications should be received by May 1, 2017. We
anticipate notifying the successful applicant by June
1, 2017, with a starting date of August 1 or later in
2017. We strongly encourage applications from women
and members of minority groups. The University of Ne-
braska is committed to a pluralistic campus community
through armative action, equal opportunity, work-life
balance, and dual careers. We assure responsible ac-
commodation under the Americans with Disabilities
Act.
Diana Pilson
Associate Dean for Academic Programs
College of Arts and Sciences118 EvolDir April 1, 2017
1223 Oldfather Hall
University of Nebraska
402-472-2891
School of Biological Sciences
408 Manter Hall
Manter Hall
402-472-2347
Diana Pilson <dpilson@unl.edu >
UOslo
DevelopmentalBiologyEvolution
Researcher in Developmental Biology and Evolution
A three year position as Researcher in Developmental
Biology and Evolution is available at CEES, Depart-
ment of Biosciences. The researcher will be part of the
MOLBAR project (The molecular basis of postzygotic
hybridization barriers in plants) lead by Professor Anne
Brysting and Professor Paul Grini, where the main goal
is to elucidate the molecular basis of postzygotic hy-
bridization barriers in plants. The candidate will work
in close collaboration with the PIs and the rest of the
international project team, which includes molecular-,
developmental- and evolutionary biologists, representing
a diverse array of expertise ranging from phenotypic
developmental analysis and the epigenetics of genomic
imprinting to molecular systematics and speciation the-
ory. The position will be aliated to the Centre for Eco-
logical and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES) and Section
for Genetics and Evolutionary Biology (EVOGENE) at
the Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo. The
appointment is for a period of three years. The Research
Council of Norway nances the project. The candidate
should be able to ll the position by the project start
01.08.2017 (given funding from the RCN).
Location The University of Oslo is Norway's oldest and
highest rated institution of research and education with
28 000 students and 7000 employees. Its broad range
of academic disciplines and internationally esteemed re-
search communities make UiO an important contributor
to society. The Centre for Ecological and Evolution-
ary Synthesis (CEES) is a Centre of Excellence (CoE)
based at the Department of Biosciences, University of
Oslo. CEES combines a broad spectrum of disciplines
(population biology, genomics, statistics, mathemati-
cal modelling) to foster the concept of ecology as adriving force of evolution via selective processes, with
a corresponding inuence of evolutionary changes on
ecology. CEES has over 160 members (Professors (20),
postdocs/researchers (45), PhDs (25), Master's students
(25) and technical and administrative sta) and many
guest researchers. The members represent 30 nation-
alities and constitute a vibrant and creative research
environment. CEES coordinate several international
networks. The budget = 150 million NOK (about 50
externally funded research projects). CEES is chaired
by Professor Nils Chr. Stenseth.
Project description The evolution of reproductive isola-
tion is a classic problem in evolutionary biology. Plant
species are typically isolated by dierent pre- and postzy-
gotic barriers in potentially complex interactions. Much
progress has been made in characterizing individual
components of reproductive isolation but still the evo-
lutionary forces responsible for development of postzy-
gotic barriers are virtually unknown. The aim of the
MOLBAR project is to elucidate the molecular and phe-
notypic basis of postzygotic hybridization barriers. Our
approach is unique as it integrates detailed observation
of embryo and endosperm development in hybrid seeds
with identication of genes and mechanisms responsible
for the barrier. To test our hypotheses, we will cross
species within two Brassicaceae genera (Arabidopsis
and Draba), look for similar patterns of aberrant seed
development and relate these to underlying imprinting
programs and gene networks. As part of the experimen-
tal setup, we will 1) characterize seed developmental
phenotypes of postzygotic barriers in crosses between dif-
ferent species, dierent ploidy levels and cryptic species;
2) characterize maternal and paternal expression pat-
terns in hybrid seeds using mRNA-seq; 3) determine
imprinting status of selected candidate genes; and 4)
integrate the results to improve our common knowledge
on one of the core issues in evolution - the underlying
causes of the evolution of reproduction barriers, and
thus speciation.
Requirements The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences has a strategic ambition of being a leading
research faculty. The candidates for research fellowships
will be selected in accordance with this, and expected
to be in the upper segment of their class with respect to
academic credentials. The main purpose of research fel-
lowships is to qualify researchers to work in top academic
positions within their disciplines. Applicants must hold
a PhD-degree in Biology (or other corresponding edu-
cation equivalent to a Norwegian doctoral degree) and
additionally have post-doctoral or researcher experience.
In particular, research experience in both molecular
plant developmental biology and plant evolution will
be preferred. The ideal candidate must have hands onApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 119
experience working with dierent species and ploidies
within the Draba or Arabidopsis genera, experimental
experience in genetic and phenotypic analyses of plant
reproduction, and experience with the analysis of ge-
nomic imprinting. We are seeking a highly motivated,
enthusiastic and hard-working
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOtago NZ
GenomicsParasiticMindControl
Postdoctoral Opportunity
Parasitic Puppeteers - How do They Pull the Strings?
We are currently seeking an outstanding postdoctoral
researcher with interests in genetics, evolution and par-
asitology to spearhead a new project to investigate the
molecular mechanisms through which parasitic worms
alter the behaviour of their insect hosts.
The position is funded by a grant from the Royal Society
Marsden Fund and is available with an immediate start
through to 29/2/2020.
Project Description: Parasites can have profound eects
on the animal hosts they invade, manipulating host bi-
ology with exquisite precision to enhance host-to-host
transmission. One of the most extraordinary of these
host manipulations is the water-seeking behaviour that
some nematodes and hairworms induce in their hosts
so that the worms might exit the host and reproduce.
The process is the stu of science ction; the worm
hijacks the host's central nervous system forcing it to
seek water. Once water is found the adult worm, often
many times the size of the host, emerges, sacricing the
host. This amazing alteration in behaviour is induced by
parasitic worms spanning two phyla (Nematoda and Ne-
matomorpha) and is observed in a variety of arthropod
hosts, notably crickets, weta, earwigs, and sandhoppers,
leading us to hypothesise that a common and conserved
mechanism is being utilised by the parasites to induce
this behaviour in their hosts. Here we propose to couple
eld and laboratory studies of two phylogenetically dis-
tinct hosts and their parasites, with powerful genomic
and bioinformatic comparisons to elucidate the trig-
ger and genetic cascade through which these parasiticpuppeteers elicit this highly conserved, yet astonishing
behavioural response.
The project emerges from a new Marsden Grant headed
by Professor Neil Gemmell (Anatomy) in collaboration
with Professor Robert Poulin (Zoology) and will be
based in the Gemmell laboratory at the University of
Otago.
The Ideal Candidate: will possess experience in molecu-
lar genetics/genomics, evolutionary biology and bioin-
formatics. Knowledge of NGS approaches and analyses
is essential, while past work in comparative genomics
and an interest in parasitology and neurobiology may be
helpful. The successful candidate will be motivated and
organised, with a demonstrated capacity to master the
broad skill set necessary for the successful completion
of a research project. They will be collegial and able
to work alongside a wide variety of people. In addi-
tion they will have a strong commitment to research
excellence with a track record of high research produc-
tivity based on international, peer-reviewed publications
commensurate for their career stage.
How to Apply: Interested applicants are encouraged
to make informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae, a sample of your
best scientic work and the names of three referees with
a covering letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
Formal Applications must be made at: https://-
otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=-
en&job=1700616 Salary Level and Range: Postdoctoral
Fellow (NZ $74,896)
Reference Number: 1700616
Closing Date: 21 April 2017
Neil Gemmell <neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz >
UQueensland QueenslandUTech
MarsupialEvol
The Weisbecker lab at the University of Queensland
and the Phillips lab at the Queensland University of
Technology are looking for a postdoctoral researcher
to support the Australian Research Council Discovery
Grant \A new molecular/morphological view of animal
evolution based on marsupials". The primary purpose
of this work is to develop novel methods for integrating120 EvolDir April 1, 2017
molecular/phylogenetic and shape data, to rene our
understanding of marsupial evolution and uncover mech-
anisms underpinning biodiversity variation in animals.
Applicants should possess qualications in either evo-
lution, genetics, bioinformatics or an equivalent com-
bination of qualications and experience in a similar
eld. They should have a proven research track record
in computational phylogenetics and/or inference of mor-
phological evolution (particulary in the eld of 3D geo-
metric morphometrics) in an animal clade, with demon-
strated experience with computation in either R or
BEAST/MrBayes. Applicants should also have well-
developed written and oral communication skills and a
demonstrated track record in publishing presenting at
conferences.
For the full advert and to apply, please use the follow-
ing link: http://jobs.uq.edu.au/caw/en/job/500211/-
postdoctoral-research-fellow . For further information,
contact Vera Weisbecker (v.weisbecker@uq.edu.au)
Dr Vera Weisbecker Lecturer University of Queensland
School of Biological Sciences Goddard Building 8 St.
Lucia 4072 Australia Ph.: +61 7 336 57071 UQ ALLY ::
Supporting the diversity of sexuality and gender identity
at UQ.
www.weisbeckerlab.com.au
USheeld Speciation
The Post-doctoral Research Associate will work with
Professor Roger Butlin and Dr Anja Westram to advance
a NERC-funded project on the routes to speciation in
the coastal gastropod, Littorina saxatilis. The project
is focused on the roles of divergent selection and in-
compatibility in speciation and requires a mix of skills
including molecular ecology laboratory techniques, anal-
ysis of next generation sequence and genotype data,
phenotypic (including behavioural) observations and
eld sampling with the help of collaborators. You will
be expected to have a strong commitment to research in
evolutionary genetics and a special interest in processes
of speciation.
You should hold a PhD (or equivalent experience) in
evolutionary genetics and have experience of research
in evolutionary genetics. Experience in the handling
of sequence and/ or expression data and experience of
constructing bioinformatics pipelines is desirable.
The position is available from 1 May 2017, or as soonas possible thereafter, until 30 September 2019
For further details, and to apply, go to www.shef.ac.uk/-
jobs - position reference UOS015526, closing date 30
March 2017
For more information, email r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk or
a.westram@shef.ac.uk
{ Roger K Butlin
Professor of Evolutionary Biology Guest Professor Ani-
mal and Plant Sciences Centre for Marine Evolutionary
Biology The University of Sheeld Department of Ma-
rine Sciences Western Bank University of Gothenburg
Sheeld S10 2TN Gothenburg UK Sweden
r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
+44(0)114 2220097
Roger Butlin <r.k.butlin@sheeld.ac.uk >
USussex PopGenomics
Postdoctoral position in population genomics of balanc-
ing selection
University of Sussex EBE group, School of Life Sciences
Falmer, Brighton, UK
Full time, Fixed term for up to 3.5 years Closing date
for applications: 10 April 2017
Description The Fraser lab is looking for a postdoc with
experience in population genomic analysis to work on a
project investigating balancing selection in the Trinida-
dian guppy. Accounting for high genetic diversity in
ecologically-important traits is a fundamental problem
in evolutionary biology. Recent work implicates an ad-
vantage to rare types as a critical factor maintaining
variation in the Trinidadian guppy, but we have little un-
derstanding of how this process actually unfolds in the
wild. Using natural populations, laboratory lines, and
closely related species, we will use whole-genome DNA
sequencing to identify genes that show signatures of bal-
ancing selection and are linked to highly polymorphic
traits.
The main duties of the postdoctoral researcher will be
processing and analyzing next generation sequence data,
including quality control, mapping reads, calling SNPs,
and population genetic analysis. There will be some
molecular lab work (constructing genomic libraries) and
potentially eld work in Trinidad. The ideal candidate
should have experience working with genomic data andApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 121
population genetics, and have enthusiasm for evolution-
ary based questions.
The post is part of a larger funded NERC-NSF grant on
Ecological Genomics of Adaptive Polymorphisms led by
Bonnie Fraser, Kim Hughes (Florida State University),
David Houle (Florida State University), Helen Rodd
(University of Toronto), and Deborah Charlesworth
(University of Edinburgh).
The School of Life Sciences at Sussex is at the fore-
front of research in the biological sciences in the UK,
coming in the top 10 in the REF 2014.The School is com-
mitted to equality and valuing diversity, and currently
holds an Athena SWAN Silver Award. Applications
are particularly welcomed from women and black and
minority ethnic candidates, who are under-represented
in academic posts in science and engineering at Sussex.
The School of Life Sciences welcomes applications to
academic posts from candidates who wish to work part-
time or as job-sharers. The University oers various
schemes <http://www.sussex.ac.uk/humanresources/-
personnel/familyfriendlypolicies >to provide real bene-
ts to parents.
The University of Sussex is located just outside the city
of Brighton and approximately 20 minutes to Gatwick
Airport and a one hour commute to London (by train).
Brighton is a lively and diverse city known for its fa-
mous seafront and is closely located to the South Downs
National Park and stunning white chalk clis of the
south coast.
Further information on research in the Fraser
lab can be found here: http://www.sussex.ac.uk/-
lifesci/fraserlab/index Further information on the
research in the EBE group at Sussex can be
found here: http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/ebe/-
research To apply, please follow the instruc-
tions found: http://www.sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs/-
postdoctoral-researcher-1811 .Informal inquires can be
made to Bonnie Fraser b.fraser@sussex.ac.uk.
Bonnie Fraser <B.Fraser@sussex.ac.uk >
UTennessee Knoxville Phylogenetics
I am currently seeking two postdocs for NSF-funded
work in my lab. One will work on developing and de-
ploying new methods to compute and distribute chrono-
grams, and the other will work on approximate Bayesian
computation methods for comparative methods of uni-variate and multivariate traits. My lab is based in
Knoxville, TN, an area rich in natural beauty, compu-
tational resources, and aordability. However, working
remotely is possible for candidates with the demon-
strated ability to do so successfully. Out of 12 postdocs
I have mentored directly through my lab or as one of
their National Institute for Mathematical and Biological
Synthesis (NIMBioS) mentors, seven have chosen to go
onto tenure track faculty positions, two are working
in health research positions, and three are currently
postdocs. I strive to create a welcoming and diverse
environment. Research in the lab ranges from empir-
ical work on plant diversication to quantitative trait
evolution models to models of protein evolution. For
more information on the positions, please go to http://-
brianomeara.info/lab/postdoc/ .
Applications should be emailed to bomeara@utk.edu
and should include 1) A cover letter (include expected
completion date of PhD, if appropriate, as well as rel-
evant skills) 2) A CV 3) A short research statement
4) Contact information for two references 5) Link(s) to
repositories with examples of code you have written or
attachments including such code.
Please feel free to contact me with questions before
formally applying.
More information about the research:
The DateLife project is to allow easier communication
and creation of chronograms. It has an R package and
website so far (both alpha-quality at the moment). The
comparative method project extends TreEvo, an approx-
imate Bayesian computation method for trait evolution.
http://brianomeara.info/lab/postdoc/ has links to the
relevant grants and software for both.
Experience in programming is strongly preferred; ex-
perience in R is desired, but not required. If in doubt,
apply: please do not self-select yourself out from what
might be a mutually benecial position.
Review of applications will continue until lled (start
dates are exible). Presubmission inquiries are encour-
aged.
All qualied applicants will receive equal consideration
for employment and admissions without regard to race,
color, national origin, religion, sex, pregnancy, marital
status, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, physical
or mental disability, or covered veteran status.
Eligibility and other terms and conditions of employ-
ment benets at The University of Tennessee are gov-
erned by laws and regulations of the State of Tennessee,
and this non-discrimination statement is intended to be
consistent with those laws and regulations.122 EvolDir April 1, 2017
In accordance with the requirements of Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990, The University of Tennessee armatively states
that it does not discriminate on the basis of race, sex, or
disability in its education programs and activities, and
this policy extends to employment by the University.
Inquiries and charges of violation of Title VI (race, color,
national origin), Title IX (sex), Section 504 (disability),
ADA (disability), Age Discrimination in Employment
Act (age), sexualorientation, or veteran status should
be directed to the Oce of Equity and Diversity (OED),
1840 Melrose Avenue, Knoxville, TN 37996-3560, tele-
phone (865) 974-2498 (V/TTY available) or 974-2440.
Requests for accommodation of a disability should be
directed to the ADA Coordinator at the Oce of Equity
and Diversity.
Brian O'Meara, http://www.brianomeara.info Asso-
ciate Professor, Dept. of Ecology & Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, UT Knoxville Associate Head, Dept. of Ecology
& Evolutionary Biology, UT Knoxville Associate Direc-
tor for Postdoctoral Activities, National Institute for
Mathematical & Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS) Com-
munication Director, Society of Systematic Biologists
omeara.brian@gmail.com
UValencia Spain
VirusSocialEvolution
Two 2-3 year postdoc contracts are available at the
laboratory of Rafael Sanju an (University of Valencia,
Spain).
Starting date: exible (mid 2017 to early 2018).
Place: recently created Institute for Integrative Systems
Biology (I2SysBio), Valencia, Spain.
Project title: Collective Infectious Units and the Social
Evolution of Viruses.
Funding: ERC Consolidator Grant, 2017-2022.
Goal: understand how multi-virion infectious units de-
termine social-like interactions in viruses (cooperation
versus conict). We will use vesicular stomatitis virus
and/or enteroviruses and/or baculoviruses as model sys-
tems.
Candidates should have a background in virology andmolecular/cell biology.
ERC project summary:
A widely accepted view in virology is that virions func-
tion as independent infectious units. However, recent
work by us and others indicates that viruses are often
transmitted as more complex structures, such as virion
aggregates, lipid vesicles or protein matrices harbour-
ing multiple infectious particles. This demonstrates
that viruses can be transmitted as \collective infectious
units", in contrast with the current paradigm. Criti-
cally, these recent discoveries now set the stage for the
evolution of social interactions, a previously unappre-
ciated facet of viruses. We propose to investigate how
collective infectious units drive virus social evolution
using state-of-the-art tools from the elds of virology,
genetics, structural biology, and nanotechnology. The
eects of collective infectivity on viral tness will be
tested directly using experimental evolution and genetic
engineering, and conrmed in vivo. Three widely dier-
ent viruses will be used to achieve generality: human
enteroviruses, a vector-borne rhabdovirus, and a bac-
ulovirus. Furthermore, the implications of virus social
interactions for the maintenance of genetic diversity,
evolvability, virulence evolution, and the emergence of
drug resistance will be investigated. New processes such
as the putative extracellular fusion of viral particles will
be also explored. We expect that infectious units consti-
tuted by viruses from dierent species will be uncovered
as well, with far-reaching implications for epidemiology.
It is becoming increasingly recognized that parasite so-
ciality is a disease determinant, and our results may
therefore inspire new antiviral strategies. Beyond their
practical importance viruses will also provide a simple
and tractable system that will help us to establish more
general principles of social evolution.
Relevant literature: Sanju an R. 2017. Collective In-
fectious Units in Viruses. Trends Microbiol., in press.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28262512 Con-
tact: rafael.sanjuan@uv.es; +34 96 354 32 70.
Rafael Sanjuan <rafael.sanjuan@uv.es >
UVermont
EvolutionaryEcologicalGenomics
Postdoctoral Position: Genomics of Adaptation in Cope-
pods
The Pespeni Lab in the Department of Biology at theApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 123
University of Vermont is looking to hire a postdoctoral
fellow in evolutionary and ecological genomics using
copepods in the genus Acartia as a model. The success-
ful candidate will join an NSF-funded collaborative team
focused on revealing potential genetic and epigenetic
mechanisms of adaptation to elevated temperature and
CO2 in a warm-adapted and a cold-adapted copepod
species. Full-factorial multi-generation selection exper-
iments are running in the lab of PI Hans Dam, with
Co-PIs Hannes Baumann and Michael Finiguerra, at
the University of Connecticut. PI Pespeni and Co-PIs
are looking for applicants with expertise and interest in
genomics and evolutionary biology to participate in this
exciting research.
Required qualications: Ph.D. by the time of start date
in one of the following elds: evolutionary biology, ge-
nomics, population genetics, zooplankton ecology, and
marine biology. Excellent communication and organiza-
tional skills.
Preferred qualications: - Experience generating, ana-
lyzing, and/or integrating large datasets ^ a euro \ whole
genome sequencing, transcriptome sequencing, bisulte
sequencing (or similar). - Experience with selection
experiments. - Strong quantitative, statistical, and com-
putational skills. Fluency in Python or Perl, and R. -
Strong written and oral communication skills.
Ideal applicants will be creative, highly motivated, and
enthusiastic! They will be able to work independentlyand as part of a collaborative team. The fellow can
expect to be a part of a supportive research environ-
ment, have the opportunity to mentor students, and
work closely with the PI.
Initial appointment will be for one year, with the pos-
sibility of extension for one or two additional years,
contingent on performance and funding. The salary
will be commensurate with experience. Start date is
preferably June 2017, but exible.
To apply, e-mail a single PDF including a cover let-
ter, a CV, and the names and contact information of
three references to Dr. Pespeni (mpespeni@uvm.edu),
with the subject line as "Postdoctoral application <your
name>\. Review of applications will begin in the be-
ginning of April and continue until a suitable candidate
is identied. Informal inquiries prior to application are
welcome.
Burlington is a hip, little city surrounded by the lakes
and mountains of northern Vermont. The area thrives
on local food, international culture, and outdoor activi-
ties year-round.
{ Melissa Pespeni, Ph.D. Assistant Professor University
of Vermont Department of Biology Marsh Life Sciences,
Rm 326A 109 Carrigan Drive Burlington, Vermont 05405
802-656-0628 <(802)%20656-0628 >
Lab website: *http://blog.uvm.edu/mpespeni/* "mpe-
speni@uvm.edu\ <mpespeni@uvm.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Arolla Switzerland EvoDevo Jul18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
Berlin AdvancedPython Nov13-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Berlin DataAnalysisInHighThroughputBiology May29-
Jun2 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Berlin EvolutionInCognition Jul15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Berlin GenomicDatavizWithR Sep11-15 . . . . . . . . . . 128
Berlin Metabarcoding Apr3-7 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129Berlin PythonForBiologists Oct2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Boston PlantStructureFunction Jul30-Aug12 . . . . . 131
Canada ColdSpringHarb Bioinformatics Summer2017
132
CatalinaIsland GenomicsWorkshops Aug11-23 . . . . 133
HinxtonUK GeneticAnalysis Jul19-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
Leipzig ModellingBiodiversity Sep3-15 . . . . . . . . . . . .134124 EvolDir April 1, 2017
MichiganStateU EvolutionaryModeling Jul23-28 . .134
Naples BringingMathsToLife Jun7-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .134
NewOrleans ArbovirusEvolution May30-31 . . . . . . . 135
OregonStateU Macroevolution June22-23 . . . . . . . . .136
Portugal 3 cE3c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .136
Rosco EcolEvolutionaryGenomics Jun5-16 . . . . . . 137
Seattle StatisticalGenetics Jul10-28 AFewScholarship-
sRemain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
Siegen Germany FishSim AnimationToolchain Oct20-22
139
SwissAlps Sexual Selection Aug28-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140
Toulouse EvolutionEconomics Jun1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . .140UK GeneticDataAnalysisUsingR ThibautJombart
Oct23-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .141
UK MetaAnalysisInEcologyAndEvolution Jul24-28 142
ULeicester 2 DNAseqRNAseqAnalysis May . . . . . . .143
ULeicester 2 NGSanalysis May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
UPadova ProteinInteractions Apr10-13 . . . . . . . . . . . 143
Wales ModellingUsingR Apr24-28 PartialScholarships
144
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution Jul20-30 . . . . . . . . . 145
Zurich PolygenicAdaptationCourse Aug28-Sep1 . . 146
Arolla Switzerland EvoDevo
Jul18-21
\Early-environment eects: Towards integrating theoret-
ical and empirical approaches"
Workshop, 18-21 July 2017, Arolla, Switzerland
Organizer: Barbara Taborsky
A workshop of the CUSO 'Doctoral Program in Ecology
and Evolution' (DPEE)
There is ample evidence that the environment organisms
experience during early development can shape their
phenotype for lifetime, and that these early environment
eects can even be transmitted across generations. In
the past two decades the eld of early environment ef-
fects was dominated by empirical research. Recently an
exciting body of theoretical work has started to emerge
modelling how direct environmental, epigenetic and ge-
netic information shapes the phenotypes of developing
organisms. Although, opposite to other areas in biology,
this novel theory is developed in close exchange with
empiricists, phenotypic development is still modelled at
a high level of abstraction ignoring the architecture of
the physical substrate of development. This workshop
shall focus on eects of early experience on phenotypic
development in general, and the development of an-
imal behaviour in particular. It will bring together
researchers of function and mechanisms of early environ-
ment eects with theoreticians modelling these eects.
Invited speakers will give lectures about their eld of
expertise (behavioural ecology, cognition, psychology,
theory and molecular brain mechanisms) followed by
joint discussions with the participants in small working
groups. Questions discussed will involve, among others,
which kind of theory is required to aid the conceptualdevelopment of future empirical research and, in turn,
which kind of data are needed to enhance the develop-
ment of more predictive theory. Further we will ask how
to integrate molecular, neurological and psychological
mechanisms in theoretical models. A nal discussion will
collect the ideas of all participants on these questions.
Invited Speakers
- Victoria Braithwaite, Penn State University, USA
- Sinead English, University of Cambridge, UK
- Tim Fawcett, University of Exeter, UK
- Bram Kuijper, University of Exeter, UK
- Olof Leimar, University of Stockholm, SE
- Suvi Ruuskanen, University of Turku, FIN
- Carmen Sandi, ~Acole Polytechnique Federale Lausanne
(EPFL), CH
The workshop takes place at the Grand-H0tel 'Kurhaus'
in a breathtaking scenery amidst some of the nest
mountain peaks of Switzerland. The venue is situated
above the picturesque mountain village of Arolla, at
2100 m sea level in the very heart of the Swiss high alps.
We can host about 40 participants (including invited
speakers).
For more details on the program, the location,
and attendance see http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/-
index.php?pp=56&p=196 For further information
please contact barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch
\barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch"
<barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 125
Berlin AdvancedPython Nov13-17
Advanced Python for biologists
13-17 November 2017, Berlin (Germany)
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course12/
Instructor: Dr. Martin Jones (founder, Python for
Biologists)
http://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t1/ Reg-
istration deadline: 20th October 2017
Overview
Python is a dynamic, readable language that is a popu-
lar platform for all types of bioinformatics work, from
simple one-o scripts to large, complex software projects.
This workshop is aimed at people who already have a
basic knowledge of Python and are interested in using
the language to tackle larger problems. In it, we will
look in detail at the parts of the language which are
particularly useful in scientic programming, and at the
tools Python oers for making development faster and
easier. The workshop will use examples and exercises
drawn from various aspects of bioinformatics work. Af-
ter completing the workshop, students should be in a
position to (1) take advantage of the advanced language
features in their own programs and (2) use appropriate
tools when developing software programs.
Who should attend
This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical
workers with a background in biology and a basic knowl-
edge of Python. The Advanced course is aimed at people
who want to develop bigger or more complicated pro-
grams in Python, or to learn more about the language,
or to explore dierent approaches (object-oriented, func-
tional) to programming. The material covered is very
general purpose and can be applied to any kind of prob-
lem.
Requirements
Students should have enough biological/bioinformatics
background to appreciate the examples and exercise
problems (i.e. they should know what a protein ac-
cession number, BLAST report, and FASTA sequence
is). They should also have basic Python experience
(the Introduction to Python for Biologists course will
full these requirements). Students should be familiar
with the use of lists, loops, functions and conditions in
Python and have written at least a few small programsfrom scratch.
Session content
Monday 13th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 1: Data structures in Python
In this session we will briey recap Python's basic data
structures, before looking at a couple of new data types
tuples and sets and discussing where each should be
used. We will then see how we can combine these basic
types to make more complex data structures for solving
specic problems. We'll nish our discussion by looking
at specialized data types that are found in the Python
core library. This session will also be our rst intro-
duction to benchmarking as we talk about the relative
performance of dierent data types. In the practical
session we'll learn how to parse an input le into a com-
plex data structure which we can then use to rapidly
query the data. Core concepts introduced: tuples, sets,
higher-order data structures, default dicts, Counters,
big-O notation.
Session 2: Recursion and trees
In this session we will cover two very closely related
concepts: trees (i.e. the various ways that we can store
hierarchical data) and recursive functions (the best way
to operate on treelike data). As recursion is inherently
confusing, we'll start with a gentle introduction using
biological examples before moving on to consider a num-
ber of core tree algorithms concerning parents, children,
and common ancestors. In the practical session we'll
look in detail at one particular way of identifying the
last common ancestor of a group of nodes, which will
give us an opportunity to explore the role of recursion.
Core concepts introduced: nested lists, storing hierar-
chical data, recursive functions, relationship between
recursion and iteration.
Tuesday 14th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 3: Classes and objects
In this session we will introduce the core concepts of
object-oriented programming, and see how the data
types that we use all the time in Python are actually
examples of classes. We'll take a very simple example
and use it to examine how we can construct our own
classes, moving from an imperative style of program-
ming to an object-oriented style. As we do so, we'll
discuss where and when object-orientation is a good
idea. In the practical we will practise writing classes to
solve simple biological problems and familiarize ourselves
with the division of code into library and client that
object-oriented programming demands. Core concepts
introduced: classes, instances, methods vs. functions,
self, constructors, magic methods.126 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Session 4: Object-oriented programming
Following on from the previous session, we will go over
some advanced ideas that are common to most object-
oriented programming languages. For each idea we'll
discuss the basic concept, the scenarios in which it's
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin DataAnalysisInHighThrough-
putBiology May29-Jun2
2
Dear all,
We have still a few places available for the \Data anal-
ysis in high throughput biology https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses/course3/ " workshop, which will
run from the 29th of May to the 2nd of June 2017 in
Berlin, Germany (https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses/course3/).
Registration deadline: April 24th, 2017
Instructor: Dr. January Weiner (Max Planck In-
stitute for Infection Biology; https://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t14/).
Course overview
High throughput (HT) techniques such as transcrip-
tomics or metabolomics are of great signicance in many
areas of biology. With the standard techniques becoming
more aordable and new techniques being introduced
all the time, the amount of data sets generated is stag-
gering. However, statistical and computational analysis
of HT data sets present many challenges. In this course,
the students will gain the ability to independently pro-
cess and analyse HT data sets, select the appropriate
tools, functionally interpret the results as well as learn
the paradigms of computational biology and statistics
which will allow them to eciently communicate with
computational biologists.
Intended audience
In general, the course is aimed at biologists who would
like to take their data analysis in their own hands. While
an aptitude for computational work is necessary, the
main goal of the course is the application of biologicaland statistical knowledge to HT sets with as little eort
as necessary.
* basic computer skills (a rudimentary knowledge of pro-
gramming principles in any language is recommended,
but not mandatory) * basic understanding of statis-
tics * basic understanding of molecular techniques for
generating high throughput data
The students should be comfortable with using a com-
puter and have at least a rudimentary understanding of
computer programming. However, no specic skills are
necessary; the students will learn basic R programming
in this course.
Basic skills in statistics are necessary. The students
should understand the concepts of statistical hypothesis
testing and p-values. However, an in-depth introduction
to these concepts will also be provided.
Target student skills
* overview of commonly used high-throughput data types
* techniques for data clean-up and preparation for anal-
ysis * understanding of computational problems associ-
ated with high- throughput data analysis * statistical
problems and solutions in analysis of HT data * practical
skills in analysis methods of HT data: * basic dierential
analysis (limma, DESeq, alternative and non- paramet-
ric techniques) * set enrichment techniques (GSEA, gene
ontologies, metabolic proling and more) * multivariate
approaches to data analysis (PCA / ICA, PLS, multiple
correspondance analysis) * basic approaches in machine
learning: cross * Communication skills in statistics and
computational biology
After the course, the student should be able to pre-
pare, analyse and interpret a HT data set, including
multivariate and machine learning techniques.
Teaching format
On each day, the course will consist of four parts:
* Lecture: theoretical introduction to the days focus *
Hands-on guide: guided practical session in R where
students replicate the analysis performed by the teacher.
While the lecture is general, here specic R techniques
and R packages are introduced * Guided self-study: stu-
dents are given excercises and problems to solve and
work on them individually under the guidance of the
teacher * Individual project work: each student will
receive a transcriptomic (RNASeq or microarray) data
set to analyse throughout the course * Lecture: wrap-
up and side notes; preparation for the following day *
Venue
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)
Berlin-Dahlem/Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 BerlinApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 127
Course plan
* Day 1: Introduction to statistical reasoning and R o
Lecture: \Statistics gone wrong: basics of statistical
problems in HT applications" o Hands-on guide: work-
ing with R: rst steps o Guided self-study: using R for
data loading and basic statistical calculations o Individ-
ual project work: loading data for the individual project
o Lecture: \On the importance of lab books - documen-
tation and organization in computational projects"
* Day 2: Data preparation and basic dierential analyses
o Lectures: + \Steps in HT data analysis and overview
of HT techniques" + \Dierential analysis in transcrip-
tomics" o Hands-on guide: documentation with knitr,
data pre-processing, QC o Guided self-study: creating
self-documenting R code; basic steps in transcriptomic
analyses o Individual project work: basic analysis of the
individual data sets
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin EvolutionInCognition
Jul15-19
Second call for contribution for the Evolution in Cogni-
tion Workshop, deadline in one week.
2nd Evolution in Cognition Workshop to be held as part
of the
2017 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference
(GECCO-2017) July 15-19, Berlin, Germany
Organized by ACM SIGEVO http://gecco-
2017.sigevo.org Webpage: https://sites.google.com/-
champlain.edu/eic2017/ Submission Deadline: March
31st, 2017
=== Topic =Evolution by natural selection has shaped
life over billions of years leading to the emergence of com-
plex organism capable of exceptional cognitive abilities.
These natural evolutionary processes have inspired the
development of Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs), which
are optimization algorithms widely popular due to their
eciency and robustness. Beyond their ability to opti-
mize, EAs have also proven to be creative and ecient
at generating innovative solutions to novel problems.The combination of these two abilities makes them a
tool of choice for the resolution of complex problems.
There is evidence that the principle of selection on vari-
ation is at play in the human brain, as proposed in
Changeux's and Edelman's models of Neuronal Darwin-
ism, and more recently properly reformulated in the
theory of the Neuronal Replicators. Consequently, the
idea of an interaction between evolutionary processes
and cognition over physiological time scales has been
gaining some traction. Since the development of hu-
man cognition requires years of maturation, it can be
expected that articial cognitive agents will also require
months if not years of learning and adaptation. It is in
this context that the optimizing and creative abilities of
EAs could become an ideal framework that complement,
aid in understanding, and facilitate the implementation
of cognitive processes. Additionally, a better under-
standing of how evolution can be implemented as part
of an articial cognitive architecture can lead to new
insights into cognition in humans and other animals.
The goals of the workshop are to depict the current
state of the art of evolution in cognition and to sketch
the main challenges and future directions. In particular,
we aim at bringing together the dierent theoretical and
empirical approaches that can potentially contribute
to the understanding of how evolution and cognition
can act together in an algorithmic way in order to solve
complex problems. In this workshop we welcome ap-
proaches that contribute to an improved understanding
of evolution in cognition using robotic agents, in silico
computation as well as mathematical models.
Keywords: Evolutionary Computation, Evolution, Cog-
nition, Darwinian Neurodynamics, Neuronal Darwis-
nism, robotics.
=== Invited speakers =Prof. Eors Szathmary Addi-
tional invited speakers will be announced in the near
future.
=== Organizers =Prof. Stephane Doncieux, University
Pierre and Marie Curie, France Dr. Joshua Auerbach,
Champlain College Prof. Richard Duro, Universidade
da Coruna, Spain Dr. Harold P. de Vladar, iASK -
Institute of Advanced Studies K ~A'szeg, Hungary
=== Submissions and deadlines ^Asubmissions: Orig-
inal: experimental work, position papers as well as
overviews of author's recent work are all welcome. These
submissions will be included in the proceedings and be
presented during the workshop Abstracts submitted as
poster to GECCO 2017: the authors of selected ab-
stracts will be given a talk. The abstract won't be
included in the proceedings. Hot-of-the-press: authors
can submit a recently published work. Selected articles128 EvolDir April 1, 2017
will be given a talk.
Submission: extended abstracts (2-4 pages) and long
papers (8 pages) are accepted. They should follow ACM
template and should be sent in electronic form (pdf) to
eicws@isir.upmc.fr:
March, 31st, 2017: Papers Submission Deadline April,
14th, 2017: Notication of Acceptance April, 21th, 2016:
Camera-Ready Paper Submission July 15 or 16th, 2017:
Workshop
GECCO is sponsored by the Association for Comput-
ing Machinery Special Interest Group on Genetic and
Evolutionary Computation (SIGEVO). SIG Services: 2
Penn Plaza, Suite 701, New York, NY, 10121, USA,
1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada) or +212-626-0500
(Global).
Stephane Doncieux, Josh Auerbach, Richard Duro and
Harold P. de Vladar
harold.vladar@parmenides-foundation.org
Berlin GenomicDatavizWithR
Sep11-15
Workshop title: Genomic Data Visualization and Inter-
pretation (https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/-
course14/)
Course Details:
Topic: Advanced R and bioinformatics applications for
visualization and interpretation of genomic data.
Length: 5 days ( ~9.30 AM to 5.30 PM with breaks)
Instructors: Drs. Obi Grith, Malachi Grith,
Zachary Skidmore (McDonnell Genome Institute; http:/-
/genome.wustl.edu/people/groups/detail/grith-lab/)
Anticipated participants: max 30.
Dates: 11th-15th September
Course overview
The advent of rapid and relatively cheap massively par-
allel sequencing has dramatically increased the availabil-
ity of genome, transcriptome, and epigenome proling.
Analysis workows and published best practices are
also now available to process raw sequence data into
alignments, variant calls, expression estimates, etc., in
relatively standardized le formats. Interpretation and
visualization of these data, often consisting of thousands
to billions of data points, and extracting biological mean-ing remains a serious challenge. In this workshop we will
explore a number of best-in-class visualization tools, and
provide working examples that demonstrate important
principles of 'omic interpretation strategies.
Workshop format
The workshop will be delivered over the course of ve
days. Each day will include an introductory lecture with
class discussion of key concepts. The remainder of each
day will consist of practical hands-on sessions. These
sessions will involve a combination of both mirroring
exercises with the instructor to demonstrate a skill as
well as applying these skills on your own to complete
complete individual exercises. After and during each
exercise, interpretation of results will be discussed as a
group. Computing will be done using a combination of
tools installed on the attendees laptop computer and
web resources accessed via web browser.
Who should attend
This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical
workers who are analyzing some kind of omic data (e.g.
WGS, exome, RNA-seq, variant les, etc.). Examples
demonstrated in this course will involve primarily human
genome/transcriptome data but many of the concepts
learned will be applicable to model organisms, metage-
nomics, simulated data, etc.
Requirements
Attendees should have a background in biology and
a basic knowledge of R. We will dedicate one session
to a brief R/linux primer. Attendees should have also
some familiarity with genomic data. The course will
teach relatively advanced usage of R (especially ggplot2
and Bioconductor packages). Attendees should have a
working installation of R and RStudio on their laptop.
Example data
Attendees will learn to visualize and interpret results
from real human genome data sets generated at the
McDonnell Genome Institute at Washington University
School of Medicine. These data will be analyzed to de-
termine previously known as well as potentially novel in-
terpretations. Since the example data are not simulated
or arbitrarily ltered, interpretation and visualization
will be performed in the context of representative levels
of sequence error, and other sources of technical and
biological noise.
Curriculum
Day 1 Lecture 1: Introduction to Genomic Data Visual-
ization and Interpretation
* Central dogma * Omic technologies and data * Refer-
ence les: GTF, BAM, VCF, MAF, BED, etc * GenomeApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 129
annotation resources, browsers, etc. * Introduction to
demonstration data sets
Lab 1: Genome Browsing and Visualization exercises
* IGV o Basics o Creating custom genomes o Sashimi
plots * UCSC * Ensembl
Lab 2: Web resources for variant annotation and visual-
ization
* VEP/SnpE * ProteinPaint * CBioportal * Ensembl
BioMart
Day 2
Lecture 2. Introduction to R for Genomic Data Visual-
ization and Interpretation
Lab 3: Intro to R
* Installation * CRAN and Bioconductor * Data types
* Reading and writing Data * Data Frames, slicing, and
manipulation * Basic control structures * apply() family
of functions * Additional resources
Lab 4: Intro to ggplot
* wide vs long format * geom and aes * axis scaling and
manipulation * faceting * themes and colours * ggvis *
Additional resources
Lab 5: Real world examples using ggplot
* Heatmaps * Regression lines * Survival analysis *
circos
Day 3
Lab 6. Popular genomic visualizations with GenVisR
* Waterfall plots * TvTi plots * cnSpec plots * cnView
plots * lohSpec plots * genCov plots
Lecture 3: Dierential gene expression and pathway
analysis
Lab 7: Dierential expression analysis
* DEseq2
Day 4
Lab 8: Tools and datasets for pathway analysis
* KEGG * GO * GAGE (R package)
Lab 9: Pathway visualization
* Pathview (R package) * Cytoscape
Lecture 4: Clinical interpretation of variants
Lab 10: Clinical variant interpretations
* Variant identity o HGVS o TransVar o Mutalyzer
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin Metabarcoding Apr3-7 3
Dear all,
There are the last 2 places left for the \16S rRNA
gene Metabarcoding" workshop, 3-7 April 2017 in
Berlin (Germany).https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses/course8/ Registration deadline: March 3rd,
2017
Instructor: Dr. Alexandre de Menezes (National
University of Ireland Galway) https://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t5/ Course overview
The 16s rRNA gene has become the standard marker for
prokaryote phylogenetic analysis, and combined with
high-throughput sequencing technologies it is widely
used to infer the structure and composition of microbial
communities. Due to the continuous improvements in
sequencing technologies and bioinformatics tools, there
is a wide choice of methods for sequencing and analysing
16S rRNA gene assemblies. This workshop is designed
to give students the necessary background and prac-
tical experience of the strategies for the analysis of
the diversity and structure of prokaryote communities,
covering i) experimental design and primer choices; ii)
wet-lab and library preparation options; iii) sequence
quality control and analysis and iv) statistical analysis
of microbial community data. The many sequencing
and analysis options will be discussed, whereas a more
in-depth tutorial using real sequence data will provide
an opportunity for the student to practice 16S rRNA
sequence analysis from raw sequence les to ecological
interpretation. Course material, such as presentation
slides and necessary model data, will be provided to the
students.
Targeted audience and assumed background
This workshop is intended for students and researchers
interested in microbial ecology but who are not yet very
familiar with the techniques involved. Choosing the ap-
propriate primers, library preparation kits, sequencing
methodologies and bioinformatics pipelines can be quite
daunting to the uninitiated. This workshop will allow
researchers interested more condence in their method-
ology and analyses choices. The target audience include
students of animal or plant microbiomes as well as those130 EvolDir April 1, 2017
studying environmental microbial communities. It is
assumed that the workshop attendees are interested in
performing 16S rRNA metabarcoding using the Illumina
MiSeq platform, although other sequencing technologies
will be discussed during the workshop.
Knowledge of Linux and R or familiarity with work-
ing in the command line will be helpful, but for those
new to the area detailed instructions will allow stu-
dents to follow the workshop. Students will need to
have a computer running either on Linux or a Linux
virtual machine running on MacOX/Windows com-
puters. Contact the instructor at ademez@gmail.com
mailto:ademez@gmail.com if in doubt about computa-
tional requirements.
Workshop structure
The workshop will consist of both lectures and practical
classes. Background information will be provided to
help workshop attendees choose the appropriate experi-
mental design, primers, sequencing library preparation
kits and to contextualise the bioinformatics and sta-
tistical analysis methods. Practical tutorials will be
conducted on a step-by-step basis to guide the student
from when receiving data from a sequence provider to ob-
taining plots and tables describing microbial community
diversity, structure and relationships to environmental
variables or host data.
Venue
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)
Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 Berlin.
Session contents
Monday 3rd-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00
Session 1: the 16S rRNA gene
The use of the 16S rRNA gene as a marker for prokary-
ote phylogenetics will be discussed to introduce the
students to the concept of conserved and hypervariable
regions. The student will learn about the history of this
molecular marker and why it is the choice for prokaryote
diversity studies. The primer combinations used to tar-
get the dierent hypervariable regions will be discussed,
as well as what is known regarding their advantages
and disadvantages. The pros and cons of PCR-based
16S rRNA gene sequencing versus PCR-free shot-gun
metagenomics will also be discussed.
This session will also include an overview of current se-
quencing technologies, and the Illumina MiSeq platform
will be contrasted with other sequencing technologies
(Ion Torrent, MinIon, PacBio and Moleculo).
Session 2: sequencing experimental design and initialhands-on exercises
Focusing on the MiSeq platform, experimental design
considerations will be discussed and topics discussed
will include sequence depth, replication, contamination
and the use of appropriate controls and mock communi-
ties. Other topics that will be taught include: metadata
collection, DNA extraction and RNA-cDNA sequenc-
ing. Demo sequence data will be used to check that the
appropriate tools are installed correctly
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin PythonForBiologists Oct2-6
Introduction to Python for biologists
2-6 October 2017 in Berlin, Germany (https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course2/) Instructor:
Dr Martin Jones (founder, Python for biologists: https:/-
/www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t1/)
Application deadline is: September 2nd, 2017
Overview:
Python is a dynamic, readable language that is a popu-
lar platform for all types of bioinformatics work, from
simple one-o scripts to large, complex software projects.
This workshop is aimed at complete beginners and as-
sumes no prior programming experience. It gives an
overview of the language with an emphasis on practical
problem-solving, using examples and exercises drawn
from various aspects of bioinformatics work. After com-
pleting the workshop, students should be in a position
to (1) apply the skills they have learned to tackling
problems in their own research and (2) continue their
Python education in a self-directed way. All course
materials (including copies of presentations, practical
exercises, data les, and example scripts prepared by
the instructing team) will be provided electronically to
participants.
Intended audience:
This workshop is aimed at all researchers and techni-
cal workers with a background in biology who want
to learn programming. The syllabus has been planned
with complete beginners in mind; people with previousApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 131
programming experience are welcome to attend as a
refresher but may nd the pace a bit slow. If in doubt,
take a look at the detailed session content below or
drop Martin Jones (martin@pythonforbiologists.com)
an email.
Teaching format:
The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see
the detailed curriculum below). Each session consists
of roughly a one hour lecture followed by two hours of
practical exercises, with breaks at the organizer's dis-
cretion. There will also be plenty of time for students
to discuss their own problems and data.
Assumed background:
Students should have enough biological background to
appreciate the examples and exercise problems (i.e. they
should know about DNA and protein sequences, what
translation is, and what introns and exons are). No
previous programming experience or computer skills
(beyond the ability to use a text editor) are necessary,
but you'll need to have a laptop with Python installed.
Curriculum:
Monday 2nd - From 09:30 to 17:30
Session 1-. Introduction
In this session I introduce the students to Python and
explain what we expect them to get out of it and how
learning to program can benet their research. I explain
the format of the course and take care of any housekeep-
ing details (like coee breaks and catering arrangements).
I outline the edit-run-x cycle of software development
and talk about how to avoid common text editing er-
rors. In this session, we also check that the computing
infrastructure for the rest of the course is in place (e.g.
making sure that everybody has an appropriate version
of Python installed). Core concepts introduced: source
code, text editors, whitespace, syntax and syntax errors,
Python versions.
Session 2-Output and text manipulation
In this session students learn to write very simple pro-
grams that produce output to the terminal, and in doing
so become comfortable with editing and running Python
code. This session also introduces many of the technical
terms that we'll rely on in future sessions. I run through
some examples of tools for working with text and show
how they work in the context of biological sequence
manipulation. We also cover dierent types of errors
and error messages, and learn how to go about xing
them methodically. Core concepts introduced: termi-
nals, standard output, variables and naming, strings
and characters, special characters, output formatting,
statements, functions, methods, arguments, comments.Tuesday 3rd - From 09:30 to 17:30
Session 3-File IO and user interfaces
I introduce this session by talking about the impor-
tance of les in bioinformatics pipelines and workows,
and we then explore the Python interfaces for reading
from and writing to les. This involves introducing
the idea of types and objects, and a bit of discussion
about how Python interacts with the operating system.
The practical session is spent combining the techniques
from session 2 with the le IO tools to create basic le-
processing scripts. Core concepts introduced: objects
and classes, paths and folders, relationships between
variables and values, text and binary les, newlines.
Session 4. Flow control 1 : loops
A discussion of the limitations of the techniques learned
in session 3 quickly reveals that ow control is required
to write more sophisticated le-processing programs,
and I introduce the concept of loops. We look at the
way in which Python loops work, and how they can be
used in a
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Boston PlantStructureFunction
Jul30-Aug12
microMORPH& Arnold Arboretum Summer Course
2017 - Plant Anatomy: Development, Function, and
Evolution
Thistwo-week short course (July 30th - August 12th,
2017) will be taught by experts from around the world
as an intense lecture, laboratory, and living collections
learning experience. The course will be based at the
Weld Hill Research Building at the Arnold Arboretum in
Boston (Massachusetts), which oers a state-of-the-art
microscopy laboratory for teaching and sits amid the
15,000+ living specimens of more than 2,200 species at
the Arnold Arboretum.
Thiscourse will provide a working knowledge of tools
and concepts that are central to understanding the
anatomical basis for structural and functional diversity.
Topics include the anatomy of the primary plant body,132 EvolDir April 1, 2017
anatomy throughout plant development, evolutionary
trends in plant anatomy, and the anatomy and diversity
of secondary/woody growth. Each day will consist of
lecture and laboratory sessions, with ample opportunity
to explore the Arnold Arboretum.
Thereare no course fees, and funds are available to help
defray costs of participant travel.
CourseInstructors: Pieter Baas (Naturalis Biodiversity
Center), Pamela Diggle (University of Connecticut),
William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University), Peter
Gasson (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew), Cynthia Jones
(University of Connecticut), Elisabeth Wheeler (North
Carolina State University).
ApplicationDeadline: Applications must be sub-
mitted by 11:30 pm April 15th, 2017. Ap-
plication instructions are available on the course
website: http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph/-
summer-course-2017 Eligibility:microMORPH summer
short courses are open to postdoctoral researchers, grad-
uate students, and undergraduates in their nal year of
study (who have been admitted to a graduate or pro-
fessional program for the fall of 2017). Non-US-citizens
are welcome to apply (but are responsible for obtaining
the appropriate visa to be able to attend the course).
Howto Apply: For full application instructions (includ-
ing list of required documents) and to submit applica-
tions, please visit the microMORPH website (http://-
projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).
Questionsor Comments? Contact Becky Povilus at RCN-
micromorph@gmail.com, and visit our website at http:/-
/projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph . PamelaDiggle
Professor Departmentof Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Universityof Connecticut
860-486-4788
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
Canada ColdSpringHarb
Bioinformatics Summer2017
Canadian Bioinformatics Workshops 2017 Series
New for 2017:
* Workshops will be held in Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bec City, Cold Spring Harbor, and Toronto * Travel and
registration awards to eligible trainees * New workshops
in epidemiology, genomic medicine, and the microbiomeThe CBW is pleased to be oering the following ad-
vanced training opportunities in 2017:
* High-Throughput Biology - From Sequence to Net-
works: Cold Spring Harbor, NY, March 20 - 26, 2017
* Infectious Disease Genomic Epidemiolgy: Vancouver,
May 1 - 3, 2017 (NEW) * Bioinformatics of Genomic
Medicine: Toronto, May 10 - 11, 2017 (NEW) * Infor-
matics on High-throughpuut Sequencing Data: Toronto,
May 25 - 26, 2017 * Bioinformatics for Cancer Ge-
nomics: Toronto, May 29 - June 2, 2017 * Informatics
and Statistics for Metabolomics: Toronto, June 6 - 7,
2017 * Introduction to R: Toronto, June 12, 2017 * Ex-
ploratory Analysis of Biological Data using R: Toronto,
June 13 - 14, 2017 * Epigenomic Data Analysis: Mon-
treal, June 15 - 16, 2017 * Microbiome Summer School:
Quebec City, June 19 - 22, 2017 (NEW) * Pathway and
Network Analysis of -omics Data: Toronto, June 26 -
28, 2017 * Cloud Computing in Bioinformatics with
Big Data: Toronto, July 5 - 6, 2017 * Informatics for
RNA-seq Analysis: Toronto, July 10 - 12, 2017 (1 day
longer)
For more information on our 2017 workshop series, visit
https://bioinformatics.ca/workshops-2017. A link to
our new full program poster can be found here: https:/-
/goo.gl/a3zi4d Early registration closes April 3, 2017.
All award applications are due April 3, 2017. {
Ann Meyer, PhD Manager, Knowledge and Research
Exchange
Ontario Institute for Cancer Research
MaRS Centre
661 University Avenue
Suite 510
Toronto, Ontario
Canada M5G 0A3
Email: Ann.Meyer@oicr.on.ca
Phone: 647-260-7925
Cell: 647-295-2612
Toll-free: 1-866-678-6427
Twitter: @OICR news
www.oicr.on.ca Ann.Meyer@oicr.on.caApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 133
CatalinaIsland GenomicsWorkshops
Aug11-23
Hi Colleagues,
This summer we're oering two workshops on the use of
high-throughput sequencing to study population genetic
variation and community diversity. For more details,
see this link or the description that follows.
http://people.oregonstate.edu/ ~ meyere/-
workshops.html We aim to train biologists with
little or no NGS experience to prepare sequencing
libraries and analyze the millions of DNA sequences
that result. Participants are expected to provide
DNA samples from their own study systems, and we
will prepare sequencing libraries together from those
samples as well as a shared set of samples for a group
project.
Participants will learn to analyze these data using simple
command line tools on a high-performance computing
cluster. Altogether, we'll cover the process from raw
genomic DNA in a tube, to millions of DNA sequences,
to biological data on population and/or community di-
versity.
Registration for these workshops covers room and board
(three meals a day, with ample coee and snacks) during
the workshop, and reagents/sequencing such that each
participant can sequence and analyze up to 10 of their
own samples.
For the 5-day amplicon sequencing workshop (Aug 11-
15), registration costs $1,300. For the 9-day 2bRAD
genotyping workshop (Aug 15-23), registration costs
$1,900. Participants enrolling in both workshops will
have the option of participating in a 'bonus' special
topics in bioinformatics session and pay a discounted
rate of $3,000 for both workshops.
For more information, including information from pre-
vious years' workshops, please see the full posting at
the following website: http://people.oregonstate.edu/-
~meyere/workshops.html To reserve your spot, please
contact Demian Willette ( demian.willette@lmu.edu),
Eli Meyer (eli.meyer@oregonstate.edu), or Carly Kenkel
(carly.kenkel@gmail.com) with \Workshops 2017" in the
subject line.
Space is limited! To reserve your spot, please conrm
your participation no later than May 31st and pay reg-istration fee no later than June 30th.
Thanks, hope to see some of you on Catalina this Au-
gust!
Eli, Demian, and Carly
Eli Meyer, Oregon State University.
eli.meyer@oregonstate.edu
Demian Willette, Loyola Marymount University.
demian.willette@lmu.edu Carly Kenkel, University of
Southern California. carly.kenkel@gmail.com
Eli Meyer <meyere@oregonstate.edu >
HinxtonUK GeneticAnalysis
Jul19-25
GeneticAnalysis of Mendelian and Complex Disorders
19-25 July 2017
Finalapplications and bursary requests are now invited
for this popular Wellcome Trust Advanced Course held
on the Wellcome Genome Campus, in Hinxton near
Cambridge UK. Deadline for applications: 24 March
2017.
Formerlyknown as Human Genome Analysis: Genetic
Analysis of Multifactorial Diseases, the 2017 Genetic
Analysis of Mendelian and Complex Disorders course is
aimed at scientists actively involved in genetic analysis of
both rare (Mendelian) and complex human traits. The
course provides a broad and comprehensive overview of
the statistical methods currently used to map disease sus-
ceptibility genes in human populations. The programme
includes lecture and practical computer-based sessions
and will discuss fundamental issues needed to increase
success in gene mapping studies, including: Optimal
study design, Power to detect linkage and association,
Determining the most appropriate statistical methods
and software, Quality control strategies, Interpretation
of statistical results and trouble shooting, Basic prin-
ciples of statistical inference, Hypothesis testing, and
Population and quantitative genetics
COURSEINSTRUCTORS: Daniel E. Weeks, Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh, USA. Heather Cordell, Newcastle
University, UK, Janet Sinsheimer, University of Califor-
nia, LA, USA. Eric Sobel, University of California, LA,
USA, Joe Terwilliger, Columbia University, USA, Simon
Heath, Centre Nacional d'An alisi Gen ~A2mica (CNAG),
Barcelona, Spain134 EvolDir April 1, 2017
2017KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
StephenBurgess, University of Cambridge, UK
NancyCox, Vanderbilt University, USA
DaniellePosthuma, VU University and VU Medical Cen-
tre, The Netherlands
ShamilSunyaev, Harvard University, USA
JanetS@mednet.ucla.edu
Leipzig ModellingBiodiversity
Sep3-15
iDiv Summer School 2017 \Synthesising and modelling
biodiversity data"
3-15 September 2017, Leipzig, Germany Open
to PhD students and advanced master's students
www.summerschool.idiv.de The German Centre for Inte-
grative Biodiversity Research Halle-Jena-Leipzig (iDiv)
invites PhD students to apply to its third summer school
taking place from the 3rd to 15th of September 2017 in
Leipzig, Germany. The summer school gives 20 young
scientists and ve local doctoral researchers the oppor-
tunity to conduct a biodiversity synthesis project under
the tutoring of senior iDiv scientists, aiming at the sub-
mission of the work for publication. The programme
combines training in synthesis methods, plenary lectures
on integrative biodiversity research, hands-on collabora-
tive work in small groups, and networking with biodi-
versity scientists at iDiv. A varied social programme is
organized together with the iDiv doctoral researchers.
The lead teacher of the summer school is Nico Eisen-
hauer, iDiv Professor and head of the research group
Experimental Interaction Ecology. Other lecturers and
tutors include senior iDiv sta and invited scientists.
The summer school invites applications mainly from
PhD students working on biodiversity topics, but also
applications from advanced masters level students will
be considered. A limited number of travel grants are
oered to candidates with limited resources. Applica-
tions from the developing countries, in particular female
applicants, are strongly encouraged.
Application deadline for the course is Tuesday, 2nd of
May 2017.
More detailed information on the course can be
found online at www.summerschool.idiv.de \ul-
rike.schmidt@idiv.de" <ulrike.schmidt@idiv.de >MichiganStateU
EvolutionaryModeling Jul23-28
Applications are now open for the 2017 Summer Work-
shop \Making Meaning through Models: Problem solv-
ing in biology" to be held July 23-28 at Michigan
State University. More information about the work-
shop is available here: https://qubeshub.org/groups/-
summer2017 or see the attached ier.
Modeling is a key tool in the evolutionary biology tool
box, and helping students to develop modeling skills as
early in their career allows deeper exploration of evolu-
tionary concepts. At this summer's workshop we will
delve into how to engage our students more productively
with models and the process of modeling. Join us as
we consider how to enhance the skills students need
to understand and build models, how to expand upon
models already in our curriculum, and ultimately how
to enhance student understanding of the nature and
process of science with modeling. We will discuss eec-
tive pedagogical approaches, share excellent resources,
and build community around eective use of models.
The intensive week-long workshop is followed by the
opportunity to continue to work with colleagues on the
QUBESHub through the fall semester to develop and
implement new approaches or materials.
The summer workshop is appropriate for two and four
year faculty teaching all levels of undergraduate biology,
quantitative biology, and life science-oriented mathe-
matics. We encourage future faculty, full and part time
faculty and teams of faculty from the same or aliated
institutions to apply. Please share this information with
any of your colleagues who might be interested!
{ Kristin P. Jenkins, PhD Director
BioQUEST Curriculum Consortium bioquest.org (608)
622.9394
kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org
Naples BringingMathsToLife Jun7-9
3rd Bringing Maths to Life 7-9 June 2017, Naples, ItalyApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 135
Deadline Extension: BMTL2017 Workshop
Dear Colleague,
We would like to invite you to the 3rd edition of
the Bringing Maths to Life Workshop, that will be
held in Naples on 7-9 June 2017 (http://www.bmtl.it).
NEW: ABSTRACTS SUBMISSION DEADLINE EX-
TENSION 15th APRIL 2017
The workshop provides an occasion for biologists and
mathematicians to join forces in addressing key ar-
eas in biology that face demanding mathematical chal-
lenges.Discussing existing cases to identify gaps or to
share existing solutions should help these disciplines in
successfully linking up.
BMTL 2017 workshop, as a melange of dierent elds,
will consist of selected contributions for open discussion
to present and confront the most updated results at
the interface of mathematics and biology in three main
sessions:
1) Data: acquisition, pre-processing and storage of dif-
ferent -omics datasets. The goal of this session is to
discuss eective ways of acquiring, processing, and stor-
ing data as a starting point for any kind of analysis.
Two large-scale projects will be presented within this
session. The rst project, SardiNIA, recruited over 1.5
million Sardinians across the island to gather enough
cases and controls to investigate genetic factors for a
wide range of conditions and diseases (see: https://-
sardinia.nia.nih.gov/). The second, MetaSUB (Metage-
nomics & Metadesign of Subways & Urban Biomes),
includes scientists tracking the microbes in city subways
and describe their diusion on an interactive map (see:
http://metasub.org/).
2) Information: data analysis, novel -omics technolo-
gies, the application of deep learning to dierent -omics
datasets. The integration of experimental data prior to
their analysis requires full understanding of the algo-
rithms that need to be used in order to ensure a correct
application in answering biological questions. Case stud-
ies of this session are two examples of metagenomics
analyses. The rst is the analysis of data collected
during the Tara Oceans expedition including samples
from 210 stations across the world oceans (see: http:/-
/taraexpeditions-it.blogspot.it/)). The project is deci-
phering how the most complex organisms evolved from
primordial bacteria and in future it will tell us about
the fate of the myriad organisms present today. The
second concern the analysis of human gut microbiome.
3) Knowledge: integration of dierent -omics data, sys-
tem biology of -omics data. Methods for the integrative
analysis of multi-omics data are required to draw a more
complete and accurate picture of the dynamics of molec-ular systems. Unveiling the interactions between diverse
types of data allows to fully exploit their information.
The keynote lectures of this session will show the in-
tegration of genomic, biochemical, and metabolic data
under comprehensive mathematical models. This year
the workshop will be held in the magnicent Capitolo
Hall of St. Domenico Maggiore Convent, one of the
most important spaces created during the renovation
started by the prior Ruo (XVII century).
Conrmed speakers include:
Dr. Valeria D'Argenio, University of Naples Federico
II, Italy Prof. Antti Honkela, University of Helsinki,
Finland Dr. Daniele Iudicone, Zoological Station of
Naples A. Dohrn, Italy Dr. Carlo Sidore, Institute of
Genetic and Biomedical Research ?C CNR, Italy Prof.
Klas I. Udekwu, The Wenner-Gren Institute Stockholm
University, Sweden Prof. Hans Westerho, University of
Amsterdam, Netherlands For more information visit the
website http://www.bmtl.it Important dates: Abstract
submission & early registration: April 15th, 2017
Scientists are invited to send their contributions. Ab-
stracts should be in English and contain original research
results. All abstracts will be peer reviewed by the in-
ternational scientic board that will decide whether
presenting them as a poster or an oral contribution.
Selected papers will be considered for peer-reviewing and
publication on a special issue of BMC Bioinformatics.
We hope to meeting you in Naples! Kind regards, The
BMTL Organizing Committee Vincenza Colonna, IGB
- CNR Mario Guarracino, ICAR - CNR Alessandra
Rogato, IBBR - CNR Valeria Zazzu, formerly IGB -
CNR
Learn More
www.bmtl.it info@bmtl.it +39 0815515192
Bringing Maths To Life <newsletter@bmtl.it >
NewOrleans ArbovirusEvolution
May30-31
Kathy Hanley (New Mexico State University) and Paul
Turner (Yale University) invite you to apply for a
workshop we are organizing on Evolutionary Causes
and Consequences of Arbovirus Emergence (http://-
ideas.princeton.edu/workshop-for-2017/). The work-
shop occurs on May 30-31, 2017 in New Orleans, just in
advance of the ASM Microbe meeting. This workshop136 EvolDir April 1, 2017
is sponsored by the NSF-funded Research Coordination
Network on Infectious Disease Evolution Across Scales
(RCN-IDEAS).
Applications to participate are being accepted through
April 8, 2017; travel and lodging expenses are covered
for accepted applicants. More information on the work-
shop, as well as the application guidelines, are available
here: http://ideas.princeton.edu/workshop-for-2017/
Thanks, and we look forward to seeing your application
for the workshop!
Kathy and Paul
Kathy Hanley: khanley@nmsu.edu
Paul Turner: paul.turner@yale.edu
\Turner, Paul" <paul.turner@yale.edu >
OregonStateU Macroevolution
June22-23
Short course on the analysis of diversication rates from
phylogenies: June 22-23 on the campus of Oregon State
University, to coincide with the North American Evolu-
tion meetings (SSE/ASN/SSB) in Portland (June 23 -
June 27). The workshop is funded in part by the Na-
tional Science Foundation with additional support from
Oregon State University and is co-organized by Dr. Dan
Rabosky (University of Michigan) and Dr. Brian Sid-
lauskas (Oregon State University). Travel awards of up
to $500 per person are available to cover participation
costs.
Overview: Rates of speciation, extinction, and pheno-
typic evolution vary widely across the Tree of Life and
through time. This workshop will provide theoretical
background and a hands-on practicum in the analy-
sis of lineage diversication rates using time-calibrated
phylogenetic trees. Topics will include:
Working with phylogenies in R Theoretical foundations
of diversication models Developing your intuition for
diversication models Using BAMM to study complex
patterns of diversication rate variation on phylogenies
Testing hypotheses about trait-dependent diversica-
tion Assessing the reliability of inferences with BAMM
and other methods Visualizing macroevolutionary dy-
namics on phylogenies Studying diversication rates on
phylogenies that include fossils
Course will primarily be taught by Dan Rabosky (Uni-
versity of Michigan) with contributions from severalco-instructors. The course will assume basic prociency
with the R programming/statistical environment and
some familiarity with command line interfaces. Example
datasets will be provided, but participants are encour-
aged to bring any phylogenetic dataset they wish to
analyze (time calibrated phylogenetic trees). A personal
laptop is essential.
Workshop participants will arrive in Corvallis (Oregon)
any time on Wednesday June 21 and we will depart for
Portland on the evening of Friday June 23, such that
individuals can attend the Evolution meeting. Shuttles
oer easy transport between the Portland Airport and
OSU's campus every two hours, and housing is available
at several hotels near campus. Details regarding accom-
modation and transport will be provided to successful
applicants.
To apply, please send a CV and a short statement (1-
2 paragraphs) detailing your research interests, why
you are interested in the course, and your prior experi-
ence with R and phylogenetics / comparative methods.
Please email your application (or questions) to Dan
Rabosky (macroevolution.workshop@gmail.com).
Applications will be accepted until April 2, 2016, but
please apply early as spaces are limited. Target audience
is graduate students and postdocs but applications from
researchers at other career stages are welcome. Prefer-
ence will be given to students with a clear interest and
research focus in phylogenetics & macroevolution.
Dan Rabosky Assistant Professor & Curator of Her-
petology Museum of Zoology & Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology University of Michigan Ann
Arbor, MI 48109-1079 USA
drabosky@umich.edu http://www.raboskylab.org
http://www.lsa.umich.edu/ummz/ \dra-
bosky@umich.edu" <drabosky@umich.edu >
Portugal 3 cE3c
Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: three advanced courses
with deadlines April-May 2017
cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes is organizing several Advanced Courses: see
below the two courses with closer deadlines.
Additional informations at:
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8 Sub-
ject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: three advanced coursesApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 137
with deadlines April-early May cE3c - Centre for Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Environmental Changes is organizing
several Advanced Courses: see below the three courses
with closer deadlines.
Additional informations at:
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8 Course
Nature-Based Design Frameworks organized by Gil
Penha-Lopes and Hugo Oliveira jNew calendar! May
15h-19th 2017 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives: The course will introduce participants to dif-
ferent Nature-based bodies of knowledge and experience,
such as the Biomimicry, Permaculture and Resilience
topics. With almost 2 days per topic, the students will
get a good feeling of how these topics see, do research
and implement eective and sustainable solutions tar-
geting a wide variety of societal, ecological and economic
challenges.
Course instructors Gil Penha-Lopes (Invited Assis-
tant Professor at FCUL, Leader of the Subgroup
'Adaptation and Sustainability', CCIAM, cE3c)
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/gil-pessanha-
penha-lopes and Hugo Oliveira (PhD student, CCIAM,
cE3c) http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/hugo-
ferreira-calado-de-oliveira Intended audience: This
ve days intensive course will be open to a maximum
number of 24 participants, being directed to PhD
or MSc students in Biology, Environmental studies,
Geography or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics. Minimal
formation of students: Bachelor in Biology, Geography
or related areas.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (BIODIV UL; UP), Biology
and Ecology of Global Changes (BEAG UL; UA) and
Climate Change and Sustainable Development Policies
(UL). For information of fees for other participants see
the programme details.
Deadline for applications: April 13th, 2017 Candidates
should send a short CV and motivation letter to Gil
Penha-Lopes (email gppenha-lopes@fc.ul.pt) and ngela
Antunes (email amantunes@fc.ul.pt).
For additional details about the programme of
the course, fees and to know how to register,
click here, and access the specic course http://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8 For more in-
formation about the course, please contact: gppenha-
lopes@fc.ul.pt
Course Natural History Collections and Biodiversity
Organized by Maria Judite Alves, Raquel Barata, Cris-tiane Bastos-Silveira et al. jMay 29 - June 2 @ Lisbon,
Portugal
Objectives Natural history museums are privileged
spaces for seminal research on dierent subjects of bio-
logical sciences such as biodiversity, evolution, ecology,
biogeography and taxonomy. This crucial role is due to
the fact that they represent biological diversity reposi-
tories becoming huge libraries of information on Earth
living organisms. The long-term sampling through var-
ious decades renders to natural history collections an
historic perspective that allows reconstructing a \mem-
ory", sometimes secular, of natural patterns and pro-
cesses. This aspect gains particular relevance nowadays
because of the increasing rate of species extinctions and
biodiversity decrease.
This course aims to: - evidence the importance of nat-
ural history collections for the study of biodiversity. -
show new tools and approaches to extract and dissemi-
nate biodiversity data from natural history collections -
increase awareness of young researchers for the scientic
and culture value of Natural History Museums.
Course coordinator Maria Judite Alves (Researcher at
the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes (cE3c), Leader of the Subgroup Animal Biodi-
versity, Evolution and Systematics, NHS group)
(http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/maria-judite-
silva-cardoso-alves)
Intended audience This ve days intensive course will
be open to a maximum number of 16 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Evolu-
tion, Ecology or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics.
Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology or related
area. The course is free for 1st year PhD students in
the Doctoral programme
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Rosco EcolEvolutionaryGenomics
Jun5-16
13^th Summer course on marine ecological & evolution-
ary genomics at the Marine Biological Station of Rosco138 EvolDir April 1, 2017
(F)
First announcement
>From June 5th ^- June 16th, 2017
the 13 ^th Summer Course on Marine Ecological & Evo-
lutionary Genomics - MEEG 2017
takes place at the Station Biologique de Rosco, Rosco,
France.
Aims:
Genomic knowledge is crucial for understanding the ma-
rine environment and for an ecient use of its resources.
State of the art NGS methods have revolutionized the
eld, spawning applications in basic research, biotechnol-
ogy and resource management. The course will focus on
the latest developments in population genomics, includ-
ing biodiversity, evolution, comparative and functional
aspects through lectures, case studies and computer
labs. It takes place at the Biological Station, a vibrant
research community of 273 scientists and support person-
nel, located in the old town and shing port of Rosco,
Brittany, France.
The course includes lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises on the following topics.
- Genomics - next generation sequencing, database
searching, basic skills in data handling and bioinfor-
matics
- Population genomics - diversity, structure, connectiv-
ity and gene ow, assignment, eective population size,
population dynamics, adaptive variation, genotyping by
sequencing
- Environmental genomics - environment-genome inter-
actions, ecogenomics and metagenetics
- Functional genomics - genome structure, molecular
evolution at the functional level, genomic architecture,
functional networks
- Comparative genomics - whole genome comparisons,
concatenated phylogenies, genome organization, anno-
tating genomic information, co-evolution
- metagenomics
The course covers all aspects of life in the ocean.
Target group:
PhD students (at least in their second year) and junior
postdocs with a solid knowledge in ecological and/or
evolutionary genetics.
18 participants will be selected on the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project2. Background and experience
3. We aim at training people with dierent research
backgrounds; not more than one person per institute
will be considered. We implement a gender policy.
The selected persons will be notied by Friday 14 ^th
April and will have to conrm attendance within 7 days.
There is a waiting list in case of non-conrmations and
cancellations.
Teaching sta :
Nicola Barson, NMBU, No
Sarah Bouchemousse, UniFr, Ch
Jonas Collen, SB-Rosco, FR
Simon Creer, Univ. Bangor, UK
Yves Desdevises, OO-Banyuls, FR
Erica Leder, Univ. Turku, Fi
Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco
Frederique Viard, SB-Rosco, FR
Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
Mathias Wegner, AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee
Jonas Collen, SB-Rosco, FR
Damien Guiant, SB-Rosco, FR
Matthias Obst, Univ. Gothenburg, SE
Nic Blouin, Univ. Rhode Island, USA
Nathalie Turque, EMBRC-France, FR
Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco, FR
Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
For information, a yer and application please check
http://meeg2017.sciencesconf.org . Application deadline
is April 2 2017.
Filip Volckaert <lip.volckaert@kuleuven.be >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 139
Seattle StatisticalGenetics Jul10-28
AFewScholarshipsRemain
We have awarded scholarships for the 22nd Sum-
mer Institute in Statistical Genetics (http://-
www.biostat.washington.edu/suminst) to people who
applied by March 1.
We expect to be able to award a few more for applica-
tions received by April 1, 2017.
thanks
Bruce
bsweir@uw.edu
Bruce Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
Siegen Germany FishSim
AnimationToolchain Oct20-22
Workshop announcement: \Discovering FishSim in 3
days - new software for computer-animated 3D sh stim-
uli for innovative research in animal behavior"
When? October, 20th - 22nd 2017 Where? University
of Siegen, H olderlinstr. 3, 57076 Siegen, Germany
Application deadline: Friday, 30th June 2017
BACKGROUND Scientists are continuously looking for
new methods to improve experimental procedures and
to pave new ways to study animal behavior. Nowadays,
more and more scientists tend to use various forms of
computer animations that assist in research and lead to
higher control and standardization during experiments.
Computer animations oer various opportunities for
specic manipulation of morphology and behavior of a
virtually created animal stimulus in a range not possi-
ble with live stimulus animals. Furthermore, computer
animations serve to implement the 3Rs principle in re-
search by replacing and reducing the use of experimental
animals and by rening experimental procedures. Cur-
rently, researchers can choose from a conglomeration
of software solutions to create and animate 2D and 3D
virtual stimuli. Nevertheless, easy-to-use toolchains that
are designed for the specic needs of behavioral biolo-gists and that combine all necessary steps, from creation
of the stimulus to its presentation, do nearly not exist
(but see anyFish; http://swordtail.tamu.edu/anysh).
Within the scope of the DFG funded Virtual Fish Project
at University of Siegen (Germany), we developed the
free and open-source \FishSim Animation Toolchain"
(FishSim) which combines easy creation, animation and
presentation of realistic 3D computer-animated sh stim-
uli for the use in experiments with live test sh ( uller
et al. 2016, doi: 10.1093/cz/zow106; Gierszewski et al.
2016, doi: 10.1093/cz/zow108). FishSim was specically
designed for behavioral experiments using common one-
choice and two-choice set-ups, as in studies on visual
signaling and mate choice. FishSim provides various
possibilities to experimentally manipulate morphology
and behavior of any number of virtual 3D sh with
presentation via monitors. Since FishSim is based on
a computer game engine, it oers a unique way for an-
imating 3D sh via real-time input from an external
video-game controller.
To introduce FishSim and to assist in the implemen-
tation of our toolchain, we would like to welcome you
to join a 3-day international workshop for behavioral
and evolutionary biologists on \Discovering FishSim in
3 days - new software for computer-animated 3D sh
stimuli for innovative research in animal behavior". The
workshop will be held at University of Siegen in Siegen,
Germany, from October 20-22, 2017, and is organized
by Dipl.-Biol. Stefanie Gierszewski (Institute of Biol-
ogy, University of Siegen), Prof. Dr. Klaudia Witte
(Institute of Biology, University of Siegen), Dipl.-Inform.
Klaus  uller (Institute of Real-Time Learning Systems,
University of Siegen) and BSc. Jan-Marco H utwohl
(Institute of Real-Time Learning Systems, University of
Siegen).
The goal of this 3-day workshop is to provide detailed
information on the free and open-source FishSim Ba-
sic and its integrated tools FishCreator, FishSteering
and FishPlayer in both theory and practice. DOs and
DON'Ts for implementation of FishSim Basic in future
research are discussed. Working computers with all soft-
ware installed will be provided but it is also possible to
use personal laptops. Assistance and advice for working
with own data will be given.
THE SOFTWARE
Please visit our workshop webpage for more in-
formation on the FishSim software: https://-
virtualshproject.wixsite.com/shsim PRELIINARY
PROGRAM Day 1: Friday, October 20th, 2017 Room:
TBA 15:00 - 16:00 Registration 16:00 - 16:15 Welcome
16:15 - 17:00 Introducing the \Virtual Fish Project"
17:00 - open end Software installation and updates on140 EvolDir April 1, 2017
personal laptops
Day 2: Saturday, October 21st, 2017 Room: TBA 09:00
- 11:00 Workshop part I 11:00 - 11:30 Coee break 11:30 -
13:00 Workshop part II 13:00 - 14:00 Lunch 14:00 - 15:00
Guided tour through the laboratories of the Institute of
Biology 15:00 - 16:30 Workshop part III 16:30 - 17:00
Coee break 17:00 - 19:00 Workshop part IV 19:00 -
20:00 Break 20:00 - open end Social event
Day 3: Sunday, October 22nd, 2017 Room: TBA 09:00
- 10:00 Workshop part V (Q&A) 10:00 - 10:30 Coee
break 10:30 - 12:30 Workshop part VI (time for own
projects) 12:30 - 13:00 Closing remarks and workshop
evaluation 13:00 Ocial ending
APPLICATION / REGISTRATION Any scientist in
the eld of sh behavior (asters and PhD students,
postdocs, senior scientists) is welcome to register for
the workshop. Registration fees (50 euro for students,
70 euro for postdocs and senior researchers) include
catering during the workshop as well
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SwissAlps Sexual Selection Aug28-31
SIGNIFICANCE OF SEXUAL SELECTION FOR
POPULATION FITNESS
WHEN ? 28-31 August 2017
WHERE? Faeralp, Swiss Alps (CH)
MORE INFOS AND REGISTRATION https://-
www.cuso.ch/activity/?p=3D1128&uid=3D3366 OR-
GANIZER Prof. Claus Wedekind, University of Lau-
sanne (CH)
INVITED SPEAKERS Prof. David Berger, University
of Uppsala (SE) Prof. Andrew P. Hendry, McGill Uni-
versity (CA) Prof. Hanna Kokko, University of Z urich
(CH) Prof. John Pannell, University of Lausanne (CH)
Prof. Jacek Radwan, University of Poznan (PL) Prof.
Leigh Simmons, University of Western Australia (AU)
DESCRIPTION Sexual selection is expected to promote
population tness by enhancing the reproductive suc-
cess of individuals of high genetic quality (i.e. of high
breeding value for tness), or by purging the genomeof deleterious mutations, e.g. via mate preferences for
condition- ^A'dependent traits or dominance ghts within
sexes. The signicance of such eects is not suciently
understood yet. Estimates range from minor importance
to the benets of sexual selection even outweighing the
costs of sex. We will discuss the problem in the context
of current environmental changes and the potential of
rapid evolution.
QUERIES caroline.betto-colliard@unil.ch
\Caroline.Betto-Colliard@unil.ch" <Caroline.Betto-
Colliard@unil.ch >
Toulouse EvolutionEconomics
Jun1-2
Dear colleagues,
Registration for the *5th Toulouse* *Economics and
Biol**ogy **Workshop, **June 01-02*, is now open.
*(Registration deadline is April 30th).*
https://www.iast.fr/conference/5th-annual-toulouse-
economics-and- biology-workshop-evolution-and-
economics-family
Please note the deadline for posters' submission is March
31.
Submissions (abstract + C.V.) should be sent to *econ-
bioposter@iast.fr*
A limited number of travel grants will be available. To
apply, please join a cover letter explaining why you
are applying for a grant and why you are interested in
attending the workshop.
The theme of the workshop this year is *\ The Evolution
& Economics of the Family"*.
The speakers are:
*Robert BROOKS* <http://www.bees.unsw.edu.au/-
rob-brooks >, University of New South Wales
*Pierre-Andr e CHIAPPORI* < http://-
www.columbia.edu/~pc2167/ >, Columbia University
*Donald COX* <https://www2.bc.edu/donald-cox/ >,
Boston College
*Partha DASGUPTA* <http://www.econ.cam.ac.uk/-
people/crsid.html?crsid=pd10000&group=emeritus >,
University of Cambridge
*David DE LA CROIX* <http://perso.uclouvain.be/-
david.delacroix/ >, Universit e Catholique de LouvainApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 141
*Lena EDLUND* <http://www.columbia.edu/ ~le93/
>, Columbia University
*Lee GETTLER* <http://anthropology.nd.edu/-
faculty-and-sta/faculty-by-alpha/lee-gettler/ >, Uni-
versity of Notre Dame
*Hanna KOKKO* <http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/en/sta/-
member/kokko hanna.html >, University of Z urich
*Ruth MACE* <https://www.ucl.ac.uk/anthropology/-
people/academic-teaching-sta/ruce-mace >, Univer-
sity College London
*Brooke SCELZA* <http://www.anthro.ucla.edu/-
faculty/brooke-scelza >, UCLA
*Brian WOOD* <http://anthropology.yale.edu/-
people/brian-wood >*, *Yale University
The workshop will take place at the Institute for Ad-
vanced Study in Toulouse, Manufacture des Tabacs, 21
All ee de Brienne, 31015 Toulouse, France.
We look forward to welcoming you!
*Organizers:* Ingela Alger, J orgen Weibull and Jonathan
Stieglitz
*Co-organizers:* Alice Baniel and Mark Dyble
For any information please contact us at *econ-
bio@iast.fr*
Alice Baniel <alice.baniel@gmail.com >
UK GeneticDataAnalysisUsingR
ThibautJombart Oct23-27
\Genetic data analysis/exploration using R" (GDAR03)
This course will be delivered by Dr. Thibaut Jombart
who authors the adegenet package and Dr. Zhian Kam-
var.
This course will run from the 23rd - 27th October at
Margam discovery centre in Wales, United Kingdom.
Course Overview: This course provides a comprehensive
introduction to exploratory statistical methods used
in population genetics and molecular ecology. Partici-
pants will become procient in a range of approaches for
uncovering genetic structures from usual genetic data
including most genetic markers (e.g. microsatellites,
SNPs, AFLP) and genetic sequences (DNA or amino-
acid). After covering dierent types of phylogenetic
reconstruction, and basic population genetics tests, astrong emphasis will be put on using factorial methods
(e.g. Principal Component Analysis) for investigating
genetic diversity. In particular, we will focus on the
identication and description of genetic clusters, and
on characterising spatial genetic patterns. The last
day of the course will be an open problem day, where
participants will be able to analyse their own data.
Day 1 Intro to phylogenetic reconstruction. Module
1a: Reconstructing phylogenies from genetic sequence
data. Three main approaches covered: distance-based
phylogenies; maximum parsimony; and likelihood-based
approaches. Module 1b: Short R refresher. Practical
1: Phylogenetic reconstruction using R. Three main
approaches plus rooting a tree; assessing/testing for a
molecular clock; and bootstrapping. Main packages:
ape, phangorn.
Day 2 Intro to multivariate analysis of genetic data
Module 2: Key concepts in multivariate analysis. Focus
on using factorial methods for genetic data analysis.
Practical 2: Basics of multivariate analysis of genetic
data in R. Topics include: data handling, population ge-
netic tests of population structure (PCA, PCoA). Main
packages: adegenet, ade4, ape.
Day 3 Exploring group diversity Module 3: Approaches
to identifying and describing genetic clusters. Topics
include: hierarchical clustering, K-means, population-
level multivariate analysis (between-group-PCA, DA,
DAPC). Practical 3: Applying the approaches covered
in morning lecture and emphasising their strengths and
weaknesses. Main packages: adegenet, ade4.
Day 4 Spatial genetic structures Module 4: Discussing
the origin and signicance of spatial genetic patterns,
and how to test for them. Practical 4: Visualising and
analysing spatial genetic data. Topics: spatial density
estimates, Moran/Mantel tests, mapping principal com-
ponents in PCA, spatial PCA. Main packages: adegenet,
adehabitat, ade4.
Day 5 Using R for reproducible science. Module 5: Us-
ing R for reproducible science Practical 5: Practical
session based on morning lecture Main packages: knitr,
Sweave, rmarkdown
If you have any questions please email oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit www.prstatistics.com
To book online go to http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/genetic-data- analysis-exploration-using-r-
gdar03/
Other up-coming courses are as follows
1. ADVANCES IN MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
SPATIAL ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R #MVSP
3rd - 7th April 2017, Scotland, Prof. Pierre Legendre, Dr.142 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Olivier Gauthier http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
advances-in-spatial-analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-
data-theory-and-practice-mvsp02/ 2. ADVANCING IN
STATISTICAL MODELLING FOR EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS USING R #ADVR
17th - 21st April 2017, Scotland, Dr. Luc Bussiere, Dr.
Ane Timenes Laugen http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/advancing-statistical-modelling-using-r-advr06/
3. CODING, DATA MANAGEMENT AND SHINY
APPLICATIONS USING RSTUDIO FOR EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS
#CDSR 15th - 19th May, Scotland Dr. Aline Quadros
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/coding-data-
management-and-shiny-applications-using-rstudio-
for-evolutionary-biologists-and-ecologists-cdsr01/
4. GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING
R #GMMR 5th - 9th June 2017, Scotland, Prof.
Dean Adams, Prof. Michael Collyer, Dr. Antigoni
Kaliontzopoulou http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/geometric-morphometrics-using-r-gmmr01/
5. MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF SPATIAL
ECOLOGICAL DATA #MASE 19th - 23rd June,
Canada, Prof. Subhash Lele, Dr. Peter Solymos
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK MetaAnalysisInEcologyAndEvo-
lution
Jul24-28
\Meta-analysis in ecology, evolution and environmental
sciences "
This course will be delivered by Prof. Julia Koricheva
who has co-edited \Handbook of meta-analysis in ecol-
ogy and evolution" (Princeton University Press, 2013),
the rst handbook on meta-analysis written specially for
ecologists and evolutionary biologists and Prof. Elena
Kulinskaya.
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/meta-analysis-in-
ecology-evolution-and-environmental-sciences-metr01/
This course will run from 24th - 28th July 2017 at
SCENE eld station, Loch Lomond, Glasgow
Course only and all inclusive packages are available.This 5-day course will involve combination of lectures
and practical sessions where students will practice con-
ducting meta-analysis using the metafor package in R.
In addition, students will conduct their own mini-meta-
analyses by working in small groups on an assigned
ecological topic with 8-10 primary research papers pro-
vided per topic. Students would need to decide on eect
size metric to use and inclusion criteria, extract the data
from the primary studies, design the extraction spread-
sheet, conduct meta-analysis using the metafor package
and present their results in the form of a PowerPoint
Presentation. After successfully completing this course
students should be able to: 1) formulate questions for
meta-analysis 2) formulate inclusion criteria for primary
studies to be included in the analysis design spread-
sheets for data extraction 3) conduct literature search
on the topic 4) extract data from published studies 5)
conduct meta-analysis using metafor package in R 6)
present the results of the meta-analysis
Course content is as follows
DAY 1 -Lectures Types of quantitative research syn-
thesis (vote counting, combining probabilities, meta-
analysis) History of meta-analysis and its applications
in ecology Types of ecological data and their conversion
to eect sizes Question formulation and inclusion cri-
teria Literature search and data extraction -Practical
Work in groups: students decide on inclusion criteria
and metrics of eect size for their own meta-analysis
based on 8-10 studies and begin data extraction
Tuesday DAY 2 -Lecture Combining eect sizes across
studies, xed vs random eects models Practical Using
metafor package in R to calculate eect sizes and over-
all mean eects using xed and random eect models.
-Work in groups: completing data extraction for own
meta-analysis and running meta-analysis.
DAY 3 -Lecture Exploring the causes of heterogene-
ity in eect sizes by meta-regression -Practical Meta-
regression analyses using metafor. -Lecture Dealing with
non-independence of observations (including phylogeny
bias) -Practical Work in groups: testing for moderators,
considering sources of non-independence.
DAY 4 -Lecture Publication bias Statistical methods
for bias detection -Practical Exploring publication and
related biases in metafor -Lecture Dealing with miss-
ing data and variable research quality Format of meta-
analysis report: good and bad examples, critique of
meta-analysis -Practical -Work in groups: testing for
bias in own dataset; nalizing analyses; preparing Power
Point presentation with results of the analyses
DAY 5 -Morning Student presentations on the results
of their analyses + Discussion -Afternoon IndividualApril 1, 2017 EvolDir 143
consultations for students planning to do meta-analysis
in their own research projects
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Our other courses
1. ADVANCES IN MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
SPATIAL ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R #MVSP
3rd - 7th April 2017, Scotland, Prof. Pierre Legendre, Dr.
Olivier Gauthier http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
advances-in-spatial-analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-
data-theory-and-practice-mvsp02/ 2. ADVANCING IN
STATISTICAL MODELLING FOR EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS USING R #ADVR
17th - 21st April 2017, Scotland, Dr. Luc Bussiere, Dr.
Ane Timenes Laugen http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/advancing-statistical-modelling-using-r-advr06/
3. CODING, DATA MANAGEMENT AND SHINY
APPLICATIONS USING RSTUDIO FOR EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS
#CDSR 15th - 19th May, Scotland Dr. Aline Quadros
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULeicester 2
DNAseqRNAseqAnalysis May
One week to registration deadline for the BBASH Next
Generation Sequencing workshops at University of Le-
icester!
For additional information: http://www2.le.ac.uk/-
colleges/medbiopsych/facilities-and-services/cbs/-
bbash/training/upcoming DNA-Seq NGS Analysis
Workshop Venue: University of Leicester - College
Court Conference Centre Date: 2nd, 3rd & 4th May
2017 Time: 9:00am to 5:00pm each day Organizers:
Matthew Blades and Chiara Batini Admin support:
NGStraining@le.ac.uk Participation: Open application
with selection Registration opens: REGISTRATION
NOW OPEN (closing date for registration is 5pm 3rd
April 2017)
RNA-Seq NGS Analysis Workshop Venue: Universityof Leicester - College Court Conference Centre Date:
24th, 25th, 26th May 2017 Time: 9:00am to 5:00pm
each day Organizers: Matthew Blades and Ben Hunt
Admin support: Matt Blades - NGStraining@le.ac.uk
Participation: Open application with selection Registra-
tion: REGISTRATION NOW OPEN (closing date for
registration is 5pm 3rd April 2017)
\Batini, Chiara (Dr.)" <cb334@leicester.ac.uk >
ULeicester 2 NGSanalysis May
BBASH at University of Leicester is pleased to announce
that applications for the upcoming training Next Gen-
eration Sequencing workshops are now open.
DNA-Seq NGS Analysis Workshop Venue: University of
Leicester - College Court Conference Centre Date: 2nd,
3rd & 4th May 2017 Time: 9:00am to 5:00pm each day
Organizers: Matthew Blades and Chiara Batini Admin
support: NGStraining@le.ac.uk Participation: Open
application with selection Registration opens: REGIS-
TRATION NOW OPEN (closing date for registration
is 5pm 3rd April 2017)
RNA-Seq NGS Analysis Workshop Venue: University
of Leicester - College Court Conference Centre Date:
24th, 25th, 26th May 2017 Time: 9:00am to 5:00pm
each day Organizers: Matthew Blades and Ben Hunt
Admin support: Matt Blades - NGStraining@le.ac.uk
Participation: Open application with selection Registra-
tion: REGISTRATION NOW OPEN (closing date for
registration is 5pm 3rd April 2017)
For additional information: http://www2.le.ac.uk/-
colleges/medbiopsych/facilities-and-services/cbs/-
bbash/training/upcoming \Batini, Chiara (Dr.)"
<cb334@leicester.ac.uk >
UPadova ProteinInteractions
Apr10-13
ELIXIR-IIB, in collaboration with the University of
Padova and RGS-Italy, is pleased to inform you that
the applications for the upcoming training course on
\Computational approaches to the study of protein in-
teractions and rational drug design" are now open.144 EvolDir April 1, 2017
*IMPORTANT DATES for this Course:*
*- Deadline for applications: 31st March 2017 * *- Course
date: 10-13 April 2017*
*Venue:* Campus di Biologia e Biomedicina \Fiore di
Botta", University of Padova, Via del Pescarotto, 8,
Padova, IT
*Speakers*: Prof. Alexandre Bonvin - Faculty of Sci-
ence, Utrecht University, the Netherlands Dr. Norman
Davey - University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland) Dr.
Stefano Forli - Dept. Molecular Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, USA Prof. Stefano Moro -
Dept. of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences,
University of Padova, Padova, Italy
A maximum of 30 candidates will be accepted in the
course. Selection will start on March 10th, 2017 and
those with an adequate prole will be accepted immedi-
ately, especially if they come from other cities and/or
countries (to allow them to nd reasonably cheap ight
tickets).
*Course description:* This workshop is aimed at stu-
dents in master degree courses, PhD students and post-
doctoral researchers who are working or planning to
work in the eld of protein interactions from a molec-
ular and structural point of view. In this workshop,
participants will familiarize with docking approaches
to the study of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) and
protein-small molecule interactions. Irreversible binders
design using molecular docking and computational meth-
ods to rational drug design will be also described, as
well as the functional role of the intrinsically disordered
proteins.
Should you have any question, do not hesitate to contact
the ELIXIR-IIB training coordinator, Dr Allegra Via,
at allegra.via@cnr.it or elixi r.ita.training@gmail.com.
Full details at can be found here <https://elixir-
iib-training.github.io/website/2017/04/10/protein-
interactions-padova.html >.
Best regards,
The ELIXIR-IIB Training Team
Vincenza Colonna, PhD http://www.igb.cnr.it/-
popgenlab Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche Istituto
di Genetica e Biosica \Adriano Buzzati-Traverso"
piano 1, stanza 20 -via Pietro Castellino 111 - 80131
Napoli - IT
tel +39 081 6132 254 - fax +39 081 6132 706 - skype
enza.colonna email vincenza.colonna@igb.cnr.it google
scholar <http://goo.gl/SzimG0 >
would you like to know about the most amaz-
ing project ever? http://www.igb.cnr.it/obilabinterested in Life Science and/or Mathemat-
ics? visit http://www.bmtl.it/ vincenza colonna
<vincenza.colonna@igb.cnr.it >
Wales ModellingUsingR Apr24-28
PartialScholarships
PR STATISTICS ARE PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE
THAT THROUGH THEIR FUNDING SCHEME
THEY CAN OFFER 5 PART-FUNDED SCHOLAR-
SHIPS FOR OUR UP-COMING COURSE \Advancing
in statistical modelling for evolutionary biologists and
ecologists using R (ADVR06)"
SCHOLARSHIPS CONTRIBUTE TOWARDS TU-
ITION FEES AND ACCOMMODATION WITH 5 'ALL
INCLUSIVE PLACES' AVAILABLE AT 450.00 (Fees
have been subsidised by 35% from 700.00).
Applications should be sent to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com and contain the following. 1.
Full name 2. Institute name 3. PhD subject title or
Post doc research questions 4. Do you hold a funded
position 5. 150 words why this course would be relevant
to your research or how it would help.
Application deadline is Tuesday 4th April 2017
We still have 'normal' places available for anyone else
interested.
Full course details are given below
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/advancing-
statistical-modelling-using-r-advr06/ This course will
run from 24th - 28th April at Margam Discovery Centre,
Wales.
This is an introduction to model selection and simpli-
cation, generalised linear models, mixed eects models
and non-linear models.
The course is aimed at biologists with a basic to mod-
erate knowledge in R. The course content is designed
to bridge the gap between basic R coding and more
advanced statistical modelling. This ve day course will
consist of series of modules, each lasting roughly half a
day and comprised of lectures and practicals designed to
either build required skills for future modules or to per-
form a family of analyses that is frequently encountered
in the biological literature.
Course content is as follows
Day 1 Course introduction - Techniques for data manip-April 1, 2017 EvolDir 145
ulation, aggregation, and visualisation; introduction to
linear regression. Packages: ftidyrg,fdplyrg,fggplot2g
Day 2 Linear models - Diagnostics, collinearity, scaling,
plotting tted values); tting and interpreting interac-
tion terms; model selection and simplication; general
linear models and ANCOVA. - Packages: fstatsg,fcarg
Day 3 Generalized linear models - Logistic and Poisson
regression; predicting using model objects and visualiz-
ing model ts. - Packages: fbroomg,fvisregg,fggplot2g
Day 4 Mixed eects models - Theory and practice of
mixed eect models; visualising xed and random eects.
- Packages:flme4g,fbroomg,fggplot2g,fsjPlotg
Day 5 Fitting nonlinear functions - Polynomial & Mech-
anistic models; brief introduction to more advanced
topics & combining methods (e.g., generalised linear
mixed eects, nonlinear mixed eects, and zero-inated
and zero-altered models). - Packages: fnlsToolsg. -
Afternoon to discuss own data if time permits or visit
our website www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to
distribute this material anywhere you feel is suitable.
Upcoming courses - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
ADVANCES IN MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF SPA-
TIAL ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R #MVSP 3rd -
7th April 2017, Scotland, Prof. Pierre Legendre, Dr.
Olivier Gauthier http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
advances-in-spatial-analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-
data-theory-and-practice-mvsp02/ ADVANCING IN
STATISTICAL MODELLING FOR EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS USING R #ADVR
17th - 21st April 2017, Scotland, Dr. Luc Bussiere, Dr.
Ane Timenes Laugen http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/advancing-statistical-modelling-using-r-advr06/
CODING, DATA MANAGEMENT AND SHINY
APPLICATIONS USING RSTUDIO FOR EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS
#CDSR 15th - 19th May, Scotland Dr. Aline Quadros
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/coding-data-
management-and-shiny-applications-using-rstudio-for-
evolutionary-biologists-and-ecologists-cdsr01/ GEO-
METRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING R #GMMR
5th - 9th June 2017, Scotland, Prof. Dean Adams, Prof.
Michael Collyer, Dr. Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou http://-
www.prstatistics.com/course/geometric-morphometrics-
using-r-gmmr01/ MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
SPATIAL ECOLOGICAL DATA #MASE 19th - 23rd
June, Canada, Prof. Subhash Lele, Dr. Peter Solymos
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/multivariate-
analysis-of-spatial-ecological-data-using-r-mase01/
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution
Jul20-30
APPLICATION DEADLINE: April 7, 2017
Convening for its 30th year at the Marine Biological Lab
in Woods Hole, MA, the Workshop on Molecular Evolu-
tion will be held July 20-30, 2017. The Workshop is the
premier program for integrating the methods, theory,
and applications of molecular phylogenetics, statistical
genetics, molecular evolution, and related disciplines.
Students work closely with internationally-recognized
scientists, receiving (i) high-level instruction in the prin-
ciples of molecular evolution and evolutionary genomics,
(ii) advanced training in statistical methods best suited
to modern datasets, and (iii) hands-on experience with
the latest software tools (often from the authors of the
programs they are using). The material is delivered via
lectures, discussions, and bioinformatic exercises moti-
vated by contemporary topics in molecular evolution.
A hallmark of this workshop is the direct interaction
between students and eld-leading scientists. The work-
shop serves graduate students, postdocs, and established
faculty from around the world seeking to apply the prin-
ciples of molecular evolution to questions of both basic
and applied biological sciences. A priority of this work-
shop is to foster an environment where students can
learn from each other as well from the course faculty.
As the course progresses, participants learn how to
use the following software to address questions con-
cerning the origins, maintenance, and function of
molecular variation: ASTRAL, BEAST2, BEST, BPP,
FASTA, FigTree, GARLI, MIGRATE, MAFFT, MP-
EST, RaxML, RevBayes, PAML, PAUP*, Phybase,
ipyrad and SVD Quartets. Students will have the op-
portunity to work with software on their own laptops as
well as receive training on how to use the same programs
on a high performance computer cluster.
Course instructors include Peter Beerli, Joseph
Bielawski, Belinda Chang, Mario dos Reis, Casey Dunn,
Deren Eaton, Scott Edwards, Tracy Heath, David Hillis,
Mark Holder, John Huelsenbeck, Lacey Knowles, Laura
Kubatko, Peter Larsen, Paul Lewis, Emily Jane Mc-
Tavish, Conor Meehan, Nicholas Meyerson, William146 EvolDir April 1, 2017
Pearson, David Swoord, David Weisrock, April Wright,
and Anne Yoder.
information on the Workshop and a link to the
application page are available on the dedicated
course website: https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/-
url?u=3Dhttps-3A molevol.mbl.edu index.php Main-
5FPage&d=DwIBAg&c=-
imBPVzF25OnBgGmVOlcsiEgHoG1i6YHLR0Sj gZ4adc&r=
aUlrl-ZempeNaLRY0gsnZTpP6CecsU48drplVPr1dj0&m=
e3dZATSpks5obk9WV KwbfytIFddaFpDLUSYuGAfrX0&s=
HlWyls6tFplb-DCiL4rByDycvIANYFYoV0vYoO8GjhE&e=
The dates for the Workshop are designed to allow stu-
dents to segue directly into the Strategies and Tech-
niques for Analyzing Microbial Population Structures
(STAMPS) course, though please note that applica-
tions for STAMPS must be submitted and are evaluated
separately from those for the Workshop on Molecular
Evolution.
For further information, please contact Workshop co-
Directors:
Anne Yoder (anne.yoder@duke.edu) and Joseph
Bielawski (j.bielawski@dal.ca)
\adyoder@duke.edu" <adyoder@duke.edu >
Zurich PolygenicAdaptationCourse
Aug28-Sep1
A Summer School and a Symposium will take place
this summer in Zurich calling for students and scientists
keen to learn and discuss about the most recent theory,
methods and applications to detect the genomic signal
of polygenic adaptation and understanding the role ofepistasis in evolution.
The invited speakers include, Prof Nick Barton (IST
Austria, Austria) Dr. Jeremy Berg (Columbia Uni-
versity, USA) Prof ~A-rjan Carlborg (Uppsala Univer-
sity, Sweden) Dr. Josephine Daub (University Pompeu
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain) Prof. Frederic Guillaume (Uni-
versity of Zurich, Switzerland) Prof. Thomas Hansen
(University of Oslo, Norway) Prof Joachim Hermisson
(University of Vienna, Austria) Prof Sergey Kryazhim-
skiy (University of California San Diego, USA) Prof.
John Mckay (Colorado State University, USA) Dr. Josh
Payne (University of Zurich, Switzerland) Prof. Peter
Visscher (Institute for Molecular Bioscience, Queensland,
Australia) Prof. Sam Yeaman (University of Calgary,
Canada)
For more information visit the event websites: Sum-
mer School on \Integrated methods to detect polygenic
adaptation from genomic data"
28 Aug - 30 Aug 2017, WSL, Birmensdorf, Switzer-
land http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/en/teaching/Polygenic-
Adaptation.html Symposium on the \Genomics of
polygenic adaptation and the role of epistasis in
evolution"
31 Aug - 1 Sep 2017, ETH Zentrum, Zurich,
Switzerland http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/en/events/-
symposium.html Informal inquiries may be addressed
to Katalin Csillery at katalin.csillery@wsl.ch
Looking forward to seeing you this summer!
The organising committee: Dr Katalin Csillery (ETH
Zurich & WSL Birmensdorf) Prof Dr Frederic Guillaume
(University of Zurich) Dr Felix Gugerli (WSL Birmens-
dorf) Dr Christian Rellstab (WSL Birmensdorf) Dr
Alejandra Rodriguez-Verdugo (ETH Zurich) Dr. Tony
Weingril (University of Zurich) Prof Dr Alex Widmer
(ETH Zurich) Dr. Debra Zuppinger-Dingley (University
of Zurich)
Katalin Csillery <katalin.csillery@env.ethz.ch >April 1, 2017 EvolDir 147
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.